December 6,1782 461 mitted wth. the instruction to the Committee giving them ample lati tude for such Report as they should think fit. A Boston Newspaper containing under the Providence Head an extract of a letter purporting to be written by a Gentleman in Philada. and misrepresenting the state of our loans, as well as betraying the secret proposal of the Sweedish Court to enter into a Treaty with the U.S.; with the view of disproving to the people of R. Island the necessity of the Impost of 5 PerCt.; had been handed about for several days. From style and other circumstances, it carried strongly the appearance of being written by a member of Congress. 2 The unanimous suspicions were fixed on Mr. Howel. The mischevous tendency of such publica tions & the necessity of the interposition of Congress were also general subjects of conversation. It was imagined too that a detection of the per son suspected would destroy in his state that influence which he exerted in misleading its counsels with respect to the Impost. These circum stances led Mr. W a n 3 to move the proposition on this subject. It was opposed by no one. Mr. Clarke supposing it to be levelled in part at him, rose & informed Congress, that not considering the article rela tive to Sweeden as secret in its nature, and considering himself at liberty to make any communications to his Constituents he had disclosed it to the Assembly of N. Jersey. He was told that the motion was not aimed at him, but the doctrine advanced by him was utterly inadmissible. Mr. R d e 4 observed that after this frankness on the part of Mr. C e as well as from the respect due from every member to Congress & to himself, it might be concluded that if no member present should own the letter in question, no member present was the author of it. Mr. H. was visibly perturbated, but remained silent. The Conference with the Committee of the Legislature of Penna, with subsequent information had rendered it very evident that unless some effectual measures were taken against separate appropriations & in favor of the public Creditors, the Legislature of that State, at its next meeting, would resume the plan which they had suspended. 5 Mr R d e in pursuance of this conviction moved that the Superin- tendt of Finance be instructed to represent to the several States the mischeifs which such appropriations would produce. It was observed with respect to this motion that however proper it might be as one expedient, it was of itself inadequate; that nothing but a permanent fund for discharging the debts of the public would divert the States from providing for their own Citizens; that a renewal of the call on R. Island for the impost ought to accompany the motion; that such a combination of these plans would mutually give efficacy to them, since R. Island would be solicitous to prevent separate appropriations & the other States would be soothed with the hope of the Impost. These observations gave rise to a Motion of Mr. Hamilton, which stands on the Journal. 6 Against Mr. Rutledge’s part of the motion no objection was made, But The sending a deputation to Rhode Island was a subject of considerable debate, in which the necessity of the
