470 December 9, 1782 We have the honor to be With perfect respect, Yr Excellency’s Most Obedt. Hum. Serv. Wm Floyd Alex Hamilton Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:56-57. 1 See JCC, 23:765-69; and ibid., pp. 57-58. Clinton was also sent a copy of these resolves with a brief letter from Pres. Elias Boudinot of December 14. PCC, item 16, fols. 166-67. 2 The New York legislature had passed an act on April 14, 1782, confirming title of all land grants made “under the name” of the “state of Vermont,” which John Morin Scott had presented to Congress on May 21. See JCC, 22:283—86; and Scott to Clinton, May 21, 1782. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My dear Sir, Philadelphia Deer. 10, 1782 As usual, Monday Morning made us happy by your Favour of the 7th Instt. in return for which his Excy has the honor of enclosing you a number of Letters from Madeira & what is of more importance, a very valuable small Bundle that contains Riches indeed, from the same Place. I had the honor of opening the Captains to gratify her Excys. Curios ity which I hope will not be unpardonable. She has got about again this day & I hope will be entirely relieved from her Pains in the Teeth. I am sorry the Colts will be so much Trouble, but 1 do not know what to do with them. If there is stable Room, I wish all of them were stabled to prevent their Injuring the Neighbours. I will try hard to dis pose of the oldest if possible. As to the Hay I am not uneasy about it, as I know it will be very high in the Spring. I have been already applied to for five Tons by a Person 15 Miles from the Ridge, who pro posed carting it that distance. It will be £7 & £8 per Ton in the Spring. We have reed the Sweet Meats, Candle Sticks &ca. We now want the Broaches only, having purchased the others. Mrs. Hetfield had better wait till a Cow Calves before she takes one, unless she can swap one to suit her. I have sent two Boxes of Sugar at abt 800 wt. to Mr Mar- quier’s at Trenton to wait Mrs. Hetfields Order also a Box of Choco late wt 50 lb. If you write to Marquier he will deliver it. Patty is well & has gone to dancing School. Now for News. Gibralter is relieved—the Combined Fleet having been driven off at the very Time, Lord Howe was ready to run in—his Lordship Catched one Sp. Man of War & drove another on Shore. The Siege is raised & we hope now that they will be ready to act in the West Indies. This is unpalatable News—to Counterbalance it, the French have succeeded in an Expedition to Hudsons Bay, where they have taken of the Company’s property to the amount of £500,000 Sterl. & destroyed all the Companys Settlements & brought off the Inhabitants. 1 I reed Letters this day from Genl Greene of the 12th
