December 10, 1782 471 Ultimo—he speaks of the Evacuation as a certainty. They only waiting for Admiral Pigott. The Trade of this Country will be protected this winter. I must beg that you will send me a good parcel of your best Melon Seed, saved of your good Melons. I must also beg the Favour of your drawing a sett of Bills on your Friend in Holland for the monies remitted him on my Acct, as I want to send for some few Articles for her Excly—and perhaps I may stand a chance now to get them Freight free in some public Vessel. I believe all the reports about an Evacuation of New York take their Rise from an intended embarkation of 5000 Men for the West Indies. I enclose the Papers as usual. Our kind Love to Mrs. P. & Johnny and all Friends. I hope you let Mr Livingston see the Papers, as they will divert him. Our Love to their Family. Am My Dr Sir, Yours Afftly. B [P.S.] Please to send to Mrs. Hetfeild 2 of the thickest coarsest blan- ketts, and one of the old bed quilts. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). 1 For the capture of the posts of the Hudson’s Bay Company by a French expedition under the direction of the comte de La Perouse, see Edwin H. Rich, The History of the Hudson’s Bay Company, 1670-1870, 2 vols. (London: Hudson’s Bay Record Society, 1958-59), 2:84-89. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Teusday 10. Deer. [1782] A Motion was made by Mr. Ramsay directing the Secy, at War who was abt. to visit his family in Massachussetts, to take Vermont in his way, & deliver the Resolutions passed a few days since to Mr. Chitten den. 1 For the motion it was urged that it would insure the delivery, would have a conciliating effect, and would be the means of obtaining true and certain knowledge of the disposition & views of that people. On the opposite side it was exclaimed agst. as a degradation of so high a servt. of the U. S. as exposing him to the temerity of leaders who were on good grounds suspected of being hostile to the U. S. and as treating their pretensions to Sovereignty with greater complaisance than was consistent with the eventual resolutions of Congress. The motion was rejected. A motion was made by Mr. Gilmon that a day be assigned for diter mining finally the affair of Vermont. 2 The opposition made to the motion itself, by Rhode Island & the disagreement as to the day among the friends of the motion prevented a decision & it was suf fered to lye over. 3
