December 10,1782 473 By Mr. Jefferson’s letter to the Office of F.A. and a private one to myself, he may be expected here about the end of this month. 9 It is improper therefore to address any thing to him. The Grand Committee have had another meeting on the subject mentioned in a late letter. The scheme of Mr. Fitz n’s was adopted with the (rates of) depreciation (left blank). The ideas on this point varied from forty to one hundred and fifty and upwards for one. 10 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:394—95. 1 See Madison’s Notes, December 4, 1782. For a discussion of the threat this Pennsyl vania proposal posed to Continental management of the public debt, see E. James Fer guson, The Power of the Purse (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1961), pp. 221-23. 2 See Madison’s Notes, December 6, note 6. 3 At this point in the text Madison inserted in the margin: “I make use of the Official Cypher as more familiar & equally proper here,” for which see Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, April 23, 1782, note 5. 4 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in cipher. 5 See the following entry. 6 Not found, but for the governor’s reply of January 4, see Madison, Papers (Hutchin son), 6:1 In.1. 7 For Richard Harrison’s October 25 report to Robert R. Livingston on “the unfortu nate Issue of the siege of Gibraltar,” see PCC, item 92, fols. 411-13. 8 See Madison’s Notes, November 28, note 1, and December 2, note 2. 9 For Thomas Jefferson’s November 26 letters to Livingston and Madison, see Jeffer son, Papers (Boyd), 6:206-7; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:326-27. 10 See Madison’s Notes, December 7, 1782. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison [December 10, 1782] 1 The public Creditors have for sometime past been extremely urgent for some effectual & permanent provision in their favor; and seeing but little prospect of obtaining it from the United States are turning their applications to their own States. Those who are Citizens of Penn sylvania in particular have adopted this policy and the Legislature hav ing reed, no Satisfactory answer to two Memorials presented to Congress in their favor have been on the point of appropriating to their use a part of the requisition of Congress allotted for more essen tial Objects. Should such a measure be resorted to by one State it would probably be received by the Others as a Signal to take care each of its separate interest. The Effects of such a Step on the Union itself, on the Common Defence, on our national Character and on the Councils of the Enemy need not be traced. The apprehension of them by Congress produced the inclosed Instructions to the Superin tendant of finance. The resolution which follows deputing three of their Members to Rhode Island to enforce the impost of 5 per Ct. was thought a precausion no less essential. 2 For besides the tendency of
