December 11,1782 475 Elias Boudinot to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia, December 11th. 1782. Congress are equally affected and alarmed by the information they have received, that the Legislature of your State, at their last meeting, have refused their concurrence in the establishment of a duty upon Imposts. They consider this measure as so indispensible to the prose cution of the War, that a sense of duty and regard to the common safety compel them to renew their efforts to engage a compliance with it; and in this view they have determined to send a Deputation of three of their Members to your State, as expressed in the inclosed Res olution. 1 The Gentlemen they have appointed will be able to lay before you a full and just representation of the public affairs, from which they flatter themselves will result a conviction of the propriety of their solicitude upon the present occasion. Convinced by past expe rience of the zeal and patriotism of the State of Rhode-Island, they cannot doubt that it will yield to those urgent considerations which flow from a knowledge of our true situation. They will only briefly observe, that the increasing discontents of the army, the loud clamours of the public creditors, and the extreme dis proportion between the current supplies and the demands of the pub lic service, are so many invincible arguments for the fund recom mended by Congress. They feel themselves unable to devise any other, that will be more efficacious, less exceptionable or more generally agreeable; and if this is rejected they anticipate calamities of a most menacing nature, with this consolation however, that they have faith fully discharged their trust, and that the mischiefs which may follow cannot be attributed to them. A principal object of the proposed fund is to procure loans abroad. If no security can be held out to Lenders, the success of these must necessarily be very limited. The last accounts upon the subject were not flattering; and when intelligence shall arrive in Europe that the State of Rhode-Island has disagreed to the only fund, which has yet been devised, there is every reason to apprehend it will have a fatal influence on their future progress. Deprived of this resource our affairs must, in all probability, rapidly hasten to a dangerous crisis, and these States be involved in greater embarrassments than they have yet experienced, and from which it may be much more difficult to emerge. Congress will only add a request to your Excellency, that if the Leg islature should not be sitting, it may be called together as speedily as possible to enable the Gentlemen whom they have deputed to per form the purpose of their mission. I have the honor to be, with sentiments of high respect and esteem, your Excellency’s, &c. E. B.
