478 December 11, 1782 which it is their wish your Excellency could forward, as directed, by some trusty Hand, who will take a receipt of the delivery, which may be returned to Congress. For your Excellency’s information only, I also enclose a copy of the resolutions referred to. By some private advices from New-York, it is Said that an embarka tion of 5000 Men for the West Indies is taking place in that City. I have the honor to be, with the highest sentiments of respect and esteem, Your Excellency’s Obedient & very humb. Servt. Elias Boudinot RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Washington’s December 4 letter, reporting “that the English Fleet had penetrated the Road of Gibraltar,” is in PCC, item 152, 11:37—39; and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 25:394. 2 See Boudinot to Chittenden, this date. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton Dear Sir, Philadela. Deer. 11th 1782 Since my last of this day week 1 Congress have been Attempting vari ous measures respecting promotions but nothing certain is yet fixed upon. A report hath been again brought in Similar to the one rejected, with this addition that you and two others by name be Appointed Brigadiers. I consent to agree, in case the last clause is first taken up & passed, or to pass the whole together. I cannot give you any Assurance, but from present Appearances I must request that you do not think of resigning untill I can inform you of something deci sively done that will settle the business one way or other. 2 Genl. Wash ington hath wrote more pointedly in your favour than the Letter that Accompanied yours 3 —and the prospect in your favour is much greater than at any former time. You are not to consider any Opposi tion to your promotion as Arising from any Objection to you person ally; all proceeds upon political Views in the different members. I must repeat my request that you desist from resigning, you can with propriety delay this till the first of January, while we have reason to expect in a day or two this business may be compleated here. Genl. Lincoln hath interested himself in your favour in Consequence of Genl. Washingtons last Letter to him. Colo Shepperd of Massachusets hath resigned & gone home. I am, Dear Sir, Your Obedt. Hum Servt. Abra. Clark RC (NjHi: Bamberger Autograph Collection). 1 Not found. 2 For the promotion of Colonel Dayton, see the letters to him from Clark of Decem ber 16 and from Elias Boudinot of December 25. 3 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 25:329, 395.
