December 16, 1782 483 several days before Post day, or loose the Opportunity, my Time no longer being at my own disposal. You[r] favour per Post is before me, and am really sorry that the Capt’s Letter was omitted, which was never discovered till the rect of yours this Morning—It is now reme died. We have as usual had a hearty Laugh at your Letter—and diverted ourselves at the Idea of your seeing it in Rivingtons Paper. I think it is most time to expect another Capture of the Mail & therefore you should begin to consider, how you would relish becoming so public a Man. A Frigate will go for Brest in about 8 or 10 Days, in which is a Capt of my Acquaintance. I can send Letters to Madeira very fre quently. I am clear you had best stable the Colts &c. Mr Wallace will call on you for 5 Tons of Hay; if you think it can be spared, let him have it out of my Stacks—if not he can get it of Ricky on Mr Liv ingston’s Estate acct. Mrs. B. engaged to let Southerd exchange a Cow. Manage the foddering of the Hay in such Manner as you think best. I reed, the Bills of Exchange, but had not adverted to my part of the money remitted being some in the Hands of Mr Donaldson & some in Mess Cromelines—So that I cannot proceed unless you can manage it so that I can get at that in Mr Donaldsons Hand too. Sammy has remitted monies to Holland & drawn a Bill in Favour of Mr D. to pay off his Debt—now as Mr D. is dead, could not Sammy give you a Bill in full of Mr D’s Debt, and you let me have it on the acct of my part of the monies in his Hands, or any how else, so that I could get the Cash in Holland or France. As to News the Charles Town Garrison is said to be arrived at N York but it wants Confirmation. Our Advices from Europe are still flat tering. I am not at liberty to say more—you know I have been a Prophet abt. the Events of this Year—I still am sanguine. Capt Barry in a Conty Frigate, 1 taken 5 Jamaica Men & some Ameri can Privateers. 12 or 14 More—several others with two British Line of Battle Ships, went to the Bottom in a violent Storm. I will take Care of the rent. Patty is bravely, tho’ you seem to forget her. All well and desire to be remembered. Am my Dr Sir, Yours Afftly 2 [P.S.] You will see by this, that tho Presidt. I am still under petticoat Government and dare not contradict, tho’ it is some Comfort that no body will believe her. Her Character is as bad here as it was at the Ridge—were she is well known. Pray remember that the office in snowy weather is leaky and that my Papers & Books may be injured. I must beg the Favour of you to get Mr Southerd to see that the Boards at Bairds saw Mill are brought home & properly put away in the waggon House, as fast as my Logs are sawed and also to get as many more Logs out of the swamp as possible & charge it to me.
