484 December 16, 1782 Yesterday Letters from Virginia informed that a flag had arrived there in 5 days from Charles Town with the news of the evacuation of that place. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). 1 That is, the Continental frigate Alliance. 2 At this point, Boudinot’s wife Hannah penned the following postscript before Boudinot added a final postscript of his own. “I would Just Inform you that I had no hand in opening your letter from the captain, as Patty and I both had letters we heard all we wanted to hear. Mr. President open'd it to hear what he said about the seeds* and I supposed he had enclosed all. Patty has got a cold, and so has Susan, but they are not very bad. My love to Mrs. Pintard, and Johnny”—to which she appended the follow ing comment, keyed to the asterisk at the word “seeds.” “But his head is so full of proclamations that he cant remember any thing more than an hour.” Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton Dear Sir, Philada. Deer. 16. 1782 Congress last Thursday took up the report for establishing a Line of promotion for Brigadiers Similar to the one I lately informed you was rejected, which, owing to a Number of New members or some other Cause, was passed: to this was added a Clause for promoting your self & Colonels Grattan & Putman 1 —but as the former part of the report had passed it was thought improper to pass this as it might not agree with the plan just established especially with regard to your self, as your Appointment would depend upon what state whose troops those of New Jersey may be Brigaded with. If it should be with New York, you can have nothing to expect, but if with Delaware I suppose you will succeed of Course. This the secretary at War gives me strong rea sons to believe will be the case—but however must rest with the Com mander in Chief; As the secretary at War set off yesterday for Boston 2 & will call at head quarters, by which time the General will be in pos session of the Resolutions, you may be able to know on what gound you stand by applying to the Commander in Chief. The Delaware Reg iment is now it is said on their way from the southward to join the main Army and may be joined to our Troops if the measure meets with the generals approbation. Matters being thus Circumstanced, It will not be in my power to give you any further information respecting this business. All rests with the General in forming Brigades. I am, Dear Sir, Your Obedt. Humble servt. Abra. Clark RC (PPIn: Independence Hall Collection). । See JCC, 23:790-91. 2 Notwithstanding Clark’s testimony that the secretary “set off yesterday,” there is a letter from Benjamin Lincoln to Congress dated “War Office, Dec. 16, 1782,” in PCC, item 149, 2:207-8.
