December 17, 1782 485 James Madison’s Notes of Debates Monday Deer. 16. [1782] 1 The answer to the objections of Rho. Island, as to the Impost, Penned by Mr. H. 2 passed without opposition, 8 States being Present of which Rho. Isd. was one, a few trivial alterations only being made in the course of discussion. Mr. H. 3 contrary to expectation was entirely silent as to his affair. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:407. 1 Immediately preceding this entry Madison wrote “Saturday Deer. 14th. No Congress.” 2 That is, Alexander Hamilton, who chaired the committee appointed December 12 to respond to Rhode Island’s November 30 notification that its assembly would not adopt the impost and who prepared the bulk of this “answer” giving reasoned argu ments why Rhode Islanders should “retract their dissent." Congress’ vote on this report is not recorded in the journals. See JCC, 23:788-90, 798-810; and Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:213-3. 3 David Howell. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Hon’d Sir (Private) Philada. Deer. 17th. 1782. I have received your kind favour of the 29th Octr. per Genl. Whip ple. Your’s of the 26th Ultimo. (Respecting Mr. Blanchard’s Memo rial) with the Inclosure’s came to hand on the 9th Instt. and was Answered on the 11th (per Post) which hope you will timely receive. 1 Those Two are all the Letters have been favored with from you Since that of the 14th Septr. I Expected an Answer to mine of 29th Octr. respecting the affairs of Vermont, but we are Intirely Ignorant of all the Transactions of the Honble. the Legislature at their November Session (Except that of Mr Blanchards Memorial). By the latest accounts from Europe, it appears probable that Nego- ciations for Peace will be seriously Entered upon soon, but their are many (Seperate) Interests to be adjusted which will probably require much time. The present designs of our Enemy are not known to us with so much Certainty as could wish, but it is the general Sentiment that they have relinquished the Idea of further prosecuting the war on this Continent. Indeed it is time for them for they have persisted in it to their Own (as well as our) great Injury. The Importance of the United States is daily Increasing (abroad) But our affairs at Home are not in a pleasing Situa tion by any means. The want of Revenue is very great, our Army are unpaid, public Creditors Clamorous, and when we add to this a want of Confidence in the public and in the Several States towards each other our Embarrassments will appear (as they are in fact) very great, but we have Struggled through many difficulties, and our present trouble’s
