486 December 17, 1782 should by no means Operate as an Encouragement to our Enemy to prosecute the war, for they have repeatedly Seen (and I doubt not will again if necessity requires it) these United States rise Superior to all dif ficulties. From some Information already received, are daily Expecting further Information respecting Negociations for Peace. I Have (few Days Since) been informed that application has been made to New Hampr. for Compleating their Two Battalions; this was unknown to Congress, and had I been informed of it Seasonably should have given my Sentiments on the Subject. I Sent a list of the Army to Collo. Bartlett some Months Since, 2 my Views were that you might know what number of the Troops in service belonged to N.H. I am Sure the State has made Exertions the year past (in raising Troops much beyond their abilities, and as I See no real Necessity for raising men at present, shall be pleased if they have rejected the proposition. No accounts from Charlestown since our Letter of the 11th Instt.; nor further proceedures respecting Vermont. Genl. Whipple is at Trenton, I Expect he will be here sometime next Week. [Public secu rities here, are sold at about Three, for One in Specie]. You will receive by Mr. White’s Servant the Journals of Congress (which are Just published) from April to Novr.—if the State has not a Compleat Sett to that time, and I am informed what are deficient, I will Endeav our to procure and Send them if Opporty offers. You will receive a Bottle of Dr. Hill’s Balsam. I wrote Collo. Bartlett on the 23d Octr. but have had no answer to that Letter; It is very agreeable to be informed of the Transactions in the State from time to time. I return you my most Sincere thanks for your Letter by Genl. Whipple and shall Esteem it a happiness to serve you in what I may. I have marked this as private, my meaning is that it is not Intended for the perusal of the Honble. the Legislature, but you will please to make such other Communication of it as you may think proper. Please to give my Compliments to my Friends with you. I am, with great Respect, Your Obedt. & Hum. Servt. John Taylor Gilman P.S. The Journals mentioned in this Letter cannot be obtained to Send by this Conveyance will send them first Oppty. RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See New Hampshire Delegates to Weare, December 11, 1782. 2 See Gilman to Josiah Bartlett, August 5, 1782. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Teusday Deer. 17th. [1782] Mr. Carroll in order to bring on the affair of Mr. Howel moved that the Secy, of Foreign Affairs be instructed not to write to the Govt, of
