December 17, 1782 487 Rhode Island on the subject. 1 The state in wch. such a vote would leave the business unless the reason of it was expressed, being not adverted to by some, and others being unwilling to move in the case, This motion was incautiously suffered to pass. The effect of it however was soon observed, and a motion in consequence made by Mr. H. to subjoin the words, “Mr Howel having in his place confessed himself to be the Author of the publication.” 2 Mr. Ramsay thinking such a stigma on Mr. H. unnecessary, & tending to place him in the light of a persecuted man whereby his opposition to the Impost might have more weight in his State, proposed to substitute as the reason “Congress havg. reed, the information desired on that subject. [”] The yeas & nays havg. been called by Mr. H n., Mr. H. grew very uneasy at the prospect of his name being thereby brought on the Journals; and requested that the subject might be suspended untill the day fol lowing. This was agreed to & took place on condition that the ne[ga] ti[v] ed counterdirection to the Secy, of F.A. should be reconsid ered & lie over also. 3 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:411. 1 For Congress’ instructions to Robert R. Livingston to write to Gov. William Greene regarding “the affair of Mr. Howel,” see Madison’s Notes, December 12, 1782. 2 For the full text of Alexander Hamilton’s motion, see JCC, 23:812. 3 Daniel Carroll’s motion, which was reintroduced the following day, was struck from the journals. Ibid. For David Howell’s defense of his conduct, see Madison’s Notes, December 18, note 2. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Sir Philada. 17th Deer. 1782. Since the appointment of the deputation to Rho. Island Congress have reed, a copy of the refusal of the Legislature of that State to con cur in the impost, with the reasons on which the refusal is grounded. The reasons assigned are 1st. the inequality of the tax which will bear hardest on the commercial States, and peculiarly hard on Rho. Island which is the most commercial. 2dly. the inexpediency of admitting to a collection within the State of so large a tax an officer unknown to the Constitution, and unaccountable to the authority of the State. 3dly. the danger to public liberty from such an accession of weight to the foederal Government. I give this recital from memory and there fore only as the substance of the objections. They are in the hands of a Committee who will report such observations as they may deem a fit answer to them. 1 The deputation has not yet set out, but probably will in the course of the week. 2 Vermont has been again on the tapis. Its only advocates were the delegates of Rho. Island who are charged with interested views in the case, and those of N. Jersey who are fettered by instructions from their
