490 December 17, 1782 out, and their situation call for our aid, it shall be afforded them in the manner recommended by your Excellency, tho’ we fear our exer tions to obtain them relief by draughts upon the State, or the Sale of Tobacco, will prove ineffectual. Perhaps a similar course may be taken by them when they arrive, as with those already gone forward. We shall make the attempt, and resort to the mode you advise, only in case of necessity. The inclosed Copy of a Letter from the Secretary of Congress to Mr. Clarke on the subject of the pasports for shiping Tobacco to New York, 3 will shew the conduct of Mr. Thompson in the business and enable you to obtain a Satisfactory explanation from Mr. Clarke. 4 We very sincerely wish on account of the public, as well as for the convenience of the individuals more immediately concerned, your account of the evacuation of Charles Town may be verified. Here that event is very doubtfull. A Letter lately received from Capt. Barry of the Alliance Frigate 5 informs us of his good fortune in taking and carrying into 1’Orient four of the Jamaica fleet, loaded with abt. 1200 Hhds. of sugar, 400 Hhds. of rum, a quantity of Coffee, logwood &c. He also writes, that the Ramilees had foundered at Sea, that the crew were saved, and dis tributed among the fleet, part of them being on board the prises cap tured by him. He farther says, it was reported, another Ship of the line was lost. We are respectfully, yr. Excys. obed. servts. Jos. Jones J. Madison Jr RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Jones and signed by Jones and Madi son. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:412-13. 1 See ibid., p. 381. 2 The delegates may have discussed aid to Virginia’s frontier captives in their “last” letter of December 10, of which only a brief extract has been found, but for a review of “the measures that had been taken,” see Virginia Delegates to Harrison, November 26, 1782. 3 See Charles Thomson to Daniel Clark, May 3, 1782. 4 In his November 30 letter to the delegates Harrison has asked about Thomson’s reasons for issuing a “Licence” to Clark, Virginia agent of Robert Morris, to ship tobacco to New York in exchange for British goods sold to the United States by York town capitulants following Cornwallis’ surrender. In so doing Harrison renewed a con troversy with Morris that had first erupted in May 1782. See Madison, Papers (Hutchin son), 5:312; Madison to Edmund Randolph, May 29, note 4; and Committee of Congress to Harrison, May 31, 1782. For the instructions to the Virginia delegates adopted by the state’s assembly on December 28 concerning the settlement of accounts, the tobacco contract, and congressional requisitions, see ibid., pp. 457-64; and Madi son’s Notes, January 28, note 1, January 31 and February 10, 1783. 5 An extract from Capt. John Barry’s October 18 letter to Robert Morris had been read in Congress on December 13. See JCC, 23:798n.l; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:625.
