December 18,1782 491 Jonathan Arnold to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia December 18th. 1782 I have to inform you that altho’ Mr. Collins arrived here this day week, Mr. Howell is still here, and how much longer he will be detained is unknown, Congress having taken such measures affecting him personally, and relative to his public Conduct—which renders his stay of absolute necessity. 1 He has vindicated himself with a firmness becoming a representative of a free State, and as the Liberties of the State, and its rights, by Confederation I conceived to be invaded by the Measures pursued against him, he has had every support I could afford him. This has drawn on me the attention of Congress, and I am included with Mr. Howell in a Resolution of this day for referring to a Committee a Certain Motion, made by Mr. Howell & seconded by me 2 wherein were asserted the Rights of a Delegate, and the Dangerous tendency, of the measures pursuing—to their priviledges, and to the Liberties & priviledges of the United States—in the form of a declara tion & protest. I have not time to copy & enclose it by this, but shall forward it by the next Opportunity. Where & when the matter will end, is impossible to say but hope it will not change the resolution of the Assembly in respect to the Impost (which I am persuaded—it is Calculated to do). I am certain it cannot, when the matter is fully known—and instead thereof it may fix their opinion as expressed in the third Reason, which they stated to Congress—when their [they] Communicated their refusal therewith. Mr Collins being absent, & the post just setting off, I have not the Opportunity to write jointly with him. I have the Honor to be with the highest respect for your Excel lency & the Honorable Assembly—Your most hum Servt. Jona Arnold RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). I For the debate on David Howell’s publication of privileged information, see James Madison’s Notes of Debates, December 6, 12, 13, 16, 17, 18, and 20, 1782. 2 After rejecting Howell’s motion. Congress appointed a three-man committee to rec ommend “measures as it will be proper for Congress to take [on the motion]." On December 20 Congress adopted the committee’s report recommending that Howell’s and other related resolutions be sent to the executive of Rhode Island and the secretary for foreign affairs. See JCC, 23:814-19, 821-22; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, December 20, 1782. Alexander Hamilton to George Clinton Dear Sir: Philadelphia, December 18, 1782. I shall very shortly be out of cash, and shall therefore be much obliged to you to forward to me the State allowance. It will answer as
