492 December 18,1782 well in Mr. Morris’ notes as in Specie provided the notes have not more than a fortnight or so to run. It will be better if they are due. (A disappointment in this will greatly embarrass me, and from what your Excellency said, I take it for granted it cannot happen.) Nothing new, except a pretty probable account of the evacuation of Charles Town. I have die honor to be, with great esteem, Your most obedient servant. 1 MS not found; reprinted from Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:225-26. 1 Hamilton also wrote this day to his wife Elizabeth, urging her to travel to Philadel phia at “the first good snow” and suggesting that she use some of the money “you will probably receive . . . from Governor Clinton for me.” Ibid., pp. 226-27. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Wednesday Deer. 18th. [1782] This day was cheifly spent on the case of Mr. Howel; 1 whose behaviour was extremely offensive, and led to a determined opposi tion to him, those who were most inclined to spare his reputation. If the affair could have been closed without an insertion of his name on the Journal, He seemed willing to withdraw his protest; 2 but the impropriety which appeared to some & particularly to Mr. H n in suppressing the name of the author of a peice wch. Congress had so emphatically reprobated, when the author was found to be a member of Congress, prevented a relaxation as to the yeas & nay. 3 Mr. H. therefore, as his name was necessarily to appear on the Journal, adhered to the motion which inserted his protest thereon. 4 The inde cency of this paper, and the pertinacity of Mr. H. in adhering to his assertions with respect to the non-failure of any application for for eign loans, excited great & (excepting his Colleagues or rather Mr. Arnold) universal indignation and astonishment in Congress; and he was repeatedly premonished of the certain ruin in wch. he wd. thereby involve his character & consequence; and of the necessity wch. Congress wd. be laid under of vindicating themselves by some act which would expose and condemn him to all the world. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:419-20. 1 See Madison's Notes, December 17. 2 David Howell’s “declaration and protest,” in which he denied Congress’ authority— under the 5th article of the Articles of Confederation—to restrict information that he thought proper to communicate to his constituents, is in PCC, item 36, 1:459-62; and JCC, 23:814-16. For a review of Howell's position in the “extract controversy,” see Irwin H. Polishook, Rhode Island and the Union, 1774-1795 (Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern Uni versity Press, 1969), pp. 88-93. 3 Madison is referring to the unrecorded vote on the motion introduced the preced ing day by Daniel Carroll that was this day reintroduced and completed by Alexander Hamilton, who moved that Robert R. Livingston be discharged from his December 12
