December 20, 1782 493 instruction to write to the governor of Rhode Island because Howell had “acknowl edged himself the author of the extra[c]t of the letter quoted in the report of the Com mittee that day.” See PCC, item 36, 1:465; and JCC 23:813-14, 817-18. See also Madi son’s Notes, December 12, note. 4 This vote was not recorded in the journals. Hamilton, however, considered the entry of Howell’s protest on the journals to be “highly derogatory to the honor & dig nity of the United States in Congress Assembled” and moved that a committee be appointed “to report upon such measures as it will be proper for Congress to take (to exhibit the transaction) thereupon.” See PCC, item 36, 1:467. Congress appointed John Taylor Gilman, Hamilton and Madison to the committee after soundly defeating a motion by Jonathan Arnold and Howell to Strike out the quoted passage concerning the derogatory nature of Howell’s protest. See JCC, 23:814-19. For the committee’s report, see the following entry, note 4. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Friday Deer. 20th. [1782]' A motion was made by Mr. H n2 for revising the requisitions of the preceding and present years, in order to reduce them more within the faculties of the States. 5 In support of the motion it was urged that the exorbitancy of the demands produced a despair of fulfilling them which benumbed the efforts for that purpose. On the other side it was alledged that a relaxation of the demand would be followed by a relaxation of the efforts; that unless other resources were substituted either the States would be deluded by such a measure into false expec tations; or in case the truth sd. be disclosed to prevent that effort, that the Enemy wd. be encouraged to Persevere in the war agst. us. The motion meeting with little patronage was withdrawn. The Report of the Committee on the motion of Mr. H. 4 pro posed that the Secy, of Congress should transmit the several acts of Congress with a state of foreign loans. The object of the Committee was that in case Rho. Island should abet or not resent the misconduct of their Representative, as wd. most likely be the event, Congress might commit themselves as little as possible in the mode of referring it to that State. When the Report came under consideration it was observed, that the Presidt. had always transmitted acts of Congress to the Executives of the States, and that such a change on the present occasion might afford a pretext if not excite a disposition in Rho. Island, not to vindicate the honor of Congress. The matter was com promised by substi[tu]ting the Secy, of Fn. Afrs. who ex-officio corre sponds with the Governors &c, within whose department the facts to be transmitted as to foreign loans lay. No motion or vote opposed the report as it passed. 5 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:422-23. 1 Immediately preceding this entry Madison wrote “Thursday Deer. 19th. see Jour nals.”
