494 December 20, 1782 2 That is, Alexander Hamilton. 3 For this motion, which was not entered in the journals, see PCC, item 36, 4:65; and Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:229. 4 For the appointment of this committee, see the preceding entry, note 4; for its report, see JCC, 23:821-22, and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:422. s Robert R. Livingston did not actually write to Gov. William Greene until January 4, for which see PCC, item 119, fols. 205-12. The reason for this delay in complying with Congress’ directive apparently lay in the efforts of the three Rhode Island delegates in late December and early January to have Congress further direct the secretary to include in his letter specific extracts from letters of Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, and the marquis de Lafayette that they felt supported Howell's position. See Madison’s Notes, January 3, 1783, note 3. Daniel Carroll to William Paca Dear Sir, Philadelphia Deer. 21st. 1782. I forwarded last Thursday under Cover to Mr. Calhoun, 1 two Letters from the Minister of France, 2 one for your Excelly. the other for the Commanding officer of the French Marine in Chesapeake, and I now do myself the honor of sending with this, a Copy of a Memorial from the Assembly of Massachusetts, on a Subject which may eventually interest our State. 3 I request you Sir to communicate it to the General Assembly, likewise a Copy of an answer from Congress to the objec tions made by the Assembly of Rhode Island to the granting the 5 per Cent on imported goods. Three Members, Messrs. Osgood, Mifflin and Nash are appointed to proceed to Rhode Island on this Subject. I beg leave to Mention, that it is the Sense of Congress no other Copys Should be taken of the Answer at present, than those which the Delegates are permitted to Send to the Legislatures or Executives of their respective States. The enclosed is from the War office in answer to your Commands, respecting the Marine prisoners. 4 The Superintendant has informed me that Col. Rawlings is one of the Contractors for the ensueing year for the States of Maryland and Delaware. 5 I have the honor to be with the greatest respect and Esteem, Yr. Excellency’s Most Obedt. and very Humble Servt. Dani. Carroll N.B. The letters from the Minister were Sent by a Capt. Montgomery who promised to deliver them to Mr. Calhoun. Deer 23d. A French Frigate, the Danse is arrived. She left Rochford the 8th of November. The late Snow Storm drove her on Shore in this Bay, but she is now off. She brings Money for the French Army and dispatches to the Minister, dated the 14th of October. The Communi cation will not be made from them under two or three days, but we hourly expect the dispatches from our Ministers by Genl. De Partial [Du Portail] who Came in the Frigate.
