December 21, 1782 495 It appears by the Gazette of France that a Treaty of Amity and Com merce, and a convention on recaptures were Signed on the 7th of Octr. by Mr. Adams and by Seven deputies empowered for that pur pose by the Seven United Provinces of the Netherlands. The Success of the French in the Hudsons bay was compleat—the factories entirely distroyed, and the Property to a considerable amount carried off. Nothing Certain from the East Indies. In general the State of affairs in that quarter is thought to be unfavourable to the British. Deer. 24th. Dispatches were received yesterday from Messrs. Franklin and Jay and the Marquis, De La Fayette, dated about the Middle of October. The Commission to Mr. Oswald is received, it empowers him to treat with the Commissioners of the thirteen United States of America. If it is possible to obtain a Copy in time I shall Send it by post. The Secretary for Foreign Affairs is directed to Send one to each State. I have the honor to be &c. D.C. Tr (MdAA: Ridgely Transcripts, MdHR4016). 1 Not found. 2 Not identified, but perhaps elicited by Paca’s December 13 letter to the chevalier de La Luzerne concerning French naval assistance for protecting Maryland shipping in the Chesapeake. See Md. Archives, 48:322. 3 See Samuel Osgood to John Lowell, September 19, note 10; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, November 26, 1782. 4 Not identified. 5 See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:141, 189-90. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Saturday 21 Decr.[1782] The Committee to confer wth. Mr. Livingston was appointed the preceding day in consequence of the unwillingness of several States to elect either Gel. S 1—r, Mr, C r or Mr. R d, the Gentlemen previously put into nomination, & of a hint that Mr. L. might be pre vailed on to serve till the Spring. 1 The Committee found him in this disposition and their report was agreed to without opposition. 2 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:429. 1 Congress had designated December 19 as the day for selecting Robert R. Liv ingston’s successor as secretary for foreign affairs and on the 18th Elias Boudinot and Thomas FitzSimons had nominated Philip Schuyler and George Clymer respectively for that post. Thomas McKean had also nominated Joseph Reed, but had withdrawn his name. See PCC, item 186, fol. 1. On December 19, rather than “the preceding day,” Congress rejected these nominees, appointed Madison, John Rutledge, and John Taylor Gilman as a committee “to confer with the secrety for foreign Affairs on the subject of his department,” and postponed the order of the day “till Thursday next.” PCC, item
