December 24, 1782 499 Ally, with whom they had made a Junction, but no official Acct, has come to hand and this Intelligence cannot be given as certainty.” From Mr Adams “We have at length got the Consent of all the Cities & Provinces and have adjusted & agreed upon every Article, Word, Syllable, Letter & Point in the Treaty of Commerce and Clerks are employed in making out fair Copies for Signature, which will be done this week. Amidst the innumerable Croud of Loans, which are opened in this Country, many of which have little success, I was much afraid that ours would have failed. I have however the Pleasure to inform you that I am at least one Million & an half of florins in Cash or about 3 Millions of Livres, which will be an Aid to the Operations of our financier.” 1 I need make no Comments on this Intelligence, the first of which so expressly admits the Independancy & national Character of these States—on this Occasion I most cordially congratulate your Excel lency and the Legislature. I had the honor of recieving your Excellency’s Letter of the thir teenth Instant, 2 and am sorry you were troubled with unnecessary duplicates of the resolutions of Congress enclosed in mine of the 11th, but as I mentioned to Mr Clark my design of enclosing them to your Excellency, I took it for granted he would not also send them— my having a Secretary makes it easier for me to transmit them. I write this in a great hurry, being unwilling to keep so important a piece of Intelligence back a Moment. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt Hble Sert, Elias Boudinot P.S. I forgot to mention that by a French News Paper reed by this Ves sel, it appears that the Treaty with the united Provinces, was signed on the 7th Octr. RC (NN: Livingston Papers). 1 Boudinot sent this same news in a similar letter of this date to his brother Elisha, which is in Boudinot, Life and Letters, 1:280—82. * Livingston’s December 13 letter is in Livingston, Papers (Prince), 4:498-99. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My dear Sir, Philadelphia Deer. 24th. 1782 A Frigate has lately arrived from France & went on Shore in our Bay in the Snow Storm, but has luckily got off again. Her dispatches are just come up and I heartily congratulate you on Great Brittain’s hav ing admitted our Independance, by sending Mr. Oswald to Paris with a Commission to treat of Peace with Commissioners from the 13
