500 December 24, 1782 Colonies, which our Commissioners absolutely refused to treat upon—in Consequence whereof Great Brittain has given up the Mat ter and issued a formal Commission to treat with “any Commissioner or Commissioners from the 13 united States of America" and to enter into all the necessary Stipulations as with an Independant Nation. The Rubi con is therefore Past and I am happy that my Expectations are likely to be fulfilled. It is also said that Madrass is taken. I am not at liberty to say more than is contained in the following Extract. “From several asiatic Accts, there is great probability that Madrass has been taken by the French Troops which have landed at Porto Neuvo and the Army of Hyder Ally with whom they have made a Junction, but no official Acct has come to hand, and this Intelligence cannot be given as a cer tainty.” From Mr. Adams—“We have at length the Consent of all the Cities & Provinces, and have adjusted & agreed upon every Article, Word, Syllable, Letter & Point in the Treaty of Commerce and Clerks are employed in making out fair Copies for Signature, which will be done this week. Amidst the innumerable Crouds of Loans, which are opened in this Country, many of which have little Success, I was much afraid that ours would have failed. I have however the pleasure to inform you that I am at last 1 '/z million of florins or 3 million of Livres in Cash, which will aid the operations of our Financier.” 25th. My being extremely hurried & the Posts hour just at hand I can say but little about private Affairs. I now understand you about the Hay, but I believe it will make but little difference—as the Estate of Mr. Livingston is obliged to make an Allowance to Ricky in quantity between that put up in Summer & when delivered in Winter, he will certainly expect the same from you, as a Ton in Summer, will not make much more than 1500 lb in winter. I wrote him before I left home that I would have nothing farther to do with the Sales, and that he must see to the disposal of the Hay & Grain himself. The Price in the Summer was 60/ but it must then have been taken away, but when the Ex[ecuto]r sends about the rest you can settle that as you please, or with Ricky who perhaps will sell the rest. I do not think there will be a necessity for Mr. Wallace to take any from Ricky as there will be enough of mine for him & you & me too, as I left above Twenty Tons or thereabouts, but on no Acct do not cramp yourself. I am sorry you had so much Trouble with the office tho it is only what I expected, as we have had the same every winter. I despair of getting Patty at a sewing School, as nothing will do here but dancing or Musick. I have by two several Conveyances reed the enclosed from Madeira. You had best send immediate Notice to Mr Remsen & Van Zandt of the News abt. Oswalds Commission, as it may prevent their being imposed on in the Mercantile way. I have the strongest Confidence that our hopes will be fully answered by March.
