December 24, 1782 501 Mrs. B., Susan & Patty join me in the most affectionate Compli ments of the Season, to Mrs. P., Johnny & Self. Am Dr Sir, Yours &c, B. [P.S.] Remember me to Mr. Dennis, Livingston, Mr Morton &c &c. I sincerely condole with Mr Dennis in his Loss. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). James Madison’s Notes of Debates Teusday24 Deer. [1782] The letter from Mr. Jay inclosing copy of the intercepted letter from 1 was laid before Congress. 2 The tenor of it with the comments of Mr. J affected deeply the sentiments of Congress with regard to (France}. 3 The policy in particular manifested by (France) of keeping us tractable by leaving the British in possession of posts in this country awakened strong jealousies, corroborated the charges on that subject, and with concomitant circumstances may engender the opposite extreme of the gratitude & cordiality towards {France}; as the closest friends on a rupture are apt to become the bitterest foes. Much will depend however on the course pursued by Britain. The liberal one 4 seems to be pursuing will much promote an alienation of temper in A. 5 from (France). It is not improbable that the inter cepted letter from Marbois came thro’ his hands. If G.B. therefore yields the Fitsheries & the back territory, A. will feel the obligation to her not to (France) who appears to be illiberal as to the 1st & favorable to Spain as to the 2d object; and consequently has forfeited the confi dence of the States interested in either of them. Candor will suggest however that the situation of (France) is & has been extremely per plexing. The object of her blood & money was not only the indepen dence, but the commerce and gratitude of America; the commerce to render Independence the more useful, the gratitude to render that Commerce the more permanent. It was necessary therefore she sup- posedzthat America should be exposed to the cruelties of her Ene mies, and be made sensible of her own weakness in order to be grate ful to the hand which relieved her. This policy if discovered tended, on the other hand to spoil the whole. Experience shews that her truest policy would have been to relieve A. by the most direct & gener ous means, & to have mingled with them no artifice whatever. With respect to Spain also the situation of (France) has been & is peculiarly delicate. The claims & views of Spn & A. interfere. The former attempts of B. to seduce Sp. to a separate peace, & the ties of (France) with the latter required of her to favor Spain, at least to a certain
