December 25, 1782 509 Alexander Hamilton to George Clinton Sir Philadelphia, Decemr. 25. 1782 Perhaps before this reaches you, you will have heard that the British have impliedly acknowleged our independence—by giving a commis sion of the 23d. of September to Mr Oswald to treat with The thirteen United States of America. Many are sanguine in expecting that peace will be the result of the Negotiations, for my part I have hopes, but if it should not be the case I shall not be much disappointed. There are many jarring interests that will not be easily adjusted. I have the honor to be, With perfect respect, Sir, yr most obed A Hamilton [P.S.] As Mrs Hamilton may be on the route I take the liberty to inclose a letter 1 for her which I request the favour of you to forward or return as circumstances shall dictate. Reprinted from Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 26:430. 1 Not found. Samuel Osgood to John Lowell Dear Sir Philadelphia Deer. 25th. 1782 I have enclosed you a Letter which I suppose contains your Com mission. 1 Genl. Lincoln was to have taken charge of it—but the Presi dent of Congress accidentally omitted the Opportunity and after that I expected to have had the Pleasure of delivering of it myself—after having taken my leave of Philadelphia & riding eight or Ten Miles; after having expended all my Money And reducing myself to a dis agreeable Situation, public Considerations influenced me to return very chearfully. Genl. Lincoln will undoubtedly have informed you of the Reason of my going Eastward; you may inform him that Congress approved entirely of the Committee’s Conduct & that they will not go forward very soon & probably not at all. 2 I wish to mention severally Things to you respecting Mr. Jay which would please you extremely & give you an exceeding good Opinion of him. His Conduct of late must be very satisfactory to all those who wish to participate in the Fisheries. His Determination has most agree ably disappointed me. But I have not Time to give any farther Infor mation by this Post. I am, very sincerely yours, S. Osgood
