December 28, 1782 515 do. The Letter by General Du Portail should have enclosed a Copy of that which was lost in the Congress; & that by Mr. Cochran should have been accompanied by a copy of the one you wrote a fortnight before, & delivered to Mr. Cuming, which I have never received. Mr. Barclay’s Letter by the Intrepid, & yours of 13th Octr. inform me of the death of M. de Clonard, for which I am exceedingly sorry. Pray present my affectionate regards to his Lady, & assure her that I most sincerely participate in the affliction which must be felt by all the friends of so valuable a man. The kindness, & attention which you have repeatedly informed me you have received from Madame de Clonard, will always endear her to me. The last accounts from Europe flatter us with the prospect of Peace; I most ardently hope that we may not be disappointed. Should that happy event take place before you leave France, it will be a Thousand times more welcome to me, as it will enable you to come over in greater safety. We have not yet received an account of the evacuation of Charles Town. Above two Months ago the Enemy abandoned all their outworks, & confined themselves to the Town. They likewise embarked all their stores, & the greatest part of their Cannon, & sent off a part of the Garrison. The remainder must have been detained by counterorders: if we do not hear soon of their having left it, I fear they will endeavour to keep it during the War. If they evacuate it, I shall once more be enabled to support my family comfortably at home, which will be a degree of hap piness to which I have for several years been a stranger. If Peace should be concluded this Winter, you will come either to Philadelphia or New York. If the War is to be continued, & you leave France as early as March, I should be glad that you would come to Baltimore. If you embark so late as that you may probably come on the coast of America in June, or July, I think Boston would be the best place for you to come to. Mr. Barclay has been very kind in offering to afford you any service in his power. He is a worthy man, & very capable of advising, & assisting you, & therefore I desire that you will apply to him to pro cure you the accommodations of a proper Vessel. Bring with you a Machine to copy Letters, if you can get one, & some of the paper proper to be used with it. Dr. Franklin copies his Letters with a Machine. It is a very useful contrivance, & saves a great deal of trou ble. My health continues very good; but I am tired of public business, & am anxious to return home with my family, to my Farm at Goose Creek. Make haste then my Dear Wife to assist me in carrying this plan into execution. I am pleased with the account you give of your German Servant, & wish that you would bring him with you instead of Richard. The piteous application the latter made to me before I left Europe, was one of the strongest reasons for my wishing to have him. As he seems satisfied with living with Mr. French, I am by no means desirous that he should come to me. On the contrary; for if his
