December 29, 1782 517 journey by land to South Carolina at the time. He has been infa mously persecuted by Usher, & Horner. This entre nous. RC (ScU: Izard Papers). William Blount to John Gray Blount Dear Sir, Philadelphia Deer. 29th 1782 Your’s of the 23d Novr. I received by [. . .] last Post and is the only one that I have received since the One by Mr. Blackledge. The one you mention to have wrote me “as early as September” and sent to Col. Ashe inclosing a “Sett of Bills” drawn by Mallett & Jewkes on Oliver Pollock for 535 s Zi Dollars nor the letter of Advice I have not seen nor heard of. Inclosed I found a Bill for 535 3 /4 Dollars which you call the first of the other Set, drawn by Mallett and Jewkes on Oliver Pollock Philadelphia. Soon after my Arrival here Mr. Nash sent me a Bill for 500 Dollars drawn by Mallett and Jewkes on Oliver Pollock (at some few days sight). 1 I presented the Bill and Mr. Pollock refused to accept it to be paid at the Sight it was drawn at but said he would accept it to be paid in Novr. or Deer, which I permited him to do. In Novr. he went to Vir ginia soon after Mr. Nash arrived here to whom I delivered the Bill. As the time of Payment drew near Mr Nash wrote him requesting to Know to whom he should here apply for the Mony when it became due in Case it should be inconvenient for himself (O.P.) to return here by that time and the following is his Answer. “Richmond Deer. 13th 1782. Sir, Your favour of the 3d Inst, is now before me and with Respect to the Bill in your favour for 500 Dollars, I am sorry to inform you it will be out of my power to discharge it before the later End of next month at which time I hope to have the Honor to hand the amt. in Person. I am &c. O.P. To the Honble A Nash Esqr.” I have recited the Circumstance respecting Mr Nashe’s Bill to prove two Things to you, the first is that he does not pay the Bills in Novr. or Deer, the time chosen and fixed on by himself and the other is that he will not be here before the later End of January but the Day before I purpose to set out for Carolina. Another Bill in favour of H. Toomer came into my Hands drawn by Mallett and Jewkes on O. Pollock for One hundred and Seventy Odd Dollars at ten days Sight. Before he went to Virginia I waited on him and presented the Bills for Accep tance which he refused to do unless I would admit of an Acceptance to be paid in Deer, which I declined. This Bill was by H. Toomer intended to reimburse me in part for the Mony I advanced his Brother Anthony. Mr. Pollock is a Man who unfortunately for him has a great Deal of Mony due to him both by the U. States and the S. of
