518 December 29, 1782 Virginia on which I fear he too much depends for the raising of Mony to discharge his debts or Bills; tho’ when he first arrived here he told me that he had a quantity of Beaver Furr in the Hands of some Gen tlemen of this place on which he principally depended to raise Cash and yesterday Inquiry was made of One of them about that Furr and from the Answer received No Hopes can be entertained of that fund producing any thing. I have put the Bills the ones you sent me and the One Toomer sent me into the Notary’s Hands and they are noted for Nonacceptance and when the days expire at which they respectively become due they will be protested for Non-payment. Should the other Set arrive I shall put them in the same Train. Observe this Protest will be founded upon Mr. Pollock being not to be found at the place mentioned as his Residence in the Bill Viz. Philadel phia therefore I hope it will not affect his Credit as it certainly would was he on the Spot and should he arrive here as he says he will by the last of January I shall offer him the Bills protested as they certainly will be without Damage or Charge of Protest and if he takes them up it will be fortunate for me if not they must recoil on the Endorsor & Drawers. I am &c & Wm. Blount Philadelphia January 4th 1783. The above is in Substance a Copy of a letter written to you by the last Post but I expect this will reach you before that does. By the last Post I also wrote you several other letters. 2 Wm. Blount RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). 1 For Abner Nash’s efforts to collect on this bill, see also Blount to Pollock, December 26, 1782. 2 Not found. James Madison’s Notes of Debates [December 30, 1782] From Teusday 24 Deer, the journals suffice untill Monday 30 Deer. A motion was made by Mr. Clarke seconded by Mr. Rutlidge to revise the instructions relative to negociations for peace, with a view to exempt the american Plenipotentiaries from the obligation to con form to the advice of France. 1 This motion was the effect of impres sions left by Mr. Jay’s letters & the intercepted one from Marbois. 2 This evidence of separate views in our ally, and the inconsistency of that instruction with our national dignity, were urged in support of the motion. In opposing the motion many considerations were sug gested, and the original expediency of submitting the commission for peace to the counsels of France discanted upon. The reasons assigned
