520 December 30, 1782 These considerations still justified the original measure in the view of the members who were present & voted for it. All the new members who had not participated in the impressions which dictated it and viewed the subject only under circumstances of an opposite nature disapproved it. 5 In general however the latter joined with the former in opposing the motion arguing with them that supposing the instruc tion to be wrong, it was less dishonorable, than the instability tht wd. be denoted by rescinding it; that if G.B. was disposed to give us what we claimed, France could not prevent it; that if G.B. struggled agst. those claims our only chance of getting them was thro the aid of France; that to withdraw our confidence would lessen the chance & degree of this aid; that if we were in a prosperous or safe condition compared with that in which we adopted the expedient in question, this change had been effected by the friendly succours of our ally, & that to take advantage of it to loosen the tie, would not only bring on us the reproach of ingratitude but induce France to believe that she had no hold on our affections but only in our necessities; that in all possible situations we sd. be more in danger of being seduced by G.B. than of being sacrificed by France; the interests of the latter in the main necessarily coinciding with ours; those of the former being dia metrically opposed to them. That as to the intercepted letter, there were many reasons which indicated that it came through the hands of the Enemy to Mr. J. that it ought therefore to be regarded even if gen uine, as communicated for insidious purposes; but that there was strong reason to suspect that it had been adulterated if not forged; and that on the worst supposition, it did not appear that the doctrines maintained or the measures recommended in it had been adopted by the French Ministry and consequently that they ought not to be held responsible for them. Upon these considerations it was proposed by Mr. Wolcott 2ded. by Mr. Hamilton that the motion of Mr. Clarke should be postponed, which took place without a vote. Mr. M[adison] added that the letter from Doer. Franklin of the 14 Oct. 1782 6 shd. be referred to a Com mittee with a view of bringing into consideration the preliminary arti cle proposing that British subjects & American Citizens sd. recipro cally have in matters of commerce the privileges of natives of the other party; and of giving to the American Ministers the instruction which ensued on that subject. This motion succeeded and the Com mittee appointed consisted of Mr. Madison, Mr. Rutlidge, Mr. Clarke, Mr. Hamilton, & Mr. Osgood. 7 The contract of Gel. Wayne was confirmed with great reluctance; being considered as improper with respect to its being made with individuals, as admitting of infinite abuses, as out of his military line, & as founded on a principle that a present commerce with G.B. was favorable to the U.S. a principle reprobated by Congress & all the
