January 1,1783 529 mentioned. I reed, by this Weeks Post from the Secretary 2 an Account of the Amount of my Drafts & a Caution not to make them too fre quent by Direction of the Council. I must confess it appears not a lit tle extraordinary to me. It gives me Pain least you should meet with Difficulty, on Account of the Order I gave you. If this should be the Case, I wish you not to press the Board very hard if you can negociate it in Boston for a short Time, & write to my Brother Isaac Osgood at Salem, I doubt not but he will be able pretty punctually to discharge it, I have by this Post requested him to do it; 3 in Case you request it, & inform him when & where. I have inclosed you a Copy of the Secre tary’s Letter to me & my Answer thereto. 4 I dont recollect that we have any foreign News of Importance since you left us which can be communicated, Tho I am at a Loss to know whereabouts we were in that Respect, at that Time. The Prospect of Peace is not less flattering—perhaps more—yet I should feel much happier to see the Treaties Signed—for I think there are many Con siderations, if not on our Side, elsewhere, that may prevent a speedy Peace. The Arrangement of Newhampshire, Rode Island and New Jersey Lines are postponed to the first of March next; & also three Regi ments of Pennsylvania. But I think it is radically wrong; I am very sorry to differ with you in Opinion—But the Delegates of N Hampshire & Rhode Island declared in Congress, that their States would not com ply—& I think that when they know that Masstts. & Connectt. are not call’d upon who are equally defect, in their Compliment as those two States; that they will not be at a very great partial Expence. However it is done. 5 We have done another very wrong Thing for Baron Steuben. We have referred a Motion to the Financier to take Order for 2,400 Dollrs. in favr. of the Baron on Acct, of Pay. We have repealed all for mer Allowances of extra Pay, Subsistence, forage, Waggons &ca for himself & family, & ordered in Lieu thereof three hundred Dollrs. per Month. 6 It is not right. However if the Army are content with it, Amen! The Committee of the Army arrived yesterday. 7 Coll Brooks breakfasted with me this Morning. I can’t now recollect all the wicked Things we have done since your Departure. Mr. Gorham has been confined for ten or twelve Days but is growing better. Mr. Lovell is now confined he has had a very disagreeable Turn of Feaver & Ague &ca. One Day about Dusk he came down from his Chamber & seemed to be in a strange Condition; the Doctr. was present. Jack insisted upon it that his Legs were so big that he could not move them. His Hands, His Head, His Body were all so big that he could not possibly stir. The Doctr. Thot he was vapoury—felt of his Pulse; & did not find them bad—he bantered him, but to no Purpose; about half an Hour after, he was taken with a most violent fit—nobody was in the Room when he was first taken—they found him in the middle of the floor
