530 January!, 1783 perhaps in half a Minute after he was seized. Mr. Gorhams Boy & mine seized him to prevent his injuring himself—for he Jam’d his Head against the floor & kicked most violently. The two Boys were no match for him. The Neighbourhood & the Doctr were soon rallied. After he came out of it, he was very weak & remained so for three or four Days; he seems to be getting a little better now. I have not men tioned to him the Condition he was in. It is now about two Hours since the New year commenced, there fore it is Time for me to bid you Adieu, S. Osgood [P.S.] The Judges at Trenton have determined unanimously in favor of Pennsylvania. I have not had Time by this Post to write my Brother at Salem. If you meet with Difficulty on Account of the Draft—I shall be glad to know it as soon as may be for I can make Provision for the Payment thereof. I think you will Judge that I have wrote a very mod erate & decent Letter to the Secry. It was not dictated by my feelings— because I apprehend they may think differently upon a State of Facts. If they do not I shall only return a Month or two sooner for it. I wish you a happy, yes, a thousand happy New Years. Jany. 8th. Greaton, Dayton & Putnam are Brigrs General. 8 RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 See Osgood to John Lowell, December 25, 1782. 2 That is, John Avery. 3 Not found. 4 Not found. 3 For this December 31 suspension of plans for consolidating several Continental reg iments of New Hampshire, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island, see JCC, 23:837; and John Taylor Gilman tojosiah Bartlett, January 9, 1783. 6 See JCC, 23:833-34. 7 See James Madison to Edmund Randolph, December 30, 1782, note 5. 8 See Elias Boudinot to Elias Dayton, January 7, 1783. Oliver Wolcott to Oliver Wolcott, Jr. Sir Philadelpa. IJanry. 1783. I wrote to you by the last Post. 1 Nothing Material has since occurred except that the Judgment of the Court Appointed to determine the Controversy between Connecticut and Pennsylvania has been read in Congress, by which they have unanimously decided that Connecticut has no Right to the Territory, nor Jurisdiction over the Country in Dis pute. The Reasons for the Sentence are not assigned—and conse quently the Judgment will not Apply as a Precedent in deciding Other Cases. I hope that Pennsylvania will quiet the Settlers under the Claim of Connecticut, and wish that a Stipulation of this Nature had been entered into previous to the Tryal.
