January 2,1783 531 Nothing Material has otherwise occurrd since my last. We shall probably soon be better able to judge wheather G Britain seriously intends to settle a Peace—or wheather her Designs are insidious and delusive. 2 As you pass the Post office dayly you will, there enquire every Post for any Letters of Mine. France has remitted the Interest due from the States to her, prior if I remember Right to last July. You will never suffer any Paragraphs in any of my Letters to be printed. Yours, O Wolcott RC (Ct: Oliver Wolcott, Jr., Papers). 1 See Wolcott to Oliver Wolcott, Jr., December 25, 1782. 2 Wolcott also wrote a similar letter this day to his wife Laura, an extract from which is in RobertF. Batchelder Autographs Catalog, no. 51 (May 1985), item 32. And on the 9th he sent her the following brief family letter. “I wrote to Rhina yester day by the Post, at which Time I did not know of Mr. Whitman’s being about to Return. By Rhina’s Letter of the 23 Ult. I learn that you have had a severe Turn of the Rhurna- sism. I fear that you expose your Health greatly by an attention to the Health of Juba— you will consider that your Own Life and Health is of infinetely more consequence than his. I wish that he might be provided for, but let it be done in a Manner consistent with your own Safety. I have not heard how he is since I left home, but if he continues as he was I think it perfectly consistent with your Duty to dispose of him in the best Manner you can for his Benifit. I have but a Moments Time to Write. May the Almighty bless you. I am well, yours, Oliver Wolcott.” Oliver Wolcott, Sr., Papers, CtHi. David Ramsay to John Eliot Dear Sir, January 2d 1783, Philada. I am much obliged by your last kind letter of the first of December. You are right with respect to Dr. Warrens oration. I only have the one that was pronounced in 1775 which in my opinion is the best of the whole collection. 1 The account you give of Mr Austin is truly deplorable. What a pity that so bright a sun should set so soon & what is worse set under such a cloud. 2 The evacuation of Charlestown is an event though much desired not yet authenticated. The last southern post brought some disagree able accounts of Gen. Green being obliged to retreat but this also is not properly ascertained. You ask my opinion on the subject of Dr Whites performance. 3 I have not read it but they who have say that it puts ordination on a presbyterian footing. He is a candid catholic worthy man & most excellent citizen. I think it probable that his plan will be adopted & in that case our churches will only differ from theirs in the forms of wor ship. Your speaker Mr Gorham has the esteem of Congress & is reckoned a man of abilities & integrity. He has mentioned nothing about Mr
