532 January 2, 1783 Burgess. 4 My private opinion is that he will gain nothing by applying to Congress. The inconsistency of so soon departing from their own resolution respecting British Subjects would hold them up to public view as a fickle unsteady body if they relaxed in favor of any individual however deserving. The present sense of many members is that the stronger evidence a British subject produces of his attachment to America the more fit he would be to be employed by the enemy. I know nothing of that Gentlemans character; but let it be ever so good I do not believe that Congress would break through their late resolu tion for his sake. If peace should be established British subjects will have the same liberties of coming to America that other Europeans have. They among them who are our freinds must not take it amiss that we cannot embrace them before that period. My private senti ment is that there are many freinds to America absolutely considered in G. Britain but, I suspect the freindship of all of them to America independent and allied to France. The last I consider as the anchor of the former & would do nothing that would in the most remote man ner hurt it. The papers will inform you that negociations are going on, that a new commission is made out empowering Mr Oswald to treat with the States of America. Lord Shelburne is so double a character that I sus pect his sincerity in all this. God grant I may be mistaken. With the greatest esteem & regard, I am your real freind & very humble servt, David Ramsay RC (MHi: Andrew-Eliot Papers). 1 See Ramsay to Eliot, July 17, 1782, note 2. 2 Jonathan Williams Austin, the author of one of the orations in the “collection” under discussion, had died in 1779, but Ramsay’s lament is probably a reference to Austin’s dishonorable discharge from the Continental Army in 1776 after pleading drunkenness in mitigation of a court-martial charge, and failure to gain reinstatement because of uncertainty over his sobriety. See Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 17:120-22. 3 A reference to The Case of the Episcopal Churches in the United States Considered (Philadelphia: David C. Claypoole, 1782), by the Rev. William White (1748-1836). Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 17,802. 4 For William Burgess’ naturalization petition to the Massachusetts General Court, see Arthur Lee to Samuel Adams, January 29, 1783, note 3. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Friday 3d. Jany. [1783] 1 The vote of thanks to the Minister of France which passed yesterday was repealed in consequence of his havg expressed to the President a desire that no notice might be taken of his conduct as to the point in question & of the latter’s communicating the same to Congress. 2 The
