January 4, 1783 533 temper of Congress here again manifested the transient nature of their irritation agst. France. The motion of Mr. Howel put on the Secret Journal gave Congress a great deal of vexation. This expedient for baffling his scheme of rais ing a ferment in his state & exposing the foreign transactions was adopted only in the last resort; it being questioned by some whether the articles of confederation warranted it. 3 The answer to the note of the French Minister passed unanimously & was a further testimony of the abatement of the effects of Mr. Jay’s letter &c. The proceedings of the Ct. in the dispute between Cont. & Pa. were after debates as to the meaning of the confederation in directing such proceeding to be lodged above 4 the acts of Congress entered at large on the Journals. 5 It was remarked that the Delegates from Cont. par ticularly Mr. Dyer were more captious on the occasion than was con sistent with a perfect acquiescence in the decree. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:6. i Immediately preceding this entry Madison wrote “Thursday Jany 2d. Nothing requiring notice.” 2 For the resolve to thank the chevalier de La Luzerne for “informing Congress that a naval force would be detached from the West Indies for the protection of our trade,” see JCC, 24:3. 3 The Rhode Island delegates had been attempting to secure extracts from various letters from Europe reporting optimistically on American credit abroad, thus vindicat ing their opposition to the impost amendment. After acrimonious debate this day the matter was postponed and “committed” by the vote of 9 to 1. Madison was apparently troubled that Congress also then adopted a motion to have the proceedings of this debate recorded only on the secret journals, thereby infringing article IX of the Articles of Confederation guaranteeing that Congress would “publish the Journal of their pro ceedings monthly, except such parts thereof relating to treaties, alliances or military operations, as in their judgment require secrecy;.. . and the delegates of a state, or any of them, at his or their request shall be furnished with a transcript of the said Journal, except such parts as are above excepted, to lay before the legislatures of the several states.” See JCC, 19:220-21, 23:832-33, 837, 24:32-36. See also David Howell’s letters to John Carter ofjanuary 6; andjonathan Arnold to Howell, March 8, 1783, note 1. 4 Madison later wrote “among” above the line and lined out “above.” 5 Article IX of the Articles of Confederation also provided that “the judgment or sen tence and other proceedings... [in controversies between states, would be] transmit ted to congress, and lodged among the acts of congress for the security of the parties concerned." See JCC, 19:218, 24:6-32. Elias Boudinot to William Livingston Dr. Sir Philadelphia Jany. 4th 1783 I do myself the honor to enclose a Letter to your Excellency at the Request of the Honorable Mr. Jefferson, 1 who goes in a few Days for Europe.
