540 January 6, 1783 Samuel Osgood to John Lowell Dear Sir. Philadelphia Jany. 6th. 1783 I have not had either Opportunity or a Subject on which to write you of late. In my last 1 informed you that I expected to have been in Boston this Winter. It is now a Matter of Uncertainty. After Genl. Mif flin, Mr. Nash & myself had left Philadelphia & rode about Eight or Ten Miles, Mr. Nash accidentally mentioned that he had seen a pri vate Letter before he left the City informing that Virginia had repealed their Impost Law. We immediately enquired thro whom the Information came & found the Channel to be so good that there could remain but little Doubt as to the Fact. This convinced us all that it was in vain to go to Rhode Island till the Matter was fully ascer tained. We returned rather chagrined & informed Congress of the Reason who were entirely ignorant of the Matter except three or four Members. That Body approved of our Conduct, & in about two Hours after the southern Post arrived & confirmed the Intelligence. This has at present put an End to the Deputation’s proceeding. Mr. Morris dif fers from us in Opinion. He thinks we ought to have gone forward. But Congress seem to be unanimous that it is best, at least to postpone it for the present. I am extremely distress’d with the embarrassed Situation of Con gress. They must finally be borne down. It is impossible for them to hold their Station if the War continues unless they are furnished with more ample & liberal Means to carry it on. Extremes frequently pro duce their opposites too much or too little Power in Congress are both ineligible. You know their Powers as to the great national Objects under their Direction. However it may not be amiss to suggest the probable Consequences which may take Place from the present weak & debilitated Constitution of the united States & the almost entire Loss of Confidence in Congress in a great Measure arising therefrom. Many of the Systems with the Trompery of paper Money are all done away by Congress. Their late Systems have operated well. The Arrangements are prudent & lessen inconceivably the Expences of the united States. Congress have much to say for themselves on this Head within the last Eighteen Months. But if they cannot by prudent Man agement obtain the Confidence of the People & the several Legisla tures. If they will not Join heartily in supporting Congress, Disunion & Dissolution can scarcely be avoided. This Event however some may think of it lightly is a very serious Matter & must be pregnant with infi nite Mischief; how far European Powers may become interested in the Scene is impossible to divine. But I think, the probable Danger is much against us. We begin to open to a new Scene of Politicks a brit- tish Interest is strongly suspected even among those who are zealous for the Independence of these States. It is foreseen that at the close of
