January 6,1783 541 the War a strong french & brittish Interest will become exceeding manifest. The french Court undoubtedly expect & intend to claim as much Merit as Decency will allow of for their Aids & Assistance. We surely ought as a sensible & generous People to acknowledge fully the important & beneficial Consequences of those Aids. But as a People conscious of our own sovereign Rights & as brave as generous, we ought never to fetter ourselves with an unnecessary Byass towards any Power on Earth. We ought to think & act as an independent People. But this I fear is not possible. If we may not charge many in important Stations with the most humiliating Servility—We may at least say that if their Conduct is the Result of Deliberation, if it is a fair Index of their Intentions, it does not wear the Appearance of an independent Mind. None but an F n 2 can be blind to the Politicks of the Court of V s either his Understanding or his Heart must be impeached unless we suppose all our other M s distitute of Sagacity & Good ness of Intentions—for they have all fallen into the same Channel of thinking & have viewed Things in a very different Light from that M— —r. This Mr. Jay informs us plainly is the Case with him & the D r. And if he perseveres in his independent Way of thinking, it will not be long before Suspicions Insinuations, & Party Interest will lessen his Importance there. But these are very secret Matters & Honor forbids my mentioning several Things that have a strange Aspect. Two power ful Interests opposed to each other which may be the Case & a Disso lution of our Union will probably be Sources of as many Calamities as the present War. I think it is for our Interest to be united notwith standing some States may & will finally bear a very unequal Part of the present Contest. But they will not wish to seek for a Remedy which would encreace the Injury. Their alternative must be to choose the least Evil; and of all temporal Evils War is among the greatest. Our national Debt is about thirty Millions of Dollars—near Twenty five Millions of which is due to the Inhabitants of the united States. Seven teen Millions & probably a little more, are upon Interest—so that Twelve hundred thousand Dollars is a Computation low enough for the annual Interest. That Sum Congress have required for the sole Purpose of discharging the Interest to March 1783—can you point out in what Way Congress can do Justice to their Creditors & obtain about 6,000,000 of Dollrs. for the Support of their Army & the civil List. I do not think our national Debt together with the Debts of the several States so enormous that the Abilities of the united States equally exerted are not or rather will not be fully competent to the Discharge thereof. But I fear that the national Debt never will be discharged upon the Principles of the Confederation unless Peace makes a much greater Alteration in some of the States than I have any Reason to expect. That they will assume a new Face soon after the Close of the War cannot be doubted But that they will be heartily & Jointly dis-
