542 January 6, 1783 posed to comply with the Requisitions of Congress a future Day will alone determine. No rational Man can suppose that during the War the united States can raise seven Million & a half of Dollars annualy (which is the Amount of the Estimates upon the lowest possible Calcu lation) in the common Way of Taxation. Some other more energetic & productive Plan must be adopted or the oeconomical Plans of Congress must fail in the Execution. And if they should fail before Peace is established the Consequences are very much to be dreaded. Peace may or may not be made this Winter says Mr. J in a Let ter of the 13th of last October. 3 But the Brittish Commission to Mr. Oswald to treat with the Commissioners of the thirteen united States of America viz. Newhampshire & so on—appears to me to have in some Measure closed the Dispute with Respect to our Independence: & several agree with me in Opinion that this being no longer a Ques tion to be solved by the Sword the Court of St. James will be in Haste for a Peace. That they are seriously and anxiously disposed for such an Event appears from good Authority. And Should they be wise enough to make a very liberal Peace with us & cede all their Rights to our extensive Claims to Territory & grant us the same Priviledges in the Fisheries which we formerly enjoyed & also a Freedom of Trade in their Ports to be reciprocal—should they be governed by such truely wise & political Principles for themselves of which there is much Rea son to suppose they are more sensibly impressed than they have ever before been. What will clogg the Wheels of Peace—surely America looks with the utmost Anxiety for that happy Event. Heaven forbid that it should be otherwise than happy. It is natural to suppose that if great Britain acknowledges our Independence, she will make Peace with us upon such liberal Terms as to obliterate as much as possible a Remembrance of past Injuries. But is this a Conduct in them to be wish’d for by, & that will be pleasing to every European Power? It is a political Question & there may be many political Manoevres before it can be fully answered. The more contracted & limited Congress find their Powers as to the very important Objects that fall under their gen eral Direction in a Time of War, the more dependent that Body is made, the more servile & obedient will they become to foreign Influ ence. How can it be otherwise? If we cannot carry on the War our selves, it matters not whether it it is owing to the Inability of the Peo ple, or to the Weakness of our Constitution—either of them will oblige Congress to have recourse to similar Measures. They must to their own Humiliation solicit foreign Aid in either Case And I am fully convinced that Congress have been really necessitated to sollicit Aids in the most humble Terms more from a Want of Energy in their own Constitution than from the real Inability of the People. We have rea son to beleive that the “ultimately to govern” &ca. originated in Part from this Cause. The States to the southward of this saw plainly their
