January 6, 1783 543 Danger. They were perswaded that the Power of the Union was at that Time insufficient for their Protection. They deprecated a Submission to Great Britain & to avoid it saw no other Way but by courting for eign Aid at the dear Expence of their own Honor & Dignity. This burning of Incense at a strange Alter is political Blasphemy against the Sovereignty of America. But this is the Course of human Nature when we see our Danger & are unable to help ourselves we generally apply for Assistance. And thus a Congress without Power may be the Escurial 4 of American Dignity. The above Reasons have lately been urged in Justification of passing that base, servile Clause. The Servility ought to be had in the greatest Detestation even if it was not possible for us to receive any Injury by it. But however in this particular Instance, the above Reasons are ostensible at this Time. I don’t recol lect that they were urged with much Warmth. Genl. Ward may recol lect better the general Course of the Business, it pass d in about two Days after I entered Congress. I think the true was this, & always shall be in the Opinion Mr. Adams was sole Commissioner for Peace. The Count de V s 5 found him by no Means a pliable Man. There had been a Warm Dispute between him & Mr. Adams & the Count had declared to Mr. Adams that he would never write to him again—this I take to be the true Reason & the others such as the Weakness of the southern Governments & the extremely embarassed Situation of our Finances are now very plausible Excuses. They were at that Time both true. But it may be remarked that we have not received any Considera tion for the Surrender. Mr. Laurens had finished his Negociation long before & we have received no Subsidy or Loan, since what he obtained. The Count de Grasse was ordered to the Chesapeak before that could reach france & you are a Judge of the Rest. The Powers of Congress as to internal Government are very limited but as to external Matters such as Treaties and Alliances they are very extensive. The first being found by Experiment incompetent the last will be resorted to. And in this Way the United States may laid pros trate at the Foot of a foreign Power either from pretended Necessity or political Intrigue. If it had been possible to have given more of the one & less of the other our Honor might have been preserved more inviolate. I wish there may never be an Occasion for another War after this has terminted. But I think we ought to get thro this as honorably as we can, by endeavoring to establish such Systems for discharging the Debts that have necessarily accrued as to leave finally our Honor & Honesty unimpeach’d. It is in vain to triffle & piddle about the Mat ter. If Congress cannot discharge they must not contract Debts they must not obtain any foreign Loans. They must not hold out any longer vain & delusory Promises to the Army. It is impossible for them to exist with only one or two Months Pay in two Years.
