January 6, 1783 547 Court. It is true that by the last Letters from Mr. Adams 11 he had obtain’d from Individuals about £80,000 Sterlg. The Interest of which commenced many Months ago as also for about £100,000 Sterg more the Interest of which Sums yearly must be paid with Punctuality or our Credit in Europe with Individuals will sink entirely instead of rising. How this can be done without appropriating a Part of the Capital for that Purpose I know not. That we have fail’d in no late Application for Loans is a wicked Misrepresentation. It is calculated to give an exceed ing bad Opinion of Congress to all their suffering Creditors. It con veys an Idea to the public that Congress can obtain as much Money as they stand in need of & that the Facility with which they can procure it ought rather to be check’d than encouraged by establishing of perma nent Funds. Would you, or any other Person beleive from that Repre sentation that Congress have not obtain’d any Money in Europe for nearly two Years excepting what Mr. Adams has obtain’d. Mr. Lau rens’s Negociation is the latest Money we have obtaind from the Court of V s which is little short of two years notwithstanding we have made two very pressing Applications since—one of them particularly long enough ago to have reed, an Answer. Doctr. F n was so strongly impress’d with an Opinion that we must fail in the Applica tion that he postponed it for farther Directions—which he received in positive Terms. As to the Court of Madrid Congress I hope will never make another Application there: after the unwearied & pressing Solicitations of Mr. j—y for many months to that Court for about £25,000 Sterg after being triffled with & encouraged from Time to Time, he was finally obliged to the great Dishonor of the United States to suffer to be protested Bills drawn on him to that small Amount. The Count de Vergennes writes in the most pointed Terms against our placing Dependence upon Assistance there. Mr. Adams writes very discourag ing as to his future Prospects. Spain will not assist us in this Way. In what part of Europe then is our Credit so well established that we can make Applications for Loans with any Prospect of Success? I know not. Indeed I think it is not fair & honest for Congress to ask a foreign Individual to loan them money in their present State of Imbecility Notwithstanding the above State of Facts, which are literally true. Mr. H 1 persists in declaring that his Sentiments can be supported from the Letters of our foreign Ministers & is very assiduously attempt ing to have a great Part of their Correspondence in his Possession as well as that of the public by introducing them or such Parts as he con ceives will best answer his Purpose as Preambles to a Motion & calling for the Yeas & Nays to bring them upon the Journals so that he may have an attested Copy which Congress have not usually given. He left us this Week, & you may probably see him figuring away in the Provi dence Gazette.
