January?, 1783 555 In August last a Commission was granted by the Court of London to Richard Oswald Esquire of the City of London impowering him to treat for and conclude with the Colonies of North America or their Commissioners a Peace or Truce. Our Ministers at Paris refused to treat with Mr. Oswald under this Commission objecting to the Word Colonies. On the 27th September Mr. Oswald produced another Com mission from the Court of London dated September 21st impowering him to treat for and conclude with the Commssioners of the Thirteen United States of North America Viz New Hampshire, Massachusets &c &c—a Truce or Peace. On the 14th of October our last Official Accounts are dated (from Paris) when and where the Peace Negocia- tors appeared to be going on very amicably but by the same Con veyance We are informed by one of the Negociators that Notwith standing the peaceable Aspect the Negoci[a]tions have, that he should not belive the British were sin [c]ere in what they said about Peace untill they had signed and sealed a Treaty to insure it. In this Business of Peace making there is no less than five diffrent Interests to consult and accomodate so that however sin [c] ere all Parties may be in their wishes to Compleat it, It will unavoidably be a Work of consid erable time, if effected at all, And as to what will be the Event of this Business the People here are much divided in Opinion for my own part my Opinion too frequently goes with my Wishes and no Man more fervently wishes for Peace than I do. I write to no other of my Friends of this Subject and you may give as many of them Extracts from it as you please, particularly Govr. Caswell, James Coor & Doer. Guion. My Merchantile Friends I need not mention. Now to yourself & T & T. O. 3 let me say that the best informed People here are very clear that Peace will arise out of the present Negociations and of this Opinion I am, but as it is truly a Work of great Magnitude I can form no opinion as to the precise time when it may be expected. These let ters of this Package will come to you from Edenton by Express & you must pay the Expence. I am &c Wm. Blount RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). 1 See Blount to Pollock, December 26, 1782. 2 Nevertheless, Blount probably did not leave Philadelphia before mid-February. Writing from Baltimore February 15, Thomas Jefferson reported that Blount had not yet arrived there en route home, though expected. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:243. And in a 1785 “Deposition of his Service in Congress,” Blount claimed eight months service from “the second Day of July 1782 to the second Day of March 1783 both Days inclu sive . . . including the Time taken up in going to and returning from Congress." Blount Papers, McClung Historical Collection, TK1.. 3 Titus and Thomas Ogden, merchants of New Bern, N.C. Blount, Papers (Keith), 1:33.
