562 January 8, 1783 In Consequence of this another Committee was appointed upon us both—which and their report given in on the 18 Deer, is in Extract No. 2—by this the Secretary for foreign Affairs is to transmit to the State—together with the doings of Congress “an Authenticated State of the several Applications for foreign Loans, and the result thereof.” Apprehensive whether the same turn of thinking wch. actuated the first committee in their report—might not affect in stating those mat ters—(apart from other & personal Considerations) And judging it would be more satisfactory to your Excellency and the Assembly to have the Letters & papers themselves, wherby to form a State con formable to your Judgments—rather than to take the Constructions, comments, glosses, & Colourings of either party every leisure hour Until the 2nd day of January was taken up in procuring a knowledge of the Letters &c necessary to be forwarded—on this Occasion, in addition to what was already Ordered. Which being summed up in the form of a Resolution—I moved it, seconded by Mr. Collins and the yeas & nays being called—various manoevres were tried to prevent its effect, but in vain. Until I was surprized by a motion to transfer the Motions, with the subsequent proceedings to the secret Journals, which was carried, altho’ the Motion did not upon a scrutiny contain any thing under injunction of secrecy, nor related to any matter pointed out by the Articles of Confederation—as the subjects for those Journals. It would have given me great satisfaction to have been able to forward a Resolve of the purport of (No. 4)—but of this by the proceedings above mentioned I am prevented. 5 Discouraged from a further trial Mr. Howell set out to return on the 6th Instant. Although by these matters his stay has been protracted about Two weeks, yet I cannot doubt but your Excellency & the Honorable Assembly will be with me in Opinion that the time has been spent, in discharging a duty, and for the Honor and Interest of the State. Thereby a Capital & I hope fatal stroke has been given to a system, which had it prevailed, I have no doubt would either have involved the Country in fresh & unsuspected scenes of distress—or terminated in the destruction of the Liberties of the States as established by Con federation, and I am persuaded by the convictions which already appear, similar attempts will not be soon made in Congress to infringe the rights of a Member of their body. 6 No Official intelligence is yet arrived of the Evacuation of Charles T own —but it seems now beyond a doubt to have taken Place. This is the only important news, and on which please to Accept my Congratu lations. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect your Excellency’s Very huml. servant, J ona Arnold
