January 8, 1783 565 wished for peace—if G. Britain was not pretty sure, that the ultimate concessions in the course of the treaty wch. she had determined to make would ensure to her peace, would she be so weak As in effect to acknowledge American Independence? Would she not rather, at least affect to claim us as her subjects & keep this claim open for contin gencies during the war? No doubt she would—have not the British Councils declared to the world the impracticability of recovering their lost Colonies & have they not now opened a treaty with them as sovereign & independt. states? Yes—wherefore then carry on the war, can we suppose that in her exausted condition, she is capable of futur- ing projects of conquest Agt. her other Enemies to make good what she has lost here: The Idea is too chimerical therefore on the whole, I conclude & give it as my chimney corner opinion that all parties are prepared for peace. Nothing I do assure you my Dear Sir is more true than that poor America is prepared for peace, indeed it may be said she is prepared for nothing else. In the early periods of the war Con gress possessed powers very different from what they do now. They Could order the raising of Regiments, could organize armies & what is of particular consequence they held the purse strings of America, that is so long as paper could be found, they could find money—possessed fully of the Confidence of their Country they could turn even rags to Money. Midas like what e’re they touched they turned to gold, but alas! this gold has all turned to rags again & the art is lost lost, forever, see McFingal, & they are able now only to apply to their constituents for money, who are either not able or not willing to pay. Perhaps you will say, let them exercise their power of borrowing as other sovereigns do who enter into war, but I answer if they will borrow as other nations do, they must provide & appropriate ample Funds for paymt. of Interest & principal as other nations do. Promises wont do any longer & what funds I ask you have Congress in their power— none—they made one attempt to bring the states into a consent that they might Tax imports as far as 5 per Cent & after advocating the propriety nay necessity of the measure as a prop to Credt. for two years they have at length the mortification to find it wont go down. The little State of R. Island has had it in her power to blast the well grounded hopes that were conceived of such a measure & Virga, has since on this head gone retrograde. A deputation from the N. army is now before Congress stating their distresses & prophesying what will be the probable consequence if practising any longer on the patiance of the Soldiery. God grant us you will say a happy issue out of all our troubles; so we all say but this wont get the Cart out of the mire. The truth is Sir the fault is in the Constitution of Congress & if these dis tresses should happily point out a remedy in the right place and way, we shall by & by say as we have often had reason to say before, all is for the best, you will guess to what my hopes glance—things will soon be
