566 January 8,1783 better or worse. Our representation is now very full all the delegates being here, but as our Finances are not calculated but for the support of a bare representation Mr Blount & myself will go home soon. 2 The Doctor is satisfied to stay over his time wch. is very agreeable to me. Please to present my best respects to Mr. Johnston, yr. Lady &c. & believe me to be wth. the sincerest regard, Dear Sir, yr. obt. Hble Servt. A. Nash RC (N'cD: Iredell Manuscripts). 1 Edmund C. Burnett and Griffith J. McRee misdated this letter January 18, 1783. Burnett, letters, 7:19. 2 Little is known about Nash’s final days in Philadelphia. He was not present for the congressional roll call votes of February 6; and Thomas Jefferson later reported that Nash arrived in Baltimore on February 13 en route to North Carolina and that William Blount was soon expected. See JCC, 24:116; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:243. John Taylor Gilman to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir (Private) Philada.Jany 9th. 1783. It is so long a time since I had the pleasure of a Line from you, that I Scarcely know whether you wish to hear from me however I shall Hazard a few Lines. Your last Letter was dated Octr. 5th. You will see by my Letter to the Honbl. the President what has been done respecting Conti. Money; as I think their is not any the least prospect of any thing being done to good purpose at present I Imag ine the Delegates of Massachusetts will not move the Subject again very soon, and I Shall not unless I hear from the state on the Subject. I have seen the Resolve of the Genl. Court for Compleating their Battal ions in Consequence of the Application of Genl. Washington. 1 This was a plan agreed on by him & the Secretary at War. It was altogether unknown by Congress (Except some Individual Members) untill about the 25th of'December. I had been Informed of it by a Letter from the Army but not in time to write to the State previous to the November session, otherwise I Should have hazarded my Sentiments on that Subject in Contradiction to the Application. The Arangement of the 7th of August Ought to have taken place in the N.H. Line. Congress were Informed a few Days Since (about the 27th December) that application had been made, and that New Hamp, had agreed to raise their Troops, which was the principal Argument made use of for Suspending the Arangment which Resolution I Inclose you. 2 I am for General Arangements & requisitions I by no means wish to see the State of New Hampshire backward in Complying with the General Requisitions of Congress, But in this Case, I think in the first place that it is not probable we shall want more men, and in the Second if we did they ought to be raised from those States who are much more
