568 January 9, 1783 Hope the State have Appointed Delegates to relieve us the begin ning of April. Nothing further done respecting Vermont & please to make my Compliments to my Friends with You. I am, Your most Hum Servt. John Taylor Gilman P.S. Mr. Jefferson of Virginia who was Appointed one of our Commis- srs. for making Peace is Just Setting out for Europe. RC (NhD: Josiah Bartlett Papers). 1 For this November 23, 1782, New Hampshire General Court resolve, see N.H. State Papers, 8:951. 2 Gilman enclosed Congress’ December 31 resolution suspending the August 7, 1782, resolution for reducing the number of officers in the Continental regiments of New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Newjersey. JCC, 23:837. 3 See Gilman to Bartlett, August 5, 1782. 4 See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, January 9—10, 1783. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada.Jany 9th. 1783. You will receive herewith (by favor of Genl Whipple) the printed Resolutions of Congress from May to November 1782, you have like wise a Package Containing the Blank Commissions which we wrote to the Secretary for. You will see by the Papers that Charlestown is Evacu ated, this will give great relief to the Southern States, we have not had any Accounts from General Greene in particular Except what was taken from a New York Paper. The Subject of Continental Currency has been repeatedly debated, Committed, reported upon &c. On the 7th Instt. it was taken up. I Inclose you Copy of the proceedings, as by which you will see that the proposition for receiving of it at the rate of Forty for One, as also that of Seventy Five for One is rejected. 1 I believe their is no State in the Union which have Collected the Quota Assigned them Excepting New Hampshire, Massachusetts & Rhode Island. It appears that about One half part of the whole Money Emitted by Congress have been paid into the Treasury’s or is now in the hands of Individuals in those Three States; The State of Massachusetts have made repeated Repre sentations to Congress on this Subject, what measures they will take next I cannot Say; but I think their is not a prospect of any thing being done in Congress at present that will give Satisfaction to those States who hold more than their proportion of the Money. Their is a Committee of Officers from the Army now here, they want some Money to relieve their present Necessities to be paid Immediately; a Settlement and Security for the Arrears of Pay, Rations &c.; and Secu rity for the Half Pay promised them by the Resolutions of Congress;
