January 9,1783 569 this business is now under Consideration, what can or will be done I cannot Say. 2 Are daily Expecting some further Accounts from Our Commission ers in Europe by which we may be able to determine the Intentions of the Enemy respecting Peace. I have the Honor to be, Your most Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (Nh-Ar: Revolutionary War Correspondence). 1 For these proceedings, on the report of a grand committee of which Gilman was a member, see JCC, 24:39—42. 2 See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, January 7, 1783. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Thursdayjany 9th & Fridayjany 10 [1783], 1 On the report 2 for valuing the land conformably to the rule laid down in the foederal articles, the delegates from Connecticut con tended for postponing the subject during the war, alledging the impediments arising from the possession of N.Y. &c. by the enemy; but apprehending (as was supposed) that the flourishing state of Con necticut compared with the Southern States, would render a valuation at this crisis unfavorable to the former. Others particularly Mr. H[amilton] & Mr. [Madison] were of opinion that the rule of the con federation was a chimerical one, since if the intervention of the indi vidual states were employed their interests would give a biass to their judgments or that at least suspicions of such biass wd prevail; and without their intervention, it could not be executed but at an expence, delay & uncertainty which were inadmissable; that it would perhaps be therefore preferable to represent these difficulties to the States & recommend an exchange of this rule of dividing the public burdens for one more simple, easy & equal. The Delegates from S. Carolina generally & particularly Mr. R dge advocated the propri ety of the constitutional rule & of an adherence to it, and of the safety of the mode in question arising from the honor of the State. The debates on the subject were interrupted by a letter from the Superin tendant of Finance: informing Congress that the situation of his department required that a committee sd. be appointed with power to advise him on the steps proper to be taken; and suggesting an appointmt. of one consisting of a member from each State, with authority to give their advice on the subject. 3 This expedient was objected to as improper, since Congress wd. thereby delegate an incommunicable power, perhaps, and would at any rate lend a sanc tion to a measure without even knowing what it was; not to mention the distrust which it manifested of their own prudence & fidelity. It was at length proposed & agreed to, that a special committee consist-
