570 January9, 1783 ing of Mr. Rutlidge, Mr. Osgood, & Mr. [Madison] should confer with the Superintendt of Finance on the subject of his letter and make report to Congress. After the adjournment of Congress this Commit tee conferred with the Superintendt who after being apprized of the difficulties which had arisen in Congress, stated to them that the last acct, of our money affairs in Europe shewed that contrary to his expectation and estimates there was 3'/2 Million of livres short of the bills actually drawn, that further draughts were indispensable to pre vent a stop to the public service; that to make good this deficiency there was only the further success of Mr. Adams’ loan, and the friend ship of France to depend on, that it was necessary for him to decide on the expediency of his staking the public credit on these contingent funds by further draughts, and that in making this decision he wished for the sanction of a Committee of Congress; that this sanction was preferable to that of Congress itself only as it wd. confide the risk attending bills drawn on such funds to a smaller number, and as secrecy was essential in the operation as well to guard our affairs in general from injury, as the credit of the bills in question from debase ment. It was supposed both by the Superntendt & the Committee that there was in fact little danger of bills drawn on France on the credit of the loan of 4 Million of dollars, applied for, being dishonored; since if the negociations on foot were to terminate in peace, France would prefer an advance in our favor to exposing us to the necessity of resorting to G. B. for it; and that if the war sd. continue the necessity of such an aid to its prosecution would prevail. The result was that the Committee should make such report as would bring the matter before Congress under an injunction of secrecy, and produce a resolution authorising the Superintdt. to draw bills as the public service might require on the credit of applications for loans in Europe. The report the next day of the Committee to this effect was accordingly made & adopted unanimously. 4 Mr. Dyer alone at first opposed it, as an unwarrantable & dishonorable presumption on the ability & disposi tion of France; Being answered however that without such a step, or some other expedt. which neither he nor any other had suggested, our credit would be stabbed abroad and the public service wrecked at home; and that however mortifying it might be to commit our credit, our faith & our honor to the mercy of a foreign nation, it was a morti fication wch. cd. not be avoided without endangering our very exis tence; he acquiesced and the resol. was entered unanimously. The cir cumstance of unanimity was thought of consequence, as it wd. evince the more the necessity of the succor and induce France the more readily to yield it. On this occasion several members were struck with the impropriety of the late attempt to withdraw from France the trust confided to her over the terms of peace when we were under the necessity of giving so decisive a proof of our dependance upon her. It
