January 10, 1783 575 found them here. York had again revived the affair of Vermont before I left Congress but could not prevail While I remained. Congress I percieve are Indeavouring to play the same game with them as Great Britain with America and believe after solemn plighted faith being Violated as they will call it right or wrong they are to expect no more Success. By a late Resolve threatning them' with Authority & force if they do not Imediately restore the Persons & Estates of some dissaf- fected persons who had Undertaken to Undermine their Government and had taken offices under New York State to Execute their Laws on Vermont I believe will Nestle them. The last Declaration I made in Congress before I went to Trenton was to forewarn them against such measures as Vain, fruitless, ineffectual & which would only rebound with Contempt on their own heads; I did not think the measure would prevail, urged that the Motion from York might lye by till my return & for the New England States to be more fully represented, but as soon as gone York Influence carried every thing, & Congress will suffer the Contempt they have, against faithfull Warning brot on themselves. A principle matter which Governs against Acknowledging Vermont an Independent State (after a most solemn Engagement) is the Strength, weight & Influence it may in future give the New England States in Congress, Yet it seems no policy will influence New England; which brings me to the Unhappy Issue of our Late Tryal with Pensylvania, 2 Chargrind and dissapointed, I know you will say why did not we get the Cause postponed. We Indeavoured to the utmost of our power in Congress but in vain; we were there forced to proceed, we then had to agree upon our Judges. As I could not trust Congress in any one step thot it best to agree, & when we had agreed & as I thot a good Choice they found means to Induce one on whom we had great dependence Viz the late Govr Rutledge a Gentn of skill, ability & Integrity to refuse. That frustrated my plan much, but for reasons I can give you Verbatim, it was forced, and as we had finally agreed on 3 from Vir ginia, 2 from New England, Houston from the Jerseys, I will own I thot we were safe, but so Providence ordered the 2 from Virginia, one of which a learned Judge Jones, failed of attending, by means of which I believe Eventually we lost our Cause; 3 a Cause of Magnitude indeed, & which on every' legal ground & principle, as well as policy to the United States in General, the New England in particular ought to have been given in favor of Connecticut but Unhapily New England Judges I believe were most against us. They have merely given their opinion in short vs. Connecticut without reason or principle Assignd, & in one thing I will own they were wise, that is they agreed they would not ever give to the parties or any other person the reason or principle on which they founded their Judgement, for if they did I am sure every sensible Impartial man must Condemn them, but if we may Conjecture there is no doubt with me that they left every' Legal solid
