January 15, 1783 587 The great State of R Island has put her Veto upon a Measure judged Necessary by every other State and wheather any other Persua sives than such as were wont to be made use of by polish Electors will convince them of their error I am not able to Say. Virginia it is Said has repealed her Act Vesting a Power in the U States to collect the Imports. How We are to Support our foreign Credit without establish ing a certain Revenue I am not Able to conceive, if Something more effectual shall not be done, to support National Credit, We have Rea son to fear Consequences the most destressing. The money collected by the States is Very inconsiderable, and no certain advise has been reed, that one or Two of them has collected any for the Service 1782. A Committee of the Army are attending Congress for Pay, and for a more effectual Security for the Emoluments which the Acts of Congress intituled them to Their Application is gone to a Committee who have not yet reported. It is in Contemplation to order a Valuation of the Lands and Houses of the respective States agreably to the Articles of Confedera tion, which perhaps will be adopted, but I fear that the Dificulty of carrying such a Measure into Execution will only discover its insuffi ciency. 2 And unless some other Principle shall be adopted more cer tain and definite upon which the pecuniary Assessments shall be made I shall not Apprehend that any Thing material will be done. But however we must Attempt to proceed upon such Principles as are agreed to, till others can be established, I hope that some Proposals will be made to the States to adopt more adequate Principles. The Legislature of this State have met this day. I have thot it my Duty to make all the Interest in my Power that this State shall quiet the Susquehannah settlers. 3 I think that they will do it, and I hope lib erally. I have spoken to Sundry influencing Gentlemen upon the Sub ject who seem to be well inclinded, And very frankly declare that they will do all in their Power to Satisfy and establish the Settlers in their Possessions. If this shall be effected which I have but little doubt of, it will prevent a Number of innocent People from suffering that Dis tress, which they ought to have been secured against by a Stipulation previous to the Tryal of the Cause. By the Blessing of God I injoy Health. I have already wrote you two hasty Letters. You will frequently write to me. I shall wish to know wheither Frederick is at the College, and how he behaves himself. You will present my Compliments to Mr Lyman and Mr. Mosely— and if they will Favour me with their Letters I will duly Acknowledge them. May the divine Being guide, protect and Bless you. Yours with the kindest Regard, Oliver Wolcott P.S. I wish that you would let me know wheather in your Opinion the Sept. 2d Tax is so collected that the Treasr could discharge a Draft upon him of perhaps one hundred or one hundred and fifty pounds
