January 16, 1783 589 Ultimo. In the Papers enclosed you have Extracts from his Letter. The Enemy carried off 5000 Troops, which far exceeded our Ideas of their Strength. Genl Greene lay within 13 Miles of them, tho his Army did not consist in the whole of every denomination of more than 2000 Men. They took off about 7000 Negroes, which they had plundered from the Inhabitants. I am sensible that the difficulties you mention as attendant on your Office, will & must ensue—but I am Confidant you have gone too far to recede, and that you will not give Satisfaction, unless you make the Experiment and let your Objections be the result of Experience. As to the Arrangement of Vouchers, tho’ this may be necessary, yet you may proceed on others that are ready for settle ment. Indeed I think you should receive in all applications & then fix days for final Settlement—which will save great Trouble in atten dance. Mr Morris has no authority to settle Prices, & Congress can never descend to the minutia of detail. I have paid Mr Robertson 95 Dollars more on Acct, as on my last & belonging to the same Person The Card Racks, are the same identical Things you refer to, made of tin, Japanned, about 14 Inches long, with a Memorandum of the Days of the week, as some People are very apt to forget them in the hurry of Business—to prevent which they are tolerable good Con trivances. You undoubtedly fixed on the best pair of Branches as I know your Judgment is so good, that you could not be mistaken especially as there is but that one pair in the House. Those purchased of Mr. H being here already. As to the Logs I meant that some should be cut as well as haled, which Mr. Southerd said he could do in the hard weather. As it is a matter of so much Importance that you should know with Certainty whether a Peace will take Place; or not, in order to ascer tain the quantity of wood necessary to be cut, I would advise you for the Present by way of diversion, to get not more than 20 Cords and I will let you know positively by the Middle of May, whether we shall have Peace next Spring or not. I have reed another Pacquet from Marsden, the Communciation is encreased via St. Thomas’s, Teneriffe, Grenada &c. I obtained the Bills from Sammy amounting to £129.10. Sterl. dated Deer 30th 1782—so that I must beg the favour of you to send me the Note with a proper discharge in his Favour. Hanny & Susan Join me in Love &c &c—Patty is at School & well. Remember us to all Friends as if named & tell Mr Van Zandt I have reed & forwarded his Letter. Remember us also to old Mama. Am Dr Sir, Yours very Afftly, B RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers).
