January 16, 1783 591 perforin the Duties of the Office During the Winter Except Such part of the time as will be necessary for him to be in the State of New York. I shall not fail to communicate to your Excellency Every matter of Consequence that I may be at Liberty to do that shall Relate to the Interest of these States in General, or to the Interest of our State in particular. I Yesterday Reed a Letter from my Son 3 at Middletown; he was in a bad state of health when he wrote. I am afraid he will not get Clear of that fever—perhaps Mr L’hommedieu will be at the Legislature when this Comes to hand. I hope he will write me Respecting my Sons health. My best Respects to Mrs. Clinton, and am, Sir, your Excellencys most Obedt and humble Servt, Wm. Floyd. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:62-63. 1 See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, January 15, note 1. 2 That is, Robert R. Livingston. 3 That is, Nicoll Floyd (1762-1852). John Taylor Gilman to Josiah Bartlett Sir Philada. Jany 16th. 83. On the 15th Instt. I received your favor of the 28th Ultimo. Their was no Mail from New England last week, the Mail of this week (tho. it usually comes in on Monday mornings) did not arrive untill yesterday, 1 Mr. White received your Letter of the 23d per same. 2 Am sorry to find that the Honble Court have not made any order on the Subject of Vermont affairs. Some time past I was Induced to think, this business would have been settled Speedily, but that prospect has almost Vanished, it has been repeatedly debated and might now be taken up again if their was any prospect of any thing being done towards a Conclusion of it. You mention the Subject of Depreciation &c., I have no Copy of my Letter to you of the 9th Instt. but think I Mentioned, that a Commtee. of Officers from the Army was here; the Subject of those Settlements, Half-Pay &c. is now under Consideration. As to the Frigate you Mention, she run on Shore in a Storm, Cut away her Masts &c. (which were lost) but is got off, & now here. Yesterday Dispatches were received from Genl. Greene respecting the Evacuation of Charlestown, the Enemy left it very Quietly in Con sequence of an Agreement that they should not be Molested on their Retiring; the Southern States are Once more freed from the Enemy, I wish they would be so wise as to Quit New-York & Penobscot immedi ately, they have Traversed our Country, (almost every part of it) but their present possessions are small.
