592 January 16, 1783 As to a General Peace I have wrote my Sentiments per Genl. Whip ple and it is Unnecessary to repeat them. Genl. Whipple spent several Days here, 3 I conversed with him very freely on the Subject of Vermont & several other matters. He informed me, that if the next meeting of the Assembly should be at Exeter, that he would go there for the purpose of giving such information as he had obtained here respecting our affairs and to him I must beg leave to refer you. Have now under Consideration a Mode for Ascertaining the Quotas of each State agreeably to the articles of Confederation. Our Letter of the 11th Ultimo 4 mentioned our desire that Dele gates might be Appointed to relieve us the beginning of April, if am not Informed whether any Appointments have been made, if not hope it will be done early next session which (by your Letter) appears probable will be in February tho. I am not Informed to what time the Assembly did adjourn—another part of that Letter was on the Supply of Money which hope will be seasonably provided. By the Paper I see their is a very great proportion of New Members in the Assembly wish it may prove to be for the Interest of the State. I wrote you a Letter on the 23d Octr. but have not been informed whether it reached you. What is done respecting the New Constitution? What is doing with the Confiscating Act? Who are Members of the Commtee. of Safety? Have no Official Accounts from Europe of later date than I have Mentioned in former Letters. Please to make my Compliments to my Friends with you. I am, with much Esteem, Your Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman P.S. Mr. White desires his Compliments to you. RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 That is, Wednesday. 2 Neither of Bartlett’s letters mentioned in this paragraph have been found. s William Whipple, receiver of Continental taxes for New Hampshire and one of the judges in the proceedings at Trenton on the Connecticut—Pennsylvania territorial dis pute, had recently visited the superintendent of finance to discuss the collection of taxes. See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:282. 4 See New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare, December 11, 1783. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada.Jany 16th. 1783. Your favor of the 30th Ultimo 1 (on the Subject of Vermont affairs) came to hand yesterday. Am Sorry to find that the Honble the Legisla ture have not given any direction in that matter. The Legislature of New York are now in session, and from some information which I have had this Day, think it is probable they will repeal their Act by
