602 January 22, 1783 Months ago. Mr Morriss supposes him to be now at Hartford. When ever I shall write any Letter to Hartford I shall inclose some News papers from which Mr Goodwin will be able to make such Abstracts as he pleases. This is all I can properly do for him and this will probably Answer his Purpose, as I shall write frequently. I reed, no Papers by the last Post, & unless they Shall be inclosed in white Paper as a com mon Letter, I know by Experience that I shall receive but few of them. You will inform me of all Material Matters transacted by the Assem bly. I am glad to hear of the Efficacy of our Taxation. Few if any of the States furnishes so much according to our Quota, as We have done the Two last Months; some indeed are criminally remiss. Nothing has yet been done upon the Application of the Officers from the Army, a Report of a Committee has just been made. I wish our Ability to pay the Army was more considerable than it is. At pres ent it is not in our Power to furnish them with any tho I hope some thing will be effected of this kind before long. I am glad that our State has Sent some Money to their Line. We may dayly [expect?] to get such Intelligence from Europe as will enable us to judge wheither We are to expect a speedy Peace or the Continuance of the War. Some Fellows in Chester County in this State, who Sustain a high popular Reputation, have seised a large Quantity of Cloathing sent by Sir Guy Carleton to our Prisoners at Lancaster under the Protection of a Passport from Genl Washington, upon an Idea that they are con traband. 1 This kind of seisure seems to be countenanced by a Law of this State. The Legislature here are now setting. They say that they cannot make any Ex Post Facto Law to give Relief, the Executive have neither Power nor Energy. The Supplys are detained in that County— fresh Seisures I am told are dayly making, in Manifest Violation of the Laws of Nations, and to the indelible Reproach of the U. States. These Proceedings are clearly in Violation of the Articles of the Confedera tion, but are suffered to continue thro the Ignorance, Weakness and Party spirit, which are most conspicuous in this State. If this Evil shall not be speedily redressed which every sensible Man here, and many of their insensible ones of which they have great Numbers, seem con vinced is Necessary to be done, 1 hope that Congress will order a Mili tary Force to compel a Restitution of the Goods—for the granting a Passport is a necessary incident of War, and which therefore they may constitutionally render efficacious. What People indeed will ever put any Confidence in us if our Passports will not protect them? No Act of this Legislature has yet passed with Regard to the Wyoming Settlers. 2 Many Gentlemen assure Me that if it shall be in their Power they Shall be treated with great Liberality. I flatter myself that it will be done. I shall extremely regret if those who have settled under a publick Incouragment shall in any respect suffer with regard to their Possessions. My kindest respects to Mr. Lyman and his Lady. Yours, Oliver Wolcott
