January 23, 1783 P.S. I wrote to you by the last Post. 603 RC (CtHi: Oliver Wolcott, Jr., Papers). 1 See the preceding entry, note 1. 2 But for the response of the Pennsylvania Assembly “Respecting the Decision of the Connecticut Claim,” see the Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:265-67. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Thursday 23 Deer, [i.e., January 1783] The Report of the come, last mentioned 1 consisting of a state of the variations in the Treaty of Amity & commerce with the States General from the plan proposed by Congress, of a ratification of the sd Treaty & of the Convention, & of a proclamation comprehending both was accepted & passed; the variations excepted wch. were not meant to be entered on the journals. 2 Both the Committee & Congress were exceedingly chagrined at the extreme incorrectness of the American copies of these national acts, and it was privately talked of as necessary to admonish Mr. Adams thereof, & direct him to procure with the con currence of the other party a more correct & perspicuous copy. The Report of the Come, as agreed to, havg. left a blank in the act of ratific- tion for the insertion of the Treaty & Convention, & these being con tained both in the Dutch & American languages, the former column signed by the Dutch Plenpos. only & the latter by Mr. Adams only, the Secy, asked the direction of Congs, whether both columns or the American only ought to [be] inserted. On this point several observa tions were made & different opinions expressed. In general the mem bers seemed to disaprove of the mode usd & would have preferrd the use of a neutral language. As to the request of the Secy. Mr. Wilson was of opinion that the American Columns only sd. be inserted. Several others concurred in this opinion; supposing that as Mr. Adams had only signed those columns, our ratifications ought to be limited to them. Those who were of a different opinion, considered the two parts as inseparable & as forming one whole, & consequently that both ought to be inserted. The case being a new one to Congress, it was pro posed 8c admitted that the insertion might be suspended till the next day, by which time some authorities might be consulted on the subject. A come, consisting of Mr. Madison, Mr. Mifflin 8c Mr. Williamson reported in consequence of a motion of Mr. Bland, a list of books proper for the use of Congress, and proposed that the Secy, sho’d be instructed to procure the same. 3 In favr. of the Rept. it was urged as indispensable that Congress sd. have at all times at command such authors on the law of Nations, treaties, Negociations 8cc as wd. render their proceedings in such cases conformable to propriety; and it was observed that the want of this information was manifest in several important acts of Congress. It was further observed that no time ought
