608 January 24,1783 as gently as possible appointed a Come, consisting of Mr. Rutlidge, Mr. Wolcot & Mr. M[adison], to confer with the Executive of Pa. on the subject. In the first conference the Executive represented to the Committee the concern they felt at the incident, their disposition to respect & support the dignity & rights of the federal Sovereignty; and the embarrassments in which they were involved by recent & express law of the State to which they were bound to conform. The Come, observed to them that the power of granting passports for the purpose in question being inseparable from the general power of war dele gated, to Congress, & being essential for conducting the war, it could not be expected that Congress wd. acquiesce in any infractions upon it; that as Pa. had concurred in this alienation to Congress, any law whatever contravening this power of Congs, was necessaryly void, and cd. impose no obligation on the Executive. The latter requested fur ther time for a consideration of the case & laid it before the Legisla ture then sitting; in consequence of which a Come, of their body was appd. jointly with the Executive to confer with the Committee of Congress. In this 2d conference the first remarks made by the Come, of Congress were repeated. The Come, of the Legislature expressed an unwillingness to intrench on the jurisdiction of Congress, but some of them seemed not to be fully satisfied that the law of the State did so. Mr. Montgomery lately a member of Congress observed that altho’ the general power of war was given to Congress yet that the mode of exercising that power might be regulated by the States in any manner which wd. not frustrate the power, & which their policy might require. To this it was answered that if Congress had the power at all, it could not either by the Articles of Confederation or the reason of things admit of such a controuling power in each of the States, & that to admit such a construction wd. be a virtual surrender to the States of the whole federal power relative to war; the most essential of all the powers delegated to Congress. The Come of the Legis[latu]re repre sented as the great difficulty with them, that even a repeal of the law wd. not remedy the case without a retrospective law which their Con stitution wd. not admit of, & expressed an earnest desire that some accomodating plan might be hit upon. They proposed in order to induce the siezors to wave their appeal to the law of the State, that Congress wd. allow them to appt, one of two persons who sd. have authority to examine into the supplies & decide whether they compre hended any articles that were not warranted by the passport. The Come, of Congress answered that whatever obstacles might lie in the way of redress by the Legislature, if no redress proceeded from them, equal difficulties wd. lie on the other side, since Congress in case of a confiscation of the supplies under the law which the omission of some formalities reqd. by it wd. probably produce, would be obliged by honor & good faith to indemnify the Enemy for their loss out of the
