January 24, 1783 611 taken for that purpose, as soon as the State of the public finances will permit, to make such payt. & in such manner as he shall think proper till the further order of Congress. With respect to the 2d art. so far as relates to the settlemt. of accts, that the several States be called upon to compleat the settlemt., without delay, with their respective lines of the army up to the 1st 9 day of Aug. 1780; that the Supert. be also directed to take such measures as shall appear to him most proper & effectual for accomplishing the object in the most equitable & satisfactory manner, havg. regard to former reso lutions of Congs. & to the settlemts. made in consequence thereof. And so far as relates to the providing of security for what shall be found due on such settlemt.—Resolved that the troops of the United States in common with all the Creditrs. of the same, have an undoubted right to expect such security, and that Congress will make every effort in their power to obtain from the respective States, general & substantial funds adequate to the object of funding the whole debt of the U. S. and that Congs, ought to enter upon an immediate & full consideration of the nature of such funds & the most likely mode of obtaining them. With respect to the 3d Article the Comme. are of opinion that it will be expedient for Congs, to leave it to the option of all officers entitled to half pay, either to preserve their claim to that provision as it now stands by the several resolutions of Congs, upon that subject or to accept years 10 full pay to be paid to them in one year after the conclusion of the war in money or placed upon good funded secu rity bearing an annual interest of 6 prCt.—provided that the allowance to widows & orphans of such officers as have died or been killed or may die or be killed in the service during the war shall remain as established by the resolution of the day of . H With respect to the 4 & 5 Art. the Come, beg leave to delay their report untill they have obtained more precise information than they now possess on the subject.” The 1st Clause of this report relative to immediate pay passed yes terday. 12 The Supt. had agreed to make out 1 month’s pay. Indeed long before the arrival of the deputies from the army he had made contingent & secret provision for that purpose; and to ensure it now he meant if necessary to draw bills on the late application for loans. The words “conformable to measures already taken” referred to the above secret provisn, and were meant to shew that the payment to the army did not originate in the Memol. but in an antecedent attention to the wants of the army. In the discussion of the 2d clause, the epoch of Aug. 1780 was objected to, by the Eastern delegates. Their States havg. settled with their lines down to later periods, they wish now to obtain the Sanction of Congress to them. After some debate, a compromise was proposed by Mr. Hamilton by substituting the last day of Deer. 1780. This was agreed to without opposition altho several members disliked it. The
