January 27, 1783 617 7 For the debate on this committee’s report, see Madison’s Notes, February 4, 1783. 8 At this point Madison inserted an asterisk, to which he keyed the following note: “On the motion of Mr. Wilson Monday next was assigned for the consideration of the Resolu. in the 2d clause of the Rept. on the Memorial from the army. He observed that this was necessary to prevent the resolu. from being like many others—vox et preterea nihil ['a voice and nothing more’].” Hugh Williamson to Alexander Martin Dear Sir, Philadelphia Jany 25th. 1783 On the 18th of August Mr. Blount & myself had the honor to enclose you the Copy of an address that we had presented on the 14th to the Minister of France together with his answer. 1 Some Days ago the Delegates received from the Minister of France an official Communication of which the enclosed is a Copy. 2 This you will be so good as to communicate to the General Assembly. We flatter ourselves that the attention which the Court of France has been pleased to pay to the address will justify the opinion we had formed with respect to the propriety of such a measure. I have the honor to be &ca, Hu Williamson Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 See North Carolina Delegates to Martin, August 18, 1782, note 2. 2 A transcript of the chevalier de La Luzerne’s January 10 letter of thanks to North Carolina is in the Governors’ Letterbooks, 5:372, Nc-Ar, a translation of which has been printed in N.C. State Records, 16:726. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Monday 27jany. 1783. A letter from Genl. Washington was red. notifying the death of Lord Sterling & inclosing a report of the Officer sent to apprehend Knowlton & Wells. (See )J The following is an extract from the report “he (one Israel Smith) further sd. that Knowlton & Wells had reed, a lettr. from Jonathan Arnold Esqr. at Congress part of which was made public, which informed them that affairs in Congress were unfavorable to them & wd. have them look out for themselves. What other information this letter contained he cd. not say—I found in my March thro’ the State that the last mentioned gentleman was much in favor with all the principal men in that State I had any con versation with.” 2 Mr. Arnold being present at the reading informed Congress that he was surprized how such a notion should have prevailed with respect to him; that he had never held any correspondence with
