618 January 27, 1783 either Knowlton or Wells; and requested that he might be furnished with the extract above. In this he was indulged without opposition. But it was generally considered, notwithstanding his denial of the cor respondence, that he had at least at second hand, conveyed the intelli gence to Vermont. 3 A long petition was read, signed as alledged by near two thousand inhabitants (but all in the same hand writing), of the territory lately in controversy between Pa. & Va. complaining of the greivances to which their distance from public authority exposed them & particularly of the late law of Pena, interdicting even consultations about a new State within its limits; and praying that Congress wd. give a sanction to their independence & admit them into the Union. The Petition lay on the table without a single motion or remark relative to it. 4 The order of the day was called for, to wit the Resolution of Saturday last in favor of adequate & substantial funds. 5 This subject was introduced by Mr. Wilson with some judicious remarks on its importance & the necessity of a thorough & serious dis cussion of it. He observed that the U. States had in the course of the revolution displayed both an unexampled activity in resisting the enemy, and an unexampled patience under the losses & calamities occasioned by the war. In one point only he said they had appeared to be deficient & that was a cheerful payment of taxes. In other free Govts, it had been seen that taxation had been carried farther & more patiently borne than in States where the people were excluded from the Govts., the people considering themselves as the sovereign as well as the subject; & as receiving with one hand what they paid with the other. The peculiar repugnance of the people of the U. S. to taxes he supposed proceeded first from the odious light in which they had been under the old Govt, in the habit of regarding them; 2dely. from the direct manner in wch. taxes in this Country had been laid; whereas in all other countries taxes were paid in a way that was little felt at the time. That it cd. not proceed altogether from inability he said must be obvious: Nay that the ability of the U. S. was equal to the public burden might be demonstrated. According to the calculations of the best writers the inhabitants of G. B. paid before the present war at the annual rate of at least 25s. Sterlg per head. According to like calculations the inhabitants of the U. S. before the revolution paid indirectly & insensibly at the rate of at least 10s. Sterlg per head. According to the computed depreciation of the paper emissions, the burden insensibly borne by the inhabitants of the U. S. had amounted during the first three or four years of the war to not less than twenty Million of dollars per annum, a burden too which was the more oppressive as it fell very unequally on the people. An inability there fore could not be urged as a plea for the extreme deficiency of the revenue contributed by the States, which did not amount during the past year to V2 a million of dollars, that is to Ve of a dollar per head.
