620 January 27, 1783 that lands were already sufficiently taxed; that polls & commerce were the most proper objects. At his instance the latter part of the motion was so amended as to run “establishment of permanent & adequate funds to operate generally throughout the U. States.” Mr. Hamilton went extensively into the subject, the sum of it was as follows: he observed that funds considered as permanent sources of revenue were of two kinds, 1st. such as wd extend generally & uni formly throughout the U. S. & wd. be collected under the authority of Congs. 2dly. such as might be established separately within each State, & might consist of any objects which were chosen by the States, and which might be collected either under the authority of the States or of Congs. Funds of the 1st kind he contended were preferable; as being 1st more simple, the difficulties attending the mode of fixing the quo tas laid down in the confederation rendering it extremely complicated & in a manner insuperable: as being more certain; since the States according to the seed, plan wd. probably retain the collection of the revenue and a vicious system of collection prevailed generally through the U. S. a system by which the collectors were chosen by the people & made their offices more subservient to their popularity than to the public revenue—& as being more oeconomical, since the collection would be effected with fewer officers under the management of Con gress, than under that of the States. 7 Mr. Ghorum observed that Mr. Hamilton was mistaken in the repre sentation he had given of the collection of taxes in several of the States; particularly in that of Massachussetts, where the collection was on a footing which rendered it sufficiently certain. Mr. Wilson having risen to explain some things which had fallen from him; threw out the suggestion that several branches of Revenue if yielded by all the States, would perhaps be more just & satisfactory than any single one; for example an impost on trade combined with a land tax. Mr. Dyer expressed a strong dislike to a collection by officers appointed under Congress, & supposed the States would never be brought to consent to it. Mr. Ramsay was decidedly in favor of the proposition. Justice he said entitled those who had lent their money & services to the U. S. to look to them for payment; that if general & certain revenues were not provided, the consequence wd. be that the army & public Creditors would have soon to look to their respective States only for satisfaction; that the burden in this case wd. fall unequally on the States; that rival ships relative to trade wd. impede a regular impost & wd. produce confusions amg. the States; that some of the States would never make of themselves provision for half pay and that the army wd. be so far defrauded of the rewards stipulated to them by Congress; that altho’ it might be uncertain whether the States wd. accede to plans founded on the proposition before the house, yet as Congress was convinced of its truth & importance it was their duty to make the experiment.
