624 January 28, 1783 requested. The Assistant Secretary at war informs me, that he has for warded the appointment for Majr. Davison. 1 I have the honor to be with great respect & esteem, sr. Your. mo. Obet Servt, Dani. Carroll RC (MdAA: Red Books). । See Md. Archives, 48:337, 345. The Maryland Council had recommended Maj. John Davidson to the post of “Intendant of Naval Prisoners at Baltimore.” James Madison’s Notes of Debates Tuesday Jany. 28th. 1783 The subject yesterday under discussion was resumed. A division of the question was called for by Mr. Wolcott so as to have a distinct question on the “words to be collected by Congress” wch. he did not like. 1 Mr. Wilson considered this mode of collection as essential to the idea of a general revenue, since without it the proceeds of the rev enue wd. depend entirely on the punctuality, energy & unanimity of the States, the want of which led to the present consideration. Mr. Hamilton was strenuously of the same opinion. Mr. Fitzimmons informed Congress that the Legislature of Penna, had at their last meeting been dissuaded from appropriating their rev enue to the payment of their own Citizens Creditors of the U. S. instead of remitting it to the continental treasury; merely by the urgent representations of a Committee of Congress & by the hope that some general system in favr. of all the public creditors would be adopted; that the Legislature were now again assembled; and altho sensible of the tendency of such an example, thought it their duty 8c meant in case the prospect of such a system vanished to proceed immediately to the separate appropriations formerly in contemplation. On the motion of Mr. [Madison] the whole proposition was new- modelled as follows; ‘That it is the opinion of Congress that the establishment of perma nent 8c adequate funds to operate generally throughout the U. States is indispensibly necessary for doing complete justice to the Creditors of the U. S., for restoring public credit, 8c for providing for the future exigences of the war.” The words “to be collected under the authority of Congress [”] were as a seperate question left to be added afterwards. Mr. Rutlidge objected to the term “generally”, as implying a degree of uniformity in the tax which would render it unequal. He had in view particularly a land tax according to quantity as had been pro posed by the office of finance. He thought the prejudices of the peo ple opposed to the idea of a general tax 8c seemed on the whole to be disinclined to it himself, at least if extended beyond an impost on
