January 28, 1783 627 States separately, might at any time & on various pretences, be diverted to State-objects. 3dly. That jealousy which is as natural to the States as to individuals & of which so many proofs have appeared, that others will not fulfil their respective portions of the common obliga tions, will be continually & mutually suspending remittances to the common treasury, until it finally stops them altogether. These imper fections are too radical to be admitted into any plan intended for the purposes in question. It remains to examine the merits of the plan of a general revenue operating throughout the U. S. under the superintendence of Congress. One obvious advantage is suggested by the last objection to separate revenues in the different States; that is, it will exclude all jealousy among them on that head, since each will know whilst it is submitting to the tax, that all the others are necessaryly at the same instant bear ing their respective portions of the burden. Another advantage attending a general revenue is that in case of the concurrence of the States in establishing it, it would become soon est productive; and would consequently soonest obtain the objects in view. Nay so assured a prospect would give instantaneous confidence & content to the public creditors at home & abroad, and place our affairs in the most happy train. Again it will take from the States the opportunity as well as the temp tation to divert their incomes from the general to internal purposes since these incomes will pass directly into the treasury of the U S. 3 That the consequences of with respect to the Union, of omitting such a provision for the debts of Union also claimed particular atten tion. The tenor of the memorial from Penna, and of the information just given on the floor by Mr. F one of its delegates rendered it extremely probable that that State would as soon as it sd. be known that Congress had declined such provision or the States rejected it, appropriate the revenue required by Congress, to the payment of its own Citizens & troops, creditors of the U.S. The irregular conduct of other States on this subject enforced by such an example could not fail to spread the evil throughout the whole continent. What then wd become of the confederation? What wd. be the authority of Congress? Wt. the tie by which the States cd. be held together? What the source by which the army could be subsisted & cloathed? What the mode of dividing & discharging our foreign debts? What the rule of settling the internal accts? What the tribunal by which controversies amg the States could be adjudicated? It ought to be carefully remembered that this subject was brought before Congress by a very solemn appeal from the army to the justice & gratitude of their Country. Besides immediate pay, they ask for per manent security for arrears. Is not this request a reasonable one? will it be just or politic to pass over the only adequate security that can be
