January 28, 1783 629 to. The State of Virga as appears by an Act yesterday laid before Congress, has withdrawn its assent once given to the scheme. This cir cumstance cd. not but produce some embarrassment in a representa tive of that State advocating the scheme, one too whose principles were extremely unfavorable to a disregd. of the sense of Constitnts. But it ought not to deter him from listening to considerations which in the present case ought to prevail over it. One of these considera tions was that altho’ the delegates who compose Congress, more immediately represented & were amenable to the States from which they respectively come, yet in another view they owed a fidelity to the collective interests of the whole. 2dly. Altho’ not only the express instructions, but even the declared sense of constituents as in the pre sent case, were to be a law in general to the representatives, still there were occasions on which the latter ought to hazard personal conse quences from a respect to what his clear conviction determines to be the true interest of the former; and the present he conceived to fall under this exception. Lastly the part he took on the present occasion was the more fully justified to his own mind by his thorough persua sion, that with the same knowledge of public affairs which his station commanded, 4 the Legislature of Va would not have repealed the law in favor of the impost & would even now rescind the repeal. The result of these observations was that it was the duty of Congress under whose authority the public debts had been contracted to aim at a general revenue as the only means of discharging them; & that this dic tate of justice & gratitude was enforced by a regard to the preservation of the confederacy, to our reputation abroad & to our internal tranquility. Mr. Rutledge complained that those who so strenuously urged the necessity & competency of a general revenue operating 5 throughout all the States at the same time, declined specifying any general objects from which such a revenue could be drawn. He was thought to insinu ate that these objects were kept back intentionally untill the general principle cd. be irrevocably fixed when Congs, wd. be bound at all events to go on with the project, whereupon Mr. Fitzimmons expressed some concern at the turn wch. the discussion seemed to be taking. He said that unless mutual confidence prevailed no progress could be made towards the attainment of those ends wch. all in some way or other aimed at. It was a mistake to suppose that any specific plan had been preconcerted among the patrons of a general revenue. Mr. Wilson with whom the motion originated gave his assurances that it was neither the effect of preconcert with others, nor of any determinate plan matured by himself, that he had been led into it, by the declaration on Saturday last by Congs, that substantial funds ought to be provided; by the memor[i]al of the army from which that declaration had resulted, by the memorials from the State of Pa. holding out the idea of separate appropriations of her revenue unless provision were made for the public creditors, by the
