January 29, 1783 637 Letter wrote previous to the adjournment suppose it is probable they may be in session before this reaches you. Have no late Accounts from Europe, nor any other News of Importance. I have the Honor to be, Your Most Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (Nh-Ar: Revolutionary War Correspondence). 1 For the adoption of these January 25 resolutions concerning the payment of Conti nental troops, see JCC, 24:93-95; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, January 25. Nathaniel Gorham to John Lowell Dear Sir Philadelphia Jany 29th. 1783 I observe that the publications in the Boston news papers indicate a speedy peace, and by some letters I have received from thence I find they have made considerable impressions, but I conceive those publi cations are in some respects made in much stronger terms than advices received will justify, and in consequence thereof the people & perhaps the Government may fall into a secure and lethargic state, which at this time would be peculiarly unhappy and perhaps destructive. Congress by their advices can only determine that the appearances of peace are rather encouraging than otherways, but any person of tolerable information must be sensable that the ministry of Great Britain never will dare, and that the King (if he has the power) never will chuse to accede to the independence of this Country without the approbation of parliament. And how that body would act was such a question submitted to their consideration is I think problematic. If the warr continues another year the distress of Congress must be in the extream their embarresments being now very great. No prospect at present of further foreign loans—and four hundred thou sand dollars only being received out of the 8 millions voted for the service of the year 82—and Virginia have sent forward an vote of their assembly purporting that they can pay only two hundred thousand out of the 1300000 dollars which is their proportion of that requisition. And demands press us on every side, a committe from the army who have received no pay this two years insist upon some imediate pay ment, as allso a determination relative to the half pay—and that per manent security be given them for the ballance of their present pay. The publick creditors here are violently clamorous for their interest money. And Mr. Morris exceedingly distrest to make good his several engagments. Judge then of our situation which is truly embarresing & will be increasingly so unless that State can be prevaild upon to establish some permanent & adequate funds.
