640 January 29, 1783 And to John Adams he wrote: “The sen ility, envy, & avarice of the old man you men tion (Franklin) have been the more pernicious to our cause, as he is most unaccount ably rooted in the opinion of many, and nothing but success will in their eyes justify a conduct founded upon opposite principles.” Sparks Transcripts, MH-H; Lee Family Papers microfilm, reel 7. 2 Adams’ letter is in Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:275-76. 3 William Burgess (“very lately arrived from England, by way of Holland”), Adams explained, had recently petitioned the Massachusetts General Court to be naturalized. “The senate declined sustaining his petition and gave him lease to withdraw it. A few days after, an authenticated resolution of congress came to hand, recommending it to the states not to admit any British subject whatever. Yet this man has had interest enough to prevail on the assembly to permit him to go to congress, to have it decided there whether he comes within the meaning of their resolution, because his arrival here was prior to the reception of the resolution by this government.” Ibid., p. 275. No evidence has been found, however, to indicate that Burgess submitted his case to Congress. 4 Lee seems to have exaggerated his role in this matter. The October 4 resolution at issue is embodied in a report written by James Duane (as chairman of a committee of which Lee was not a member), and the provision opposing the admission of British sub jects into the United States was added as an amendment by James Madison. See JCC, 23:637-39; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:180-82. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Wednesday Jany. 29th. 1783. Mr. Fitzimmons reminded Congress of the numerous inaccuracies & errors in the American column of the Treaty with Holland 1 and proposed that a revision of it as ratified should take place in order that some steps might be taken for redressing this evil. He added that an accurate comparison of it with the Treaty with France ought also to be made for the purpose of seeing whether it consisted in all its parts with the latter. 2 He desired the Committe who had prepared the ratifi cation to give some explanation on this subject to Congress. Mr. [Madison] as first on that committee informed Congress, that the inaccuracies & errors consisting of mispelling, foreign idioms, & foreign words, obscurity of the sense &c were attended to by the Com mittee & verbally noted to Congress when their report was under con sideration; that the Committee did not report them in writing, as the task was disagreeable, and the faults were not conceived to be of suffi cient weight to affect the ratification. He thought it wd. be improper to reconsider the act as had been suggested, for the purpose of sus pending it on that or any other acct, but had no objection if Congress were disposed to instruct Mr. A. 3 to substitute with the consent of the other party a more correct counterpart in the American language. The subject was dropped, no body seeming inclined to urge it. On the motion of Mr. Rutlidge & for the purpose of extending the discussion to particular objects of General Revenue Congress resolved itself into a Committee of whole to consider of the most effectual means of restoring public credit; and the proposition relative to gen-
