642 January 29, 1783 tioned from wch. this revenue was to be sought, was a poll tax. This he thought a very proper one, but unfortunately the Constitution of Maryland which forbids this tax is an insuperable obstacle. Salt he thought a fit article to be taxed, as it is consumed in a small degree by all and in great quantities by none. It had been found so convenient a subject of taxation, that among all nations which have a system of rev enue, it is made a material branch. In England a considerable sum is raised from it. In France it is swelled to the sum of 54,000,000 of livres. He thought it would be improper to levy this tax during the war whilst the price wd. continue so high, but the necessary fall of price at the conclusion of it wd. render the tax less sensible to the people. The sus pension of this particular tax during the war would not be inconve nient as it might be set apart for the debt due to France on which the interest would not be called for during the war. He computed the quantity of salt imported into the U. S. annually at 3 Million of Bushels, 8c proposed a duty of '/a of a Dollar per bushel which wd. yield 1,000,000 of Drs. This duty he observed wd. press hardest on the East ern States on acct, of the extraordinary consumption in the fisheries. The next tax which he suggested was on land. 1 Dollar on every 100 Acres according to the computation of the Superintendt of finance would produce 500,000 Dollrs. This computation he was persuaded might be doubled; since their could not be less than 100 Million of Acres comprehended within the titles of individuals which at 1 Dr. per 100 Acres would yields 1,000,000, of Dollars. This tax cd. not be deemed too high 8c would bear heaviest not on the industrious farmer, but on the great land-holder. As the tax on Salt would fall with most weight on the Eastern States, the equilibrium would be restored by this which would be most felt by the Middle and Southern States. The impost on trade was another source of revenue which, altho’ it might be proper to vary it somewhat to remove particular objections, ought to be again 8c again urged upon the States by Congress. The office of Finance has rated this at 500,000 Dollars. He thought a peace would double it in which case the sum of 3,000,000 Drs. would be made up. If these computations however should be found to be too high there will still be other objects which would bear taxation. An excise he said had been mentioned. In general this species of taxation was tyrannical 8c justly obnoxious, but in certain forms had been found consistent with the policy of the freeest States. In Massachussets a State remarkably jealous of its liberty, an excise was not only admit ted before but continued since the revolution. The same was the case with Penna, also remarkable for its freedom. An excise if so modified as not to offend the spirit of liberty may be considered as an object of easy 8c equal revenue. Wine 8c imported spirits had borne a heavy excise in other Countries, and might be adopted in ours. Coffee is another object which might be included. The amount of these three objects is uncertain but materials for a satisfactory computation might
