644 January 29, 1783 conduct of Virga, in first giving & afterwards withdrawing her assent to the Impost recommended by Congress. Mr. Elseworth thought it wrong to couple any other objects with the Impost: that the States would give this if any thing; and that if a land tax or an excise were combined with it the whole scheme would fail. He thought however that some modification of the plan recom mended by Congs, would be necessary. He supposed when the bene fits of this continl. revenue should be experienced it would incline the States to concur in making additions to it. He abetted the opposition of Mr. Wolcot to the motion of Mr. Rutlidge which proposed that each State should be credited for the duties collected within its ports; dwelt on the injustice of it, said that Connecticut before the revolu tion did not import 1/50 perhaps not 1/100 part of the foreign mer chandize consumed within it; and pronounced that such a plan wd. never be agreed to. He concurred in the expediency of new-modelling the scheme of the impost by defining the period of its continuance; by leaving to the States the nomination, & to Congress the appointment of Collectors or vice versa; and by a more determinate appropriation of the revenue. The first object to which it ought to be applied was he thought the foreign debt. This object claimed a preference as well from the hope of facilitating further aids from that quarter, as from the disputes into wch. a failure may embroil the U.S. The prejudices agst. making a provision for foreign debts which sd. not include the domestic ones was he thought unjust & might be satisfied by immedi ately requiring a tax in discharge of which loan-office certificates should be receivable. State funds for the domestic debt would be proper for subsequent consideration. He added as a further objection against crediting the States for the duties on trade respectively col lected by them, that a mutual jealousy of injuring their trade by first imposing such a duty would prevent any from making a beginning. Mr. Williamson said that Mr. Rutledge’s motion at the same time that it removed some objections, introduced such as would be much more fatal to the measure. He was sensible of the necessity of some alter ations, particularly in its duration & the appointment of the Collectors. But the crediting the States severally for the amount of their collections was so palpably unjust & injurious that he thought candor required that it should not be persisted. He was of opinion that the interest of the States, which trade for others, also required it, since such an abuse of the advantage possessed by them would compel the States for which they trade, to overcome the obstacles of nature & provide supplies for themselves. N. Carolina he said would probably be supplied pretty much thro’ Virga, if the latter forebore to levy a tax on the former, but in case she did not forbear, the ports of N. C. which are nearly as deep as those of Holland, might & probably wd. be substituted. The profits drawn by the more commercial States from the business they carry on for the others, were of themselves sufficient & ought to satisfy them.
