January 29,1783 645 Mr. Ramsay differed entirely from his colleage (Mr Rutlidge). He thought that as the consumer pays the tax, the crediting the States col lecting the impost, unjust. N. Carolina, Maryland, N. Jersey & Con necticut would suffer by such a regulation and would never agree to it. Mr. Bland was equally agst. the regulation, he thought it replete with injustice & repugnant to every idea of finance. He observed that this point had been fully canvassed at the time when the impost was originally recommended by Congress, & finally exploded. He was indeed he said opposed to the whole motion (of Mr. Rutlidge) Noth ing would be a secure pledge to Creditors that was not placed out of the Controul of the grantors. As long as it was in the power of the States to repeal their grants in this respect, suspicions would prevail, & wd. prevent loans. Money ought to be appropriated by the States as it is by the Parliament of G. B. He proposed that the revenue to be solicited from the States should be irrevocable by them without the consent of Congress, or of nine of the States. He disapproved of any determinate limitation to the continuance of the revenue, because the continuance of the debt could not be fixed and that was the only rule that could be proper or satisfactory. He said he should adhere to these ideas in the face of the act of Virga, repealing her assent to the impost; that it was trifling with Congs, to enable them to contract debts, & to withold from them the means of fulfilling their contracts. Mr. Lee said he seconded the motion of Mr. R. because he thought it most likely to succed; that he was persuaded the States would not concur in the impost on trade without a limitation of time affixed to it. With such a limitation and the right of collection, he thought Virna., R. Island & the other States probably wd. concur. The objec tion of his Colleague (Mr. Bland) he conceived to be unfounded; No act of the States could be irrevocable, because if so called it might notwithstanding be repealed. But He thought there wd. be no danger of a repeal, observing that the national faith was all the security that was given in other countries, or that could be given. He was sensible that some thing was of necessity to be done in the present alarming crisis; and was willing to strike out the clause crediting the States for their respective collections of the revenue on trade, as it was supposed that it wd. impede the measure. Mr. Hamilton disliked every plan that made but partial provision for the public debts; as an inconsistent & dishonorable departure from the declaration made by Congs, on that subject. He said the domestic Creditors would take the alarm at any distinctions unfavorable to their claims; that they would withhold their influence from any such mea sures recommended by Congress; and that it must be principally from their influence on their respective legislatures that success could he expected to any applications from Congs, for a general revenue. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:158-69. 1 See Madison’s Notes, January 23, 1783.
