February 4,1783 657 the estate of his brother’s widow, Elizabeth Harrison Randolph. See John J. Reardon, Edmund Randolph: Biography (New York: Macmillan Co., 1974), pp. 74-75. 2 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in cipher. 3 For the “ambiguous” nature of Randolph’s cipher, see Madison to Randolph, Octo ber 8, 1782, note 16. 4 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:179-80. 5 In a letter of November 22, 1782, Thomas Townshend, secretary of state for the home department, had informed the governors and directors of the Bank of England that the negotiations in Paris would conclude decisively “either for peace or war” by the December 5 meeting of Parliament. The preliminary articles of peace were signed on November 30. Copies of Townshend’s letter, with some variations, appeared in Free man's Journal and the Pennsylvania Packet of January 29 and 30, respectively, and the Vir ginia Gazette of February 1, 1783. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia February 4th. 1783. Since the departure of Mr. Howell Congress have been principally employed in attending to Complaints contained in a Memorial from the Officers & Army, and devising means for their relief and satisfac tion; And in investigating means to restore Public Credit—by satisfy ing the demands of the Public Creditors—the importunities of both having become very urgent. Upon the first the Committee have reported That such payment as the State of the Foederal Treasury will admit shall be immediately made which is agreed to. They further reported That the Arrears of Pay &c, should be adjusted & settled and Public securities bearing the Interest of Six per Cent—Issued for the payment of the Balances due. That the Officers should be at Liberty to commute, for half pay by the amount of a Certain term of years whole pay—for which they shall recieve Certifi cates—on Interest payable Annually. These propositions have had sev eral partial discussions but are yet undetermined. With respect to half pay our Instructions bind our votes, and as the proposed commutation is a change in form & in name, rather than in nature & substance we shall oppose it. A proposition is intended to be made for referring the Officers to their respective States for Compensation, in such manner as they shall think fit—and agree to with them—and whereby they will be at Liberty to consider the length of services, and particular Merits of each—but this we have no hopes will succeed at present. This is an Affair which greatly embarrasses Congress. The Officers, consider their resolution as a solemn contract, and declare a faithful & painful performance on their part. The advocates for complying with their demands, urge in addition thereto That that resolution passed— at a most critical juncture when it was the only expedient, left to pre vent the dissolution of the Army—That the National faith has been committed—past recall—That an attempt to abridge them in their expectations, would not only be dishonorable but, dangerous &c &c.
