658 February 4, 1783 When any thing is offered against the principle and the sense of the Legislature & people of Rhode Island declared—We are extremely mortified to be told That the State is foreclosed from any opposition at this day. That their Consent has been once given fully & absolutely in favor of Half Pay—and that it is too late now to make objections— or declare what are the present Opinions of the State—on the sub ject—and the Journals of Congress produced to show that General Cornell, had committed the State—by giving their vote in favor of that Measure—&c &c &c. We shall however continue on the ground our Instructions place us, unless different advice and direction should render a change necessary. 1 The Mode for obtaining a general estimate throughout the States— now an object of great attention—and considered as a preparatory step to the means of restoring public Credit—has been under Consid eration of a Grand Committee who reported to Congress, afterwards the House formed itself into a Committee of the whole, and Several days have been spent thereon but it is not yet Completed—in our next We hope to be able to inclose the result. These matters ended—it is expected the Propositions for an Impost will be again renewed. From the variety of Opinions which have lately been thrown out on that subject—it is presumed it will make its appearance in a form & upon principles materially different from the former recommendation on that subject. The treaty of Amity, Commerce &c between the United States & United Netherlands, contained in the paper herewith inclosed has been ratified by Congress, and Copies duly Authenticated, sent off to be exchanged. 2 No foreign Letters have of late Arrived. We have the Honor to be with the highest respect, Your Excel lency’s Very humble servants, John Collins Jona Arnold P.S. My last Letter of a Public import 3 and which related particularly to the proceedings of Congress towards my late Colleague Mr. How ell—it is the wish of Congress should at present remain a secret with the Assembly. I have therefore to request it may be read in a Clear house as, is customary on such Occasions. This day an address from Govr Chittenden was read, containing Animadversions on the Conduct of Congress towards the Territory of Vermont—which was Committeed. 4 J Arnold RC (R-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Arnold and signed by Arnold and Collins. 1 In a May 10, 1783, letter of instruction Governor Greene reaffirmed that the Rhode Island Assembly remained resolutely opposed to “half pay to the officers of the army,” and directed the state’s delegates to do all “in your power to obtain a repeal of the late resolution of Congress for allowing the amount of five years’ whole pay to the said offi cers.” Staples, Rhode Island, p. 440.
