February5,1783 661 express & perpetual rule which they judged improper. This expedient was assented to, and Congress accordingly went into A Committee of the whole The points arising on the several amendts. proposed were 1st. the period beyond wch. the rule of the first valuation sd. not be in force. 2 On this point Mr. Collins proposed 5 years, Mr. Bland 10 years, Mr. Boudinot 7 years, N. Jersey havg instructed her Delegates thereon. 3 The Cont. delegates proposed 3 years—on the question for 3 years, N. H. no, Mas: no. R. I. ay, Cont. ay. all the other States no. On the ques tion for 5 years, all the States ay except Cont. 4 The 2d. point was whether & how far the rule sd. be retrospective, on this point the same views operated as on the preceeding. Some were agst. any retrospection, others, for extending it to the whole debt, and others, for extendg it so far as was necessary for liquidating and closing the accounts between the United States and each individ ual State. 5 The several motions expressive of these different ideas were at length withdrawn, with a view that the point might be better digested, & more accurately brought before Congress. So the rept. was agreed to in the Come. & made to Congress. When the question was about to be put Mr [Madison] observed that the report lay in a great degree of confusion, that several points had been decided in a way too vague & indirect to ascertain the real sense of Congs, that other points involved in the subject had not reed, any decision; and proposed the sense of Congs, shod, be distinctly & successively taken on all of them & the result referred to a Special Come, to be digested &c. The question was however put & agreed, 6 the votes as they appear on the Journal. The reasons on which Mr. Hamiltons motion was grounded appear from the preamble. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:195-97. 1 See Madison’s Notes, February 4, note 10. 2 John Rutledge’s motion on this subject is recorded by Madison in his notes of debates for February 4. 3 Boudinot was probably in error, as New Jersey had indicated in a 1778 “representa tion" on the Articles of Confederation a preference for adjustments in land valuations every five years (JCC, 11:649), and apparently had not deviated from this position. In any event, the New Jersey delegates subsequently voted aye “on the question for 5 years," after voting no on the previous motion for three. 4 With Delaware and Georgia unrepresented, and Maryland and Rhode Island each represented by a single vote. 5 At this point Madison wrote and then lined out: “This was generally satisfactory except to Mr Dyer & Mr Mercer who supposed that as in that case the requisitions of Congs, would be the sum apportioned it would operate too much in favr of the States which wd. be underrated in the first valuation.” The mention here of John Francis Mer cer, who took his seat in Congress on February 6, suggests that the debate on ‘The 2d point” recorded in this paragraph took place on February 6, the sole evidence available for ascertaining the chronological division of this composite entry. 6 Madison later changed “agreed" to “negatived," to reflect the actual 5 to 2 vote on this proposed resolution. JCC, 24:116.
