662 February5,1783 Phillips White to Josiah Bartlett Sir Philadelphia Febry 5 1783 Reed your favor of 23 Deer. Among other things you press hard that the Affair of Vermont may be settled. It has been taken up in Congress often since I have been here, but the different Opinion of members has prevented any determination. The southern members are greatly opposed to their Independence, and there are not a Sufficient number of the States that are for subjugating them to N. York or N. Hampshire, and even if it was Resolved in Congress to bring them under either of said states, or divide them between both, I am of opinion it Could not be Carried into execution. Yesterday was reed, in Congress, a long remonstrance from Thomas Chittenden Esqr., 1 against the proceedings of Congress which passed some time since, requiring the Inhabitants of said Territory to restore Certain persons who they had Banished. He therein mentions the resolve of Congress wherein they were to Cast off the two wings & then [fe] received into union, inserted also a copy of a Letter written by General Washington recommending the measure, & intimating that there would be no difficulty of being received after that was done. Note—the General wrote said letter (as is said) by desire of several members of Congress. Mr. Chittenden fears not the Army it seems, by the drift of his letter, & wonders that Congress should meddle with the affairs of their state—they are willing to dispute the affair with N. York—he says that it has been an Independent State a number of years, but on the whole is willing to enter into union with the thirteen States. We have nothing new from Europe but are in expectation of Something soon. I have heard the fate that the plan of government met with, by often sifting I hope the vile part will be done away. Religious disputes none here, each one worships where he pleases & there are many denominations & places of worship. I will not trou ble you with more but Subscribe myself your most humle. Servt, P White RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). 1 See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, February 4, 1783. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Friday Feby. 7 [1783]. On motion of Mr. Lee who had been absent when the Report was yesterday negatived, the matter was reconsidered. 1 The plan of takg the sense of Congs, on the several points as yesterday proposed by [Mr. Madison] was generally admitted as proper. The first question propd. in Come, of whole by [Mr Madison] was; Q: Shall a valuation of land within the U. S. as directed by the articles
