February?, 1783 663 of confederation be immediately attempted? 8 ays—N. Y. only no. The States present, N. H., Mas., Cont., N. Y., N. J., Pa., Va., N. C., S. C. R. I. 1 member, Maryd. 1 do. By Mr. Wilson Q: Shall each State be called on to return to the U. S. in Congs, assd. the no. of acres granted to or surveyed for any person, and also the no. of buildings within it? 8 ayes—N. C. no—supposing this not to accord with the plan of referring the valuation to the States, which was patronized by that delegation, a supplement to this question was sug gested as follows. Q: Shall the male inhabitants be also returned, the blacks & whites being therein distinguished? Ay. N. C. no for same reason. Cont. divided. By Mr. M[adison], Q: Shall the States be called on to return to Congs, an estimate of the value of its lands with the buildings & improvements within each respectively? After some discussion on this point in wch the inequali ties which wd. result from such estimates were set forth at large; and effects of such an experiments in Virga, had been described by Mr. Mercer, and a comparison of an average valuation in Pa. & Va. which amounted in the latter to 50 PerCt. more than in the former, altho’ the real value of land in the former was confessedly thrice that of the latter had been quoted by [Mr. Madison] the apprehensions from a referrence of any thing more to the States than a report of simple facts increased, and on the vote the States were as follows, N.H., Mas., NJ., Pa., Va., no: Mr. Bland ay. Mr. Lee silent. Cont., N.C., S.C., ay. N.Y. divd. So it passed in the negative. Q: by Mr. [Madison], shall a period be now fixed beyond which the rule to be eventually estabd. by Congs, shall not be in force? Ay, unanimously. By Mr. [Madison] Q: What shall that period be? Cont. was again for 3. years, which being negd. 5 yrs passed unanimously. Q: by Mr. M[adison] shall the rule so to be estabd. have retrospec tive operation so far as may be necessary for liquidating & closing the accts, between the U.S. & each particular State? Ay—Cont. no. Mr. Dyer & Mr. Mercer understood this as making the amt. of the several requisitions and not of the paymts, the standard by which the accts, were to be liquidated and thought the latter the just quantum for ret rospective apportionment. Their reasoning however was not fully comprehended. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:197-200. 1 See Madison’s Notes, February 5-6; and JCC, 24:117. After adoption of Lee’s motion, Congress was resolved into a committee of the whole, whose proceedings this day were also recorded by Charles Thomson, although the secretary had never entered such committee debates in the journals of Congress. See PCC, item 36, fols. 448-50, 467-69; and JCC, 24:118-19. In a number of instances Thomson’s notes contain slightly fuller information than Madison’s.
