February 10, 1783 667 I am sorry to find that although I was right in my conjecture, a disa pointment has happened, however this must be met with resolution. The comfort is, that if one went another will. No doubt you have heard that the British evacuated Charles Town on the 14 of December last—houses they did not burn, but they car ried off a great many Negroes although they pretended to give orders to the contrary, however I know it will give you pleasure to be informed that I have recovered the greatest part of mine, my Letters say— “you have lost some but not many. ” Much is talked of peace—I think in less than a Month we shall know whether that happy event is to take place soon, the news pub lished on that Subject to day is vague & uncertain. I am much obliged to you for your Kind offers of Service, & wish it may be in your power to Sell the Indigo Soon, the product of it would come very Seasonably—particularly as I intend to go Southwardly next April & shall want every thing I can Scrape together to get away from here, yet as much as I am necessitated—I would not wish you should put yourself to any inconveniency on my Account. But if it should be in your power to remit me any thing I think it would be best to send it to Mr. James Mercer who, could easily send it to me from Fredericksburgh. Mrs. Gervais desires her Compliments to you. We are all well & hearty now. I Inclose a news paper and am with great Regard, Dear Sir, Your most Obedient Servant, John Lewis Gervais P. S. You’ll oblige me much to send me an answer soon. RC (NcD: Battaile Muse Manuscripts). James Madison’s Notes of Debates Monday Feby. 10 [1783]. The Report of the Committee on the Resolutions of Va. concerning the contract Under which Tobo. was to be exported to N. Y. and the admission of circumstantial proof of accounts agst. U. S. when legal vouchers had been destroyed by the enemy. 1 Mr. Mercer informed Congress that this matter had made much noise in Va. that she had assented to the export of the first quantity, merely out of respect to Congs, and under an idea that her rights of Sovereignty had been encroached upon; and that as a further quantity had been exported without the licence of the State, the question was unavoidable, whether the authority of Congs, extended to the act. He wished therefore that Congress wd. proceed to decide this question. Mr. Fitzimmons in behalf of the Committee observed that they went no farther than to examine whether the proceedings of the officers of Congs, were conformable to the Resols. of Congs. & not whether the latter were within the power of Congs.
