668 February 10,1783 Mr. Lee. sd. the Rept. did not touch the point that, the additional quantity had been exported without application to the State, altho’ the first quantity was licenced by the State with great reluctance, in consequence of the request of Congs, and of assurances agst. a repeti tion, and that the Superintendt & Secy, of Congs, ought at any rate to have made application to the Executive before they proceeded to fur ther exportations. Mr. Rutlidge sd. the Rept. went to the very point, that Va. suspected the Resols. of Congs, had been abused by the Officers of Congs. & the Rept. shewed that no such abuse had taken place; that if this informa tion was not satisfactory, and the State sd. contest the right of Congs, in the case, it wd. then he proper to answer it on that point, but not before; He sd. if the Gentleman (Mr. Lee) meant that the Come, authorised by Congs, on the day of 2 to make explanations on this subject to the Legislature of Va. had given the assurances he men tioned, he must be mistaken: for none such had been given. He had he sd. formed notes of his remarks to the Legl. but accordg to his practice had destroyed them after the occasion was over, and there fore cd. only assert this from memory, that nevertheless his memory enabled him to do it with certainty. Mr. Lee, in explanation sd. he did not mean the Come, that the abuse complained of was not that the Resolun. of Congs, had been exceeded, but that the export had been undertaken without the Sanc tion of the State. If the acts were repeated, he said, great offence wd. be given to Va. The report was agd. to as far as the Tobo. was concerned without a dissenting voice. Mr. Lee uttering a no, but not loud enough to be heard by Congress or the chair. The part relating to the loss of Vouch ers, was unanimously agd. to. 3 Come, of the Whole. The Rept. for valuation of land amended by insertion of “distin guishing dwelling houses from others.” 4 The Come, adjourned & the report was made to Congs. 5 Mr. Lee & Mr. Jarvais moved that the report might be postponed to adopt another plan to wit “to call on the States to return a valuation: and to provide that in case any return sd. be not satisfactory to all par ties, persons sd. be appd. by Congs. & others by the States respectively to adjust the case finally. [”] On this question N. H. was divd, Mas. no, R. I. ay, Cont. no, N. Y. divd, N.J. no, Pa. no, Va. no, Mr. M. &J. no, Mr. L. & B. ay. 6 N. C. ay, S. C. ay. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:212-15. 1 See JCC, 24:121-23; and Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, January 28, 1783, note 1. 2 That is, 22d day of May 1782. See JCC, 22:289-90; and Committee of Congress to Benjamin Harrison, May 31, 1782. 3 These votes were not recorded in Secretary Thomson’s journals. JCC, 24:123.
