670 February 11,1783 From the personal knowledge I have of that young gentleman, who I ever esteemed, as a person of Probity I cannot suppose him capable of designing an Injury to me And Therefore conclude he has either inadvertently imposed on himself or has been villainously imposed upon by others—in this Affair. It is my misfortune not to have preserved Copies of Letters which I have written from this City to Governor Chittenden & Major Fay—as I have no doubt they would have fully explained the mistake, for which purpose, I will procure the Originals to be transmitted me as soon as possible. 2 I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Obedient & hume Servt. Jona Arnold ENCLOSURE Interrogatories to be answered under Oath by Capt. Ebenezer Mackomber, of Lt Col. Olney Regiment, 3 in Consequence of the fol lowing Paragraph in a Report he gave on his return from executing Special business in the Territory of Vermont, which report bears date January 7th. 1783, which Paragraph is in the following words. “He” (Israel Smith,) “farther said that Knowlton and Welles, had recieved a Letter from Jonathan Arnold Esquire at Congress, part of which was made public, which informed them that affairs in Congress, were very unfavorable to them, and would have them look out for them selves—what other information this Letter contained he could not say.” 1. When said Smith gave you the information alluded to above was the Conversation immediately respecting the said Knowltons’ & Welles’s absence from home—or was it relative to the affairs of Vermont, and the proceedings of the people of that Territory? Please to relate the whole of the Conversation you had with sd. Smith in that matter. 2. Did Said Smith tell you he had ever seen such a Letter, as your report mentions him to have given information of, or did he say by what means he came by his knowledge of the letter he spoke of? 3. Did said Smith tell you or did you learn from any other person, when, where, and in what manner the Letter he spoke of or part thereof was made public? and if you did please to relate the whole that passed in those respects. 4. Was any other person or persons present when you had your con versation with sd Smith? and if so please to name them. 5. Did any person or persons whatever, assist you in drawing up said report, either by advising, dictating or directing as to the manner and matter thereof—or by correcting, adding to, diminishing from—or in any wise altering or amending such draft as you might have drawn up of yourself—or that was drawn up by your direction—or by copying or transcribing the same? And if any person or Persons whosoever did advise or Assist you in all or any, or either of the foregoing Particulars, please to name him or them—with his legal addition, Occupation, or
