February 11,1783 673 i See JCC, 24:125. 5 In the vote on this motion in PCC, item 36, 3:459, Rhode Island is recorded as divided and South Carolina ay. JCC, 24:126. 6 This vote is not recorded in JCC. 7 Madison later inserted “Gorham & Mr. Gilman" in this blank. James Madison to Benjamin Harrison Sir Philada. Feby. 11th. 1783. Your Excellency will receive this from the hand of Mr. Dunlap who will represent the advantages which his press at Richmond will derive from a payment of the allowance made for his losses in establishing it. Being sensible of your Excellency’s disposition to attend to every application as far as its merits may require, and may depend on your self, especially when the public interest may be in any manner included, I should have forborne to trouble you on the present occa sion, had not my agency in the original contract with Mr Dunlap given him a claim to at least a line introducing his case to your Excellency. 1 I am Sir wth great respect Yr Excellency’s obt & hble servt. J. Madison Jr Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:218. 1 For John Dunlap’s role in establishing James Hayes’ press at Richmond, see these Letters, 16:683, 730, 752, 17:60-61; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:218n. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philada. Feby. 11th. 1783 Your favor of the 31 ofjany. was safely brought by Mr. Thomson. That of the 7 inst. came by yesterday’s mail. 1 The anecdote related in the first was new to me; and if there were no other key, would suffi ciently decypher the implacability of the party triumphed over. In answer to the second I can only say at this time that I feel deeply for your situation: that I approve of the choice you have made among its difficulties, and that every aid which can depend on me shall be exerted to relieve you from them. Before I can take any step with pro priety however it will [be] expedient to feel the sentiments of Congress, and to advise with some of my friends. The first point may possibly be brought about by your letter to the Secy, of F. A. which I suppose came too late yesterday to be laid before Congress, but which will no doubt be handed in this morning. 2 The time of Congress since you left us has been almost exclusively spent on projects for a valuation of the land, as the federal articles require, and yet I do not find that we have got an inch forward towards the object. The mode of referring the task to the States which
