February 12, 1783 679 3 The “enclosed hand-bill” has not been found, but according to the Pennsylvania Packet of February 11 a handbill had been printed in Baltimore February 5 containing rumors by way of the West Indies that a preliminary peace treaty had been signed and that they appeared to be corroborated by the captain of the Iris “just arrivd from St. Thomas’s.” 4 See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, February 10, 1783. Jonathan Arnold to William Greene Sir. Philadelphia Feby. 12th. 1783. We are this moment in a Committee of the whole—at work upon the Affair of Impost. 1 Nothing is yet completed, to inform you of, I was in hopes, by this post to have been able to have transmitted the Mode for Obtaining a general Estimate but after many days agita tion—by doing, and undoing—it is yet unfinished. As I concieve it a matter of vast import—I shall lose no time in forwarding it when a final decision thereon shall have taken place. As to the Impost, it appears to me most probable it will be recommended anew with some very material Alterations—but yet so as that very strong objections will lie against it. My health for the week past has been such that nothing but the most absolute necessity could have induced me to go out of my quarters. But when matters of such consequence were on the Tapis, I should have held myself inexcusable, to have been absent & the State thereby unrepresented—tho’ by such exertions I have not had all the satisfaction which I wished. Enclosed are Returns from the Registers Office of a Genl view of Expenditures & receipts of Monies to Deer. 1781. 2 Shall if Health permits write you a Public Letter by your brother who is well & expects to be on his return in the next week. I have the Honor to be, with great respect & esteem, Your very hume Servt. Jona Arnold RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, this date. 2 Undoubtedly A General View of Receipts and Expenditures of Public Monies, by Authority from the Superintendent of Finance, from the Time of His Entering on the Administration of the Finances, to the 31st December, 1781. . . .Joseph Nourse, Register. Register’s Office, November 18, 1782 (Philadelphia: David C. Claypoole, 1782), for which see JCC, 23:889; Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 17,765; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:62. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My Dr. Sir, Philadelphia Febry 12 1783 I have been detained so long in Congress that I have not time to write you but a few Words. Enclosed you have a Cypher, 1 which I
