680 February 12,1783 believe you will seldom use, as it is very troublesome—you write the Fig ures without any stops but a very small space to distinguish the number as thus 294 398 295 136 264 447 220.2 i have reed. 2000 Dollars of Mr Alexander Fullerton in part of the purchase money for your House & have entered into an Agreemt. for the Conveyance. I have consulted Mr R & some friends about the Bank. The Interest last 6 months was 4>/ 2 Per Cent & will Increase—but the Capital being raised to 4 Millions, there are so many Shares to be sold by the public that a very intelligent Friend thinks that for one Year after Peace, the shares will not sell easily. Afterwards they may rise & be in demand. I therefore shall wait your further orders. Send me the Deed Per Post dated at the Time of Execu tion. I hope you will not feed out any of the Hay over the Stable, till the rest is all gone as it is the best Hay put there on purpose for the Sum mer & it is high Time the Stacks were taken off the mowing Ground. I reed, of Sammy £129.10 Sterl in full of Principal & Interest of his Note to Deer. 30, 1782 so that you can credited it accordingly. I reed a Letter lately from Trenton informing that you are blamed by the Legislature for not proceeding in your Appointmt 3 & the Vice Presidt of the Coun cil complains of your not answering a Letter he wrote you on the Head. I think you had best begin or resign. Opportunities to Cadiz offer every Week—do let me hear of Lewis or what you may know abt him. As I am pretty sure of Peace & that speedily, and I am confident it will not be prudent for you to go New Rochelle on Acct of the Ban ditti that will be strolling the Country for some time to come, and it will not do to be in New York till matters get settled, what think you of going into the House at Elizabeth Town, till you see how matters go, at least till Fall. I reed Mr. Remsens Letter but have not time to answer it, but by next Post, I will inform myself with Certainty of the State of Things in N C and write him explicitly on the Head and on the other Matters he mentions. Mr. Mortons Papers are all either in the Pigeonholes, or in the Iron Chest, but he must be careful not to deliver up any of the Mortgages but only Jacob Lewis’s Bond & Lord Stirlings Agreemt. I Can think of none others. But the Deed for the Land & the Bonds on payment of Ballance must first be made as you ought not to Trust the least. I wish him to wait at Baskinridge till next Post. Peace is greatly talked of here, and we are in hourly Expectation of certain News. By the York Paper of the 8th they had no News there. Love to all. Am Yours Afftly, E B RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). 1 Not found. 2 Over these numbers Boudinot interlined the words “Knowledge is good.” 3 That is, in his appointment as commissioner for settling New Jersey’s Continental accounts, a post to which he had been nominated by superintendent of finance Robert Morris and approved by the New Jersey Assembly on May 22, 1782. See Livingston, Papers (Prince), 4:410-11.
