February 12,1783 681 Eliphalet Dyer to Thomas Shaw Sir Philadelphia Febry. 12th 1783 I receivd your favor of the 26th Ulmo. Can Assure you I have not been inattentive to your cause tho I have had many other Objects of Consequence to attend to, I heretofore Informed you 1 that I had pro cured an Engagement of a Court of Appeals to be held on the 8th of Novembr., there were then but 2 Judges one present at Philadelphia the other viz Mr Paca belonged to Mary-land. He agreed to the time of the Court & Engaged to attend at that time, to which Notice was given Genii Varnum came from Providence & made that long Journey on purpose but Alas Mr Paca was in Nomination for governor of Mary- Land, Election was drawing near, and he never came, and all was frus trated for that time. Then I procured the Court adjourned to some time in January. Before that time Mr Paca resigned & Mr Lowel of Boston and a Mr Reed of Delaware State appointed. It was some time before Congress could be Ascertaind of their Acceptance, but we have no expectation Mr Lowell will make a Journey to Philadelphia. I early applied to Judge Griffin to write to Mr. Reed who lives but about 40 miles from this place & to adjourn the Court forward to a time at which he might hope Mr Reed would attend, but as yet hear Nothing from Mr Reed, I am Constantly applying to Judge Griffin on the Sub ject he has been always attentive to the business, I am pressing the matter, the necessity of a Tryal soon, as the Court at Rhodisland have notwithstanding Notice of a New Trial, persisted to give Judgment on the Bond, which Judgment they mean to persue. He has now engaged me himself to goe down, to Delaware State in a few days see Mr Reed himself & urge his attendance at least by the beginning of April, as I hope to set out for home sometime in that month, & every thing in that Court is so dilatory that I fear if I cannot succeed with all my Importunity, that if I leave it, it never will be done, I shall persue, & persue, to my Utmost. Mr Wharton to whom you referr me is now at Baltimore, expect his return in a few days when shall apply for the £20.0.0 as I am in want enough, my tarry has been here so long, expences so great, the Supply from the State so small, that I fear I shall not be able with all to Clear out in the Spring. Hope I shall not fail to recieve the £20.0 at least. Congress are now every moment Intent on laying some sure fund at least for the Intrest of the Debts due from the United States on Loan office Certificates, & Other, we are fully Impressed with the Necessity of it, now is the time; by some late Accounts which are in the publick papers great expectations of a Peace are raised, so much all the merchts in this City are allarm’d and much perplexd, a few days must decide, as we expect direct accounts from Europe every day. I have not had time to goe to the Office & look over the papers but I think it is by the Evidence pretty well estab-
