688 February 12,1783 174—86; and Edmund S. Morgan, The Gentle Puritan: A Life of Ezra Stiles, 1727-1795 (New Haven; Yale University Press, 1962), pp. 349-56. 3 See Wolcott to Frederick Wolcott, February 19, 1783. 4 Wolcott also wrote a brief letter this day to his wife Laura, enquiring about the fam ily’s health and reporting that “I have inclosed some News papers to Dr Smith, which I have desird him to let you have. A few days must convince us wheather we are to have Peace or War.” Oliver Wolcott, Sr., Papers, CtHi. Elias Boudinot to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia Febry 13th. 1783. This moment being reminded that Major Edwards is just setting off for Charles Town, I am obliged to catch a Moment in Congress, to ask you how you do, and most heartily to congratulate you on the repossession of the important Post of Charles Town. You have reason to rejoyce on many Accounts, and I do assure you that every Friend of the united States has the greatest reason to join with you on so interesting an Occasion. Many Letters from the west Indies, announce the prelimineries of Peace having been signed on or about the 10th of December last. I believe the next arrivals from Europe will bring us the good News. We are deeply engaged in Congress, on the important Business of funding & securing the public Debts, in which the Pay of the Army is included. At the Instance of the nothern Army, we have also a Com mutation for their half pay under Consideration. Since writing the last Sentence, the King of England’s Speech is arrived, and he say’s “That provisional Terms are made with the ameri- can Colonies, to take Place when preliminaries with France are signed, which will be in a few Days.” 1 Capt. Barre 2 is sent on to this Country with the News & is hourly expected. The Business of Congress calls me from writing. Must beg that my best Compliments may be made acceptable to Mrs. Greene. I am with great respect, Dr Sir, Your very Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot RC (CSmH: HM 22762). 1 George Ill’s December 5, 1782, speech before Parliament was printed in the Febru ary 15 issues of both the Pennsylvania Journal and the Pennsylvania Packet, under the dateline “New York. February 9, 1783.” 2 Boudinot apparently confused Capt. John Barry with Joshua Barney, whom Ben jamin Franklin had commissioned to carry official peace dispatches to Philadelphia. Alexander Hamilton to George Washington Sir Philadelphia, Feby. [13]' 1783 Flattering myself that your knowlege of me will induce you to receive the observations I make as dictated by a regard to the public
