690 February 13, 1783 exert with advantage, should any commotions unhappily ensue, to moderate the pretensions of the army and make their conduct corre spond with their duty. The great desideratum at present is the establishment of general funds, which alone can do justice to the Creditors of the United States (of whom the army forms the most meritorious class), restore public credit and supply the future wants of government. This is the object of all men of sense; in this the influence of the army, properly directed, may cooperate. The intimations I have thrown out will suffice to give Your Excel lency a proper conception of my sentiments. You will judge of their reasonableness or fallacy; but I persuade myself you will do justice to my motives. I have the honor to be, With great respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt servt. Alex Hamilton [P.S.] General Knox has the confidence of the army & is a man of sense. I think he may be safely made use of. Situated as I am Your Excellency will feel the confidential nature of these observations. 2 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). FC (NN: Miscellaneous Folders). In the hand of Alexander Hamilton. 1 This date is taken from Hamilton’s endorsement on the FC (“To His Excellency General Washington, Feby. 13t. 1783”); he left a large space blank between the month and year in both his draft and the RC. Washington endorsed the latter “From Alexr. Hamilton Esq. Feby. 1783,” and he referred to it simply as “your favor of Febru ary” in his March 4 response to Hamilton. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:185-88. John C. Hamilton, the editor of the first edition of Hamilton’s papers, inserted a “7” in the space between the month and year in the RC, over which someone later penned “13," undoubtedly after having seen Hamilton’s draft. John C. Hamilton’s “7” probably derived from his misreading of the superscript “y” of the “Feby.” in Wash ington’s endorsement, which resulted in the publication of the letter under that date in both his and the Lodge editions of Hamilton’s papers, as well as in Edmund C. Bur nett’s edition of delegate letters. See The Works of Alexander Hamilton, ed. John C. Hamil ton, lOvols. (New York: John P. Trow, 1850), 1:327-29; The Works of Alexander Hamilton, ed. Henry Cabot Lodge, 12 vols. (New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1904), 9:310-13; and Burnett, Letters, 7:33-35. The matter is of considerable interest because Hamilton’s fail ure to date it undoubtedly reflected a measure of his uncertainty in the use he would make of the letter—one in which he presumed to advise the commander in chief on preserving “the confidence of the army without losing that of the people” on the eve of what historians have come to label the “Newburgh Conspiracy.” It was not properly dated until the appearance of the Syrett edition of Hamilton’s papers in 1962, which mistakenly asserts that the RC was actually dated “Feb 13th” by Hamilton. Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:253-55. 2 For another expression of Hamilton’s views on the worsening “Situation of the army," voiced during a subsequent evening meeting with a number of delegates, see James Madison’s Notes of Debates, February 20, and note 7. The “confidence of the army" in Gen. Henry Knox is also reflected in a number of letters to him written from Philadelphia to keep him abreast of the congressional response to the army’s demands during this critical period, which are in the Knox Papers, MHi (DLC microfilm). Of special interest are letters from Gouverneur Morris dated February 7 and 28; from baron Steuben dated February 25; and from Gen.
