692 February 13, 1783 added that the exertion of force would not under these circumstances meet the sense of the people at large. Mr. Ghorum sd. he denied this with respect to the people of Massachussetts. Mr. Lee on the part of the Come, said that the D. de Lauzun had been recurred [to] as being in the neighbourhood & having Cavalry under his Command which would best answer the occasion; and that the report was founded on wise & proper considerations. Mr. Mercer, Mr. Williamson, Mr. Ramsay & Mr. Wilson & Mr [Madi son] strenuously opposed the Report, as improper altogether as far it related to the French Legion, and in other respects so until the State of Pa. sd. on a summons refuse to restore the articles seized. Mr. Rutledge with equal warmth contends for the expediency of the measures reported. Mr. Mercer & Mr. M[adison] at length proposed that Congress sd. assert the right on this subject & summon the State of Pena, to redress the wrong immediately. 5 The Report was recommitted, with this proposition & Mr. Wilson & Mr. Mercer added to the Come. The Speech of the K. of G. B. on the 5th Dcr. 1782. arrived & pro duced great joy in general except among the Merchts. who had great quantities of merchandise in Store the price of which immediately & materially fell. The most judicious members of Congs, however suf fered a great diminution of their joy from the impossibility of dis charging the arrears & claims of the army & their apprehension of new difficulties from that quarter. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:229-31. 1 See Madison's Notes, February 12; PCC, item 149, 2:229-32; and JCC, 24:128n. 2 That is, 24th day of January, for which see Madison’s Notes, January 24, 1783. 3 Although Nathaniel Gorham’s committee report did indeed recommend the use of military force to recover the goods seized from the Amazon, there is no explicit mention of Lauzun’s legion in it. See PCC, item 149, 2:241; and JCC, 24:128n. 4 At this point Madison inserted an asterisk to which he keyed the following note: “This was an oblique allusion at whose enmity to the French was suspected by him &c.” In the space left blank, Madison later inserted “Mr. Lee.” 5 See Madison’s Notes, February 20, 1783, note 4. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philada. Feby. 13th. 1783. The Chevr. de la Luzerne having just given me notice that he shall send an Express to the Romulus in V2 an hour, I sieze the opportunity of inclosing a copy of the British Kings Speech which presages a speedy establishment of peace. What effect this circumstance may have on your mission is at present uncertain. For myself I cannot think that any thing short of a final & authentic ratification ought to be listened to in that view. But I am told that it is the opinion of Mr. Morris that no ves-
