February 13, 1783 693 sei will sail from any American port whilst the critical uncertainty con tinues. Whether any & what changes may be produced in the orders to the Romulus will be known from the Commander. Adieu, J. Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:231-32. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Sir Philada. Feby. 13th. 1783 I heartily congratulate you on the dawn of peace presented in the inclosed paper. 1 Apprehending that the commercial sagacity of this & intervening places, may sieze the crisis to speculate on the Staple of Virga., we have judged it prudent to despatch a messenger with the intelligence to the Government. 2 Private letters will also scatter it along the road. I will not damp your joy by dwelling on prospects which have that tendency; but it will not be improper to hint to you, that there is much reason to believe that the {cloud, which has been some time lowering on) 3 the (North River 4 will not be dispeled by the rays of peace). The opinion seems to be (well founded that) the (arms which have) secured the (liberties of their country will not) be (laid down until justice) is (secured to those who have wielded them and that dan gerous convulsions) would be (hazarded by orders) for that purpose. I have not time to add more at present. Farewell, J .M. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson). 6:232-33. 1 Undoubtedly a copy of George Ill’s December 5 speech before Parliament, for which see Elias Boudinot to Nathanael Greene, this date, note 1. 2 See Arthur Lee to Benjamin Harrison, this date. s Words printed in cipher in this text were written by Madison in a cipher supplied by Randolph. 4 That is, among the troops of Washington’s main army stationed at Newburgh, N.Y., on the Hudson, or North, River. John Montgomery to Robert Magaw Dear Sir Philada 13th Febry 1783 I Congratulate on the Pleasing Prospect of Peace which I am per- swaded is agreed too before this. You have the Kings Speech which arrived here this morning from New York. We Exspect a farther Confi- mation of this great news by Capt Barry who we are Evry day Exspect- ing from France. Amirrica will be free and I have reason to belive that the terms of pease for us will be favourable. Poor torris must now
