704 February 18,1783 In support of such an alteration it was urged that it would lessen the opportunity of collusion between collector & importer, & would be more equal among the States. On the other side it was alledged that the States had not objected to that part of the plan, and a change might produce objections that the nature & variety of imports would require necessarily the collection to be advalorem & on the great part of them, that the forming of a book of rates 5 wd. be attended with great difficultes & delays, and that it would be in the power of Congress by raising the rate of the article to augment the duty beyond the limitation of 5 PerCt. and that consideration would excite objec tions on the part of the States. The motion was negatived. A motion was made by Mr. Hamilton 2ded by Mr. Wilson; that whereas Congress were desirous that the motives & views of their mea sures sd. be known to their Constituents in all cases where the public safety wd. admit, that when the subject of finances was under debate the doors of Congs, sd. be open. Congs, adjourned it being the usual hour & the motion being generally disrelished. 6 The Pa. delegates said privately that they had brought themselves into a critical situation by dissuading their Constituents from Separate provision for Creditors of U.S. within Pena, hoping that Congr. wd. adopt a general provi sion, and they wished their Constituents to see the prospect them selves & to witness the conduct of their Delegates. Perhaps the true reason was, that it was expected the presence of public creditors numerous & weighty in Philada. wd. have an influence & that it wd. be well for the public to come more fully to the knowledge of the public finances. Letter red. from Wm. Lee at Ghent notifying the desire of the Emperor to form a commercial treaty with U.S. & to have a residt. from them. 7 Comd. to Mr. Izard, Ghorum & Wilson. 8 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:249-52. 1 See Madison’s Notes, February 12, 1783. 2 Madison added this word at a later date. s At this point Madison inserted an “x” to which he keyed the following note: “Virga. Mr. Jones, Mr. Madison, Mr. Bland no. Mr. Lee, Mr. Mercer, ay.” 4 See JCC, 24:140-41; and PCC, item 136, 2:25. 5 For the “Book of rates” Madison had included in his January 23 “List of Books to be imported for the use of Congress,” see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:92, item 192. 6 See JCC, 24:140; and PCC, item 21, fol. 337. Years later Madison made the following observation on the necessity for sitting within closed doors. "It was necessary for the old Congress to sit with closed doors, because it was the executive as well as legislative body; names of persons and characters came perpetually before them; and much business was constantly on hand which would have been embarrassed if it had gone to the public before it was finished.” Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:252n.l4. 7 William Lee’s March 31, 1782, letter from Brussels rather than Ghent to Secretary Robert R. Livingston, reporting that “It has been mention’d, to me by a Gentleman in the Government here, that the Emperor is disposed to enter into a commercial treaty with America,” is in PCC, item 90, fols. 539-42; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 5:291-92.
