February 18, 1783 705 8 See Secretary Thomson’s “Dispatch Book,” PCC, item 185, 3:54. In his “Committee Book,” Thomson also recorded that the committee was “Renewed” on July 23, with Stephen Higginson and Richard Peters replacing Gorham and Wilson, and that the committee was “Discharged Septr 29th" before submitting a report. See PCC, item 186, fols. 84, 113. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philada. Feby. 18th. 1783. Your two favors of the 14th one of them inclosing a letter to Miss Floyd were reed, by yesterday’s mail. 1 The last paper from N.Y. as the inclosed will shew you has brought us another token of the approach of peace. It is somewhat mysterious nevertheless that the preliminaries with America should be repre sented by Secy. Townsend as actually signed and those with France as to be signed, as also that the signing of the latter would constitute a gen eral peace. I have never been without my apprehensions that some tricks would be tried by the British Court notwithstanding their exte rior fairness, of late, and these apprehensions have been rendered much more serious by the (tenor of some letters) 2 which (you have seen) and particularly by the (intimation of minister of France to Mis ter Livingston). 3 These considerations have made me peculiarly solici tous that your mission should be pursued as long as a possibility remained of (your sharing in) the (object of it). Your (portrait of your amanuensis) 4 is I conceive drawn to (the life). For all un(confidential services he is a convenient instrument). For any (thing farther) ne (sutor ultra) cre{pidam). 5 The turn which your case has for the present taken 6 makes it unnecessary to answer particularly the parts of your letter which relate to the expediency of a flag—and the extent of its protection. On the first point, I am inclined to think that the greatest objection with Congress would have been drawn from the risk of a denial. On the second I have no precise knowledge, but the principle would seem to extend to every thing appertaining to the mission as well as to the per son of the Minister. Nor can I conceive a motive to the latter indul gence which would admit of a refusal of the former. I am impatient to hear of the plan which is to dispose of you during the suspense in which you are placed. If Philada. as I flatter myself, is to be your abode, your former quarters will await you. I am Dear Sir Yr. Affecte. friend, J. Madison Jr. [P.S.] An answer to Miss Patsy’s letter is in the same mail with this. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison Papers (Hutchinson), 6:254-55. 1 See ibid., pp. 234—38. 2 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in a cipher supplied by Jefferson, for which see Madison tojefferson, February 11, 1783, note 3.
