February 18,1783 707 only provisional may in some measure explain it, but in that case it would seem to be without real use. In consequence of this prospect the departure of 7 has been suspended untill the further orders of Congress. I had a letter from him yesterday but he had not then been apprized of this resolution. He had seen the Speech & had I doubt not anticipated it. 8 What course he will take during the suspense I cannot say. My wish is that he may return to this place where he will be able at least to pass away the time with less tedium. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Written by Madison, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:256-57. 1 See ibid., pp. 207-8. 2 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in a cipher supplied by Randolph. 3 That is, Richmond. 4 See Madison’s Notes, February 17, 1783. 5 For this reference to Jefferson's “remarks" on Virginia for the marquis de Barbe-Mar- bois, see Madison to Randolph, December 30, 1782, note 8, and February 25, 1783, note 5. 6 See Madison to Randolph, February 13, 1783, note 1. 7 That is, Thomasjefferson. 8 See the preceding entry. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir, Philadelphia Feby. 18th. 1783 We had the honor of receiving your Excellency’s letter of the 7th 1 & shall communicate what it contains relative to the supply of the Post at Winchester to the Financier, & transmit you his answer. We have reason to believe that he intends renewing the Contract. 2 On the 14th we dispatchd a messenger, with the King’s Speech, to your Excellency. 3 This is the only authentic information that has yet reachd us relative to Peace. The reports from N. York are, that the Preliminaries were signd the 13th of Deer, between the American & british Commissioners; but not by those of France & Spain. It can hardly be long, before we are better informd on this subject. We enclose the Resolutions of Congress on the Tobacco shippd in the Flags, & on the Settlement of the State Accounts. 4 With sentiments [of] respect & consideration, we have the honor to be yr Excellency’s Servts. J Madison Jr. Theok. Bland jr. Jos. Jones. A. Lee John F. Mercer RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Lee and signed by Lee, Bland, Jones, Madison, and Mercer. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:253.
