708 February 18,1783 1 See ibid., pp. 200-201. 2 This day Arthur Lee sent an extract of Governor Harrison’s letter to Robert Morris who replied on the 20th renewing the contract for supplying the post at Winchester, Va. See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:443-44. 3 See Arthur Lee to Harrison, February 13, 1783. 4 See Madison’s Notes, February 10, note 1. Eliphalet Dyer to Thomas Shaw Sir Philadelphia Febry 19th 1783 I receivd your favor of the 3d of Febry. I had in Answer to yours of the 26th of January which was sent you on the 12 th Instant gave you full Information on the matter therein proposed. I have not yet been able to see Mr Wharton, he is not yet returnd from Mary’land tho expected every day. Imediately on receiving your’s 2 days agoe, I again applyed to Judge Griffin. He has again adjourned the Court to the first monday in April, fully expects Mr Reed the other Judge will then be present, Judge Griffin assured me he would advertise it in the pub lick papers. I understand Mr Lewis of this City attorney is engaged in behalf of Stanton, but if you have oppertunity to give them Notice or Information it may not be Amiss, but suppose not Necessary. It seems by Mr Helmes’ letter that you have never favoured him with the Copys from the Registers office in the Court of Appeals. I long agoe sent you Duplicates of the Decree of the Court granting a New Trial. The moment that was done it intirely Vacates the former Judgment rendered for a reversal and the matter now stands before the Court of Appeals as the Cause did before any Trial had and there is in fact no reversal of the first Judgment, nor any forfeiture on the bond. Genii Varnum came down here in behalf of Stanton &c on Notice of a New Trial, there was no Court, that could not revive the first Judgment of the Court of Appeals but it is Nullifyed. It really behoves them to have another Trial, for now the first Judgment before the Admiralty Court remains good & Valid tho possibly it has been Suspended for a time. I think the Assembly most assuredly in the present State of the Case will Suspend the operation of the Execution. It has been Impossible to have a Trial here for the reasons I have heretofore given you, there has been no Judges existing for a Considerable time, now there is, & no pain is spared to get them togeather. The 1st Monday in April is the time appointed. Am Yr Hie Sert, Elipht Dyer [P.S.] Am oblidgd to write in midst of Debate in Congress which com mand my attention ever moment, believe my letter will be Very Imper fect. Receive it as it is. ED RC (CtY: Shaw Papers).
