February 19, 1783 711 James Madison’s Notes of Debates Wednesday February 19. [ 1783] 1 The motion made yesterday by Mr. Hamilton for opening the doors of Congress when the subject of finances should be under debate was negatived, Penna, alone being ay. 2 A motion was made by Mr. Hamilton seconded by Mr. Bland to postpone 3 the clause of the report made by Come, of the whole for altering the Impost, viz, the clause limiting its duration to 25 years, in order to substitute a proposition declaring it to be inexpedient to limit the period of its duration: first because it ought to be compen- surate to the duration of the debt. 2dly. because it was improper in, the present stage of the business, and all the limitation of which it wd. admit had been defined in the Resolutions of 1782. 4 Mr. Hamilton said in support of his motion that it was in vain to attempt to gain the concurrence of the States by removing the objec tions publickly assigned by them against the Impost, that these were the ostensible & not the true objections: that the true objection on the part of R. I. was the interference of the impost with the opportu nity afforded by their situation of levying contributions on Cont. &c which red. foreign supplies through the ports of R. I: that the true objection on the part of Va. was her having little share in the debts due from the U. S. to which the impost would be applied; that a removal of the avowed objections would not therefore, remove the obstructions whilst it would admit on the part of Congs, that their first recommendation went beyond the absolute exigences of the public; that Congs, having taken a proper ground at first, ought to maintain it till time should convince the States of the propriety of the measure. Mr. Bland said that as the debt had been contracted by Congress with the concurrence of the States, and Congs was looked to for payment by the public creditors, it was justifiable & requisite in them to pursue such means as would be adequate to the discharge of the debt: & that the means would not be adequate if limited in duration to a period within which no calculations had shewn that the debt wd. be discharged. On the motion the States were N. Hamshire divided, Masts, no, R. Island ay, Cont. divd, N. York, ay, N. Jersey ay, Pena, ay, Virga, no Mr. Bland ay, N. Carolina ay, S. Carolina ay. Mr. Rutlidge said he voted for postponing not in order to agree to Mr. Hamiltons motion but to move & he accordingly renewed the motion, made in the Come, of the whole; viz that the Impost should be appropriated exclusively to the army. This motion was seconded by Mr. Lee. Mr. Hamilton opposed the motion strenuously, declared that as a friend to the army as well as to the other Creditors & to the public at large he could never assent to such a partial dispensation of Justice;
