712 February 19,1783 that the different States being differently attached to different branches of the public debt would never concur in establishg a fund wch. was not extended to every branch; that it was impolitic to divide the interests of the civil & military Creditors, whose joint efforts in the States would be necessary to prevail on them to adopt a general revenue. Mr. Mercer favored the measure as necessary to satisfy the army & to avert the consequences which would result from their disappoint ment on this subject: he pronounced that the Army would not dis band until satisfactory provision should be made, & that this was the only attainable provision; But he reprobated the doctrine of a perma nent debt supported by a general & permanent revenue & said that it would be good policy to separate instead of cementing the interests of the Army & the other public creditors, insinuating that the claims of the latter were not supported by justice & that the loan office certifi cates ought to be revised. Mr. Fitzimmons observed that it was unnecessary to make a separate appropriation of the Impost to one particular debt, since if other funds sd. be superadded, there would be more simplicity & equal pro priety in an aggregate fund for the aggregate debt funded: and that if no other funds should be superadded it wd. be unjust & impolitic: that the States whose Citizens were the chief creditors of the U. S. wd. never concur in such measure; that the mercantile interest which comprehended the chief Creditors of Pena, had by their influence obtained the prompt & full concurrence of that State in the Impost; and if that influence were excluded the State wd. repeal its law. He concurred with those who hoped the army wd. not disband un[less] provision sd. be made for doing them justice. Mr. Lee contended that as eve[r]ybody felt and acknowledged the force of the demands of the army, an appropriation of the Impost to them wd. recommend it to all the States: that distinct & specific appropriations of distinct revenues was the only true System of finance, and was the practice of all other nations who were enlight ened on this subject; that the army had not only more merit than the mercantile creditors; but that the latter would be more able on a return of peace to return to the business which would support them. Mr. [Madison] said that if other funds were to be superadded as the gentleman 5 who made the motion admitted, it was at least premature to make the appropriation in question; that it wd. be best to wait till all the funds were agreed upon & then appropriate them respectively to those debts to which they sd. be best fitted; that it was probable the impost would be judged best adapted to the foreign debt; as the foreign Credi tors could not like the domestic ever recur to particular States for sepa rate payments, and that as this wd. be a revenue least felt, it would be prudent to assign it to those for whom the States wd. care least, leaving more obnoxious revenues to those Creditors who wd. excite the sympa thy of their Countrymen and cd stimulate them to do justice.
