February 19, 1783 713 Mr. Williamson was agst. the motion; said he did not wish the army to disband untill proper provision should be made for them; that if force sd. be necessary to excite justice, the sooner force were applied the better. Mr. Wilson was against the motion of Mr. Rutlidge, observed that no instance occured in the British history of finance in which distinct appropriations had been made to distinct debts already contracted; that a consolidation of funds had been the result of experience; that an aggregate fund was more simple & would be most convenient: that the interest of the whole funded debt ought to be paid before the principal of any part of it; and therefore in case of surplus of the impost beyond the interest of the army debt, it ought at any rate to be applied to the interest of the other debts, and not, as the motion pro posed, to the principal of the army debt. He was fully of opinion that such a motion wd. defeat itself, that by dividing the interest of the civil from those of the military Creditors the provision for the latter would be frustrated. On the question on Mr. Rutledge’s motion the States were N.H. no, Mas. no, Cont. no, N.J. no, Virga, no, Mr. Lee & Mr. Mercer ay, N.C. no, S. Carolina ay. On the clause reported by the Comee. of the whole in favor of limit ing the impost to 25 years, the States N.H. ay, Mas. ay, Cont. divd., 6 N.Y. no, N.J. no, Pa. ay, Va. ay, Mr. Bland no, N. Carolina ay, S. Car olina ay. So the question was lost. On the question whether the appointment of Collectors of the Impost shall be left to the States, the Collectors to be under the con- troul of & amenable to Congs, there were 7 ays—N.Y. & Pena, being no & N.J. divided. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:258-64. 1 There is no entry in Secretary Thomson’s journals for this date. 2 See the next to last paragraph of Madison’s February 18 Notes of Debates. 3 According to a copy of the “Rules for conducting Business in the United States in Congress Assembled" maintained by President Elias Boudinot covering the period May 4, 1781, to May 15, 1783, Congress this day adopted the following additional rule con cerning “a Question to postpone," which is not recorded in the journals but may have been occasioned by this motion. “Determined by a unanimous Vote,” Boudinot wrote, “that on a Question to postpone to take up another Question, debate may go into the Merits of Question at large, not Entd.” Emmet Collection, no. 441, NN. For the congres sional rules in force at this time, see JCC, 20:476-82, 22:75-76, 24:98, 109, 131; and Vir ginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, November 19, 1782, note 3. 4 Apparently December 16, 1782, for which see Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:213-23, 261-62; and JCC, 23:798-809. 5 Madison later added “Mr. Rutledge” at this point in the MS. 6 Madison inserted an asterisk at this point to which he keyed the following note: “Cont., Mr. Dyer ay, Mr. Wolcot no.” 7 Madison inserted a “dagger” at this point to which he keyed the following note: “Pa., Mr. Wilson & Fitzsimmons no.”
