714 February 19, 1783 Oliver Wolcott to Frederick Wolcott Dr Child, Philadelpha. 19th Feb. 1783 I expect that you will receive this Letter at N Haven as I have heard that the College 1 winter Vacancy would End before this Time. You cannot suppose but that I have frequently enquired about you, and am glad that this Enquiry has been so much to my Satisfaction, and that my Expectations of you have been so fully answered. I do not know wheither your Situation is the most eligible that might be chosen, but if any Inconvenience attends it, it will be less felt now than at another Period, tho I shall be Very sorry if you do not injoy the best advantages for Improvment in Learning, as that is the object of your Pursuit and my Wishes; as to what respects your Cir cumstances you will be directed by your Mother. You are now at that Time of Life which is the most interesting and important to yourself, as your Conduct for a few years to come will (if God shall spare your Life) probably give you that Character as to Morals, Virtue and Learning which you will likely have thro the future Periods of Life. My Solicitude for your Wellfare induces me most ardently to Wish that a strict Regard for the Precepts of Religion, the most Suiteable Behaivour, and the best use of Time may distinguish the whole of your Conduct. I am happy in being perswaded that you will do well. We have been expecting for several days to hear that Peacee was agreed upon amongst the contending Powers. I hope that you will hear that it is so before that you shall receive this Letter, in a manner consistent with the Interest and Safety of this Country. By the Blessing of God I am well. May the Almighty Bless you— your’s with the kindest Affection, Oliver Wolcott RC (CtLHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 That is, Yale College, where Frederick was a student. Oliver Wolcott to Oliver Wolcott, Jr. Sir Philadelpa. 19th Feb 1783 I have been favoured with your Letters of the It and lOt and thank you for the Intelligence therewith communicated. Soon after my com ing here I waited on Mr Morriss and informed him that the State had for a long Time impatiently expected Mr Smith to come forward, he told me that he had not long before Sent him his Commission and Instructions, and that he would Very soon be upon this Business. After that I had not heard any Thing of him, and supposed that he was at Hartford, as I wrote to you some Time ago, and knew nothing to the contrary till I reed, your last Letter. I have since waited upon Mr Mor-
