February 21,1783 723 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:270-77. 1 See Madison’s Notes, January 29, 1783, note 5. 2 Madison originally wrote “constitution," which he then deleted for “compact,” but subsequently lined out “compact” and rewrote “constitution." 3 At this point Madison inserted an asterisk to which he keyed the following note: “Among other reasons privately weighing with him, he had observed that many of the most respectable people of America supposed the preservation of the Confeder acy, essential to secure the blessings of the revolution; and pennant funds for dis charging debts essential to the preservation of Union. A disappointmt to this class wd. certainly abate their ardor & in a critical emergence might incline them to prefer some political connection with G. B. as a necessary cure for our internal instability— again Without permanent & general funds he did not concieve that the danger of convulsions from the army could be effectually obviated—lastly he did not think that any thing wd. be so likely to prevent disputes among the States with the calamities consequent on them. The States were jealous of each other, each suppose itself to be on the whole a creditor to the others. The Eastern States in particular thought them selves so with regard to the S. States (see Mr. Ghorum in the debates of this day). If general funds were not introduced it was not likely the balances wd. be ever be dis charged, even if they sd. be liquidated. The consequence wd. be a rupture of the con federacy. The E. States wd. at sea be powerful & rapacious, the S. opulent & weak. This wd. be a temptation—the demands on the S. Sts would be an occasion— Reprisals wd. be instituted—Foreign aid would be called in by first the weaker, then the stronger side; & finally both be made subservient to the wars & politics of Europe.” 4 That is, “imaginary.” 5 See JCC, 24:144; and Madison’s Notes, February 27, when the report of this com mittee was first taken up. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Philadelpa. 21 Feb. 1783 I wrote to Rhina by the last Post. 1 I think that I have wrote to you or some of the Family by every Post for several Weeks past. I hear but sel dom from owing I beleive to the want of oppertinity to write by—such as you shall have I hope that you will embrace. We have no material News since We had the British Kings Speech. The Non Arrivals induce an opinion that the Vessells for these Ports wait till that Event is ascertained, which is much expected has taken Place in Europe. By the Blessing of God I still injoy Health. Take the best Care in your Power of your own—and may the Almighty Protect and Bless you and the Family. Our Happiness depends upon his Favour. My Love to our Children. Yours affectionately Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi: Oliver Wolcott, Sr., Papers). 1 Not found.
