February 24,1783 725 The truth is the ability of a country to pay taxes depends on infinite combinations of physical and moral causes, which can never be accommodated to any general rule, climate, soil, productions, advan tages for navigation, government, genius of the people, progress of arts and industry, and an endless variety of circumstances. The diversi ties are sufficiently great in these states to make an infinite difference in their relative wealth—the proportion of which can never be found by any common measure whatever. The only possible way then of making them contribute to the gen eral expence in an equal proportion to their means is by general taxes imposed under Continental authority. In this mode there would no doubt be inequalities and for a considerable time material ones; but experience and the constant operation of a general interest which by the very collision of particular interests must in the main prevail in a Continental deliberative would at length correct those inequalities, and ballance one tax that should bear hard upon one state by another that should have a proportional weight in others. This idea however was not at the period of framing the confederation, and is not yet agreeable to the spirit of the times. To futurity we must leave the dis covery how far this spirit is wise or foolish. One thing only is now cer tain that Congress having the discretionary power of determining the quantum of money to be paid into the general treasury towards defraying the common expences, have in effect the constitutional power of general taxation. The restraints upon the exercise of this power amount to the perpetuating a rule for fixing the proportions which must of necessity produce inequality, and by refusing the federal government a power of specific taxation and of collection, without substituting any other adequate means of coertion do in fact leave the compliance with Continental requisitions to the good will of the respective states. Inequality is inherent in the theory of the con federation, and in the practice that inequality must increase in pro portion to the honesty or dishonesty of the component parts. This vice will either in its consequences reform the federal constitution or dissolve it. If a general standard must be fixed numbers were preferable to land. Modes might be devised, to ascertain the former with tolerable precision, but I am persuaded the experiment will prove, that the value of all the land in each state cannot be ascertained with any thing like exactness. Both these measures have the common disadvantage, of being no equal representative of the wealth of the people; but one is much more simple, definite and certain than the other. I have indulged myself in these remarks to show that I have little expectation of success from any mode of carrying the article in ques tion into execution upon equitable principles. I owe it however to myself to declare that my opposition did not arise from this source.
