726 February 24, 1783 The confederation has pointed out this mode—and though I would heartily join in a representation of the difficulties (of which every man of sense must be sensible on examination) that occur in the execution of the plan to induce the states to consent to a change, yet as this was not the disposition of a Majority of Congress, I would have assented to any mode of attempting it which was not either obviously mischievous or impracticable. The first plan proposed 3 as Your Excellency will see was an actual valuation of each state by itself. This was evidently making the inter ested party judge in his own cause. Those who have seen the opera tion of this principle between the counties in the same state and the districts in the same county cannot doubt a moment that the valua tions on this plan would have been altogether unequal and unjust. Without supposing more liberality in one state than in another the degree of care, judgment and method employed in the execution would alone make extreme differences in the results. This mode had also the further inconvenience of awakening all the jealousies of the several states against each other. Each would suspect that its neighbour had favoured itself, whether the partiality appeared or not. It would be impossible to silence these distrusts and to make the states sit down satisfied with the justice of each other. Every new requisition for money would be a new signal for discussion and clam our, and the seeds of disunion already sown too thick would be not a little multiplied. To guard against these evils the plan proposes a revision by Con gress; but it is easy to be seen that such a power could not be exercised. Should any states return defective valuations, it would be difficult to find sufficient evidence to determine them such—to alter would not be admissible, for Congress could have no data, which could be pre sumed equivalent to those which must have governed the judgment of Commissioners under oath on an actual view of the premisses—to do either this, or to reject would be an impeachment of the honor of the states which it is not probable there would be decision enough to haz ard—and which if done could not fail to excite serious disgusts. There is a wide difference between a single state exercising such a power over its own counties and a confederated government exercising it over sovereign states, which compose the confederacy. It might also hap pen, that too many states would be interested in the defective valua tions to leave a sufficient number willing either to alter or to reject. These considerations prevailed to prevent the plan being adopted by a Majority. The last plan may be less mischievous than the first, 4 but it appears to me altogether ineffectual. The mere quantity of land granted and surveyed with the general species of buildings upon them can cer tainly be no criteria to determine their value. The plan does not even
