February 25,1783 732 officers; and that it would apportion on the States that part of the public burden with sufficient equality. Mr. Dyer said that the original promise of Congress on that subject was considered by some of the States as a fetch upon them, and not within the spirit of the authority delegated to Congress. Mr. Wolcot said the States wd. give Congs, nothing whatever unless they were gratified in this particular. Mr. Collins said R. I. had expressly instructed her delegates to oppose every measure tending to an execution of the promise, out of monies under the disposition of Congress. On the other side it was urged that the half pay was a debt as solemnly contracted as any other debt; and was consequently as bind ing under the 12th article of Confederation on the States, 2 & that they could not refuse a requisition made for that purpose; that it would be improper to countenance a spirit of that sort by yielding to it; that such concessions on the part of Congs, wd. produce compliances on the part of the States, in other instances, clogged with favorite conditions; {that a referrence of the officers to the particular States to whose lines they) belong, would not be satisfactory to the officers of those States who objected to half pay, and would increase the present irritation of the army; that to do it without their unanimous consent would be a breach of the army contract by which the U. S. collectively were bound to them; and above all that the proposed plan, which discharged any par ticular State which should settle with its officers on this subject, altho’ other States might reject the plan, from its proportion of that part of the public burden, was a direct and palpable departure from the law of the Confederation. According to this instrument the whole public bur den of debt must be apportioned according to a valuation of land, nor cd. any thing but unanimous concurrence of the States dispense with this law. According to the plan proposed so much of the public burden as the 'A pay sd. amount to, was to be apportioned according to the number of officers belonging to each line; the plan to take effect as to all those States which should adopt it, without waiting for the unani mous adoption of the States, and that if Congress had authority to make the number officers the rule of apportioning one part of the public debt on the States, they might extend the rule to any other part or the whole, or might substitute any other arbitrary [rule] which they should think fit. 3 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:282-85. 1 See JCC, 24:146-47. For the antecedents of this debate, see Madison’s Notes, Jan uary 13 and February 4, 1783. See also these letters, vols. 8, 9, 12, 13, 15, and 16 under entries indexed “half-pay plan.” 2 Which provided that “All bills of credit emitted, monies borrowed and debts con tracted by, or under the authority of congress, before the assembling of the united states, in pursuance of the present confederation, shall be deemed and considered as a charge against the united states.”JCC, 19:221. 3 Madison later completed this entry to read: “The motion of Mr. Gilman was nega tived, see the ays & noes on the Journal,” for which see JCC, 24:148.
