736 February 26, 1783 John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada Feby. 26th. 1783. I wrote you a Letter last Post, 1 and then Expected it would have been in my Power to have given you some further accounts from Europe respecting the Negociations for Peace by this, but am still des titute of Authentic information, as it is a long time since Letters were received from our Commissrs. in Europe. It is an (almost Universal) Opinion here, that Peace is nigh at hand, are daily Expecting a Pack- ett from Europe; for my own part, though I have but little doubt but Peace is nigh at hand, yet the Object is so great and so desirable that a Confirmation of it would be highly pleasing. By the latest accounts from New York, it does not appear that the Enemy have any late direct Intelligence from Europe. The business respecting Funds, Half-Pay, Rations &c. and that of Vermont, remain in much the same State as when I wrote you last on those Subjects. I have the Honor to be, Your most Hum. Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Gilman to Weare, February 19, 1783. Nathaniel Gorham to Caleb Davis Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia Feby. 26 1783 Mr. Bingham of this place who was some time Agent for the Board of Warr at Martinico has in his hands a ballance due to Government, which he informs me he is ready to pay to any person authorised to recive it. I suggest to you the propriety of furnishing me with a power of attorney or an order on him for it, which would prevent the neces sity of my drawing money for my support here out of the Treasury, where it is wanted for other purposes. I am uncertain wither it lay with you or the Committe of accounts to adjust those ballances. However if a power comes it must be accompanyd with the several votes of Court for disolving the Board & placing the powers in other hands. I have wrote to my Brother on the subject, 2 do confer with him on the sub ject. The Leiut Governor in a Letter to Doer. Holten 3 represents the exertions of Massachusetts—(which you & I know are great) and com pares them with some of the other States and asks wither we think the people will long bear it. We can only answer that the powers of Con gress are not adequate to the means of doing justice between the States—and that while the States continue so jealous of Congress they cannot be made so. I perceive the Boston News papers contain inflam-
