February 26,1783 737 atory peices against the impost which with other circumstances may possibly so farr prevail as to induce a repeal—but I am more & more convinced that those States which have beene forward will never obtain justice untill funds are established—and Unless such establish ments are made or some alteration in the articles of confederation take place the union must ere long dissolve. Virginia have now only one Regiment of Soldiers & have paid no more than 35 thousand dol lars of the 8 millions & have sent word to Congress that they can pay very little more on that requesition & at the same time are very averse to funds—the army very desirous of their two years wages and a sett[le]m[ent], and if a peace as expected Soon takes place what shall we do with them if they refuse (As some people expect) to disband. Our situation will be bad enough—the publick creditors are very clamourous for their interest—and Congress under all those dificultys a mear shadow. I write this in confidence as some people would say from those sentiments that my head was turnd that I was intoxicated with power &c. not considering that in a few months I should be as much under the power of Congress as any man whatever—but let such people be some time in Congress & they will alter their opinion. I am with esteam Sir Your friend & humble sevt, Nath Gorham [P.S.] Inclosed is a few news papers. Do write me an account of your politics—and excuse haste. RC (MHi: Caleb Davis Papers). 1 Caleb Davis, who has been identified in these letters, ll:288n.l, was serving as the Massachusetts agent for purchasing military supplies. 2 Not found. 3 See the following entry. Samuel Holten to Thomas Cushing Dear Sir 1 Philadelphia 26th February 1783 I have been honor’d with yours of the 9th inst., & thank you for your favorable opinion of my attentions. I am sensible it is difficult for me to give such an answer as will be satisfactory why the burthens of the war are not more equably borne, but no doubt you are sensible it has been so from the beginning of the contest; & permit me to ask whether it is in the power of Con gress, constitutionally, to prevent it, they seem to be sensible of it, and are endeavoring to take such measures as may be most likely to remove the burdens, so justly, complained of, & to prevent the like in future; it is easy for people to say why don’t Congress do this or that, but the inquiry shou’d be what are they authorized to do. You are pleas’d to mention the situation of the eastern part of our state, but I am not able to comprehend what you have reference to in
