738 February 26,1783 the late movements of the enemy respecting the eastern parts; My col leagues as well as myself are not insensible of the situation of that peo ple, & Congress, as I apprehend, was well informed respecting that part of the country when they gave their instructions to their ministers to negotiate a Peace; therefore as Congress have great reason to expect that peace will soon take place, I have no expectation that any further instructions will be sent to our ministers at present, & we have this satisfaction that Mr. Adams who is one of our negotiators is undoubtedly acquainted with that part of the country. I must beg leave to refer you to the inclosed newspapers for the intelligence of the day. I have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, your most obedient; S. Holten RC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). FC (MHi: Holten Papers). Endorsed by Holten: “Copy of a letter to I.t. Governr. Cushing Feby. 26th. 1783." 1 Thomas Cushing, a former delegate to Congress, 1774-76, was lieutenant governor of Massachusetts. Samuel Holten to James Sullivan Dear Sir,i Phila. 26th February 1783. I have been honor’d with your attention of the 9th inst. & so far as respects the Eastern part of our state I must beg leave to refer you to mine of the 11th 2 where I had the honor of addressing you on that subject; but if the war shou’d continue it appears to me that we ought to have assistance from the continent to drive that nest of Tories & Britains out of the state. I think it is kind in you to bring into remem brance a person so well qualified & justly intitled to fill so important a place as your are pleasd to mention & if such an appointment shou’d become necessary I shall attend to the same. I inclose you a newspaper which contains the intelligence of the day. I am, with great respect, your most obedient FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 James Sullivan, who was a non-attending delegate to Congress from Massachusetts in 1782-83, has been identified in these Letters, 4:75n.l, 2 Not found. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Wednesday Feby. 26 [1783]. Mr. Lee observed to Congress that it appeared from the Newspa pers of the day that sundry enormities had been committed by the
