740 February 26,1783 as soon as the plan of revenue sd. be prepared for recommendation to the States it would be proper for Congs, to take into consideration & combine with it every *object which might facilitate its progress, & form a complete provision for the tranquility of the U. States. The Question on Mr. Hamilton’s motion was postponed. 6 The letter from Mr. Morris requesting that the injunction of secresy might be withdrawn from his preceding letter signifying to Congress his purpose of resigning was committed to. 7 *He 8 had in view the followg. objects—1. the abatements proposed by Mr. Hamilton. 2. a transfer into the common mass of expences of all the separate expences incurred by the States in their particular defence. 3. an acquisition to the U. States of the vacant territory. The plan thus extended would affect the interest of the States as follows, viz. N. Hamshipire would approve the establishment of a General rev enue, as tending to support the confederacy, to remove causes of future contention, and to secure her trade against separate taxation from the States thro which it is carried on. She would also approve of a share in the vacant territory. Having never been much invaded by the Enemy her interest would be opposed to abatements, & throwing all the separate expenditures into the common mass. The discharge of the public debts from a common treasury would not be required by her interest, the loans of her citizens being under her proportion. See the Statement of them. 9 Massachusetts, is deeply interested in the discharge of the public debts. The expedition to Penobscot alone interests her, as she sup poses, in making a common mass of expences: her interest is opposed to abatements. The other objects wd. not peculiarly affect her. Rhode Island as a weak State is interested in a general revenue as tending to support the confederacy and prevent future contentions, but against it as tending to deprive Her of the advantage afforded by her situation of taxing the commerce of the contiguous States, as tending to discharge with certainty the public debts, her proportion of loans interest her rather against it. Having been the seat of the war for a considerable time, she might not perhaps be opposed to abate ments on that account. The exertions for her defence having been pre viously sanctioned, it is presumed in most instances, she would be opposed to a common mass of expences. 10 In the acquisition of vacant territory she is deeply and anxiously interested. Connecticut is interested in a general revenue as tending to protect her commerce from separate taxation by N. York & Rhode Island: and somewhat as providing for loan office creditors. Her interest is opposed to abatements, and to a common mass of expences. 11 Since the condemnation of her title to her Western claims, she may perhaps consider herself interested in the acquisition of the vacant land. In other respects she wd not be peculiarly affected.
