February 26, 1783 741 N. York is exceedingly attached to general revenue as tending to support the confederacy and prevent future contests among the States. Although her citizens are not lenders beyond the proportion of the State, yet individuals of great weight are deeply interested in provision for public debts. In abatements N. York is also deeply inter ested. In makg. a common mass also interested, and since the accep tance of her cession, interested in those of other States. N. Jersey is interested as a smaller State in a general revenue as tendg to support the confederacy, and to prevent future contests and to guard her commerce agst. the separate taxation of Pensylvania & N.Y. The loans of her Citizens are not materially disproportion] ate. Although this State has been much the theatre of the war, she wd. not perhaps be interested in abatements. Havg had a previous sanction for particular expenditures, her interest wd. be opposed to a common mass. In the vacant territory, she is deeply and anxiously interested. Penna, is deeply interested in a general revenue, the loans of her Citizens amounting to more than 'Zs of that branch of the public debt. As far as a general impost on trade would restrain her from taxing the trade of N. Jersey it would be against her interest. She is interested against abatements; and against a common mass, her expenditures having been always previously sanctioned. 12 In the vacant territory she is also interested. Delaware interested by her weakness in a general revenue as tend ing to support the confederacy & future tranquility of the States; not materially by the credits of her Citizens. Her interest is opposed to abatements & to a common mass. To the vacant territory she is firmly attached. Maryland. Having never been the Seat of war & her Citizens being creditors below her proportion, her interest lies agst. a general revenue, otherwise than as she is interested in common with others in the sup port of the Confederacy & tranquility of the U. S., against abatements, and against a common mass. The vacant is a favorite object to her. Virga, in common with the Southern States as likely to enjoy an opu lent and defenceless trade is interested in a general revenue, as tending to secure to her the protection of the Confederacy agst. the maritime superiority of the E. States; but agst it as tending to discharge loan office debts and to deprive her of the occasion of taxing the commerce of N. Carolina. She is interested in abatements, and essentially so in a com mon mass, not only her excentric expenditures being enormous; but many of her necessary ones havg. red. no previous or subsequent sanc tion. Her cession of territory would be considered as a sacrifice. N. Carolina, interested in a general revenue as tending to ensure the protection of the Confederacy agst. the maritime superiority of the E. States and to guard her trade from separate taxation by Virginia and S. Carolina. The loans of her Citizens are inconsiderable. 13 In
