744 February 27,1783 Daniel Carroll to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer Dear sr. Pha. 27 Feby 1783 The inclosd will show that nothing to be expected from Mr. McClanaghan. I waited on him—he made objections—I wrote to him (copy inclosd), he sent the inclosd answer, 1 & the Letter for you. Whatever his motives may be for refusing payment, the effect is the same to us. I Say to us, for Mr. Hemseley is now here, & I shoud have thought it proper to have made a division with him. You must know by experience the situation I am in—at least in a degree, but there are very particular Circumstances, which contribute to make that situation more distressing than you ever Knew it. It will appear in the same light to you when I shall have the pleasure of see ing you, & communicating those circumstances. I inclose this to Mr Calhoun, with a particular request to him to for ward it to you, that no time may be lost, which realy the situation I am in will not admit. With respect, & esteem, I am sr. Yr. Mo Obt Ser, Dani Carroll RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 The following February 26 letter to Blair McClenachan, and McClenachan's reply, are in the Red Books, 10:33—34, MdAA; and Calendar of Maryland State Papers: The Red Books, 3 vols. (Annapolis: Hall of Records Commission, 1950-52), 1:212. “When 1 had the pleasure of seeing you this morning, I was in hopes, that the acct, sent me by the Intendant of Maryland, cou’d have been adjusted, & the Balla, paid; But finding you had some objections I look’d over his letter to me, wherein he says that he expects less than the half of the 5 hogsheads will more than make good pillage, and on looking over the agreemt. you enterd into with him, I find that no allowance is to be made where Tobacco hogsheads are not broke, by which I understand that difference of weight, was not to be accounted for, but where it was occasiond by pillage. Under these circumstances, I do not suppose the Balla, can be exactly ascertaind at this time— but as Mr Jenifer, on this acct for Supplying me with a Sum of money, please to let me Know whether it wou’d be agreable to you to discharge so much of the acct, as it may amt. too without calculating the 5 hogsheads, which may remain to be accounted for agreable to the terms of the agreement—if not, you will please to favor me with an answer, which I shall have an opportunity of forwarding this Evening.” Joseph Jones to George Washington Dr. Sr. Philada. 27th February 1783 Your favors of the 14th Deer, last and the 11th inst. have been duly received 1 —a series of ill health through the fall and the greatest part of the winter and which untill very lately rendered my attendance in Congress seldom and very irregular must be my apology for suffering the first to remain so long unanswered. Congress have been for some time past almost wholely employed in devising some general and adequate funds for paying the interest and
