February 27, 1783 745 in time sinking the principal of the public debt as well as to provide for future loans should the continuance of the War render borrowing necessary—difficulties apparently insurmountable presented them selves in almost every stage of the business, owing to the different cir cumstances of the several States, and the necessity, that the subjects selected for taxation to form the funds, should operate throughout them all, generally and equally, or nearly so to make them acceptable. After opening and discussing a variety of questions, no object has been yet discovered, to which so few objections lie, as the impost duty formerly recommended to the States, and which, with some alter ations from the former plan to obviate the objections that have been raised, has been agreed to in a Comtee. of the whole and will I think be finally adopted. What this duty, when granted by the States will amount to annually, is very uncertain—in time of peace there can be no doubt but it will be considerable and for years prove an increasing fund, but it is thought by no means adequate to the payment of the interest and sinking the principal of the national Debt. Other means have therefore been considered in aid of the impost Duty—Land, Polls, Salt, Wine, Spirits, Tea &c, these last being what are called luxu ries it is thot may bear a small tax in addition to the impost duty. I fear at present few of these will go down, and that we shall be obliged at last to rest the payment of the public debt upon the mode prescribed by the Confn. (requisitions proportioned on the States according to the value of land, buildings &c, a plan for obtaining which scale of proportion has been digested and agreed upon in Congress and will immediately go on to the States,) and the produce of the 5 Per Cent duty if granted. A small poll tax, did not the Constitution of Maryland stand in the way, might probably succeed, as it wod. operate more equally perhaps then any other, and may be adopted, allowing Mary land to substitute some other adequate and productive fund in its room. A short time will bring to a conclusion our efforts on this busi ness, which I am in hopes will terminate in the adoption of such mea sures as may be acceptable to the States, and produce the granting such funds as will restore public credit, give value to the great mass of depreciated certificates, and enable Congress to render, to every Class of the public Creditors, ample justice. Congress have the purest inten tions towards the public Creditors, and will use their best exertions in obtaing from the States the means to do them speedy and compleat justice—such is their opinion of the merit and services of the Army that did it not wound the sense of justice, they want not the inclina tion to give them the preference to any other class of Creditors but equity and sound policy forbid discrimination and Partial distinctions. One ground of discontent in the Army, and on which they found the opinion, that justice is not intended to be done to them, is the delay in complying with their requests—but with those acquainted with the deliberations of public bodies, and especially of so mixed a Body as that of Congress, allowances will be made for slow determination.
