754 March 2, 1783 prospects are general Confusion, Clamour & tumult & intestine broils, Commotions and divisions here I am full of anxiety & perplex ity, exert my feeble Efforts to reduce expences & but in Vain. Nothing can be more unpopular in our assembly. I am wearied out being here. My prospects are no better by all the accounts I recieve from my own Country if I return home. The Numerous Civil list & expensive sallaries have been all adopted in the 2 last years when I had no part here and a foundation laid for a great part of the troubles we are now Involved in. I have indeavoured with all my might to gain some relief, but with little Success, as it is ten times as difficult to undoe what has been done & establishd as to have prevented when proposed. The objection to revoke half pay or to referr them to the states is principally this that a former Congress have engaged it, the States by Confederacy are bound by it, it is a solemn Compact with our officers, we cannot retract it, tho ever so unwise & Imprudent when done & they are terrifyed even with the threats of the Army to do themselves Justice & represent Connecticut officers the most Clamorous & pressing & call on Congress to secure their protest against trusting the State. A Comtee from the Army has been here all winter Petitioning Congress waiting for the result both as to pay, security for their pay & halfpay. For that they propose a Commutation. All our calculations upon lives have been set at Work & they make out about six years full pay (no rations) after the War to be the amount on an Average. Congress have Voted or nearly Voted 5 years whole pay after the War as a sufficient Compensation. As we can not get off the half pay Establishment, had we not better Comply with that than to be entangled with half pay for life? I wish I knew there would be no end in enumerating our Dificulties and holding out Our prospects, Peace or War. God almighty Governs the World, he has Delivered us out of many Troubles & fears, he still is able, let our Trust be in him & we are Calm. Let Tempest roar, he can still their rage & the Tumult of the People. We know many things are wrong. They always have been so and allways will, which requires more Labor, Patience, and Exertion. If the People clamour against me I know I have indeavoured their good, if I must suffer for others & they have the Praise, it is my lot, I have been accustomed to it, I hope I shall be Content, I expect not praise but blame, it has been the lot of their best friends & of those who have exerted themselves the most with the greatest fidelity to serve them. I have not, I cannot expect any better. I do not serve them on Wages, it is to do my Utmost for them & then expect their reproaches. Experience has taught me. I am not dismay’d (hie murus Aheneus esto, Nil conscrire sibi nulla pallescere Culpa) 1 ie, in my publick Conduct. As to the Event of the Susqh Cause 2 we must Submit to Providence. We had the weight of Congress, they would hear to no delay, they pushed with Violence & we had nothing to hope, if we had left them to have Nominated the Men they would
