756 March 3, 1783 ligence. All that we know about the situation of the Pacific negotiations amounts to the Philosophers ne plus ultra viz, that we know nothing, Conjecture indeed has an extensive field to range in. The King of G.B. speech has opend the gate, where Imagination has free liberty to range and glut itself. The Commercial world have been thrown into a con sternation—the Political into a Stupor. Bets run high & spirits low alternately—for my part—having a propensity to reason with the rest of my fellow creatures—I have hazarded my conjectures also. I build them on the following grounds. Great Britain has evidently given up the Idea of the Conquest of America. She has now (and will if the war continues have a still greater) inferiority of Naval force to that of the combined powers with which she is engaged—no prospect of any effec tual aid from any ally. She must therefore be on the defensive at sea; her finances as appears from the Speech are not in the best state— what therefore can she hope from another campaign and that defen sive, both by land & sea in the East, W Indies, in America & Europe— add to this her councils divided by strong opposition, & her ministers not firmly seated in their places. My conclusion is that England must have peace—that the Allies will dictate it. No war supplies appear to have been calld for at the opening of the Parliament. No intelligence has been received further than that containd in the speech, a Packet (the Washington) was in waiting to bring over the result of the negotia tions, no account Authentic, of the sailing of the combined fleet. All these contribute to evince that the negotiations are still going on, and not far from a conclusion. I leave you to Judge of the event. I think they are strong Symptoms of approaching [....] I must request the favor of you to inform me in your next, of the Progress you have made in my land Warrant—and what you suppose to be the real Value of it, as I propose selling it if I have an offer worth accepting. Mr. Jefferson is here I have not seen him since his return. Mr. Morris has sent in his resignation of the office of Finance. Adieu, believe me to be yrs. affectionately, Theok. Bland Jr. RC (NHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Daniel Car roll to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer Dear sr. Pha. March 3d. 1783 I wrote to you by the Saturdays post to Baltimore under cover to Mr Calhoun who was desird to forward it so that an answer might be obtaind by this post. 1 I hope it reachd you in time. You will see that nothing is to be expected from Mr McClanaghan. I am in such arrears that I hope the Supply will be ample & Sufficient to releive me, as well as for the Supply of the Delegates in general.
