March 4, 1783 759 Phillips White’s Petition Phila. March 3rd, 1783 To The Honble. Congress of the American United States, the Sus- criber in behalf of Edmund Sawyer of Newbury in the Common Wealth of Massachusetts Esqr, Sheweth That the said Sawyer, was a vender of Tickets in the United States Lottery, that on the nineteenth day of March A.D. 1781 he Inclosed Eleven prize Tickets of the third Class, in a Letter directed to Joseph Bullock Esqr. of Philadelphia, in order to get Certificates for said prizes, at the same time he also Inclosed a Loan Office Certificate of 300 Dolls in order to receive the Interest due thereon. Said Letter with its inclosure was Carried into New York, the Mail in which it was sent, being taken by the Enemy, Whereby said Tickets and Certificate are lost as to the proper owners. He therefore prays that you will take the affair into consideration and pass such order thereon (as that the owners of said Tickets, & Certificate, may receive their Just due) as you in your Wisdom shall think proper, and Your Petitioner shall ever pray. 1 Phillips White MS (DNA: PCC, item 42). In the hand of Phillips White. 1 White’s petition was referred this day to the superintendent of finance “to report thereon.” See JCC, 24:160; and PCC, item 42, 8:249-57. For Robert Morris’s March 7 report on the memorial and its referral to a congressional committee on March 29, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:511; and JCC, 24:181, 27:402. Eliphalet Dyer to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr. Dear Sir Philadelphia March 4th 1783 I recievd yours by Brown but have not as yet Conferrd with Burrell 1 on Subject of your Letter. In his Computation the Ballance remaining due to the Estate of your brother is about £30,700 dolls. I believe he means to give the Securities drawing an Intrest from the time due which you see will make considerable addition whereby I Imagined you were quite safe in ordering the sum requested to Mrs. Trumbull the whole of which & much more I know is gained on my & her being here but however must Submit; knowing my self to be Unable to have supported her here I could not have Consented to her coming had it not been on a Supposition it might be advantageous in our Sollicita tion for Justice in the matter referrd to, & believe it has had its Effect. I expect to be at home in the Spring, the State does not supply me for my own Expenditures, how to pay off Mrs Trumbulls I know not. Coll Wadsworth has been so kind as to furnish her with some, & Nothing
