March 4, 1783 761 mont are in much the same State as when I wrote you last. 1 I Inclose you a Paper by which you will see Mr. Morris’s Letters in which he proposes to Quit the Office of Superintendant of Finance. 2 Indeed our Finances are in a deplorable Situation & when they will be in a better State I know not. I have the Honor to be, Your most Huml Servt. John Taylor Gilman 3 RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Gilman to Weare, February 26, 1783. 2 Gilman probably enclosed this day’s issue of the Pennsylvania Packet containing Robert Morris’January 24 letter of resignation and February 26 request to have the con gressional “Injunction of Secrecy . . . taken ofT his resignation, although Morris had arranged for their initial publication in the Independent Gazetteer on March 1. See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:462-74. For the public furor that followed Morris’ publication of these letters, see Arthur Lee to Samuel Adams, March 5, note 2. 3 Gilman also wrote a letter this day to Josiah Bartlett, from which the following extract was printed in Robert F. Batchelder Autographs, catalog no. 21 (March 1978), item 179. “I reed, this from Dr. Rush last week, but not in time to send by post. I did not know of this oppty. by Mr. Brown until just now otherwise I would have wrote you & some other friends but I have not a word of news. You will see my letter to the Prest. [i.e. Weare] hope soon to have news that Peace is agreed to, my faith is very strong on this subject, perhaps it is too much founded on my wishes. ...” James Madison’s Notes of Debates Teusday March 4. & Wednesday March 5. [1783] The motion of Mr. Hamilton on the Journal relative to abatement of the quotas of distressed States was rejected, partly because the prin ciple was disapproved by some, and partly because, it was thought improper to be separated from other objects to be recommended to the States. 1 The latter motive produced the motion for postponing. 2 The Committee to whom had been referred the letters of resigna tion of Mr. Morris reported as their opinion that it was not necessary for Congs, immediately to take any steps thereon. 3 They considered the resignation as conditional, and that if it sd. eventually take place at the time designated, there was no necessity for immediate provision to be made. Mr. Bland moved that &c (See Journal of Mar. 5) 4 This motion produced on these two days lengthy & warm debates. 5 Mr. Lee & Mr. Bland on one side disparaging the administration of Mr. Morris, and throwing oblique censure on his character. They con sidered his letters as an insult to Congs. & Mr. Lee de[c]lared that the man who had published to all the world such a picture of our national character & finances was unfit to be a minister of the latter. 6 On the other side Mr. Wilson & Mr. Hamilton went into a copious defence &
