764 March 4, 1783 Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir Phila March 4th. 1783 We have receiv’d your Excellency’s Letter of the 26th. Ult, 1 enclos ing a copy of the king of Great Britain’s speech, wch tho’ much muti lated, is in substance, the same with the genuine one transmitted you by Express. That, & the two Letters of Lord Townshend are the only pecies of intelligence, that bear the marks of authenticity respecting the final adjustment of Peace in Europe. To this moment Congress are without official information of the formal signing of any Treaty by the belligerent Powers either partially or generally. The Minister of France, is we apprehend, without intelli gence on the important head, & we have no reason to suppose that they are in a state of less uncertainty at N York. Fluctuating reports respecting this subject, as various in their nature, as the interested sources from whence ’tis probable they spring, prevail here. For them we refer to the papers enclosed, & with much respect, are Yr. Excellency’s most obedient & humble servants, A. Lee John F. Mercer Theok. Bland Jr. J Madison Jr. Jos. Jones We fear the certificate respecting Nathan’s account has arriv’d too late, to influence the determination of the arbitrators. 2 Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:307. Written by Mercer and signed by Mercer, Bland, Jones, Lee, and Madison. 1 For Harrison's letter of February 24, not the “26th," see ibid., p. 281. 2 See Virginia Delegates to Harrison, February 4, 1783, note 1. Oliver Wolcott to Oliver Wolcott, Jr. Sir Philadelphia 4 March 1783 I have been favoured with your Letter of the last. I had before informed you by my last Letter 1 that Mr Morriss told me he would immediately write to a Mr Thompson of Boston to undertake the Business of Settling our Accounts, this I suppose he has done as he told me positively that he would do so. If I shall be able to give you any Infor mation respecting the Instruction which will be given to the Commis sioner I will Inform you farther on this Head, but I have no Idea that any other Rule can be given but to conform to the Acts of Congress. The additional Duty imposed upon the Paytable will increase the Severity of your Service and Responsibility. I have no Doubt of your Fidelity, but I fear that your Diligence in Businss and in Reading will
