March 7, 1783 776 States, all reasonable expences which shall have been incurred by the States without the sanction of Congs., in their defence agst. or attack upon British or Savage enemies, either by sea or by land, and which shall be supported by satisfactory proofs, shall be considered as part of the common charges incident to the present war, and be allowed as such. (11) That as a more convenient and certain rule of ascertaining the proportions to be supplied by the States respectively to the common Treasury, the following alteration in the articles of confederation and perpetual union between these States, be and the same is hereby, agreed to in Congress, & the several States are advised to authorize their respective delegates to subscribe and ratify the same, as part of the said instrument of Union, in the words following, to wit. (12) “So much of the 8th of the Articles of Confederation & perpet ual Union between the thirteen States of America as is contained in the words following to wit ‘All charges of war &c (to the end of the paragraph)’ is hereby revoked and made void, and in place thereof, it is declared and Concluded, the same having been agreed to in a Congress of the United States, that all charges of war, and all other expences that shall be incurred for the common defence or general welfare, and allowed by the U. S. in Congress assembled, shall be defrayed out of a common treasury, which shall be supplied by the several States in proportion to the number of inhabitants of every age, sex & condition, except Indians not paying taxes in each State; which number shall be triennially taken & transmitted to the U. S. in Congs, assembled, in such mode as they shall direct and appoint; provided always that in such numeration no persons shall be included who are bound to servitude for life, according to the laws of the State to which they belong, other than such as may be between the ages of .” 5 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:317-18. 1 This report, which Madison copied into his notes with his March 7 entry, is in PCC, item 26, fols. 438-40; and JCC, 24:170-74. For an analysis of it, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:311-16. For the appointment of this committee and the previous con sideration of its work, see Madison’s Notes, February 21, note 5, and February 27, note 4. The report adopted April 18 as finally amended is in JCC, 24:257-60. 2 Three of these printed copies, with annotations reflecting amendments offered dur ing debate before adoption of the final report, are at PCC, item 26, fols. 411-13. 3 For the following figures, which are found in neither Madison’s draft report nor these notes, but were added by Thomas FitzSimons to one of the printed copies deliv ered this day, see ibid., fol. 413. 4 For the placement of this paragraph in Madison’s draft, see the following note. 5 At this point Madison inserted an asterisk to which he keyed the following note: “In the draught as laid before the Come, by the (7) paragraph was placed last of all, so as to render the plan indivisible. In the (10) paragraph the word ‘reasonable’ before the word ‘expences,’ was not inserted; but to the paragraph were added ‘provided that this allowance shall not be extended to any expences which shall be declared by nine votes in Congress to be manifestly unreasonable.’ In other respects the original draught was unaltered; except that a former resolution of Congress in the words of the (6) para graph was incorporated by the Secy, before it went to the press.”
