March 8, 1783 777 Jonathan Arnold to David Howell Dear Sir, Philadelphia March 8th. 1783. My last ended abruptly, 1 the mail was about to be closed—however I had nothing to add to the subject which was last mentioned. The Committee the next day reported on the subject of Finance—this by direction is now a secrecy, I hope ’twill be out timely to send it per post. I have had an interview with Dr Rush—but as he engages to write I shall refer to his Letter. The Assembly of this State, are enter ing on Measures for the relief of their own Creditors—and I observe the Mr. of C. from this S. 2 who were most zealous advocates for Conti nental Measures—have of late become more passive and upon the whole—Opposition to Court-measures, & men, seems to gain ground as fast as might be expected. Mr. Baily consented without hesitation to print what you requested. 3 He said your character stood Fair—and was daily rising in the eyes of the People of this City. I am told a pam phlet is now in the press, in favor of 5 per Ct. as soon as published will forward one. I conclude it to be the United efforts of A Junto— Mr. Carrol, Mr Madison, Mr Hamilton, Mr. Fitzsimmons—in doors— & the Supr. of F with his Assistant 4 out—may yet influence such Measures—as however agreable to others, must be reprobated by our State. Yesterday’s Paper 5 (inclosed) has an extract of a Letter from R.I. which must have been published with no very good intent that obliged me to present the Public with another—for Tuesday’s Paper 6 —which I mean also to inclose. The paper of Feb. 1st I have not reed. 7 I shall if possible procure it—and get Cato inserted in the Papers of this City—agreable to your request. I think the difficulties which formerly subsisted on that head are pretty well over. The Sdt. of F seems greatly on the decline in the estimation of many, some late drafts for Acts &c. have been disgustful—especially one which is severely criticised, and the Arbitrary Principles it embraces, justly exposed in the Public Papers by Valerius. I was told yesterday—that in New Jersey—a Certain Court favorite— whom he had appointed to an Office in that State, 8 with a Modem Salary—was opposed by the people and threat’ned with immediate ruin, &c, if he attempted to Act—from which and other Circum stances, I am inclined to believe he was happy in forming some excuse for the resignation of an Office—which it was growing dangerous to hold—and as a prudent man foreseeing the evil he is willing to with draw—& hide himself. That with him all who have been duped thro’ weakness, or who from principles, have supported those unconstitu tional propositions which have so long gulled & perplexed the public may shrink into obscurity—and the imperious tone of—By G—d you shall—be no longer heard in this Land of Liberty is my hearty prayer.
