778 March 8, 1783 You will long e’re this recieve the doings of Congress so far as was in my power to Communicate them. As to the result, of the Committee on my Motion—That with all the papers—& a State of the Foreign Affairs, was directed to be confidentially sent to the Govr & Assem bly—by the S for F A. and which he informs is done—all which was entered on the secretjournals. 9 If you should come back this Spring I think your triumph would be complete, and in that case only—I should be happy—that my Little bark—should “attendant sail. Enjoy the triumph & partake the Gale.” For the suppression of that part of the proceedings which was on the public Journals—so that it should not be printed in Course in the papers for Public inspection—and which it was the Anxious wish of many to see—and the carrying the Close of the Affair to the secret Journals—are evidences of a Conscious —and if genuine sor row, & the most bitter Contrition could erase—& bury in Oblivion the whole I believe it would have been done long since. You see I am punctual to your request. It gives me pleasure that I can return you satisfactory Answers—without sacrificing truth at the shrine of Adulation. March 10th. Your agreable favor of 12 fol. Pages has come to hand part is answered in my last Package. My next 10 shall shew my attention to the remainder. I feel much for the domestic Happiness you so lusciously describe & enjoy—my hermitage affords nothing to return you on that head. I most heartily wish it did. This day we had another vote on the score of half pay—and Com mutation—it was again negatived 12 States & 36 Members present. 11 We have a Long Letter this day from the Supr. of F. containing a Plan more in detail. 12 I wish the N England Convention, would be speedy in their movements, as the sense of the People there is now so gener ally known—some plan may be devised eligible and which when once well done would tend to supercede counter movements in Congress. I always was of Opinion something was necessary in Aid of “dry TAXA TION.” From a conviction by experience that the resources of which the States are really possessed could not be draw out in that way fast enough to keep pace with the public exigencies, & preserve its Credit but—why cannot Congress as well trust the States to Collect the Rev enues—they may adopt—(when they have a right to coerce the pay ment of Constitutional requisitions) as the States trust Congress with Powers, which become formidable in Proportion as they are Concen trated? is a riddle to me. I dare say no State has it in intention to rid itself of the Public debt without payment—therefore being left to Collect its own proportion it would be more likely to increase its exertions than otherwise.
