March 8, 1783 779 I hope to hear from you at Hartford soon—and shall enclose your minutes Left for the report, you allude to, 13 in hopes it may refresh your Memory. Mr Ellsworth after having the Papers several days set out home 8c they were handed me by general Woolcot. He tho’t best—to postpone any report, until Congress had gone thro’ the Plans then entering on but which yet are incomplete. I have presented your Compliments to the Gentn named who thank you & return theirs—also to several others unnamed to whom I tho’t it would be agreable—& not improper. Mrs. And Mr Marshall, Nancy & Polly Join me in Compliments to Mrs. Howell 8c yourself & in good wishes for the Olive Branches round about your Table. Please to make my respectful Compliments to all friends who enquire after me—and believe me sincerely, your friend 8c hum Servt, Jona Arnold RC (InU-Li: Lafayette Collection). 1 Perhaps the letter to Howell from which the following extract was printed in the April 12 issue of the Providence Gazette under the heading “Extract of a letter from Philadelphia, dated March 4, 1783.” “Upon examining the Pennsylvania Packets, for the last of February and beginning March, I find the proceedings had against you are not printed with the other proceedings of Congress; they never were, to my knowledge, ordered to be suppressed. I never observed the omission till this moment.” Immediately below this extract the following passage from another letter was also printed with the heading “Extract of another letter from Philadelphia, dated March 3,” which was apparently from Arnold to Howell as well. “For the suppression of that part of the proceedings which was on the public journals, so that it should not be printed in course in the papers, for public inspection, and which it was the anxious wish of many to see, and the carrying of the close of the affair to the secret journals, are evidences of a .’’ For the “suppression" of the congressional proceedings related to Howell’s contro versy with Congress, see alsojames Madison’s Notes of Debates, January 3, 1783, note 3. 2 That is, members of Congress from this state. 3 Not identified. 4 That is, Robert and Gouverneur Morris. 5 Not identified; but the Pennsylvania Packet of March 8 printed a February 6 letter from Rhode Island supporting the collection of Continental revenues and the use of congressional coercive power. 6 The Pennsylvania Packet of Tuesday, March 11 printed a February 1 letter from Rhode Island opposing the Continental impost and congressional coercion. 7 That is, the Providence Gazette. 8 Perhaps Lewis Pintard, who had been appointed by Robert Morris commissioner of accounts for New Jersey, and whose resignation is discussed in Elias Boudinot’s letters to Pintard of February 12, 18, and 25. 9 For Arnold’s motion to instruct the secretary for foreign affairs to send to Rhode Island “sundry extracts of public letters from Europe," which was adopted January 14, see JCC, 24:32-36, 45-46. See also Howell’s letters to John Carter of January 6; and Arnold to William Greene, January 8, 1783. 10 Not found. 11 According to Secretary Thomson’s journal, there were 35 members present for this vote. See JCC, 24:179. 12 Robert Morris’ March 8 letter, which has been described as “the response of the Superintendent of Finance to the funding plan that had been evolving in Congress since January,” has been analyzed at length in Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:513-38. 13 Not identified.
