784 March 11, 1783 The peremptory style & publication of Mr. M’s letters 2 have (given offence to many without} 3 & {to some within Congress. His enemys of both} descriptions are (industrious in displaying their im}propriety. I wish (they had less handle for} the {purpose}. The plan before Congress for the arrangemt. of our affairs is to ask from the States a power to levy for a term not exceeding 25 years the 5 perCt. impost, with an additional impost on salt, wine, spirituous liquors, sugars & teas; to recommend to them to establish & appropri ate permanent revenues for a like term for the deficiency; the pro ceeds to be carried to their credit; the whole to be collected by per sons amenable to Congs, but appd. by the States; to complete the territorial cessions; to enable Congs, to make abatements in favor of suffering States; Congs, on their part declaring that all reasonable mil itary expences separately incurred by the States without their sanction either by sea or land shall be part of the common mass; and propos ing to the States a substitution of numbers in place of a valuation of land; Slaves to be equal to 1 free man. 4 The fate of this plan in Congs, is uncertain, & still more so among the States. It makes a decent provision for the public debts & seems to comprehend the most dangerous sources of future contests among ourselves. If the substance of it is rejected, and nothing better introduced in its place, I shall consider it as a melancholy proof that narrow & local views pre vail over that liberal policy & those mutual concessions which our future tranquility and present reputation call for. Mr. J son 5 is still here, agitaded as you may suppose with the sus pense in which he is kept. He is as anxious as myself for your going into the Legislature. Let me know your final determination on this point. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:326-27. 1 See ibid., p. 302. 2 That is, Robert Morris’s, for which see John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare, March 4, 1783, note 2. 3 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in a cipher supplied by Randolph. 4 See Madison’s Notes, March 6-7, 1783. 5 That is, Thomas Jefferson. Maryland Delegates to William Paca Sr, Pha. March 11 th. 1783 It is not in our power to give you any intelligence. There are no less than 3 packets due at New York, Rivington says, for Novr., Deer. & Jany & we may add allmost another for Feby.
