4 August 16, 1776 should establish a single Assembly as a Legislature, I confess it would grieve me to the very soul, and however others may be, I shall certainly never be happy under such a Government. However, the Right of the People to establish such a Government, as they please, will ever be defended by me, whether they choose wisely or foolishly. Mr. Wrixon has found hard Luck in America as well as in Europe. I have never seen nor heard of any Reason to doubt the Sincerity of his Professions of regard to our Country. But he is about return ing. I am sorry that he has just Cause to return. The Baron is dead —has not left a very good Character. 4 There is one Particular, my Friend, in which our Province uses her Delegates here very unkindly, and by the same Means injures herself, and all the united States. I mean in not sending Us your Journals. To this Moment I dont know one step that has been taken to raise the Troops for N. York and Ticonderoga, nor the Name of one officer, nor when they marched. The Interest and Reputation of our Province suffers beyond Measure by such a confused way of doing Business. We ought to be minutely informed to the Charac ters and Connections of all the officers you send into the service as well as of their Names. You ought to Rank and Number the Mass. Regiments and publish a List of all the officers Names. Mr Ellery is very well. He says he dont intend to write you again till you answer his Letter. 5 I made him very happy, by letting him know that Mrs Dana and her little son were in a good way. LB (MHi). 1 Dana’s July 28 letter is in the Adams Papers, MHi. ’See John Adams to John Avery, July 25, 1776. ’See John Adams to John Penn, March 19-27, 1776, note 1. ‘Baron de Woedtke. See John Hancock to Baron de Woedtke, March 19, 1776. 0 Not found. Dana was married to Ellery’s daughter Elizabeth. John Hancock to George Washington Sir In Congress Philada 16 Augst. 1776 I have only time to acknowlege the Rec[eip]t of your Letter of 15th, and to Transmitt the Resolves pass’d since my last, which you will find Inclos’d. 1 That the allwise Disposer of Events may Crown your Arms with Success is the hearty wish of, Sir, Your very hum sert, John Hancock Prest. RC (DLC). ’Washington’s letter is in PCC, item 152, 2:413, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:438. The enclosed resolves, which were passed by Congress on
