6 August 16, 1776 ’ The convention’s August 7 letter to the New York delegates, which was ap parently presented to Congress on August 12, is in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1482-83. ’See JCC, 5:657. Marine Committee to William Hallock and John Paul Jones Sir Philada. Augt. 16th. 1776 You will find inclosed herein a paper sent us by the Captn. of a French Sloop that is now daily expected from Martinico with Arms and Ammunition Which we are very Anxious should be got safe in. 1 Therefore we desire you to keep a good look out for her and if you fall in with her, make such Signals as will make you known for a Friend. She mounts twelve Guns with Sixty Men. You’l please to deliver this letter and it’s inclosure to Capt. Hallock who must hire a pilot Boat and man her with an officer & four or five men to Cruize about the Capes for this sloop Observing to make the Signal desired and give them the needful information to get safe in here. When the Wasp goes down she will Convey further Orders re specting this matter Unless the sloop arrives safe in the meantime. We are Sir, Your Obedt Servants, John Hancock Robt Morris Frs. Lewis Frans. Hopkinson Joseph Hewes Tr (DNA: PCC, item 58). Addressed: “To Jno Paul Jones Esqr. of sloop Provi dence. Wm Hallock Esqr. of sloop Hornet.’’ ’This "paper” consisted of a drawing of a flag accompanied by these notes: "Flagg of the Queen of Hungary. Six Black Carrs [bars] & Six Yellow Carrs [bars]. “The Capt of the Pilot Boat will put his Flagg in the Foremost head of a Pilot Boat. “Carefully Recommended to the Care of Mr. Paul Siemen.” See PCC, item 58, fol. 169. Force misleadingly printed this enclosure as a postscript to the present letter. Am Archives, 5th ser. 1:977-78. Robert Morris to John Bradford Sir, Philada. August 16th 1776 I have reed your favour of the 8th Inst. 1 and still find you will be disapointed about Money, therefore to prevent all further delay I will Cause ten thousand Dollars to be put up & sent with a Sum of money now going from the Treasury to Mr. Ebenezer Hancock
