August 16, 1776 7 paymaster of the Troops at Boston. This money will be directed to you & Mr Hancock will deliver it. The remainder whatever it may be, you may either draw for or I will send it by some future Con veyance. I hope Mr. Merkle will arrive safe & sail immediately in the Dispatch, Capt Cleveland. I beg the favour of you to deliver the enclosed letter to Capt Cleveland; it is of some Consequence to me & Contains a few bills of Exchange. Give the Captain a Memorandum with the letter desiring him to put it in the Post office at the first Port he arrives at in France or if he goes to Havre to deliver it himself, but shoud he be taken desire him to break it open, take out the bills & destroy the letter, and then to Convey the bills to Mr. Andw Limozin, Mercht at Havre de Grace, the first opportunity he has. Pray excuse me for giving you this trouble & command freely on all occasions. Sir, Your Obed hble servt, Robt Morris P.S. I beg my Compts & best Wishes to Mr Merkle. 2 RC (Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, New York, New York, 1975). 1 Bradford’s August 8 letter to Morris is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:114-15. 3 For the continuation of this letter, see the first letter of Morris to Bradford, August 27, 1776. John Morton to Anthony Wayne Dear Sir, 1 Philada. Aug 16th 1776 I reced your favor of third of July but Want of Opportunity to write and my Engagements to make out the Commissions for our Militia who are all on their march to New Jersey to Oppose Lord How, who is Encampt on Staten Island with About 27000 men In cluding devil Dunmore, Clinton and the Hessians, and my atten dance in congress has taken almost all my time. I hope I Shall stand Excused. Our Politicks here have taken a Turn that I have Expected some time. The people whom you know have all along held back, joyned to some Others who were the Proprieatary friends Chosen by Virtue of A late Law for Enlarging the representation in the City of Philadelphia and the back Counties, became at last too heavy to drag along and A Convention have taken place Consisting of 8 members out of each County and 8 in the City who are to form A New government. They have made but little progress yet having only formed a Bill of rights and tis said they are to have but one branch to Ligislate, to wit an Assembly only, which I am afraid will not do if the Assembly went too slow as I Beleive they did. These Gentlemen will I doubt not make up the Leeway as they make ordinances and do Some things which people did not Expect
