August 17, 1776 13 by Some Means or other, of the Privateers fitted out in your State— their Size, Tonnage, Guns, Men, officers, Names and Characters. But in all these Respects I declare myself as ignorant, as the Duke de Choiseul, and I Suspect much more so. Our People have a curious Way of telling a Story. “The Con tinental Cruizers Hancock and Franklin, took a noble Prize.” Ay! but who knows any Thing, about the Said Cruisers. How large are they? How many Guns? 6, 9, 12, 18 or 24 Pounders? How many Men? Who was the Commander! These Questions are asked me so often, that I am ashamed to repeat my Answer. I dont know. I cant tell. I have not heard. Our Province have never informed me. The Reputation of the Province, the Character of your officers, and the real Interests of both, Suffer inexpressibly, by this Inaccuracy and Negligence. Look into Coll Campbells Letter. With what Pre cision he States every particular of his own Force, of the Force of his Adversary and how exact is his Narration of Facts and Circum stances, Step by Step? When shall We acquire equal Wisdom. We must take more Pains to get Men of thorough Education, and Ac complishments into every Department, civil, military and naval. I am as usual. [P.S.] My Horse, upon which I depended is ruined. How and where to get another to carry me home I know not. I wrote to my Partner to Speak to some Members of the G. Court, to see if they could furnish me with a Couple of good Saddle Horses. If not She will be put to some Trouble I fear. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Warren’s August 11 letter is in Warren-Adams Letters, 1:267-68. 0 For Warren’s response on the indifferent reaction in the Massachusetts Gen eral Court to Adams’ proposal for additional delegates to Congress, see Warren to Adams, September 19, 1776, ibid., p. 273. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia August 17th. 1776. 5 O’Clock P.M. Your Favour of the 16th Inst, per Post this Minute came to Hand, 8c shall be laid before Congress on Monday. I do myself the Pleasure to enclose sundry Resolves for your Infor mation, and likewise to forward the Commissions ordered by a Resolve of Congress of the 10th Inst., a Copy of which I transmitted in my Letter of that Date. 1 With the most ardent and sincere Wishes for your Health 8c Pros perity, I have the Honour to be, with perfect Esteem, Sir, your most hble Sert. John Hancock Prest.
