14 August 17, 1776 [P.S.] This morng. I Rec’d the Box by Coll Reed, & am Directed by Congress to Take care of it, which is done. 2 RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Han cock. 1 Washington’s letter to Hancock of August 16 is in PCC, item 152, 2:417, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:439-40. The “sundry Resolves” Hancock sent to Washington were passed by Congress this day and dealt with the conduct of Gen. David Wooster, the appointment of an assistant quartermaster general to reside in Philadelphia, prisoner exchanges, the raising of two more Maryland battalions, and supplies for the flying camp in New Jersey. ]CC, 5:664-66. Han cock also wrote the following note to Commissary General Joseph Trumbull this date: “I have this Minute received your Favour by Post, and can just acquaint you, that the Bills you have Drawn shall be paid. No more Time. God Bless you.” Joseph Trumbull Papers, Ct. For Trumbull’s “Favour,” see Trumbull to Han cock, August 15, 1776, in PCC, item 78, 22:105, and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:966-67. 2 In anticipation of an attack by Howe, Washington had taken “all the papers in my hands respecting the Affairs of the States,” put them "in a large Box nailed up,” and sent the box to Congress in care of “Lieutenant Colonel Reed, Brother of the Adjutant General.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:426-27. William Hooper to Robert R. Livingston Philadelphia August 17. 1776. Will you excuse me, Dear Sir, if I trespass so far upon your time, at present devoted to the important purpose of struggling yourself and inducing others to struggle for the dearest rights & privileges of mankind, as to awaken your remembrance of an old friend. I know I am in your debt; circumstances which I could not avoid have con tributed to make it of long continuance. I am now in your Neigh bourhood; Opportunities frequently offer & I intend to repay you with ample interest. Since I had the pleasure of seeing you I have experienced all the vicissitudes which change of Climate could afford & been in as per ilous situations as ever St Paul was and am thank God safe and sound without the aid of a Miracle. That hopeful youth Governour Martin made a Bonfire of a countryhouse of mine, fortunately my family were absent from it, and as the buildings were not com- pleated I suffered little more than the mortification of having given Martin an opportunity to triumph at my expense. The accidental Circumstance of my being upon a party from home with my family for a day, prevented my being kidnapped by a Boat from the Cruizer Man of War which was sent within 100 yards of a house I have on the sea side; for that pious purpose. But why do I teize you with what can be of no consequence to any one but myself. In truth I hear so much of the figure in Rhetorick called the Egomet that I have taken the infection; and you’ll easily conjecture the respectable
