August 18, 1776 19 terally with his Instructions, were by no Means satisfactory. My two Colleagues 3 differed in opinion from me, upon those Questions con cerning the Adfmiral], 6 Colonies ay, 3 No, 3 divided. I am afraid this will hurt the Fleet, but Time must determine. We have ordered the old Hero to his Command. 4 Before the Receipt of your Letter, what you advise concerning Meigs and Dearborne was done. 5 The Board of War recommended it and it was done, but not without opposition from 5 or 6 Colonies, who thought that there ought to be no Distinctions made, but a gen eral Exchange of the Prisoners of Arnolds Party, or none. Let me intreat you, Sir upon your Return to Watertown, to pro mote an Inquiry concerning the Massachusetts Forces. Let a List be collected and published of all the Regiments raised in that State. The Names of all the officers. Let the Regiments be numbered and the officers ranked. Let us know for what Periods they were inlisted. Let me suggest one Thing more. I am in doubt, whether our Province have had returned to them all the Powder, they furnished the Continent from the Town Stocks, as well as the Provincial Maga zines. Pray inquire and if they have not, let it be demanded. There is by a Return from G. Ward 3 or 400 Barrells of Powder there be longing to the Continent, and if this opportunity is not embraced, another so fair may not present itself. I wish to know the armed Vessells in the Service of the Province, their Number, Size, Guns, Weight of Metal, Number of Men &c. As soon as the G. Court shall assemble I hope you will promote an Election of Some fresh Delegates, at least of one, to take my Place. Mr Hawley, I hope will be perswaded to come. It will be a fine season to have the Small Pox here, and Rush will insure him through, almost without a sigh or Groan. Warren is the next, Dana the third and Lowell the fourth. If the Province should approve the Plan of choosing Nine, these four will make up the Number. But if there are objections to these there are enough others. Some of us here, are tremblingly alive, at the Prospect of a Battle, but whether it will be fought this year, or not, I cant Say. The two gratefull Brothers may loose Reputation with their fellow Tyrants, if they dont attack but I hope they will loose more, if they do. My most respectfull Compliments to your good Lady. I am, your Friend and servant, John Adams RC (NN). LB (MHi). 1 Samuel Adams’ August 13 and 16 letters are in Adams, Writings (Cushing), 3:309-11. “David Wooster and Esek Hopkins. JCC, 661-62, 664-65. For Adams’ auto biographical account of the struggle in Congress over the behavior of these men, see Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:405-9. “John Hancock and Robert Treat Paine. See Adams to Abigail Adams, this date, note 2. * As this action concerning Hopkins was officially taken on August 19, Adams
