August 18, 1776 21 1 Congress had last considered the articles of confederation on August 8 and took them up again on August 20. JCC, 5:639-40, 674. 2 See JCC, 5:661-62, 664-65. 3 Undoubtedly Gates’ August 5 letter to Hancock, which is printed under the date August 6 in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:795-97. See also John Adams to Horatio Gates, August 13, 1776, note 4. ‘JCC, 5:667. “ In his September 2 response to this letter, Whipple made the following report on his activities during his recent journey home. “I called on Govr Trumble, on my way thro’ Connecticut, who informed me of the state of affairs at the Lakes, which as you observe have a much better appearance then they had some time ago. At Providence I endeavored to get Guns for the Frigate but found that the owners of the Furniss were determined to take every ad vantage of the times. They talked of £90 Lawful Money per Ton but would not contract at that unless half the Money was paid at the Signing of the Contract. I think it better to comply with their extravegant Terms then to let the ship lay here, while one of the Enemys ships (the Milford) is taking everything on our coast. I therefore have advised Mr. Langdon to get the guns on the best terms he can, he talks of seting off for Providence to morrow. If he gets the guns the ship will soon be ready for sea. I have sometimes laugh’d at Mr. Langdons Panegyric on this Ship, but I am now convinced he has said no more in her praise then she deserves. She is really the Best ship by far, of the Nine which I have seen, & is as well Officer’d as any ship in the Service. I hope justice will be done these Gentlen in Ranking them, they really deserve to be high on the list. Were they known to the Committee I am sure they would be. I found on my arrival that our assembly had Emitted £23,000, in addition to the 60,000 Emitted before I went to Philadelphia. I could not help Expressing my surprise to the Committee at their taking this step without asking a supply from the Continental Treasury. I think it very wrong to issue such Quantities of paper Money.” Fogg Collection, MeHi. John Morton to Persifor Frazer Dear Sir Philada. the 18th Augt. 1776 Your favor of the 31th Ultimo is received. 1 I thank you for your Inteligence, it may be useful to me and in some way so to the publick but am sorry to hear of the Extream distress of my dear Country men. There is nobody Abhors Peculation more than I do, how can people attend to such things in this time of distress, surely good cannot Come of such doings. Pennsylvania Never see such days as now on Account of Arrival of so large an Armament at N York. The Enemy now Consisting of 27000 or as some Accounts say 30,000 men all Encampt on Staten Island. Our Militia are march’d to A man Out of Chester County (Except some few that ran of[f] and hid Themselves) and so they have from all the Counties to the Amount in the whole of Upwards of 15000. The Spirit of the Association on this as well as on Other Occasions does them much honor and I have good reason to hope at this time they will be the salvation of North America. 4000 more will soon arrive from Maryland and the Delaware Counties and two Battalions of Regulars also on their
