22 August 18, 1776 march from Virginia for New York and General Lee is also on his way there by order of Congress. I hope If we can stand it this Cam pain the spirit of our Enemies will be broke and our Business will then be Easie. We have Arrivals of Powder, and Military stores fre quently make a great deal and are in no want of that Article nor of Lead. Our Malitia are Stationed at Amboy, Woodbridge and Elizabeth Town point, are in health though Some of them that went from this City about A Month Ago are I am told somewhat uneasie to return. Our army at New York at present Not so Nu merous as I Could wish but Increases every day. General Washington Expects an Attack every hour, is well provided with every thing, and I am sure our Troops will sell their lives dear or Conquer. They have my prayers and yours I am sure for their success. Your friends and Relations I have reason to beleive are well. It is a Very healthy time here as I have known or Else there is no body to be sick the strep being mostly gone. I had almost forgot to mention the Arrival of Devil Dunmore and Clinton who are both at N York and all their troops. With my best Respects to you and prayers for your health I am sir with real Esteem your most Obedt, humble sevt, John Morton P.S. write freely to me—no fear of Injury to you. Subscribe P.F. Sketchleys Compliment to you, he marches this day to Jersey from this place. Augt 21th. News has just now arrived from Martinique that the Governor will receive our Vessels to trade freely, Protect that trade and receive and Suffur us to sell our Prizes there; that the French are preparing for war, which will soon take place agt the English; this may be depended on. RC (MH-H). 1 Frazer’s letter is filed with Morton’s at MH-H. Frazer, a captain in Col. Anthony Wayne’s Fourth Pennsylvania Battalion, was at Ticonderoga. John Adams to Samuel H. Parsons Dear Sir. Philadelphia August 19. 1776 Your Favours of the 13th and 15th are before me. 1 The Gentle men you recommend for Majors, Chapman and Dier, will be recom mended by the Board of War, and I hope agreed to in Congress. 2 I thank you for your observations upon certain Field officers. Patterson, Shepherd and Brooks make the best Figure, I think upon Paper. It is my Misfortune that I have not the least Acquaintance with any of those Gentlemen having never seen any one of them,
