August 19, 1776 23 or heard his Name till lately. This is a little remarkable. Few Per sons in the Province ever travelled over the whole of it, more than I have, or had better oppertunities to know every conspicuous Character. But I dont so much as know from what Parts of the Province Shepherd and Brooks come, of what Families they are, their Educations, or Employments. Should be very glad to be in formed. Lt Coll Henshaw has been recommended to me by Coll Reed for Promotion as a usefull officer. But upon the whole, I think the List you have given me dont shine. I am very much ashamed of it. I am so vexed sometimes as almost to resolve to make Interest to be a Coll myself. I have almost Vanity enough to think that I could make a Figure in such a Group. But a treacherous, shattered Constitution is an eternal objection against my aspiring at military Command. If it was not for this insupperable Difficulty I should certainly imi tate old Nol Cromwell in one Particular, that is in launching into military Life after forty, as much as I dislike his Character and Example in others. But enough of this. I wish I could find Materials any where in sufficient Quantities to make good officers. A brave and able Man, wherever he is, shall never want my Vote, for his advancement: nor shall an ignorant, awkward Dastard, ever want it for his Dismission. Congress must assume an higher Tone of Discipline over officers, as well as those over the Men. With Regard to Encouragement in Money and in Land, for Soldiers to inlist during the War, I have ever been in favour of it, as the best oeconomy and the best Policy and I have no doubt that Rewards in Land will be given, after the War is over. But the Majority are not of my Mind for promising of it now. I am the less anxious about it, for a Reason which does not seem to have much Weight however with the Majority. Altho it may cost us more, and we may put now and then a Battle to a Hazard, by the Method we are in, yet We shall be less in danger of Corruption and Violence from a standing Army, and our Militia will acquire Cour age, Experience, Discipline and Hardiness in actual service. I wish every Man upon the Continent was a Soldier, and obliged upon occasion to fight, and determined to conquer or to die. Flight was unknown to the Romans. I wish it was to Americans. There was a Flight from Quebec, and worse than a Flight at the Cedars. If We dont attone for these disgraces We are undone. A more exalted Love of their Country, a more enthusiastic arder for military Glory, and deeper Detestation, Disdain and Horror of martial Disgrace must be excited among our People, or We shall perish in Infancy. I will certainly give my Voice for devoting to the Infernal Gods, every Man high or low, who shall be convicted of Bashfullness in the day of Battle.
