August 19, 1776 25 part of it, at least, is true, I hope all. By sundry letters, it appears that both the French and Dutch are very fond of our trade, and have sent and are sending to the West-Indies large quantities of arms, and every other article that we are like to want. The insolence of the commanders of the British men-of-war in the West-Indies, is become intolerable. It seems that one of them some time since went into the harbour at ’Statia, and after waiting some days, attempted to take possession of some American vessels there, but was prevented by the Dutch. She then left the harbour, and the next day seized a ship bound from ’Statia to Amsterdam, and carried her into one of the English Islands, and there he detains her. This has so exasperated the Dutch, that the Governour of ’Statia has (it is said) ordered the Captains of the ports to fire on any English man-of-war that comes within reach of their guns. This looks like kicking up a dust. I am, your most obedient, humble servant, Josiah Bartlett P.S. August 20th. Yesterday a vessel arrived at Egg-Harbour, that was sent to the West-Indies on the account of the Congress. It is said she has brought six hundred stand of arms and ten tons of powder. The particulars of the fire-ships attempting the men-of-war, and burning a tender, and of the men-of-war getting down by New- York, you will hear before this reaches you. Ut sup. J. B. MS not found; reprinted from Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1060. 1 An extract of Langdon’s August 5 letter to Bartlett is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:56. Edward Rutledge to Robert R. Livingston My dear Robert [August 19? 1776] 1 Your Favour of the 6th Instant came to Hand on Thursday; your last I received Yesterday after the Post had left Town. It will give me real Pleasure I assure you to do Justice to Mr. Cortland & promote your Brother to the Rank which his Services and Situa tion in my opinion demand. But as we must pursue opposite Rules in advancing those Gentlemen, the one rising according to Seniority, the other Regimentally, and as the Congress will I believe act with great Caution in their next Arrangement of your Forces I submit to you whether it would not be best to get a Recommendation from your Convention on this Subject. I think there should be no diffi culty in giving Lt. Colo. Cortland, McDougall’s Regiment, & your Brother, Clynton’s, because I know it is the Opinion of Genl. Wash ington & the Board of War to whom that Opinion was given, that
