26 August 19, 1776 Promotions should in common be Regimentally, but that that Rule should give way in extraordinary Cases. This Principle will then exactly apply supposing that your Brother had no peculiar Merits, but with Me he has, and if the House shall think as I would wish them, he will have Merit with them likewise. But as I have already mentioned, lest they should run retrograde, a little Jog from your Convention would not be amiss. The Promotion of General officers gave us a good deal of trouble. Woorster had more Advocates for his Advancement than his Abilities entitled him to. His Friends threaten’d us with his Resignation if he was passed by. This was conclusive with some of us, but he has not as yet justified our Ex pectations, and we begin to fear that his Attachment to 120 Dollars a Month will prevent the good work. We found some difficulty in getting Clynton made a General. Phil. Livingston proposed him & I advocated his Promotion. It was confessed on all Hands that he had done more & suffered more than McDougal, but a Mr. Varnum of Rhode Island &: Maxwell of Jersey were opposed to him. Our Exertions however prevailed. 2 I shall be doubly fortunate if by my Endeavours two valuable officers can be rewarded. You who have served so long in Congress will confess it is not often that we do much good in one day. Most of the last Week was taken up in trying old Hopkins, for a Breach of Orders. The Fact was clearly proved, his Excuses were trifling to the Last Degree, to say the least of them, the Congress in opposition to the Eastern Colonies found him guilty, and have censured him for his Conduct. Some of us pressed his Removal, from the Command, but a tenderness or rather weakness for his Brother, 3 and an opinion that he would resign in Consequence of the Thunder of the House, obstructed the passing of the Motion. I wish he would resign, for I am satisfied that he is totally unfit for the Department, & that we shall be dis graced so long as he shall continue at the Head of our naval Affairs. We are doing every thing in our Power to reform the Pay of the Army &: put the Forces under better Regulations than they have yet been. The Committee of Spies (of which you, Jefferson, Adams & I were Members) who were desired to revise the Articles of War & bring in such Amendments as they thought proper, have reported to the House the British Articles as far as local Circumstances will admit, and the Congress is in a fair way of adopting them. If we can carry them thro’ compleatly it will have a most happy Effect. 4 I know not how we shall so soon purge the Army of the Men you mention, as by prevailing upon them to resent their own Quarrels. To shew you how exactly we concurr’d in Sentiment upon this Subject, I must tell you that when the Congress were employing a little Leisure Time some days ago in considering the new Articles, & before I received your Letter, I proposed to strike out that Article which prevents the sending of Challenges, and pressed it as a
