August 20, 1776 27 Measure that would tend to make their officers Gentlemen, or at least induce them to act as such, whilst in Company with Gentle men. Stone seconded & supported the Motion, but we could not carry the Point. I believe we must leave it to time. We have done nothing with the Confederation for some Days, and it is of little Consequence if we never see it again, for we have made such a devil of it already that the Colonies can never agree to it. If my opinion was likely to be taken I would propose that the States should ap point a special Congress to be composed of new Members for this purpose—and that no Person should disclose any part of the present plan. If that was done we might then stand some Chance of a Confederation, at present we stand none at all. We have not as yet touched the Treaty—and Independence has been declared upwards of Six Weeks! We have heard of Deane’s arrival in France but no Letters from him. I am much pleased with the Spirit of your Con vention. God grant they may receive the Blessings of Liberty, & by a wise Government fix those Blessings upon a strong and lasting Foundation. Exert my good Friend all your Abilities in the ac complishing of this delicate Business, so that you will be beloved by Posterity as truly as you are by your most affectionate, Edward Rutledge P.S. Remember me affectionately to Jay. We have sent to the South ward for General Lee, lest any Accident should befall Washington (which God prevent) & our Army be without a proper Head. You did not inclose me Mr Cortland’s Letter as you thought. RC (PPRF). Endorsed by Livingston: “Edward Rutledge Esqr. Reed. Augt 1776.” 1 This letter was written after Congress censured Esek Hopkins on August 16 but before debate on the Articles of Confederation was resumed on August 20. It has been assigned the date August 19 because of Rutledge’s references to impending action on the revised articles of war, which were debated for a time this day. 2 For Congress’ recent action in regard to the appointment of general officers, see JCC, 5:641. 8 Stephen Hopkins of Rhode Island. ‘On June 14 Congress had directed the committee on spies "to revise the rules and articles of war.” This committee brought in a revised set of articles on August 7, which was considered by Congress on August 13 and 19 and Sep tember 19 and finally approved on September 20. JCC, 5:442, 636, 652, 787-807, 6:1125-26. For John Adams’ autobiographical account of the revision of the articles, explaining why they were essentially "the British Articles of War, totidem Verbis,” see Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:409-10. John Adams to Joseph Ward Sir Philadelphia August 20. 1776 Your Favours of 28th July and 8 August are before me. 1 I have a Favour to ask of you, that is to Send me an exact Account of the
