August 20, 1776 31 were few were landed at Staten Island, & his Black Regiment were Sent to the West Indies for Sale. The Indians have Committed Some depradations at the southward on the backs of the Carolinas, & Troops are Sent against them which I hope will bring them to good terms, but in the middle & northern department the latest advices are more favourable. The Indians Seem disposd to observe a neutrality which I cannot but hope will take place among them if our unnatural Brethren Should not get any advantage against us which God prevent. 2 We have Just recivd advice that the Ships which went up the north river returnd last Sunday with the advantage of the wind & tide 8c run by the batteries. Believe they were weary of their Situation. Am Sir with Esteem your Humble Servant, Samll Huntington RC (CtHi). 1 Jabez drafted his August 15 letter to Samuel on the verso of Samuel’s July 31 letter to him. He reported that 14 regiments of Connecticut militia had been ordered to New York, "many of which are on their March & the others Like to Come on Soon,” that Robert Niles, captain of the Connecticut schooner Spy, “is Lately Sailed on a Cruse,” and that Capt. Seth Harding “in a verry fine Bermuda Brig Late Purchassed by Govt, will Sail in a few days.” Samuel Hunt ington Papers, CtHi. For additional information on Harding’s orders, see Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:16-17, 154-55. “For the August 19 report of the committee on Indian affairs, see JCC, 5:668-70. Thomas Jefferson to John Page Dear Page Philadelphia Aug. 20. 1776. We have been in hourly expectation of the great decision at New York but it has not yet happened. About three nights ago an at tempt was made to burn the two ships which had gone up the river. One of the two fire-rafts prepared for that purpose grappled the Phenix ten minutes but was cleared away at last. A tender how ever was burnt. 1 The two ships came down on Sunday evening and passed all our batteries again with impunity. Ld. Dunmore is at Staten Isld. His sick he sent to Halifax, his effective men he carried to Staten Isld. and the blacks he shipped off to the West Indies. Two gentlemen who had been taken prisoners by the enemy have made their escape. 2 They say they are now 20,000 and that another division of 5000 foreigners is still expected. They think Ld. Howe will not attack these 10 days, but that he does not wait for his last division, being confident of victory without. One of these informants was captain of a continental vessel going for ammunition. The
