32 August 20, 1776 mate and crew rose and took the vessel. They fell in with the di vision of the Hessians which came with the Hessian general and were brought to. The general learning from the dethroned captain what had happened, immediately threw the piratical mate into irons and had the captain to dine with him every day till they got to Halifax where he delivered him, vessel &c. over to the English. A gentleman who lived some time in this city, but since last winter has become a resident of St. Eustatia writes that by a Dutch ship from Amsterdam they have advice that the states of Holland had refused to renew the prohibition on the exportation of powder to the colonies, or to cede to the English the Scotch brigade in their service, or to furnish them with some men of war asked of them by the British court. This refusal so piqued the ministry that they had been induced to take several Dutch ships, amongst which he sais were two which sailed from that island and were carried to London, another to St. Kitt’s. In consequence of this the Dutch have armed 40 ships of war and ordered 60 more to be built and are raising 20,000 land forces. The French governor in chief of their W. Indies has not only refused to permit a captain of a man of war to make prize of our vessels in their ports but forbidden them to come within gun shot of the ports. The enemy’s men of war being withdrawn from our whole coast to N. York gives us now fine opportunities of getting in powder. We see the effect here already. Two Canadians who had been captains in our Canadian regi ment and who General Gates writes us are known in the army to be worthy of good credit made their escape from St. John’s, and came over to our army from Tyonderoga; and give the following intelligence. 3 The enemy did not fortify any place we abandoned. They had 2000 men at Isle aux noix under Genl. Fraser, 2000 at St. John’s under Carleton and some at Montreal. 250 only had been left at Quebec. It was reported that 4000 English troops which were to have been a part of that army had perished at sea which gave great uneasiness. The fleet brot over timber &c. for 50 boats which they attempted to transport by land from the mouth of Sorel to St. John’s, but could not for want of carriages which had been de stroyed. Carleton therefore employed Canadians to build batteaux at St. John’s. He has rendered himself very odious to the Canadians by leving contributions on them in general and confiscating the estates of all those who followed our army or who abscond. Great numbers of the Germans desert daily and are anxiously concealed by the inhabitants. 70 Brunswickers disappeared in one day. Their officers are so much afraid of bush-fighting and ambushes that they will not head any parties to pursue the runaways. The men have the same fears, which prevents them from deserting in so great num bers as is supposed they will when once our fleet shall appear cruis-
