38 August 20, 1776 1 Victor Th6rese Charpentier, comte d’Ennery, was governor of the French colony St. Domingue. “Archibald Bulloch, governor of Georgia, wrote a similar letter to d’Ennery on August 28, 1776, asking his support for trade with merchants from Georgia. Archives nationales, Marine B 7, 458, no. 17. ’Silas Deane. ‘William Bingham. Roger Sherman to Zebulon Butler Sir Philadelphia August 20th. 1776 I received by Mr Swift Your Letter of the 6th Instant with the representation made by the Authority, Selectmen & Committee of Inspection concerning their apprehentions of trouble from the In dians, upon which we applied to Congress to raise Some Companies upon the Continental Establishment. 1 The application was referred to the Delegates of Connecticut and Pennsylvania who reported for raising three Companies in the Town of Westmoland to be under the Command of a Major, which now lies before Congress not acted upon, as also a report for raising a Battallion in Pennsylvania for Defence of the Frontiers of that State. Since these applications were made we have had favourable accounts from the Indians that they refused to comply with the Solicitations of Butler & others to take up arms against the colonies and are determined to remain Neuter. I dont know what will be finally done about raising Troops to de fend the Frontiers, but if any are raised in Pennsylvania ’tis probable You will be allowed to raise three Companies. We shall pay proper attention to the affair and if anything is done about it Shall give You the earliest Notice. 2 I hope your people will have restitution of their effects taken at the Warriours run, after the State of Pennsylvania hath Settled a regular Government. I remain Your humble Servant, Roger RC (CtY). 1 The August 6 letter of Westmoreland officials to the Connecticut delegates is in Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:18-20. ’On August 23 Congress authorized Westmoreland to raise two companies at Continental expense and ordered six companies to be raised in Pennsylvania to protect the frontiers in Northampton and Northumberland counties. JCC, 5:698-99. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir Philadel. Augt 20 1776 I reed your favr of the 17 yesterday informg of the Attack by the Fire Ships. They have done something worth atchieving, if they have
