August 21, 1776 39 not paid too dear. Happy, if they had succeeded with the Phenix. We are just informd that they dont incline to sustain any more such encounters, & are pushd back by your Batteries & joind the fleet, have not the certainty of it yet. Convinced that it was the surest way I had sundry times pressed sev[era]l of the board of War, to recommend Cap Dyer for a Majr. They promised to consider it &c & yesterday brot in a report recco- mending him & Cap Chapman of Tylers, & after some Consideration, the votes were calld for & they are both appointd. 1 Conclude the Pres[iden]t has or will send their Comissions. Your Letter came just Time enough for me to strengthen the Recomendaftion] by inform ing the House that the objection of Rank was removed. I just knew of the Conveyance by Mr Colt, & had but a minutes Time. Pray let me know every thing material passing among you. I am your affect. Friend & Bror. W Williams RC (Ct). 1 See JCC, 5:667-68. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia August 21. 1776 Yesterday Morning I took a Walk, into Arch Street, to see Mr. Peele’s Painters Room. Peele is from Maryland, a tender, soft, affec tionate Creature. 1 He shewed me a large Picture containing a Group of Figures, which upon Inquiry I found were his Family. His Mother, and his Wifes Mother, himself and his Wife, his Brothers and sisters, and his Children, Sons and Daughters all young. There was a pleasant, a happy Chearfulness in their Countenances, and a Fa miliarity in their Airs towards each other. He shewed me one moving Picture. His Wife, all bathed in Tears, with a Child about six months old, laid out, upon her Lap. This Picture struck me prodigiously. He has a Variety of Portraits—very well done. But not so well as Copeleys Portraits. Copeley is the greatest Master, that ever was in America. His Portraits far exceed Wests. Peele has taken General Washington, Dr. Franklin, Mrs. Washing ton, Mrs. Rush, Mrs. Hopkinson. Mr. Blair McClenachan and his little Daughter in one Picture. His Lady and her little son, in another. Peele shewed me some Books upon the Art of Painting, among the rest one by Sir Joshua Reynolds, the President of the English Accademy of Painters, by whom the Pictures of General Conway and Coll. Barry [Barrd] in Fanuil Hall were taken. He shewed me too a great Number of Miniature Pictures, among
