46 August 22, 1776 our ports as they will be most likely to reach with safety. We deliver you herewith Some of the Marine Books, List of Continental Agents in every state, and Several of the printed declarations of Indepen dance. They may do well to notify the inhabitants of the French Islands of St Pierre & Miquelon of this declaration and sound how the inhabitents stand effected towards us, assuring them the French Government favour our Cause and will probably become our Allies by treaty. Perhaps our Ships may find shelter and protection on these Islands if the enemy have Ships in that quarter too Strong for us. Should this Fleet take any prizes whose Cargoes might be particu larly usefull to the inhabitants of these States, they may do well to convoy Such into port, and if they gain any intelligence that the Commanders think important they Must dispatch one of the small vessells with the account to us, putting into the first port and Send ing an express with it to the General or to us. You will instruct the commander of each vessel to write us by all opportunities of their proceedings and of the Occurrencies they meet with. They must make us Monthly returns of their Crews, of the Supplies made to them, of the provisions, and make Copies of their Log Books and Journals to be transmitted to us at their return. They must be carefull of their Ships, stores and materials, use their officers and Men in Such a Manner as will recommend the service and at the same time preserve strict discipline. They will no doubt from principles of humanity and generosity treat their prisoners with all the kindness and atten tion their respective Situations and circumstances will admit of and we hope their conduct will in all things be such as to Merit the continuance of our Confidence. You will direct the commanders of each Vessel to be very exact in keeping a List of all persons on board that are intitled to prize Money Mentioning their Names, stations, & Shares, Copys of which they must furnish the Agent or Agents that receive the prizes in order that just 8c equitable distribution of Prize Money may in due time be made. We also wish to have a full and just valuation of all the Cannon, Stores 8cc which you brought from Providence that have been ap propriated to public use or that remain for that purpose, and we desire you would have the vessels you took and the property in them Libelled and tryed, in order that Such part as is condemned may be sold, the accounts Settled and distribution of the Prize Money made. We are sir, Your very Humble servts, John Hancock Geo Walton Sami Huntington Fras Lewis Geo. Read Robt Morris Step Hopkins Joseph Hewes
