August 22, 1776 47 P.S. We deliver you herewith a Letter to Nathaniel Shaw junr. Esqr. of New London directing him to purchase the Armed Schooner You took in Your late Cruize. This Schooner Must be called the Hopkins and immediately fitted out as a Continental Cruizer and you are to add her to the Fleet destined against Newfoundland Fishery sending her away in Company with the Alfred &c. We deliver you herewith a blank Commission for the Captain and we choose the offer of it should be Made to Captain Chew of New Haven he being Strongly recommended by the Committee of that place, but if he refuses this appointment we hereby authorize you to put in a proper com mander and fill this Commission with his Name. We also deliver you Some blank warrants which you will fill up with proper persons for the Master and other inferior officers for that Schooner. Let it be an article of your instructions to all the Captains to be particularly carefull to Send all salt they may take to Some of these States as we expect it will be very Much Wanted. Should you think it adviseable to go upon the expidition to Newfoundland &c Your self You May do therein as you judge will be Most Serviceable to the Continent and hoist your Broad Pendant on board any of the Vessels you choose. 2 John Hancock, For the Come. RC (CSmH). In the hand of Timothy Matlack and signed by Hancock, Hewes, Hopkins, Huntington, Lewis, Morris, Read, and Walton. The postscript, which is also in Matlack’s hand but signed only by Hancock, remains in the Hopkins Papers, RHi. 1 This day the Marine Committee also wrote a letter to Capt. Hoysted Hacker, commander of the Hampden, instructing him to disregard his previous orders and place himself at the disposal of Commodore Hopkins. PCC, item 58, fol. 17; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1107. “This day Francis Lewis of the Marine Committee wrote to Capt. Thomas Grenell: “I some time ago advised you that Congress had appointed you to the command of the largest of the frigates, called the Congress, now at Poughkeepsie, and desired you would furnish me with a list of such persons as you recommend for your commission and warrant officers, but am yet without your answer, so conclude my letter miscarried. Pray let me hear from you as soon as possible.” Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 2:504. There is no record in the journals of when Grenell was first appointed commander of the Congress, nor has Lewis’ letter to him announcing this appointment been found. But see JCC, 6:861. It may be of some interest to note that this day Congress appointed John Hodge to command the Montgomery, a frigate in New York which had previously been commanded by Grenell. See JCC, 5:696-97. Marine Committee to Nathaniel Shaw, Jr. Sir Philadelphia Augt 22d 1776 Commodore Hopkins recommends the purchase of the armed Schooner his Fleet lately carried into New London as an adviseable measure for this committee to adopt and in hopes to promote the
