48 August 22, 1776 Public Service thereby, we now request you will purchase said Schooner on the best terms in your power and assist the commodore to fit, equipp and man her with all possible expedition as a Con tinental Cruizer. 1 He is ordered to offer the command to Captain Chew of New London and we hope he may accept it as he is so well recommended by your Committee. You will supply this Vessel with all necessary Provisions and Stores for a Six Months Cruize provid ing the whole on the best terms and in due Time rendering us an account thereof. If you have not money sufficient for this purpose your drafts on us will be duely honored by Sir, Your very hble servants. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The schooner Hawke had been sold before this letter reached Shaw, the Continental prize agent in Connecticut. Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:639, 757. Marine Committee to Nathaniel Shaw, Jr. Sir August 22nd 1776 The Secret Committee have directed Mr Barnabas Deane of Whethersfeild Connecticut to deliver you sundry Articles he has im ported On Continental Account which you are to receive for the use of the American Navy, granting Mr Deane a receipt for the whole in order to Answer the Accounts of said Secret Committee, but as Mr Deane is in want of some of those very articles as well as others for the Frigate built under his direction, 1 you are to supply any of these and assist him in procuring any other articles wanted for that Ship charging the same to his Account or to the Ships as you shall judge most proper. You are hereafter to render us an account of the expenditure of all Stores you receive or buy on Account of the Continent. The Salt you will keep for the purpose of putting up Pork the ensuing Season for the use of the Navy. We are sir, Your hble servants. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). ’The Continental frigate Trumbull, which was launched at Chatham, Conn., early in September 1776. Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:654. Robert Treat Paine to Henry Knox My dear Sr, Philada. Augt. 22d. 1776 I have been hoping for some time to hear what progress Mr. Byers makes, & more perticularly what Success in working his Air Furnace with wood, as upon the success of that experiment will de pend the place of erecting a new Furnace.
