52 August 23, 1776 Marine Committee to John Baldwin Sir August 23d 1776 The Continental Schooner Wasp under your command being now thoroughly repaired, well fitted, equipped and manned you are im mediately to proceed in said Schooner on a Cruize against the ene mies of these states. We deliver you herewith a marine Book by which you will know who are our enemies and also how to conduct yourself in conformity to the Continental Rules and Regulations. You have likewise a List of the Agents in the several states to some of whom you must address the Prizes you take. We deliver you herewith a Letter for a Gentleman in Bermuda which is of much consequence to America. 1 You are therefore to proceed with the utmost expedition to Port Ellis at the East end of that Island and deliver the said Letter as quickly as possible, receive from him any others he may Send in return, and as you will then be near the best Cruizing ground for West India Ships you may make a Cruize about that Lattitude for such length of Time as your Provisions will enable you to keep the sea, unless success should tempt you to return much sooner with a good Prize. You must be careful of the Schooner, her stores and Materials. Use your people well but preserve strict discipline, treat prisoners, if any you make, with humanity and in all things be duely attentive to the honor and interest of America. If you can get any Seamen at Bermuda Ship as many as you can accommodate and bring us the best Account you can obtain of the State and condition of that Island, with respect to Provisions, Numbers of Inhabitants, what Cannon, arms &c they have there and enquire particularly after any British men of war that have been there, that are there, or that are expected. Should you be unfortunately taken either going to or after you leave Bermuda be sure to destroy all Letters you may have for or from that Island. Should you gain any intelligence you may think impor tant you must quit all other pursuits to inform us thereof soon as possible. Wishing you success. We are sir, Your hble servants. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Ad dressed: "To Lieutenant John Baldwin commanding the Schooner Wasp.” 'This letter has not been found, but it may have been written to Henry Tucker, a Bermuda merchant who had helped persuade Congress to relax its restrictions on trade with Bermudians in 1775, and who was subsequently asked by the Marine Committee to supply the Continental fleet with salt. See Thomas Jefferson to St. George Tucker, June 10, 1775, note; and Marine Committee to Thomas Godet and Henry Tucker, October 10, 1776.
