August 24, 1776 53 John Adams to Daniel Hitchcock Sir Philadelphia August 24. 1776 Yours of the Twenty Second is before me. 1 You mention the Delicacy of appointing an officer of the Same State over another— and you put the Case of Coll Varnum and yourself. I have been a long Time puzzled to account for Varnums Standing on the List of Colonells before you, whom I know to be many Years older than that Gentn has been represented to me to be. I have heard this young Gentleman Spoken of in Raptures as a Genius, and from all I have heard I believe his Abilities and Accomplishments to be very good. But his Years are tender in Comparison of yours, and his Education is but equal at best, how happened it then that in Arranging of Collonells, you was placed after him, I am sure this has made a Puzzle in some Minds here which will continue. It may possibly prevent either of you from rising so soon, as one of you would have done, if this obstruction had not been in the way. The Massachusetts Bay, your Native Country, continues to act the most odd, surprising and unaccountable Part, respecting officers. They have a most wonderfull Faculty of finding out Persons for Generals and Colonells of whom no Body ever heard before. Let me beg of you, in Confidence to give me your candid and explicit opinion, of the Massachusetts General and Field officers, and point out such as have any Education, Erudition, Sentiment, Reflection, Address or other Qualification or accomplishment excepting Honour and Valour for officers in high Rank. Who and What is General Fellows? Who and What is General Brickett? Who is Coll Holman, Cary, Smith? There is a brave Veteran gone as a Coll to Ticonderoga, who should have my Vote for a General sooner than an hundred of them, I mean Aaron Willard. If there are any officers, young or old, among the Massachusetts Forces who have Genius, Spirit, Reflection, Science, Literature, and Breeding, do for the Lands sake, and the Armys sake, and the Province sake let me know their Names, Places of abodes and Characters. Your Plan for New modelling the Army may be a good one, for what I know. But I will give you more for a Plan for new modelling Massachusetts officers. I am &c. LB (MHi). ‘Hitchcock’s August 22 letter to Adams is in the Adams’ Papers, MHi.
