54 August 24, 1776 John Adams to William Tudor Dear Sir Philadelphia August 24. 1776 Your Favours of 18 and 19 of August are before me. 1 I am much obliged to you for them, and am determined to pursue this Corre spondence, untill I can obtain a perfect Knowledge of the Characters of our Field officers. If the Coll quits the Regiment Austin will certainly be promoted, unless Some Stain can be fixed upon his Character, Since he has been in the Army. His Genius is equal to any one of his Age. His Education is not inferiour. So far I can Say of my own knowledge. If his Morals, his Honour, and his Discretion are equal there is not a Superiour Character of his Age in the Army. If I could Speak with as much Confidence of these as of those, I should not hesitate one Moment to propose him for the Command of a Regiment. You mention a Major Lee in Glovers Regiment. I wish you had given me more of his Biography and Character. Captn. Jos. Lee the Son of Coll Jer. Lee, has so much Merit, that I think he ought to be promoted. I never heard of these two Gentlemen before. I mean of their being in the Army. Are they Men of Reflection? That is the Question. Honour, Spirit and Reflection are Sufficient to make very respectable officers, without extensive Genius, or deep Leisure, or great Literature. Yet all these are necessary to form the great Commander. You Say there are Several other young officers of Parts and Spirit in that Regiment, I wish you had mentioned their Names and Characters. You Say they will never “basely cringe.” I hope not: but I also hope, that they will distinguish between Adulation and Politeness: between Servility and Complaisance: between Idol atry and Obedience. A manly, firm attachment to the General, as far as his Character and Conduct are good, is a Characteristic of a good officer, and absolutely necessary to establish Discipline in an Army. I have a great Character of Lt Coll Shepherd and Major Brooks. I wish you would write me a History of their lives. I knew nothing of them. If Brooks is my old Friend Ned of Mistick, as Mr Hancock this Evening gave me some Reasons to suspect, and if he deserves the Character I have reed of him, as I doubt not he does, if he is not promoted before long it shall be because I have no Brains nor Resolution. I never untill this Evening Suspected that he was in the Army. Pray tell me what Regiment he is in. The Articles of War, are all passed but one—that remains to be considered. But I fear they will not be made to take Place, yet. 2 Gentlemen are afraid the Militia, now in Such Numbers in the Army, will be disgusted and terrified with them. The General must quicken this Business, or I am afraid it will be very slow. Every Body seems convinced of the Necessity of them, yet many are afraid
