64 August 26, 1776 P.S. Have Col Greely & Mr Proctor provided any Bords for me as I Desired them for finishing my house; as I hope to be at home & Do something about it another year, God willing. 27th Holds better of my Cold. J. B. RC (NhHi). 1 General Washington’s August 23 letter to Hancock containing news of the British landing on Long Island was read in Congress this day. See JCC, 5:700; PCC, item 152, 2:483-86; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:476-77. John Hancock to Artemas Ward Sir, Philada. August 26th. 1776. The Service in the Eastern Department requiring an Officer of Rank and Experience, and Colonel Whitcombe having declined accepting his Commission, the Congress have been induced, both from a Regard to your Merit while in the Army, and your Zeal and Attention since you left it, to request you will, if consistent with your Health, take the Command of the Forces in that Quarter. 1 As soon as Congress can fix on some Officer to relieve you, they will do it, and only desire you, in the mean Time, to continue in the Command until such appointment. Your Readiness to comply with the Wishes of your Country, gives me the strongest Reason to believe, you will not resist their application at this Juncture. I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt [P.S.] Inclos’d you have sundry Resolutions of Congress to which I beg leave to Refer you. RC (MHi). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 5:694; and Hancock to Ward, April 26, 1776, note 2. An August 8 letter from the Massachusetts Council to Hancock, urging that in the event of Ward’s retirement “a General Officer may be directed to take the command of the troops here as soon as possible,” is in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:859-60. Thomas Jefferson to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philadelphia. Aug. 26. 1776 Your’s of the 10th. inst. came to hand about three days ago, the post having brought no mail with him the last week. 1 You seem to have misapprehended my proposition for the choice of a Senate. I had two things in view: to get the wisest men chosen, and to make them perfectly independent when chosen. I have ever observed that
