76 August 28, 1776 been obligd to abandon that Country, to the great Detriment of his Affairs. He was appointed by Gen. Wooster a Commissary of Stores there; and apprehending such an Officer to be at this time necessary in our Northern Army, he has apply’d to Congress for a Continuance in that Office. 1 I understand that his Memorial is re ferred to the Board of War. As I have had occasion to know Mr Measam as a good Accomptant, a Man of Method, and very correct in Business, I cannot but think that if such an Officer is wanting, he is extremely well qualify’d for the Employ, and as such beg leave to recommend him to the Favour of the Board. With great Respect, I have the Honour to be, Sir, Your most obedient, humble Servant, B Franklin RC (DNA: PCC, item 42). l In response to George Measam’s petitions of August 7 and 26, 1776, Congress resolved on August 29 that he be continued in office. See JCC, 5:636, 700, 717. Measam’s petitions are in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:725-26, 1157. Benjamin Franklin to Horatio Gates Dear Sir, Philadelphia, 28 August, 1776. The Congress being advised, that there was a probability that the Hessians might be induced to quit the British service by offers of land, came to two resolves for this purpose, which, being trans lated into German and printed, are sent to Staten Island to be distributed, if practicable, among those people. 1 Some of them have tobacco marks on the back, that so tobacco being put up in them in small quantities, as the tobacconists use, and suffered to fall into the hands of these people, they might divide the papers as plunder, before their officers could come to the knowledge of the contents, and prevent their being read by the men. That was the first resolve. A second has since been made for the officers themselves. I am de sired to send some of both sorts to you, that, if you find it prac ticable, you may convey them among the Germans that shall come against you. The Congress continue firmly united, and we begin to distress the enemy’s trade very much; many valuable prizes being continually brought in. Arms and ammunition are also continually arriving, the French having resolved to permit the exportation to us, as they heartily wish us success; so that in another year we shall be well provided. As you may not have seen Dr. Price’s excellent pamphlet, for writ ing which the city of London presented him a freedom in a gold box of fifty pounds’ value, I send you one of them. 2 My last advices from England say, that the ministry have done
