August 29, 1776 83 How minutely he remembers every Circumstance of the Engagement! When Facts are related in this manner the Reader, the public, and Posterity are enabled to form a Judgment upon the whole, to decide what is the Consequence of the Event, to determine the Character and Conduct of Commanders and of Troops, to ascertain their Merit or Demerit. In short to pass just Reflection, to praise or blame with Propriety, to reward or punish with Justice. Read the Relation of the Battle between Cataline, and his Adver saries, in Sallust. You See the Combatants—you feel the Ardor of the Battle—you see the Blood of the slain and you hear the wounded sigh and groan. But if you read our American Relations of Battles and Sieges, in our News Papers, or in private Letters, or indeed in public official Letters, you see none of this Accuracy. You are left in Confusion and Uncertainty about every Thing. It may one day be your Fortune to be obliged to convey Information to the Public of the Course of the Events and Transactions of a War and whenever it is, I doubt not, it will be faithfully done. At present except by the Commander in Chief, and one or two others, it is done very Superficially, crudely and confusedly. A General officer Should Spare no Pains to make himself Master of the Epistolary Style which is easy, natural, simple and familiar, and of the historical Style too, which is equally simple, altho a little more grave, solemn and noble. Xenophon, Caesar, Wolf, Lee are all indebted for a very large share of their Fame, to their Pens. The Strange Uncertainty in which we are Still involved concerning the late Skirmishes, upon Long Island, have given rise to the fore going observations. My Friends have been a little negligent, in not writing me a Line, upon this occasion. I think We have Suffered in our Reputation for Generalship, in permitting the Enemy to Steal a March upon Us. Greens Sickness I conjecture has been the Cause of this. We have not been Sufficiently vigilant in obtaining Informa tion of the Motions and Numbers of the Enemy after their landing on Long Island, in reconnoitering them and in keeping out advanced Guards and patrolling Parties. Our officers dont seem Sufficiently Sensible of the Importance of an observation of the King of Prussia, that Stratagem, Ambuscade, and Ambush are the Sublimest Chapter in the Art of War. Regular Forces are never Surprised. They are Masters of Rules, for guarding themselves in every Situation and Contingency. The old officers among them are full of Resources, Wiles, Artifices, and Strategems, to deceive, decoy, and over reach their Adversaries. We must oppose Art to Art. We must not disdain to learn of them. Fas est et ab Hoste doceri. My Mind is more and more engaged with the Thoughts of the Importance of introducing into our Army officers of Parts and Ambition. Captain Lee has been constantly upon my Mind, ever
