84 August 29, 1776 Since you mentioned him. His Fathers Merit and his own demand Promotion for him. Pray let me know who are Nixons Lt Coll and Major? Who are Learneds Lt Coll and Major? You Said there were other young officers of Parts and spirit in Glovers Regiment. Let me know the Name and Character of every one of them, I conjure you. Have We not put too much to the Hazard in sending the greatest Part of the Army over to Long Island from whence there is no Retreat? Will not the Enemy by making regular Approaches upon us, be able to force Us, by Means of their Bombs and Carcasses, out of our Lines? 1 LB (MHi). ’For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Tudor, September 2, 1776. William Hooper to William Livingston Dear General Philad. August 29. 1776 The Bearer of this is Mr. Milles a Gentleman employed by the State of North Carolina to make inquiry after and employ manufac turers in the various branches of an Iron Work to proceed to North Carolina and be employed there. He goes to the Jersies with the expectation of finding some there as he has been told that several Iron Works in your State are discontinued and the Workmen out of Employ. I will esteem it a very particular favor if you will render him any Assistance in your power to accomplish the purpose of his Errand which is very interesting to our State. 1 Yours with Esteem, Wm. Hooper RC (MHi). Addressed: “General William Livingston, Elizabeth Town, New lersey.’’ 1 On August 2, James Milles had been commissioned by the North Carolina Council of Safety “to proceed to the Northern States there to Contract in behalf of this State with one or more persons well skilled in the Art of Casting Pig Iron, Cannon, Cannon Balls and hollow ware.” N.C. Colonial Records, 10:693-94. For a report by Milles about iron manufacturing in North Carolina, dated July 3 and addressed to the council of safety, see ibid., pp. 647-50. Francis Lewis to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr. Sir, Phila 29th Augt. 1776 I have been duly favored with your letter of the 18th Inst, wherein you advise me that all the drafts I sent you were promised payment except mine on Walter Livingston Esqr. for £71.11 which I find he had paid to my son before my order came to his knowledge. You’l please to return me that Bill. And as I presume the other drafts have
