August 30, 1776 87 negotiating at Pittsburg 8c from the account of the Treaty which Colo. Butler held with the Indians met at Niagara this summer (a Copy of which we have receivd from an enterprizing person in what manner may not be made public at present) it appears the Chiefs 8c Sachems are determined to observe a Strict neutrality in the present war,' so far as their Speaches can be relied upon. Col. Butler opened the Treaty by Inviting them to Join the Brittish Forces. He told them the Americans were mad 8c foolish, that they were weak, Boys, 8c women. They had no powder or ammunition. True they made a little but it was no better than dirt, 8c that if they would Join the Brittish forces they would soon drive the Americans into the Sea. Next morning the Indians by a Sachem replied you told us yesterday the Americans were mad 8cc but we say tis you are mad. They are wise for they advise us to be Still 8c quiet 8c let you 8c them fight it out which we Intend to do. If they have no powder, are weak, Boys 8c women, why do you want us to help you &c. 2 By the late Treaty at the German flatts with our Commissioners the Indians engage to remain Neuter 8c to call home their young warriours which had been enticed as they Say to go into Canada 8c it Seems was without the Consent of their Sachems. 3 Upon the whole Circumstances attending their conduct we have reason to hope the Indians in general in the Middle 8c Northern departments will remain Neuter unless some more unfavourable Events Should take place in our Armies 8c cause them to Change their minds which God prevent. By a vessel arived here yesterday we are Informd from the Master, who lately sailed from this port for Cape Francois, that on his arrival there under American Colours, the curiosity of his flag drew Such numbers on board as almost Sunk his vessel. They enquired whence he came, what news 8cc. He told them he carried the flag of the Independant States of America, 8c gave them the declaration of Independance which they carried on Shore Soon after which the Govr Sent his Compliments to the Capt with permission to hoist his flag in that harbour. The Capt farther says that three days before he left the Cape, which is thirteen days Since, dispatches arrived from old France acquainting the Governor that Twenty Ships of war with a number of Troops were coming to that port in Consequence of which people were Set to work in repairing the barracks there to receive the Troops. By authentic accounts from Martinique as late as the 3rd Instt. we are Advised the Commandant there had Just received Orders to protect all American vessels that came there, that an English Frigate chasing an American vessel into Port Royal came So near the fort they fired upon the Frigate 8c beat her off. 4 I forgot to mention that we have procured two Companies to be raised and Stationed at Westmoreland to guard our Settlements there,
