September 2, 1776 91 Josiah Bartlett to Nathaniel Folsom My Dear Sir Philadelphia Septembr 2nd 1776 I have Reed yours of the 14th Ulto with the acts of our Legislature inclosed, for which I thank you as it gives me particular Satisfaction to be informed of the Situation of affairs in our own State. I am fully Sensible of the great Difficulties we labor under, by the Soldiers being inlisted for Such Short periods, and that it would have been much better had they at first Reed a good bounty & been inlisted to Serve During the war, But you may recollect, the many and to appearance almost insuperable Difficulties that then lay in our way, no money, no magazines of provisions, no military Stores, no Government, in Short when I look back and Consider our Situation about 15 months ago, in Stead of wondering that we are in no better Situation than at present, I am Surprised we are in so good; who of us at that time Expected that the infatuation of Brittain would have forced us to the State we are now in; as Circumstances now are I think we ought by all means to be provided with a well Disciplined army to Serve during the war, and that they ought to be raised as Soon as possible. I am Glad to hear that our powder mill is ready to be Set going; pray take particular Care that the powder is good; a Considerable Quantity made by one of the mills in this State appears not to have above half the force of good powder, and Does not Catch quick. The danger from bad powder in an Engagement is So great that the Congress have ordered that no powder Shall be Sent to the army but Such as have been well tried & approved by inspectors appointed for that purpose, and have Recommended it to the Several Legislatures to appoint inspectors to prove all the powder that is made or im ported into their Respective States; a Copy I will Enclose if I Can procure one before the post Sets off. I will also inclose the order of Congress Concerning wounded 8c maimed Soldiers and Seamen. The affairs at New York Seem at present almost wholly to Engross our attention; we have not had the full of the particulars of the action of the 27th ulto. on Long Island from the General; but by the best accounts we have obtained it appears that our people were Decoyed 8c Surrounded by the main Body of the Enemy and obliged to fight their way thro’ or Surrender prisoners; It Seems there must have been Some very great neglect Either in not Sending out proper [guards] 8c parties to gain intelligence or they are not doing their Duty. Generals Sullivan 8c Lord Sterling are prisoners 8c I believe 6 or 700 others. The consequence has been the Evacuation of Long Island 8c Governors Island, of both which the Enemy are now in possession, a very unfortunate Begining of the Campain there. However it is not irreparable and I hope it will make both officers 8c Soldiers more Careful to keep proper guards 8c not Suffer themselves to be taken by Surprise any more.
