92 September 2, 1776 After writing the above Genl Sullivan came to my Lodgings in this City and by his account the affair of Long Island was much as I had heard. He says he has two verbal messages from Lord Howe which he is per[mitted] on his parole to Come to Congress to pro pose. One is the Exchange of himself & Lord Sterling for Genls. Prescot &: McDonald, the other is to propose a meeting with Some of the members of Congress (as private Gentlemen for he Can’t acknowl edge any such Body as Congress) to See if they Can’t agree on Some propositions for an accommodation without further Bloodshed and Says he will meet at almost any place for the purpose. These are but verbal messages & I can Easily foresee great Difficulties that may arise let the Congress accept or refuse the proposed Conference. What the Congress will do is at present uncertain but hope they will be directed by the Supreme Disposer of all Events, to do in this & Every other affair before them what will be most Conducive to the Safety & Hapiness of these American States. 1 So wishes your friend and most obednt, Humble Servt, Josiah Bartlett RC (NN). 1 For further information on John Sullivan’s report to Congress, see Bartlett to John Langdon, September 1, 1776, note 2. William Hooper to William Livingston My dear Sir September 2d 1776. Philadelphia I thank you for your’s of the 29th and sincerely sympathize with you in the trouble and sollicitude which attend you in your new department. 1 An Army raised (to use a Congress Cant) upon the spur of the occasion composed of Men who have no Idea of Subordination & when the officers have no security of being obeyed but from their orders being made to suit the taste of those to whom they are ad dressed, is such a motley system that it will require all your abilities to give it form and order and all your patience & philosophy to support the frequent disappointments which your best exertions will be subject to. We have met a snarle in our arrays reliniquishing Long Island. The measure was necessary perhaps when taken, as the preservation of the Army depended upon it, but was the Island incapable of being fortified, or was the whole of the last Summer too limited a time to accomplish it? or Have we no Engineers? The brave fellows who fell at Long Island from what I have heard deserved a better fate. Do we owe the misfortune to the overheated Zeal of young Officers or to what cause. I am apprehensive of the effects this disappointment may produce upon Luke Warm whigs, men too indolent to think for themselves, or too phlegmatick hitherto to have taken an active
