September 2, 1776 93 part. The Tories will assume a temporary Triumph, & there is a race of men who however otherways well disposed they may be, can not conflict—altho the contest was to purchase Liberty. Be it our en deavour as it is our duty to view the Hand of providence in every event & with resignation wait the day which is to give us reparation for the past & teach our Enemies that we fight the cause of heaven. Zedwitz’s affair is mysterious. How he could be criminal enough to merit being broke by a Court Martial (which I am told has been the case) when his charge was of so black a dye 8c yet not deserve death I confess I am at a loss to conjecture. We expect Sullivant here every hour. We are told that he has a Message from Lord Howe to Congress. I fear the Arts and address of Lord Howe, who by all Accts is a Politician, a Soldier and a Gentle man, more than I dread the British Arms. Pray pick up every anec dote of the Long Island Affair—Deaths, Wounds, flight &c 8cc 8c direct a Sheet to a friend who esteems himself highly honoured with your Correspondence. I am affectionately, Yours &c, Will Hooper RC (MHi). Addressed: “General William Livingston, {Elizabeth Town} Prince Town, New Jersey.” 1 Livingston’s August 29 letter to Hooper is in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1210. Marine Committee to Daniel Tillinghast Sir September 2nd 1776 The Secret Committee of Congress have directed Mr Thomas Green of Providence in your State to put into your hands the fol lowing articles belonging to the Continent now in his possession for which you will please to give him a receipt. 330 Bolts of best Holland and Russia Duck 26% Casks of Powder 2 pair 4 lb Cannon 3 pair 3 lb Do. 4 pair Swivels 3 Casks leaden ball 21 Casks Sewing Twine 598 lb salt Petre 60 lb Brimstone 470 Bushels salt 50 half Johannes 1 Drum You have underneath a Copy of a Resolve of Congress of the 30th Ulto ordering such part of the above Duck as is suitable for Tents to be made up and forwarded with all possible expedition to his
