94 September 2, 1776 Excellency General Washington which we request you will im mediately execute. 1 You will hold the rest of the articles ready for the future orders of this Committee, who are Sir, your hble Servants, LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Leiter Book). 1 See ]CC, 5:718. See also Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:409, 435. Till- inghast was the Continental prize agent in Rhode Island. Josiah Bartlett to William Whipple Dear Sir, Philadelphia Sept 3d 1776. By that time this reaches you, I expect you will be near ready to set out on your return to this City. Make all convenient haste. The Congress is at this time very thin. Col Lee is arrived here, but several others have taken leave of absence, among them Mr. Jef ferson and Mr. Haywood. 1 The unhappy affair of the 27th on Long-Island has occasioned the evacuation of our works there and on Governor’s Island. Our people were ensnared, and what vexes me, in a very careless manner. Yesterday, General Sullivan arrived at my lodgings, being on his parole. He says he has a verbal message to Congress to propose himself and Lord Sterling in exchange for Generals Prescott and McDonald. He also says that Lord Howe expressed himself very de sirous of an accommodation with America, without any more blood shed; that he was very willing to meet, at almost any place, a num ber of the members of Congress (as private gentlemen, for he could not own any such body as Congress) to try if they could make any proposals for an accommodation; that he said he had waited near two months longer in England than he should have otherwise done, to procure proper powers for a final accommodation, with which he said he was now vested, &c, and he allowed General Sullivan to come here to propose the aforesaid conference to Congress. What will be done in the affair by Congress I know not, but think there are difficulties on both sides. If the Congress should accept of the proposed conference, only on a verbal message, when at the same time Lord Howe declares he can consider them only as private gen tlemen, especially when we are certain he can have no power to grant any terms we can possibly accept; this I fear will lessen the Congress in the eye of the public, and perhaps at this time intimidate people when they see us catching hold of so slender a thread to bring about a settlement. On the other hand, General Sullivan’s arrival from Lord Howe with proposals of an accommodation, with 30 falsehoods in addition, are now spread over this City, and will soon be over the Continent, and if we should refuse the conference,
