104 September 4, 1776 Countrymen be crowned with deserved Success. This is the most ardent Wish of One who is with greatest Esteem, Dear Sir, Your most obt„ humble Servt, Ths. Heyward Jun RC (PHi). Addressed: “To John Morgan. M.D., Director General, New York.” 1 In response to a June 18 memorial from Dr. Morgan, director general of hos pitals and physician in chief of the Continental Army, Congress had passed a comprehensive set of resolutions on July 17 dealing with medical care for the army and delineating Morgan’s authority. See JCC, 5:460, 556, 568-71; PCC, item 41, 6:3-6; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1714-15. Additional resolutions on these points were also approved on August 20. JCC, 5:673. Two June-July 1776 letters from Morgan to Samuel Adams and other members of the Medical Committee, of whom Heyward was one, are in John Morgan, A Vindication of His Public Character in the Stations of Director-General of the Military Hospitals, and Physician in Chief of the American Army; Anno 1776 (Boston: Powars and Willis, 1777), pp. 49-53, 67-71. Morgan also included in this work brief extracts of an August 5 letter to him from Samuel Adams and one of August 14 from Charles Thomson. The former reads: “I have received several letters from you, which I should have sooner acknowledged, if I could have found leisure. I took, however, the necessary steps, to have what you requested, effected in Congress.” The latter: "There is no man, Sir, acquainted with you, who can doubt of your abilities. All the world bears witness to them, and the learned in Europe, who must be allowed to be the best judges, have given ample testimony, by the honours they have heaped upon you. While you exercise your great talents, for the benefit of those entrusted to your care, your Country will honour you, and posterity will do you justice; even though Dr. S[hippen], when you chance to meet, should refuse to give you precedence.” Ibid., pp. xxx, 71. For a detailed account of Morgan’s situation at this time, see Whitfield J. Bell, Jr., John Morgan: Continental Doctor (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1965), pp. 182-96. Caesar Rodney to George Read Sir Philada. Septr. the 4th 1776 Inclosed you have a Resolution of Congress. One of these papers was delivered to the Delegates of each Colony to be by them Trans mitted to their several assemblies or Conventions that Order might be taken therein. 1 I mentioned in my last 2 the arrival of General Sullivan and then hinted the business of his Coming. The day I wrote you last he was admitted in Congress and informed them that he had been on bord the Eagle and there had private Conversation with Lord Howe. The Substance of which was that his Lordship declared he had am ple power (together with the General) to Settle matters between Great Britain and the Colonies in Such manner as Should be for the True Interest and benefit of both and to make such Settlement permanent. That he wished for nothing more than to Converse with General Washington or some one or more Members of Con gress on that Head, but that there was a difficulty in the way which
