September 4, 1776 105 prevent it, for that his Rank & Scituation was attended with that kind of delicacy. That he Could not treat with the Congress as Such, and had no doubt that the Congress from their Scituation lay under the same difficulty—therefore proposed his having Con versation of an Hour or two with some of the members as private Gentlemen. That he would meet them in that Carrector also where Ever they pleased. That he did not doubt by this Step mat ters might be put in a Train of Accommodation—if not that it would only be so much time Lost. That his Lordship further said he had stayed in England two months after he was otherwise Ready to Come on purpose to obtain those ample powers before men tioned, by which means the Declaration of Independency had taken place before his Arrival. There was other Conversation Such as that his Lordship thought this a fine Country, that he had many friends & Acquaintances here and that he should be pleased much to have an oppertunity to Ride thought [throughout] the Country to See them &c. You Sir may be desirous to know what Congress think of this Message delivered by Sullivan at the request of Lord Howe. To Satisfy your desire I think I may Venture to say that a verry great majority of the Members look on it as an Insult and be lieve a Resolution will pass that no proposals for the future be Received, Unless Reduced to writing and Signed [fry] Some person who has authority to Treat with the Congress as an Assembly of the United Independent States of America, or to that Effect. From Certain intelligence Reed, since I Wrote last Coll Haslet, Coll Smallwood and Coll Bedford were Setting on a Court-Martial in York at the time the Delawarers and Marylanders were Engaged with the Enemy. That those two Battalions fought as Bravely as Men Could possibly do. That the Marylanders lost 259 men missing, many of Whom were Killed. That it was owing cheifly to their being Seperated by which Means the Enemy got between them and oblidged them to fight in Small parties. The Delawares being well Trained kept and fought in a Compact Body the Whole Time, and when oblidged to retreat kept their Ranks and Entered the lines in that order, frequently while retreating obliged to fight their way through Bodies of the Enemy, Who had before make [sic] an attack on our lines, Where they were repulsed and were also retreating and Met each other. The Delawares in this retreat lost four or five Men, one or two killed and two or three drownd in Crossing a Creek. This would have been all their Loss, but unfortunately about the beginning of the Engagement had placed a Small party of observa tion at some distance with Whom they Could never again Join (the Enemy haveing Got between them) tho Frequently attempted. Greatest part of those were lost, either Killed or taken prisoners, but supposed Chiefly Killed. Upon the Whole the Delaware Bat talion has now Missing thirty one including two officers to wit Lt.
