106 September 4, 1776 Stuart and Lt. Harney. The Major had a Slight wound in the Knee. This is the Whole o£ the damage the[y] have Sustained. Captain Adams of Kent after fighting bravely a Considerable time was seized with a Most Violent Collick. He was sent off the Ground & a Soldier with him to Conduct him to our lines. In his way he had to Cross a deep Marsh in which when the Battalion Crossed they found him Just Expiring. They carried him over on boards, got him in the lines, and he is now well. Our old friend Billy Livingston is appointed Governor of the Jersey. Stoggden [Stockton] Cheif-Justice. The other appointments not yet come to hand. I am Sir your Sincere Friend and Humble Servt. Caesar Rodney P.S. You’l Communicate the Matter Relative to Sullivan’s Message to Mr. McKean. RC (DeHi). 1 It can not be determined at this point which resolution Rodney enclosed, but it may have been the August 26 resolution establishing regulations for the care of disabled soldiers and sailors. JCC, 5:702-5. 2 Not found. Thomas Stone to the Maryland Convention Sir. Phila. Sep. 4. 1776 Inclosed I send You part of an Indian Speech which respects Maryland. 1 I have only time to inform the Convention that As sistance is extremely wanted at New York, and to express my Hope that the Exertions of that honourable Body will be in proportion to the Exigency of our affairs. I am with great respect, sir, Yr most obt Sert, T. Stone RC (PU). Addressed: “To The Honorable Matthew Tilghman Esqr., President of the Convention of Maryland, Annapolis.” 1 For the enclosed "Indian Speech,” see Benson J. Lossing, The Life and Times of Philip Schuyler, 2 vols. (1872; reprint ed., New York: Da Capo Press, 1973), 2:107-12. It apparently was enclosed by General Schuyler in his letter of August 18 to President Hancock, which was read in Congress on August 26. "Some of our best, and I believe real friends, the Oneidas and Ochquaques, complained that some Indians had been sent to Maryland,” Schuyler explained, "to invite some Nanticokes that live in that Province to remove into the interior part of the country, and that neither those that were sent were suffered to return, or the others who they say incline to leave their present habitations, permitted to do it. We promised to lay the matter before Congress. . . . Please to give us some information on the subject.” Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1031. The matter seems never to have been resolved. The Board of War directed another inquiry about the Nanticokes to the Maryland Council on November 8, to which a reply was returned the following week, but on November 30 Samuel Chase again requested that the council investigate the charges further. See Board
