September 6, 1776 113 the issue of the cause; which will add to their present little discour agement, and produce a timorous and despondent spirit. 4 MS not found; reprinted from John Witherspoon, The Works of John Wither spoon . . . , 9 vols. (Edinburgh: J. Ogle, 1815), 9:99-107, where it appears under the heading “Part of a Speech in Congress on the Conference proposed by Lord Howe.’’ ‘The finished quality of this speech indicates that Witherspoon probably delivered it on the day Congress decided to enter into talks with Lord Howe. JCC, 5:737. 2 See JCC, 5:731; and Hancock to Washington, August 24, 1776. “See the letters of June 20 and August 16 from Lord Howe to Franklin in Franklin, Writings (Smyth), 6:458, 462. ‘In his autobiography Benjamin Rush gave this account of the debate on the issue of treating with Lord Howe: “I took part in several debates; the first or second time I spoke was against a motion for a committee of Congress to meet Lord Howe in their private capacity to confer upon peace with Great Britain. On the same side of the question Jno. Adams, Dr. Witherspoon, and George Ross spoke with uncommon eloquence. The last of those gentlemen began his speech by asking what the conduct of George the 3rd would be, had Congress proposed to negociate with him as Elector of Hanover instead of King of Great Britain. He would spurn, and very properly spurn the insulting proposal. ‘Let the American States,’ said he, 'act in the same manner. We are bound to cherish the honour of our country which is now committed to our care. Nothing could dishonour the Sovereign of Britain that would not in equal circumstances dishonour us.’ In the conclusion of my speech, I said that ‘our country was far from being in a condition to make it necessary for us to humble ourselves at the feet of Great Britain. We had lost a battle, and a small island, but the city and State of New York were still in possession of their independance. But suppose that State had been conquered; suppose half the States in the Union had been conquered; nay, suppose all the States in the Union except one had been conquered, still let that one not re nounce her independance; but I will go further: should this solitary state, the last repository of our freedom, be invaded, let her not survive her precious birthright, but in yielding to superiour force, let her last breath be spent in uttering the word Independance.’ The speakers in favor of the motion were Ed. Rutledge, Thos. Lynch, Jno. [i.e. Thomas] Stone, and several others. One of them, in answer to the concluding sentence of my speech, said ‘he would much rather live with dependance than die with independance upon his lips.’ The motion was carried with some modification.” Benjamin Rush, The Autobiography of Benjamin Rush, ed. George W. Corner (Princeton: Published for the American Philosophical Society by Princeton University Press, 1948), pp. 119-20. John Adams to Abigail Adams Fryday Septr. 6. 1776 This day, I think, has been the most remarkable of all. Sullivan came here from Lord Howe, five days ago with a Message that his Lordship desired a half an Hours Conversation with some of the Members of Congress, in their private Capacities. We have spent three or four days in debating whether We should take any Notice of it. I have, to the Utmost of my Abilities during the whole Time,
