September 6, 1776 115 See JCC, 5:738. The vote on the selection of delegates to confer with Lord Howe is also described in Josiah Bartlett to William Whipple, September 10, 1776. Robert Treat Paine simply noted in his diary for September 6: "Agreed to Send Comittee to Ld. Howe.” MHi. 3 From the evidence now available it seems clear that the committee neither received such directions nor made such an inquiry. Elbridge Gerry to John Wendell Dear sir Philadelphia 6th Sepr. 1776 I have lately returned from a Journey to the Massa. 1 & have now an opportunity of acknowledging the Receipt of your several Fa vours of June 12th & 25th, July 2d & 16th. Our affairs in Canada wear a favourable Appearance, or rather at Ticonderoga & Crown Point; where by the last Return the Army were about thirteen thousand strong of wch. about 3000 were unfit for Duty. In addition to these, six other Regiments were on their March from Connecticut Sc Massachusetts & about four Regiments at other different Posts at New York. Things for the present are a little shattered by Means of the Retreat, but the Skirmish on Long Island has served to convince our Army that they are now able with the Regiments that are disciplined, to meet the Enemy on equal Terms. General Lee is ordered to reinforce them with several Regi ments from the southward & one from Rhode Island, & with firm Conduct our Generals may yet baffle the Enemy. There is Reason to imagine that the Enemy have suffered more than our Army in cluding the Captives, & Lord Howe has sent to Congress by General Sullivan a Desire of conferring with some members of it’s Body in a private Capacity, not doubting that he can offer such Terms of peace as will be acceptable & proposing to treat with the Congress when the same are acceded to. But the whole is considered as an artifice to divide, by leading the people to suppose that his Lord ship has used every Method for obtaining Peace while on our Part they have been rejected. To turn the Stratagem upon him Congress have resolved that being the Representatives of the independent States of America they cannot send a Committee but in tf eir public Capacity, & that being every ready to listen to Terms of neace they will send a Committee to know his Lordships Power & proposals 8c to enquire what the Terms are which he has to offer to the Con tinent. The Committee are appointed, altho against the Mind of every Member from the State which I represent, as well as Rhode Island 8c Georgia who are apprehensive that the Appointment pre vious to his Lordships assurance that he will receive them will wear the appearance of an over great Desire for Peace which is neither consistent with Dignity or true Policy; 8c be construed as an Act of Timidity very discouraging to the States 8c animating to the Enemy.
