118 September 7, 1776 that if two delegates were here they might have an opportunity to relax now and then from that constant attention which if one dele gate only should be continued here he would be obliged to give, unless he should leave the State unrepresented in Congress, which I am determined not to do, let what will be the consequence; and a constant attendance on Congress for nine Months without any re laxation is too much even for a robust constitution. Beside it is necessary that motions should be made and supported in which case the advantage of having two on the same side is manifest. In causes of no great importance it is common to engage two lawyers and the vulgar observation that two heads are better than one is just. Can then the State of Rhode Island hesitate about immediately ap pointing an additional delegate? I am sure it cannot. I should be exceedingly glad that Gov Hopkins might return for he is well ac quainted with the mode of conducting business and is well esteemed in Congress and I have reason to think from what hath passed that we should act in concert and harmony: but if he should con clude not to return it would be best that two should be immediately appointed; for matters of great consequence will be on the carpet. In the multitude of council is safety; and in that case the delegates might alternately visit home, brace up their relaxed minds and bodies by a journey and enjoying their native air, and thereby be better able to discharge the duties of their office. There is nothing against our State appointing three delegates but the expenses and if the amount of the allowance to the two delegates and their expenses for one year be summed up and compared with what would be the amount of the expence to the State of three delegates at five dollars per day I believe the difference will be found to be but trifling; but if it should be something considerable I am sure the benefits result ing to the State therefrom would compensate for any such addi tional expence. If a confederacy should hereafter take place a coun cil of State would doubtless be appointed in which case our State would have only one delegate to support constantly. The other two if three should be appointed would be present only a small part of a year when the Congress should sit. 1 Mr Hopkins will acquaint you with the news and the state of our armies &c &c. So that I hope I shall be excused in not saying anything on those subjects. The same reason will excuse my not writing to the Assembly by this post. I wrote a letter to send by the last post, but unluckily the post had set out before my letter reached the office. Congress have ordered one of our battalions to N York and its place to be supplied with a battallion of Militia from Massachusetts. 2 It was moved at first that both the battalions should be ordered thither. I opposed the motion to the best of my abilities, and think we have come off pretty well. I expect that if our affairs at N York should take an ill turn that the other battallion will be ordered from our
