September 8, 1776 121 William Williams to Joseph Trumbull My dear Sir Philadel. 7 Sepr 1776 As You are the great Theater, on which the grand Tragedy is acting I wished to hear frequently from you tho I know I am in your Debt but I can most easily beleive your hands are full, & excuse your omission. I hope our Army are far from discouraged or dismayd, the Enemy are not invulnerable. They will defeat & con found them yet if our men hold their Spirits. To the Greif of Con gress the Genl, has wrote several (they think) too gloomy Letters. Some speak with great Resolution. After a most serious & long debate Congress have orderd three members, in their proper Character only, to wait on Ld Howe, in Consequence of his message by Gen. Sullivan to know if He has power to treat of Peace, what his Power is, 8c to hear his Proposi tions, if he please to receive them as such. If not the world will be satisfied there .is no sincerity in his Professions. We are already. The Measure is an object of great Speculation 8e Anxiety. I hope no Ill can arise from it. Congress are greatly on their Guard you may rely. The whole will be published on Monday, 8c every one will be better able to judge of the Expediency of the Measure. Howe wanted Them only as private Gent, but Congress wod only send as a Deputation of their Body, 8c He will act his Pleasure about receiving them. I am dear Sir your affectionate Friend 8c brother, W Williams [P.S.] Have you heard any thing fr[om] Brother Jona 8cc. I hoped for a Letter eer now. There has been great Compla[int] to Congress, of Letters in that Departmt being playd fury with. They have given orders for better Regulations 8cc. I mentioned the affair of Salt to the Presidt. He says he has laid all yr. 8c other Letters before Congress, 8c can give no Orders which they dont give but thinks as you must [provide?] Provisions, you most certainly may 8c ought to find the means to preserve it. The Comte are Franklin, J Adams 8c Rutledge. RC (Ct). John Adams to Samuel Adams Dear sir. September 8. 1776 Tomorrow Morning Dr F., Mr. R. and your humble servant sett off, to see that rare Curiosity, Lord H. Dont imagine from this that a Panic has Spread to Philadelphia. By no Means. This is only Re-
