122 September 8, 1776 finement in Policy. It has a deep, profound Reach, no doubt. So deep that you can not see to the Bottom of it, I dare Say. I am sure I can not. Dont however be concerned. When you See the whole, as you will eer long, you will not find it very bad. I will write you the Particulars, as soon as I shall be at Liberty, to do it. 1 LB (MHi). 1 Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Edward Rutledge conferred with Lord Howe on Staten Island on September 11. Adams’ autobiographical account contains more information on their trip to Staten Island than of the conference itself, but Adams does provide an anecdotal account of their first encounter with Lord Howe. “Lord How had sent over an Officer as an Hostage for our Security. I said to Dr. Franklin, it would be childish in Us to depend upon such a Pledge and insisted on taking him over with Us, and keeping our Surety on the same side of the Water with Us. My Colleagues exulted in the Proposition and agreed to it instantly. We told the Officer, if he held himself under our direction he must go back with Us. He bowed Assent, and We all embarked in his Lordships Barge. As We Approached the Shore his Lordship, observing Us, came down to the Waters Edge to receive Us, and looking at the Officer, he said, Gentlemen, you make me a very high Compliment, and you may depend upon it, I will con sider it as the most sacred of Things. We walked up to the House between Lines of Guards of Grenadiers, looking as fierce as ten furies, and making all the Grimaces and Gestures and motions of their Musquets with Bayonets fixed, which I suppose military Ettiquette requires but which We neither understood nor regarded.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:417-20. The only mention of the journey to Staten Island in Adams’ diary is the terse entry for September 10: “Took with me to N.Y. 51 dollars and 5s. 8d. Pen. Currency in Change.” Ibid., 2:250. For John’s promised account of the conference, see Adams to Samuel Adams, September 14, 1776. John Adams to James Warren September 8. 1776 I am going tomorrow Morning on an Errand to Lord Howe not to beg a Pardon, I assure you, but to hear what he has to say. He sent Sullivan here to let us know that he wanted a Conversation with some Members of Congress. We are going to hear him, but as Congress have voted that they cannot Send Members to talk with him in their private Capacities but will send a Committee of their Body as Representatives of the free and independent States of America, I presume his Lordship cannot see Us, and I hope he will not, but if he should the whole will terminate in nothing. Some think it will occasion a delay of military operations, which they think We must want. I am not of this Mind. Some think it will clearly throw the odium of continuing this War, on his Lordship and his Master. I wish it may. Others think it will silence the Tories, and establish the timid Whigs. I wish this also. But dont expect it. But all these arguments and twenty others as weighty would not have convinced me of the Necessity, Propriety, or Utility
