132 September 10, 1770 precise declaration of France, upon a suggestion that our reunion with G.B. may be greatly endangered by delay. Should Spain be disinclined to our cause from an apprehension of danger to her South American dominions, cannot France be pre vailed on at our request and assurances not to disturb theirs to Gurantee to that Crown her Territories there against any molestation from us. Should not the Ambassador be instructed to give us the most speedy & effectual intelligence of his progress in this business, and of any other European intelligence that it may import us to know. MS (PPAmP). In the hand of Richard Henry Lee. Endorsed by Lee: "Proposed addition to the instructions given the Commissioners going to France 1776 Octr. Agreed to.” 1 On August 27 the plan of foreign treaties was recommitted to committee. At the same time Richard Henry Lee and James Wilson were added to the committee, which was then ordered “to draw up instructions pursuant to the amendments made by the committee of the whole.” Lee must have written this document before September 10, since these instructions were incorporated almost verbatim into the committee’s report, which—according to Charles Thomson’s endorsement—was “bro’t in Septr. 10, 1776.” The committee’s report, with addi tional amendments by George Wythe and Lee, was approved on September 24 and served as the basic directions to the commissioners to France who were ap pointed on the 26th. See JCC, 5:700-10, 813-17, 827. William Hooper to William Livingston My dear Sir [September 11, 1776] 1 I congratulate you upon the honourable appointment which your Country hath called you to. I congratulate them upon the return of their reason, that they have found at length discernment enough to distinguish real merit, & virtue enough to reward it. 2 I rejoiced that you approximate in your political Character, I wish you could find a little leisure to play the private Gentleman & pay us a visit here. Should that be impracticable, I will make an effort at least to meet you at Trenton. I had a letter from Duane this moment. Trop doloureux! Chere quam tristes! It is not a time to whine. I am of Montrose’s Mind expressed in his pompous gingle. Country & wounds demand supplies More from Briareus hands than Argus eyes & I would in the stile of the same poetick Herold speak forth my Country’s wrongs “In trumpets sounds I write his pungent wrongs in blood Sc wounds. A little Interpolation of the Editor—but we Editors take liberties with our Authors. 3 Immediately upon receiving yours of the 5th Instant. I rode out to Germantown to Bringhurst who is by far the best Carriage maker
