September 11, 1776 133 in this province. In his Shop I found a single Chais that exactly answers your description nearly finished. It was intended for one of the honourable and heroick body of Philadelphia Associatiors but Bringhurst from the promise of prompt pay from you & the im probability of getting it from the other, has suffered me to take it & has most solemnly promised to finish it in the Course of next Week. It will cost you £45 Penns. Currency. The materials are well seasoned & the whole neat. If you have any Inclination to have your Crest or Cypher upon it pray send me the former or direct the latter by the first Oppty otherwise, I shall decorate it with a modest Urn, the tast of the day. I consulted your brother’s Crest, find it a Ship, too large & tawdry for a Small carriage, therefore I will not adopt it without your Orders. I am, Dear sir, Yours with Esteem & Affection, Will Hooper [P.S.] Pardon me if I mistake the Address of the Govr of the Jersey. Is it Excellency or Honour? RC (MHi). 1 This is undoubtedly the letter to which Hooper referred in his September 12 letter to Livingston when he mentioned that “I wrote you yesterday.” See Hooper to Livingston, September 12, 1776. 2 Livingston had been elected governor of New Jersey on August 27. 3 For the correct reading of Montrose’s verse, see Poems of James Graham, Marquis of Montrose (1612-50), ed. J. L. Weir (London: John Murray, 1938), p. 33. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Sir Philadelphia Septr. 11th 1776 I have no letter from you by this post, and indeed but seldom have from Whence I Conclude you have either verry little to say for yourselves or become verry Idle. As to One Mr. Killen (a former Acquaintance of Mine) I have never heard but once of him Since the late Storm Which happened in your part of the Country That Blasted the Whig interest and laid prostrate many of the patriots. If he too be fallen tell him he nobly fell in defence of his Country’s rights, and for his Comfort Virtue itself hath it’s days of tryal. The Israelites (the Chosen people of God) met with Crosses and dis appointments in their Journey from the land [of] Bondage to that of Liberty, But by a Steady perseverence and divine assistance they at length possessed the promised Land. So that, that God, Who Vieweth & Judgeth all things with Unerring Wisdom, Seeing the Righteousness of his Cause (tho he permitteth Temporary Obstruc tions) Will one day (with a firm Reliance on him) Crown his Vir tuous Endeavours with Success, and Cause the Modern Pharoah’s
