134 September 11, 1776 with their Hosts to be buried in the Sea of their Toryism, As he did the Antient Pharoah in the Red Sea. The Bulk of the people have been lead astray from a Virtuous persuit by the Art and Cunning of Wicked and designing men among You. He must undeceive and put them again in the right path. They are naturally honest and Mean Well, but are Weak and Credulous. And by so much as Wicked and designing men are more industrious than the Honest and Virtuous, are they lead to do that which is Evil, and to leave undone that which they ought to Do. I have Reed two Letters from our friend Coll Haslet, since the Engagement on Long-Island, the last is dated at the heights near Kings-Bridge Where his Battalion and about 9000 others now are. 1 He is Well and desires to be kindly Remembered to you and Mr. Killen, who he terms the Barrister, and Says “I Condole with them Mightily in their present State of dejecting Dereliction.” It is a long letter in which he Concludes with saying “We Expect every Moment Something important here, and hope in our next fight to be on more Equal terms and to give you a more pleasing account.” It Seems Jack behaved Well and brought off his Colours like a Hero. The post before last I sent by Parke two pair of shoes, one for Betsey, the other for Sally, You have never told me Whether they Came to hand and it appears that Parke is about to decline Rideing. He did not go down the last time, but sent Robert the Old Rider. This I never knew till last evening when I perchance met him in the Street and Calling him to account for it he told me he had taken a Small house Somewhere in this town. That he meant to go into some small Trade and Could not say whether he should Continue to Ride or not, but believed he should not go down this time. I know not Parke’s Cir cumstances, but as I imagined he might owe you Some Money, thought proper to give this information. Doctor Tilton wrote me a Letter from New York, in Which he inclosed me one for his Brother Mr. Nehemiah Tilton. I have Sent it by this Post (being the first Opertunity) and hope it will get safe to hand. From What I can learn of the Convention at Newcastle, They will attempt nothing but Barely the framing A plan of Government, Except what may be necessary for the dispatching the flying Camp Battalion. Mr. Read lets me know that matters go on Slooly, and that the members of Kent & Sussex grow uneasy to get home. This is (I know) as it used to be with them. I Suppose you have heard that General Sullivan has been with Congress on a Message from Lord Howe, and as it has occationed Various reports suppose you wou’d be Glad to know as of a truith the Sum and Substance of it. It is this. That Lord Howe told General Sullivan in Conversation, that he and his brother the General had full power to Treat, that he had stayed in England near two months after he was otherwise ready to come, for the purpose of Obtaining
