September 11, 1776 143 Gentlemen returned to Amboy.” Lord Howe to Germain, September 20, 1776, PRO, C.O. 5, 177:38-40. 2 Adams told the following anecdote about this remark in his autobiography: "Lord How was profuse in his Expressions of Gratitude to the State of Massa chusetts, for erecting a marble Monument in Westminster Abbey to his Elder Brother Lord How who was killed in America in the last French War, saying ‘he esteemed that Honour to his Family, above all Things in this World. That such was his gratitude and affection to this Country, on that Account, that he felt for America, as for a Brother, and if America should fall, he should feel and lament it, like the Loss of a Brother.’ Dr. Franklin, with an easy Air and a collected Countenance, a Bow, a Smile and all that Naivetee which sometimes appeared in his Conversation and is often observed in his Writings, replied 'My Lord, We will do our Utmost Endeavours, to save your Lordship that mortifica tion.’ His Lordship appeared to feel this, with more Sensibility, than I could expect: but he only returned ‘I suppose you will endeavour to give Us employ ment in Europe.’ To this Observation, not a Word nor a look from which he could draw any Inference, escaped any of the Committee.” Adams, Diary (Butter field), 3:422. ’See the Olive Branch Petition and the second Address to the People of Great Britain, both adopted by Congress on July 8, 1775, in JCC, 2:158-61, 163-71. ‘See Lord Howe to Franklin, August 16, 1776, in Franklin, Writings (Smyth), 5:462. ’Howe had sent a copy of his June 20 declaration “for restoring peace to his Majesty’s Colonies” enclosed in a letter to Franklin of the same date with a July 12 postscript. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1000-1002. Franklin had commented on both documents in Franklin to Lord Howe, July 20, 1776, and Congress had com mented on the declaration in a published resolution of July 19. JCC, 5:592-93. ’After this clause Strachey first wrote and then deleted: “that He would so far communicate his Powers as to say generally that they were, to confer with any Persons upon the Subject of Peace and Rebellion—that the King was dis posed.” ’Alongside this paragraph Howe noted in the margin: "No—To their increas ing population.” “In his autobiography Adams described an exchange with Howe to which this remark gave rise: “When his Lordship observed to Us, that he could not confer with Us as Members of Congress, or public Characters, but only as private Persons and British Subjects, Mr. John Adams answered somewhat quickly, ‘Your Lordship may consider me, in what light you please; and indeed I should be willing to consider myself, for a few moments, in any Character which would be agreable to your Lordship, except that of a British Subject.’ His Lordship at these Words turn’d to Dr. Franklin and Mr. Rutledge and said ‘Mr. Adams is a decided Char acter:’ with so much gravity and solemnity: that I now believe it meant more, than either of my Colleagues or myself understood at the time. In our report to Congress We supposed that the Commissioners, Lord and General Howe, had by their Commission Power to [except] from Pardon all that they should think proper. But I was informed in England, afterwards, that a Number were ex pressly excepted by Name from Pardon, by the privy Council, and that John Adams was one of them, and that this List of Exceptions was given as an Instruc tion to the two Howes, with their Commission.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:422-23. The most recent authority on the subject mentions no exceptions to the Howe brothers’ authority to grant pardons. Ira D. Gruber, The Howe Brothers and the American Revolution (New York: Atheneum, 1972), pp. 73-76. 9 Rutledge also discussed the question of parliamentary authority over America with Howe. See John Adams to Samuel Adams, September 14, 1776. 10 The committee’s report to Congress describes the conclusion of its meeting
