144 September 12, 1776 with Howe as follows: “His Lordship then saying that he was sorry to find, that no accommodation was like to take place, put an end to the conference.’’ JCC, 5:766. Board of War to George Washington Sir. War Office Septr. 12th. 1776 By Direction of Congress to the Board of War I have procured two of the Philadelphia Light Horse to conduct the Generals Prescott & Macdonald to your Excellency to be exchanged agreeable to the Resolve of Congress for the Generals Sullivan & Lord Sterling. 1 I have directed the Gentlemen of the Escort to stop short at some safe Place on the Road & send off an Express to your Excellency for your Directions in the Matter. The Generals are on their Parole not to attempt an Escape or take any Step contrary to the Rules of War, but to deliver themselves to your Excellency for your proper Disposal of them until their Exchange can be effected. 2 I have the Honor to be, your obedt humble servt, Richard Peters Secy RC (DLC). 1 See JCC, 5:735. Sullivan was subsequently exchanged for Prescott, but, at the insistence of General Howe, Lord Stirling was exchanged for Gov. Montfort Browne of the Bahamas instead of General McDonald. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:22, 23, 45, 74, 100, 117, 173, 183. ‘ The Board of War also wrote brief letters to Washington on September 14 and 16. In the first Peters enclosed “a copy of the arrangement of Officers in the old Virginia Regiments” and in the second a "Memorial of the Second Lieutenants of the Virginia Regiments.” Washington Papers, DLC; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:320-22, 348-49. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull Dear sir Philadelphia 12th Sepr 1776 Colo Williams shewed me your Letter to him mentioning the Situation of your Brother at Ticonderoga, in Consequence of wch It was moved to Congress to appointment him D. Adjt. General & no objection was offered. Mr. Lewis recommended by General Gates is also appointed D. Quar. Master General. 1 The Difficulties which You mentioned as the Grounds of your Resignation of the Commissaryship for the northern Department being removed by Congress, will it is hoped induce You to renew your Engagemt. therein. 2 Surely It is the Intention of Congress, that the whole of the Commissary affairs shall be under your Direction,
