September 12, 1776 145 & if Mr Levingston opposes, You will be supported in dismissing him. General Schuyler has nothing to do with your officers otherwise than to order where the Magazines shall be placed & the Quantity of provision to be procured or delivered. If he refuses to deliver Money You can easily receive a greater Sum from the N York Chest & Send it forward. 500,000 Dollars are I suppose arrived e’er this, & another Sum to the same amount is order’d to Mr Palfrey, whereby he will be able to supply You; & in such a Case I would remonstrate against G. Schuyler’s Conduct in putting the Continent to the extra Expence of Sending forward the Money. I cannot conceive what his Intention is unless to put the northern Army which is now in good Order, in the same Confusion as has been heretofore experienced; but this will be prevented unless he is indulged by your giving up to his Schemes. Congress seem now determined to have an Army of some Duration & to give sufficient Bounties for the purpose; I wish It had been sooner acceded to but We must move with the Waters. The present Campaign will try the Resolution of Persons & dis criminate pretenders from those who are fixed in good principles; I hope the latter will thro’out America exert themselves &: prevent the former from disseminating their timid principles being sir with Esteem your very humi sert, E Gerry [P.S.] Your affairs will be attended to when the present Hurry is over. [P.S.] Since writing the within, Letters from General Schuyler recom mend the appointmt. of your Brother to the Office of D.A. General wch was previously complied wth. A Letter from Mr. Levingston contains his Resignation, wch was very agreable to some Members of Congress. One from South Carolina mentions several Engagements wth the Indians, in which the latter have been put to the Rout & several of their Towns & Cornfields laid Waste. One from Mr Deane in France mentioning great preparation by France & Spain wth an ostensible Design to attack Portugal, two Fleets are equipping by the former & one by the latter. The Reprisal is also arrived in the River wth two Tons of Powder & 450 stands of Arms from Martinico. RC (Ct). Mohn Trumbull was elected “deputy adjutant general of the army in the northern department, and Morgan Lewis, Esqr. was elected deputy quarter master general of said army.” JCC, 5:753. 2 Trumbull’s ongoing jurisdictional conflict with Walter Livingston over the right to supply the armies on the lakes and at New York led both to submit letters of resignation, dated September 7, to President Hancock. Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:213, 220-21. Trumbull’s letter was read in Congress on September 11 and referred to a committee which reported to Congress the next day. Congress accepted the committee’s resolution sustaining Trumbull’s “right to direct the operations of his department” and expressing hope that this support would “induce his continuance in the office of commissary for both armies, at New York, and on the lakes.” JCC, 5:750, 752-53.
