146 September 12, 1776 This same committee, consisting of William Hooper, Richard Henry Lee. and Roger Sherman, was also directed "to enquire into the conduct of Mr, Livingston, deputy commissary general in the northern department.” What is apparently their report on Livingston—two paragraphs of which are printed in JCC, 5:750n.2—recommended that the “Commissioners appointed to settle Accounts in the Northern Department be empowered and directed to enquire into the conduct of Walter Livingston.” When Livingston’s letter of resignation arrived on Sepetmbcr 13 it was referred to the Board of War and the next day Congress accepted Livingston’s resignation. JCC, 5:750, 756, 758. See also Gerry to Joseph Trumbull, June 8, 18. 19, and 25; Gerry to John Adams and Samuel Adams. July 21; and Samuel Adams to Joseph Trumbull, August 3, 1776. William Hooper to William Livingston Dear Sir Thursday Sept 12 1776 Your’s of the Uth Instant this moment came to my hands. I wrote you yesterday & have nothing since to add—except that your Brother 1 who has been a little indisposed is recovered & promises to accompany me to meet you at Bristol on Saturday the 21st, the Journey to Trenton being rather too far and the claims of Congress to our attendance rather too pressing to leave this City this Week. I am sorry that the Information we have received from Pittsburgh since Sunday leaves little doubt of our having an Indian War with the Wiandats, Delawares, & the other infernal Scoundrels on the back of this & Virginia. 2 I am, with Affection Yours, Wm Hooper RC (MHi). 1 Philip Livingston. 2 See JCC, 5:749, 752. Robert Morris to Silas Deane Sir Philada. Septr. 12th. 1776 You will receive herewith Copy of what I wrote You the 11th ulto. & by this Conveyance I remit the 2d bills of those setts men tioned in that letter. I have bought a considerable quantity of Tobacco but cannot get suitable Vessels to carry it. You cannot conceive the many disappointments we have met in this respect. However I expect a ship is now taking in about 400 hhds as I wrote two posts ago agreeing to the Owners terms and shall advise you more particularly in my next respecting this matter. I am sorry to tell you another Vessell bound from hence for Bourdeaux with a Cargo of flour &c has been taken and carried to N York with the Fleet. This was a fine New Brigt intended as a Packet between us; she had dispatches for You which were thrown overboard & sunk
