September 12, 1776 151 gress, and that he would get the Convention to give a power to one Member to Act so that our Government might be Represented by me alone till the Convention Should Rise. I mentioned this to Mr. McKean who directly declared they should make no appointment of Delegages, nor even alter the powers Given them, least they (meaning the Convention) should plead that as a president for going into some other appointments, which they were not auth orised to do by their Choice. Therefore Upon the Whole I don’t imagine they will attempt any Change. But sir whether they do or not, I do not purpose Continuing here longer than till the other Gentlemen Return; I have made a verry Great Sacrifice of my property to the Cause, Government never paid me above half what I have necessarily Expended even when my friends were at the Helm. What may I Expect from these? They would see me Serve without a Shilling. You know they wou’d, because you know they like not either me or the Cause. 2 General Dagworthy, Mr. Clowes and Mr. Peery were here, and say the Tory plan for leaving me out of the Convention was, first to put me at the head of their Ticket to shew their approbation of me, after which they put another person in my Stead, and assigned as a Reason for it, that it was now a Critical time. That it was absolutely necessary We should keep up our Representation in the Congress. That they wished I might not be laid under the necessity of leaving the Congress at a time so Interesting which I must Do if Chose in Convention &c. These Gentlemen then said that the Inhabitants of Newcastle County had not Considered to the Matter in that light for they had chose both their delegates. In Answer to this, it was said they, the people of Newcastle, had done verry wrong &c. By Such little Cunning are the people to be Cajoled. I saw a Man from Mispillion who left there a day or two before my letter Could have reached it, who told me that yours and Cap tain Adams’s families were well, but they were in Much distress for the Delawares who (from all accots. they had Received) were at least two thirds Cut off, that almost all the officers were killed particularly you. He told me the people were Generally distressed haveing most of them some friend or Relation in the Battalion. My letter I am Sure has set that Matter Right. I wrote above a week ago to Mr. Montgomery the Chaplain, not knowing then whether you were among the Dead or living. Should be Glad to know whether the letter got Safe [to] hand. 3 Be pleased to Enquire of him and let me know in your next which I hope will be soon. Make my compliments to Doctr. Tilton, and tell him I forwarded his Brothers letter. That you may have a happy deliver ance, and your Battalion be Crowned (if possible) with still more Honor in every Combat is the Sincere wish of Sir, Yr. Real Friend & Humble Servt. Caesar Rodney
