September 13, 1776 155 greatest man in the world, except Lord North, and has as great a levee as he has. This is a secret. I don’t recollect anything else worth communicating just now except that I am, Sir, your humble servant, Caesar Rodney Tr (NN). 1 See JCC, 5:765-66; and Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 15168. 2 That is Silas Deane. Deane’s July 30, 1776, covering letter to Robert Morris with several enclosures is in NYHS Collections 19 (1886): 143-70. Secret Committee to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentn. Philada. Septr. 13th. 1776 We have been applyed to for a supply of Powder for the Conti nental Frigate built at Baltimore which shou’d have been ordered down there, but as we understand you have a considerable quantity at that place & as there is some Powder due to the Continent from your State, We request the favour of you to supply Messrs. Wm Lux, Sami Purviance & David Stewart with four Tons & a half of Gun Powder for the use of the said Frigate & for Proving Her Canon &c and hereafter we will repay you in powder the ballance that will then become due to your State or supply you with more Shou’d it become necessary. Your Complyance with this request will save time & charges. 1 It will also oblige- the Secret Committee of Congress of which we are a Quorum & We remain, Gentn, Your obedt hble servts, Robert Morris B Franklin Richard Henry Lee Josiah Bartlett RC (MHi photostat). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Bartlett, Franklin, and Lee. 1 For the Maryland Council of Safety’s reply, see Md. Archives, 12:305-6. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir Philadel. Sepr. 13 1776 I reed yours of the 7th. I had wrote you the same day by Mr. Halsey, but about nothing. You will see by the Copys &c gone from the Presidt to you I trust that Congress will not give you up as Commisa for the nothern Department. 1 Many of them greatly re sent the Conduct of the Gent, who has so interferd with you & there are appearances of many other things agst him, which begin to work, & will I beleive force his downfall, but things are not fully ripe yet nor can they possibly be attended to now. He had lately
