156 September 13, 1776 written a very long Epistle to inforce the necessity & expedience, the bestness & Cheapness See of supplying the nothern Army by a Contract with somebody there. It was hastily read thro in the House, & not the lest further notice taken of it. I presume he will not interpose in your departmt. again, tho I know He has paid but little attention to his orders in many things. We yesterday moved the appointment of a D. Adjt Genl, for that Army, & with no great Difficulty carried the appointmt of your Bror. Jno. to that office. Nothing is added about the rank 8c Pay, but on motion & Enquiry I found it to be an establishment already made, of a Colo. & there was no need of it. I trust the Prest has forwarded the Comisn. Morgan Lewis was also appointed D. Qr. Masr. Genl for the same Department. Our Affairs are truly in a critical Situation, but far I hope from desperate. My trust Sc hope is in a merciful & just God, who with one Volition of his Will can change their appearance. I fear we shall be chastized for our Sins, but not forsaken I trust 8c firmly believe. But most certainly it becomes all to humble Themselves deeply before Him, repent of our Sins 8c most earnestly to supplicate his Favor. He will be known in the Judgements he executes. He has a Controversie with His People, 8c will certainly accomplish his De sign in it. We must bend or break. No Means for our defence 8c Safety must be omitted 8c may God grant Our Officers 8c Soldiers, great Wisdom, understanding, Cour age 8c Resolution. Our Enemies are not invulnerable, 8c one severe trimming must amazingly dishearten 8c unnerve them. We have every thing to fight for, that is valuable & good. They have nothing but their pay 8c to establish the greatest of political 8c moral Evil. They cannot, will not be always prospered. Every thing shod be done, 8c doubless is, to inspire the Men with the greatest In- trepedity 8c by all acco They f’ot bravely on L. Island. The Enemy doubtless intend to surround you, 8c I see not why they cant go beyond you, go as far as you will, 8c attempt to cut off your Supplies. Our Officers are far more acquainted with their movements 8c Intentions than I 8c will doubtless take the best Measures. We just hear They are possessd of Montorzour or 8cc Island, against Har lem. I have no Doubt Congress will reward their Services. Are now busie in planing 8cc for forming a new 8c permanent Army. Will 20 dols. bounty 8c 100 acres of Land at the Close sufficiently operate upon N Engld. Men to engage for 5 years. Tho I pretend not to say such a thing will be carried if attempted, in deed I much fear it, but I wish I had the best opinions 8cc 8cc about it, soon as possible. I am dear Sir with undissembled 8c strong Affection, your Friend 8c Bror, Wm. Williams
