September 14, 1776 165 By a Resolve of Congress there is ordered a Paymaster for each Battalion in the Continental Service. 2 I know not whom to recom mend as Paymaster to the Battalion ordered to New York: Nor do I know whom to recommend as Surgeon to it. I shall recommend a Paymaster and Surgeon for the Battalion that shall remain at New port when it shall be known which of the Battalions hath march’d to N. York. At present it is to me uncertain; for the President first required the Commanding Officer to order One of the Battalions to N. York, and afterwards, when it was known that the Field Officers were not commissionated, they were ordered by Congress to be commissionated, agreeable to the Recommendation of the Assembly, and the Second, Col. Lippit’s, Battalion is ordered to march to N. York provided the first should not have marched before the Arrival of the last Direction of Congress. 3 I should be glad to know when the Battalions and Artillery Company raised in our Colony were inlisted and for what Time; and what the whole Number of our Militia was before the War commenced: And also the Number of white, black, and Indian In habitants of our State. I hope the Genl. Assembly will not neglect to appoint an addi tional Delegate at their first Session after the Receipt of this. The Reasons for such an Appointment I suggested in a private Letter to your Honour and have not Time now to mention to them. 4 Indeed so many, so obvious and so cogent are they, that they will readily offer themselves to every Member and induce them to come into this necessary Measure. I could wish that a certain Sum by the Day might be speedily fixed upon for the Delegates of our State; for it is very troublesome and disagreeable to keep an Account of every Expence which accrues, and a lumping Account I imagine would not be satisfactory to the Assembly. A considerable Number of the Enemy have landed at Montrozer’s Island, which lies at the Mouth of Harlem River, and it is supposed that they mean to land at Harlem or Maurisania or both. Capt. Weeks in a Continental armed Ship hath arrived here from Martinico and imported Two Tons of Powder and four hundred and fifty small Arms and some coarse Goods. The Northern Army is so respectable that we are not afraid of Irruption into our States by the Lakes, and I hope We shall be able to maintain our Posts at and near New York, if Genl. Wash ington should think proper to keep any Troops in that City. I heartily congratulate our State upon the Success of our Priva teers, 5 and wishing that I may have the Pleasure of congratulating them very soon upon a Victory over our haughty implacable Enemies I continue to be with great Respect, Yr Honor’s most Obedient, Humble Servant, W Ellery
