170 September 14, 1770 James Wilson to John Montgomery and Jasper Yates Dear Gentlemen Woodstock 14th September 1776 Your interesting Dispatches by Mr. Girty have been received, and been attended to by the Committee for Indian Affairs, and by Con gress. The Result you will learn by the Resolutions transmitted to you by Mr. Boyd. 1 What the Convention has done or proposes to do I cannot yet inform you of; but presume they will give every Assistance in their Power. 2 The Congress, you will observe, have strengthened your Hands as far as they could by Ammunition and the Regiment in their Service. I think it peculiarly fortunate that you are at Pittsburgh in this very critical Season. It is probable that you have heard before this Time of the Action on Long Island and of the Retreat of our Troops from it. There was certainly a Defect somewhere with Regard to Vigilance. Had a proper Look-out been kept, it is impossible that eleven thousand of the Enemy could have got between our Troops engaged and the Lines, without being discovered before they could have cut off their Retreat. Our Men, in general, behaved with remarkable Spirit. We have lost a great Number, that were made Prisoners. But the Loss of the Enemy in killed and wounded is, according to all Accounts, superior to ours. The Hessians, it is said, behaved with great In humanity. They even knocked on the Head the Men that were lying wounded on the Field of Battle. After the Action, the Retreat from the Island became, I believe, absolutely necessary. It was performed in a very masterly Manner, and without any Loss. Even the Field Officers in our own Camp did not know what was the Design of the Movements. Col. Shee’s and Col. Magaw’s Regiments covered the Retreat; and were for half an Hour, the only Troops on the Island, with above twenty thousand of the Enemy within a very short Distance of them. By the Possession of Long Island, Genl Howe has gained the important Advantage of being able now to supply his Troops with fresh Pro visions. All the late Movements on the Side of the Enemy indicate an Intention to surround the Island, on which the City of New York stands, and hem in our Army upon it. Should they accomplish this Design, the Consequences must be very disagreeable to us. General Washington must either surrender, or fight at a Disadvantage; and with inferior Numbers. But I hope they will not succeed in their Views; for I have the best Reason to believe that General Wash ington has, before this Time, retired above Kingsbridge, and I ex pect to hear the Accounts of it every Hour. Inconveniences will, without Doubt, always attend a retreating Army; but amidst sur rounding Difficulties it is Prudence to make Choice of the least. A Retreat may have a Tendency to dispirit our Troops, and may pre-
