September 14, 177G 171 vent our acquiring that brilliant Figure, which a State would always wish to support in the Opinion of the World. But Fabius became glorious cunctando. A Defeat, in our present Situation, would pro duce the most disastrous Effects. We have Men enough to recruit an Army; but Arms and Ammunition and Artillery and other mili tary Stores, which would be lost in an unsuccessful Engagement, we could not, by any Means, replace during the present Campaign. By Delay the Enemy will suffer more than we shall. Our Affairs in the Northern Army begin to wear a very smiling Aspect. 3 Our Army at Ticonderoga is numerous, in high Spirits, and in good Order. Our Naval Force on Lake Champlain is very respectable, and much superior to that of the Enemy. I wish I could say that the Militia of this State, who have marched into New Jersey, have conducted themselves unexceptionably in every Respect. They have not, on any Occasion, discovered Want of Spirit, as far as I have been able to learn both at the Camp, and since I left it. But it has been impossible to introduce any Kind of regular Discipline among them. A Number of them, particularly those from Philadelphia, shewed an intemperate Desire of returning Home. However, they gain much by a Comparison with those from some other States. Two thirds of the Militia of Connecticut, though they came much later into the Field than ours, have already run Home without the General’s Leave. Our Convention is still sitting. What they have been about dur ing Part of their Session, and what their Spirit is, will, in some Measure, appear to you from their Plan of government published for Consideration. This and the News papers Mr Boyd will carry up to you. The Germans, particularly in Berks County, are becoming totally unreasonable and ungovernable. They are jealous and violent to the last Degree. Mr Yeates’s Brother in Law Major Burd com manded a Detachment of the flying Camp, furnished from Reading and the Neighbourhood, in the late Action on Long Island. He behaved with great Propriety and Spirit, and has gained much Honour. But, with other brave Men, was obliged to surrender him self and his Party Prisoners of War. What do you think the People in Reading have said of the Matter? That he was an Englishman, and sold to the Enemy the Men under his Command. The Rewards that the best of Services sometimes receivel I am told the Women in Reading have entered into a Confederacy against high Caps as infallible Evidences of Toryism. Lord Howe, about ten Days ago, sent a verbal Message to Con gress by General Sullivan, who was made a Prisoner on Long Island, desiring a Conference with some of its Members in their private Characters, and that he would meet them in his. This Message oc casioned much Speculation. His Lordship said he had ample Powers,
