172 September 14, 1776 and he professed the strongest Inclination to accomodate the Differ ences between Great Britain and the Colonies. Some regarded this Message as an Artifice to draw the Congress into a dangerous Train of Negociations, divert the Attention of the Troops and the public from the War, and turn it upon delusive Prospects of Peace. They therefore thought it highly improper to consent to a Conference. Others thought it an Artifice of a different Kind; and that Lord Howe, by the Earnestness which he professed for an Accomodation, meant if a Conference should not be agreed to by Congress, to throw the Odium of Continuing the War upon their Shoulders, and remove it from those of his Masters. They were of Opinion that, by consenting to a Conference, his Lordships own Battery would be turned upon himself; for that it would be found, upon Enquiry, that instead of having ample Powers, he had no Power to grant any Conditions of a Peace. The Congress agreed to a Conference, but could not, with any Propriety, send their Members in a private Character. Dr Franklin, Mr John Adams and Mr Rutledge were the Members chosen. They had a Conversation with Lord Howe; and the Result justifies the Opinion of those, who were in Favour of it. The Particulars I will transmit to you by the next Opportunity. It is enough at present to observe, that the Commissioners, as far as we can learn, have no Power to offer any Terms whatever. It ex tends only to confering, consulting and receiving Submissions. This Letter has already bored you: I will conclude it after men tioning a Matter respecting Mr. Devereux Smith. You know his Merits and his Sufferings. The Gentlemen who are from Virginia will surely not be unwilling to give their Consent to his Removal to any Place more agreeable to him than Pittsburgh is. You will be good enough to make the Application to them. I would make it in Congress; but think better if it can be done in this Way. I would write to Mr Smith; but have no more Paper here. Make my Compli ments to him; and to all the other Gentlemen, my Friends, that are with you. I am, Dear Gentlemen, Yours very sincerely, James Wilson RC (DLC). ’For Congress’ resolutions of September 12, 1776, which were apparently sent by John Boyd, paymaster of Col. Aeneas Mackay’s battalion raised for the de fense of the western frontiers, see ]CC, 5:752. “For action taken by the Pennsylvania Convention on September 19 and 20 in response to information received from Montgomery and Yeates on the danger of Indian war in the region of Fort Pitt, see Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:46-47. 3 Wilson had written to Montgomery the week before to reassure him that despite the misfortunes suffered by the army in Canada there was no reason to fear for the safety of Montgomery’s son, who had been with the Sixth Penn sylvania Battalion. Wilson to John Montgomery, September 7, 1776, Montgomery Papers. ICHi.
