182 September 16, 1776 my Friend we shall have very little to do in Congress of any great importance untill we know what reception the Confideration plan will meet with in the different states. Hooper as well as myself would be glad to come, it is what has been done in these States, do leave it to us to determine. You may depend we will not leave the Congress if any thing of Consequence should require us to stay. I am, Dear Sir, Your mo. obt. Sevt. John Penn [P.S.] Perhaps it would be better to direct that we should come. Since we are to raise such a number of Battalions would it be pru dent to stop the officers of the neighbourg. states from inlisting any more men in No. Carolina untill we have compleated our Quota? J.P. Since writing the above I hear General Washington has removed from New York so that Lord Howe I suppose is there; it was prudent or otherwise he might have been surrounded. J.P. RC (Nc-Ar). 1 Not found. 2 See North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina Council of Safety, Sep tember 3, 1776. Benjamin Rush to Jacques Barbeu-Dubourg My dear Sir, Philada September 16th. 1776. I write this letter at a venture. I wish it may reach you, but I shall not complain if it falls into the hands of our enemies. It shall contain nothing but facts. The campaign was opened in this country on the 27th of last month on Long Island in the neighbourhood of New York. 3000 American troops opposed 10,000 British & Hessian troops for six hours. At last our people were obliged to give way with the loss of about 1000 men killed 8c taken prisoners. The Enemy had 500 men killed 8c wounded in the action. Our troops behaved like veterans. One brigade sus tained three heavy fires in an open field without moving. When the word of command to “fire” was given, the enemy gave way, and a total rout was expected, but alas, their numbers supplied their want of {courage) order, and our men were surrounded and cut to pieces or taken. The enemy soon after this victory gained possession of Long Island by means of their ships, and as the heights on this Island command New York, our troops are preparing to evacuate it. Genl Howe’s army will probably winter there. The disaffected people begin to flock to his standard. We hope in a few months to oblige them to decamp with [their] new masters, for Genl. Washington has it in his power to prevent their penetrating more than 10 or 11 miles into the country around New York. Our army consists at present of 30,000 men: 20,000 at New York, 8c 10,000 at Ticonderoga under the
