September 16, 1776 183 command of Genl. Gates. As we expect 20,000 Russians to reinforce Genl. Howe next spring, we are about to encrease our army to 60,000. They will suffer much from the want of woolens unless soon supplied by our good friends the subjects of the king of France. New governments are instituted in all the states, founded on the authority of the people. They all differ in some particulars, but they all agree in having their legislative officers chosen annually and in establishing a rotation of power. My Countrymen have done me the honor of making me a member of the congress. I can therefore from authority assure you that a fixed determination still prevails in that body to establish the liberties of America or to perish in their ruins. No difficulties discourage us, no losses depress us. We look only to heaven and France for succour, being resolved if we are subdued that our last breath shall be “Inde pendance upon the court of Britain.” Lord Howe sent a message to us a few days ago requesting a conference with some members of the congress. Dr. Franklin, Mr. Jno. Adams, and Mr. Rutledge were ordered to wait upon his Lordship. He talked much of his powers to accommodate the dispute between Britain & America, but said he could offer nothing 8c promise nothing till we returned to our Allegiance. Here the negotiation ended. All America disdains such propositions. I must here mention an anecdote in honor of Mr. Adams. When his Lordship asked in what capacity he was to receive the gentlemen of the congress, Mr. Adams told him “in any capacity his Lordship pleased except in that of British Subjects.” This illus trious patriot has not his superior, scarcely his equal, for Abilities 8c virtue on the whole continent of America. A confederation is now forming between the united States. Each State is to have an equal vote, but no question relative to peace 8c war or other important matters is to be determined by less than 9 states. The States are to confer no titles, and no American is to hold any post under the States who accepts of a title from any foreign power. No delegate is to set in congress more than three years in seven. A counsel of State consisting of one delegate from each state is to do business during the recess of the congress. This business is always to be only of an executive nature. We have nearly finished a treaty which we expect soon to offer to your court through the hands of Mr. Dean—8c perhaps of Dr. Frank lin. The common toasts in Philada. now are: “His most Christian majesty,” and “a speedy Alliance between the king of France 8c the united States.” My wife joins in compts. to your dear M. Dubourg, with, my dear friend, yours most sincerely. P.S. The Baron Wotke [Woedtke] dishonored your recommenda tion. He died a few weeks ago at Ticonderoga with the effects of
