September 18, 1776 193 RC (Nc-Ar). Written by Hooper and signed by Hooper, Hewes, and Penn. N.C. Colonial Records, 10:804-6. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 See North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina Council of Safety, Sep tember 3, 1776. 2 See JCC, 5:762-63. “The North Carolina Provincial Congress agreed to raise three new Continental battalions on November 26, 1776. N.C. Colonial Records, 10:941. North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina Council of Safety Gentlemen [September 18, 1776] 1 This will be handed to you by our worthy Colleague Mr Hewes who after a long and diligent attendance in congress, and the dif ferent committees of which he has been member is now upon his return home. From the large share of naval & mercantile business which has been allotted to his Attention by Congress, his health has been much injured, we wish his Journey may tend to restore it &: that he may enjoy in his recess from publick employment much happiness among his Country men who it has been his unwearied endeavour to serve while he has been in publick trust. Mr Hewes will inform you by letter or in person of the state of our publick affairs, of the situation of our Army at New York and whatever else that has occurred in this quarter which may im mediately or in its consequences operate importantly upon the State of North Carolina. The Check which the American Arms have lately received on Long Island reflects no dishonor upon those who bore them. The Struggle was bravely maintained by our young Soldiery and to a want of Generalship in some of our inferiour Officers is to be ascribed the necessity we have been under of re linquishing so important a Post. To the honor of 3000 Troops which we had that day upon the Island it will be remembered that they opposed, fought and for many hours maintained their ground against the Enemys whole force which at the least on that day out- numberd them by 12,000. They cut their Way thro the main body & marked their retreat with the blood of great numbers of the Enemy who we are well assured lost in killed more than fell on our side. From the Enemys obtaining possession of some advantageous heights on the Island our works were commanded by them and were no longer tenable. Under these Circumstances Genl Washington thought it prudent to draw all his Strength to New York. This retreat was effected without any loss to us and in a manner which reflects great Credit upon the Military Abilities of our commanding officer. Unfortunately for us New York being accessible to the Enemys Ships, and lying much lower than Long Island was exposed to all
