198 September 18, 1776 From all I Can collect This was the Situation of Affairs on Sun day Morning, When the Ships before mentioned began a verry heavy Firing at Turtle-Bay to Scour the Country previous to their landing the Troops, but hurt no Body that I can hear of. When the Firing ceased their Troops began to Land and ours to Run as if the Devil was in them, in Spite of all the Genel. Could do. They never fired one Gun. General Washington having discovered their intention to Land at that place, and haveing properly disposed of his Troops in case of an Attempt in either or both the other places, ordered a Reinforcement and set out there himself. How ever before he got to the place, met our people running in Every direction. He Endeavoured by persuation, Threats &c to get them back, but all to no purpose. In Short they run till they left the General to Shift for himself. General Putnam who was in New- York with his people, hearing What had happened made the best of his way for head Quarters least he should be kooped up, fought his way Through the Enemys lines, brought his men to Camp with the Loss of only three of four as said. It Seems not one of the men who run from the place of the Enemy’s landing was from this Side the North River—all New-England men. General Washington Writes he is Advantageously situated at present, and if attacked Should be more than a Match for the Enemy if their numbers were even More than they are, provided his men would fight, which is more to be wished than Expected. I have wrote on this Subject till I am in an Ill Humour, and my only Comfort is that by the time you have read it you’l be as Angry as I am. I have inclosed Mr. McKean’s order on the Trustees of New castle thinking it might be wanting. I am Gentmn., Your Most Obedt., Humble Servt. Caesar Rodney P.S. My boy will return tomorrow morning. RC (DeHi). Benjamin Rush to Julia Rush My dearest Julia, Wednesday Eveng. [September 18-25? 1776] 1 I begin to sicken for your company. What will become of me a fortnight thence? But I will not as formerly tear you from Morven. I flatter myself that you will soon be infected with home sickness & that you will tease me in less than a fortnight to send Wm. for you. Our Affairs in New York {grow worse & worse) wear a melan- cholly aspect in the eyes of most people. You witness for me that I have for a long time not only expected, but wished that Genl. Howe might gain possession of New York. I have seen molasses
