September 19, 1776 199 wasted on a board on purpose to collect together & destroy all the flies of a house. In like manner I believe Genl. Howe will attract all the tories of New York & the adjacent states to his army where they will ripen as the tories of Boston did for banishment & de struction. The continent in the mean while will be purged of those rascals whose idleness or perfidy have brought most of our present calamities upon us. But further, I think we stood in need of a frown from heaven. I should have suspected that our cause had not been owned as a divine one, if we had prospered without it. It is, you know, thro’ difficulties & tryals that states as well as individuals are trained up to glory & happiness. My faith is now stronger than ever. I begin to hear with pleasure an outcry among some people that there is no dependance to be had upon the arm of flesh. But the worst is not over. We must be bro’t lower. I predict a defeat, or another disgraceful retreat. We stand in need of it. We must all be taught that “Salvation is not to be hoped from the hills, nor from the multitude of the Mountains,” before we can expect to prevail over our enemies. Adieu my dearest angel. Mrs Stamper joins in love to you & your Mama with, yrs, B Rush P.S. I shall write again if possible by the post. RC (CtY). 1 Rush’s reference to the “melancholly aspect” of “our affairs in New York” suggests that he wrote this letter shortly after the September 15 evacuation of New York, and when in a mood similar to that expressed in his letter to Anthony Wayne of September 24, 1776. September 18 and 25 were Wednesdays. Benjamin Franklin to William Temple Franklin Dear Billy Philada Sept. 19. 1776 I received yours of the 16th, in which you propose going to your Father, if I have no Objection. I have consider’d the matter, and cannot approve of your taking such a Journey at this time, es pecially alone, for many reasons, which I have not time to write. I am persuaded, that if your Mother should write a sealed Letter to her Husband, and enclose it under Cover to Govr. Trumbull of Connecticut, acquainting him that it contains nothing but what relates to her private Family Concerns, and requesting him to for ward or deliver it, (opening it first if he should think fit) he would cause it to be deliver’d safe without opening. I hope you do not feel any Reluctance in returning to your Studies. This is the Time of Life in which you are to lay the Foundations of your future Improvement, and of your Importance among Men. If this Season is neglected, it will be like cutting off the Spring from the Year. Your Aunt had the Carelessness to send the Bundle containing
