September 21, 1776 215 the same time men of Merit and abilities will always meet with Suit able encouragement. You must therefore pursue the line you set out in, give general discouragement to those that apply and recommend none but such as the General will pledge his word for, and you may even intimate to him that if too many come over the Congress will not know what to do with them. 5 RC (CtY). In a clerical hand, and signed by Franklin and Morris. Morris’ draft of this letter is in PCC, item 37. 1 For Capt. Lambert Wickes’ encounter with H.M. Sloop Shark, see Thomas Jefferson to Edmund Pendleton, August 26, 1776, note 4. 3 General d’Argout’s offer to favor “the interest of the Insurgents as much as it would be within my power’’ was immediately overruled by the French minister of marine, Gabriel de Sartine. See Morgan, Naval Documents, 5:1317-19, 6:583-84. 3 For British Admiral James Young’s strongly worded protest and General d’Argout’s response, see ibid., 6:51-52, 111. 1 Richard Price’s Observations on the Nature of Civil Liberty. 3 For the continuation of this letter, see Committee of Secret Correspondence to Bingham, October 1, 1776. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Philadelphia Sept. 21st. 1776 Congress have ordered a New Army to be raised to consist of Eighty eight Battalions, each State to furnish as follows—New Hampshire three, Massachusetts Fifteen, Rhode Island &c Two, Connecticut Eight, New York Four, New Jersey Four, Pennsylvania Twelve, Lower Counties One, Maryland Eight, Virginia Fifteen, North Carolina Nine, South Carolina Six and Georgia One, to serve during the War; and to encourage a speedy Inlistment have ordered a Bounty of Twenty Dollars for each Soldier that shall inlist, and a Grant of Land &c &c. The Resolve of Congress respecting the new Army, & the new Articles of war will be transmitted to you; but as it is possible they may not reach you so soon as a Letter by the Post, I have therefore been more particular than I should have otherwise been. 1 The State of Massachusetts Bay have ordered every Fifth Man to march to reinforce the Army near New York, from all their Towns except Those which from their Situation are exposed to the Enemy, and from which the Battalion is to be composed that is to supply the Place of the Continental Battalion ordered from Newport to New York. I wish they may arrive at Camp before a decisive Battle is fought. You have heard without Doubt of a Skir mish between a Party of our Troops and a Party of the Enemy, and that our Troops drove them repeatedly from their Ground and forced them to retreat. It was the Intention of Genl. Washington to have served the Enemy as they did Us at Long Island. He ordered
