September 21, 1776 217 ship, &: that you would give her all the possible dispatch in your power. 1 I am also glad to hear Capt Exceen with the Brigt Friendship is at your Port with 6 or 700 bus[hels] salt. If you can prevail upon him to come round with his salt either to this place or Virginia (where the Coast is intirely clear from Cruizers as Vessells arive here daily) we would from either place give his Vessell an extraordinary good freight out again and allow him for his extra time and still hold his Vessell insured by the Congress. Should this be objected to (which I hope will not be the case as the Vessell can earn nothing now) endeavor to get his Vessell discharged at New London, & let me know the result. I am, Sir, Your very Humble Servt, Fras Lewis P.S. Pray let the Flaxseed be well cleaned. RC (CtY). 1 This letter to Lewis from Shaw, the Continental prize agent in Connecticut, is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:781. In it Shaw mentions an August 24 letter from Lewis which has not been found. See also New York Delegates to Augustine Lawrence and Samuel Tuder, October 21, 1776, note 3. Marine Committee to Thomas Cushing Sir, In Marine Committee, Philadelphia Septem. 21, 1776 In consequence of a letter from the president of Massachusetts Bay dated the 13 Instant to the President of the Congress which was by Congress referrd to this Committee; we have determined to Comply with the wishes of your assembly by Ordering the Frigate Commanded by Capt. McNeill and that by Captain Thompson of New Hampshire to be fitted immediately and proceed on a Cruize on your Coast in hopes of taking the Milford Frigate or of drawing her or any other Enemy away from those Seas. 1 We therefore authorize you to accept the Profferd assistance of the said assembly or any Committee they appoint to assist in fitting, equipping, arming & manning that Frigate. You are also to Accept their offer of Twenty four nine Pounders (cannon) and to Co operate with them in getting this ship to sea with the utmost Expedi tion, and we agree to reimburse the state of Massachusetts Bay for all Just & necessary Expences they incurr in Effecting this Business. We shall in due time also cause this Cannon to be returned unless they think proper to make Sale of them for the use of this ship and in that case we woud choose to purchase them provided they are good guns quite suitable for the service. You will please to purchase a proper number of Swivell Guns, good musketts, Blunderbusses, cutlasses, Pikes & other arms & in-
