September 22, 1776 221 RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:131. 1 The plan for the army was embodied in resolutions adopted by Congress on September 16 and ordered published on September 20, 1776. JCC, 5:762-63, 807. In his autobiography, Adams asserted that “The Articles of War and the Insti tution of the Army during the War, were all my Work,’’ measures that emerged from the Board of War under Adams’ chairmanship. Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:434-35. a The Articles of War, as agreed to by Congress on September 20 after long debate, are in JCC, 5:788-807. For passages in Adams’ autobiography pertaining to the Articles of War, see Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:392, 409-10, 433-34. “For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Abigail Adams, October 1, 1776. Benjamin Franklin to William Temple Franklin Dear Grandson, Philada. Sept. 22. 1776 You are mistaken in imagining that I am apprehensive of your carrying dangerous Intelligence to your Father; for while he re mains where he is, he could make no use of it were you to know & acquaint him with all that passes. You would have been more in the right if you could have suspected me of a little tender Concern for your Welfare, on Acct of the Length of the Journey, your Youth and Inexperience, the Number of Sick returning on that Road with the Infectious Camp Distemper, which makes the Beds unsafe, to gether with the Loss of Time in your Studies, of which I fear you begin to grow tired. To send you on such a Journey merely to avoid the being oblig’d to Govr Trumbull for so small a Favour as the forwarding a Letter, seems to me inconsistent with your Mothers usual Prudence. I rather think the Project takes its rise from your own Inclination to a Ramble, & Disinclination for Returning to College, join’d with a Desire I do not blame of seeing a Father you have so much Reason to love. They^send to me from the Office for my Letter, so I cannot add more than to acquaint you, I shall by next post if desired send several Frank’d Covers directed to Govr Trumbull, for Mrs F. to use as she has occasion. I write to him in the first now sent, 1 to introduce her Request. She may desire her Husband to send his Letters to her under Cover to me: It will make but 2 Days add. The Family is well &: join in Love to her & you. 2 Your affectionate Grandfather, B Franklin RC (PPAmP). 1 Not found. ’Franklin hurried off the following brief note to Temple a few days later: "I hope you will return hither [i.e., Philadelphia] immediately, & that your Mother will make no Objection to it, something offering here that will be much to your Advantage if you are not out of the Way.” Franklin to William Temple Franklin, September 28, 1776, Franklin Papers, PPAmP.
