222 September 22, 1776 Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Sir, Philada. Sepr. 22d 1776. I am Glad you are Sending the Sloop up to Sell, and hope you’l not delay doing it, least some of the Men of War now at New York should be thought no longer Necessary there, and be sent to our Capes. A Circumstance of this Sort would inevitably knock up the Sale of all kind of Veshells, for it is the trade they are now pushing that keeps up the demand for them, and the men of War Coming to the Cape would put an End to that trade. Super-fine Flower is now at 18 Shillings and Rising as Brown tells me, tho’ when I Sold Could Get no more than 13/6. It is What they Call light packed, or Seven Quarter that brings this price. I Should have no Objection to Your Sending the Schooner Also. But am Doubtfull shee is too Flat and therefore would not answer the purpose of foreign trade and of Course not sell well. If the Sloop is not Come away before you Get this Letter, would advise you to get John Bell to Come in her. He has been dealing in that way and would be of Great [use?] to me in Selling her here. But if shee is Come away And you Should Conclude to Send the Schooner pray Get him to Come in her. I had Some Convention [Conversation?] with Bell while in Town, and he promised to Call on You Concerning the Sale of them. I don’t know what you do for News now since Your Post has fell through. I have Reed no Letter from Colonel Haslet for eight or ten days past, But Received one from a Worthy Gentleman of my Acquaintance dated the 16th Instant, Wherein he Says “Yesterday a Most Inglorious day! The British Troops Landed on New York Island, from Long Island, at a place Called Turtle Bay about five miles above New York City, when the Appearance of only a few of them made two or three Regiments of Americans Retreat. Retreat did I say, it ought to be Run away notwithstanding all the Solicita tions, prayers and I might say tears of General Washington. These were not Southern Troops. Our people had a few Hours before, Evacuated New York. The Enemy then took possession of it, and all the Lower End of the Island. A line was immediately thrown up, about Eight Miles from New York Across from East to North River. The Enemy possessing the West and We the East part up to Kings- Bridge, and the Pensylvanians and Delaware Encampment is on the East side of the Bridge, under the Command of General Mifflin. This far for Bad News. This Morning I was Spectator to a Most Glorious Scene. The Enemy Advanced to An Eminence, about a Mile from our Lines. The Maryland and Virginia Troops were Ordered by General Washington to disposses them, and with un daunted Bravery they Marched up. When a Smart Engagement Ensued, Fresh Troops were Poured in upon both Sides, The Contest Obstinate, and Long. Finely our Heroes forced them from three
