226 September 23, 1776 result of his agency. 1 We regret with him that it has not been ac companied with the successes you had reason to expect from it. Nothing was wanting on his part that the most earnest zeal to serve you could prompt, 8c we have cooperated with our best endeavours to carry his designs into execution. But such is the demand for Workmen in every branch of the Iron Manufactury 8c the Wages so very extravagantly high that men who have any pretensions to skill in the business cannot be prevailed upon to leave home. We have been under the necessity to purchase a light Waggon and two horses to remove the man whom he has employed together with the Patterns of Pots which we have been so fortunate as to procure tho at a great price, as they were the only ones to be sold in the province of Pennsylvania. We have advanced 100 dollars to Mr Milles for which he will be accountable to you. We have been induced to this from an ex pectation that on his way out he may meet some Workmen who may answer his purpose 8c to whom it may be necessary to pay something in hand to induce to accompany him to Carolina. We are Gentlemen, With great Respect, Your Obed. Humble Serts, Will Hooper Joseph Hewes John Penn [P.S.] Inclosed is the Expence of the Waggon 8c Horses. RC (Nc-Ar). Written by Hooper and signed by Hooper, Hewes, and Penn. N.C. Colonial Records, 10:806-7. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 On this point, see William Hooper to William Livingston, August 29, 1776, note. Edward Rutledge to Robert R. Livingston My dr. Livingston, Philada. Sept. 23d. 1776. I have been so much upon the going that for some Weeks past it has been impossible for me to put Pen to Paper. The Hurry is however past away in a Degree 8c I snatch a Moment’s Leisure to request that you or Jay or both of you will immediately on receipt of this set off for this Place. Little less than the Salvation of your Colony may depend on your Presence. I would tell you a great deal, had I Time, or were it not possible that this might fall into Hands inimical to us 8c our Cause. If I have Leisure I shall write to Jay to desire his Attendance, if not make my Love to him, tell him how I esteem him, 8c how much I long to see him. 1 By a Letter re ceived this Day from Schuyler he informs us that he is no longer a
