September 23, 1776 227 Major Genl, in our Service, but that he will attend his Duty in Congress in a Fortnight from the Date of his Letter. I wish he was now here. You know as well as I do, that the Rascals who took much Liberty with the Character of that Gentleman would not venture to look him in the Face. I admire his Wisdom; it was the only Step which he could take to recover &: establish his Reputa tion. If it is in your way to write him let him know how agreeable his presence will be in Congress to all who wish well to our Affairs. Let me repeat it; you cannot render as much Service to your Coun try in any other way whatever as by coming to us immediately & bringing with you Jay &: Schuyler. 2 I shall go from hence for Caro lina within a Month. I wish to see Matters put upon a better Foot than they now are, & to contribute as far as my Abilities can carry me, towards rendering your Country free & happy. Don’t take my Silence amiss, but let me hear from you soon. God bless you. Yours Sincerely & affectionately, E Rutledge RC (NHpR: Livingston-Redmond Collection deposit). Addressed: “To Robert R. Livingston Esquire at the Congress of New York, to be forwarded to him wherever he may be in New York.” 1 Jay and Livingston were too involved in local New York political affairs to return to Congress at this time. See Robert R. Livingston to Rutledge, October 10, Miscellaneous Manuscripts, DLC; and John Jay to Rutledge, October 11, 1776, Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:998-99. “Infuriated by criticisms of his performance as commander of the northern army and aroused by allegations of corruption in the provisioning of his men, General Schuyler submitted his resignation in a letter written to Hancock on September 14, which was read in Congress on September 23 and referred to the Board of War. Although a number of New England delegates, who had been especially critical of Schuyler’s military strategy, were confident that the general’s resignation would be accepted, this confidence was misplaced. Even before Schuyler’s letter reached Congress, opposition to his resignation had been ex pressed by the Albany Committee of Correspondence and the New York Con vention. The convention in particular had adopted a series of resolves on Sep tember 20 calling for Schuyler’s continuance in office and had written a letter to the New York delegates warning that “General Schuyler’s resignation will not only be highly prejudicial to the common cause of America, by the loss of an able and vigilant officer . . . but will be productive of internal jealousy and dis content, at a period when union and harmony are necessary for our preservation.” Congress referred these resolves to a committee consisting of William Hooper, Thomas McKean, and Edward Rutledge on September 27. The convention’s intervention, when combined with the critical military situation then existing in both northern and southern New York, led Congress on October 2 to approve a resolution drawn up by Rutledge rejecting Schuyler’s resignation and promising the appointment of a committee “to enquire fully into his conduct, which, they trust, will establish his reputation in the opinion of all good men.” See JCC, 5:809, 831, 841; PCC, item 67, 1:332, item 153, 2:368-71; Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:333-34, 703-4, 707-10; William Williams to Joseph Trumbull, September 26; Philip Livingston to the New York Convention, September 28; Edward Rutledge to Robert R. Livingston, October 2; and John Hancock to Philip Schuyler, Oc tober 4, 1776. See also Jonathan G. Rossie, The Politics of Command in the American Revolution (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1975), pp. 110-29.
