September 24, 1776 231 and urged them in the most pressing Language to comply in the fullest Manner with the Requisition of Congress. As the Troops now in Service belonging to the several States will be considered as Part of their Quota in the American Army, it will be necessary to ascertain what Number of the Troops, as well as what Officers will engage to serve during the War. For this Purpose I have wrote to the States, and forwarded blank Commissions for all such Officers, and others whom they shall appoint agreeably to the enclosed Resolves. The Articles of War as first adopted by Congress being exploded, I send you sundry Copies of those, which they have instituted in their Room. 2 I enclose you also sundry other Resolves, to which I beg Leave to request your Attention. 3 As the Committee of Congress will confer with you on the State of the Army, to them I beg Leave to refer you, and am with every Sentiment of Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obedient and very hble Sevt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 5:762-63; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:4-7. 3 See JCC, 5:788-807. 3 These consisted of numerous resolves on military affairs passed by Congress on September 16, 18, 19, 20, and 23. See JCC, 5:761, 780-81, 783-84, 808, 810-11. Lewis Morris to the New York Convention Sir Philadelphia Septemr 24 1776 I had the honor to receive your Letter accompanying the Resolve of Congress relative to my returne to resume the command of my Brigade. At a time when the State to which I belong is invaded, and particularly as I am honored with a military command, I esteem it my duty to account for my absence. Since my arrival at Philadelphia the State of N York has had no more than a representation in Congress, and as the Gentlemen of the Committee for Indian affairs were mostly out of Town, the whole of that necessary business has Devolved upon me. My family have been Obliged to desert their home and meeting with them in this place, altogether unprovided, I have been under the necessity of delaying the time of my Stay untill I could fix them in some situation where they could be accommodated. The distress of my Family on this occasion made it my particular duty to attend to them, and which I flatter myself will be justifiable upon every principle of justice. The Situation of my Brigade I was convinced was well known to
