September 24, 1776 233 the Convention. I apprehended that not more than a Colls Com mand was left in it, and as such did not think my presence was so absolutely necessary. I have thought that the existance of such a Brigade, in which were so many disaffected persons, was dangerous to the cause, as well as to my own Life. But being desirous to participate in the virtuous opposition to the British Tyrant, I had determined as soon as possible to join Genl Washington, and con tribute my assistance to him, prompted in the first instance by a Love to my Country, and in the next place the preservation of my property, being thoroughly convinced that unless we conquer, I am ruined. However in obedience to the commands of Convention, I shall prepare with all possible expedition to set out for West Chester, and will endeavour to execute any orders they may be pleased to give to the utmost of my ability. 1 I have the honor to Subscribe myself, Sir Your Obliged and Obet. Huml Servt, Lewis Morris RC (NN). 1 Noting that as a result of the absence of Morris, a brigadier general in the New York militia, “the Militia of Westchester County are not so properly ar ranged and managed as they ought to'be at this critical juncture," the convention on September 16 had ordered him to return to his command. In answer to the present letter, the convention reaffirmed this order on October 8, although by then Morris had already left Philadelphia. On January 9, 1777, the New York Committee of Safety ordered him to be paid “two hundred and eleven pounds four shillings ... for his attendance as a Delegate of this State in Continental Congress, to the fourth day of October last, as per his account delivered in this day.” See ,4m. Archives, 5th ser. 2:693, 3:231-32; and Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:766. New York Delegates to the New York Committee of Safety Gentlemen Phila. 24 Sepr. 1776 We reed, your lett. of the 9th Sepr. with Sundry Inclosures which were laid before Congress, who have Come to Several resolutions A Copy of which we Send here inclosed. 1 You will See that 3 Tons of powdr. was direetd. to be delivd. at New Windsor to be sent to the forts, but that will not be done as the Waggons with the 15 Tons referred to In the resolution went by Way of Minisink. The five Tons we Shall forward Immediately. We obtained an Order from Congress for 6700 dollr. to be laid out in Arms for yr. State which we Shall purchase when we have an opportunity. 2 None are more to be had here, but parcells frequently Arrive, if You Shd have occasion for the Money for a More pressing purpose you will please to Acquaint us. We wrote you the 30 Augt. which we hope Came to hand. The En-
