September 24, 1776 235 think it no breach of charity to suppose that a family so much affected in power, and property as the one above mentioned were actuated only by low and interested motives. My Seat in Congress has subjected me to many cares to which I was a stranger when my whole business consisted in reading, writing & feeling pulses. I am obliged daily to hear the most melancholly Accounts of the distresses of our troops from wants of every kind. I have felt a large share of the pain & shame brought upon our arms by the desertion of Long Island, and evacuation of New York. The military Spirit of our countrymen seems to have subsided in that part of the continent, and a torpor seems likewise to have seized upon the citizens of America in general. I apprehend we have over rated the public virtue of our country. If this is the case, let us not repine at misfortunes. They are necessary to the growth & existence of patriotism. History shows us that states like individuals have arisen to importance only when their foundations were laid in difficulties & Adversity. We received so many pledges during the last Campaign of the favor and protection of heaven that it would seem a Species of infidelity to doubt our Success in the issue of the present controversy. A convention have at last formed a goverment for our State. Herewith I send you a copy of it. 1 It is tho’t by many people to be rather too much upon the democratical Order, for liberty is as apt to degenerate into licenciousness, as power is to become arbitrary. Restraints therefore are as necessary in the former as the latter case. Had the governor 8c counsel in the new constitution of Pennsyl vania possessed a negative upon the proceedings of the assembly the goverment would have derived safety, wisdom 8c dignity from it. But we hope the counsel of Censors will remedy this defect at the expiration of seven years. My present Situation requires that I should possess a thorough knowledge of the State of the Armies of the continent. Let me beg of you therefore to furnish me every week (if possible) with the history of every material occurrence in the northern department. Tell me all your wants whether they relate to provisions, cloathing, tents, ammunition or medicines. I could wish you would go further and inform me what officers, and what brigades, or regiments stand highest with you for courage, conduct, and military discipline. Duty 8c inclination will prompt me to do every thing in my power to remedy abuses, correct delays, and reward merit of every kind in the army. My Compts. await Genl Gates, and Genl. St Clair. Tell the latter that I have done nothing since I took my seat in congress with greater pleasure than giving my Vote for making him a Brigadr., and I wish for nothing more than to do the same justice to the merit of my friend Col. Wayne. Inter Nos—an Attention in you to
