236 September 24, 1776 Genl Gates may facilitate this matter if it should soon come before congress. Adieu my dear Anthony. God bless you! & bring you back in Safety to our native province in which I hope to spend many days with you in the enjoyment of that freedom for which we are both making sacrifices in the cabinet & field. Yours sincerely, B Rush RC (PHi). Addressed: “Col. Anthony Wayne of the 4th Pennsylvania Regent, at Ticonderoga.” ’According to the minutes of the proceedings of the Pennsylvania Convention, the new frame of government was not finally agreed to until September 27. The text of the Pennsylvania constitution was entered on the minutes the following day. See 4m, Archives, 5th ser. 2:48-59. Secret Committee to William Bingham Sir Philada. Septr. 24th. 1776 We have Shipped 1000 bbls flour onboard the Ship Betsey, Capt Wm. Stevens, for your address on Account & Risque of the United States of America agreable to the enclosed Invoice & bill of Loading.’ The Captn has liberty either to go into St Lucia or Martinico just as winds or other Circumstances may serve. You will therefore receive this flour at either place and cause it to be sold to the best advantage, pay the freight as per bill of Loading & place the net proceeds to the Credit of this Committee. We hope the Brigt Cornelia & Molly, Capt Lockhard, arrived safe & delivered her Cargo in good order. If so you will no doubt have paid for the Muskets & Powder you remitted by Cap Wickes, out of that Cargo, but if it did not arrive you will have to pay for them out of the present one, or from that of the Sloop Independance also Sent to your address. You must dispatch this Ship back as expeditiously as possible and if the Sloop Independance does not arrive whilst she is there you may remit us back in her the Value of £1500 to £2000, in Good blankets and other Woolen Goods suitable for Soldiers, with some more Muskets, Powder, Gun Flints, Salt Petre, Sulphur &c just as you can obtain them to the best advantage observing that we now want Cloathing for our Troops beyond any other Articles. Shou’d the Sloop Independance arrive safe, You may then remit the less Value in the Ship because we deem the Sloop a safer conveyance but still we wou’d have some Goods by each, The Value propor tioned to the Effects you have in hand unless you can obtain Credit & then you may increase it one half. We are sir, Your hble servants, Robt Morris Joseph Hewes Josiah Bartlett Tho M:Kean Phil. Livingston Richard Henry Lee
