September 25, 1776 237 RC (PHi). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Bartlett, Hewes, Lee, Livings ton, and McKean. 'This day Robert Morris also wrote a brief note on behalf of the Secret Committee to the Pennslyvania Council of Safety requesting their permission for a pilot to carry the Betsey down Delaware Bay. Signets Collection, Ini’; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 5:28. John Adams to James Warren Dr sir Septr. 25. 1776 1 This Express carries a new Plan of an Army. I hope the Gen. Ct. without one Moments delay will Send Commissions to whole Corps of their officers, either by Expresses or Committees to New York and Ticonderoga that as many Men may be inlisted without delay as possible. It may be best to send a Committee with full Powers to each Place. There is no Time to be lost. I inclose you a Sett of Articles as lately amended. 2 Discipline I hope will be introduced at last. I am, John Adams RC (MHi). ’This day Adams also wrote a brief letter to his wife Abigail. “I have only Time to say, by Mr. Taylor, that I am not worse than I have been—that how ever, I think, the G Ct might have sent somebody here, before now—and that it will not be many days before I shall sett off, I shall wait for the Completion of a few Things and then go—perhaps in a Week or ten days." Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:134. “For the “new Plan of an Army” and the “Articles as lately amended,” see Adams to Abigail Adams, September 22, 1776, notes 1 and 2. William Hooper to Robert R. Livingston Dear Sir 1 Philada. Sept 25. 1776 I Thank you for your very obliging letter of the 9th of this Instant. I take my pen in hand rather to prove my own punctuality than because I have anything that is important enough to intrude among the many weighty matters which press upon your attention. We anxiously wait the important consequences which two such numer ous armies brought in contact may produce. Genl Howe supported with Officers & Men inured to service—found with every species of Military stores which can make them formidable; determined, and desperate some of them from the disgrace which attended their re treat from Boston &: anxious to restore the honour of the British Arms—to conflict with an army of new troops—ill found—ill cloathed—headed by officers who supposing they have every other merit have no pretensions to experience—& unhappily for us I fear that past events may have a future effect 8c some of our turgid friends may not feel bould when it is necessary that they should.
