238 September 25, 1776 We have been alarmed with an account of the City of New York having been in flames several days past & that the greatest part of it has been consumed. Some accounts attribute this Calamity to Genl Howe’s orders while others with greater probability ascribe it to accident or the ungovernable Brutality to those Men mon sters the Hessians. General Howe in full possession surely would not be mad enough to burn his house over his own head. The Congress have ordered 88 Regiments to be raised for the next Year’s service to continue during the War. I wish this may save the dreadful Consequences of short Enlistments or calling forth the Militia upon Exigencies. Were we to persist in the method hitherto pursued the Contest would be of short duration. Our Treasury would soon discover its weakness. Juniper Lees Express arrived here last night. 2 He left Lee at Georgia, the Congress Express within a day & half ride of him. Possibly Lee may be here in a day or two. The weight is too great for any one man, the conduct of the American Army without any to lean upon for advice. Adieu. 1 scrawl this amidst the confusion of tongues—at the Treasury board. Your’s truly, Wm Hooper RC (Facsimile, Lawrence H. Leder, ed., The Genesis of American Freedom, 1765-1795, Waltham, Mass.: Brandeis University, 1961, plate 9). ’Recipient identified in American Art Association Catalog (January 25, 1918), items 16-17, where an extract of Livingston’s October 26 reply to Hooper is also printed. ’This day Congress read letters from Gen. Charles Lee to Hancock of August 24 and to the Board of War of August 27. See ]CC, 5:818. See also PCC, item 158, 1:79; and NYHS Collections 5 (1872): 239, 241-45, in which the letter to Hancock is dated August 23. Robert Treat Paine to Samuel Phillips, Jr. Sr. 1 Philada. Septr. 25th. 1776. Mr. Gerry delivered me a letter you sent by Major Cox; 2 I have been a long time anxious to know the state of Gun Powder manu facture in our Government and have wrote repeatedly without being able to get any satisfactory information. We have had great success in making saltpetre, but without great Care it will be all spoilt in making into Gunpowder. There have been some great instances here of miserable trash turn’d out for Gunpowder, which occasioned the Congress to appoint a Committee to enquire into the defect and procure a remedy. . . . 3... .1 am exceeding glad to find you turning yr. attention to this very important Manufacture. I hope you will not only make im provements in yr. own Works but communicate Knowledge to the
