September 25, 1776 239 other Powder makers and do what lays in yr Power to promote the manufacture of good Powder for it must be a most cruel Vexation in the day of decision for Liberty or Slavery to have the Scale turn against us meerly thro’ the defect of our own Powder. This matter has lain as a Burthen on my mind and has caused me to apply great attention to this manufacture. . . . Congress have passed some resolves to prevent the bad manufac ture of Powder and also the importation of bad Powder, (for much Powder which has been imported from abroad has proved exceed bad) and have recommended inspectors to be appointed to prove all Powder. This matter should be carefully attended to. Majr. Cox will describe to you the machine by which we made most of our Experiments. You will excuse the freedom I take in addressing you thus freely when you consider the real importance of the subject. I wish the Inhabitants of the United States were more intent upon providing and manufacturing the Means of defence, than making Governments witht. providing for the means of their Support. Wish ing you Success in yr. noble Efforts to promote that best Good of yr Country, its defence from powerful Enemies, I part your most hble Servt, R T Paine MS not found; reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 2:101. Endorsed: "Mr. Paine to S. P. Eve [?] on Gun powder.” 'Although it now seems clear that Paine wrote this letter to Samuel Phillips, Jr. (1752-1802), Burnett, interpreting a transcribed endorsement, ventured to identify the recipient as "S.P. Eve [?].” An Andover, Mass., merchant and mill owner, Phillips manufactured gunpowder from 1776 to 1796, except for a period after his mill exploded in 1778. He served in the general court from 1775 to 1801, and in 1776 served on a committee to supervise and encourage the manu facture of saltpetre. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 17:593-605. 2 In his September 11 letter to Elbridge Gerry, Phillips had requested informa tion on the manufacture of saltpetre and gunpowder. Paine Papers, MHi. 3 Elipses in Tr here and below. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Sir, Philada. Sepr. 25th 1776 That the New England men placed to defend the Landing place Behaved in a Most Dastardly, Cowardly Scandelous Manner is Most Certain. But that Courage is not always to be found the Same Even in the Same person is Equally true, and Verryfied in those verry same Men. For Some of them the day following were in the other Engagement and behaved with great Bravery, As did the whole Body Engaged; You have Some Account of the Skirmish in the papers, therefore Shall refer you to them and a Letter I wrote by Wilds & Kirkley. I saw Carsons but not till this morning, When he told me some person by the name of Jones from Mifflins Cross-Roads
