252 September 26, 1776 ter, was signd by the Come. Orderd That Mr. Morris employ a proper person to go to N. England to charter vessals to proceed from thence to Chesapeake Bay, there to load with tobo. now pur- chasg. on acct, of the Continent. Issued the followg. drafts on the Treasurer. In Favr. of G. Meade & Co. for 4434 17/90 dlls being amount of an Invoice of 1000 barrels flour purchasd by them & shippd on board the ship Betsey, Wm. Stevens Mr., for St. Lucia or Martinico on Conti. Acct. Consignd to Mr. Wm. Bingham Mercht. there. In favr. Jh. Hewes Esqr. for 2000 dlls part paymt. of the freight of his Brige. Fanny, Capn. Tokeley, now under Charter party to this Come. 1 In favor of Robert Morris Esqr. for 40,000 dlls advanced him to pay for produce now purchasg. on Conti. Acct. Order on Col. Timy. Matlack to deliver G. Losch 4 Casks Salt petre to be manufacture! into powdr. MS (MH-H). 1 For information on the troubles that beset the Fanny before she finally sailed for France, see Joseph Hewes to William Tokeley, May 18, 1776, note. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir Philadel. 26 Sepr 1776 I reed yours of the 19th. Have you reed mine containg. an ex tempore Accot. of the Nego[tiatio]n with Ld Howe. 1 Congress have directed You to purchase Salt 8c put up Provisions as You shall judge necessary for next years army. 2 Trust You have reed it from the Presidt. They have alarming Accos. from the No. Army that the Sick have nothing but bread 8c meat, not so much as Ind. meal nor any kind of Vegetable 8cc & the Sick perish for want 8cc 8c have sent a Comte of Mr Stocton 8c Clymer to enquire into all the Circumstances of that Army in order to make Them as comfortable as possible, 8c the Idea of a Contract for that Departmt. is received 8c adopted 8c the Comte are instructed to endeavor to make one, upon Schylers Plan, of which They have a Copy. Suppose it will ease You of a heavy Burden. Three wod have been sent but they cod not find a 3d man, two had been sucessively chosen 8c begd off, 8c then it was concluded to send but the two. 3 Tis also said the Jersey Troops have nothing but bread 8c meat 8c that none of the Troops have their full rations, 8c that there is jobbing 8c cheating, tho nobody directly blames you 8c surely you have powerful Friends 8c Sup porters but there is great uneasiness that yr Deputies or somebody grossly fails 8cc. Tis very possible they may soon be for enterg. into a Contract for the York Army 8c have you continue Comissary. They say tis his business only to issue 8c be a Check upon the Contractor. I tell Them if They make a Contract then You ought by all means
