260 September 28, 1776 was mistaken. 1 I did not forsee what Maneuvre wod take place; the N. York Convention have sent a warm & spirited Remonstrance agst. acceptg it representg the Consequences of it as fatal & total destruction &c &c &c in the most pressing Terms & unanimous they say. It is possible some body wrote to them to procure this. His Friends here blaze away on the same side, & have got a Comte, to consider the remonstrance & to report, &: no doubt what the report will be. His Friends are so many & fierce, that I doubt not those who wod willingly accept it, must give way to such a Torrent in his Favr. for the sake of Peace here. RC (Ct). A continuation of Williams to Joseph Trumbull, September 26, 1776. ’See Edward Rutledge to Robert R. Livingston, September 23, 1776, note 2. John Adams to Henry Knox Dear Sir. Philadelphia Septr. 29. 1776 This Evening I had the Pleasure of yours of the 25th. 1 I have only to ask you whether it would be agreable to you to have Austin made your Lt Coll.? Let me know sincerely, for I will never propose it without your Approbation. I agree with you that there is nothing of the vast in the Char acters of the Enemies General, or Admiral. But I differ in opinion from you, when you think, that if there had been, they would have annihilated your Army. It is very true that a Silly Panick has been spread in your Army, and from thence come to Philadelphia. But Hannibal spread as great a Panick once at Rome, without daring to attempt to take advantage of it. If he had his own Army would have been annihilated—and he knew it. A Panic, in an Army, when pushed to Desperation becomes Heroism. However, I despise that Panic and those who have been infected with it, and I could almost consent that the good old Roman fashion of Decimation should be Introduced. The Legion which run away, had the Name of every Man in it, put into a Box and then drawn out, and every tenth Man was put to death. The Terror of this Uncertainty whose Lot it would be to die, restrained the whole in the Time of danger from indulging their Fears. Pray tell me, Coll Knox, does every Man to the Southward of Hudsons River behave like an Hero and every Man to the North ward of it like a Poltroon or not. The Rumours, Reports, and Letters which come here upon every occasion represent the New England Troops as Cowards running away perpetually, and the Southern Troops as standing bravely. I wish I could know whether it is true. I want to know for the Government of my own Conduct, because if the New Englandmen are a Pack of Cowards, I would resign my Place in Congress where I should not choose to represent
