September 30, 1776 263 Service of this State. The late resolution of congress for encreasing our army to 60,000 men will necessarily call for a number of new Brigadiers, and the proportion which Pennsylvania will send into the field will give her a right to demand one or two more for her Share. Merit like yours will weigh heavily with the congress, but it must be held up in a pointed light to their view. Col. Magaw tho’ a younger Officer than you being near the congress, 8c having one or two eloquent friends in the house may perhaps be held up in colours that may injure your more just pretensions to promotion. Upon this Acct. I beg leave to suggest to you that your friends in congress (among whom I desire to be classed) will derive great support from a few words in your favor from General Gates. You must not omit improving this hint to your advantage. And in every thing relative to this matter I beg you will command my services. I should not have suggested these ideas to you, had I not more than once seen the most emminent military merit neglected in our pro motions, from ignorance in the congress, or from the want of proper recommendations. The bearer Mr Stockton is my father in law—a most zealous 8c faithful servant of the States. He commands the vote of New Jersey. I therefore beg (for your sake as well as my own) your par ticular Attention to him. With best compts. to Genl. Gates, Genl. St Clair, Col. Erwin, Col. Johnson, Capt. Frazer 2 8c such other of the officers at Ticon deroga as I have the pleasure of being acquainted with I am dear sir yours sincerely, B Rush P.S. I have this day seen a prisoner belonging to the 23rd regiment taken by our people near New York. I was much pleased with the fashion of his hair. It was cut Short all round by Genl Howe’s orders. Count Saxe recommended this fashion in his memoirs. It saves time 8c trouble 8c prevents lice. It moreover prevents a Soldier from suffering from rain which often keeps the hair wet for hours Afterwards. Suppose you introduce it in your regiment? If you begin with yourself, every private as well as officer must follow your example. RC (PHi). 1 Undoubtedly Rush’s letter to Wayne of September 24, 1776. ’Apparently the last three officers to whom Rush refers here were James Irvine, Francis Johnston, and Persifor Frazer. Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon Dear Sir Philadelphia, Sept. 30th, 1776. Last Saturday I rec’d yours of the 14th inst. and am very sorry for your bad success in procuring guns for the frigate; you say you
