264 September 30, 1776 have mentioned the affair to the President, and I hope some order will be taken about it, but what I know not. 1 I have not been able to attend either the Marine or Secret Committee for some time past and Congress but little. It is now above five weeks since I have been troubled with a severe cough, slow fever, profuse sweats and loss of appetite, except for light food. By the advice of my friends and physicians I design to leave this City in a few days and try to move homeward in hopes a change of air, moderate exercise and a recess from business may assist in restoring my health. Mr. Hancock has offered me a seat in his carriage, which I shall accept, as it is impossible for me to return on horseback in my present state of health. I rec’d Col. Whipple’s letter of the 15th, 2 where he informs me he expects to set out for this place about the 10th of October. I hope he will set off before that time, when he comes to be informed by my letters of my bad state of health and the necessity there is of a Delegate here. There is no news here more than you will see in the public prints. I am your friend, Josiah Bartlett. Tr (DLC). 1 Langdon’s September 14 letter to Bartlett is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:816-17. For Congress’ action on the cannon at Providence, R.I., see Marine Committee to Langdon, October 9, 1776. s An extract from William Whipple’s September 15 letter to Bartlett, which is in the Gratz Collection, PHi, is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:831. John Hancock to Thomas Jefferson Sir Philadelphia Septr. 30th. 1776. The Congress having appointed you to fill a most important and honorable Department, it is with particular Pleasure I congratulate you on the Occasion. By the enclosed Resolves you will percieve, that Doctor Frank lin, Mr. Deane, and yourself, are chosen Commissioners at the Court of France, to negotiate such Business as the Congress shall entrust you with. For this Purpose, Letters of Credence, and In structions will be delivered to Doctor Franklin, and Duplicates forwarded to you and Mr. Deane. You will therefore, be pleased to acquaint me, by the Return of the Express, who brings you this, at what Time and Place it will be most convenient for you to em bark, in Order that a Vessel may be sent to take you on Board. A suitable Vessel, will, in the mean Time, be provided here for the Accommodation of Doctor Franklin, it being judged most prudent, that you should sail in different Ships. 1 As it is fully in your Power, so I am persuaded it is the favorite Wish of your Heart, to promote the Interest and Happiness of
