September 30, 1776 265 your Country; and that you will, in particular, render her the great Services which she so fondly expects from you on this Occasion. With the warmest Wishes for your Health, and a safe and speedy Passage, I have the Honour to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem, Sir Your most obed. 8c very hble Servt., John Hancock, Presidt. RC (MHi). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:523-24. 1 In response to the news of his appointment as a commissioner to France, Jefferson regretfully informed Hancock on October 11 that “circumstances very peculiar in the situation of my family, such as neither permit me to leave nor to carry it, compel me to ask leave to decline a service so honourable and at the same time so important to the American cause." Congress acceded to Jefferson’s request to be relieved of this appointment and on October 22 chose Arthur Lee in his place. See ibid., 1:524; and JCC, 5:827-28, 879, 897. Thomas Stone to the Maryland Council of Safety Gent. Phila. Sep. 30th. 1776, Tuesday 1 Your Letter of the 27th to the Delegates of Maryland was de livered to Me yesterday. 2 Capt. Watkins did not leave this city so soon as I expected he would do, I fear nothing will do with him but Dismission. I have procured Clothes for his Company 8c have directed Lt. Grace, who at present commands, to have every thing got ready for them as soon as possible. Every thing here is very dear, but I thought it better to pay high, than keep the Soldiers doing Nothing or send them naked to Camp. I have heard nothing of the Powder you mention, my Col[leagu]es I presume attended to that Matter. Messrs Chase 8c Paca left this on Sunday 8c I shall sett out on Thursday if my State of Body will permit tho this I much doubt being at present much indisposed. The two adverse Armies remain in Statu quo. Genl Miflin who is in Town sais our Army is getting into better order 8c he hopes will be able to sustain any Attack the Enimy may make. Doctr Brown arrived here the Day after my Letter to him was sent, but has been very ill ever since. Surgeons are much wanted in Camp but where proper ones will be procured I know not. 3 I am with great Esteem, Gent., Yr most obt Sert, T Stone RC (PHi). 1 Since September 30, 1776, was a Monday, Stone may have misdated this letter. 2 See Md. Archives, 12:304-5. 8 A few days later Stone sent a brief letter to the president of the Maryland Convention recommending “Mr. Hopkins, a Young Gentleman of great Merit who wishes to enter into the Service in some Office among the Maryland Troops. He went a volunteer to Quebec where he behaved as I am informed very well, he was also in the Engagement on Long Island and showed great Spirit Sc Readi ness.” Thomas Stone to Matthew Tilghman, October 11, 1776, Gratz Collection, PHi.
