266 September 30, 1776 William Williams to Jabez Huntington Hond & dear Sir [Philadelphia September 30, 1776] I reed your Favor of the 7th a few days since & thank you for it, have nothing material to give you in Return. Congress are pressed with an exceeding Load of Business, I wish They wod sit more hours to attend it, but it is indeed extreemly fatiguing & exhausts the Spirits. Since the Affairs of N. York have happend, there has been no Time to attend to the Confederation, having passed the Comte it is redrafted & lies for Congress. Maryland solemnly protest They will never agree to it. Their capital objection is that it does not limit the Claims of Virginia, by whom they shall be swallowed up 8cc. If We were rid of our foreign cruel oppressors, that wod give me little concern. The Enemy have lately got Possession of Powles Hook on Jersey side, 1 it seems to have been deserted by Us, & that it will be no advantage to Them but only serves to di vide their Force. It is thot by many that our Army is in a better Situation in one Body 8c out of the reach of the Ships, than they were or cod be while They had so many Posts to defend 8c accessible by Land 8c Sea, 8c as it obliges them in their Station to divide their Army 8<: renders their Ships in a manner useless, if We are not wanting to our Selves, it must puzzle them extreemly to steer their Course. All was in statu quo the last we heard, but doubtless Howe is meditating some important blow. I sent the Issue of the Negotiation to the Govr. I think it will be happy, nothing but the attempt wod have satisfied many, 8c silenced those who wished to divide Us. He is instructed to talk much 8c thro out indeterminate words 8c Seems specious 8c fair. I think He greatly faild in his Politics, but will not say for him what He might have said. It must confirm every one that nothing can be Expected but total Destruction or absolute Submission, if in the power of their Hands. Mr 2 was sent by the Secret Comte only for Intelligence 8c to promote Commerce. They have a Letter from him containing very little of importance, he had not then reached his Place of Residence. The French are certainly strongly inclined in our Favor, but they are consummate Politicians. Sev[era]l Ships of Fr. 8c Spain are arrived in their West Indies to protect our trade, we have it in a Letter from an Agent there, as well as News Papers. Am glad to hear the poor long Islanders are geting off, tis said They are called upon to swear Alleigance 8c then forced to take up Arms. Am concerned for our Army’s winter Quarters, 8c Cloathing. Hope the last Militia will do better than the first. The Genii, says they have no Tents or Camp Kettles 8cc which distresses him beyond measure, it must be true for I know we have them not. The most bitter reproaches are thrown out against their late Conduct, 8c which I hope are groundless, but surely
