September 30, 1776 267 there can be no dependance on Militia; all are deeply convinced of it, it is of the last importance that a permanent Army shod be established. There is no looking back, the prospect forward is exceedingly better & more hopeful. I hope no one is at all discouraged. It was not to be conceivd that We shod establish Liberty & Freedom for ever, without some trouble & Distress in deed, the Enemy have attained as yet far less than might have been feard, from such immense preparation & Expence, tis scarce possible to believe the Nation can bear it much longer. If We are distresd, so are They. We have a noble Prize in View, while nothing but infernal Rage dictates the measures of our Enemies. It is said there is great bickering between the German & English Troops, but this is uncertain. Nothing is wanting on our Side but the repentance & Refor mation of the Land. The great 8c mercifull God seems to hold his uplifted Hand suspended & loth to strike the Blow, 8c waiting for our amendment, to say look to Me for why will ye die, my Chil dren of America. He that can do most to promote this blessed work will do the most important 8c essential Good to his Friends 8c to his Country. Strange that a sick Man shod be loth to apply a Remedy pleasant 8c sweet to the Taste, kind in its opperation, 8c sovereign in its Effect. We are sending a Comte to the nothern Army to indeavor to supply their Wants. We hear They are distresd. Will it not be best for Us to send a proper Person there also, with Commissions 8cc to inlist Men upon the new Regulation. Have not heard of Niles’s 2d Prize, fear She is lost. 3 The Loss of so many of our dear Countrymen, peirces my Heart with anguish. Do not their Friends pity Them 8c will They not destroy the Weapons of their Destruction; They are slain by the Sword, the Sins of their own Country. If our Assembly rechose their Delegates, I hope They will be guided by Wisdom 8c Prudence. 4 I must say that Mr Sherman from his early acquaintance, his good sense. Judgment, Steadiness 8c inflexible Integrity, has acquired much Respect 8c is an exceed ing valuable Member, 8c so is Mr Huntington 8c truly judicious, upright 8c worthy the Trust in Spight of that awful Contempt of Religion 8c Goodness too visible &c. Integrity 8c Virtue does 8c will Command Respect. For my part I neither expect nor wish to re main here, the Burden is exceeding great, but in this Critical time the acquaintance the others have with the men 8c Connection of affairs, is very usefull. It is of very great Importance that whoever attends here shod be Men of Uprightness 8c Integrity, inflexibly resolved to pursue 8c serve the great Cause, insensible to motives of Ambition, Interest 8c any other Applause than that of a good
