October 1, 1776 273 land this Fall £200,000 Sterling worth of Arms and Ammunition to St. Eustatius, Martinico, or Cape Francois; that application was to be made to the Governors or Commandants of those Places by inquiring for Mons. Hortalez and that on Persons properly au thorized applying, the above Articles would be delivered to them.” 2 Philada. October 1st. 1776. The above intelligence was Communicated to the Subscribers being the only two Members of the Committee of Secret Correspon dence now in this City and on Considering the Nature & importance of it, We agree in opinion that it is our indispensable duty to keep it Secret even from Congress for the following reasons. First. Shou’d it get to the ears of our Enemies at New York they wou’d undoubtedly take measures to intercept the Supplies & thereby deprive us not only of these Succours but of Others expected by the same route. Second. As the Court of France have taken Measures to Negotiate this loan and Succour in the most cautious & Secret Manner, shou’d we divulge it immediately, we may not only loose the present bene fit, but also render that Court Cautious of any further Connection with such unguarded People & prevent their granting other Loans & assistance that we Stand in need of & have directed Mr Dean to ask of them—for it appears from all our Intelligence they are not disposed to Enter into an immediate War with Britain altho dis posed to Support us in our Contest with them. We therefore think it our duty to Cultivate their favourable disposition toward us, draw from them all the support we can & in the end their private Aid must assist us to establish Peace or inevitably draw them in as Parties to the War. Third. We find by Fatal Experience the Congress Consists of too many Members to keep Secrets, as none cou’d be more Strongly enjoined than the present Embassy to France, notwithstanding which, Mr. Morris was this day asked by Mr. Reese Meredith 3 whether Doctor Franklin & others were really going Ambassadors to France, which plainly proves that this Committee ought to keep this Secret if Secrecy is required. Fourthly. We are also of opinion that it is unnecessary to inform Congress of this Intelligence at present because Mr Morris be longs to all the Committees that can properly be employed in re ceiving & importing the expected Supplys from Martinico, St. Eustatia or Cape Francois and will immediately influence the neces sary measures for that purpose. Indeed we have already authorized Wm Bingham Esqr. to supply at Martinico & St Eustatia for what comes there & remit part by the Armed Sloop Independance Capt Young promising to send others for the rest. 4 Mr Morris will apply to the Marine Committee to send other armed Vessells after her
