274 October 1, 1776 & also to Cape Francois (without Communicating this advice) in Consequence private Intelligence lately reed that Arms, ammunition & Cloathing can now be procured at those places. But shou’d any unexpected misfortune befall the States of America so as to depress the Spirits of the Congress, it is our opinion that on any event of that kind, Mr. Morris (if Doctr. Franklin shou’d be absent) shou’d communicate this Important matter to Congress, otherwise keep it untill part of or the whole Supplys arrive, unless other events happen to render the Communication of it more proper than it appears to be at this time. 5 B Franklin Robt Morris Communicated to me the 11th October 1776 and I concur heartily in the measure. Richard Henry Lee Communicated to me the 10th [i.e. 11th] of October 1776 and I do also sincerely approve of the Measure.® Wm Hooper MS (DNA: PCC, item 78). Written by Morris, signed by Franklin and Morris, and endorsed and signed by Lee and Hooper. Tr (DNA: PCC, item 133). In the hand of Robert Morris. 1 This introductory sentence does not appear in the two extant manuscript copies of this document. It was first printed in this form in the April 1, 1828, Committee of Foreign Affairs report on the claim of the heirs of Caron de Beaumarchais for $1 million and was printed from "a paper which was before the Committee of Claims in 1808.” U.S. Congress, House Committee on Foreign Affairs, 20th Cong., 1st sess., 1828, H. Rept. 220, pp. 19-20. It appears as an integral part of the document which follows in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspon dence, 2:151-52, and Burnett, Letters, 2:110-11. 2 In addition to this verbal report from Arthur Lee, Story also delivered to the committee several items from C. W. F. Dumas, Congress’ agent at The Hague. It cannot now be determined precisely what Dumas had sent to the committee, but the best evidence available on this point is contained in the following brief acknowledgment Franklin wrote to Dumas this day. "I have just time to acknowl edge the Receipt of your two Packets, A & B, with the Pamphlets enclos’d, the Contents of which are very satisfactory. You will hear from me more fully in a little time. . . . We have a great Force brought against us here, but continue firm.” Beinecke Library, CtY. Packets "A & B” were apparently Dumas’ letters of April 30-May 9, and May 14-June 6, 1776, which are in PCC, item 93, fols. 18-28, 36-41, translations of which are in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:85-89, 90-92. The second of these letters is clearly designated “B,” but since the first bears no similar identification mark, its identity as “A” can only be conjectured. “The Pamphlets enclos’d” have not been identified. 3 A Philadelphia merchant. ‘See Committee of Secret Correspondence to William Bingham, this date. “President Hancock formally certified that Franklin and Morris were autho rized to carry on the activities of the Committee of Secret Correspondence in a certificate of October I, 1776. “I do hereby Certify that Benjamin Franklin {Richard Henry Lee, William Hooper} and Robert Morris Esqrs. delegates in Congress from Pennsylvania have been duely appointed Members of the Honor able Committee of Secret Correspondence, and that they are fully empowered to
