October 1, 1776 275 direct all matters in their department on behalf of the United States of America, the other Members of Said Committee being now absent. "I do also Certify that the delivery of Arms, ammunition, Specie or other Stores, to them or their Order on behalf of the Congress, is and will be acknowl edged as Valid and binding on the United States of America.” Continental Con gress Miscellany, DLC. Lee’s and Hooper’s names were subsequently inserted between the lines, perhaps after they were appointed to the committee on October 11, 1776. An attempt to erase their names was only partially successful. There is no evidence in the journals to indicate that Hancock penned this certificate in consequence of any official action by Congress. 'Hooper apparently made the simple error of writing "10th” for “11th” when he added his endorsement to the document. Hooper, Lee, and John Witherspoon were added to the committee on October 11. JCC, 6:867. There is no evidence indicating why Witherspoon did not subsequently add his endorsement to the statement or why Hancock failed to include him in the certificate of authoriza tion quoted in the preceding footnote. Committee of Secret Correspondence to William Bingham [October 1, 1776] We are now at the 1st of October and have heard from Mr Deane after his arrival at Bourdeaux. His last letter is dated the 23d June when he was just setting out for Paris. We have later than his. In consequence of which we desire you to enquire of the General and Governor whither they have received any Arms or ammunition from Monsr. Hortalez with directions to deliver the same to any person properly authorized by Congress to receive them. If they have, we hereby authorize you to receive the Same, giving you receipts on behalf of the United States of America. If none Such are Arrived enquire if they have any advice of Such and request they will make known to you when they do arrive. We desire you to make the like application to the Governor of St. Eustatia, 1 but proceed cautiously in this business. We think you Should go there yourself in a French Vessel or if that might be unsafe or make a Noise, get Mr. Richard Harrison or Some person in whose prudence you can confide. Let the first question be, whether His Excellency has received any advices from Monsr. Hortalez. If the answer be in the negative, tell him he will receive letters from such a person and that those advices have reference to you; there fore request the favour of being immediately made acquainted when they come to hand when you will wait on him or Send a proper person in your Stead. If the Answer be in the affirmative then enquire if His Excellency has received any thing beside ad vice from Monsr. Hortalez and if he has, inform him you are empowered to receive the Same from him agreeable to the direc tions sent with the Goods. We beleive you had best proceed in the
