280 October 1, 1776 than formerly 8c Speak more openly but Tories are now of various kinds and various principles, some are so from real attachment to Britain, some from interested Views, many, very many from fear of the British Force, some because they are dissatisfied with the General Measures of Congress, more because they disapprove of the Men in power 8c the measures in their respective States, but these different passions, veiws and expectations are so combined in their Consequences that the parties affected by them, either withhold their assistance or oppose our operations and if America falls it will be oweing to Such divisions more than the force of our Enemies. However there is much to be done before America can be lost and if France will but join us in time there is no danger but America will soon be established an Independant Empire and France drawing from her the principal part of those sources of Wealth 8c power that formerly flowed into Great Britain will im mediately become the greatest power in Europe. We have given you as just a Picture of our present Situation as we can draw in the Compass of a Letter in order that you may be well informed, but you will only impart such circumstances, as you may think prudent. Our Frigates are fine Vessels, but we meet with difficulty in pro curing Guns and Anchors. Our people are but young in casting the former, and we want Coals to make the latter; however these dif ficulties we shall surmount and are bent on building some Line of Battle Ships immediately. The Success in privateering and encour agement given by the Merchants will inevitably bring Seamen Amongst us. This, with the measures that will be adopted to encourage the breeding of Seamen amongst ourselves will in a few Years make us respectable on the Ocean. Surely France cannot be so blind to her own Interest as to neglect this Glorious opportunity of destroying the power and humbling the pride of her Natural and our declared enemy. We make no doubt you have been made acquainted with the Negotiations of Monsr. Hortalez, 3 and in consequence thereof we conclude that you will be at no loss to obtain the Supplies of Goods wanted for a particular department, notwithstanding we know that the greatest part of those Remittances that were intended you have been intercepted by One means or other. It is unfortunate and much to be regretted that those remittances have had such Ill fate, but we hope you have obtained the goods on Credit, and you may depend that Remittances will be continued until all your engagements are discharged. Cloathing and Tents are so much Wanted for our Armys that we intreat you to apply immediately to the Court of France for a Loan of Money Sufficient to dispatch immediately very considerable quan tities of Stuff fit for Tents, 8c of Coarse Cloths, Coatings, Stockings, and such other comfortable necessarys for any Army as you can readily judge will be proper.
