October 1, 1776 281 You will get these goods sent out direct in French Vessels, or to their Islands where we can Send for them, but if you cou’d prevail on the Court of France to send out Men of War with them it wou’d be most acceptable. Whatever engagements you make for payment of the Cost of Such Cloathing and Necessarys the Congress will order Sufficient Remittances to fullfill the Same but in our circumstances it requires time to accomplish them. You’l Observe the Secret Committee have given orders to Mr. Thomas Morris to procure Sundry Articles and dispatch them im mediately, 4 and if you succeed in the negotiation of a loan from the Court for this purpose you may employ him or act in Conjunction with him, to procure and dispatch those Articles ordered by them and Such others as you Shall judge Necessary and the Remittances to be made him will serve to refund the Loan. Should the Court decline this matter perhaps the Farmers General may be induced to advance the Money or Stake their Credit, for the Sake of secur ing the Tobacco the Secret Committee will Remit to Europe. These things we throw out as hints and Shall only further observe that you cannot render your injured Country more essential service at this time than by procuring these Supplies immediately. We are told our vigilant enemies have demanded of the Courts of France, Spain, and Portugal to deliver up the American Ships in their Ports, and to forbid their having any further intercourse with them, that the Court of Portugal has complyed so far as to order our Ships away on ten days Notice—That France & Spain gave evasive Answers. This is private uncertain intelligence, but we think you will do well, to intimate to the Ministers of those Nations, that first impressions are lasting, that the time has been when they stood much in need of American Supplies, that such time may come again, that altho we are Stiled Rebels by Britain, yet our Friendship may hereafter be of the utmost importance to those powers partic ularly that possess American Colonies, and that injuries now done us will not be easilly effaced. These hints and arguments you’l offer as the Suggestions of your own mind and endeavour to influence them by Interest or fear from taking any part against us. On the contrary as it is evidently their Interest to encourage our Commerce, so we hope you’l be able to influence them by One Means or other to protect and Licence it in the utmost extent. We Shall not take up more of your time at present but remain, Sir, Your very hble Servants, B Franklin Robt Morris RC (MH-H). In a clerical hand and signed by Franklin and Morris. 1 See Robert Morris to John Jay, September 23, 1776, note 2. “Louis XVI had given orders on April 22, 1776, to outfit 20 ships of the line and a "proportionate number of frigates” in Toulon and Brest. But these were destined for convoying merchant ships carrying arms to America rather than
