October 1, 1776 285 which I transmit to the Committee of Congress by two persons who go express at the expence of this State. The assembly are clearly of opinion that the Articles will be purchased 25 per Cent cheaper if they have the Cash in hand. The House seemed to think that I ought to draw on the President; but that power is properly vested in the Committee of Congress, and not in an individual member. If the Committee should approve of the mode, and the sum men tioned, they will 1 doubt not immediately draw on the President for the money that no time may be lost. The Assembly continue to sit now, only for the return of their messengers with the money, which will be proportionately distributed among the members of the several Counties. I wait Mr Clymer’s arrival here, which I expect this evening and expect to proceed on for Ticonderoga to morrow morning. 2 I am Sir, your most obedt. hb Servant, Richd. Stockton RC (MHi). Addressed: “The Hold. Mr. Paine, Chairman of the Committee of Congress for &c &c.” 3 Paine was the chairman and Stockton a member of the committee on clothing appointed on September 25. JCC, 5:822. Congress’ resolution of the same date authorizing each member of this committee to employ “proper persons” in his state to purchase "blankets and woolens . . . [and] all other necessary cloathing for the soldiers” is in JCC, 5:821. On October 1 the New Jersey Assembly re solved that it would be "proper to appoint the Representatives in Council and Assembly of this State in their respective Counties” to carry out this resolution and sent Jonathan Baldwin and William C. Houston to obtain $30,000 from Congress for this purpose. There is no mention of this matter in the journals, but Baldwin and Houston must have been successful in their mission because one week later the assembly decided to reimburse them “for their Trouble and Expenses in bringing the Money from the Continental Congress.” See Votes and Proceedings of the General Assembly of the State of New Jersey (Burlington: Isaac Collins, 1777), pp. 26, 28-29, 40. ’See John Hancock to Philip Schuyler, September 27, 1776, note 4. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Philadelpa 1 Octo. 1776 This morning I arrived safe to this City with as much Health as when I left Home tho a little fatueged with a long Journey. I went by the Way of the Fishkill as I expected to find Mr. Hallet and Broome there, but Mr. Broome was gone to N Haven, and Mr. Hallet to the Jerseys. I found Mr. Miller in the Jerseys tho I was oblidged to go out of my Way for him with whom I have fully settled my Acco. but Mr. Hallet and Hazard were gone to the East ward but I have paid Mrs. Hallet £340.0.6 N York Currency and have her Receipt therefor, which same I think settles that Acco. Mr. Hallet it is said will be at Philadelpa in about a Month when I hope finally to Close that Matter. My Search for these Gentlemen
