October 2, 1776 287 quainted with the Ground, that they had never reconnoitred the Enemy, that they had neither Spies, Sentries, nor Guards, placed as they ought to have been, and that they had been Shamefully remiss in obtaining Intelligence of the Numbers, and Motions of the Enemy, as well as of the Nature of the Ground. I have read somewhere or other that “A Commander who is Sur prised in the Night, though guilty of an egregious Fault, may yet plead something in Excuse; but, in Point of Discipline, for a gen eral to be surprised by an Enemy, just under his Nose, in open day, and caught in a state of wanton security, from an overweening Presumption of his own Strength, is a Crime of so capital a Nature as to admit, neither of Alleviation, nor Pardon.” Ancient Generals have been nailed to Gibbetts, alive, for such Crimes. E. W. Monta gues Reflections on the Rise and fall of the ancient Republicks, p. 203. Be this as it may, I think the Enemy have reached their Ne Plus, for this year. {Yet I hope that your Army will continually harrass them with skirmishes, on Long Island, and wherever you can come at them.) I have drawn this Conclusion from the Example of Hannibal, whose Conquest changed the face and Fortune of the war. Accord ing to Montesquieu, so long as he kept his whole Army together, he always defeated the Romans; but when he was obliged to put Garrisons into Cities, to defend his allies, to besiege Strong holds, or prevent their being besieged, he then found himself too weak, and lost a great Part of his Army, by Piece meal. “Conquests are easily made, because We atchieve them with our whole Force: they are retained with difficulty, because We defend them with only a Part of our Forces.” Howe with his whole Army, could easily take Possession of Staten Island where there was nothing to oppose him. With the Same Army, he found no great difficulty in getting Long Island, where even his Talent at Strategem which is very far from eminent, was superiour to the Capacity of his Antagonist. After this, it was easy to take New York, which was wisely abandoned to him. But, sir the Case is altered. A Garrison is left at Staten Island, another at Long Island, a little one at Montresors Island, another at Paulus Hook, a large Body in the City of New York and a larger still to man the Lines across the Island between the Seventh and Eighth Mile Stone. After Such a Division and Distribution of his Forces, I think he has nearly reached the End of his Tether, for this year. The Enemies Forces are now in a situation peculiarly happy for Us to take advantage of. If an enterprising Spirit should be in dulged and encouraged by your Commander in little Expeditions to Staten Island, Long Island, Montresors Island, and elsewhere, you would gradually form your Soldiers for great Exploits and you would weaken, harrass, and dispirit your Enemy.
