288 October 2, 1770 Thus you see I Scribble my opinions with great assurance upon subjects which I understand not. If they are right, it is well, if wrong they will not mislead you. LB (MHi). 1 Parsons’ August 29 letter to Adams is in tbc Adams Papers, MHi. 2 In a September 16 letter to President Hancock, Washington had commended Generals Parsons and John Fellows for their "exertions” in attempting to rally their brigades at Kip's Bay. Washington, irntings (Fitzpatrick), 6:58. Committee of Secret Correspondence to Silas Deane Sir Philada. October 2d. 1776 We have this day received from the Honorable Congress of Dele gates of the United States of America the important papers that accompany this letter being, first, a Treaty of Commerce & Alliance between the Court of France & these States. 1 second, Instructions to their Commissioners relative to the said Treaty. 2 lastly, A commission whereby you will see that Doctr. Franklin, The Honorable Thos. Jefferson Esqr & yourself are appointed Com missioners for Negotiating said Treaty at the Court of France. These papers speak for themselves & need no Strictures or re marks from us, neither is it our business to make any. You will ob serve, that in case of the absence or disability of any one or two of the Commissioners the other has full Power to Act. We therefore think it proper to inform You that Doctr Franklin & Mr. Jefferson will take Passage with all Speed, but it is necessary that their appointment on this business remain a profound Secret and we do not choose even to trust this paper with their rout. Suffice it therefore, that you expect them soon after this reaches your hands, but by different conveyances. And if you do not see some evident advantage will arise by Communicating this Commis sion to the French Ministry immediately, We give it as our opinion You had best suspend it, untill the arrival of one or both these Gentlemen, because you will then benefit of each others advice 8c abilities, and we apprehend their arrival will give additional Im portance to the Embassy. But should you be of opinion that delay will be in the least degree injurious to our Country or its Cause, You must by all means use your own discretion in this matter, wherein we are not author ised to instruct or advise; we only offer our own thoughts on the Subject. Shou’d you think proper to disclose this Commission to the
