October 2, 1776 289 Ministers of France, enjoin the Stricktest Secrecy respecting the Names, or rather insist that it be not made known to any Persons, but those whose office and employments entitle them to the com munication that any others are joined with you in it because if that Circumstance reaches England, before their arrival it will evidently endanger their Persons. The Congress have ordered the Secret Com mittee to lodge Ten thousand Pounds Sterling in France subject to the drafts or orders of the Commissioners for their support, and you may depend that remittances will be made for that purpose with all possible dilligence. We can also inform you, that you may expect instructions for forming Treaties with other Nations. Con sequently you will Cultivate a good understanding with all the Foreign Ministers. We have Committed these Important dispatches to the care of Mr. Wm. Hodge junr who we hope will in due time have the pleasure to deliver them in person. 3 He knows nothing more of their Contents, than that they are Important and in case of Capture his orders are to sink them in the Sea. This Young Gentle mans Character, Family, 8c alertness in the Publick Service, all en title him to your Notice. He is also charged with some business from the Secret Committee wherein your Countenance & assistance may be usefull. You will no doubt extend it to him and also engage Mr. Morris’s exertions therein. You will please to advance Mr. Hodge the Value of One hundred 8c fifty pounds Sterling for his Expences 8: transmit us his receipt for the same. We most fervently pray for a successfull negotiation 8c are, with the utmost attention 8c regard, Dear Sir, Your affectionate Friends 8c obedient hble Servants, B Franklin Robt Morris P.S. Mr Hodge has some instructions from the Secret Committee which he will lay before you 8c if the Negotiation of Monsr Hortalez respecting Arms 8c Ammunition has been Conducted with Success it will be needless for Mr Hodge to make Contracts for those Arti cles. 4 You will know how that matter is and direct Mr Hodge ac cordingly, and if you shoud think it of more Consequence to send him immediately back here with dispatches than to employ him in the business that Committee have proposed he will obey your orders 8c Mr Morris may do the other. RC (PHC). Written by Morris and signed by Franklin and Morris. ’The Plan of Treaties, which Congress had adopted on September 17, 1776, is in JCC, 5:768-78. ’Although the enclosed copy of the "Instructions to their Commissioners relative to the said Treaty’’ has not been found, this is undoubtedly a reference to the instructions adopted by Congress on September 24, 1776. JCC, 5:813-17. 3 See Committee of Secret Correspondence to William Hodge, October 3, 1776. ‘See Secret Committee to William Hodge, October 3, 1776.
