290 October 2, 1776 John Hancock to Certain States Gentlemen, Philada. Octr. 2d. 1776. The many and just Complaints of the Insufficiency of the Sur geons and their Mates to discharge their Duty in a proper Manner, have induced Congress to pass the enclosed Resolves, recommend ing it to the several States, to appoint some skilful Physicians as Examiners, without whose Approbation, no Surgeon or Surgeon’s Mate, shall receive a Commission either in the Army or Navy. 1 The Congress being at present deeply engaged in Matters of the utmost Importance to the Welfare of America, have judged it absolutely necessary, that there should be a full Representation of the several States as soon as possible. For this End, I am to request, in Obedience to their Commands, you will immediately take proper Measures to comply with the enclosed Resolve, 2 in Order that the United States may be fully represented in Congress, and the Senti ments of America be the better known, upon those interesting Sub jects that lie before them. I shall therefore only once more request your Compliance with this Requisition of Congress—and have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. &: very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (R-Ar). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: "Assembly of New Hampshire. Massachusetts Bay. Rhode Island. Connecticut. New York. New Jersey.” Except for the omission of the first paragraph, Hancock sent the same letter this day to Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. PCC, item 12A; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:838. ’Congress passed these medical resolutions in response to Washington’s insistence that Continental surgeons should undergo a regular examination. See JCC, 5:836-37; and Washington to Hancock, September 24, 1776, Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:106-16. 2 See JCC, 5:837. Edward Rutledge persuaded Congress to pass this resolution about "full Representation” for a number of reasons which he explained in his letter to Robert R. Livingston of October 2, printed below. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. Octr. 2d. 1776. The Bearer Major Ross calling on Me previous to his setting out for Head Quarters, I have only Time to enclose you sundry Re solves, and to inform you, that I shall write you fully by General Mifflin. 1 In the Interim I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Esteem and Respect, Sir, your most hble Ser. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 Hancock sent Washington a variety of resolutions pertaining to the army
