October 2, 1776 291 which were passed by Congress between September 25 and October 1. ]CC, 5:819-25, 829-30, 831-32, 83&-S7, 838. On October 3 Hancock also sent Commissary General Joseph Trumbull a brief note requesting his “greatest Attention” to an enclosed resolve of Congress, which was probably Congress’ September 25 resolve directing Trumbull to procure salt and provisions “for the next campaign.” PCC, item 12A; Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:851; and JCC, 5:825. Richard Henry Lee to William Lee Philadelphia October the 2d. 1776 As I have but now been made acquainted with this opportunity that is just departing, you will therefore excuse my not gratifying your curiosity so fully as it might wish, and the same reason will be an apology for my considering this letter as written both to you & your acquaintance in the Temple. 1 Early preparations had been made to receive the force coming against America as you will perceive by the manner in which that force has been received. The Troops ready in Virginia & North Carolina, with the united alert ness of those States (for so they are now called) to meet Gen. Clinton, occasioned him to go with his whole force against Charles Town in South Carolina, where his landing was prevented, and Sr. Peter Parkers fleet beaten and repulsed as you will see in the inclosed paper, which is a very authentic account. Thus defeated and dis appointed they returned to join Lord & Gen. Howe then before New York. Lord Dunmore, after having figured most contemptibly in Virginia for some time, was at length compelled by hunger, disease, and fear, to retire to N. York likewise. You will see herein a printed true account of the last attack made on him and the con sequences. The small pox having raged with pestilential fury and universality, leaving not above one in ten of the American Army unattackt in Canada, in that state the British troops &c. arrived in that Country. It is realy not surprising that the former retreated to the east side of Lake Champlain, but it is most astonishing that they effected their retreat with little or no loss. The American strength on that Lake is at this time so great both by land and water that they rest secure against any attempts from Gens. Carleton and Burgoyn. When the whole Fleet and Army were collected be fore New York, the British Troops had been for some time in pos session of Staten Island, they landed the greatest part of their Army on Long Island, where they had not been long, before an engage ment happened between 3000 of the American troops and (as the best accounts here agree) at least 18,000 of the regulars, which ended in the loss of about 1000 Men taken, killed, & wounded of the Americans, who made few prisoners, but who slaughtered of their enemies many more than were killed of their own people. It being
