292 October 2, 1776 very evident that Long Island and the City of N. York were not to be defended against a potent land army &: sea force acting in con junction, both these places were in their turns evacuated, and the American Army retreated to their present post on the heights of Haerlem about 8 or 10 miles above the City and on the same Tongue of land upon which the Town stands. This is a very strong post by nature and strongly fortified by Art. 30,000 men are there placed to prevent the further progress of Mr. Howe, and to this time he has been effectually prevented. A thousand men under command of Brigr. Gen. Leslie lately attempted some of Gen. Wash ingtons Outposts, and was beaten off with the loss of about 400 killed & wounded. Thus things remain this 2d of October. The British Army have Connecticut on their right where they do not incline to go, Gen Washington with 30,000 men on the heights of Haerlem in their Front, and on their left the Jersies in which an army of Observation is posted either to prevent penetration that way or to aid Gen. Washington occasionally. The N. river is so obstructed that Vessels cannot go above the heights of Haerlem, and these obstructions are covered by 50 pieces of heavy Cannon placed on the heights. This you may depend upon it is a true state of things at present, and you will readily see how poor a compensa tion it promises for the expence of 12 millions this Campaign, and the loss of America forever. You may remember that I wrote you my opinion 14 months ago, that if the Ministry pushed the war an other year this would be the consequence, and facts seem to au thenticate my judgment. The manner in which the last petition of the Congress, was treated and the last speech to Parliament alarmed the people here, but when the Army and Fleet destined against America was made known, the eyes of all Men were opened, the blind saw, the timid became determin’d, and all joined in com manding the Congress to declare the Colonies Free & Independant States which they did, as you will see among the inclosures. A very trifling few indeed, amazingly few excepted, saw that it was no longer optional in America to be connected with G.B. on Constitu tional terms, but that this Country was reduced to the Alternative of Slavery or Independency, and they hesitated not to choose the latter. In most of the States new and regular Governments are established. The Legislature in most consists of two branches, the third being confined to the executive line. Since Lord Howes arrival he has not mended matters in the way of treaty. The Americans say the insidious nothings that he proposes is adding insult to injury. You will see by one of the inclosures how his plan was bared to public view by a conference he had with a Committee of Congress, that, it would seem, had been sent on purpose to expose to the World that nothing but Subduction was ever intended. We understand the Hessians carry it with a high hand over the British Troops who are obliged to truckle on every occasion! The number of Prizes taken
