320 October 8, 1776 erous allowances made for your services. 1 My Complimts to Colo Cortland & the Ladies & believe Me to be sir your very humble Sert, E Gerry P.S. The officers pay is raised 50 per Cent but this to be communi cated but to a few Friends untill the report relative to the Men is considered. 2 General Lee is arrived. The Cherokees have had a severe drubbing, abt 300 killed, 75 of wch. are scalped & great Numbers put to Flight leaving their Towns to be burnt & Corn Fields destroyed. I am just informed that while We were at N York the Ticonderoga Committee had power to supply the army by Contract, & inclose a Letter Which pray examine & forward per 1st Op portunity. RC (CtHi). 1 The commissary department was not reorganized until June 10, 1777. JCC, 8:433-48, 469-70. See also Gerry to Joseph Trumbull, October 22, 1776, note 4. “Congress had just taken this action on October 7. JCC, 5:853. Robert Morris to John Bradford Dear Sir Philada. October 8th. 1776 I am indebted for several of your favours from the 26 August to 30th Septr. 1 but you must excuse my want of punctuality in this Correspondance and I am sure you will do it when you know that I am not master of my own time. If I was you shou’d never have cause to complain for want of a letter. The Anxiety you expressed to have the Brigt Dispatch sent away always gave me pleasure because it convinced me you had the Public Interest at heart and if that was truely the case with all Concerned we shou’d make a good Figure. The delay of Mr Merckle & other dispatches does not lie at my door, but theres no getting Committees & Public body’s to move quick. Poor Merckle was very unfortunate in his Journey but I am glad he has got away at last with such a fair prospect of going safe. I have written you a letter from the Secret Committee respecting the Bay Ships 2 and hope you’l be able to make some cheap purchases—and the modes pointed out will I hope supply you with money but as yet I dont hear of your drafts for the Cost of the Dispatch Sc her Cargo. The Money is waiting for them. I approve much of the purchase you have made of a schooner for my Virginia plan & hope you will suc ceed in getting the Salt, Rum & Sugar. These Articles as well as the Vessell are exceedingly wanted in Virginia and I hope you have sent the Vessell away, that Coast is now clear of Cruizers but theres no knowing how long it may remain so & I wou’d have her dispatched at once Insured or not. Your drafts for this Vessell & Cargo will also meet punctual honor, and you may be assured I have a proper sense of your attention to my Concerns &: wish we cou’d fall on some plan
