October 11, 1776 333 Resolves goes eastward this Day. The additional Bounty to the Soldiers cod never have been carried but by a Letter, from Gen Washingn recomendg & inforcing the reasonableness Sc absolute Necessity of it in Terms moving pathatic, rational & nervous, ex- ceedly so, which came in not an hour before the same question wod have been irreversibly negatived. 3 I hope things will be assured happily. We have many Difficulties to encounter, but our Encouragements are very great. Let Us trust in God alone, & earnestly look to him for his Blessing & Protection. I am Dr Sir your most Affecte Friend 8c Brother, Wm Williams [P.S.] I wish you wod caution Col Dyer 8cc abt whom they send for a Comte to settle the officers. It must be soon if ever the Assembly is setting. 4 RC (CtHi). 1 Undoubtedly the resolution empowering the commissary general to employ persons to import salt, which had been recommended by the committee on the state of the army at New York. JCC, 6:859. “See JCC, 5:853. “The resolves recommending that state committees be sent to the camps and establishing a clothing bounty were passed in Congress on October 8. JCC, 5:854-55. Washington’s October 4 letter, which was read on the eighth, is in PCC, item 152, 3:103-9, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:152-56. ‘ For the composition of the committee appointed by the Connecticut Assembly for this purpose, see A Historical Collection, from Official Records, Files, ire., of the Part Sustained by Connecticut, during the War of the Revolution, comp. Royal R. Hinman (Hartford: E. Gleason, 1842), p. 240. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia Octr. 11. 1776 I suppose your Ladyship has been in the Twitters, for some Time past, because you have not received a Letter by every Post, as you used to do. But I am coming to make my Apology in Person. I, Yesterday asked and obtained Leave of Absence. It will take me till next Monday, to get ready, to finish off a few Remnants of public Business, and to put my private Affairs in proper Order. On the 14th day of October, I shall get away, perhaps. But I don’t expect to reach Home, in less than a fortnight, perhaps not in three Weeks, as I shall be obliged to make stops by the Way. 1 RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:141. ‘The journals do not record any vote on Adams’ “leave of Absence,’’ but ac cording to his diary he left Philadelphia on October 13. Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:251.
