October 12, 1776 337 state of the Frigate & what she wants to complete her. I refer you to the papers for news and am Sir Your most obedient Servant, Richard Henry Lee RC (MdHi). ’See JCC, 6:861. 2 See Lee to Purviance, November 24, 1776. Benjamin Rush to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety Sir, Friday [October 11, 1776] The congress have ordered the board of war to confer with a com mittee of the council of Safety of Pennsylvania (agreeable to their request) upon the propriety of having a few battailions Stationed in or near this city. 1 The board of war will set this morning at 9 oClock at the War Office at which time & place they expect the pleasure of meeting your committee. I beg leave to inform the council that such information was given yesterday in Congress respecting the designs of our enemies against this city, as makes the delay of a single day, or even an hour dangerous. I have the honor to be sir with great respect your most humble servant. B. Rush RC (PHi). Addressed: "The Honble. Thomas Wharton Esqr., President of the Council of Safety." ’For Congress’ resolution of October 10 on this subject, sec JCC, 6:863. Marine Committee to the New York Convention Gentlemen October 9th [t.c. 12] 1776 1 Having received information that some of the enemies Ships of war and Tenders have passed the obstructions laid in Hudsons River, and got above the same, we are very anxious for the fate of the Frigates now building in your State. We therefore earnestly desire to direct your close attention to some probable means of securing the said Ships; either by launching them immediately, if possible, and removing them to some place of greater Safety, or by such other Methods as your wisdom shall devise. With great respect, We are Gentn, Your very hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 There are compelling reasons for believing that this letter—although clearly dated October 9 and located in the Marine Committee letterbook before other letters composed on October 10—was actually written on October 12. The “enemies Ships” mentioned below did not sail up the Hudson past American "obstructions” until October 9, and Congress did not learn of this event until October 11.
