338 October 12, 1776 JCC, 6:866; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:184. Furthermore, on October 19 the New York Committee of Safety, which was sitting in place of the convention, received a letter from the Marine Committee “dated the 12th in stant . . . relative to the safety of the Continental ships building at Poughkeepsie,” a description perfectly fitting this letter dated October 9 in the Marine Com mittee letterbook. Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:259. For the reaction in New York to this letter, see ibid., pp. 259, 275; and Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:1435. Marine Committee to Nathaniel Falconer Sir October 13th 1776. We are in great want of Coals to make anchors and other Smith work for the frigates here, and as you are going on public business into the states of Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusets &: New Hampshire you may probably meet with some Coals fit for Smiths use, that have been or may be taken on board some of the Prizes sent into those places. 1 Should that happen we request you will purchase as many as will load two schooners or sloops and send them to us immediately. For this purpose we desire you will buy two fast Sailing Marblehead schooners or Sloops that will sail and carry well, buy them cheap as possible and if you get coals send them here directly. If you get the Schooners but cannot get the Coals, then put some salt, Sugars, or rum on board as much in value as you think will pay for a load of Coals for each at about 2/ per bushel and dispatch them with the same immediately for James’s River Virginia consigned to the Honble Benjamin Harrison Esqr. inclosing him an Invoice of the Goods you send and advising him to sell those goods and load the Vessel with coals immediately dispatching the same to us. You will take care to procure active good Masters, Mates and Men, and manage the whole to the best advantage for the public and as you have this and other business to transact we deliver you herewith Four thousand Dollars for which you are to account on your return. We also give you letters of Credit & recommendation to the Conti nental Agents in each State and a warrant authorizing you to Survey the Continental Frigates at Rhode Island, 2 but since this was agreed to, we have heard those frigates are compleated and ready for the sea which we hope may be true. We are sir, Your very hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 See Marine Committee to the Rhode Island Frigate Committee, October 9, 1776, note 2. “For the Marine Committee’s brief circular letter of this date to the Con tinental prize agents in New England, requesting them to provide assistance to Falconer if called upon, see PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book, fol. 33; and Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 1:32.
