October 15, 1776 343 in good health. We propose to sett off in the morning for Saratoga and from thence to Ticonderoga, where we expect to be by the middle of the week. The ground is hard frozen here this morning. My love to my dear Julia, and be assured of the constant affection of your’s forever, Richd Stockton RC (MdHi: William Middendorf deposit, 1972). 1 See John Hancock to Philip Schuyler, September 27, 1776, note 4. 2 See Stockton to Robert Treat Paine, October 1, 1776, note 1. Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon Dear Sir, Philadelphia Oct 15th 1776. As 1 rec’d no letter from Col Whipple or you last week, I am in hopes he is on the road here and will bring your letter with him. I wait with some impatience for his return as it is very hard for one delegate to constantly attend Congress and the several Committees where one delegate is appointed from each State, especially if unwell, as has been my case for some time past; however 1 am now much better and hope to be able to ride home in a short time on horse back. 1 Yesterday the Committee appointed to hear the appeal from the Maritime Court in New Hampshire concerning the Elizabeth made their report which was accepted; they have reversed the sentence of our Court and have ordered a salvage of one tenth part to be paid by the Claimants as she did not come under the order of Congress of November and December last. Afterwards the Congress by a vote gave up to the said claimants their share of the said tenth, so that they will have but one twentieth part to pay, beside the costs. 2 The same Committee have had Mr. Sheafe’s petition under their consideration but have made no report. By what I have conversed with them, I believe they will not think themselves authorized to do anything in that affair as there is no appeal from the Court to the Congress and the opposite party not present to be heard in the case and nothing but the Petition without anything more before them. They all say the case appears to be hard but know not how to remedy it without more proofs than they have at present and with out the opposite party being heard and the case brought properly before them. 3 Before this reaches you, you will see the several Orders of the Marine Committee about guns for your ship and the reason of those orders. The rank of the Captains is settled. Capt Thompson is the Sixth. Capt Manly is uneasy at his being the 3d and has desired leave to Resign; whether his resignation will be accepted or his rank altered I am uncertain. 4
