344 October 15, 1776 Captains Manly and Roche are got pretty hearty again as to their health. As to news you will see what is passing here by the inclosed paper. By letters from France of the 3d of August we have some favorable advices. In haste my Friends. Adieu. Josiah Bartlett Tr (DLC). 1 Bartlett reported substantially the same news in a letter to his wife, Mary, this date. “I find I gain Strength, so that if I have no relapse I hope I shall be able in about a fortnight to set out for home provided my Colleagues arrive here soon.” Watt Collection, NhHi. “This report is in JCC, 6:870-73. See also, JCC, 5:835. “Jacob Sheafe’s petition had been referred on October 5 to the same com mittee that heard the case of the Elizabeth, but there is no record in the journals that any further action was taken. JCC, 5:848. 4 For the seniority list of Continental Navy captains, adopted on October 10, see JCC, 6:861. Board of War to George Washington Sir War Office October 15th. 1776 The Board of War have endeavoured to form an exact Acct, of Ordinance Stores, in the several Departments, as well as of those in the Magazine under their immediate Notice here. But from the Want of accurate Returns they have not yet been enabled to ac complish their Design. If these Returns were made monthly the Board would be enabled in some degree to anticipate the Wants of Ammunition in the Army and keep up the supply as far as may be in their Power. I have it in Direction to request your Excellency will order a Return to be forthwith made of all Ordinance Stores in your Department and that you would be pleased to direct as exact Returns to be made monthly as the situation of the Army will admit. 1 As well as Accounts of the Men, as to their Numbers .and Capacity to do Duty, Returns should, if possible, be made of their Arms & Accoutriments & also of the Rations drawn from the Com missary of Provisions as it has been said that Regiments not half full draw their Rations as if they were complete; with how much justice this has been said cannot be clearly known but if monthly Returns were made from the Commissaries Office of the Rations drawn by each Regiment, the Returns from the Adjutant General would shew whether they had exceeded in their Number of Rations what they were justly ent’tled to. A List of the Army is making out wherein at one View every thing relating will be seen. But the Fluctuating State of the Army has prevented that Accuracy which it is hoped will be shewn in the Military Affairs of the Continent when they shall, by the new Establishment, be put upon a more perman ent, & of Course a more respectable Footing.
