346 October 16, 1776 Northward estate of Mr. Smith,” is in the possession of Ronald von Klausscn (state of Florida, 1976). Benjamin Franklin to Robert Erskine Sir Philade. Oct. 16. 76 I should sooner have acknowledged your Favour of Aug. 16 con taining the Drawing of your Chevaux de Frise, 1 but that I have been so extreamly occupy’d as to be oblig’d to postpone writing to many of my Correspondents. Please to accept my Thanks for the Communication of your Contrivance, which I am persuaded will answer the Purpose where ever the Bottom is so hard as to prevent the Points being press’d into the Ground by the passing Ship before the Resistance shall become great enough to force the upper Points thro’ her Bottom. The Ground being soft in our Channel, we were oblig’d to fix our pointed Beams to a Floor, in the Chevaux we plac’d there during the Summer of the preceding Year. That Floor gives them so firm a Stand, that all the Vessels which thro’ Inadvertance have run upon them, have had such Breaches made in their Bottoms as immediately sunk them. One was a large Ship. I am, Sir, with great Esteem, Your most obedt., humble Servant, B Franklin RC (PPAmP). 1 Erskine’s letter and enclosed drawing, which explained his proposal for building “Marine Chevaux de Frise” consisting of Beams “12 or 15 inches square” and 32 feet long capable of obstructing navigation in river channels up to seven fathoms deep, are in the Franklin Papers, PPAmP. Erskine (1735-80), Scottish geographer, hydraulic engineer, and fellow of the Royal Society, had emigrated to New Jersey in 1771 to represent investors interested in developing iron mines in Passaic County. Sympathetic with the American cause, he became a captain in the Bergen County militia in 1775, and in July 1777 was appointed “geographer and surveyor of the roads” in the Continental Army. DAB; and JCC, 8:580. Francis Hopkinson to William Livingston Dear sir, Philada 16th Octr 1776 Agreeable to your Desire I have taken the first Opportunity of forwarding to your Excellency the inclosed Resolves of Congress. I shall move Congress to replenish the Pay Masters Chest to enable him to answer the Draughts which will be made on him in Con sequence of the said Resolves. 1 With great Respect, I have the Honour to be, Your Excellency’s most obedient humble servt. F. Hopkinson
