October 17, 1776 347 RC (MHi). 'See JCC, 6:874-75. The New Jersey delegates secured the passage of these resolves concerning pay for the New Jersey militia in response to Governor Livingston’s letter to them of September 19, 1776. William Livingston Papers, MHi. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull Dear sir Philadelphia 17th Octr 1776 I reed your Favours of the 9th & 11th Instant & find by the Journals that the Continental Agents are as follows: John Langdon Esqr. of Portsmouth, John Bradford Boston, Daniel Tillinghast for Rhode [Island] but I think John Brown of Providence is Agent for that State, Nathaniel Shaw Jr. for Connecticut & Jacobus Van- zantz for New York. 1 The Resolve for impowering You to import Salt is past & You will probably receive it e’er this. 2 I agree with You that it is absurd to supply One Army with & the other without a Contract; my Suspicions are confirmed relative to the Rise of a certain Committee, 3 while We were on the Business of the Army. I hope however that the plan will not be carryed. Congress have sent to all the Assemblies for a fuller Representation &: on their Return I hope your allowance will be settled. I am glad You discontinue the Thought of giving up your office; such practices in so important a Department may ruin the Cause before We are aware of it. If this should reach You in Connecticut pray give my best Respects to Governor Trumbull, Colo Dyer &c & believe me to be your assured Friend &: serv, E Gerry RC (CtHi). 1 For the list of Continental prize agents, except for John Brown, who appears not to have received such an appointment, see JCC, 4:301, 5:478. “This resolve was passed on October 9. JCC, 6:859. a Perhaps the committee appointed to go to Ticonderoga. See Gerry to Horatio Gates, October 9, 1776. Marine Committee to John Langdon Sir In Marine Committee. Philadelphia October 17th 1776 Capt. John Roche having laid his plan before Congress they have referred the same to this Committee with power to carry it into Execution, and as we are of opinion the publick Service of America will be promoted by it We hereby authorize and require you to have built with the utmost Expedition a Brigantine calculated for a Vessell of War a fast Sailer and of strong Construction to carry Eighteen Six Pounders and about 120 Men. 1 As both Capt. Roche
