350 October 18, 1770 drafts prefer those of the Continental Agents, Paymasters & Com missary's to any other provided they are drawn on the President of Congress, this Committee or any other public Board for public Service. Next to these undoubted good private Bills but none others. When neither One or the Other can be met with, inform us and of the sums you have, that we may give particular orders respecting the remittance or application thereof. By the other Resolve you will find yourself under orders of Con gress to make a just distribution amongst the officers and men concerned in taking each Prize as soon after the Sales as possible agreeable to the Rules and Regulations made by Congress in this respect, and it is our duty to see this punctually complied with as the Service has already suffered by delay—therefore you will always make the said distribution soon as can be after the Sale and transmit us duplicates of the accounts and your proceedings therein. We shall allow all your just expenditures on Account of the Continent to be charged against their share of the Prize Money but those charges must be supported by vouchers. We are Sir, Your very hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Addressed: “To John Langdon Esqr. Continental Agent, Portsmouth, New Hampshire. John Bradford Esqr., Boston, Massachusetts. Daniel Tillinghast Esqr., Providence, Rhode Island. Nathl. Shaw jr. Esqr., New London, Connecticut. Jacobus Vant- zantz Esqr., New York. John Nixon & John Maxwell Nesbitt Esqrs., Philada., Pennsylvania. William Lux Esqr., Baltimore, Maryland. John Teazwell Esqr., Williamsburg, Virginia. Robert Smith Esqr., Edenton, No. Carolina. Richard Ellis esqr., Newbern, No. Carolina. Corneilus Harnet esqr., Wilmington, No. Carolina. Livinus Clarkson & John Dorsius esqrs., Chs. Town, So. Carolina. John Wereat Esqr., Savannah, Georgia.” ’See JCC, 6:882-83. Marine Committee to George Washington’s Prize Agents (Circular) Sir October 18 th 1776. We have the honor to inclose herein a Resolve of the Continental Congress of which we are members whereby you will see we are empowered to order a proper and just distribution of all Prizes taken by the Cruizers Genl Washington caused to be fitted out on Contin ental Account, and also that we are authorized or rather ordered to receive from the Agents who received and sold the said Prizes, the Continental share thereof, 1 and as we find you have been employed as an Agent in this business, we desire that you will immediately send us an Account of the Prizes that have been put under your care, with Coppies of the decrees of the Court of Admiralty, Inventories of Ships and Cargoes with Copys of the Accounts Sales properly
