October 18, 1776 351 Authenticated, an Account Current for each Prize wherein you Credit the Neat Proceeds, and charge the share appertaining to the officers and Crews who were interested in the Capture and also the Continental Share agreeable to the Rules and Regulations laid down by Congress and a General Account Current wherein you will credit the Continent for their share in every Prize and charge for all such Remittances as you make to us in consequence of these orders as well as for any other just charge you have to make against them. We desire that you will remit to this Board whatever moneys you have in hand arising from the Continental Share of the Prizes put under your management, and as there are many persons gone from hence to purchase prize goods, you may procure drafts on this place from undoubted safe good men which will save the trouble and risque of sending the money, or you may pay it in to the Continental pay master at Boston Ebenezer Hancock Esqr. and transmit us his draft on the President of Congress, or the Honorable Thomas Cushing Esqr., John Bradford Esqr of Boston or John Langdon Esqr. of New Hampshire have occasion for money on our Account. Their drafts on ourselves will be good and the sooner you make these Remittances and render the Accounts the better. We must also enjoin you to make an immediate division and distribution of that share of Prizes that appertains to the officers and Crews that took them, agreeable to and in strict conformity with the Rules and Regulations of Con gress, and that you transmit as soon as can be duplicates of those Accounts as it is our duty to see this business perfected, otherways the maritime service of America will suffer greatly, by the discourage ments arising from delays in the payment of Prize money Sec. Where any part of the Prizes have been applyed to Continental use, that part must be valued and included at the valuation in the new account of Sales—if applyed to the use of yours or any other State, they must pay the valuation and that be includes in the Acct. Sales. Expecting your complyance with an answer to this Letter We remain sirs, Your Obedient servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Addressed: "To William Bartlett Esqr. in Beverly. William Watson Esqr. in Plymouth. John Wentworth Esqr. in Plymouth. Wintrop Serjint in Cape Anne. Messrs. Bartlet & Glover in Lynn, Marble Head and Boston. John Bradford Esqr., Boston.” 1 See JCC, 6:882-83. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings Octr. 18, 1776. Comme met. Present, Mr. Morris, Col. Lee, Messrs. Lewis, Living ston &: Bartlett. The follg. letters were wrote & signed by the Come. 1 To Mr. Thos. Morris, 2 now in France, appointg. him general Agent for transactg. the business of this Comme. in Europe. Another Letter
