352 October 18, 1776 to Thomas Morris respectg. the Cargo of the Ship Success, Capt. James Anderson, that now goes consignd to him for sale, on Acct, of the Continent. To Messrs. Plearne & Penet & Co. at Nantes. Congress have orderd the Marine Come, to put the followg. vessels under the direction of this Come, for this voyage: Brig Andrew Doria, Capt. Josa. [Isaiah] Robinson, Lexington, Capt. Wm. Hallock, Sloop Sachem, Capt. Js. Robinson. Resd. that the follg arrangemt. be made of them, for the purpose of procurg. Supplies for the Army 8cc: Andrew Doria for St Eustatia, Lexington for Cape Francois, Sachem for Martinico. With orders to the Agents at the different ports to purchase 8c ship by them all the woollen manufac tures, Arms & Ammunition, they can procure with the effects they have on hand or on the credit of these States & shou’d they procure more than the Armd vessels can bring back, then to hire or buy other vessels suitable to bring sd. Articles to America. 3 Agreed That £50 be allowd 8c paid Mr. Jams. Sterret for services done by his Son Andw. deceased—as Clerk to this Come. MS (MH-H). 1 Not found. a A footnote in the copyist’s hand keyed at this point reads: “and Partner with his Brother, the Chairman of the Comme. A. Lee.” For information on sim ilar footnoted comments pertaining to Robert Morris found in this copy of the committee’s “journal,” see Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, August 8, 1776, note 2. 3 For a further explanation of why these vessels were being sent to the West Indies, see Committee of Secret Correspondence Statement, October 1, 1776. See also Marine Committee to Isaiah Robinson, October 17; and Secret Committee to William Bingham, October 21, 1776. By mid-January 1777 all three vessels had returned with military supplies. See Robert Morris to John Hancock, Decem ber 23, 1776; and Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:862, 972. Secret Committee to Andrew Limozin Sir Philada. October 18th 1776 We hope you will in due time receive this by the hands of Capt Thos. Kennedy of the Ship Mary which is now loaden at New London with wheat in the Hold & Flaxseed between Decks. 1 This Cargo is addressed to Mr. Thos. Morris of Philadelphia, but now in France or to his assigns, and as your House is strongly recommended to us by Messrs. Willing, Morris 8c Compy as very solid, active 8c well attached to the Interest of this Country, we have desired the said Mr. Thos. Morris to give you the preferrance of our business at Havre de Grace which there is little doubt but he will comply with. We therefore direct Nathl. Shaw Junr Esqr our agent at New London to inclose this letter with the Invoice 8c bills of Loading for the said Cargo to you and on the Ships arrival you will please to advise Mr. Morris immediately of the Ships arrival 8c the Contents of the Cargo,
