354 October 19, 1776 Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon Dear Sir Philadelphia October 19th 1776 This will be handed you by Capt. Roche who has at length finished his Business here and got orders for you to Build another Ship as you will see by the letter from the Marine Committe to you. 1 After I wrote you last Tuesday I Reed yours of the 30th ulto. and Desired the Clerk of the Secret & Marine Committe to take out from the Books the Sums of money you have Reed of Each of those Committes. The Sum you have Reed of the Secret Committe is Twenty five Thousand Dollars but the Clerk was so Engaged he could not give me the other account at this time, will try to Send it you next week. I Mentioned in the Marine Comitte that you were Desirous to Know whither you were to allow any Passenger or sea man on board any of the prizes their adventures or private property more than the wages to the seamen agreable to the resolve of Con gress; they informed me they had not given any orders about it, and that it was not in their power to give any orders Different from the resolves of Congress yet it seemed to be the Desire of the Committee that such Passengers & seamen as behaved themselves Decently Should be Dealt well by, and not Striped of Every thing that might be taken from them by the rules of war. As for news I have none at present to Communicate. We have had no Certain accounts from our Camp at Harleam Since the 13th. There are some flying accounts but Capt Roche as he passes that way will be able to give you a true account of our affairs there. A great number of foreigners Especially French officers 2 are Daily almost arriving here & requesting to be employed in our Army, many of whom are well recommended. Col. Whipple is not arrived here yet. I shall look for him every day now till I see him when I shall return home and after your example enjoy the pleasure of residing in my own Country in future. Remember me to all friends and be assured that I am, your affec tionate friend, Josiah Bartlett. P.S. I am much better in health than I was for four or five weeks. RC (Facsimile, Robert F. Batchelder Autographs, catalog 15, item 74). Tr (DLC). ’See Marine Committee to John Langdon, October 17, 1776. “Remainder of text taken from Tr. North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina Council of Safety Gentlemen Oct 19th 1776 Phila This goes with four Waggons charged with different Articles, agreeable to Invoices inclosed, for the State of North Carolina. 1 The
