October 19, 1776 357 nothing as to my own Return to Carolina. It depends upon Cir cumstances over which I have no Influence. My Intention some time ago was to leave this City about the tenth or 15th Instant, but judg ing it improper to leave Congress until our Affairs were put in better order than they were at the Time fixed on for my Departure, I have continued to act. Indeed so many Members have moved off in this Day of Danger that I thought it incumbent upon me to stay, lest as you say my Departure might be attributed to unworthy Motives. This is doubly distressing, & you will confess it, when I tell you that Mrs. Rutledge’s Situation requires her being at Home amongst her Friends. Your Brother should have been long since appointed to the Command of Clynton’s Regiment, but Mr. Phil. Livingston thinking the Congress had no Right to fill up Vacancies after their Resolution of the 16th of Sepr. & that it wd. be interfering in the internal Polity of the State I did not press the Matter, But got the inclosed Resolu tion pass’d in order to preserve to him his proper Rank. 5 I shall not leave this before the 10th of next Month. I am called off & cannot add anything more than that I am what I always shall be yr. most affectionate Friend. E. Rutledge P.S. I wish you wd. tell me what you mean when you say that the No. River might be stopt by sinking Blocks. How is it to be done. 6 Remember me to Jay. I shall write him tomorrow. RC (NHi). 1 See Lewis Morris to the New York Convention, September 24, 1776, note. 2 A reference to Gouverneur Morris’ absence from the New York Convention, which Morris himself ascribed to “a series of accidents too trifling for recital.” Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:1023-24. Rutledge was responding to the harsh appraisal of Morris’ behavior contained in Livingston’s letter to Rutledge of October 10. Miscellaneous Manuscripts, DLC. 3 Livingston was disturbed by a passage in Rutledge’s October 2 letter to him, which, in Livingston’s words, “gives us reasons to immagine that some are ungenerous enough to take advantage of the distresses of this state.” Livingston to Rutledge, October 10, 1776, Miscellaneous Manuscripts, DLC. 1 Schuyler was irritated by Congress’ September 25 resolutions creating a com mittee to journey to Ticonderoga and “consult with the commanding officer in the northern department,” because, for reasons that are still difficult to fathom, he persuaded himself that Congress intended this committee to meet only with General Gates. See JCC, 5:822-23; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:921-22. See also Jonathan G. Rossie, The Politics of Command in the American Revolution (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1975), pp. 129-31. 'Rutledge is probably referring to the October 10 resolution calling for the making out of new commissions for such Continental officers “who have been appointed in the places of others resigning and promoted.” JCC, 6:864. On September 16 Congress had resolved that “the appointment of all officers, and filling up vanancies, (except general officers) be left to the governments of the several states.” JCC, 5:763. See also Livingston to Rutledge, September 27, 1776, Miscellaneous Manuscripts, DLC. In an editorial note to Rutledge’s letter, Burnett confused Henry Brockhoist Livingston, the son of former New Jersey delegate William Livingston, with Henry Beekman Livingston, the brother of Robert R. Livingston. Burnett, Letters, 2:126n.3.
