358 October 20, 1776 ’See the extract from Livingston’s October Naval Documents, 6:1198. 10 letter to Rutledge in Morgan, Committee to Ticonderoga to General Gates Sir: Saratoga, October 20, 1776. Having been appointed by Congress as a Committee to examine into and transact certain matters relative to the army in the Northern department, and having spent several days with Gen eral Schuyler, at Albany and this place, in execution of part of our commission, we were about to proceed to Ticonderoga; but being informed by the General of the great probability of our army being now attacked by the enemy, or that such an event might be hourly expected, we have concluded to wait here until we shall have the pleasure of hearing from you. If the enemy have not yet made their attack, and you think it probable that we may be able to reach Ticonderoga, and have an opportunity of conversing with you and the other principal officers of your army, and to inspect into its present state before that event may happen, we shall immediately, upon being advised by you, proceed on our journey. 1 With great respect, we are, sir, your most obedient and very humble servants, Rich’d Stockton, Geo. Clymer. Reprinted from Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:1142. ’Gates wrote to the committee on October 24 advising them to remain at Saratoga until they received further notice. They apparently set out for Ticon deroga on the 30th. See Committee to Ticonderoga to John Hancock, October 26 and November 10, 1776; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:1299. Committee of Secret Correspondence to William Bingham Sir, Philadelphia October 21st 1776 We send you herewith a Copy of what we wrote you the 1st Inst, per the Sloop Independance, Capt Young, and hope some of the articles that were to be forwarded to your Island or St. Eustatia by Monsr. Hortalez have arrived. In that case you will apply for, receive and Ship them by these opportunities of our Continental Cruizers, which are Sent for that purpose, and also to bring back such woolen Goods as can be procured agreeable to the Orders of the Secret Com mittee. You’l observe this goes by the Sachem, Captain Robinson, to Martinico, a Copy of it we send by the Armed Brigt. Andrea Doria,
