366 October 22, 1776 Morris. Bush [Rush?] a Morris. Traduite de l’anglais. Intcrccptec.” The Franklin anecdote is also found in Benjamin Rush, The Autobiography of Benjamin Rush, cd. George W. Corner (Princeton: Published for the American Philosophical So ciety by Princeton University Press, 1948), p. 149. "La lettre de Franklin it Morris” is Franklin’s letter to Thomas Morris of December 4, 1776, which he wrote from Auray in Brittany just after reaching France. At the same time he also wrote a letter to Silas Deane announcing his arrival at Quiberon Bay and one to Jacques Barbeu-Dubourg asking him to for ward the letters to Morris and Deane, which he was sending “under your cover.” Whether they were sent to Vergennes by Dubourg is not known, but French translations of all three letters, along with a December 10 letter of "W.L.” [William Lee] to Dubourg, arc now in the Archives du ministere des affaires etrang^res. It is known that Dubourg sent Vergennes Benjamin Rush’s letter to Dubourg of September 16, 1776, printed above, although the French extract of that letter is in a hand different from that of the other four documents. Sec Archives du ministcre des affaires ctrangires, Correspondance politique, Etats- Unis, 1:292-95; and (for English retranslations of the three Franklin letters) Franklin, Writings (Smyth), 6:469-73. Committee of Secret Correspondence to William Bingham Sir Philada. October 23d. 1776 We have wrote you already by this Conveyance of the Brigt Andw Doria to St Eustatia which we deam safer than the Sachem as she sails faster & is of more Force. 1 Therefore we now enclose you some very Important dispatches for Mr Dean & request you will forward them by the very first good Conveyance advising us hereafter the Vessell & Masters name by which they go & also of their arrival when you hear it. We are sir, Your Obedt Servants, B Franklin Richard Henry Lee Robt Morris Wm Hooper Jno Witherspoon RC (PHi). Written by Morris and signed by Morris,’ Franklin, Hooper, Lee, and Witherspoon. ’See Committee of Secret Correspondence to Bingham, October 21, 1776. Committee of Secret Correspondence to Stephen Ceronio In Committee of Secret Correspondence. Sir Philada. October 23d 1776 The Inclosed 1 letter was wrote and Signed before we had an opporty to transmit it and having now so good a conveyance as this Brigt Lexington we transmit the Same to you as an official Letter
