374 October 23, 1776 to us than from us—and I hope he will pay all the ballances we owe & recover those due to us. I have advice from Mr. Langdon of Portsmouth that Capt Palmer is arrived there but he threw over the Packet of letters he had from you & indeed all his letters expecting to be taken by a Man of War from which he had a hairs breadth escape. I intend writing you more at large than I can spare time to do at present. Be assured that I am with perfect esteem & regard Dr sir Your affectionate hble Servant, Robt Morris RC (CtHi). Board of War to George Washington Sir. War Office Octr. 24th. 1776 The Board of War have directed me to enclose you the Plan they intended to present to Congress for preventing Abuses in Regiments or Companies receiving more Rations than they are entitled to; an Evil which has been complained of perhaps with too much Founda tion. It frequently happens that sick Soldiers are either left behind at Posts or Places thro’ which their Regiments or Companies are march ing, or they are sent to Hospitals at a Distance from their Corps. These unhappy People, or some of them, are often thought incurable & discharged by the Director or Surgeon of the Hospital as unfit for Service, & turned out to beg their Subsistence to their Homes, or Places of their former residence, altho’ they may have Pay due to them sufficient to support them. This not only raises Compassion & from this Motive should be remedied, but is extremely detrimental to the Service, by deterring others from enlisting. The Board there fore have thought that the Soldiers, so discharged, should have it in their Power to receive their Pay in whatever Part of the States they may be & have accordingly formed a Plan to enable them to do it, & request your Excellency’s Advice on both these Subjects. 1 With the greatest Respect, I have the Honour to be, your obedt humble Servt, Richard Peters Secy RC (DLC). 1 The "Plan” discussed by Peters is in the Washington Papers, DLC, and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:1211. Washington’s secretary subsequently informed Congress that the general considered the proposal “for preventing more rations being drawn than may be due, well calculated to answer the end,” but that the portions “respecting the sick seems to him not entirely perfect.” See Robert H. Harrison to John Hancock, November 4, 1776, in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:509-10. The plan was put into effect by a resolution adopted by Congress on November 19, after the proposal relating to the sick had been modified to meet Washington’s objections. JCC, 6:965-66.
