376 October 24, 1776 the Doctor will land & from thence proceed to Paris, & he will either carry with him or send forward this letter by express as to him may then appear best. The Reprisal is a fast sailing Ship and Capt. Wickes has already done honor in Action to the American Flagg. We have therefore ordered him to land at Nantes some Indico he has onboard, take in any refreshments, Stores, Provisions or other neces- sarys he may want and immediately to proceed on a Cruize against our Enemies, and we think he will not be long before he meets with a sufficient Number of Prizes. 1 We have directed him to send them into such of the French Ports as are most Convenient addressing them at Dunkirk to Messrs. P. Stival & Son, at Havre de Grace to Mr. Andw Limozin, at Bourdeaux to Messrs. Sami & J. H. Delap, at Nantes to Messrs. Pliarne, Penet &: Compy and at any other Ports in France to such persons as you may appoint to receive them. When he finishes his Cruize he will call in at Nantes or Bourdeaux or Brest for your orders & advices which we beg you will have ready for him lodged at those places. In Consequence of this plan for the Reprisals Cruize we desire you to make immediate application to the Court of France to Grant the Protection of their Ports to American Men of War & their Prizes. 2 Shew them that British Men of War under Sanction of an Act of Parliament are daily Capturing American Ships & Cargoes. Shew them the Resolves of Congress for making Reprisals on British & West India property & that our Continental Men of War and numerous private Ships of War are most success fully employed in executing those Resolutions of the Congress. Shew them the Justice & equity of this proceeding, and surely they cannot, they will not refuse the protection of their Ports to American Ships of War, Privateers & their Prizes. If your application on this head is crowned with Success, try another which it is their interest to grant, that is to obtain leave to make Sale of those Prizes & their Cargoes or any part thereof that may be suitable for that Country. If you succeed in this also, you must appoint some person to Act as judge of the Admiralty who shoud give the Bond prescribed for those Judges to determine in all Cases agreable to the Rules & Regulations of Congress, and for this purpose we will Report to Congress some Resolves Vesting you with Authority to make such appointment and Authorizing such judge to Condemn without a jury as required here. 3 If these Resolves are agreed to by Congress they shall be im mediately transmitted to you. If they are not that plan must drop and the Prizes must all proceed for America for Condemnation. You can in the mean time consult the Ministers whether they will permit such Courts in France and in the French West India Islands. If protection is granted to our Cruizers & their Prizes you will immedi ately procure proper orders to be sent to the officers of all their Ports on this Subject, and write yourselves to those Houses we have Named at the several Ports that the Prizes are to remain for Cap Wickes
