378 October 24, 1776 when pressed further, ordered American ships and prizes out-of-port while per mitting delays for refitting. Issues arising from the arrival of American privateers in French ports never theless produced a crisis in Anglo-French relations the following summer when American privateers operating in St. George’s Channel returned to France with 18 prizes. Thus in late August, in response to the repeated protests of the British ambassador, Lord Stormont, the comte de Vergennes finally ordered Wickes’ squadron to depart and issued new instructions prohibiting the use of French ports by American privateers. Designed to prevent the outbreak of war with Britain prematurely, this action, coupled with the sailing of the Reprisal and Lexington from St. Malo and Morlaix in September, enabled France to postpone a rupture with Britain and to maintain her neutral stance until 1778. For additional information on this issue, see Jonathan R. Dull, The French Navy and American Independence (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1975), pp. 75-83; and William Bell Clark, Lambert Wickes Sea Raider and Diplomat (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1932) pp. 98-348. The American commis sioner’s correspondence with Congress and with Vergennes on this issue can be followed in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:283-90, 296-98, 322-27, 364-66, 375-82, 388-91. ’The committee apparently failed to obtain such a resolve, and Congress did not authorize the commissioners to appoint a person “to act as judge of the Admiralty.” As Silas Deane subsequently reported: “The prizes are sold without condemnation, and consequently to a great loss.” See Deane to Robert Morris, August 23, 1776, Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:381. For the article per taining to privateers in the treaty of amity and commerce later negotiated with France, see JCC, 11:434. Committee of Secret Correspondence to Silas Deane Dear Sir Philada. October 24th. 1776 We embrace this opportunity of your Worthy Colleague & our mutual good Friend Doer. Franklin to transmit you Copies of our letters of the 1st Octr. 1 by the Sloop Independance, Cap Young, to Martinico from whence they wou’d be carried to you by Mr. Wm Hodge junr sent in said Sloop for that purpose. Those letters con tained a Commission from the Congress appointing Doctr. Franklin, Thos Jefferson Esqr. 8c yourself Commissioners on behalf of the United States of America to Negotiate a Treaty of Alliance, Amity 8c Peace with the Court of France, a plan of that Treaty, Instructions from Congress relative thereto, Form of Passports for the Ships of each Nation 8cc. We consider those papers as of the utmost con sequence 8c hope they will arrive safe. Yesterday we wrote you a few lines enclosing additional Instructions from Congress to their Com missioners authorizing them to Treat with other Nations, also Two Resolves of Congress by one of which you wou’d see that Thos. Jefferson Esqr declined his appointment 8c that Arthur Lee Esqr was appointed in his stead, to whom we enclosed a letter, Copy
