October 24, 1776 381 The Honorable Doctor Franklin being appointed by Congress one of their Commissioners for negotiating some publick business at the Court of France, You are to receive him and his Suite on board the Reprisal as passengers whom it is your duty and we dare say it will be your inclination to treat with the greatest respect and attention and your best endeavours will not be wanting to make their time onboard the ship perfectly agreeable. 1 When they are on board you are to proceed with the utmost dilligence for the port of Nantes in France where they will land and there you will deliver their baggage &c. It is of more importance that you get safe and soon to France than any prizes are that you cou’d take, therefore you are not to delay time on this outward passage for the Sake of Cruizing, but if you are beset with Contrary winds or during the passage be So circumstanced that Doctor Franklin may approve of your speaking any Vessels you see, do therein as he shall direct. We understand the Secret Committee have put on board the Reprisal a quantity of Indigo. This you must land at Nantes im mediately on your arrival and deliver it to their order and they have directed their Agents to Supply you immediately with what ever refreshments or necessarys you may stand in need of. We deem it Es sential to the Success & Safety of your Ship that you Make a very Short Stay in the River of Nantes. It is equally so that you keep totally Secret where you are bound from thence or what your business. These things promised, we take it for granted your Stay will not ex ceed more than two or three days, and that you will rather dispose people to think you are returning back here again but you are directly to proceed on a Cruize against our Enemies. You have the Resolves of Congress by which you will know who they are. By them you will know what Ships you are authorized to make prize of and the Resolves of Congress must be the Rule of your Conduct. We think you had best proceed directly on the Coast of England up the channell before they can have any Notice of you, and we judge every day if not every hour you are there will give you opportunity of making prizes; you will Always have some of the French ports at hand either to send in your prizes or to run into yourself if chased by Superior force. Doctor Franklin will make application at the Court of France for the protection of their ports to the Reprisal and her prizes and we hope he will be successfull therein. However we propose as follows. Should you take one or two valuable prizes with woolen or linen goods on board, or Such Cargoes as you Know us to be in immediate want of, that you dispatch them immediately under the command of trusty officers and Men for this port. If you meet other vessels partly loaden with such goods that you take as many of them on board your own Ship as you conveniently can, and that you Send all the other prizes you take, immediately into Some of the ports of France with orders to Apply at Dunkirk to Messrs. P. Stival
