382 October 24, 1776 8c Son Merchants, at Havre De Grace to Mr. Andrew Limozin Mercht., at Bourdeaux to Messrs. Sami 8c J. Hans Delap Merchts., at Nantes to Messrs. Pliarne Penet 8c Co.; at any other port to apply to the Commander thereof for protection untill he receives orders from his Court on the Subject, and with these orders will also come instructions from Dr. Franklin, Silas Deane Esqr. 8c Dr. Lee or some of them which he Must obey. You may direct all the prize Masters to wait in port for your further orders provided the above Gentle men wrote that they will be protected, but if that protection is not granted they must then apply to our Agents for such Supplies, as are Necessary, and push away immediately for this Continent making the first safe port they Can. We are convinced you will treat all prisoners with humanity but we think you had best land them in France whenever they are too numerous on board your Ship to prevent giv ing alarms in England, for You may depend they will have Cruizers out after you soon as they hear of your being there. We expect there fore you will make but a Short Cruize, especially as every day Must immediately throw plenty of English vessels in your way. Perhaps off Falmouth you might meet with a Lisbon Packet, and whatever Specie you collect take it onboard and carry it into France, where you may deliver or pay the same to the order of Doctor Franklin, Mr Deane 8cc, or to Mr. Thos Morris on his order as agent for the Secret Committee of Congress, and the Congress will pay here yours and the peoples Shares of Such money, as well as their Shares of any prizes or parts of Prizes that [may] be sold there and the Money applyed to publick use. When you are about to quite your Cruize it may be well to send any prisoners you then have on Shore and make them believe you are coming direct for America, or going round into St George channell to Cruize for Bristol ships just as you think may be most likely to gain Credit, clear your Ship of them and then Run of[f] into Bourdeaux, Brest or Nantes, just as may be most conveni ent. You will find letters from our Commissioners at Paris with Messrs. Delap at Bourdeaux. Messrs. Pliarne Penet 8c Co at Nantes or Some proper person at Brest, advising you the success of their application and if they tell you the Prizes are to be protected, you can then write to the Prize Masters and either collect and bring them home under your Convoy or order them to proceed seperately as you shall then judge best. If protections was not to be given, they will come away of Course, and in that case we think you should put your Ship in good order, advise the Commissioners and Mr. Thomas Morris that [you] only wait for their dispatches. If you have Room on board the Ship receive any goods Mr. Morris or they may order, and when you have received their dispatches make the best of your way back to this place or any other port of Safety in these States, bringing with you any prizes you can take by the way. Should the Court of France grant free protection for our Cruizers and prizes in
