October 24, 1776 383 their ports, we think you may do better in Europe than here, respect ing which consult with and be governed by the advice of our Said Commissioners at the Court of Paris, and if prizes are allowed to be sold there consign all you take to the order of Mr. Thomas Morris, who has correspondents in every port of France and will take care that Justice is done in the Management of [it]. Your Stay in Europe must depend on the advice of the Commissioners and your Cruizes should always be quick as you can be soon in and out. Keep your Ship well Manned, fitted and provided, and let old England see how they like to have an active Enemy at their own Door, they have sent Fire and Sword to ours. You know we want Seamen here, therefore encourage all you meet with both at Sea and on shore to enter our Service and send or bring as many of them to these States as possible. You must by all opportunitys inform us of your proceedings, and communicate all the usefull or important intelligence that comes to your Knowledge. A Spirited active conduct in this enterprize will recommend you to all America and you have our best wishes for your Success and honor being very Sincerely Sir, Yr. Friends and humbl Servts. 2 FC (DNA: PCC, item 37). 1 Captain Wickes left Marcus Hook, Pa., on October 27, arriving in France on November 30, 1776. For an account of this voyage and his subsequent ex ploits in European waters, see William Bell Clark, Lambert Wickes Sea Raider and Diplomat (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1932). See also Secret Commit tee to Thomas Morris, October 25, 1776. 2 This day Wickes also received the following directive from the Marine Committee. “The honble Congress of the United States of America have directed us to commit the Reprisal under your command to the management of the Com mittee of Secret Correspondence for the present voyage or Cruize, you are there fore to receive and obey the orders of that Committee. To us however you are to communicate such occurrences as ought to be known by those who superintend the American Navy.” PCC, item 37, fol. 83; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:1213. John Hancock to Thomas Cushing Dear Sir Philada. 24th Octor. 1776. 11 oClock Night Our incessant Attention to the Affairs of the Northern Army & Genl Washington’s (& my Duty you know) with my present En gagedness to that Service prevents my writing more, than just to Inclose you the Resolve of Congress respectg the other Frigate, which you will Exert yourself to Compleat as soon as possible. 1 Pray lay it before the Assembly, & Apologize to them for my not writing them by this, but will by the Express which I shall Dispatch in 48 hours with Manley’s Instructions 2 & your Money & the other Commisss. The Warrants you have Inclos’d, what you do not use you will keep for future purposes. The Inclos’d Letters please to Seal & Deliver.
