388 October 25, 1776 take to be as good a proof as the other because the severity of the proof consists in the resistance the powder meets in passing thro the [barrel?]; But many of the Cannon made here have burst under this operation. You say the Guns made at yr. Furnace were proved with a double quantity of powder & Shott. I do not surmise that this is not a Sufficient proof, but as it is indeterminate I wish you to be ascertained precisely what it is. Some reckon i/g the wt of the ball a proper charge for Action wch I believe to be the practice 8c that will make the proof 2/ 3 & 2 balls wch. I do not think Sufficient beside 3 hard Wadds 8c considerable addition. Another thing that requires attention is the quality of the powder, a great deal made in this State 8c also some imported is exceeding poor. It has been said that some made with you has been bad, but if the Resolves of Congress respect ing the Inspectors of Gunpowder be attended to I hope that difficulty will be soon cured; you will excuse my Freedom on this subject when you consider of what importance it is that the Guns should be Sound for Should any burst on board a Ship it might destroy many lives, occasion the loss of the Ship 8c discourage the service. We hope soon to hear that a convenient place is found for erecting a Stack sufficient for heavy Cannon. Perhaps they will never be more wanted than Next summer, 8c there are few matters that require more im mediate attention. 3 FC (MHi). 1 Trumbull’s October 15 letter to Paine is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:1271-72. 2 A reference to the standards required at the royal foundry at Woolwich. “This day the Marine Committee also wrote to Trumbull, directing him “to provide Sixty four Cannon for the use of the Frigate building in New Hampshire, and one of those in the Massachusetts Bay,’’ and authorizing the transfer of cannon to the New Hampshire frigate from the Connecticut frigate, if the latter “not be in equal forwardness." See ibid., pp. 1415-16. Secret Committee to Thomas Morris Sir: [October 25, 1776] You will receive herewith a copy of our letter of the 16th instant, 1 whereby you are appointed our agent to superintend all our business in Europe. This goes by the Continental ship-of-war called the Reprisal, Lambert Weeks, commander. The value of this indigo is particularly intended to the lodged with your banker in Paris, for the use and subject to the order of Dr. Franklin, Silas Deane, and Arthur Lee, 8cc. The Reprisal, Captain Weeks, will make but a short stay at Nantes, as she will immediately proceed on a cruise, and if fortunate, some of the prizes may probably be sent into some of the ports of
