October 26, 1776 389 France. The Commissioners will apply at Court for the liberty and protection of their ports. If this should be granted, it’s probable that they may also permit the sale of prizes there, and in such case, the prizes, or such parts of their cargoes as are to be sold in France, will be put under your direction. You must take care that every thing is disposed of to the best advantage, apply the proceeds to the pay ments we have ordered you to make on account of the publick, and render us very exact accounts of what you credit us in this way, and a particular account of sales of each prize. Should Captain Weeks take any specie, he will pay it to you or the Commissioner, or to their or your order for the same purpose, and you must grant him receipts for the same, expressing that you receive it for the use of the United States of America, and that he is to be repaid by Congress. 2 MS not found; extract reprinted from Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:1237. 1 Not found. 2 The following extract, also dated October 25 and endorsed "per Wickes,” was probably taken from the same letter. “We have chartered and are now loading a fine Ship in Virginia called the Aurora, the master not yet fixed. She will carry upwards of 400 Hhds. of Tobacco and be dispatched soon as possible for Nantes consigned to your Order. You may insure this Tobacco valuing it at £10 Sterling per hhd. not exceeding 15 per Cent Premium. We have also char tered and are loading a New Ship at Baltimore, name nor Master yet fixed. She will carry 5 to 600 hhds. Tobacco also for Nantes consigned to your order on which we wish for Insurance valuing the Tobacco as above. We have bought large quantities of Tobacco and are trying to get ships to carry it. Some arc- engaged, but we must trust to future opportunities to write for insurance.” PCC, item 19, 4:303. For Congress’ request for assistance from Virginia in dispatching the Aurora, see JCC, 5:850-51; and John Hancock to Patrick Henry, November 12, 1776. Samuel Adams to Samuel Mather My dear Sir 1 Philada Octob 26 1776 On the evening of the 24th Instant I arrivd in good health in this City. I give you this Information in Compliance with my word, and flattering myself that I shall very soon be favored with a Letter from you. I will promise to give you hereafter as much Intelligence as the Secrecy to which I am in honour bound will allow. I met with Nothing disagreeable in my journey, saving my being prevented from passing through the direct Road in East Chester, the Enemy having taken Possession of the Ground there. Our Army is extended in several Encampments from Kings Bridge to White Plains which is 12 or 15 Miles Northward, commanded by the Generals Lord Sterling, Bell (of Maryland) Lincoln, McDougal, Lee, Heath & Putnam. I mention them, I think, in the order as they are posted from the Plains to the Bridge. The Generals Head Quarters are now at Valentine Hill about the Center of the Encampment. The Army
