October 26, 1776 391 other Necessaries can be had your Way as this State is much drained of all Articles required by the Army. If Musketts were given them instead of Rifles the Service would be more benefitted, as there is a Superabundance of Riflemen in the Army. Were it in the Power of the Congress to supply Musketts they would speedily reduce the Number of Rifles & replace them with the former, as they are more easily kept in order, can be fired oftner &: have the Advantage of Bayonetts. I have the Honour to be, your very obedt Servt, Richard Peters, Secy RC (MdAA). 'The council of safety’s October 18 letter to the board, dealing with the “want of both guns and blankets’’ for “a rifle Company on the Continental Establish ment . . . raised in Harford County” is in Md. Archives, 12:365. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton Eliza. Town Octor. 26. 1276. It is long since I reed, a Letter from you, and longer since I wrote to you. The last I reed was by Mr. Caldwell. I had then just returned from Phila. much indisposed and was Elected into the Assembly, which, tho’ very infirm I Attended for About ten days & returned home Sick where I have remained ever since with my self and most of my family much indisposed. 1 We are all got tolerable Well except my wife who hath the 3d day Ague, and one of my younger Children I lost. I purpose next Monday to return again to Phila. where I can remain but two Weeks when Our Assembly will Meet again, when I purpose to Sue for a dismission from Congress finding it too hard to Attend there & at the Assembly, between both of which I could not expect to spend much of my Time at home. Public News I Suppose you know as much of as I do from my long Confinement.” Recapitulates recent military develop ments and concludes: “I hear Genl. Schuyler lately wrote to the Congress requesting to resign his Commission, upon a Supposition they meant to cast an Oblique Censure on him by Approving Gen. Wosters Conduct in Canada; concluding there must be a fault some where, and if not in Genl. Woster it would Naturally fall on him. His Conclusion was ill founded as the Congress when they cleared Genl. Woster of Misconduct never thought of laying it on Genl. Schuyler, but imputed the Miscarriage there to the Short Time the Soldiers had inlisted for, the Small pox getting into the Army, the want of hard money to purchase Provisions in Canada, and the almost impossibility of transporting any quantity there in the Winter.” 2 RC (MeHi). ’ Clark had also discussed the state of his health in two letters to John Hart,
