October 26, 1776 393 set out for Fort George, in order to inspect the State of the Hospital at that place. The chief of the sick from Tyonderoga are sent there, as being a much more healthy & convenient situation: and we are happy in being able to inform Congress that the Building is convenient & comfortable, that the Director Genl, has lately received a large supply of the most capital medicines, and that they are now fur nished with a sufficient quantity of fresh mutton and Indian meal. They yet want Beding, and some other matters which we shall state upon our return: we shall endeavour to procure some straw (a very scarce article here) which is much needed at the Hospital. At the close of our business at Fort George, we received a letter from Genl. Gates, advising us not to pursue our journey to Tyonderoga, but to remain at Saratoga, until further advise from him. We are just re turned here from Fort George, and shall wait a few days to hear further from Genl. Gates. In the mean time, we shall be pursuing the other parts of our instructions, which can be executed here. Genl. Schuyler has taken every possible step in order to keep open the communication from hence to Tyonderoga, that the Army may not want supplies. Considerable bodies of the militia are daily going up: yet we heard, the last evening, that the Savages had appeared be tween the upper End of Lake George & Tyonderoga, and had, on the day we left Fort-George, taken two and killed 8c scalped one of our people going to Tyonderoga. An Express comes in this moment, who brings a letter from the commanding officer at Fort George, informing that a party of the Enemy had made their appearance and fired on some of our people who were crossing Lake George. Genl. Schuyler yet doubts of this fact. We shall attend, with all possible diligence, to the remaining business committed to us by Congress; and for our own sake, as well as the public interest, return as soon as may be. With the greatest esteem & respect, we have the honor to be, Sir, Your most obedient and very humble Servants, Richd. Stockton Geo. Clymer RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Written by Stockton and signed by Stockton and Clymer. Endorsed: “read 4 Novr. 1776.” 1 Robert R. Livingston and Walter Livingston. See John Hancock to Philip Schuyler, September 27, 1776, note 4. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Philadelphia Oct. 26th 1776 Since my last Congress have received the disagreeable Intelligence of the Destruction of our Fleet on Lake Champlain. The Enemy were vastly superior to Us in the Number and Size of their armed Vessells, and in the Number of Men and Weight of Metal. Genl.
