October 26, 1776 399 on our part to resist him & must necessarily involve the ruin of our cause. Strange Infatuation. What are the mighty feats that the utmost exertions of Great Britain by sea and land, aided with all the auxili aries that Germany would credit them with, collected into a focus in the center of America, performed. They have taken possession of Long Island and York Island. The first they purchased at the expence of 1000 men after a well fought battle which with 3000 men we main tained against twice that number, Sc where success even then deter mined in their favor by a superiour stroke of experimental Generalship. Were we disgraced here? No! We retired in a manner that would have honoured a Roman General, and they took posses sion of their dear bought purchase, with nothing to boast but that from their Shipping they might have cut off our communication with our main army and prevented us a supply of provisions. Have they any extraordinary merit in the acquisition of New York? Believe me they have none. This place was long ago thought incapable of defence against Shipping, and an experienced Engineer who some time ago was sent out for the express purpose of fortifying it de clared that it was impossible to make it formidable. It required more men than we could spare to make it tenable, and as we had many other posts to which as well as to this, the Enemy had access with their shipping, It was tho’t prudent to abandon it and concenter our force where the Enemies Ships could not annoy them. Have the Enemy notwithstanding this advanced into the Country? No! They keep close to their shipping and with all their advances have not yet marched a mile into our Country. The trouble (for that was all, the work being done by the soldiers when otherwise they would have been idle saving the greatest part of the Expence) of erecting Bat teries was well bestowed. It has retarded the Enemies operations, advanced a Summer Campaign into the Month of November, dis tressed them for food, and gives us oppertunities to arm and accoutre & cloath our own Army and furnish them with the means of de fence. Staten Island has seen British Troops fly before us. The 16th on Haerlem plains it is believed they lost near 1000 in killed and wounded, Sc we held possession of the field. Last Week They left 150 dead near Frog point to grace the success of Genl Glover. Deserters say they lost above 500 in killed & Wounded & a Skirmish at Rochele last Week thinned them of 30 or 40 men. How stands the ballance? Britain surely has not much to boast? The Officers of the British Troops called Long Island a second Bunker Hill Affair and I believe it proved so to them. Altho this Skirmishing immediately decides nothing of importance yet as it accustoms our troops to the sound of Musquetry, it is of essential service to them. Many men have courage by mechanism, & fighting may by frequent practice become so habitual as to con stitute part of a mans pleasure. The Affair on the lakes is a matter of real importance, & the
