October 26, 1776 401 to prevent those evils which in a course of years must creep in and vitiate every human institution and by insensible gradations at length steal upon the Understanding as part of the original System. To these pure, genuine, unadulterated principles I sincerely wish we may, in our present state untramelled by any rule but that of right have recourse. Let us consider the people at large as the source from which all power is to be derived, & that whatever restraints may be imposed upon them, if they have not their happiness as their only aim, are the fetters of tyranny and the badges of Slavery. Rulers must be conceived as the Creatures of the people, made for their use accountable to them, and subject to removal as soon as they act inconsistent with the purposes for which they were formed. With this for a Basis, if we will divest ourselves of theoretical or practical prejudices except as they arise from knowlege founded on experi ence we shall find little difficulty in adopting a frame of Government which will be stable and lasting. The Constitution of Britain had for its object the union of the three grand qualities of virtue, wisdom and power as the Characteristicks of perfect Government. From the people at large the first of these was most to be expected, the second from a selected few whom superiour Talents or better opportunities for Improvement had raised into a second Class, and the latter from some one whom variety of Circumstances may have placed in a singular and conspicuous point of view, and to whom Heaven had given talents to make him the choice of the people to intrust with powers for sudden and decisive execution. The middle class like the hand which holds a pair of scales balancing between the One 8c the many and impartially casting weight against the scale that prepon derates in order to preserve that equality which is the essence of a mixed Monarchy & is called the ballance of power. Might not this or something like this serve as a Model for us? A Single branch of Legislation is a many headed Monster which without any check must soon defeat the very purposes for which it was created, and its mem bers become a Tyranny dreadful in proportion to the numbers which compose it, and possessed of power uncontrolled would soon exercise it to put themselves free from the restraint of those who made them; and to make their own political existence perpetual. The consultations of large bodies are likewise less correct and perfect than those where a few only are concerned, the people at large have generally just Objects in their pursuit but often fall short in the means made use of to obtain them. A Warmth of Zeal may lead them into errors which a more cool dispassionate enquiry may discover and rectify. This points out the necessity of another branch of legis lation at least, which may be a refinement of the first choice of the people at large selected for their Wisdom, remarkable Integrity, or that weight which arises from property and gives Independence and Impartiality to the human Mind. For my own part I once thought it would be wise to adopt a double check as in the British Constitution
