October 27, 1776 407 Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman Sir, Philidelpa. 26 Octr. 1776 I sit down to Write to you, rather to give you a Mark of my Regard for you than that I have any Thing of Consequence to Com municate. The publick Attention is greatly turned to Observe the Movements at N York and Ticonderoga, from which Places some thing important is soon expected but whatever they may be you may receive as early an Information as I can. The Period is Very interest ing, but hope soon that something decisive will appear in our favour. May that God who presides Over human Events grant a prosperous Issue to our Undertakings. I have not heard a Word from any of my Freinds at Litchfield since I left them. I hope they do not forget me, I beleive they do not, tho I have for some time expected at least a Letter from you. 1 I do not injoy good Health tho I am much better than I have been lately—and hope before long that I may be favoured with established Health. Mr. Sherman went home on my coming here, his Return is dayly expected. Mr. Huntington goes home on his Return as he is not well. Williams will douptless con tinue here, and have a farther Appointment for that Purpose. Nothing New from the Southward. Present my kindest Regards to my Freinds and be Assured that I am, sir, your Freind and most humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott RC (Ronald von Klaussen, state of Florida, 1976). 1 Wolcott also wrote a brief letter to his wife, Laura, this day, complaining that he had not heard from her since he had left home. Wolcott Papers, CtHi. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes My dear Friends October 27, 1776. Philadelphia Mr. Penn having come to a determination to leave this City imme diately and to attend the Convention in North Carolina, nothing is left to my choice but to submit with patience to the allotment which it necessarily makes of me and not to murmur at a disappointment which it was not in my power to prevent. You well know that I had it in contemplation to have been present at the framing a constitu tion for the future Government of our Colony, and as I am likely to spend my days under the influence of it, it may be naturally sup posed that I do not feel myself altogether indifferent to what may be the result of the publick deliberations on this important subject. Superficial as my knowledge may be of the theoretical principles of Government, yet from an intimate observation of the late experi ments which have been made in several states, I profess myself not a mere noviciate in the practical line, and think I have profited some-
