408 October 27, 1776 what from the Blunders of others. This mite I should be happy to contribute, trifling as it is it would serve as an evidence of the good ness of my intentions. The present situation of my family in a part of the country to which I have the fullest confidence that General Howe will transfer part of his force as soon as the Winter begins excites my most anxious sollicitude for their future security and an earnest desire that I could afford them my personal assistance to remove them at a greater distance from the impending horrors of War. But I have still a duty superiour to all these, which supersedes every tie of private affection, and every connection in publick life that is not essential to the salvation of the liberties of America. Yes! We are upon the verge of that important moment which tho it may not decide, yet must have a very important influence upon the state of these colonies in the future struggle for their liberties. Genl Washington at the head of an Army of 25,000, Howe perhaps with a number not inferiour to him, at half a mile distance from each other, and in expectation every instant of a general action, when the stakes they fight for are the liberties of millions living and unborn, is an Idea almost too vast for comprehension. In firm reliance upon that being whose almighty fiat disposes the fate of Empires I wait the results. I took an early share in this controversy & when it was believed that it might have been decided without the effusion of human blood. I will not desert it when the conflict is grown serious; and am prepared to meet its most formidable approaches and resign myself to my fate however severe, if this can in the least contribute to the happiness of those who sent me hither. What may be the con sequence of an engagement at New York it is impossible to foretell, the success of War is often the effect of casualty where bravery or conduct have little share in the decision. And should we be unfortu nate, it will be necessary that this Congress should have all its powers in their full energy. We cannot be always successful yet a series of good fortune is apt to blind us against the possibility of a reverse, and in proportion to our elevation we become depressed with a sudden stroke of Adversity. This event we must conceive possible and therefore as the trustees of the liberties of America we must be pre pared to meet the worst, and be upon the spot to counteract the effect which it may have upon those of weak minds and to prevent dispiritedness from becoming contageous. It will be necessary also to check the career of our enemies by immediate exertions, and to locate a success which otherwise might extend its pernicious consequences, thro’ought America. God grant that these precautions may be un necessary; at least they are prudent. And in justice to my constituents in respect to the sacred trust they have reposed in me I cannot leave them unrepresented at a time perhaps when the fate of America may turn upon a single vote. My private feelings shall never weigh
