October 27, 1776 409 against this publick duty, & I will never be unfaithful to them what ever torture I may thereby inflict upon myself. Yet My friends, Is there not a possibility that I may be e’er long relieved, soon enough perhaps to congratulate the convention before they disperse, upon the prudent establishment which they may have formed for the regu lation of our state. Could the number of delegates in Congress be increased to five the service would be much less irksome, three might always attend, and the other two relieve them occasionally. 1 This might be done with little or no additional expence to the State by dividing the sum now given or that with a small addition amongst the five, who from their short absence from home, and greater oppor tunity to attend to their own private affairs, may without injustice to themselves serve the publick for much less than the delegates receive at present. Think not that in this arrangement, I have the most distant view to myself, I solemnly assure you that I have not. A Choice is soon to take place, and without the least regret will I resign my seat to whomsoever my country shall appoint to fill it. In accepting the trust originally my end and aim was the publick good. I have held, I yet hold it from that principle only. I will lay it down with Joy to anyone whom my Country may direct to assume it, conscious that many may be found with better capacities and as good inclinations to serve the common Cause. The vast expence which attends living in this City has notwithstanding the great liberality of my Constituents prevented it from being a post of profit. The Honour is surely amply recompensed by the fatigue which attends it. At the Treasury board from 8 oClock am till 12 at noon, in Congress till 4 pm, and in Marine Committee often till ten at night, with the busi ness of the secret Committee of Correspondence to fill up the moments which I have not otherways disposed of. Judge what time I can call my own or what I can give to the Amusement of myself or my Friends. However I repine not, I never thought that the road to liberty was strewed with roses; thorns & thick briars are the growth of it &: happy he who has virtue and perseverance to surmount the obstacles. The reward in value exceeds infinitely the labour which may attend the procuring it. I know not whether I have a seat in your Convention. Should my friends in any of the Counties have thought proper to prefer me to that honour, I shall feel the most sincere gratitude for such a mark of their respect. I am aware of the intentions of my friends in Wake and (Chowan) Perquimans County, and have some reason to believe that I have been named in New Hanover, to these or any of these the reasons I have assigned for my stay here will I am well assured serve as a sufficient apology; if they have intended to make use of my poor abilities; that I am not upon the spot to exert them. Mr Penn will inform you of the check which we have received at the lakes, it is unfortunate but not dishonourable, it was a well con-
