410 October 27, 1776 tested field & even our enemies do us the justice to confess that they never saw examples of more determined heroism. Every moment we expect an attack at Ticonderoga. We shall I hope 8c trust play a winning game and repair our late loss. What an eventful period! My doubts have greatly vanished as to Eastern courage. Give them good officers, I am now convinced that they will not dishonour them or our Cause. I inclose you the Constitutions of several states for the speculation of yourself and friends. That of Pennsylvania which came into the world when Mr. Hewes was here, has since made its solemn exit in this City. The People at large have met, arraigned the proceedings of the last convention, resolved that they have exceeded the powers with which they were intrusted and disclaim obedience to any acts of theirs. The Monster which they called a Government has expired with the political existence of those who created it, and Cannon 8c Matlack with some other factious demagogues have slunk into their pristine obscurity—but unhappily not till this measure had given general dissatisfaction and like leaven in the political mass had caused a general fermentation, 8c like a contagion diffused its bane ful effects far 8c near. It made more tories than the whole treasury of Britain could have done in the same space of time. Its subversion will I hope in a great measure work a cure of the evil. This presents an example of the ill effects of a single branch of legislature, 8c points out Rocks which I hope no other state will split upon. The Constitu tion of the Jersies has its full Energy and gives general satisfaction. That of Delaware is much commended. They are determined to adopt in this one as nearly similar as possible to the old one, abolish ing little else but the regal 8c proprietary powers and deriving all power from the people. Adieu, I have much to write 8c but little time to do it in, this must serve as the communication of my sentiments to several of my friends to whom my good friend Mr Hewes may think proper to disclose it. Mr Skinner 8c the Messrs Harveys, Mr Rand 8c my Wake friends will please to consider themselves as addressed by the letter 8c Mr Hewes will to them, Mr Johnston 8c Maclaine 8c Gen Jones save me the necessity of any further apologies. I have had an attack of a bilious Cholic a few days ago, I still feel the effects of it in a relaxation which I must so far indulge as not to trespass longer upon your Patience than to conclude myself Gentlemen, with great respect, Your Obedt Hum Sert, Will Hooper [P.S.] Remember me kindly to Col Caswell. Show him this. RC (CSmH). Addressed: “To Joseph Hewes esquire. In his Absence to Samuel Johnston esqr at Halifax. By favor of Mr. Penn.” 1 When the North Carolina Provincial Congress selected new delegates on December 20, 1776, it ignored Hooper’s advice to enlarge the state’s delegation
