412 October 27, 1776 Robert Morris to Horatio Gates Dear Sir Philada. October 27th. 1776 I find by your letter of the 5th Inst, you had not received one of my letters wrote in Answer to one of yours. I kept no Copy of it which you’l say is unusual for a merchant. I acknowledge it and only plead in excuse, that I did not write to you in that Character. The letter for Mrs. Gates is gone forward by Post as I cou’d not meet any other Conveyance altho I kept it here some days in expectation of one. Mr. Johnston and indeed all the Maryland Delegates are at home forming a Constitution. This seems to be the present business of all America, except the Army, it is the fruits of a certain prema ture declaration which you know I always opposed. My opposition was founded on the evil consequences I foresaw or thought I fore saw and the present State of Several Colonies justifys my apprehen sions. We are disputing about Liberties, Priviledges, Posts, & places at the very time we ought to have nothing in View but the securing those objects, & placing them on such a footing as to make them worth Contending for amongst ourselves hereafter but instead of that the Vigour of this & several other States is lost in Intestine division, and, unless this spirit of Contention is checked by some means or other, I fear it will have banefull influence on the general measures of America. I am not one of those Testy Politicians that run resty when my own plans are not adopted, for I think it the duty of a good Citizen to follow when he cannot lead, & happy wou’d it be for America if all her Inhabitants wou’d adopt this Maxim, and make it an invaria ble Rule during this great Contest for the Minority on every question to Submit to & cooperate with the Majority; but alas this cannot be. It is not to be expected from Human Nature. We must take Men as we find them, and do the best we can. You tell me the Congress are bad Correspondents, and I fear you have too much truth on your side. Was you here I cou’d explain this in a Tete a Tete but I have neither time nor inclination to commit that explanation to paper. You may depend there is no intentional Neglect or Slight meant to you or the department You Act in. It is deemed of the utmost importance, and all the Members of Congress wish that & every other department was duly attended to, but the Fact is they have too many objects & retain too much executive business in their own hands for their Members to effect with that vigor & dispatch that is necessary. You say I must tell you good News. I will if you will repay me in kind for of late we have had nothing but very bad News from both our Armys. We expect daily to hear of your being attacked & have sanguine hopes of a Vigorous and successfull defence on your part— much depends on it. If you keep your Ground I think Genl. Wash ington will keep his and if both do this for the present Fall & ensuing Winter, the Good News I mean to tell you will be verifyed.
