October 29, 1776 417 William Hooper to the North Carolina Provincial Convention Honoured Sir Philadelphia Oct 29. 1776 By my worthy Colleague Mr Penn, I do myself the honour to trans mit a resolution of the continental Congress which bears immediate relation to the State of North Carolina. The Congress having been informed that the Armed vessels belonging to the Enemy have lately quitted the River of Cape Fear, and have proceeded to the North ward, have bestowed their thoughts upon the practicability of forti fying that entrance into your state, and excluding the British Men of War. 1 The importance of such a measure must weigh as power fully with you as with them, 8c I am well assured that nothing will be wanting on your part to carry it into Execution with all possible dispatch. As this is the only Port in the State of North Carolina, into which the Enemies can introduce ships of any considerable force, should they be prevented here, we shall have nothing to fear from any forces which they may send against us in the insuing Winter. The Harbour of Cape Fear will furnish a secure receptacle for our own trading Vessels and those of foreigners who from this Advantage may be induced to prefer ours to the ports of other states. The privateers of the several states, as well as the Continental armed Vessels will carry any prizes which they make to the Southward, into No Carolina when they are apprized of the protection which they and their Captures will receive, and by these means we shall be sup plied with the many articles of which we now feel the most pressing necessity. We are aware of the scarcity of heavy Cannon in your state 8c have therefore procured a recommendation to you to apply to South Carolina to aid you in that respect. We flatter ourselves that it may produce the effect we wish, as it will be nothing but a recipro cal Civility and what North Carolina is well entitled to for the ready and ample succour afforded to South Carolina when in imminent danger from its Enemies. Our own Guns small as they are may be made useful and I know not how more essentially. The Continental Troops will be employed in this service, 8c the Expence arising from the hire of negroes to perform the most laborious part of the opera tion will be considerable, but must appear contemptible when weighed against the publick emolument which will result from it. You will observe that this is to be executed at the Expence of your own particular state; a recommendation of a similar kind went to South Carolina, in consequence of which they have erected very great 8c very expensive fortifications at their own cost. 2 It becomes (Economy in you to bear this Expence yourself, rather than by making it Continental, expose yourself to pay your proportion of the large fortifications which have been or may hereafter be erected in the Eastern States. Your proportion only of the Connecticut forts
