October 1776 423 their merchants and manufacturers, who will therefore incline to the accommodation, even though the monopoly is not continued, since it can be easily made appear their share of our growing trade, will soon be greater than the whole has been heretofore. Then for the landed interest, who wish an alleviation of taxes, it is demonstrable by figures that if we should agree to pay suppose ten millions in one hundred years, viz £100,000 per annum for that term, it would being faithfully employed [as] a sinking fund more than pay off all their present national debt. It is besides a prevailing opinion in England, that they must in the nature of things sooner or later lose the Colonies, and may think they had better be without the government of them, so that the Proposition will on that account have more supporters and fewer opposers. 3. As the having such propositions to make; or any powers to treat of peace, will furnish a pretence for BF’s going to England, where he has many friends and acquaintances, particularly among the best writers and ablest speakers in both Houses of Parliament, he thinks he shall be able when there if the terms are not accepted, to work up such a division of sentiments in the nation as greatly to weaken its exertions against the United States and lessen its credit in foreign countries. 4. The knowledge of there being powers given to the Commis sioners to treat with England, may have some effect in facilitating and expediting the proposed treaty with France. 5. It is worth our while to offer such a gum for the countries to be ceded, since the vacant lands will in time sell for a great part of what we shall give, if not more; and if we are to obtain them by conquest, after perhaps a long war, they will probably cost us more than that sum. It is absolutely necessary for us to have them for our own security, and though the sum may seem large to the present generation, in less than half the term, it will be to the whole United States, a mere trifle. MS (DLC). In an unidentified hand. The MS is among the papers Benjamin Franklin left to his grandson William Temple Franklin, but otherwise Franklin’s connection with the document is conjectural. Temple is the source of the tradi tion that Franklin drafted it. When he published his memoirs on his grandfather, Temple introduced the document with a brief, one-paragraph statement, and following the "Sketch” he added a two-paragraph note, which is also found at the foot of the last page of the MS. Temple’s explanation is as follows. “Previous to Dr. Franklin’s departure [for France], he conceived it would be advisable, on many accounts, to be the bearer of propositions for peace with Great Britain; and with this view he drew up, and submitted to the secret committee of congress, the following paper [the "Sketch" follows]. “It is uncertain to what extent this Plan was adopted by Congress. The Propositions were certainly not such as the British Ministry would have listen’d to a Moment, at that period of the Revolutionary War, whatever they might have been disposed to have done in a more advanced state of it. “It is possible, however, that this or some other Proposals for Peace with
