424 October 1776 Great Britain may have been furnish’d to Dr. Franklin by the Secret Committee of Congress, to serve him in some Measure as a Protection in Case of his Capture at Sea; of which there was at that time the most imminent Danger.” William Temple Franklin, Memoirs of the Life and Writings of Benjamin Franklin . . ., (Philadelphia: T. S. Manning, 1818), pp. 372-75. In the note to the document appearing in his edition of Franklin’s works, Sparks seems merely to have taken his information from Temple; and Smyth simply reprinted Sparks’ note when he published the document. Benjamin Franklin, The Works of Benjamin Franklin, ed. Jared Sparks, 10 vols (Boston: Hilliard, Gray, and Co., 1836-40), 5:113; Franklin, Writings (Smyth), 6:452. No contemporary evidence has been found, however, to confirm that the document originated with Franklin or was discussed in the Committee of Secret Correspondence or in Congress. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes My dear Hewes November 1. 1776 I thank you for your friendly Attention to me on your way from this to Carolina. I acknowledge the receipt of two letters from you, one from Maryland, the other from Williamsburgh. I refer you for the state of this city to Mr Penn. He has a pretty general acquaintance here and can inform you of any material changes which have taken place since you left this. The circle of my acquaintance you know is much confined, it becomes more so every day. A man whose appointment is for the express purpose of sup porting the liberties of America, with a very ill grace associates with those who are constantly employed in decrying and attempting to bring into contempt the measures of Congress. And believe me Dear Hewes, it flows from me like my heart’s blood (but this is not a time to palliate). The growth of Tories exceeds all comprehension. It is a weed that lately discovers itself in soils where I the least ex pected it. But the least success on our part will instantly extinguish it. The Council of Safety is become a poor, vapid set of insignificant beings, is rather the pageantry than the reality of power. They have made a most violent effort to confine a man in jail for refusing the Continental Currency, and after a week’s struggle have stropped him. I expect to hear in a few days that they have taken him out again, for there is nothing too absurd for their fears or Ignorance to effect. 1 On the 29th Instant Howe’s Army made a grand movement in three Columns in the front of our Army & when it was expected that they would attack in our Center, they made a sudden Wheel to our right and brought up their cannon and began a violent and incessant fire upon a party of 1500 Men which were stationed upon a hill by G Washington and were beginning to throw up lines. Our Men sustained their whole fire for a considerable time when being
