November 3, 1776 429 You have also Blank Warrants to be fill’d with proper officers to be Appointed in the same manner. You will return to me a List of the Names of all the officers both Commission & Warrant as soon as possible after they are fix’d. You have also Inclos’d the Books, & some new Regulations. 2 I Refer you to your Brother [Simeon Deane] who takes Charge of this for every other Instruction relative to the Frigate. I wish you happy & am with Respect, Sir, Your very hum set, John Hancock Prest [P.S.] You have Blank Commisss. for Marine officers, which are to be appointed in same manner as mention’d before; of these you will also return a List. Take care of the spare Warrants & Commisss.; either Return them to me or destroy them. I think there has been neither Capt. nor Lieutenants for the Compa. of Marines appointed, that you must appoint the whole. RC (CtHi). 1 These officers had been appointed by Congress on August 22, ]CC, 5:696-97. Deane, a Wethersfield, Conn., merchant and brother of former delegate Silas Deane, had been in charge of the construction of the Trumbull, which was launched early in September 1776. See Marine Committee to Nathaniel Shaw, Jr., August 22, 1776. ’These may have been the resolutions on marine affairs passed by Congress on October 29 and 30. ]CC, 6:909, 913. John Hancock to Thomas Cushing Dr Sir Philada. 3d Novr. 1776 By Capt. Manly I Sent you the Warrants for the Officers. 1 I now Inclose you the Commisss. for the Officers of the Ships & of Marines. I have not fill’d in the Names, you will therefore please to fill in the Names of such as have been already Appointed, but in case they Decline you will fill them with such as you & the Captn. &: Mr Agent Bradford shall Judge proper. As it will not answer to Delay, you will Send me a List of all the Officers to these Ships as soon as compleat. Inclos’d are Capt. Manly’s orders open for your perusal, 2 do hurry them on as fast as possible. Inclos’d you have some new regulations respectg Prizes. The Inclos’d Letters please to order to be Deliver’d. You will Remember that Mr Palmer, Brown, Thomp son &c have been Appointed. The Money will come as soon as it is safe for an Express to Travel with it, which I hope will be in a day or two. We are now at a very critical moment, God grant us Success. I Beg you will please immediately on Rec[eip]t of this to Inform our Honable Assembly that the Dispatches they Sent by Dod the
