430 November 3, 1776 Express were all Stole from him at Bristol last Tuesday 20 miles from this City. 3 He had also Dispatches from Genl Washington, all which are no doubt by this time in the possession of Genl How. We are very uneasy to know the Contents of the Dispatches from the Assembly. The Express Says he had a large Packet from them. He cannot well Account for the Loss of them, he is in Confinement. The original Express was taken Sick at Hartford & Sent his Brother on. I intreat you to Request the Assembly to order Copies of their Dispatches immediately to be forwarded, as it will be a great Relief to Congress to receive early Advice. Do Apologize to the Assembly for my not writing them by this, it is now late at Night & tho’ Sunday I have been the whole Day busily employ’d at my Pen. This goes by a Connecticutt Gentn. who promises to forward it to you. I will Send your Money the first Opening, when I shall write you fully. If any thing else be needful for the Ships let me know by Express, if no other way, but I think I have sent you every thing necessary. Adieu. God Bless you. I am very truly, Your Obedt sert, John Hancock RC (MHi). ’See Hancock to Cushing, October 24, 1776. 2 See Marine Committee to John Manley, Hector McNeill, and Thomas Thomp son, October 23, 1776. 3 On this point, see also Hancock to Washington, October 28, 1776. John Hancock to John Langdon Sir Philada. November 3d. 1776 My constant attention to the Business of Congress has prevented my writing you so often as I could have wish’d. I have forwarded the Commission for Capt Thompson; 1 and now Inclose you the Commisss. for the Lieuts. of the Raleigh, &: for the officers of Marines. You will please to fill them with the Names of such Persons as have been already Appointed, or in case any of them decline you will with Capt. Thompson Appoint such Persons as you Judge proper, & return to me a List of the Commissions & Warrant Officers as soon as Compleat. I inclose you some New regulations respectg prizes, 2 & a few Warrants lest Col Whipple should not have Carried you a sufficiency. You will be careful of the spare Warrants & either Send them to me or destroy them. The necessary orders respectg the Cruize of the Ships go by this Con veyance to Capt Manly, who will Send them to Capt Thompson. 3 I shall write you by an Express soon, I improve this Oppory. by
