November 3, 1776 431 Mr Dean late on Sunday Eveng. 8c hope will Reach you, tho’ the Rout is doubtfull. I wish you happy 8c am, Your very humi Servt, John Hancock Prest. RC (Universiteitsbibliotheek van Amsterdam). ’See JCC, 6:861. 2 See JCC, 6:913. 3 See Marine Committee to John Manley, Hector McNeill, and Thomas Thomp son, October 23, 1776. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson Philadelphia 3d. Novr. 1776 Dear Sir As I have received no answer to the letter I wrote you by the Express from Congress I conclude it has miscarried. 1 I heared with much regret that you had declined both the voyage, and your seat in Congress. No Man feels more deeply than I do, the love of, and the loss of, private enjoyments; but let attention to these be uni versal, and we are gone, beyond redemption lost in the deep perdi tion of slavery. By every account from lake Champlain we had reason to think ourselves in no danger on that water for this Cam paign. Nor did Gen. Arnold seem to apprehend any until he was defeated by an enemy four times as strong as himself. 2 This Officer, fiery, hot and impetuous, but without discretion, never thought of informing himself how the enemy went on, and he had no idea of retiring when he saw them coming, tho so much superior to his force! Since his defeat, our people evacuated Crown point, and joined their whole strength at Ticonderoga. We do not hear the enemy have thought proper to visit them there, and the Season must now stop operations on the Lake. On the [borders of] the Sound it has been a war of skirmishes, in which I [think we] have gained 5 out of 6. Never was a Ship more mauled [than] a Frigate that lately attempted Fort Washington, she had [26] eighteen pounders thro her and most of the guns double s[hotted.] At the same time an attack on the same place by land w[as] repelled, but the day fol lowing the enemy gained an eminefnce] from our people near the white plains, on the sound, about 10 miles above Kingsbridge. The loss on our part in killed, wounded, and Missing, between 3 and 400, the enemies loss considerable but numbers not fixt. Our troops fought well and retired in order before a much superior force. This was McDougals brigade consisting of York, Maryland, and I believe some Eastern Troops. 3 In a skirmish the next day We learn the enemy were defeated. By London papers middle of August it seems quite probable that the quarrel between Spain and Portugal with
