438 November 5, 1776 pose write to such of the States as have any Militia in the Govern ment of New York requesting their Assistance in the Business. The Commissions for such Officers as you shall please to appoint by Warrant in Consequence of the enclosed Resolves, shall be for warded as soon as possible. The Resolves herewith transmitted, I am to inform you, do not extend to the Maryland Troops, as the Commissioners from that State are on their Way to Head Quarters to appoint Officers agree ably to the former Resolves of Congress. You will therefore be pleased to suspend any appointment of Officers for that State, until you shall hear further from Congress, or until the arrival of those Gentlemen shall make it unnecessary. 2 The enclosed Commission of Brigadier General you will please to have delivered to Genl. Smallwood. 3 With every Sentiment of Esteem & Respect, I am Sir your very hble Set. John Hancock Presidt. [P.S.] I send some Commissions, & shall send others immediately. Mr Harrisons Letters to 3rd Inst, are come to hand. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and last sentence of postscript by Hancock. 'See ]CC, 6:920-21. 2 See Hancock to the Maryland Convention, November 4, 1776, note 1. 3 See JCC, 6:898. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes Philadelphia November 5th 1776 This, my dear Hewes, is truly confidential and intended for the perusal of yourself & my friend Samuel Johnston only. I refer you to Penn and the Gentleman who bears this for a state of political and military occurrences so far as they have fallen under their Ob servation, and whatever may have escaped them you will learn particularly from newspapers. I have no inclination to transcribe when you can so easily have recourse to originals. What may be the event of an engagement betwixt Genl. Howe and Genl. Washington I am not bold enough to pronounce, it is known only to the Lord of hosts. Should we succeed I think the stroke will be decisive with respect to Britain. Should we be de feated, judge yourself what effects it will operate upon the tempers of the Inhabitants of America. It may discourage the future Enlist ment of an army and leave us unprepared to meet the efforts of Great Britain in the Spring. We shall under the best of Circum-
