440 November 5, 1776 taken the hint & with Israel Pemberton at their head openly and avowedly decry the Currency and refuse to take it in payment of their debts. The prejudice is becoming general & timid whigs are catching the infection. I have heard that half Joes have lately sold for six pounds. This is striking radically at our struggle and unless vigorous & immediate steps are taken to cure the evil we are a ruined Country. The Council of Safety here are the mere pageantry not the reality of what they should be. Instead of striking a bold stroke and making an example of some character of consequence, they seize only the small fry and let Characters of importance escape with Impunity. A Poor Shoemaker has felt their resentment while men of fortune every day commit the same offences and triumph in their baseness. The Continental Congress cannot interfere lest they should violate the rights of the state and break in upon its internal policy. This points to you the immediate necessity of pro viding in every state laws and ordinances to secure the Credit of colonial & Continental Currency against Counterfeiting, or deprecia tion from other Causes. Nothing lately from France. As to any measures taken by Congress for foreign Alliances I refer you to Mr Penn. I will not trust a thought on this subject to paper least it should by any accident miscarry. Genl. Washington is now at White Plains near New Rochelle with about 20,000 men. Col. Magaw at Mount Washington with 1000. Green at fort Lee & Mercer at Amboy together have about 6000. 2 Virginia Regiments are at Trenton—the German battalion here. The Enemy are in possession of Kings bridge. Our Army are in good Spirits. I have just reed, a letter from Rob. R. Livingston at Albany, I have from him that Carlton with his Army are at Crown Point. Gates with his at Ticon are in good Spirits. We have lately received thro Schuyler a Supply of 6 Weeks provision in that Garrison so that we are well off in that respect. 2 This is Election day for the City and County of Philad, the Altercation is like to be warm, Matlack & Cannon for the conven tion and the oath to be taken by Electors—Dickinson & his friends against it. The issue is yet uncertain tho’ I believe fc wish that the latter may succeed. Adieu for the present, Yr [P.S.] Pray deliver the several letters which I have addressed to the Convention as soon as they are pretty generally assembled. RC (Hayes Collection, NcU microfilm). Tr (Nc-Ar). 1 See Congress’ September 16 resolution on this issue in JCC, 5:763. 2 Remainder of letter taken from Tr.
