November 6, 1776 441 Secret Committee to Nathaniel Shaw, Jr. Sir Philadelphia Novr. 5th. 1776 The Inclosed Letter was sent up from the Council of Safety of Maryland with some others to us, it came by a Brig arrived there from Martinique and was enclosed under Cover to your Friends Messr. Thomas & Isaac Wharton who gave it back that we might forward it to you free of Postage. 1 In the Brig at Maryland is also arrived 133 bbs. & 20 Casks of Powder for you which we suppose to be on Continental Account, and shall give the Board of War an Order to receive the same, but if we are mistaken & this should be private property you will set us right and we will either pay you powder or Money for it. We are sir your Hb servts. For & on behalf of the Secret Com mittee, Signed, Robert Morris, Chairman [P.S.] The within mentioned Powder is marked in the Bill Lading, as follows— LI 60 Barrels MP 16 do. AR 18 do. LC 39 do. 20 Keggs Bill Lading Dated St. Pierre, Martinico 9th Septr 1776. Signed John Martin. On Accot. Nathl. Shaw Junr. to the Address of Messrs. Thos. 8e Isaac Wharton. Tr (CtY). 'A transcript of the enclosed October 12 letters from William Constant, Jr., of Pointe-a-Pitre, Guadeloupe, which informed Shaw that Constant had sent 12,950 pounds of powder to Fort Royal, Martinique, for shipment by Capt. John Martin, is in the Shaw Papers, CtY. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philada. Nov 6 1776 I just now receivd your obliging Letter of the 24 of Octobr by the Post. I am exceedingly pleasd with the patriotick Spirit which prevails in our Genl Assembly. Indeed it does them great Honor. I hope the Increase of Pay will be confind to the Militia to induce them to continue in the Army till a full Inlistment of our Quota for a new Army shall be compleated on the Encouragement offerd by Congress which I have found since I left you is increasd by a Suit of Cloaths annually. Congress could not account for the Delay of the Assemblies to send Committees to the Camp agreable to their
