442 November 6, 1776 Recommendation but by your Letter I am led to believe that the Answer of our Assembly was among those letters which were lately stolen from an Express on the Road. The Necessity of immediate Application to the important Business of inlisting a new Army indued Congress to direct the Commander in Cheif to give orders for that Purpose even though the Committees should not have arrivd. I am glad however that your Committee is gone to Head Quarters, for I am perswaded they will be very usefull. 1 I hear with Pleasure that you have appointed a Committee of War. 2 It has ever appeard to me to be necessary and it must be attended with happy Effects. While we are taking such Measures as I trust will be effec tual! to put a Stop to and totally defeat the Designs of the open Invaders of our Rights, are we not too inatentive to the Machina tions of our secret & perhaps more inveterate Enemies? Beleive me, it is my opinion that of the two, the Latter are by far the more dangerous. I hope you have not many of these among you, Some I know you have. Measures are taking here to suppress them. 3 RC (MHi). 1 The Massachusetts General Court actually appointed two committees to appoint field officers and reenlist troops—one for the camp at New York City and the other for the army at Ticonderoga. The former consisted of Timothy Danielson, George Partridge, Josiah Sartel, Jonathan Gardner, and Seth Wash burn; the latter of Abraham Watson, Nathaniel Leonard, Jacob Davis, Elisha Cranston, and William Page. Massachusetts Council Minutes, October 16, 1776, pp. 32-33. DLC(ESR). For the ensuing difficulties related to the committee at the New York camp and to Massachusetts’ decision to pay a bounty to soldiers extending their term of service, see Samuel Adams to James Warren, November 9, 1776. The Massachusetts resolve of October 24 granting the soldiers a temporary bounty of 20 shillings a month is in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:409. 2 A Board of War was established by the Massachusetts General Court on October 26, 1776. The original slate of members was appointed on October 30, but follow ing several resignations, five new members, including James Warren, were ap pointed on November 16. Massachusetts Council Minutes, pp. 109, 187. DLC (ESR). 3 For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Warren, November 9, 1776. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes and Samuel Johnston Philadelphia November 6th [1776] My dear friends, for this is addressed both to you and Mr Johns ton, I thank you for your kind favours by Mr. Bondfield, who this moment called me out of Congress, and as Capt Maclaine is unex pectedly delayed, it gives me an opportunity to acknowledge the obligations I am under to you, for your friendly attention. Mr
