November 6, 1776 443 Maclaine has two large packages inclosing letters for you both, as well as many of my other friends whom I imagine he will find at the Convention. There you will find the causes of my detention here and other Circumstances which I think it unnecessary to repeat. The Constitution of Pennsylvania, so far as it affects the City and County of Philadelphia, expired yesterday in the State house yard. Dickinson, Rob Morris, Christian Sami Morris, Clymer, Shubler [Shubert], Parker were elected and now ride triumphant upon the ruins of the Constitution (which Mr. Johnston thinks I condemn too freely) and upon the Characters of Matlack & Cannon who are now consigned to insignificance as they merit. Two fine frigates are afloat from Rhode Island. 32 prizes lately carried in there—a few days ago into Salem a Turkey Ship taken in the British Channel, the Invoice of her Cargoe amounts in first Cost to 36,000 Sterling. All well at Ticonderoga the 27th of October. Carleton at Crown Point. Schuyler in a letter this moment says that we are well sup plied with provisions and there is some doubt whether Carleton will come further on. We are formidable at Tyonderoga. 1 This moment arrived 12 Waldeckers 8c 8 British prisoners sent hither by Genl Washington. I must conclude. I am called to my duty in Congress. Yours truly, W H [P.S.] Mr R Morris wrote Mr Hewes two letters by post which will explain the nature of the Capture of the Tobacco Vessels. 2 No change lately as to Genl Washington. RC (Nc-Ar). ’Schuyler’s October 30 letter to Hancock is in PCC, item 153, 2:471-76, and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:1296-97. 2 These two letters have not been found. Hooper also wrote a letter this day to Gov. William Livingston of New Jersey, discussing, among other things, a November 5 resolve of Congress relating to that state. This letter, which is badly damaged, is located in the William Livingston Papers, MHi. See also JCC, 6:925-26; and John Hancock to William Livingston, November 7, 1776. William Hooper to the North Carolina Convention Sir Philadelphia November 6th 1776 By a letter which the Congress have this moment received from their Genls Secretary at New York no change of any consequence has taken place since I last wrote you. 1 By a letter received at the same time from General Schuyler we
