454 November 8, 1776 detained in Maryland contrary to their inclinations.” Ibid., p. 447; and PCC, item 70, fol. 85. Schuyler’s letters to Hancock on the subject of the Nanticokes, written on August 18 and September 14, 1776, are in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1030-31, 2:333-34. See also Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety, November 30, 1776. “Apparently a reference to Thomas Stone to the Maryland Convention, Septem ber 4, 1776. ’The council of safety sent the board such a "list” along with its November 15 letter. Md. Archives, 12:447. Board of War to George Washington Sir War Office Novr. 8th. 1776 Mr. Lewis (a Brother Delegate) has given Congress Information that Application had been made to your Excellency by a Flag from Genl. Howe to permit Mrs. Watts & Mrs. Barrow the Pay Masters Wife to go to their Husbands in New York and at the same Time requested Congress to assist him with their Authority to obtain the Release of his Lady whom the Enemy would not permit to come out. The House having refer’d the Matter to the Board of War, we beg Leave to represent to your Excellency the Propriety of ob taining Mrs. Lewis & Mrs. Robinson her Daughter with her Chil dren in exchange for Mrs. Watts & Mrs. Barrow; and, if you have not already permitted those Ladies to go into York or give Genl. Howe a Promise to that effect, that you will make the Release of our Ladies, if we may be allowed the expression, a necessary requisite. Indeed should you have complied with Genl. How’s Request, we submit it to your Excellency whether Mrs. Lewis & Mrs. Robinson may not be asked for in Return. We do not imagine that you will be refused, but should you, we must recur to the unhappy Ex pedient of with-holding in future every simular Indulgence to those Ladies in our Power, who may desire to visit their Connections in the Army. 1 We are very sorry that our Enemies have compelled us to resolve upon any Thing which looks like severity, or indeed to lay any Restraint upon the fair Sex, but tho’ we cannot approve the Prac tice, we shall be obliged to follow the Example of his Britannic Majesty’s Commanders. We have the Honour to be with the most perfect Esteem, Your very obedt Servants, Benja Harrison James Wilson Edward Rutledge P.S. Should Mrs. Watts & Mrs. Barrow carry in their Baggage, Mrs. Lewis and Mrs. Robinson must have the same Indulgence. Perhaps
