November 9, 1776 457 the Army, you must be sensible of the want of Cloathing Sc as you know what was done in Congress respecting that matter no doubt you’ll use your influence to draw the attention of the Executive Power of our state to that Subject. I find the Genl. Court of the Massachusetts have increas’d the pay of their Soldiers & have sent a committee to camp to inlist the men, but Genl. Washington wod not consent to their giving out Orders till the matter was lay’d before Congress. One of the Gentn arriv’d Yesterday. What will be done in the affair I know not. We really have a Choice of Diffi culties which I am in no doubt we shall get over, but the thing is to make advantages of those difficulties. The Massachuts. have in creas’d the pay of their Soldiers to 10 Dols, per Month for the new army. If that shod be come into, the charge of the army will be so great that it will discourage many & undoubtedly will cause some heartburnings in a certain assembly. On the other hand, if the matter has taken air among the Soldiers Sc shod not be agree’d to there is great danger that we shall have no Army. This affair is referr’d to a Committee who I suppose will report tomorrow. Shall be able to give you a more perticular accot. of the matter in my next. In the meantime I hope every measure is 8c will be taken to raise our Proportion 8c as many more as possible. 2 I shod have speculated this side down but have a most violent head ake which has increas’d within a few Minutes to such a degree that it deprives me of the power of thinking. Must therefore bid you Adieu. Yours 8cc, W Whipple 9th Just receiv’d advice that the Enemy had retreated from Crown Point 8c expect an express every hour that will give the perticulars. 3 Genl. Howe has suddenly remov’d from White Plains it is conjectur’d with a design to cross the North River. 4000 of our army have cross’d above him ready to attack him on this side. RC (NhD). 1 Matthew Thornton presented his credentials to Congress on November 4. JCC, 6:920. 2 On this question, see Samuel Adams to James Warren, November 9, 1776, note. “The journals do not indicate how this information was transmitted to Con gress. Gen. Horatio Gates’ November 5 letter to Hancock “advising the retreat of General Carleton from Crown Point” was not received and read in Congress until November 15. JCC, 6:951; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:526-27. Samuel Adams to James Warren Novr 9th [1776] Mr Partridge arrivd in this City the last Evening, having been dispatchd by your Committee at Genl Washingtons Head Quarters who have consulted with the General concerning the Augmentation
