460 November 9, 1776 John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. Novr, 9th. 1776 You will perceive from the enclosed Resolve, that Congress having reconsidered their Vote of the 14th of Octr., have agreed to give the former Allowance of one Dollar 8c one Third of a Dollar to the Officers on the Reinlistment of every Soldier in the Camp. The com- pleating the Army being at present an Object of the utmost Im portance, the Congress are desirous of adopting every Means in their Power, to induce the Officers to fill up their respective Companies, as soon as possible. 1 You will please to take the most effectual Steps for punishing in an exemplary Manner, as far as the Articles of War will admit, all Deserters from the Army at this Time of Trial and Danger. The Baseness of those Officers and Soldiers who can turn their Backs upon their Country in her present Situation, merits the severest Chastise ment. 2 The enclosed Letter from Col. Miles to Mr. Wister of this City, I am directed by Congress to transmit to you, that you may take such Steps relative to the Exchange of the Gentlemen therein mentioned, as you may judge proper. 3 Mr. Partridge, one of the Committee from the State of Massa chusetts Bay, having laid before Congress sundry Resolves of that State concerning the Pay of their Troops beyond what the Congress had given, they have come to a Resolution disapproving of that Measure; and have agreed that the Troops in the American Army may be enlisted for three years, or during the War, as shall be most agreeable to them, subject to the Terms mentioned in the enclosed Resolves. 4 I have the Honour to be with every Sentiment of Esteem &: Respect, Sir, your most obed & very hble Sert. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand o£ Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 6:874, 932. “See JCC, 6:933. 3 In this letter Col. Samuel Miles of Pennsylvania, who had been captured at the battle of Long Island, proposed that he be exchanged for John Foxcroft, the royal postmaster in New York who apparently had been sent to Philadelphia by that state’s council of safety. Washington authorized Miles to make this proposal to General Howe, but he was pessimistic about the colonel’s chances for success “as by the Terms of our Cartel, Officers of equal Rank are only to be proposed for each other," and in fact Miles was not exchanged until 1778. JCC, 6:933; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:294n.58, 308. Foxcroft, who was then in Philadelphia, had submitted a letter to Congress on October 15, requesting permission to return to his wife and family in New York. Congress granted his request on the same day. Foxcroft’s letter, which ordinarily would be in PCC, is located instead among the papers of Elias Boudinot (later commissary of prisoners), at DLC. It is endorsed by Secretary Thomson: "Letter
