November 9, 1776 461 from John Foxcroft praying leave to go to New York. Read in Congress Octr. 15. 1776. Leave granted, he giving his parole to the board of war & not setting out on his Journey before next week.” Immediately below Thomson’s endorsement is the following notation in the hand of Edward Rutledge, a member of the Board of War: “Mr. Foxcroft to give a Parole not to disclose any thing which may have come to his Knowledge respecting the political State of Affairs of this or any other Colony. And further to return as soon as he can conveniently bring off his Family.” See also JCC, 6:875-76. * This paragraph must have been written on November 12, the day Congress passed the "enclosed Resolves” referred to by Hancock. See JCC, 6:944-45; and Samuel Adams to James Warren, this date, note. William Hooper to the North Carolina Convention Sir Philadelphia Nov 9th 1776 I inclose to you and beg you would communicate to the Conven tion a petition from John Smith of Anson Country [County] praying to be relieved from his present confinement & to be restored to his afflicted Family and friends. His age, Indisposition, sincere contrition for the past, and engagements for his future conduct plead warmly in his behalf, and have so far interested me in his petition as to induce me to wish that if you should entertain the same sentiments of him which I do, the Journey of his Son hither and back again may not be without effect. 1 I am, With great Respect, Sir, Your’s & the Convention’s Most Obed Humble Sert. 2 Will Hooper RC (Nc-Ar). 1 Smith was a loyalist soldier who had been captured at the battle of Moore’s Creek Bridge in February 1776 and subsequently sent to Philadelphia. His peti tion to the convention, dated November 9, is in N.C. Colonial Records, 10:900- 901. It was referred to the convention’s committee of inquiry on November 25, but no further action on it appears in the convention’s journal. Ibid., p. 936. a This day Hooper also sent the convention “a plan of the present Seat of War in America. The topical & very particular description of the places where anything interesting has happened,” he went on to explain, “will no doubt afford you much Amusement, & put it in your power to read with much greater satis faction the accounts you receive of the military in New York & its vicinities.” Secretary of State Papers, Nc-Ar. The enclosure has not been identified, but it was undoubtedly the same item Richard Henry Lee sent to a friend the following day. See the postscript to Richard Henry Lee to Robert Carter, November 10, 1776. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Landon Carter My dear Colonel, Philadelphia Novr. 9th. 1776 Mr. Dye having been hurried away a day or two sooner than he expected, prevented my writing to you by him. He will not probably
