November 10, 1776 463 some private hand wou’d have done it, but alass! Constitutions employ every pen. I have not yet been able to meet with Doctr. Bond, when I do, shall confer upon the subject of your Letter, 8c let you know the results. The two mighty British armies are not likely to effect much in the State of N. York this year; when we heard last from Ticonderoga, Carlton was at Crown Point, un certain whether he wou’d retire into Canada, or make an attempt upon Ticonderoga; if the latter, Gates thinks he can drub him. As to Genl. Howe, after long attempting to get by our Army 8c pene trate into the Country, we this moment learn by express from Genl. W. that he decamped the other night with precipitation, 8c is mak ing his way toward the City of N. York. The Genl, is uncertain what the Enemy means to do next, but thinks he will either cross the North River 8c endeavor to come thro' the Jerseys to this City; or will move to the Southward. If his Ships prevent our Army from crossing the North river, we shall be in a bad pickle. I hope the Southern states will be able to keep him at bay, till they are re inforced. But your Convention must really give a truce to every consideration, but warlike preparations. Tis vain to sow the feild, unless it is fenced against the spoiler. Our best respects to our friends of Sabine Hall. I am with much esteem Dear Col., Yr. afft. hble Sevt. Francis Lightfoot Lee [P.S.] Inclosed is the apothecary’s bill for the medicines. I reed. £14 from Dye. RC (NN). •See JCC, 5:765-66. Samuel Adams to Artemas Ward My dear Sir Philada Novr 10th 1776 Early after my Arrival in this City, I made mention in Congress of the Affair we were talking of when I last saw you in Boston, and upon a Motion obtaind an order that you should receive the Pay of a Major General commanding in a seperate Department from the 26th of April being the Day on which Congress dischargd you of your Trust agreeable to your Request, until another shod be ap pointed to command in your Stead or it shall be otherwise orderd. The Pay of a Major General, you know, is one hundred and Sixty Dollars per month, and while he commands in a seperate Depart ment it is double that Sum. If shall not have receivd the before mentioned letter from the President before this reaches you, you will soon after, and then you will conduct your self accordingly. 1 I am with cordial Esteem, Your Friend 8c very humble Servt, Sami Adams
