464 November 10, 1776 RC (DLC photostat). 1 Congress took this action on November 7. See ]CC, 6:931; and John Hancock to Artemas Ward, November 8, 1776. Committee to Ticonderoga to John Hancock Sir, Albany Novr. 10th 1776 1 We did ourselves the honor of writing you on the 26th of last month from Saratoga; and after waiting, in vain, a few days, in expectation of advice from Genl. Gates, agreeably to his letter to us of the 24th we thought it our duty, nevertheless, to proceed on to Tyonderoga. We continued there during the first two days in hourly expectation of sharing in the glory of our Army in a successful op position to the attack of Genl. Carlton: but we were disappointed— and instead thereof, had the pleasure of knowing that he had totally evacuated Crown Point. Of this great event, you will have received authentic accounts before this can reach you. We returned here the morning before the last, and this morning we received from Genl. Gates the inclosed letter, together with some dispatches for our selves—the letter he requested might be immediately forwarded to you by express. We are acquainted with the contents of it, and had a conference with the Commissioners from the Massachusetts Bay, in company with Genl. Gates before we left Tyonderoga. We did not fail to represent to them, in the strongest terms, our ap prehensions of the fatal consequences of the measure adopted by their General Court; and advised them, by all means, to suspend the declaration of their powers untill Congress shou’d be advised of this extraordinary step. We left them apparently undetermined; and as to what has followed Genl. Gates’s letter will fully inform you. 2 Having gone thro’ the business committed to us by Congress, as far as it has been in our power, we propose to set out to morrow on our return, if the weather shall permit. In the meantime, with the greatest respect, we have the honor to be, Sir, Your most obedient and most humble Servants, Richd. Stockton Geo Clymer P.S. This moment fresh accts, from Genl. Gates inform us, 3 that he had sent Boats 40 miles down Lake Champlain, and no appearance of the Enemy. 4 RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Written by Stockton and signed by Stockton and Clymer. Read in Congress on November 18. JCC, 6:957. 1 This day Clymer and Stockton also wrote a letter to Commissary General Joseph Trumbull, complaining that his deputies at Albany and Ticonderoga had been disposing of hides at a fraction of their value and ordering him to direct them to stop the practice immediately. PCC, item 21, fols. 109-10; and Am.
