474 November 11, 1776 Marine Committee to Elisha Warner Si r November 11th 1776 We have received intelligence that our enemies at New York are about to embarque 15000 Men on board their Transports, but where they are bound remains to be found out. The station assigned you makes it probable that we may best discover their destination by your means for it will be impossible this fleet of Transports can get out of Sandy Hook without your seeing them; and we par ticularly direct you to take such station as will prevent a probability of their passing you unseen. The Wasp must act in conjunction with you, and for that purpose you will concert with Lieutenant Baldwin what is best to be done and give him orders Accordingly. When you discover this fleet watch their motions and the moment they get out to Sea and shape their course send your boat on Shore with a Letter to be dispatched by express informing us what course they steer, how many sail they consist of if you can ascertain their numbers and how many Ships of war attend them. We expect this Letter will be sent off to you by Mr. James Searle who is at Shrews- berry and he will either receive your letters and send them off to us by express or get some proper person to do it. If this fleet steer to the Southward either the Fly or Wasp which ever sails fastest must preceede the fleet, keeping in shore and ahead of them, and if you find they are bound into the Capes of Delaware, run into some of the Inlets on the Jersey Shore, and send one of your officers or some proper person to us instantly with an Account thereof. The dullest sailer of the Fly or Wasp must follow after this fleet and watch their motions, and when ever you make discovery of their destination so as to know it with certainty put in for the Land and send us the information by Express. Thus you must watch this fleet one before and the other after them until you can inform us where they are bound. Should they go for Cheseapeak Bay, put into some of the Inlets on the Coast and give advice to the Council of Safety of Virginia and Maryland by express. If they go for North Carolina, South Carolina or Georgia observe the same conduct, and if they go to the Northward do the like. In short we think you may by a Spirited execution of these orders prevent them from coming by Surprize on any part of this Continent, and be assured you cannot recommend yourself more effectually to our freindship. If you could find an opportunity of attacking and taking one of the fleet on their coming out it might be the means of giving us ample intelligence, in such case send all the papers and prisoners here expeditiously. 1 We are sir, Your hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book).
