November 12, 1776 475 ’Elisha Warner was commander of the Continental sloop Fly. JCC, 6:861. In the course of carrying out her mission the Fly was severely damaged in an encounter with the British, leading the Marine Committee to write Warner on November 29: “We have sent Doctor Smith to take charge of the wounded men belonging to the Fly, and since the Vessel is no longer in condition for prosecut ing her Cruize, you are to return with her into this Port as quickly as you can, bringing with you the wounded men, and the Surgeon now sent to take care of them.” PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book, fol. 47; and Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 1:56-57. George Wythe to Thomas Jefferson 11 Nov. 1776 The resolutions describing treasons are inclosed. 1 The report for ascertaining the value of coins, &c. remains in the same state of repose as you left it in, 2 among several others that are, as the presi dent says, not acted upon. I gave Col. Harrison an extract of that part of your letter which related to him, and asked him what answer I should make? He told me he would do what you desired so soon as he could. The enemy’s army we are credibly informed have left their camp at Whiteplains and retreated towards New- york. I just now hear that Carleton, on the 28th of last month evacuated Crown point, and is retiring to Quebec. Tell the speaker 3 I will endeavour soon to discharge my arrears to him. Adieu. RC (DLC). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:597-98. 1 Probably the resolves of June 24, which Jefferson may have requested in con nection with his recent appointment to a committee to draft a treason statute for Virginia. JCC, 5:475-76. ’Jefferson’s notes and his revised report on the value of gold and silver coins that had been tabled on September 2 are in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:511-18. 3 Edmund Pendleton. John Hancock to Patrick Henry Sir, Philada. Novr. 12th. 1776. The Secret Committee of Congress having chartered and loaded in the State of Virginia, the Aurora, on Account of the Continent, and the Voyage on which she is bound being a most important one, I have it in Charge from Congress to request, you will give all the Assistance in your Power to expedite her Sailing, by issuing such Orders as you shall judge proper, for manning and dispatching her with the greatest Expedition. 1 I have the Honour to be with the utmost Esteem, Sir, your most obedt. and very hble Sert. J. H. Presidt.
