November 13, 1776 477 ferries over North River ware so Obstructed by the enemie we ware Obliged to Cross at a place called Peekskill whare I see Col. Tash, who used me Exceeding well. This day the Congress was informed by his Excellency General Washington that the Enemie Decampt from White Plains, & ware Landing on the Jursie shore, & he was taking every precaution, to prevent them from penetrating into the Country. 1 By a letter from General Gates, Dated the 31st of Octr., the enemie a few days before, appear’d in Order of Battle, & on his preparing to Receive them Return’d to their Camp. For better, &: further information, & news I must Refere you to the News papers, & you wont find more falshood in them then is passing through this City. Before my arrival the Honble. Col. Bartlet was Set off, & I had not the pleasure to meet him, the Honble. Col. Whipple is well. Please to take the trouble to present my Compliments, to every member of the Honourable Council, & House & Except the Same from him who has the Honour to be your most Obedient Hble Sert., Matthew Thornton N.B. No Danger by this letter. RC (MeHi). 1 General Washington’s November 9 letter to President Hancock, which was read this day in Congress, is in PCC, item 152, 3:219, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:261-62. JCC, 6:944. John Hancock to the Maryland Commissioners Gentlemen Philada. Novr. 13th. 1776 In Consequence of a Letter to Congress this day Rec’d from The Honl. Convention of Maryland, inclosing sundry Resolutions of that Body relative to the Raising their Quota of the New Levies, I have it in Charge to furnish you with the Resolutions of Congress pass’d yesterday admitting the New Levies to inlist for three years, & at the same time to inform you that if the Inhabitants of the State of Maryland will Inlist to serve during the continuance of the present war, they already have the Faith of the United States of America pledged for the Land to be granted to such Soldiers. 1 The Resolu tions Referr’d to, you have inclos’d, & contain the Sense of Congress as to the mode of the new Inlistments. 2 I am with Esteem, Gentn., Your very hum servt. J H Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Honl Commissioners from Maryland, for Appointg officers & promotg Inlistmts. in the Army at Camp.” ’See JCC 6:944-45, 947. The Maryland Convention’s November 10 letter to Hancock and enclosed resolves about the grant of lands to soldiers who enlisted
