November 13, 1776 479 Our Instructions run that they are to be inlisted during the War, of Course when our State accedes to it we can proceed. Congress has got rid of the Difficulty with Respect to the Land and has not closed in with either of the Propositions made by our State nor receded intirely from their own Resolutions. But if they have escaped they embarrass Us. What can We do with our Regulars? They are inlisted during the War: Must we inlist them again in the Service of the States for three years? I imagine our State will not incline to do so, if they do we ought to have Instructions on that Head. 3 King brought only One of the Bundles of Commissions up, there are not more than enough for four Battallions, there are five of the flying Camp and two of the Regulars. The German and Rifle Com panies will make the eighth, surely then you have not sent Com- misssions enough. I should be obliged to you to send up a Copy also of the Resolves of Congress relative to the raising the eighty eight Battallions as We have not got it and would be as little troublesome as possible to the Congress. Four Thousand of our Troops under General Putnam have crossed the North River to reinforce Genl. Green who has six Thousand under his Command to prevent the Enemy’s plundering the Jerseys or penetrating to this place and I suppose they will be followed by a more considerable Number if the Enemy pass that River. Very little of the Transactions of Convention have transpired here, You are exceedingly concise on that head. You tell me they are still engaged about the Constitution. 1 should naturally have con cluded they were so but pray what Sort of a Constitution have they framed? how far monarchical, aristocratick or democratick? how far a Mixture? how Balanced each power? It is a Matter of great Impor tance to a Subject of a State that Power should be well and equally balanced. I am Sir, Your most humble Servt. Benjamin Rumsey [P.S.] If we stay much longer here the flying Camp will come near Us or to Us. 4 RC (MdAA). Although Rumsey was elected a delegate to Congress on Novem ber 10, he wrote this letter in his capacity as a commissioner appointed on October 9 by the Maryland Convention to assist in raising the state’s new quota of troops. It was undoubtedly directed to the president of the Maryland Council of Safety, Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer. 1 See John Hancock to the Maryland Commissioners, this day. ’The commissioners’ November 14 letter to Matthew Tilghman, president of the Maryland Convention, enclosing Congress’ resolutions of November 12, is in the Red Books, MdAA, and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:673. “The Maryland Council of Safety’s response of November 17 to this letter is in Md. Archives, 12:454. * For a second letter Rumsey wrote this day to Jenifer, on the subject of prospects for obtaining 50 reams of paper for Maryland, see ibid., p. 443.
