480 November 13, 1770 Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings Novr. 13, 1776. Come. met. Present Messrs. Morris, Lee, Lewis, Livingston. Chat ter party lor ship Mary & Elizabeth was signd by the Come. Order on Mr. Morris in favor of Ths. McKean for the use of Mr. Js. Sterret for 133 1/3 dlls being lor 6 months service of his son Andrew Sterret dec[ease]d as Clerk to the Come. A letter to Messrs. Levinns Clarkson & J. Dorsius of Chs. town S. Carolina authorising them to charter & purchase vessels &: load them with the produce of that State on acct, of the Continent. 1 MS (MH-H). 'Not found, but see Marine Committee to Levinus Clarkson and John Dorsius, November 17, and Secret Committee to William Bingham, November 22, 1776. Secret Committee to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety Gentn In Secret Committee of Congress. Philada. Novr. 13th. 1776 As this Committee is charged with the management of the Com merce carried on for the Continental Service, We think it our duty to represent to your Board the Necessity there is for an Armed Vessell of some kind to be stationed at Cape May for the protection of the Trade to & from this Port. At present there is none of the Conti nental armed Vessells fit or ready for this Service, being all employed on other important pursuits, besides it has been judged the proper object of every State on this Continent to protect their own Ports to the utmost of their Power. We understand You have a large Galley intended to Cruize in the Bay. If this Vessell is ordered down to Cape May immediately she may render Important Service to the private Trade of this port as well as to the Continental interest, and if any thing in the power of this or the Marine Committee is wanted to compleat your Galley depend on a ready Concurrence with Your desires. 1 We have the honor to be, Gentn, Your obedt hble servts, Robt. Morris Richard Henry Lee Phil. Livingston Fras. Lewis P.S. Mr Bridges informs us his Brige Cornelia &: Molly is detained for want of a Pilot. The Continent are interested & We wish for her dispatch. RC (PHi). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Lee, Lewis, and Livingston. ' In response to this request, the Pennsylvania Council of Safety on November 18 ordered Capt. John Rice of the Pennsylvania row galley Convention down to Cape May. Pa. Council Minutes, 11:8-9.
