November 14, 1776 481 Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philada Novr 14th 1776 I wrote you within a Day or two after my Arrival here by an Express. I cannot say that 1 was not disappointed in not receiving a line from you by the last Post, as I thought I had Reason to expect. While I am absent from you I am continually anxious to know the State of your Health. I must therefore beg you to write to me often. I have not for many years enjoyd a greater Share of that invalueable Blessing than 1 have since 1 left Boston. I beleive the Journey on Horseback has been greatly beneficial to me. We have lately received Intelligence from the Northern Army of certain Movements of the Enemy in that Quarter, of which you will see an Account in the inclosd News Paper. This day we have further Intelligence that they have totally abandoned Crown Point & re treated into Canada. 1 We have also just receivd a Letter from a Gentleman living on the Sea Coast of New Jersey informing us that near 100 Sail of the Enemies Ships with two Frigates &: a fifty Gun Ship were seen steering to the Eastward. It is supposed they are bound to England. We had before heard that the whole Force of the Enemy had marchd unexpectedly & precipitately into the City of New York. This Evening an Express is come in from General Green who commands on this Side the North River in the Jerseys with Advice that ten thousand of the Enemies Troops were embarkd, and that it was given out that they were destind to South Carolina. 2 This may be a Feint. Possibly they may be coming to this City, which in my opinion is rather to be desired, because the People of this State are more numerous than that of South Carolina. In either Case however I dare say that a good Account will be given of them. It is said that Lord Dunmore is to take the Command. If this be true, it looks as if they were going to Virginia. Be it as it may, the withdraw ing so great a Part of these Troops from New York, it is hoped, will make it an easy Matter for our Army to conquer the Remainder. It has not been usual for me to write to you of War or Politicks— but I know how deeply you have always interested your self in the Welfare of our Country and I am disposed to gratify your Curiosity. Besides you will hope that from these Movements of our Enemies a Communication between Boston and Philadelphia will be more safe and we may the more frequently hear from each other. 3 RC (NN). ’Probably Horatio Gates’ November 5 letter to John Hancock, which was read in Congress on November 15, 1776. JCC, 6:951; Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:526. “Nathanael Greene’s November 12 letter to John Hancock is in Greene, Papers (Showman), 1:348-49. 3 For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Elizabeth Adams, Novem ber 17, 1776.
