490 November 15, 1776 and have the Command. This information has induced Congress to send dispatches to your & the other Southern states, that you may take measures immediately to counteract the design of the Enemy. I cannot imagine that the Enemy, infatuated as their Councils have hitherto been, are yet so far lost to every Idea of propriety as to en trust such an important Command to Ld Dunmore. He no doubt with Gov Martin & Ld William Campbell will go in the fleet, and give every assistance they may be capable of but Clinton I imagine will conduct the land forces. I cannot take upon me to direct what measures it will be prudent for you to pursue. Whether Virginia, North or South Carolina will be the first object it is yet impossible to decide. It would become you to hold all the Militia and regular troops of your state in readiness to repel the British troops whether they should attempt to land upon your own coast or whether it should be necessary to afford Succour to South Carolina or Virginia. Upon this important occasion when the fate of our Southern Country is perhaps to be decided and those liberties which we have been long gloriously struggling for are to be fixed upon a permanent foundation or lost forever I trust‘in God no man will deny his Aid, but that all as one man will step forth to meet the foes of America to liberty to Heaven, for our’s is the cause of God. I have ordered three tons of Gunpowder to Charlestown by an armed Vessell bound thither. 1 She will probably sail in the course of the next Week. I will apprize you of it as soon as it takes place & if you have not a plentiful supply upon hand of that article you can have recourse then to supply yourself. Should you have occasion for more let me have your commands seasonably as at present our Maga zines are tolerably full. I enclose you the last newspapers from which you will perceive General Washingtons late operations, as well as the sudden retreat of General Sir Guy Carleton from Tionderoga. I sincerely congratu late you upon the latter as an event of much Importance to these states & Am, Gentlemen, With the greatest respect, Your most Obedient, Humble Servant, Will Hooper RC (Nc-Ar). ’See JCC, 6:952. William Hooper to the North Carolina Convention Sir Philadelphia, Nov 15, 1776. I omitted to mention in the letter which I have closed and accompanies this, that the Enemy are scant of provisions & may have
