November 15, 1776 491 some dependance upon the Cattle on the Sea Coast of the southern States for a supply. In that Case you will perhaps think it prudent to drive back the Stock from the low Country as soon as possible. Horses are much an Object with them for their Waggons—& there fore must be kept out of their way. It may be worth while to spend a thought upon a mode of securing our Negroes, and preventing any Communication between the Enemy & any who may be disaffected amongst you whether of the late Insurgents or others. I am, Gentlemen, With great Respect, Your Obed Serv, AVill Hooper RC (Nc-Ar). Secret Committee to Nicholas Cooke Sir In Secret Committee of Congress. Philada. Novr. 15th 1776 We received a letter last week from Capt. Samuel Smith junr. Com mander of the Ship Hancock & Adams belonging to Mr. Blair McClenachan of this City informing us of his arrival with that Ship and Cargo at the port of Bedford in Massachusetts. His letter is dated the 19th instant and he Says that in Latitude 38.29 and Longitude 65.23 he fell in with the Game Cock Privateer of Rhode Island Commanded by Capt Timothy Pierce of Providence, who brought him too, examined his papers and finally determined to make Prize of his Ship and cargo, under pretence of her having two or three Sets of Papers, and accordingly he put a prize Master and men onboard the Ship taking out Captain Smith, his officers and men, also Some passengers, but Capt Smith after intreating him for thirteen hours got Liberty to go onboard his Ship again and was Sent in with her to the Port of Bedford where he now is. We Char tered this Ship in Feby last to perform a Voyage from hence to Lisbon thence to France and back to this Port on account and risque of the United States (then Colonies) of America. 1 The Ship had the voyage before narrowly escaped being Seized in Ireland in Conse quence of an attempt to take in Gun Powder to be brought hither and Mr. McClenachans Friends found it necessary to take out a New Register for her there in order to screen her from the intended Seizure. When we Chartered her this Irish Register was deemed a fortunate circumstance as the Restraining Act of Parliament was not then known to us, and having her cleared from the Custom house here for Falmouth Under that Register, with Bills, Loading Invoice and letters suited thereto, it was presumed wou’d carry her clear of Seizure by British Men of War Should any of them meet her on the outward passage. Our Instructions to Captain Smith are dated the 22nd Feby 1776 & recapitulate all these Circumstances, after which
