492 November 15, 1776 they direct him peremtorily to proceed lor Lisbon and there deliver his Cargo to Messrs. Pasley & Co. of that place, unless they direct him to a better Market, after which he was ordered to proceed to Nantes and receive from our Agent a Cargo of Arms, ammunition and other Goods or Merchandize and then to return to this Port with that Cargo on Accot. of the United Colonies. It seems that when Captain Smith first fell in with the Game Cock he feared She was his Enemy as no Letters of Marque were granted by Congress when he departed from hence, he therefore on his first examination produced to Capt Peirce only his Irish Register and Shipping Paper, but when he Saw the Commission Signed by Mr Hancock he then produced All his Papers and amongst the Rest our Orders to Captain Smith which must have fully and clearly explained to any man of Common Sense and Common honesty the Nature of the Voyage, and if the love of Plunder had not prevailed over every other consideration Capt Peirce would have released the Ship, especially as there were on board Four French Gentlemen and their Domesticks, two of whom We suppose to be officers, and two Manufacturers with their people whom we wrote for by order of Congress, and there can be little doubt but they would make Capt Peirce Sensible that this ship was in the Continental Service. In Short we have laid this matter before Congress and Capt Peirces Conduct is judged to be extreamly Crimi nal, but it is a just and commendable Maxim not to condemn any Man unheard and the Congress passed on this occasion the Resolve of which you will [find] a Copy inclosed. 2 Now Sir, it is our duty to inform You, that the public Service is exceedingly injured by this transaction, for every article of this Ships Cargo (which belongs to the Continent) is and has been much wanted for some time past. If Capt. Peirce had not interupted the Ships voyage She would in all probabillity been Safe in this port some weeks Since, and the Several articles before now have been with the Army, instead of which they are now onboard Ship at a Port distant from the Army, and the delay, danger, and expence of transporting them will be very Great. 3 Indeed the public are also insurers on the Ship and obliged to deliver her to the owner in this Port at their Risque. We cannot help mentioning that this is the Second or third instance of the Kind, and unless Such practices are discouraged in the beginning there is no knowing what lengths the Privateers may go, in short it is laying the foundation for breaking the union of America and opening the door to prey upon each other. We do therefore most earnestly intreat you, to order the Strictest Scrutiny into the Conduct of this same Capt Peirce, discover what reasons he can offer in his justification, and if they are not satisfactory we shall order him to be prosecuted for the penalty of his Bond and sued for damages. We observe by a Copy of his letter to his Owners he acknowledges Capt Smiths orders were signed by Some Members of Congress, but he objects that they are
