November 16, 1776 493 interlined with different hand Whiting and different Ink and without any Seal or permit from the President, but all this will not avail, he must give much Stronger reasons than these or those he calls a Foible before he will be justifyed in the Eyes of the Publick. We think it of the utmost importance to check this improper Itch for Plunder, and hope You will exert yourself in Support of So Salutary a measure. We have the honor to remain, Your Honors Most obedt &: most hble servls, Robt Morris Phil. Livingston Richard Henry Lee Fra. Lewis RC (R-Ar). In a clerical hand and signed by Lee, Lewis, Livingston, and Moriis. ’Sec Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, February 23, 1776. 3 See JCC, 6:943, 949-50. 3 For orders regarding the delivery of the cargo, sec JCC, 6:952-53; and Hoard of War to George Washington, November 18, 1776. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philada Novr 16th 1776 I have already wrote to you by this Conveyance. The Express having been delay’d till this Time affords me an opportunity of congratulating you and my other Friends on the Retreat of General Carleton with his whole Force from Crown Point into Canada, an Account of which we had the day before yesterday in a Letter from General Gates. Yesterday we had a Letter from a Gentleman living on the Sea Coasts of New Jersey acquainting us that near 100 Sail of the Enemies Transports with a 50 or 60 Gun Ship & two Frigates were seen coming from Sandy Hook & steering Eastward. We had also a Letter from Genl Green who informs that he had Intelligence by a Gentleman of good Credit who came from Staten Island that Ten Thousand of the Enemies Troops were embarqed, and it was given out that they were destind to South Carolina. It is said that Lord Dunmore is to take the Command, from whence one would suppose they are bound to Virginia. Some think they are coming to this City, which I confess as an American I would chuse. The People here are preparing to give them a proper Reception. Wherever they may make the Attack, I flatter my self a good Account will be given of them. If so great a Part of the Enemies Army is withdrawn from New York may we not reasonably expect that the Remainder will be easily conquerd this Winter. I am earnestly sollicitous that they may have a handsome Drubbing. We must not however suffer any flat tering Prospect to abate our Zeal in procuring a Sufficient Army. We know not what Game our Enemies may play. There is no Reason to believe they will quit their darling Plan of Subduing if possible the
