496 November 16, 1776 Periods and what Interest. The sooner I receive the much desired Information the better. I continue to be with the sincerest Regard your Honors and my Country’s Friend and humble Servant, William Ellery P.S. Mr. W. Hooper One of the Delegates for No. Carolina fre quently writes to his Brother in Law Mr. Clarke, and may mention some News that I may not know or recollect. 2 RC (R-Ar). 1 See JCC, 6:944—45. This issue led to a mildly amusing poetical exchange between Ellery and George Wythe of Virginia. Wythe, assuming the title of “A member of the antinovanglian faction to W.E.,” initiated the exchange with this verse: "To works of supererogation By others, some owe their salvation. To what the good yankees are doing Their duty beyond, we owe ruin!” To these lines, which he subtitled "Epigram by the ingenious George Wythe Esqr,” Ellery added this explanation: "In the two first Lines the Author alludes to the Roman Catholicks. In the two last to the Additional Pay, and Bounty given to the Soldiers by the Eastern States.” Then, not to be outdone by his colleague from Virginia, he composed the following lines and entitled them “A Novanglian to G.W.”: "As by Works supererogatory Rom. Caths, are saved from Purgatory; So by what the yankees good are doing Buckskins will save from utter Ruin.” Both these poems are in the Mellen Chamberlain Collection, MB. “None of William Hooper’s letters to Thomas Clark has been found. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Philadelphia Novr. 16th 1776 I should be glad to be informed immediately whether Two Frigates can be built in Providence to be launched about the same Time the next as the other were the last Spring; and whether the same Committee would undertake again to collect Materials, and undertake the Building of them &C. 1 I could wish to serve the State I belong to; but in Order to [do] this your Honor is sensible that I ought to have every necessary In formation. I have thrown this upon a distinct Peice of Paper, because I did not think it would be proper in a Letter to the State. Please to present my Regards to Govr. Hopkins & the Secretary, and be lieve me to be, Yrs sincerely & respectfully, Willm Ellery RC (R-Ar). 1 Cooke informed Ellery that the Rhode Island Frigate Committee had refused to undertake this task because of a shortage of building materials and the high cost of labor. William R. Staples, Rhode Island in the Continental Congress, 1765-1790 (Providence: Providence Press Co., 1870), p. 104.
