November 16, 1776 497 John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. Novr. 16th. 1776. Since my last Nothing material has occurred here, nor have I any Thing in Charge from Congress, except to request you will negotiate an Exchange of the Hessian Prisoners at Elizabeth Town under the Care of Mr. Ludwick as soon as possible. 1 They have been treated in such a Manner during their Stay in this City, that it is apprehended their going back among their Countrymen will be attended with some good Consequences. Your Favour of the 11th of Novr. came duely to Hand and was laid before Congress. 2 I have the Honour to be, with the most perfect Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sert. 3 John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 6:955. “This letter is in PCC, item 152, 3:245-47, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:271-73. 3 Hancock also wrote a letter this day to Thomas Cushing which has not been found, but for some indication of its contents see Cushing’s December 16 reply in Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:492-93. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes My dear Hewes [November 16? 1776] 1 I intended to have postponed writing to you till Monday but as the Express is unexpectedly detained till this afternoon I make use of it as it will move more expeditiously than Mr. Walker. I lament the late changes in your Convention. To what strange infatuation has been owing the removal of Mr Johnston from your Councils. At a time when the Abilities of the first Characters in the State are necessary to give you a Constitution which will secure hap piness, Life, liberty & property to the Inhabitants, you have deprived yourself of the most able head in North Carolina and as good a heart as God ever made. Is it become criminal then to stretch forth the hand of compassion, & shed the tear of pity upon suffering weak ness. Is not liberty the same to one Class of beings as to another, or are a few of us Gods Elect who have a right to think & act as we please, without suffering any others to step within the pale of our Privileges. I confess there are few incidents which have taken place since my entrance into publick life which have given me equal dis tress. Past services seem to be no security for future preferment & a life far exhausted in promoting the publick good is to close under the greatest Example of Ingratitude that ever marked a people. In
