504 November 16, 1776 the passage of 9 Frenchmen from Martinique in his Brige Cornelia &: Molly who were put on board by Mr. Bingham Agt. for this Come, as a politic measure to screen the vessel from capture by the Enemy, as She was insurd by the Contint. 1 Orderd that the Sum be pd. by Mr. Morris. An Acct, of Robt. Morris Esqr. for 216 lb powdr. at 5s per lb amt £54 deliverd the Commissy. per receit was laid before the Come. Orderd that Mr. Morris charge the same to Acct, of the Come. Agreed that Mr. Morris receive the Cargo brought into this place by Capt. Ord from the Missisippi & that he deliver to Mr. Js. Mease, any part thereof that may be wanted for the use of the Army; 2 the remaindr. to be disposed of by public sale & pay the freight of the whole out of the nett proceeds &: credit this Come, with the balance. Resd. that Mr. Morris pay to Capt. Ord fifty pounds as a reward from this Come, for his faithful &: good conduct in transactg. their business. MS (MH-H), 1 See Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, July 11 and October 31, 1776. 2 For Oliver Pollock’s October 10 letter regarding George Ord’s voyage to New Orleans, see Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:1210. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 16th Novr. 1776 The Sudden & freequent movments of the Armies renders it impossible to give a just accot of their Scituation. Howe has Re treated from White Plains, by the last accots was encamped on the Bank of the River below Dobbs’s ferry & by the disposition of his army it is judg’d intends making a desent on New-Jersey. In order to counteract him, part of Genl Washington Army (about 4 or 5000) have crossed the River above him & are now on this side ready to receive him. They are continually Skirmishing in small parties, in which we always have the advantage. By some accots from de serters it is conjectured by some that a large detachment say 10,000 will go to South Carolina. I wish it may be true; let them divide if they dare. A fleet of about 100 sail left Sandy Hook last Wednes day supposed to be bound for Europe. A Committee from the Massachusetts Genl Court arriv’d at the Camp about a fortnight ago to Commission the Officers &c. As that Genl Court had raised the pay of their Soldiers 20s per month the Genl, choose the Matter should be layed before Congress before they proceeded to business. Accordingly one of Committee came here. This affair has perplext congress exceedingly. All the Southern states think the Incouragement to the Soldiers much too great be fore Sc if this committee are permitted to follow their Instructions the pay of the whole army must be raised, this by no means could
