November 16, 1776 505 be consented to. Congress have therefore revoked their Resolution for Inlisting the army during the war, 8c recommend the inlistment for three years only, as you’ll see by the Resolution transmitted by the President. I Heartily wish this may have the desired effect, I really think they (the Massachusetts) were very wrong in raising the Monthly pay. If they supposed the encouragment given by Congress insufficient why could they not have increased the Bounty, or have persued some measure, that would not have effected the whole Army. This affair has caused more perplexity & uneasiness then any thing that has happen’d in my time. 1 One vessel has arriv’d here from France since your departure with arms 8c amunition only, several others will soon follow her, with such articles as are at this time more wanted. Harrison is arriv’d from Verginia. There has been a new Election in Delaware. McKean & Rodney are left out & the Farmer 2 is elected instead of one of them, but he has not yet taken his seat. Our Colleague is as well as can be expected, the operation of the small pox has kept him two days from Congress. 3 I hope he will be able to attend in a few days. Please to present my most Respectful Regards to Col. Weare, Dr. Thompson, the Genl. &c &c &c. I will trouble either of them with a letter when ever they’ll give me an opportunity. I want very much to hear from you, perticularly as to your health, tho’ I am in no doubt the Northern air & a sight of Your Family will do great things. I hear a great number of Torys are sent into our state from that of New-York. I hope proper care will be taken of them, as well as those in and of our state. What think you of transporting them. This I wod like exceedingly, but then I’m puzle’d for a place bad Enough to send them to. Scotland indeed might do, but the difficulty is, how to keep them there, but to be serious, I think some very spirited Measure must be speedily taken with those people 8c I know of none that will answer the purpose so effectually as clearing the United states of them by some means or other. I can think of but two ways of effecting this, that is death or transporta tion, 8c Humanity inclines me to the latter. Indeed we had better send them to the Enemys army then let them continue among us. On the whole I dont know but this wod be a good peice of policy, to send not only the avow’d Torys but all those who are not active in their Countrys Cause with their Families, to Lord Howe, and let him make the most of them. I have run on to a much greater length then I expected to, when I took up my pen by which means I shall loose the benefit of a Sermon, this forenoon, which I shod charge to your accot. If I thought you could possibly reap any benifit from this lengthey Scrawl but as that cannot be the case, I must put up with the loss 8c bid you Adieu, assureing you that I am very Sincerely, Yours, Wm Whipple
