510 November 17, 1776 that when I was at Head Quarters I mentioned to the General the Treatment your Brother had met with. 1 He told me that he would have him state the Matter to him in Writing and that he would endeavor to have Justice done to him. The Letter your Brother formerly wrote to me I left at Boston. If he will give me a full Account of the Matter in another Letter, I will State it to General Mifflin, but the Circumstances of things are such at present that I would not have him depend upon it being immediately attended to. I will however do all in my Power to serve him. Our Friend Mr Lovel is at last exchangd. 2 We received a Letter from him two or three days ago. Probably before this reaches you he will have arrivd at Boston. Pray remember me to my Daughter, Sister Polly with the rest of my Family & Friends, and be assured that I am most sincerely & affectionately, Your, S A RC (NN). A continuation of Adams to Elizabeth Adams, November 14, 1776. 1 That is, Samuel Wells. ’For further information on the complicated exchange of James Lovell, see John Hancock to George Washington, January 6, 1776, note 1. Marine Committee to Levinus Clarkson and John Dorsius Gentlemen November 17th 1776 Upon the recommendation of your freinds here we have ap pointed you Continental Agents in the State of South Carolina. As such you are to supply any of the Ships or Cruizers with whatever Provisions, Stores or necessarys they may be in want of when they put into or arrive in any of your ports. If repairs are necessary we depend on you to employ the best Tradesmen and see that the busi ness is done with dispatch. You will in short do all things in this department that you think will serve the Continent and promote the service of the Navy and you must send us proper Certificates Signed by the Captain or principle officer of each Ship or Vessel of your expenditure and your drafts on this board for the amount will be duely honored. It is a Standing order to all our men of war and Cruizers to send their prizes address to the Continental Agents at the ports where they arrive. If any such come into South Carolina, you must receive the same into your charge, prosecute them in the Admiralty to condemnation, make the sale of them at Public ven due, pay all charges justly attending each Prize, and credit us for such part as appertains to the Continent agreeable to the Rules and Regulations of Congress, a book of which shall be sent you. The shares belonging to the officers and Crews of the Captors you must divide amongst them agreeable to the said Rules and Regula-
