November 17, 1776 511 tions, and to do this justly and equitably the Commanders must furnish you with compleat and certified list of the officers and men intitled to a Share of each prize and the share or shares they are respectively intitled to, and you are to pay all persons concerned their shares as soon after Sale is made as you possibly can, and re turn to this Board duplicates of all your accounts and proceedings. We are Gentlemen, Your very hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). John Witherspoon to Benjamin Rush Dr Sir Princeton Nov 17. 1776 On coming home here I found a Letter from a very good friend in the State of Massachusetts which I thought of so much Conse quence that I send an extract from it to you but for a certain reason or rather on Acct of a certain Expression in it I conceal his Name. 1 My son 2 without knowing any thing of that Letter con firmed it in every part as to the Sick. Oh the want of public Spirit & detestable selfishness in some Persons. I hope you will make a prudent if any use at all of it. Perhaps you may guess the Author; if so do not express it to any one. D[octor] M[organ] seems very unfit for his Charge & seems set upon nothing but making Money. The Bearer will more fully inform you. 3 If John wants a Set of Instruments please to direct & assist him. I am glad to find by all Accts from different hands that he has been pretty active. As soon after the Trustees meeting as the Business of the. College will permit I propose to return being anxious for the public Cause. I am with compliments to Mrs Rush, Sir your &c, Jno Witherspoon P.S. Please Show the Extract to Col. Lee. RC (CtY). 1 Witherspoon’s Massachusetts correspondent has not been identified, but see Elbridge Gerry to Unknown, November 27, 1776. “John Witherspoon, Jr. (1757-95?), was a medical student who served under Dr. John Morgan at the general hospital in New York in July and August 1776. Varnum L. Collins, President Witherspoon: A Biography, 2 vols. (Prince ton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1925), 2:49n.35. 3 For some indication of the growing disenchantment with Dr. Morgan, culminating in his abrupt dismissal as director general and physician in chief of the Continental Army on January 9, 1777, see John Hancock to John Morgan and William Shippen, December 1, 1776; and Samuel Adams to John Adams, January 9, 1777.
