November 18, 1776 513 Thomson that Giesling “has something of the utmost moment to the Service of the States to communicate to Congress.” Instead of introducing him to Congress, however, Thomson sent him to the council of safety with this brief introduction and Read's letter. On November 21 the council ordered payment of £10 “in favour of Jacob Kisling . . . for services rendered to the State, in producing a Model for a Fire-Ship.” See ibid.; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:11. Oliver Wolcott to Matthew Griswold Sir, Philidelpa. 18 Nov. 1776 The establishing the New Army is a Subject of the most interesting Nature, and I fear will be attended with much Dificulty, notwith standing all the Encouragement Offerd the men for inlisting. The Service the People have been calld to has been hard. They have suffered much for the Want of Many Things, and have been too much exposed to the Oppressions of Harpys who for Triffles have stript them of their Wages. These Evils I hope in future will in a good Measure be remedied, as the Men are to be cloathed, and it is now the Deliberation of Congress how they shall be regularly and in the cheapest Manner supplyed in the suttling Way, 1 and I hope also the Medical Department will undergo a Reform of Men at least, if not of Measures, that not so much complaint which I fear has been too well grounded, may be heard respecting the Conduct of that Department. But after all that can be done I still fear that the in listing Business will go on slowly and sorry I am that the late Encouragement for that purpose was not earlier made. Congress Apprehend this Matter may become more embarrassed by what the Massachusetts have done in raising the pay, and which I now under stand has been adopted by Connecticut. 2 It is the opinion of Gentle men here, and so of Genl. Washington and of all the other Genl. Officers, that no Army can subsist together under different continen tal pay, and also, if the Massachusetts Plan had been adopted by Congress (and which would entrench an Expence which it is tho’t We are not well able to bear) they could not be certain that any Other plan would take Effect, if particular States might at their pleasure offer Troops other pay. In a Word they say that such Conduct must immediately Subvert any continental Regulation for this purpose, and if therefore permitted it would be altogether ineffectual to make any military Establishment whatsoever. One of the Gentlemen of Massachusetts, appointed to assist in providing their Quota, was sent by Genl. Washington here before he entered on the Business of his appointment. 3 You will perceive that the Measure Adopted by Massachusetts has been reprobated by Con gress. The Gentleman has gone back with this Errand to Genl. Washington where I understand the Gentlemen from Connecticut are upon this Business. I think it is Very unhappy that the Massa-
