518 November 19, 1776 if your Excellency could be furnished with Lists of all the Prisoners that you might at one View be enabled to settle the arrangement of the Exchange; but altho frequent Attempts have been made by the Board to obtain such Lists from the several States their endeavours have hitherto been for the most part ineffectual. Such Accts, of Prisoners as are in the possession of the Board shall be sent im perfect as they are. Measures are taken to restore Major Stuarts Servant Peter Jack. 3 He was permitted to go to Princetown with Doctr. Witherspoon who has been wrote to on the Subject 4 and desired to send the Man to your Excellency at Hackinsack. Many Prisoners have been desirous to enlist and some have been accepted in our Service. Is it your Opinion that these People should return? or will it not be dangerous for them so to do? 5 The Enemy have enlisted great Numbers of our People who were Prisoners & it is but Justice that we should retaliate. Offers however from Prisoners to engage in our Service have in General been refused. I have the Honour to be with the greatest Respect, your very obedt & most humble Servt, Richard Peters Secy P.S. An Officer from Camp informs that Fort Lee is about being evacuated. If so your Excellency will no Doubt alter the Place of Destination of the Prisoners. RC (DLC). In a clerical hand, with signature and postscript by Peters. 1 For Washington’s recent suggestions on an exchange of prisoners, see his November 14 letter to President Hancock, Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:282-84. For Peters’ letters to Pennsylvania and Maryland, this date, see Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:778; and Md. Archives, 12:456. 3 On November 23 the board wrote Washington that in view of the reported evacuation of Fort Lee they had ordered these prisoners to "be sent to Brunswick” instead. Washington Papers, DLC; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:820. 3 On this point, see Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:676-78; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:284. * Not found. '“As to the propriety of inlisting prisoners of War,” Washington wrote to the board on November 22, “I would just observe, that in my opinion, it is neither consistent with the Rules of War, nor politic, nor can I think that because our Enemies have committed an unjustifiable action by inticing and in some instances intimidating our men into their service, we ought to follow their Example.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:317. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen, Philadelphia. Nov 19th. 1776 I arrived here yesterday afternoon. I have seen our Commissioners. Congress in Answer to the three Propositions from our State for Raising our Quota have given a Copy of a Resolve, 1 relative to the
