520 November 19, 1776 no cause to triumph. It is however a disappointment as we have lost stores of considerable consequence, but this in the course of War must be expected for uniform success never was & never will be the portion of man, & we have little pretensions to deserving liberty if small defeats discourage us in the glorious pursuit. From the many difficulties which attend the raising an Army here and to the Eastward I cannot too earnestly press upon you the neces sity of forwarding by every possible method the recruiting Service. The Bounty & pay are both enormous & I hope will secure us success in recruiting 8c to the Southward tho the Eastern Gentry are not yet satisfied 8c wish to screw us up a few pegs higher—but they will be disappointed for in my opinion matters are now come to this. Give way to the extortion of the Army 8c you part with the property of the Continent to them and become Slaves to their Avarice 8c Caprice. Disband your Army 8c you are Slaves to a British Tyrant. Your Slavery differs only in the name of the Superiour, if I am a Slave let me have one rather than 60,000 Masters. However these Gentry will soon I hope be brought to reason 8c we shall have a formidable force on reasonable Terms. It is absolutely necessary that you should have a press established amongst you for the publication of a newspaper, you suffer in your significance with other states from the want of such a Channell of Communication, and your own people are kept in ignorance of what passes abroad; 8c the political papers which tend to explain the Con troversy and confirm them in the Justice and necessity of the Oppo sition in which they are engaged. I would propose that the Convention immediately order the delegates to employ a printer here and send him properly accoutred to Carolina to carry on the Work. Albertson has not yet arrived here. 2 I wish no accident has hap pened to him. Upon his return I will endeavour to procure a quan tity of Military Stores, I mean Shot 8c Powder 8c send it by him. We have plenty of both 8c may afford to run the risque of the Sea rather than pay the horrid Expence of Waggonage. Pray cast your thoughts to the encouragement of the Iron Works & Salt making. The Salvation of Carolina depends upon it. I cannot get Salt pans here, therefore you must look elsewhere for them. I lament the clashing exertions of Genl Moore 8c General Ashe, I tremble lest they should so far counteract the publick Service as to produce the most dreadful consequences. I wish General Moore would sollicit to come this way. I am averse to urging it lest it should disgust him but sure I am a Command here would be less irksome to him 8c then Congress might order some officer there who might be more agreeable to the people. I love Moore 8c wish him happy 8c think I could not serve him better than by bringing him to the Eastward. Pray request the Convention to write me fully of what they wish
