522 November 19, 1776 the navy, under the direction of the Marine Committee.” JCC, 6:929, 958. As a result, the New Jersey General Assembly left Hopkinson out of the new delega tion chosen on November 30. See JCC, 6:1002. Hopkinson also wrote a brief letter this day to Gov. William Livingston re questing permission to resign from Congress. William Livingston Papers, MHi. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary November 19, 1776 Fair. I went in Co. with a Comttee of Council of Safety, Genl. Armstrong & Genl. Roche Fermoi & some other French Engineers to the Forts down the River. 1 MS (MHi). 1 Paine was not a member of either the Board of War or the Marine Committee, the two standing committees recently concerned with the defense of Philadelphia and environs. He probably undertook this trip as a consequence of his chairman ship of the Cannon Committee. Sec JCC, 6:951, 1064. Elbridge Gerry to John Morgan Sir 1 Philada. Novr 20. 1776 With respect to regimental Hospitals, I cannot but think them an unnecessary and dangerous Institution, for upon every removal of such regiments, these Hospitals are a dead Weight, & must be re moved, or exposed to the Enemy. The latter you will agree is by no means adviseable, and the removing such Hospitals is attended with Hardships to the diseased, and prevents them from an early recovery. As to regimental Surgeons, being otherwise wholly useless, I have always supposed that they were never intended to answer any other Purpose, in time of War, than to cure in Camp, slight Wounds & diseases, by which the Patients were not confined, and to attend the regiments in time of Action, to dress the wounded Soldiers, untill they can be removed to the General Hospital. 2 E Gerry I received your favour of the 7 Inst, with Respect to the meaning of the Resolve (viz of Octor. 9) ordering the Directors to take Care of the sick of the Army, 3 as they may be on the East or West Side of the River, it appears to me to be this; that whatever sick of the army shall happen to be on the East side, they shall be under the Care of yourself, and the others under Direction of Dr. Shippen. Your Medi cines ir Surgeons are undoubtedly under your own Command. E. Gerry. Tr (DNA: PCC, item 63). This entry consists of two extracts from a Gerry letter quoted in Morgan’s manuscript “Vindication,” dated February 1, 1779, which
