530 November 23, 1776 On yesterday 1 procured a State of our Treasury—as [of] a few days ago: Dollars Emitted 20,000,000 Expended 16,817,737 In Treasury 3,182,263 This is for your private Information, & not to be made public. The Congress have resolved to encrease their Navy—two frigates of 36 Guns are to be built in our State. Many of the Congress, some true Friends, are uneasy at the Powers to the Delegates of Maryland, they are apprehensive, if made known, they will reach Lord Howe, and encourage him, and if the Courts of Europe should see them, it would prevent a foreign alliance. Some Reasons are given to countenance this opinion. I do not see why they should be published in the Journall. The powers relate to Peace & War, and can be of no Service to the public. I wish You would consider this Subject. 3 In eight Days the Enlistment of the far greater part of our Army expires. I greatly doubt if We shall be able to prevail on the Troops to enter into the Service. I have some Hopes of obtaining our Wish from Congress. Our Commissioners will proceed on tomorrow I believe. However whether they do or not is a Secret. I am, Gent., with Respect & Regard, Your obedt. Servt., Sami. Chase RC (MdAA). 1 For Chase’s brief letter of November 22, which deals entirely with military subjects, see Md. Archives, 12:473. 2 Thomas Mifflin’s letter to Robert Morris, dated “Elisabeth Town, 21 Novr. 1776, 8 O’Clock A.M.,” is at the James S. Copley Library, La Jolla, Calif. 3 For the delegates’ credentials, which had been presented to Congress on November 19, see JCC, 6:962. The Maryland Convention had authorized the Maryland delegates to concur with the other states "in forming a Confederation, and in making foreign Alliances; provided that such Confederation, when formed, be not binding upon this State without the Assent of the General Assembly.” The prospect that individual states would determine what congressional decisions they would or would not honor threatened Congress’ authority to speak with one voice for the United States, leading delegates to fear that the Howes would exploit Maryland’s action to undermine American unity and that France would be reluctant to negotiate an alliance if individual states might subsequently with hold their assent from treaties negotiated by commissioners appointed by Con gress. The delegates’ credentials would be made public with the forthcoming publication of the proceedings of the recently adjourned Maryland Convention. For the council of safety’s response to this and Chase’s two preceding letters of November 21 and 22, see Md. Archives, 12:490-91. See also Matthew Tilghman to the Maryland Council of Safety, December 3, 1776, note.
