November 23, 1776 531 John Hancock to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety Gentn. Novr. 23. 1776 The foregoing Extract I Send you by Desire of Congress, & is the whole Information Congress are possess’d of relative to the De signs of the Enemy. 1 I am Gentn, Your very humi Servt. John Hancock Prst RC (InU). 1 Hancock sent the council of safety an extract of a November 20 letter from Gen. Hugh Mercer, the commander of the flying camp, stating that “the enemy intend to reduce Fort Lee, and then to march through the Jerseys to attack the city of Philadelphia.” See JCC, 6:971; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:778-79. For the council’s response to this intelligence, see Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:196. Richard Henry Lee to Unknown Philadelphia, 23rd November, 1776. . . You may observe by the letter accompanying this, that I had paid my respects to you some time ago, but Mr. Coulston disappointed me in not calling for my letter. 1 The enemy have been lately amazingly active on the banks of the North river, both forts Washington & Lee having be come theirs. We have not had the particulars of either from author ity, but you will see by the paper that they have paid a good price for the former, and report says our troops had evacuated the latter before they came up, but had not time to remove their stores. Indeed it had been determined to abandon Fort Lee as no longer useful after Mount Washington was lost. It is most clear, upon every view of things, that Gen. Howe must exert every nerve to effect something more than he has yet done with a land and marine force that all Europe had been taught to believe would in one Campaign crush America. Our enemies must become the laughing stock of Europe and the contempt even of their own nation if much, very much more than has yet been done is not expected before they go into winter quarters. Upon these principles it is said Gen. Howe proposes to endeavor to get to this City thro the Jersies—I think he will find this a difficult & dangerous enterprize—But I should have very little objections to his plundering the Quakers, if we can get the public stores removed, because they have taken such true pains to get him & his Hessians here. . . . “The late proceedings of Portugal will probably produce a rup ture between us & them. This foolish Court, that cannot injure us, that has every thing to loose on the water, dependent in Com merce, and cannot gain by war, has shut its ports to us, and, as
