532 November 23, 1776 some suppose, confiscated our Vessels. 2 If this last is done, it will not be long before we hear of some Brazelemen being brought into our ports. . . Extract reprinted from Samuel T. Freeman & Co. Catalog. The Frederick S. Peck Collection of American Historical Autographs (May 13, 1947), pp. 11-12. 1 Although Samuel T. Freeman & Co. suggested Landon Carter as the probable recipient of this letter, his nephew Robert Carter of Nomini Hall, Westmoreland County, may have been the actual recipient, since Lee originally expected that his November 10 letter to Robert Carter would be delivered by “Mr. Coulston.” See Richard Henry Lee to Robert Carter, November 10, 1776, document note. “See William Hooper to Joseph Hewes, November 16, 1776, note 8; and JCC, 6:1035-36. Edward Rutledge to Robert R. Livingston My dear Robert Philada. Novr 23. 1776. The Movements of the Enemy being entirely changed, and having great Reason to believe that ten thousand of General Howe’s Army will in a few Days bend their Way to South Carolina I have de termined to proceed to my native Home with all possible Expedi tion; to render my Country that Assistance in the Field which she will have a Right to expect. The Reverse of our Affairs within the few Days last past, should have taught us, had we been ignorant of it, that the Fortune of War is precarious indeed! As I mean to share every Danger in common with my Countrymen, Sc as the Number of the Enemy will be vastly superior to any Force which we shall be able to bring against them, it is far from being improbable that we shall never meet again; be this however as it may, I could not think of quitting Philadelphia before I had given you my best Wishes for every Happiness which human Nature is capable of receiving. May you enjoy a large portion of domestic Comfort, and public Esteem, & may you be able to establish the Independency of these States upon a firm & lasting Foundation! As the Enemy have removed their Forces into Canada 8c every Reason to fear a junction of the two Armies, or an Attack from the North is now at an End, I wish you would immediately prevail upon Schuyler to come down to Congress. After embracing the first opportunity which may offer to clear up his Character, he will proceed to explain to the House the Steps which are necessary for preventing Carlton from making any Impression from Canada; 8c having obtained full powers for that purpose let him return to his Command to carry those Measures into Execution. By all Means obstruct the Navigation of Hudson’s River, it surely may be done by the Forts in the Highlands. If it is not your Country will be lost, if it is, it will be safe. Pray establish in your own State as soon as possible a good Government. Let the Executive be strong, 8c set
