November 24, 1776 537 This has been expressly named as the Mode as to 6 Millions of Dollars. As to 14 more the same Declaration is made as in the Article of Land that the proportion of sinking it shall be adjusted here after on each State and that Nothing heretofore done shall strengthen or weaken such Enquiry or Questions. Our Province having in some Measure obtained a Satisfaction on those two Heads Nothing now remains but to consider whether the Convention having impowered Us to proceed and inlist for and during the War on the 20 Dollars We can go on the Terms of three Years and the same Bounty being for a less Term and in this point we are pretty generally agreed to depart from the Letter to preserve the Spirit. Fort Lee has followed the same Fate as Fort Washington except that our Powder and Men with two 12 Pounders escaped. We lost 1000 Barrells of Flour & 300 Tents, better than 400 of the Maryland Troops were taken in and about Fort Washington where Major Price writes our Brother Commissioner’s Son fell as well as Colo. Williams of the Rifle Battailion bravely fighting in his Country’s Cause. I am greatly surprised that these Britons are so bent on surprising and that we should be so often so Surprised in Long Island, York Island, White Plains, Fort Washington and now Fort Lee; ’tho’ the Enemy crossed at Dobbs Ferry they became not visible ’till within Sight of the Fort. In Short there are so many of them that I shall be all Wonder and Surprise or learn in the Poets Phrase Nil admirari. I am Sir, Your most humble Servt., Benjamin Rumsey [P.S.] I am afraid You have not sent Commissions enough. Wrote in the Midst of Company. RC (MdAA). Addressed: “The Honble Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer Esqr. at Annapolis.” 1 Rumsey clearly wrote this letter in his capacity as one of the commissioners appointed by the Maryland Convention to promote the enlistment of Maryland troops. He did not attend Congress until December 12, although he had been elected a delegate on November 10 and was regarded by his fellow delegates as one of the members of the Maryland delegation. He had been in Philadelphia since October 19 conferring and negotiating over terms to be offered troops recruited into the Maryland Continental battalions; after mid-November it is pointless to attempt to establish precisely under what authority he was operating at particular moments. See JCC, 6:962; John Hancock to the Maryland Conven tion, November 4, note 1; Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety, November 23; and Benjamin Rumsey to John Hall?, December 19, 1776.
