November 24, 1776 539 to my native home; where I shall endeavour to render my Country more Service in the Field that I have been able to render her in the Cabinet. I have therefore very little time to write, & have to lengthen this Letter. I could not however think of quitting this part of the Continent without writing you what appeared to me of Consequence, especially when I consider that it is probable, or at least possible, that this may be the last time I may have it in my power to give you any Evidence of my Affection. I shall add no more than that you have my best Wishes for your Happiness & that if I fall in the Defence of my Country, it will alleviate my Misfortune to think that it is in support of the best of Causes, & that I am esteem’d by one of the best of Men. God bless you. Adieu my Friend. Yours Sincerely. E. Rutledge RC (NNC). Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Philidelpa 24t Novr. 1776 I Wrote to you the 12 inst by Col Williams which you have probably reed. On the 16t I put a Letter for you into the Post office, also one to Mr Adams and Lyman which I hope will go safe. 1 Mr Lyman favour of the 16 has come to hand, by which I had the Pleasure of being informed of your and Family’s Wellfare. By the Blessing of God I am well, and think I have obtained a radical Cure of those bilious disorders which have for so long a time troubled me. Nothing but perserverance in a Course of Medicine will free a Person from those Disorders when they are once pretty deeply rooted. The Loss of Fort Lee you have or will hear of. The Enemy have now a free Passage up the N River—whether they will improve it this Season to endeavour to get Possession of the highlands or Make an attempt for this City, or perform any Other Enterprize Time must discover. I have been alone in the Connecticut Delegation since Col Williams went home. Mr Sherman is dayly expected, but I suppose he finds a good deal of Dificullty in executing his Business which he was employed in by the Colony, with the Army. 2 Unless Col Williams tho’t the present times less difficult, than when his Presence here was first tho’t to be so Very essential I can assign no Reason why he went off, except what he himself gave, which was that he did not know wheither he should do any good if he staid. A most puzzling Question, and which probably will be a Matter of ever lasting Doupt—but the true Reason of his Re-
