542 November 25, 1776 upon which they have requested that all the Militia of the Counties of Pennsylvania nearest to Delaware should be called forth. We sub mit the Propriety of adopting similar Measures in New Jersey. We are Sir with the greatest Regard, Your most obedt hum Servants, James Wilson Geo Clymer Samuel Chase RC (NHi). Written by Clymer and signed by Clymer, Chase, and Wilson. 1 On November 23 Congress appointed Samuel Chase, George Clymer, James Smith, Richard Stockton, and James Wilson as a committee “to devise and execute measures for effectually reinforcing General Washington, and obstruct ing the progress of General Howe’s army.” Accordingly, the committee met the following day with the members of the Pennsylvania Assembly and Council of Safety that were immediately available, after which they issued a series of resolutions for mobilizing the militia and distributed them as a broadside to the commanding officers of the various battalions of Pennsylvania associators. For these resolutions, which carried the force of congressional resolves and embodied a Continental fiscal commitment but were never entered on the journals, see illustration. They were accompanied by an order by the Pennsylvania Council of Safety and were reprinted in several newspapers. See also JCC, 6:975-76; PCC, item 69, fol. 265; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:14. Committee of Congress to George Read Sir Philada. Novr. 25th. 1776 The enclosed Resolutions will inform You of the Steps adopted in this State for the immediate reinforcement of the Army under the command of General Washington. 1 We wish for Assistance from the State of Delaware, & cannot doubt their alacrity in furnishing every Aid in their Power, in this Hour of common Danger. We know not to whom our Application ought to be made but we earnestly intreat your Influence & Exertions with the proper Authority of your State to send a speedy Assistance of 500 Volun teers if possible, on the same Terms Sc Times of Service with the Volunteers from this State. We are Sir, with great Regard, Your most obedt. hum Servs, James Wilson Co Py Geo Clymer Sami Chase Tr (Facsimile, Parke-Bernet Galleries Catalog, May 16, 1967, item 8). 1 For these resolutions, see the note to the committee’s letter in the preceding entry and accompanying illustration. The writer of the present letter used an asterisk to note, at the foot of the document, that the enclosures were “published in all the Newspapers.”
