544 November 26, 1776 Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen, Philadelphia Novr. 26th. 1776 Tuesday Morning In my last I expressed some Hopes of prevailing on Congress to give our State some Satisfaction as to the back Lands, and the Mode by which the Proportion of the Expences of the War was to be paid by each State. In this Expectation I was delayed & disap pointed for two Days, by Mr. Jenifers mentioning that our Commis sioners had your orders to proceed. By an obstinate perseverance the enclosed Resolve was obtained last Saturday; 1 on Sunday afternoon our Commissioners left this City. On yesterday the Com missioners from Congress, of which Mr. Paca is one, also sett off for the Camps. Much depends on their Success. The Reduction of fort Washington and easy Possession obtained of fort Lee has greatly encouraged General Howe, and probably induced him to carry on the Campain much longer than he would otherwise have done. There is great Reason to beleive his Views extend to this City. On Sunday Evening General Mifflin arrived in this City. Our Army, under the Command of General Washing ton in the Jerseys are about 6,000, of which the Service of about 1500 expires on Sunday next. General Lee has about 11000 effectives on the west Side of North River, of which the Enlistment of about 3000 expires on the same Day. The Enemy have about 21,000 effec tives. They can spare about 16,000 & leave a sufficient Garrison to maintain New York. Genl. Howe has 6,000 in the Jerseys opposite to Newark. In this State it is proposed to call out all the Militia of four Countys & this City immediately for Six Weeks. Chester, Bucks, Northampton and Philadelphia Counties are the nearest to the Jerseys, & it is also proposed to call out a Company of Volun teers from each Battalion in this state to enroll ’till 10th March next. The preservation of this State & the Jerseys and, in great Measure, the common Safety will depend on the Success of this Requisition. New Jersey is also called on for Aid, Delaware is solicitted, and if our State could afford any assistance in Time an application would also be made to her. If the present Cloud should be happily dispersed, the new Levies will be the first object of your attention. We can neither prosecute the War, nor obtain honorable Terms of Peace without an Army. The Enlistment will be only for three years, on the bounty of 20 Dollars, and the annual Cloathing, or the 20 Dollars in Lieu thereof. 2 By the Resolves of Congress, I am informed, the recruiting officers are intitled to 10s for each man inlisted &: passed, and 10s per week for provisions till the Recruits arrive to some Place where they can be furnished by the Continental Commissaries. 3
