548 November 27, 1776 shall think proper to make an Establishment, It may be convenient to have a Recommendation from the Director, in which I think the Names of the five or six Gentlemen who have officiated as hospital Surgeons should be mentioned. I have conferred with Doctor Foster & he will communicate the substance of the Inter view. I remain sir in Haste your Friend & hum ser, E Gerry RC (CtY). ’Although the intended recipient of this letter cannot be positively identified, it is possible that Gerry directed it to John Warren. Warren (1753-1815), a brother of the slain revolutionary leader Joseph Warren and a Salem, Mass., physician who was currently surgeon general of the Continental hospital at Hackensack, N.J., subsequently wrote a letter to Gerry in which he discussed the reorganization of the medical department and mentioned the possibility of his appointment as an “Assistant Director.” John Warren to Elbridge Gerry, Febru ary 26, 1777, RG 27, PHarH. Later in the war Warren served as senior surgeon of the Continental hospital in Boston. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 17:655-69. Francis Lewis to the New York Convention Gentlemen Phila. 27th Novr. 1776. Upon the information given to the marine committee by Capt. Patrick Dennis, of the then state of the frigates built at Poughkeepsie, the said committee desired me to inform you that it was their opinion, those ships being launched should as soon as possible be sent up to Esopus creek, to be there laid up for the winter, as there appears at present no prospect of bringing them into service for this year. And it is their opinion that a lieutenant of marines be appointed, with orders given him to immediately enlist thirty marines to guard those frigates during winter, and that all such stores that are remaining, together with those belonging to such vessels as were ordered to be sunk in the North and East rivers, be also put under the care of said lieutenant of marines. That Capt. Dennis, who has at present the custody of all the rig ging, &c. belonging to the vessels so sunk, be directed to deliver the same to said lieutenant, furnishing him with an inventory of the particulars; a copy thereof to be signed by the lieutenant, and trans mitted to the marine committee, who apprehend the stores aforesaid will be this winter wanted by Genl. Schuyler. In regard to the destination of the frigates for the winter, if you see any likelihood of their being brought into use, they are sub mitted entirely to your direction. Upon your nominating the lieuten ant, his commission will be sent up to you as you, are more im mediately upon the spot. In regard to the frigates, the marine
