November 29, 1776 551 one Campaign more; and its over with them. I am with every Sen timent of Respect, Your Most Obt Sert, Wm. Whipple P.S. My Colleague 2 is now confin’d with the small Pox but is on the recovery & I Expect will be out in a very few days. RC (Nh-Ar). ’The November 27 resolve calling on the New England states to procure 10,000 pairs of shoes and stockings for Washington’s army. JCC, 6:984. On Decem ber 16, Meshech Weare responded that if the Congress would forward money “Very considerable Quantities of Shoes, Leather-Breeches, and some other Articles Can be procured here.” N.H. State Papers, 8:420. 2 Matthew Thornton. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philadelphia Novr 29 1776 I take this opportunity by Mr Chamberlain to acquaint you that I am in good health & Spirits. This Intelligence, I flatter myself, will not be disagreable to you. I have not receivd a line from you since I left Boston which gives me Reason to suspect that your Letters may have fallen into wrong hands. Traveling, it seems, is of late become somewhat dangerous; should this be intercepted and be seen by the two Brothers, they will have an opportunity of know ing that I am still most firmly attached to the best Cause that vir tuous Men contend for, and that I am animated with the full Perswasion that righteous Heaven will support the Americans if they persevere in their manly Struggles for their Liberty. I have no Reason to suspect the Virtue of the Generality of my Country men. There are indeed Poltroons & Trayters everywhere. I do not therefore think it strange that some such Characters are to be found in this City—but the Indignation of the People kindles at the ex pected approach of the Enemies Army, and every proper Measure is taking to meet them on the Road and stop their wild Career. I am told that Lord Howe has lately issued a Proclamation of fering a general Pardon with the Exception of only four Persons viz Dr Franklin, Coll Richard Henry Lee, Mr John Adams 8c myself. 1 I am not certain of the Truth of this Report. If it be a Fact I am greatly oblig’d to his Lordship for the flattering opinion he has given me of myself as being a Person obnoxious to those who are desolat ing a once happy Country for the sake of extinguishing the remain ing Lamp of Liberty, and for the singular Honor he does me in ranking me with Men so eminently patriotick. I hope you will write to me by every opportunity. Pay my due Respects to my Family and Friends and be assured that I am most affectionately, your, S Adams
