556 November 29, 1776 to have done. I meant before now to have Wrote him upon the Subject, but for the general Reasons which have prevented me from answered your Favour earlier has hindered me I cannot think it a Crime to have mentioned the affair to Col Francis as I have no Apprehension that the Commissioners meant to keep the matter secret. If they did, I have been ignorantly faulty. I Was sorry to be informed by you of the unhappy State of your County. In these unhappy Times ignorant and ambitious Men are too apt, by a great apparent Zeal, to acquire an Importance which they are but little intituled to, and every Necessitous Man will join the Wicked Designs of these Men in suppressing Justice. But their Influence being founded in Delusion must be temporary only, and a People will soon recover a Love of order and Justice, so that I hope the personal Injuries which you now sustain will be but of a short Duration, and that you will be repaid by such a Re ward, as a good Man ought to expect, who maintains his Integrity in the Hour of severe Tryal and Adversity. For News refer you to Mr Sergeant. My best Compliments to your Lady, and Gentlemen of my Acquaintance in your Town. I am sir, your most Obedient, humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott RC (NN). 1 Both Wolcott and Timothy Edwards (1738-1813), a Stockbridge, Mass., judge, were Indian commissioners for the northern department. Appleton’s Cyclopaedia of American Biography; and JCC, 2:183. a The Indians visited Congress on December 5, 7, and 9. JCC, 6:1006, 1010-11, 1013. For an account of their first appearance in Congress, see Benjamin Rush’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, December 5, 1776. 3 For further information about the Indian commissioners dispute with their colleague Turbutt Francis, see Oliver Wolcott to Philip Schuyler, January 22, 1776, note 2. * Probably Turbutt Francis’ April 23 letter to Philip Schuyler and Volkert P. Douw. See Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:11-12. 3 For a later deposition by Thomas Fulmer summarizing this entire affair, see ibid., pp. 26-28. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen, Philadelphia Novr. 30th. 1776. Saturday Morning By a Resolve of Congress of the 12th of October 1775, “each Captain & other commissioned officer, while in the recruiting Ser vice of this Continent, or on their March to join the Army shall be allowed two Dollars & two thirds per Week for their Subsistance; and that the Men who enlist shall each of them, whilst in Quarters, be allowed one Dollar per week, & one Dollar & one third of a Dollar, when on their March, to join the Army for the same Pur pose.”
