558 November 30, 1776 about 6000 with him, but alas this night the Enlistment of one half of them expires & they will go home! The Enemy know this from an intercepted letter R: are preparing to advantage themselves of the Misfortune. Cornwallis it is said commands on this side of Hudson River. His army may be about 6000. He is now at Eliz Town, will no doubt advance to Amboy. There a number of Trans ports whose destination has been long a matter of Speculation will probably join them, or rather the Enemy from these Ships will land at South Amboy R: penetrate up Raritan River to Brunswick while Cornwallis with his Brigades will attempt to force a passage at some other place thereby to distract and divide our little army. Where the Eastern Army is, or how employed God only knows. Lee is with them & may possibly hereafter explain their Movements. Oh how I feel for Washington that best of men. The difficulties which he has now to encounter are beyond the power of language to describe but to be unfortunate is to be wrong & there are men, you know who, who are villains enough to brand him. There are some long faces here, & the Hero from M cl who disavowed his Allegiance to G.B. 6 months ago & frightend poor parson Zubly home shakes in his shoes, now talks of accommodation, Conciliation, reconcilia tion, Peace on honourable terms. This man had the impudence to call those tories who talked thus when the Scheme was practicable & when I thought R: when I still think that if America could have had her terms, it was the best bargain she could have made. I hate such puffing. Such as these if America falls have ruined her by giving vain hopes, & lying without Compunction or restraint. 1 Still this City might be saved if the Inhabitants of Jersey & Pennsylvania would move. Mifflin came here to try his powers, a few are dragged in to follow him, their motions I fear will be very slow, and retrogade some of them. We have heard that an attack is begun in the Highlands upon Fort Montg[omer]y, we yet have not the Event. In Lat. 32, Long. 70, A man just arrived at Baltimore saw 160 large Vessells steering S.W. & W.S.W. Were these intended for Chas town, you know before this. It is suspected that they are a fleet which Burgoyne with Men is carrying to the Southward. Rise my dear Carolina Men—Rise to a Man. To the Southern Provinces is reserved for aught I know the glorious task of rescuing America from Slavery here Re hereafter. Pray compleat your new Enlistments, Succour your Sister S Caro lina. From whence I shall write you next I know not. Perhaps from this—perhaps Lancaster—perhaps Baltimore—Perhaps Heaven. Was it not for my family, I could wish the latter. Adieu. This Letter is confidential—to you, Penn, & J[ohnsto]n. RC (Nc-Ar). In Hooper’s hand, though not signed. 1 These cryptic comments about Samuel Chase add not only to an understand ing of the evolution of his views in the autumn of 1776 but also provide con-
