December 1, 1776 561 at Head Quarters or at any of the Camps, should be given to those Soldiers who stand most in Need of them. The Secret Committee will order one or two Persons to set out immediately to the Eastern States, to see that the Cloathing & Stores which have been purchased in that Quarter, be sent to the Army with all possible Dispatch. 3 I have the Honour to be, with Sentiments of perfect Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Prest. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 Washington’s November 30 letter to Hancock, announcing that his army had retreated from Newark to Brunswick and was in desperate need of reinforce ments, is in PCC, item 152, 3:279-80, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:314-16. For the resolves passed this day in response to it, during a rare Sunday session, see JCC, 6:997-98. 2 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:323. 3 See Secret Committee to the Massachusetts Assembly, December 4, 1776. On December 2 Hancock also wrote a brief note to Governor Cooke of Rhode Island in which he stated: “The Inclos’d Resolutions I transmitt by order of Congress, your Attachment to the common Cause & great Zeal to promote the Service tenders any further Recommendation unnecessary.” Samuel T. Freeman & Co. Catalog, The Frederick S. Peck Collection of American Historical Autographs (February 17, 1947), p. 11. One of these enclosures was probably the December 1 resolve on the purchase of “cloathing and stores” in “the eastern states.” JCC, 6:997. The others have not been identified. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes Dear Hewes Philadelphia Deer. 1. 1776. I wrote you yesterday and the day before. This is intended to close the packet by Bondfield who proposes to leave this early to morrow morning. This is Sunday, the Congress is now setting, you will conclude that matters are growing very critical. Your conclusions will be just. By a letter from General Washington this day received We find that he is at Brunswick with about 4000 Men; before night I fear this number will be much reduced. By the Capture of Ft Lee & Washington they have lost Tents, Blankets & Baggage; of course they are half naked & greatly dispirited. Cornwallis is at Eliz. Town & part of his troops about 5 miles on this side. We have ordered Housacker’s German Battalion & such of the City Associators as can be prevailed upon to leave this to march immediately under the Command of Genl Mifflin. 1 Very few of the Jersey Militia have turned out, few or none here. From the difficulty of getting men for our frigates We have formed Artillery Companies amounting in the whole to about 400 under Command of Barry 8c Reid 8c other of the Masters of the Vessells who with 12 field pieces march this
