564 December 1, 1776 he spent most of his time at his Fairhill estate, limiting his political activity to writing sporadically in opposition to the new Pennsylvania constitution and refus ing to take the seat to which he had been elected in the first assembly convened under that instrument of government. On December 10, at the continued ap proach of British troops and almost simultaneously with the general evacuation of Philadelphia by Congress and most active whig leaders, Dickinson retired with his family to his estate in Kent, near Dover, Delaware. See Charles J. Stills, The Life and Times of John Dickinson, 1732-1808 (1891; reprint ed.. New York: Burt Franklin, 1969), pp. 201-15, 383-93. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes Philadelphia Deer. 3. [1776] The Enemy move rapidly this way. On Sunday 7 oClock p.m. they advanced in sight of Brunswick. 1 Our little Army reduced to about 3000 by the Expiration of Enlistments upon their arrival at the fording place kept up a Cannonade till our Men were paraded, the effect was nothing. It was impossible with such a handful to make a stand against this superiour force. Gen Washington re treated, is before this at Trenton, intends immediately to cross the River where Putman has been providing boats for them. The Asso- ciators here come out very slowly, I fear they will be too late to be very useful. Dear Hewes, I have been much indisposed, my Constitution is not equal to the fatigue I undergo. I have had my share of it. I beg that the Convention would send on some one to relieve me. I can not bear a longer absence from my family. I think myself ne glected. Where is Penn? I give this notice that I may not be culpable in case the State of No Carolina should not soon send me relief. Yours truly, Wm Hooper RC (PHi). A continuation of Hooper to Hewes, December 1, 1776. 1 Robert Treat Paine made the following entry in his diary under the date December 2: "Alarmed with the approach of Genl Howes forces commanded by Genl Cornwallis to Brunswick.” MHi. Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry Dear Sir, Philadelphia 3 Deer. 1776 The present moment is critical in the American war. The enemy have taken vigorous advantage of the space between the old and the new inlistments, and have rushed like a Torrent thru the Jersies, our little army of no more than 5000 men under the com mand of Genl. Washington, being compelled to retreat rapidly before them. The object is this City, and they were on Sunday last
