December 4, 1776 567 Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philadelphia December 4, 1776] I receivd your obliging Letter [. . .] by Mr Brown. 1 It affords me singular pleasure to be informd that our Assembly is now sitting in Boston. It has ever been my opinion that the publick Business can be done with more Dispatch there than elsewhere. “You have ap pointed a Committee of War,” “with very extensive Powers,” and “appropriated to their Disposition £200,000 to purchase every thing necessary to carry on the War with Vigour the next year.” 2 I am heartily rejoycd to hear this. I hope the Committee are Men of Business and will make a good Use of the Power and Monies they are entrusted with. Let me tell you that every Nerve must be straind to resist the British Tyrant, who in Despair of availing himself of his own Strength which lately he so much prided him self in, is now summoning the Powers of Earth & Hell to subjugate America. The Lamp of Liberty bums there 8c there only. He sees it, and is impatient even to Madness to extinguish it. It is our Duty, at all Hazards to prevent it. But I am sensible I need not write to you in this Stile. You and the rest of my Countrymen have hitherto done and I have no Doubt will continue to do your Duty in Defence of a Cause as interesting to Mankind. It is with in expressible Pleasure that I reflect, that the mercenary Forces of the Tyrant have for two years in vain attempted to penetrate the Eastern Colonies. There, our Enemies themselves and those who even hate us, acknowledge that the Rights of Men have been defended with Bravery. And did not South Carolina nobly withstand the Efforts of Tyranny 8c defeat them. She did. Virginia too 8c North Carolina have in their Turns acted with a Spirit becoming the Character of Americans. But what will be said of Pennsylvania 8c the Jerseys? Have they not disgracd themselves by standing the idle Spectators while the Enemy overran a great Part of their Country? They have seen our Army, unfortunately seperated by the river, retreating to Hakinsack—to Newark—to Elisabeth Town, Woodbridge, Bruns wick 8c Princeton. The [. . .] is about 40 miles from this [....] The enemy’s Army by the last Accounts were within an 60 Miles March to this place. If they were as near Boston, would not our hardy Countrymen cut them all to Pieces or take them Prisoners. But by the unaccountable Stupor which seems to have pervaded these States, The Enemy have gaind a Tryumph, which they did not themselves expect—A Tryumph indeed! Without a Victory—without one Laurel to boast of—For Bunkers Hill they fought & bled. They lost their bravest officers, and we wishd them twenty such Victories. But the People of the Jersys have sufferd them to run thro’ their Coun try without the Risque of even a private soldier. They expended their Ammunition at the Trees and Bushes as they marchd. But I
