568 December 4, 1776 hear the Sound of a Drum. The People of Pennsylvania say of themselves that they are usually slow in determining, but vigorous in executing. I hope we shall find both Parts of this Predication to be just. They say they are now determind; and promise to bring General Howe to a hearty Repentance for venturing his Troops so near them. I have the Pleasure to tell you that within a few days past they have made a spirited Appearance. In Spite of Quakers, Proprietarians, timid Whigs, Tories, Pettit Maitres & Trimmers, there are a sufficient Number in Arms resolvd to defend their Coun try. Many are now on the March. Heaven grant they may be the honorable Instruments to retrieve the Reputation of their Country men and reduce Britain to a contemptible Figure at the End of this Campaign. I am glad to hear that our harbor looks so brilliant. I hope it is fortified against every Attempt of the Enemy the next Spring. In your Letter you ask me two very important Questions. I dare not repeat them. 3 With regard to the last you will understand what I mean when I say Let not your Mind be any more troubled about it. I am in good health & Spirits. Adieu. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. Endorsed: “Deer. 4. 1776.” William V. Wells, The Life and Public Services of Samuel Adams . . . , 3 vols. (Boston: Little, Brown, and Co., 1865), 2:452-54. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 See James Warren’s November 18 letter to Samuel Adams in Warren-Adams Letters, 2:440-41. 2 For the appointment of the Massachusetts Board of War, see Samuel Adams to James Warren, November 6, 1776, note 2. 3 Warren had asked Adams: “Where is your Confederation. Are your Embas sadors gone, etc., etc.” Warren-Adams, 2:441. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Philadelphia Deer. 4th 1776. It is long since I received a Letter from the Assembly notwith standing my repeated Requests. I should rejoice by the Return of the Express, who will take the Charge of this, to receive the Informa tion I have desired. I am uninformed with Regard to the Force actually muster’d in the Colony for its Defence, and what Number the Militia, now employed in that Service, consists of. Whether We have any Powder Mills agoing, what Quantity of Money our State hath issued, at what Periods the several Emissions are redeemable, and what Interest is allowed on any of them? Whether any Cloath- ing hath been purchased for the Army and sent forward, 8cc &c &c. In short I know nothing about the affairs of our State but what I collect from the private Letters and News Papers, which I now and then receive. In Addition to the Information before prayed for I
