570 December 4, 1776 could wish to know whether the Assembly have appointed a Com missioner of the Loan-Office for our State. 1 Certificates will soon be ready to be transmitted to the several States, and it is a Matter of great Importance that Commrs should be appointed to exchange them with those who may be disposed to let Money on Loan. Please to advise Me what Sum you think may be hired in our State. I hope the Loan Office & State Lottery will be encouraged in the respective United States; for upon the Success thereof, very much depends the Supply of the Treasury in such a Manner as will check the Depretiation of the public Medium. Tickets will in a short Time be transmitted by the Managers of the Lottery to Agents appointed by them in the several States, and I think the Lottery is so well calculated that with the Countenance which may be given to it by the States the Tickets will soon be purchased. Every Step ought to be taken that can be taken to retard, to put a full Stop to the Career of Depretiation otherwise such Floods of Money must issue as can never be sunk. 2 The Prices of all the Necessaries of Life, by the Depretiation, owing very much to the great Quantity of Paper Money in Circula tion, by the Limitation of Commerce, and by a vile sordid Practice of monopolizing, which some wealthy Men here have got into, have been raised within a year or Two, One hundred per Cent. I hope that the Necessaries of Life have not arisen in their Value, in the same rapid and extravagant Manner in our State; if they have the Poor especially must be in a most deplorable Situation. I am told that the Genii. Assembly at their Novr. Session fixed the Salary of their Delegates at four Dollars a Day. 3 I believe they did not at that Time think of the enhanced Price of every Article of Living since the first Congress; otherwise they must have known that four Dollars a Day now, were not equal to the three Dollars which were allowed them then, and untill the Session referred to, exclusive of their Expences; and I think would not have fixed their Salary at less than five Dollars a Day, which was the Sum I had mentioned in my Letters. I hope the General Assembly will reconsider their Resolve. If Three Dollars were not inadequate to the Service of the Delegates, exclusive of Expences, in the first Congress, most certainly four Dollars, which will not purchase now more than Two would then, cannot be adequate, and beside this, out of these four Dollars, the Delegates must pay their Expences, which let them be as frugal as they can will amount to a very large Sum, and leave nothing behind as a Reward for their Service. I should be extremely glad that the Additional Delegate who may be appointed this Deer. Session might proceed as soon as pos sible. I have scracely had a Minute for Relaxation since Govr. Hop kins returned Home. I am obliged to attend Committees Morning and Evening, and Congress from 10’ until 3 every Day, Sundays
