December 4, 1776 571 sometimes not excepted. Such constant Attention without any Op portunity for Exercise is too much for Humanity. Since the Enemy took Possession of Fort Lee, our little Army under Genl. Washington have been constantly on the Retreat. He is now at Trenton with the main Body, having left at Prince-Town Two Brigades under Genl. Stirling. The Associators of this State are turning out to reinforce him, and stop the further Progress of the Enemy. By a Letter from G.W. of the 3d Instant dated at Trenton he informs that the Enemy had not passed the Rariton to Brunswick the 2d at 9 o’Clock in the Morning, but that there was an Account that a Fleet of upwards of 100 Sail were turning out at the Hook last Sunday. Some suppose that they were destined for this River, and that the Enemy mean to attack this Place both by Sea and Land. I believe they will not be able to pass the Delaware with an Army, and I should think they would not attempt the River with their Ships at this Season, for although the Weather is now warm, yet We may expect a Frost every Day. I hope that our Battalions will be raised in Season, and that We shall be able to bring a large Army into the Field the next Spring; otherwise they will be able to carry Fire and Sword into our States, in which Case the private Property which hath been so fortunately amassed by privateering in some of the Eastern States, as well as other Property, will be destroyed. We should take Care to preserve what We collect; and the Preservation of our Property, our Wives Sc Children, our Lives and Liberties depends upon our being able to face the Enemy in the Spring with a respectable Army. I said in the first Part of this Letter that you would receive this by Express, you will receive it by Commissioners appointed by the Secret Committee to collect and transmit to the Army the Cloathing collected by the several States, and to make further Purchases of Cloathing. They will not return till they have visited each of the Eastern States. Give me Leave Sir to expect an Answer by the very first safe Opportunity. I continue to be with the utmost Respect, Your Honor’s most obedient, humble Servant, William Ellery P.S. Since I wrote the above I am told that the Number of Loan- Office Certificates will be sent off to Morrow to our State. I write in Congress and find I have wrote on a dirty Table. I have not Time to copy. Your Honor I hope will excuse every Imperfection. W E RC (R-Ar). 1 Governor Cooke had already provided the answers to many of these questions in a November 30 letter to Ellery that had obviously not yet reached Philadel phia. William R. Staples, Rhode Island in the Continental Congress, 1765-1790 (Providence: Providence Press Co., 1870), pp. 101-4. 2 For various resolves on the lottery passed between November 18 and 30, see
