576 December 4, 1776 1 Congress passed these resolves on November 30. JCC, 6:994. A November 23 letter from the New York Committee of Safety to Hancock on the subject of raising an additional Continental battalion in New York is in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:317-18. Secret Committee to the Massachusetts Assembly In Secret Committee of Congress Philada. Deer. 4th. 1776 Gen tn. A Committee of Congress was appointed the 25th Septr. last to procure Cloathing in all the States on this Continent for the use of our Army & we find they wrote to you on the 10th Octr. requesting the favour of you to employ proper persons to purchase what cou’d be obtained in your State. 1 To this letter they have not reed any answer, and the Congress being very anxious & impatient to have this important business duely attended to & executed have directed us to send one or more trusty persons into the Eastern States to Collect what has been bought & to make such further purchases of suitable Articles as they can accomplish. 2 We have engaged Messrs. Abm. Livingston and Wm. Turnbull bearers hereof to go upon this Service. You will be pleased to direct them to the persons who have made purchases on Continental acct by order, 8c let the Goods be delivered to these Gentlemen or their order. We have also by direc tion of Congress authorized them to make further purchases 8c must beg the favour of your advice 8c assistance to them in the prosecution of that business or that you will desire your Committee to give them such assistance. We have judged it dangerous to send a large Sum of money with them at this time on acct of the situation of our Enemy, neither cou’d we well judge what Sum might be sufficient, therefore we request you will order them to be supplyed out of your Publick Treasury if needfull. Their drafts on this Committee for the Amount shall be paid, 8c if desired the money shall be sent by express. 3 Your Zeal to serve the general Cause on all occasions makes us satisfyed of your Concurrence with our desires 8c we re main with the utmost respect Gentn., Your most Obedt 8c most hble servts, Robt. Morris Richard Henry Lee Phil. Livingston Wm. Whipple Fras. Lewis RC (PPRF). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Lee, Lewis, Livingston, and Whipple. ’See Committee on Clothing to Nicholas Cooke, October 11, 1776, note 2. 2 See the resolve of December 1, JCC, 6:997. On December 5 the Massachusetts General Court voted £7,000 for the purchase of clothing and on January 10, 1777, it authorized an additional £4,000 to be used for that purpose. Minutes of the Massachusetts Council, pp. 287, 452-53, DLC(ESR).
