578 December 5, 1776 “Brothers. We received your commissioners at the little counsel fire at Fort Pitt. We wiped the sweat from their bodies. We cleansed the dirt from their ankles. We pulled the thorns from [their] feet. We took their staffs from their hands, and leaned them agt the tree of peace, we took their belts from their waists, and conducted them to the seats of peace.” 2 MS (PPL). In the hand of Benjamin Rush. 1 These notes appear in a small booklet of miscellaneous notes, sandwiched be tween a discussion of the American people (divided into five classes according to their political opinons) and notes dated April 8, 1777, speculating on General Howe’s designs and General Washington’s probable responses. The bulk of the material contained in the notebook was published by S. Weir Mitchell, “Historical Notes of Dr. Benjamin Rush, 1777,” PMHB 21 (April 1903): 129-50. For additional notes taken from this booklet, see Benjamin Rush’s Notes of Debates, February 4, 10, 14, 19, 20, and 26, 1777. Although the section printed here bears no identifying information, Rush’s reference to the arrival of an Indian delegation “in Novr 1776” and entries in the journals pertaining to the appearance of Indians in Congress on December 5, 7, and 9 suggest that the remarks he recorded were those delivered on the fifth. See JCC, 6:1003, 1006, 1010-11, 1013. 3 Rush also discussed this episode in his autobiography, where he recorded this speech in a shy' .ly revised form. In the MS printed here, Rush inserted super script numerals “2” and “1” before the sentences beginning “We wiped” and “We took their Staffs,” perhaps indicating an intent to transpose the passages when he transferred them to his autobiography. No such transposition was made in the latter version, however, which has been published as follows: “During my attendance in Congress in Philadelphia I had the pleasure of being present at an interview between some chiefs of the Six Nations and Congress in their hall in the State House. After a pause of about ten minutes one of the chiefs rose from his seat, and pointing to the Sun said ‘The business of this day will end well. Yonder Sun rose clear this morning. The great Spirit is propitious to us. Brothers, we received the commissioners you sent us at the little council fire at Pittsburgh. We wiped the sweat from their bodies. We cleaned the dust from their legs. We pulled the thorns from their feet. We took their staffs from their hands, and placed them against the tree of peace. We took their belts from their waists, and afterwards conducted them to the seats of peace.’ In retiring, they all shook hands with every member of Congress.” Benjamin Rush, The Autobiography of Benjamin Rush, ed. George W. Corner (Princeton: Published for the American Philosophical Society by Princeton University Press, 1948), pp. 121-22. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Philidelpha. 5th Deer 1776 I Wrote to you the 16 and 24t last which I hope you have reed. My Letter of the 12t Col Williams tells me he delivered and I most Sincerely rejoiced to be informed by him that you was then well. By the Blessing of God I am in Health, and which now appears to be as much confirmed to Me, as it has been at any time the year
