580 December 6, 1776 that has been done to regulate it, so that we can seldom get Intelli gence from our Constituents, while the Gentlemen of other States have Advice from theirs, either by Post or Express at least every Week. Would you believe it, we had but one Post from the East ward since my last Arrival here on the 24 th of October. I wish we could hear often from you. Much is to be done this Winter to pre pare for the ensuing Spring. The Enemy, it is now said, are in retreating order from Brunswick. By the last Accounts from the Northward we are informd that the Ice begins to make on the Lakes. A few choice Friends have conceivd it very practicable when the Enemies Vessels are closd in the Ice, to destroy them by burning. Could this be done, it woud exceedingly distress the Enemy and confound them. I confess I am enthusiastical in this Matter. I wish you could consult a few concerning it. If it is a Proposal worth your Notice, and I hardly doubt you will think it so, it must be communicated to a very few. I should think it would be best set on foot & executed by the New England People and I daresay there are trusty Men in our State who thoroughly understand such kind of Business. Sat Verbum Sapienti. Think seriously of it. Adieu. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 For further discussion about the collection of clothing and supplies, see Samuel Adams to James Warren, November 29; and Secret Committee to the Massachusetts Assembly, December 4, 1776. Robert Treat Paine to David Cobb My dear Sir, Philada. Deer. 6th. 1776 I have not heard from you a long time, owing I suppose to your unsettled state of Body which I understand has been vibrating be tween Boston & Taunton till I find you have at last decided in favour of the latter. 1 I can assure you that the Expectation of your Removing from Taunton gave me much uneasiness & if ever I am able to spend my days there it will be an Addition to any happiness that you are with me. Our public affairs have been exceedingly agi tated Since I wrote you last. The loss of Fort Washington made way for that of Fort Lee & the dissolution of our army hapning at the same time threw us into a most disagreable Scituation. The interception of an Express gave the Enemy full assurance of what they must have had Some Knowledge of before, the State of our Army, & they took the Advantage of it; in two days after their possession of Fort Lee on the 20th ult Where we lost much Bag gage & the Chief of our battering Cannon, they march’d to Hacken sack a pretty Town, from thence to Newark driving Genl. Washing-
