582 December 6, 1776 of. When we first heard it We expected it was designed for an Attack on Philada. by Water while the first Party penetrated by Land, but we are now apprehensive for So. Carolina, Virginia, some say Newport. The Enemy are in Possession of a very large & valuable part of N Jersey & the remaining part is greatly distressed by his Approach, but I hope this affair will rouse them from that lethargy which Occasioned this excursion, for had their militia been alert & resolute & given Genl Washington the support they might have done, these Evils had not happened, but stupidity & carelessness have been the Lord of our ascendants this last month. Tis to no purpose to scold, let us carefully ascertain our past Errors & amend them. 2 FC (MHi). 1 David Cobb (1748-1830), Paine’s brother-in-law, was a physician who had just returned to Taunton, Mass., after trying to establish a practice in Boston. He served as a lieutenant colonel and colonel in the Continental Army, 1777-83, and later was elected to the United States Congress. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 16:337-51. “For the continuation of this letter, see Paine to Cobb, December 8, 1776. George Read to Gertrude Read My dear Gitty Philada. the 6th Deer. 1776 Attendance Night & Morning at Committees and all day at Con gress puts it out of my power to write you so frequently as I ought &: have had Opportunities but I have no chance of A Moment but when I retire out of Congress to the Comittee room where I now am to write to any person. However be assured that if any[Z/zmg] very material occurs you shall hear it. Genl. Washington in his Letter of yesterday mentions the Enemy’s being at Brunswick & Ld. Sterling with 2 Brigades consisting 1200 Men including the Delaware Bat talion at Princetown abot. 15 Miles a part—that Genl. Mercer has marched back from Trenton to Prince Town 1200 more as A Rein- forcemt. & Genl. Washington is to follow this day. 1 Genl. Lee is somewhere in the Neighbourhood but where particularly or what force is not precisely known. The German Battalion belonging to the Continent with the City Militia have Marched from here sup posed more than 3000. I have little doubt that the Progress of the British Army will be stopped if no more. The Troops belonging to Flying Camp whose times of Inlistment had expired left the General in whole Brigades, particularly Jersey & Maryland—as also to Pater son’s Batta. They wod. [not] serve an Hour longer, so that this City is filled with returning Soldiers tho never more wanted in the field. The Delegates of Maryland with Genl Mifflin harangued a great Number perhaps 6 or 700 of them in the State House Yard yester-
