December 8, 1776 589 great art of making Cannon was the getting the metal to a due temper. What should be the reason that Iron when Cast into a thin Pot or Kettle shall be fine & close grained 8c very Strong 8c tough, & yet when Cast from the same furnace 8c the same Sort of Ore into a large Cannon it is coarse 8c open grained 8c brittle. I think it Shews that some further preparation is wanting for Iron cast into a large body than a small one. Stone lime is found to be a great refiner of Iron, I suppose it is generally used at the furnace, or rather the Lime Stone is used. Mr. Wm. Henry of Lancaster is of Opinion 8c I think with good reason that the Burnt Lime should be put in rather than the Stone, because before the Lime Stone is burnt so as to operate on the Iron the ore is melted 8c gone off. But the Lime operates immediately in absorbing the sulphur [. . .] 8c other [heterogeneous?] matter. He is also of opinion that the quan tity put in is never Sufficient. Some experiments he has tryed of the Effects of Lime in toughening Iron are very Satisfactory. I dont undertake to direct or instruct you in yr business but if I should drop a hint to yr. advantage you will not take it amiss. I wish a thorough tryal was made of the Advantage of putting in very large quantities of I.ime into the furnace. I really believe you would find your [. . .] it. Yrs., RTP FC (MHi). Addresed: “To Dani & Sami Hughes at Antietam Furnace. Per Melchor Saladin.” John Hancock to James Wilson Dear Sir: Sunday Eveg [December 8, 1776] The instant your messenger came in, an Express arrived from the Genl. 8c bro’t the Inclos’d Letter. The General dates his Letter this Day at Mr Berkley’s Sommerset, 1 he has cross’d the Delaware with his whole Army, which he writes was 3500 before the German Battaln 8c Pennsylva Militia came in 8c they about 2000; he begs more force, as he' thinks undoubtedly Philada is their object. He had heard nothing of Genl Lee, wonders much at his slow move ments. We must Exert ourselves now. I hope you will be early at Congress 8c let us do what we can. We must save the Country. I am hurried. Adieu, Yours sincerely, J. Hancock Tr (PSC). Endorsed by Burton A. Konkle: “Original in Papers of Herbert Morris, Esq. of Phila., which formerly belonged to his father, the late Galloway C. Morris of Lake George, N.Y.” 1 Washington’s December 8 letter to President Hancock is in PCC, item 152, 3:327-28, Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:335-37.
