December 10, 1776 591 confess it chagrins me greatly to find it so illy suported by the People of Pennsylvania and the Jerseys. They seem to me to be determined to give it up—but I trust that my dear New England will maintain it at the Expence of every thing dear to them in this Life. They know how to prize their Liberties. May Heaven bless them! It is not yet determind to what place to adjourn the Con gress, if it should be necessary to move. Wherever I may be, I shall write to you by every opportunity. Mr Brown who carries this Letter will give you a particular Account of the Circumstances of things here—to him I refer you. Pray remember me to my Daughter, Sister Polly, the rest of my Family & Friends. I hope the Life of our valuable Friend Mrs March will yet be spared. She is indeed a good Woman. Tell my worthy Neighbor Mr Preston, that I rejoyce to hear of his honorable Appointment. I hope & beleive he will use his office well. I wish to have a Letter from you. You cannot imagine how highly I prize such a Favor. My daily Prayer is for your Safety, & Happiness in this Life & a better. Adieu, my dear. You cannot doubt the sincere & most cordial Affection of your, 1 S A. RC (NN). 1 For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Elizabeth Adams, December 11, 1776. Matthew Thornton to Meshech Weare Sir Philadelphia Deer. 9th 1776 Please to pay to John Langdon Esqr on order Three Hundred Dollars it being for value receiv’d here of William Whipple and charge the same to my accot with the State of New Hampshire, for which Sum I have drawn two orders of the same Tenor 8c date one of which being paid the other to be void. Your most obt. Sert, Matthew Thornton RC (PPRF). Written by William Whipple and signed by Thornton. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Philadelphia Deer. 10th 1776 Since the Enemy took Possession of Fort Lee Genl. Washington with the Division under his immediate Command hath been con stantly retreating, until they have at Length passed the Delaware and I suppose mean to make a Stand on the Banks of the River opposite to Trenton. To prevent their being hemmed in at Hakin- sack they passed the River of that Name and the River Posaick, and
