594 December 10, 1776 times that they have sailed for So. Carolina or Rhode Island; but I can’t find that they have ever embarked any Troops, nor do I think they will for either of those Places while they pursue such high Game and mean to secure the Posts & Places they have and may possess. They have not Men enough to spare at present nor do I think they will have them this Winter for any distant Expedition. However as I have often said it is wise and prudent to be on our Guard. Capt. Garzia who will hand you this Letter cannot wait a Moment longer which obliges to close abruptly. I am with great Respect your Honor's most Obedient humble Servant, Wm Ellery RC (R-Ar). "See NYHS Collections, 5 (1872): 277-78, 300. Georgia Delegates to John Hancock Sir, 10th Deer. 1776. We have received accounts of our reappointment to represent the state of Georgia in Congress; and will be ready to take our seats in a day or two. 1 In the meantime we request an order on the Treasury for two thousand dollars on account of the state we are appointed to represent. 2 We are, Sir, your most Obedient Servants, Lyman Hall Geo Walton RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Written by Walton and signed by Walton and Hall. 1 Although Hall and Walton had remained in Philadelphia, Georgia had not been represented in Congress since their terms expired on November 2. Walton attended Congress on December 12, but Georgia credentials were not read until Congress convened in Baltimore on December 20. See JCC, 6:1025, 1028. ’See JCC, 6:1017. Marine Committee to Elisha Hinman Sir In Marine Committee, Philada. Decemr 10th 1776 We expect this will find the vessel under your Command in readiness for Service and therefore you are hereby directed to pro ceed to Sea with all possible dispatch and in a Cruize of Six Weeks or two Months to intercept as many of the Store Ships and Supply vessels going to the Enemy at New York as you may fall in with. You will in this Cruize do as much injury to the Enemy and service to the United States as it may be in your power to accomplish.
