598 December 11, 1776 Council of Safety, requesting the council’s assistance in this effort, and President Hancock sent a verbal message via Col. Thomas Ewing, commander of a battalion of Maryland militia with the flying camp, requisitioning militia from four Mary land counties to assist in Philadelphia’s defense. However, the decision to send appeals to Maryland by such indirect means, rather than directly to the Maryland Council of Safety, was regarded as an improper and inefficient practice and drew the following protest from the council to its delegates in Congress. "We have not received a script of a Pen either from Congress, our Delegates, or any one of them, relative to the assistance mentioned to Colo. Ewing, Mr Quynn or Captn Nicholson and we cannot help observing to you that applying to individuals who necessarily must apply to the Council of Safety from whom their power must be deputed before they can act is losing of time to say nothing of the want of respect to a Body of men with whom the Executive Powers of the State are entrusted.” Ibid., p. 531. For further evidence that some of the informal steps taken to communicate with various Maryland officials during this unsettled period were resented by members of the convention and the council of safety, see also John Hancock to the Frederick County Committee, December 21, 1776, note 2. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Walter Jones My dear friend Philadelphia Deer. 11. 1776 I have but a moment to thank you for your late letters, & to inform you that I think there is crude Sal Ammoniac among my medicines. This I am pretty certain of but if I shou’d be mistaken, make them send to Chantilly where my bror. says there is plenty. We are all here in confusion, short inlistments has allmost ruined us. Our Army having disbanded before a new one was raised, has enabled Genl. Howe to make considerable progress this way. If the weather dont stop him I hardly think the people will. There is little spirit &[...] Virtue among them in these middle Colonies. Remember me to all friends. Adieu my Friend. Francis Lightfoot Lee RC (DLC). Addressed: “To Doctor Walter Jones, Richmond County, Virginia.” Richard Henry Lee’s Proposed Resolution [December 11? 1776] 1 Congress being informed that Monsr. Weibert a French Gentle man and a Colonel in the Continental service who was lately made prisoner in Fort Washington has been committed to Close confinement contrary to the usage of civilized [nations] where no improper conduct hath marked the character of captive Officers, Resolved that Gen. Washington be directed to send a flag to Gen eral Howe and remonstrate against this severe treatment of Colonel Weibert and desiring to know of General Howe whether he means
