December 12, 1776 603 Members & Men of Business. I believe this will [ac]cord with the Opinion of a certain Friend of ours in Massachusetts. Mr Pain having been absent from the pleasures of domestic Life for a con siderable Time, left this place Yesterday on his Return to his Family. Mr Adams is well & joyns in Regards to Yourself & all Friends with Sir your sincere Friend & hum serv, E Gerry P.S. The Enemy are said to be provided with forty flat Bottom Boats. If they should by this unlucky Circumstance of our Army obtain Philadelphia & even all the middle Colonies, I think with manly Exertions We may soon recover them. N England & New York are able of themselves to keep them at Bay untill assistance comes from Europe, which I cannot doubt of. RC (MHi). New England Delegates to George Washington Sir Philadelphia Deer 12 1776 We are this Moment informd by a Gentleman who is Brother of Collo Griffen and has lately been at New York, that a Body of ten thousand of the Enemies Troops are actually arrivd at Rhode Island. As Congress is now adjournd to Baltimore in Maryland, and the President and the Board of War are not in Town, we think it our Duty to send you this Intelligence; and as there is no General Officer in that Department, we refer it to your Consideration whether the Service does not absolutely require that one be immediately sent, to take the Command of Troops to be raisd there, to repel the Progress of the Enemy. If Major General Green or Gates, who are greatly belovd in that Part of America, with a suitable Number of Brigadiers, could be spared for this Service, it might be attended with another Advantage, that of facilitating the new Inlistments. 1 We intreat your Attention to this important Matter and are with very great Respect, Your Excellcys very humble Servants, Samuel Adams William Ellery Elbridge Gerry Wm. Whipple RC (MH-H). Written by Adams and signed by Adams, Ellery, Gerry, and Whipple. Writing later to the governor of Rhode Island, Ellery explained that this letter was written at his instigation. See Ellery to Nicholas Cooke, December 24, 1776. 1 General Washington ordered Gen. Benedict Arnold and Gen. Joseph Spencer to Rhode Island. Washington to John Hancock, December 20, 1776, Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:407-8.
