604 December 12, 1776 Charles Thomson to George Washington Sir, Philada Deer. 12. 1776 The president being still necessarily engaged with his family I have the honour to inform you that your letter of yesterday was reed. 8c laid before Congress. I enclose you sundry resolutions passed this day 1 and am, Sr., Your obedient humble Serv, Chas Thomson RC (DLC). ’Washington’s December 11 letter to Hancock is in PCC, item 152, 3:339-40; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:349-51. Secretary Thomson sent Washington resolves about the use of frigates to defend Philadelphia, the establishment of a cavalry regiment under the command of Elisha Sheldon, the defense of Philadel phia, the decision to move Congress to Baltimore, and the grant to Washington “of full power to order and direct all things relative to the department, and to the operations of war.” ]CC, 6:1024-27. Robert Morris to John Hancock Sir Philada Decemr 13th. 1776 The enclosed letter from the General 1 was delivered to me open by Mr Walton who judged it prudent to examine the Contents before it went forward & in which I concur with him as it was probable some service might result to this place from their being known & I flatter myself that essential service will be rendered to the Continent thereby. As soon as I saw this authentic Account of the Enemy’s design to Cross Delaware above the Falls, I waited on Genl. Putnam & proposed that the Frigate Randolph & Sloop Hornet shou’d be sent to Sea immediately as it was plain to me they wou’d be of no use here & I had received certain advice that there was not any British Men of War in our Bay. The General very readily Con sented 8c I have this afternoon given Capt. Biddle &: Capt Nicholson their Instructions signed by me on behalf of the Marine Committee. 2 They will depart early in the Morning and I entertain the most sanguine hopes of their escape. The Hornet goes for Carolina with the Shot, but part of the flour was landed previous to this new determination. I have presumed to go one step farther in this Navy business and flatter myself I shall be entitled to the approbation of Congress whether I meet it or not, for my intentions are good and I procure myself much trouble with the sole view of serving the Cause. On Viewing the Frigate Delaware, I thought it possible to get her away before Genl Howe cou’d get here. I have therefore set about it stoutly. A number of People scarce as they now are here, are at work on her, the sails will be bent, anchors to the Bows, stores onbd. and every thing in some forwardness tomorrow. I have
