December 16, 1776 611 & Whipple comes under cover & Mr. Peters has desired me to send the letter from the Governor of Virginia. The sudden departure of the Congress from this place seems to be a matter of much speculation & People who judge by events think they have been too precipitate. Be that as it may, many things are thrown into great confusion by it, and I find ample employment in applying remedies wherever I can. The unfinished business of the Marine & Secret Committees I intend to confine myself to, but I hear so many complaints & see so much confusion from other quarters that I am obliged to advise in things not committed to me. Circumstanced as our affairs now are I conceive it better to take libertys & assume some powers than to let the general interest suffer. Much money is wanted for the Publick Service & it must be Sent up immediately, as the Militia of our Country are at length turning out & call for the advance. The lower parts of New Jersey are also in motion & they want Money. The Troops returned from Canada call aloud for their pay & they should have it instantly as they very generally promise to reinlist when they have spent what is due to them. Mr. Smith the loan officer is not here or I believe it woud be in my power to procure a good deal of money through that channell, on his return I will assist all in my power. I suppose Congress will not determine on a hasty return to this place nor do I think it adviseable untill the Enemy are actually gone into Winter Quarters for a severe Frost may in a few hours enable them to Cross Dela ware above the Falls, so that if they remain in that Neighbourhood you cou’d here be subject to perpetual alarms. At the same time it may be depended on, that great inconveniences will arise daily in every department during your absence. To remedy this as much as possible I think a Committee shoud be sent here with such powers as Congress may Judge proper in order that they may regulate the business of the Continent necessary to be done here. 4 There is the greatest Scene of confusion in the management of the Continental Horses, Wagons, & Expresses that ever was exhibited. It was bad enough before Congress departed but is ten times worse now Sc Jacob Hiltziemer a very honest man will run mad soon, if not properly assisted or relieved in this department. 5 In short the Com mittee you send shoud have full powers to do whatever may be necessary to put every department on a Systematic footing. Mr. Clymer, Mr Walton & myself will bestir ourselves 8c advise or assist in such things as we think absolutely necessary untill you appoint a Committee 8c as the Board of War did not leave any orders for their Secy we have desired him to stay 8c assist us untill he receives Orders. We hope the Board will excuse us for taking this liberty as Mr. Peters will be usefull here. 6 The Committee must have the Command of Money to answer Various purposes as the calls for it
