December 18, 1776 613 Robert Morris to John Hancock Sir Philada Decemr 17th. 1776 Mr Walton, Mr Clymer & myself thought it advisable to open the enclosed letter last night that we might judge if the expence of another express shou’d be incurred or detain it for the Post, which we concluded to do as I had wrote you the unfortunate Fate of Genl. Lee before. I am sorry to inform you that the Roebuck &: Falcon Men of War are in Delaware Bay & two Bomb Ketches said to be in the offing. On rect. of this News (which is certain) I hired a Pilot Boat & sent her with a letter to Capt Biddle 8c all the other Vessells outward bound, desiring them to stop or come back, so that my labours appear to be lost 8c sorry I am for the disappointment, however its likely the first smart NoWester may give us an opening to push them out. I have just heard that a party or partys of the Enemie were yesterday at Morris Town 8c Haddon field in the Jerseys opposite to this 8c distant about 7 to 9 Miles. What their Views are I cannot say, but by the appearance of the Men of War below 8c the Bomb Ketches being said to have sailed from N York it woud seem as if these party’s meant to make their way to Red Bank, erect Works to command the Chevaux de Frize 8c then to come up with the Ships. This however is meer matter of speculation. Colo Griffin is I understand gone over with about 800 Men but I fear he will not be Strong enough for them. 1 I have the honor to be very respectfully, sir Your Obedt hble servt, Robt Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). 1 This day Morris also sent the following message to Gen. William Heath. "Since I saw you I am informed that a person in New York who had an opportu nity of being acquainted with the motions of the Enemy, had advised a friend, to move her effects from Fish Kill to some place of safety. I am not at liberty to mention names, but make no doubt that such message was sent, and that the person sending might be acquainted with their motions. This I understand was before any movement of your Division.” Washington Papers, DLC. For another letter Morris wrote this day, to James Martin and pertaining to the consignment of goods on board the Independence at Chincoteague, see Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:505. Samuel Chase to William Paca? Annapolis December 18th. 1776 My Dear Sir 1 Wednesday Evening I am just arrived in this City. I am very desirous of staying a few Days with my Family, but if this State is not represented without Me, or if my Attendance can render the least Service I will in stantly come up. I imagine Mr. Tilghman, Mr. Carroll, 8c Mr.
