616 December 18, 1776 peace, and evince the necessity of the most speedy and manly exertions to drive these foes of the human race from this continent. 2 I am, &c., Richard Henry Lee. MS not found; reprinted from William Wirt Henry, Patrick Henry, Life, Corres pondence and Speeches, 3 vols. (New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1891), 3:33-35. 1 For further information on the meeting place and activities of Congress while in Baltimore, see Edith R. Bevan, “The Continental Congress in Baltimore, Dec. 20, 1776 to Feb. 27, 1777,” Md. Hist. Magazine 42 (March 1947): 21-28. a For the handbill from Buck’s County, N.J., describing “scenes of desolation and outrage” resulting from the march of British and Hessian troops through New Jersey, see W. W. Henry, Patrick Henry, 3:35-36; and Evans, Am. Bibli ography, no. 15037. George Ross to the Lancaster Committee of Safety Gentlemen Reading 18th Deer. 1776 General Mifflin at the Request of Congress will be at Lancaster on Saturday to devise with you &: the Associators the best Mode of calling forth the Strength of the Country & on consulting with him This Morning I wrote a circular Letter of which the inclosed is a Copy 1 & have sent Expresses to Cols Grubb, Greenwait, Burd, Green & Galbreath as we thought the Notice this Way would be earlier than to have troubled you to have sent them from Lan- c[aste]r. You will I doubt not procure the Attendance of the Of ficers & Privates from the other Parts of the Country to meet on Saturday & if you please may send my Letter or conduct the Matter in any Manner you think proper. I am with Esteem, Gentlemen, yrs. &c, Geo. Ross RC (DLC). In a clerical hand, with place and dateline and signature by Ross. 1 For Ross’ circular letter to the eleven battalions of the Lancaster County militia, see Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:1273. His letter to Col. James Burd is in the Chamberlain Collection, MB. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Baltimore in Maryland Dec 19th 1776 The Day before yesterday I arrivd in this Place which is One hundred Miles from Philadelphia. The Congress had resolvd to adjourn here when it should become absolutely necessary and not before. This sudden Removal may perhaps be wonderd at by some of my Friends, but it was not without the Advice of Generals Put nam & Mifflin, who were at Philadelphia to take Measures for its Preservation from the Enemy. For my own part, I had been used
