December 20, 1776 621 with a Force vastly Superior. In this situation he had nothing left for it but to retire directly off the neck of Land on which that Fort Stands, leaving behind him considerable Baggage & Stores with most of our large Cannon & Mortars. He retreated to Hacken sack & was there in hopes of making a stand untill the militia of the Country should come to his assitance, but the vigilence of the enemy did not give him time for this. They pursued and he re treated all the way thro’ the Jerseys to Trenton 8c from thence they forced him across the Delewar, where he still remains to op pose their passage across the River. Lord Cornwallis commanded the British Forces in the Jerseys untill they reach’d Brunswick when Genl Howe join’d them with reinforcements determined to make his way to this City without futher loss of time. You may be sure the Militia of N Jersey 8c this State were call’d upon to turn out 8c defend their Country in this Hour of distress. Alass our internal Enemies had by various arts 8c means frighten’d many, disaffected others 8c caused a general langoor to prevail over the minds of almost all men, not before actually engaged in the war. Many are also exceedingly disaffected with the Constitutions form’d for their respective States, so that from one cause or other no Jersey Militia turn’d out to oppose the march of an Enemy thro the heart of their Country, and it was with the utmost difficulty the associa- tors of this City could be prevail’d on to march agt them. At length however it has been effected. They have been up with the Gen’l about two weeks 8c the example at length is like to produce its effect in the Country, as they are now pretty generally on their march towards Trenton. During Genl Washingtons retreat thro' the Jerseys he wrote for Genl Lee who was left to command on the East Side of the N River with about 10 to 11 thousand men most of whose inlistments are now expired or near it. He obeyed the Summons, 8c brot with about 3000 men. With those he follow’d the Enemys rear, but was obliged to make slow marches as his people were in great want of shoes, stockings, 8c other necessaries which he was obliged to collect from the Tories in the neibourhood of his Rout. After he had pass’d a place call’d Chatham near Elizh Town, he lodged at a Farm House. Last night was a Week some treacherous Villain gave notice to the Enemy 8c the General’s ill fate or some other cause I am not acquainted with delay’d him there untill near 10 oClo on Friday Morning his army having march’d 8c their rear about 3 miles from him, when he was sur prized by about 70 light horse who made prisoner of 8c imm[ediatel]y bore him off in Triumph. This is an event much to be lamented. I sincerely pity Lee 8c I feel for the loss my Country sustains. His abilities had frequently been immensely useful—the want of them will be severely felt. The Command of this party devolved on Genl Sullivan who contined his Rout, fell in with Genl Gates with 500
