624 December 20, 1776 of France open their Eyes to their own Interest and think the Comerce of North America will Compensate them for the Expence & Evil of a War with Brittain, they may readily create a diversion & afford us Succours that will Change the fate of affairs but they must do it Soon. Our Situation is critical & does not admit of Delay. I dont mean by this, that instant Submission must ensue if they do not directly afford us relief—but there is a great difference between the Benefits they will derive from a Comercial Connection with this Country in full health & Vigour & what they can possibly expect after it is exausted by repeated efforts during the precarious process of a tedious War during which its Cities will be destroyed, the Country Ravaged, the inhabitants reduced in Numbers, plun dered of their property and unable to reap the Luxuriant produces of the finest Soil in the World. Neither can they after a tedious delay in negociation expect that Vigourous assistance from us in prosecuting the War, that they may be assured of, if they Join us in the Infancy. If they Join us generously in the day of our distress without attempting undue advantages because we are so, they will find a gratefull people to promote their future glory 8c interest with unabating Zeal and from my Knowledge of the Commerce of this Country with Europe I dare assert that whatever European Power possesses the presumption of it, must of Consequence be come the Richest & most potent in Europe. But alas should time be Lost in tedious negociations 8c succours be withheld, America must sue for peace from her opressors. Our people knew not the hardships 8c Calamities of War when they so boldly dared Brittain to arms. Every man was then a bold Patriot, felt himself equal to the Contest and seemed to wish for an opportunity of evincing his prowess, but now when we are fairly engaged, when Death 8c Ruin stare us in the face and when nothing but the most intrepid Courage can rescue us from Contempt 8c disgrace, sorry I am to Say it, many of those who were foremost in Noise, Shrink coward like from the Danger and are begging pardon without striking a Blow. This however is not general but dejection of spirits is an epidem ical desease and unless Some fortunate event or other gives a turn to the disorder, in time it may prevail through out the Community. No event would give that turn so soon as a Declaration of War on the part of France against Great Brittain and I am sure if they lose this golden oportunity they will never have such another. You will doubtless be Surprized that we have not made better progress with our Navy, because you are unacquainted with the many dificulties 8c Causes of delay that have encountered us. The want of Sea Coal for our Anchor Smiths has been a great Bar to our progress, the disapointments in our first attempts to Cast Cannons has been another, but above all we have been hindered by the Constant calling out of our Militia in a manner that did not admit of
