630 December 21, 1776 serious Design of accommodating on any Principles but the abso lute Submission of America the delusive Idea of Conciliation hath been industriously Suggested on both sides the Water that under cover of this dividing & Aid withholding Prospect the vast British Force sent to America might have the fairest Chance of succeeding. And this Policy hath in fact done considerable Injury to the United States as we shall presently shew by a just Detail of this Campaign for it is not yet ended. You know Gentlemen that at the Moment a potent Land and marine force was preparing to be sent here an Act was passed for appointing Commissioners whom too many expected were to give peace to America. As therefore the War might be soon concluded so were our military Arrangements accommodated & the Troops taken into service the last spring consisting of regular Corps and Bodies of Militia were all engaged for short Periods. With these the Campaign began in various parts of N. America. Dr. Franklin is so well acquainted with the Progress of the War in Canada previous to his Departure that we need only observe the Campaign has ended as favourably for us in that Quarter as we could rea sonably expect. The Enemy having been able to pierce no further than Crown Point after a Short Stay & reconnoitring General Gates’ Army at Ticonderoga thought proper to recross the Lake and leave us in quiet Possession of these Passes. General Gates having left a proper force at Ticonderoga and on the Communica tion retired with the rest of his Troops. New York and its Neighbourhood not being defensible by an army singly against a strong land and sea force acting in Conjunction was of necessity yeilded to the Enemy after some Contest General Washington re tiring until the Situation of the Country above Kingsbridge no longer enabled the Enemy to receive Aid from their ships. General Howe having stopped here and General Carlton at Crown Point effectually disappointed the great Object of joining the two Armies. The latter as we have said returning to Canada & the former re treating from the White Plains towards N. York gave us a favourable Prospect of seeing a happy End put to this dangerous Campaign. However many Causes have concurred in producing an unlucky Reverse of fortune. The Nature of the Country, the uncommon fineness of the Weather even to this day and above all the short Enlistments which gave the soldiery an Opportunity of going home tired as they were with the Operations of an active Summer. When General Howe retreated from the White Plains he halted his whole Army on the N. River between Dobbs’s Ferry and Kingsbridge where he remained for some time. Having effected so little of the great Business that brought him here and the Season allowing him time for it most Men were of Opinion that the next Attempt would be to get Possession of Philadelphia by a March through the
