December 21, 1776 631 Jerseys whilst a Fleet should be sent up the Delaware to facilitate the Enterprize. To guard against such a Manoeuvre Gen Washing ton crossed the North River with all the Battalions that had been raised to the westward of it leaving General Lee with the eastern Troops to guard the pass of the highlands on Hudsons River. In this situation of things Mr Howe made a sudden Attack on Fort Washington with the greatest Part of his Army &: carried it with a Considerable Loss: here he made near 3000 of our Men Prisoners. By this Event it became unnecessary longer to hold Fort Lee or Fort Constitution as it was formerly called which is on the west side of the N. River nearly opposite to Fort Washington. It had therefore been determined to abandon Fort Lee but before the Stores could be all removed the Enemy came suddenly upon it and the Garrison retreated leaving some of their Baggage & Stores behind. About this Time General Howe became possessed of a Letter (by the Agency of some wicked Person who contrived to get it from the Express) written by General Washington to the Board of War in which he had given an exact account when the Time of Service of all our Battalions would expire & his apprehensions that the Men would not reinlist without first going home to see their families and friends. Possessed of this Intelligence the Opportunity was care fully watched &: a vigorous Impression actually made at the very Crisis when our Army in the Jersies was reduced to 3000 men by the retiring of Numbers and the Sickness of others and before our Militia could in this extensive Country be brought up to supply their Places. The Enemy marched rapidly on through the Jersies while our feeble Army was obliged to retreat from Post to Post until it crossed the Delaware at Trenton where about 2500 Militia from the City of Philadelphia joined the General. Since General Howes Arrival on the Borders of the Delaware various Manoeuvres & Stratagems have been practiced to effect a Passage over the River but they have hitherto failed. General Washingtons small Army is placed along the west side of Delaware from above the Corrells Ferry to within 14 Miles of Philadelphia which with the Gondolas, one Frigate of 32 Guns & other Armed vessels in the River above the Cheveaux de Frise cover the Passage of it. General Lee who had crossed the North River with as many of the eastern Troops as could be spared from the Defence of the Highlands (either to join General Washington or to act on the Enemies Rear as occasion might point out) was the other Day unfortunately surprised & made Prisoner by a party of 70 light horse who found him in a house a few miles in the Rear of his army with his Domestics only. This Loss though great will in some Degree be repaired for the present by General Gates who we understand had joined the Army com manded by Genl Lee &: who we have reason to think has by this time effected a junction of his force with that of Genl Washington.
