632 December 21, 1776 As the Militia are marching from various quarters to reinforce the General if the Enemy do not quickly accomplish their wishes of possessing Philadelphia We hope not only to save that City but to see Genl Howe retreat as fast as he advanced through the Jersies. General Clinton with a fleet on which it is said he carried 8000 men has gone from New York through the Sound some suppose for Rhode Island but neither his Distination nor its Consequences are yet certainly known to us. Thus Gentlemen we have given you a true Detail of the Progress and present State of our Affairs which although not in so good a Posture as they were two months ago are by no means in so bad a Way as the Emissaries of the British Court will undoubtedly represent them. If the great Land and Sea force with which we have been attacked be compared with the feeble state in which the Commencement of this War found us with Respect to Military Stores of all kinds, Soldiers Cloathing, Navy & regular force and if the infinite Art be considered with which Great Britain hath endeavored to prevent our getting these Necessaries from foreign parts which has in part prevailed the wonder will rather be that our Enemies have made so little progress than that they have made so much. All views of Accommodation with Great Britain but on Principles of Peace as independent States and in a manner perfectly consistent with the Treaties our Commissioners may make with foreign States being totally at an End since the Declaration of Independence & the Embassy to the Court of France Congress have directed the raising of 94 Battalions of Infantry with some Cavalry. Thirteen Frigates from 24 to 36 Guns are already launched and fitting and two ships of the Line with five more Frigates are ordered to be put on the Stocks. We hear the Levies are going on well in the different States. Until the New Army is Collected the militia must curb the Ene mies Progress. The very considerable Force that Great Britain has already in N. America, the Possibility of recruiting it here within their own Quarters by force and fraud together, added to the Re inforcements that may be sent from Europe and the difficulty of finding Funds in the present depressed State of American Com merce, all conspire to prove incontestibly that if France desires to preclude the Possibility of North America being ever reunited with Great Britain now is the favourable moment for establishing the Glory, Strength and Commercial Greatness of the former Kingdom by the Ruin of her ancient Rival. A decided part now taken by the Court of Versailles and a vigorous Engagement in the War in Union with North America would with Ease sacrifice the fleet and Army of Great Britain at this time cheifly collected about New York. The inevitable Consequence would be the quick Reduction of the British Islands in the West Indies already bared of Defence by the Removal of their Troops to this Continent. For Reasons
