634 December 21, 1776 approve of armed Vessels being fitted out by you on continental Account provided the Court of France dislike not the Measure and blank Commissions for this Purpose will be sent you by the next Opportunity. Private Ships of War or Privateers can not be ad mitted where you are because the Securities necessary in such Cases to prevent irregular Practices cannot be given by the Owners and Commanders of such Privateers. 5 Another Resolve of Congress which we have the honour to inclose you directs the Conduct to be pur sued with Regard to Portugal.® We have nothing further to add at present but to request that you will omit no good Oppertunity of informing us how you suc ceed in your mission, what Events take place in Europe by which these States may be affected and that you continue us in regular succession some of the best London, French & Dutch Newspapers with any valuable political Publications that may concern North America. We have the Honour to be Gentlemen with great Respect & Esteem your most obedient and very humble Servants, Benja. Harrison Will Hooper Richard Henry Lee Jno Witherspoon Robert Morris, at Philada. P.S. The American Captures of British vessels at Sea have not been less Numerous or less valuable than before Dr Franklin left us. The value of these Captures have been esteemed at two Millions. 7 RC (NN). In a clerical hand, and signed by Harrison, Hooper, Lee, Morris, and Witherspoon. Duplicate RCs are at PHC, PPAmP, and ViU; and an intercepted dispatch is in the Auckland MSS, British Museum. For Lee’s draft of this letter, see Richard Henry Lee, The Letters of Richard Henry Lee, ed. James C. Ballagh, 2 vols. (New York: Macmillan Co., 1911-14), 1:231-40. ’Although dated December 21, it is clear that this letter was written over a period of several days, since two of the resolves discussed were not passed by Con gress until December 23, 1776. It was forwarded to Morris for signature on the 25th. See Benjamin Harrison to Robert Morris, December 25, 1776. ’Silas Deane’s October 1 letter to the committee is in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:153-57. “The report of the committee of Congress that met with Lord Howe was pub lished by order of Congress in the fall of 1776. See Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 15168. * In his October 1 letter, Deane had said: “I have no doubt but I can obtain a loan for the Colonies if empowered, and on very favorable terms. I have already sounded on the subject, and will be more explicit hereafter, both as to my pro posals, for I can go no further, and the answers I may receive.” See Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:157; and JCC, 6:1036-37. “ On December 23 Congress directed the committee to inform the commissioners that they were authorized “to arm and fit for war any number of vessels not exceeding six, at the expence of the United States, to war upon British property, and that commissions and warrants be for this purpose sent to the Commissioners, provided the Commissioners be well satisfied this measure will not be disagreeable to the court of France.” JCC, 6:1036.
