636 December 21, 1776 Robert Morris to John Hancock Sir Philada. Deer. 21st 1776 The Express that carrys you this letter has just called on me, saying that he came from the Convention of New York. I thought it prudent to open the letter and know whether the business it re spected cou’d be done here or whether it must be sent forward 8c finding it must go forward I only detain him to make this apology & to inform you that the Sloop Independance Commanded by Lt Robinson (Capt Young being left behind sick) pushed out from Chincoteague where she first put in, and notwithstanding she was chased by Six of the Enemys Cruizers at our Capes, She got safe up here 8c is now landing the Cargo. I have determined to send 856 Blankets that came in her, to Genl. Washington and have informed him they were imported for the use of the New Recruits, but as the Inclemency of the weather and the exceeding severe duty of the Troops now with him entitle them to every comfort we can afford I submit to him whether to make use of them for their use or not. The Cloths I will deliver to Mr. Mease with orders to have them made up fast as possible. 919 Muskets shall be delivered to Mr. Commissary Towers to wait the orders of Genl. Washington or of the Board of War and I hope one or other of them will send orders soon as possible. 1 The Council of safety want money 8c have sent an express for a Supply. I have borrowed sufficient for the Marine department altho the Disbursements are considerable. Capt Biddle will get more Seamen than we expected. The Delaware is getting ready and I have ordered the Fly, Capt Warner, down the Bay to watch the Enemies Ships 8c bring us word if they should quit that Station. I have sent an express across the Jerseys to Capt Baldwin of the Wasp to Cruize outward of them to give Notice to inward bound Ships, 2 and have Stationed the Hornet, Capt Nicholson, (who attempted to get out to Sea but coud not) in Christeen Creeks Mouth to act in Conjunc tion with a large Galley of this State in defence of that Creek as there are many valuable Stores up it. I shall get the Sloop Inde pendance hove down 8c some little damage she reed at Chincoteague repaired 8c then send her also to watch the Enemys Ships. There are a large number of Waggons in the City and as I fear Genl. Howe does not yet give up his plan of getting possession of it this Winter I will order a good part of the Salt Provisions now in the Com- missarys care to be carried up to Lancaster as we certainly ought to have inland Magazines of Provisions and of military Stores, but I long to hear from you that I may judge whether Congress ap prove of these things which I have undertaken for the sake of serv ing my Country. Mr. Smith is not yet returned and am very sorry
