December 21, 1776 637 for it as I do think a good deal of Money might have been bor rowed by this time. I am very fearfull that this bad Weather will sicken the associators & break up our Campaign whatever may be its effect on the Enemy. There are some Prisoners onboard the Enemies Ships at our Capes that have wrote up to me to procure their release, amongst the rest Capt Morgan of the Bermuda sloop that carried Mr Deane to France who was returning here with dis patches 8c some Goods and was unfortunately taken near Cape May. I will send a letter for Capt Hammond of the Roebuck open to Henry Fisher at Lewis Town to be sent of[f] by a Flag, 3 in which I shall assure him that we have suffered great numbers of Masters, [Mates?] 8c Men belonging to merchant ships taken by our Cruizers to depart, without thinking of detaining them for an exchange 8c recommend his releasing these People or he will oblige us to alter that part of our Conduct, as this is Striktly true in a number of instances that have come under my Notice I hope Congress will approve the design. I am with great Regard 8c Esteem, sir, Your obedt hble servt. Robt Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). 1 For Washington’s response, see his December 22 letter to Morris in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:420-21. 2 Not found. 3 Not found; but for Capt. Andrew Snape Hamond’s response, see Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:629. Robert Morris to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety Gentn Philada. Deer. 21st. 1776 Cap Alexander of the Delaware Frigate informs me, that some few of the Tradesmen now at Camp are absolutely necessary to put his ship in a Condition to push down the Bay when the Enemies ships retire. I think it will promote the Publick service very much to order them down immediately. 1 I have sent down a Sloop to watch the Men of War 8c doubt not we shall find an opportunity of gitting these ships to Sea. Cap Alexander will furnish the Council with the names of the Tradesmen wanted 8c I submit to your determination being, Gentn, Your Obedt Servt. Robt Morris RC (NN). 1 Morris had written the following note to the council of safety on the same subject the day before. "I have some hopes of getting the Frigate Delaware away during the Winter & wish to have Mr. Warwick Hale the Boat builder detained from Camp to finish her Boats 8c if one of his hands cou’d be ordered down it wou’d be very useful.” Society Collection, PHi.
