December 21, 1776 639 RC (DLC). ’For a photocopy of Morris’ second letter to Washington this date, which simply covered an invoice and receipt for the 856 blankets mentioned here, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:362-63. Benjamin Rush to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir, Near Bristol Decemr 21 1776 Wherever I go 1 bear in my mind the small Share of the weight of our dear countrys happiness which the State of Pensylvania hath committed to my care. I wish sometimes to throw my mite into the councils of the congress, but as this is impossible for the present I beg leave to suggest such things as have occurred to me in my passage thro’ Philada to this place, and submit it to your good sense to make any use of them you may think proper. I need not inform you of the general disposition of the people in & near Philada to refuse continental money upon the late pros pect of Genl Howe’s getting possession of the city. Genl Putnam’s threatning to confine such people as refused it, and declaring the debt for which the money was offered to be void produced only a temporary remedy against the evil. People who had goods refused to sell them— and men who had money out at interest either refused to give up bonds or kept out of the way when continental money was offered for them. The legislatures of America look up to Con gress for a remedy equal to the danger of the disease. Suppose you recommend to every state to make a law not only to forfit the debt for which our money is offered, but to fine the person who refuses it severely. This will be more effectual than imprisonment which from becoming so common for tory practices has now lost its in famy. The punishment in this case strikes directly at that principle in human nature which is the source of the contempt in which our money has fallen. I mean avarice and a want of public Spirit. Pray dont let this matter be neglected. Our salvation hangs upon it. I tremble every time I think of the danger of the further progress of the refusal of our money. Connected with the above subject is the state of our loan office. If possible let the resolutions for the emmision of five millions of dollars be concealed. I hope it will be the last resolution of that kind that will appear on our journals. If it is not the whole con tinent must complain of our injustice in allowing only 4 per Cent for the money now deposited in the loan office, unless we can give positive assurances that we shall pay it in hard money. I have learnt from many people and among Others from two New England officers that the 4 Eastern states will find great diffi culty in raising their quota of men owing to that excessive rage for
