642 December 23, 1776 RC (DLC photostat). In the hand of Elbridge Gerry. 1 Although the recipient of this letter can not be identified positively. James Warren, in a letter to Gerry of January 15, 1777, acknowledged having just re ceived a letter “by Mr. Rose.” Alexander Rose, Gerry explains below, was the bearer of this letter. C. Harvey Gardiner, A Study in Dissent, the Warren-Gerry Correspondence, 1776-1792 (Carbondale, Ill.: Southern Illinois Press, 1968), p. 52. In the absence of additional evidence, any attribution must remain conjectural, but Gerry is also known to have written to Warren with great regularity, and the content of the document indicates that it was directed to a political ally and intimate acquaintance. ’See New England Delegates to George Washington, December 12, 1776. “Gerry also wrote a brief letter of introduction for Rose to Joseph Trumbull, this date: “This will be delivered You by Alexander Rose Esq. of Charlestown in South Carolina, who with his Friend Capt. Abely are on a Tour thro the eastern Governments. Give me Leave to recommend them to Your Acquaintance as Gentle men of established Character & firm Friends to the Cause of America, & to desire that You will make their Journey thro Your Government agreable, by a Line to such of your Friends therein as are on the Road leading to Boston. I shall take an early Oppertunity of writing You on other Matters.” Joseph Trumbull Papers, CtHi. Rose also carried with him a similar letter of introduction written by William Whipple to John Langdon, this date. See Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:1369. * Remainder of MS missing. John Hancock to Robert Morris Sir, Baltimore Deer. 23d. 1776 Your Several Favours of the 13th, 14th, 16th, and 17th inst have been duely reed, in the Order of their respective Dates, and laid before Congress. In Consequence of which, I am directed to transmit you the enclosed Resolves. The Intelligence of Genl. Lee’s being taken Prisoner is really alarming in the present State of our Army; and I am afraid his Loss will be severely felt, as he was, in a great Measure, the Idol of the Officers, and possessed still more the Confidence of the Soldiery. As the Fortune of War has made him a Prisoner, the United States are bound by every Tie of Justice and Generosity to afford him all the Relief in their Power. They have accordingly resolved that one Hundred Half Johannes should be sent to Genl. Washington for the Use of Genl. Lee, should it be found practicable to convey Money to him; which the Congress deem a Matter of so much Importance that they have ordered a Flag to be sent to Genl. Howe to know whether he will permit it or not. I am however directed by Congress to request that you will lodge for this Purpose the above mentioned Sum in the Hands of Genl. Washington. 1 The Congress concurring in Opinion with you, that a Committee should be appointed in the City of Philada. to take Care of the public Interest, and at the same Time highly approving of the Zeal and Attention you have particularly discovered to the Welfare of your Country since their Departure from that City, have nominated
