December 23, 1776 643 Mr. Clymer, Mr. Walton, and yourself to execute such Continental Business as it may be necessary to transact in Philadelphia. They have also directed that two Hundred Thousand Dollars be im mediately sent to the Commissary in Pennsylvania, subject to your Draughts, and to be applied as you may judge proper. Should this Sum prove insufficient, you are empowered to draw on the Loan Office for any additional Sum you may think necessary for public Purposes. 2 The enclosed Resolves will inform you, that Congress highly approve of the Conduct of yourself, Mr. Walton, and Mr. Clymer in the Care you have taken of public Business; and particularly of the Attention you have shewn, and the Plan you have laid for pre serving the Continental Frigates. 3 Be pleased to acquaint Mr. Peters, that he is directed by the Board of War to repair to Baltimore as soon as possible, where his Services are judged absolutely necessary by Congress. 4 I have the Honour to be, with very great Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Prest. [P.S.] Pray forward the Inclos’d to the General by Express. 5 RC (DNA: PCC, item 58). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and post script by Hancock. 'See JCC, 6:1029. 2 See JCC, 6:1032. 3 Ibid. ‘See JCC, 6:1033. “See Hancock to Washington, this date. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Baltimore Deer. 23d. 1776. I do myself the Honour to acknowledge the Receipt of your several Favours of the 12th, 13th, and 15th inst. in the Order of their respective Dates, and to inform you that they were duely laid before Congress. 1 As Genl. Lee by the Fortune of War, has become a Prisoner in the Hands of our Enemies, the Congress are anxious to afford him all the Relief in their Power during his Confinement. They have therefore resolved that a Flag be immediately sent to Genl. Howe to know in what Manner Genl. Lee is treated; and have directed Mr. R. Morris (to whom I have written on the Occasion) to for ward to you for his Use, one Hundred Half Johannes. The United States from every Principle of Justice and Generosity, are bound to render the Situation of that Gentleman as easy as possible during his Captivity. His Loss must be extremely regretted by every Friend to this Country. 2
