December 23, 1776 647 with great Vigilance & Spirit to affect it. Upon this occasion I can not help saying that I am very uneasy, as I am neither instructed what to do nor vested with proper Powers to act as may appear best, I must therefore request that Congress or the Marine Committee will either instruct me pointedly what to do, or give me proper authority to act for the best for the object is important and if mis fortunes happen which is very probable it wou’d be hard that I shou’d hereafter be blamed when the event is known, for measures that appear previously to be well calculated for the Publick Good. The vessels to be got out are the Randolph, Delaware, Andrew Doria, Independence, Hornet, Fly, & Musquito with many Valuable Merchantmen. The Lexington, Sachem & Wasp may be hourly expected in if they escape the Enemy. Sailors are scarce, Tradesmen at the Camp, and a kind of stupor seems to have seized every body that ought to give us assistance, so that it is inconceivable how slowly all work goes on & with how much difficulty we can get any thing done. I have applyed to the Council of Safety to order down some Tradesmen to finish the Delaware if possible, they wish but fear to Comply and if they do not she must after all remain here. Genl. Washington desires me to remain here as long as possible & promises to give me notice of any immediate danger. He thinks the Enemy are only waiting two events & when they happen, they will prosecute their designs against this City, that is, for Ice to cross the River & for the 1st Jany when most of his Army will disband & he says you might as well attempt to stop the Winds from blowing or the Sun in its diurnal as stop them from going when their time is up. Genl Sullivan brought him about 2000 men, Genl Gates about 600 & his whole Force now Consists of about 5000 men besides the City Militia. Its true the Country Militia are coming in, but I suppose as many will leave him the 1st Jany as will join before that time & if so it will not be possible for him to save this City out of the hands of the Enemy after they cross the Delaware. On this view of things, I think we ought to hazard every thing to get the Ships out & I shall advise Mr Mease, Mr Tod & all others that have Continental Stores to be prepared for removing them. It is very mortifying to me when 1 am obliged to tell you dis- agreable things, but I am compelled to inform Congress that the Continental Currency keeps loosing its Credit, many People refuse openly & avowedly to receive it, and several Citizens that retired into the Country must have starved if their own private Credit had not procured them the common necessarys of life, when nothing cou’d be got for Your Money. Some effectual remedy shou’d be speedily applyed to this evil or the Game will be up. Mr. Com missary Wharton has told the General that the Mills refuse to Grind for him either from disafection or dislike to the Money. Be that as it may the consequences are terrible, for I do Suppose the Army
