648 December 23, 1776 will not consent to Starve. At present I dont recollect any thing to add to this letter but as other occurrences happen I shall give you the trouble of more letters. I think it is time that Mr Pluckrose the Express I sent down with letters to you last Tuesday shou’d return, unless detained for some purpose of Congress. By him I sent a Number of French letters 8cc. I am with great respect, sir, Your obedt Servant, Robt Morris P.S. I am informed by Mr Moylan that Colo. Guyon (I think that is the name) was taken Prisoner with Genl Lee. He is the Colo, that came over in the Hancock & Adams, Capt Smith, from Nantes. RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Robert Morris to George Washington Sir Philada. Deer. 23d. 1776 I had the honor to receive your obliging favour of Yesterday by Colo Moylan. 1 The Contents give a most mellancholly aspect to our affairs and I wish to Heaven it may be in our power to retrieve them. It is useless at this period to examine into the causes of our present unhappy Situation, unless that examination wou’d be pro ductive of a cure for the evils that surround us. In fact those causes have long been known to such as wou’d open their Eyes. The very consequences of them was often foretold & the measures execrated by some of the best Friends of America but in vain. An obstinate partiality to the habits & Customs of one part of this Continent has predominated in the Publick Councils, and too little attention been paid to others. To Criminate the Authors of our errors wou’d not avail, but we cannot see ruin staring us in the Face without thinking of them. It has been my fate to make an ineffectual oppo sition to all short enlistments, to Colonial appointment of Officers and to many other measures that I thought pregnant with mischiefs, but these things either suited the genius 8c habbits or Squared with the interests of some States that had sufficient influence to prevail and nothing is now left but to extricate ourselves from the diffi culties in which we are involved if we can. Let us try our utmost, man can do no more. I shall Urge Mr Mease to go on as briskly as possible with the Cloathing, but its impossible for him to make much progress as most of the Taylors are at the Camp. The Muskets 8c other Stores shall be sent out of the City, and such papers as I can spare shall be sent away. The Fleet has always been my particu lar care 8: at this time I am exceedingly anxious for its safety, but the difficulty of getting anything done is inconceivable. Most of the
