654 December 24, 1776 the Command of the Division, late under the Command of the unhappy Lee, is devolved, was on the 13th of this Month marching to join him. When they join they will together make a respectable Army, sufficient to prevent Howe’s entering Pennsylvania. Indeed the Armies must before this have formed a Junction; if Genl. Sul livan’s Division hath not been repulsed by Genl. Howe. We expect to hear from Philadelphia every Moment; if any thing New shall arrive before I am obliged to close my Letter. You have doubtless before this heard of the Removal of Congress to this Place. This is the first Opportunity I have had and this is circuitous (via Boston) to inform you of it. The Enemy was so near, and Affairs in the City in such Confusion, that it was improper and unsafe to con tinue there, and for Reasons too long for a Letter Baltimore was fixed upon as the most suitable Place for holding Congress in for the present. I should like the Place well enough if it was less dis tant from the Army, less dirty and less expensive. It is long since I have heard from my Constituents. What is doing and how Matters stand in our State I know no more than an Inhabitant of the Moon; although it would be beneficial to have every necessary Information seasonably. We have an Account that a Fleet with Eight or Ten Thousand Men have gone to Newport, and that the Island was evacuated by the Inhabitants, but that the Enemy had not landed. By a Letter from Genl. Wooster to Congress, of the Eighth of this Instant, We are informed that the Fleet on the Sixth were off New London. 3 If it be true that so large a Force hath gone to Rhode-Island some thing more is intended in my Opinion than the bare taking the Town of Newport for Winter Quarters. I suspect that they mean to take Possession of Providence, and from thence penetrate into the Massachusetts-Bay. If they attack Providence it will be by Land. They will pass up the Bay to Warwick Neck perhaps, there Land and march to the Town. There ought to be a good Redoubt at Warwick Point, to check their landing, and give Time for Troops to be arranged to oppose their Progress. I think that this Division of the Enemy’s Army affords Us a fine Opportunity to make an efficacious Stroke on them. As soon as I had Notice, that I thought I could depend upon I immediately proposed to the New England Delegates to write to Genl. Washington informing him that a Fleet with a large Body of Troops under Clinton had sailed for Rhode- Island, and desiring him to send Genls Gates or Green with such Brigr. Genls as could be spared to take the Command and Direction of the Troops that might be raised in New England to repell the Enemy from the Island; or oppose their making any Inroads into the Country. It was agreed to, and a Letter wrote. 4 The Genl, told Us in Answer that he had received previous Notice, and had sent Orders to Genls Arnold and Spencer who were then at Albany to
