December 24, 1776 655 repair to New-England and take the Command of the yeomanry that should muster on that Occasion. I hope that the Militia will universally turn out and not suffer the Enemy to enter and ravage our State as they have done the Jersy. I hope that they will turn out in such Numbers as to be able to give an effectual Blow to the Enemy in our Quarter. If the Army under Clinton should receive a mortal Wound from the brave New-Englanders it would in my Opinion bring the War to a speedy Close; whereas if this Oppor tunity, of the Division of the British Army, should be neglected or not improved, the War in all Probability will be protracted to a great Length, if not speedily issued in our Destruction, in the De struction of all We hold dear: For We have good Reason to think that a Reinforcement of Twenty thousand Men will be sent over next Spring. By a Letter from an unknown, but I suppose a good Hand, read in Congress this Day, it appears that the Court of Lon don had attempted and were attempting by every Means they could devise to procure Aid from every Power in Europe, or to induce them to a Neutrality; and the Writer of the Letter gave it as his Opinion that what they could collect in Germany together with Recruits raised in England, Scotland and Ireland would amount to about that Number, and that Russia would not furnish them with any Men. 5 From hence the Necessity appears that we should act in every Quarter this Winter with the Spirit of Men contend ing for an invaluable Prize. By Expresses from Philadelphia re ceived this Day it seems that the Militia of that State begin to rouze themselves, and are collecting very fast to reinforce Genl. Washington. 6 I have some hopes that Howe will be drove out off the Jersey this Winter; if this should take Place, and the New- England States should give Clinton a round Drubbing, We then need not Fear what Britain with all her Mercenaries should at tempt. There are brave, enterprizing Spirits in Providence. They burned a Gaspee. They may burn the British Fleet. I hope they will make the Trial and every Effort to destroy both Fleet and Army. I imagin that there are a Number of Seamen in Port, be longing to the Navy of the United States as well as Privateers. These Men I should think could be easily induced to enterprize any thing. They are brave and well know that if the British Fleet is suffered to remain in our Bay there will be an End to privateering, by which they have made immense Gain. What I have wrote on this Head goes on a Supposition, that a Fleet with a large Body of Troops is at Rhode-Island, and flows from that warm Regard I have for the State of Rhode-Island and the glorious Cause in which We are embarked. In this Cause I am willing to exert and have exerted my best abilities; for this I have suffered great Anxiety, have left Wife and Children and the sweetest & closest Connections in Life. Where my Wife and Children are I know not. I hope they
