December 24, 1776 659 directed the Pennsylvania Council to take the parole of Lt. William Jones, late commander of H. M. Sloop Racehorse, whom Robinson had recently taken pris oner, see Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:592. a For the continuation of this letter, see Morris to Bradford, January 12, 1777. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Baltimore, 24th Dec 1776 My last from Philadelphia I think was a day or two before Con gress adjourned from that place which was the 11th inst. They meet here the 20th and are now doing business with spirit. The near approach of the Enemy to that City struck such a panic in all orders of people there except Tories (of which you know there are not a small number) that the contagion seized the nerves of some members of C which caused a removal to this place which I assure you was much against my inclination; however, I hope its all for the best. The main body of the enemy advanced as far as Trenton and a party of 500 to 1000 visited Burlington. Whether any of them remain at the last mentioned place We have not had any late accounts but by the last account they remained at Trenton and at some places farther up the river. Our army, by the loss at Fort Washington and the expiration of inlistments were reduced to a handfull, by no means sufficient to make a stand against the enemy before they reached the Deleware. Gen Washington was there joined by some militia from Philadelphia. His army is daily increased by militia, besides he has been lately joined by the di vision lately commanded by General Lee, also by a body of troops from Ticonderoga under command of Gen Gates, so that they are now pretty strong and I think (if they have got rid of the panic that seized them at the time they lost Fort Washington) they may still give a good account of Howe’s army and be amply revenged for the brutal cruelties and worse than Savage ravages committed by those infernal instruments of Tyranny for the consolation of the Tories these Barbarians seek their vengeance indiscriminately on Whig and Tory. Notwithstanding all this, some are so infatuated as to go and sue for pardon among which are three of the Allens, viz. Andrew, John & Wm. Thus as far as my head will permit me I have given you a state of the army in this quarter. I should be very happy if I could hear the levies for the new army were completed in the Eastern States. I expect there will be a still further requisi tion, it is absolutely necessary that we should have a very formidable army in the field immediately. I hope every friend of America in the several States will forward this business with every possible exertion. The accounts from France which are down to October are very
