662 December 25, 1776 a Hint which I think of great Importance if the Measure proposd be practicable. 5 I hope both these Letters were duly receivd by you. I am expecting Mr J A and my other worthy Colleagues from Boston. We want them much. You cannot, my dear Sir, do me a greater Kindness than by writing to me. I suffer greatly through Want of Intelligence from N. E. I pray you therefore let your Letters to me be very frequent. Believe me to be most cordially, your Friend, S Adams [P.S.] By a late Letter from London written by a Gentleman upon whose Intelligence I greatly rely, a Treaty is on foot with Russia to furnish Britain with twenty or thirty thousand troops. Levies are making with all possible Industry in Germany and in Britain & Ireland from whence it is expected that 20,000 will be raisd. It is indeed to be supposd that as usual a great Appearance will be made on Paper than they will realize. But let us consider that they realizd the last year in America 35,000, and do without Doubt recruit the Numbers they lose, because they are able to do it, we then may set down their actual Force in America by May or June next at least 55 and probably 60,000. We have the pleasure of hearing that a valueable Prize is arrivd at Boston, among the rest of her Cargo 10,000 Suits of Cloaths! c A most fortunate Prize to us, especially as she is said to be the last of Eight Vessells taken bound to Quebec with necessary Supplys for their Troops. However, while we are pleasing our selves with these Acquisitions, we should remember that the Want of these Supplys will be a Strong Stimulus to Charlton, to make a bold Push by the first opportunity over the Lake Champlain in hopes of furnishing himself at Albany; and increases the Necessity of the eastern States sending their troops to Tyonderoga immediately to supply the places of those who will return home when the Time of their In- listments expires—the very next Week! I have good Information from England that a certain Capt Furze who was in Boston the last year & gaind the Confidence 8c received the Civilities of the People, when he returned, gloried in the De ception and carried Intelligence to the British Ministry particularly of the Fortifications in and about Boston. Some of the people may remember him. How careful ought we to be lest while we mean only innocent Civilities to Strangers we expose our Councils & operations to Spies. S. A. RC (MB). 1 Warren’s October 24 and November 16, 1776, letters are in Warren-Adams Letters, 2:439-41. ’ See John Hancock to Certain States, this date. “See New England Delegates to George Washington, December 12, 1776. * It cannot be determined precisely which letter Adams is alluding to, but see Secret Committee to the Massachusetts Assembly, December 4, 1776. “See Samuel Adams to James Warren, December 6, 1776.
