December 25, 1776 663 “This clothing was on the British transport Mellish, which was captured by John Paul Jones, commanding the Continental ship Alfred. See Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:110-11, 183-84; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:356. John Hancock to Certain States Gentlemen, Baltimore Deer. 25th. 1776. Since I did myself the Honour of addressing you last on the Subject of the enclosed Resolve, 1 the Congress have received fresh Intelligence from Generals Schuyler & Gates, urging the Necessity of an immediate Compliance therewith. In Consequence of which they have ordered me to represent to you that without your im mediate Aid and Assistance the important Fortress of Ticonderoga will unavoidably fall into the Hands of our Enemies, the Troops who at present garrison that and the adjacent Posts having de termined not to continue there after the Term of their Inlistment expires. 2 It is needless to use Arguments on the Occasion, or to point the dreadful Consequences, to Gentlemen already fully acquainted with them, of leaving the back Settlements of the New England States open to the Ravages of our merciless Foes. If any Thing can add to your Exertions at this Time, it must be the Reflection that your own most immediate Safety calls upon you to strain every Nerve. Should we heedlessly abandon the Post of Ticonderoga, we give up inconceiveable Advantages. Should we resolutely maintain it (and it is extremely capable of Defence) we may bid Defiance to Genl. Carlton and the Northern Army under his Command. But our Ex ertions for this Purpose must be immediate, or they will not avail any Thing. The thirty first of this Inst, the Time will expire for which the Troops in that important Garrison were enlisted, and Lake Champlain will, in all Probability be frozen over soon after. For the Sake therefore of all that is dear to Freemen, be entreated to pay immediate Attention to this Requisition of Congress, and let Nothing divert you from it. The Affairs of our Country are -in a Situation to admit of no Delay. They may still be retrieved, but not without the greatest Expedition and Vigour. If Nothing was at Stake but your own Peace and Security, I should not be so earnest on the Occasion. It is the Fate of Posterity (which depends on our Conduct) that stamps a Value on the present Cause. I beseech you therefore by all that is sacred—by that Love of Liberty and your Country, which you have always manifested— by those Ties of Honour which bind you to the Common Cause— by that Love of Virtue and Happiness which animates all good Men, and finally—by your Regard for succeeding Generations, that you will, without a Moment’s Delay, exert yourselves to forward the Troops for Ticonderoga from your States agreeably to the en closed Requisition of Congress.
