December 25, 1776 665 Mr Deanes Letter is also enclosed that you may answer the mer cantile parts of it. This would have been done sooner but you will see there were many Parts of it on which the advice of Congress was necessary, this occasiond the Delay. Binghams [letter] we have not had time to answer but hope to do it tomorrow. As soon as we do it shall be returnd. 2 For Gods sake send us some News; we have none here but what a Purviance or a Rush Deal out to us. If you wish to please your Friends Come soon to us, but if you desire to keep out of the Damdest Hole in the World come not here. My Complimts. to my Friends. I wish you and them a Happy Xmass; a merry one you can not have Divided so far and on such on occasion from those you Love. I am, your affect. & Obedt Servt, Benja Harrison RC (MdBJ-G). 1 See Committee of Secret Correspondence to the Commissioners at Paris, Decem ber 21, 1776. See also Morris to Harrison, December 29, 1776. 3 These letters had been enclosed in Robert Morris to the Committee of Secret Correspondence, December 16, 1776. Marine Committee to John Nicholson Sir December 25th. 1776 As this severe weather is like to make ice, Captain Biddle will try to make a push with the Randolph and as it is of the utmost consequence that you should get to Carolina if possible I think it most for the public service that you should go down the Bay in company with him and I hope this will find you in readiness. 1 You will see the Ship as she comes down, and must join her as soon as you can, and you must concert with Captain Biddle the best plan you can think of for getting out. I am fearful an expedition is gone or will soon go against Charles Town, therefore you must proceed cautiously and get into the first safe harbour in that state that you can & give immediate notice to the president and the Continental Agents of your Arrival. I am Sir by Order of the M. Committee, your hble servant, Robert Morris V.P. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Nicholson was captain of the Continental sloop Hornet. Benjamin Rush to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir, Bristol Decemr 25. 1776 My letters I fear will prove troublesome to you but I cannot help
