674 December 26, 1776 does but follow up the blow & pursue them downwards I think this will prove a Mortal Stroke to the Enemies intended expedition against this City. Colo Griffin is returned from his Expedition after a little Skirmishing as the Enemy brought too powerfull a body against him. However about 400 Jersey Militia remain at Mount Holly & I think Genl Putnam shoud reinforce them as here are lately come in a considerable number of Militia, indeed I believe he has sent over a reinforcement but tomorrow Morning I will speak to him on this subject. It is now too late at night. Mr Sherman arrived here yesterday. I have not seen him but am told he brings an Acct that Genl. Heath has Crossed the No River, retaken Fort Lee & Hackensack with all the baggage & Stores at those places & 130 Prisoners 8c that he was employing Waggons to remove the Stores into places of greater safety and from another quarter I am told Genl Washington previous to his Attack on Trentown had given Genl. Heath suitable orders. You will observe I am not perfectly master of Genl. Washingtons plan but it appears to me, that if he has directed Genl. Heath to continue his March in the Enemies Rear, those that are between Hackensack 8c Trenton will be drawn off from Genl Washington and leave him to pursue the flying Hero’s towards Burlington where I expect Colo Cadwallader will cut of[f] the Communication be tween them 8c about 200 Hessians 8c Highlanders that came to Moors Town against Griffin. If this is the plan, I think it well laid & if the General is properly supported in the Execution, why shall we not put a glorious end to the Campaigne of 1776. It must I had like to say it shall be so. Capt Robison of the Andrew Doria tells me just now that he hears his Prize Sloop is got up to the Cheveaux de Frize. I hope it is true 8c as this is the first of King George’s own Vessells that we have taken, I shou’d be glad the Congress wou’d Order her into their service and give the Command to Lieutt Dun of the Andw Doria who has been in the service from the first & is said to be an officer of Merit. Shou’d Genl Washington follow up his blow we may get time to fit out all these Vessells, but if Howe comes here we cannot do it for want of Tradesmen. The letter for Genl Washington from Congress shall be sent to him in the Morning by Major Pierce and a Copy of the Resolves you enclosed. 1 I suppose there is a Copy in the letter to him but as you do not mention it I think it best to send them. I am happy to find the attention Congress have paid to Genl Lee and flatter myself they will be well pleased to learn that I had wrote a letter to him enclosing a bill drawn by two Officers of the Royal Highland Emigrants on Major Small for £116 Sterlg that had been supplyed them by my Friends in Carolina where they are Prisoners. This letter 2 I sent open to Genl Washington who promised to send
