December 26, 1776 675 it in with a Flag & in that letter I told Genl Lee I hoped he wou’d be permitted to write me when he wanted more Money & he might depend on receiving it. Notwithstanding the supply sent in I shall desire Genl Washington to send a Flag to know if the Gold will be admitted and I will make a point to Collect it. Mr Walton is now here, we have sent for Mr Clymer & tomorrow we shall enter on business as Committee Men and if our best endeavours to serve the Publick can procure the approbation of Congress we shall have it. The enclosed letter from the Genl, to your Honor being directed to you here I judged it best to open it, supposing he meant it. The Contents of it I shall keep to myself, as indeed I shall of all other letters of that kind, but I mentioned to the General what I deemed good News from France & it had a good Effect. I am most truely Sir, Your obed Servt, Robt Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). ’See Hancock to Washington, December 23, 1776. a Not found. Robert Morris to George Washington Dear Sir Philada. Deer. 26th. 1776 I have just received yours of yesterday and will duely attend to those things you recommend to my consideration. 1 At present I have to enclose you a letter from Congress which I suppose Contains their resolves of the 20th Inst, but as the President does not say in his letter to me that they are enclosed to you & as it is necessary you shou’d have them I take the liberty to send herewith a Copy of them. I am well pleased to see the attention they pay Genl Lee and I shall make a point to Collect & send your Excellency soon as possible the one hundred half Johannes they order. Youl observe Mr. Clymer, Mr. Walton & myself are appointed a Committee to transact the Continental business here that may be necessary & proper, and I apprehend it will frequently be necessary that we shou’d know the substance of your Correspondence with Congress. Your letters to the President if sent open under our Cover shall always meet dispatch & their Contents kept secret, & when you think it improper we shou’d see them before the Congress Seal them & they shall go forward untouched & if you dont approve of submitting them to our inspection at all write us freely & your wishes in that respect shall be complyed with. 2 We have just heard of your Success at Trenton. The acct is but imperfect but we learn you are master of that place 8c of all the bag age 8c Stores our Enemies had there 8c of 300 Prisoners and that your
