676 December 26, 1776 Troops were still in pursuit of the flying Enemy. I have just wrote to Congress & told them thus much .as the substance of an Acct just come down & I told them further I had been informed that you had executed in this matter your part of a well Concerted plan, that Genl Heath at Hackensack had orders from you, & that Genl Ewing & Colo Cadwallader also had orders to Cross Delaware at the same time you did, but had been prevented by Driving Ice. Good News sets all the Animal Spirits to Work, the immagination is heated & I cou’d not help adding, that I expected Genl Heath was to Continue his march towards Brunswick which woud draw the attention of any Troops posted there & at Prince Town, while you wou’d pursue the flying Hero’s to Bordenton & Burlington where Ewing & Cadwallader woud stop them & cut of their Communication with the 2000 Hessians & Highlanders that came after Griffin, nay I almost promised them that you shoud by following up this first blow, finish the Campaigne of 1776 with that eclat that your numerous Friends & admirers have long wished for. I Congratulate you most heartily on what is done & am with perfect esteem, Dr sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedt servt, Robt Morris RC (DLC). ’Washington’s December 25 letter to Morris is in Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 6:436-38. 2 For Washington’s reply, see ibid., p. 441. Executive Committee to Thomas Fleming Sir December 27th 1776. We have just received your letter of the 27th instant to the Secre tary of the Board of war and are glad to find your Regiment on their March this way; but we cannot conceive it necessary to Send tents or Arms to the Head of Elk, as the Troops can quarter in Houses on their March or may come by Water from Christiana Bridge. Arms are not necessary as there is no Enemy in the way. Blankets, Shoes and Stockings we will provide if possible under our present circumstances. Genl. Washington has Struck an unexpected Stroke at Trentown where he now reigns master. We hope to drive the Enemy out of New Jersey and if you haste up you’l come in for a Share of the Glory. Mr Benjamin Hogeland at Christianna Bridge will supply you with Two thousand dollars which you’l please to Send a proper officer to receive and give a Receipt for it. 1 The amount will be charged to your Account therefore you must render an Accot. of the expenditure of it. On Behalf of the Committee of Congress left in this City to transact Continental business, I am Sir, Your very hble Sert. Robt Morris
