December 27, 1776 677 LB (DNA: PCC, item 133). Addressed: “To Colo. Flemming of the 9th Virginia Regt, or the Commanding Officer.” 1 Morris’ letter to Hogeland of this date, ordering him to pay Fleming $2,000 at Head of Elk, is in PCC, item 133, fols. 12-13, and Am. Archives, 5th ser, 3:1439. Executive Committee to Thomas Smith Sir, 1 Philada. Decemr. 27th 1776 The Congress have thought proper to appoint us a Committee to transact all Continental business in this City that may be necessary and proper, and they have empowered us to draw on the Loan Office for Such Sums of money as may be wanted, little Suspecting there was no such Office or Officer to be found in Philadelphia. For our parts we have been impatiently waiting your return, and are Sorry to say the public Service has Suffered by your absence. Had we been possessed of the Notes we could have borrowed considerable Sums which may probably be Otherways disposed of by this time. We expect your immediate attendance and are sir. Your hble Servts. Robert Morris Geo Clymer Geo Walton LB (DNA: PCC, item 133). 1 Thomas Smith (d. 1793) had been appointed Continental loan officer for Pennsylvania on December 5, 1776. Journals and Proceedings of the General As sembly of the Common-Wealth of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia: John Dunlap, 1777), p. 7. John Hancock to Robert Morris Sir, Baltimore Deer. 27th. 1776. The enclosed Resolves, which I do myself the Honour of for warding, will inform you of the Steps taken by Congress in the present critical State of our Affairs. 1 Your Favor of the 23d inst. came to Hand, and was immediately laid before Congress. The Uneasiness you mention therein, with Regard to your Want of proper Powers, is, no Doubt, by this Time removed, Congress having authorized the Committee in Philada. to adopt such Measures in the Business of the Continent as they shall judge proper. 2 You will therefore, in Conjunction with Mr. Clymer and Mr. Walton, act, not only in marine Matters, but in all others, as you shall think necessary and most conducive to the public Good. I wrote you some Time ago per Express, informing you that Con gress had appointed a Committee in Philada. to conduct all public
