680 December 27, 1776 States for both Arms and Ammunition. 2 The Commissions necessary in Pursuance of the enclosed Resolves, shall be forwarded as soon as possible. I have only Time to add, that I am with the most perfect Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. and very hble Sert. John Hancock Prest. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 'For the resolutions of this date which significantly augmented Washington’s authority and were passed in response to the report of the “committee on the state of the army,” see ]CC, 6:1043-46. Hancock explained the rationale behind them more fully in his circular letter to the states, December 30, 1776, printed below. See also Washington to Hancock, December 20, and Nathanael Greene to Hancock, December 21, 1776, in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:400-409; and Greene, Papers (Showman), 1:370-74. “See Hancock to the Massachusetts Council, December 28, 1776. Francis Lewis to the New York Committee of Safety Gentlemen, Baltimore, 27th Decemr. 1776 Your favour of the 5th instant, per Lieut. Brit, I have received, with your resolves relative to the frigate in Hudson’s river, which I this day laid before the marine committee, and meet their entire approbation. They are of opinion that whatever vessels belonging to the Continent, and are now in Hudson’s river, should be also secured in Esopus creek, or some other place of safety. The people belonging to the brigantine and sloop may be disposed of at the discretion of your Convention. 1 Congress approves of your recommendation of Lieut. Victor Bicker, Junr. for the marines, and as soon as the blank commisions are re ceived from Philadelphia, one shall be filled up for him and for warded to you. 2 Your letter, directed to Captain Dennis, I thought it proper to return you; his last place of residence was in Brunswick, which is now in General Howe’s possession. Perhaps you may hear of Captain Dennis some where in your State. The rigging, &c. that belonged to those vessels sunk into the North and East river, and now in the possession of Captain Dennis, it is imagined may be of singular service at Ticonderoga, of which General Schuyler should be in formed. I am also directed to inform you that Congress much ap proves of the frigates being fitted out against the spring, and of your directing a sufficient number of cannon to be cast at Salsbury, as none for your purposes can be procured from these parts. I must also beg that you would represent my present disagreeable situation to the Honourable Convention, which is that of being the only
