684 December 28, 1776 his dispatches to Congress through our hands unless when they might be of such a Nature as he wou’d not choose any persons shou’d see them before Congress. He approves this plan as it will ease his Correspondence with us &: at the same time we shall receive infor mation that will be necessary for our government in many affairs that will most probably come under our consideration. 2 You have enclosed herewith the Generals Account of the Action at Trentown with a return of the Prisoners &c. Allow us to congratulate Congress on this Success, &: to presage that if our good Fortune is well followed up our affairs will very speedily wear a pleasing Coun tenance. We take the liberty to enclose also an extract of a letter from Genl Cadwallader to Genl Putnam, by which it appears that our Enemies are Pannic-Struck. We hope our Troops will follow them up & not give them time to recover, & shall write in this Strain to Genl Washington with an assurance that every Man shall follow to his assistance that can be prevailed on to move from this State and we have not a doubt but their Spirits will now be up, and what they have before thought dangers will vanish before them like a Vision. You’l observe sir that Mr. Cadwallader is now a Brigadier General made so by our Council of Safety & you cannot conceive what gen eral Satisfaction it gives. He is a Gentn of amiable private Character, fine Fortune, Numerous Connections, has a martial Spirit & has taken infinite pains to qualify himself for Command. He is beloved by his Troops & gains their confidence wherever he goes. Genl. Washington in a letter to Congress sometime past recommended their appointing this Gentn a Brigadier Genl, in the Continental service. His having recommended him for that purpose & our knowledge of his merits and a Conviction that it wou’d be vastly pleasing to all the asso- ciators of this State, prompts us to recommend to Congress to do it immediately. He now commands the Continental Colonels & they cannot complain that he is put over their heads. He is now leading on a valuable band of men in your service & the appointment will give Spirit & Vigour to their operations. The present Success will induce you to make other promotions & we hope this will not be neglected. We are sorry to inform you that Capt Robisons information re specting his Prize was premature. She is not arrived nor have we heard further from below, altho the Fly has been sent down some days to reconnoitre. The Wasp is gone to Cruize outside the British Fleet, she retook a Schooner with Mollasses & Rum that had been taken by the Roebuck & has sent her into Egg Harbour. We have the honor to remain, sir, Your obedt hble servts, Robt Morris Geo Walton Geo Clymer
