December 29, 1776 691 vided all the other military Stores that came in the Vessels above, you’l plan to send to any place where you shall think they will be safe. We gave Mease orders to send Cloaths 8c Blankets to Elk for Colo Flemings Regt. I have wrote to him again on the subject 2 but for fear he should neglect it, wish you would Speak to him. Congress have given up most of their Power to the General for the Term of six Months, 3 if this don’t save your City nothing we can do will. They have also agreed to Establish Boards of War, Admiralty, Treasury 8c a Chamber of Commerce to be Composed of members out of Congress. 4 I had you Named to assist in forming the Plan 8c wish it was possible you could be here particularly to form the Latter. I can’t indeed see the use of such a Chamber as it can have the Direction of nothing but the Congress Trade and that I think has been as well managed as it could be. Make my Compliments to my Friends. I wish most Heartily to be with them to Day at the Hill instead of attending Congress to hear what I am quite tired with. I forgot to tell you Poor Braxtons fine House is Burnt to the Ground with all his Liquors and a Quantity of Furniture. I am, your affect servt, Benja Harrison RC (MH-H). 'See JCC, 6:1044. 2 Not found. “See JCC, 6:1045-46. 4 In reality Congress had done nothing more than appoint a committee to consider these innovations. JCC, 6:1041-42. Charles Carroll, Barrister to the Maryland Council of Safety Dear Sir Mount Clare Deer 29t 1776 By Direction of the Congress I Send you the Inclosed Resolves. 1 The Last Letters Bring us a Peice of Intelligence that it May be Material for you to Know. 2 One Mr Bevan a Person that May be Depended on Who was Taken by Capt Hammond Informed Mr Morriss that Hammond told him they were now Determin’d to Put a Total Stop to Our Trade and for that Purpose 6 frigates were to be stationed off Georgia 8c the Carolinas, 6 off the Capes of Virginia, and Six off Delaware. Their Signals and their Stations were fixed so as to form a Compleat Line along the Coast 8c that they were Determin’d to Keep their Stations During the Whole Winter. This I fancy it will be Difficult for them to do. However I thought it necessary yr. Board should Know their Plan. I am with Most Sin cere Respects to you all, Dear Sir, Yr Obedt Hble Sert, Chas Carroll
