December 29, 1776 693 Ben is to lay it out in Tobacco Concerning which I wrote him two posts ago. 1 I shall write additions to the letter to our Commissioners suited to our present Circumstances 8c send you Copies in due time. I detained this express untill this morning hoping to give you some news from Genl Cadwallader but no Accounts are yet come in. I wrote to Genl Washington & said every thing 1 cou’d say with decency to encourage a pursuit of our Enemies with his whole Force. Our Militia are daily coming in and I really hope to see him strong enough to drive these invaders out of New Jersey & then Congress may come back here. I believe it wou’d have an excellent effect were they to return immediately. Our Friends wou’d be in spirited & our external & internal Foes wou’d form favourable judgements of our supports & Strength from it. A few days more will determine whether it will be proper or not and soon as I can I will write a Publick letter on that Subject. Your Invitation to join you is very Civil, but you know I have always been satisfyed with Philadelphia 8c the Hills, and I have throughout this alarm been determined not to quit untill fairly drove off. At the same time I have been constantly prepared, my things Packed up, Horses & Carriage ready at any moment & constant means of intelligence had they approached. I beg my Compts to all Friends 8c tell Ben Levy I expect he will be a very great Politician now the Great Council have removed to his quarters. We had a Merry Christmas at Smiths in spite of the times. The absence of my Family sits grievously hard on me as I never parted with them before, but my time is too much employed to dwell much upon any Subject and I am now pleasing myself with the thoughts of bringing them back. I dine at the Hills to day 8c have done so every Sunday. Thus you see I continue my old practice of mixing business 8c pleasure and ever found them usefull to each other. I am with great affection your Friend 8c Servant, Robt Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). 1 Morris’ letter to Benjamin Harrison, Jr., has not been found. Robert Morris to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir Philada. Deer. 29. 1776 I have now to acknowledge the Rect. of your second letter of the 24th Inst, continuing the quotation from your London letter of the 21st Septr. for which I am much obliged. 1 The papers of the Secret Committee are sent away with my [own] 8c are now under care of one of my Clerks at Christiana Bridge but I very well re member that the propriety 8c necessity of sorting the Tobacco’s
