December 30, 1776 695 carry the others home they may pick up Seamen from Prizes &c. I have little time but remain, Dr sir, Your Obedt hble servt. Robt Morris P.S. I have just seen Mr. David Franks. He says Doctr Lee & Arthur Lee Esqr. had quitted London. 2 RC (ViU). 'Not found. a Morris apparently forgot which of Lee’s brothers was the doctor; he should have written "Doctor Lee & William Lee.’’ Committee of Secret Correspondence to the Commissioners at Paris Honble. Gentlemen Baltimore 30 Decemr. 1776 You will be pleased to receive herewith copies of our letter of the 21st instant, and of it’s inclosures, which we recommend to your attention. Since that letter was written, General Washington, having been reinforced by the Troops lately commanded by General Lee & by some Corps of Militia, crossed the Delaware with 2500 Men, and attacked a body of the enemy, posted at Trenton, with the success that you will see related in the inclosed hand bill. 1 We hope this blow will be followed by others that may leave the enemy not so much to boast of, as they some days ago expected, and we had reason to apprehend. Upon mature deliberation of all circumstances, Congress deem the Speedy declaration of France and European Assistance so in- dispensibly necessary to secure the Independence of these States, that they have authorized you to make such tenders to France & Spain, as, they hope, will prevent any longer delay of an event that is judged so essential to the well being of North America. 2 Your Wisdom, we know, will direct you to make such use of these powers as will procure the thing desired on terms as much short of the concessions now offered as possible; but no advantages of this kind are proposed at the risk of a delay that may prove dangerous to the end in view. It must be very obvious to the Court of France that if Great Britain should succeed in her design of subjugating these States, their Inhabitants, now well trained to arms, might be com pelled to become Instruments for making conquest of the French Possessions in the West Indies; which would be a sad contrast to that security & commercial benefit that would result to France from the Independence of North America. By some accident, in removing the papers from Philadelphia to this place, the Secretary of Congress has mislaid the additional in-
