December 30, 1776 701 every Attention to the Situation of the Northern Army, which the Circumstances of it required. On the 25th inst. they passed sundry Resolves urging the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay and Connecticut to send forward to Ticonderoga with the utmost Expedition a Body of four thousand five Hundred Troops. These Resolves I dispatched immediately accompanied with Letters wherein I informed them of the very critical Situation of that Fortress, as the Troops who at present garrison it, were resolved not to stay after the 31t of Decembr. the Day on which their Time expired. 1 Every Con sideration that had a Tendency to induce them to comply imme diately with the Requisition of Congress, I endeavoured to hold up to them in the most striking View. To the same Effect also I wrote them before Congress removed from Philada in Consequence of your representing that you wished Congress would stimulate them to a Compliance with your Letter on that Subject. These Measures, I trust will prove successful, and be attended with the Preservation of Ticonderoga during the Winter. In Pursuance of the enclosed Resolve, 2 I have wrote to Govr. Trumbull desiring him to have twenty Eighteen Pounders cast with all possible Expedition and transported to Ticonderoga, 3 for which you will please to provide Carriages. I have likewise wrote to the Commissary General to procure Provisions for five thousand Men for eight Months to be sent to Fort Ann, and an equal Quantity to be lodged in Albany, and to be occasionally removed as Circum stances may make it necessary. He is also directed to send a suffi cient Quantity of Salt to cure the Provisions, & by all Means to supply the Northern Army with Vegetables and Vinegar this Winter. 4 The Congress have resolved that the present Mode of supplying that Army by the Commissary General under the Direction of the Commander in Chief, is more advantageous than that by a Con tractor could possibly be. As a General Hospital is to be erected on Mount Independence, the Congress are desirous that a Garden should be enclosed in the Neighbourhood of the same, that the Army may be the better sup plied with Vegetables the ensuing Winter. You will therefore be pleased to appoint some suitable Person as an Overseer to see this Resolve carefully complied with. The many Disorders that have crept into the Hospitals render it absolutely necessary that the strictest Enquiry should be made into the Conduct of the Directors, their officers, & Dependents, & that the offenders should be punished. You will please to order the Commanding Officer of every Regi ment to pay the greatest Attention to the Health of the Men under his Command, and to report any Misconduct or Neglect of the Surgeons to the General 8c likewise to the Congress. I shall transmit to the State of Massachusetts Bay the enclosed
