702 December 30, 1776 Resolve, by which they are requested to procure such a Quantity of Oakum and other Articles as you shall think proper to write for. In Consequence of your Favour of the 10th inst which was laid before Congress, the Committee appointed to consider the same, are directed to send some Persons to Mr. Livingston, Govr. Trum bull, and to the State of Massachusetts Bay, to procure the Cannon & Ordnance Stores you mentioned in your Letter of that Date, as being immediately necessary for the Northern Department. 5 The Congress have the firmest Reliance on your best Exertions to carry the enclosed Resolves into that Effect, and depend much on your Assistance in accomplishing their Views in that Quarter. Should we succeed in our Attempts to prevent the Incursions of the Enemy into the back Settlements of the New England & New York States, by a vigorous Defence of Ticonderoga and the adjacent Posts, the happiest Consequences to America must result from it—and the Glory of compleating this great Work, I trust will be reserved for you. As your Inclinations at all Times prompts you to undertake whatever has a Prospect of advancing the Good of your Country, so your Wisdom and Abilities will certainly enable you to execute the Task. Genl. Gates arrived in this Town the Day before yesterday in a very poor State of Health, but is since much recovered. The enclosed Copy of Resolves vesting Genl. Washington with very large and important Powers, the Congress were induced to pass in Hopes of retrieving thereby the present unfavourable Situation of our Affairs. 6 To them I beg Leave to refer you, and have the Honour to be with great Esteem and Respect, Sir, your most obed. hble. Sert. J. H. Presid. P.S. I most sincerely congratulate you on the Success of Genl. Washington. The enclosed printed Acct, will give you all the Par ticulars we are possessed of. 7 This may give a different Face to our Affairs and be productive of very happy Consequences. I have not Time to add, only to beg your Attention to the several Resolves enclosed. You will observe, Congress have laid an Embargo on the Exportation of Salted Provisions, and some other Necessaries. 8 Should any Thing material occur, you may depend, I will give you the earliest Notice of it. Wishing you the Compliments of the Sea son, I am your very hb Ser. J.H. Presid. [P.S.] I never have heard any thing of my Band of Musick, since I wrote you. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 'See Hancock to Certain States, December 25, 1776. ’All the resolves mentioned in the next six paragraphs were passed on Novem ber 28 and 29 and December 28 in response to the recommendations of the committee to which George Clymer’s and Richard Stockton’s report on the state of the northern army and accompanying documents had been referred. See JCC, 6:988-91, 1047-49; and Hancock to Schuyler, September 27, 1776, note 4.
