December 30, 1776 705 I had long since parted with very Considerable Sums of hard money to Congress, therefore must Collect from others & as matters now stand it is no easy matter. I mean to borrow Silver & promise payment in Gold & will then Collect the Gold in the best manner I can. Whilst on this Subject let me inform you that there is up wards of 20,000 Dollars in Silver at Tyconderoga. They have no particular use for it & I think you might as well send a party to bring it away & lodge it in a safe place Convenient for any purposes for which it may hereafter be wanted. I gave Mr Commissary Wharton an order for 40 thousand Dollars this morning & pressed him to attend most dilligently to your supplys. I will send for him again [to] know what is done & add Springs to his Movements if I can. I wish he was more silent, prudent &c but I fancy he is active. Whatever I can do shall be done for the good of the Service. I ever am, Dr sir, Your Excellencys Obedt hble servant, Robt Morris P.S. Hearing that you are in Want of a Q[uarte]r Cask of Wine, I have procured a good one which Mr Commissary Wharton will send up. 3 RC (DLC). 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:457. a At the foot of the LB of this letter the following note appears. “Accot. of hard Money sent: 410 Milled Dollars, 2 Eng. Crowns, 16 French Do., 1016 Eng. Shillgs.” PCC, item 133, fol. 14. See also Morris to Washington, August 16, 1777. 8 Morris also wrote the following brief note to Washington this day. “I have reed your favour of Yesterday & will duely forward your dispatches to Congress & the other letters by Post. I am desired to put the enclosed letters in the way of being sent into New York and make no doubt Your Excellency will readily forward them by the first Flag after they reach Your hands. I am impatiently waiting for further News from Genl. Cadwallader & with constant wishes for Success remain sir Your Obedt Servt.” Washington Papers, DLC. Benjamin Rush to Richard Henry Lee My dear sir, Crossicks 1 Decern. 30. 1776 There is no Soil so dear to a Soldier as that which is marked with the footsteps of a flying enemy. Every thing looks well. Our army increases daily, and our troops are impatient to avenge the injuries done to the state of New Jersey. The tories fly with the precipitation peculiar to guilty fear to Genl. Howe. A detachment from our body yesterday took four of them and kill’d one. Two of the former were officers in Howes new militia establishment. We suffer much from the want of intelligence which can only procured by money that will pass in both camps. Howe owes the superiority & regularity of his intelligence above ours not so much to the voluntary information of the tories as to the influence of his gold. Pray send two or three thousand pounds in hard money im-
