706 December 30, 1776 mediately to Gen Washington. It will do you more service than 20 new regiments. Let not this matter be debated, &: posponed in the usual way for two or three weeks. The salvation of America under God depends upon its being done in an instant. I beg leave for a moment to call off your Attention from the Af fairs of the public to inform you that I have heard from good Authority that my much hond father in law who is now a prisoner with Gen Howe suffers many indignities & hardships from the enemy from which not only his rank, but his being a man ought to exempt him. I wish you would propose to Congress to pass a resolution in his favor similar to that they have passed in favor of Gen. Lee. 2 They owe it to their own honor as well as to a member of their body. I did not want this intelligence to rouse my resentment against the enemy. But it has encreased it. Every particle of my blood is electrified with revenge—and if justice cannot be done to him in any other way, I declare I will in defiance of the Authority of the congress, & the power of the army drive the first rascally tory I meet with a hundred miles bare footed thro the first deep Snow that falls in our country. Two small brigades of New England troops have consented to serve a month after the time of their enlistment expires. There is reason to believe all the New England troops in their predicament will follow their example. We have just heard that the enemy are preparing to retreat from Princeton. Advice. Gen Washington must be invested with dictatorial power for a few months or we are undone. The vis inertia of the congress has almost ruined this country. Yours, B. Rush 3 RC (PPAmP). 1 Crosswicks, N.J., a village southeast of Trenton where Gen. John Cadwalader’s troops were quartered from December 29 through January 1. 2 For Congress’ response to this request, see the resolution of January 3, 1777, concerning the treatment of Richard Stockton. JCC, 7:12-13. Stockton was the first delegate to Congress to have the misfortune of falling into British hands, and he suffered uncustomarily harsh treatment. Before obtaining his parole, he was apparently forced to sign an oath of allegiance which later cast a shadow on his reputation. For additional information on this subject, see John Witherspoon to David Witherspoon, March 17, 1777, note 1. a The following day Rush also wrote a letter to his wife describing the recent depredations of the Hessians. Parke-Bernet Galleries Catalog, no. 2661 (March 6, 1968), item 76. George Walton to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia, Monday Evening, 30th Deer. 1776 I take it for granted that the Committee will write to Congress in the morning, touching several matters of public concern. In the
