December 30, 1776 707 mean time, as I am no. sleepy, permit me to obtrude two or three observations on your patience which I have made since I have had the pleasure of seeing you. Our soldiers, which have been taken pris oners by the enemy, are closely imprisoned in New-York; a miserable pittance to subsist upon; plundered of the better part of a most scanty apparel; and suffered to remain in that condition at this most inclement season. It is immaterial whether this treatment proceeds from an opinion that it is proper for rebels, or whether it is to starve the unfortunate into the humour of enlisting with the enemies of their country. Surely Congress is bound, indispensibly bound, to comfort and protect them as far as it is in its power. If we turn our eyes to those who have fallen into our hands, we shall find them free from almost the forms of restraint; fed on the fat of the land, in full possession of their all and quartered in our best barracks. This is lenity, gentleness, and humanity: but our enemies call it timidity. Congress threatens with the voice of thunder; but executes its purposes with the mildness of a Lamb. But could we once begin to act with spirit, and persevere with firmness, we should much sooner become more formidable to our enemies than by any other means. It is very far from my intention to insinuate that the unfortunate in our power should be made to suffer more than their situation necessarily creates; all I mean to suggest is, that Con gress has taken no steps sufficient to remedy an inhuman pernicious evil. Suppose, for the present, a Commissary of prisoners was ap pointed and sent to New York, with power to purchase Cloathing & necessaries, & to give provisions in payment. To this Power Howe would not object. Besides the obligations of duty and humanity, and the frightful example to our new army, which prompt the necessity of something of this kind, it might be worked into an es sential benefit. It is possible that such Commissary might prevail on these unfortunate people to re-enlist upon the prospect of being well cloathed. In this case the Continent would profit by their service as soon as an Exchange could take place. If we exchange them with out trying this expedient, we give an army [....] 1 The enemy’s force is now divided, and probably cannot be easily collected until the spring; but if you furnish them with two thousand effective men [it would?] at this time, be the ruin of our [. . .] 2 game is now in our hands; [. . .] 2 injured people obliges us to play it. If I am not mistaken in my conjectures, their conduct respecting General Lee will amount to a justification of any thing that it may be necessary to do on our part. I am Dear Sir, you most Obedient Servant, Geo Walton P.S. 31st Deer. The resolutions of Congress have just come to hand. 3 The Committee are pleased with them. Our great & good General will I have no doubt remedy these evils.
