December 31, 1776 709 Winter. If you cannot oe supplyd with the whole of the Stores in New York or Connecticutt, we desire you to apply to the Council of the Massachusetts Bay to make up the Compliment; to whom we have written as well as to Governor Trumbull requesting them to afford you all the Advice and Assistance you shall need in the Prosecution of this Business. We doubt not but you will provide these Necessaries with all possible Dispatch and at reasonable Rates and see that they are in a Way of being forwarded to General Schuyler, to whom you will give Notice, and to us, of the Success you may meet with in your several Applications. 3 We would mention for your Information, that Congress has con tracted for Cannon to be cast in this State at the Rate of Thirty six Pounds ten Shillings per Ton. And the highest Price that has been given in Pennsylvania is Forty Pounds. We expect however that you will purchase them as the best Terms you can. The Proof of the Cannon must be according to the Practice in Woolwich. We wish you a prosperous Journey and are very cordially, your Freinds & humble Servants, Samuel Adams Wm. Whipple Richard Henry Lee Benja Harrison Ths. Heyward Junr. RC (NHi). Written by Adams and signed by Adams, Harrison, Heyward, Lee, and Whipple. 1 On December 29 Congress directed this committee to send a person to New York, Connecticut, and Massachusetts "to procure such cannon and ordnance stores” as were requested by Gen. Philip Schuyler in his December 10 letter to President Hancock. JCC, 6:1048-50; Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:1160-61. Maj. Walter Stewart (ca. 1756-96), who was selected by the committee, was serving as aide-de- camp to Gen. Horatio Gates. In 1777 he was promoted to a regimental command, where he served until 1783. Cyclopaedia of American Biography. 3 The committee wrote to Robert Livingston this day, soliciting his aid in procuring the supplies “on just and equitable terms, and timely enough to be transported to General Schuyler before the Winter.” The RC of this letter is in the Livingston-Redmond Papers, NHpR; Adams’ draft of it is in the Adams Papers, NN. The committee also sent nearly identical letters this day to Gov. Jonathan Trumbull of Connecticut and to the Massachusetts Council. See Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:1505-6; and the Adams Papers, NN. 3 For some of Col. Stewart’s subsequent difficulties in fulfilling this mission, see Committee of Congress to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., February 12, 1777. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Baltimore Deer. 31st. 1776. I received your Letter of the 30th of November and laid it before
