THE  WRITINGS 


GEORGE  WASHINGTON 


VOL.    XI. 


1785-1790 


OF  THIS  LETTER-PRESS  EDITION 

750   COPIES  HA  VE  BEEN  PRINTED   FOR   SALE 


NO.. 


September,  1891 


THE   WRITINGS 


GEORGE  WASHINGTON 


COLLECTED    AND    EDITED 
BY 

WORTHINGTON   CHAUNCEY   FORD 


/*V   *% 

I     TJNIVFK;    --T  Y 

N^C^LIFORN^  ; 


VOL.  XI. 


1785-1790 


NEW  YORK  AND  LONDON 

G.    P.   PUTNAM'S    SONS 

ilje  Knickerbocker  |ress 

1801 


Press  of 

G.  P.  PUTNAM'S  SONS 

New  York 


CONTENTS  OF  VOLUME  XL 


1785. 

PAGE 

To  James  Warren,  October  /th I 

Doubts  on  the  ability  of  the  States  to  use  the  opportunity — 
Jealousy  of  Congress— Great  resources  at  hand — Foreign  com 
merce — Need  of  a  controlling  head. 

To  Patrick  Henry,  October  2Qth          ....  4 

The  Potomac  and  James  shares — His  uniform  policy  not  to 
receive  pecuniary  recompense  for  public  service — Wishes  to  be 
allowed  to  apply  the  shares  to  some  object  of  a  public  nature. 

To  George  William  Fairfax,  November  loth      .         .  6 

Education  o£  Custis  —  A  preceptor  wanted  —  Requirements 
and  wages — Gentlemen  of  the  cloth — Progress  of  the  navigation 
companies — His  wish  for  a  trained  farmer — Fairfax's  estate. 

To  Lund  Washington,  November  2Oth       .         .  10 

The  plans  of  George  Augustine  Washington — Overseer  at 
Mount  Vernon — A  grateful  sense  of  his  services. 

To  James  Madison,  November  3Oth    .  n 

Revision  of  the  laws — Proposition  to  give  Congress  regulation 
of  the  commercial  system — Public  faith— Port  and  assize  bills — 
Pennsylvania  and  internal  improvements. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  December  nth    .  14 

Prejudice  against  the  Cincinnati  carried  to  an  unreasonable 
length — Fears  of  the  people  not  yet  removed — Baron  Steuben. 

To  the  Trustees  of  the  Alexandria  Academy,  Decem 
ber  i/th 16 

His  intentions  to  endow  a  school  in  Alexandria — Offers  an 
annuity — Suggestions  on  its  application. 


vi  CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XI. 

1786. 

PAGE 

To  Benjamin  Lincoln,  February  6th  18 

The  fitness  of  Mr.  Lear — Duties  to  be  performed  by  him. 

To  Samuel  Purviance,  March  loth       ....          19 

The  settlements  on  the  Kanhawa — Navigation  of  the  stream 
— Convenient  points  of  settlement — Political  consequences — 
Nature  of  the  soil. 

To  Colonels  Fitzgerald  and  Gilpin,  March  3 1st  .         .         22 

Brindley  and  Harris  view  the  Great  Falls — Suggestions — A 
professional  man  much  wanted — Mr.  Brindley  may  be  available. 

To  Robert  Morris,  April  I2th 24 

The  Quakers  and  their  agitation  on  slavery — Mischievous  and 
illegal  conduct  of  their  society — He  is  himself  strong  in  favor  of 
abolishing  slavery — Oppressive  features  of  the  movement. 

To  the  Marquis  de  Lafayette,  May  loth     ...         26 

Policy  of  Great  Britain  towards  the  States — Remedy  must 
come  in  time  when  the  evils  are  more  severely  felt — Impost  and 
commercial  regulation — A  proposed  meeting  of  commissioners 
— General  meeting  also  proposed — British  occupation  of  the 
western  ports — The  Spanish  jacks  and  asses — Philanthropic 
scheme  of  the  Marquis  and  his  Cayenne  estate — Abolition  of 
slavery  in  the  Spates — Jefferson. 

To  John  Jay,  May  i8th 30 

The  Littlepage  affair — Errors  to  be  corrected  in  the  national 
government — More  wickedness  than  ignorance  in  our  councils — 
A  general  convention — Fallen  from  high  estate — Want  of  virtue. 

To  Henry  L.  Charton,  May  2Oth         ....         32 

Description  of  his  western  lands — Terms  upon  which  he 
would  sell. 

To  James  Tilghman,  June  5th 37 

Death  of  Tench  Tilghman — His  correspondence  with  the 
New  York  committee — Sympathy  for  Asgill's  position — Falsity 
of  the  gibbet  story — 111  return  by  Asgill  for  his  solicitude. 

To  Henry  Lee,  June  i8th 41 

The  navigation  of  the  Mississippi — Develop  our  own  water 
ways — Claims  ought  not  to  be  prematurely  urged. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XI.  vii 


PAGE 


To  William  Grayson,  July  26th 43 

Small  attendance  in  Congress,  and  its  cause — The  land  claims 
of  Connecticut — The  land  ordinance  of  Congress — Infraction  of 
the  treaty  by  the  States. 

To  Wakelin  Welch,  July  - 46 

Directs  sale  of  bank  stock — Interest  on  funds — Only  desires 
equal  treatment  with  others. 

To  the  Chevalier  de  la  Luzerne,  August  1st        .         .         48 

Ill-conduct  of  the  States — Signs  of  a  better  spirit — Unfavor 
able  picture  of  America  current  in  Europe — The  attitude  of  the 
British. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  August  1st  .         .         .         50 

Costume  of  the  statue — Domestic  intelligence — Deaths  of 
Greene,  McDougall,  and  Tilghman. 

To  John  Jay,  August  1st 53 

Violation  of  the  treaty — Work  for  the  future — The  fear  of 
investing  Congress  with  adequate  powers — Requisition  a  perfect 
nullity — Tendency  to  monarchical  government — His  own  inter 
est  in  public  affairs — Neglect  of  his  recommendations. 

To  the  Marquis  de  Lafayette,  August  1 5th         .         .         56 

Irksome  nature  of  his  correspondence — Nations  governed  by 
interest — Mutual  interests  of  America  and  France — Basis  of  a 
commerce  between  the  two  countries — The  arrogant  expecta 
tions  of  Britain — Experience  demonstrates  their  error — General 
reflections  on  commerce — Late  treaties  favor  a  liberal  policy. 

To  David  Humphreys,  September  1st         .         .         .         60 

Documents  relative  to  Asgill — Gordon's  connection  with  the 

matter — One  unanswered  question. 

*  *>   t         „ 

To  John  Francis  Mercer,  September  Qth    .  .         62 

Desires  to  have  slavery  abolished — Military  certificates — 
Pressed  for  money. 

To  William  Triplett,  September  25th  .  64 

A  misunderstanding  regarding  his  intentions  in  purchasing 
Mrs.  French's  land— His  true  meaning— Offers  to  arbitrate— 
Value  of  the  plantation. 

To  Bushrod  Washington,  September  3Oth  .  69 

Patriotic  societies — Is  averse  to  merely  local  institutions — 
Their  conduct  in  Massachusetts. 


viii  CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XI. 


To  George  Augustine  Washington,  October  2$th       .         72 

An  offer  of  land  for  a  home — Not  a  contingency,  but  a  per 
manency — Wishes  them  to  live  with  him. 

To  Henry  Lee,  October  3ist 76 

Commotions  in  the  eastern  States — His  mortification — Influ 
ence  is  no  government — A  call  for  decision — Government  must 
defend  itself — The  navigation  of  the  Mississippi. 

To  James  Madison,  November  5th     ....         80 

Paper  money — National  character  and  government  require 
earnest  attention — Virginia  can  set  the  example — Knox  on  the 
Massachusetts  troubles — Fulfilling  the  evil  predictions  of  Europe 
Evidence  of  a  want  of  energy  in  the  government. 

To  Bushrod  Washington,  November  i$th  ...         83 

The  Patriotic  Society  once  more — Relation  of  representative 
to  constituent — State  and  national  interests — As  to  "  commuta- 
bles  " — Experience  during  the  war — Failure  to  notice  the  ineffi 
ciency  of  the  confederation — Aims  of  the  society. 

To  James  Madison,  November  i8th    ....         86 

Good  conduct  of  the  assembly — Would  obey  a  call  to  attend 
the  Convention,  but  had  already  declined  meeting  of  the  Cin 
cinnati. 

To  Fielding  Lewis,  December  4th       ....         88 

His  disrespectful  conduct — Future  of  Rectortown. 

To  P.  Marsteller,  December  I5th         ....         89 

Goods  at  vendue — Directions  for  purchasing — Allowances 
and  articles — Damaged  goods. 

To  James  Madison,  December  i6th     ....         92 

Reasons  for  not  attending  the  meeting  of  the  Cincinnati — Ob 
jections  raised  to  the  institution — Changes  in  the  constitution 
and  their  reception — His  own  attitude  and  embarrassment — 
Arguments  against  commutables. 

To  Edmund  Randolph,  December  2ist  .         .         97 

Wishes  another  to  be  appointed  in  his  place  as  delegate  to  the 
Convention. 

To  David  Humphreys,  December  26th        ...         98 

His  publication  on  Asgill — The  insurrection  in  Massachusetts 
— Wishes  for  information — His  position  towards  the  Convention 
— The  Annapolis  meeting — There  must  be  no  second  failure. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XI.  ix 


To  Henry  Knox,  December  26th         ....       103 

The  Massachusetts  insurrection — Combustibles  in  every  State 
— Why  did  the  eastern  States  neglect  the  Annapolis  meeting  ? 
— Maryland  and  paper  money — Death  of  Greene  perhaps  fortu 
nate  for  him — Tumults  should  be  quickly  suppressed — Influence 
and  agency  of  Great  Britain. 

1787. 

To  Bushrod  Washington,  January  loth       .         .         .       107 

Death  of  John  Augustine  Washington — Will  render  what 
service  he  is  able. 

To  Henry  Knox,  February  36    .         .         .         .         .       108 

Weakness  in  government  will  produce  anarchy — Does  not 
intend  to  attend  the  Convention — Wishes  his  views  on  the  pro 
priety  of  his  being  present — State  sovereignty  a  possible  bar  to 
reform. 

To  Charles  Washington,  February  I4th      .         .         .112 

Estate  of  his  brother  Samuel — Suit  of  Alexander— -His  own 
want  of  money. 

To  Mrs.  Mary  Washington,  February  i$th         .         .       114 

Demands  upon  his  purse — Is  willing  to  pay  what  is  due — Is 
determined  to  have  nothing  more  to  do  with  her  plantation — 
His  payments  and  losses  not  appreciated — Advises  her  to  break 
up  housekeeping — Reasons  why  she  should  not  reside  at  Mount 
Vernon — An  adequate  income  obtainable — On  what  depends 
happiness. 

To  Thomas  Stone,  February  i6th       .         .         .         .119 

The  contest  over  paper  money  in  Maryland — Is  opposed  to 
such  an  expedient — Debtors  may  be  benefited. 

To  David  Humphreys,  March  8th       .         .         .         .       121 

His  attendance  on  the  conventions — His  refusal  may  be  mis 
interpreted — Wishes  to  know  the  general  opinion. 

To  John  Jay,  March  roth 124 

Defects  of  the  confederation — Thirst  for  power  and  sov 
ereignty  by  the  States — Is  anxious  to  try  the  Convention. 

To  Major  General  Benjamin  Lincoln,  March  23d        .       127 

Suppression  of  the  tumults  in  Massachusetts — The  disfranchis 
ing  act. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XI. 


PAGE 


To  Edmund  Randolph,  March  28th    .  .128 

Had  declined  the  appointment  to  the  Convention — Has  de 
termined  to  accept — The  meeting  of  the  Cincinnati — Wishes  a 
decided  representation  without  himself. 

To  James  Madison,  March  3ist 130 

His  correspondence  with  him — The  recommendation  of  the 
Convention  by  Congress — Infractions  of  the  treaty — Monarchi 
cal  ideas — Work  of  reform  to  be  attempted — Believes  coercion 
must  be  resorted  to — Bad  policy  of  Massachusetts — Prospects 
of  the  Convention — Vermont. 

To  Henry  Knox,  April  2d 136 

In  doubt  whether  to  attend  Convention — Partial  representa 
tion  or  cramped  powers  fatal — The  Cincinnati — Action  of  the 
State  societies — His  health. 

To  Henry  Knox,  April  2?th 138 

Summoned  to  Fredericksburg — Will  be  prevented  from  meet 
ing  the  Cincinnati — Sends  papers  to  be  submitted. 

To  Lund  Washington,  May  7th  .....       140 

His  want  for  money. 

Diary  during  the  Constitutional  Convention       .         .       140 

May — September. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  May  3Oth  .         .         .         .156 

The  Encyclopedia  on  the  Cincinnati — Palpable  mistakes  in 
the  narration — His  own  share  since  the  foundation  of  the  so 
ciety — Reasons  for  again  accepting  the  presidency — The  business 
of  the  Convention. 

To  David  Stuart,  July  1st 159 

Scandalous  conduct  of  Rhode  Island — Hope  that  the  Conven 
tion  will  produce  good  measures — Cause  of  the  national  weak 
ness — Impossible  to  please  all. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  July  loth     ....       162 

Almost  despairs  of  a  favorable  issue — Croakings  of  those 
opposed  to  an  energetic  government. 

To  Richard  Henry  Lee,  July  igth       ....        163 

The  navigation  of  the  Mississippi — Interest  of  the  west  to 
trade  through  the  eastern  ports. 

To  Patrick  Henry,  September  24th     ....        164 

Sends  a  copy  of  the  proposed  Constitution — Wishes  it  had 
been  more  perfect,  but  desires  its  adoption — A  failure  to  agree 
upon  a  measure  would  have  produced  anarchy. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XI.  xi 


To  David  Humphreys,  October  loth  ....       166 

Constitution  not  free  from  imperfections — Wishes  its  adoption 
by  a  larger  majority — Much  depends  upon  the  gazette  publica 
tions — Opposition  in  the  southern  and  western  counties  of 
Virginia. 

To  James  Madison,  October  roth        ....       168 

The  endorsement  of  the  Constitution  by  Congress — Opposition 
of  Mason  and  Lee — The  sentiment  in  Virginia — The  policy  of 
Mason — Hopes  he  will  be  in  the  State  convention — The  position 
of  the  Governor. 

To  Henry  Knox,  October — 171 

Severe  drought — Activity  of  the  opponents  of  the  Constitution 
— Questions  to  be  solved — Effect  of  Mason's  and  Randolph's 
refusing  to  sign. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  October  i8th       .         .         .1/3 

His  dispute  with  Governor  Clinton — His  service  as  aid-de 
camp. 

To  James  Madison,  October  22d          .         .         .         .174 

Position  of  the  Constitution  before  the  Virginia  Assembly — 
Pinckney  on  the  Mississippi. 

To  Mathew  Carey,  October  2Qth         .         .         .         .176 

His  request  for  a  loan — His  own  wants  prevent. 

To  Archibald  Johnston,  October  3Oth         .         .         .       177 

Cannot  permit  shooting  on  his  lands. 

To  Arthur  Young,  November  1st        .         .         .         .178 

Condition  of  farming  in  Virginia — General  practice  in  culti 
vating  tobacco — Land  has  been  ruined — Cropping  being  intro 
duced — Prices  of  products. 

To  James  Madison,  November  5th      .         .         .         .180 

The  Constitution  in  the  Assembly — The  situation  in  Maryland. 

To  Bushrod  Washington,  November  roth  .         .         .       182 

The  opposition  to  the  Constitution — Only  question  to  be  de 
cided  is  the  policy  of  uniting — Each  State  has  some  objection — 
Concessions  are  necessary — What  will  the  opponents  advise,  if 
nine  States  ratify  ? — Constitution  open  to  amendment — Power 
under  the  Constitution  will  always  be  with  the  people — As 
great  evils  follow  too  great  jealousy  as  a  want  of  it — Finances 
of  the  State — Impolicy  and  injustice  of  commutable  taxes — 
Conduct  in  the  Assembly. 


d& 

Tj"S 


xii  CONTENTS  OF  VOL,  XI. 


To  Thomas  Johnson,  November  22d  ....       187 

Rumsey's  scheme  and  the  application  of  steam — Fitch's  claims. 

To  David  Stuart,  November  3<Dth        .         .         .         .188 

Opposition  to  the  Constitution  gaining  ground — His  own 
opinion  unshaken — The  Federalist — The  Potomac  Company — 
Certificates  and  commutable  taxes. 

To  James  Madison,  December  7th      .         .         .         .191 

The  Federalist  essays  sent  to  Richmond  for  republication 
— The  Constitution  before  the  State  conventions — Reported 
change  of  Jay — The  progress  of  the  navigation  works — Intelli 
gence  from  the  Assembly — Lee's  letter  to  the  governor. 

To  Colonel  Thomas  Lewis,  December  25th         .         .       195 

Settling  of  the  western  lands — Wishes  some  persons  to  act  as 
his  agent — Offers  him  the  task — Outline  of  what  is  to  be  done 
— Conditions  of  rental. 

1788. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  January  1st       .         .         .         .       200 

Opening  a  communication  between  Lake  Erie  and  the  Ohio 
— Choice  of  methods — The  plan  of  government  and  its  reception 
by  the  people — Its  position  in  Virginia — Affairs  in  France — 
America  not  to  be  involved  in  European  wars. 

To  Edmund  Randolph,  January  8th  ....       204 

The  Constitution  and  its  amendment — Too  many  differences 
of  opinion  to  be  reconciled — The  instrument  the  best  obtainable. 

To  Colonel  Frederick  Weissenfels,  January  loth         .       206 

Is  unable  to  approach  Congress  in  his  behalf. 

To  James  Madison,  January  loth        ....       207 

Opinion  in  Virginia  on  the  Constitution  uncertain — Richard 
Henry  Lee  and  his  brother — In  the  debating  club — General 
news. 

To  Charles  Carter,  January  I2th          ....       209 

Publication  of  a  private  letter — Annoyance  that  it  should 
have  been  made. 

To  Jonathan  Trumbull,  February  5th          .         .         .       211 

The  Constitution  in  Connecticut  and  Massachusetts — Oppo 
sition  in  Virginia. 

To  James  Madison,  February  5th        .         .         .         .213 

European  intelligence — Effect  of  a  rejection  of  the  Constitu 
tion  by  Massachusetts — Publication  of  an  expression  of  his — 
The  Federalist. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XI.  xiii 


PAGE 

To  the  Chevalier  de  la  Luzerne,  February  7th    .         .       215 

Words  of  parting — High  sense  of  his  abilities  and  conduct 
while  minister. 

To  the  Marquis  de  Lafayette,  February  /th        .         .       217 

His  introduction  of  Moustier — The  new  Constitution — Its 
framing  little  short  of  a  miracle — Some  points  worthy  of  notice 
— Based  upon  virtue  in  the  people — Checks  against  the  introduc 
tion  of  tyranny — Proposals  for  another  convention — Why  he  is 
opposed — The  Constitution  in  the  States — Emigration  to  the 
western  country — European  matters — Jefferson. 

To  Alexander  Spotswood,  February  I3th  .         .         .       222 

Pleasures  of  agriculture — Drills  and  his  own  experience — 
Cropping — Agricultural  societies. 

To  Samuel  Griffin,  February  2oth        ....       226 

His  appointment  as  chancellor  of  William  and  Mary  College. 

To  Benjamin  Lincoln,  February  28th          .         .         .       228 

The  result  in  Massachusetts — Its  influence  in  other  States. 
To  James  Madison,  March  2d 230 

The  effect  of  Massachusetts'  policy  on  Virginia — Is  pleased 
that  he  will  be  in  the  State  convention — The  king  of  France. 

To  Samuel  Hanson,  March  i8th          ....       232 

Care  of  his  wards — Complaints  made  by  them. 

To  the  Count  de  Moustier,  March  26th       .         .         .       234 

His  disquietude  not  due  to  intentional  neglect — America  and 
its  people  extremely  well  affected  to  France — Commercial  con 
nection  of  the  two  nations — Advantages  enjoyed  by  the  British 
merchants. 

To  Henry  Knox,  March  3Oth 238 

111  conduct  of  New  Hampshire — Its  influence  on  the  Vir 
ginia  elections — Sentiment  of  the  State  outlined — The  Miss 
issippi  question. 

To  Charles  Lee,  April  4th 240 

Unable  to  pay  his  accounts  with  the  James  River  Company — 
His  great  want  of  money — Certificates  and  public  securities — 
Injustice  in  measures  for  receiving  them  in  payment  of  taxes — 
Certificate  for  an  executed  negro — Juggling  in  securities. 

To  James  Wilson,  April  4th 243 

The  violence  of  faction  in  Pennsylvania — The  approaching 
convention  in  Virginia. 


xiv  CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XI. 


To  Thomas  Johnson,  April  2oth          ....       244 

There  should  be  no  adjournment  in  the  Maryland  conven 
tion — A  plot  to  reject — Example  of  New  Hampshire — Opinion 
in  Virginia — His  wish  in  this  interference. 

To  the  Marquis  de  Chastellux,  April  25th  .         .         .       246 

His  marriage — War  and  the  great  commandment — The  course 
of  the  Constitution. 

To  John  Armstrong,  April  25th 249 

A  suggestion  that  his  retirement  may  be  interrupted — The 
influence  of  example — Importance  of  first  measures — Amend 
ment  of  the  Constitution — Opposition  in  Pennsylvania — May 
be  productive  of  good — Education  in  America. 

To  the  Marquis  de  Lafayette,  April  28th    .         .         .254 

Privileges  granted  to  Americans  trading  with  France — Dis 
crimination  probable  against  Great  Britain — Striving  after  a 
system — The  Constitution  before  the  States — Attitude  in  Virginia 
His  idea  a  good  one — Conciliatory  policy  in  Massachusetts — 
Suggested  changes — The  President  and  rotation  in  office — 
Probability  of  his  filling  the  office — Maryland  has  ratified. 

To  the  Count  de  Rochambeau,  April  28th          .         .       259 

Death  of  De  Grasse — Unrest  among  European  powers. 

To  Benjamin  Lincoln,  May  2d 261 

Maryland's  acceptance  of  the  Constitution  will  have  great 
influence  in  Virginia — Spirit  of  insurrection  in  Massachusetts. 

To  George  Steptoe  Washington,  May  5th  .         .         .       263 

Complaints  of  misconduct — Must  defer  to  Mr.  Hanson's 
advice — Formation  of  character. 

To  the  Marquis  de  Lafayette,  May  28th     .         .         .       264 

Introducing  Joel  Barlow — Protection  of  poets  by  warriors — 
American  poetical  genius — Political  fate  of  America  to  be  de 
cided  in  a  few  weeks. 

To  James  Madison,  June  8th 268 

Auspicious  opening  of  the  convention — Ability  and  property 
on  the  side  of  the  Constitution — Jay's  pamphlet. 

To  John  Jay,  June  8th 269 

Prospects  of  the  Constitution — What  has  been  done  in  the 
Virginia  convention — The  beginning  as  auspicious  as  could  pos 
sibly  have  been  expected. 

To  William  Smith  and  others,  June  8th      .         .         .       272 

The  ship  Federalist — Good  wishes  for  Baltimore. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XI.  xv 

PACK 

To  Henry  Knox,  June  i/th 274. 

Accession  of  South  Carolina  and  proceedings  in  the  Virginia 
convention — Kentucky  opposition  and  its  cause — Fear  of  an 
adjournment — The  anti-federalists  astonished — Reported  ma 
jority  in  New  York  against  the  Constitution — New  Hampshire. 

To  the  Marquis  de  Lafayette,  June  i8th    .         .         .       277 

The  attitude  of  king  and  parliaments  in  France — The  Con 
stitution  in  South  Carolina  and  Virginia — Fears  of  property  in 
the  south — Happy  situation  of  the  country. 

To  Richard  Henderson,  June  iQth      .         .         .         .       280 

Prospects  in  America  for  immigrants — Lands  in  the  west — 
The  mission  of  Barlow — Writers  on  America. 

To  Charles  Carter,  June  28th 284 

The  tomb  of  John  Dandridge. 

To  Charles  Cotesworth  Pinckney,  June  28th       .         .       284 

The  Constitution  in  South  Carolina  and  Virginia — Celebration 
in  Alexandria — The  situation  in  New  York. 

To  Benjamin  Lincoln,  June  2Qth         ....       287 

Capabilities  of  America  for  good  government — The  contest  in 
Virginia — Attitude  of  Henry — Prospects  in  other  States. 

To  John  Jay,  July  i8th 289 

Opposition  to  the  Constitution  in  New  York — Regulations  of 
the  post  office  unfavorable  to  the  transmission  of  intelligence — 
Effect  at  the  present  juncture — Prejudice  against  stages. 

To  Noah  Webster,  July  3 1st 293 

The  campaign  of  1781 — How  the  plan  was  modified  by  cir 
cumstances — Virginia  became  the  objective  point  of  the  com 
bined  operations — No  risk  to  be  encountered — Deceptions 
practised. 

To  James  Madison,  August  3d 295 

New  York  ratifies — Place  for  the  new  Congress  to  meet. 

To  George  Steptoe  Washington,  August  6th      .         .       297 

His  unjustifiable  behavior — Proper  means  of  obtaining  justice. 

To  Charles  Pettit,  August  i6th  .         .      .  .         .         .299 

Defects  in  proposed  system  may  be  remedied — Injudicious 
conduct  of  the  opposition — Not  affected  by  the  shafts  of  malice 
— His  wish  for  retirement. 


xvi  CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XI. 


To  John  Beale  Bordley,  August  I7th          .         .         .       301 

The  quality  of  wheat — Rotation  of  crops — Alternation  of  grain 
and  fallow  crops — His  own  arrangement  of  a  six-field  rotation 
— Contrast  of  the  respective  yields — Sowing  and  threshing 
machines. 

To  the  Count  de  Moustier,  August  I7th     .         .         .       306 

Commerce  between  the  United  States  and  France — The 
tobacco  contract  and  monopolies — French  woollens — Direct 
imports  and  exports — Trade  must  depend  upon  facility  for 
making  remittances — Increased  use  of  French  brandy  and 
wines — Carrying  trade — Trade  with  the  French  islands — Course 
of  American  trade — What  influences  are  at  work  to  favor  French 
interests. 

To  Benjamin  Lincoln,  August  28th     ....       312 

Minot's  History — Evil  effects  of  local  interests  on  federal 
concerns — Rumors  of  an  attempt  to  secure  an  anti-federal 
Congress — His  interpretation  of  the  New  York  letter. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  August  28th        .         .         .314 

Publius — The  letter  of  the  New  York  convention — As  to 
his  accepting  an  election  to  the  presidency. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  August  3 1st  .         .         .       317 

The  canal  of  Languedoc — Prospect  of  the  Virginia  ventures — 
European  politics — Paul  Jones — Proposals  for  managing  the 
American  debt — His  view  of  the  new  Constitution — Bright 
prospects  for  the  nation. 

To  Henry  Lee,  September  22d 323 

The  new  government — Solemnity  of  the  crisis — True  policy 
of  the  friends  of  the  Constitution — Real  meaning  of  the  at 
tempt  to  secure  immediate  amendments — His  possible  election. 

To  James  Madison,  September  23d     ....       327 

Congress  should  hieet  at  Philadelphia — Tactics  of  the  oppo 
sition. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  October  3d  .         .         .         .       328 

Delicacy  of  his  situation — Can  the  government  be  carried  into 
execution  without  his  aid  ? — His  intentions  and  purpose — Pros 
pects  of  an  opposition. 

To  Benjamin  Lincoln,  October  26th   ....       333 

Fears  and  hopes  of  the  new  government — Its  supporters  must 
not  be  lulled  into  security — Candidates — His  own  position  and 
wishes — The  Vice-President. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XI.  xvii 


To  Mathew  Carey,  October  2/th          ....       339 

The  extract  from  a  letter  attributed  to  him  is  spurious. 

To  Arthur  Young,  December  4th        ....       340 

Usefulness  of  agricultural  pursuits — His  quality  of  wool — 
Spanish  jacks — Advantages  of  mules  over  horses — Ploughs  and 
barns — Why  his  experiments  have  been  without  result — Does 
not  wish  his  letters  published. 

To  William  Gordon,  December  23d    ....       345 

Completion  of  his  history — His  possible  connection  with 
political  affairs — The  Nicola  incident — The  new  government — 
A  cipher. 

1789. 

To  William  Pierce,  January  1st 348 

The  presidency  and  appointments  to  office. 
To  the  Marquis  de  Lafayette,  January  29th        .         .       350 

Patriotism  not  faction  prevails  in  America — Growth  of  federal 
sentiments — His  attitude  towards  the  presidency — Improved 
situation  of  the  country — Manufactures. 

To  Benjamin  Lincoln,  January  3ist    .         .         .         .       354 

Rumored  action  in  Massachusetts — Misrepresentation  and 
falsehood  prevalent — Progress  of  federal  ideas  in  Virginia — 
John  Adams. 

To  Samuel  Powel,  February  5th          ....       356 

End  of  political  manoeuvres  against  the  Constitution — 
Virginia  probably  federal — Insanity  of  the  British  king. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  February  I3th  .         .         .       357 

Manufactures  and  inland  navigation — Cotton  and  glass — 
Communication  between  the  Ohio  and  Lake  Erie — Progress  of 
the  works  on  the  Potomac — Prospects  of  the  Great  Falls. 

To  Harry  Innes,  March  2d 361 

Intelligence  from  Kentucky — Wishes  a  continuance  of  the 
favors — Rumored  plot  of  separation. 

To  Richard  Conway,  March  4th  ....       363 

His  great  want  of  money — Wishes  to  borrow. 

To  Benjamin  Harrison,  March  9th      ....       364 

The  temper  of  the  opposition — Does  not  wish  to  appear  as  a 
partisan — Publication  of  his  views — His  application  for  an 
office. 


xviii  CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XI. 

PAGE 

To  George  Steptoe  Washington,  March  23d       .         .       369 

Some  advisory  hints — Acquisition  of  useful  knowledge — In 
dustry  and  amusements — Good  company — Economy — Dress — 
An  offer  from  Dr.  Craik. 

To  James  Madison,  March  3Oth 374 

Delay  in  obtaining  a  quorum — Wishes  lodgings  to  be  engaged 
— Wishes  to  be  in  an  independent  situation. 

To  Thomas  Green,  March  3  ist 375 

Labor  paid  for,  and  withheld,  robbery — Value  of  a  good 
name — His  love  of  drink — The  expense  and  danger. 

To  Henry  Knox,  April  ist 379 

Feels  like  a  culprit  going  to  execution — Can  only  promise  in 
tegrity  and  firmness. 

To  John  Langdon,  April  I4th 380 

Has  received  notice  of  his  election — Will  set  out  at  once. 

Inaugural  Speech,  April  30th 381 

To  Edward  Rutledge,  May  5th 388 

The  sacrifices  he  has  made — Fears  of  his  ability  to  meet 
expectations. 

To  James  Madison,  May  I2th     .....       390 

As  to  forms — Principal  object  to  leave  sufficient  time  for  the 
performance  of  his  duties — Queries  submitted. 

To  Mary  Wooster,  May  2 ist        .         .         .         .         .       393 

Sympathy  for  her  misfortunes — His  attitude  to  appointments 
— What  he  requires  for  his  own  satisfaction. 

To  Count  de  Moustier,  May  25th        ....       395 

Relations  between  the  United  States  and  France — Cannot 
enter  individually  into  any  commercial  negotiations — Manner  of 
conducting  such  business  with  the  executive. 

To  Mathew  Carey,  May  29th 399 

Extreme  annoyance. 

To  the  Secretary  of  Foreign  Affairs,  June  8th   .         .       400 

Calls  for  information  on  the  business  of  his  department. 

To  James  McHenry,  July  3d 401 

His  health — Wish  for  Dr.  Craik's  attendance, 

To  John  Jay,  July  I4th 403 

The  Spanish  negotiations. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XI.  xix 


PAGE 


To  Charles  Thomson,  July  24th  ....       404 

His  long  public  service — A  testimony  of  his  appreciation — 
Disposition  of  the  records. 

To  David  Stuart,  July  26th 405 

Wishes  to  know  public  opinion  of  his  acts — Visits  and  levees 
— Dignity  and  respect  in  office — Invitations — Question  of  titles 
— The  tonnage  bill — Secrecy  of  the  Senate — Claiborn's  land  and 
title — Young  Nelson. 

To  James  Madison,  August  gth  ....       415 

Conference  with  the  Senate  committee — The  real  intention 
of  the  Senate. 

Sentiments  Expressed  to  the  Senate  Committee  on 

Treaties  and  Nominations,  August  8th  and  loth,       417 
To  James  Madison,  August  - 420 

Nominations — Other  matters. 

To  Benjamin  Lincoln,  August  nth     .         .         .         .421 

A  proposed  treaty  with  the  Indians — Will  he  be  one  of  the 
commission  to  treat  ? 

To  James  Craik,  September  8th  ....       424 

His  health  and  recent  illness — Opposition  in  politics — The 
studies  of  his  nephew. 

To  Mrs.  Betty  Lewis,  September  I3th        .         .         .       426 

Death  of  his  mother — The  settlement  of  her  estate — His  own 
share — His  advances  to  the  estate — Sale  of  his  Fredericks- 
burg  lots. 

To  Benjamin  Franklin,  September  23d,       .         .         .431 

Sympathy  for  his  pain — Appreciation  of  his  services. 

To  Edmund  Randolph,  September  2;th      ...       432 

Importance  of  the  judiciary — Wishes  to  appoint  him  the 
Attorney-General — The  salary. 

To  Gouverneur  Morris,  October  I3th  .         .         .       434 

The  government  organized — The  revolution  in  France — 
Wishes  some  table  ornaments  and  wine  coolers. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  October  1 3th    ....       438 

Nominates  him  for  the  Department  of  State — The  French 
appointment — Roger  Alden  commended. 

To  Gouverneur  Morris,  October  I3th          .  .       440 

Wishes  to  sound  the  sentiments  of  the  British  court — Com 
missions  him  to  discuss  informally. 


xx  CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XI. 


To  Gouverneur  Morris,  October  I3th  .         .         .       441 

His  mission  outlined — Subjects  to  be  mentioned — Posts  and 
negroes — Commercial  regulation — Trade  with  their  islands — 
Exchange  of  ministers. 

To  John  Hancock,  October  23d  ....       444 

His  reception  in  Boston. 

To  Beverley  Randolph,  November  22d        .         .         .       445 

A  proposed  woollen  manufactory  in  Virginia — Advantage  of 
public  encouragement. 

To  James  McHenry,  November  3Oth  .         .         .       447 

Maryland  appointments. 

To  Edmund  Randolph,  November  3Oth      .         .         .       450 

Judicial  appointments  in  Virginia — Rumor  that  Mr.  Wythe 
had  been  overlooked — Reasons  for  appointing  Griffin. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  December  i/th    .         .         .       453 

Disbursements  on  account  of  British  prisoners — Lack  of 
proper  vouchers  may  occasion  loss — British  counterclaims. 

To  Jabez  Bowen,  December  2/th         ....       454 

Cannot  give  an  official  opinion  on  the  conduct  of  Rhode 
Island — That  State  stands  entirely  alone. 

1790. 

Speech  to  Congress,  January  8th         ....       456 
To  Catharine  Macaulay  Graham,  January  gth    .         .       459 

Her  indulgent  partiality  towards  him — His  desire  for  retire 
ment  broken  into  by  a  sense  of  public  duty — His  station  new, 
and  his  acts  subject  to  a  double  interpretation — The  actual 
situation  of  the  country — America  independent — Luxury  and 
ostentation  to  be  avoided. 

To  Charles  Pinckney,  January  nth     ....       463 

The  Spanish  negotiation — Nothing  has  occurred  since  the 
departure  of  Gardoqui — Indian  affairs — Prompt  and  decisive 
measures  may  become  necessary. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  January  2 1st     .  .         .       467 

Reasons  for  making  a  decision  on  taking  office — Importance  of 
the  position  offered — Duties  not  so  arduous  as  may  be  imagined 
— The  nomination  well  received — Foreign  intercourse  remains 
to  be  organized. 

To  Edmund  Randolph,  February  nth        .         .         .       470 

Cannot  endorse  his   opinion — Congress  must   pass   enabling 
acts. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XI.  xxi 


To  David  Stuart,  March  28th      .         .         .         .         .471 

Jealousies  poisoning  the  minds  of  the  southern  people — 
Different  interests  of  sections  have  always  existed — Local 
divisions  in  States  and  counties — Spirit  of  accommodation 
should  prevail — Benefit  of  united  action — Will  separation  occa 
sion  harmony  ? — Influence  of  the  gazettes — Discrimination  to 
public  creditors — Assumption  and  slavery. 

To  the  Marquis  de  la  Luzerne,  April  2Qth  .         .       475 

An  interchange  of  felicitations — Prosperous  situation  of  the 
country — Not  indifferent  to  the  welfare  of  the  French  nation — 
Rumors  of  European  wars — Conditions  of  advancement. 

To  the  Marquis  de  Lafayette,  June  3d         ...       478 

Wishes  for  success — A  good  temper  prevails  in  the  Union — 
Elements  of  prosperity  everywhere  visible — Extension  of  trade 
enterprise — Personal. 

To  David  Stuart,  June  I5th 481 

Discontent  in  Virginia — Action  of  Congress  criticised — Some 
ill-advised  proceedings — Assumption  of  the  State  debts — His 
reception  days  and  the  forms  used. 

To  Clement  Biddle,  July  2oth 490 

Inquires  about  certain  farms  offered  for  sale — His  intentions 
and  needs. 

To  the  Marquis  de  Lafayette,  August  nth         .         .       493 

The  key  of  the  Bastile — Difficult  position  of  France — What 
has  been  done  by  Congress — Strict  neutrality  in  European  broils, 
the  true  policy  of  the  United  States — The  threatened  contest 
between  England  and  Spain. 

To  Henry  Knox,  August  I3th 499 

Matters  to  be  submitted  to  him  before  his  departure — Indian 
problems. 
To  Alexander  Hamilton,  October  loth       .         .         .501 

Beckwith's  hint  and  its  motive — His  speech  to  Congress. 

To  Tobias  Lear,  November  I4th         ....       503 

The  President's  house — What  rent  should  be  paid — Altera 
tions  to  be  made. 

To  Henry  Knox,  Nov.  I9th 506 

Misconduct  of  Harmar — Obstacles  to  the  success  of  the  ex 
pedition. 

To  George  Steptoe  Washington,  December  5th          .       508 

Cost  of  his  education — Advice  upon  his  conduct. 


THE  WRITINGS  OF 

GEORGE  WASHINGTON. 


TO    JAMES    WARREN. 
T->.  ~  MOUNT  VERNON,  7  October,  1785. 

DEAR  SIR, 

The  assurances  of  your  friendship,  after  a  silence 
of  more  than  six  years,  are  extremely  pleasing  to  me. 
Friendship,  formed  under  the  circumstances  that  ours 
commenced  are  not  easily  eradicated;  and  I  can  as 
sure  you,  that  mine  has  undergone  no  diminution. 
Every  occasion,  therefore,  of  renewing  it  will  give  me 
pleasure,  and  I  shall  be  happy  at  all  times  to  hear  of 
your  welfare. 

The  war,  as  you  have  very  justly  observed,  has  ter 
minated  most  advantageously  for  America,  and  a  fair 
field  is  presented  to  our  view  ;  but  I  confess  to  you 
freely,  my  dear  Sir,  that  I  do  not  think  we  possess 
wisdom  or  justice  enough  to  cultivate  it  properly. 
Illiberality,  jealousy,  and  local  policy  mix  too  much 
in  all  our  public  councils  for  the  good  government  of 
the  Union.  In  a  word,  the  confederation  appears  to 
me  to  be  little  more  than  a  shadow  without  the 
substance,  and  Congress  a  nugatory  body,  their 
ordinances  being  little  attended  to.  To  me  it  is  a 
solecism  in  politics,  indeed  it  is  one  of  the  most  ex- 


THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1785 


traordinary  things  in  nature,  that  we  should  con 
federate  as  a  nation,  and  yet  be  afraid  to  give  the 
rulers  of  that  nation  who  are  the  creatures  of  our 
making,  appointed  for  a  limited  and  short  duration, 
and  who  are  amenable  for  every  action  and  recallable 
at  any  moment,  and  are  subject  to  all  the  evils,  which 
they  may  be  instrumental  in  producing,  sufficient 
powers  to  order  and  direct  the  affairs  of  the  same. 
By  such  policy  as  this  the  wheels  of  government 
are  clogged,  and  our  brightest  prospects,  and  that 
high  expectation,  which  was  entertained  of  us  by  the 
wondering  world,  are  turned  into  astonishment ;  and 
from  the  high  ground  on  which  we  stood,  we  are 
descending  into  the  vale  of  confusion  and  darkness. 

That  we  have  it  in  our  power  to  become  one  of  the 
most  respectable  nations  upon  earth,  admits,  in  my 
humble  opinion,  of  no  doubt,  if  we  would  but  pursue 
a  wise,  just,  and  liberal  policy  towards  one  another, 
and  keep  good  faith  with  the  rest  of  the  world. 
That  our  resources  are  ample  and  increasing,  none 
can  deny  ;  but,  while  they  are  grudgingly  applied,  or 
not  applied  at  all,  we  give  a  vital  stab  to  public  faith, 
and  shall  sink,  in  the  eyes  of  Europe,  into  contempt. 

It  has  long  been  a  speculative  question  among 
philosophers  and  wise  men,  whether  foreign  commerce 
is  of  real  advantage  to  any  country  ;  that  is,  whether 
the  luxury,  effeminacy,  and  corruptions,  which  are  in 
troduced  along  with  it,  are  counterbalanced  by  the 
convenience  and  wealth  which  it  brings  with  it.  But 
the  decision  of  this  question  is  of  very  little  im 
portance  to  us.  We  have  abundant  reason  to  be 


1785]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  3 

convinced,  that  the  spirit  for  trade,  which  pervades 
these  States,  is  not  to  be  restrained.  It  behoves  us 
then  to  establish  just  principles  ;  and  this,  any  more 
than  other  matters  of  national  concern,  cannot  be 
done  by  thirteen  heads  differently  constructed  and 
organized.  The  necessity,  therefore,  of  a  controlling 
power  is  obvious  ;  and  why  it  should  be  withheld  is 
beyond  my  comprehension. 

The  Agricultural  Society,  lately  established  in 
Philadelphia,  promises  extensive  usefulness,  if  it  is 
prosecuted  with  spirit.  I  wish  most  sincerely,  that 
every  State  in  the  Union  would  institute  similar  ones  ; 
and  that  these  societies  would  correspond  fully  and 
freely  with  each  other,  and  communicate  all  useful  dis 
coveries  founded  on  practice,  with  a  due  attention  to 
climate,  soil,  and  seasons  to  the  public. 

It  would  afford  me  great  pleasure  to  go 
over  those  grounds  in  your  State,  with  a  mind  more 
at  ease  than  when  I  travelled  them  in  1775  and  1776, 
and  to  unite  in  congratulating  on  the  happy  change 
with  those  characters,  who  participated  of  the  anxious 
moments  we  passed  in  those  days,  and  for  whom  I 
entertain  a  .sincere  regard  ;  but  I  do  not  know 
whether  to  flatter  myself  with  the  enjoyment  of  it. 
The  deranged  state  of  my  affairs,  from  an  absence 
and  total  neglect  of  them  for  almost  nine  years,  and 
a 'pressure  of  other  matters,  allow  me  little  leisure 
for  gratifications  of  this  sort.  Mrs.  Washington 
offers  her  compliments  and  best  wishes  to  Mrs. 
Warren,  to  which  be  pleased  to  add  those  of,  dear 
Sir,  yours,  &c. 


4  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1785 

TO    PATRICK    HENRY,    GOVERNOR    OF    VIRGINIA, 

MOUNT  VERNON,  29  October,  1785. 

SIR, 

Your  Excellency  having  been  pleased  to  transmit 
to  me  a  copy  of  the  act,  appropriating  to  my  benefit 
certain  shares  in  the  companies  for  opening  the  navi 
gation  of  James  and  Potomac  Rivers,  I  take  the 
liberty  of  returning  to  the  General  Assembly,  through 
your  hands,  the  profound  and  grateful  acknowledg 
ments  inspired  by  so  signal  a  mark  of  their  benefi 
cent  intentions  towards  me.  I  beg  you,  Sir,  to  assure 
them,  that  I  am  filled  on  this  occasion  with  every 
sentiment,  which  can  flow  from  a  heart  warm  with 
love  for  my  country,  sensible  to  every  token  of  its 
approbation  and  affection,  and  solicitous  to  testify  in 
every  instance  a  respectful  submission  to  its  wishes. 

With  these  sentiments  in  my  bosom,  I  need  not 
dwell  on  the  anxiety  I  feel  in  being  obliged  in  this 
instance  to  decline  a  favor,  which  is  rendered  no  less 
flattering  by  the  manner  in  which  it  is  conveyed,  than 
it  is  affectionate  in  itself.  In  explaining  this  obser 
vation  I  pass  over  a  comparison  of  my  endeavors  in 
the  public  service  with  the  many  honorable  testimo 
nies  of  approbation,  which  have  already  so  far  over 
rated  and  overpaid  them  ;  reciting  one  consideration 
only,  which  supersedes  the  necessity  of  recurring  to 
every  other. 

When  I  was  first  called  to  the  station,  with  which 
I  was  honored  during  the  late  conflict  for  our  liber 
ties,  to  the  diffidence  which  I  had  so  many  reasons  to 
feel  in  accepting  it,  I  thought  it  my  duty  to  join  a 
firm  resolution  to  shut  my  hand  against  every  pecu- 


1785]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  5 

niary  recompense.  To  this  resolution  I  have  invari 
ably  adhered,  and  from  it,  if  I  had  the  inclination, 
I  do  not  feel  at  liberty  now  to  depart. 

Whilst  I  repeat,  therefore,  my  fervent  acknowl 
edgments  to  the  legislature  for  their  very  kind  sen 
timents  and  intentions  in  my  favor,  and  at  the  same 
time  beg  them  to  be  persuaded,  that  a  remembrance 
of  this  singular  proof  of  their  goodness  towards  me 
will  never  cease  to  cherish  returns  of  the  warmest 
affection  and  gratitude,  I  must  pray  that  their  act,  so 
far  as  it  has  for  its  object  my  personal  emolument, 
may  not  have  its  effect.  But  if  it  should  please  the 
General  Assembly  to  permit  me  to  turn  the  destination 
of  the  fund  vested  in  me,  from  my  private  emolument, 
to  objects  of  a  public  nature,  it  will  be  my  study  in 
selecting  these  to  prove  the  sincerity  of  my  gratitude 
for  the  honor  conferred  on  me,  by  preferring  such  as 
may  appear  most  subservient  to  the  enlightened  and 
patriotic  views  of  the  legislature.  With  great  respect 
and  consideration,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &C.1 

1  After  this  letter  had  been  read,  the  legislature  passed  an  act  withdrawing  the 
donation,  and  adding  :  "  That  the  said  shares,  with  the  tolls  and  profits  here 
after  accruing  therefrom,  shall  stand  appropriated  to  such  objects  of  a  public 
nature,  in  such  manner  and  under  such  distributions,  as  the  said  George  Wash 
ington,  by  deed  during  his  life,  or  by  his  last  will  and  testament,  shall  direct." — 
Hening's  Statutes,  vol.  xii.,  p.  44.  The  letter  is  printed  in  the  preamble  to  the 
statute.  In  writing  to  Mr.  Madison  on  the  subject,  at  the  time  he  sent  the 
above  letter  to  the  governor,  Washington  said:  "Conceiving  it  would  be 
better  to  suggest  a  wish,  than  to  propose  an  absolute  condition  of  acceptance, 
I  have  so  expressed  myself  to  the  Assembly  ;  and  I  shall  be  obliged  to  you, 
not  only  for  information  of  the  result,  but  (if  there  is  an  acquiescence  on  the 
part  of  the  country)  for  your  sentiments  respecting  the  appropriations.  From 
what  may  be  said  on  the  occasion,  you  will  learn  what  will  be  most  pleasing, 
and  of  the  greatest  utility  to  the  public." — October  2gth. 

"  Your  letter  for  the  Assembly  was  laid  before  them  yesterday.  I  have  rea 
son  to  believe  that  it  was  received  with  every  sentiment  which  could  correspond 


THE  WAITINGS  OF  [1785 


TO    GEORGE    WILLIAM    FAIRFAX. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  10  November,  1785. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

*  %  *  *  *  * 

The  two  youngest  children  of  Mr.  Custis — the  old 
est  a  girl  of  six  years — the  other  a  boy  a  little  turned 
of  four  live  with  me.  They  are  both  promising  chil 
dren  ;  but  the  latter  is  a  remarkable  fine  one — and  my 
intention  is  to  give  him  a  liberal  education  ;  the  rudi 
ments  of  which  shall,  if  I  live,  be  in  my  own  family. 
— Having  promised  this,  let  me  next,  my  good  Sir, 
ask  if  it  is  in  your  power  conveniently,  to  engage  a 
proper  preceptor  for  him  ? — at  present,  and  for  a 
year  or  two  to  come,  much  confinement  would  be  im 
proper  for  him  ;  but  this  being  the  period  in  which  I 
should  derive  more  aid  from  a  man  of  Letters  and  an 
accomptant  than  at  any  other,  to  assist  me  in  my  nu 
merous  correspondences,  and  to  extricate  the  latter 
from  the  disordered  state  into  which  they  have  been 
thrown  by  the  war,  I  could  usefully  employ  him  in 
this  manner  until  his  attention  should  be  more  imme 
diately  required  for  his  pupil.— 

Fifty  or  Sixty  pounds  Sterling  pr.  Ann.  with  board, 
lodging,  washing  and  mending,  in  the  family,  is  the 
most  my  numerous  expenditures  will  allow  me  to  give  ; 

with  yours.  Nothing  passed  from  which  any  conjecture  could  be  formed  as  to 
the  objects  which  would  be  most  pleasing  for  the  appropriation  of  the  fund. 
The  disposition  is,  I  am  persuaded  much  stronger  to  acquiesce  in  your  choice, 
whatever  it  may  be,  than  to  lead  or  anticipate  it.  I  see  no  inconveniency  in 
your  taking  time  for  a  choice  that  will  please  yourself.  The  letter  was  referred 
to  a  committee,  which  will  no  doubt  make  such  a  report  as  will  give  effect  to 
your  wishes." — Madison  to  Washington,  u  November,  1785. 


1785]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  7 


but  how  far  it  may  command  the  services  of  a  person 
well  qualified  to  answer  the  purposes  I  have  men 
tioned,  is  not  for  me  to  decide.  To  answer  my  pur 
poses,  the  Gentleman  must  be  a  master  of  composi 
tion,  and  a  good  accomptant  : — to  answer  his  pupil's, 
he  must  be  a  classical  scholar,  and  capable  of  teaching 
the  French  language  grammatically  : — the  more  uni 
versal  his  knowledge  is,  the  better.— 

It  sometimes  happens  that  very  worthy  men  of 
the  cloth  come  under  this  description  ;  men  who  are 
advanced  in  years,  and  not  very  comfortable  in  their 
circumstances.  Such  an  one,  if  unencumbered  with 
a  family,  would  be  more  agreeable  to  me  than  a 
young  man  just  from  college — but  I  except  none  of 
good  moral  character  answering  my  description,  if 
he  can  be  well  recommended.— 

To  you  my  Dr.  Sir,  I  have  offered  this  my  first 
address  ;  but  if  you  should  think  my  purposes  cannot 
be  subserved  in  your  circle,  upon  the  terms  here 
mentioned  ;  I  beg,  in  that  case,  that  you  will  be  so 
obliging  as  to  forward  the  enclosed  letter  as  it  is 
directed. — This  gentleman  has  written  to  me  upon 
another  subject,  &  favored  me  with  his  lucubrations 
upon  Education,  which  mark  him  a  man  of  abili 
ties,  at  the  same  time  that  he  is  highly  spoken  of  as 
a  teacher,  and  a  person  of  good  character.  In  Scot 
land  we  all  know  that  Education  is  cheap,  and  wages 
not  so  high  as  in  England  : — but  I  would  prefer,  on 
account  of  the  dialect,  an  Englishman  to  a  Scotch 
man,  for  all  the  purposes  I  want. 


8  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1785 

We  have  commenced  our  operations  on  the  navi 
gation  of  this  river ;  and  I  am  happy  to  inform  you, 
that  the  difficulties  rather  vanish  than  increase  as  we 
proceed. — James  river  is  under  similar  circumstances  ; 
and  a  cut  between  the  waters  of  Albermarle  in  No. 
Carolina,  and  Elizabeth  river  in  this  State,  is  also  in 
contemplation — and  if  the  whole  is  effected  and  I  see 
nothing  to  prevent  it,  it  will  give  the  greatest  and 
most  advantageous  inland  Navigation  to  this  Country 
of  any  in  the  Union — or  I  believe,  in  the  world  :— 
for  as  the  Shannondoah,  the  South  branch,  Mono- 
easy  and  Conogocheague  are  equally  capable  of  great 
improvement,  they  will  no  doubt  be  immediately 
attempted  ;  and  more  than  probable  a  communication 
by  good  roads  will  be  opened  with  the  waters  to  the 
westward  of  us  ;  by  means  of  the  No.  Branch  of 
Potomac,  which  interlocks  with  the  Cheat  river  and 
Yohoghaney  (branches  of  the  Monongahela)  that 
empty  into  the  Ohio  at  Fort  Pitt. — The  same  is 
equally  practicable  between  James  river  and  the 
Greenbriar  a  branch  of  the  Great  Kanhawa,  which 
empties  into  the  same  river,  300  miles  below  that 
place  ;  by  means  whereof  the  whole  trade  of  that 
Territory  which  is  now  unfolding  to  our  view,  may 
be  drawn  into  this  State — equally  productive  of 
political  as  commercial  advantages. 

As  I  never  ride  to  my  plantations  without  seeing 
something  which  makes  one  regret  having  continued 
so  long  in  the  ruinous  mode  of  farming,  which  we  are 
in  ;  I  beg  leave,  tho'  I  am  persuaded  it  will  give  you 
trouble,  to  recall  your  attention  to  the  request  of  my 


1785]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON. 


former  letter,  the  duplicate  of  which  you  now  have.— 
Miscarriages,  and  where  this  is  not  the  case,  delays 
of  letters  must  be  my  apology  for  reiterating  the  mat 
ter,  that  there  may  be  time  for  decision,  before  the 
intervention  of  another  year. 

The  marriage  mentioned  in  my  last  is  celebrated, 
but  a  fit  of  the  gout  prevented  Colo.  Bassett  from 
beeing  at  it — consequently  I  am  to  lay  a  little  longer 
out  of  your  kind  present.  Mrs.  Washington  who  has 
very  indifferent  health,  joins  me  in  the  sincerest  and 
best  wishes  for  every  blessing  which  can  be  bestowed 
on  Mrs.  Fairfax  and  yourself. 

With  great  esteem,  &c. 

P.  S.  Since  writing  the  above  &  foregoing  I 
have  seen  Mr.  Battaile  Muse  who  looks  after  your 
Estate  ;  &  upon  enquiry  of  him,  am  authorized  to 
inform  you  that  your  negroes,  and  everything  under 
his  care  are  tolerably  well,  &  your  prospect  of  a 
crop  midling,  which  is  saying  a  good  deal  this  year. 

I  have  the  pleasure  also  to  inform  you  that  your 
Brother  and  his  family  were  very  well  a  few  days 
ago  when  I  was  there,  attending  the  business  of  the 
Potomac  Company  at  the  Great  Falls. 

Your  Sister  and  family  are  likewise  well — I  saw 
her  three  oldest  daughters  last  week — the  elder  of 
them,  Milly,  is  on  the  eve  of  Matrimony  with  a  Mr. 
Ogden  Throckmorton — a  match  not  very  agreeable, 
it  is  said,  to  her  friends,  &  kept  off  by  Mrs.  Bushrod 
'till  her  death  which  happened  some  three  or  four 
months  ago — but  now  is  yielded  to  by  her  Parents. 


io  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1785 

TO    LUND    WASHINGTON. 
DEAR  LUND  MOUNT  VERNON,  20  November,  1785. 

I  know  as  little  of  G:  W.s  plans  or  wishes  as  you 
do,  never  having  exchanged  a  word  with  him  upon 
the  subject  in  my  life. — By  his  Advertisement,  and 
from  what  has  frequently  dropped  from  Fanny,  he  is 
desirous  of  getting  a  place  in  this  country  to  live 
at— 

Before  their  marriage  he  and  Fanny  were  both  told 
that  it  would  be  very  agreeable  to  Mrs.  W.  and  myself, 
that  they  should  make  this  House  their  home  'till 
the  squalling  and  trouble  of  children  might  become 
disagreeable. — I  have  not  repeated  the  matter  since, 
because  it  was  unnecessary — an  offer  once  made  is 
sufficient. — It  is  hardly  to  be  expected  that  two 
people  young  as  they  are,  with  their  nearest  con 
nexions  at  extreme  points,  would  like  confinement:  - 
and  without  it,  he  could  not  answer  my  purposes  as 
a  Manager  or  Superintend.,  unless  I  had  more  leisure 
to  attend  to  my  own  business ;  which  by  the  by  I 
shall  aim  at,  let  the  consequences,  in  other  respects, 
be  as  they  may. 

These  however  are  no  reasons  for  detaining  you  a 
moment  longer  in  my  employ  than  suits  your  interest, 
or  is  agreeable  to  your  inclination,  and  family  con 
cerns  But  as  the  proposition  is  new,  and  hath  never 
been  resolved  in  my  mind,  it  will  take  some  time  to 
digest  my  own  thoughts  upon  the  occasion  before  it 
is  hinted  to  another. 

In  the  mean  while  if  I  can  do  with  the  aids  you 
offer,  and  for  which  I  sincerely  thank  you,  I  will  ask 


1785]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  n 


your  constant  attention  no  longer  than  this  year — at 
any  rate  not  longer  than  the  next. — The  inexplicitness 
of  this  answer  cannot,  I  presume,  put  you  to  much  if 
any  inconvenience  as  yet  ;  because  retirement  from, 
&  not  a  change  of  business,  is  professedly  your 
object- 
However  unlucky  I  may  have  been  in  crops,  &c.  of 
late  years,  I  shall  always  retain  a  grateful  sense  of 
your  endeavors  to  serve  me  ; — for  as  I  have  repeatedly 
intimated  to  you  in  my  Letters  from  camp,  nothing 
but  that  entire  confidence  which  I  reposed,  could 
have  made  me  easy  under  an  absence  of  almost 
nine  years  from  my  family  and  Estate,  or  could  have 
enabled  me,  consequently,  to  have  given  not  only  my 
time,  but  my  whole  attention  to  the  public  concerns 
of  this  Country  for  that  space.  I  am,  &C.1 


TO    JAMES    MADISON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  30  November,  1785. 

DEAR  SIR, 

Receive  my  thanks  for  your  obliging  communica 
tions  of  the  nth.  I  hear  with  much  pleasure,  that 
the  Assembly  are  engaged  seriously  in  the  considera 
tion  of  the  revised  laws.  A  short  and  simple  code  in 
my  opinion,  though  I  have  the  sentiments  of  some  of 
the  gentlemen  of  the  long  robe  against  me,  would  be 
productive  of  happy  consequences,  and  redound  to 
the  honor  of  this  or  any  country,  which  shall  adopt 

1  It  was  on  December  2Oth  that  Washington  informed  Lund  that  his  wish 
for  retiring  from  the  management  of  Mount  Vernon  could  be  gratified.  George 
Augustine  Washington  came  to  Mt.  Vernon  and  was  placed  in  charge. 


12  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1785 


a  code  so  short,  plain  &  simple.  I  hope  the  resolu 
tions,  which  were  published  for  the  consideration  of 
the  House,  respecting  the  reference  of  Congress  for 
the  regulation  of  a  commercial  system,  will  have 
passed.1 

The  proposition,  in  my  opinion,  is  so  self-evident, 
that  I  confess  I  am  unable  to  discover  wherein  lies 
the  weight  of  objection  to  the  measure.  We  are 
either  a  united  people,  or  we  are  not  so.  If  the 
former,  let  us  in  all  matters  of  general  concern,  act 
as  a  nation  which  has  a  national  character  to  support ; 
if  we  are  not,  let  us  no  longer  act  a  farce  by  pretend 
ing  to  it  ;  for,  whilst  we  are  playing  a  double  game, 
or  playing  a  game  between  the  two,  we  never  shall 
be  consistent  or  respectable,  but  may  be  the  dupes  of 
some  powers,  and  the  contempt  assuredly  of  all.  In 
any  case,  it  behoves  us  to  provide  good  militia  laws, 
and  to  look  well  to  the  execution  of  them  ;  but  if  we 
mean  by  our  conduct,  that  the  States  shall  act  inde 
pendently  of  each  other,  it  becomes  indispensably 
necessary,  for  therein  will  consist  our  strength  and 
the  respectability  of  the  Union.2 

1  "  If  the  States  individually  were  to  attempt  this,  an  abortion,  or  a  many 
headed  monster  would  be  the  issue." — Washington  to  David  Stuart,  30  No 
vember,  1785. 

2  "The  discussion  of    them  [the   commercial  propositions]    has   consumed 
much  time,   and  though  the  absolute  necessity  of  some  such  general  system 
prevailed  over  all  the  efforts  of  its  adversaries  in  the  first  instance,  the  stratagem 
of  limiting  its  duration  to  a  short  term  has  ultimately  disappointed  our  hopes. 
I  think  it  better  to  trust  to  further  experience,  and  even  distress,  for  an  adequate 
remedy,  than  to  try  a  temporary  measure,  which  may  stand  in  the  way  of  a 
permanent  one,  and  confirm  that  transatlantic  policy  which  is  founded  on  our 
supposed  mistrust  of  Congress  and  of  one  another." — Madison  to  Washington, 
9  December,  1785. 


1785]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  13 

It  is  much  to  be  wished  that  public  faith  may  be 
held  inviolable.  Painful  is  it,  even  in  thought,  that 
attempts  should  be  made  to  weaken  the  bands  of  it. 
It  is  a  dangerous  experiment.  Once  slacken  the 
reins,  and  the  power  is  lost.  And  it  is  questionable 
with  me,  whether  the  advocates  of  the  measure  fore 
see  all  its  consequences.  It  is  an  old  adage,  that  honesty 
is  the  best  policy.  This  applies  to  public  as  well  as 
private  life,  to  States  as  well  as  individuals. 

I  hope  the  Port  and  Assize  Bills  no  longer  sleep, 
but  are  awakened  to  a  happy  establishment.  The 
first,  with  some  alterations,  would  in  my  judgment  be 
productive  of  great  good  to  this  country.  Without 
it,  the  trade,  thereof,  I  conceive,  will  ever  labor  and 
languish.  With  respect  to  the  second,  if  it  institutes 
a  speedier  administration  of  justice,  it  is  equally  de 
sirable.  *  *  * 

From  the  complexion  of  the  debates  in  the  Penn 
sylvania  Assembly,  it  should  seem  as  if  that  legis 
lature  intended  their  assent  to  the  proposition  from 
the  States  of  Virginia  and  Maryland,  (respecting  a 
road  to  the  Youghiogany,)  should  be  on  the  condition 
that  permission  be  given  by  the  latter  to  open  a  com 
munication  between  the  Chesapeake  and  Delaware, 
by  the  way  of  the  rivers  Elk  and  Christiana  ;  which  I 
am  sure  will  never  be  obtained,  if  the  Baltimore 
interest  can  give  effectual  opposition.  The  directors 
of  the  Potomac  navigation  have  sent  to  the  delegates 
of  this  county,  to  be  laid  before  the  Assembly,  a  peti 
tion  (which  sets  forth  the  reasons)  for  relief  in  the 
depth  of  the  canals,  which  it  may  be  found  necessary 


i4  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1785 


to  open  at  the  Great  and  Little  Falls  of  the  river. 
As  public  economy  and  private  interest  equally  prompt 
the  measure,  and  no  possible  disadvantage,  that  we 
can  see,  will  attend  granting  the  prayer  of  it,  we  flatter 
ourselves  no  opposition  will  be  given  to  it.  To  save 
trouble,  to  expedite  the  business,  and  to  obtain  uni 
formity  without  delay,  or  an  intercourse  between  the 
two  Assemblies  on  so  trifling  a  matter,  we  have  taken 
the  liberty  of  sending  the  draft  of  a  bill  to  members 
of  both  Assemblies,  which,  if  approved,  will  be  found 
exactly  similar.  With  the  greatest  esteem  and  regard, 
I  am,  Dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO  ALEXANDER    HAMILTON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  n  December,  1785. 

DEAR  SIR, 

I  have  been  favored  with  your  letter  of  the  25th  of 
November  by  Major  Farlie. 

Sincerely  do  I  wish  that  the  several  State  Societies 
had,  or  would,  adopt  the  alterations  that  were  recom 
mended  by  the  General  meeting  in  May,  1/84. — I 
then  thought,  and  have  had  no  cause  since  to  change 
my  opinion,  that  if  the  Society  of  the  Cincinnati  mean 
to  live  in  peace  with  the  rest  of  their  fellow  citizens, 
they  must  subscribe  to  the  alterations  which  were  at 
that  time  adopted. 

That  the  jealousies  of,  and  prejudices  against  this 
Society  were  carried  to  an  unwarrantable  length,  I 
will  readily  grant.  And  that  less  than  was  done, 
ought  to  have  removed  the  fears  which  had  been  im 
bibed,  I  am  as  clear  in,  as  I  am  that  it  would  not  have 


1785]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  15 

done  it.  But  it  is  a  matter  of  little  moment  whether 
the  alarm  which  seized  the  public  mind  was  the  result 
of  foresight — envy  and  jealousy — or  a  disordered 
imagination  ;  the  effect  of  perseverance  would  have 
been  the  same ;  wherein  there  would  have  been 
found  an  equivalent  for  the  separation  of  the  In 
terests,  which  (from  my  best  information,  not  from 
one  state  only  but  from  many)  would  inevitably  have 
taken  place  ? 

The  fears  of  the  people  are  not  yet  removed,  they 
only  sleep,  and  a  very  little  matter  will  set  them  afloat 
again.  Had  it  not  been  for  the  predicament  we 
stood  in  with  respect  to  the  foreign  officers,  and  the 
charitable  part  of  the  Institution,  I  should  on  that 
occasion,  as  far  as  my  voice  would  have  gone,  have 
endeavored  to  convince  the  narrow-minded  part  of  our 
Countrymen  that  the  Amor  Patrisewas  much  stronger 
in  our  breasts  than  theirs — and  that  our  conduct  through 
the  whole  of  the  business  was  actuated  by  nobler  and 
more  generous  sentiments  than  were  apprehended,  by 
abolishing  the  Society  at  once,  with  a  declaration  of 
the  causes,  and  the  purity  of  its  intention.  But  the 
latter  may  be  interesting  to  many,  and  the  former,  is 
an  inseparable  bar  to  such  a  step.1 

I  am  sincerely  concerned  to  find  by  your  letter  that 
the  Baron  is  again  in  straightened  circumstances — I 

"  I  have  received  the  pamphlet,  which  you  were  so  obliging  as  to  send  me, 
entitled  '  Considerations  on  the  Order  of  Cincinnatus ,  by  the  Count  de  Mira- 
beau.'  I  thank  you,  my  good  Sir,  for  this  instance  of  your  attention,  but  wish 
you  had  taken  time  to  have  perused  it  first,  as  I  have  not  yet  had  leisure  to  give 
it  a  reading.  I  thought,  as  most  others  seemed  to  think,  that  all  the  exceptiona 
ble  parts  of  that  institution  had  been  done  away  at  the  last  general  meeting  ; 
but,  with  those  who  are  disposed  to  cavil,  or  who  have  the  itch  of  writing 


16  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1785 

am  much  disinclined  to  ask  favors  of  Congress,  but  if 
I  knew  what  the  objects  of  his  wishes  are,  I  should 
have  much  pleasure  in  rendering  him  any  services  in 
my  power  with  such  members  of  that  body  as  I  now 
and  then  corrispond  with. — I  had  flattered  myself, 
from  what  was  told  me  some  time  ago,  that  Con 
gress  had  made  a  final  settlement  with  the  Baron  much 
to  his  satisfaction.  *  *  * 


TO    THE    TRUSTEES    OF    THE    ALEXANDRIA   ACADEMY. 

17  December,   1785. 

GENTLEMEN, 

That  I  may  be  perspicuous  and  avoid  misconcep 
tion,  the  proposition  which  I  wish  to  lay  before  you 
is  committed  to  writing,  and  is  as  follows  : 

It  has  long  been  my  intention  to  invest,  at  my 
death,  one  thousand  pounds  current  money  of  this 
State  in  the  hands  of  trustees,  the  interest  only  of 
which  to  be  applied  in  instituting  a  school  in  the  town 
of  Alexandria,  for  the  purpose  of  educating  orphan 
children,  who  have  no  other  resource,  or  the  children 
of  such  indigent  parents,  as  are  unable  to  give  it ;  the 
objects  to  be  considered  of  and  determined  by  the 

strongly  upon  them,  nothing  can  be  made  to  suit  their  palates.  The  best  way, 
therefore,  to  disconcert  and  defeat  them,  is  to  take  no  notice  of  their  publica 
tions.  All  else  is  but  food  for  declamation. 

"  There  is  not,  I  conceive,  an  unbiassed  mind,  that  would  refuse  the  officers 
of  the  late  army  the  right  of  associating  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  a  fund 
for  the  support  of  the  poor  and  distressed  of  their  fraternity,  when  many  of 
them,  it  is  well  known,  are  reduced  to  their  last  shifts  by  the  ungenerous  con 
duct  of  their  country  in  not  adopting  more  vigorous  measures  to  render  their 
certificates  productive.  That  charity  is  all  that  remains  of  the  original  institu 
tion,  none,  who  will  beat  the  trouble  of  reading  it,  can  deny." — Washington 
to  Samuel  Vaughan,  30  November,  1785. 


1785]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  17 

trustees  for  the  time  being,  when  applied  to  by  the 
parents  or  friends  of  the  children,  who  have  preten 
sions  to  this  provision.  It  is  not  in  my  power  at  this 
time  to  advance  the  above  sum  ;  but  that  a  measure, 
that  may  be  productive  of  good,  may  not  be  delayed, 
I  will  until  my  death,  or  until  it  shall  be  more  con 
venient  for  my  estate  to  advance  the  principal,  pay 
the  interest  thereof,  to  wit,  fifty  pounds  annually. 

Under  this  state  of  the  matter,  I  submit  to  your 
consideration  the  practicability  and  propriety  of  blend 
ing  the  two  institutions  together,  so  as  to  make  one 
seminary  under  the  direction  of  the  president,  visitors, 
or  such  other  establishment  as  to  you  shall  seem  best 
calculated  to  promote  the  objects  in  view,  and  for 
preserving  order,  regularity,  and  good  conduct  in  the 
academy.  My  intention,  as  I  have  before  intimated, 
is,  that  the  principal  sum  shall  never  be  broken  in 
upon  ;  the  interest  only  to  be  applied  for  the  purposes 
above-mentioned.  It  was  also  my  intention  to  apply 
the  latter  to  the  sole  purpose  of  education,  and  of 
that  kind  of  education,  which  would  be  most  exten 
sively  useful  to  people  of  the  lower  class  of  citizens, 
namely,  reading,  writing,  and  arithmetic,  so  as  to  fit 
them  for  mechanical  purposes. 

The  fund,  if  confined  to  this,  would  comprehend 
more  subjects  ;  but,  if  you  shall  be  of  opinion,  that 
the  proposition  I  now  offer  can  be  made  to  comport 
with  the  institution  of  the  school  which  is  already  es 
tablished,  and  approve  of  an  incorporation  of  them 
in  the  manner  before  mentioned,  and  thereafter,  upon 
a  full  consideration  of  the  matter,  should  conceive 


1 8  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 


that  this  fund  would  be  more  advantageously  applied 
towards  clothing  and  schooling,  than  solely  to  the 
latter,  I  will  acquiesce  in  it  most  cheerfully  ;  and  shall 
be  ready,  (as  soon  as  the  trustees  are  established  upon 
a  permanent  footing,)  by  deed  or  other  instrument  of 
writing-,  to  vest  the  aforesaid  sum  of  one  thousand 

£> 7 

pounds  in  them  and  their  successors  for  ever,  with 
powers  to  direct  and  manage  the  same  agreeably  to 
these  my  declared  intentions.1 


TO    BENJAMIN    LINCOLN. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  6  February,  1786. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

Your  favor  of  the  4th  of  January  never  reached 
me  till  yesterday,  or  the  receipt  of  it  should  have  had 
an  earlier  acknowledgment.  Let  me,  in  the  first  place, 
thank  you  for  your  kind  attention  to  my  inquiries  ; 
and  in  the  next,  pray  you  to  know  precisely  from  Mr. 
Lear  upon  what  terms  he  would  come  to  me.  I  am 
not  inclined  to  leave  matters  of  this  kind  to  after 
discussion  or  misconception.  Whatever  agreement 
is  previously  made  shall  be  pointedly  fulfilled  on  my 
part,  which  will  prevent  every  cause  of  complaint  on 
his. 

Mr.  Lear,  or  any  other  who  may  come  into  my 
family  in  the  blended  characters  of  preceptor  to  the 
children,  and  as  a  clerk  or  private  secretary  to  me, 
will  sit  at  my  table,  will  live  as  I  live,  will  mix  with 
the  company  who  resort  to  the  house,  and  will  be 

1  The  above  proposal  was  accepted  by  the  trustees  of  the  Alexandria  Acad 
emy,  who  engaged  on  their  part  to  do  all  in  their  power  to  comply  with  the 
benevolent  intention  of  the  donor.  It  was  in  their  opinion  best  to  appropriate 
the  fund  to  the  institution  as  then  established,  and  wholly  for  schooling. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON,  19 


treated  in  every  respect  with  civility  and  proper 
attention.  He  will  have  his  washing  done  in  the 
family,  and  may  have  his  linen  and  stockings  mended 
by  the  maids  of  it.  The  duties,  which  will  be  re 
quired  of  him,  are  generally  such  as  appertain  to  the 
offices  above  mentioned.  The  first  will  be  very 
trifling,  till  the  children  are  a  little  more  advanced  ; 
and  the  latter  will  be  equally  so,  as  my  correspond 
ences  decline  (which  I  am  endeavoring  to  effect),  and 
after  my  accounts  and  other  old  matters  are  brought 
up.  To  descend  more  minutely  into  his  avocations  I 
am  unable,  because  occasional  matters  may  call  for 
particular  services ;  but  nothing  derogatory  will  be 
asked  or  expected.  After  this  explanation  of  my 
wants,  I  request  Mr.  Lear  would  mention  the  annual 
sum  he  will  expect  for  these  services,  and  I  will  give 
him  a  decided  answer  by  the  return  of  the  stages, 
which  now  carry  the  mail  and  travel  quick.  A  good 
hand,  as  well  as  a  proper  diction,  would  be  a  recom 
mendation  on  account  of  fair  entries,  and  for  the 
benefit  of  the  children  who  will  have  to  copy  after 
it.1  *  *  * 


TO    SAMUEL    PURVIANCE,    ESQ. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  10  March,  1786. 

SIR  : 

Your  Letter  of  the  6th  instant,  is  this  moment 
put  into  my  hands ;  was  it  in  my  power  I  would 
cheerfully  answer  your  queries  respecting  the  settle- 

1  An  arrangement  was  made  satisfactory  to  both  parties  ;  and  Mr.  Lear,  a 
young  gentleman  from  Portsmouth  in  New  Hampshire,  who  had  recently 
graduated  at  Harvard  University,  went  to  Mount  Vernon  and  became  General 
Washington's  Secretary ?  at  an  annual  salary  of  two  hundred  dollars. 


20  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 


ments  on  the  Kanhawa  ;  the  nature  of  the  water  and 
quality  of  the  soil. 

But  of  the  first,  I  only  know  from  information  that 
Colo.  Lewis  is  settled  there,  from  his  own  mouth  I 
learnt  that  it  was  his  intention  to  do  so,  &  to  establish 
a  Town  in  the  fork  of  the  two  rivers,  where  he  pro 
poses  to  fix  families  in  the  vicinity  on  his  own  Lands. 
Of  the  second,  I  never  could  obtain  any  distinct 
account  of  the  navigation.  It  has  been  variously 
represented ;  favorably  by  some, — extremely  diffi 
cult  by  others,  in  its  passage  thro'  the  Gauley  moun 
tain,  (which  I  presume  is  the  Laurel  hill) — but  the 
uncertainty  of  this  matter  will  now  soon  be  at  an 
end,  as  there  are  commissioners  appointed  by  this 
State  to  explore  the  navigation  of  that  river  and  the 
communication  between  it  and  James  river,  with  a 
view  to  a  portage.  This,  equally  with  the  extension 
of  the  Potomac  navigation,  was  part  of  my  original 
plan,  and  equally  urged  by  me  to  our  Assembly  ;  for 
my  object  was  to  connect  the  Western  and  Eastern 
or  Atlantic  States  together  by  strong  commercial  ties. 

I  am  a  friend,  therefore  on  this  principle  to  every 
channel  that  can  be  opened,  and  wish  the  people  to 
have  choice. — The  Kanhawa,  and  James  river,  if  the 
obstacles  in  the  former  are  not  great,  are  certainly 
the  shortest  and  best  for  the  settlers  thereon,  for 
those  on  the  Ohio  below,  above,  perhaps  as  high  as 
the  little  Kanhawa  and  for  the  Country  immediately 
west  of  it. 

The  Monongahelaand  Yohoghaney  with  the  Poto 
mac  are  most  convenient  for  all  the  settlers  from  the 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  21 


little  Kanhawa,  inclusively,  to  Fort  Pitt  and  upwards, 
<&  west  as  far  as  the  Lakes.  Susquehanna  and  the 
Alleghany  above  Fort  Pitt  some  distance,  will  accom 
modate  a  third  District  of  Country  ;  and  may  for 
ought  I  know  be  equally  convenient  to  the  trade  of 
the  Lakes.  All  of  them  therefore  have  my  best 
wishes  ;  for  as  I  have  observed  already,  my  object 
&  my  aim  are  political.  If  we  cannot  bind  those 
people  to  us  by  interest,  and  it  is  no  otherwise  to  be 
effected  but  by  a  commercial  knot,  we  shall  be  no 
more  to  them  after  a  while,  than  G.  Britain  or  Spain, 
and  they  may  be  as  closely  linked  with  one  or  other 
of  those  powers,  as  we  wish  them  to  be  with  us,  and 
in  that  event,  they  may  be  a  severe  thorn  in  our  side. 

With  respect  to  the  nature  of  the  soil  on  the  Kan 
hawa,  the  bottoms  are  fine,  but  the  lands  adjoining 
are  broken. — In  some  places  the  hills  are  very  rich,  in 
others  piney  and  very  poor :  but  the  principal  reason 
as  I  conceive,  why  the  settlement  has  not  progressed 
more,  is  that  the  greater  part  if  not  all  the  good 
Lands,  on  the  main  river,  are  in  the  hands  of  persons 
who  do  not  incline  to  reside  thereon  themselves,  and 
possibly  hold  them  too  high  for  others,  as  there  is  a 
surrounding  country  open  to  them  ;  this  I  take  to  be 
my  own  case  and  might  be  an  inducement  to  concur 
in  any  well  concerted  measures  to  further  a  settle 
ment,  which  might  ultimately,  not  at  too  great  a 
distance,  subserve  my  interest  in  that  quarter. 

The  Great  Kanhawa  is  a  long  river  with  very  little 
interruption  for  a  considerable  distance — No  very 
large  waters  empty  into  it,  I  believe  ;  Elk  river,  Coal 


22  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 


river  and  a  creek  called  Pokitellico  below  the  falls, 
and  Green  river  above  them,  are  the  most  considerable. 
I  am  glad  to  hear  that  the  Susquehanna  canal  is  so 
well  advanced.  I  thank  you  for  the  offer  of  Mr. 
Nielson's  services  in  the  western  country,  and  am,  with 
very  great,  &c. 

TO    COLS.    FITZGERALD    AND    GILPIN. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  3ist  March,  1786. 

Gentn., 

Yesterday  Mr.  Brindley,  in  company  with  a  Mr. 
Harris,  Manager  for  the  James  river  Company  (the 
latter  having  been  sent  for  the  former,  by  the  Direc 
tors  thereof,)  left  this  on  their  way  to  Richmond  from 
whence  Mr.  Brindley  expects  to  be  returned,  as  far  as 
Alexandria,  in  seven  days  from  the  date  hereof.  I 
have  engaged  him  to  call  upon  Colo.  Gilpin  on  his 
rout  back. 

Mr.  Brindley1  and  Mr.  Harris  took  the  great  Falls 
in  their  way  down  and  both  approve  of  the  present 
line  for  our  Canal — the  first  very  much.  He  con 
ceives  that  Q-ioths  of  the  expence  of  the  one  fifth  pro 
posed  will  be  saved  by  this  cut,  the  work  altogether 
as  secure,  and  the  entrance  into  the  river  by  no  means 
unfavorable.  He  thinks  however  that  a  good  deal 
of  attention  and  judgment  is  required  in  fixing  Locks 
there  ;  the  height  of  which  he  observes  is  always  gov 
erned  by  the  ground — they  frequently  run  from  four 
to  eighteen  feet,  and  some  times  are  as  high  as  twenty 
four. 

1  A  nephew  of  the  engineer  who  conducted  the  work  of  the  Duke  of  Bridge- 
water.     He  was  engaged  by  the  Susquehanna  Company. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON,  23 


The  nature  and  declination  of  the  ground,  accord 
ing  to  him,  is  alone  to  direct — and  where  this  will 
admit  he  thinks  the  larger  the  Locks  are  made  the 
better,  because  more  convenient. 

With  respect  to  this  part  of  the  business  I  feel,  and 
always  have  confessed  an  entire  incompetency  : — nor 
do  I  conceive  that  theoretical  knowledge  alone  is 
adequate  to  the  undertaking.  Locks,  upon  the  most 
judicious  plan,  will  certainly  be  expensive  ;  and  if  not 
properly  constructed  and  judiciously  placed,  may  be 
altogether  useless.  It  is  for  these  reasons  therefore 
that  I  have  frequently  suggested  (though  no  deci 
sion  has  been  had)  the  propriety  of  employing  a 
professional  man. 

Nevertheless  whether  the  expense  of  obtaining  one 
in,  and  bringing  him  from  Europe  has  been  thought  un 
necessary,  or  too  burthensome  for  the  advantages, 
which  are  to  be  expected,  I  know  not :  but  as  it  is  said 
no  person  in  this  country  has  more  practical  knowledge 
than  Mr.  Brindley,  I  submit  to  your  consideration  the 
propriety  of  engaging  him  to  take  the  Falls  in  his  way 
back  ;  to  examine,  level  and  digest  a  plan  for  Locks  at 
that  place  ;  if  it  shall  appear  good,  and  his  reasons  in 
support  of  the  spots  and  sizes  conclusive  it  will  justify 
the  adoption  ;  if  palpably  erroneous,  there  is  no  obli 
gation  upon  us  to  follow  him,  and  the  expence  in  that 
case  is  the  only  evil  which  can  result  from  it — this  for 
the  chance  of  a  probable  good,  I  am  not  only  willing 
but  desirous  of  encountering  ;  and  if  Colo.  Gilpin  has 
not  already  made  the  trip  to  that  place  which  he  pro 
posed  at  our  last  visit,  and  disappointment  there,  it 


24  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 


would  give  me  great  pleasure  if  it  could  be  so  timed 
as  to  accompany  Mr.  Brindley  ;  this  would  not  only 
give  countenance  to  the  measure,  but  aid  also,  and 
might  serve  to  remove  the  little  jealousies  which  other 
wise  arise  in  the  minds  of  our  own  managers.  Tak 
ing  Mr.  Brindley  to  the  works  now  may  ultimately 
save  expence — at  the  same  time  having  a  plan  before 
us,  enable  us  at  all  convenient  times  to  provide  mate 
rials  for  its  execution.  I  am,  &c. 

P.  S.  If  my  proposition  is  acceded  to,  it  would  be 
better  to  fix  at  once  what  Mr.  Brindley  is  to  receive, 
and  I  will  readily  subscribe  my  name  to  what  you  two 
gentlemen  shall  agree  to  give  him. 


TO    ROBERT    MORRIS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  12  April,  1786. 

DEAR  SIR, 

I  give  you  the  trouble  of  this  letter  at  the  instance 
of  Mr.  Dalby  of  Alexandria,  who  is  called  to  Philadel 
phia  to  attend  what  he  conceives  to  be  a  vexatious 
lawsuit  respecting  a  slave  of  his,  which  a  society  of 
Quakers  in  the  city,  (formed  for  such  purposes,)  have 
attempted  to  liberate.  The  merits  of  this  case  will  no 
doubt  appear  upon  trial.  From  Mr.  Dalby 's  state  of 
the  matter,  it  should  seem,  that  this  society  is  not  only 
acting  repugnant  to  justice,  so  far  as  its  conduct  con 
cerns  strangers,  but  in  my  opinion  extremely  impoliticly 
with  respect  to  the  State,  the  city  in  particular,  and 
without  being  able,  (but  by  acts  of  tyranny  and  oppres 
sion,)  to  accomplish  its  own  ends.  He  says  the  con- 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  25 

duct  of  this  society  is  not  sanctioned  by  law.  Had 
the  case  been  otherwise,  whatever  my  opinion  of  the 
law  might  have  been,  my  respect  for  the  policy  of  the 
State  would  on  this  occasion  have  appeared  in  my 
silence  ;  because  against  the  penalties  of  promulgated 
laws  one  may  guard,  but  there  is  no  avoiding  the 
snares  of  individuals,  or  of  private  societies.  And  if 
the  practice  of  this  society,  of  which  Mr.  Dalby 
speaks,  is  not  discountenanced,  none  of  those,  whose 
misfortune  it  is  to  have  slaves  as  attendants,  will  visit 
the  city  if  they  can  possibly  avoid  it ;  because  by  so 
doing  they  hazard  their  property,  or  they  must  be  at 
the  expense  (and  this  will  not  always  succeed)  of  pro 
viding  servants  of  another  description  for  the  trip. 

I  hope  it  will  not  be  conceived  from  these  observa 
tions,  that  it  is  my  wish  to  hold  the  unhappy  people, 
who  are  the  subject  of  this  letter,  in  slavery.  I  can 
only  sayJThat  there  is  not  a  man  living,  who  wishes 
more  sincerely  than  I  do  to  see  a  plan  adopted  for 
the  abolition  of  it ;  but  there  is  only  one  proper  and 
effectual  mode  by  which  it  can  be  accomplished,  and 
that  is  by  legislative  authority  ;  and  this,  as  far  as  my 
suffrage  will  go,  shall  never  be  wanting.  But  when 
slaves,  who  are  happy  and  contented  with  their  present 
masters,  are  tampered  with  and  seduced  to  leave  them ; 
when  masters  are  taken  unawares  by  these  practices  ; 
when  a  conduct  of  this  sort  begets  discontent  on  one 
side  and  resentment  on  the  other  ;  and  when  it  hap 
pens  to  fall  on  a  man,  whose  purse  will  not  measure 
with  that  of  the  society,  and  he  loses  his  property  for 
want  of  means  to  defend  it  ;  it  is  oppression  in  such  a 


26  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 


case,  and  not  humanity  in  any,  because  it  introduces 
more  evils  than  it  can  cureTj 

I  will  make  no  apology  for  writing  to  you  on  this 
subject,  for,  if  Mr.  Dalby  has  not  misconceived  the 
matter,  an  evil  exists  which  requires  a  remedy  ;  if  he 
has,  my  intentions  have  been  good,  though  I  may  have 
been  too  precipitate  in  this  address.  Mrs.  Washington 
joins  me  in  every  good  and  kind  wish  for  Mrs.  Morris 
and  your  family,  and  I  am,  &c. 


TO    THE    MARQUIS    DE    LAFAYETTE. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  10  May,  1786. 

MY  DEAR  MARQUIS, 

****** 

The  letter  which  you  did  me  the  favor  to  write  to 
me  by  Mr.  Barrett  dated  the  6th  of  February  together 
with  the  parcel  and  packages  which  accompanied  it 
came  safely  to  hand,  and  for  which  I  pray  you  to 
accept  my  grateful  acknowledgments. 

The  account  of  and  observations  which  you  have 
made  on  the  policy  and  practice  of  Great  Britain  at 
the  other  courts  of  Europe,  respecting  these  States, 
I  was  but  too  well  informed  and  convinced  of  before. 
Unhappily  for  us,  though  their  accounts  are  greatly 
exaggerated,  yet  our  conduct  has  laid  the  foundation 
for  them.  It  is  one  of  the  evils  of  democratical  gov 
ernments,  that  the  people,  not  always  seeing  and 
frequently  misled,  must  often  feel  before  they  can  act 
right  ;  but  then  evils  of  this  nature  seldom  fail  to 
work  their  own  cure.  It  is  to  be  lamented,  neverthe- 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  27 


less,  that  the  remedies  are  so  slow,  and  that  those, 
who  may  wish  to  apply  them  seasonably,  are  not  at 
tended  to  before  they  suffer  in  person,  in  interest,  and 
in  reputation.  I  am  not  without  hopes,  that  matters 
will  take  a  more  favorable  turn  in  the  federal  consti 
tution.  The  discerning  part  of  the  community  have 
long  since  seen  the  necessity  of  giving  adequate 
powers  to  Congress  for  national  purposes,  and  the 
ignorant  and  designing  must  yield  to  it  ere  long. 
Several  late  acts  of  the  different  legislatures  have  a 
tendency  thereto.  Among  these  the  impost,  which  is 
now  acceded  to  by  every  State  in  the  Union,  (though 
clogged  a  little  by  that  of  New  York,)  will  enable 
Congress  to  support  the  national  credit  in  pecuniary 
matters  better  than  it  has  been  ;  whilst  a  measure,  in 
which  this  State  has  taken  the  lead  at  its  last  session, 
will,  it  is  to  be  hoped,  give  efficient  powers  to  that 
body  for  all  commercial  purposes.  This  is  a  nomina 
tion  of  some  of  its  first  characters  to  meet  other  com 
missioners  from  the  several  States,  in  order  to  consider 
of  and  decide  upon  such  powers,  as  shall  be  necessary 
for  the  sovereign  power  of  them  to  act  under  ;  which 
are  to  be  reported  to  the  respective  legislatures  at 
their  autumnal  sessions,  for,  it  is  to  be  hoped,  final 
adoption  ;  thereby  avoiding  those  tedious  and  futile 
deliberations,  which  result  from  recommendations  and 
partial  concurrences,  at  the  same  time  that  it  places  it 
at  once  in  the  power  of  Congress  to  meet  European 
nations  upon  decisive  and  equal  ground.  All  the 
legislatures,  which  I  have  heard  from,  have  come  into 
the  proposition,-  and  have  made  very  judicious  appoint- 


28  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 


merits.1  Much  good  is  expected  from  this  measure, 
and  it  is  regretted  by  many,  that  more  objects  were 
not  embraced  by  the  meeting.  A  general  convention 
is  talked  of  by  many  for  the  purpose  of  revising  and 
correcting  the  defects  of  the  federal  government ;  but 
whilst  this  is  the  wish  of  some,  it  is  the  dread  of 
others,  from  an  opinion  that  matters  are  not  yet  suffi 
ciently  ripe  for  such  an  event/' 

The  British  still  occupy  our  posts  to  the  westward, 
and  will,  I  am  persuaded,  continue  to  do  so  under  one 

1  This  convention  met  at  Annapolis  in  September,  1786.  Five  States  only 
were  represented,  and  when  the  members  came  together,  they  found  themselves 
invested  with  such  limited  powers,  as  not  to  enable  them  to  act  for  the  general 
purposes  of  the  meeting.  They  did  little  else  than  to  draw  up  a  report,  to  be 
presented  to  the  several  States,  urging  the  necessity  of  a  revision  of  the  con 
federated  system  of  government  and  recommending  a  convention  of  delegates 
with  larger  powers  to  be  held  at  Philadelphia  on  the  2d  of  May  following. 

"  "My  sentiments  with  respect  to  the  federal  government  are  well  known. 
Publicly  and  privately  have  they  been  communicated  without  reserve  ;  but  my 
opinion  is,  that  there  is  more  wickedness  than  ignorance  in  the  conduct  of  the 
States,  or,  in  other  words,  in  the  conduct  of  those  who  have  too  much  influ 
ence  in  the  government  of  them  ;  and  until  the  curtain  is  withdrawn,  and  the 
private  views  and  selfish  principles,  upon  which  these  men  act,  are  exposed 
to  public  notice,  I  have  little  hope  of  amendment  without  another  convulsion. 

"  The  picture  of  our  affairs  as  drawn  by  the  committee,  approved  by  Con 
gress,  and  presented  to  the  public,  did  not  at  all  surprise  me.  Before  that  re 
port,  though  I  could  not  go  into  the  minutiae  of  matters,  I  was  more  certain  of 
the  aggregate  of  our  [ills],  than  I  am  now  of  the  remedy,  which  will  be  applied. 
Without  the  latter,  I  do  not  see  upon  what  ground  your  agent  at  the  court  of 
Morocco,  and  the  other  at  Algiers,  are  to  treat,  unless,  having  to  do  with  new 
hands,  they  mean  to  touch  the  old  strings,  and  make  them  dance  awhile  to  the 
tune  of  promises." — Washington  to  Henry  Lee,  5  April,  1786. 

The  report  of  Congress  is  printed  in  the  Journals  of  Congress,  February 
3d,  7th,  and  I5th,  1786.  "  Our  federal  distresses,"  said  Mr.  Lee,  "  gather  fast 
to  a  point.  New  Jersey  has  refused  the  requisition,  and  will  not  grant  a  shil 
ling  till  New  York  accedes  to  the  impost.  Perhaps  this  intemperance  in 
Jersey  may  bring  this  State  to  acquiesce  in  a  system  of  finance  long  ago  ap 
proved  by  ten  States,  and  whose  operation  might  have  saved  the  difficulties, 
which  impend  over  the  Union." — New  York,  March  2d. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON,  29 

pretence  or  another,  no  matter  how  shallow,  as  long 
as  they  can.  Of  this,  from  some  circumstances  which 
had  occurred,  I  have  been  convinced  since  August, 
1783,  and  gave  it  as  my  opinion  at  that  time,  if  not 
officially  to  Congress  as  the  sovereign,  at  least  to  a 
number  of  its  members,  that  they  might  act  accord 
ingly.  It  is  indeed  evident  to  me,  that  they  had  it  in 
contemplation  to  do  this  at  the  time  of  the  treaty. 
The  expression  of  the  article,  which  respects  the 
evacuation  of  them,  as  well  as  the  tenor  of  their 
conduct  since  relative  to  this  business,  is  strongly 
marked  with  deception.  I  have  not  the  smallest 
doubt,  but  that  every  secret  engine  is  continually  at 
work  to  inflame  the  Indian  mind,  with  a  view  to  keep 
it  at  variance  with  these  States,  for  the  purpose  of 
retarding  our  settlements  to  the  westward,  and  de 
priving  us  of  the  fur  and  peltry  trade  of  that  country. 

Your  assurances,  my  dear  Marquis,  respecting  the 
male  and  female  asses,  are  highly  pleasing  to  me,  I 
shall  look  for  them  with  much  expectation  and  great 
satisfaction,  as  a  valuable  acquisition  and  important 
service. 

The  Jack  which  I  have  already  received  from  Spain, 
in  appearance  is  fine  ;  but  his  late  royal  master,  tho' 
past  his  grand  climacteric,  cannot  be  less  moved  by 
female  allurements  than  he  is  ;  or  when  prompted  can 
proceed  with  more  deliberation  and  majestic  solem 
nity  to  the  work  of  procreation. — The  other  Jack 
perished  at  sea. 

The  benevolence  of  your  heart,  my  dear  Marquis, 
is  so  conspicuous  upon  all  occasions,  that  I  never 


30  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

wonder  at  any  fresh  proofs  of  it ;  but  your  late  purchase 
of  an  estate  in  the  colony  of  Cayenne,  with  a  view  of 
emancipating  the  slaves  on  it,  is  a  generous  and  noble 
proof  of  your  humanity.  Would  to  God  a  like  spirit 
would  diffuse  itself  generally  into  the  minds  of  the 
people  of  this  country.  But  I  despair  of  seeing  it. 
Some  petitions  were  presented  to  the  Assembly,  at 
its  last  session,  for  the  abolition  of  slavery,  but  they 
could  scarcely  obtain  a  reading.  To  set  them  afloat 
at  once  would,  I  really  believe,  be  productive  of  much 
inconvenience  and  mischief ;  but  by  degrees  it  cer 
tainly  might,  and  assuredly  ought  to  be  effected  ;  and 
that  too  by  legislative  authority. 

I  give  you  the  trouble  of  a  letter  to  the  Marquis  de 
St.  Simon,  in  which  I  have  requested  to  be  presented 
to  M.  de  Menonville.  The  favorable  terms  in  which 
you  speak  of  Mr.  Jefferson  gives  me  great  pleasure. 
He  is  a  man  of  whom  I  early  imbibed  the  highest 
opinion.  I  am  as  much  pleased,  therefore,  to  meet 
confirmations  of  my  discernment  in  these  matters,  as 
I  am  mortified  when  I  find  myself  mistaken.  * 


TO  JOHN  JAY. 

MOUNT  VF.RNON,  18  May,  1786. 

DEAR  SIR, 

In  due  course  of  post,  I  have  been  honored  with 
your  favors  of  the  2d  and  i6th  of  March1;  since 
which  I  have  been  a  good  deal  engaged  and  pretty 
much  from  home.  For  the  enclosure,  which  accom- 

1  See  Life  of  John  Jay,  vol.  i.,  p.  242. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  31 

panied  the  first,  I  thank  you.  Mr.  Littlepage  seems 
to  have  forgot  what  had  been  his  situation,  forgot 
what  was  due  to  you,  and  indeed  what  was  necessary 
to  his  own  character  ;  and  his  guardian,  I  think,  seems 
to  have  forgotten  every  thing.1 

I  coincide  perfectly  in  sentiment  with  you,  my  dear 
Sir,  that  there  are  errors  in  our  national  government, 
which  call  for  correction  ;  loudly,  I  would  add  ;  but  I 
shall  find  myself  happily  mistaken  if  the  remedies  are 
at  hand.  We  are  certainly  in  a  delicate  situation  ; 
but  my  fear  is,  that  the  people  are  not  yet  sufficiently 
misled  to  retract  from  error.  To  be  plainer,  I  think 
there  is  more  wickedness  than  ignorance  mixed  in  our 
councils.  Under  this  impression  I  scarcely  know 
what  opinion  to  entertain  of  a  general  convention. 
That  it  is  necessary  to  revise  and  amend  the  articles 
of  confederation,  I  entertain  no  doubt  ;  but  what 
may  be  the  consequences  of  such  an  attempt  is 
doubtful.  Yet  something  must  be  done,  or  the  fabric 
must  fall,  for  it  certainly  is  tottering. 

Ignorance  and  design  are  difficult  to  combat.  Out 
of  these  proceed  illiberal  sentiments,  improper  jeal 
ousies,  and  a  train  of  evils  which  oftentimes  in  repub 
lican  governments  must  be  sorely  felt  before  they  can 
be  removed.  The  former,  that  is  ignorance,  being  a 
fit  soil  for  the  latter  to  work  in,  tools  are  employed  by 
them  which  a  generous  mind  would  disdain  to  use ; 
and  which  nothing  but  time,  and  their  own  puerile  or 
wicked  productions,  can  show  the  inefficacy  and  dan- 

1  This  subject  appears  to  have  been  made  a  matter  of  much  more  public 
importance  than  its  merits  deserved.  It  is  fully  explained  in  the  Life  of 
John  Jay,  vol.  i.,  pp.  204-229, 


32  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

gerous  tendency  of.  I  think  often  of  our  situation, 
and  view  it  with  concern.  From  the  high  ground  we 
stood  upon,  from  the  plain  path  which  invited  our 
footsteps,  to  be  so  fallen  !  so  lost !  it  is  really  mortify 
ing.  But  virtue,  I  fear,  has  in  a  great  degree  taken  its 
departure  from  our  land,  and  the  want  of  a  disposition 
to  do  justice  is  the  source  of  the  national  embarrass 
ments  ;  for,  whatever  guise  or  colorings  are  given  to 
them,  this  I  apprehend  is  the  origin  of  the  evils  we  now 
feel,  and  probably  shall  labor  under  for  some  time  yet. 
With  respectful  compliments  to  Mrs.  Jay,  and  senti 
ments  of  sincere  friendship,  I  am, dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO    HENRY    L.    CHARTON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  2oth  May,  1786. 

SIR, 

The  letter  which  you  did  me  the  favor  to  write  to 
me  from  Philadelphia  on  the  5th  inst.  came  safely  to 
hand,  and  I  should  have  given  it  an  earlier  acknowl 
edgment  had  not  frequent  calls  from  home,  &  una 
voidable  business  prevented  it. 

I  do  not  perceive,  upon  recurring  to  the  subject, 
that  I  can  be  more  explicit  in  the  description  of  my 
Lands  on  the  Big  Kanhawa,  &  on  the  Ohio  between 
the  two  Kanhawas,  than  I  was  when  I  had  the  pleasure 
of  seeing  you  at  this  place. — If  I  recollect  rightly  I 
then  informed  you,  that  from  the  accounts  given  me 
of  them  by  the  Surveyor ;  from  what  I  had  seen  of 
them  myself,  (especially  the  tract  on  the  big  Kan 
hawa)  from  every  other  source  of  information,  &  from 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  33 

my  best  knowledge  &  belief,  there  can  be  no  finer 
land  in  that  or  any  other  country  ;  or  lands  more 
abounding  in  natural  advantages. 

The  whole  of  them  are  washed  by  the  rivers  I  have 
mentioned — are  furnished  with  land  streams  fit  for 
water  works  of  various  kinds — stored  with  meadow 
ground  wch.  may  be  reclaimed  in  the  cheapest  & 
most  expeditious  manner  imaginable,  (by  only  cutting 
away  trifling  banks  of  earth,  which  have  been  formed 
by  the  Beaver)  and  abound  in  fish  &  wild  fowl  of  all 
kinds,  as  well  as  every  other  sort  of  game  with  which 
the  country  is  filled.  With  respect  to  the  quality  of 
the  soil,  it  may  be  conceived  that  none  can  exceed  it 
when  I  relate  a  single  fact,  namely,  that  it  was  the 
first  choice  of  the  whole  country  thereabouts,  after  a 
thorough  research  of  it  by  an  excellent  judge,  the  late 
Colo.  Crawford. 

As  to  the  situation  of  them,  none  can  be  more 
advantageous  ;  for  living  about  midway  betwreen  the 
upper  &  lower  settlements  on  the  Ohio,  the  trade 
must  pass  within  sight  of  those  Lands,  whilst  the 
occupants  of  them,  equally  convenient  to  both  might 
embrace  the  inland  navigation  of  either  Potomac  or 
James  river,  as  soon  as  they  are  made  to  communicate 
with  the  Western  waters  ;  which  no  doubt  will  soon 
be  effected.  I  think  too,  I  should  not  be  mistaken 
were  I  to  add  that  ere  long  a  town  of  some  importance 
will  be  established  in  the  vicinity  of  them — viz — at 
the  confluence  of  the  big  Kanhawa  &  Ohio  ;  which  is 
the  point  at  which  the  trade  to  Richmond,  &  that 
which  is  carried  to  the  northern  parts  of  this  State,  & 


34  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 


to  Maryland  &  Pennsylvania,  must  separate.  But  to 
go  into  a  more  minute  detail  in  writing  of  what  has 
before  been  the  subject  of  oral  conversation,  would 
be  more  tiresome  than  interesting  ;  especially  as  it  is 
by  no  means  my  wish  that  any  purchase,  whatever— 
should  rely  upon  my  accot.  of  this  matter,  or  on  those 
of  any  others — but  judge  for  himself  or  themselves, 
in  all  things. 

When  you  asked  me  if  I  was  disposed  to  sell  these 
Lands,  I  answered  and  truly  that  I  had  never  had  it 
in  contemplation,  because  I  well  knew  they  would  rise 
more  in  value  than  the  purchase  money  at  the  present 
time  would  accumulate  by  interest ;  consequently 
under  these  circumstances  it  would  be  difficult  in  the 
present  moment  to  fix  on  a  price  which  would  be 
acceded  to,  that  would  be  an  equivalent  for  them 
hereafter.  However  as  I  had  no  family,  wished  to  live 
easy  &  to  spend  the  remainder  of  my  days  with  as 
little  trouble  as  possible,  I  said  I  would  part  with  them 
if  a  good  price  could  be  obtained  ;  and  that  my  sense 
of  their  value  might  easily  be  ascertained  by  the 
terms  on  which  I  had  proposed  to  rent  them  (& 
which  I  think  you  told  me  you  had  seen).  One  of 
which,  amounting  in  fact  to  an  absolute  sale,  being  on 
a  Lease  of  999  years,  renewable,  was  at  ten  pounds 
this  currency  per  hundred  acres,  which  at  5  p.  ct— 
(the  legal  interest  in  this  State),  would  have  come  to 
405.  like  money  pr.  acre  for  the  land  on  purchase  ; 
but  I  added,  that  if  any  one  person,  or  sett  of  men 
would  take  the  whole,  I  would  make  the  terms  of 
payment  easy  and  abate  considerably  in  the  price.  I 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  35 

therefore  now  inform  you  that  the  lands  (the  patents 
&  plats  of  which  I  shewed  you)  the  titles  to  which 
are  uncontrollable — free  from  those  clashing  interests 
and  jarring  disputes  with  which  much  of  the  property 
in  that  country  is  replete,  are  in  quantities  &  situation 
as  follows— 

i st. — 2314,  on  the  Ohio  river  three  or  four  miles 
below  the  mouth  of  the  little  Kanhawa. 

2d. — 2448  acres  on  the  said  river  abt.  sixteen  miles 
below  the  former. 

3d. — 4395  acres  on  Ditto,  just  above  the  great  bend 
in  it  &  below  the  other  two. 

4th. — 10,990 — on  the  big  Kanhawa  (west  side) 
beginning  within  two  or  three  miles  of  its  conflux 
with  the  Ohio  &  extending  up  the  former  17  miles. 

5th. — 7,276  acres  a  little  above  this  on  the  East  side 
of  the  same  river  Kanhawa. 

6th. — 2000  acres  higher  up  the  Kanhawa  (west 
side)  in  the  fork  between  Coal  river  and  it. 

7th. — 2950  acres,  opposite  thereto,  on  the  East 
side.  In  all  32,373  acres  on  both  rivers. 

For  these  lands  I  would  take  Thirty  thousand  Eng 
lish  guineas  (of  the  proper  weight)  or  other  specie 
current  in  the  country,  at  its  equivalent  value. — Two 
thousand  five  hundred  of  which  to  be  paid  at  the  exe 
cution  of  the  Deeds  &  the  remainder  in  seven  years 
therefrom  with  an  interest  of  five  pr.  ct.  pr.  ann.  regu 
larly  paid  at  my  seat  'till  the  principal  shall  be 
discharged. 

I  am  not  inclined  to  part  with  any  of  these  Lands, 
as  an  inducement  to  settle  the  rest.  My  mind  is  so 


36  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

well  satisfied  of  the  superior  value  of  them  to  most 
others,  that  there  remains  no  doubt  on  it  of  my  ob 
taining  my  own  terms  as  the  country  populates  and  the 
situation  &  local  advantages  of  them  unfold.  These 
terms  have  already  been  promulgated,  but  I  have  not  a 
copy  of  them  by  me,  or  I  could  send  it  to  you.  They 
were  inserted  in  Dunlaps  &  Claypoole's  Gazette  about 
two  years  ago,  at  whose  Office  it  is  probable  a  copy 
might  be  had.1 — One  of  the  conditions  was,  if  my  mem 
ory  serves  me,  an  exemption  from  the  payment  of  rent 
three  years  whilst  the  tenements  were  opening  &  im 
provements  making ;  this  I  am  still  inclined  to  fulfill. 

The  rents  were  different  according  to  the  term  for 
which  leases  were  to  be  granted. 

If  for  twenty  one  years  only,  they  were  to  com 
mence  &  end  at  ^5  pr.  hundred  ;  for  in  that  case  the 
stipulated  improvements  being  made,  I  knew  that 
almost  any  rent  might  be  had  for  the  Tenement 
thereafter. 

If  on  leases  renewable  every  ten  years  forever,  the 
rents  were  in  that  case  to  advance  in  a  certain 
ratio,  to  keep  pace  with  the  encreasing  value  of  the 
Land.  And  if  given  in  the  first  instance  for  999  yrs. 
as  has  been  mentioned  before,  then  the  rent  was  to 
commence  at  ten  pounds  pr.  hund.  Acres  ;  which  being 
in  fact  an  alienation  of  the  property,  shewed  my  ideas 
of  its  present  value  &  purchase  money,  as  mentioned 
already.  These,  as  far  as  I  can  recite  from  memory, 
were  the  terms  on  which  I  offered  to  rent,  and  from 
which  I  feel  no  disposition  to  relax  unless  as  in  the 

1  This  advertisement   is   reprinted   in   the  Magazine  of  American  History, 
1878,  p.  623. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  37 

case  of  a  purchase,  some  one  or  more  persons  would 
take  the  whole  off  my  hands  at  once,  &  become  re 
sponsible  for  the  rent  ;  in  which  case  being  influenced 
by  similar  principles  I  might  abate  accordingly. 

I  should  have  great  pleasure  in  giving  such  letters 
as  you  have  asked,  to  the  Marquis  de  la  Fayette  and 
Chevr.  de  la  Luzerne,  but  conceive  they  could  only 
have  an  embarrassing  operation.  It  is  certainly  as  con 
sistent  with  the  policy  of  one  country  to  discourage 
depopulation,  as  it  is  for  another  to  encourage  emi 
gration.  Considering  the  matter  in  this  point  of  view 
I  cannot  suppose,  however  well  disposed  either  of  the 
above  gentlemen  may  be  to  serve  this  country,  that 
they  would  do  it  at  the  expence  of,  &  perhaps  hazard 
of  censure  from  their  own. 

One  of  these  gentlemen  too  being  in  the  diplomatic 
or  ministerial  line  would,  undoubtedly,  be  very  cau 
tious  in  expressing  a  sentiment  favorable  to  a  business 
of  this  kind. — my  best  wishes  however  will  follow  you 
thro'  all  the  stages  of  it ;  and  with  esteem,  I  am,  &c. 

P.  S.  I  shou'd  be  glad  to  know  whether  this  letter 
found  you  in  Philadelphia. 


TO    JAMES    TILGHMAN. 
DEAR    SiR  MOUNT  VERNON,  5  June,  1786. 

I  have  just  had  the  honor  to  receive  your  favor  of 
the  26th  ulto.- 

Of  all  the  numerous  acquaintances  of  your  lately 
deceased  son,1  &  amidst  all  the  sorrowings  that  are 
mingled  on  that  melancholy  occasion,  I  may  venture 

1  Tench  Tilghman  died,  18  April,  1786. 


38  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

to  assert  (that  excepting  those  of  his  nearest  relatives) 
none  could  have  felt  his  death  with  more  regret  than 
I  did,  because,  no  one  entertained  a  higher  opinion 
of  his  worth,  or  had  imbibed  sentiments  of  greater 
friendship  for  him  than  I  had  done.  That  you,  Sir, 
should  have  felt  the  keenest  anguish  for  this  loss,  I 
can  readily  conceive, — the  ties  of  the  parental  affec 
tion  united  with  those  of  friendship  could  not  fail  to 
have  produced  this  effect.  It  is  however  a  dispensa 
tion,  the  wisdom  of  which  is  inscrutable,  and  amidst 
all  your  grief,  there  is  this  consolation  to  be  drawn  ;— 
that  while  living,  no  man  could  be  more  esteemed, 
and  since  dead,  none  more  lamented  than  Colo. 
Tilghman. 

As  his  correspondence  with  the  comtee.  of  New  York 
is  not  connected  with  any  transactions  of  mine,  so, 
consequently,  it  is  not  necessary  that  the  Papers  to 
which  you  allude  should  compose  part  of  my  public 
documents  ;  but  if  they  stand  single,  as  they  exhibit 
a  trait  of  his  public  character,  and  like  all  the  rest  of 
his  transactions  will,  I  am  persuaded,  do  honor  to  his 
understanding  and  probity,  it  may  be  desirable  in  this 
point  of  view,  to  keep  them  alive  by  mixing  them  with 
mine  ;  which,  undoubtedly,  will  claim  the  attention  of 
the  Historian  ; — who,  if  I  mistake  not,  will,  upon  an 
inspection  of  them,  discover  the  illiberal  ground  on 
which  the  charge  mentioned  in  the  extract  of  the  let 
ter  you  did  me  the  honor  to  inclose  me  is  founded.— 
That  a  calumny  of  this  kind  had  been  reported,  I 
knew  ; — I  had  laid  my  acct.  for  the  calumnies  of  an- 
nonymous  scribblers  ;  but  I  never  before  had  conceived 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  39 

that  such  an  one  as  is  related,  could  have  originated 
with,  or  have  met  the  countenance  of  Capt.  Asgill  ; 
whose  situation  often  filled  me  with  the  keenest  anguish. 
I  felt  for  him  on  many  accts. ;  and  not  the  least,  when, 
viewing  him  as  a  man  of  honor  &  sentiment,  how  un 
fortunate  it  was  for  him  that  a  wretch  who  possessed 
neither  should  be  the  means  of  causing  in  him  a  single 
pang  or  a  disagreeable  sensation.  My  favorable  opin 
ion  of  him,  however  is  forfeited,  if  being  acquainted 
with  these  reports,  he  did  not  immediately  contradict 
them. — That  I  could  not  have  given  countenance  to 
the  insults  which  he  says  were  offered  to  his  person, 
especially  the  grovelling  one  of  erecting  a  Gibbet 
before  his  prison  window,  will  I  expect,  readily  be  be 
lieved,  when  I  explicitly  declare  that  I  never  heard  of 
a  single  attempt  to  offer  an  insult,  and  that  I  had 
every  reason  to  be  convinced,  that,  he  was  treated  by 
the  officers  around  him,  with  all  the  tenderness  and 
every  civility  in  their  power. — I  would  fain  ask  Captn. 
Asgill  how  he  could  reconcile  such  belief  (if  his 
mind  had  been  seriously  impressed  with  it)  to  the 
continual  indulgencies  and  procrastinations  he  had 
experienced  ?  He  will  not  I  presume  deny  that,  he 
was  admitted  to  his  parole  within  ten  or  twelve  miles 
of  the  British  lines  : — if  not  to  a  formal  parole,  to  a 
confidence  yet  more  unlimited — by  being  permitted, 
for  the  benefit  of  his  health  and  recreation  of  his 
mind,  to  ride,  not  merely  about  the  cantonment,  but 
into  the  surrounding  country  for  many  miles  with  his 
friend  and  companion  Maj.  Gordon,  constantly  attend 
ing  him.  Would  not  these  indulgencies  have  pointed 


40  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

a  military  character  to  the  portrait  from  whence  they 
flowed  ?  Did  he  conceive  that  discipline  was  so  lax 
in  the  American  army  as  that  any  officer  in  it  would 
have  granted  these  liberties  to  a  Person  confined  by 
the  express  order  of  the  Commander  in  Chief,  unless 
authorized  to  do  so  by  the  same  authority  ?  and  to 
ascribe  them  to  the  interference  of  Count  de  Rocham- 
beau,  is  as  void  of  foundation  as  his  other  conjectures  ; 
for  I  do  not  recollect  that  a  sentence  ever  passed 
between  that  General  and  me,  directly,  or  indirectly, 
on  the  subject.  I  was  not  without  suspicions  after 
the  final  liberation  and  return  of  Capt.  Asgill  to  New 
York  that  his  mind  had  been  improperly  impressed  or 
that  he  was  defective  in  politeness.  The  treatment 
he  had  met  with,  in  my  conception,  merited  an  ac 
knowledgment — None,  however  was  offered,  and  I 
never  sought  for  the  cause. 

This  concise  acct.  of  the  treatment  of  Capt.  Asgill 
is  given  from  a  hasty  recollection  of  the  circum 
stances. — If  I  had  had  time,  and  it  was  essential,  by  un 
packing  my  papers  and  recurring  to  authentic  files, 
I  might  have  been  more  pointed  and  full.  It  is  in 
my  power  at  any  time  to  convince  the  unbiased  mind 
that  my  conduct  through  the  whole  of  the  transaction 
was  neither  influenced  by  passion,  guided  by  inhuman 
ity  or  under  the  control  of  any  interference  whatsoever. 
I  essayed  everything  to  save  the  innocent  and  bring 
the  guilty  to  punishment,  with  what  success  the  im 
partial  world  must  and  hereafter  certainly  will  decide. 
With  very  great  esteem,  &C.1 

1  Col.  Humphreys  published  in  the  Columbian  Magazine  for  January,  1787, 
many  of  the  papers  relating  to  the  Asgill  affair. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON,  41 

TO    HENRY    LEE,    IN    CONGRESS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  iSJune,  1786. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

*  #  *  *  #  -3f 

The  advantages,  with  which  the  inland  navigation 
of  the  Rivers  Potomac  and  James  are  pregnant,  must 
strike  every  mind  that  reasons  upon  the  subject ;  but 
there  is,  I  perceive,  a  diversity  of  sentiment  respect 
ing  the  benefits  and  the  consequences,  which  may  flow 
from  the  free  and  immediate  use  of  the  Mississippi. 
My  opinion  of  this  matter  has  been  uniformly  the 
same  ;  and  no  light  in  which  I  have  been  able  to  con 
sider  the  subject  is  likely  to  change  it.  It  is,  neither 
to  relinquish  nor  to  push  our  claim  to  this  navigation, 
but  in  the  mean  while  to  open  all  the  communica 
tions,  which  nature  has  afforded,  between  the  Atlantic 
States  and  the  western  territory,  and  to  encourage 
the  use  of  them  to  the  utmost.  In  my  judgment  it 
is  a  matter  of  very  serious  concern  to  the  well-being 
of  the  former  to  make  it  the  interest  of  the  latter  to 
trade  with  them  ;  without  which,  the  ties  of  consan 
guinity,  which  are  weakening  every  day,  will  soon  be  no 
bond,  and  we  shall  be  no  more  a  few  years  hence  to 
the  inhabitants  of  that  country,  than  the  British  and 
Spaniards  are  at  this  day  ;  not  so  much,  indeed,  be 
cause  commercial  connexions,  it  is  well  known,  lead  to 
others,  and  united  are  difficult  to  be  broken,  and  these 
must  take  place  with  the  Spaniards,  if  the  navigation 
of  the  Mississippi  is  opened. 

Clear  I  am,  that  it  would  be  for  the  interest  of  the 
western  settlers,  as  low  down  the  Ohio  as  the  Big 
Kanhawa,  and  back  to  the  Lakes,  to  bring  their  prod- 


42  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 


uce  through  one  of  the  channels  I  have  named  ;  but 
the  way  must  be  cleared,  and  made  easy  and  obvious 
to  them,  or  else  the  ease  with  which  people  glide  down 
stream  will  give  a  different  bias  to  their  thinking  and 
acting.  Whenever  the  new  States  become  so  popu 
lous  and  so  extended  to  the  westward,  as  really  to 
need  it,  there  will  be  no  power  which  can  deprive 
them  of  the  use  of  the  Mississippi.  Why  then  should 
we  prematurely  urge  a  matter,  which  is  displeasing 
and  may  produce  disagreeable  consequences,  if  it  is 
our  interest  to  let  it  sleep?  It  may  require  some 
Inanagement  to  quiet  the  restless  and  impetuous 
spirits  of  Kentucky,  of  whose  conduct  I  am  more 
apprehensive  in  this  business,  than  I  am  of  all  the 
opposition  that  will  be  given  by  the  Spaniards.1  Mrs. 
Washington  &  George  and  his  wife  join  me  in  com 
pliments  and  good  wishes  to  your  lady.  With  great 
esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


1  Mr.  Lee's  reply  to  the  above  showed  that  the  general  voice  in  Congress  was 
not  for  insisting  on  the  navigation  of  the  Mississippi  as  a  necessary  requisite, 
in  a  treaty  with  Spain.  "  Your  reasoning,"  said  he,  "  is  perfectly  conforma 
ble  to  the  prevalent  doctrine  on  that  subject  in  Congress.  We  are  very  solici 
tous  to  form  a  treaty  with  Spain  for  commercial  purposes.  Indeed  no  nation 
in  Europe  can  give  us  conditions  so  advantageous  to  our  trade  as  that  kingdom. 
The  carrying  business  they  are  like  ourselves  in,  and  this  common  source  of 
difficulty  in  adjusting  commercial  treaties  between  other  nations,  does  not  apply 
to  America  and  Spain.  But,  my  dear  General,  I  do  not  think  you  go  far 
enough.  Rather  than  defer  longer  a  free  and  liberal  system  of  trade  with 
Spain,  why  not  agree  to  the  exclusion  of  the  Mississippi  ?  This  exclusion  will 
not,  cannot,  exist  longer  than  the  infancy  of  the  western  emigrants.  Therefore, 
to  those  people,  what  is  now  done  cannot  be  important.  To  the  Atlantic  States 
it  is  highly  important  ;  for  we  have  no  prospect  of  bringing  to  a  conclusion  our 
negotiations  with  the  court  of  Madrid,  but  by  yielding  the  navigation  of  the 
Mississippi.  Their  minister  here  is  under  positive  instructions  on  that  point. 
In  all  other  arrangements  the  Spanish  monarch  will  give  to  the  States  testimonies 
of  his  regard  and  friendship.  And  I  verily  believe,  that,  if  the  above  difficulty 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  43 


TO    WILLIAM    GRAYSON,    IN    CONGRESS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  26  July,  1786. 

DEAR  SIR, 

Is  it  not  among  the  most  unaccountable  things  in 
nature,  that  the  representation  of  a  great  country 
should  generally  be  so  thin  as  not  to  be  able  to  exe 
cute  the  functions  of  government?1  To  what  is  this 

should  be  removed,  we  should  soon  experience  the  advantages,  which  would 
flow  from  a  connexion  with  Spain." — July  3d. 

"If  I  stopped  short  of  your  ideas  respecting  the  navigation  of  the  Mis 
sissippi,  or  of  what  may  be  the  opinions  of  Congress  on  this  subject, 
it  was  not  from  want  of  coincidence  of  sentiments,  but  because  I  was  igno 
rant,  at  that  time,  of  the  rubs,  which  are  in  the  way  of  your  commercial 
treaty  with  Spain,  and  because  I  thought  some  address  might  be  necessary 
to  temporize  with,  and  keep  the  settlement  of  Kentucky  in  a  state  of  quietness. 
At  this  moment  that  settlement  is  formidable  ;  population  is  rapidly  increasing 
there.  There  are  many  ambitious  and  turbulent  spirits  among  its  inhabitants, 
who,  from  the  present  difficulties  in  their  intercourse  with  the  Atlantic  States, 
have  turned  their  eyes  to  New  Orleans,  and  may  become  riotous  and  ungov 
ernable,  if  the  hope  of  traffic  with  it  is  cut  off  by  treaty.  Notwithstanding,  if 
this  cession  is  counterpoised,  it  may  be  a  more  favorable  time  for  Congress  to 
speak  decisively  to  them  than  when  they  have  got  stronger,  but  not  sufficiently 
matured  to  force  the  passage  of  the  Mississippi  themselves  ;  whilst  the  plans, 
which  are  in  agitation  for  opening  communications  with  that  territory,  may,  if 
successful,  unfold  to  them  new  prospects  mutually  beneficial  to  the  old  and  new 
States.  All  these  matters,  no  doubt,  will  be  duly  considered  by  Congress,  and 
a  decision  had  on  whichever  side  the  advantages  preponderate." — Washington 
to  Henry  Lee,  20  July,  1786. 

Even  Lafayette  had  left  the  country  carrying  an  impression  that  many  people 
did  not  desire  the  navigation  of  the  Mississippi,  as  it  might  prove  the  excess  of 
a  very  good  thing — the  opening  of  water-ways. 

It  is  curious  that  at  this  time  the  Spanish  representative,  Gardoqui,  believed 
that  he  had  gained  the  support  of  Richard  Henry  Lee  to  his  policy.  '*  Mi 
respectable  amico  el  ex-Presidente  Mr.  Ricardo  Henry  Lee,  por  que  es  todo 
nuestro,  y  Miembro  de  Virginia  en  este  Congresso,  cuya  presencia  acrobardara 
a  sus  concolegas,  y  es  capaz  de  dar  doble  consistencia  a  nuestras  ideas." — 
Gardoqui  to  Florida  Blanca,  12  May,  1786. 

1  Mr.  Grayson  had  written  :  "  Till  within  a  short  time  the  representation  has 
been  so  thin,  as  to  render  it  impracticable  for  Congress  to  undertake  any  mat 
ter  of  importance,  although  there  are  many  which  require  their  serious  atten 
tion." — May  27th. 


44  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

to  be  ascribed  ?  Is  it  the  result  of  political  manoeuvre 
in  some  States,  or  is  it  owing  to  supineness  or  want 
of  means  ?  Be  the  causes  what  they  may,  it  is  shame 
ful  and  disgusting.  In  a  word,  it  hurts  us.  Our 
character  as  a  nation  is  dwindling  ;  and  what  it  must 
come  to,  if  a  change  should  not  soon  take  place,  our 
enemies  have  foretold  ;  for  in  truth  we  seem  either  not 
capable,  or  not  willing,  to  take  care  of  ourselves. 

For  want,  I  suppose,  of  competent  knowledge  of 
the  Connecticut  claim  to  western  territory,  the  com 
promise  which  is  made  with  her  appears  to  me  to  be 
a  disadvantageous  one  for  the  Union,  and,  if  her  right 
is  not  one  of  the  motives  (according  to  your  account) 
for  yielding  to  it,  in  my  humble  opinion,  is  exceed 
ingly  dangerous  and  bad  ;  for  upon  such  principles 
might,  not  right,  must  ever  prevail,  and  there  will  be 
no  surety  for  any  thing.1 

1  Alluding  to  the  tract  of  country  usually  called  the  Connecticut  Reserve, 
making  a  part  of  the  State  of  Ohio,  and  situate  on  the  south  side  of  Lake  Erie. 
Speaking  of  the  measure,  as  acceded  to  by  Congress,  Mr.  Grayson  said  :  "  The 
consequence  I  apprehend  is  a  clear  loss  of  about  six  millions  of  acres  to  the 
United  States,  which  had  already  been  ceded  by  Virginia  and  New  York  ;  for 
the  Assembly  of  Connecticut  now  sitting  will  unquestionably  open  a  land-office, 
and  the  federal  constitution  has  not  given  a  court  in  this  instance.  The  advo 
cates  for  this  measure  urged  in  favor  of  its  adoption,  that  the  claim  of  a  power 
ful  State,  although  unsupported  by  right,  was,  under  present  circumstances,  a 
disagreeable  thing  ;  that  sacrifices  must  be  made  for  the  public  tranquillity,  as 
well  as  to  acquire  an  indisputable  title  to  the  residue  ;  that  Connecticut  would 
settle  it  immediately  with  emigrants  well-disposed  to  the  Union,  who  would 
form  a  barrier,  not  only  against  the  British,  but  the  Indian  tribes  ;  and  that  the 
thick  settlement  they  would  immediately  form  would  enhance  the  value  of  the 
adjacent  country  and  facilitate  emigrations  thereto." — Upon  these  grounds  the 
cession  on  the  part  of  Connecticut  was  accepted  by  Congress,  the  reservation 
above  mentioned  being  conceded  at  the  same  time.  All  the  delegates,  except 
those  from  Virginia  and  Maryland,  voted  in  favor  of  the  proposition. — Journals, 
May  26th. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  45 

I  wish  very  sincerely,  that  the  land  ordinance  may 
answer  the  expectations  of  Congress.  I  had,  and  still 
have,  my  doubts  of  the  utility  of  the  plan,  but  pray 
devoutly,  that  they  may  never  be  realized,  as  I  am 
desirous  of  seeing  it  a  productive  branch  of  the  reve 
nue.  That  part,  which  makes  the  waters  and  carrying- 
places  common  highways,  and  free  for  all  the  States, 
is  certainly  valuable. 

I  thank  you  for  the  other  articles  of  information. 
Such  as  you  have  disclosed  confidentially,  you  may 
rest  assured  will  proceed  no  further,  till  it  becomes 
public  through  other  channels  ;  and  this  shall  always 
be  the  case  with  paragraphs,  which  are  so  marked. 
The  answer  to  the  memorial  of  Mr.  Adams  by  Lord 
Carmarthen  I  have  seen  at  large.  It  was  impolitic 
and  unfortunate  if  it  was  not  unjust  in  these  States  to 
pass  laws,  which  by  fair  construction  might  be  con 
sidered  as  infractions  of  the  treaty  of  peace.  It  is 
good  policy  at  all  times  to  place  one's  adversary  in 
the  wrong.  Had  we  observed  good  faith,  and  the 
western  posts  had  then  been  withheld  from  us  by 
Great  Britain,  we  might  have  appealed  to  God  and 
man  for  justice  ;  and,  if  there  are  any  guarantees  to 
the  treaty,  we  might  have  called  upon  them  to  see  it 
fulfilled.1  But  now  we  cannot  do  this  ;  though  clear  I 
am,  that  the  reasons  assigned  by  the  British  ministry 

1  By  the  seventh  article  of  the  treaty  of  peace,  the  posts  held  by  the  British 
within  the  United  States  were  to  be  evacuated.  By  the  fourth  article,  every 
facility  was  to  be  allowed  to  British  subjects  to  collect  the  debts  due  to  them 
in  the  several  States.  Lord  Carmarthen  had  shown,  by  quoting  the  recent  laws 
of  some  of  the  States,  that  obstacles  had  been  thrown  in  the  way  of  collecting 
such  debts,  and  that  the  fourth  article  of  the  treaty  was  thus  violated,  which 
was  the  reason  why  the  posts  were  not  given  up. 


46  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 


are  only  ostensible,  and  that  the  posts,  under  one  pre 
tence  or  another,  were  intended  to  have  been  detained, 
though  no  such  acts  had  ever  passed.  But  how  dif 
ferent  would  our  situation  have  been  under  such 
circumstances.  With  very  sincere  regard  and  affec 
tion,  I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO    WAKELIN    WELCH,    ESQ. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  —  July,  1786. 

SIR, 

Since  my  last  of  the  28th  of  Novr.,  I  have  been 
favored  with  your  letters  of  the  2 7th  of  Feby.  &  i3th 
of  March  ;  and  have  receiv'd  the  paper  hangings  and 
watch  by  Capt.  Andrews.  With  the  last  Mrs.  Wash 
ington  is  well  pleased,  and  I  thank  you  in  her  name 
for  your  attention  to  the  making  of  it. 

If  the  stocks  keep  up,  and  there  is  not  a  moral  cer 
tainty  of  their  rising  higher  in  a  short  time,  it  is  my 
wish  and  desire  that  my  interest  in  the  Bank  may  be 
immediately  sold,  and  the  money  arising  therefrom 
made  subject  to  my  Drafts  in  your  hands,  some  of 
which  at  60  days  sight  may  soon  follow  this  letter. 

The  footing  on  which  you  have  placed  the  interest 
of  my  debt  to  you,  is  all  I  require.  To  stand  on  equal 
ground  with  others  who  owe  money  to  the  merchants 
in  England,  and  who  were  not  so  prompt  in  their  pay 
ment  of  the  principal  as  I  have  been,  is  all  I  aim  at. 
Whatever  the  two  Countries  may  finally  decide  with 
respect  to  interest  ;  or  whatever  general  agreement  or 
compromise  may  be  come  to,  between  British  Cred- 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  47 

ttors  and  American  Debtors,  I  am  willing-  to  abide 
by  ;  nor  should  I  again  have  touched  upon  this  sub 
ject  in  this  letter,  had  you  not  introduced  a  case  which, 
in  my  opinion  has  no  similitude  with  the  point  in 
question. 

You  say  I  have  received  interest  at  the  Bank,  for 
the  money  which  was  there — granted — but  (besides 
remarking  that  only  part  of  this  money  was  mine)  per 
mit  me  to  ask  if  G.  Britain  was  not  enabled  by  means 
of  the  bank,  to  continue  the  War  with  this  country  ? 
whether  this  war  did  not  deprive  us  of  the  means  of 
paying  our  Debts  ?  and  whether  the  interest  I  re 
ceived  from  this  source  did  or  could  bear  any  propor 
tion  to  the  losses  I  sustained  by  having1  my  grain,  my 
Tobacco  and  every  article  of  produce,  rendered  un 
saleable  and  left  to  perish  on  my  hands  ? 

However,  I  again  repeat  that  I  ask  no  discrimina 
tion  of  you  in  my  favor,  for  had  there  been  no  stipu 
lation  by  treaty  to  secure  debts — nay  more,  had  there 
even  been  an  exemption  by  the  legislative  authority 
or  practice  of  this  Country  against  it,  I  would,  from  a 
conviction  of  the  propriety  and  justice  of  the  meas 
ure,  have  discharged  my  original  debt  to  you. 

But  from  the  moment  our  ports  were  shut,  and  our 
markets  were  stopped  by  the  hostile  fleets  and  armies 
of  Great  Britain,  'till  the  first  were  opened,  and  the 
others  revived,  I  should,  for  the  reasons  I  have  (tho' 
very  cursorily)  assigned,  have  thought  the  interest  dur 
ing  thatepocha,  stood  upon  a  very  different  footing. 

I  am  much  obliged  by  the  trouble  you  have  taken 
to  enquire  into  the  nature  of  the  connexion  between 


48  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

the  House  of  Messrs.  Hanbury  &  Co.,  and  Balfour  & 
Barrand.  I  had  no  sanguine  hopes  of  redress  from 
that  quarter,  but  as  it  seemed  to  be  the  only  chance  I 
was  willing  to  try  it.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    THE    CHEVALIER    DE    LA    LUZERNE. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  i  August,  1786. 

DEAR  SIR, 

The  letter  you  did  me  the  honor  to  write  to  me  on 
the  3d  of  February  has  come  safely  to  hand.  Nothing 
could  be  more  satisfactory  to  me  than  the  friendly 
sentiments  contained  in  it,  and  the  generous  manner 
in  which  you  always  interest  yourself  in  the  happiness 
and  dignity  of  the  United  States.  I  wish  I  had  it  in 
my  power  to  inform  you  that  the  several  States  had 
fully  complied  with  all  the  wise  requisitions,  which 
Congress  has  made  to  them  on  national  subjects. 
But,  unfortunately  for  us,  this  is  not  yet  the  case, 
although  for  my  own  part  I  do  not  cease  to  expect, 
that  this  just  policy  will  ultimately  take  effect.  It  is 
not  the  part  of  a  good  citizen  to  despair  of  the  repub 
lic  ;  nor  ought  we  to  have  calculated,  that  our  young 
governments  would  have  acquired  in  so  short  a  period 
all  the  consistency  and  solidity,  which  it  has  been  the 
work  of  ages  to  give  to  other  nations.  All  the  States, 
however,  have  at  length  granted  the  impost  ;  though 
unhappily  some  of  them  have  granted  it  under  such 
qualifications  as  have  hitherto  prevented  its  operation. 
The  greater  part  of  the  Union  seems  to  be  convinced 
of  the  necessity  of  federal  measures,  and  of  investing 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  49 

Congress  with  the  power  of  regulating  the  commerce 
of  the  whole.  The  reasons  you  offer  on  this  subject 
are  certainly  forcible,  and  I  cannot  but  hope  will  ere 
long  have  their  due  efficacy.1 

In  other  respects  our  internal  governments  are 
daily  acquiring  strength.  The  laws  have  their  fullest 
energy  ;  justice  is  well  administered  ;  robbery,  vio 
lence,  or  murder  is  not  heard  of,  from  New  Hampshire 
to  Georgia.  The  people  at  large,  (as  far  as  I  can 
learn,)  are  more  industrious  than  they  were  before  the 
war.  Economy  begins,  partly  from  necessity  and 
partly  from  choice  and  habit,  to  prevail.  The  seeds 
of  population  are  scattered  over  an  immense  tract 
of  western  country.  In  the  old  States,  which  were 
the  theatres  of  hostility,  it  is  wonderful  to  see  how 
soon  the  ravages  of  war  are  repaired.  Houses  are 
rebuilt,  fields  enclosed,  stocks  of  cattle,  which  were 
destroyed,  are  replaced,  and  many  a  desolated  territory 
assumes  again  the  cheerful  appearance  of  cultivation. 
In  many  places  the  vestiges  of  conflagration  and  ruin 
are  hardly  to  be  traced.  The  arts  of  peace,  such  as 
clearing  rivers,  building  bridges,  and  establishing  con 
veniences  for  travelling,  are  assiduously  promoted. 

1  "  I  thank  your  Excellency  for  the  details,  which  you  have  so  kindly  given 
me  respecting  American  affairs.  The  sentiments  at  Versailles  are  similar  to 
your  own,  in  regard  to  the  powers  that  the  States  ought  to  grant  to  Congress 
for  the  purpose  of  a  general  regulation  of  commerce.  So  wise  and  prudent  a 
measure  cannot  surely  result  in  any  detriment  to  liberty ;  and  the  Americans 
have  too  much  intelligence  and  good  sense  not  to  perceive  that  foreign  powers, 
who  desire  commercial  alliances  with  them,  cannot  treat  with  thirteen  distinct 
States,  which,  having  different  interests  among  themselves,  can  only  act  in  a 
united  capacity  through  Congress  in  adopting  such  general  measures,  as  will  re 
dound  to  the  advantage  of  the  republic.  I  hope  the  next  news,  which  we  shall 
receive  from  America,  will  inform  us,  that  the  several  legislatures  have  put  the 
last  hand  to  this  important  affair." — Luzerne  to  Washington,  3d  February,  1786. 
4 


50  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

In  short,  the  foundation  of  a  great  empire  is  laid,  and 
I  please  myself  with  a  persuasion,  that  Providence 
will  not  leave  its  work  imperfect. 

I  am  sensible,  that  the  picture  of  our  situation, 
which  has  been  exhibited  in  Europe  since  the  peace, 
has  been  of  a  very  different  complexion  ;  but  it  must 
be  remembered,  that  all  the  unfavorable  features  have 
been  much  heightened  by  the  medium  of  the  English 
newspapers,  through  which  they  have  been  repre 
sented.  The  British  still  continue  to  hold  the  posts 
on  our  frontiers,  and  affect  to  charge  us  with  some 
infractions  of  the  treaty.  On  the  other  hand  we  retort 
the  accusation.  What  will  be  the  consequences  is 
more  than  I  can  predict.  To  me,  however,  it  appears, 
that  they  are  playing  the  same  foolish  game  in  com 
merce  that  they  have  lately  done  in  war ;  that  their 
ill-judged  impositions  will  eventually  drive  our  ships 
from  their  ports,  wean  our  attachments  from  their 
manufactures,  and  give  to  France  decided  advantages 
for  a  commercial  connexion  with  us.  To  strengthen 
the  alliance,  and  promote  the  interests  of  France  and 
America,  will  ever  be  the  favorite  object  of  him,  who 
has  the  honor  to  subscribe  himself,  with  every  senti 
ment  of  attachment,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO    THOMAS   JEFFERSON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,   i  August,  1786. 

DEAR  SIR, 

The  letters  you  did  me  the  favor  to  write  to  me, 
on  the  4th  and  ;th  of  January,  have  been  duly  re 
ceived.  In  answer  to  your  obliging  inquiries  respect- 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  51 

ing  the  dress,  attitude,  &c.,  which  I  would  wish  to 
have  given  to  the  statue  in  question,  I  have  only  to 
observe,  that,  not  having  sufficient  knowledge  in  the 
art  of  sculpture  to  oppose  my  judgment  to  the  taste 
of  connoisseurs,  I  do  not  desire  to  dictate  in  the 
matter.  On  the  contrary,  I  shall  be  perfectly  satisfied 
with  whatever  may  be  judged  decent  and  proper.  I 
should  even  scarcely  have  ventured  to  suggest,  that 
perhaps  a  servile  adherence  to  the  garb  of  antiquity 
might  not  be  altogether  so  expedient,  as  some  little 
deviation  in  favor  of  the  modern  costume,  if  I  had  not 
learnt  from  Colonel  Humphreys,  that  this  was  a  cir 
cumstance  hinted  in  conversation  by  Mr.  West  to  Mr. 
Houdon.  This  taste,  which  has  been  introduced  in 
painting  by  West,  I  understand  is  received  with  ap 
plause,  and  prevails  extensively.  *  *  * 

We  have  no  news  of  importance  ;  and,  if  we  had,  I 
should  hardly  be  in  the  way  of  learning  it,  as  I  divide 
my  time  between  the  superintendence  of  opening  the 
navigation  of  our  rivers,  and  attention  to  my  private 
concerns.  Indeed  I  am  too  much  secluded  from  the 
world  to  know  with  certainty  what  sensation  the  re 
fusal  of  the  British  to  deliver  up  the  western  posts 
has  made  on  the  public  mind.  I  fear  the  edge  of  its 
sensibility  is  somewhat  blunted.  Federal  measures 
are  not  yet  universally  adopted.  New  York,  which  was 
as  well  disposed  a  State  as  any  in  the  Union,  is  said 
to  have  become  in  a  degree  anti-federal.  Some 
other  States  are  in  my  opinion  falling  into  very  fool 
ish  and  wicked  plans  of  emitting  paper  money.  I 
cannot  however  give  up  my  hopes  and  expectations, 


52  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

that  we  shall  ere  long  adopt  a  more  just  and  liberal 
system  of  policy.  What  circumstances  will  lead,  or 
what  misfortunes  will  compel  us  to  it,  is  more  than 
can  be  told  without  the  spirit  of  prophecy.  In  the 
mean  time  the  people  are  industrious.  Economy 
begins  to  prevail,  and  our  internal  governments  are 
in  general  tolerably  well  administered. 

You  will  probably  have  heard  of  the  death  of  Gen 
eral  Greene  before  this  reaches  you  ;  in  which  case 
you  will,  in  common  with  your  countrymen,  have  re 
gretted  the  loss  of  so  great  and  so  honest  a  man.1 
General  McDougall,  who  was  a  brave  soldier  and  a 
disinterested  patriot,  is  also  dead.2  He  belonged  to 
the  legislature  of  his  State.  The  last  act  of  his  life 
was  (after  being  carried  on  purpose  to  the  Senate)  to 
give  his  voice  against  the  emission  of  a  paper  cur- 

1  Greene  died  near  Savannah,  19  June,  1786,  aged  forty-four. 

"  Persuaded  as  I  always  have  been  of  Genl.  Greene's  integrity  and  worth, 
I  spurned  those  reports  which  tended  to  calumniate  his  conduct  in  the  connec 
tion  with  Banks  ;  being  perfectly  convinced  that  whenever  the  matter  should 
be  investigated,  his  motives  for  entering  into  it  would  appear  pure  and  unim 
peachable. — I  was  not  without  my  fears  though  that  he  might  suffer  in  a  pecu 
niary  way  by  his  engagement  with  this  man. — I  would  fain  hope  however  that 
the  case  may,  ultimately,  be  otherwise  ;  and  that  upon  a  final  settlement  of  his 
affairs  there  will  be  a  handsome  competency  for  Mrs.  Greene  and  the  children, 
— But  should  the  case  be  otherwise,  and  Mrs.  Greene,  yourself,  and  Mr.  Rut- 
ledge  would  think  proper  to  entrust  my  namesake  G.  Washington  Greene  to 
my  care,  I  will  give  him  as  good  an  education  as  this  country  (I  mean  the 
United  States)  will  afford,  and  will  bring  him  up  to  either  of  the  genteel 
professions  that  his  frds.  may  chuse,  or  his  own  inclination  shall  lead  him  to 
pursue,  at  my  own  cost  &  expence. 

"  I  condole  very  sincerely  with  Mrs.  Greene  (to  whom  please  to  tender  my 
respects)  and  the  rest  of  General  Greene's  friends  at  the  loss  the  public,  as  well 
as  his  family,  has  sustained  by  the  death  of  this  valuable  character — especially 
at  this  crisis — when  the  political  machine  seems  pregnant  with  the  most  awful 
events." — Washington  to  Jeremiah  Wadsivorth,  22  October,  1786. 

2  Died  8  June,  1786. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  53 

rency.  Colonel  Tilghman,  who  was  formerly  of  my 
family,  died  lately,  and  left  as  fair  a  reputation  as 
ever  belonged  to  a  human  character.  Thus  some  of 
the  pillars  of  the  revolution  fall.  Others  are  mould 
ering  by  insensible  degrees.  May  our  country  never 
want  props  to  support  the  glorious  fabric.  With 
sentiments  of  esteem  and  regard,  I  have  the  honor 
to  be,  &c. 


TO    JOHN    JAY. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  i  August,  1786. 

DEAR  SIR, 

I  have  to  thank  you  very  sincerely  for  your  inter 
esting  letter  of  the  27th  of  June,  as  well  as  for  the 
other  communications  you  had  the  goodness  to  make 
at  the  same  time.  I  am  sorry  to  be  assured,  of  what 
indeed  I  had  little  doubt  before,  that  we  have  been 
guilty  of  violating  the  treaty  in  some  instances.  What 
a  misfortune  it  is,  the  British  should  have  so  well 
grounded  a  pretext  for  their  palpable  infractions  ! 
And  what  a  disgraceful  part,  out  of  the  choice  of 
difficulties  before  us,  are  we  to  act  ! 

Your  sentiments,  that  our  affairs  are  drawing  rap 
idly  to  a  crisis,  accord  with  my  own.  What  the  event 
will  be,  is  also  beyond  the  reach  of  my  foresight.  We 
have  errors  to  correct.  We  have  probably  had  too 
good  an  opinion  of  human  nature  in  forming  our 
confederation.  Experience  has  taught  us,  that  men 
will  not  adopt  and  carry  into  execution  measures  the 
best  calculated  for  their  own  good,  without  the  inter 
vention  of  a  coercive  power.  I  do  not  conceive  we  can 


54  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

exist  long1  as  a  nation  without  having  lodged  some 
where  a  power,  which  will  pervade  the  whole  Union  in 
as  energetic  a  manner  as  the  authority  of  the  State 
governments  extends  over  the  several  States. 

To  be  fearful  of  investing  Congress,  constituted  as 
that  body  is,  with  ample  authorities  for  national  pur 
poses,  appears  to  me  the  very  climax  of  popular  ab 
surdity  and  madness.  Could  Congress  exert  them  for 
the  detriment  of  the  public,  without  injuring  them 
selves  in  an  equal  or  greater  proportion  ?  Are  not 
their  interests  inseparably  connected  with  those  of 
their  constituents  ?  By  the  rotation  of  appointment, 
must  they  not  mingle  frequently  with  the  mass  of 
citizens?  Is  it  not  rather  to  be  apprehended,  if  they 
were  possessed  of  the  powers  before  described,  that 
the  individual  members  would  be  induced  to  use  them, 
on  many  occasions,  very  timidly  and  inefficaciously  for 
fear  of  losing  their  popularity  and  future  election  ? 
We  must  take  human  nature  as  we  find  it.  Perfection 
falls  not  to  the  share  of  mortals.  Many  are  of  opin 
ion,  that  Congress  have  too  frequently  made  use  of 
the  suppliant,  humble  tone  of  requisition  in  applica 
tions  to  the  States,  when  they  had  a  right  to  assert 
their  imperial  dignity  and  command  obedience.  Be 
that  as  it  may,  requisitions  are  a  perfect  nullity  where 
thirteen  sovereign,  independent,  disunited  States  are 
in  the  habit  of  discussing  and  refusing  compliance 
with  them  at  their  option.  Requisitions  are  actually 
little  better  than  a  jest  and  a  by-word  throughout  the 
land.  If  you  tell  the  legislatures  they  have  violated 
the  treaty  of  peace,  and  invaded  the  prerogatives  of 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  55 

the  confederacy,  they  will  laugh  in  your  face.  What 
then  is  to  be  done  ?  Things  cannot  go  on  in  the  same 
train  forever.  It  is  much  to  be  feared,  as  you  observe, 
that  the  better  kind  of  people,  being  digusted  with  the 
circumstances,  will  have  their  minds  prepared  for  any 
revolution  whatever.  We  are  apt  to  run  from  one 
extreme  into  another.  To  anticipate  and  prevent 
disastrous  contingencies  would  be  the  part  of  wisdom 
and  patriotism. 

What  astonishing  changes  a  few  years  are  capable 
of  producing.  I  am  told  that  even  respectable  char 
acters  speak  of  a  monarchical  form  of  government 
without  horror.  From  thinking  proceeds  speaking ; 
thence  to  acting  is  often  but  a  single  step.  But  how 
irrevocable  and  tremendous  !  What  a  triumph  for 
our  enemies  to  verify  their  predictions  !  What  a  tri 
umph  for  the  advocates  of  despotism  to  find,  that  we 
are  incapable  of  governing  ourselves,  and  that  systems 
founded  on  the  basis  of  equal  liberty  are  merely  ideal 
and  fallacious  !  Would  to  God,  that  wise  measures 
may  be  taken  in  time  to  avert  the  consequences  we 
have  but  too  much  reason  to  apprehend. 

Retired  as  I  am  from  the  world,  I  frankly  acknowl 
edge  I  cannot  feel  myself  an  unconcerned  spectator. 
Yet,  having  happily  assisted  in  bringing  the  ship  into 
port,  and  having  been  fairly  discharged,  it  is  not  my 
business  to  embark  again  on  a  sea  of  troubles.  Nor 

o 

could  it  be  expected,  that  my  sentiments  and  opinions 
would  have  much  weight  on  the  minds  of  my  country 
men.  They  have  been  neglected,  though  given  as  a 
last  legacy  in  the  most  solemn  manner.  I  had  then 


5 6  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 


perhaps  some  claims  to  public  attention.  I  consider 
myself  as  having  none  at  present.  Mrs  Washington 
joins  me  in  compliments,  etc. 

With  sentiments  of  sincere  esteem  and  friendship, 
I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO    THE    MARQUIS    DE    LAFAYETTE. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  15  August,  1786. 

MY  DEAR  MARQUIS, 

I  will  not  conceal,  that  my  numerous  corresponden 
cies  are  daily  becoming  irksome  to  me.  Yet  I  always 
receive  your  letters  with  augmenting  satisfaction,  and 
therefore  rejoice  with  you  in  the  measures,  which  are 
likely  to  be  productive  of  a  more  frequent  intercourse 
between  our  two  nations.  Thus  motives  of  a  private 
as  well  as  of  a  public  nature  conspire  to  give  me 
pleasure,  in  finding  that  the  active  policy  of  France  is 
preparing  to  take  advantage  of  the  supine  stupidity  of 
England  with  respect  to  our  commerce. 

While  the  latter  by  its  impolitic  duties  and  restric 
tions  is  driving  our  ships  incessantly  from  its  harbors, 
the  former  seems,  by  the  invitations  it  is  giving,  to 
stretch  forth  the  friendly  hand  to  invite  them  into  its 
ports.  I  am  happy  in  a  conviction,  that  there  may 
be  established  between  France  and  the  United  States 
such  a  mutual  intercourse  of  good  offices  and  recipro 
cal  interests,  as  cannot  fail  to  be  attended  with  the 
happiest  consequences.  Nations  are  not  influenced, 
as  individuals  may  be,  by  disinterested  friendships  ;  but, 
when  it  is  their  interest  to  live  in  amity,  we  have 
little  reason  to  apprehend  any  rupture.  This  princi- 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  57 

pie  of  union  can  hardly  exist  in  a  more  distinguished 
manner  between  two  nations,  than  it  does  between 
France  and  the  United  States.  There  are  many  arti 
cles  of  manufacture,  which  we  stand  absolutely  in  need 
of,  and  shall  continue  to  have  occasion  for,  so  long  as 
we  remain  an  agricultural  people,  which  will  be  while 
lands  are  so  cheap  and  plenty,  that  is  to  say,  for  ages 
to  come. 

In  the  mean  time  we  shall  have  large  quantities  of 
timber,  fish,  oil,  wheat,  tobacco,  rice,  indigo,  &c.  to 
dispose  of.  Money  we  have  not.  Now  it  is  obvi 
ous,  that  we  must  have  recourse  for  the  goods  and 
manufactures  we  may  want  to  the  nation,  which  will 
enable  us  to  pay  for  them  by  receiving  our  produce 
in  return.  Our  commerce  with  any  of  the  great  man 
ufacturing  kingdoms  of  Europe  will,  therefore,  be  in 
proportion  to  the  facility  of  making  remittances,  which 
such  manufacturing  nations  may  think  proper  to 
afford  us.  On  the  other  hand,  France  has  occasion 
for  many  of  our  productions  and  raw  materials.  Let 
her  judge  whether  it  is  most  expedient  to  receive  them 
by  direct  importation,  and  to  pay  for  them  in  goods, 
or  to  obtain  them  through  the  circuitous  channel  of 
Britain,  and  to  pay  for  them  in  money  as  she  formerly 
did. 

I  know  that  Britain  arrogantly  expects  we  will  sell 
our  produce  wherever  we  can  find  a  market,  and  bring 
the  money  to  purchase  goods  from  her.  I  know  that 
she  vainly  hopes  to  retain  what  share  she  pleases  in 
our  trade,  in  consequence  of  our  prejudices  in  favor 
of  her  fashions  and  manufactures.  But  these  are  illu- 


58  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

sions,  which  will  vanish  and  disappoint  her,  as  the 
dreams  of  conquest  have  already  done.  Experience 
is  constantly  teaching  us,  that  these  predilections  were 
founded  in  error.  We  find  the  quality  and  price  of 
the  French  goods  we  receive,  in  many  instances,  to 
be  better  than  the  quality  and  price  of  the  English. 
Time,  and  a  more  thorough  acquaintance  with  the 
business  may  be  necessary  to  instruct  your  merchants 
in  the  choice  and  assortment  of  goods  necessary  for 
such  a  country.  As  to  an  ability  for  giving  credit,  in 
which  the  English  merchants  boast  a  superiority,  I 
am  confident  it  would  be  happy  for  America  if  the 
practice  could  be  entirely  abolished. 

However  unimportant  America  may  be  considered 
at  present,  and  however  Britain  may  affect  to  despise 
her  trade,  there  will  assuredly  come  a  day,  when  this 
country  will  have  some  weight  in  the  scale  of  empires. 
While  connected  with  us  as  colonies  only,  was  not 
Britain  the  first  power  in  the  world  ?  Since  the  dis 
solution  of  that  connexion,  does  not  France  occupy 
the  same  illustrious  place  ?  Your  successful  endeav 
ors,  my  dear  Marquis,  to  promote  the  interests  of  your 
two  countries,  (as  you  justly  call  them,)  must  give  you 
the  most  unadulterated  satisfaction.  Be  assured  the 
measures,  which  have  lately  been  taken,  with  regard 
to  the  two  articles  of  oil  and  tobacco,  have  tended 
very  much  to  endear  you  to  your  fellow  citizens  on 
this  side  of  the  Atlantic. 

Although  I  pretend  to  no  peculiar  information  re 
specting  commercial  affairs,  nor  any  foresight  into  the 
scenes  of  futurity,  yet,  as  the  member  of  an  infant 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  59 

empire,  as  a  philanthropist  by  character,  and,  (if  I 
may  be  allowed  the  expression,)  as  a  citizen  of  the 
great  republic  of  humanity  at  large,  I  cannot  help 
turning  my  attention  sometimes  to  this  subject.  I 
would  be  understood  to  mean,  I  cannot  avoid  reflect 
ing  with  pleasure  on  the  probable  influence,  that 
commerce  may  hereafter  have  on  human  manners  and 
society  in  general.  On  these  occasions  I  consider 
how  mankind  may  be  connected  like  one  great  family 
in  fraternal  ties.  I  indulge  a  fond,  perhaps  an  enthu 
siastic  idea,  that,  as  the  world  is  evidently  much  less 
barbarous  than  it  has  been,  its  melioration  must  still 
be  .progressive  ;  that  nations  are  becoming  more  hu 
manized  in  their  policy,  that  the  subjects  of  ambition 
and  causes  for  hostility  are  daily  diminishing  ;  and,  in 
fine,  that  the  period  is  not  very  remote,  when  the 
benefits  of  a  liberal  and  free  commerce  will  pretty 
generally  succeed  to  the  devastations  and  horrors  of 
war. 

Some  of  the  late  treaties,  which  have  been  entered 
into,  and  particularly  that  between  the  King  of  Prus 
sia  and  the  United  States,  seem  to  constitute  a  new 
era  in  negotiation,  and  to  promise  the  happy  conse 
quences  I  have  just  now  been  mentioning.  But  let 
me  ask  you,  my  dear  Marquis,  in  such  an  enlight 
ened,  such  a  liberal  age,  how  is  it  possible  the  great 
maritime  powers  of  Europe  should  submit  to  pay  an 
annual  tribute  to  the  little  piratical  states  of 
Barbary  ?  Would  to  Heaven  we  had  a  navy  able  to 
reform  those  enemies  to  mankind,  or  crush  them  into 
non-existence.  *  *  * 


60  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

TO    DAVID    HUMPHREYS.1 

MOUNT  VERNON,  i  September,  1786. 

MY  DEAR  HUMPHREYS, 

Enclosed  are  all  the  documents  Mr.  Lear  could 
find  respecting  the  confinement  and  treatment  under 
it  of  Captain  Asgill.  For  want  of  recurrence  to  them 
before  I  wrote  to  Mr.  Tilghman,2  I  perceive,  that  a 
bad  memory  had  run  me  into  an  error  in  my  narrative 
of  the  latter,  in  one  particular.  For  it  should  seem 
by  that,  as  if  the  loose  and  unguarded  manner,  in 
which  Captain  Asgill  was  held,  was  sanctioned  by  me  ; 
whereas  one  of  my  letters  to  Colonel  Dayton  con 
demns  this  conduct,  and  orders  Asgill  to  be  closely 
confined.  Mr.  Lear  has  given  all  the  letters  at  length. 
Extracts  might  have  answered  ;  but  I  judged  it  better 
that  the  whole  tenor  of  the  correspondence  should 
appear,  that  no  part  might  seem  to  be  hidden. 

I  well  remember  Major  Gordon's  attending  Asgill  ; 
and  by  one  of  my  letters  to  Dayton  it  is  evident,  that 
Gordon  had  written  to  me,  but  my  letter  books  have 
registered  no  reply.  In  what  manner  it  would  be  best 
to  bring  this  matter  before  the  public  I  am  at  a  loss, 
and  leave  it  to  you  to  determine  under  a  consideration 
of  the  circumstances,  which  are  as  fully  communicated 
as  the  documents  in  my  hands  will  enable  me  to  do. 
There  is  one  mystery  in  the  business,  which  I  cannot 
develop,  nor  are  there  any  papers  in  my  possession 
which  explain  it.  Hazen  was  ordered  to  send  an  un- 

1  The  commissioners  for  making  treaties  in  Europe,  of  which  Colonel  Hum 
phreys  was  secretary,  having  been  dissolved,  he  returned  to  the  United  States 
in  May,  and  since  that  time  he  had  passed  several  days  at  Mount  Vernon.  He 
was  now  in  Connecticut. 

3  This  letter  may  be  seen  under  the  date  of  June  5th. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  61 

conditional  prisoner.  Asgill  comes.  Hazen,  or  some 
other,  must  have  given  information  of  a  Lieutenant 
Turner,  (under  the  former  description).  Turner  is 
ordered  on,  but  never  came.  Why  ?  I  am  unable  to 
say  ;  nor  is  there  any  letter  from  Hazen  (to  be  found,) 
which  accounts  for  a  non-compliance  with  the  order. 
If  I  had  not  too  many  causes  to  distrust  my  memory, 
I  should  ascribe  it  to  there  having  been  no  such  offi 
cer,  or  that  he  was  also  under  capitulation  ;  for  Captain 
Shaach *  seems  to  have  been  held  as  a  proper  victim 
after  this. 

I  will  write  as  soon  as  I  am  able  to  Mr.  Tilghman, 
requesting  him  to  withhold  my  first  accounts  of  As- 
gill's  treatment  from  his  correspondent  in  England, 
promising  an  authentic  one  from  original  papers.  It 
may,  however,  have  passed  him.  In  that  case,  it  will 
be  necessary  for  me  to  say  something  to  reconcile 
my  own  accounts. 

I  write  to  you  with  a  very  aching  head  and  disor 
dered  frame,  and  Mr.  Lear  will  copy  the  letter.  Sat 
urday  last,  by  an  imprudent  act,  I  brought  on  an  ague 
and  fever  on  Sunday,  which  returned  with  violence 
Tuesday  and  Thursday;  and,  if  Dr.  Craik's  efforts 
are  ineffectual,  I  shall  have  them  again  this  day.  The 
family  join  me  in  every  good  wish  for  you.  It  is  un 
necessary  to  assure  you  of  the  friendship  and  affection 
with  which  I  am,  &c. 

P.  S.  We  have  found  Gordon's  letters.  They  con 
tain  a  demand  of  Asgill,  as  an  officer  protected  by 
the  capitulation  of  Yorktown.  This  I  suppose  is  the 
reason  they  were  not  answered. 

1  Probably  an  error  of  the  transcriber  for  Asgill. 


62  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

TO   JOHN    FRANCIS    MERCER. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  9  September,  1786. 

DR.  SIR, 

Your  favor  of  the  2oth  ulto.  did  not  get  to  my 
hands  'till  about  the  first  of  this  month.  It  found 
me  in  a  fever  from  which  I  am  now  but  sufficiently 
recovered  to  attend  to  business.  I  mention  this  as 
the  reason  why  your  propositions  have  not  been 
attended  to  before. 

With  respect  to  the  first,  I  never  mean  (unless 
some  particular  circumstance  should  compel  me  to  it) 
to  possess  another  slave  by  purchase  ;  it  being  among 
my  first  wishes  to  see  some  plan  adopted,  by  which 
slavery  in  this  country  may  be  abolished  by  slow, 
sure,  and  imperceptible  degrees.1 — With  respect  to 
the  second,  I  never  did,  nor  never  intend  to  purchase 
a  military  certificate.  I  see  no  difference  it  makes 

1  As  Mercer  could  pay  his  debt  in  no  other  way,  Washington  agreed  to  take 
six  male  negroes  :  "  three  or  four  young  fellows  for  ditchers :  and  the  like  num 
ber  of  well  grown  lads  for  artificers.  It  is  for  you  to  determine  whether  you 
can  supply  me  with  such  negroes.  If  you  agree  to  do  it,  and  will  appoint  a  time, 
I  would  send  for  them,  relying  on  your  word,  that  the  whole  are  healthy,  and 
none  of  them  addicted  to  running  away.  The  latter  I  abominate,  and  unhealthy 
negroes,  women  or  children,  would  not  suit  my  purpose  on  any  terms ."- 
Washington  to  Mercer,  6  November,  1786. 

"  It  is  not  my  wish  to  be  your  competitor  in  the  purchase  of  any  of  Mr.  Hun 
ter's  tradesmen  :  especially  as  I  am  in  a  great  degree  principled  against  increas 
ing  my  number  of  slaves  by  purchase,  and  suppose  moreover  that  negroes  sold 
on  credit  will  go  high.  Yet  as  you  are  not  disposed  to  buy  the  Bricklayer 
which  is  advertised  for  sale,  for  your  own  use,  and  find  him  in  the  vigor  of  life, 
from  report  a  good  workman  and  of  tolerable  character,  and  his  price  does  not 
exceed  one  hundred,  or  a  few  more  pounds,  I  should  be  glad  if  you  would  buy 
him  for  me.  I  have  much  work  in  this  way  to  do  this  summer.  If  he  has  a 
family,  with  which  he  is  to  be  sold  ;  or  from  whom  he  would  reluctantly  part, 
I  decline  the  purchase  ;  his  feelings  I  would  not  be  the  means  of  hurting  in  the 
latter  case,  nor  at  any  rate  be  incumbered  with  the  former." — Washington  to 
Henry  Lee,  4  February,  1787. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  63 

with  you,  (if  it  is  one  of  the  funds  allotted  for  the 
discharge  of  my  claim)  who  the  purchaser  is.  If  the 
depreciation  between  them  and  specie  is  three  for 
one  ;  you  will  have  it  in  your  power  whilst  at  the 
receipt  of  Custom — Richmond — where  it  is  said  the 
great  regulator  of  this  business  (Graves)  resides — to 
convert  them  into  specie  at  that  rate.  If  the  differ 
ence  is  more,  there  would  be  no  propriety  (if  I  in 
clined  to  deal  in  them  at  all)  in  my  taking  them  at 
that  exchange. 

I  shall  rely  upon  your  promise  of  ^"200 — in  five 
weeks  from  the  date  of  your  letter.  It  will  enable  me 
to  pay  the  workmen  which  have  been  employed  about 
this  House  all  the  Spring  &  Summer  (some  of  whom 
are  yet  here)  ;  but  there  are  two  debts  which  press 
hard  upon  me — one  of  which,  if  there  is  no  other 
method  left — I  must  sell  Land  or  Negroes  to  dis 
charge.  It  is  owing  to  the  Govr.  of  New  York 
(Clinton),  who  was  so  obliging  as  to  borrow  the  sum 
of  ^2000  to  answer  some  calls  of  mine  ; — to  be  paid 
in  12  months  after  the  conclusion  of  Peace. 

For  this  sum  he  became  my  security,  &  for  what 
remains  due  (about  ^800  York  currency)  I  am  now 
paying  an  interest  of  7  pr.  ct. — but  the  high  interest, 
tho'  more  than  any  estate  can  bear,  I  should  not 
regard  if  my  credit  was  not  at  stake  to  comply  with 
the  conditions  of  the  loan.  The  other  debt,  tho'  I 
am  anxious  to  discharge  it  and  the  person  to  whom  I 
owe  it,  I  know  wants  it,  yet  it  might  I  believe  be  put 
off  a  while  longer — this  sum  is  larger  than  the  other. 
I  am,  &c. 


64  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

TO  WILLIAM  TRIPLET. 
gIR  MOUNT  VERNON,  25  September,  1786. 

If  Mr.  Lund  Washington  has  not  misconceived  the 
conversation  which  passed  between  you  and  me,  the 
day  you  lay  ill  in  bed  ;  or  if  you  understood  the  matter 
in  the  same  light  he  seems  to  have  done,  I  find  there  is 
another  mistake  between  us  respecting  Mrs.  French's 
land,  which  it  behooves  me  to  clear  up  as  soon  as 
possible. 

He  thinks  you  asked  me  if  I  meant  to  take  the 
land  for  the  term  of  Robinson's  lease  ;  and  that  I 
answered  yes. — If  such  a  question  and  such  an  answer 
passed,  we  must  some  how  or  other  have  been  at 
cross  purposes  ;  for  clear  and  evident  it  must  be,  even 
to  yourself,  that  I  could  have  no  intention  of  being 
concerned  with  the  land  at  all,  unless  it  was  for 
Mrs.  French's  life.  You  may  well  recollect  Sir,  that 
I  declared  this  in  explicit  terms  in  the  conversation  I 
had  with  you  at  my  own  house,  and  assigned  reasons 
for  it  to  you — namely — that  if  I  got  this  and  Mr. 
Manley's  Land  it  was  my  intention  to  blend  them, 
and  my  other  plantations  together,  and  to  form  entire 
new  ones  out  of  the  whole  ;  that  I  meant  to  go  into  an 
entire  new  course  of  cropping,  &c.,  would  lay  off  my 
fields  accordingly  in  a  permanent  and  lasting  farm  by 
Ditches  and  Hedges  ; — and  that  it  was  for  this  rea 
son  I  was  desirous  of  knowing  this  fall  (before  I  went 
into  such  arrangement  and  expence),  whether  I  had 
any  chance  of  getting  these  places  or  not;  because  it 
might  be  too  late  afterwards  to  make  any  change  in 
my  plan.  With  this  object  in  view,  I  must  have 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  65 

been  insane,  to  have  taken  the  plantation  for  the 
remainder  of  Robinson's  lease  only  ;  first,  because 
it  is  uncertain  whether  I  could  get  possession  of 
the  Land  or  not,  never  having  exchanged  a  word 
with  Robinson  on  the  subject,  nor  never  intending 
to  do  it  unless  I  had  got  the  place  to  myself  entirely  ; 
and  secondly,  if  I  did  because  I  should  not  probably 
be  able  to  compleat  the  plan  of  enclosures  by 
the  time  the  Lease  would  expire.  What  situation 
should  I  be  in  then  ?  A  new  bargain  under  every 
disadvantage  to  make,  or  go  back  to  my  former 
grounds  ?  In  the  latter  case  all  my  labor  and  ex- 
pence  would  have  been  thrown  away  and  my  whole 
plan  defeated. — In  the  former  (that  is  supposing  Rob 
inson  could  not  be  got  off  by  fair  means,  and  Mr.  Lee 
is  of  opinion,  which  opinion  I  had  in  my  pocket  at  the 
time  I  call'd  upon  you  in  expectation  of  meeting  Mrs. 
French  that,  without  a  regular  demand  of  rent  and 
reentry,  which  might  be  a  tedious  and  expensive  pro 
cess  in  Courts,  the  Lease  cannot  be  got  aside,)  under 
these  circumstances  I  say,  I  should  have  made  myself 
liable  for  the  payment  of  Robinson's  rent,  without  de 
riving  a  single  advantage.  Will  any  body  think  this 
reasonable  ;  or  suppose  that  whilst  I  retain  my  senses, 
I  would  do  it  ? 

As  I  do  not  recollect  that  in  the  course  of  my  life  I 
ever  forfeited  my  word,  or  broke  a  promise  made  to 
any  one,  I  have  been  thus  particular  to  evince  (if  you 
understand  the  matter  in  the  same  light  that  Lund 
Washington  did)  that  I  was  not  attending  to  or  did 
not  understand  the  question. 

5 


66  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

I  am  sorry  any  mistake  has  happened  and  to  con 
vince  you  and  Mrs.  French  that  through  the  whole  of 
this  business,  I  meant  to  act  upon  fair,  open  and  hon 
orable  grounds,  I  will,  as  mistakes  have  taken  place, 
and  as  there  is  a  difference  of  opinion  respecting  the 
annual  value  of  the  Lands  and  negroes,  leave  it  to 
any  person  of  her  own  choosing  (Major  Little  if  she 
pleases)  to  say,  whether  the  rent  after  the  expiration 
of  Robinson's  lease  shall  be  ^136,  or  ^i5opr.  an  : — if 
he  thinks  one  too  much  and  the  other  too  little,  any  sum 
between. — Mrs.  French  has  declared  that  she  neither 
wanted  nor  would  take  more  than  the  intrinsic  worth 
of  the  place. — I  on  the  word  of  a  man  of  honor  declare 
that  I  do  not  desire  it  for  a  farthing  less  than  the 
value  ;  for  to  make  money  by  it  was  never  my  object  ; 
but  we  differ  in  our  sentiments  of  this.  Is  there  any 
mode  then  so  fair,  as  for  an  impartial  person  to  see 
the  place,  and  to  hear  what  Mrs.  French,  or  you  in 
her  behalf  and  myself  will  say  on  the  subject,  and 
then  to  decide  according  to  this  judgment  from  the 
facts  ?  and  can  there  be  any  thing  more  favorable  to 
her  wishes  than  to  have  this  determined  by  her  friend 
in  whom  she  places,  I  presume,  implicit  confidence  ? 
I  never  exchanged  a  word  directly  nor  indirectly  with 
Majr.  Little  on  the  subject,  but  believing  him  to  be  a 
gentleman  who  will  decide  according  to  the  dictates 
of  his  judgment,  I  am  not  afraid  to  entrust  the  matter 
to  him,  notwithstanding  the  family  connexion  between 
him  and  Mrs.  French — In  a  word,  I  am  so  conscious 
of  the  rectitude  of  my  intentions  in  the  whole  of  this 
business,  that  it  is  a  matter  of  the  most  perfect  indif- 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  67 

ference  to  me,  to  whom  it  is  left. — and,  tho'  it  may  be 
supposed  I  have  some  sinister  views  in  saying  it,  yet 
without  the  gift  of  prophecy,  I  will  venture  to  pro 
nounce,  that  if  Mrs.  French  misses  me  as  a  Tenant, 
she  will  repent,  long  before  Robinson's  Lease  expires, 
for  having  done  so  : — for  I  can  assure  her  from  an 
experience  of  more  than  twenty  five  years  that  there 
is  a  very  wide  difference  between  getting  Tenants 
and  getting  rents.  She  may  get  a  dozen  of  the  first 
(&  I  have  not  the  smallest  doubt  but  she  may)  ; 
but  if  there  is  one  among  them  who  (having  no 
other  dependence  than  the  produce  of  the  Plan 
tation)  will  pay  her  the  latter  without  hard  work 
ing  and  pinching  her  negroes,  and  a  great  deal 
of  trouble  and  vexation  to  her,  I  shall  be  more  mis 
taken  than  I  ever  was  in  any  thing  of  the  kind  in  my 
life. 

This  may  not  appear  so  to  her  at  first  view  ;  because 
it  is  but  too  common  to  compare  things  without 
attending  enough  to  the  circumstances  of  them. 

I  have  no  doubt  but  that  Mrs.  French  thinks  it  very 
strange  that  I  should  receive  ^120  a  year  rent  from 
Mr.  Dulaney,  and  scruple  to  give  her  ^150 — for 
rather  more  land,  and  twenty  odd  negroes,  but  has 
she  considered  that  the  one  is  accompanied  by  no 
charge  except  the  land  tax,  and  the  other  with  many 
and  heavy  ones  ?  And  do  not  every  body  who 
have  meadows,  and  have  ever  made  an  estimate 
of  their  value,  know  that  an  acre  of  tolerable 
good  grass  will  pay  all  the  expences  of  cutting,  cur 
ing  and  stacking,  and  will  put  at  least  4o/  in  the  owner's 


68  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

pocket  annually  ?  What  then  has  Mr.  Dulaney  to  do 
more  than  to  keep  up  his  fences  to  pay  the  rent  ?  By 
his  Advertisement  of  pasturage  for  Horses  at  3/ pr. 
week  he  has  -  —  acres.  Suppose  it  -  -  only  ;  the 
meadow  alone  without  a  single  hand  will  yield  him  at 
least  -  -  pr.  ann  :  Is  there  a  single  acre  of  land  on 
Mrs.  French's  plantation  from  which  (besides  crop 
ping,  so  precarious)  this  is  to  be  expected  ?  Is  there 
a  single  acre  which  can  be  converted  into  meadow? 
Is  not  the  Land  much  worn,  greatly  exhausted  and 
gullied  in  many  places?  None  can  deny  it.  But 
why  need  I  enumerate  or  dwell  on  these  things  ? 
Have  I  not  put  the  matter  upon  as  fair  a  footing  as  a 
man  possibly  can  do  ?  If  Mrs  French  wants  no  more 
than  the  value  as  she  has  declared,  what  objection 
can  she  have  to  Majr.  Little's  saying  what  that  value 
is  ?  If  this  proposition  is  acceded  to,  the  sooner  it  is 
communicated  to  me  the  better.  1  have  never  yet 
opened  my  mouth  to  Robinson  on  the  subject  of  his 
Lease,  nor  never  intended  to  do  it  unless  I  had  got 
the  Plantation  for  Mrs.  French's  life.  When  I  sent 
the  papers  to  Mr.  Lee  to  draw  the  writings,  I  asked 
his  opinion  of  the  lease,  which  he  gave,  to  the  effect 
already  mentioned. 

It  was  for  my  private  satisfaction  ;  I  asked  it,  for 
as  I  told  you  before  and  now  repeat,  I  never  had  an 
intention  to  get  him  off  otherwise  than  by  fair  means, 
this  year  or  any  other.  This  year  will  convince  him 
or  I  am  mistaken,  that  his  inevitable  ruin  (if  he  has 
any  thing  to  lose)  will  follow  his  holding  it  another 
year,  if  it  is  not  the  case  already.  I  am,  &c. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  69 


TO    BUSHROD    WASHINGTON. 
T-^  -p.  MOUNT  VERNON.  30  September.  1786. 

DEAR  BUSHROD, 

I  was  from  home  when  your  servant  arrived,  found 
him  in  a  hurry  to  be  gone  when  I  returned.  Have 
company  in  the  house,  and  am  on  the  eve  of  a  jour 
ney  up  the  river  to  meet  the  directors  of  the  Potomac 
Company.  These  things  combining  will  not  allow  me 
time  to  give  any  explicit  answer  to  the  question  you 
have  propounded. 

Generally  speaking,  I  have  seen  as  much  evil  as 
good  result  from  such  societies  as  you  describe  the 
constitution  of  yours  to  be.  They  are  a  kind  of  im- 
perium  in  imperio,  and  as  often  clog  as  facilitate  pub 
lic  measures.  I  am  no  friend  to  institutions,  except 
in  local  matters,  which  are  wholly  or  in  a  great  meas 
ure  confined  to  the  county  of  the  delegates.  To  me  it 
appears  much  wiser  and  more  politic  to  choose  able 
and  honest  representatives,  and  leave  them,  in  all 
national  questions  to  determine  from  the  evidence  of 
reason,  and  the  facts  which  shall  be  adduced,  when 
internal  and  external  information  is  given  to  them  in 
a  collective  state.  What  certainty  is  there  that  socie 
ties  in  a  corner  or  remote  part  of  a  State  can  possess 
that  knowledge,  which  is  necessary  for  them  to  decide 
on  many  important  questions  which  may  come  before 
an  Assembly  ?  What  reason  is  there  to  expect, 
that  the  society  itself  may  be  accordant  in  opinion  on 
such  subjects  ?  May  not  a  few  members  of  this  soci 
ety,  more  sagacious  and  designing  than  the  rest, 
direct  the  measures  of  it  to  private  views  of  their  own  ? 


70  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

May  not  this  embarrass  an  honest,  able  delegate,  who 
hears  the  voice  of  his  country  from  all  quarters,  and 
thwart  public  measures  ? 

These  are  first  thoughts,  but  I  give  no  decided 
opinion.  Societies,  nearly  similar  to  such  as  you 
speak  of,  have  lately  been  formed  in  Massachusetts, 
but  what  has  been  the  consequence  ?  Why,  they  have 
declared  the  senate  useless,  many  other  parts  of  the 
constitution  unnecessary,  salaries  of  public  officers 
burthensome,  &c.  To  point  out  the  defects  of  the 
constitution,  (if  any  existed,)  in  a  decent  way  was 
proper  enough  ;  but  they  have  done  more.  They 
first  voted  the  courts  of  justice  in  the  present  circum 
stances  of  the  State  oppressive  ;  and  next  by  violence 
stop  them  ;  which  has  occasioned  a  very  solemn  proc 
lamation  and  appeal  from  the  governor  to  the  people. 
You  may  say  no  such  matters  are  in  contemplation 
by  your  society.  Granted.  A  snow-ball  gathers  by 
rolling.  Possibly  a  line  may  be  drawn  between  occa 
sional  meetings  for  special  purposes,  and  a  standing 
society  to  direct  with  local  views  and  partial  informa 
tion  the  affairs  of  the  nation,  which  cannot  be  well 
understood  but  by  a  large  and  comparative  view  of 
circumstances.  Where  is  this  so  likely  to  enter  as  in 
the  General  Assembly  of  the  people  ?  What  figure  then 
must  a  delegate  make,  who  comes  there  with  his  hands 
tied,  and  his  judgment  forestalled  ?  His  very  instruc 
tors,  perhaps,  if  they  had  nothing  sinister  in  view, 
were  they  present  at  all  the  information  and  argu 
ments,  which  would  come  forward,  might  be  the  first 
to  change  sentiments. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  71 

Hurried  as  this  letter  is,  I  am  sensible  I  am  writing 
to  you  upon  a  very  important  subject.  I  have  no 
time  to  copy,  correct,  or  even  peruse  it ;  for  which 
reason  I  could  wish  to  have  it  or  a  copy  returned  to 
me.  George  and  his  wife  set  off  yesterday  for  the 
races  at  Fredericksburg.  The  rest  of  the  family  are 
well  and  join  in  love  and  good  wishes  for  all  at  Bushe- 
field.  I  am,  &C.1 

1  To  understand  the  full  purport  of  the  views  here  advanced,  it  is  necessary 
to  know  the  plan  of  the  Society,  as  described  by  Mr.  Bushrod  Washington  in  his 
letter  to  his  uncle. 

"  We  have  lately  instituted  a  society  in  these  lower  counties,"  said  he,  "  called 
the  Patriotic  Society.  As  it  is  something  new,  and  there  are  a  few  men  both 
good  and  sensible  who  disapprove  of  it,  it  will  be  a  high  gratification  to  me  to 
know  your  sentiments  of  it,  if  you  will  be  so  kind  as  to  communicate  them. 
The  object  of  the  institution  is  to  inquire  into  the  state  of  public  affairs  ;  to 
consider  in  what  the  true  happiness  of  the  people  consists,  and  what  are  the 
evils  which  have  pursued,  and  still  continue  to  molest  us  ;  the  means  of  attain 
ing  the  former,  and  escaping  the  latter  ;  to  inquire  into  the  conduct  of  those,  who 
represent  us,  and  to  give  them  our  sentiments  upon  those  laws,  which  ought  to 
be  or  are  already  made. 

"  It  will  also  be  a  considerable  object  to  instil  principles  of  frugality  into 
the  minds  of  the  people,  both  by  precept  and  example.  If  any  real  good  should 
result  from  such  a  society,  we  hope  similar  ones  will  be  generally  instituted 
through  the  State  ;  and,  if  so,  they  may  establish  a  very  formidable  check  upon 
evil-disposed  men,  who,  clothed  with  power,  make  interested  motives,  and  not 
public  good,  the  rule  of  their  conduct.  These  are  the  general  outlines  of  the 
institution  ;  and,  whether  in  the  event  it  may  be  beneficial  or  not,  I  think  that 
it  has  taken  its  rise  in  virtuous  motives.  We  have  had  a  considerable  meeting 
of  the  most  sensible  and  respectable  gentlemen  in  this  part  of  the  country,  and 
another  is  to  be  held  on  Tuesday  next,  previous  to  the  meeting  of  the  Assembly. 
Our  design  is  to  hold  another  as  soon  as  the  Assembly  has  risen  ;  the  first  to 
instruct  our  delegates  what  they  ought  to  do,  the  next  to  inquire  what  they  have 
done." — Bushfield,  September  27th. 

Such  was  Mr.  Bushrod  Washington's  first  outline  of  the  Patriotic  Society. 
In  answering  the  above  letter  from  his  uncle,  he  added  the  following  expla 
nations  : 

"  The  motives  which  gave  birth  to  the  Society,  were  these.  We  conceived, 
that  in  a  government  where  the  voice  and  sentiments  of  the  people  are  deliv 
ered  by  representation,  the  few  who  are  elected  to  speak  these  sentiments  are  the 
servants  of  the  electors  ;  that  in  grand  points  of  national  concern,  the  people  are 


72  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

TO    GEORGE    AUGUSTINE    WASHINGTON. 
~  MOUNT  VERNON.  25  October,  1786. 

DR.  GEORGE, 

It  is  natural   for  young  married  people  who   are 
launching  into  life,  to  look  forward  to  a  permanent 

the  best  judges  of  their  wants,  their  own  interests,  and  can  more  sensibly  feel 
those  evils,  which  they  wish  to  be  corrected  ;  that  upon  these  two  principles 
they  have  a  right  to  instruct  their  delegates  ;  and  that  silence  at  a  time  when 
they  had  reason  to  apprehend  a  conduct  in  these  servants  contrary  to  their 
wishes  would  be  highly  criminal.  We  thought  that  an  appearance  of  corrup 
tion  was  discoverable  in  the  mass  of  the  people,  or,  what  is  as  bad,  a  total  insen 
sibility  to  their  public  interest.  Persuaded  of  this,  and  equally  convinced  that 
this  inattention  proceeded  more  from  the  want  of  information  than  from  want 
of  real  virtue,  a  number  of  the  principal  gentlemen  in  these  four  counties 
determined  to  assemble,  for  the  purpose  of  inquiring  and  deliberating  upon 
such  subjects  as  were  of  the  most  interesting  consequence,  and  to  communicate 
their  sentiments  to  the  people  in  the  form  of  instructions  ;  which,  if  approved 
by  them,  are  signed  and  sent  to  their  delegates  ;  if  otherwise,  they  continue 
only  the  opinion  of  a  few,  and  can  have  no  weight. 

"  The  people's  attention  being  thus  awakened  to  their  public  concerns,  they 
are  led  to  investigate  the  causes  of  those  evils  which  oppress  them,  and  to  en 
deavor  by  some  method  to  relieve  them.  The  most  uninquiring  mind  must, 
when  put  in  action,  perceive  that  the^defect  is  either  in  the  manners  of  the  peo 
ple,  or  in  the  misconduct  of  those,  who,  being  intrusted  to  form  salutary  laws, 
have  adopted  the  most  destructive  measures.  The  evil  when  seen  may  easily 
be  removed  ;  and  unless  the  majority  of  the  people  are  vitiated,  which  can 
hardly  be  the  case,  they  would  certainly  be  led  to  apply  the  only  two  possible 
remedies  ;  the  one,  to  exert  more  zeal  in  making  a  judicious  choice  of  dele 
gates  ;  the  other,  to  reform  their  manners.  I  am  fully  convinced  that  nothing 
could  be  more  effective  of  the  prosperity  of  this  country,  than  the  method  you 
have  pointed  out  of  electing  honest  and  able  representatives.  To  recommend 
this  to  the  attention  of  the  people  is  a  principal  object  with  this  Society. 

"  Thus  you  will  perceive,  that  this  institution  assumes  no  other  power,  than 
that  of  recommending  to  the  people  an  attention  to  their  own  interests,  and  of 
furnishing  them  with  the  sentiments  and  opinions  of  a  few,  which  they  may 
either  reject  or  adopt.  It  is  true,  that  a  few  designing  men  might  creep  into 
these  societies  ;  but  I  should  hope  that  a  majority  will  be  virtuous.  If  this  should 
be  the  case,  their  recommendation  may  have  happy  consequences  ;  if  the  ma 
jority  should  unhappily  be  vicious,  they  are  but  the  opinions  of  a  few  expressed 
collectively.  In  this,  however,  I  am  resolved,  that  as  soon  as  I  perceive  that 
other  motives  than  those  of  the  public  good  influence  their  conduct,  I  will  quit 
them." — October  3ist. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  73 

establishment.  If  they  are  prudent,  they  will  be 
reasonably  solicitous  to  provide  for  those  who  come 
after  and  have  a  right  to  look  to  them  for  sup 
port. 

It  is  also  natural  for  those  who  have  passed  the  me 
ridian  of  life,  and  are  descending  into  the  shades  of 
darkness  to  make  arrangements  for  the  disposal  of 
the  property  of  which  they  are  possessed.  The  first 
of  these  observations  will  apply  to  you,  and  the  second 
to  myself.  I  have  no  doubt  but  that  you  and  Fanny 
are  as  happy  and  contented  in  this  family  as  circum 
stances  will  admit.  Yet  something  is  still  wanting  to 
make  that  situation  more  stable  and  pleasing. 

It  is  well  known  that  the  expensive  manner  in 
which  I  am  as  it  were  involuntarily  compelled  to  live, 
will  admit  of  no  diminution  in  my  income  ;  nor  could 
it  be  expected  if  I  now  had,  or  ever  should  have  de 
scendants,  that  I  either  would  or  ought  in  justice  to 
deprive  them  of  what  the  laws  of  nature  and  the  laws 
the  land,  if  left  to  themselves,  have  declared  to  be 
their  inheritance.  The  first  however  is  not  the  case  at 
present ;  and  the  second  not  likely  to  be  so  hereafter. 

Under  this  statement  then  I  may  add  that  it  is  my 
present  intention  to  give  you  at  my  death,  my  landed 
property  in  the  Neck,  containing  by  estimation  be 
tween  two  &  three  thousand  acres  by  purchases  from 
Wm.  Clifton  and  George  Brent,  and  that  the  reasons 
why  I  communicate  this  matter  to  you  at  this  time, 
are  that  you  may  if  you  chuse  it,  seat  the  negroes, 
which  Colo.  Bassett  has  promised  you  upon  that  part 
of  the  cleared  land  on  which  Saml.  Johnson  formerly 


74  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

lived  ;  and  under  this  expectation  and  prospect,  that 
you  may  when  it  perfectly  suits  your  inclination  and 
convenience,  be  preparing  for,  and  building  thereon 
by  degrees. 

You  may  say,  or  think  perhaps  that  as  there 
is  a  contingency  tacked  to  this  intimation  the  offer  is 
too  precarious  to  hazard  the  expence  of  building  ; 
but  if  Mrs.  Washington  should  survive  me,  there  is  a 
moral  certainty  of  my  dying  without  issue  ;  and  should 
I  be  the  longest  liver,  the  matter  in  my  opinion,  is 
hardly  less  certain  ;  for  while  I  retain  the  faculty  of 
reasoning,  I  shall  never  marry  a  girl ;  and  it  is  not 
probable  that  I  should  have  children  by  a  woman  of 
an  age  suitable  to  my  own,  should  I  be  disposed  to 
enter  into  a  second  marriage.  However,  that  there  may 
be  no  possibility  of  your  sustaining  a  loss,  the  matter 
may  rest  on  the  footing  of  compensation.  I  do  there 
fore  hereby  declare  it  to  be,  and  it  is  my  express 
meaning,  that  if  by  the  event  above  alluded  to,  or 
any  other  by  which  you  may  be  deprived  of  the  fee- 
simple  in  the  lands  herein  mentioned,  (unless  a  full 
equivalent  is  given  in  lieu  thereof)  that  I  will  pay 
the  cost  of  any  buildings  which  you  may  erect  on  the 
premises. 

The  use  of  the   Plantation,  it  is  presumed  will  be 
adequate  for  the  fences  with  which  it  may  be  enclosed, 
and    for  the    labor    arising    from    the    cultivation- 
nothing  therefore  need  be  said  on  that  head. 

Here  then,  the  prospect  of  a  permanent  inheritance 
is  placed  in  the  opposite  scale  of  possible  disappoint 
ment,  and  you  are  to  judge  for  yourself. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  75 

I  have  been  thus  particular,  because  I  would  be 
clearly  understood  ;  because  it  is  not  my  wish  to 
deceive,  and  because  I  would  not  even  raise  an  expec 
tation  not  warranted  from  the  premises  by  fair 
deduction. 

Johnson's  plantation,  as  I  believe  you  know  is 
destitute  of  fencing,  but  there  is  timber  at  hand. 
The  cleared  land,  whatever  may  have  been  the  origi 
nal  quality  of  it,  now  is,  by  use,  and  more  so  by  abuse 
much  gullied  and  in  bad  condition  ;  but  as  there  is  a 
sufficiency  of  it  for  the  hands  you  will  get,  it  may 
soon  by  care,  good  management  and  a  proper  course 
of  cropping,  be  recovered. 

One  thing  more  and  I  will  close  this  letter.  Do 
not  infer  from  my  proposing  it  to  you  to  build,  that 
I  meant  it  as  a  hint  for  you  to  prepare  another  home. 
I  had  no  such  idea.  To  point  you  to  a  settlement 
which  you  might  make  at  leisure,  &  with  convenience 
was  all  I  had  in  view.  More  than  once,  I  have  in 
formed  you  that  in  proportion  as  age  and  its  concomi 
tants  encrease  upon  me,  I  shall  stand  in  need  of  some 
person  in  whose  industry  and  integrity  I  can  confide 
for  assistance.  The  double  ties  by  which  you  are 
connected  with  this  family  (to  say  nothing  of  the  fa 
vorable  opinion  we  have  of  you,)  by  marriage  union, 
have  placed  you  differently  from  any  other  of  my 
relations  for  this  purpose  ;  because  no  other  married 
couple  could  give,  or  probably  would  receive  the  same 
satisfaction  by  living  in  it  as  you  and  Fanny  do.  But 
whether  you  remain  in  the  same  house,  or  at  a  future 
day  may  remove  to  the  place  proposed,  your  services 


7 6  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

will  be  convenient  and  essential  to  me  ;  because 
with  your  aid  I  shall  be  able  to  manage  my  concerns 
without  having  recourse  to  a  Steward,  which  com 
ports  neither  with  my  interest  nor  inclination  to 
employ. 

With  very  affectionate  regard  I  am,  &c. 


TO    HENRY    LEE,    IN    CONGRESS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  31  October,  1786. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

I  am  indebted  to  you  for  your  several  favors  of  the 
ist,  nth,  and  i;th  of  this  instant,  and  shall  reply 
to  them  in  the  order  of  their  dates.  But  first  let 
me  thank  you  for  the  interesting  communications 
imparted  by  them. 

The  picture  which  you  have  exhibited,  and  the  ac 
counts  which  are  published  of  the  commotions  and 
temper  of  numerous  bodies  in  the  eastern  States, 
are  equally  to  be  lamented  and  deprecated.  They 
exhibit  a  melancholy  proof  of  what  our  transatlantic 
foe  has  predicted  ;  and  of  another  thing  perhaps, 
which  is  still  more  to  be  regretted,  and  is  yet  more 
unaccountable,  that  mankind,  when  left  to  themselves, 
are  unfit  for  their  own  government.  I  am  mortified 
beyond  expression  when  I  view  the  clouds,  that  have 
spread  over  the  brightest  morn  that  ever  dawned 
upon  any  country.  In  a  word,  I  am  lost  in  amaze 
ment  when  I  behold  what  intrigue,  the  interested 
views  of  desperate  characters,  ignorance,  and  jealousy 
of  the  minor  part,  are  capable  of  effecting,  as  a 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  77 

scourge  on  the  major  part  of  our  fellow  citizens  of 
the  Union  ;  for  it  is  hardly  to  be  supposed,  that  the 
great  body  of  the  people,  though  they  will  not  act, 
can  be  so  shortsighted  or  enveloped  in  darkness,  as 
not  to  see  rays  of  a  distant  sun  through  all  this  mist 
of  intoxication  and  folly.1 

You  talk,  my  good  Sir,  of  employing  influence  to 
appease  the  present  tumults  in  Massachusetts.  I 
know  not  where  that  influence  is  to  be  found,  or,  if 
attainable,  that  it  would  be  a  proper  remedy  for  the 
disorders.  Influence  is  no  government.  Let  us  have 
one  by  which  our  lives,  liberties,  and  properties  will 
be  secured,  or  let  us  know  the  worst  at  once.  Under 
these  impressions,  my  humble  opinion  is,  that  there 
is  a  call  for  decision.  Know  precisely  what  the  insur 
gents  aim  at.  If  they  have  real  grievances,  redress 
them  if  possible  ;  or  acknowledge  the  justice  of  them, 
and  your  inability  to  do  it  in  the  present  moment.  If 
they  have  not,  employ  the  force  of  government  against 
them  at  once.  If  this  is  inadequate,  all  will  be  con 
vinced,  that  the  superstructure  is  bad,  or  wants  sup 
port.  To  be  more  exposed  in  the  eyes  of  the  world, 
and  more  contemptible  than  we  already  are,  is  hardly 
possible.  To  delay  one  or  the  other  of  these,  is  to 
exasperate  on  the  one  hand,  or  to  give  confidence  on 

1  "  For  God's  sake  tell  me  what  is  the  cause  of  all  these  commotions  ?  Do 
they  proceed  from  licentiousness,  British  influence,  disseminated  by  the  Tories, 
or  real  grievances  which  admit  of  redress  ?  If  the  latter,  why  were  they  delayed 
till  the  public  mind  had  become  so  much  agitated  ?  If  the  former,  why  are  not 
the  powers  of  government  tried  at  once  ?  It  is  as  well  to  be  without,  as  not  to 
live  under  their  exercise.  Commotions  of  this  sort,  like  snow-balls,  gather 
strength  as  they  roll,  if  there  is  no  opposition  in  the  way  to  divide  and  crumble 
them." — Washington  to  Humphreys,  22  October,  1786. 


7 8  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

the  other,  and  will  add  to  their  numbers  ;  for,  like 
snow-balls,  such  bodies  increase  by  every  movement, 
unless  there  is  something  in  the  way  to  obstruct  and 
crumble  them  before  the  weight  is  too  great  and 
irresistible. 

These  are  my  sentiments.  Precedents  are  danger 
ous  things.  Let  the  reins  of  government  then  be 
braced  and  held  with  a  steady  hand,  and  every  viola 
tion  of  the  constitution  be  reprehended.  If  defective, 
let  it  be  amended,  but  not  suffered  to  be  trampled 
upon  whilst  it  has  an  existence. 

With  respect  to  the  navigation  of  the  Mississippi, 
you  already  know  my  sentiments  thereon.  They 
have  been  uniformly  the  same,  and,  as  I  have  observed 
to  you  in  a  former  letter,  are  controverted  by  one  con 
sideration,  only  of  weight,  and  that  is,  the  operation 
which  the  conclusion  of  it  may  have  on  the  minds  of 
the  western  settlers,  who  will  not  consider  the  subject 
in  a  relative  point  of  view,  or  on  a  comprehensive 
scale,  and  may  be  influenced  by  the  demagogues  of 
the  country  to  acts  of  extravagance  and  desperation, 
under  a  popular  declamation,  that  their  interests  are 
sacrificed.  Colonel  Mason  at  present  is  in  a  fit  of  the 
gout.  What  [his]  sentiments  on  the  subject  are,  I 
know  not,  nor  whether  he  will  be  able  to  attend  the 
Assembly  during  the  present  session.  For  some  rea 
sons,  however,  (which  need  not  be  mentioned,)  I  am 
inclined  to  believe  he  will  advocate  the  navigation  of 
that  river.  But  in  all  matters  of  great  national  mo 
ment,  the  only  true  line  of  conduct,  in  my  opinion,  is 
dispassionately  to  compare  the  advantages  and  dis- 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  79 

advantages  of  the  measure  proposed,  and  decide  from 
the  balance.  The  lesser  evil,  where  there  is  a  choice 
of  them,  should  always  yield  to  the  greater.  What 
benefits,  more  than  we  now  enjoy,  are  to  be  obtained 
by  such  a  treaty  as  you  have  delineated  with  Spain, 
I  am  not  enough  of  a  commercial  man  to  give  any 
opinion  on.1  The  china  came  to  hand  without  much 
damage  &  I  thank  you  for  your  attention  in  the  pro 
curing  &  forwarding  it.2  Mrs.  Washington  joins  me 
in  best  wishes  for  Mrs.  Lee  and  yourself. 
I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c.3 


1  From  Mr.  Lee's  Letter. — "  The  eastern  States  consider  a  commercial  con 
nexion  with  Spain  as  the  only  remedy  for  the  distresses,  which  oppress  their 
citizens,  most  of  which  they  say  flow  from  the  decay  of  their  commerce.    Their 
delegates  have  consequently  zealously  pressed  the  formation  of  this  connexion, 
as  the  only  effectual  mode  to  revive  the  trade  of  their  country.     In  this  opinion 
they  have  been  joined  by  two  of  the  middle  States.     On  the  other  hand,  Vir 
ginia  has  with  equal  zeal  opposed  the  connexion,  because  the  project  involves 
expressly  the  disuse  of  the  navigation  of  the  Mississippi  for  a  given  time,  and 
eventually  they  think  will  sacrifice  our   right  to  it.     The   delegation  is  under 
instructions  from  the  State  on  this  subject.       They  have  acted  in  obedience 
to   their  instructions,    and,  myself  excepted,    in    conformity    to  their  private 
sentiments.     I  confess  that   I   am  by  no  means  convinced  of  the  justice  or 
policy  of  our  instructions,  and  very   much  apprehend,  unless   they   are     re 
pealed  by  the  present   Assembly,  the  fatal  effects  of  discord  in  council  will 
be  experienced  by  the  United    States  in  a  very  high  degree." — New  York, 
October  nth. 

2  Some  china  marked  with  the  order  of  the  Cincinnati. 

3  While  Kentucky  was  seeking  to  become  a  separate  State,  its  agent  before 
the  legislature  of  Virginia,  John  Marshall,  wrote  :   "  The  negotiation  which  has 
been  opened  with  Spain,  for  ceding  the  navigation  of  the  Mississippi — a  nego 
tiation  so  dishonorable  and  injurious  to  America,  so  destructive  of  the  natural 
rights  of  the  western  world — is  warmly  opposed  by  this  country  [Virginia],  and 
for  this  purpose  the  most  pointed  instructions  are  given  to  our  delegates  in 
Congress.     I  persuade  myself  that  this  negotiation  will  terminate  in  securing 
instead  of  ceding  that  great  point."    On  August  3d,  1786,  Jay  had  announced  to 
Congress  his  conclusion  that  no  agreement  could  be  reached  with  Spain  without 
surrendering  the  claim  to  the  navigation  of  the  Mississippi  for  a  limited  period. 


8o  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

TO    JAMES    MADISON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  5  November,  1786. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

I  thank  you  for  the  communications  in  your  letter 
of  the  ist  instant.  The  decision  of  the  House  on 
the  question  respecting  a  paper  emission  is  porten 
tous,  I  hope,  of  an  auspicious  session.  It  certainly  may 
be  classed  with  the  important  questions  of  the  pres 
ent  day,  and  merited  the  serious  attention  of  the 
Assembly.  Fain  would  I  hope,  that  the  great  and  most 
important  of  all  subjects,  the  federal  government,  may 
be  considered  with  that  calm  and  deliberate  attention, 
which  the  magnitude  of  it  so  critically  and  loudly  calls 
for  at  this  critical  moment.  Let  prejudices,  unrea- 


An  attempt  by  the  southern  delegates  to  take  the  negotiation  out  of  Jay's 
direction  failed,  and  full  powers  were  conferred  upon  him,  powers  that  he  was 
seeking  to  carry  into  effect  when  the  new  government  interrupted  his  diplo 
matic  contentions  with  Gardoqui.  The  intelligence  of  the  grant  of  these  powers, 
however,  awoke  a  strong  feeling  of  resentment  among  the  people  of  the  back 
country,  a  resentment  that  was  directed  against  the  Confederation,  for  the 
legislature  of  Virginia  had  promptly  taken  up  the  cause  of  the  West,  and 
insisted  upon  the  claims  to  their  fullest  extent.  (Resolution,  29  November, 
1786.) 

"  It  will  be  to  be  regretted  if  a  contrariety  of  sentiments,  respecting  the  navi 
gation  of  the  Mississippi,  should  impede  that  harmony  and  mutual  intercourse 
of  interests  so  essential  between  nations,  whose  territories  border  on  each  other. 
I  would  fain  hope,  therefore,  that  the  true  and  reciprocal  benefits  of  Spain  and 
the  United  States  in  this  case,  as  well  as  in  all  others  which  may  arise  between 
them,  will  be  coolly  and  dispassionately  considered  before  the  ultimatum  on 
either  side  is  fixed.  There  is  no  ground,  on  which  treaties  can  be  formed  that 
will  be  found  permanent  or  satisfactory,  unless  they  have  these  for  their  basis. 
But,  however  necessary  it  may  be  to  inculcate  this  doctrine  upon  others,  your 
Excellency  I  am  sure  is  too  much  a  politician  to  need  the  remark,  and  too  much 
a  friend  to  these  States  to  insist  upon  any  measure,  which  the  essential  interests 
of  your  nation  or  the  orders  of  your  court  may  not  have  directed,  incompatible 
therewith." — Washington  to  Gardoqui,  I  December,  1786. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  81 

sonable  jealousies,  and  local  interests,  yield  to  reason 
and  liberality.  Let  us  look  to  our  national  character, 
aad  to  things  beyond  the  present  moment.  No  morn 
ever  dawned  more  favorably  than  ours  did  ;  and  no 
day  was  ever  more  clouded  than  the  present.  Wis 
dom  and  good  examples  are  necessary  at  this  time  to 
rescue  the  political  machine  from  the  impending 
storm.  Virginia  has  now  an  opportunity  to  set  the 
latter,  and  has  enough  of  the  former,  I  hope,  to  take 
the  lead  in  promoting  this  great  and  arduous  work. 
Without  an  alteration  in  our  political  creed,  the  super 
structure  we  have  been  seven  years  in  raising,  at  the 
expense  of  so  much  treasure  and  blood,  must  fall. 
We  are  fast  verging  to  anarchy  and  confusion. 

By  a  letter  which  I  have  received  from  General 
Knox,  who  had  just  returned  from  Massachusetts, 
whither  he  had  been  sent  by  Congress  consequent  of 
the  commotions  in  that  State,  is  replete  with  melan 
choly  accounts  of  the  temper  and  designs  of  a  consid 
erable  part  of  that  people.  Among  other  things  he 
says  : 

"  Their  creed  is,  that  the  property  of  the  United  States  has 
been  protected  from  the  confiscation  of  Britain  by  the  joint  exer 
tions  of  all ;  and  therefore  ought  to  be  the  common  property  of  all  j 
and  he  that  attempts  opposition  to  this  creed,  is  an  enemy  to 
equity  and  justice,  and  ought  to  be  swept  from  off  the  face  of  the 
earth."  Again  :  "  They  are  determined  to  annihilate  all  debts, 
public  and  private,  and  have  agrarian  laws,  which  are  easily 
effected  by  the  means  of  unfunded  paper  money,  which  shall 
be  a  tender  in  all  cases  whatever."  He  adds  :  "  The  number  of 
these  people  amount  in  Massachusetts  to  about  one  fifth  part 
of  several  populous  counties,  and  to  them  may  be  collected 

people  of  similar  sentiments  from  the    States  of  Rhode  Island, 
6 


82  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

Connecticut,  and  New  Hampshire,  so  as  to  constitute  a  body  of 
about  twelve  or  fifteen  thousand  desperate  and  unprincipled 
men.  They  are  chiefly  of  the  young  and  active  part  of  the  com 
munity." 

How  melancholy  is  the  reflection,  that  in  so  short 
a  space  we  should  have  made  such  large  strides  tow 
ards  fulfilling  the  predictions  of  our  transatlantic  foes  ! 
"  Leave  them  to  themselves,  and  their  government 
will  soon  dissolve."  Will  not  the  wise  and  good 
strive  hard  to  avert  this  evil  ?  Or  will  their  supine- 
ness  suffer  ignorance,  and  the  arts  of  self-interested, 
designing,  disaffected,  and  desperate  characters,  to 
involve  this  great  country  in  wretchedness  and  con 
tempt  ?  What  stronger  evidence  can  be  given  of  the 
want  of  energy  in  our  government,  than  these  disor 
ders  ?  If  there  is  not  power  in  it  to  check  them, 
what  security  has  a  man  for  life,  liberty,  or  property? 
To  you  I  am  sure  I  need  not  add  aught  on  this  sub 
ject.  The  consequences  of  a  lax  or  inefficient  gov 
ernment  are  too  obvious  to  be  dwelt  upon.  Thirteen 
sovereignties  pulling  against  each  other,  and  all 
tugging  at  the  federal  head,  will  soon  bring  ruin  on 
the  whole ;  whereas  a  liberal  and  energetic  constitu 
tion,  well  guarded  and  closely  watched  to  prevent 
encroachments,  might  restore  us  to  that  degree  of 
respectability  and  consequences,  to  which  we  had  a 
fair  claim  and  the  brightest  prospect  of  attaining. 
With  sentiments  of  very  great  esteem  and  regard. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  &C.1 

1  From   Mr.   Madison's   reply. — "The  intelligence  from   General   Knox,  is 
gloomy  indeed,  but  is  less  so  than  the  colors  in  which  I  had  it  through  another 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  83 

TO    BUSHROD    WASHINGTON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  15  November,  1786. 

DEAR  BUSHROD, 

Your  letter  of  the  3ist  of  October  in  reply 
to  mine  of  the  3Oth  of  September  came  safe  to 
hand.  It  was  not  the  intention  of  my  former  letter 
either  to  condemn,  or  give  my  voice  in  favor  of 
the  Patriotic  Society,  of  which  you  have  now,  but 
not  before,  declared  yourself  a  member ;  nor  do 
I  mean  to  do  it  now.  I  offered  observations  under 
the  information  I  had  then  received,  the  weight 
of  which  was  to  be  considered.  As  first  thoughts, 
they  were  undigested,  and  might  be  very  errone 
ous. 

That  representatives  ought  to  be  the  mouth  of 

channel.  If  the  lessons  which  it  inculcates  should  not  work  the  proper  impres 
sions  on  the  American  public,  it  will  be  a  proof  that  our  case  is  desperate. 
Judging  from  the  present  temper  and  apparent  views  of  our  Assembly,  I  have 
some  ground  for  leaning  to  the  side  of  hope.  The  vote  against  paper  money 
has  been  followed  by  two  others  of  great  importance.  By  one  of  them, 
sundry  petitions  for  applying  a  scale  of  depreciation  to  the  military  certificates 
was  unanimously  rejected.  By  the  other  the  expediency  of  complying  with  the 
recommendation  from  Annapolis,  in  favor  of  a  general  revision  of  the  federal 
system,  was  unanimously  agreed  to.  A  bill  for  the  purpose  is  now  depending, 
and  in  a  form  which  attests  the  most  federal  spirit.  As  no  opposition  has  been 
yet  made,  and  it  is  ready  for  the  third  reading,  I  expect  it  will  soon  be  before 
the  public. 

"  It  has  been  thought  advisable  to  give  this  subject  a  very  solemn  dress, 
and  all  the  weight  which  could  be  derived  from  a  single  State.  This 
idea  will  also  be  pursued  in  the  selection  of  characters  to  represent  Virginia 
in  the  federal  convention.  You  will  infer  our  earnestness  on  this  point 
from  the  liberty,  which  will  be  used,  of  placing  your  name  at  the  head  of 
them.  How  far  this  liberty  may  correspond  with  the  ideas,  by  which  you 
ought  to  be  governed,  will  be  best  decided  when  it  must  ultimately  be  deter 
mined.  In  every  event,  it  will  assist  powerfully  in  marking  the  zeal  of  our 
legislature,  and  its  opinion  of  the  magnitude  of  the  occasion." — Richmond, 
November  8th. 


84  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

their  constituents,  I  do  not  deny  ;  nor  do  I  mean  to 
call  in  question  the  right  of  the  latter  to  instruct  them. 
It  is  to  the  embarrassment,  into  which  they  may  be 
thrown  by  these  instructions  in  national  matters,  that 
my  objections  lie.  In  speaking  of  national  matters  I 
look  to  the  federal  government,  which,  in  my  opinion, 
it  is  the  interest  of  every  State  to  support ;  and  to 
do  this,  as  there  are  a  variety  of  interests  in  the  Union, 
there  must  be  a  yielding  of  the  parts  to  coalesce  the 
whole.  Now  a  county,  a  district,  or  even  a  State, 
might  decide  on  a  measure,  which,  though  apparently 
for  the  benefit  of  it  in  its  unconnected  state,  may  be 
repugnant  to  the  interests  of  the  nation,  and  eventu 
ally  to  the  State  itself,  as  a  part  of  the  confederation. 
If,  then,  members  go  instructed  to  the  Assembly  from 
certain  districts,  the  requisitions  of  Congress  repug 
nant  to  the  sense  of  them,  and  all  the  lights  which 
they  may  receive  from  the  communications  of  that 
body  to  the  legislature,  must  be  unavailing,  although 
the  nature  and  necessity  of  them,  when  the  rea 
sons  therefor  are  fully  expounded  (which  can  only 
be  given  by  Congress  to  the  Assembly  through  the 
Executive,  and  which  come  before  them  in  their 
legislative  capacity),  are  as  clear  as  the  sun.  In 
local  matters  which  concern  the  district,  or  things 
which  respect  the  internal  policy  of  the  State,  there 
may  be  nothing  amiss  in  instructions.  In  national 
matters,  also,  the  sense,  but  not  the  law  of  the  dis 
trict  may  be  given,  leaving  the  delegates  to  judge 
from  the  nature  of  the  case  and  the  evidence  be 
fore  them. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  85 

The  instructions  of  your  Society,  as  far  as  they 
have  gone,  meet  my  entire  approbation,  except  in  the 
article  of  "  comrmitables"  Here,  if  I  understand  the 
meaning  and  design  of  the  clause,  I  must  disagree  to 
it  most  heartily  ;  for,  if  the  intention  of  it  is  to  leave 
it  optional  with  the  person  taxed,  to  pay  any  staple 
commodity  (tobacco  would  be  least  exceptionable) 
in  lieu  of  specie,  the  people  will  be  burthened,  a  few 
speculators  enriched,  and  the  public  derive  no  benefit 
from  it.  Have  we  not  had  a  recent  and  melancholy 
proof  of  this  during  the  war  in  the  provision  tax  ? 
Did  not  the  people  pay  this  in  some  way  or  other, 
perhaps  badly  ?  And  was  not  the  army  almost 
starved  ?  Can  any  instance  be  given,  where  the  pub 
lic  has  sold  tobacco,  hemp,  flour,  or  any  other  com 
modity  upon  as  good  terms  as  individuals  have  done 
it  ?  Must  not  there  be  places  of  deposit  for  these 
commutables ;  collectors,  storekeepers,  and  the  like, 
employed  ?  These,  rely  on  it,  will  sink  one  half,  and 
a  parcel  of  speculators  will  possess  themselves  of  the 
other  half.  It  was  to  these  things,  that  we  owe  the 
present  depravity  of  the  minds  of  so  many  people  of 
this  country,  and  filled  it  with  so  many  knaves  and 
designing  characters. 

Among  the  great  objects,  which  you  took  into  con 
sideration  at  your  meeting  at  Richmond,  how  comes 
it  to  pass,  that  you  never  turned  your  eyes  to  the 
inefficacy  of  the  federal  government,  so  as  to  instruct 
your  delegates  to  accede  to  the  propositions  of  the 
commissioners  at  Annapolis,  or  to  devise  some  other 
mode  to  give  it  that  energy,  which  is  necessary  to 


86  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

support  a  national  character  ?  Every  man,  who  con 
siders  the  present  constitution  of  it,  and  sees  to 
what  it  is  verging,  trembles.  The  fabric,  which  took 
nine  years,  at  the  expense  of  much  blood  and  treasure, 
to  rear,  now  totters  to  the  foundation,  and  without 
support  must  soon  fall. 

The  determination  of  your  Society  to  promote 
frugality  and  industry  by  example,  to  encourage 
manufactures,  and  to  avoid  dissipation,  is  highly 
praiseworthy.  These,  and  premiums  for  the  most 
useful  discoveries  in  agriculture  within  your  district, 
the  most  profitable  course  of  cropping,  and  the  best 
method  of  fencing  to  save  timber,  would  soon  make 
us  a  rich  and  happy  people.  With  every  good  wish 
for  you  and  yours,  in  which  your  aunt  joins. 

I  am,  &c. 


TO    JAMES  MADISON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  18  November,  1786. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

Not  having  sent  to  the  post-office  with  my  usual 
regularity,  your  favor  of  the  8th  did  not  reach  me  in 
time  for  an  earlier  acknowledgment  than  of  this  date. 
It  gives  me  the  most  sensible  pleasure  to  hear,  that 
the  acts  of  the  present  session  are  marked  with  wis 
dom,  justice,  and  liberality.  They  are  the  palladium 
of  good  policy,  and  the  sure  paths  that  lead  to  na 
tional  happiness.  Would  to  God  every  State  would 
let  these  be  the  leading  features  of  their  constituent 
characters.  Those  threatening  clouds,  which  seem 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  87 

ready  to  burst  on  the  confederacy,  would  soon 
dispel.  The  unanimity  with  which  the  bill  was  re 
ceived  for  appointing  commissioners  agreeably  to  the 
recommendation  of  the  convention  at  Annapolis,  and 
the  uninterrupted  progress  it  has  met  with  since,  are 
indications  of  a  favorable  issue.  It  is  a  measure  of 
equal  necessity  and  magnitude,  and  may  be  the  spring 
of  reanimation. 

Although  I  had  bid  adieu  to  the  public  walks  of 
life  in  a  public  manner,  and  had  resolved  never  more 
to  tread  on  public  ground,  yet  if,  upon  an  occasion 
so  interesting  to  the  well-being  of  the  confederacy,  it 
should  have  appeared  to  have  been  the  wish  of  the 
Assembly  to  have  employed  me  with  other  associates 
in  the  business  of  revising  the  federal  system,  I 
should,  from  a  sense  of  the  obligation  I  am  under  for 
repeated  proofs  of  confidence  in  me,  more  than  from 
any  opinion  I  should  have  entertained  of  my  useful 
ness,  have  obeyed  its  call ;  but  it  is  now  out  of  my 
power  to  do  this  with  any  degree  of  consistency. 
The  cause  I  will  mention. 

I  presume  you  heard,  Sir,  that  I  was  first  appointed, 
and  have  since  been  rechosen,  President  of  the  Soci 
ety  of  the  Cincinnati  ;  and  you  may  have  understood 
also,  that  the  triennial  general  meeting  of  this  body  is 
to  be  held  in  Philadelphia  the  first  Monday  in  May 
next.  Some  particular  reasons,  combining  with  the 
peculiar  situation  of  my  private  concerns,  the  neces 
sity  of  paying  attention  to  them,  a  wish  for  retire 
ment  and  relaxation  from  public  cares,  and  rheumatic 
pains  which  I  begin  to  feel  very  sensibly,  induced  me 


88  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

on  the  3ist  ultimo  to  address  a  circular  letter  to  each 
State  society,  informing  them  of  my  intention  not  to 
be  at  the  next  meeting,  and  of  my  desire  not  to  be 
rechosen  President.  The  Vice-President1  is  also  in 
formed  of  this,  that  the  business  of  the  Society  may 
not  be  impeded  by  my  absence.  Under  these  circum 
stances  it  will  readily  be  perceived,  that  I  could  not 
appear  at  the  same  time  and  place  on  any  other 
occasion,  without  giving  offence  to  a  very  worthy  and 
respectable  part  of  the  community,  the  late  officers 
of  the  American  army.  I  feel  as  you  do  for  our  ac 
quaintance  Colo.  Lee  ;  better  never  have  delegated 
than  left  him  out,  unless  some  daring  impropriety  of 
conduct  had  been  ascribed  to  him.2  I  hear  with 
pleasure  that  you  are  in  the  New  choice.  With  sen 
timents  of  the  highest  esteem  and  affection, 

I  am,  &c. 


TO    FIELDING    LEWIS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  4  December,  1786. 

SIR, 

Your  letter  of  the  nth  of  Octor.  never  came  to  my 
hands  'till  yesterday. — Altho'  your  disrespectful  con 
duct  towards  me,  in  coming  into  this  country  and 
spending  weeks  therein  without  ever  coming  near  me, 
entitles  you  to  very  little  notice  or  favor  from  me  ; 

1  General  Gates. 

2  It  is  not  very  clear  why  Henry  Lee  was  dropped  from  the  Virginia  delega 
tion  ;  but  his  supposed  heterodoxy  on  the  Mississippi  question  was  mentioned 
as  one  reason.    Jones,  the  delegate  chosen,  declined  to  serve,  and  Lee  was  unani 
mously  named  in  his  place. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  89 

yet  I  consent  that  you  may  get  timber  from  off  my 
Land  in  Fauquier  County  to  build  a  house  on  your 
Lott  in  Rectertown.  Having  granted  this,  now  let  me 
ask  you  what  your  views  were  in  purchasing  a  Lott 
in  a  place  which,  I  presume,  originated  with  and  will 
end  in  two  or  three  Gin  shops,  which  probably  will 
exist  no  longer  than  they  serve  to  ruin  the  proprie 
tors,  and  those  who  make  the  most  frequent  applica 
tions  to  them.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    P.    MARSTELLER. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  15  December,  1786. 

SIR, 

To  the  severity  of  the  weather  whch  has  in  a  man 
ner  shut  every  thing  up,  and  put  a  stop  to  all  inter 
course  ;  and  to  some  other  circumstances  unnecessary 
to  mention,  is  to  be  ascribed  my  silence  'till  now ;  and 
even  now,  when  I  recollect  how  fully  I  have  already 
explained  my  ideas  to  you  on  what  is  intended  to  be 
the  subject  of  this  letter,  I  find  that  I  have  hardly 
anything  to  trouble  you  with  by  way  of  illucida- 
tion. 

I  will  just  observe,  however,  that  having  been  well 
informed  that  seasons  and  circumstances  have  oc 
curred  and  probably  will  arrive  again  when  goods  by 
vendue  have  sold  considerably  below  the  sterlg.  cost 
of  them  ; — nay  that  they  have  even  been  bought  for 
the  nominal  sum  currency,  which  they  cost  sterling  in 
the  countries  from  whence  they  were  imported  ;  and 
having  found  from  experience,  that  I  derive  little  or 


9o  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

no  advantage  from  the  ready  money  payments  I  make 
for  such  articles  as  are  requisite  for  the  use  of  my 
estate,  (when  I  go  to  the  stores  in  Alexandria,)  I  had 
determined  to  make  the  proposition  to  you  which  was 
pretty  fully  explained  in  the  conversation  I  had  with 
you  at  our  last  inteview  as  has  been  already  mentioned, 
and  which  in  a  word  is  as  follows  : — 

To  allow  you  a  Commission  of  i\  p.  ct.  (which  you, 
yourself  declared  was  sufficient,)  upon  all  purchases 
you  shall  make  for  me  at  Vendue,  of  articles  which 
may  from  time  to  time  be  enumerated  to  you.  It  is 
your  interest,  I  know  to  sell  high  : — it  is  mine  to  buy 
low  : — but  there  is  nothing  incompatible  that  I  can 
conceive  in  your  agency  in  both  these  cases  ;  for 
when  the  former  is  the  case,  I  mean  not  to  become 
a  purchaser — when  the  latter  happens,  which  no  skill 
or  exertion  of  yours  can  at  all  times  prevent,  is  the 
moment  of  which  I  mean,  thro'  your  attention  to  the 
business  to  avail  myself  for  supplies.  To  your  knowl 
edge  of  the  goods  which  are  intended  for  sale;  the 
circumstances  of  the  sale,  and  to  your  honor  of  which 
I  entertain  a  very  favorable  opinion  from  the  good 
report  made  of  it  by  others,  I  entirely  confide  for  the 
management.  The  payments  shall  always  keep  pace 
with  the  purchases  ;  you  have  nothing  more  to  do 
therefore  than  to  give  intimation  of  the  latter  by  a 
line  lodged  at  the  post  office,  to  receive  the  former, 
and  were  you  now  and  then  to  add  a  concise  list  of 
the  principal  articles  which  are  for  sale,  it  would  be 
obliging. 

To  particularize  all  the  articles  which  are  necessary 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  9i 

for  the  use  of  a  large  family,  would  be  as  tedious 
as  unnecessary.  Every  merchant  who  retails,  and 
every  man  who  provides  for  one,  can  be  at  no  loss  for 
them.  The  heavy  articles,  and  such  as  at  present 
occur  to  me  are  enumerated  in  the  enclosed  list ; — in 
which  you  will  perceive  no  mention  is  made  of  coarse 
woolens  ;  because  of  these  I  manufacture  a  sufficiency 
to  clothe  my  out-door  negroes — Nor  have  I  said  any 
thing  of  Wines,  because  I  import  my  own  ; — but  of 
the  latter,  if  good  Claret  should  at  any  time  go  cheap, 
I  would  take  two  or  three  Boxes ; — I  have  been 
obliged  to  buy  about  200  ells  of  Ticklenburgfor  pres 
ent  use  : — perhaps  the  2  or  300  more  enumerated  in 
the  enclosed,  may  suffice — possibly  more  may  be 
wanted. — The  Blankets  will  not  be  wanted  before 
next  Autumn.  Of  Sugars  my  demand  (as  a  private 
family)  is  great  and  constant : — but  of  Coffee  and 
Molasses  I  have  on  hand  a  large  stock. 

It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  impress  on  you  the  idea 
that  it  is  the  prospect  of  very  cheap  buying  which 
has  induced  me  to  adopt  this  mode  of  obtaining  my 
supplies;  and  that  unless  the  end  is  accomplished,  my 
purposes  will  not  be  answered,  nor  my  inclination 
gratified  by  it ;  but  to  prevent  mistakes,  I  explicitly 
declare  it.  Few  of  the  enumerated  articles  am  I  in 
present  want  of — those  for  which  I  shall  soonest  have 
a  call,  are  marked  thus  *  in  the  margin  ;  many  of 
the  others  I  may  dispense  with  a  year,  or  two  years. 
— They  stand  in  the  List  as  a  memento  only,  in  case 
very  favorable  moments  present,  for  the  purchase  of 
them. 


92  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 


I  am  told  it  sometimes  happens  that  Goods  which 
come  under  the  imputation  of  being  damaged,  tho'  in 
fact  they  have  received  little  or  no  real  injury,  are 
frequently  sold  uncommonly  low  indeed — particularly 
Bale  blanketing,  and  other  Bale  goods. — To  embrace 
such  opportunities  is  recommended,  not  in  this,  judg 
ment  and  a  close  inspection  are  necessary  ;  for  it  is 
not  the  lowest  priced  goods  that  are  always  the  cheap 
est — the  quality  is,  or  ought  to  be  as  much  an  object 
with  the  purchaser,  as  the  price. 

I  pray  you  to  accept  my  thanks  for  the  trouble  you 
had  with  the  German  redemptioners  which  were 
purchased  for  me ; — the  expence  my  nephew  the 
bearer  of  this  will  pay.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    JAMES    MADISON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  16  December,  1786. 

DEAR  SIR, 

Your  favor  of  the  7th  came  to  my  hands  the  even 
ing  before  last.  The  resolutions,  which  you  say  are 
inserted  in  the  papers,  I  have  not  yet  seen.1  The 
latter  come  irregularly,  though  I  am  a  subscriber  to 
Hays  Gazette. 

Besides  the  reasons,  which  were  assigned  in  my 
circular  letter  to  the  several  State  societies  of  the 
Cincinnati,  for  my  non-attendance  at  the  next  gen- 

1  On  the  Mississippi  question,  "I  am  entirely  convinced,  from  what  I  ob 
serve  here,  that  unless  the  project  of  Congress  [for  ceding  to  Spain  the  Missis 
sippi  for  25  years]  can  be  reversed,  the  hopes  of  carrying  this  State  into  a  proper 
federal  system  will  be  demolished." — Madison  to  Washington,  7  December, 
1786. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  93 

eral  meeting  to  be  holden  at  Philadelphia  on  the  first 
Monday  in  May  next,  there  existed  one,  of  a  political 
nature,  which  operated  stronger  on  my  mind,  than  all 
the  others,  and  which  in  confidence  I  will  now  com 
municate  to  you. 

When  this  Society  was  first  formed,  I  am  persuaded 
not  a  member  of  it  conceived,  that  it  would  give  birth 
to  those  jealousies,  or  be  charged  with  those  dangers, 
real  or  imaginary,  with  which  the  minds  of  many,  and 
of  some  respectable  characters  in  these  States,  seem 
to  be  agitated.  The  motives,  which  induced  the 
officers  to  enter  into  it,  were,  I  am  positive,  truly 
and  frankly  recited  in  the  institution  ;  one  of  which, 
and  the  principal,  was  to  establish  a  charitable  fund 
for  the  relief  of  such  of  their  compatriots,  the  widows 
and  descendants  of  them,  as  were  fit  objects  for  such 
support,  and  for  whom  no  public  provision  had  been 
made  by  the  public.  But,  the  trumpet  being  sounded, 
the  alarm  was  spreading  far  and  wide.  I  readily  per 
ceived,  therefore,  that,  unless  a  modification  of  the 
plan  could  be  effected  (to  annihilate  the  Society  al 
together  was  impracticable  on  account  of  the  foreign 
officers  who  had  been  admitted),  irritations  would 
arise,  which  would  soon  draw  a  line  between  the 
Society  and  their  fellow  citizens. 

To  avoid  this,  to  conciliate  the  affections,  and  to 
convince  the  world  of  the  purity  of  the  plan,  I  exerted 
myself,  and  with  much  difficulty  effected  the  changes, 
which  appeared  in  the  recommendation  that  proceeded 
from  the  general  meeting  to  those  of  individual  States. 
But  the  accomplishment  of  it  was  not  easy  ;  and  I 


94  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

have  since  heard,  that,  while  some  States  have  ac 
ceded  to  the  recommendation,  others  are  not  disposed 
to  do  so,  alleging  that  unreasonable  prejudices,  and 
ill-founded  jealousies,  ought  not  to  influence  a  meas 
ure  laudable  in  its  institution,  and  salutary  in  its 
objects  and  operation. 

Under  these  circumstances  it  may  readily  be  con 
ceived,  that  the  part  I  should  have  had  to  have  acted 
would  have  been  delicate.  On  the  one  hand,  I  might 
be  charged  with  dereliction  of  the  officers,  who  had  no 
bly  supported  me,  and  had  even  treated  me  with  un 
common  attention  and  attachment  ;  on  the  other,  with 
supporting  a  measure  incompatible  with  republican 
principles.  I  thought  it  best,  therefore,  without  assign- 
ingthis  (the  principal)  reason,  to  declinethe  presidency 
and  to  excuse  my  attendance  on  the  ground,  which 
is  firm  and  just,  of  necessity  of  attending  to  my  pri 
vate  concerns,  and  in  conformity  to  my  determination 
of  spending  the  remainder  of  my  days  in  a  state  of 
retirement ;  and  to  indisposition  occasioned  by  rheu 
matic  complaints  with  which  at  times  I  am  a  good 
deal  afflicted  ;  professing  at  the  same  time  my  entire 
approbation  of  the  institution  as  altered,  and  the 
pleasure  I  feel  at  the  subsidence  of  those  jealousies, 
which  have  yielded  to  the  change,  presuming  on  the 
general  adoption  of  it. 

I  have  been  thus  particular,  to  show,  that,  under 
circumstances  like  these,  I  should  feel  myself  in  an 
awkward  situation  to  be  in  Philadelphia  on  another 
public  occasion,  during  the  sitting  of  this  Society. 
That  the  present  moment  is  pregnant  of  great  and 


1 786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  95 

strange  events,  none  who  will  cast  their  eyes  around 
them  can  deny.  What  may  be  brought  forth  between 
this  and  the  first  of  May,  to  remove  the  difficulties, 
which  at  present  labor  in  my  mind  against  the  accept 
ance  of  the  honor,  which  has  lately  been  conferred  on 
me  by  the  Assembly,  is  not  for  me  to  predict ;  but  I 
should  think  it  incompatible  with  that  candor,  which 
ought  to  characterize  an  honest  mind,  not  to  declare, 
that,  under  my  present  view  of  the  matter,  I  should 
be  too  much  embarrassed  by  the  meeting  of  these 
two  bodies  in  the  same  place  at  the  same  moment, 
after  what  I  have  written  to  be  easy  in  my  situation, 
and  therefore  that  it  would  be  improper  to  let  my 
appointment  stand  in  the  way  of  another.  Of  this, 
you,  who  have  had  the  whole  matter  before  you,  will 
judge  ;  for,  having  received  no  other  than  private 
intimation  of  my  election,  and  unacquainted  with  the 
formalities,  which  are  or  ought  to  be  used  on  these 
occasions,  silence  may  be  deceptious,  or  considered 
as  disrespectful.  The  imputation  of  both  or  either 
I  would  wish  to  avoid.  This  is  the  cause  of  the 
present  disclosure  to  you  immediately  upon  my  re 
ceipt  of  your  letter,  which  has  been  locked  up  by  ice  ; 
for  I  have  had  no  communication  with  Alexandria 
for  many  days,  till  the  day  before  yesterday. 

My  sentiments  are  decidedly  against  Commutables  ; 
for  sure  I  am  it  will  be  found  a  tax  without  a  revenue. 
That  the  people  will  be  burthened,  the  public  ex 
pectation  deceived,  and  a  few  speculators  only  en 
riched.  Thus  the  matter  will  end,  after  the 
morals  "  of  some "  are  more  corrupted  than  they 


96  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

now  are — and  the  minds  of  all,  filled  with  more  leaven, 
by  finding  themselves  taxed,  and  the  public  demands 
in  full  force.  Tobacco,  on  acct.  of  the  public  places 
of  deposit  and  from  the  accustomed  mode  of  negotia 
ting  the  article,  is  certainly  better  fitted  foraCommu- 
table  than  any  other  production  of  this  country,  but 
if  I  understand  the  matter  rightly  (I  have  it  from 
report  only)  will  any  man  pay  five  pounds  in  specie 
for  five  taxables  when  the  same  sum  (supposing  To 
bacco  not  to  exceed  203.  per  cwt.),  will  purchase  500 
Ibs.  of  Tobo.,  and  this  if  at  285.  will  discharge  the 
tax  on  Seven  ?  And  will  not  the  man  who  neither 
makes,  nor  can  easily  procure  this  commodity,  com 
plain  of  the  inequality  of  such  a  mode,  especially  when 
he  finds  that  the  revenue  is  diminished  by  the  differ 
ence  be  it  what  it  may  between  the  real  and  nominal 
price  ?  And  that  he  is  again  to  be  taxed  to  make  this 
good.  These  and  such  like  things  in  my  humble  opin 
ion  are  extremely  hurtful  and  are  among  the  principal 
causes  that  produce  depravity  and  corruption,  without 
accomplishing  the  object  in  view  ;  for  it  is  not  the 
shadow,  but  the  substance  with  which  taxes  must  be 
paid,  if  we  mean  to  be  honest.  With  sentiments,  &C.1 


1  In  replying  to  this  letter  Mr.  Madison  said  :  "  I  have  considered  well  the 
circumstances  which  it  confidentially  discloses,  as  well  as  those  contained  in  your 
preceding  favor.  The  difficulties,  which  they  oppose  to  an  acceptance  of  the  ap 
pointment,  in  which  you  are  included,  can  as  little  be  denied  as  they  can  fail  to  be 
regretted.  But  I  am  still  inclined  to  think,  that  the  posture  of  our  affairs,  if  it 
should  continue,  would  prevent  any  criticism  on  the  situation,  which  the  contem 
porary  meetings  would  place  you  in  ;  and  wish  that  at  least  a  door  could  be  left 
open  for  your  acceptance  hereafter,  in  case  the  gathering  clouds  should  become 
so  dark  and  menacing,  as  to  supersede  every  consideration  but  that  of  our  na 
tional  existence  or  safety.  A  suspense  of  your  ultimate  determination  would  be 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  97 

TO    EDMUND    RANDOLPH,    GOVERNOR    OF    VIRGINIA.1 

MOUNT  VERNON,  21  December,  1786. 

SIR, 

I  had  not  the  honor  of  receiving  your  Excellency's 
favor  of  the  6th,  with  the  enclosure,  till  last  night.2 
Sensible  as  I  am  of  the  honor  conferred  on  me  by 
the  general  Assembly  of  this  Commonwealth,  in  ap 
pointing  me  one  of  the  deputies  to  a  convention  pro 
posed  to  be  held  in  the  city  of  Philadelphia  in  May 
next,  for  the  purpose  of  revising  the  federal  consti 
tution,  and  desirous  as  I  am  on  all  occasions  of  testi 
fying  a  ready  obedience  to  the  calls  of  my  country ; 
yet,  Sir,  there  exist  at  this  moment  circumstances, 
which  I  am  persuaded  will  render  this  fresh  instance 
of  confidence  incompatible  with  other  measures, 
which  I  had  previously  adopted,  and  from  which  see 
ing  little  prospect  of  disengaging  myself,  it  would  be 
disingenuous  not  to  express  a  wish,  that  some  other 
character,  on  whom  greater  reliance  can  be  had,  may 
be  substituted  in  my  place  ;  the  probability  of  my 
non-attendance  being  too  great  to  continue  my 
appointment. 

nowise  inconvenient  in  a  public  view,  as  the  executive  are  authorized  to  fill 
vacancies,  and  can  fill  them  at  any  time  ;  and,  in  any  event,  three  out  of  seven 
deputies  are  authorized  to  represent  the  State.  How  far  it  may  be  admissi 
ble  in  another  view,  will  depend  perhaps  in  some  measure  on  the  chance  of  your 
finally  undertaking  the  service,  but  principally  on  the  correspondence,  which  is 
now  passing  on  the  subject  between  yourself  and  the  governor." 

1  He  had  recently  been  elected  as  successor  to  Patrick  Henry. 

2  Communicating  official  intelligence  of  his  having  been  unanimously  chosen 
one  of  the  delegates  from  Virginia  for  attending  a  general  convention.     His 
name  was  placed  at  the  head  of  the  deputation,  consisting  of  seven  persons  as 
follows  :  George  Washington,  Patrick  Henry,  Edmund  Randolph,  John  Blair, 
James  Madison,  George  Mason,  and  George  Wythe. 

7 


98  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

As  no  mind  can  be  more  deeply  impressed  than  mine 
is  with  the  critical  situation  of  our  affairs,  resulting 
in  a  great  measure  from  the  want  of  efficient  powers 
in  the  federal  head,  and  due  respect  to  its  ordinances, 
so  consequently  those,  who  do  engage  in  the  import 
ant  business  of  removing  these  defects,  will  carry 
with  them  every  good  wish  of  mine,  which  the  best 
dispositions  towards  the  obtainment  can  bestow.  I 
am,  &C.1 


TO    DAVID    HUMPHREYS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  26  December,  1786. 

MR  DEAR  HUMPHREYS, 

I  am  much  indebted  to  you  for  your  several  favors 
of  the  ist,  Qth,  and  i6th  of  November.  The  last 
came  first.  Mr.  Morse,  having  in  mind  the  old 
proverb,  was  determined  not  to  make  more  haste 
than  good  speed  in  prosecuting  his  journey  to  Geor 
gia  ;  so  I  got  the  two  first  lately. 

For  your  publication  respecting  the  treatment  of 
Captain  Asgill,  I  am  exceedingly  obliged  to  you. 
The  manner  of  making  it  is  the  best  that  could  be 

1  To  the  above  letter  Governor  Randolph  replied.  "  Although  compelled, 
by  duty  to  lay  before  the  Council  your  answer  to  my  notification  of  your  ap 
pointment  to  Philadelphia,  I  was  happy  to  find  them  concurring  with  me  in  the 
propriety  of  entreating  you  not  to  decide  on  a  refusal  immediately.  Perhaps 
the  obstacles  now  in  view  may  be  removed  before  May  ;  and  the  nomination  of 
a  successor,  if  necessary  at  all,  will  be  as  effectually  made  some  time  hence  as 
now.  Perhaps  too  (and  indeed  I  fear  the  event)  every  other  consideration  may 
seem  of  little  weight,  when  compared  with  the  crisis,  which  may  then  hang  over 
the  United  States.  I  hope,  therefore,  that  you  will  excuse  me  for  holding  up 
your  letter  for  the  present,  and  waiting  until  time  shall  discover  the  result  of 
the  commotions  now  prevailing." — Richmond,  January  4th,  1787. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  99 

devised,  whilst  the  matter  will  prove  the  illiberality 
as  well  as  the  fallacy  of  the  reports,  which  have  been 
circulated  on  that  occasion,  and  which  are  fathered 
upon  that  officer  as  the  author. 

It  is  with  the  deepest  and  most  heartfelt  concern 
I  perceive,  by  some  late  paragraphs  extracted  from 
the  Boston  papers,  that  the  insurgents  of  Massa 
chusetts,  far  from  being  satisfied  with  the  redress 
offered  by  their  General  Court,  are  still  acting  in 
open  violation  of  law  and  government,  and  have 
obliged  the  chief  magistrate  in  a  decided  tone  to  call 
upon  the  militia  of  the  State  to  support  the  constitu 
tion.  What,  gracious  God  !  is  man,  that  there  should 
be  such  inconsistency  and  perfidiousness  in  his  con 
duct  ?  It  is  but  the  other  day,  that  we  were  shedding 
our  blood  to  obtain  the  constitutions  under  which  we 
now  live  ;  constitutions  of  our  own  choice  and  making  ; 
and  now  we  are  unsheathing  the  sword  to  overturn 
them.  The  thing  is  so  unaccountable,  that  I  hardly 
know  how  to  realize  it,  or  to  persuade  myself,  that  I 
am  not  under  the  illusion  of  a  dream. 

My  mind,  previous  to  the  receipt  of  your  letter  of 
the  ist  ultimo,  had  often  been  agitated  by  a  thought 
similar  to  the  one  you  have  expressed  respecting  an 
old  friend  of  yours  ;  but  Heaven  forbid  that  a  crisis 
should  come,  when  he  shall  be  driven  to  the  necessity 
of  making  choice  of  either  of  the  alternatives  there 
mentioned.1  Let  me  entreat  you,  my  dear  Sir,  to 


1  The  following  extract  will  explain  this  paragraph,  and  show  that  the  "  old 
friend  "  alluded  to  was  General  Washington  himself. 

"  In  case  of  civil  discord,"  said  Mr.  Humphreys,  "  I  have  already  told  you, 


ioo  THE  WRITINGS  OF  t      [1786 

keep  me  advised  of  the  situation  of  affairs  in  your 
quarter.  I  can  depend  upon  your  accounts.  News 
paper  paragraphs,  unsupported  by  other  testimony, 
are  often  contradictory  and  bewildering.  At  one 
time,  these  insurgents  are  spoken  of  as  a  mere  mob  ; 
at  other  times,  as  systematic  in  all  their  proceedings. 
If  the  first,  I  would  fain  hope,  that  like  other  mobs  it 
will,  however  formidable,  be  of  short  duration.  If 
the  latter,  there  are  surely  men  of  consequence  and 
abilities  behind  the  curtain,  who  move  the  puppets, 
the  designs  of  whom  may  be  deep  and  dangerous. 
They  may  be  instigated  by  British  counsel,  actuated 
by  ambitious  motives,  or,  being  influenced  by  dis 
honest  principles,  had  rather  see  the  country  in  the 
horrors  of  civil  discord,  than  do  what  justice  would 
dictate  to  an  honest  mind. 

I  had  scarcely  despatched  my  circular  letters  to 
the  several  State  Societies  of  the  Cincinnati,  when  I 
received  letters  from  some  of  the  principal  members  of 
our  Assembly,  expressing  a  wish,  that  they  might  be 
permitted  to  name  me  as  one  of  the  deputies  of  this 
State  to  the  convention  proposed  to  be  held  at  Phila 
delphia  the  first  of  May  next.  I  immediately  wrote 
to  my  particular  friend  Mr.  Madison,  and  gave 
similar  reasons  to  the  others.  The  answer  is  contained 
in  the  extract  No.  i  ;  in  reply  I  got  the  extract  No  2. 
This  obliges  me  to  be  more  explicit  and  confidential 

it  was  seriously  my  opinion,  that  you  could  not  remain  neuter,  and  chat  you 
would  be  obliged  in  self-defence  to  take  part  on  one  side  or  the  other,  or  with 
draw  from  the  continent.  Your  friends  are  of  the  same  opinion  ;  and  I  believe 
you  are  convinced  it  is  impossible  to  have  more  disinterested  and  zealous  friends 
than  those,  who  have  been  about  your  person." — New  Haven,  November  ist. 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  101 

with  him  on  points  which  a  recurrence  to  the  conver 
sations  we  have  had  on  this  subject  will  bring  to  your 
mind  and  save  me  the  hazard  of  a  recital  in  this  letter. 
Since  this  interchange  of  letters  I  have  received  from 
the  Governor  the  letter  No.  4  and  have  written  No.  5 
in  answer  to  it.  Should  this  matter  be  further  pressed, 
(which  I  hope  it  will  not,  as  I  have  no  inclination  to 
go,)  what  had  I  best  do  ?  You,  as  an  indifferent  per 
son,  and  one  who  is  much  better  acquainted  with  the 
sentiments  and  views  of  the  Cincinnati  than  I  am,  (for 
inthis  State,  where  the  recommendations  of  the  general 
meeting  have  been  agreed  to,  hardly  any  thing  is  said 
about  it,)  as  also  with  the  temper  of  the  people  and 
state  of  politics  at  large,  can  determine  upon  better 
ground  and  fuller  evidence  than  myself  ;  especially 
as  you  have  opportumities  of  knowing  in  what  light 
the  States  to  the  eastward  consider  the  convention, 
and  the  measures  they  are  pursuing  to  contravene  or 
to  give  efficiency  to  it. 

On  the  last  occasion,1  only  five  States  were  repre 
sented  ;  none  east  of  New  York.  Why  the  New 
England  governments  did  not  appear,  I  am  yet  to 
learn  ;  for,  of  all  others,  the  distractions,  and  turbu 
lent  temper  of  these  people  would,  I  should  have 
thought,  have  afforded  the  strongest  evidence  of  the 
necessity  of  competent  powers  somewhere.  That 
the  federal  government  is  nearly  if  not  quite  at  a 
stand,  none  will  deny.  The  first  question  then  is,  shall 
it  be  annihilated  or  supported  ?  If  the  latter,  the 
proposed  convention  is  an  object  of  the  first  magni- 

1  The  convention  at  Annapolis. 


102  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 


tude,  and  should  be  sustained  by  all  the  friends  of  the 
present  constitution.  In  the  other  case,  if,  on  a  full 
and  dispassionate  revision,  the  continuance  shall  be  ad 
judged  impracticable  or  unwise,  as  only  delaying  an 
event  which  must  ere  long  take  place,  would  it  not  be 
better  for  such  a  meeting  to  suggest  some  other,  to 
avoid  if  possible  civil  discord  or  other  impending  evils  ? 
I  must  candidly  confess,  as  we  could  not  remain  quiet 
more  than  three  or  four  years  in  time  of  peace,  under 
the  constitutions  of  our  own  choosing,  which  it  was 
believed,  in  many  States  at  least,  were  formed  with 
deliberation  and  wisdom,  I  see  little  prospect  either 
of  our  agreeing  upon  any  other,  or  that  we  should 
remain  long  satisfied  under  it  if  we  could.  Yet  I 
would  wish  any  thing  and  every  thing  essayed  to  pre 
vent  the  effusion  of  blood,  and  to  avert  the  humiliat 
ing  and  contemptible  figure  we  are  about  to  make  in 
the  annals  of  mankind. 

If  this  second  attempt  to  convene  the  States,  for 
the  purposes  proposed  by  the  report  of  the  partial 
representation  at  Annapolis  in  September,  should 
also  prove  abortive,  it  may  be  considered  as  an  une 
quivocal  evidence,  that  the  States  are  not  likely  to 
agree  on  any  general  measure,  which  is  to  pervade 
the  Union,  and  of  course  that  there  is  an  end  of  fed 
eral  government.  The  States,  therefore,  which  make 
the  last  dying  essay  to  avoid  these  misfortunes, 
would  be  mortified  at  the  issue,  and  their  deputies 
would  return  home  chagrined  at  their  ill  success  and 
disappointment.  This  would  be  a  disagreeable  cir 
cumstance  for  any  one  of  them  to  be  in,  but  more 
particularly  so  for  a  person  in  my  situation.  If  no 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  103 

further  application  is  made  to  me,  of  course  I  shall 
not  attend  ;  if  there  is,  I  am  under  no  obligation  to 
do  it,  but,  as  I  have  had  so  many  proofs  of  your  friend 
ship,  know  your  abilities  to  judge,  and  your  oppor 
tunities  of  learning  the  politics  of  the  day  on  the  points 
I  have  enumerated,  you  would  oblige  me  by  a  full  • 
and  confidential  communication  of  your  sentiments 
thereon. 

Peace  and  tranquillity  prevail  in  this  State.  The 
Assembly,  by  a  very  great  majority  and  in  very  em- 
phatical  terms,  have  rejected  an  application  for  paper 
money,  and  spurned  the  idea  of  fixing  the  value  of 
military  certificates  by  a  scale  of  depreciation.  In 
some  other  respects,  too,  the  proceedings  of  the 
present  session  have  been  marked  with  justice,  and  a 
strong  desire  of  supporting  the  federal  system.  Al 
though  I  lament  the  effect  I  am  pleased  at  the  cause 
which  has  deprived  us  of  the  pleasure  of  your  aid  in 
the  attack  of  Christmas  pies.  We  had  one  yesterday 
on  which  all  the  company  tho'  pretty  numerous,  were 
hardly  able  to  make  an  impression.  Mrs.  Washing 
ton  &  George  &  his  wife  (Mr.  Lear  I  had  occasion 
to  send  to  the  Western  Country)  join  in  affectionate 
regards  for  you  and  with  sentiments,  &c.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    HENRY    KNOX. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  26  December  1786. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

*  *  *  I  feel,  my  dear  General  Knox,  infinitely  more 
than  I  can  express  to  you,  for  the  disorders,  which 
have  arisen  in  these  States.  Good  God  !  Who,  besides 


io4  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

a  Tory,  could  have  foreseen,  or  a  Briton  predicted 
them  ?  Were  these  people  wiser  than  others,  or 
did  they  judge  of  us  from  the  corruption  and  deprav 
ity  of  their  own  hearts  ?  The  latter  I  am  persuaded 
was  the  case  and  that  notwithstanding  the  boasted 
virtue  of  America  we  are  very  little  if  anything  behind 
them  in  dispositions  to  every  thing  that  is  bad. 

I  do  assure  you,  that  even  at  this  moment,  when  I 
reflect  upon  the  present  prospect  of  our  affairs,  it 
seems  to  me  to  be  like  the  vision  of  a  dream.  My 
mind  can  scarcely  realize  it  as  a  thing  in  actual  exist 
ence  ;  so  strange,  so  wonderful  does  it  appear  to  me. 
In  this,  as  in  most  other  matters,  we  are  too  slow. 
When  this  spirit  first  dawned,  probably  it  might  have 
been  easily  checked  ;  but  it  is  scarcely  within  the 
reach  of  human  ken,  at  this  moment,  to  say  when, 
where,  or  how  it  will  terminate.  There  are  combus 
tibles  in  every  State,  which  a  spark  might  set  fire 
to.  In  this  a  perfect  calm  prevails  at  present  ;  and 
a  prompt  disposition  to  support  and  give  energy  to 
the  federal  system  is  discovered,  if  the  unlucky  stir 
ring  of  the  dispute  respecting  the  navigation  of  the 
Mississippi  does  not  become  a  leaven  that  will  fer 
ment  and  sour  the  mind  of  it. 

The  resolutions  of  the  present  session  respecting  a 
paper  emission,  military  certificates,  &c.,  have  stamped 
justice  and  liberality  on  the  proceedings  of  the  Assem 
bly.  By  a  late  act,  it  seems  very  desirous  of  a  general 
convention  to  revise  and  amend  the  federal  constitu 
tion.  Apropos ;  what  prevented  the  eastern  States 
from  attending  the  September  meeting  at  Annapolis  ? 


1786]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  105 

Of  all  the  States  in  the  Union  it  should  have  seemed 
to  me,  that  a  measure  of  this  sort,  (distracted  as  they 
were  with  internal  commotions  and  experiencing  the 
want  of  energy  in  the  government,)  would  have  been 
most  pleasing  to  them.  What  are  the  prevailing  sen 
timents  of  the  one  now  proposed  to  be  held  in  Phila 
delphia  in  May  next  ?  and  how  will  it  be  attended  ? 
You  are  at  the  fountain  of  intelligence,  where  the 
wisdom  of  the  nation,  it  is  to  be  presumed,  is  concen 
tred  ;  consequently  better  able,  (as  I  have  had  suffi 
cient  experience  of  your  intelligence,  confidence,  and 
candor,)  to  solve  these  questions. 

The  Maryland  Assembly  has  been  violently  agi 
tated  by  the  question  for  a  paper  emission.  It  has 
been  carried  in  the  House  of  Delegates  ;  but  what 
has  been  or  may  be  the  fate  of  the  bill  in  the  Senate, 
I  have  not  yet  heard.  The  partisans  in  favor  of  the 
measure  in  the  lower  House  threaten,  it  is  said,  a 
secession,  if  it  is  rejected  by  that  branch  of  the  legis 
lature.  Thus  are  we  advancing.  In  regretting,  which 
I  have  often  done  with  the  keenest  sorrow,  the  death  of 
our  much  lamented  friend  General  Greene,  I  have 
accompanied  it  of  late  with  a  query,  whether  he  would 
not  have  preferred  such  an  exit  to  the  scenes,  which,  it  is 
more  than  probable,  many  of  his  compatriots  may 
live  to  bemoan. 

In  both  your  letters  you  intimate,  that  the  men  of 
reflection,  principle,  and  property  in  New  England, 
feeling  the  inefficacy  of  their  present  government,  are 
contemplating  a  change ;  but  you  are  not  explicit 
with  respect  to  its  nature.  It  has  been  supposed, 


io6  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1786 

that  the  constitution  of  the  State  of  Massachusetts 
was  amongst  the  most  energetic  in  the  Union.  May 
not  these  disorders  then  be  ascribed  to  an  indulgent 
exercise  of  the  powers  of  administration  ?  If  your 
laws  authorized,  and  your  powers  are  equal  to  the  sup 
pression  of  these  tumults  in  the  first  instance,  delay 
and  unnecessary  expedients  were  improper.  These 
are  rarely  well  applied  ;  and  the  same  causes  would 
produce  similar  effects  in  any  form  of  government, 
if  the  powers  of  it  are  not  exercised.  I  ask  this 
question  for  information.  I  know  nothing  of  the  facts. 
That  Great  Britain  will  be  an  unconcerned  specta 
tor  of  the  present  insurrections,  if  they  continue,  is 
not  to  be  expected.  That  she  is  at  this  moment  sow 
ing  the  seeds  of  jealousy  and  discontent  among  the 
various  tribes  of  Indians  on  our  frontiers,  admits  of 
no  doubt  in  my  mind  ;  and  that  she  will  improve  every 
opportunity  to  foment  the  spirit  of  turbulence  within 
the  bowels  of  the  United  States,  with  a  view  of  dis 
tracting  our  governments  and  promoting  divisions, 
is  with  me  not  less  certain.  Her  first  manoeuvres 
in  this  will  no  doubt  be  covert,  and  may  remain  so  till 
the  period  shall  arrive  when  a  decided  line  of  conduct 
may  avail  her.  Charges  of  violating  the  treaty,  and 
other  pretexts,  will  then  not  be  wanting  to  color  overt 
acts,  tending  to  effect  the  great  objects  of  which  she 
has  long  been  in  labor.  A  man  is  now  at  the  head 
of  their  American  affairs,  well  calculated  to  conduct 
measures  of  this  kind,  and  more  than  probably  was 
selected  for  the  purpose.  We  ought  not  therefore  to 
sleep  nor  to  slumber.  Vigilance  in  watching  and  vigor 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  107 

in  acting  is  become  in  my  opinion  indispensably  neces 
sary.  If  the  powers  are  inadequate,  amend  or  alter 
them  ;  but  do  not  let  us  sink  into  the  lowest  state  of 
humiliation  and  contempt,  and  become  a  by-word  in 
all  the  earth.  I  think  with  you,  that  the  spring  will 
unfold  important  and  distressing  scenes,  unless  much 
wisdom  and  good  management  is  displayed  in  the 
interim.  Adieu.  Be  assured  no  man  has  a  higher 
esteem  and  regard  for  you,  than  I  have  ;  none  more 
sincerely  your  friend. 

P.  S.  Mrs.  Washington  joins  me  in  every  good  wish 
for  you  and  Mrs.  Knox  and  in  compliments  of  con 
gratulation  on  the  late  addition  to  your  family. 


TO    BUSHROD    WASHINGTON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  10  January,  1787. 

MY  DEAR  BUSHROD, 

I  condole  most  sincerely  with  you,  my  sister  &  fam 
ily,  on  the  death  of  my  Brother  1 :  I  feel  most  sensi 
bly  for  this  event ;  but  resignation  being  our  duty— 
to  attempt  an  expression  of  my  sorrow  on  this  occa 
sion  would  be  as  feebly  described,  as  it  would  be 
unavailing  when  related. 

If  there  are  any  occasional  services  which  I  can 
render  my  sister  or  any  of  you,  I  shall  have  great 
pleasure  in  the  execution  ;  if  I  could  discharge  the 
duties  of  an  Executor,  I  would  undertake  the  trust 
most  cheerfully ;  but  in  truth  I  am  not  in  a  situation 
to  do  this.  Already  I  am  so  much  involved  in  and 

1  John  Augustine  Washington. 


io8  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 


so  perplexed  with  other  people's  affairs,  that  my  own 
are  very  much  unattended  to.  Happily,  there  is  not 
the  least  occasion  of  my  assistance  in  the  administra 
tion  of  your  deceased  Father's  Estate.  Your  compe 
tency  alone  is  sufficient  for  this  purpose — when  joined 
by  that  of  my  Sister,  and  your  brother,  the  task  will  be 
easy.  It  may  be  an  alleviating  circumstance  of  my 
brother's  death,  that  his  affairs  fall  into  such  good 
hands,  and  that  each  of  you  have  dispositions  and 
capability  to  do  what  is  proper.  *  *  * 


TO    HENRY    KNOX. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  3  February,  1787. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

I  feel  myself  exceedingly  obliged  to  you  for  the 
full  and  friendly  communications  in  your  letters  of  the 
1 4th,  2  ist,  and  25th  ultimo,  and  shall  (critically  as 
matters  are  described  in  the  letter)  be  exceedingly 
anxious  to  know  the  issue  of  the  movements  of  the 
forces,  that  were  assembling  in  support  of,  and  in 
opposition  to,  the  constitution  of  Massachusetts. 
The  moment  is  important.  If  government  shrinks, 
or  is  unable  to  enforce  its  laws,  fresh  manoeuvres  will 
be  displayed  by  the  insurgents,  anarchy  and  confu 
sion  must  prevail,  and  every  thing  will  be  turned 
topsy-turvy  in  that  State,  where  it  is  not  probable  it 
will  end.1 


1  "  On  the  prospect  of  the  happy  termination  of  this  insurrection  I  sincerely 
congratulate  you,  hoping  that  good  may  result  from  the  cloud  of  evils,  which 
threatened  not  only  the  hemisphere  of  Massachusetts,  but  by  spreading  its  bane 
ful  influence  threatened  the  tranquillity  of  other  States.  Surely  Shays  must  be 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  109 

In  your  letter  of  the  i4th  you  express  a  wish  to  be 
informed  of  my  intention,  respecting  the  convention 
proposed  to  be  held  in  Philadelphia  May  next.  In 
confidence  I  inform  you,  that  it  is  not,  at  this  time,  my 
intention  to  attend  it.  When  this  matter  was  first 
moved  in  the  Assembly  of  this  State,  some  of  the 
principal  characters  of  it  wrote  to  me,  requesting  they 
might  be  permitted  to  put  my  name  in  the  delegation. 
To  this  I  objected.  They  again  pressed,  and  I  again 
refused,  assigning  among  other  reasons  my  having 
declined  meeting  the  Society  of  the  Cincinnati  at  that 
place  about  the  same  time,  and  that  I  thought  it  would 
be  disrespectful  to  that  body,  to  whom  I  owe  much, 
to  be  there  on  any  other  occasion.  Notwithstanding 
these  intimations,  my  name  was  inserted  in  the  act ; 
and  an  official  communication  thereof  made  by  the 
executive  to  me,  to  whom,  at  the  same  time  that  I 
expressed  my  sense  for  the  confidence  reposed  in  me, 
I  declared  that,  as  I  saw  no  prospect  of  my  attending, 
it  was  my  wish  that  my  name  might  not  remain  in  the 
delegation  to  the  exclusion  of  another.  To  this  I 
have  been  requested  in  emphatical  terms  not  to  de 
cide  absolutely,  as  no  inconvenience  would  result 
from  the  new  appointment  of  another,  at  least  for 
some  time  yet. 

either  a  weak  man,  the  dupe  of  some  characters  that  are  yet  behind  the  curtain, 
or  has  been  deceived  by  his  followers  ;  or,  which  may  be  as  likely  as  any  thing 
perhaps,  he  did  not  conceive  that  there  was  energy  enough  in  the  government 
to  bring  matters  to  the  crisis  they  have  been  pushed.  It  is  to  be  hoped  the 
General  Court  of  that  State  concurred  in  the  report  of  the  committee,  that  a 
rebellion  actually  existed.  This  would  be  decisive,  and  the  most  likely 
means  of  putting  the  finishing  stroke  to  the  business." — Washington  to  Knox, 
25  February,  1787. 


no  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

Thus  the  matter  stands,  which  is  the  reason  of  my 
saying  to  you  in  confidence,  that  at  present  I  retain 
my  first  intention  not  to  go.  In  the  mean  while,  as  I 
have  the  fullest  conviction  of  your  friendship  for 
and  attachment  to  me,  know  your  abilities  to  judge, 
and  your  means  of  information,  I  shall  receive  any 
communications  from  you  on  this  subject  with  thank 
fulness.  My  first  wish  is  to  do  for  the  best,  and  to 
act  with  propriety.  You  know  me  too  well  to  believe, 
that  reserve  or  concealment  of  any  opinion  or  circum 
stance  would  be  at  all  agreeable  to  me.  The  legality 
of  this  convention  I  do  not  mean  to  discuss,  nor  how 
problematical  the  issue  of  it  may  be.  That  powers 
are  wanting  none  can  deny.  Through  what  medium 
they  are  to  be  derived  will,  like  other  matters,  engage 
the  attention  of  the  wise.  That,  which  takes  the 
shortest  course  to  obtain  them,  in  my  opinion  will, 
under  present  circumstances,  be  found  best ;  other 
wise,  like  a  house  on  fire,  whilst  the  most  regular 
mode  of  extinguishing  the  flames  is  contended  for, 
the  building  is  reduced  to  ashes.  My  opinion  of  the 
energetic  wants  of  the  federal  government  are  well 
known.  My  public  annunciations  and  private  decla 
rations  have  uniformly  expressed  these  sentiments  ; 
and,  however  constitutional  it  may  be  for  Congress 
to  point  out  the  defects  of  the  federal  system,  I  am 
strongly  inclined  to  believe,  that  it  would  not  be 
found  the  most  efficacious  channel  for  the  recommen 
dations,  more  especially  the  alterations,  to  flow,  for 
reasons  too  obvious  to  enumerate.1 


1  To  Mr. Jay  lie  wrote,  touching  upon  the  same  subject,  more  than  a  month 
later  :   "I  would  fain  try  what  the  wisdom  of  the  proposed  convention  will 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  in 

The  system  on  which  you  seem  disposed  to  build 
a  national  government,  is  certainly  more  energetic, 
and  I  dare  say  in  every  point  of  view  more  desirable 
than  the  present,  which  from  experience  we  find  is  not 
only  slow,  debilitated,  and  liable  to  be  thwarted  by 
every  breath,  but  is  defective  in  that  secrecy,  which, 
for  the  accomplishment  of  many  of  the  most  import 
ant  national  objects,  is  indispensably  necessary ; 
and  besides,  having  the  legislative,  executive,  and 
judiciary  departments  concentred,  is  exceptionable. 
But,  at  the  same  time  that  I  gave  this  opinion,  I  be 
lieve  the  political  machine  will  yet  be  much  tumbled 
and  tossed,  and  possibly  be  wrecked  altogether, 
before  that  or  any  thing  like  it  will  be  adopted.  The 
darling  sovereignties  of  each  State,  the  governors 
elected  and  elect,  the  legislators,  with  a  long  tribe  of 
et  ceteras,  whose  political  importance  will  be  lessened, 
if  not  annihilated,  would  give  their  weight  of  opposi 
tion  to  such  a  revolution  ;  but  I  may  bespeaking  without 
book  ;  for,  scarcely  ever  going  off  my  own  farms,  I  see 
few  people,  who  do  not  call  upon  me,  and  am  very 
little  acquainted  with  the  sentiments  of  the  great  pub 
lic.  Indeed,  after  what  I  have  seen,  or  rather  after 
what  I  have  heard,  I  shall  be  surprised  at  nothing  ; 
for,  if  three  years  since  any  person  had  told  me,  that 
there  would  have  been  such  a  formidable  rebellion  as 


suggest,  and  what  can  be  effected  by  their  counsels.  It  may  be  the  last  peace 
able  mode  of  essaying  the  practicability  of  the  present  form,  without  a  greater 
lapse  of  time,  than  the  exigency  of  our  affairs  will  allow.  In  strict  propriety, 
a  convention  so  holden  may  not  be  legal.  Congress,  however,  may  give  it  a 
coloring  by  recommendation,  which  would  fit  it  more  to  the  taste,  without 
proceeding  to  a  definition  of  the  powers.  This,  however  constitutionally  it 
might  be  done,  would  not  in  my  opinion  be  expedient." — March  loth. 


ii2  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

exists  at  this  day  against  the  laws  and  constitution  of 
our  own  making,  I  should  have  thought  him  a  bed 
lamite,  a  fit  subject  for  a  mad-house.  Adieu.  You 
know  how  much,  and  how  sincerely  I  am  your  ever 
affectionate  and  most  obedient  servant. 


TO    CHARLES    WASHINGTON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  14  February,  1787. 

DEAR  CHARLES, 

When  the  enclosed  was  written,  I  knew  nothing  of 
George's  l  intention  of  visiting  Berkeley.  The  safe 
conveyance  afforded  by  him,  is  very  favorable,  and 
[I]  gladly  embraced  it. 

Having  seen  Bushrod  and  Corbin  Washington  on 
their  way  from  Berkeley,  their  information  is  the 
subject  of  this  letter  and  is  exceedingly  distressing 
to  me,  inasmuch  as  I  have  not  the  means  of  affording 
immediate  relief.  By  them  I  learn  that  the  remaining 
negros  of  my  deceased  Brother  Samuel's  Estate  are 
under  an  execution,  and  a  momentary  sale  of  them  may 
be  expected,  and  this  too  by  the  extraordinary  con 
duct  of  Mr.  White  in  applying  moneys  received  tow 
ards  the  discharge  of  a  Bond  not  in  suit,  when  they 
ought  to  have  given  it  in  payment  of  Mr.  Alexan 
der's  claim,  on  which  judgment  had  been,  or  was  on 
the  point  of  being  obtained.  How  in  the  name  of 
Heaven  came  Mr.  White  to  be  vested  with  powers 
to  dispose  of  the  money  he  should  recover,  unaccom- 


1  George  Augustine  Washington. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  113 

panied  with  instructions  respecting  the  disposal ; 
Will  not  Mr.  Alexander  when  he  sees  every  exertion 
making  to  pay  him  have  mercy  on  the  orphan  ?  Can 
he  as  a  Father  and  man  of  feeling  see  the  Fatherless 
reduced  from  Competency  to  distress  untouched  ?  If 
there  was  an  unwillingness  to  pay  him,  if  property 
had  not  been  sold  for  the  express  purpose  of  doing 
it,  and  if  there  was  not  a  prospect  of  [its]  being  done 
in  a  very  short  time,  it  would  be  right  in  Mr.  Alexan 
der  to  push  matters  to  extremity  ;  but  when  (as  I  am 
informed)  in  the  case  every  exertion  is  making  to 
satisfy  him,  to  cause  perhaps  three  pounds  worth  of 
property  to  be  sold  to  raise  2O/  cash,  this  would  be 
inconsistent  with  that  benevolence  which  should  be 
characteristic  of  every  man  and  to  which,  from  what  I 
have  heard  of  the  Gentleman,  he  is  justly  intitled.  I 
therefore  think  as  Executor  to  the  will  and  guardian 
to  the  boys,  you  should  before  the  dye  is  cast  apply 
by  fair  and  candid  representation  to  Mr.  Alexander 
on  this  subject,  not  in  the  cold  mode  of  letter,  but 
personally,  to  see  if  this  evil  cannot  be  averted. 
Vain  would  it  be  for  me  to  offer  Mr.  Alexander  any 
assurances  of  the  money  at  a  short  given  day.  I  can 
not  get  it  from  those  who  owe  me  without  suit,  and 
I  hate  to  sue  them.  I  have  offered  lands  for  sale  at 
very  moderate  prices,  but  have  not  been  able  to  sell 
them.  Otherwise,  or  if  I  could  raise  the  money  by 
any  other  means,  I  would  relieve  my  nephews  with 
out  hesitation  from  the  impending  evil.  Indeed,  I 
would  essay  any  thing  to  save  the  estate  ;  for  if  the 
negros  are  sold  for  ready  money,  they  will  go  for  a 


ii4  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

song.     To  add  aught  to  this  is  unnecessary.     With 
the  most  affectionate  regards. 

My  love,  in  which  Mrs.  Washington  joins,  to  my 
sister  and  the  family. 


TO    MRS.    MARY    WASHINGTON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  15  February,  1787. 

HOND.   MADAM, 

In  consequence  of  your  communication  to  George 
Washington,  of  your  want  of  money,  I  take  the  (first 
safe)  conveyance  by  Mr.  John  Dandridge  to  send  you 
15  guineas,  which  believe  me  is  all  I  have,  and  which 
indeed  ought  to  have  been  paid  many  days  ago  to 
another,  agreeable  to  my  own  assurances.  I  have 
now  demands  upon  me  for  more  than  500^,  three 
hundred  and  forty  odd  of  which  is  due  for  the  tax  of 
1786  ;  and  I  know  not  where  or  when,  I  shall  receive 
one  shilling  with  which  to  pay  it.  In  the  last  two 
years  I  made  no  crops.  In  the  first  I  was  obliged  to 
buy  corn  and  this  year  have  none  to  sell,  and  my 
wheat  is  so  bad,  I  cannot  neither  eat  it  myself  nor 
sell  it  to  others,  and  Tobacco  I  make  none.  Those 
who  owe  me  money  cannot  or  will  not  pay  it  without 
suits,  and  to  sue  is  to  do  nothing  ;  whilst  my  expences, 
not  from  any  extravagance,  or  an  inclination  on  my 
part  to  live  splendidly,  but  for  the  absolute  support  of 
my  family  and  the  visitors  who  are  constantly  here,  are 
exceedingly  high  ;  higher  indeed  than  I  can  support 
without  selling  part  of  my  estate,  which  I  am  disposed 
to  do,  rather  than  run  in  debt,  or  continue  to  be 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  115 

so  ;  but  this  I  cannot  do,  without  taking  much  less 
than  the  lands  I  have  offered  for  sale  are  worth.  This 
is  really  and  truely  my  situation.  I  do  not  however 
offer  it  as  any  excuse  for  not  paying  you  what  may 
really  be  due  ;  for  let  this  belittle  or  much,  I  am  willing, 
however  unable,  to  pay  to  the  utmost  farthing ;  but 
it  is  really  hard  upon  me  when  you  have  taken  every 
thing  you  wanted  from  the  Plantation  by  which 
money  could  be  raised,  when  I  have  not  received  one 
farthing,  directly  nor  indirectly  from  the  place  for 
more  than  twelve  years,  if  ever,  and  when,  in  that 
time  I  have  paid,  as  appears  by  Mr.  Lund  Washing 
ton's  accounts  against  me  (during  my  absence)  Two 
hundred  and  sixty  odd  pounds,  and  by  my  own  ac 
count  Fifty  odd  pounds  out  of  my  own  Pocket  to  you, 
besides  (if  I  am  rightly  informed)  every  thing  that 
has  been  raised  by  the  Crops  on  the  Plantation. 
Who  to  blame,  or  whether  any  body  is  to  blame  for 
these  things  I  know  not,  but  these  are  facts  ;  and  as 
the  purposes  for  which  I  took  the  Estate  are  not  an 
swered,  nor  likely  to  be  so,  but  dissatisfaction  on  all 
sides  have  taken  place,  I  do  not  mean  to  have  any 
thing  more  to  say  to  your  Plantation  or  negros  since 
the  first  of  January,  except  the  fellow  who  is  here, 
and  who  will  not,  as  he  has  formed  connections  in  this 
neighborhood,  leave  it.  As  experience  has  proved 
him,  I  will  hire.  Of  this  my  intention,  I  informed  my 
brother  John  sometime  ago,  whose  death  I  sincerely 
lament  on  many  accounts,  and  on  this  painful  event 
condole  with  you  most  sincerely.  I  do  not  mean  by 
this  declaration  to  withhold  any  aid  or  support  I  can 


n 6  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

give  from  you  ;  for  whilst  I  have  a  shilling  left,  you 
shall  have  part,  if  it  is  wanted,  whatever  my  own  dis 
tresses  may  be.  What  I  shall  then  give,  I  shall  have 
credit  for  ;  now  I  have  not,  for  tho'  I  have  received 
nothing  from  your  Quarter,  and  am  told  that  every 
farthing  goes  to  you,  and  have  moreover  paid  be 
tween  3  and  4  hundred  pounds  besides  out  of  my 
own  pocket,  I  am  viewed  as  a  delinquent,  and  consid- 
sidered  perhaps  by  the  world  as  [an]  unjust  and 
undutiful  son.  My  advice  to  you,  therefore,  is  to  do 
one  of  two  things  with  the  Plantation.  Either  let 

o 

your  grandson  Bushrod  Washington,  to  whom  the 
land  is  given  by  his  Father,  have  the  whole  interest 
there,  that  is,  lands  and  negros,  at  a  reasonable  rent ; 
or,  next  year  (for  I  presume  it  is  too  late  this,  as  the 
overseer  may  be  engaged)  to  let  him  have  the  land 
at  a  certain  yearly  rent  during  your  life  ;  and  hire 
out  the  negros.  This  would  ease  you  of  all  care  and 
trouble,  make  your  income  certain,  and  your  support 
ample.  Further,  my  sincere  and  pressing  advice  to 
you  is,  to  break  up  housekeeping,  hire  out  all  the  rest 
of  your  servants  except  a  man  and  a  maid,  and  live 
with  one  of  your  children.  This  would  relieve  you 
entirely  from  the  cares  of  this  world,  and  leave  your 
mind  at  ease  to  reflect  undisturbedly  on  that  which 
ought  to  come.  On  this  subject  I  have  been  full 
with  my  Brother  John,  and  it  was  determined  he 
should  endeavor  to  get  you  to  live  with  him.  He 
alas  is  no  more,  and  three,  only  of  us  remain.  My 
house  is  at  your  service,  and  [I]  would  press  you 
most  sincerely  and  most  devoutly  to  accept  it,  but  I 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  117 

am  sure,  and  candor  requires  me  to  say,  it  will  never 
answer  your  purposes  in  any  shape  whatsoever.  For  in 
truth  it  may  be  compared  to  a  well  resorted  tavern, 
as  scarcely  any  strangers  who  are  going  from  north  to 
south,  or  from  south  to  north,  do  not  spend  a  day  or 
two  at  it.  This  would,  were  you  to  be  an  inhabitant 
of  it,  oblige  you  to  do  one  of  3  things  :  ist,  to  be 
always  dressing  to  appear  in  company  ;  2d,  to  come 
into  [the  room]  in  a  dishabille,  or  3d,  to  be  as  it  were 
a  prisoner  in  your  own  chamber.  The  first  you'ld 
not  like  ;  indeed,  for  a  person  at  your  time  of  life  it 
would  be  too  fatiguing.  The  2d,  I  should  not  like, 
because  those  who  resort  here  are,  as  I  observed  be 
fore,  strangers  and  people  of  the  first  distinction.  And 
the  3d,  more  than  probably,  would  not  be  pleasing  to 
either  of  us.  Nor  indeed  could  you  be  retired  in  any 
room  in  my  house  ;  for  what  with  the  sitting  up  of 
company,  the  noise  and  bustle  of  servants,  and  many 
other  things,  you  would  not  be  able  to  enjoy  that 
calmness  and  serenity  of  mind,  which  in  my  opinion 
you  ought  now  to  prefer  to  every  other  consideration 
in  life.  If  you  incline  to  follow  this  advice,  the  House 
and  lots  on  which  you  now  live  you  may  rent,  and 
enjoy  the  benefit  of  the  money  arising  therefrom  as 
long  as  you  live.  This  with  the  rent  of  the  land  at 
the  Little  Falls,  and  the  hire  of  your  negros,  would 
bring  you  in  an  income  which  would  be  much  more 
than  sufficient  to  answer  all  your  wants  and  make 
ample  amends  to  the  child  you  live  with  ;  for  myself  I 
should  desire  nothing  ;  if  it  did  not,  I  would  most  cheer 
fully  contribute  more.  A  man,  a  maid,  the  phaeton  and 


nS  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

two  horses,  are  all  you  would  want.  To  lay  in  a  suf 
ficiency  for  the  support  of  these  would  not  require  \ 
of  your  income,  the  rest  would  purchase  every  neces 
sary  you  could  possibly  want,  and  place  it  in  your 
power  to  be  serviceable  to  those  with  whom  you  may 
live,  which  no  doubt  would  be  agreeable  to  all  parties. 

There  are  such  powerful  reasons  in  my  mind  for 
giving  this  advice  that  I  cannot  help  urging  it  with  a 
degree  of  earnestness  which  is  uncommon  for  me  to 
do.  It  is,  I  am  convinced,  the  only  means  by  which 
you  can  be  happy.  The  cares  of  a  family,  without 
any  body  to  assist  you  ;  the  charge  of  an  estate  the 
profits  of  which  depend  upon  wind,  weather,  a  good 
overseer,  an  honest  man,  and  a  thousand  other  cir 
cumstances,  cannot  be  right  or  proper  at  your  ad 
vanced  age,  and  for  me,  who  am  absolutely  prevented 
from  attending  to  my  own  plantations,  which  are 
almost  within  call  of  me,  to  attempt  the  care  of  yours, 
would  be  folly  in  the  extreme  ;  but  [by]  the  mode  I 
have  pointed  out,  you  may  reduce  your  income  to  a 
certainty,  be  eased  of  all  trouble,  and  if  you  are  so 
disposed,  may  be  perfectly  happy ;  for  happiness 
depends  more  upon  the  internal  frame  of  a  person's 
own  mind,  than  on  the  externals  in  the  world.  Of 
the  last,  if  you  will  pursue  the  plan  here  recom 
mended,  I  am  sure  you  can  want  nothing  that  is 
essential.  The  other  depends  wholly  upon  yourself, 
for  the  riches  of  the  Indies  cannot  purchase  it. 

Mrs.  Washington,  George  and  Fanny  join  me  in 
every  good  wish  for  you,  and  I  am,  honored  madame, 
your  most  dutiful  and  aff.  son. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  119 

TO    THOMAS    STONE.1 

MOUNT  VERNON,  16  February,  1787. 

DEAR  SIR, 

Your  favor  of  the  3Oth  ultimo  came  duly  to  hand. 
To  give  an  opinion  in  a  cause  of  so  much  importance 
as  that,  which  has  warmly  agitated  two  branches  of 
your  legislature,  and  which,  from  the  appeal  that  is 
made,  is  likely  to  create  great  and  perhaps  dangerous 
divisions,  is  rather  a  delicate  matter  ;  but,  as  this  di 
versity  of  opinion  is  on  a  subject,  which  has,  I  believe, 
occupied  the  minds  of  most  men,  and  as  my  senti 
ments  thereon  have  been  fully  and  decidedly  ex 
pressed  long  before  the  Assembly  either  of  Maryland 
or  this  State  were  convened,  I  do  not  scruple  to 
declare,  that,  if  I  had  a  voice  in  your  legislature,  it 
would  have  been  given  decidedly  against  a  paper 
emission  upon  the  general  principles  of  its  utility  as  a 
representative,  and  the  necessity  of  it  as  a  medium.2 

1  Member  of  the  Senate  of  Maryland. 

3  A  law  had  been  proposed  in  the  legislature  of  Maryland,  which  had  passed 
the  House  of  Delegates,  for  issuing  bills  of  credit  to  the  amount  of  three  hun 
dred  and  fifty  thousand  pounds,  to  be  loaned  by  the  State  in  various  sums,  the 
whole  redeemable  in  ten  years,  and  drawing  interest  at  six  per  cent.,  payable 
annually.  The  Senate  unanimously  refused  their  assent  to  this  proposition  ; 
and  the  differences  between  the  two  bodies  rose  to  such  a  height  that  the  former 
resolved  to  adjourn  for  two  months,  and  refer  the  subject  to  the  people.  This 
was  deemed  a  very  objectionable  course  by  the  Senate,  inasmuch  as  it  was  de 
signed  to  coerce  them  to  act  against  their  judgment,  and  thus  deprive  them 
of  the  freedom  and  independence  which  it  was  a  special  object  of  the  constitu 
tion  to  secure  to  that  branch  of  the  legislature. 

The  objections  to  this  paper  emission  did  not  rest  wholly  on  the  ground  of 
the  inexpediency  of  a  paper  currency  as  such,  but  were  derived  in  part  from  the 
peculiar  circumstances  of  the  time.  It  was  necessary  for  each  State  in  the 
confederacy  to  pay  a  large  portion  of  the  annual  requisitions  of  Congress  in 
specie, 'by  which  alone  the  large  demands  for  discharging  the  interest  of  the 
national  debt  could  be  answered,  This  specie  must  be  collected  from  the 


120  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

And  as  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  understand  its 
advocates  (for  the  two  papers  you  sent  me  were  the 
same,  and  contained  no  reasons  of  the  House  of  Dele 
gates  for  the  local  want  of  it  in  your  State,  though  I 
have  seen  and  given  them  a  cursory  reading  elsewhere) 
I  should  have  been  very  little  less  opposed  to  it. 

To  assign  reasons  for  this  opinion  would  be  as  un 
necessary  as  tedious.  The  ground  has  been  so  often 
trod,  that  a  place  hardly  remains  untouched.  But  in 
a  word,  the  necessity  arising  from  a  want  of  specie  is 
represented  as  greater  than  it  really  is.  I  contend, 
that  it  is  by  the  substance,  not  with  the  shadow  of  a 
thing,  we  are  to  be  benefitted.  The  wisdom  of  man, 
in  my  humble  opinion,  cannot  at  this  time  devise  a 
plan,  by  which  the  credit  of  paper  money  would  be 
long  supported  ;  consequently  depreciation  keeps  pace 
with  the  quantity  of  the  emission,  and  articles,  for  which 
it  is  exchanged,  rise  in  a  greater  ratio  than  the  sink 
ing  value  of  the  money.  Wherein,  then,  is  the  farmer, 
the  planter,  the  artisan  benefitted  ?  The  debtor  may 

people  by  taxation,  an  end  which  would  be  rather  frustrated  than  promoted  by 
a  local  paper  currency  issued  on  the  credit  of  an  individual  State,  especially  as 
the  country  was  already  flooded  with  paper  securities  that  had  been  rendered 
indispensable  during  the  war.  If  a  State  issued  paper,  it  could  be  disposed  of 
only  by  loans  on  bonds  or  mortgages  ;  and  this  paper  must  be  received  for 
taxes,  or  it  would  immediately  depreciate,  and  create  new  embarrassments. 
But  if  a  State  should  take  its  own  paper  for  taxes,  where  was  the  specie  to  be 
found  for  paying  its  quota  to  the  national  government  ?  This  paper  money 
must  necessarily  be  exchanged  for  specie,  before  it  could  be  made  available  for 
that  object.  So  far  from  increasing  the  quantity  of  metallic  currency,  the 
effect  of  a  surplusage  of  paper  would  be  to  diminish  it  ;  and  hence  the  State 
would  be  obliged  to  go  abroad  to  procure  it,  for  the  purpose  of  liquidating  the 
claims  of  Congress,  and  to  obtain  it  through  a  disadvantageous  negotiation  of 
its  own  paper.  Such  was  the  view  taken  by  the  opponents  to  the  measure. — 
Sparks. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  121 

be,  because,  as  I  have  observed,  he  gives  the  shadow 
in  lieu  of  the  substance  ;  and,  in  proportion  to  his  gain, 
the  creditor  or  the  body  politic  suffer.  Whether  it  be 
a  legal  tender  or  not,  it  will,  as  hath  been  observed 
very  truly,  leave  no  alternative.  It  must  be  that  or 
nothing.  An  evil  equally  great  is,  the  door  it  imme 
diately  opens  for  speculation,  by  which  the  least 
designing,  and  perhaps  most  valuable,  part  of  the 
community  are  preyed  upon  by  the  more  knowing 
and  crafty  speculators. 

But,  contrary  to  my  intention  and  declaration,  I  am 
offering  reasons  in  support  of  my  opinion  ;  reasons 
too,  which  of  all  others  are  least  pleasing  to  the  advo 
cates  for  paper  money.  I  shall  therefore  only  observe 
generally,  that  so  many  people  have  suffered  by 
former  emissions,  that,  like  a  burnt  child  who  dreads 
the  fire,  no  person  will  touch  it  who  can  possibly 
avoid  it.  The  natural  consequence  of  which  will  be, 
that  the  specie,  which  remains  unexported,  will  be 
instantly  locked  up.  With  great  esteem  and  regard, 
I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO    COLONEL    DAVID    HUMPHREYS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  8  March,  1787. 

MY  DEAR  HUMPHREYS, 

Colo.  Wadsworth,  as  I  informed  you  in  my  last, 
presented  me  your  obliging  favor  of  the  2Oth  of  Janu 
ary  and  the  Post  since  has  handed  me  the  subsequent 
one  of  the  i  ith  ulto. 

My  sentiments  respecting  the  inexpediency  of  my 
attending  the  proposed  convention  of  the  States  in 


122  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

Philadelphia  remain  the  same  as  when  I  wrote  you 
last,  tho'  Congress  I  am  informed  are  about  to  re 
move  one  of  the  objections  by  their  recommendation 
of  this  Convention.  I  am  still  indirectly  and  delicately 
pressed  by  many  to  attend  this  meeting ;  and  a 
thought  has  run  thro'  my  mind  of  late  attended  with 
more  embarrassment  than  any  former  one.  It  is 
whether  my  not  doing  it  will  not  be  considered  as 
an  implied  dereliction  to  Republicanism — nay  more, 
whether  (however  injurious  the  imputation)  it  may 
not  be  ascribed  to  other  motives.  My  wish  is  I  con 
fess  to  see  this  Convention  tied  [tried  ?]  ;  after  which, 
if  the  present  form  is  not  made  efficient,  conviction  of 
the  propriety  of  a  change  will  pervade  all  ranks,  and 
many  [may]  be  effected  by  peace.  Till  then,  how 
ever  necessary  it  may  appear  to  the  more  discerning 
part  of  the  community,  my  opinion  is,  that  it  cannot 
be  accomplished  without  great  contention  and  much 
confusion  for  reasons  too  obvious  to  enumerate.  It  is 
one  of  the  evils,  perhaps  not  the  smallest,  of  demo- 
cratical  governments  that  they  must  feel  before  they 
will  see  or  act  under  this  view  of  matters,  and  not 
doubting  but  you  have  heard  the  sentiments  of  many 
respectable  characters  since  the  date  of  your  letter  of 
the  2oth  of  January  on  this  subject,  and  perhaps 
since  the  business  has  been  moved  in  Congress  of  the 
propriety  or  impropriety  of  my  attendance,  let  me 
pray  you,  my  dear  Sir,  to  give  me  confidentially  the 
public  opinion  and  expectation  as  far  as  it  has  come 
to  your  knowledge  of  what  it  is  supposed,  I  will  or 
ought  to  do  on  this  occasion.  You  will  readily  see 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  123 

the  necessity  of  my  receiving  it  soon,  if  it  is  to  have 
an  operation  contrary  to  the  former,  because  my  com 
munications  to  the  executive  of  this  State  are  not 
considered  as  definitive,  I  must  make  these  so 
shortly.  *  *  *i 

I  A  letter  of  similar  import,  written  to  Knox,  is  printed  in  Sparks. 

In  an  early  letter  General  Knox  had  spoken  somewhat  doubtingly  ;  but  after 
Congress  had  sanctioned  the  meeting  of  a  convention,  and  recommended  it  to 
the  States,  his  impressions  seem  to  have  become  decided.  "You  will  have 
observed,"  said  he,  "  that  Congress  has  passed  an  act  approving  the  idea  of  a 
convention,  so  worded  as  to  include  all  appointments  already  made.  This 
circumstance  will  remove  all  objections  to  the  convention  on  account  of  its 
legality." — February  27th.  In  reply  to  the  above  letter  he  spoke  more  fully 
and  more  directly  to  the  point  : 

"  As  you  have  thought  proper,  my  dear  Sir,  to  request  my  opinion  respecting 
your  attendance  at  the  convention,  I  shall  give  it  with  the  utmost  sincerity  and 
frankness.  I  imagine  that  your  own  satisfaction,  or  chagrin,  and  that  of  your 
friends,  will  depend  entirely  on  the  result  of  the  convention.  For  I  take  it  for 
granted,  that,  however  reluctantly  you  may  acquiesce,  you  will  be  constrained 
to  accept  of  the  president's  chair.  Hence  the  proceedings  of  the  convention 
will  more  immediately  be  appropriated  to  you  than  to  any  other  person.  Were 
the  convention  to  propose  only  amendments  and  patchwork  to  the  present  de 
fective  confederation,  your  reputation  would  in  a  degree  suffer.  But,  were  an 
energetic  and  judicious  system  to  be  proposed  with  your  signature,  it  would  be 
a  circumstance  highly  honorable  to  your  fame,  in  the  judgment  of  the  present 
and  future  ages  ;  and  doubly  entitle  you  to  the  glorious  republican  epithet, 
The  Father  of  your  Country. 

II  But,  the  men  generally  chosen  being  of  the  first  information,  great  reliance 
may  be  placed  on  the  wisdom  and  vigor  of  their  counsels  and  judgment,  and 
therefore  the  balance  of  my  opinion   preponderates  greatly  in  favor  of  your 
attendance.     I  am  persuaded,  that  your  name  has  had  already  great  influence 
to  induce  the  States  to  come  into  the  measure,  that  your  attendance  will  be 
grateful,  that  your  presence  would  confer  on  the  assembly  a  national  com 
plexion,  and  that  it  would  more  than  any  other  circumstance  induce  a  com 
pliance  with  the  propositions  of  the  convention." — March  igth. 

The  following  are  extracts  from  letters  written  by  Colonel  Humphreys  on 
the  same  subject. 

"  I  may  then  with  justice  assert,  that,  so  far  from  having  seen  any  reason  to 
change  my  opinion  respecting  the  inexpediency  of  your  attending  the  conven 
tion  in  May  next,  additional  arguments  have  occurred  to  confirm  me  in  the 
sentiment.  What  chance  is  there  then,  that  entire  unanimity  will  prevail  ? 


i24  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

TO    JOHN    JAY. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  10  March,  1787. 

DEAR  SIR, 

I  stand  indebted  to  you  for  two  letters.  The  first, 
introductory  of  Mr.  Anstey,  needed  no  apology,  nor 
will  any  be  necessary  on  future  similar  occasions. 
The  other  of  the  i7th  of  January  is  on  a  very  inter 
esting  subject  deserving  very  particular  attention. 

How  far  the  revision  of  the  federal  system,  and 
giving  more  adequate  powers  to  Congress  may  be 
productive  of  an  efficient  government,  I  will  not 
under  my  present  view  of  the  matter,  presume  to 
decide. — That  many  inconveniences  result  from  the 


Should  this  be  the  fact,  however,  would  not  the  several  members  as  it  were 
pledge  themselves  for  the  execution  of  their  system  ?  And  would  not  this 
inevitably  launch  you  again  on  a  sea  of  politics?  As  you  justly  observe, 
matters  must  probably  grow  worse  before  they  will  be  better.  Since  I  had 
the  honor  of  addressing  you  last  on  this  subject,  I  have  been  in  the  way  of 
hearing  the  speculations  of  many  different  characters  on  the  proposed  conven 
tion,  and  their  conjectures  on  the  part  you  would  act  in  consequence  of  your 
appointment  to  it.  I  have  heard  few  express  any  sanguine  expectations  con 
cerning  the  successful  issue  of  the  meeting,  and  I  think  not  one  has  judged  it 
eligible  for  you  to  attend.  In  this  part  of  the  Union,  your  not  attending  will 
not  be  considered  either  by  the  federal  or  anti-federal  party  as  a  dereliction  of 
republicanism.  The  former  believe  it  unimportant,  or  perhaps  injurious  to 
the  national  interests,  for  you  to  come  forward  at  present  ;  the  latter  look  upon 
the  convention  as  rather  intended  to  subvert  than  support  republicanism,  and 
will  readily  excuse  your  non-attendance." — New  Haven,  March  24th. 

Again:  "I  mentioned  in  my  last  that  1  had  not  conversed  with  a  single 
character  of  consideration,  who  judged  it  proper  for  you  to  attend  the  conven 
tion.  I  have  now  seen  several,  who  think  it  highly  interesting  that  you  should 
be  there.  Gouverneur  Morris  and  some  others  have  wished  me  to  use  what 
ever  influence  I  might  have  to  induce  you  to  come.  I  could  not  have  promised 
this  without  counteracting  my  own  judgment.  I  will  not,  however,  hesitate  to 
say,  that  I  do  not  conceive  your  attendance  can  hazard  such  personal  ill  con 
sequences,  as  were  to  be  apprehended  before  the  proposed  meeting  had  been 
legitimated  by  the  sanction  of  Congress." — Fairfield,  April  gth. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  125 

present  form,  none  can  deny.  Those  enumerated  in 
your  letter  are  so  obvious  and  sensibly  felt  that  no 
logic  can  controvert,  nor  is  it  likely  that  any  change 
of  conduct  will  remove  them,  and  that  attempts  to 
alter  or  amend  it  will  be  like  the  proppings  of  a  house 
which  is  ready  to  fall,  and  which  no  shoars  can  sup 
port  (as  many  seem  to  think)  may  also  be  true.  But, 
is  the  public  mind  matured  for  such  an  important 
change  as  the  one  you  have  suggested  ?  What  would 
be  the  consequences  of  a  premature  attempt  ?  My 
opinion  is,  that  this  Country  must  yet  feel  and  see 
more,  before  it  can  be  accomplished. 

A  thirst  for  power,  and  the  bantling,  I  had  Hked  to 
have  said  monster  for  sovereignty,  which  have  taken 
such  fast  hold  of  the  States  individually,  will  when 
joined  by  the  many  whose  personal  consequence  in 
the  control  of  State  politics  will  in  a  manner  be 
annihilated,  form  a  strong  phalanx  against  it ;  and 
when  to  these  the  few  who  can  hold  posts  of  honor  or 
profit  in  the  national  government,  are  compared  with 
the  many  who  will  see  but  little  prospect  of  being 
noticed,  and  the  discontent  of  others  who  may  look 
for  appointments,  the  opposition  will  be  altogether 
irresistable  till  the  mass,  as  well  as  the  more  discern 
ing  part  of  the  Community  shall  see  the  necessity. 
Among  men  of  reflection,  few  will  be  found  I  believe, 
who  are  not  beginning  to  think  that  our  system  is 
more  perfect  in  theory  than  in  practice  ;  and  that 
notwithstanding  the  boasted  virtue  of  America  it 
is  more  than  probable  we  shall  exhibit  the  last  melan 
choly  proof,  that  mankind  are  not  competent  to  their 


126  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

own  government  without  the  means  of  coercion  in  the 
sovereign. 

Yet  I  would  fain  try  what  the  wisdom  of  the 
proposed  convention  will  suggest  :  and  what  can  be 
effected  by  their  councils.  It  may  be  the  last  peace 
able  mode  of  essaying  the  practicability  of  the  present 
form,  without  a  greater  lapse  of  time  than  the  exi 
gency  of  our  affairs  will  allow.  In  strict  propriety  a 
convention  so  holden  may  not  be  legal.  Congress, 
however,  may  give  it  a  coloring  by  recommendation, 
which  would  fit  it  more  to  the  taste  without  proceed 
ing  to  a  definition  of  the  powers.  This,  however 
constitutionally  it  might  be  done,  would  not,  in  my 
opinion,  be  expedient :  for  delicacy  on  the  one  hand, 
and  jealousy  on  the  other,  would  produce  a  mere 
nihil. 

My  name  is  in  the  delegation  to  this  Convention  ; 
but  it  was  put  there  contrary  to  my  desire,  and  remains 
contrary  to  my  request.  Several  reasons  at  the  time 
of  this  appointment  and  which  yet  exist,  conspired  to 
make  an  attendance  inconvenient,  perhaps  improper, 
tho'  a  good  deal  urged  to  it.  With  sentiments  of  great 
regard  and  friendship,  &c. 

P.  S.  Since  writing  this  letter  I  have  seen  the 
resolution  of  Congress  recommendatory  of  the  Con 
vention  to  be  holden  in  Philadelphia  the  2d  Monday 
in  May.1 

1  .  .  .  "  However  desirous  I  am,  and  always  shall  be,  to  comply  with  any 
commands  of  my  Country,  I  do  not  conceive  that  I  can  attend  the  proposed 
Convention  to  be  holden  in  Philadelphia  in  May  next,  with  any  degree  of 
consistent  conduct.  For  besides  the  declaration  which  I  made  in  a  very  solemn 
manner  when  I  was  about  to  retire,  of  bidding  adieu  to  all  public  employment, 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  127 

TO    MAJOR-GENERAL    BENJAMIN    LINCOLN. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  23  March,  1787. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

Ever  since  the  disorders  in  your  State  began  to 
grow  serious  I  have  been  peculiarly  anxious  to  hear 
from  that  quarter  ;  General  Knox  has  from  time  to 
time  transmitted  to  me  the  state  of  affairs  as  they 
came  to  his  hands ;  but  nothing  has  given  such  full 
and  satisfactory  information  as  the  particular  detail 
of  events  which  you  have  been  so  good  as  to  favor  me 
with,  and  for  which  you  will  please  to  accept  my 
warmest  and  most  grateful  acknowledgments.  Permit 
me  also,  my  dear  Sir,  to  offer  you  my  sincerest 
congratulations  upon  your  success.  The  suppression 
of  those  tumults  and  insurrections  with  so  little  blood 
shed,  is  an  event  as  happy  as  it  was  unexpected ;  it 
must  have  been  peculiarly  agreeable  to  you,  being 
placed  in  so  delicate  and  critical  a  situation.  I  am 
extremely  happy  to  find  that  your  sentiments  upon 
the  disfranchising  act  are  such  as  they  are  ;  upon  my 
first  seeing  it,  I  formed  an  opinion  perfectly  coin 
cident  with  yours,  vizt,  that  measures  more  generally 
lenient  might  have  produced  equally  as  good  an  effect 
without  entirely  alienating  the  affections  of  the  peo- 

I  had  just  before  my  appointment  as  a  delegate  to  this  convention  written  and 
despatched  circular  letters  to  the  several  State  Societies  of  the  Cincinnati, 
informing  them  of  my  intention  not  to  attend  the  general  meeting, — which  was 
to  take  place  about  the  same  time  and  at  the  same  place  and  assigned  reasons 
which  apply  as  forcibly  in  the  one  case  as  the  other.  To  attend  the  Convention 
under  these  circumstances  might  be  construed  disrespect  to  a  worthier  set  of 
men  for  whose  attachment  and  support  on  many  trying  occasions,  I  shall  ever 
put  the  highest  gratitude  and  affection." — Washington  to  Madison,  15  March, 
1787. 


i28  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

pie  from  the  government ;  as  it  now  stands,  it  affects 
a  large  body  of  men,  some  of  them,  perhaps,  it 
deprives  of  the  means  of  gaining  a  livelihood  ;  the 
friends  and  connections  of  those  people  will  *feel 
themselves  wounded  in  a  degree,  and  I  think  it  will 
rob  the  State  of  a  number  of  its  inhabitants,  if  it 
produces  nothing  more.  *  *  * 


TO    EDMUND    RANDOLPH,  GOVERNOR    OF    VIRGINIA. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  28  March,  1787. 

DEAR  SIR, 

Your  favor  of  the  i  ith  did  not  come  to  my  hand  till 
the  24th,  and  since  then  till  now  I  have  been  too 
much  indisposed  to  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  it.1 

To  what  cause  to  ascribe  the  detention  of  the  letter 
I  know  not  as  I  never  omit  sending  once  and  often 
twice  a  week  to  the  post  office  in  Alexandria.  It  was 
the  decided  intention  of  the  letter  I  had  the  honor  of 
writing  to  your  Excellency  the  2ist  of  December  last 
to  inform  you,  that  it  was  not  convenient  for  me  to 
attend  the  convention  proposed  to  be  holden  at 
Philadelphia  in  May  next ;  and  I  had  entertained 
hopes,  that  another  had  been,  or  soon  would  be, 

1  From  Governor  Randolph's  Letter. — "  I  must  call  upon  your  friendship  to 
excuse  me  for  again  mentioning  the  convention  at  Philadelphia.  Your  deter 
mination  having  been  fixed  on  a  thorough  review  of  your  situation,  1  feel  like 
an  intruder  when  I  again  hint  a  wish,  that  you  would  join  the  delegation.  But 
every  day  brings  forth  some  new  crisis,  and  the  confederation  is,  I  fear,  the  last 
anchor  of  our  hope.  Congress  have  taken  up  the  subject,  and  appointed  the 
second  Monday  in  May  next,  as  the  day  of  meeting.  Indeed,  from  my  private 
correspondence,  I  doubt  whether  the  existence  of  that  body,  even  through 
this  year,  may  not  be  questionable  under  our  present  circumstances." — Rich 
mond,  March  nth. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  129 

appointed  in  my  place,  inasmuch  as  it  is  not  only 
inconvenient  for  me  to  leave  home,  but  because  there 
will  be,  I  apprehend,  too  much  cause  to  arraign  my 
conduct  with  inconsistency  in  again  appearing  on  a 
public  theatre,  after  a  public  declaration  to  the  con 
trary,  and  because  it  will,  I  fear,  have  a  tendency  to 
sweep  me  back  into  the  tide  of  public  affairs,  when 
retirement  and  ease  is  so  essentially  necessary  for  and 
is  so  much  desired  by  me. 

However,  as  my  friends,  with  a  degree  of  solicitude 
which  is  unusual,  seem  to  wish  for  my  attendance  on 
this  occasion,  I  have  come  to  a  resolution  to  go,  if  my 
health  will  permit,  provided  from  the  lapse  of  time 
between  the  date  of  your  Excellency's  letter  and  this 
reply  the  executive  may  not  (the  reverse  of  which 
would  be  highly  pleasing  to  me)  have  turned  their 
thoughts  to  some  other  character  ;  for,  independently 
of  all  other  considerations,  I  have  of  late  been  so  much 
afflicted  with  a  rheumatic  complaint  in  my  shoulder 
that  at  times  I  am  hardly  able  to  raise  my  hand  to 
my  head,  or  turn  myself  in  bed.  This  consequently 
might  prevent  my  attendance,  and  eventually  a  rep 
resentation  of  the  State,  which  would  afflict  me  more 
sensibly  than  the  disorder  that  occasioned  it. 

If,  after  the  expression  of  these  sentiments,  the 
executive  should  consider  me  as  one  of  the  delegates, 
I  would  thank  your  Excellency  for  the  earliest  advice 
of  it  ;  because,  if  I  am  able  and  should  go  to  Phila 
delphia,  I  shall  have  some  previous  arrangement  to 
make,  and  would  set  off  for  that  place  the  ist  or  2d 
of  May,  that  I  might  be  there  in  time  to  account 

9 


130  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

personally  for  my  conduct  to  the  general  meeting  of 
the  Cincinnati,  which  is  to  convene  the  first  Monday 
of  that  month.  My  feelings  would  be  much  hurt,  if 
that  body  should  otherwise  ascribe  my  attending  the 
one  and  not  the  other  occasion  to  a  disrespectful 
inattention  to  the  Society,  when  the  fact  is,  that  I 
shall  ever  retain  the  most  lively  and  affectionate 
regard  for  the  members  of  which  it  is  composed,  on 
account  of  their  attachment  to  me  and  uniform  support 
upon  many  trying  occasions,  as  well  as  on  account  of 
their  public  virtues,  patriotism,  and  sufferings. 

I  hope  your  Excellency  will  be  found  among  the 
attending  delegates.  I  should  be  glad  to  be  informed 
who  the  others  are  ;  and  cannot  conclude  without 
once  more  and  in  emphatical  terms  praying,  that,  if 
there  is  not  a  decided  representation  in  prospect  with 
out  me,  another  may  be  chosen  in  my  room  without 
ceremony  and  without  delay,  for  the  reason  already 
assigned.  For  it  would  be  unfortunate,  indeed,  if  the 
State,  which  was  the  mover  of  this  convention,  should 
be  unrepresented  in  it.  With  great  respect,  I  have 
the  honor  to  be  your  Excellency's  most  obedient 
servant. 

TO    JAMES    MADISON,    IN    CONGRESS.1 

MOUNT  VERNON,  31  March,  1787. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

At  the  same  time  that  I  acknowledge  the  receipt 
of  your  obliging  favor  of  the  2ist  ultimo  from  New 
York,  I  promise  to  avail  myself  of  your  indulgence 

1  Mr.  Madison  had  taken  his  seat  in  Congress  as  a  delegate  from  Virginia  on 
the  I2th  of  February. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  131 

to  write  only  when  it  is  convenient  to  me.  If  this 
should  not  occasion  a  relaxation  on  your  part,  I  shall 
become  very  much  your  debtor,  and  possibly,  like 
others  in  similar  circumstances,  (when  the  debt  is  bur- 
thensome,)  may  feel  a  disposition  to  apply  the  sponge, 
or,  what  is  nearly  akin  to  it,  pay  you  off  in  depreci 
ated  paper,  which,  being  a  legal  tender,  or,  what  is 
tantamount,  being  that  or  nothing,  you  cannot  refuse. 
You  will  receive  the  nominal  value,  and  that  you 
know  quiets  the  conscience,  and  makes  all  things  easy 
with  the  debtor. 

I  am  glad  to  find  that  Congress  have  recommended 
to  the  States  to  appear  in  the  convention  proposed 
to  be  holden  in  Philadelphia  next  May.  I  think  the 
reasons  in  favor  have  the  preponderancy  over  those 
against  it.  It  is  idle  in  my  opinion  to  suppose  that 
the  Sovereign  can  be  insensible  to  the  inadequacy  of 
the  powers  under  which  they  act,  and  that,  seeing  it, 
they  should  not  recommend  a  revision  of  the  federal 
system  ;  especially  when  it  is  considered  by  many  as 
the  only  constitutional  mode  by  which  the  defects  can 
be  remedied.  Had  Congress  proceeded  to  a  delinea 
tion  of  the  powers,  it  might  have  sounded  an  alarm  ; 
but,  as  the  case  is,  I  do  not  conceive  that  it  will  have 
that  effect.1 

From  the  acknowledged  abilities  of  the  Secretary 
for  Foreign  Affairs,  I  have  no  doubt  of  his  having 

1  The  commissioners,  who  had  met  at  Annapolis  in  September,  1786,  sent  a 
letter  to  Congress,  accompanied  by  their  address  to  the  several  States,  propos 
ing  a  convention  at  Philadelphia  on  the  second  Monday  of  May.  These 
papers  were  taken  up  by  Congress,  and  referred  to  a  committee,  consisting  of 
one  member  from  each  State,  who  reported  in  favor  of  recommending  to  the 
several  legislatures  to  send  delegates. 


132  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

ably  investigated  the  infractions  of  the  treaty  on  both 
sides.  Much  is  it  to  be  regretted,  however,  that 
there  should  have  been  any  on  ours.  We  seem  to 
have  forgot,  or  never  to  have  learnt,  the  policy  of 
placing  one's  enemy  in  the  wrong.  Had  we  observed 
good  faith  on  our  part,  we  might  have  told  our  tale  to 
the  world  with  a  good  grace,  but  complaints  illy  become 
those  who  are  found  to  be  the  first  aggressors. 

1  am  fully  of  opinion  that  those,  who  lean  to  a 
monarchical  government,  have  either  not  consulted 
the  public  mind,  or  that  they  live  in  a  region,  which 
(the  levelling  principles  in  which  they  were  bred  being 
entirely  eradicated)  is  much  more  productive  of  monar 
chical  ideas,  than  are  to  be  found  in  the  southern 
States,  where,  from  the  habitual  distinctions  which 
have  always  existed  among  the  people,  one  would 
have  expected  the  first  generation  and  the  most  rapid 
growth  of  them.  I  am  also  clear,  that,  even  ad 
mitting  the  utility,  nay,  necessity  of  the  form,  yet 
that  the  period  is  not  arrived  for  adopting  the  change 
without  shaking  the  peace  of  this  country  to  its 
foundation.  That  a  thorough  reform  of  the  present 
system  is  indispensable,  none,  who  have  capacities 
to  judge,  will  deny  ;  and  with  hand  [and  heart]  I  hope 
the  business  will  be  essayed  in  a  full  convention. 
After  which,  if  more  powers  and  more  decision  is 
not  found  in  the  existing  form,  if  it  still  wants  energy 
and  that  secrecy  and  despatch  (either  from  the  non- 
attendance  or  the  local  views  of  its  members),  which 
is  characteristic  of  good  government,  and  if  it  shall 
be  found  (the  contrary  of  which,  however,  I  have 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  133 


always  been  more  afraid  of  than  of  the  abuse  of  them), 
that  Congress  will,  upon  all  proper  occasions,  exert 
the  powers  which  are  given,  with  a  firm  and  steady 
hand,  instead  of  frittering  them  back  to  the  States, 
where  the  members,  in  place  of  viewing  themselves 
in  their  national  character,  are  too  apt  to  be  looking, 
—I  say,  after  this  essay  is  made,  if  the  system  proves 
inefficient,  conviction  of  the  necessity  of  a  change 
will  be  disseminated  among  all  classes  of  the  people. 
Then,  and  not  till  then,  in  my  opinion,  can  it  be  at 
tempted  without  involving  all  the  evils  of  civil  discord. 
I  confess,  however,  that  my  opinion  of  public  virtue 
is  so  far  changed,  that  I  have  my  doubts  whether 
any  system,  without  the  means  of  coercion  in  the 
sovereign,  will  enforce  due  obedience  to  the  ordi 
nances  of  a  general  government  ;  without  which  every 
thing  else  fails.  Laws  or  ordinances  unobserved,  or 
partially  attended  to,  had  better  never  have  been 
made ;  because  the  first  is  a  mere  nihil,  and  the 
second  is  productive  of  much  jealousy  and  discon 
tent.  But  what  kind  of  coercion,  you  may  ask.  This 
indeed  will  require  thought,  though  the  non-compli 
ance  of  the  States  with  the  late  requisition  is  an 
evidence  of  the  necessity.  It  is  somewhat  singular 
that  a  State  (New  York),  which  used  to  be  foremost 
in  all  federal  measures,  should  now  turn  her  face 
against  them  in  almost  every  instance. 

I  fear  the  State  of  Massachusetts  has  exceeded  the 
bounds  of  good  policy  in  its  disfranchisements.  Pun 
ishment  is  certainly  due  to  the  disturbers  of  a  govern 
ment,  but  the  operation  of  this  act  is  too  extensive. 


i34  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

It  embraces  too  much,  and  probably  will  give  birth 
to  new  instead  of  destroying  the  old  leaven.  Some 
acts  passed  at  the  last  session  of  our  Assembly, 
respecting  the  trade  of  this  country,  have  given  great 
and  general  discontent  to  the  merchants.  An  appli 
cation  from  the  whole  body  of  them  at  Norfolk  to 
the  governor  has  been  made,  it  is  said,  to  convene 
the  Assembly. 

I  had  written  thus  far,  and  was  at  the  point  of  tell 
ing  you  how  much  I  am  your  obliged  servant,  when 
your  favor  of  the  i8th  ultimo  calls  upon  me  for  addi 
tional  acknowledgments.  I  thank  you  for  the  Indian 
vocabulary,  which  I  dare  say  will  be  very  acceptable 
in  a  general  comparison.  Having  taken  a  copy,  I 
return  you  the  original  with  thanks. 

It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  hear,  that  there  is  a 
probability  of  a  full  representation  of  the  States  in 
convention  ;  but  if  the  delegates  come  to  it  under 
fetters,  the  salutary  ends  proposed  will  in  my  opinion 
be  greatly  embarrassed  and  retarded,  if  not  altogether 
defeated.  I  am  desirous  of  knowing  how  this  matter 
is,  as  my  wish  is  that  the  convention  may  adopt  no 
temporizing  expedients,  but  probe  the  defects  of  the 
constitution  to  the  bottom,  and  provide  a  radical 
cure,  whether  they  are  agreed  to  or  not.  A  conduct 
of  this  kind  will  stamp  wisdom  and  dignity  on  their 
proceedings,  and  hold  up  a  light  which  sooner  or 
later  will  have  its  influence.1 

1  "  It  gives  me  pleasure  to  find  by  your  letter,  that  there  will  be  so  full  a 
representation  from  this  State.  If  the  case  had  been  otherwise,  I  would  in 
emphatical  terms  have  urged  again  that,  rather  than  depend  upon  my  going, 


1787]  GEORGE   WASHINGTON.  135 

I  should  feel  pleasure,  I  confess,  in  hearing  that 
Vermont  is  received  into  the  Union  upon  terms 
agreeable  to  all  parties.  I  took  the  liberty  years  ago 
to  tell  some  of  the  first  characters  in  the  State  of 
New  York,  that  sooner  or  later  it  would  come  to 
this ;  that  the  longer  it  was  delayed,  the  terms  on 
their  part  would  probably  be  more  difficult  ;  and  that 
the  general  interest  was  suffering  by  the  suspense  in 
which  the  business  was  held,  as  the  asylum  which 
it  afforded  was  a  constant  drain  from  the  army,  in 
place  of  an  aid  which  it  would  have  afforded  ;  and 
lastly,  considering  the  proximity  of  it  to  Canada,  if 
they  were  not  with  us,  they  might  become  a  sore 
thorn  in  our  side,  which  I  verily  believe  would  have 
been  the  case  if  the  war  had  continued.  The  western 
settlements,  without  good  and  wise  management,  may 
be  equally  troublesome. 

With  sentiments  of  sincere  friendship,  I  am  &c. 

another  might  be  chosen  in  my  place  ;  for,  as  a  friend  and  in  confidence,  I  de 
clare  to  you,  that  my  assent  is  given  contrary  to  my  judgment ;  because  the  act 
will,  I  apprehend,  be  considered  as  inconsistent  with  my  public  declaration, 
delivered  in  a  solemn  manner  at  an  interesting  era  of  my  life,  never  more  to 
intermeddle  in  public  matters.  This  declaration  not  only  stands  on  the  files  of 
Congress,  but  is  I  believe  registered  in  almost  all  the  gazettes  and  magazines 
that  are  published  ;  and  what  adds  to  the  embarrassment  is,  I  had,  previous  to 
my  appointment,  informed  by  a  circular  letter  the  several  State  Societies  of  the 
Cincinnati  of  my  intention  to  decline  the  presidency  of  that  order,  and  excused 
myself  from  attending  the  next  general  meeting  at  Philadelphia  on  the  first 
Monday  in  May  ;  assigning  reasons  for  so  doing,  which  apply  as  well  in  the 
one  case  as  in  the  other.  Add  to  these,  I  very  much  fear  that  all  the  States 
will  not  appear  in  convention,  and  that  some  of  them  will  come  fettered  so  as 
to  impede  rather  than  accelerate  the  great  object  of  their  convening  ;  which, 
under  the  peculiar  circumstances  of  my  case,  would  place  me  in  a  more  disa 
greeable  situation  than  any  other  member  would  stand  in.  As  I  have  yielded, 
however,  to  what  appeared  to  be  the  earnest  wishes  of  my  friends,  I  will  hope 
for  the  best." — Washington  to  Edmund  Randolph,  9  April,  1787. 


136  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

TO    HENRY    KNOX. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  2  April,  1787. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

The  early  attention,  which  you  were  so  obliging  as 
to  pay  to  my  letter  of  the  8th  ultimo,  is  highly  pleas 
ing  and  flattering.  Were  you  to  continue  to  give 
me  information  on  the  same  point,  you  would  add  to 
the  favor ;  as  I  see  or  think  I  see  reasons  for  and 
against  my  attendance  in  convention  so  near  an 
equilibrium,  as  will  cause  me  to  determine  upon 
either  with  diffidence.  One  of  the  reasons  against  it 
is  a  fear,  that  all  the  States  will  not  be  represented. 
As  some  of  them  appear  to  have  been  unwillingly 
drawn  into  the  measure,  their  delegates  will  come 
with  such  fetters  as  will  embarrass  and  perhaps  ren 
der  nugatory  the  whole  proceeding.  In  either  of 
these  circumstances,  that  is,  a  partial  representation 
or  cramped  powers,  I  should  not  like  to  be  a  sharer 
in  the  business.  If  the  delegates  assemble  with  such 
powers,  as  will  enable  the  convention  to  probe  the 
defects  of  the  constitution  to  the  bottom,  and  point 
out  radical  cures,  it  would  be  an  honorable  employ 
ment  ;  but  not  otherwise.  These  are  matters  you 
may  possibly  come  at  by  means  of  your  acquaintance 
with  the  delegates  in  Congress,  who  undoubtedly 
know  what  powers  are  given  by  their  respective 
States.  You  also  can  inform  me  what  is  the  prevail 
ing  opinion,  with  respect  to  my  attendance  or  non- 
attendance  ;  and  I  would  sincerely  thank  you  for  the 
confidential  communication  of  it. 

If  I  should  attend  the  convention,  I  will  be  in 
Philadelphia  previous  to  the  meeting  of  the  Cincin- 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  137 

nati,  where  I  shall  hope  and  expect  to  meet  you  and 
some  others  of  my  particular  friends  the  day  before, 
in  order  that  I  may  have  a  free  and  unreserved  con 
ference  with  you  on  the  subject  of  it ;  for,  I  assure 
you,  this  is  in  my  estimation  a  business  of  a  delicate 
nature. 

That  the  design  of  the  institution  was  pure,  I  have 
not  a  particle  of  doubt  ;  that  it  may  be  so  still,  is 
perhaps  equally  unquestionable.  But  is  not  the 
subsiding  of  the  jealousies  respecting  it  to  be 
ascribed  to  the  modifications,  which  took  place  at 
the  last  general  meeting  ?  Are  not  these  rejected 
in  toto  by  some  of  the  State  Societies,  and  partially 
acceded  to  by  others?  Has  any  State  so  far  over 
come  its  prejudices  as  to  grant  a  charter  ?  Will  the 
modifications  and  alterations  be  insisted  on  in  the 
next  meeting,  or  given  up  ?  If  the  first,  will  it  not 
occasion  warmth  and  divisions  ?  If  the  latter,  and  I 
should  remain  at  the  head  of  this  order,  in  what 
light  would  my  signature  appear  in  recommendations 
having  different  tendencies  ?  In  what  light  will  this 
versatility  appear  to  the  foreign  members,  who  per 
haps  are  acting  agreeably  to  the  recommendation  ? 

These,  and  other  matters  which  may  be  agitated, 
will,  I  fear,  place  me  in  a  disagreeable  situation,  if  I 
should  attend  the  meeting  ;  and  were  among  the 
causes,  which  induced  me  to  decline  previously  the 
honor  of  the  presidency.  Indeed  my  health  is  be 
come  very  precarious.  A  rheumatic  complaint  which 
has  followed  me  more  than  six  months,  is  frequently 
so  bad  that  it  is  sometimes  with  difficulty  I  can  raise 
my  hand  to  my  head  or  turn  myself  in  bed.  This, 


138  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

however  smooth  and  agreeable  other  matters  might 
be,  might,  almost  in  the  moment  of  my  departure, 
prevent  my  attendance  on  either  occasion.  I  will  not 
at  present  touch  upon  any  other  points  of  your  letter, 
but  will  wish  you  to  ponder  on  all  these  matters,  and 
write  to  me  as  soon  as  you  can. 

With  sentiments  of  the  sincerest  friendship,   I  am 
your  most  affectionate,  &c. 


TO    HENRY     KNOX. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  27  April,  1787. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

After  every  consideration  my  judgment  was  able 
to  give  the  subject,  I  had  determined  to  yield  to  the 
wishes  of  many  of  my  friends  who  seemed  anxious 
for  my  attending  the  Convention  which  is  proposed 
to  be  holden  in  Philadelphia  the  2d  Monday  of  May, 
and  though  so  much  afflicted  with  a  Rheumatick  com 
plaint  (of  which  I  have  not  been  entirely  free  for  six 
months)  as  to  be  under  the  necessity  of  carrying  my 
arm  in  a  sling  for  the  last  ten  days,  I  had  fixed  on 
Monday  next  for  my  departure,  and  had  made  every 
necessary  arrangement  for  the  purpose  when  (within 
this  hour)  I  am  called  by  an  express,  who  assures  me 
not  a  moment  is  to  be  lost,  to  see  a  mother  and  only 
sister  (who  are  supposed  to  be  in  the  agonies  of 
death)  expire ' ;  and  I  am  hastening  to  obey  this 

1  His  Diary  states  that  he  received  the  call  between  four  and  five  o'clock 
in  the  afternoon  of  the  26th.  He  set  out  the  next  morning  about  five 
o'clock,  baited  at  Dumfries,  and  reached  Fredericksburg  before  two  o'clock, 
finding  the  two  patients  better  than  had  been  reported.  He  set  out  on  his 
return  on  the  morning  of  the  3Oth. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  139 


melancholy  call  after  having  just  buried  a  Brother 
who  was  the  intimate  companion  of  my  youth,  and 
the  friend  of  my  ripened  age. 1  This  journey  of  mine 
then,  100  miles,  in  the  disordered  frame  of  my  body, 
will,  I  am  persuaded,  unfit  me  for  the  intended  trip 
to  Philadelphia,  and  assuredly  prevent  my  offering 
that  tribute  of  respect  to  my  compatriots  in  arms 
which  results  from  affection  and  gratitude  for  their 
attachment  to,  and  support  of  me,  upon  so  many 
trying  occasions. 

For  this  purpose  it  was,  as  I  had  (tho'  with  a  good 
deal  of  Reluctance)  consented,  from  a  conviction  that 
our  affairs  were  verging  fast  to  ruin,  to  depart  from 
the  resolution  I  had  taken  of  never  more  stepping  out 
of  the  walks  of  private  life,  that  I  determined  to  shew 
my  respect  to  the  General  Meeting  of  the  Society  by 
coming  there  the  week  before.  As  the  latter  is  pre 
vented,  and  the  other,  it  is  probable,  will  not  take 
place,  I  send  such  papers  as  have  occasionally  come 
to  my  hands,  and  may  require  the  inspection,  and  the 
consideration  of  the  Cincinnati.  An  apology  for  the 
order  in  which  they  are  sent  is  highly  necessary,  and 
my  present  situation  is  the  best  I  can  offer.  To 
morrow  I  had  set  apart  for  the  Inspection  and 
arrangement  of  them,  that  such  only  as  were  fitting, 
might  be  laid  before  the  Society  ;  for  unless  I  had 
time  to  go  over  them  again  with  a  person  who  under 
stands  the  French  language,  I  am  not  even  certain 
that  all  of  what  I  send  may  relate  to  the  affairs  of  the 
Cincinnati,  and  certain  I  am  that  some  are  too  per- 

1  John  Augustine  Washington. 


1 40  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

sonal,  the  sending  of  which  will  not,  I  hope,  be 
ascribed  to  improper  motives,  when  the  only  one  I 
had  (as  I  am  in  the  moment  of  my  departure  from 
home  and  uncertain  of  returning  to  it)  is  that 
nothing  which  has  been  referred  to  me,  may  be 
with  held.—  *  *  * 


TO    LUND    WASHINGTON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  7  May,  1787. 

*  *  *  I  need  not  tell  you,  because  a  moment's 
recurrence  to  your  own  accounts  will  evince  the  fact, 
that  there  is  no  source  from  which  I  derive  more  than 
a  sufficiency  for  the  daily  calls  of  my  family,  except 
what  flows  from  the  collection  of  old  debts,  and 
scanty  and  precarious  enough,  God  knows  this  is. 
My  estate  for  the  last  1 1  years  has  not  been  able  to 
make  both  ends  meet.  I  am  encumbered  now  with 
the  deficiency.  I  mention  this  for  no  other  purpose 
than  to  shew  that  however  willing,  I  am  not  able  to 
pay  debts  unless  I  could  sell  land,  which  I  have 
publicly  advertised  without  finding  bidders.  *  *  * 


DIARY     DURING     THE     CONSTITUTIONAL     CONVENTION, 
MAY-SEPTEMBER,     I  787.* 

Monday  *]th  [MAY]. — At  home  preparing  for  my  journey  to 
Philadelphia.  *  *  * 

Tuesday    %th. — The    weather   being    squally    with    showers,    I 

1  Two  forms  of  this  diary  exist  :  the  one  is  in  the  Library  of  Congress  and 
has  been  printed  in  the  Pennsylvania  Magazine  of  History  and  Biography, 
xi.,  296  ;  the  other,  in  the  Department  of  State,  is  made  the  basis  for  this  ver 
sion.  I  have  not  hesitated  to  use  the  notes  given  in  the  Pennsylvania 
ITagazine,  and  give  such  variations  in  the  texts  as  seem  necessary. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  141 

defer'd  setting  off  till  the  morning.  Mr.  Chas.  Lee  came  to 
dinner,  but  left  it  afterwards. 

Wednesday  gth. — Crossed  from  Mt.  Vernon  to  Mr.  Digges  a 
little  after  sunrise,  and  pursuing  the  rout  by  the  way  of  Baltimore, 
dined  at  Mt.  Rich'd  Henderson's  in  Bladensb'g,  and  lodged  at 
Majr.  Snowden's,  when  feeling  very  severely  a  violent  hd.  ach  & 
sick  stomack  I  went  to  bed  early. 

Thursday  loM. — Very  great  appearances  of  rain  in  the  morn 
ing  &  a  little  falling  induced  me,  tho'  well  recovered,  to  wait  till 
abt.  8  o'clock  before  I  set  off.  At  one  o'clock  I  arrived  at  Bal 
timore,  dined  at  the  Fountain,  &  supped  &  lodged  at  Doctr. 
McHenry's.  Slow  rain  in  the  evening. 

Friday  nth. — Set  off  before  breakfast,  rid  12  miles  to  Sherretts 
for  it,  bated  there  and  proceeded  without  halting  (weather  threat 
ening)  to  the  Ferry  at  Havre  de  Gras  where  I  dined,  but  could 
not  cross,  the  wind  being  turbulent  &  squally.  Lodged  here. 

Saturday  izth. — With  difficulty  (on  acct.  of  the  wind),  crossed 
the  Susquehanna. — Breakfasted  at  the  Ferry  house  on  the  East 
side.  Dined  at  the  head  of  Elk  (Hollingsworth's  Tavern)  and 
lodged  at  Wilmington  at  O'Flin's.  At  the  head  of  Elk  I  was 
overtaken  by  Mr.  Francis  Corbin,  who  took  a  seat  in  my  carriage. 

Sunday  i$th. — About  8  o'clock,1  Mr.  Corbin  and  myself  set 
out,  and  dined  at  Chester  (Mrs.  Withy),  where  I  was  met  by  the 
Genls.  Mifflin  (now  Speaker  of  the  Pennsylvania  Assembly), 
Knox  and  Varnum  ;  the  Colonels  Humphreys  and  Minges 
[Mentges] — and  Majors  Jackson  and  Nicholas,  with  whom  I 
proceeded  to  Philadh.  At  Grays  Ferry  the  City  light  horse,  com 
manded  by  Colo.  Miles,  met  me  and  escorted  me  in  by  the 
Artillery  officers  who  stood  arranged  &  saluted  me  as  I  passed. 
Alighted  through  a  crowd  at  Mrs.  House's,2  but  being  again 
warmly  and  kindly  pressed  by  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Rob.  Morris  to  lodge 
with  them,  I  did  so  and  had  my  baggage  removed  thither. 

Waited  on  the  President,  Doctr.  Franklin,  as  soon  as  I  got  to 
town.  On  my  arrival  the  Bells  were  chimed. 

1  "  Nine  o'clock." 

2  Mrs.  Mary  House  kept  a  boarding-house  at  the  corner  of  Fifth  and  Market 
streets. — Penn.  Mag. 


142  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 


Monday  i^th. — This  being  the  day  appointed  for  the  Conven 
tion  to  meet,  such  members  as  were  in  town  assembled  at  the 
State  Ho.,  but  only  two  States  being  represented — viz.  Virginia 
&  Pensylvania,  agreed  to  attend  at  the  same  place  at  n  o'clock 
tomorrow. 

Dined  in  a  family  way  at  Mr.  Morris's.1 

Tuesday  \^th. — Repaired,  at  the  hour  appointed,  to  the  State 
Ho.,  but  no  more  states  being  represented  than  were  yesterday 
(tho'  several  more  members  had  come  in,2)  we  agreed  to  meet 
again  tomorrow.  Govr.  Randolph  from  Virginia  came  in  today. 

Dined  with  the  Members  to  the  Genl.  Meeting  of  the  Society 
of  the  Cincinnati. 

Wednesday  \6th. — No  more  than  two  States  being  yet  repre 
sented  agreed  till  a  quoram  of  them  should  be  formed  to  alter 
the  hour  of  meeting  at  the  State  House  to  one  o'clock.3 

Dined  at  the  President,  Doctr.  Franklin's — and  drank  Tea, 
and  spent  the  evening  at  Mr.  Jno.  Penn's. 

Thursday  \"]th. — Mr.  Rutledge,  from  Charleston,  and  Mr.  Chs 
Pinkney,  from  Congress,  having  arrived,  gave  a  representation  to 
So.  Carolina  ;  and  Colo.  Mason  getting  in  this  Evening,  placed 
all  the  Delegates  from  Virginia  on  the  floor  of  Convention. 
Dined  at  Mr.  Powell's  4  and  dr'k  Tea  there. 

Friday  iSf/i. — The  representation  from  New  York  appeared  on 
the  floor  today. 

Dined  at  Gray's  Ferry,  and  drank  Tea  at  Mr.  Morris's  ;  after 
which  accompanied  Mrs.  and  some  other  Ladies  to  hear  a  Mrs. 
O'Connell  read  (a  chanty  affair).  The  lady  being  reduced  in 
circumstances  had  had  recourse  to  this  expedient  to  obtain  a 
little  money — her  performe.  was  tolerable,  at  the  College  Hall.6 

"  and  took  tea  there." 

From  North  Carolina,  Delaware,  and  New  Jersey. 

"  Dr.  McClurg,  of  Virginia,  came  in." 

Samuel  Po'wcl. 

"  The  lecture  to  be  read  this  Evening  is  a  continuance  of  the  Dissertation 
on  Eloquence,  which  commenced  in  the  first  course  ;  at  the  conclusion  of 
which  Solima  of  the  Poet  Ilamet,  translated  by  Sir  William  Jones,  will  be 
delivered." — Penn.  Packet,  quoted  in  the  Penn.  Mag. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  143 

Saturday  igth. — No  more  states  represented.1 

Dined  at  Mr.  [Jared]  Ingersoll's,  spent  the  evening  at  my 
lodgings,  &  retired  to  my  room  soon. 

Sunday  2oth. — Dined  with  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Morris  and  other  com 
pany  at  their  farm  (called  the  Hills)  ;  returned  in  the  afternoon 
&  drank  Tea  at  Mr.  Powell's 

Monday  2ist. — Delaware  State  was  represented. 

Dined  and  drank  Tea  at  Mr.  [William]  Bingham's  in  great 
splendor. 

Tuesday  22d. — The  Representation  from  No.  Carolina  was 
compleated,  which  made  a  representation  for  five  States. 

Dined  and  drank  Tea  at  Mr.  Morris's. 

Wednesday  2$d. — No  more  States  being  represented,  I  rid  to 
Genl.  Mifflin's  to  breakfast.  After  which  in  company  with  him, 
Mr.  Madison,  Mr.  Rutledge,  and  others,  I  crossed  the  Schuylkill 
above  the  Falls,  visited  Mr.  Peters,  Mr.  Penn's  seat,  and  Mr. 
Wm.  Hamilton's.2 

Dined  at  Mr.  Chew's,  with  the  wedding  guests  (Colo.  [John 
Eager]  Howard  of  Baltimore  having  married  his  daughter  Peggy) 
drank  Tea  there  in  a  very  large  circle  of  ladies. 

Thursday  2\th. — No  more  States  represented.  Dined  and 
Drank  Tea  at  Mr.  John  Ross's.  One  of  my  Postilion  boys 
(Paris)  being  sick,  requested  Doctr.  [John]  Jones  to  attend  him. 

Friday  2$th. — Another  Delegate  coming  in  from  the  State  of 
New  Jersey,  gave  it  a  representation,  and  encreased  the  number  to 
Seven,  which  forming  a  quoram  of  the  13,  the  members  present 
resolved  to  organize  the  body  ;  when  by  a  unanimous  vote  I  was 
called  up  to  the  chair  as  President  of  the  body.3  Majr.  William 

1  "  Agreed  to  meet  at  I  o'clock  on  Monday." 

2  "  and  repaired  at  the  hour  of  one  to  the  State  House." 

3  The  nomination  of  Washington  for  this  position  was    made   by   Robert 
Morris,  instructed  by  the  Pennsylvania  delegation,  and  seconded  by  John  Rut- 
ledge.     The  only  possible  competitor  was  Benjamin  Franklin,  making  the  act 
of  the  Pennsylvanians  all  the  more  graceful.     There  was  no  opposing  ballot, 
and,  on  being  conducted  to  the  chair  by  Morris  and  Rutledge,  Washington  "  in 
a  very  emphatic  manner  thanked  the  Convention  for  the  honor  they  had  con 
ferred  on  him  ;  reminded  them  of  the  novelty  of  the  scene  of  business  in  which 
he  was  to  act,  lamented  his  want  of  better  qualifications,  and  claimed  the  in- 


i44  THE   WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

Jackson  1  was  appointed  Secretary  and  a  Comee.  was  chosen  con 
sisting  of  3  members2  to  prepare  rules  and  regulations  for 
conducting  the  business  ;  and  after  'pointing  door  keepers,  the 
Convention  adjourned  till  Monday,  to  give  time  to  the  Comee.  to 
report  the  matter  referred  to  them. 

Returned  many  visits  today.  Dined  at  Mr.  Thos.  Willing's 
and  spt.  the  evening  at  my  lodgings. 

Saturday  26th. — Returned  all  my  visits  this  forenoon,3  dined 
with  a  club  at  the  City  Tavern,  and  spent  the  evening  at  my 
quarters  writing  letters. 

Sunday  2^th. — Went  to  the  Romish  Church,4  to  high  mass. 
Dined  ;  drank  Tea,  and  spent  the  evening  at  my  lodgings. 

Monday  2%th. — Met  in  Convention  at  10  o'clock.  Two  States 
more,  viz.  Massachusetts  and  Connecticut,  were  on  the  floor  to 
day. 

Established  rules — agreeably  to  the  plan  brot.  in  by  the  Comee. 
for  the  Governmt.  of  the  Convention,  &  adjourned.  No  Comns.6 
without  doors. 

Dined  at  home,  and  drank  Tea  in  a  large  circle  at  Mr.  [Tench] 
Francis's. 

Tuesday  2^th. — Attended  Convention,  and  dined  at  home, 
after  wch.  accompanied  Mrs.  Morris  to  the  benefit  concert  of  a 
Mr.  Juhan. 

Wednesday  30/72. — Attended  Convention. 

Dined  with  Mr.  [John]  Vaughan.  Drank  Tea  and  spent  the 
evening  at  a  Wednesday  evening's  party  at  Mr.  &  Mrs.  [John] 
Lawrence's. 

Thursday  31^. — The  State  of  Georgia  came  on  the  Floor  of 


dulgence  of  the  House  towards  the  involuntary  errors  which  his  inexperience 
might  occasion." — Madison.  To  Knox  he  wrote,  31  May:  "I  was,  much 
against  my  wish,  placed  in  the  chair."  Madison  had  in  April  foreseen  the 
fitness  of  making  him  the  conspicuous  figure. —  To  Randolph,  15  April,  1787. 

1  Wilson  nominated  W.  T.  Franklin,  and  Hamilton,  Jackson. 

2  Wythe,  Hamilton,  and  Charles  Pinckney. 

:i  "  Where  I  could  get  an  account  of  the  Lodg'gs  of  those  to  whom  I  was 
indebted  for  theirs." 

4  St.  Mary's,  on  Fourth  Street. — Penn.  Mag. 

5  Communications  (?) 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  145 

the  Convention  to-day,1  which  made  a  representation  of  ten 
States. 

Dined  at  Mr.  Francis's  and  drank  Tea  with  Mrs  Meredith. 

Friday^  \st  JUNE. — Attending  in  Convention,  and  nothing  be 
ing  suffered  to  transpire,  no  minutes  of  the  proceedings  has  been 
or  will  be  inserted  in  this  diary. 

Dined  with  Mr.  John  Penn,  and  spent  the  evening  at  a  superb 
entertainment  at  Bush-Hill  given  by  Mr.  Hamilton,  at  which 
were  more  than  a  hundred  guests. 

Saturday  2nd. — Majr.  Jenifer  coming  in  with  sufficient  powers 
for  the  purpose,  gave  a  representation  to  Maryland,  which 
brought  all  the  States  in  the  Union  into  Convention,  except 
Rhode  Island,  which  had  refused  to  send  delegates  thereto. 

Dined  at  the  City  Tavern  with  the  Club,  &  spent  the  evening 
at  my  own  quarters. 

Sunday  $d.  — Dined  at  Mr.  Clymer's  and  drank  Tea  there  also. 

Monday  <\th. — Attended  Convention  ;  Representation  as  on 
Saturday. 

Reviewed  (at  the  importunity  of  Genl.  Mifflin  and  the  officers,) 
the  Light  Infantry — Cavalry — and  part  of  the  Artillery,  of  the 
City. 

Dined  with  Genl.  Mifflin  and  drk.  Tea  with  Mrs.  Cadwallader. 

Tuesday  $th. — Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's  with  a  large  Company,  & 
spent  the  evening  there.  Attended  in  Convention  the  usual  hours. 

Wednesday  6th. — In  Convention  as  usual  ;  dined  at  the  Presi 
dents  (Doctr.  Franklin's),  and  drank  Tea  there,  after  which  re 
tired  to  my  lodgings  and  wrote  letters  for  France. 

Thursday  *]th. — Attended  Convention  as  usual.  Dined  with  a 
club  of  Convention  members  at  the  Indian  Queen.2  Drank  Tea 
and  spent  the  evening  at  my  lodgings. 

Friday  %th. — Attended  the  Convention.  Dined,  drank  Tea, 
and  spent  the  evening  at  my  lodgns. 

Saturday  gth. — At  Convention.  Dined  with  the  Club  at  the 
City  Tavern  ;  Drank  Tea,  and  set  till  10  o'clock  at  Mr.  Powell's. 

1  William  Pierce  and  William  Houston  were  the  delegates. 

2  A  famous  hostelry,  on  Fourth  above  Chestnut  Street.     It  was  torn  down  in 
May,  1851. — Penn.  Mag. 

10 


146  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

Sunday  lof/i. — Breakfasted  by  agreement  at  Mr.  Powell's,  and 
in  company  with  him  rid  to  see  the  botanical  gardens  of  Mr. 
Bartram  ;  which,  tho'  stored  with  many  curious  pits.,  shrubs,  & 
trees,  many  of  which  are  exotics,  was  not  laid  off  with  much 
taste,  nor  was  it  large. 

From  hence  we  rid  to  the  Farm  of  one  Jones,  to  see  the  effect 
of  the  plaister  of  Paris,  which  appeared  obviously  great.  *  *  * 

From  hence  we  visited  Mr.  Powell's  own  farm,  after  which  I 
went  (by  appointment)  to  the  Hills  and  dined  with  Mr.  &  Mrs. 
Morris,  returned  to  the  city  abt.  dark. 

Monday  nth. — Attended  in  Convention.  Dined,  drank  Tea, 
and  spent  the  evening  in  my  own  room. 

Tuesday  i2th. — Dined  and  drank  Tea  at  Mr.  Morris's  ;  went 
afterwards  to  a  concert  at  the  City  Tavern.1 

Wednesday  13^. — In  convention  ;  dined  at  Mr.  Clymer's,  & 
drank  Tea  there  ;  spent  the  evening  at  Mr.  Bingham's. 

Thursday  i^th. — Dined  at  Major  [Thomas  Lloyd]  Moore's  (after 
being  in  Convention,)  and  spent  the  evening  at  my  own  lodgings. 

Friday  i$th. — In  Convention  as  usual,  dined  at  Mr.  Powell's  & 
drank  Tea  there. 

Saturday  i6th. — In  Convention,  dined  with  the  Club  at  the  City 
Tavern,  and  drank  Tea  at  Doctr.  Shippings  [Shippen]  with  Mrs. 
Livingston's  party.2 

Sunday  \ith. — Went  to  Church,  heard  Bishop  White  preach, 
and  see  him  ordain  two  Gentlemen  Deacons  ;  after  wch.  rid  8 
miles  into  the  Country  &  dined  with  Mr.  Jno.  Ross,  in  Chester 
County  ;  returned  in  the  Afternoon. 

Monday  \%th. — Attended  the  Convention.  Dined  at  the  Quar 
terly  Meeting  of  the  Sons  of  St.  Patrick— held  at  the  City  Tavern. 
Drank  Tea  at  Doctr  Shippens  with  Mrs.  Livingston. 

Tuesday  igth. —  Dined  (after  leaving  Convention,)  in  a  family 
way  at  Mr.  Morris's  and  spent  the  evening  there  in  a  very  large 
company 

Wednesday  2cth. — Attended  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  Mere 
dith's,  and  drank  Tea  there. 

1  Reinagle's  concert.     See  Penn.  Mag. 

'-'  "  Spent         evening  at  my  own  lodgings." 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  147 

Thursday  2\st. — Attended  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  Prager's, 
and  spent  the  evening  in  my  chamber. 

Friday  2.2nd. — Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's,  &  drank  Tea  with  Mr. 
Frans.  Hopkinson. 

Saturday  2$rd. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Doctr.  Rushton's, 
and  drank  Tea  at  Mr.  Morris's. 

Sunday  24^/2. — Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's,  and  spent  the  evening  at 
Mr.  Meredith's  at  Tea. 

Monday  2$th. — Attended  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's, 
drank  Tea  there,  and  spent  the  evening  in  my  Chamber. 

Tuesday  26th. — Attended  Convention.  Partook  of  a  family 
dinner  with  Govr.  Randolph,  and  made  one  of  a  party  to  drink 
Tea  at  Gray's  ferry. 

Wednesday  2^th. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's, 
drank  Tea  there  also,  and  spent  the  evening  in  my  Chamber. 

Thursday  2Wi. — Attended  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's 
in  a  large  Company  (the  news  of  his  Bills  being  protested  arriv 
ing  last  night  a  little  mal  a  propos)  drank  Tea  there  &  spent  the 
evening  in  my  Chamber. 

Friday  2^/1. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's  and 
spent  the  evening  there. 

Saturday  30^. — Attended  Convention.  Dined  with  a  club  at 1 
Springsbury,  consisting  of  several  associated  families  of  the  City, 
the  Gentlemen  of  which  met  every  Saturday,  accompanied  by  the 
females  of  the  families  every  other  Saturday ;  this  was  the  ladies 
day.2 

Sunday  \st,  JULY. — Dined  &  spent  the  evening  at  home. 

Monday  2d. — Attended  Convention.  Dined  with  some  of  the 
Members  of  the  Convention  at  the  Indian  Queen.  Drank  Tea 
at  Mr.  Bingham's,  and  walked  afterwards  in  the  State  house  yard. 

Set  this  morning  for  Mr.  Pine  who  wanted  to  correct  his 
portt.  of  me. 

Tuesday  $rd. — Sat  before  the  meeting  of  the  Convention  for 
Mr.  Peale,  who  wanted  my  picture  to  make  a  print  or  Metzotinto 
by. 

1  Cool  Spring,  Springsbury. 
8  Spent  the  evening  at  home. 


148  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's,  and  drank  Tea  at  Mr.  Powell's.  After 
which  in  Company  with  him,  I  attended  the  Agricultural  Society 
at  Carpenters  Hall. 

Wednesday  qth. — Visited  Doctr.  Shovat's  Anatomical  figures, 
and  (the  Convention  having  adjourned  for  the  purpose,)  went  to 
hear  an  Oration  on  the  anniversary  of  Independence  delivered  ' 
by  a  Mr.  Mitchell,  a  student  of  Law.  After  which  I  dined  with 
the  State  Society  of  the  Cincinnati,  at  Epplees  Tavern,  and 
drank  Tea  at  Mr.  Powell's. 

Thursday  $th. — Attended  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's, 
and  drank  Tea  there  ;  Spent  the  evening  also. 

Friday  6th. — Sat  for  Mr.  Peale  in  the  morning,  attended  Con 
vention.  Dined  at  the  City  Tavern  with  some  members  of  Con 
vention,  and  spent  the  evening  at  my  lodgings. 

Saturday  ^th. — Attended  Convention.  Dined  with  the  Club  at 
Springsbury,  and  drank  Tea  at  Mr.  Meredith's. 

Sunday  &th. — About  12  o'clock  rid  to  Doctr.  Logan's,  near 
Germantown,  where  I  dined.  Returned  in  the  evening,  and 
drank  Tea  at  Mr.  Morris's. 

Monday  gth. — Sat  in  the  morning  for  Mr.  Peale.  Attended 
Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's,  &  accompanied  Mrs.  Morris 
to  Doctr.  [John]  Redman's,  3  miles  in  the  Country,  where  we 
drank  Tea  and  returned. 

Tuesday  io//z. — Attended  Convention,  dined  at  Mr.  Morris's, 
drank  Tea  at  Mr.  Bingham's,  and  went  to  the  play.2 

Wednesday  nth. — Attended  Convention,  dined  at  Mr.  Morris's 
and  spent  the  evening  there. 

Thursday  i2th. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's,  and 
drank  Tea  with  Mrs.  Livingston. 

Friday  i$th. — In  Convention.  Dined,  drank  Tea,  and  spent  the 
evening  at  Mr.  Morris's. 

1  At  the  Calvinist  Church. 

2  "  SPECTACULUM  VITVE.    At  the  Opera  House  in  Southwark.     This  evening 
the  10  July,  will  be  performed  a  Concert,  on  the  First  Part  of  which  will  be 
introduced  an  entertainment,  called  the  Dectective  ;  or,  the  Servants  Hall  in 
an  Uproar.     To  which  will  be  added  a  Comic  Opera  in  two  acts  called  Love 
in  a  Camp,  or  Patrick  in  Prussia,  &c.,  &c. " — Penn.  Mag. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  149 

Saturday  \^th. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Springsbury  with  the 
Club  and  went  to  the  play  in  the  afternoon.1 

Sunday  i$th. — Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's  and  remained  at  home  all 
day. 

Monday  i6th. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's  and 
drank  Tea  with  Mrs.  Powell. 

Tuesday  i*jth. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Mrs.  House's,  and 
made  an  Excursion  with  a  party  for  Tea  to  Gray's  Ferry. 

Wednesday  i8t/i. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  [Robert] 
Milligan's,  &  drank  Tea  at  Mr.  Meredeth's. 

Thursday  ipth — Dined  (after  coming  out  of  Convention)  at 
Mr.  John  Penn,  the  Youngers — Drank  Tea  &  spent  the  evening 
at  my  lodgings. 

Friday  2oth. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  home  and  drank  Tea 
at  Mr.  Clymer's. 

Saturday  2ist. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Springsbury  with 
the  Club  of  Gentn.  &  Ladies.  Went  to  the  play  afterwards.2 

Sunday  22nd. — Left  town  by  5  o'clock  A.M.  Breakfasted  at 
Genl.  Mifflin's,  rode  up  with  him  &  others  to  the  Spring  Mills 
and  returned  to  Genl.  Mifflin's  to  dinner  ;  after  which  proceeded 
to  the  City. 

Monday  2$rd. — In  Convention  as  usual.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's 
and  drank  Tea  at  Lansdown  (The  seat  of  Mr.  Penn.) 

Tuesday  2^th. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's  and 
drank  Tea,  by  appointment,  and  partr.  Invitation  at  Doctr. 
Rush's. 

Wednesday  2$th. — In  Convention. — Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's, 
drank  Tea  &  spent  the  evening  there.3 

1  A  concert,  introducing  "  The  Tempest,  or  the  Inchanted  Island,"  and  a 
"  Grand  Masque  of  Neptune  and  Amphitrite." — Penn.  Mag. 

2  A  Concert  introducing  a  "  Moral  Poem,  called  the  Crusade,  or  the  Gen 
erous   Sultan,"   by    Mr.  James   Thomson,  was   recited,  with    the    "Original 
Epilogue  to  Edward  &  Eleanora." — Penn.  Mag. 

3  "  Permit  me  to  hint,  whether  it  would  not  be  wise  and  seasonable  to  pro 
vide  a  strong  check  to  the  admission  of  Foreigners  into  the  administration  of 
our  national  government,  and  to  declare  expressly  that  the  commander-in-chief 
of  the  American  army  shall  not  be  given  to,  nor  devolve  on,  any  but  a  natural 
born  citizen." — John  Jay  to  Washington,  25  July,  1787, 


1 50  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 


Thursday  26th. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's, 
drank  Tea  there,  and  stayed  within  all  the  afternoon. 

Friday  2*1  th. — In  Convention,  which  adjourned  this  day,  to 
meet  again  on  Monday  the  6th  of  August  that  a  Comee.  which 
had  been  appointed  (consisting  of  5  members)  might  have  time 
to  arrange,  and  draw  into  method  and  form  the  several  matters 
which  had  been  agreed  to  by  the  Convention  as  a  constitution 
for  the  United  States.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's,  and  drank  Tea  at 
Mr.  Powell's. 

Saturday  2%th. — Dined  with  the  club  at  Springsbury. — Drank 
Tea  there,  and  spent  the  evening  at  my  lodgings. 

Sunday  2^th. — Dined  and  spent  the  whole  day  at  Mr.  Morris's, 
principally  in  writing  letters. 

Monday  $oth. — In  Company  with  Mr.  Govr.  Morris's  and  in 
his  Phaeton  with  my  horses  ;  went  up  to  one  Jane  Moore's  in 
the  vicinity  of  Valley  forge  to  get  Trout. 

Tuesday  31^. — Whilst  Mr.  Morriss  was  fishing  I  rid  over  the 
old  cantonment  of  the  American  [army]  of  the  winter  1777  &  8, 
visited  all  the  Works,  wch.  were  in  Ruins  ;  and  the  Incampments 
in  woods  where  the  ground  had  not  been  cultivated.  *  *  * 

On  my  return  to  Mrs.  Moores  I  found  Mr.  Robt.  Morris  &  his 
lady  there. 

Wednesday,  ist  August. — About  1 1  O'clock,  after  it  had  ceased 
raining,  we  all  set  out  for  the  City  and  dined  at  Mr.  Morris's. 

Thursday  2nd. — Dined,  drank  Tea,  and  spent  the  evening  at 
Mr.  Morris's. 

Friday  $rd. — In  company  with  Mr.  Robt.  Morris  and  his  lady, 
and  Mr.  Govr.  Morris,  I  went  up  to  Trenton  on  another  fishing 
party.  Lodged  at  Colo.  Sam  Ogden's,  at  the  Trenton  Works. 
In  the  evening  fished,  not  very  successfully. 

Saturday  ^th. — In  the  morning  &  between  Breakfast  and 
dinner,  fished  again  with  more  success  (for  perch)  than  yester 
day.  Dined  at  Genl.  [Philemon]  Dickenson's  on  the  east  side 
of  the  river,  a  little  above  Trenton,  &  returned  in  the  evening  to 
Colo.  Ogden's. 

Sunday  $th. — Dined   at   Colo.  Ogdens,  early,  after  which,1  in 

1  "  About  4  o'clock." 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  151 

the  company  with  which  I  came,  I  returned  to  Philadelphia,  at 
which  we  arrived  abt.  9  O'clk.1 

Monday  6th. — Met  according  to  adjournment  in  Convention, 
&  received  the  rept.  of  the  Committee.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's 
and  drank  tea  at  Mr.  Meredith's. 

Tuesday  ith. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's  and 
spent  the  evening  there  also. 

Wednesday  8t/i. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  the  City  Tavern, 
and  remained  there  till  near  ten  o'clock. 

Thursday  qth. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  [John]  Swan- 
wick's,  and  spent  the  afternn.  in  my  own  room,  reading  letters 
and  accts.  from  home. 

Friday  io//z. — Dined  (after  coming  out  of  Convention)  at  Mr. 
Bingham's,  and  drank  Tea  there  ;  spent  the  evening  at  my 
lodgings. 

Saturday  nth. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  the  Club  at  Springs- 
bury,  and  after  Tea  returned  home. 

Sunday  \2th. — Dined  at  Bush-Hill  with  Mr.  William  Hamilton, 
spent  the  evening  at  home  writing  letters. 

Monday  \$th. — In  Convention.2  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's,  and 
drank  Tea  with  Mrs.  Bache,  at  the  President's. 

Tuesday  \^th. — In  Convention.  Dined,  drank  Tea,  and  spent 
the  evening  at  home. 

Wednesday  i$th. — The  same  as  Yesterday. 

Thursday  \6th. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  [Oliver]  Pol 
lock's,  &  spent  the  evening  in  my  Chamber. 

Friday  17 th. — In  Convention.  Dined  and  drank  Tea  at  Mr. 
Powell's. 

Saturday  i8t/i. —  In  Convention.  Dined  at  Chief  Justice 
McKean's— Spent  the  Afternoon  &  evening  at  my  lodgings. 

Sunday  igth. — In  Company  with    Mr.   Powell  rode  up  to  the 

1  "  Halted  an  hour  at  Bristol." 

2  On  this  day  Madison  records  that  Washington  voted  in  favor  of  giving  to 
the  House  of  Representatives  the  exclusive  originating  of  money-bills.      "  He 
disapproved,  and  till  now  voted  against  the  exclusive  privilege.     He  gave  up 
his  judgment,  he  said,  because  it  was  not  of  any  material  weight  with  him,  and 
was  made  an  essential  point  with  others,  who,  if  disappointed,  might  be  less 
cordial  in  other  points  of  real  weight," 


152  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

White  Marsh.  Traversed  my  old  incampment,  and  contempleated 
on  the  dangers  which  threatened  the  American  Army  at  that  place. 
Dined  at  Germantown,  visited  Mr.  Blair  McClenegan,  drank  Tea 
at  Mr.  Peters's,  and  returned  to  Philadelphia  in  the  evening.1 

Monday  2vth. — In  Convention.  Dined,  drank  Tea,  and  spent 
the  evening  at  Mr.  Morris's. 

Tuesday  2ist. — Did  the  like  this  day  also. 

Wednesday  22nd. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's  farm 
at  the  Hills — visited  at  Mr.  Powell's  in  the  Afternoon. 

Thursday  2$rd. — In  Convention.  Dined,  drank  Tea,  &  spent 
the  evening  at  Mr.  Morris's. 

Friday  2^th. — Did  the  same  this  day. 

Saturday  2$th. —  In  Convention.  —  Dined  with  the  Club  at 
Springsbury,  &  spent  the  afternoon  at  my  lodgings. 

Sunday  26th. — Rode  into  the  Country  for  exercise  8  or  10  miles. 
Dined  at  the  Hills,  and  spent  the  evening  in  my  chamber  writing 
letters. 

Monday  27  th. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's  and 
drank  Tea  at  Mr.  Powell's. 

Tuesday  2%th  — In  Convention.  Dined,  drank  Tea,  and  spent 
the  evening  at  Mr.  Morris's. 

Wednesday  2qth. — Did  the  same  as  Yesterday. 

Thursday  $oth. — Again  the  same. 

Friday  $ist. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's,  and  with 
a  Party  went  to  Lansdale  &  drank  Tea  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Penn. 

Saturday,  ist  SEPTEMBER. — Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's  after  coming 
out  of  Convention,  and  drank  Tea  there. 


1  "  By  slow,  I  wish  I  could  add,  and  sure  movements,  the  business  of  the 
convention  advances  ;  but  to  say  when  it  will  end,  or  what  will  be  the  result, 
is  more  than  I  dare  venture  to  do  ;  and  therefore  shall  hazard  no  opinion  there 
on.  If  something  good  does  not  proceed  from  the  session,  the  defects  cannot 
with  propriety  be  charged  to  the  hurry  with  which  the  business  has  been  con 
ducted,  notwithstanding  which  many  things  may  be  forgot,  some  of  them  not 
well  digested,  and  others,  from  the  contrariety  of  sentiments  with  which  such  a 
body  is  pervaded,  become  a  mere  nullity  ;  yet  I  wish  a  disposition  may  be  found 
in  Congress,  the  several  State  legislatures,  and  the  community  at  large,  to  adopt 
the  government,  which  may  be  agreed  on  in  convention,  because  I  am  fully 
persuaded  it  is  the  best  that  can  be  obtained  at  the  present  moment  under  such 
a  diversity  of  ideas  as  prevail." — Washington  to  Knox,  19  August,  1787. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  153 

Sunday  2nd. — Rode  to  Mr.  Bartram's  and  other  places  in  the 
country,  dined  and  drank  tea  at  Gray's  ferry,  and  returned  to  the 
City  in  the  evening. 

Monday  $d. — In  Convention  Visited  a  Machine  at  Doctr. 
Franklin's  (called  a  mangle)  for  pressing,  in  place  of  Ironing, 
Clothes  from  the  wash,  which  machine  from  the  facility  with 
which  it  dispatches  business  is  well  calculated  for  Table  cloths 
&  such  articles  as  have  not  pleats  &  irregular  foldings  and 
would  be  very  useful  in  all  large  families.  Dined,  drank  Tea,  & 
spent  the  evening  at  Mr.  Morris's. 

Tuesday  ^th. — In  Convention.    Dined  &c.  at  Mr.  Morris's. 

Wednesday  $th. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Mrs.  House's,  & 
drank  Tea  at  Mr.  Bingham's. 

Thursday  6th. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Doctr.  [James]  Hut- 
chinson's  and  spent  the  Afternoon  and  evening  at  Mr.  Morris's. 

Friday  yth. — In  Convention.  Dined,  and  spent  the  afternoon 
at  home  (except  when  riding  a  few  miles). 

Saturday  %th. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Springsbury  with  the 
Club,  and  spent  the  evening  at  my  lodgings. 

Sunday  gth. — Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's  after  making  a  visit  to  Mr. 
Gardoqui,  who,  as  he  says,  came  from  New  York  on  a  visit 
to  me. 

Monday  loth. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's  &  drank 
Tea  there. 

Tuesday  nth. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  home  in  a  large  com 
pany  with  Mr.  Gardoqui — drank  Tea,  and  spent  the  evening 
there. 

Wednesday  \2th. — In  Convention.  Dined  at  the  Presidents  and 
drank  Tea  at  Mr.  Pine's. 

Thursday  i$th. — Attended  Convention.  Dined  at  the  Vice 
Presidents,  Chas.  Biddle's,  Drank  Tea  at  Mr.  Powell's. 

Friday  i^th. — Attended  Convention.  Dined  at  the  City  Tavern, 
at  an  entertainmt.  given  on  my  acct.  by  the  City  Light  Horse. 
Spent  the  evening  at  Mr.  Merediths. 

Saturday  i$th. — Concluded  the  business,  of  Convention  all  to 
signing  the  proceedings,  to  effect  which  the  House  sat  till  6 
o'clock,  and  adjourned  till  Monday  that  the  Constitution,  which 
it  was'  proposed  to  offer  to  the  People  might  be  engrossed,  and  a 


i54  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 


number  of  printed  copies  struck  off.  Dined  at  Mr.  Morris's  and 
spent  the  evening  there. 

Mr.  Gardoqui  sat  off  for  his  return  to  New  York  this  forenoon. 

Sunday  i6//£. — Wrote  many  letters  in  the  forenoon.  Dined 
with  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Morris  at  the  Hills,  &  returned  to  town  in  the 
evening. 

Monday  ijt/i. — Met  in  Convention,  when  the  Constitution 
received  the  unanimous  assent  of  n  States  and  Colo.  Hamilton's 
from  New  York  (the  only  delegate  from  thence  in  Convention), 
and  was  subscribed  to  by  every  member  present,  except  Govr. 
Randolph  and  Colo.  Mason  from  Virginia,  &  Mr.  Gerry  from 
Massachusetts.1 

The  business  being  thus  closed,  the  members  adjourned  to  the 
City  Tavern,  dined  together,  and  took  a  cordial  leave  of  each 
other.  After  which  I  returned  to  my  lodgings,  did  some  busi 
ness  with,  and  received  the  papers  from  the  Secretary  of  the 
Convention,2  and  retired  to  meditate  on  the  momentous  wk. 
which  had  been  executed,  after  not  less  than  five,  for  a  large  part 
of  the  time  six  and  sometimes  7  hours  sitting  every  day,  Sundays 
&  the  ten  days  adjournment  to  give  a  Comee.  opportunity  & 

'"When  the  President  rose,  for  the  purpose  of  putting  the  question  [on 
representation],  he  said,  that  although  his  situation  had  hitherto  restrained 
him  from  offering  his  sentiments  on  questions  depending  in  the  House,  and, 
it  might  be  thought,  ought  now  to  impose  silence  on  him,  yet  he  could  not 
forbear  expressing  his  wish  that  the  change  proposed  might  take  place.  It 
was  much  to  be  desired  that  the  objections  to  the  plan  recommended  might  be 
made  as  few  as  possible.  The  smallness  of  the  proportion  of  Representatives 
had  been  considered  by  many  members  of  the  Convention  an  insufficient 
security  for  the  rights  and  interests  of  the  people.  He  acknowledged  that  it 
had  always  appeared  to  himself  among  the  exceptionable  parts  of  the  plan  ; 
and  late  as  the  present  moment  was  for  admitting  amendments,  he  thought 
this  of  so  much  consequence,  that  it  would  give  him  much  satisfaction  to  see  it 
adopted." — Madison 's  Debates.  The  change  was  made.  This  is  the  only 
occasion  on  which  any  remarks  from  Washington  in  the  Convention  are 
recorded. 

'2  "  Major  Jackson,  after  burning  all  the  loose  scraps  of  paper  which  belong 
to  the  Convention,  will  this  evening  wait  upon  the  General  with  the  Journals 
and  other  papers,  which  their  vote  directs  to  be  delivered  to  his  Excellency 
Monday  evening." 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  155 

time  to  arrange  the  business  for  more  than  four  months,1 
[excepted.] 

Tuesday  i8M. — Finished  what  private  business  I  had  to  do  in 
the  city  this  forenoon,  took  my  leave  of  those  families  in  wch.  I 
had  been  most  intimate,  dined  early  at  Mr.  Morris's  with  whom 
&  Mr.  Gouvr.  Morris's  I  parted  at  Gray's  ferry  and  reached 
Chester  in  company  with  Mr.  [John]  Blair,  who  I  invited  to  a 
seat  in  my  Carriage  till  we  should  reach  Mount  Vernon.2 

Wednesday  igth. — Prevented  by  rain  (much  of  which  fell  in  the 
night)  from  setting  off  till  about  8  o'clock,  when  it  ceased,  & 
promising  to  be  fair  we  departed,  baited  at  Wilmington,  Dined 
at  Christiana,  and  lodged  at  the  head  of  Elk.  At  the  bridge  near 
to  which  my  horses  (two  of  them)  and  carriage  had  a  very 
narrow  escape,  for  the  rain  which  had  fallen  the  preceeding 
evening  having  swelled  the  water  considerably  there  was  no  ford 
ing  it  safely,  I  was  reduced  to  the  necessity  therefore  of  remain 
ing  on  the  other  side  or  of  attempting  to  cross  on  an  old,  rotten 
&  long  disused  bridge.  Being  anxious,  to  get  on,  I  prefered  the 
latter  and  in  the  attempt  one  of  my  horses  fell  fifteen  feet  at 
least,  the  other  very  near  following  which  (had  it  happened) 
would  have  taken  the  carriage  with  baggage  along  with  him  and 
destroyed  the  whole  effectually  ;  however  by  prompt  assistance 
of  some  people  at  a  mill  just  by  and  great  exertion,  the  first  horse 
was  disengaged  from  his  harness,  the  2d.  prevented  from  going 
quite  through  and  drawn  off,  and  the  Carriage  secured  from 
hurt. 

"  In  the  midst  of  hurry,  and  in  the  moment  of  my  departure  from  this  city, 
I  address  this  letter  to  you.  The  principal,  indeed  the  only  design  of  it,  is  to 
fulfil  the  promise  I  made,  that  I  would  send  to  you  the  proceedings  of  the 
federal  convention,  as  soon  as  the  business  was  closed.  More  than  this,  cir 
cumstanced  as  I  am  at  present,  it  is  not  in  my  power  to  do  ;  nor  am  I  inclined 
to  attempt  it,  as  the  enclosure  must  speak  for  itself,  and  will  occupy  your 
thoughts  for  some  time. 

"  It  is  the  result  of  four  months'  deliberation.  It  is  now  a  child  of  fortune, 
to  be  fostered  by  some  and  buffeted  by  others.  What  will  be  the  general 
opinion,  or  the  reception  of  it,  is  not  for  me  to  decide  ;  nor  shall  I  say  any 
thing  for  or  against  it.  If  it  be  good,  I  suppose  it  will  work  its  way  ;  if  bad, 
it  will  recoil  on  the  framers." — Washington  to  Lafayette,  18  September,  1787. 

2  "  Reached  Chester,  where  we  lodged." 


156  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 


Thursday  2cth. — Sett  off  after  an  early  breakfast,  crossed  the 
Susquehanna  and  dined  in  Havre  de  Gras  at  the  House  of  one 
Roger's — and  lodged  at  Skirrett's  Tavern,  12  miles  short  of 
Baltimore. 

Friday  2ist. — Breakfasted  in  Baltimore,  dined  at  the  Widow 
Balls  (formerly  Spurrier's),  and  lodged  at  Major  Snowden's,  who 
was  not  at  home. 

Saturday  22nd. — Breakfasted  at  Bladensburgh,  and,  passing 
through  George  Town,  dined  in  Alexandria  and  reached  home 
(with  Mr.  Blair)  about  sun  set,  after  an  absence  of  four  months 
and  14  days. 


DEAR  SIR  : 


TO    THOMAS    JEFFERSON. 

PHILADELPHIA,  30  May,  1787. 


I  come  now  to  the  other  part  of  your  letter,  which 
concerns  the  Cincinnati,  on  which  indeed  I  scarcely 
know  what  to  say.  It  is  a  delicate,  it  is  a  perplexing 
subject.  Not  having  the  extract  from  the  Encyclo 
pedia  before  me,  I  cannot  now  undertake  to  enter 
into  the  merits  of  the  publication.1  It  may  therefore 
be  as  much  as  will  be  expected  from  me  to  observe, 
that  the  author  appears  in  general  to  have  detailed 
very  candidly  and  ingenuously  the  motives  and  in 
ducements,  which  give  birth  to  the  Society.  Some 
of  the  subsequent  facts,  which  I  cannot,  however, 

1  Mr.  Jefferson  had  sent  an  extract  from  an  article  in  the  Encyclopedic, 
being  an  account  of  the  Society  of  the  Cincinnati,  and  Washington  sent  it  to 
Knox,  saying:  "  In  my  present  state  of  mind  I  can  hardly  form  an  opinion 
whether  it  will  be  best  to  lay  the  matter  before  the  society  as  coming  from  Mr. 
Jefferson,  or  as  from  a  person  of  as  good  information  as  any  in  France.  I 
must  therefore  leave  it  wholly  to  you  to  do  as  you  may  think  most  proper." 
—  27  April,  1787. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  157 

from  memory  pretend  to  discuss  with  precision,  are 
thought  by  gentlemen,  who  have  seen  the  publication, 
to  be  misstated  ;  insomuch  that  it  is  commonly  said, 
truth  and  falsehood  are  so  intimately  blended,  that  it 
will  become  very  difficult  to  sever  them. 

For  myself,  I  only  recollect  two  or  three  circum 
stances,  in  the  narration  of  which  palpable  mistakes 
seem  to  have  insinuated  themselves.  Monsieur 
L'Enfant  did  not  arrive  and  bring  the  eagles  during 
the  session  of  the  general  meeting,  but  some  time 
before  that  convention.  The  legislature  of  Rhode 
Island  never  passed  any  act  whatever  on  the  subject, 
(that  ever  came  to  my  knowledge,)  notwithstanding 
what  Mirabeau  and  others  had  previously  advanced. 
Nothing  can  be  more  ridiculous  than  the  supposition 
of  the  author,  that  the  Society  was  instituted  partly 
because  the  country  could  not  then  pay  the  army, 
except  the  assertion  that  the  United  States  have  now 
made  full  and  complete  provision  for  paying,  not 
only  the  arrearages  due  to  the  officers,  but  the  half-pay 
or  commutation  at  their  option  ;  from  whence  the 
author  deduces  an  argument  for  its  dissolution.  I 
conceive  this  never  had  any  thing  to  do  with  the 
institution,  yet  the  officers  in  most  of  the  States,  who 
never  have  nor  I  believe  expect  to  receive  one 
farthing  of  the  principal  or  interest  on  their  final 
settlement  securities,  would  be  much  obliged  to  the 
author  to  convince  them  how  and  when  they  received 
a  compensation  for  their  services.  No  foreigner,  or 
American,  who  has  been  absent  some  time,  will 
easily  comprehend  how  tender  those  concerned  are 


158  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

on  this  point.  I  am  sorry  to  say,  a  great  many  of 
the  officers  consider  me  as  having  in  a  degree  com 
mitted  myself  by  inducing  them  to  trust  too  much  in 
the  justice  of  their  country.  They  heartily  wish  no 
settlement  had  been  made,  because  it  has  rendered 
them  obnoxious  to  their  fellow  citizens,  without 
affording  them  the  least  emolument. 

For  the  reason  I  first  mentioned,  I  cannot  think  it 
expedient  for  me  to  go  into  an  investigation  of  the 
writer's  deductions.  I  shall  accordingly  content 
myself  with  giving  you  some  idea  of  the  part  I 
have  acted,  posterior  to  the  first  formation  of  the 
association. 

When  I  found  that  you  and  many  of  the  most  re 
spectable  characters  in  the  country  would  entirely 
acquiesce  with  the  institution,  as  altered  and  amended 
in  the  first  general  meeting  of  1784,  and  that  the  ob 
jections  against  the  hereditary  and  other  obnoxious 
parts  were  wholly  done  away,  I  was  prevailed  upon 
to  accept  the  presidency.  Happy  in  finding,  (so  far 
as  I  could  learn  by  assiduous  inquiry,)  that  all  the 
clamors  and  jealousies,  which  had  been  excited 
against  the  original  association,  had  ceased,  I  judged 
it  a  proper  time  in  the  last  autumn  to  withdraw  my 
self  from  any  farther  agency  in  the  business,  and  to 
make  my  retirement  complete,  agreeably  to  my 
original  plan.  I  wrote  circular  letters  to  all  the 
State  Societies  announcing  my  wishes,  informing  that 
I  did  not  propose  to  be  at  the  general  meeting,  and 
requested  not  to  be  reflected  president.  This  was 
the  last  step  of  a  public  nature  I  expected  ever  to 
have  taken.  But,  having  since  been  appointed  by 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  159 

my  native  State  to  attend  the  national  convention, 
and  having  been  pressed  to  a  compliance  in  a  man 
ner,  which  it  hardly  becomes  me  to  describe,  I  have, 
in  a  measure,  been  obliged  to  sacrifice  my  own  senti 
ments,  and  to  be  present  in  Philadelphia  at  the  very 
time  of  the  general  meeting  of  the  Cincinnati.  After 
which  I  was  not  at  liberty  to  decline  the  presidency, 
without  placing  myself  in  an  extremely  disagreeable 
situation  with  relation  to  that  brave  and  faithful  class 
of  men,  whose  persevering  patriotism  and  friendship 
I  had  experienced  on  so  many  trying  occasions. 

The  business  of  this  convention  is  as  yet  too  much 
in  embryo  to  form  any  opinion  of  the  conclusion. 
Much  is  expected  from  it  by  some  ;  not  much  by 
others  ;  and  nothing  by  a  few.  That  something  is 
necessary,  none  will  deny  ;  for  the  situation  of  the 
general  government,  if  it  can  be  called  a  government, 
is  shaken  to  its  foundation,  and  liable  to  be  over 
turned  by  every  blast.  In  a  word,  it  is  at  an  end  ; 
and,  unless  a  remedy  is  soon  applied,  anarchy  and 
confusion  will  inevitably  ensue.  But  having  greatly 
exceeded  the  bounds  of  a  letter,  I  will  only  add  as 
surances  of  that  esteem,  regard,  and  respect,  with 
which  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


TO    DAVID    STUART. 

PHILADELPHIA,  i  July,  1787. 

DEAR  SIR  : 

I  have  been  favored  with  your  letter  of  the  1 7th 
ultimo.     *     *     * 

Rhode  Island,  from  our  last  accts.  still  perseveres 


160  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

in  that  impolitic,  unjust,  and  one  might  add  without 
much  impropriety  scandalous  conduct,  which  seems 
to  have  marked  all  her  public  Councils  of  late. 
Consequently,  no  Representation  is  yet  here  from 
thence.  New  Hampshire,  tho'  Delegates  have  been 
appointed,  is  also  unrepresented.  Various  causes 
have  been  assigned,  whether  well,  or  ill-founded  I 
shall  not  take  upon  me  to  decide.  The  fact,  how 
ever,  is  that  they  are  not  here.  Political  contests, 
and  want  of  money,  are  amidst  the  reasons  assigned 
for  the  non-attendance  of  the  members. 

As  the  rules  of  the  convention  prevent  me  from 
relating  any  of  the  proceedings  of  it,  and  the  gazettes 
contain,  more  fully  than  I  could  detail,  other  occur 
rences  of  a  public  nature,  I  have  little  to  communi 
cate  to  you  on  the  article  of  news.  Happy  indeed 
would  it  be,  if  the  convention  shall  be  able  to  recom 
mend  such  a  firm  and  permanent  government  for 
this  Union,  that  all  who  live  under  it  may  be  secure 
in  their  lives,  liberty,  and  property  ;  and  thrice  happy 
would  it  be,  if  such  a  recommendation  should  obtain. 
Every  body  wishes,  every  body  expects  something 
from  the  convention  ;  but  what  will  be  the  final  result 
of  its  deliberation,  the  book  of  fate  must  disclose. 
Persuaded  I  am,  that  the  primary  cause  of  all  our 
disorders  lies  in  the  different  State  governments, 
and  in  the  tenacity  of  that  power,  which  pervades 
the  whole  of  their  systems.  Whilst  independent 
sovereignty  is  so  ardently  contended  for,  whilst  the 
local  views  of  each  State,  and  separate  interests, 
by  which  they  are  too  much  governed,  will  not  yield 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  161 

to  a  more  enlarged  scale  of  politics,  incompatibility 
in  the  laws  of  different  States,  and  disrespect  to 
those  of  the  general  government,  must  render  the 
situation  of  this  great  country  weak,  inefficient,  and 
disgraceful.  It  has  already  done  so,  almost  to  the 
final  dissolution  of  it.  Weak  at  home  and  disregarded 
abroad  is  our  present  condition,  and  contemptible 
enough  it  is. 

Entirely  unnecessary  was  it  to  offer  any  apology 
for  the  sentiments  you  were  so  obliging  as  to  offer 
me.  I  have  had  no  wish  more  ardent,  through  the 
whole  progress  of  this  business,  than  that  of  knowing 
what  kind  of  government  is  best  calculated  for  us  to 
live  under.  No  doubt  there  will  be  a  diversity  of 
sentiments  on  this  important  subject  ;  and,  to  inform 
the  judgment,  it  is.  necessary  to  hear  all  arguments 
that  can  be  advanced.  To  please  all  is  impossible, 
and  to  attempt  it  would  be  vain.  The  only  way, 
therefore,  is,  under  all  the  views  in  which  it  can  be 
placed,  and  with  a  due  consideration  to  circumstances, 
habits,  &c.,  &c,,  to  form  such  a  government  as  will 
bear  the  scrutinizing  eye  of  criticism,  and  trust  it  to 
the  good  sense  and  patriotism  of  the  people  to  carry 
it  into  effect.  Demagogues,  men  who  are  unwilling 
to  lose  any  of  their  State  consequence,  and  interested 
characters  in  each,  will  oppose  any  general  govern 
ment.  But  let  these  be  regarded  rightly,  and  justice, 
it  is  to  be  hoped,  will  at  length  prevail.  My  best 
wishes  attend  Mrs.  Stuart,  yourself,  and  the  girls. 
If  I  can  render  any  service  whilst  I  remain  here,  I 
shall  be  happy  in  doing  it.  I  am,  &c. 


162  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON. 
DEAR    SiR  :  PHILADELPHIA,  10  July,  1787. 

I  thank  you  for  your  communication  of  the  3d. 
When  I  refer  you  to  the  state  of  the  counsels,  which 
prevailed  at  the  period  you  left  this  city,  and  add 
that  they  are  now  if  possible  in  a  worse  train  than 
ever,  you  will  find  but  little  ground  on  which  the 
hope  of  a  good  establishment  can  be  formed.  In  a 
word,  I  almost  despair  of  seeing  a  favorable  issue  to 
the  proceedings  of  our  convention,  and  do  therefore 
repent  having  had  any  agency  in  the  business. 

The  men,  who  oppose  a  strong  and  energetic  gov 
ernment,  are  in  my  opinion  narrow-minded  politicians, 
or  are  under  the  influence  of  local  views.  The  appre 
hension  expressed  by  them,  that  the  people  will  not 
accede  to  the  form  proposed,  is  the  ostensible,  not  the 
real  cause  of  opposition.  But,  admitting  that  the 
present  sentiment  is  as  they  prognosticate,  the  proper 
question  ought  nevertheless  to  be,  Is  it,  or  is  it  not, 
the  best  form  that  such  a  country  as  this  can  adopt  ? 
If  it  be  the  best,  recommend  it,  and  it  will  assuredly 
obtain,  maugre  opposition.  I  am  sorry  you  went 
away.  I  wish  you  were  back.  The  crisis  is  equally 
important  and  alarming,  and  no  opposition,  under 
such  circumstances,  should  discourage  exertions  till 
the  signature  is  offered.  I  will  not  at  this  time 
trouble  you  with  more  than  my  best  wishes  and  sin 
cere  regard. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  &C.1 

1  "  The  disturbances  in  Massachusetts  have  subsided,  but  there  are  seeds  of 
discontent  in  every  part  of  this  Union  ;  ready  to  produce  other  disorders,  if  the 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  163 

TO    RICHARD    HENRY    LEE. 

PHILADELPHIA,  19  July,  1787. 

DEAR  SIR, 

I  have  had  the  honor  to  receive  your  favor  of  the 
1 5th  instant,  and  thank  you  for  the  ordinance  which 
was  enclosed  in  it.  My  sentiments,  with  respect  to 
the  navigation  of  the  Mississippi,  have  been  long  fixed, 
and  are  not  dissimilar  to  those,  which  are  expressed 
in  your  letter.  .1  have  ever  been  of  opinion,  that  the  > 
true  policy  of  the  Atlantic  States,  would  be  instead  of 
contending  prematurely  for  the  free  navigation  of  that 
river  (which  eventually,  and  perhaps  as  soon  as  it 
shall  be  our  true  interest  to  obtain  it,)  must  happen, 
to  open  and  improve  the  natural  communications  with 
the  western  country,  through  which  the  produce  of  it 
might  be  transported  with  convenience  and  ease  to 
our  markets.  Till  you  get  low  down  the  Ohio,  I 
conceive,  that  it  would,  (considering  the  length  of  the 
voyage  to  New  Orleans,  the  difficulty  of  the  current, 
and  the  time  necessary  to  perform  it  in,)  be  the  inter- 
wisdom  of  the  present  convention  should  not  be  able  to  devise,  and  the  good 
sense  of  the  people  be  found  ready  to  adopt,  a  more  vigorous  and  energetic 
government,  than  the  one  under  which  we  now  live ;  for  the  present,  from 
experience,  has  been  found  too  feeble  and  inadequate  to  give  that  security, 
which  our  liberties  and  property  render  absolutely  essential,  and  which  the 
fulfilment  of  public  faith  loudly  requires. 

"  Vain  is  it  to  look  for  respect  from  abroad,  or  tranquillity  at  home  ;  vain  is 
it  to  murmur  at  the  detention  of  our  western  posts,  or  complain  of  the  restric 
tion  of  our  commerce  ;  vain  are  all  the  attempts  to  remedy  the  evils  complained 
of  by  Mr.  Dumas,  to  discharge  the  interest  due  on  foreign  loans,  or  satisfy  the 
claims  of  foreign  officers,  the  neglect  of  doing  which  is  a  high  impeachment  of 
our  national  character,  and  is  hurtful  to  the  feelings  of  every  well-wisher  to  this 
country  in  and  out  of  it ;  vain  is  it  to  talk  of  chastising  the  Algerines,  or  doing 
ourselves  justice  in  any  other  respect,  till  the  wisdom  and  force  of  the  Union 
can  be  more  concentrated  and  better  applied." — Washington  to  Lafayette,  15 
August,  1787. 


164  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

est  of  the  inhabitants  to  bring  their  produce  to  our 
ports  ;  and  sure  I  am,  there  is  no  other  tie  by  which 
they  will  long  form  a  link  in  the  chain  of  federal 
union.  I  believe,  however,  from  the  temper  in  which 
those  people  appear  to  be,  and  from  the  ambitious 
and  turbulent  spirit  of  some  of  their  demagogues, 
that  it  has  become  a  moot  point  to  determine,  (when 
every  circumstance  which  attends  this  business  is 
brought  into  view,)  what  is  best  to  be  done.  The 
State  of  Virginia  having  taken  the  matter  up  with  so 
high  a  hand,  is  not  among  the  least  embarrassing  or 
disagreeable  parts  of  the  difficulty.  *  *  * 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &C.1 


TO    PATRICK    HENRY. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  24  September,  1787. 

DEAR  SIR, 

In  the  first  moment  after  my  return,  I  take  the 
liberty  of  sending  you  a  copy  of  the  constitution, 
which  the  federal  convention  has  submitted  to  the 
people  of  these  States.  I  accompany  it  with  no 

1  "  I  staid  two  days  [Octo.  5-7]  with  General  Washington  at  Mount  Vernon 
about  six  weeks  ago.  He  is  in  perfect  good  health,  and  looks  almost  as  well 
as  he  did  twenty  years  ago.  I  never  saw  him  so  keen  for  anything  in  my  life 
as  he  is  for  the  adoption  of  the  new  scheme  of  government.  As  the  eyes  of  all 
America  are  turned  towards  this  truly  great  and  good  man  for  the  first  Presi 
dent,  I  took  the  liberty  of  sounding  him  upon  it.  He  appears  to  be  earnestly 
against  .going  into  public  life  again  ;  pleads  in  excuse  for  himself  his  love  of 
retirement  and  his  advanced  age,  but  notwithstanding  of  these,  I  am  fully  of 
opinion  he  may  be  induced  to  appear  once  more  on  the  public  stage  of  life.  I 
form  my  opinion  from  what  passed  between  us  in  a  very  long  and  serious  con 
versation,  as  well  as  from  what  I  could  gather  from  Mrs.  Washington  on  same 
subject." — Alexander  Donald  to  Thomas  Jefferson,  12  November,  1787. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  165 

observations.  Your  own  judgment  will  at  once  dis 
cover  the  good  and  the  exceptionable  parts  of  it ;  and 
your  experience  of  the  difficulties,  which  have  ever 
arisen  when  attempts  have  been  made  to  reconcile 
such  variety  of  interests  and  local  prejudices,  as  per 
vade  the  several  States,  will  render  explanation  un 
necessary.  I  wish  the  constitution,  which  is  offered, 
had  been  made  more  perfect  ;  but  I  sincerely  believe 
it  is  the  best  that  could  be  obtained  at  this  time. 
And,  as  a  constitutional  door  is  opened  for  amend 
ment  hereafter,  the  adoption  of  it,  under  the  present 
circumstances  of  the  Union,  is  in  my  opinion  desirable. 
From  a  variety  of  concurring  accounts  it  appears  to 
me,  that  the  political  concerns  of  this  country  are  in 
a  manner  suspended  by  a  thread,  and  that  the  con 
vention  has  been  looked  up  to,  by  the  reflecting  part 
of  the  community,  with  a  solicitude  which  is  hardly 
to  be  conceived  ;  and,  if  nothing  had  been  agreed  on 
by  that  body,  anarchy  would  soon  have  ensued,  the 
seeds  being  deeply  sown  in  every  soil.  I  am,  &C.1 

1  A  copy  of  the  same  letter  was  sent  to  Benjamin  Harrison,  and  also  to 
Thomas  Nelson. 

"  I  have  to  lament,  that  I  cannot  bring  my  mind  to  accord  with  the  proposed 
constitution.  The  concern  I  feel  on  this  account  is  really  greater  than  I  can 
express.  Perhaps  mature  reflection  may  furnish  me  reasons  to  change  my 
present  sentiments  into  a  conformity  with  the  opinions  of  those  personages,  for 
whom  I  have  the  highest  reverence." — Patrick  Henry  to  Washington,  19 
October,  1787. 

"  I  feel  myself  deeply  interested  in  every  thing  that  you  have  had  a  hand  in, 
or  that  comes  from  you  ;  and  am  so  well  assured  of  the  solidity  of  your  judg 
ment,  and  the  rectitude  of  your  intentions,  that  I  shall  never  stick  at  trifles  to 
conform  myself  to  your  opinion.  In  the  present  instance  I  am  so  totally  unin 
formed,  as  to  the  general  situation  of  America,  that  I  can  form  no  judgment  of 
the  necessity  the  convention  was  under  to  give  us  such  a  constitution  as  it  has 
done.  If  our  condition  is  not  very  desperate,  I  have  my  fears  that  the  remedy 
will  prove  worse  than  the  disease.  Age  makes  men  often  over  cautious.  I  am 


166  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

TO    COLONEL    DAVID    HUMPHREYS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  10  October,  1787. 

MY  DEAR  HUMPHREYS, 

Your  favor  of  the  28th  Ulto.  came  duly  to  hand,  as 
did  the  former  of  June.  With  great  pleasure  I  re 
ceived  the  intimation  of  your  spending  the  winter 
under  this  Roof. — The  invitation  was  not  less  sincere, 
than  the  reception  will  be  cordial.  The  only  stipula 
tions  I  shall  contend  for  are,  that  in  all  things  you 
shall  do  as  you  please — I  will  do  the  same  ;  and  that 
no  ceremony  may  be  used  or  any  restraint  be  imposed 
on  any  one. 

The  Constitution  that  is  submitted,  is  not  free 
from  imperfections,  but  there  are  as  few  radical  de 
fects  in  it  as  could  well  be  expected,  considering  the 
heterogenious  mass  of  which  the  Convention  was 
composed  and  the  diversity  of  interests  that  are  to  be 
attended  to.  As  a  Constitutional  door  is  opened  for 

willing  to  attribute  my  fears  to  that  cause  ;  but,  from  whatever  source  they 
spring,  I  cannot  divest  myself  of  an  opinion,  that  the  seeds  of  civil  discord  are 
plentifully  sown  in  very  many  of  the  powers  given,  both  to  the  President  and 
Congress,  and  that,  if  the  constitution  is  carried  into  effect,  the  States  south  of 
the  Potomac  will  be  little  more  than  appendages  to  those  to  the  northward  of 
it.  You  will  say  that  general  charges  are  things  without  force.  They  are  so  ; 
but,  in  the  present  instance,  I  do  not  withhold  particular  observations  because 
I  want  them,  but  that  I  would  not  tire  your  patience  by  entering  deeply  into  a 
subject,  before  I  have  heard  the  reasons,  which  operated  in  favor  of  the  meas 
ures  taken.  After  the  meeting  of  the  Assembly,  and  hearing  from  those,  who 
had  a  hand  in  the  work,  the  reasons  that  operated  with  them  in  favor  of  their 
measures,  I  will  then  more  at  large  give  you  my  sentiments.  In  the  interim  I 
shall  only  say,  that  my  objections  chiefly  lie  against  the  unlimited  powers  of 
taxation  and  the  regulations  of  trade,  and  the  jurisdictions  that  are  to  be  estab 
lished  in  every  State  altogether  independent  of  their  laws.  The  sword  and 
such  powers  will,  nay,  in  the  nature  of  things  they  must,  sooner  or  later, 
establish  a  tyranny  not  inferior  to  the  triumvirate  or  centumviri  of  Rome." — 
Benjamin  Harrison  to  Washington,  4  October,  1787. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  167 

future  amendments  and  alterations,  I  think  it  would 
be  wise  in  the  People  to  accept  what  is  offered  to 
them  and  I  wish  it  may  be  by  as  great  a  majority  of 
them  as  it  was  by  that  of  the  Convention  ;  but  this  is 
hardly  to  be  expected  because  the  importance  and 
sinister  views  of  too  many  characters,  will  be  affected 
by  the  change. — Much  will  depend  however  upon 
literary  abilities,  and  the  recommendation  of  it  by 
good  pens  should  be  openly,  I  mean,  publickly  afforded 
in  the  Gazettes. — Go  matters  however  as  they  may,  I 
shall  have  the  consolation  to  reflect  that  no  objects 
but  the  public  good — and  that  peace  and  harmony 
which  I  wished  to  see  prevail  in  the  Convention, 
obtruded  even  for  a  moment  in  my  bosom  during  the 
whole  Session  long  as  it  was — What  reception  this 
State  will  give  to  the  proceedings  in  all  its  extent  of 
territory,  is  more  than  I  can  inform  you  of ;  in  these 
parts  it  is  advocated  beyond  my  expectation — the  great 
opposition  (if  great  there  should  be)  will  come  from 
the  Southern  and  Western  Counties  from  whence  I 
have  not  as  yet,  received  any  accounts  that  are  to  be 
depended  on. 

I  condole  with  you  on  the  loss  of  your  Parents  ; 
but  as  they  lived  to  a  good  old  age  you  could  not  be 
unprepared  for  the  shock,  tho'  it  is  painful  to  bid  an 
everlasting  adieu  to  those  we  love,  or  revere.- — Rea 
son,  Religion  and  Philosophy  may  soften  the  anguish 
of  it,  but  time  alone  can  eradicate  it. 

As  I  am  beginning  to  look  for  you,  I  shall  add  no 
more  in  this  letter  but  the  wishes  of  the  Family  and 
the  affectionate  regards  of  a  Sincere  friend,  &c. 


i68  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 


TO    JAMES    MADISON,    IN    CONGRESS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  10  October,  1787. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

I  thank  you  for  your  letter  of  the  3Oth  ultimo.  It 
came  by  the  last  post.  I  am  better  pleased,  that  the 
proceedings  of  the  convention  are  submitted  from 
Congress  by  a  unanimous  vote,  feeble  as  it  is,  than  if 
they  had  appeared  under  strong  marks  of  approbation 
without  it.  This  apparent  unanimity  will  have  its 
effect.  Not  every  one  has  opportunities  to  peep 
behind  the  curtain  ;  and,  as  the  multitude  are  often 
deceived  by  externals,  the  appearance  of  unanimity 
in  that  body  on  this  occasion  will  be  of  great  import 
ance.  The  political  tenets  of  Colo.  M[ason]  and 
Colo.  R.  H.  L[ee]  are  always  in  unison.  It  may  be 
asked  which  of  them  gives  the  tone.  Without  hesi 
tation  I  answer  the  latter,  because  I  believe  the  latter 
will  receive  it  from  no  one.  He  has  I  am  informed 
rendered  himself  obnoxious  in  Philadelphia,  by  the 
pains  he  took  to  disseminate  his  objections  amongst 
some  of  the  leaders  of  the  seceding  members  of  the 
Legislature  of  that  State.  His  conduct  is  not  less 
reprobated  in  this  country  ;  how  it  will  be  relished 
generally  is  yet  to  be  learnt  by  me.1 

As  far  as  accounts  have  been  received  from  the 


1  On  reaching  Congress  Madison  found  certain  ideas  unfavorable  to  the  Con 
stitution  were  fostered  by  Richard  Henry  Lee  and  Dane,  of  Massachusetts,  on 
the  ground  first  that  the  Convention  had  exceeded  its  powers  in  devising  a  new 
frame  of  government,  and  later,  that  the  plan  proposed  was  seriously  defective. 
An  attempt  to  amend  the  Constitution  in  Congress  was  fortunately  defeated, 
and  Congress  unanimously  resolved  to  send  the  report  of  the  Convention  to  the 
respective  legislatures,  to  be  submitted  to  a  convention  of  delegates  chosen  by 
the  people  in  each. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  169 

southern  and  western  counties,  the  sentiment  with 
respect  to  the  proceedings  of  the  convention  is  favor 
able.  Whether  the  knowledge  of  this,  or  conviction 
of  the  impropriety  of  withholding  the  constitution 
from  State  conventions,  has  worked  most  in  the 
breast  of  Colonel  Mason,  I  will  not  decide  ;  but  the  fact 
is,  he  has  declared  unequivocally,  in  a  letter  to  me,  for 
its  going  to  the  people.  Had  his  sentiments,  how 
ever,  been  opposed  to  the  measure,  his  instructions, 
which  are  given  by  the  freeholders  of  this  county  to 
their  representatives,  would  have  secured  his  vote 
for  it.  Yet  I  have  no  doubt,  but  that  his  assent 
will  be  accompanied  by  the  most  tremendous  appre 
hensions,  which  the  highest  coloring  can  give  to  his 
objections.  To  alarm  the  people  seems  to  be  the 
groundwork  of  his  plan.  The  want  of  a  qualified  navi 
gation  act  is  already  declared  to  be  a  mean  by  which  the 
price  of  produce  in  the  southern  States  will  be  reduced 
to  nothing,  and  will  become  monopoly  of  the  eastern 
and  northern  States.  To  enumerate  the  whole  of  his 
objections  is  unnecessary,  because  they  are  detailed  in 
the  address  of  the  seceding  members  of  the  Assembly 
of  Pennsylvania,  (which  no  doubt  you  have  seen.)1 

I  scarcely  think  any  powerful  opposition  will  be 
made  to  the  constitution's  being  submitted  to  a  con 
vention  of  the  people  of  this  State.  If  it  is  given,  it 
will  be  there,  at  which  I  hope  you  will  make  it  con 
venient  to  be  present.  Explanations  will  be  wanting, 
and  none  can  give  them  with  more  accuracy  and  pro- 

1  Printed  in  the  Pennsylvania  Packet,  4  October,  1787,  also  in  Pennsylvania 
and  the  Federal  Constitution,  73. 


i7o  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

priety  than  yourself.  The  sentiments  of  Mr.  Henry, 
with  respect  to  the  constitution,  are  not  known  in 
these  parts.  Mr.  Joseph  Jones,  who  it  seems  was 
in  Alexandria  before  the  convention  broke  up,  was  of 
opinion,  that  they  would  not  be  inimical  to  the  pro 
ceedings  of  it.  Others  think,  as  the  advocate  of  a 
paper  emission,  he  cannot  be  friendly  to  a  constitu 
tion  which  is  an  effectual  bar. 

From  circumstances,  which  have  been  related,  it  is 
conjectured  that  the  Governor  l  wishes  he  had  been 
among  the  subscribing  members  ;  but  time  will  dis 
close  more  than  we  know  at  present,  with  respect  to 
the  whole  of  the  business,  and,  when  I  hear  more,  I 
will  write  to  you  again.  In  the  mean  while  I  pray  you 
to  be  assured  of  the  sincere  regard  and  affection  with 
which  I  am,  my  dear  Sir,  &c. 

P.  S.  Having  received,  (in  a  letter)  from  Colonel 
Mason,  a  detail  in  writing  of  his  objections  to  the 
proposed  constitution,  I  enclose  you  a  copy  of  them.2 

1  Edmund  Randolph.      His  refusal  to  sign  was  set  down  to  his  chagrin  in  not 
being  able  to  carry  every  thing  his  own  way,  and  to  his  desire  for  popularity. 

2  Colonel  Mason  said,  in  the  letter  here  referred  to  :   "I  take  the  liberty  to 
enclose  to  you  my  objections  to  the  new  constitution  of  government,  which  a 
little  moderation  and  temper  at  the  latter  end  of  the  convention  might  have 
removed.     I  am,  however,  most  decidedly  of  opinion,  that  it  ought  to  be  sub 
mitted  to  the  people  for  that  special  purpose  ;  and,  should  any  attempt  be  made 
to  prevent  the  calling  of  such  a  convention  here,  such  a  measure  shall  have 
every  opposition  in  my  power  to  give  it.     You  will  readily  observe,  that  my 
objections  are  not  numerous  (the  greater  part  of  the  enclosed  paper  containing 
reasonings  upon  the  probable  effects  of  the  exceptionable  parts),  though  in  my 
mind  some  of  them  are  capital  ones." — October  7th. 

Mason's  objections  are  printed  in  Ford,  Pamphlets  on  the  Constitution,  327. 
Iredell's  answer  may  be  found  in  the  same  collection. 

"  As  the  enclosed  Advertiser  contains  a  speech  of  Mr.  Wilson's  (as  able,  can 
did  and  honest  a  member  as  [was]  in  convention)  which  will  place  the  most 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  171 

TO    HENRY    KNOX. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  October,  1787. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

Your  favor  of  the  3d  instant  came  duly  to  hand. 
The  fourth  day  after  leaving  Philadelphia  I  reached 
home,  and  found  Mrs.  Washington  and  the  family 
tolerably  well,  but  the  fruits  of  the  earth  almost  en 
tirely  destroyed  by  one  of  the  severest  droughts  (in 
this  neighborhood,)  that  has  ever  been  experienced. 
The  crops  pretty  generally  have  been  injured  in  this 
State  below  the  mountains,  but  not  to  the  degree 
that  mine,  and  some  others  in  a  small  circle  around 
me,  have  suffered. 

The  constitution  is  now  before  the  judgment-seat. 
It  has,  as  was  expected,  its  adversaries  and  support 
ers.  Which  will  preponderate  is  yet  to  be  decided. 
The  former  more  than  probably  will  be  most  active, 
as  the  major  part  of  them  will,  it  is  to  be  feared,  be 
governed  by  sinister  and  self-important  motives,  to 
which  every  thing  in  their  breasts  must  yield.  The 
opposition  from  another  class  of  them  may  perhaps, 
(if  they  should  be  men  of  reflection,  candor,  and  in 
formation,)  subside  in  the  solution  of  the  following 

of  M[ason's]  objections  in  their  true  point  of  light,  I  send  it  to  you.  The  re- 
publication  will  (if  you  can  get  it  done)  be  serviceable  at  this  juncture.  His 
ipso  facto  objection  does  not,  I  believe  require  any  answer  :  every  mind  must 
recoil  at  the  idea.  And  with  respect  to  the  navigation  act,  I  am  mistaken  if 
any  men,  bodies  of  men,  or  Countries,  will  enter  into  any  compact  or  treaty, 
if  one  of  the  three  is  to  have  a  negative  control  over  the  other  two.  But  grant 
ing  that  it  is  an  evil,  it  will  infallibly  work  its  own  cure.  There  must  be 
reciprocity,  or  no  union.  Which  of  the  two  is  preferable,  will  not  become  a 
question  in  the  mind  of  any  true  patriot." — Washington  to  David  Stuart,  17 
October,  1787.  Wilson's  speech  is  in  Ford,  Pamphlets  on  the  Constitution,  155. 


1 72  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

simple  questions,  i.  Is  the  constitution,  which  is 
submitted  by  the  convention,  preferable  to  the  gov 
ernment,  (if  it  can  be  called  one,)  under  which  we 
now  live  ?  2.  Is  it  probable  that  more  confidence 
would  at  the  time  be  placed  in  another  convention, 
provided  the  experiment  should  be  tried,  than  was 
placed  in  the  last  one,  and  is  it  likely  that  a  better 
agreement  would  take  place  therein  ?  What  would 
be  the  consequences  if  these  should  not  happen,  or 
even  from  the  delay,  which  must  inevitably  follow 
such  an  experiment  ?  Is  there  not  a  constitutional 
door  open  for  alterations  or  amendments  ?  and  is  it 
not  likely  that  real  defects  will  be  as  readily  discov 
ered  after  as  before  trial  ?  and  will  not  our  successors 
be  as  ready  to  apply  the  remedy  as  ourselves,  if  occa 
sion  should  require  it  ?  To  think  otherwise  will,  in 
my  judgment,  be  ascribing  more  of  the  amor  pair  ice, 
more  wisdom  and  more  virtue  to  ourselves,  than  I 
think  we  deserve. 

It  is  highly  probable,  that  the  refusal  of  our  Gov 
ernor  and  Colonel  Mason  to  subscribe  to  the  proceed 
ings  of  the  convention  will  have  a  bad  effect  in  this 
State ;  for,  as  you  well  observe,  they  must  not  only 
assign  reasons  for  the  justification  of  their  own  conduct, 
but  it  is  highly  probable  that  these  reasons  will  be 
clothed  in  most  terrific  array  for  the  purpose  of  alarm 
ing.1  Some  things  are  already  addressed  to  the  fears 
of  the  people,  and  will  no  doubt  have  their  effect. 

1  Randolph  explained  his  position  in  a  letter  to  the  Speaker  of  the  House  of 
Delegates,  10  October,  1787.  It  was  widely  circulated  in  the  newspapers,  and 
printed  in  pamphlet  form.  It  was  reprinted  in  Ford,  Pamphlets  on  the  Con- 
stittttion,  359. 


1787]  GEORGE   WASHINGTON.  173 

As  far,  however,  as  the  sense  of  this  part  of  the  coun 
try  has  been  taken,  it  is  strongly  in  favor  of  the  pro 
posed  constitution.  Further  I  cannot  speak  with 
precision.  If  a  powerful  opposition  is  given  to  it, 
the  weight  thereof  will,  I  apprehend,  come  from  the 
south  side  of  James  River,  and  from  the  western 
counties.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  18  October,  1787. 

DEAR  SIR, 

Your  favor  without  date  came  to  my  hand  by  the 
last  post.  It  is  with  unfeigned  concern  I  perceive 
that  a  political  dispute  has  arisen  between  Governor 
Clinton  and  yourself.  For  both  of  you  I  have  the 
highest  esteem  and  regard.  But,  as  you  say  it  is  in 
sinuated  by  some  of  your  political  adversaries,  and 
may  obtain  credit,  "that  you  palmed  yourself  upon 
me,  and  was  dismissed  from  my  family,"  and  call  upon 
me  to 'do  you  justice  by  a  recital  of  the  facts,  I  do 
therefore  explicitly  declare,  that  both  charges  are  en 
tirely  unfounded.  With  respect  to  the  first,  I  have 
no  cause  to  believe,  that  you  took  a  single  step  to 
accomplish,  or  had  the  most  distant  idea  of  receiving 
an  appointment  in  my  family  till  you  were  invited 
into  it ;  and,  with  respect  to  the  second,  that  your 
quitting  it  was  altogether  the  effect  of  your  own 
choice. 

When  the  situation  of  this  country  calls  loudly  for 
vigor  and  unanimity,  it  is  to  be  lamented  that  gentle 
men  of  talents  and  character  should  disagree  in  their 


174  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

sentiments  for  promoting  the  public  weal ;  but  unfor 
tunately  this  ever  has  been,  and  most  probably  ever 
will  be,  the  case  in  the  affairs  of  mankind. 

Having  scarcely  been  from  home  since  my  return 
from  Philadelphia,  I  can  give  little  information  with 
respect  to  the  general  reception  of  the  new  constitu 
tion  in  this  State.  In  Alexandria,  however,  and  some 
of  the  adjacent  counties,  it  was  embraced  with  an  en 
thusiastic  warmth  of  which  I  had  no  conception.  I 
expect,  notwithstanding,  violent  opposition  will  be 
given  to  it  by  some  characters  of  weight  and  influence 
in  the  State.  Mrs.  Washington  unites  with  me  in 
best  wishes  to  Mrs.  Hamilton  and  yourself.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    JAMES    MADISON,    IN    CONGRESS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  22  October,  1787. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

When  I  wrote  to  you  last,  I  was  possessed  of  very 
little  information  of  the  sentiments  of  this  State  on 
the  new  constitution  beyond  the  circle  of  Alexandria. 
Since,  by  the  last  post,  I  have  received  a  letter  from 
a  member  of  the  assembly  in  Richmond,1  containing 
the  following  paragraphs. 

"  I  believe  such  an  instance  has  not  happened  before  since  the 
revolution,  that  there  should  be  a  House  on  the  first  day  of  the 
session,  and  business  immediately  taken  up.  This  was  not  only 
the  case  on  Monday,  but  there  was  a  full  House  when  Mr.  Pren- 
tiss  was  called  up  to  the  chair  as  speaker,  there  being  no  opposi 
tion.  Thus  the  session  has  commenced  peaceably. 


1   David  Stuart,  or  Bushrod  Washington. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  175 

"  It  gives  me  much  pleasure  to  inform  you,  that  the  sentiments 
of  the  members  are  infinitely  more  favorable  to  the  constitution, 
than  the  most  zealous  advocates  for  it  could  have  expected. 
I  have  not  met  with  one  in  all  my  inquiries  (and  I  have  made 
them  with  great  diligence)  opposed  to  it,  except  Mr.  Henry,  who 
I  have  heard  is  so,  but  could  only  conjecture  it  from  a  conversa 
tion  with  him  on  the  subject.  Other  members,  who  have  also 
been  active  in  their  inquiries,  tell  me  that  they  have  met  with 
none  opposed  to  it.  It  is  said,  however,  that  old  Mr.  Cabell  of 
Amherst  disapproves  of  it.  Mr.  Nicholas  has  declared  himself  a 
warm  friend  to  it.  The  transmissory  note  of  Congress  was  be 
fore  us  to  day,  when  Mr.  Henry  declared,  that  it  transcended  our 
powers  to  decide  on  the  constitution,  that  it  must  go  before  a 
convention, — as  it  was  insinuated  he  would  aim  at  preventing 
this,  much  pleasure  was  discovered  at  the  declaration. 

"  Thursday  next  (the  25th)  is  fixed  upon  for  taking  up  the 
question  of  calling  the  convention,  and  fixing  the  time  of  its 
meeting.  In  the  mean  time  five  thousand  copies  are  ordered 
to  be  printed,  to  be  dispersed  by  the  members  in  their  respective 
counties  for  the  information  of  the  people.  I  cannot  forbear 
mentioning,  that  the  Chancellor  Pendleton  espouses  the  consti 
tution  so  warmly,  as  to  declare  he  will  give  it  his  aid  in  a  conven 
tion  if  his  health  will  permit.  As  there  are  few  better  judges  of 
such  subjects,  this  must  be  deemed  a  fortunate  circumstance." 

As  the  above  quotation  is  the  sum  of  my  informa 
tion,  I  shall  add  nothing  more  on  the  subject  of  the 
proposed  government  at  this  time. 

Mr.  C.  Pinckney  is  unwilling,  (I  perceive  by  the 
enclosures  contained  in  your  favor  of  the  I3th,)  to 
lose  any  fame  that  can  be  acquired  by  the  publication 
of  his  sentiments.  If  the  subject  of  the  navigation 
of  the  Mississippi  could  have  remained  as  silent, 
and  glided  as  gently  down  the  stream  of  time  for  a 
while,  as  the  waters  do  that  are  contained  within  the 


1 76  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

banks,  it  would,  I  confess,  have  comported  more  with 
my  ideas  of  sound  policy,  than  any  decision  that  can 
be  come  to  at  this  day.  With  sentiments  the  most 
affectionate  and  friendly,  I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO    MATHEW    CAREY. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  29  October,  1787. 

SIR, 

The  last  post  brought  me  your  letter  of  the  22d.— 
your  application  to  me  for  the  loan  of  ^100  is  an 
evidence  of  your  unacquaintedness  with  my  inability 
to  lend  money.  To  be  candid — my  expenditures  are 
never  behind  my  income — and  this  year  (occasioned 
by  the  severest  drouth  that  ever  was  known  in  this 
neighborhood)  instead  of  selling  grain  which  hereto 
fore  has  been  my  principal  source  of  revenue  it  is 
not  ^500  that  will  purchase  enough  for  the  support 
of  my  family. — After  this  disclosure  of  my  situation 
you  will  be  readily  persuaded  that  inclination  to  serve 
without  the  means  of  accomplishing  it,  is  of  little 
avail. — This  however  is  the  fact  so  far  as  it  respects 
the  point  in  question. 

As  you  seem  anxious  that  the  contents  of  your 
letter  should  not  be  known  I  put  it  in  your  own 
power  to  destroy  it  by  returning  it  under  the  same 
cover  with  this. 

I  wish  sucess  to  your  Museum,  and  am,  &C.1 


1  "  I  should  be  glad  to  know  precisely  whether  I  am  to  expect  any  and  what 
part  of  the  ^200  on  which  you  assured  me  in  Philadelphia  I  might  absolutely 
rely,  and  the  half  of  which  you  informed  me  in  November,  should  be  sent  to  me 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  177 

TO  ARCHIBALD    JOHNSTON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  30  October,  1787. 

SIR, 

My  fixed  determination  is,  that  no  person  whatever 
shall  hunt  upon  my  grounds  or  waters. — To  grant 
leave  to  one,  and  refuse  another,  would  not  only  be 
drawing  a  line  of  discrimination  which  would  be 
offensive,  but  would  subject  one  to  great  inconven 
ience — for  my  strict  and  positive  orders  to  all  my 
people  are  if  they  hear  a  gun  fired  upon  my  Land  to 
go  immediately  in  pursuit  of  it. — Permission  there 
fore  to  any  one  would  keep  them  either  always  in 
pursuit — or  make  them  inattentive  to  my  orders 
under  the  supposition  of  its  belonging  to  a  licensed 
person  by  which  means  I  should  be  obtruded  upon 
by  others  who  to  my  cost  I  find  had  other  objects  in 
view.  Besides,  as  I  have  not  lost  my  relish  for  this 
sport  when  I  can  find  time  to  indulge  myself  in  it, 
and  Gentlemen  who  come  to  the  House  are  pleased 
with  it,  it  is  my  wish  not  to  have  the  game  within 
my  jurisdiction  disturbed.  For  these  reasons  I  beg 
you  will  not  take  my  refusal  amiss,  because  I  would 
give  the  same  to  my  brother  if  he  lived  off  my  land. 

I  am,  &c. 


by  your  servant  in  ten  days  if  you  could  not  get  the  residue.  I  have  put  the 
sheriff  of  this  county  off  three  times  ;  if  he  comes  again  I  must,  if  I  have  no 
further  expectation  from  you,  suffer  him  to  make  distress,  as  I  raised  nothing 
last  year  for  sale,  and  allotted  this  money  for  the  payment  of  my  taxes.  .  .  . 
In  the  morning  I  shall  leave  home  for  a  meeting  of  the  Directors  of  the  Poto- 
mack  Co.,  at  the  Falls  of  the  Shenandoah,  from  whence  I  do  not  expect  to  be 
returned  in  less  than  ten  days." — Washington  to  John  Francis  Mercer ',  II 
January,  1788. 
12 


178  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

TO    ARTHUR    YOUNG. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  i  November,  1787. 
#•****# 

Before  I  undertake  to  give  the  information  you 
request,  respecting  the  arrangements  of  farms  in  this 
neighborhood,  &c.,  I  must  observe  that  there  is,  per 
haps,  scarcely  any  part  of  America,  where  farming 
has  been  less  attended  to  than  in  this  State.  The 
cultivation  of  tobacco  has  been  almost  the  sole  object 
with  men  of  landed  property,  and  consequently  a 
regular  course  of  crops  have  never  been  in  view. 
The  general  custom  has  been,  first  to  raise  a  crop  of 
Indian  corn  (maize)  which  according  to  the  mode  of 
cultivation,  is  a  good  preparation  for  wheat ;  then  a 
crop  of  wheat ;  after  which  the  ground  is  respited 
(except  from  weeds,  and  every  trash  that  can  contrib 
ute  to  its  foulness)  for  about  eighteen  months ;  and 
so  on,  alternately,  without  any  dressing,  till  the  land 
is  exhausted  ;  when  it  is  turned  out,  without  being 
sown  with  grass-seeds,  or  any  method  taken  to  restore 
it ;  and  another  piece  is  ruined  in  the  same  manner. 
No  more  cattle  is  raised  than  can  be  supported  by 
lowland  meadows,  swamps,  &c.,  and  the  tops  and 
blades  of  Indian  corn  ;  as  very  few  persons  have 
attended  to  sowing  grasses,  and  connecting  cattle 
with  their  crops.  The  Indian  corn  is  the  chief  sup 
port  of  the  laborers  and  horses.  Our  lands,  as  I 
mentioned  in  my  first  letter  to  you,  were  originally 
very  good;  but  use,  and  abuse,  have  made  them 
quite  otherwise. 

The  above  is  the  mode  of  cultivation   which  has 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  179 

been  generally  pursued  here,  but  the  system  of 
husbandry  which  has  been  found  so  beneficial  in 
England,  and  which  must  be  greatly  promoted 
by  your  valuable  annals,  is  now  gaining  ground. 
There  are  several  (among  which  I  may  class  my 
self),  who  are  endeavoring  to  get  into  your  regular 
and  systematic  course  of  cropping,  as  fast  as  the 
nature  of  the  business  will  admit  ;  so  that  I  hope 
in  the  course  of  a  few  years,  we  shall  make  a 
more  respectable  figure  as  farmers,  than  we  have 
hitherto  done. 

I  will,  agreeable  to  your  desire,  give  you  the  prices 
of  our  products  as  nearly  as  I  am  able  ;  but  you 
will  readily  conceive  from  the  foregoing  account, 
that  they  cannot  be  given  with  any  precision.  Wheat, 
for  the  four  last  years,  will  average  about  45.  ster 
ling  per  bushel,  of  eight  gallons.  Rye,  about  2s. 
4d. — Oats,  is.  6do — Beans,  pease,  &c.,  have  not  been 
sold  in  any  quantities. — Barley  is  not  made  here, 
from  a  prevailing  opinion  that  the  climate  is  not 
adapted  to  it  ;  I  however,  in  opposition  to  preju 
dice,  sowed  about  50  bushels  last  spring,  and  found 
that  it  yielded  a  proportionate  quantity  with  any 
other  kind  of  grain  which  I  sowed  ;  I  might  add, 
more.  Cows  may  be  bought  at  about  3!.  sterling, 
per  head.  Cattle  for  the  slaughter  vary  from  2^d. 
to  4^d.  sterling  per  lb.,  the  former  being  the  cur 
rent  price  in  summer  ;  the  latter  in  the  winter  or 
spring.  Sheep  at  125.  sterling,  per  head  ;  and  wool 
at  is.  sterling  per  lb.  I  am  not  able  to  give  you  the 
price  of  labor,  as  the  land  is  cultivated  here  wholly 


i8o  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

by  slaves,   and   the  price  of  labor  in   the   towns   is 
fluctuating,     and    governed    altogether    by    circum 


stances. 


TO    JAMES    MADISON,    IN    CONGRESS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  5  November,  1787. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

Your  favor  of  the  i8th  ulto.  came  duly  to  hand. — 
As  no  subject  is  more  interesting,  and  seems  so  much 
to  engross  the  attention  of  every  one  as  the  pro 
posed  Constitution  I  shall,  (though  it  is  probable 
your  communications  from  Richmond  are  regular  and 
full  with  respect  to  this,  and  other  matters,  which 

1  ''You  give  me  some  reason  to  hope  for  the  result  of  your  thoughts,  or 
experiments,  on  a  more  eligible  system  of  agriculture. — To  receive  it  would 
afford  me  pleasure. — That  the  one  which  is  now  in  general  practice  (if  it  can 
be  called  a  system)  is  beyond  description  ruinous  to  our  lands,  need  no  other 
proof  of  the  fact  than  the  gullied  and  exhausted  state  of  them,  which  is  every 
where  to  be  met  with — but  what  change  is  most  likely  to  restore  the  land  with 
such  means  as  is  in  our  power  to  apply  which  will  at  the  same  time  be  pro 
ductive  to  the  Proprietor,  is  the  question — and  an  important  one — a  question 
too  which  admits  of  no  other  satisfactory  solution  than  such  as  is  derived  from 
a  course  of  experiments  by  intelligent  and  observant  farmers  ;  who  will  com 
bine  things  and  circumstances  together — Theoretical  opinions  should  have  no 
share  in  the  determination,  and  what  is  good  and  profitable  husbandry  in  one 
Country,  may  not  be  so  in  another — Articles  which  are  very  saleable  in  Europe 
might  find  no  market  in  America,  and  if  produced  abundantly  would  answer 
no  other  end  than  to  encumber  our  Barns  or  Granaries.  Consequently  two 
things  must  be  engrafted  into  our  plan,  1st  Crops  which  are  useful  on  our 
farms,  or  saleable  in  our  markets — and  2d  the  intermixing  these  crops  by  such 
relations  and  with  such  dressings  as  will  improve,  instead  of  exhausting  our 
lands. — To  effect  these  is  the  great  desiderata  of  Farming,  and  ought  to  be  the 
pursuit  of  every  farmer. — On  this  ground  every  experiment  is  a  treasure — and 
the  authors  of  them  valuable  members  of  Society. — Hence  also  the  Societies 
which  are  formed  for  the  encouragement,  and  promulgation,  of  these  experi 
ments,  in  other  Country's  have  rendered  such  essential  services  to  the  improved 
and  improving  States  of  agriculture  in  the  old  world  and  are  so  worthy  of 
imitation  in  the  new." — Washington  to  Charles  Carter,  20  January,  1788. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  181 

employ  the  consideration  of  the  Assembly)  give  you 
the  extract  of  a  letter  from  Doct.  Stuart,  which 
follows — 

u  Yesterday  (the  26th  of  Oct.)  according  to  appointment,  the 
calling  of  a  Convention  of  the  people  was  discussed. — Though 
no  one  doubted  a  pretty  general  unanimity  on  this  question  ulti 
mately,  yet,  it  was  feared  from  the  avowed  opposition  of  Mr. 
Henry  and  Mr.  Harrison,  that  an  attempt  would  be  made,  to  do 
it  in  a  manner  that  would  convey  to  the  people  an  unfavorable 
impression  of  the  opinion  of  the  House  with  respect  to  the  Con 
stitution  ;  and  this  was  accordingly  attempted. — It  was  however 
soon  baffled. — The  motion  was  to  this  effect ;  that  a  Convention 
should  be  called  to  adopt — reject — or  amend — the  proposed 
Constitution. — 

"  As  this  conveyed  an  idea  that  the  House  conceived  an  amend 
ment  necessary  it  was  rejected  as  improper. — It  now  stands 
recommended  to  them,  on  (I  think)  unexceptionable  ground,  for 
their  full  and  free  consideration. — My  colleague  arrived  here  on 
the  evening  before  this  question  was  taken  up  ;  I  am  apt  to  think 
that  the  opponents  to  the  Constitution  were  much  disappointed 
in  their  expectations  of  support  from  him,  as  he  not  only  de 
clared  himself  in  the  fullest  manner  for  a  Convention,  but  also, 
that  notwithstanding  his  objections,  so  federal  was  he,  that  he 
would  adopt  it,  if  nothing  better  could  be  obtained. — The  time 
at  which  the  Convention  is  to  meet,  is  fixed  to  the  first  of  June 
next. — The  variety  of  sentiments  on  this  subject  was  almost 
infinite  ;  neither  friends  or  foes  agreeing  in  any  one  period. — 
There  is  to  be  no  exclusion  of  persons  on  acct.  of  their  Offices.1 

1  "  The  new  constitution  has,  as  the  public  prints  will  have  informed  you, 
been  handed  to  the  people  of  this  State  by  an  unanimous  vote  of  the  Assembly  ; 
but  it  is  not  to  be  inferred  from  hence,  that  its  opponents  are  silenced.  On 
the  contrary,  there  are  many,  and  some  powerful  ones  ;  some  of  whom,  it  is 
said,  by  overshooting  the  marks,  have  lessened  their  weight.  Be  this  as  it  may, 
their  assiduity  stands  unrivalled,  whilst  the  friends  to  the  constitution  content 
themselves  with  a  bare  avowal  of  their  approbation  of  it.  Thus  stands  the 
matter  at  present  in  the  State.  I  think  nevertheless  the  voice  is  for  it."- 
Washington  to  Hamilton,  10  November,  1787. 


1 82  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 


"  Notwithstanding  this  decision  the  accounts  of  the  prevailing 
sentiments  without,  especially  on  James  river  and  Westwardly, 
are  various. — Nothing  decisive,  I  believe,  can  be  drawn — As  far 
as  I  can  form  an  opinion  however,  from  different  persons,  it 
should  seem  as  if  Men  judged  of  others,  by  their  own  affection 
or  disaffection  to  the  proposed  government. — In  the  Northern 
Neck  the  sentiment  I  believe,  is  very  generally  for  it. — I  think  it 
will  be  found  such  thro  the  State." 

The  Doctor  further  adds  : 

"  The  subject  of  British  debts  was  taken  up  the  other  day 
when  Mr.  Henry,  reflected  in  a  very  warm  declamatory  manner, 
on  the  circular  letter  of  Congress,  on  that  subject. — It  is  a  great 
and  important  matter  and  I  hope  will  be  determined  as  it  should 
be  notwithstanding  his  opposition." 

So  far  as  the  sentiments  of  Maryland,  with  respect 
to  the  proposed  Constitution,  have  come  to  my 
knowledge,  they  are  strongly  in  favor  of  it  ;  but  as 
this  is  the  day  on  which  the  Assembly  of  that  State 
ought  to  meet,  I  will  say  nothing  in  anticipation  of 
the  opinion  of  it.  Mr.  Carroll  of  Carrolton,  and  Mr. 
Thos.  Johnson,  are  declared  friends  to  it. 

With  sincere  regards  and  affect. 


TO    BUSHROD    WASHINGTON. 
T-.  MOUNT  VERNON.  10  November.  1787. 

DEAR  BUSHROD, 

In  due  course  of  post  your  letters  of  the  iQth  and 
26th  ultimo  came  to  hand,  and  I  thank  you  for  the 
communications  therein, — for  a  continuation  in  mat- 


"  With  respect  to  British  debts,  I  would  fain  hope,  let  the  eloquence  or 
abilities  of  any  man  or  set  of  men  be  what  they  may,  that  the  good  sense  and 
justice  of  this  State  will  never  suffer  a  violation  of  the  treaty,  or  pass  acts  of 
injustice  to  individuals.  Honesty  in  States,  as  well  as  individuals,  will  ever  be 
found  the  soundest  policy." — Washington  to  Stuart,  5  November,  1787. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  183 

ters  of  importance  I  shall  be  obliged  to  you.  That 
the  Assembly  would  afford  the  people  an  opportunity 
of  deciding  on  the  proposed  constitution,  I  had 
scarcely  a  doubt.  The  only  question  with  me  was, 
whether  it  would  go  forth  under  favorable  auspices, 
or  receive  the  stamp  of  disapprobation.  The  oppo 
nents  I  expected  (for  it  ever  has  been,  that  the 
adversaries  to  a  measure  are  more  active  than  its 
friends,)  would  endeavor  to  stamp  it  with  unfavora 
ble  impressions,  in  order  to  bias  the  judgment,  that 
is  ultimately  to  decide  on  it.  This  is  evidently  the 
case  with  the  writers  in  opposition,  whose  objections 
are  better  calculated  to  alarm  the  fears,  than  to  con 
vince  the  judgment,  of  their  readers.  They  build 
their  objections  upon  principles,  that  do  not  exist, 
which  the  constitution  does  not  support  them  in,  and 
the  existence  of  which  has  been,  by  an  appeal  to  the 
constitution  itself,  flatly  denied  ;  and  then,  as  if  they 
were  unanswerable,  draw  all  the  dreadful  consequences 
that  are  necessary  to  alarm  the  apprehensions  of  the 
ignorant  or  unthinking.  It  is  not  the  interest  of  the 
major  part  of  those  characters  to  be  convinced  ;  nor 
will  their  local  views  yield  to  arguments,  which  do 
not  accord  with  their  present  or  future  prospects. 

A  candid  solution  of  a  single  question,  to  which 
the  plainest  understanding  is  competent,  does,  in  my 
opinion,  decide  the  dispute  ;  namely,  Is  it  best  for  the 
States  to  unite  or  not  to  unite?  If  there  are  men, 
who  prefer  the  latter,  then  unquestionably  the  consti 
tution  which  is  offered  must,  in  their  estimation,  be 
wrong  from  the  words,  "  We  the  people"  to  the  signa- 


1 84  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 


ture,  inclusively ;  but  those,  who  think  differently, 
and  yet  object  to  parts  of  it,  would  do  well  to  con 
sider,  that  it  does  not  lie  with  any  one  State,  or  the 
minority  of  the  States,  to  superstruct  a  constitution 
for  the  whole.  The  separate  interests,  as  far  as  it  is 
practicable,  must  be  consolidated  ;  and  local  views 
must  be  attended  to,  as  far  as  the  nature  of  the  case 
will  admit.  Hence  it  is,  that  every  State  has  some 
objection  to  the  present  form,  and  these  objections 
are  directed  to  different  points.  That  which  is  most 
pleasing  to  one  is  obnoxious  to  another,  and  so  vice 
versa.  If  then  the  union  of  the  whole  is  a  desirable 
object,  the  component  parts  must  yield  a  little  in 
order  to  accomplish  it.  Without  the  latter,  the 
former  is  unattainable ;  for  again  I  repeat  it,  that  not 
a  single  State,  nor  the  minority  of  the  States,  can 
force  a  constitution  on  the  majority.  But,  admitting 
the  power,  it  will  surely  be  granted,  that  it  cannot  be 
done  without  involving  scenes  of  civil  commotion,  of 
a  very  serious  nature. 

Let  the  opponents  of  the  proposed  constitution  in 
this  State  be  asked,  and  it  is  a  question  they  certainly 
ought  to  have  asked  themselves,  what  line  of  conduct 
they  would  advise  to  adopt,  if  nine  other  States,  of 
which  I  think  there  is  little  doubt,  should  accede  to 
the  constitution.  Would  they  recommend,  that  it 
should  stand  single  ?  Will  they  connect  it  with 
Rhode  Island  ?  Or  even  with  two  others  checker- 
wise,  and  remain  with  them,  as  outcasts  from  the 
society,  to  shift  for  themselves  ?  Or  will  they  return 
to  their  dependence  on  Great  Britain  ?  Or,  lastly, 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  185 


have  the  mortification  to  come  in  when  they  will  be 
allowed  no  credit  for  doing  so  ? 

The  warmest  friends  and  the  best  supporters  the 
constitution  has,  do  not  contend  that  it  is  free  from 
imperfections  ;  but  they  found  them  unavoidable, 
and  are  sensible,  if  evil  is  likely  to  arise  therefrom, 
the  remedy  must  come  hereafter  ;  for  in  the  present 
moment  it  is  not  to  be  obtained  ;  and,  as  there  is  a 
constitutional  door  open  for  it,  I  think  the  people 
(for  it  is  with  them  to  judge),  can,  as  they  will  have 
the  advantage  of  experience  on  their  side,  decide 
with  as  much  propriety  on  the  alterations  and  amend 
ments  which  are  necessary,  as  ourselves.  I  do  not 
think  we  are  more  inspired,  have  more  wisdom,  or 
possess  more  virtue,  than  those  who  will  come  after  us. 

The  power  under  the  constitution  will  always  be 
in  the  people.  It  is  intrusted  for  certain  defined 
purposes,  and  for  a  certain  limited  period,  to  repre 
sentatives  of  their  own  choosing  ;  and,  whenever  it 
is  executed  contrary  to  their  interest,  or  not  agree 
able  to  their  wishes,  their  servants  can  and  undoubt 
edly  will  be  recalled.  It  is  agreed  on  all  hands,  that 
no  government  can  be  well  administered  without 
powers  ;  yet,  the  instant  these  are  delegated,  al 
though  those,  who  are  intrusted  with  the  administra 
tion,  are  no  more  than  the  creatures  of  the  people, 
act  as  it  were  but  for  a  day,  and  are  amenable  for 
every  false  step  they  take,  they  are,  from  the  moment 
they  receive  it,  set  down  as  tyrants  ;  their  natures, 
they  would  conceive  from  this,  immediately  changed, 
and  that  they  can  have  no  other  disposition  but  to  op- 


T86  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 


press.  Of  these  things,  in  a  government  constituted 
and  guarded  as  ours  .is,  I  have  no  idea  ;  and  do 
firmly  believe,  that,  whilst  many  ostensible  reasons 
are  assigned  to  prevent  the  adoption  of  it,  the  real 
ones  are  concealed  behind  the  curtains,  because  they 
are  not  of  a  nature  to  appear  in  open  day.  I  believe 
further,  supposing  them  pure,  that  as  great  evils 
result  from  too  great  jealousy  as  from  the  want 
of  it.  We  need  look,  I  think,  no  further  for  proof 
of  this,  than  to  the  constitution  of  some,  if  not  all,  of 
these  States.  No  man  is  a  warmer  advocate  for 
proper  restraints  and  wholesome  checks  in  every  de 
partment  of  government,  than  I  am  ;  but  I  have 
never  yet  been  able  to  discover  the  propriety  of 
placing  it  absolutely  out  of  the  power  of  men  to 
render  essential  services,  because  a  possibility  remains 
of  their  doing  ill. 

If  Mr.  Ronald  can  place  the  finances  of  this  coun 
try  upon  so  respectable  a  footing  as  he  has  intimated, 
he  will  deserve  much  of  its  thanks.  In  the  attempt, 
my  best  wishes,  I  have  nothing  more  to  offer,  will 
accompany  him.  I  hope  there  remains  virtue  enough 
in  the  Assembly  of  this  State  to  preserve  inviolate 
public  treaties  and  private  contracts.  If  these  are 
infringed,  farewell  to  respectability  and  safety  in  the 
government. 

I  have  possessed  a  doubt,  but  if  any  had  existed  in 
my  breast,  reiterated  proofs  would  have  convinced 
me  of  the  impolicy  of  all  commutable  taxes.  If  we 
cannot  learn  wisdom  from  experience,  it  is  hard  to 
say  where  it  is  to  be  found.  But  why  talk  of  learn- 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  187 

ing  it.  These  things  are  mere  jobs,  by  which  few 
are  enriched  at  the  public  expense  ;  for,  whether 
premeditation  or  ignorance  is  the  cause  of  this  de 
structive  scheme,  it  ends  in  oppression. 

You  have,  I  find,  broke  the  ice.  The  only  advice 
I  will  offer  to  you  on  the  occasion  (if  you  have  a 
mind  to  command  the  attention  of  the  House,)  is  to 
speak  seldom,  but  to  important  subjects,  except 
such  as  particularly  relate  to  your  constituents  ; 
and,  in  the  former  case,  make  yourself  perfectly 
master  of  the  subject.  Never  exceed  a  decent 
warmth,  and  submit  your  sentiments  with  diffidence. 
A  dictatorial  stile,  though  it  may  carry  conviction, 
is  always  accompanied  with  disgust.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    THOMAS    JOHNSON. 

o  MOUNT  VERNON,  22  November,  1787. 

The  lettter  with  which  you  have  been  pleased  to 
honor  me,  dated  the  i6th  inst.,  came  to  my  hand  the 
day  before  yesterday.  By  to-morrow's  Post  this 
answer  will  be  forwarded  to  you. 

Mr.  Rumsey  has  given  you  an  uncandid  account  of 
his  explanation  to  me  of  the  principle  on  which  his 
boat  was  to  be  propelled  against  stream.  At  the  time 
he  exhibited  his  model  and  obtained  certificate,  I 
have  no  reason  to  believe  that  the  use  of  steam  was 
contemplated  by  him,  sure  I  am  it  was  not  men 
tioned  ;  and  equally  certain  I  am,  that  it  would  not 
apply  to  the  project  he  then  had  in  view  ;  the  first 
communication  of  which  was  made  to  me  in  Septem- 


i88  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

her,  1784  (at  the  springs  in  Berkley).  The  Novr. 
following,  being  in  Richmond,  I  met  Mr.  Rumsey 
there  who  was  at  that  time  applying  to  the  Assembly 
for  a  exclusive  Act.  He  then  spoke  of  the  effect  of 
steam  and  the  conviction  he  was  under  of  the  useful 
ness  of  its  application  for  inland  navigation  ;  but  I 
did  not  then  conceive,  nor  have  I  done  so  at  any 
moment  since,  that  it  was  suggested  as  a  part  of  his 
original  plan,  but  rather  as  the  ebullition  of  his  genius. 
It  is  proper,  however,  for  me  to  add  that  some 
time  after  this  Mr.  Fitch  called  upon  me  on  his  way 
to  Richmond,  and  explaining  his  scheme,  wanted  a 
letter  from  me,  introductory  of  it  to  the  Assembly  of 
this  State,  the  giving  of  which  I  declined  ;  and  went 
on  to  inform  him,  that  tho'  I  was  bound  not  to 
disclose  the  principles  of  Mr.  Rumsey's  discovery,  I 
could  venture  to  assure  him  that  the  thought  of 
applying  steam  for  the  purpose  he  mentioned  was 
not  original,  but  had  been  mentioned  to  me  by  Mr. 
Rumsey — this  I  thought  myself  obliged  to  say,  that 
whichever  (if  either)  of  them  was  the  discoverer 
might  derive  the  benefit  of  the  invention.  To  the 
best  of  my  recollection  of  what  passed  between 
Mr.  Rumsey  and  me,  the  foregoing  is  an  impartial 
recital.  *  *  * 


TO    DAVID    STUART. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  30  November,  1787. 


DEAR  SIR, 

Your  favor  of  the  I4th  came  duly  to  hand.  I  am 
sorry  to  find  by  it,  that  the  opposition  gains  strength. 
1  do  not  wonder  much  at  this.  The  adversaries  to  a 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  189 

measure  are  generally,  if  not  always,  more  violent 
and  active  than  the  advocates,  and  frequently  employ 
means,  which  the  others  do  not,  to  accomplish  their 
ends. 

I  have  seen  no  publication  yet,  that  ought  in  my 
judgment  to  shake  the  proposed  constitution  in  the 
mind  of  an  impartial  and  candid  public.  In  fine,  I 
have  hardly  seen  one,  that  is  not  addressed  to  the 
passions  of  the  people,  and  obviously  calculated  to 
alarm  their  fears.  Every  attempt  to  amend  the  con 
stitution  at  this  time  is  in  my  opinion  idle  and  vain. 
If  there  are  characters,  who  prefer  disunion,  or  sep 
arate  confederacies,  to  the  general  government,  which 
is  offered  to  them,  their  opposition  may,  for  aught  I 
know,  proceed  from  principle ;  but,  as  nothing, 
according  to  my  conception  of  the  matter,  is  more  to 
be  deprecated  than  a  disunion  or  these  distinct  con 
federacies,  as  far  as  my  voice  can  go  it  shall  be 
offered  in  favor  of  the  latter.  That  there  are  some 
writers,  and  others  perhaps  who  may  not  have 
written,  that  wish  to  see  this  union  divided  into 
several  confederacies,  is  pretty  evident.  As  an  anti 
dote  to  these  opinions,  and  in  order  to  investigate 
the  ground  of  objections  to  the  constitution  which  is 
submitted,  the  Federalist,  under  the  signature  of 
PUBLIUS,  is  written.  The  numbers,  which  have  been 
published,  I  send  you.  If  there  is  a  printer  in  Rich 
mond,  who  is  really  well  disposed  to  support  the  new 
constitution,  he  would  do  well  to  give  them  a  place 
in  his  paper.  They  are,  I  think  I  may  venture  to 
say,  written  by  able  men  ;  and  before  they  are  fin 
ished  will,  or  I  am  mistaken,  place  matters  in  a  true 


190  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

point  of  light.  Although  I  am  acquainted  with  the 
writers,  who  have  a  hand  in  this  work,  I  am  not  at 
liberty  to  mention  names,  nor  would  I  have  it  known, 
that  they  are  sent  by  me  to  you  for  promulgation.1 

You  will  recollect,  that  the  business  of  the  Potomac 
Company  is  withheld  from  the  Assembly  of  Mary 
land  until  it  is  acted  upon  in  this  State  ;  that  the 
sitting  of  that  Assembly  is  expected  to  be  short ; 
and  that  our  operations  may  be  suspended,  if  there  is 
no  other  recourse  to  be  had  than  to  common  law 
process  to  obtain  the  dividends,  which  are  called  for 
by  the  directors  and  not  paid  by  the  subscribers. 

Certificate  and  commutable  taxes  I  hope  will  be 
done  away,2  and  that  the  Assembly  will  not  interfere 

1  "Pray,  if  it  is  not  a  secret,  who  is  the  author  or  authors  of  Publius?" 
Washington  to  Knox,  5  February,  1788. 

October  3Oth,  Hamilton  sent  to  Washington  the  first  number  of  the  Fed 
eralist,  without  any  intimation  as  to  the  authorship.  "  For  the  remaining 
numbers  of  PUBLIUS,"  wrote  Washington  in  reply,  "  I  shall  acknowledge  my 
self  obliged,  as  I  am  persuaded  the  subject  will  be  well  handled  by  the  author 
of  them."  November  i8th,  Madison  sent  him  seven  numbers,  suggesting  that 
they  be  republished  in  Virginia,  and  saying  that  his  own  degree  of  connection 
with  the  publication  was  such  as  to  "  afford  a  restraint  of  delicacy  from  inter 
esting  myself  directly  in  the  republication  elsewhere.  You  will  recognize  one 
of  the  pens  concerned  in  the  task.  There  are  three  in  the  whole.  A  fourth 
may  possibly  bear  a  part." 

-  Various  methods  were  devised  for  raising  taxes  by  receiving  substitutes  for 
specie.  The  tax  for  satisfying  the  requisitions  of  Congress  was  allowed  to  be 
paid  in  part  by  certificates,  or  evidences  of  claims  on  the  government,  which 
had  been  given  during  the  war.  The  different  States  had  borrowed  money, 
and  issued  loan-office  certificates,  which  bore  interest.  Warrants  were  granted 
from  time  to  time  for  the  interest  on  such  certificates.  The  State  of  Virginia 
had  passed  a  law,  authorizing  these  warrants  to  be  received  into  the  treasury 
in  payment  of  certain  kinds  of  taxes. — Hening's  Statutes,  vol.  xii.,  p.  95. 
Tobacco  was  also  received  for  taxes. — //>.,  p.  455.  And  there  was  a  strong 
wish,  on  the  part  of  some,  that  other  articles  of  produce  should  be  receivable 
for  the  same  purpose,  leaving  it  to  the  State  to  dispose  of  such  commodities, 
and  convert  them  into  specie.  Taxes  thus  paid  were  called  commutable. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  191 

either  with  public  treaties  or  private  contracts.  Bad 
indeed  must  the  situation  of  that  country  be,  when 
this  is  the  case.  With  great  pleasure  I  received  the 
information  respecting  the  commencement  of  my 
nephew's  political  course.  I  hope  he  will  not  be  so 
buoyed  by  the  favorable  impression  it  has  made,  as 
to  become  a  babbler.  If  the  convention  was  such  a 
tumultuous  and  disorderly  body  as  a  certain  gentle 
man  has  represented,  [it  was  due]  in  a  great  meas 
ure,  to  a  few  dissatisfied  characters  who  would  not 
submit  to  the  decisions  of  a  majority  thereof.  ' 
I  am,  dear  Sir,  your  most  obedient,  &c. 


TO    JAMES    MADISON,    IN    CONGRESS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  7  December,  1787. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

Since  my  last  to  you,  I  have  been  favored  with 
your  letters  of  the  28th  of  October  and  i8th  of 
November.  With  the  last  came  seven  numbers  of 
the  Federalist,  under  the  signature  of  PUBLIUS,  for 

O 

which  I  thank  you.  They  are  forwarded  to  a  gentle 
man  in  Richmond  for  republication  ;  the  doing  of 
which  in  this  State  will,  I  am  persuaded,  have  a 
good  effect,  as  there  are  certainly  characters,  who 
are  no  friends  to  a  general  government  ;  perhaps 
I  should  not  go  too  far  was  I  to  add,  who  have  no 
great  objection  to  the  introduction  of  anarchy  and 
confusion. 

The  solicitude  to  discover  what  the  several  State 
legislatures  would  do  with  the  constitution  is  now 


1 92  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

transferred  to  the  several  conventions  ;  the  decisions 
of  which,  being  more  interesting  and  conclusive,  is 
consequently  more  anxiously  expected  than  the  other. 
What  Pennsylvania  and  Delaware  have  done,  or  will 
do,  must  soon  be  known.  Other  conventions  to  the 
northward  and  eastward  of  them  are  treading  closely 
on  their  heels  ;  but  what  the  three  southern  States 
have  done,  or  in  what  light  the  new  constitution  is 
viewed  by  them,  I  have  not  been  able  to  learn. 
North  Carolina,  it  has  been  said,  u  by  some  accounts 
from  Richmond,"  will  be  governed  in  a  great  measure 
by  the  conduct  of  Virginia.  The  pride  of  South 
Carolina  will  not,  I  conceive,  suffer  this  influence  to 
work  in  her  councils  ;  and  the  disturbances  in  Georgia 
will,  or  I  am  mistaken,  show  the  people  of  it  the  pro 
priety  of  being  united,  and  the  necessity  there  is  for 
a  general  government.  If  these,  with  the  States  east 
ward  and  northward  of  us,  should  accede  to  the  federal 
government,  I  think  the  citizens  of  this  State  will 
have  no  cause  to  bless  the  opposers  of  it  here,  if  they 
should  carry  their  point.  A  paragraph  in  the  Balti 
more  paper  has  announced  a  change  in  the  sentiments 
of  Mr.  Jay  on  this  subject,  and  adds,  that,  from  being 
an  admirer  of  the  new  form,  he  has  become  a  bitter 
enemy  to  it.  This  relation,  without  knowing  Mr. 
Jay's  opinion,  I  discredit,  from  a  conviction,  that  he 
would  consider  the  matter  well  before  he  would  pass 
any  judgment,  and  having  done  so  would  not  change 
his  opinion  almost  in  the  same  breath. — I  am  anxious 
however  to  know  on  what  ground  this  report  origi 
nates,  especially  the  indelicacy  of  the  expression.  It 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  193 

is  very  unlikely,  therefore,  that  a  man  of  his  knowl 
edge  and  foresight  should  turn  on  both  sides  of  a 
question  in  so  short  a  space.1 

It  would  have  given  me  great  pleasure  to  have 
complied  with  your  request  in  behalf  of  your  foreign 
acquaintance.  At  present  I  am  unable  to  do  it. 
The  survey  of  the  county  between  the  Eastern  and 
Western  waters  is  not  yet  reported  by  the  Commis 
sioners — tho'  promised  to  be  made  very  shortly — the 
survey  being  completed.  No  draught  that  can  convey 
an  adequate  idea  of  the  work  on  this  river,  has  been 
yet  taken.  Much  of  the  labor  except  at  the  great 
falls  has  been  bestowed  in  the  bed  of  the  river  in  a 
removal  of  the  rocks  and  deepening  the  water  at  the 
great  falls — the  labor  has  indeed  been  great.  The 
water  there  (a  sufficiency  I  mean)  is  taken  into  a 
canal  about  200  yards  above  the  cataract,  and  con 
veyed  by  a  level  cut  (thro'  a  solid  rock  in  some  places 
and  much  stone  everywhere)  more  than  a  mile  to  the 
lock  seats,  five  in  number,  by  means  of  which,  when 
completed  the  craft  will  be  let  into  the  river  below 
the  falls  (which  together  amount  to  76  feet).  At  the 
Seneca  falls,  six  miles  above  the  great  falls,  a  channel 
which  has  been  formed  by  the  river  when  inundated, 
is  under  improvement  for  the  navigation.  The  same 
in  part  at  Shannondoah — At  the  lower  falls  where 

1  "  I  thank  you  for  your  obliging  letter,  enclosing  a  paragraph  respecting  me 
in  Mr.  Oswald's  paper.  You  have  my  authority  to  deny  the  charge  of  the  sen 
timents  it  imputes  to  me,  and  to  declare,  that  in  my  opinion  it  is  advisable  for 
the  people  of  America  to  adopt  the  constitution  proposed  by  the  late  conren- 
tion.  If  you  should  think  it  expedient  to  publish  this  letter,  I  have  no  objec 
tion  to  its  being  done." — Jay  to  John  Vaughan,  I  December,  1787. 
13 


194  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

nothing  has  yet  been  done,  a  level  cut  and  locks  are 
proposed.  These  constitute  the  principal  difficulties 
and  will  be  the  great  expense  of  this  undertaking — 
the  parts  of  the  river  between  requiring  loose  stones 
only  to  be  removed  in  order  to  deepen  the  water 
where  it  is  too  shallow  in  dry  season. 

P.  S.  Since  writing  the  foregoing,  I  have  received 
a  letter  from  a  member  "  of  the  Assembly  "  in  Rich 
mond,  dated  the  4th  instant,  giving  the  following 
information  :— 

"  I  am  sorry  to  inform  you,  that  the  constitution  has  lost  ground 
so  considerably,  that  it  is  doubted  whether  it  has  any  longer  a 
majority  in  its  favor.  From  a  vote,  which  took  place  the  other 
day,  this  would  appear  certain,  though  I  cannot  think  it  so  deci 
sive  as  the  enemies  to  it  consider  it.  It  marks,  however,  the  in 
consistency  of  some  of  its  opponents.  At  the  time  the  resolutions 
calling  a  convention  were  entered  into,  Colonel  M.  sided  with 
the  friends  to  the  constitution,  and  opposed  any  hint  being  given, 
expressive  of  the  sentiments  of  the  House  as  to  amendments. 
But,  as  it  was  unfortunately  omitted  at  that  time  to  make  provi 
sion  for  the  subsistence  of  the  convention,  it  became  necessary, 
to  pass  some  resolution  providing  for  any  expense,  which  may 
attend  an  attempt  to  make  amendments.  As  M.  had  on  the  former 
occasion  declared,  that  it  would  be  improper  to  make  any  dis 
covery  of  the  sentiments  of  the  House  on  the  subject,  and  that 
we  had  no  right  to  suggest  any  thing  to  a  body  paramount  to  us, 
his  advocating  such  a  resolution  was  matter  of  astonishment.  It 
is  true,  he  declared  it  was  not  declaratory  of  our  opinion  ;  but  the 
contrary  must  be  very  obvious.  As  I  have  heard  many  declare 
themselves  friends  to  the  constitution  since  the  vote,  I  do  not  con 
sider  it  as  altogether  decisive  of  the  opinion  of  the  House  with 
respect  to  it. 

"  I  am  informed,  both  by  General  Wilkinson,  who  is  just  ar 
rived  here  from  New  Orleans  by  way  of  North  Carolina,  and  Mr. 
Ross,  that  North  Carolina  is  almost  unanimous  for  adopting  it. 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  195 

The  latter  received  a  letter  from  a  member  of  that  Assembly 
now  sitting. 

"  In  a  debating  society  here,  which  meets  once  a  week,  this 
subject  has  been  canvassed  at  two  successive  meetings,  and  is  to 
be  finally  decided  on  to-morrow  evening.  As  the  whole  Assem 
bly,  almost,  has  attended  on  these  occasions,  their  opinion  will 
then  be  pretty  well  ascertained  ;  and,  as  the  opinion  on  this  occa 
sion  will  have  much  influence,  some  of  Colonel  Innis's  friends 
have  obtained  a  promise  from  him  to  enter  the  lists. 

"  The  bill  respecting  British  debts  has  passed  our  House,  but 
with  such  a  clause  as  I  think  makes  it  worse  than  a  rejection." 

The  letter,  of  which  I  enclose  you  a  printed  copy, 
from  Colonel  R.  H.  Lee  to  the  Governor,  has  been 
circulated  with  great  industry  in  manuscript  four 
weeks  before  it  went  to  press,  and  is  said  to  have  had 
a  bad  influence.1  The  enemies  to  the  constitution 
leave  no  stone  unturned  to  increase  the  opposition  to 
it.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    COLONEL    THOMAS    LEWIS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  25  December,  1787. 

SIR, 

It  is  my  desire  and  I  am  told  that  it  is  the  wish  of 
many — and  sure  I  am  policy  requires  it — that  the  un 
cultivated  tracts  of  land  on  the  Great  Kanhawa  and 
Ohio  belonging  to  the  Military  should  be  settled. 
The  difficulty  with  me  respecting  mine  has  been,  how 
to  draw  the  line  of  mutual  advantage  for  Landlord  and 
Tenant,  with  respect  to  the  terms  ;  and  where  to  find 

1  This  letter  contained  a  series  of  objections  to  the  constitution,  as  reported 
by  the  convention.  It  was  circulated  widely  in  the  newspapers.  Lee  after 
wards  wrote  a  series  of  letters,  over  the  signature  "Federal  Farmer,"  which 
had  great  popularity,  many  thousands  being  printed  and  sold  in  the  States. 


196  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

a  confidential  person  on  or  near  the  spot  who  would 
act  for  me  as  Agent. 

Two  reasons,  hitherto,  have  restrained  me  from 
making  application  to  you,  on  this  head — first,  the 
uncertainty  I  was  under  of  your  having  become  an 
actual  resident  in  those  parts — and  second  a  doubt 
whether  it  might  be  agreeable  to  you  to  accept  this 
trust  on  account  of  the  trouble,  and  little  profit  that 
would  derive  from  the  agency,  at  least  for  some  time. 

The  first  cause  being  removed  (having  understood, 
by  means  of  some  members  in  Assembly  that  you 
live  at  Point  Pleasant)  I  shall  take  the  liberty  of 
trying  you  on  the  second  ;  under  a  hope,  that  more 
from  the  desire  of  seeing  the  country  settled  the 
neighborhood  strengthened  and  property  thereby  se 
cured  ;  and  the  value  of  it  increased ;  than  from  any 
pecuniary  considerations  at  the  present  moment,  you 
may  be  induced  to  aid  me  in  seating  my  lands  on  the 
great  Kanhawa  and  on  the  Ohio  between  the  mouths 
of  the  two  Rivers  bearing  that  name. 

If  you  accept  the  trust  this  letter  shall  be  your 
authority — fully — and  amply  given  and  binding  upon 
me  and  my  heirs  for  the  following  purposes.— 

First.  To  place  as  many  Tenants  on  the  several 
tracts  of  Lands  (Plats  of  which  with  my  signature 
annexed  to  them  shall  accompany  this  Power)  as  you 
can  obtain  consistently  with  your  judgment,  and 
suggestions  hereafter  mentioned. 

Second.  That  an  exemption  from  the  payment  of 
Rents  for  the  term  of  three  years  shall  be  allowed 
them  provided  certain  reasonable  improvements  such 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  197 

as  you  shall  stipulate  for, — and  which  I  think  (but 
leave  the  matter  to  you)  ought  to  be  comfortable 
houses, — Acres  of  Arable — and — Acres  of  Meadow 
land,  and  a  certain  number  of  frute  Trees  planted. 

Third.  That  for  the  fourth  year,  rents  shall  be 
come  due,  and  shall  consist  (as  I  am  told  the  custom 
of  the  Country  is)  of  a  third  of  whatever  is  raised  on 
the  premises,  which  rents  shall  be  annually  paid  there 
after  to  you,  or  my  agent  for  the  time  being  in  that 
Country.— 

Fourth.  That  under  this  tenure  they  may  be  as 
sured  of  the  places  (if  they  incline  to  remain,  and 
will  go  on  to  improve  them)  for  the  term  of — years  ; 
were  these  not  to  exceed  ten,  it  would  be  more  pleas 
ing  to  me  than  any  extension  beyond  that  number  ; 
but  if  this  limitation  will  not  be  acceded  to  on  the 
part  of  the  tenant,  I  must  leave  it  to  your  discretion 
to  augment  them  making  the  term  definite,  and  not 
for  lives,  which  is  not  only  uncertain,  but  often  intro 
ductory  of  disputes  to  ascertain  the  termination  of 
them — Instances  of  which  have  happened  to  me.  All 
mines  and  minerals  will  be  reserved  for  the  landlord, 
— and  where  there  are  valuable  streams  for  water 
works,  the  Rents  must  bear  some  proportion  to  the 
advantages  which  are  likely  to  result  from  them.— 

Fifth.  Whether  custom  authorizes,  or  justice  re 
quires  that  the  tenant  should  pay  the  land  tax  of 
what  he  agrees  to  hold  before  the  rent  becomes  due  ; 
or  afterwards,  in  whole,  or  part,  must  be  governed 
by  the  practice  which  prevails  and  consequently  is 
left  to  your  decision. 


198  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

Sixth.  I  do  not  conceive  it  necessary  nor  should 
I  incline  to  go  into  much,  or  indeed  any  expense  in 
laying  the  Land  off  into  Lots  till  it  begins  to  be  thick 
settled  and  productive.  The  first  comers  will  of 
course  have  the  first  choice — but  they  and  all  others 
are  to  be  informed  that  their  lotts  (be  the  quantity 
little  or  much)  will  be  bounded  by  water  courses,  or 
(where  this  is  not  the  case)  by  convenient  and  regu 
lar  forms. — And  as  most  of  my  Tracts  (as  you  will 
see  by  the  plats)  have  extensive  boundaries  on  the 
rivers  running  but  a  little  ways  back  it  is  my  wish,  in 
deed  it  naturally  follows,  that  back  part  of  the  land 
should  be  considered  as  the  support  of  that  which 
will  be  first  settled  and  cleared  on  the  margins  of  the 
Rivers  and  a  sufficiency  of  it  reserved  for  that 
purpose. 

Seventh.  For  your  trouble  in  negotiating  this 
business,  I  am  very  willing  to  allow  the  usual  Com 
mission  for  collecting — converting  into  cash  and 
transmitting  to  me,  the  rents  after  they  shall  com 
mence  and  whatever  you  may  think  proper  to  charge 
me  (in  reason)  for  your  trouble  till  this  shall  happen, 
—I  will  cheerfully  agree  to  pay. 

Whether  you  accept  this  trust  or  not,  you  will  do 
me  a  favor  in  the  communication  of  your  sentiments 
on  the  subject.  There  are  two  ways  by  which  letters 
will  come  safe. — Viz — thrown  into  the  Post  Office 
at  Philadelphia  or  into  that  at  Richmond. — Colo. 
Bayard  an  acquaintance  of  mine,  or  any  acquaintance 
you  may  have  at  Fort  Pitt,  will  forward  them  to  the 
first  place — and  the  means  of  doing  it  to  the  latter 


1787]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  199 

you  must  be  a  better  judge  of  than  myself — If  the 
letters  once  get  into  the  Post  Office,  I  shall  be  sure 
of  them. — On  private  conveyances  there  is  no  reli 
ance — they  are  tossed  about  and  neglected  so  as 
rarely  to  reach  their  intended  destination  when  sent 
in  this  manner. 

If  you  should  incline  to  act  under  this  power  your 
own  good  sense  and  judgment  will  at  once  dictate  the 
propriety,  indeed  necessity  of  promulgating  it  as  ex 
tensively  as  you  can  by  Advertisements  to  those  parts 
from  whence  settlers  are  most  likely  to  be  drawn  over 
and  above  the  opportunities  which  your  situation 
gives  you  of  communicating  the  matter  to  travellers 
by  water  on  the  Ohio. 

On  the  other  hand,  if  you  do  not  incline  to  act  I 
would  thank  you  for  returning  me  the  papers  here 
with  enclosed  as  it  will  save  me  the  trouble  of  making 
other  copies. 

Whether  the  improvements  which  I  had  made  on 
the  Lands  (of  which  you  have  herewith  the  draughts) 
in  the  years  1 774  and  5  will  be  of  use  to  Settlers  at  this 
day,  or  not,  you  who  are  on  the  spot  can  best  deter 
mine — They  cost  me,  or  were  valued  to  between 
^"1500  and  2000. — If  they  are  useful  the  exemption 
from  rent  should  be  shorter — I  thought  it  necessary 
to  bring  the  matter  into  view  tho'  my  expectations 
from  it  are  small.  I  am,  &c— 

P.  S.  I  have  a  small  tract  called  the  round  bottom 
containing  abt.  600  Acres,  which  I  would  also  let. — It 
lyes  on  the  Ohio,  opposite  to  pipe  Creek,  and  a  little 
above  Capteening. 


200  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

TO    THOMAS    JEFFERSON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  i  January,  1788. 

DEAR  SIR, 

I  have  received  your  favor  of  the  i4th  of  August, 
and  am  sorry  that  it  is  not  in  my  power  to  give  any 
further  information  relative  to  the  practicability  of 
opening  a  communication  between  Lake  Erie  and  the 
Ohio,  than  you  are  already  possessed  of.  I  have 
made  frequent  inquiries  since  the  time  of  your  writing 
at  Annapolis,  but  could  never  collect  any  thing  that 
was  decided  or  satisfactory.  I  have  again  renewed 
them,  and  flatter  myself  with  better  prospects. 

The  accounts  generally  agree  as  to  its  being  a  flat 
country  between  the  waters  of  Lake  Erie  and  Big 
Beaver,  but  differ  very  much  with  respect  to  the  dis 
tance  between  their  sources,  their  navigation,  and  the 
inconveniences  which  would  attend  the  cutting  a  canal 
between  them.  From  the  best  information  I  have 
been  able  to  obtain  of  that  country,  the  sources  of 
the  Muskingum  and  Cayahoga  approach  nearer  to 
each  other  than  Big  Beaver  ;  but  a  communication 
through  the  Muskingum  would  be  more  circuitous 
and  difficult,  having  the  Ohio  in  a  greater  extent  to 
ascend,  unless  the  latter  could  be  avoided  by  opening 
a  communication  between  James  River  and  the  Great 
Kanhawa,  or  between  the  Little  Kanhawa  and  the 
west  branch  of  the  Monongahela,  which  is  said  to  be 
very  practicable  by  a  short  portage.  As  a  testimony 
thereof,  a  road  is  now  opened,  or  opening,  under 
the  authority  and  at  the  expense  of  the  States  of 
Virginia  and  Maryland,  from  the  North  Branch  of 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  201 

Potomac,  "  commencing  at  the  mouth  of  Savage 
River,"  to  Cheat  River  ;  and  continued  from  thence 
to  the  navigable  water  of  the  Little  Kanhawa,  at  the 
cost  of  the  former. 

The  distance  between  Lake  Erie  and  the  Ohio 
through  the  Big  Beaver  is  however  so  much  less  than 
the  route  through  the  Muskingum,  that  it  would  in 
my  opinion  operate  very  strongly  in  favor  of  opening 
a  canal  between  the  sources  of  the  nearest  water  of 
the  Lake  and  Big  Beaver,  although  the  distance  be 
tween  them  should  be  much  greater,  and  the  opera 
tion  more  difficult,  than  to  the  Muskingum,  as  it  is 
the  direct  line  to  the  nearest  shipping  port  on  the 
Atlantic.  I  shall  omit  no  opportunity  of  gaining 
every  information  relative  to  this  important  subject, 
and  with  pleasure  communicate  to  you  whatever  may 
be  worthy  of  your  attention.1 

I  did  myself  the  honor  to  forward  to  you  the  plan 
of  government  formed  by  the  convention,  as  soon  as 
that  body  rose  ;  but  was  not  a  little  disappointed, 
and  mortified  indeed,  (as  I  wished  to  make  the  first 
offering  of  it  to  you,)  to  find  by  a  letter  dated  the 
9th  of  November  in  New  York  from  Commodore 
Jones,  that  it  was  at  that  time  in  his  possession. 
You  have  undoubtedly  received  it,  or  some  other,  ere 
now,  and  formed  an  opinion  upon  it.  The  public 
attention  is  at  present  wholly  engrossed  by  this  im 
portant  subject.  The  legislatures  of  those  States 
(Rhode  Island  excepted),  which  have  met  since  the 

1  A  letter  of  inquiry  to  Richard  Butler  is  printed  in  Sparks,  ix.,  301  ;  and 
another  to  William  Irvine,  ix. ,  326. 


202  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

constitution  has  been  formed,  have  readily  assented  to 
its  being  submitted  to  a  convention  chosen  by  the 
people.  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  and  Delaware, 
are  the  only  States  whose  conventions  have  as  yet 
decided  upon  it.  In  the  former  it  was  adopted  by 
forty-six  to  twenty-three,  and  in  the  two  latter 
unanimously. 

Connecticut  and  Massachusetts  are  to  hold  their 

• 

conventions  on  the  first^  and  second  Tuesdays  of 
this  month ;  Maryland  in  April,  Virginia  in  June  ; 
and  upon  the  whole  it  appears,  so  far  as  I  have  had 
an  opportunity  of  learning  the  opinions  of  the 
people  in  the  several  States,  that  it  will  be  received. 
There  will  undoubtedly  be  more  or  less  opposition  to 
its  being  adopted  in  most  of  the  States,  and  in  none 
a  more  formidable  one  than  in  this,  as  many  influen 
tial  characters  here  have  taken  a  decided  part  against 
it,  among  whom  are  Mr.  Henry,  Colonel  Mason, 
Governor  Randolph,  and  Mr.  Richard  Henry  Lee  ; 
but  from  every  information,  which  I  have  been  able 
to  obtain,  I  think  there  will  be  a  majority  in  its 
favor,  notwithstanding  their  dissention.  In  New 
York  a  considerable  opposition  will  also  be  given. 

I  am  much  obliged  to  you,  my  dear  Sir,  for  the 
account  which  you  gave  me  of  the  general  state  of 
affairs  in  Europe.  I  am  glad  to  hear,  that  the 
Assemblee  des  Notables  has  been  productive  of  good 
in  France.  The  abuse  of  the  finances,  being  dis 
closed  to  the  King  and  the  nation,  must  open  their 
eyes,  and  lead  to  the  adoption  of  such  measures  as 
will  prove  beneficial  to  them  in  future.  From  the 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  203 

public  papers  it  appears,  that  the  parliaments  of  the 
several  provinces,  and  particularly  that  of  Paris,  have 
acted  with  great  spirit  and  resolution.  Indeed,  the 
rights  of  mankind,  the  privileges  of  the  people,  and 
the  true  principles  of  liberty,  seem  to  have  been 
more  generally  discussed  and  better  understood 
throughout  Europe  since  the  American  revolution, 
than  they  were  at  any  former  period. 

Although  the  finances  of  France  and  England 
were  such,  as  led  you  to  suppose  at  the  time  you 
wrote  to  me,  yet,  if  we  credit  the  concurrent  accounts 
from  every  quarter,  there  is  little  doubt  but  that  they 
have  commenced  hostilities  before  this.  Russia  and 
the  Porte  have  formally  begun  the  contest,  and  from 
appearances,  (as  given  to  us,)  it  is  not  improbable 
but  that  a  general  war  will  be  kindled  in  Europe. 
Should  this  be  the  case,  we  shall  feel  more  than  ever 
the  want  of  an  efficient  general  government  to  regu 
late  our  commercial  concerns,  to  give  us  a  national 
respectability,  and  to  connect  the  political  views  and 
interests  of  the  several  States  under  one  head  in  such 
a  manner,  as  will  effectually  prevent  them  from  form 
ing  separate,  improper,  or  indeed  any  connexion  with 
the  European  powers,  which  can  involve  them  in 
their  political  disputes.1  For  our  situation  is  such, 
as  makes  it  not  only  unnecessary,  but  extremely  im- 

1  "Whether  war  or  peace  will  be  the  issue  of  the  dispute  between  France 
and  England,  seems  as  yet  undecided.  If  the  former,  we  shall  certainly  get 
involved,  unless  there  is  energy  enough  in  Government  to  restrain  our  people 
within  proper  bounds ;  and  that  the  power  of  the  present  government  is 
inadequate  to  accomplish  this,  I  believe  none  will  deny." — Washington  to 
Knox,  10  January,  1788. 


ff  tJNIVFKSITT 


204  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

prudent,  for  us  to  take  a  part  in  their  quarrels ;  and 
whenever  a  contest  happens  among  them,  if  we 
wisely  and  properly  improve  the  advantages,  which 
nature  has  given  us,  we  may  be  benefited  by  their 
folly,  provided  we  conduct  ourselves  with  circumspec 
tion  and  under  proper  restrictions  ;  for  I  perfectly 
agree  with  you,  that  an  extensive  speculation,  a 
spirit  of  gambling,  or  the  introduction  of  any  thing, 
which  will  divert  our  attention  from  agriculture,  must 
be  extremely  prejudicial  if  not  ruinous  to  us.  But  I 
conceive,  under  an  energetic  general  government, 
such  regulations  might  be  made,  and  such  measures 
taken,  as  would  render  this  country  the  asylum  of 
pacific  and  industrious  characters  from  all  parts  of 
Europe,  would  encourage  the  cultivation  of  the 
earth  by  the  high  price,  which  its  products  would 
command,  and  would  draw  the  wealth  and  wealthy 
men  of  other  nations  into  our  bosom,  by  giving 
security  to  property  and  liberty  to  its  holders. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


TO    EDMUND     RANDOLPH,    GOVERNOR    OF    VIRGINIA. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  8  January,  1788. 

DEAR  SIR, 

The  letter,  which  you  did  me  the  honor  of  writing 
to  me  on  the  27th  ultimo,  with  the  enclosure,1  came 
duly  to  hand.  I  receive  them  as  a  fresh  instance  of 
your  friendship  and  attention.  For  both  I  thank  you. 

1  Containing  his  objections  to  the  new  constitution. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  205 

The  diversity  of  sentiments  upon  the  important 
matter,  which  has  been  submitted  to  the  people,  was 
as  much  expected  as  it  is  regretted  by  me.  The 
various  passions  and  motives,  by  which  men  are  in 
fluenced,  are  concomitants  of  fallibility,  engrafted  into 
our  nature  for  the  purposes  of  unerring  wisdom  ; 
but,  had  I  entertained  a  latent  hope,  (at  the  time  you 
moved  to  have  the  constitution  submitted  to  a  second 
convention,)  that  a  more  perfect  form  would  be  agreed 
to,  in  a  word,  that  any  constitution  would  be  adopted 
under  the  impressions  and  instructions  of  the  mem 
bers,  the  publications,  which  have  taken  place  since, 
would  have  eradicated  every  form  of  it.  How  do  the 
sentiments  of  the  influential  characters  in  this  State, 
who  are  opposed  to  the  constitution,  and  have  favored 
the  public  with  their  opinions,  quadrate  with  each 
other  ?  Are  they  not  at  variance  on  some  of  the 
most  important  points  ?  If  the  opponents  in  the  same 
State  cannot  agree  in  their  principles,  what  prospect 
is  there  of  a  coalescence  with  the  advocates  of  the 
measure,  when  the  different  views  and  jarring  interests 
of  so  wide  and  extended  an  empire  are  to  be  brought 
forward  and  combated  ? 

To  my  judgment  it  is  more  clear  than  ever,  that  an 
attempt  to  amend  the  constitution,  which  is  submitted, 
would  be  productive  of  more  heat  and  greater  con 
fusion  than  can  well  be  conceived.  There  are  some 
things  in  the  new  form,  I  will  readily  acknowledge, 
which  never  did,  and  I  am  persuaded  never  will,  obtain 
my  cordial  approbation  ;  but  I  then  did  conceive,  and 
do  now  most  firmly  believe,  that  in  the  aggregate  it  is 


206  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

the  best  constitution,  that  can  be  obtained  at  this 
epoch,  and  that  this,  or  a  dissolution  of  the  Union, 
awaits  our  choice,  and  are  the  only  alternatives  before 
us.  Thus  believing,  I  had  not,  nor  have  I  now,  any 
hesitation  in  deciding  on  which  to  lean. 

I  pray  your  forgiveness  for  the  expression  of  these 
sentiments.  In  acknowledging  the  receipt  of  your 
letter  on  this  subject,  it  was  hardly  to  be  avoided, 
although  I  am  well-disposed  to  let  the  matter  rest 
entirely  on  its  own  merits,  and  men's  minds  to  their 
own  workings.  With  very  great  esteem  and  regard 
I  am,  &c. 


TO    COLONEL    FREDERICK    WEISSENFELS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  10  January,  1788. 

SIR  : 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  loth  of  Decem 
ber.  In  answer  to  that,  as  well  as  those  which  you 
wrote  to  me  in  June  last,  I  am  sorry  to  inform  you 
that  I  cannot,  with  any  propriety,  make  application  to 
Congress,  had  [it]  the  offices  to  bestow,  or  any  other 
publick  body  in  your  behalf,  for  an  appointment ; 
because  it  would  be  acting  directly  contrary  to  a  reso 
lution  which  I  made,  when  I  quitted  the  publick 
service,  not  to  make  application  for,  or  interfere  with 
appointments  of  any  kind. 

It  is  a  matter  of  regret  as  well  as  surprize  that  you 
should  apply  to  me  in  an  affair  of  this  nature,  in 
preference  to  those  persons  among  whom  you  live  and 
have  been  more  immediately  employ'd,  and  who  must 
from  their  long  acquaintance  with  you,  have  a  much 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  207 

better  knowledge  of  your  merits  and  sufferings  than 
I  can  be  supposed  to  have.  If  you  expect  relief  from 
the  Cincinnati,  it  is  to  the  State  Society  you  must 
look  for  it,  or  apply  to  the  General-meeting,  when 
convened,  for  I  cannot,  as  an  individual,  transact  any 
business  of  this  kind  relating  to  the  Society.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    JAMES    MADISON,    IN    CONGRESS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  10  January,  1788. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

I  stand  indebted  to  you  for  your  favors  of  the  2oth 
and  26th  ultimo,  and  I  believe  for  that  of  the  i4th 
also,  and  their  enclosures.  It  does  not  appear  to 
me,  that  there  is  any  certain  criterion  in  this  State  by 
which  a  decided  judgment  can  be  formed,  as  to  the 
opinion  entertained  by  its  citizens  with  respect  to  the 
new  constitution.  My  belief  on  this  occasion  is  that 
whenever  the  matter  is  brought  to  a  final  decision, 
not  only  a  majority,  but  a  large  one,  will  be  found 
in  its  favor.  That  the  opposition  should  have  gained 
strength  at  Richmond,  among  the  members  of  Assem 
bly,  is  not,  if  true,  to  be  wondered  at,  when  we  con 
sider  that  the  great  adversaries  to  the  constitution 
are  all  assembled  at  that  place,  acting  conjointly, 
with  the  promulgated  sentiments  of  Colonel  Richard 
Henry  Lee  as  auxiliary.  It  is  said,  however,  and  I 
believe  it  may  be  depended  upon,  that  the  latter, 
(though  he  may  retain  his  sentiments,)  has  with 
drawn,  or  means  to  withdraw,  his  opposition  ;  because, 
as  he  has  expressed  himself,  or  as  others  have  done 


208  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

it  for  him,  he  finds  himself  in  bad  company  such  as  with 
M[erce]r,  Sm[i]th,  &c,  &c.  His  brother,  Francis  L. 
Lee,  on  whose  judgment  the  family  place  much  reli 
ance,  is  decidedly  in  favor  of  the  new  form,  under  a 
conviction,  that  it  is  the  best  that  can  be  obtained, 
and  because  it  promises  energy,  stability,  and  that 
security,  which  is,  or  ought  to  be,  the  wish  of  every 
good  citizen  of  the  Union. 

How  far  the  determination  of  the  question  before 
the  debating  club,  (mentioned  to  you  in  a  former 
letter,)  may  be  considered  as  auspicious  of  the  final 
decision  of  the  convention  in  this  State,  I  will  not 
prognosticate  ;  but  in  this  club  the  question,  it  seems, 
was  determined  by  a  very  large  majority  in  favor  of 
the  constitution.  But  of  all  arguments,  that  may  be 
used  at  the  convention,  which  is  to  be  held  for  it,  the 
most  prevailing  one  I  expect  will  be,  that  nine  States 
at  least  will  have  acceded  to  it.  And  if  the  unanimity 
or  majorities  in  those  which  follow,  are  equal  to  those 
which  are  passed,  the  force  of  them  will  prove  irresist 
ible.  The  governor  has  given  his  reasons  to  the 
public  for  withholding  his  signature  ;  a  copy  of  them 
I  send  you. 

Our  Assembly  has  been  long  in  session,  employed 
chiefly,  as  far  as  I  can  understand,  in  rectifying  some 
of  the  mistakes  of  the  last,  and  committing  new  ones 
for  emendations  at  the  next ;  yet,  "  Who  so  wise  as 
we  are  ?"  We  are  held  in  painful  suspense  in  regard 
to  European  matters.  War,  or  peace,  seems  yet 
undecided,  although  the  first  is  loudly  talked  of.  I 
have  no  regular  correspondent  in  Massachusetts  ; 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  209 

otherwise,  as  an  occasional  matter,  I  should  have 
had  no  objection  to  the  communication  of  my  senti 
ments  to  him,  as  they  are  unequivocal  and  decided. 
I  am,  &c. 

P.  S.  I  have  this  moment  been  informed,  that  the 
Assembly  of  North  Carolina  have  postponed  the 
meeting  of  the  convention  of  that  State  until  July. 
This  seems  to  be  calculated  evidently  for  the  purpose 
of  taking  the  tone  from  Virginia.  1 


TO    CHARLES    CARTER. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  12  January,  1788. 

DEAR  SIR, 

I  find  that  an  extract  from  my  letter  to  you  is  run 
ning  through  all  the  newspapers,  and  published  in 
that  of  Baltimore  with  the  addition  of  my  name. 
Although  I  have  no  disinclination  to  the  promul 
gation  of  my  sentiments  on  the  proposed  constitu 
tion,  (not  having  concealed  them  on  any  occasion,)  yet 
I  must  nevertheless  confess,  that  it  gives  me  pain 
to  see  the  hasty  and  indigested  production  of  a 

1  "  From  the  States  to  the  south  of  it  [North  Carolina],  I  have  no  informa 
tion  that  can  be  relied  on,  except  that  Georgia  in  appointing  a  convention  have 
accompanied  the  act  with  powers  to  alter  or  amend  the  Federal  Constitution. 
But  if  a  weak  State,  with  the  Indians  on  its  back  and  the  Spaniards  on  its 
flank,  do  not  see  the  necessity  of  a  General  Government,  there  must,  I  think, 
be  wickedness  or  insanity  in  the  way.  The  unanimity  and  generosity  with 
which  the  County  of  Philadelphia  has  been  offered  for  the  seat  of  the  Fsederal 
government  by  the  land  holders  thereof,  gives  much  weight  and  merit  to  the 
invitation,  and  will  probably  be  an  inducement  to  others  to  follow  the  example." 
—  Washington  to  Samuel  Powel,  18  January,  1788.  The  Georgia  convention 
assembled  at  Augusta  on  Christmas  day,  and  on  the  2d  of  January  fully 
adopted  the  new  constitution. 
14 


2io  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

private  letter  handed  to  the  public,  to  be  animad 
verted  upon  by  the  adversaries  of  the  new  govern 
ment. 

Could  I  have  supposed,  that  the  contents  of  a 
private  letter,  (marked  with  evident  haste,)  would 
have  composed  a  newspaper  paragraph,  I  certainly 
should  have  taken  some  pains  to  dress  the  sentiments 
(to  whom  known  is  indifferent  to  me)  in  less  excep 
tionable  language,  and  would  have  assigned  some 
reasons  in  support  of  my  opinion,  and  the  charges 
against  others.  I  am  persuaded  your  intentions 
were  good  ;  but  I  am  not  less  persuaded,  that  you 
have  provided  food  for  strictures  and  criticisms.  Be 
this  however  as  it  may,  it  shall  pass  off  unnoticed  by 
me,  as  I  have  no  inclination  and  still  less  abilities 
for  scribbling.  With  very  great  esteem  and  regard, 
I  am,  &C.1 

1  It  appeared  afterwards,  that  a  copy  of  the  letter  had  been  taken  and  sent 
to  press  without  Mr.  Carter's  knowledge.  The  paragraph  referred  to  was  the 
following  : 

"  I  thank  you  for  your  congratulations  on  my  return  from  the  Convention, 
and  with  what  you  add  respecting  the  Constitution.  My  decided  opinion  of 
the  matter  is  that  there  is  no  alternative  between  the  adoption  of  it  and 
anarchy. — If  one  State,  however  important  it  may  conceive  itself  to  be,  should 
suppose,  or  a  minority  of  the  States,  that  they  can  dictate  a  Constitution  to 
the  majority,  unless  they  have  the  power  of  administring  to  good  effect, 
administring  the  ultima  ratio,  they  will  find  themselves  deceived.  All  the 
opposition  to  it  that  I  have  yet  seen,  is,  I  must  confess,  addressed  more  to  the 
passions  than  to  the  reason — and  clear  I  am  if  another  Federal  Convention  is 
attempted,  the  sentiment  of  the  members  will  be  more  discordant  or  less 
conciliatory  than  the  last — in  fine — that  they  will  agree  upon  no  general  plan. 
General  government  is  now  suspended  by  a  thread,  I  might  go  farther,  and 
say,  it  is  really  at  an  end ;  and  what  will  be  the  consequence  of  a  fruitless 
attempt  to  amend  the  one  which  is  offered,  before  it  is  tried — or  of  the  delay 
from  the  attempt  does  not  in  my  judgment  need  the  gift  of  prophecy  to  pre 
dict.  I  am  not  a  blind  admirer  (for  I  saw  the  imperfections)  of  the  Constitu- 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  211 

TO    JONATHAN    TRUMBULL. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  5  February,  1788. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

I  thank  you  for  your  obliging  favor  of  the  Qth 
ulto.  which  came  duly  to  hand,  and  congratulate  with 
you  on  the  adoption  of  the  new  Constitution  in  your 
State  by  so  decided  a  majority  and  so  many  respecta 
ble  Characters.  I  wish  for  the  same  good  tidings 
from  Massachusetts  but  the  accounts  from  thence 
are  not  so  favorable — The  decision,  it  is  even  said, 
is  problematical,  arising,  as  I  believe  Q/ioths  of 
the  opposition  does,  from  local  circumstance  and 
sinister  views.  The  result  of  the  deliberations  in 
that  State  will  have  considerable  influence  on  those 


tion  to  which  I  have  assisted  to  give  birth  ;  but  I  am  fully  persuaded  it  is  the 
best  that  can  be  obtained  at  this  day,  and  that  it  or  disunion,  is  before  us.  If 
the  first  is  our  choice,  when  the  defects  of  it  are  experienced,  a  constitutional 
door  is  open  for  amendments  and  may  be  adopted  in  a  peaceable  manner 
without  tumult  or  disorder." — Washington  to  Charles  Carter,  14  December, 
1787. 

"  You  have  undoubtedly  seen  my  sentiments  upon  the  Constitution  in  an 
extract  of  a  letter  written  by  me  to  a  Gentleman  in  Fredericksburg,  which  I 
find  has  circulated  pretty  generally  through  the  papers  ;  — I  had  not  the  most 
distant  idea  of  its  ever  appearing  before  the  publick,  for  altho'  I  have  not  the 
least  wish  or  desire  to  conceal  my  sentiments  upon  the  subject  from  any  person 
living,  yet,  as  the  letter  containing  the  paragraph  alluded  to  was  written 
upon  several  other  matters  quite  foreign  to  this  &  intended  only  for  that  Gen 
tleman's  own  inspection,  I  did  not  attend  to  the  manner  of  expressing  my 
ideas,  or  dress  them  in  the  language  I  should  have  done,  if  I  had  the  smallest 
suspicion  of  them  ever  coming  to  the  public  eye  through  that  channel." — 
Washington  to  Lincoln,  31  January,  1788. 

"  I  cannot  but  think,  on  the  whole,  that  it  may  have  been  of  service,  not 
withstanding  the  scandalous  misinterpretations  of  it  which  have  been  at 
tempted.  As  it  has  evidently  the  air  of  a  paragraph  to  a  familiar  friend,  the 
omission  of  an  argumentative  support  of  the  opinion  given  will  appear  to  no 
candid  reader  unnatural  or  improper." — Madison  to  Washington,  20  February, 
1788. 


212  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

which  are  to  follow — especially  in  that  of  New  York 
where  I  fancy  the  opposition  to  the  form  will  be 
greatest.1 

Altho'  an  inhabitant  of  this  State,  I  cannot  speak 
with  decision  on  the  publick  sentiment  of  it  with 
respect  to  the  proposed  Constitution — my  private 
opinion  however  of  the  matter  is,  that  it  will  certainly 
be  received,  but  in  this  opinion  I  may  be  mistaken.— 
I  have  not  been  ten  miles  from  home  since  my  return 
to  it  from  Philadelphia — I  see  few  who  do  not  live 
within  that  circle,  except  Travellers  and  strangers 
and  these  form  opinions  upon  too  slight  ground  to 
be  relied  on.  The  opponents  of  the  Constitution  are 
indefatigable  in  fabricating  and  circulating  papers, 
reports,  &c.  to  its  prejudice  ;  whilst  the  friends  gener 
ally  content  themselves  with  the  goodness  of  the 
cause  and  the  necessity  for  its  adoption,  supposing 
it  wants  no  other  support. 

Mrs.  Washington,  and  others  of  this  family  with 
whom  you  are  acquainted  (among  which  is  Colo. 
Humphries)  join  me  in  every  good  wish  for  you, 
Mrs.  Trumbull  and  family ;  and  with  sentiments  of 
the  sincerest  regard  and  friendship,  I  am,  &c. 

1  "  I  am  very  sorry  to  find  that  there  is  likely  to  be  so  powerful  an  opposi 
tion  to  the  adoption  of  the  proposed  plan  of  government  with  you  ;  and  I  am 
entirely  of  your  opinion,  that  the  business  of  the  convention  should  be  con 
ducted  with  moderation,  candor,  and  fairness,  which  are  not  incompatible 
with  firmness.  Although,  as  you  justly  observe,  the  friends  of  the  new  system 
may  bear  down  the  opposition,  yet  they  would  never  be  able,  by  precipitate 
or  violent  measures,  to  soothe  and  reconcile  their  minds  to  the  exercise  of  the 
government,  which  is  a  matter  that  ought  as  much  as  possible  to  be  kept  in 
view,  and  temper  their  proceedings." — Washington  to  Lincoln,  31  January, 
1788. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  213 

TO    JAMES    MADISON,    IN    CONGRESS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,   5  February,  1788. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

I  am  indebted  to  you  for  several  of  your  favors,  and 
thank  you  for  their  enclosure.  The  rumor  of  war 
between  France  and  England  has  subsided,  and  the 
poor  patriots  of  Holland,  it  seems,  are  left  to  fight 
their  own  battles  or  negotiate,  in  either  case  with  no 
great  prospect  of  advantage.  They  must  have  been 
much  deceived,  or  their  conduct  has  been  weak,  and 
precipitate,  and  absurd.  The  former,  however,  I  be 
lieve  is  the  truth. 

I  am  sorry  to  find  by  yours  and  other  accounts 
from  Massachusetts,  that  the  decision  of  its  conven 
tion,  (at  the  time  of  their  respective  dates,)  remained 
problematical. 1  A  rejection  of  the  new  form  by  that 
State  would  invigorate  the  opposition,  not  only  in 

1  "  The  intelligence  from  Massachusetts  begins  to  be  very  ominous  to  the 
constitution.  The  antifederal  party  is  reinforced  by  the  insurgents,  and  by 
the  Province  of  Maine,  which  apprehends  greater  obstacles  to  her  scheme  of 
a  separate  government  from  the  new  system,  than  may  be  otherwise  experi 
enced.  And  according  to  the  prospect  at  the  date  of  the  latest  letters,  there 
was  very  great  reason  to  fear,  that  the  voice  of  that  State  would  be  in  the 
negative.  The  operation  of  such  an  event  on  this  State  may  easily  be  foreseen. 
Its  legislature  is  now  sitting,  and  is  much  divided.  A  majority  of  the  Assem 
bly  are  said  to  be  friendly  to  the  merits  of  the  constitution.  A  majority  of  the 
senators  actually  convened  are  opposed  to  a  submission  of  it  to  the  convention. 
The  arrival  of  the  absent  members  will  render  the  voice  of  that  branch  uncertain 
on  the  point  of  a  convention.  The  decision  of  Massachusetts  either  way  will 
involve  the  result  in  this  State.  The  minority  in  Pennsylvania  is  very  restless 
under  their  defeat.  If  they  can  get  an  Assembly  to  their  wish,  they  will 
endeavour  to  undermine  what  has  been  done  there.  If  backed  by  Massa 
chusetts,  they  will  probably  be  emboldened  to  make  some  more  rash  experi 
ment.  The  information  from  Georgia  continues  to  be  favorable.  The  little 
we  get  from  South  Carolina  is  of  the  same  complexion." — Madison  to  Wash 
ington,  20  January,  1788. 


214  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

New  York,  but  in  all  those  which  are  to  follow  ;  at 
the  same  time  this  would  afford  materials  for  the 
minority,  in  such  as  have  actually  agreed  to  it,  to 
blow  the  trumpet  of  discord  more  loudly.  The 
acceptance  by  a  bare  majority,  though  preferable  to 
a  rejection,  is  also  to  be  deprecated.  It  is  scarcely 
possible  to  form  any  decided  opinion  of  the  general 
sentiment  of  the  people  of  this  State  on  this  point. 
Many  have  asked  me  with  anxious  solicitude  if  you 
did  not  mean  to  get  into  the  convention,  conceiving  it 
of  indispensable  necessity.  Colonel  Mason,  who  re 
turned  but  yesterday,  I  am  told  has  offered  himself 
for  Stafford  county,  and  his  friends  say  he  can  be 
elected  not  only  in  that,  but  in  the  counties  of  Prince 
William  and  Fauquier  also.  The  truth  of  this  I 
know  not.  I  rarely  go  from  home,  and  my  visitors, 
who,  for  the  most  part  are  travellers  and  strangers, 
have  not  the  best  means  of  information. 

At  the  time  you  suggested  for  my  consideration 
the  expediency  of  a  communication  of  my  sentiments 
to  any  correspondent  I  might  have  in  Massachusetts 
on  the  proposed  constitution,  I  did  not  recollect  that 
General  Lincoln  and  myself  frequently  interchanged 
letters  ;  much  less  did  I  expect,  that  a  hasty  and 
indigested  extract  [from  a  letter]  of  which  I  had 
written,  intermingled  with  a  variety  of  other  matters, 
to  Colonel  Charles  Carter  in  answer  to  a  letter  I  had 
received  from  him,  on  the  subject  of  some  experi 
ments  we  had  made  in  farming,  wolves,  wolf-dogs, 
sheep,  and  the  Lord  knows  what  else,  was  then  in  the 
press,  and  would  bring  them  to  public  view  by  means 
of  the  general  circulation  I  find  that  extract  has  had. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  215 

Although  I  never  have  concealed,  and  am  perfectly 
regardless  who  becomes  acquainted  with  my  senti 
ments  with  respect  to  the  proposed  constitution,  yet 
nevertheless,  as  no  pains  have  been  taken  to  dress  the 
ideas,  nor  any  reasons  assigned  in  support  of  opinion, 
I  feel  myself  hurt  by  the  publication,  and  informed 
my  friend  the  Colo,  thereof.  In  answer,  he  has  fully 
acquitted  himself  of  the  intention  ;  but  his  zeal  in  the 
cause  prompted  him  to  distribute  copies,  (under  a 
prohibition,  which  was  disregarded,)  that  it  should 
not  go  to  the  press.  As  you  have  seen  the  crude, 
or  rude  extract,  as  you  may  please  to  term  it,  I  will 
add  no  more  on  the  subject. 

Perceiving  that  the  Federalist,  under  the  signature 
of  PUBLIUS,  is  about  to  be  republished,  I  would 
thank  you  for  forwarding  to  me  three  or  four  copies, 
one  of  which  to  be  bound,  and  inform  me  of  the  cost. 
Although  we  have  not  had  many  or  deep  snows,  yet 
we  have  since  the  commencement  of  it,  had  a  very 
severe  winter,  and  if  this  day  with  you  is  as  much 
keener  than  we  now  feel  it,  as  the  difference  of 
latitude  ought  to  make  it,  you  will  feel  a  comfort 
able  fire  no  bad  antidote  against  cold  fingers  and 
toes.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    THE    CHEVALIER    DE    LA    LUZERNE. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  7  February,  1788. 

SIR, 

The  Count  de  Moustier,  your  successor  in  office, 
hath  forwarded  from  New  York  the  letter,  in  which 
you  did  me  the  honor  to  bring  me  acquainted  with  the 
merits  of  that  nobleman.  Since  it  is  the  misfortune 


216  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

of  America  not  to  be  favored  any  longer  with  your 
residence,  it  was  necessary,  to  diminish  our  regrets, 
that  so  worthy  and  respectable  a  character  should  be 
appointed  your  successor.  I  shall  certainly  be  happy 
in  cultivating  his  acquaintance  and  friendship.  The 
citizens,  from  gratitude  as  well  as  from  personal  con 
siderations,  will,  I  am  persuaded,  treat  him  with  the 
greatest  respect.  Congress,  I  doubt  not,  will  by  every 
means  in  their  power  desire  to  make  his  sojourn  in 
the  United  States  as  agreeable  as  it  possibly  can  be. 

But,  Sir,  you  may  rest  assured  that  your  abilities 
and  dispositions  to  serve  this  country  were  so  well 
understood,  and  your  services  so  properly  appreciated, 
that  the  residence  of  no  public  minister  will  ever  be 
longer  remembered,  or  his  absence  more  sincerely  re 
gretted.  It  will  not  be  forgotten,  that  you  were  a 
witness  to  the  dangers,  the  sufferings,  the  exertions, 
and  the  successes  of  the  United  States,  from  the  most 
perilous  crises  to  the  hour  of  triumph.  The  influence 
of  your  agency  on  the  cabinet  to  produce  a  coopera 
tion,  and  the  prowess  of  your  countrymen  cooperating 
with  ours  in  the  field  to  secure  the  liberties  of 
America,  have  made  such  an  indelible  impression  on 
the  public  mind,  as  will  never  be  effaced.  Wherever 
you  may  be,  our  best  wishes  will  follow  you.  And 
such  is  our  confidence  in  your  disinterested  friend 
ship,  that  we  are  certain  you  will  wish  to  be  useful  to 
us,  in  whatever  mission  you  may  be  honored  by  your 
King.  It  has  been  surmised,  on  I  know  not  what 
authority,  that  there  was  a  probability  of  your  being 
employed  in  the  diplomatic  corps  at  the  court  of  Lon- 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON,  217 

don.  Should  this  be  the  case,  your  zeal  may  still  find 
occasions  of  being  serviceable  to  America,  and  profit 
able  to  your  own  country  at  the  same  time  ;  for  I  con 
ceive  the  commercial  interests  of  the  two  nations  are 
in  many  instances  blended,  and  in  opposition  to  those 
of  Great  Britain.  *  *  * 

I  feel,  Sir,  not  only  for  myself,  but  in  behalf  of  my 
country,  under  great  obligations  for  the  affectionate 
wishes  you  have  the  goodness  to  make,  with  respect 
to  the  tranquillity  and  happiness  of  America.  Sepa 
rated  as  we  are  by  a  world  of  water  from  other 
nations,  if  we  are  wise,  we  shall  surely  avoid  being 
drawn  into  the  labyrinth  of  their  politics,  and  involved 
in  their  destructive  wars.  *  *  * 


TO    THE    MARQUIS    DE    LAFAYETTE. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  7  February,  1788. 

MY  DEAR  MARQUIS, 

You  know  it  always  gives  me  the  sincerest  pleasure 
to  hear  from  you,  and  therefore  I  need  only  say,  that 
your  two  kind  letters  of  the  Qth  and  I5th  of  October, 
so  replete  with  personal  affection  and  confidential 
intelligence,  afforded  me  inexpressible  satisfaction.  I 
shall  myself  be  happy  in  forming  an  acquaintance  and 
cultivating  a  friendship  with  the  new  minister  pleni 
potentiary  of  France,  whom  you  have  commended  as 
a  "  sensible  and  honest  man."  These  are  qualities 
too  rare  and  too  precious  not  to  merit  one's  particular 
esteem.  You  may  be  persuaded,  that  he  will  be  well 


218  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


received  by  the  Congress  of  the  United  States,  be 
cause  they  will  not  only  be  influenced  in  their  conduct 
by  his  individual  merits,  but  also  by  their  affection 
for  the  nation,  of  whose  sovereign  he  is  the  represen 
tative.  For  it  is  an  undoubted  fact,  that  the  people 
of  America  entertain  a  grateful  remembrance  of  past 
services,  as  well  as  a  favorable  disposition  for  com 
mercial  and  friendly  connexions  with  your  nation.1 

You  appear  to  be,  as  might  be  expected  from  a  real 
friend  to  this  country,  anxiously  concerned  about  its 
present  political  situation.  So  far  as  I  am  able,  I 
shall  be  happy  in  gratifying  that  friendly  solicitude. 
As  to  my  sentiments  with  respect  to  the  merits  of 
the  new  constitution,  I  will  disclose  them  without  re 
serve,  (although  by  passing  through  the  post-office 
they  should  become  known  to  all  the  world,)  for  in 
truth  I  have  nothing  to  conceal  on  that  subject.  It 
appears  to  me,  then,  little  short  of  a  miracle,  that  the 
delegates  from  so  many  different  States  (which 
States  you  know  are  also  different  from  each 
other),  in  their  manners,  circumstances,  and  preju 
dices,  should  unite  in  forming  a  system  of  national 

1  "  The  fidelity,  honor,  and  bravery  of  the  troops  of  your  nation,  to  which  I 
have  been  a  witness,  the  enlightened  sentiments  of  patriotism,  and  the  delicate 
feelings  of  friendship,  which  have  actuated  great  numbers  of  your  compatriots, 
with  whom  I  may  boast  the  happiness  of  being  intimately  connected,  and  above 
all,  that  lively  interest,  which  your  illustrious  monarch  and  his  faithful  subjects 
took  in  the  success  of  the  American  arms,  and  the  confirmation  of  our  inde 
pendence,  have  endeared  the  national  character  to  me,  formed  attachments  and 
left  impressions,  which  no  distance,  time,  or  contingency  of  events,  can  pos 
sibly  remove.  Though  but  a  private  citizen  myself,  and  in  a  measure  secluded 
from  the  world,  I  am  conscious  the  assertion  will  be  [well]  founded,  when  I 
venture  to  affirm,  that  such  are  the  feelings  and  such  the  affections  of  the 
American  people." — Washington  to  Count  de  J\Ioustier,  7  February,  1788. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  219 

government,  so  little  liable  to  well-founded  objections. 
Nor  am  I  yet  such  an  enthusiastic,  partial,  or  undis- 
criminating  admirer  of  it,  as  not  to  perceive  it  is  tinc 
tured  with  some  real  (though  not  radical)  defects. 
The  limits  of  a  letter  would  not  suffer  me  to  go  fully 
into  an  examination  of  them  ;  nor  would  the  discussion 
be  entertaining  or  profitable.  I  therefore  forbear  to 
touch  upon  it.  With  regard  to  the  two  great  points, 
(the  pivots  upon  which  the  whole  machine  must 
move,)  my  creed  is  simply, 

i  st.  That  the  general  government  is  not  invested 
with  more  powers,  than  are  indispensably  necessary 
to  perform  the  functions  of  a  good  government ;  and 
consequently,  that  no  objection  ought  to  be  made 
against  the  quantity  of  power  delegated  to  it. 

2ly.  That  these  powers,  (as  the  appointment  of  all 
rulers  will  for  ever  arise  from,  and  at  short,  stated 
intervals  recur  to,  the  free  suffrage  of  the  people,)  are 
so  distributed  among  the  legislative,  executive,  and 
judicial  branches,  into  which  the  general  government 
is  arranged,  that  it  can  never  be  in  danger  of  degen 
erating  into  a  monarchy,  an  oligarchy,  an  aristocracy, 
or  any  other  despotic  or  oppressive  form,  so  long  as 
there  shall  remain  any  virtue  in  the  body  of  the 
people. 

I  would  not  be  understood,  my  dear  Marquis,  to 
speak  of  consequences,  which  may  be  produced  in 
the  revolution  of  ages,  by  corruption  of  morals, 
profligacy  of  manners,  and  listlessness  for  the  pres 
ervation  of  the  natural  and  unalienable  rights  of 
mankind,  nor  of  the  successful  usurpations,  that  may 


220  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

be  established  at  such  an  impropitious  juncture  upon 
the  ruins  of  liberty,  however  providently  guarded 
and  secured  ;  as  these  are  contingencies  against 
which  no  human  prudence  can  effectually  provide. 
It  will  at  least  be  a  recommendation  to  the  proposed 
constitution,  that  it  is  provided  with  more  checks 
and  barriers  against  the  introduction  of  tyranny,  and 
those  of  a  nature  less  liable  to  be  surmounted,  than 
any  government  hitherto  instituted  among  mortals 
hath  possessed.  We  are  not  to  expect  perfection  in 
this  world  ;  but  mankind,  in  modern  times,  have 
apparently  made  some  progress  in  the  science  of 
government.  Should  that,  which  is  now  offered  to 
the  people  of  America,  be  found  on  experiment  less 
perfect  than  it  can  be  made,  a  constitutional  door  is 
left  open  for  its  amelioration. 

Some  respectable  characters  have  wished,  that  the 
States,  after  having  pointed  out  whatever  alterations 
and  amendments  may  be  judged  necessary,  would 
appoint  another  federal  convention  to  modify  it  upon 
those  documents.  For  myself,  I  have  wondered,  that 
sensible  men  should  not  see  the  impracticability  of 
this  scheme.  The  members  would  go  fortified  with 
such  instructions,  that  nothing  but  discordant  ideas 
could  prevail.  Had  I  but  slightly  suspected,  at  the 
time  when  the  late  convention  was  in  session,  that 
another  convention  would  not  be  likely  to  agree 
upon  a  better  form  of  government,  I  should  now  be 
confirmed  in  the  fixed  belief  that  they  would  not 
be  able  to  agree  upon  any  system  whatever ;  so 
many,  I  may  add,  such  contradictory  and  in  my 


i ;88]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  221 

opinion  unfounded  objections  have  been  urged 
against  the  system  in  contemplation,  many  of  which 
would  operate  equally  against  every  efficient  govern 
ment  that  might  be  proposed.  I  will  only  add,  as  a 
further  opinion  founded  on  the  maturest  deliberation, 
that  there  is  no  alternative,  no  hope  of  alteration, 
no  intermediate  resting-place,  between  the  adoption 
of  this,  and  a  recurrence  to  an  unqualified  state  of 
anarchy,  with  all  its  deplorable  consequences. 

Since  I  had  the  pleasure  of  writing  to  you  last, 
no  material  alteration  in  the  political  state  of  affairs 
has  taken  place  to  change  the  prospect  of  the  con 
stitution's  being  adopted  by  nine  States  or  more. 
Pennsylvania,  Delaware,  New  Jersey,  and  Connecti. 
cut,  have  already  done  it.  It  is  also  said  Georgia 
has  acceded.  Massachusetts,  which  is  perhaps 
thought  to  be  rather  more  doubtful  that  when  I  last 
addressed  you,  is  now  in  convention. 

A  spirit  of  emigration  to  the  western  country  is 
very  predominant.  Congress  have  sold,  in  the  year 
past,  a  pretty  large  quantity  of  land  on  the  Ohio  for 
public  securities,  and  thereby  diminished  the  domestic 
debt  considerably.  Many  of  your  military  acquain 
tances,  such  as  the  Generals  Parsons,  Varnum,  and 
Putnam,  the  Colonels  Tupper,  Sprout,  and  Sherman, 
with  many  more,  propose  settling  there.  From  such 
beginnings  much  may  be  expected. 

The  storm  of  war  between  England  and  your 
nation,  it  seems,  is  dissipated.  I  hope  and  trust 
the  political  affairs  in  France  are  taking  a  favora 
ble  turn.  If  the  Turks  will  suffer  themselves  to 


222  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

be  precipitated  into  a  war,  they  must  abide  the 
consequences.  Some  politicians  speculate  on  a 
triple  alliance  between  the  two  imperial  courts  and 
Versailles. 

It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  learn,  that  the  pres 
ent  ministry  of  France  are  friendly  to  America,  and 
that  Mr.  Jefferson  and  yourself  have  a  prospect  of 
accomplishing  measures,  which  will  mutually  benefit 
and  improve  the  commercial  intercourse  between  the 
two  nations.  Every  good  wish  attend  you  and 
yours.  I  am,  &c. 


DEAR  SIR, 


TO    ALEXANDER    SPOTSWOOD. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  13  February,  1788. 


I  think  with  you,  that  the  life  of  a  husbandman  of 
all  others  is  the  most  delectable.  It  is  honorable,  it 
is  amusing,  and,  with  judicious  management,  it  is 
profitable.  To  see  plants  rise  from  the  earth  and 
flourish  by  the  superior  skill  and  bounty  of  the 
laborer  fills  a  contemplative  mind  with  ideas  which  are 
more  easy  to  be  conceived  than  expressed. 

I  am  glad  to  find,  that  your  first  essay  to  raise  In 
dian  corn  in  drills  has  succeeded  so  much  to  your 
satisfaction  ;  but  I  am  inclined  to  think,  unless 
restoratives  were  more  abundant  than  they  are  to  be 
found  on  common  farms,  that  six  feet  by  two  will  be 
too  oppressive  to  your  land.  Experience  has  proved, 
that  every  soil  will  sink  under  the  growth  of  this 
plant  ;  whether  from  the  luxuriancy  and  exhausting 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  223 

quality  of  it,  or  the  manner  of  tillage,  or  from  both, 
is  not  very  certain  ;  because  instead  of  two  thousand 
four  hundred  and  twenty  plants,  which  stand  on  an 
acre  at  six  feet  square  with  two  stalks  in  a  hill,  (as  is 
usual  in  land  of  middling  quality,)  you  have  three 
thousand  six  hundred  and  thirty  at  six  feet  by  two, 
single  stalks.  How  far  the  exposing  of  land  to  the 
rays  of  the  sun  in  summer  is  injurious,  is  a  question 
yet  more  difficult  to  solve  than  the  other.  My  own 
opinion  of  the  matter  is  that  it  does  ;  but  this  contro 
verts  the  practice  of  summer  fallows,  which,  (espe 
cially  in  heavy  land,)  some  of  the  best  practical 
farmers  in  England  contend  for  as  indispensably 
necessary,  notwithstanding  the  doctrine  of  Mr.  Young 
and  many  others,  who  are  opposed  to  them. 

The  reason,  however,  which  induced  me  to  give  my 
corn-rows  the  wide  distance  of  ten  feet,  was  not  be 
cause  I  thought  it  essential  to  the  growth  of  that 
plant,  but  because  I  introduced  other  plants  between 
them.  And  this  practice,  from  the  experience  of  two 
years,  one  the  wettest,  and  the  other  the  driest  that 
ever  was  felt  on  my  estate,  I  am  resolved  to  continue 
until  the  inutility  of  it,  or  something  more  advan 
tageous,  shall  point  out  the  expediency  of  a  change. 
But  I  mean  to  practise  it  with  variations,  fixing  on 
eight  by  two  feet  as  the  medium  or  standing  distance; 
which  will  give  more  plants  by  three  hundred  to  the 
acre,  than  six  feet  each  way  with  two  stalks  in  a  hill 
will  do. 

As  all  my  corn  will  be  thus  drilled,  so  between  all  I 
mean  to  put  in  drills  also  potatoes,  carrots  (as  far  as 


224  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

my  seed  will  go),  and  turnips,  alternately,  that  not 
one  sort  more  than  another  may  have  the  advantage 
of  soil,  thereby  to  ascertain  the  comparative  quantity 
and  value  of  each  of  these  plants  as  food  for  horses 
and  stock  of  every  kind.  From  the  trials  I  have 
made,  (under  the  disadvantages  already  mentioned,) 
I  am  well  satisfied,  that  my  crop  of  corn  in  this  way 
will  equal  the  yield  of  the  same  fields  in  the  usual 
mode  of  cultivation,  and  that  the  quantity  of  potatoes, 
proportionate  to  the  number  of  rows,  will  quadruple 
the  corn.  I  entertain  the  same  opinion  with  respect 
to  carrots  ;  but,  being  more  unlucky  in  the  latter,  I 
cannot  speak  with  so  much  confidence,  and  still  less 
can  I  do  it  with  respect  to  turnips. 

From  this  husbandry,  and  statement  of  what  I  con 
ceive  to  be  facts,  any  given  number  of  acres  will  yield 
as  much  corn  in  the  new,  as  they  will  in  the  old  way, 
and  will  moreover  with  little  or  no  extra  labor  produce 
four  times  as  many  potatoes  or  carrots,  which  adds 
considerably  to  the  profit  from  the  field.  But  here  it 
may  be  asked,  If  the  land  will  sustain  these  crops,  or 
rather  the  potatoes  in  addition  to  the  corn  ?  This  is 
a  question  my  own  experience  does  not  enable  me  to 
answer.  The  received  opinion  of  many  practical 
farmers  in  England  is,  that  potatoes  and  carrots  are 
ameliorators,  not  exhausters  of  the  soil,  preparing  it 
well  for  other  crops.  But  I  do  not  scruple  to  confess, 
that,  notwithstanding  the  profit  which  appears  to 
result  from  the  growth  of  corn  and  potatoes,  or  corn 
and  carrots,  or  both  thus  blended,  my  wish  is  to 
exclude  Indian  corn  altogether  from  my  system  of 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  225 

cropping ;  but  we  are  so  habituated  to  the  use  of  this 
grain,  and  it  is  so  much  better  for  negroes  than  any 
other,  that  it  is  not  to  be  discarded  ;  consequently  to 
introduce  it  in  the  most  profitable,  or  least  injurious 
manner,  ought  to  be  the  next  consideration  with  the 
farmer. 

To  do  this,  some  are  of  opinion  that  a  small  spot, 
set  apart  solely  for  the  purpose,  and  kept  highly  ma 
nured,  is  the  best  method.  And  an  instance  in  proof 
is  adduced,  of  a  gentleman  near  Baltimore,  who  for 
many  years  past  from  the  same  ground  has  not  made 
less  than  ten  barrels  to  the  acre  in  drills,  six  feet 
apart,  and,  (if  I  recollect  rightly,)  eighteen  inches  in 
the  rows.  But  query,  where  the  farmer  has  no  other 
resource  than  the  manure  of  his  own  farm,  will  not  his 
other  crops  be  starved  by  this  extra  allowance  to  the 
Indian  corn  ?  I  am  inclined  to  think  it  will  ;  and  for 
that  reason  I  shall  try  the  intermixture  of  potatoes, 
carrots,  and  turnips,  or  either,  as  from  practice  shall 
be  found  most  profitable,  with  my  corn,  which  shall 
become  a  component  part  of  some  regular  and  sys 
tematic  plan  best  adapted  to  the  nature  of  my  soil. 

To  societies,  which  have  been  formed  for  the  en 
couragement  of  agriculture,  is  the  perfection  to  which 
husbandry  is  now  arrived  in  England  indebted. 
Why  then  does  not  this  country  (Virginia  I  mean) 
follow  so  laudable  and  beneficial  an  example  ?  And 
particularly  why  do  not  the  gentlemen  in  the  vicinity 
of  Fredericksburg  begin  this  work  ?  Your  lands  are 
peculiarly  well  adapted  to  it.  There  are  more  of  you 

in  a  small  circle  than  I  believe  is  to  be  found  in  the 
15 


226  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

same  compass  almost  anywhere  ;  and  you  are  well 
able  to  afford  experiments  ;  from  which,  and  not  from 
theory,  are  individuals  to  derive  useful  knowledge, 
and  the  public  a  benefit.  My  love,  to  which  Mrs. 
Washington's  is  joined,  is  presented  to  Mrs.  Spots- 
wood  and  I  am,  &c. 


TO    SAMUEL    GRIFFIN. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  20  February,  1788. 

I  have  been  duly  honored  and  greatly  affected  with 
the  receipt  of  the  resolution  of  the  visitors  and  gov 
ernors  of  -William  and  Mary  College,  appointing  me 
chancellor  of  the  same,  and  have  to  thank  you  for 
your  polite  attention  in  the  transmission.  Not  know 
ing  particularly  what  duties,  or  whether  any  active 
services,  are  immediately  expected  from  the  person 
holding  the  office  of  chancellor,  I  have  been  greatly 
embarrassed  in  deciding  upon  the  public  answer 
proper  to  be  given.  It  is  for  that  reason  I  have 
chosen  to  explain  in  this  private  communication 
my  situation  and  feelings,  and  to  defer  an  ultimate 
decision  until  I  shall  have  been  favored  with  farther 
information  on  this  subject. 

My  difficulties  are  briefly  these.  On  the  one  hand, 
nothing  in  this  world  could  be  farther  from  my  heart, 
than  a  want  of  respect  for  the  worthy  gentlemen  in 
question,  or  a  refusal  of  the  appointment  with  which 
they  have  honored  me,  provided  its  duties  are  not 
incompatible  with  the  mode  of  life  to  which  I  have 
entirely  addicted  myself  ;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  I 
would  not  for  any  consideration  disappoint  the  just 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  227 

expectations  of  the  convocation  by  accepting  an  office, 
whose  functions  I  previously  knew,  (from  my  preen- 
gagements  and  occupations,)  I  should  be  absolutely 
unable  to  perform. 

Although  as  I  observed  before,  I  know  not  specifi 
cally  what  those  functions  are,  yet,  Sir,  I  have  con 
ceived  that  a  principal  duty  required  of  the  chancellor 
might  be  a  regular  and  indispensable  visitation  once, 
or  perhaps  twice,  a  year.  Should  this  be  expected,  I 
must  decline  accepting  the  office.  For,  notwithstand 
ing  I  most  sincerely  and  ardently  wish  to  afford  what 
ever  little  influence  I  may  possess,  in  patronizing  the 
cause  of  science,  I  cannot,  at  my  time  of  life  and  in  my 
actual  state  of  retirement,  persuade  myself  to  engage 
in  new  and  extensive  avocations. 

Such  being  the  sentiments  of  a  heart  unaccustomed 
to  disguise,  I  flatter  myself  the  candid  manner  in 
which  I  have  explained  them,  cannot  be  displeasing 
to  the  convocation  ;  and  that  the  intervening  delay 
between  the  present,  and  the  moment  in  which  I  shall 
have  the  pleasure  of  receiving  such  ulterior  explana 
tions  as  may  enable  me  to  give  a  definitive  answer,  will 
not  prove  very  detrimental  to  the  collegiate  interests. 
I  am,  &C.1 

1  Mr.  Griffin  sent  to  him  an  extract  from  the  statute  respecting  the  duties  of 
the  Chancellor,  which  runs  thus:  "  The  Chancellor  is  to  be  the  Maecenas,  or 
patron  of  the  college,  such  a  one  as  by  his  favor  with  the  King,  and  by  his 
interest  with  all  other  persons  in  England,  may  be  enabled  to  help  on  all  the 
college  affairs.  His  advice  is  to  be  taken,  especially  in  all  such  arduous  and 
momentous  affairs,  as  the  college  shall  have  to  do  in  England.  If  the  college 
has  any  petitions  at  any  time  to  the  King,  let  them  be  presented  by  their  Chan 
cellor.  If  the  college  wants  a  new  president,  or  professor,  or  master,  let  the 
college  senate  rely  chiefly  on  his  assistance,  advice,  and  recommendation." 
Mr.  Griffin  added,  that  neither  an  oath  nor  personal  attendance  was  necessary. 


228  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


TO    BENJAMIN    LINCOLN. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  28  February,  1788. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

I  have  to  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  your  three 
letters  of  the  3d,  6th,  and  Qth  instant.  The  informa 
tion  conveyed  by  the  last  was  extremely  pleasing  to 
me,  though  I  cannot  say  it  was  altogether  unexpected, 
as  the  tenor  of  your  former  letters  had,  in  some  meas 
ure,  prepared  me  for  the  event  ;  but  the  conduct  of 
the  minority  was  more  satisfactory  than  could  have 
been  expected.1  The  full  and  fair  discussion,  which 
you  gave  the  subject  in  your  convention,  was  attended 

The  Bishop  of  London  had  been  the  last  Chancellor.  Upon  these  facts  Wash 
ington  wrote  to  Mr  Griffin,  30  April,  1788: 

"  Influenced  by  a  heartfelt  desire  to  promote  the  cause  of  science  in 
general,  and  the  prosperity  of  the  College  of  William  and  Mary  in  particular,  I 
accept  the  office  of  chancellor  in  the  same  ;  and  request  you  will  be  pleased  to 
give  official  notice  thereof  to  the  learned  body,  who  have  thought  proper  to  honor 
me  with  the  appointment.  I  confide  fully  in  their  strenuous  endeavors  for  placing 
the  system  of  education  on  such  a  basis,  as  will  render  it  most  beneficial  to  the 
State  and  the  republic  of  letters,  as  well  as  to  the  more  extensive  interests  of 
humanity  and  religion.  In  return,  they  will  do  me  the  justice  to  believe,  that  I 
shall  not  be  tardy  in  giving  my  cheerful  concurrence  to  such  measures,  as  may 
be  best  calculated  for  the  attainment  of  those  desirable  and  important  objects." 

1  The  Massachusetts  Convention  closed  its  session  6  February,  1788,  by 
adopting  the  Constitution.  Washington  had  written  to  Lincoln  on  the  nth, 
before  the  news  of  the  result  had  reached  him  : 

"It  is  unhappy  that  a  matter  of  such  high  importance  cannot  be  discussed 
with  that  candor  and  moderation  which  would  throw  light  on  the  subject,  and 
place  its  merits  in  a  proper  point  of  view.  But  in  an  assembly  so  large  as  your 
convention  must  be,  and  composed  of  such  various  and  opposite  characters,  it 
is  almost  impossible  but  that  some  things  will  occur  which  would  rouse  the 
passions  of  the  most  moderate  man  on  earth." 

Lincoln  had  written  on  the  gth  : 

"Considering  the  great  disorders,  which  took  place  in  this  State  the  last 
winter,  and  considering  the  great  influence,  that  the  spirit  which  then  reigned 
has  had  since  upon  all  our  operations,  it  may  be  supposed,  that  we  have  got 
through  this  business  pretty  well ;  and,  considering  also,  that  when  we  came 
together  a  very  decided  majority  of  the  convention  were  against  adopting  the 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  229 

with  the  happiest  consequences.  It  afforded  com 
plete  information  to  all  those,  who  went  thither  with 
dispositions  to  be  informed,  and  at  the  same  time 
gave  an  opportunity  to  confute  and  point  out  the  fal 
lacy  of  those  specious  arguments,  which  were  offered 
in  opposition  to  the  proposed  government.  Nor  is 
this  all.  The  conciliating  behavior  of  the  minority 
will  strike  a  damp  on  the  hopes,  which  opponents  in 
other  States  might  otherwise  have  formed  from  the 
smallness  of  the  majority,  and  must  be  greatly  influ 
ential  in  obtaining  a  favorable  determination  in  those 
States,  which  have  not  yet  decided  upon  it.1 

constitution.  Every  exertion  will  be  made  to  inform  the  people,  and  to  quiet 
their  minds.  It  is  very  fortunate  for  us,  that  the  clergy  are  pretty  generally 
with  us.  They  have  in  this  State  a  very  great  influence  over  the  people,  and 
they  will  contribute  much  to  the  general  peace  and  happiness." 

"  The  constitution  has  labored  in  Massachusetts  exceedingly  more  than  was 
expected.  The  opposition  has  not  arisen  from  a  consideration  of  the  merits 
or  demerits  of  the  thing  itself,  as  a  political  machine,  but  from  a  deadly  prin 
ciple  levelled  at  the  existence  of  all  government  whatever.  The  principle  of 
insurgency  expanded,  deriving  fresh  strength  and  life  from  the  impunity  with 
which  the  rebellion  of  last  year  was  suffered  to  escape.  It  is  a  singular  circum 
stance  that  in  Massachusetts  the  property,  the  ability,  and  the  virtue  of  the 
State,  are  almost  solely  in  favor  of  the  constitution.  Opposed  to  it  are  the  late 
insurgents,  and  all  those  who  abetted  their  designs,  constituting  four  fifths  of 
the  opposition.  A  few,  very  few  indeed,  well-meaning  people  are  joined  to 
them.  The  friends  of  the  constitution  in  that  State,  without  overrating  their 
own  importance,  conceive  that  the  decision  of  Massachusetts  would  most 
probably  settle  the  fate  of  the  proposition.  They  therefore  proceeded  most 
cautiously  and  wisely,  debated  every  objection  with  the  most  guarded  good  na 
ture  and  candor,  but  took  no  questions  on  the  several  paragraphs,  and  thereby 
prevented  the  establishment  of  parties.  This  conduct  has  been  attended  with 
the  most  beneficial  consequences.  It  is  now  no  secret,  that,  on  the  opening  of 
the  convention,  a  majority  were  prejudiced  against  it." — Knox  to  Washington, 
IO  February,  1788. 

1  To  Knox  he  wrote  on  3  March,  1788,  that  the  decision  of  Massachusetts 
would  be  "  very  influential  on  the  equivocal  States.  .  .  .  Candor  and  pru 
dence,  therefore,  it  is  to  be  hoped  will  prevail  ;  and  yet  I  believe  there  are 
some  characters  among  us,  who  would  hazard  every  thing  rather  than  cease 


23o  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

These  is  not  perhaps  a  man  in  Virginia  less  quali 
fied  than  I  am  to  say,  from  his  own  knowledge  and 
observation,  what  will  be  the  fate  of  the  constitution 
here ;  for  I  very  seldom  ride  beyond  the  limits  of  my 
own  farms,  and  am  wholly  indebted  to  those  gentle 
men  who  visit  me  for  any  information  of  the  disposi 
tion  of  the  people  towards  it ;  but  from  all  I  can 
collect,  I  have  not  the  smallest  doubt  of  its  being 
accepted. 

I  thank  you,  my  dear  Sir,  for  the  accounts  which 
you  have,  from  time  to  time,  transmitted  me  since  the 
meeting  of  your  convention.  Nothing  could  have 
been  more  grateful  or  acceptable  to  me.  I  am  also 
obliged  by  your  promise  to  inform  me  of  any  impor 
tant  matters,  that  may  transpire  ;  and  you  know  I 
shall  at  all  times  be  happy  to  hear  of  your  welfare. 
Mrs.  Washington  joins  me  in  compliments  to  Mrs. 
Lincoln  and  yourself.  I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO    JAMES    MADISON,    IN    CONGRESS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  2  March,  1788. 

SIR, 

The  decision  of  Massachusetts,  notwithstanding  its 

o 

concomitants,1  is  a  severe  stroke  to  the  opponents  of 
the  proposed  constitution  in  this  State  ;  and,  with  the 
favorable  decision  of  those  which  have  gone  before  it, 
and  such  as  are  likely  to  follow  after,  will  have  a 

their  opposition,  or  leave  to  the  operation  of  the  government  the  chance  of 
proving  the  fallacy  of  their  predictions  of  it,  by  which  their  sagacity  and  fore 
sight  might  be  impeached." 

1  The  proposed  amendments,  which  Madison  thought  were  "  a  blemish,  but 
are  in  the  least  offensive  form." 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  231 

powerful  operation  on  the  minds  of  men,  who  are  not 
more  influenced  by  passion,  pique,  and  resentment, 
than  they  are  by  candor,  moderation,  and  judgment. 
Of  the  former  description,  however,  I  am  sorry  to  say 
there  are  too  many ;  and  among  them  some,  who 
would  hazard  every  thing  rather  than  fail  in  their 
opposition,  or  have  the  sagacity  of  their  prognosti 
cations  impeached  by  the  issue. 

The  determination  you  have  come  to,  will  give 
much  pleasure  to  your  friends.1  From  those  in  your 
county  you  will  learn  with  more  certainty,  than  from 
me,  the  expediency  of  your  attending  the  election  in 
it.  With  some,  to  have  differed  in  sentiment  is  to 
have  passed  the  Rubicon  of  their  friendship,  although 
you  should  go  no  further  ;  with  others,  (for  the  honor 
of  humanity,)  I  hope  there  is  more  liberality.  But 
the  consciousness  of  having  discharged  that  duty, 
which  we  owe  to  our  country,  is  superior  to  all  other 
considerations,  and  will  put  these  out  of  the  question. 

His  Most  Christian  Majesty  speaks  and  acts  in  a 
style  not  very  pleasing  to  republican  ears,  or  to  repub 
lican  forms  ;  nor  do  I  think  it  is  altogether  so  to  the 
temper  of  his  own  subjects  at  this  day.  Liberty, 
when  it  begins  to  take  root,  is  a  plant  of  rapid  growth. 
The  checks  he  endeavors  to  give  it,  however  war 
ranted  by  ancient  usage,  will  more  than  probably 
kindle  a  flame,  which  may  not  be  easily  extinguished 
though  it  may  be  smothered  for  a  while  by  the  armies 
at  his  command  and  the  nobility  in  his  interest. 

1  A  determination  to  allow  his  friends  in  Orange  County,  Virginia,  to  support 
his  election  as  a  delegate  from  that  county  to  the  State  convention,  which  was 
to  decide  on  the  new  constitution. 


232  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


When  a  people  are  oppressed  with  taxes,  and  have 
a  cause  to  believe  that  there  has  been  a  misapplica 
tion  of  the  money,  they  illy  brook  the  language  of 
despotism.  This,  and  the  mortification,  which  the 
pride  of  the  nation  must  have  undergone  with  respect 
to  the  affairs  of  Holland,  (if  it  is  fair  to  judge  from 
appearances,)  may  be  productive  of  events,  which 
prudence  forbids  one  to  mention. 

To-morrow  the  elections  for  delegates  to  the  State 
convention  begin  ;  and,  as  they  will  tread  close  upon 
the  heels  of  each  other,  it  will  make  an  interesting 
and  important  month.  With  the  most  friendly  senti 
ments  and  affectionate  regard,  I  am.  &c.1 


TO    SAMUEL    HANSON,    ESQ. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  18  March,  1788. 

SIR, 

Your  letter  of  the  i6th   Inst.  was  handed  me  yes 
terday  in  Alexandria  as  I  was  going  to  dinner — pre- 

1  "  At  the  end  of  the  present  month  we  shall  be  able  to  form  a  tolerable  judg 
ment  of  what  may  be  its  fate  here  ;  as  our  returns  for  the  delegates  to  the  con 
vention  will  be  known  at  that  time,  and  the  characters  chosen  will  be  pretty 
generally  decided  in  their  opinions  upon  the  matter  before  their  delegation,  as 
that  will  determine  the  people  in  their  choice.  The  general  tenor  of  the  infor 
mation,  which  I  derive  from  those  gentlemen  who  call  upon  me,  seems  to  agree 
in  the  opposition's  losing  ground,  and  that  nothing  is  wanting  to  render  the 
people  so  favorably  disposed  towards  it,  as  to  put  the  decision  beyond  a  doubt, 
but  a  proper  representation  and  information  upon  the  subject.  The  opponents 
are  indefatigable  in  their  exertions,  while  the  friends  to  the  constitution  seem 
to  rest  the  issue  upon  the  goodness  of  their  cause.  There  will  undoubtedly  be 
a  greater  weight  of  abilities  against  the  adoption  in  this  convention  than  in  any 
other.  We  had  a  right  to  expect  it  from  the  characters,  who  first  declared 
against  it  here  ;  but,  notwithstanding  this,  my  own  opinion  is,  (as  it  has  ever 
been,)  that  it  will  be  received." — Washington  to  Lincoln,  10  March,  1788. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  233 

vious  to  that  I  had  seen  my  nephew  George  Washing 
ton,  and  asked  him  if  he  had  heard  of  any  suitable 
place  for  himself  and  Lawrence  to  board  at  after 
their  quarter  with  Mr.  McWhir  expired  ;  he  told  me 
that  it  was  probable  a  place  might  be  obtained  at  a 
Mrs.  Sandford's  ; — I  desired  him  to  inform  himself  of 
the  terms,  &c.  and  let  me  know  them  ;  as  I  had  not 
an  opportunity  of  seeing  him  again  before  I  left  town 
to  know  the  result  of  his  enquiries,  it  is  not  at  this 
moment,  in  my  power  to  give  a  decided  answer  to 
your  offer  of  taking  them  again  into  your  family. 

Your  candid  and  free  communications  respecting 
the  conduct  of  my  Nephews,  while  with  you,  meet  my 
warmest  approbation  and  deserve  my  best  thanks, 
and  I  should  think  myself  inexcusable,  if,  upon  this 
occasion,  I  did  not  act  a  part  equally  open  and  can 
did,  by  informing  you  of  general  allegations  which 
they  have,  from  time  to  time,  offered  on  their  part, 
viz  :  They  having  been  frequently  detained  from 
school  in  the  morning  beyond  their  proper  hour,  in 
consequence  of  not  having  their  breakfast  seasonably 
provided,  and  sometimes  obliged  to  go  to  school  with 
out  any. — They  have  likewise  complained  of  their  not 
being  permitted  to  dine  with  company  at  the  House, 
and  served  indifferently  in  another  place  afterwards, 
and,  after  being  a  short  time  with  Mr.  McWhir,  they 
made  application  for  shirts,  and  upon  being  asked 
what  they  had  done  with  those  which  were  made  for 
them  not  long  before,  they  replied  that  the  manner  of 
washing  them  at  Mr.  Hanson's  (in  Lye  without  soap) 
had  entirely  destroyed  them. 


234  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

This  communication,  Sir,  cannot,  I  think,  be  dis 
pleasing  to  a  person  of  your  candor. — I  do  not  state 
the  above  as  facts  but  merely  as  the  reports  of  the 
boys,  and  if  they  should  live  with  you  again  it  will 
undoubtedly  have  a  good  effect  by  shewing  them  that 
their  reports  will  always  be  made  known  to  you,  and 
the  truth  or  falsehood  of  them  discovered. 

The  motive  which  first  induced  me  to  put  the  Boys 
with  you,  explained  upon  a  former  occasion,  together 
with  the  advantage  of  throwing  them  into  company, 
will  still  operate,  and  incline  me  to  give  a  preference 
to  your  House  upon  terms  nearly  equal  in  other 
respects  but  I  cannot  decide  upon  the  matter  till  I 
know  the  result  of  George's  enquiries,  and  so  soon 
as  I  do,  you  may  depend  upon  hearing  further  from 
Sir,  &c.  

TO    THE    COUNT    DE    MOUSTIER. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  26  March,  1788. 

SIR, 

I  have  received  the  letter,  which  your  Excellency 
did  me  the  honor  of  addressing  to  me  by  the  hand  of 
Mr.  Madison.  While  I  am  highly  gratified  with  the 
justice  you  do  me  in  appreciating  the  friendly  senti 
ments  I  entertain  for  the  French  nation,  I  cannot 
avoid  being  equally  astonished  and  mortified  in  learn 
ing,  that  you  have  met  with  any  subject  of  discontent 
or  inquietude  since  your  arrival  in  America.1  Be 
assured,  Sir,  as  nothing  could  have  been  more  unex- 

1  The  French  minister  had  fancied  himself  neglected  in  certain  points  of 
etiquette,  in  which  his  rank  as  a  public  functionary  was  not  recognised  in  such 
a  manner  as  he  expected. 


1 788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  235 

pected,  so  nothing  can  now  give  me  greater  pleasure, 
than  to  be  instrumental  in  removing,  as  far  as  may 
be  in  the  power  of  a  private  citizen  as  I  am,  every 
occasion  of  \ineasiness  that  may  have  occurred.  I 
have  even  hoped,  from  the  short  time  of  your  resi 
dence  here,  and  the  partial  acquaintance  you  may 
have  had  with  the  characters  of  the  persons,  that  a 
natural  distance  in  behavior  and  reserve  in  address 
may  have  appeared  as  intentional  coldness  and  neg 
lect.  I  am  sensible  that  the  apology  itself,  though  it 
should  be  well  founded,  would  be  but  an  indifferent 
one,  yet  it  will  be  better  than  none,  while  it  served  to 
prove,  that  it  is  our  misfortune  not  to  have  the  same 
cheerfulness  in  appearance  and  facility  in  deportment, 
which  some  nations  possess,  and  this  I  believe  in 
a  certain  degree  to  be  the  real  fact ;  and  that  such  a 
reception  is  sometimes  given  by  individuals,  as  may 
affect  a  foreigner  with  very  disagreeable  sensations, 
when  not  the  least  shadow  of  an  affront  is  intended. 
As  I  know  the  predilections  of  most  of  our  leading 
characters  for  your  nation  ;  as  I  had  seen  the  clearest 
proofs  of  affection  for  your  King  given  by  the  people 
of  this  country,  on  the  birth  of  the  Dauphin  ;  as  I 
had  heard  before  the  receipt  of  your  letter,  that  you 
had  been  received  at  your  public  audience  by  Con 
gress  with  all  the  marks  of  attention,  which  had  ever 
been  bestowed  upon  a  representative  of  any  sovereign 
power  ;  and  as  I  found  that  your  personal  character 
stood  in  the  fairest  point  of  light  ;  I  must  confess  I 
could  not  have  conceived,  that  there  was  one  person 
in  public  office  in  the  United  states  capable  of  having 


236  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

treated  with  indifference,  much  less  with  indignity, 
the  representative  from  a  court,  with  which  we  have 
ever  been  upon  the  most  friendly  terms.  And  confi 
dent  I  am,  that  it  is  only  necessary  for  such  conduct 
to  be  known  to  be  detested. 

But  in  the  mean  [time,]  so  ardently  do  I  wish  to 
efface  any  ill  impressions,  which  may  have  been  made 
upon  your  Excellency's  mind  to  the  prejudice  of  the 
public  by  individuals,  that  I  must  again  repeat,  that  I 
am  egregiously  deceived  if  the  people  of  this  country 
are  not  in  general  extremely  well  effected  to  France. 
The  prejudices  against  that  kingdom  had  been  so 
riveted  by  our  English  connexion  and  English  policy, 
that  it  was  some  time  before  our  people  could  get  en 
tirely  the  better  of  them.  This,  however,  was  thor 
oughly  accomplished  in  the  course  of  the  war.  And 
I  may  venture  to  say,  that  a  greater  revolution  never 
took  place  in  the  sentiments  of  our  people  respecting 
another.  Now,  as  none  of  their  former  attachments 
have  been  revived  for  Britain,  and  as  no  subject  of 
uneasiness  has  turned  up  with  respect  to  France,  any 
disgust  or  enmity  to  the  latter  would  involve  a  mystery 
beyond  my  comprehension.  For  I  had  always  believed, 
that  some  apparent  cause,  powerful  in  its  nature  and 
progressive  in  its  operation,  must  be  employed  to 
produce  a  change  in  national  sentiments.  But  no 
prejudice  has  been  revived,  no  jealousy  excited  (to  my 
knowledge,)  which  could  have  wrought  a  revolution 
unfriendly  to  your  nation.  If  one  or  a  few  persons 
in  New  York  have  given  a  different  specimen  of  think 
ing  and  acting,  I  rely  too  much  upon  your  candor  to 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  237 

apprehend,  that  you  will  impute  it  to  the  American 
people  at  large. 

I  am  happy  to  learn,  that  your  Excellency  is  medi 
tating  to  strengthen  the  commercial  ties  that  connect 
the  two  nations,  and  that  your  ideas  of  effecting  it,  by 
placing  the  arrangement  upon  the  basis  of  mutual  ad 
vantages,  coincide  exactly  with  my  own.  Treaties, 
which  are  not  built  upon  reciprocal  benefits,  are  not 
likely  to  be  of  long  duration.  Warmly  as  I  wish  to 
second  your  views,  it  is  a  subject  of  regret,  that  my 
little  acquaintance  with  commercial  affairs,  and  my 
seclusion  from  public  life,  have  not  put  me  in  a  state 
of  preparation  to  answer  your  several  questions  with 
accuracy.  I  will  endeavor  to  inform  myself  of  the 
most  interesting  particulars,  and  shall  take  a  pleasure 
in  communicating  the  result. 

At  present  I  can  only  remark,  that  I  think  the  taste 
for  many  articles  of  French  merchandise  is  rather 
increasing.  Still  there  are  three  circumstances,  which 
are  thought  to  give  the  British  merchant  an  advan 
tage  over  all  others. 

i  st.  Their  extensive  credit,  which,  I  confess,  I  wish 
to  see  abolished. 

2d.  Their  having  in  one  place  magazines  contain 
ing  all  kinds  of  articles,  that  can  be  required. 

3d.  Their  knowledge  of  the  precise  kinds  of  mer 
chandise  and  fabrics  which  are  wanted. 

For  my  own  part  I  could  wish  to  see  the  time  when 
no  credit  should  be  given.  Attention  and  experience 
in  the  American  trade  would  enable  the  French  mer 
chants,  I  apprehend,  to  accommodate  our  markets  in 


238  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

other  respects.  Between  this  country  and  England 
many  causes  of  irritation  exist,  and  it  is  not  impossi 
ble  but  that  the  ill  policy  of  the  British  court  may 
accelerate  the  removal  of  our  trade  into  other  chan 
nels.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    HENRY    KNOX. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  30  March,  1788. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

Your  favor  of  the  loth  came  duly  to  hand,  and  by 
Mr.  Madison  I  had  the  pleasure  to  hear  that  you  had 
recovered  from  a  severe  illness.  On  this  event  I  sin 
cerely  congratulate  you.  The  conduct  of  the  State 
of  New  Hampshire  has  baffled  all  calculation,  and  has 
come  extremely  malapropos  for  a  favorable  decision 
on  the  proposed  constitution  in  this  State  ;  for,  be 
the  real  cause  of  the  late  adjournment  what  it  may, 
the  anti-federal  party  with  us  do  not  scruple  to  pro 
nounce,  that  it  was  done  to  await  the  issue  of  this 
convention  before  it  would  decide,  and  add,  that,  if 
this  State  should  reject  it,  all  those  who  are  to  follow 
will  do  the  same,  and  consequently  that  it  cannot 
obtain,  as  there  will  be  only  eight  States  in  favor  of 
the  measure.1 

1  A  majority  of  the  New  Hampshire  convention  was,  contrary  to  the  expecta 
tions  of  those  who  had  followed  her  elections,  opposed  to  the  constitution.  In 
a  short  time  a  small  majority  was  in  its  favor,  but  the  converts  were  bound  by 
their  instructions,  and  the  Convention  adjourned  to  suffer  them  to  consult  their 
constituents.  Bancroft  asserts  that  the  argument  having  the  greatest  weight 
was  that  as  a  small  State,  it  would  be  prudent  for  New  Hampshire  to  wait 
and  see  what  the  other  States  would  do. 

"Circumstanced  as  your  convention  was,  an  adjournment  was  certainly  pru 
dent,  but  it  happened  very  malapropos  for  this  State,  because  the  concurrent 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  239 

Had  it  not  been  for  this  untoward  event,  the  oppo 
sition  would  have  proved  entirely  unavailing  in  this 
State,  notwithstanding  the  unfair  (I  might  without 
much  impropriety  have  made  use  of  a  harsher  ex 
pression)  conduct,  which  has  been  practised  to  rouse 
the  fears  and  to  inflame  the  minds  of  the  people. 
What  will  be  the  result  now,  is  not  for  me  to  say,  as 
I  have  seen  but  a  partial  return  of  the  delegates,  and 
have  little  or  no  knowledge  of  the  political  sentiments 
of  many  of  them.  In  the  northern  part  of  the  State 
the  current  of  sentiment,  (I  know,)  is  generally  in 
favor  of  the  new  form.  In  the  southern  part,  I  am 
told,  it  is  the  reverse.  Whilst  in  deciding  the  ques 
tion,  and  here  the  idea  of  its  becoming  an  impediment 
to  its  separation  from  this,  operates  thoroughly,  whilst 
pains  have  not  been  wanting  to  inculcate  a  belief,  that 
the  general  government  proposed  will,  without  scru 
ple  or  delay,  barter  away  their  rights  to  navigation  of 
the  Mississippi.1 

information  from  that  quarter  would  have  justified  the  expectation  of  a  una 
nimity  in  the  convention  ;  whereas  an  account  so  opposite  to  every  former  one, 
having  arrived  at  the  very  time  when  the  elections  were  carrying  on  here,  gave 
an  opportunity  to  the  opponents  of  the  proposed  constitution  to  hold  up  to  the 
people  its  not  having  been  so  generally  approved  of  in  other  States  as  they  had 
been  taught  to  believe,  and  of  consequence  prepared  them  to  receive  other  im 
pressions  unfriendly  to  the  government  and  tending  to  influence  their  votes  in 
favor  of  antifederal  characters." — Washington  to  John  Langdon,  2  April  1788. 
1  "  This,  however,  I  may  say,  that  the  northern,  or  upper  Counties  are  gen 
erally  friendly  to  the  adoption  of  the  government ;  the  lower  are  said  to  be  gen 
erally  unfriendly,  the  sentiments  of  the  western  parts  of  the  States  are  not  fully 
known,  but  no  means  have  been  left  untried  to  prejudice  them  against  the  sys 
tem,  every  art  that  could  inflame  the  passions  or  touch  the  interests  of  men  have 
been  essayed  ; — the  ignorant  have  been  told  that  should  the  proposed  govern 
ment  obtain,  their  lands  would  be  taken  from  them  and  their  property  disposed 
of  ; — and  all  ranks  are  informed  that  the  prohibition  of  the  Navigation  of  the 


240  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

The  postponement  in  New  Hampshire  will  give 
strength  and  vigor  to  the  opposition  in  New  York, 
and  possibly  render  Rhode  Island  more  tardy  than 
she  would  otherwise  have  been,  if  all  the  New  Eng 
land  States  had  adopted  the  measure.  Mrs.  Wash 
ington  joins  in  every  good  wish  for  Mrs  Knox,  your 
self  &  family,  &c.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    CHARLES    LEE. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  4  April,  1788. 

DEAR  SIR, 

I  am  very  sorry  I  have  not  yet  been  able  to  dis 
charge  my  account  with  the  James  River  Company, 
for  the  amount  of  which  you  presented  me  with  an 
order. 

The  almost  total  loss  of  my  crop  last  year  by  the 
drought,  which  has  obliged  me  to  purchase  upwards 
of  eight  hundred  barrels  of  corn,  and  my  other  nu 
merous  and  necessary  demands  for  cash,  when  I  find 
it  impossible  to  obtain  what  is  due  to  me  by  any 
means,  have  caused  me  more  perplexity  and  given  me 

Mississippi  (their  favorite  object)  will  be  a  certain  consequence  of  the  adoption 
of  the  Constitution.  But  notwithstanding  these  unfair  and  unjust  representa 
tions,  I  have  the  fullest  confidence  in  its  being  received  in  this  State." — Wash 
ington  to  Lincoln,  2  April  1788. 

"  I  have  not  at  any  moment,  despaired  of  this  State's  acceptance  of  the  new 
Constitution,  since  the  ratification  of  Maryland  by  so  large  and  decided  a  ma 
jority.  The  fury  of  the  opposition,  I  believe,  is  spent,  and  the  grand  push  was 
made  at  the  Elections  ;  failing  of  success  therein,  the  hopes  of  its  leaders  begin 
to  flag,  and  many  of  them,  or  I  am  mistaken,  wish  the  business  was  to  com 
mence  de  novo — in  which  case  a  different  line  of  march  would  be  taken  up  by 
some  of  them." — Washington  to  Gouverneur  Morris,  2  May,  1788. 


iy88]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  241 

more  uneasiness  than  I  ever  experienced  before  from 
the  want  of  money.  In  addition  to  the  disappoint 
ments,  which  I  have  met  with  from  those  who  are 
indebted  to  me,  I  have  in  my  hands  a  number  of 
indents  and  other  public  securities,  which  I  have 
received  from  time  to  time  as  the  interest  of  some 
Continental  loan-office  certificates,  which  are  in  my 
possession.  As  I  am  so  little  conversant  in  public 
securities  of  every  kind,  as  not  to  know  the  use  or 
value  of  them,  and  hardly  the  difference  of  one  species 
from  another,  I  have  kept  them  by  me  from  year  to 
year  without  having  an  idea  that  they  would  depre 
ciate,  as  they  were  drawn  for  interest,  and  never 
doubting  but  they  would  be  received  in  payment  of 
taxes  at  any  time,  till  I  have  found  by  the  revenue 
law  of  the  last  session,  that  only  a  particular  descrip 
tion  of  them  will  pay  the  taxes  of  the  year  1 787.  The 
others  pay  all  arrearages  of  taxes,  and  I  am  informed 
are  not  worth  more  than  two  shillings  and  sixpence 
in  the  pound.  The  injustice  of  this  measure  is  too 
obvious  and  too  glaring  to  pass  unobserved.  It  is 
taxing  the  honest  man  for  his  punctuality,  and  reward 
ing  the  tardy  or  dishonest  with  the  sum  of  seventeen 
shillings  and  sixpence  in  every  pound  which  is  due 
from  him  for  taxes.  As  you  are  now  in  Richmond  I  take 
the  liberty  of  enclosing  to  you  (in  a  letter  from  Mr. 
Pendleton)  a  certificate  for  a  negro  executed  in  the 
year  1781,  amounting  to  ^69,  which  I  will  thank  you 
to  negotiate  for  me  there  upon  the  best  terms  you  can 
and  pay  the  proceeds  thereof  in  behalf  of  what  is  due 
from  me  to  the  James  River  Company. — The  princi- 

16 


242  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

pal  for  the  negro,  and  three  years  interest  thereon 
(which  is  all  that  was  allowed)  amounted  to  ,£133, 
which  was  divided  into  two  certificates,  one  receivable 
in  the  taxes  now  due,  which  I  retain  to  discharge 
part  of  my  taxes  for  the  year  1787,  and  the  other  you 
have  with  this.  Upon  what  principle  of  justice  interest 
is  allowed  on  the  above  certificates  from  the  ist  of 
Jany,  1785  only  my  ideas  are  not  sufficiently  compre 
hensive  to  understand,  and  if  it  should  fall  in  your  way 
to  inquire,  should  be  glad  to  know ;  as  also  what  will 
or  is  likely  to  be  the  final  result  of  my  holding  the 
certificates,  which  have  been  given  to  me  for  interest 
of  the  money  I  lent  the  public  in  the  day  of  its  dis 
tress.  I  am  well  apprized,  that  these  are  negotiable 
things  as  above,  and  when  a  person  is  obliged  to  part 
with  them,  he  must,  as  with  other  commodities  at  mar 
ket,  take  what  they  will  fetch  ;  but  the  object  of  my 
inquiry  is  to  know  what  the  final  end  of  them  will  be 
if  retained  in  my  chest.  Strange  indeed  it  seems, 
that  the  public  officers  should  take  in  the  original  cer 
tificates,  issued  new  by  a  scale  of  their  own,  reducing  the 
money,  as  they  say,  to  specie  value,  give  warrants  for 
interest  accordingly,  and  then,  behold  !  these  specie 
warrants  are  worth  two  shillings  and  sixpence  in  the 
pound.  To  commit  them  to  the  flames,  or  suffer  this, 
is  a  matter  of  indifference  to  me.  There  can  be  no 
justice,  where  there  are  such  practices.  You  will 
pardon  me  for  dwelling  so  long  upon  this  subject.  It 
is  a  matter,  which  does  not  concern  me  alone,  but 
must  affect  many  others.  With  great  esteem  and 
regard,  I  am,  &c. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  243 

TO    JAMES    WILSON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  4  April,  1788. 

DEAR  SIR, 

You  will  please  to  accept  of  my  best  thanks  for  the 
copy  of  the  debates  of  your  late  convention,1  which 
you  have  been  so  polite  as  to  send  me.  That,  to 
gether  with  your  favor  of  the  nth  ultimo,  was 
handed  to  me  by  Mr.  Madison.  The  violent  proceed 
ings  of  the  enemies  of  the  proposed  constitution  in 
your  State  are  to  be  regretted,  as  disturbing  the  peace 
of  society  ;  but  in  any  other  point  of  view  they  are 
not  to  be  regarded,  for  their  unimportance  effectually 
precludes  any  fear  of  their  having  an  extensive  or 
lasting  influence,  and  their  activity  holds  up  to  view 
the  general  cast  and  character  of  them,  which  need 
only  to  be  seen  to  be  disregarded. 

It  is  impossible  to  say,  with  any  degree  of  certainty, 
what  will  be  the  determination  of  the  convention  in 
this  State  upon  the  proposed  plan  of  government.  I 
have  no  opportunity  of  gaining  information  respect 
ing  the  matter,  but  what  comes  through  the  medium 
of  the  newspapers,  or  from  those  gentlemen  who  visit 
me,  as  I  have  hardly  been  ten  miles  from  my  farm 
since  my  return  from  Philadelphia.  Some  judgment 
may  be  formed  when  the  members  chosen  by  the  sev 
eral  counties  to  serve  in  convention  are  known  ;  as 
their  sentiments  will  be  decided,  and  their  choice  de 
termined,  by  their  attachment  or  opposition  to  the 
proposed  system.  A  majority  of  those  names  I  have 

1  The  notable  volume  on  Pennsylvania  and  the  Federal  Constitution  1787- 
88,  edited  by  John  Bach  McMaster  and  Fred.  D.  Stone,  gives  a  full  and  com 
plete  picture  of  this  factional  contest. 


244  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

yet  seen  are  said  to  be  friendly  to  the  constitution  ; 
but  these  are  from  the  northern  parts  of  the  State, 
from  whence  less  opposition  was  to  be  expected.  It 
is,  however,  certain,  that  there  will  be  a  greater  weight 
of  abilities  opposed  to  it  here  than  in  any  other  State. 
I  am,  &c.  

TO    THOMAS    JOHNSON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  20  April,  1788. 

DEAR  SIR, 

As  well  from  report,  as  from  the  ideas  expressed  to 
me  in  your  letter  in  December  last,  I  am  led  to  con 
clude,  that  you  are  disposed,  (circumstanced  as  our 
public  affairs  are  at  present,)  to  ratify  the  constitu 
tion,  which  has  been  submitted  to  the  people  by  the 
federal  convention  ;  and,  under  this  impression,  I  take 
the  liberty  of  expressing  a  single  sentiment  on  the 
occasion.  It  is,  that  an  adjournment,  if  attempted, 
of  your  convention,1  to  a  later  period  than  the  deci 
sion  of  the  question  in  this  State,  will  be  tantamount 
to  the  rejection  of  the  constitution.  I  have  good 
reasons  for  this  opinion,  and  am  told  it  is  the  blow 
which  the  leading  characters  of  the  opposition  in  the 
next  State  have  meditated,*  if  it  shall  be  found  that  a 
direct  attack  is  not  likely  to  succeed  in  yours.  If  this 
be  true  it  cannot  be  too  much  deprecated  and  guarded 
against.  The  postponement  in  New  Hampshire,  (al 
though  it  made  no  reference  to  the  convention  of  this 
State,  but  proceeded  altogether  from  the  local  cir- 

1  The  convention  in  the  State  of  Maryland. 

'That  is,  the  next  in  which  a  convention  shall  assemble  after  that  of  Mary 
land. 


I788J  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  245 

cumstances  of  its  own,)  is  ascribed  by  the  opposition 
here  to  complaisance  towards  Virginia,  and  great  use 
is  made  of  it.  An  event  similar  to  this  in  Maryland 
would  have  the  worst  tendency  imaginable  ;  for  inde 
cision  there  would  certainly  have  considerable  influ 
ence  upon  South  Carolina,  the  only  other  State,  which 
is  to  precede  Virginia,  and  submits  the  question  almost 
wholly  to  the  determination  of  the  latter.  The  pride 
of  the  State  is  already  touched  upon  this  string,  and 
will  be  raised  much  higher  if  there  is  fresh  cause. 

The  sentiments  of  Kentucky  are  not  yet  known 
here.  Independent  of  these,  the  parties  in  this  State, 
from  the  known  or  presumed  opinions  of  the  members, 
are  pretty  equally  balanced.  The  one  in  favor  of  the 
constitution  preponderates  at  present ;  but  a  little  mat 
ter,  cast  into  the  opposite  scale,  may  make  it  heaviest. 

If,  in  suggesting  this  matter,  I  have  exceeded  the 
proper  limit,  I  shall  yet  hope  to  be  excused.  I  have 
but  one  public  wish  remaining.  It  is,  that  in  peace 
and  retirement  I  may  see  this  country  rescued  from 
the  danger  which  is  pending,  and  rise  into  respecta 
bility,  maugre  the  intrigues  of  its  public  and  private 
enemies. 

I  am,  with  very  great  esteem  and  regard,  &C.1 

1  "Since  then  I  was  informed  by  the  Honorable  James  Mercer,  that  his 
brother,  Col.  John  Mercer,  who  was  at  that  time  (July  loth,)  in  this  town 
[Fredericksburg],  was  furnished  with  documents  to  prove  that  Genl.  Washing 
ton  had  wrote  a  letter  upon  the  present  Constitution,  to  Governor  Johnson,  of 
Maryland  ;  and  that  Governor  Johnson  was  so  much  displeased  with  the  officious- 
ness  of  Genl.  Washington,  as  to  induce  him  to  take  an  active  part  in  bringing 
about  the  amendments  proposed  by  a  committee  of  the  Convention  of  Mary 
land." — Dr.  Brooks  to  David  Stuart.  The  rumor  was,  of  course,  false:  but 
Washington  sent  the  extract  to  Governor  Johnson  and  enquired  whether  it 


246  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

TO    THE    MARQUIS    DE    CHASTELLUX. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  25  April,  1788. 

MY  DEAR  MARQUIS, 

In  reading  your  very  friendly  and  acceptable  letter, 
of  2 ist  Deer.,  1787,  which  came  to  hand  by  the  last 
mail,  I  was,  as  you  may  well  suppose,  not  less  de 
lighted  than  surprised  to  meet  the  plain  American 
words,  "  my  wife."  A  wife  !  Well,  my  dear  Mar 
quis,  I  can  hardly  refrain  from  smiling  to  find  you  are 
caught  at  last.  I  saw,  by  the  eulogium  you  often 
made  on  the  happiness  of  domestic  life  in  America, 
that  you  had  swallowed  the  bait,  and  that  you  would 
as  surely  be  taken,  one  day  or  another,  as  that  you 
were  a  philosopher  and  a  soldier.  So  your  day  has 
at  length  come.  I  am  glad  of  it,  with  all  my  heart 
and  soul.  It  is  quite  good  enough  for  you.  Now 
you  are  well  served  for  coming  to  fight  in  favor  of  the 
American  rebels,  all  the  way  across  the  Atlantic 
Ocean,  by  catching  that  terrible  contagion — domestic 
felicity — which  time,  like  the  small  pox  or  the  plague, 
a  man  can  have  only  once  in  his  life  :  because  it  com 
monly  lasts  him  (at  least  with  us  in  America — I  dont 
know  how  you  manage  these  matters  in  France)  for  his 
whole  life  time.  And  yet  after  all  the  maledictions 
you  so  richly  merit  on  the  subject,  the  worst  wish 
which  I  can  find  in  my  heart  to  make  against  Madame 
de  Chastellux  and  yourself  is,  that  you  may  neither  of 
you  ever  get  the  better  of  this  same — domestic  feli 
city  during  the  entire  course  of  your  mortal  existence. 

was  a  true  statement,  or  "the  document  and  interpretation  of  this  matter  by 
Colo.  Mercer  is  the  effect  of  one  of  those  mistakes,  which  he  is  so  liable  to  fall 
into." — Washington  to  Johnson,  31  August,  1788. 


1 7 88]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  247 

If  so  wonderful  an  event  should  have  occasioned 
me,  my  dear  Marquis,  to  have  written  in  a  strange 
style — you  will  understand  me  as  clearly  as  if  I  had 
said  (what  in  plain  English,  is  the  simple  truth)  do 
me  the  justice  to  believe  that  I  take  a  heartfelt  inter 
est  in  whatever  concerns  your  happiness.  And  in 
this  view  I  sincerely  congratulate  you  on  your  auspi 
cious  matrimonial  connection.  I  am  happy  to  find 
that  Madame  de  Chastellux  is  so  intimately  connected 
with  the  Dutchess  of  Orleans,  as  I  have  always  un 
derstood  that  this  noble  lady  was  an  illustrious  pat 
tern  of  connubial  love,  as  well  as  an  excellent  model 
of  virtue  in  general. 

While  you  have  been  making  love,  under  the  ban 
ner  of  Hymen,  the  great  Personages  in  the  North 
have  been  making  war,  under  the  inspiration,  or  rather 
under  the  infatuation  of  Mars.  Now,  for  my  part,  I 
humbly  conceive,  you  have  had  much  the  best  and 
wisest  of  the  bargain.  For  certainly  it  is  more  con 
sonant  to  all  the  principles  of  reason  and  religion 
(natural  and  revealed)  to  replenish  the  earth  with 
inhabitants,  rather  than  to  depopulate  it  by  killing 
those  already  in  existence,  besides  it  is  time  for  the 
age  of  knight-errantry  and  mad-heroism  to  be  at  an 
end.  Your  young  military  men,  who  want  to  reap  the 
harvest  of  laurels,  don't  care  (I  suppose)  how  many 
seeds  of  war  are  sown  ;  but  for  the  sake  of  humanity 
it  is  devoutly  to  be  wished,  that  the  manly  employ 
ment  of  agriculture,  and  the  humanizing  benefits  of 
commerce,  would  supersede  the  waste  of  war  and  the 
rage  of  conquest ;  and  the  swords  might  be  turned 


248  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

into  ploughshares,  the  spears  into  pruninghooks,  and, 
as  the  Scripture  expresses  it,   "  the  nations  learn  war 


no  more." 


Now  I  will  give  you  a  little  news  from  this  side  of 
the  water,  and  then  finish.  As  for  us,  we  are  plod 
ding  on  in  the  dull  road  of  peace  and  politics.  We, 
who  live  in  these  ends  of  the  earth,  only  hear  of  the 
rumors  of  war  like  the  roar  of  distant  thunder.  It  is 
to  be  hoped,  that  our  remote  local  situation  will  pre 
vent  us  from  being  swept  into  its  vortex. 

The  constitution,  which  was  proposed  by  the  fed 
eral  convention,  has  been  adopted  by  the  States  of 
Massachusetts,  Connecticut,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylva 
nia,  Delaware,  and  Georgia.  No  State  has  rejected 
it.  The  convention  of  Maryland  is  now  sitting,  and 
will  probably  adopt  it  ;  as  that  of  South  Carolina  is 
expected  to  do  in  May.  The  other  conventions  will 
assemble  early  in  the  summer.  Hitherto  there  has 
been  much  greater  unanimity  in  favor  of  the  proposed 
government,  than  could  have  reasonably  been  ex 
pected.  Should  it  be  adopted,  (and  I  think  it  will 
be,)  America  will  lift  up  her  head  again,  and  in  a  few 
years  become  respectable  among  the  nations.  It  is  a 
flattering  and  consolatory  reflection,  that  our  rising 
republics  have  the  good  wishes  of  all  the  philosophers, 
patriots,  and  virtuous  men  in  all  nations  ;  and  that 
they  look  upon  them  as  a  kind  of  asylum  for  man 
kind.  God  grant  that  we  may  not  disappoint  their 
honest  expectations  by  our  folly  orperverseness.  *  *  * 

With  sentiments  of  the  purest  attachment  and  es 
teem,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  my  dear  Marquis,  &c. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  249 

TO    JOHN    ARMSTRONG. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  25  April,  1788. 

DEAR  SIR, 

From  some  cause  or  other,  which  I  do  not  know, 
your  favor  of  the  2Oth  of  February  did  not  reach  me 
till  very  lately.  This  must  apologize  for  its  not  being 
sooner  acknowledged.  Although  Colonel  Elaine  for 
got  to  call  upon  me  for  a  letter  before  he  left  Phila 
delphia,  yet  I  wrote  a  few  lines  to  you  previous  to  my 
departure  from  that  place  ;  whether  they  ever  got  to 
your  hands,  you  best  know. 

I  well  remember  the  observation  you  made  in 
your  letter  to  me  of  last  year,  "  that  my  domestic 
retirement  must  surfer  an  interruption."  This  took 
place,  notwithstanding  it  was  utterly  repugnant  to  my 
feelings,  my  interests,  and  my  wishes.  I  sacrificed 
every  private  consideration,  and  personal  enjoyment, 
to  the  earnest  and  pressing  solicitations  of  those, 
who  saw  and  knew  the  alarming  situation  of  our 
public  concerns,  and  had  no  other  end  in  view  but 
to  promote  the  interests  of  their  country  ;  conceiving, 
that  under  those  circumstances,  and  at  so  critical  a 
moment,  an  absolute  refusal  to  act  might  on  my  part 
be  construed  as  a  total  disregard  of  my  country,  if 
imputed  to  no  worse  motives.  Although  you  say 
the  same  motives  induce  you  to  think,  that  another 
tour  of  duty  of  this  kind  will  fall  to  my  lot,  I 
cannot  but  hope,  that  you  will  be  disappointed  ;  for 
I  am  so  wedded  to  a  state  of  retirement,  and  find 
the  occupations  of  a  rural  life  so  congenial  with 
my  feelings,  that  to  be  drawn  into  public  at  my  ad- 


250  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

vanced  age  would  be  a  sacrifice,  that  would  admit 
of  no  compensation.1 

Your  remarks  on  the  impressions,  which  will  be 
made  on  the  manners  and  sentiments  of  the  people  by 
the  example  of  those,  who  are  first  called  to  act  under 
the  proposed  government,  are  very  just ;  and  I  have 
no  doubt  but,  if  the  proposed  constitution  obtains 
those  persons  who  are  chosen  to  administer  it  will 
have  wisdom  enough  to  discern  the  influence,  which 
their  example  as  rulers  and  legislators  may  have  on 
the  body  of  the  people,  and  will  have  virtue  enough 
to  pursue  that  line  of  conduct,  which  will  most  con 
duce  to  the  happiness  of  their  country.  As  the  first 
transactions  of  a  nation,  like  those  of  an  individual 
upon  his  first  entrance  into  life,  make  the  deepest 
impression,  and  are  to  form  the  leading  traits  in  his 
character,  they  will  undoubtedly  pursue  those  meas 
ures,  which  will  best  tend  to  the  restoration  of  public 

1  "  Old  as  I  am,  I  rejoice  at  the  high  probability,  and  therefore  near  prospect, 
of  a  general  adoption  of  the  federal  constitution.  This  hope  leads  us  on  to  the 
use  of  that  system,  in  which  the  federal  voice  of  Pennsylvania  stands  ready  to 
announce  your  Excellency  the  first  president  of  the  Union.  In  this  there  needs 
be  little  hesitation  amongst  the  citizens,  but  not  so  with  you.  Persuaded  as  I 
am  it  will  cost  you  much  anxious  thought,  nevertheless,  if  the  call  of  God  is 
manifested  to  you  in  a  plenary  or  unanimous  call  of  the  people,  I  hope  that 
will  obviate  every  objection  ;  if  not  for  the  whole  term  of  four  years,  at  least 
for  half  that  time,  if  health  admit  ;  considering,  as  you  will,  that  we  were  not 
made  for  ourselves  therefore  must  not  live  to  ourselves.  My  sole  reason  for  these 
early  hints  is,  that  by  a  divine  blessing  you  maybe  made  instrumental  in  giving 
a  wise  and  useful  example  to  successors,  in  more  things  than  what  maybe  merely 
essential  to  the  office.  I  had  like  to  be  so  imprudent  as  to  mention  a  few,  but 
am  checked,  not  by  modesty  alone,  but  by  former  demonstrations,  that  you  will 
have  in  full  view  all  I  mean  and  much  more.  The  more  dissipated  customs 
of  the  age,  prompted  by  elevation  of  rank,  national  dignity,  and  other  inflated 
ideas,  will  but  too  probably  contrast  themselves  to  national  economy,  real  dig 
nity  and  private  virtue  too." — Armstrong  to  Washington,  20  February,  1788. 


1788]  GEORGE   WASHINGTON.  251 

and  private  faith,  and  of  consequence  promote  our 
national  respectability  and  individual  welfare. 

That  the  proposed  constitution  will  admit  of  amend 
ments  is  acknowledged  by  its  warmest  advocates  ; 
but  to  make  such  amendments  as  may  be  proposed 
by  the  several  States  the  condition  of  its  adoption 
would,  in  my  opinion,  amount  to  a  complete  rejection 
of  it  ;  for,  upon  examination  of  the  objections,  which 
are  made  by  the  opponents  in  different  States,  and  the 
amendments,  which  have  been  proposed,  it  will  be 
found,  that  what  would  be  a  favorite  object  with  one 
State,  is  the  very  thing  which  is  strenuously  opposed 
by  another.  The  truth  is,  men  are  too  apt  to  be 
swayed  by  local  prejudices,  and  those,  who  are  so 
fond  of  amendments,  which  have  the  particular  in 
terest  of  their  own  States  in  view,  cannot  extend  their 
ideas  to  the  general  welfare  of  the  Union.  They  do 
not  consider,  that,  for  every  sacrifice  which  they  make, 
they  receive  an  ample  compensation  by  the  sacrifices, 
which  are  made  by  other  States  for  their  benefit  ; 
and  that  those  very  things,  which  they  give  up,  operate 
to  their  advantage  through  the  medium  of  the  great 
interest. 

In  addition  to  these  considerations  it  should  be  re 
membered,  that  a  constitutional  door  is  opened  for 
such  amendments,  as  shall  be  thought  necessary  by 
nine  States.  When  I  reflect  upon  these  circumstances, 
I  am  surprised  to  find,  that  any  person,  who  is  ac 
quainted  with  the  critical  state  of  our  public  affairs, 
and  knows  the  variety  of  views,  interests,  feelings, 
and  prejudices,  which  must  be  consulted  in  framing  a 


252  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

general  government  for  these  States,  and  how  little 
propositions  in  themselves  so  opposite  to  each  other 
will  tend  to  promote  that  desirable  end,  can  wish  to 
make  amendments  the  ultimatum  for  adopting  the 
offered  system. 

I  am  very  glad  to  find,  that  the  opposition  in  your 
State,  however  formidable  it  has  been  represented,  is 
generally  speaking  composed  of  such  characters,  as 
cannot  have  an  extensive  influence.  Their  strength, 
as  well  as  that  of  those  in  the  same  class  in  other 
States,  seems  to  lie  in  misrepresentation,  and  a  desire 
to  inflame  the  passions  and  to  alarm  the  fears  by  noisy 
declamation,  rather  than  to  convince  the  understand 
ing  by  sound  arguments  or  fair  and  impartial  state 
ments.  Baffled  in  their  attacks  upon  the  constitution, 
they  have  attempted  to  vilify  and  debase  the  charac 
ters,  who  formed  it ;  but  even  here  I  trust  they  will 
not  succeed.  Upon  the  whole,  I  doubt  whether  the 
opposition  to  the  constitution  will  not  ultimately  be 
productive  of  more  good  than  evil.  It  has  called 
forth  in  its  defence  abilities  which  would  not  perhaps 
have  been  otherwise  expected  that  have  thrown  new 
light  upon  the  science  of  government.  It  has  given 
the  rights  of  man  a  full  and  fair  discussion,  and  ex 
plained  them  in  so  clear  and  forcible  a  manner,  as 
cannot  fail  to  make  a  lasting  impression  upon  those, 
who  read  the  best  publications  on  the  subject,  and 
particularly  the  pieces  under  the  signature  of  PUB- 
LIUS.  There  will  be  a  greater  weight  of  abilities  op 
posed  to  the  system  in  the  convention  of  this  State, 
than  there  has  been  in  any  other  ;  but,  notwithstand- 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  253 

ing  the  unwearied  pains  which  have  been  taken,  and 
the  vigorous  efforts  which  will  be  made  in  the  conven- 

o 

tion  to  prevent  its  adoption,  I   have  not  the  smallest 
doubt  but  it  will  obtain  here. 

I  am  sorry  to  hear,  that  the  college  in  your  neigh 
borhood1  is  in  so  declining  a  state  as  you  represent 
it,  and  that  it  is  likely  to  suffer  a  further  injury  by  the 
loss  of  Dr.  Nisbet,  whom  you  are  afraid  you  shall  not 
be  able  to  support  in  a  proper  manner,  on  account  of 
the  scarcity  of  cash,  which  prevents  parents  from  send 
ing  their  children  thither.  This  is  one  of  the  numer 
ous  evils,  which  arise  from  the  want  of  a  general 
regulating  power  ;  for  in  a  country  like  this,  where 
equal  liberty  is  enjoyed,  where  every  man  may  reap 
his  own  harvest,  which  by  proper  attention  will  afford 
him  much  more  than  is  necessary  for  his  own  consump 
tion,  and  where  there  is  so  ample  a  field  for  every 
mercantile  and  mechanical  exertion,  if  there  cannot  be 
money  found  to  answer  the  common  purposes  of  edu 
cation,  not  to  mention  the  necessary  commercial  circu 
lation,  it  is  evident  that  there  is  something  amiss  in 
the  ruling  political  power,  which  requires  a  steady,  reg 
ulating,  and  energetic  hand  to  correct  and  control  it. 
That  money  is  not  to  be  had,  every  man's  experience 
tells  him,  and  the  great  fall  in  the  price  of  property  is  an 
unequivocal  and  melancholy  proof  of  it ;  when,  if  that 
property  were  well  secured,  faith  and  justice  well  pre 
served,  a  stable  government  well  administered,  and 
confidence  restored,  the  tide  of  population  and  wealth 
would  flow  to  us  from  every  part  of  the  globe,  and, 

1  Dickinson  College  at  Carlyle,  in  Pennsylvania. 


254  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

with  a  due  sense  of  the  blessings,  make  us  the  happiest 
people  upon  earth.  With  sentiments  of  very  great 
esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  my  dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO    THE    MARQUIS    DE    LAFAYETTE. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  28  April,  1788. 
****** 

I  notice  with  pleasure  the  additional  immunities 
and  facilities  in  trade,  which  France  has  granted  by 
the  late  royal  arret  to  the  United  States.  I  Hatter 
myself  it  will  have  the  desired  effect  in  some  measure 
of  augmenting  the  commercial  intercourse.  From  the 
productions  and  wants  of  the  two  countries,  their 
trade  with  each  other  is  certainly  capable  of  great 
amelioration  to  be  actuated  by  a  spirit  of  unwise  pol 
icy.  For  so  surely  as  ever  we  shall  have  an  efficient 
government  established,  so  surely  will  that  govern 
ment  impose  retaliating  restrictions,  to  a  certain  de 
gree,  upon  the  trade  of  Britain.  At  present,  or  under 
our  existing  form  of  confederation,  it  would  be  idle 
to  think  of  making  commercial  regulations  on  our 
part.  One  State  passes  a  prohibitory  law  respecting 
some  article,  another  State  opens  wide  the  avenue  for 
its  admission.  One  Assembly  makes  a  system,  another 
Assembly  unmakes  it.  Virginia,  in  the  very  last  ses 
sion  of  her  legislature,  was  about  to  have  passed  some 
of  the  most  extravagant  and  preposterous  edicts  on  the 
subject  of  trade,  that  ever  stained  the  leaves  of  alegisla- 
tive  code.  It  is  in  vain  to  hope  fora  remedy  of  these, 
and  innumerable  other  evils,  until  a  general  govern 
ment  shall  be  adopted. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  255 

The  conventions  of  six  States  only  have  as  yet  ac 
cepted  the  new  constitution.  No  one  has  rejected  it. 
It  is  believed  that  the  convention  of  Maryland,  which 
is  now  in  session,  and  that  of  South  Carolina,  which 
is  to  assemble  on  the  i2th  of  May,  will  certainly  adopt 
it.  It  is  also  since  the  elections  of  members  of  the 
convention  have  taken  place  in  this  State,  more  gen 
erally  believed,  that  it  will  be  adopted  here,  than  it 
was  before  those  elections  were  made.  There  will, 
however,  be  powerful  and  eloquent  speeches  on  both 
sides  of  the  question  in  the  Virginia  convention  ;  but 
as  Pendleton,  Wythe,  Blair,  Madison,  Jones,1  Nicho 
las,  Innes,  and  many  other  of  our  first  characters,  will 
be  advocates  for  its  adoption,  you  may  suppose  the 
weight  of  abilities  will  rest  on  that  side.  Henry  and 
Mason  are  its  great  adversaries.2  The  governor,  if 
he  approves  it  at  all,  will  do  it  feebly. 

On  the  general  merits  of  this  proposed  constitution, 
I  wrote  to  you  some  time  ago  my  sentiments  pretty 
freely.  That  letter  had  not  been  received  by  you, 
when  you  addressed  to  me  the  last  of  yours,  which 
has  come  to  my  hands.  I  had  never  supposed  that 
perfection  could  be  the  result  of  accommodation  and 
mutual  concession.  The  opinion  of  Mr.  Jefferson  and 
yourself  is  certainly  a  wise  one,  that  the  constitution 
ought  by  all  means  to  be  accepted  by  nine  States  be- 

1  Both  Dr.  W.  Jones  and  Gabriel  Jones  were  reported  to  be  in  favor  of  the 
constitution. 

3  "  The  declaration  of  Henry  mentioned  in  your  letter,  is  a  proof  to  me  that 
desperate  measures  will  be  his  game.  If  report  does  not  more  than  usually  exag 
gerate,  Mason,  also,  is  ripening  fast  forgoing  every  length.  His  licentiousness 
of  animadversion,  it  is  said,  no  longer  spares  even  the  moderate  opponents  of 
the  Constitution." — Madison  t&  Randolph,  10  April,  1788. 


256  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

fore  any  attempt  should  be  made  to  procure  amend 
ments  ;  for,  if  that  acceptance  shall  not  previously  take 
place,  men's  minds  will  be  so  much  agitated  and 
soured,  that  the  danger  will  be  greater  than  ever  of 
our  becoming  a  disunited  people.  Whereas,  on  the 
other  hand,  with  prudence  in  temper  and  a  spirit  of 
moderation,  every  essential  alteration  may  in  the  pro 
cess  of  time  be  expected. 

You  will  doubtless  have  seen,  that  it  was  owing  to 
this  conciliatory  and  patriotic  principle,  that  the  con 
vention  of  Massachusetts  adopted  the  constitution  in 
toto,  but  recommended  a  number  of  specific  altera 
tions,  and  quieting  explanations  as  an  early,  serious, 
and  unremitting  subject  of  attention.  Now,  although 
it  is  not  to  be  expected,  that  every  individual  in  soci 
ety  will  or  can  be  brought  to  agree  upon  what  is 
exactly  the  best  form  of  government,  yet  there  are 
many  things  in  the  constitution,  which  only  need  to  be 
explained,  in  order  to  prove  equally  satisfactory  to 
all  parties.  For  example,  there  was  not  a  member  of 
the  convention,  I  believe,  who  had  the  least  objection 
to  what  is  contended  for  by  the  advocates  for  a  Bill 
of  Rights  and  Trial  by  Jury.  The  first,  where  the 
people  evidently  retained  every  thing,  which  they  did 
not  in  the  express  terms  give  up,  was  considered  nuga 
tory,  as  you  will  find  to  have  been  more  fully  ex 
plained  by  Mr.  Wilson  and  others  ;  and,  as  to  the 
second,  it  was  only  the  difficulty  of  establishing  a 
mode,  which  should  not  interfere  with  the  fixed  modes 
of  any  of  the  States,  that  induced  the  convention  to 
leave  it  as  a  matter  of  future  adjustment. 


1  788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  257 

There  are  other  points  in  which  opinions  would  be 
more  likely  to  vary.  As  for  instance,  on  the  ineligi- 
bility  of  the  same  person  for  president,  after  he  should 
have  served  a  certain  course  of  years.  Guarded  so 
effectually  as  the  proposed  constitution  is,  in  respect 
to  the  prevention  of  bribery  and  undue  influence  in 
the  choice  of  president,  I  confess  I  differ  widely  my 
self  from  Mr.  Jefferson  and  you,  as  to  the  necessity 
or  expediency  of  rotation  in  that  appointment.  The 
matter  was  fairly  discussed  in  the  convention,  and  to 
my  full  conviction,  though  I  cannot  have  time  or  room 
to  sum  up  the  argument  in  this  letter.  There  cannot 
in  my  judgment  be  the  least  danger,  that  the  presi 
dent  will  by  any  practicable  intrigue  ever  be  able  to 
continue  himself  one  moment  in  office,  much  less  per 
petuate  himself  in  it,  but  in  the  last  stage  of  corrupted 
morals  and  political  depravity  ;  and  even  then,  there 
is  as  much  danger  that  any  other  species  of  domina 
tion  would  prevail.  Though,  when  a  people  shall 
have  become  incapable  of  governing  themselves,  and 
fit  for  a  master,  it  is  of  little  consequence  from  what 
quarter  he  comes.  Under  an  extended  view  of  this  part 
of  the  subject,  I  can  see  no  propriety  in  precluding  our 
selves  from  the  services  of  any  man,  who  on  some 
great  emergency  shall  be  deemed  universally  most 
capable  of  serving  the  public.1 

1  To  an  early  applicant  for  office  Washington  wrote,  8  June,  1788  : 
"Your  letter  is  now  before  me,  and  requires  that  I  should  say  something  in 
reply  on  a  subject,  in  which  I  feel  myself  more  embarrassed,  and  more  awk 
wardly  situated,  than  ever  I  have  been  before.     It  is  but  justice  to  my  own  feel 
ings  to  observe  that  I  am  conscious  I  have  never  been  indisposed  to  do  what 
ever  might  be  in  my  power  in  favor  of  those,  whose  misfortunes  had  been  una- 
17 


\ 


258  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

In  answer  to  the  observations  you  make  on  the 
probability  of  my  election  to  the  presidency,  knowing 
me  as  you  do,  I  need  only  say,  that  it  has  no  enticing 
charms  and  no  fascinating  allurements  for  me.  How 
ever,  it  might  not  be  decent  for  me  to  say  I  would 
refuse  to  accept,  or  even  to  speak  much  about  an  ap 
pointment,  which  may  never  take  place  ;  for,  in  so 
doing,  one  might  possibly  incur  the  application  of  the 
moral  resulting  from  that  fable,  in  which  the  fox  is 
represented  as  inveighing  against  the  sourness  of  the 
grapes,  because  he  could  not  reach  them.  All  that  it 
will  be  necessary  to  add,  my  dear  Marquis,  in  order  to 
show  my  decided  predilections  is,  that,  (at  my  time  of 
life  and  under  my  circumstances,)  the  increasing  in 
firmities  of  nature  and  the  growing  love  of  retirement 
do  not  permit  me  to  entertain  a  wish  beyond  that  of 
living  and  dying  an  honest  man  on  my  own  farm. 

voidably  brought  upon  them  without  any  fault  of  their  own.  In  this  predicament 
I  was  not  a  little  concerned  at  an  application  for  employment  under  a  govern 
ment  which  does  not  yet  exist,  and  with  the  administration  of  which  (in  case  it 
should  be  adopted  and  carried  into  execution)  it  is  much  more  than  possible  I 
may  never  be  concerned.  The  chaos  of  uncertainty  in  which  we  are  involved, 
and  the  impropriety  of  my  anticipating  events,  or  hazarding  opinions,  would 
scarcely  permit  me  to  touch,  however  slightly,  on  these  delicate  topics. 

"  These  circumstances,  I  observe,  had  not  entirely  escaped  your  attention  ; 
you  will  not,  therefore,  think  it  hard  that  I  should  mention  the  subject  as 
peculiarly  distressing  and  perplexing  to  me.  Delicacy  forbids,  that  I  should 
enlarge  as  to  myself.  As  to  you  I  will  only  add,  that  I  know  nothing  but  that 
your  character  stands  in  the  fairest  light,  and  consequently  cannot  be  actuated 
by  any  prejudice  against  your  pretensions. 

' '  I  beg,  Sir,  that  the  candor  and  freedom  which  I  have  used  on  this  occa 
sion  may  not  be  misinterpreted  to  give  you  any  unintended  and  unnecessary 
anxiety,  or  to  induce  you  to  believe,  that  I  have  taken  in  ill  part  the  applica 
tion,  although  I  thought  it  to  be  altogether  untimely  and  improper.  On  the 
contrary  you  may  rely  upon  my  protestation,  that  I  am,  in  every  personal  con 
sideration,  with  real  esteem  and  friendship,  &c." 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  259 

Let  those  follow  the  pursuits  of  ambition  and  fame, 
who  have  a  keener  relish  for  them,  or  who  may  have 
more  years  in  store  for  the  enjoyment. 

Mrs.  Washington,  while  she  requests  that  her  best 
compliments  may  be  presented  to  you,  joins  with  me 
in  soliciting  that  the  same  friendly  and  affectionate 
memorial  of  our  constant  remembrance  and  good 
wishes  may  be  made  acceptable  to  Madame  de  Lafay 
ette  and  the  little  ones.  I  am,  &c. 

P.  S.  May  i st.  Since  writing  the  foregoing  let 
ter,  I  have  received  authentic  accounts  that  the  Con 
vention  of  Maryland  has  ratified  the  new  Constitution 
by  a  majority  of  63  to  1 1.1 


TO    THE    COUNT    DE    ROCHAMBEAU. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  28  April,  1788. 

MY  DEAR  COUNT, 

I  have  just  received  the  letter,  which  you  did  me 
the  honor  to  write  to  me  on  the  iSth  of  January  ;  and 
am  sorry  to  learn,  that  the  Count  de  Grasse,  our  gal 
lant  coadjutor  in  the  capture  of  Cornwallis,  is  no  more. 
Yet  his  death  is  not,  perhaps,  so  much  to  be  deplored 
as  his  latter  days  were  to  be  pitied.  It  seemed  as  if 
an  unfortunate  and  unrelenting  destiny  pursued  him, 

1  "  A  thorn,  this  in  the  sides  of  the  leaders  of  opposition  in  this  State. — 
Should  South  Carolina  give  us  unequivocal  opposition  of  this  system,  the  oppo 
sition  will  become  feeble.  Yr.  eight  affirmations  without  a  negative  carries 
weight  of  argument,  if  not  of  eloquence,  along  with  it  which  might  cause  even 
the  unerring  sister  to  hesitate. — Mr.  Chase  it  is  said,  made  a  display  of  all  his 
eloquence — Mr.  Mercer  discharged  his  whole  Artillery  of  inflammable  matter, 
and  Mr.  Martin  did  something — I  know  not  what — but  presume  with  vehe 
mence — yet  no  comments  were  made — no,  not  one. — So  the  business  after  a 
very  short  Session,  ended,  and  will  if  I  mistake  not  render  yours  less  tiresome." 
—  Washington  to  Madison,  2  May,  1788. 


260  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

to  destroy  the  enjoyment  of  all  earthly  comfort.  The 
disastrous  battle  of  the  12th  of  April,  the  loss  of  the 
favor  of  his  King,  and  the  subsequent  connexion  in 
marriage  with  an  unworthy  woman,  were  sufficient  to 
have  made  him  weary  of  the  burden  of  life.  Your 
goodness  in  endeavoring  to  sweeten  its  passage  was 
truly  commendable,  however  it  might  have  been 
marred  by  his  own  impetuosity.  But  his  frailties 
should  now  be  buried  in  the  grave  with  him,  while  his 
name  will  be  long  deservedly  dear  to  his  country,  on 
account  of  his  successful  cooperation  in  the  glorious 
campaign  of  1781.  The  Cincinnati  in  some  of  the 
States  have  gone  into  mourning  for  him. 

Although  your  nation  and  England  have  avoided 
from  prudential  motives,  going  into  a  war,  yet  I  fancy 
their  affections  have  not  been  much  increased  by  the 
affair  in  Holland.  The  feeling  occasioned  to  France, 
by  the  interference  of  Prussia  and  Britain,  may  not 
pass  away  altogether  without  consequences.  I  wish 
indeed  the  affairs  of  France  to  be  on  a  footing,  which 
would  enable  her  to  be  the  arbiter  of  peace  to  the 
neighboring  nations.  The  poor  Dutch  patriots  seem, 
by  some  means  or  other,  to  have  been  left  sadly  in  the 
lurch,  and  to  be  reduced  to  a  most  humiliating  condi 
tion.  And  as  if  the  two  powers,  who  reinstated  the 
Stadtholder,  had  not  done  enough  to  set  the  middle 
nations  together  by  the  ears,  they  have  embroiled  for 
sooth  all  the  north  of  Europe  by  bringing  the  Turks 
into  hostility  with  the  two  imperial  courts.  Should 
France  join  with  the  latter,  or  even  should  she  continue 
neuter,  I  can  scarcely  conceive  that  the  Ottoman, 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  261 

will  be  permitted  to  hold  any  of  their  possessions  in 
Europe.  The  torch  of  hostility  being  once  kindled, 
commonly  spreads  apace  ;  but  it  is  beyond  my  pre 
science  to  foretell  how  far  this  flame  will  extend  itself, 
before  it  shall  be  entirely  extinguished.  *  * 


TO    BENJAMIN    LINCOLN. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  2  May,  1788. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

I  have  now  to  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  your  favor 
of  the  29th  of  March,  which  should  have  been  done 
at  an  earlier  period,  had  any  thing  transpired  in  these 
parts  that  was  worth  communicating. 

I  can  now  with  pleasure  inform  you,  that  the  State 
of  Maryland  adopted  the  proposed  constitution  last 
Monday  by  a  very  great  majority.  This  you  will  un 
doubtedly  have  announced  by  the  public  papers  before 
this  letter  reaches  you  ;  but  that  State  will  not  receive 
the  sole  benefit  of  its  adoption  ;  it  will  have  a  very 
considerable  influence  upon  the  decision  in  Virginia, 
for  it  has  been  strongly  insisted  upon  by  the  oppo 
nents  in  the  lower  and  back  counties  in  this  State, 
that  Maryland  would  reject  it  by  a  large  majority. 
The  result  being  found  so  directly  opposite  to  this 
assertion  will  operate  very  powerfully  upon  the  senti 
ments  of  many,  who  were  before  undecided,  and  will 
tend  to  fix  them  in  favor  of  the  constitution.  It  will, 
if  I  am  not  misinformed,  have  this  effect  upon  many, 
who  are  chosen  to  the  convention,  and  who  have  de 
pended  in  a  great  measure  upon  the  determination  of 


262  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

Maryland  to  confirm  their  opinion.  But  exclusive  of 
this  influence  the  most  accurate  returns  of  the  mem 
bers  of  the  convention,  with  their  sentiments  so  far  as 
they  were  known,  annexed,  gave  a  decided  majority 
in  favor  of  the  constitution,  and  the  prevailing  opinion 
is,  that  it  gains  advocates  daily.  I  never  have,  for  my 
own  part,  once  doubted  of  its  adoption  here  ;  and,  if 
I  have  at  any  time  been  wavering  in  my  opinion,  the 
present  appearances  and  concurrent  information  would 
have  completely  fixed  it.1 

I  am  very  sorry  to  find  by  your  letter,  that  there  is 
so  much  of  the  spirit  of  insurrection  yet  remaining  in 
your  State,  and  that  it  discovered  itself  so  strongly  in 
your  Assembly  ;  but  I  hope  the  influence  of  those  gen 
tlemen,  who  are  friendly  to  the  proposed  constitution, 
and  the  conciliatory  disposition,  which  was  shown  by 
many  of  the  minority  in  your  convention,  will  so  far 
pervade  the  States  as  to  prevent  that  factious  spirit 
from  gaining  ground.  *  *  *  With  sentiments  of 
the  highest  esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  &c. 

1  ' '  Since  the  elections  in  this  State,  little  doubt  is  entertained  of  the  adoption 
of  the  proposed  constitution  with  us,  (if  no  mistake  has  been  made  with  respect 
to  the  sentiments  of  the  Kentucky  members.)  The  opponents  to  it,  I  am  in 
formed,  are  now  also  of  this  opinion.  Their  grand  manoeuvres  were  exhibited 
at  the  elections,  and  some  of  them,  if  reports  be  true,  were  not  much  to  their 
credit.  Failing  in  their  attempt  to  exclude  the  friends  to  the  new  government 
from  the  convention,  and  baffled  in  their  exertions  to  effect  an  adjournment 
in  Maryland,  they  have  become  more  passive  of  late.  Should  South  Carolina, 
now  in  session,  decide  favorably,  and  the  government  thereby  (nine  States 
having  acceded)  get  into  motion,  I  can  scarcely  conceive  that  any  one  of  the 
remainder,  or  all  of  them  together,  were  they  to  convene  for  the  purpose  of 
deliberation,  separated  from  each  other  as  then  they  would  be  in  a  geographi 
cal  point  of  view,  would  incline  to  withdraw  from  the  union  of  the  other  nine." 
—  Washington  to  Jay,  15  May,  1788. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  263 


TO    GEORGE    STEPTOE    WASHINGTON.1 


MOUNT  VERNON,  5  May,  1788. 

DEAR  GEORGE, 

I  yesterday  received  a  letter  from  Mr.  Hanson,  in 
forming  me  that  you  slept  from  home  three  nights 
successively,  and  one  contrary  to  his  express  prohibi 
tion.  Complaints  of  this  nature  are  extremely  painful 
to  me,  as  it  discovers  a  degree  of  impropriety  in  your 
conduct,  which  at  your  time  of  life,  your  good  sense 
and  discretion  ought  to  point  out  to  you,  and  lead 
you  to  avoid.  Although  there  is  nothing  criminal  in 
your  having  slept  with  a  companion  of  good  manners 
and  reputation,  as  you  say  you  have,  yet  your  absent 
ing  yourself  from  your  own  lodgings  under  that 
pretence  may  be  productive  of  irregularities  and 
disagreeable  consequences  ;  and  I  now  insist  upon  it 
in  the  most  pointed  terms,  that  you  do  not  repeat  it 
without  the  consent  and  approbation  of  Mr.  Hanson. 

One  strong  motive  for  my  placing  you  in  your 
present  lodgings  was,  that  you  might,  in  your  conduct 
out  of  school,  be  guided  by  Mr.  Hanson's  advice  and 
directions,  as  I  confide  very  much  in  his  discretion, 
and  think  that  he  would  require  nothing  of  you  but 
what  will  conduce  to  your  advantage  ;  and,  at  the  age 
to  which  you  have  now  arrived,  you  must  be  capable 
of  distinguishing  between  a  proper  and  improper  line 
of  conduct,  and  be  sensible  of  the  advantages  or  dis 
advantages  which  will  result  to  you  through  life  from 
the  one  or  the  other. 

1  A  nephew  of  General  Washington,  son  of  Samuel  Washington. 


264  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

Your  future  character  and  reputation  will  depend 
very  much,  if  not  entirely,  upon  the  habits  and  man 
ners,  which  you  contract  in  the  present  period  of  your 
life.  They  will  make  an  impression  upon  you,  which 
can  never  be  effaced.  You  should  therefore  be  ex 
tremely  cautious  how  you  put  yourself  into  the  way 
of  imbibing  those  customs,  which  may  tend  to  corrupt 
your  manners  or  vitiate  your  heart.  I  do  not  write  to 
you  in  this  style  from  knowing  or  suspecting  that  you 
are  addicted  to  any  vice,  but  only  to  guard  you  against 
pursuing  a  line  of  conduct,  which  may  imperceptibly 
lead  on  to  vicious  courses.  Mr.  Hanson  has  done 
you  and  Lawrence  justice  in  saying,  that  your  beha 
vior  since  you  have  been  last  with  him  has  been  unex 
ceptionable  except  in  this  instance,  and  one  more 
which  he  has  not  mentioned  ;  and  I  hope  this  is  the 
last  complaint  I  shall  ever  hear,  while  you  remain  in 
your  present  situation  at  least,  as  it  will  prevent  me 
from  using  means  to  regulate  your  behavior,  which 
will  be  disagreeable  to  us  both.  I  am  your  sincere 
friend  and  affectionate  uncle.1 


TO    THE    MARQUIS    DE    LAFAYETTE. 
MY    DEAR    MARQUIS,  MouNT  VERNON,  28  May,  1788. 

I  have  lately  had  the  pleasure  to  receive  the  two 
letters  by  which  you  introduced  to  my  acquaintance 
M.  Du  Pont  and  M.  Vanderkemp  and  altho'  those 

1  Rewrote  at  the  same  time  to  Mr.  Hanson  as  follows.  "  I  am  sorry  that 
the  conduct  of  one  of  my  nephews  has  been  such,  as  to  render  a  complaint  to 
me  necessary,  but  I  am  extremely  obliged  to  you  for  the  communication.  George 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  265 

gentlemen  have  not  as  yet  been  to  visit  me,  you  may 
be  persuaded  that  whensoever  I  shall  have  the  satisfac 
tion  of  receiving  them,  it  will  be  with  all  that  atten 
tion  to  which  their  merits  and  your  recommendations 
entitle  them. 

Notwithstanding  you  are  acquainted  with  Mr.  Bar 
low  in  person,  and  with  his  works  by  reputation,  I 
thought  I  would  just  write  you  a  line  by  him,  in  order 
to  recommend  him  the  more  particularly  to  your  civil 
ities.  Mr.  Barlow  is  considered  by  those  who  are 
good  Judges  to  be  a  genius  of  the  first  magnitude  ; 
and  to  be  one  of  those  Bards  who  hold  the  keys  of 
the  gate  by  which  Patriots,  Sages  and  Heroes  are  ad 
mitted  to  immortality.  Such  are  your  Antient  Bards 
who  are  both  the  priest  and  door-keepers  to  the  tem 
ple  of  fame.  And  these,  my  dear  Marquis,  are  no 
vulgar  functions.  Men  of  real  talents  in  Arms  have 
commonly  approved  themselves  patrons  of  the  liberal 
arts  and  friends  to  the  poets,  of  their  own  as  well 
as  former  times.  In  some  instances  by  acting  recip 
rocally,  heroes  have  made  poets,  and  poets  heroes. 
Alexander  the  Great  is  said  to  have  been  enraptured 
with  the  Poems  of  Homer,  and  to  have  lamented  that 
he  had  not  a  rival  muse  to  celebrate  his  actions. 
Julius  Caesar  is  well  known  to  have  been  a  man  of  a 
highly  cultivated  understanding  and  taste.  Augus 
tus  was  the  professed  and  magnificent  rewarder  of 

has  now  advanced  to  that  time  of  life,  when  it  is  absolutely  necessary,  that  his 
conduct  should  be  regulated  by  some  means  or  other.  Coercion  would  be  ex 
tremely  painful  to  me  ;  but,  if  advice,  remonstrance,  and  gentle  methods  will 
not  answer  the  purpose,  others  must  be  taken.  Enclosed  is  a  letter  to  him, 
which  I  have  left  open  for  your  perusal." — May  5th. 


266  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

poetical  merit — nor  did  he  lose  the  return  of  having 
his  atcheivments  immortalized  in  song.  The  Augus 
tan  Age  is  proverbial  for  intellectual  refinement  and 
elegance  in  composition  ;  in  it  the  harvest  of  laurels 
and  bays  was  wonderfully  mingled  together.  The  age 
of  your  Louis  the  fourteenth,  which  produced  a  mul 
titude  of  great  Poets  and  great  Captains,  will  never  be 
forgotten  ;  nor  will  that  of  Queen  Ann  in  England, 
for  the  same  cause,  ever  cease  to  reflect  a  lustre  upon 
the  kingdom.  Although  we  are  yet  in  our  cradle,  as  a 
nation,  I  think  the  efforts  of  the  human  mind  with  us 
are  sufficient  to  refute  (by  incontestable  facts)  the 
doctrines  of  those  who  have  asserted  that  every  thing- 
degenerates  in  America.  Perhaps  we  shall  be  found 
at  this  moment,  not  inferior  to  the  rest  of  the  world 
in  the  performances  of  our  poets  and  painters  ;  not 
withstanding  many  of  the  incitements  are  wanting 
which  operate  powerfully  among  older  nations.  For 
it  is  generally  understood,  that  excellence  in  those 
sister  Arts  has  been  the  result  of  easy  circumstances, 
public  encouragements  and  an  advanced  stage  of  soci 
ety.  I  observe  that  the  Critics  in  England,  who 
speak  highly  of  the  American  poetical  geniuses  (and 
their  praises  may  be  the  more  relied  upon  as  they 
seem  to  be  reluctantly  extorted,)  are  not  pleased  with 
the  tribute  of  applause  which  is  paid  to  your  nation. 
It  is  a  reason  why  they  should  be  the  more  caressed 
by  your  nation.  I  hardly  know  how  it  is  that  I  am 
drawn  thus  far  in  observations  on  a  subject  so  foreign 
from  those  in  which  we  are  mostly  engaged,  farming 
and  politics,  unless  because  I  had  little  news  to  tell  you. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  267 

Since  1  had  the  pleasure  of  writing  to  you  by  the 
last  Packet,  the  Convention  of  Maryland  has  ratified 
the  federal  Constitution  by  a  majority  of  63  to  1 1 
voices.  That  makes  the  seventh  State  which  has 
adopted  it.  Next  Monday  the  Convention  in  Virginia 
will  assemble — we  have  still  good  hopes  of  its  adop 
tion  here,  though  by  no  great  plurality  of  votes. 
South  Carolina  has  probably  decided  favorably  before 
this  time.  The  plot  thickens  fast.  A  few  short  weeks 
will  determine  the  political  fate  of  America  for  the 
present  generation,  and  probably  produce  no  small 
influence  on  the  happiness  of  society  through  a  long 
succession  of  ages  to  come.  Should  every  thing  pro 
ceed  with  harmony  and  consent  according  to  our 
actual  wishes  and  expectations,  I  will  confess  to  you 
sincerely,  my  dear  Marquis,  it  will  be  so  much  beyond 
any  thing  we  had  a  right  to  imagine  or  expect 
eighteen  months  ago,  that  it  will  demonstrate  as 
visibly  the  finger  of  Providence,  as  any  possible  event 
in  the  course  of  human  affairs  can  ever  designate  it. 
It  is  impracticable  for  you  or  any  one  who  has  not 
been  on  the  spot,  to  realise  the  change  in  men's  minds 
and  the  progress  towards  rectitude  in  thinking  and 
acting  which  will  then  have  been  made. 

Adieu,  my  dear  Marquis,  I  hope  your  affairs  in 
France  will  subside  into  a  prosperous  train  without 
coming  to  any  violent  crisis.  Continue  to  cherish 
your  affectionate  feelings  for  this  country  and  the 
same  portion  of  friendship  for  me,  which  you  are 
ever  sure  of  holding  in  the  heart  of  your  most  sin 
cere,  &c. 


268  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

TO    JAMES    MADISON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  8  June,  1788. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

I  am  much  obliged  by  the  few  lines  you  wrote  to 
me  on  the  4th  ;  and  though  it  is  yet  too  soon  to  re 
joice,  one  cannot  avoid  being  pleased  at  the  auspicious 
opening  of  the  business  of  your  convention.1  Though 
an  ulterior  opinion  of  the  decision  of  this  State  on  the 
constitution  would,  at  any  time  previous  to  the  dis 
cussion  of  it  in  the  convention,  have  been  premature, 
yet  I  have  never  yet  despaired  of  its  adoption  here. 
What  I  have  mostly  apprehended  is,  that  the  insidious 
arts  of  its  opposers  to  alarm  the  fears  and  inflame  the 
passions  of  the  multitude,  may  have  produced  instruc 
tions  to  the  delegates,  that  would  shut  the  door 
against  argument,  and  be  a  bar  to  reason.  If  this  is 
not  the  case,  I  have  no  doubt  but  that  the  good  sense 
of  this  country  will  prevail  against  the  local  views  of 
designing  characters,  and  the  arrogant  opinions  of 
chagrined  and  disappointed  men. 

The  decision  of  Maryland  and  South  Carolina  by 
so  large  majorities,  and  the  almost  certain  adoption 
of  the  proposed  constitution  by  New  Hampshire,  will 
make  all,  except  desperate  men,  look  before  they  leap 

1  "  I  found,  contrary  to  my  expectation,  that  not  only  a  very  full  House  had 
been  made  on  the  first  clay,  but  that  it  had  proceeded  to  the  appointment  of 
the  president  and  other  officers.  Mr.  Pendleton  was  put  into  the  chair  without 
opposition.  Yesterday  little  more  was  done,  than  settling  some  forms,  and 
resolving  that  no  question,  general  or  particular,  should  be  propounded,  till  the 
whole  plan  should  be  considered  and  debated  clause  by  clause.  This  was  moved 
by  Colonel  Mason,  and,  contrary  to  his  expectations,  concurred  in  by  the  other 
side.  To-day  the  discussions  commenced  in  committee  of  the  whole.  The 
governor  had  declared  the  day  of  previous  amendments  passed,  and  thrown 
himself  fully  into  the  federal  scale.  Henry  and  Mason  made  a  lame  figure,  and 
appeared  to  take  different  and  awkward  grounds.  The  federalists  are  a  good 


1 788]  GEORGE   WASHINGTON.  269 

into  the  dark  consequences  of  rejection.  The  ratifi 
cation  by  eight  States  without  a  negative,  by  three  of 
them  unanimously,  by  six  against  one  in  another,  by 
three  to  one  in  another,  by  two  to  one  in  two  more, 
and  by  all  the  weight  of  abilities  and  property  in  the 
other,  is  enough,  one  would  think,  to  produce  a  cessa 
tion  of  opposition.  I  do  not  mean,  that  this  alone  is 
sufficient  to  produce  conviction  in  the  mind,  but  I 
think  it  ought  to  produce  some  change  in  the  conduct 
of  any  man,  who  distrusted  his  infallibility. 

Although  I  have  little  doubt  of  your  having  re 
ceived  a  copy  of  the  enclosed  pamphlet,  I  send  it.  It 
is  written  with  much  good  sense  and  moderation.  I 
conjecture,  but  upon  no  certain  ground,  that  Mr.  Jay 
is  the  author  of  it.  He  sent  it  to  me  some  time  ago, 
since  which  I  have  received  two  or  three  more  copies.1 

With  sincere  esteem  and  affectionate  regard,  I  am 
ever  yours. 

TO    JOHN    JAY. 
DEAR  SlR  MOUNT  VERNON,  8  June,  1788. 

By  the  last  mail  I  had  the  pleasure  to  receive  your 
letter  of  the  2Qth  of  May,  and  have  now  the  satisfac 
tion  to  congratulate  you  on  the  adoption  of  the  consti- 

deal  elated  by  the  existing  prospect.  I  dare  not,  however,  speak  with  cer 
tainty  as  to  the  decision.  Kentucky  had  been  extremely  tainted,  is  supposed 
to  be  generally  adverse,  and  every  kind  of  address  is  going  on  privately  to  work 
on  the  local  interests  and  prejudices  of  that  and  other  quarters." — Madison  to 
Washington,  4  June,  1788. 

1  The  pamphlet  by  Jay  was  "  An  address  to  the  People  of  the  State  of  New 
York,  on  the  subject  of  the  Constitution."  On  receiving  a  copy,  Washington 
wrote  May  I5th  :  "  The  good  sense  forcible  observations,  temper,  and  moder 
ation,  with  which  it  is  written,  cannot  fail,  I  should  think,  of  making  a  serious 
impression,  even  upon  the  antifederal  mind,  where  it  is  not  under  the  influence 
of  such  local  views  as  will  yield  to  no  argument  no  proofs." 


270  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

tution  by  the  convention  of  South  Carolina.  I  am 
sorry  to  learn,  there  is  a  probability  that  the  majority 
of  members  in  the  New  York  convention  will  be  anti- 
federalists.  Still  I  hope,  that  some  event  may  turn 
up  before  they  assemble,  which  may  give  a  new  com 
plexion  to  the  business.  If  this  State  should,  in  the 
intermediate  time,  make  the  ninth  that  shall  have  rati 
fied  the  proposed  government,  it  will,  I  flatter  myself 
have  its  due  weight.  To  show  that  this  event  is  now 
more  to  be  expected  than  heretofore,  I  will  give  you 
a  few  particulars,  which  I  have  from  good  authority, 
and  which  you  might  not  perhaps  immediately  obtain 
through  any  public  channel  of  conveyance.1 

On  the  day  appointed  for  the  meeting  of  the  con 
vention,  a  large  proportion  of  the  members  assembled, 
and  unanimously  placed  Mr.  Pendleton  in  the  chair. 
Having  on  that  and  the  subsequent  day  chosen  the 


1  From  Mr.  Jay  s  Letter. — "  It  gives  me  pleasure  to  find,  that  the  probabil 
ity  of  Virginia's  adopting  the  proposed  constitution  rather  increases.  Such  an 
event  would  undoubtedly  disarm  the  opposition.  It  appears  by  recent  advices 
from  Charleston,  that  we  count  on  South  Carolina  ;  and  the  New  Hampshire 
delegates  assure  me,  that  their  State  will  come  into  the  measure.  There  is 
much  reason  to  believe,  that  the  majority  of  the  convention  of  this  State  will 
be  composed  of  antifederal  character  ;  but  it  is  doubtful  whether  the  leaders 
will  be  able  to  govern  the  party.  Many  in  the  opposition  are  friends  to  Union, 
and  mean  well,  but  their  principal  leaders  are  very  far  from  being  solicitous 
about  the  fate  of  the  Union.  They  wish  and  mean,  if  possible,  to  reject  the 
constitution,  with  as  little  debate  and  as  much  speed  as  may  be.  It  is  not, 
however,  certain,  that  the  greater  part  of  their  party  will  be  equally  decided,  or 
rather  equally  desperate.  An  idea  has  taken  air,  that  the  southern  part  of  the 
State  will  at  all  events  adhere  to  the  Union,  and,  if  necessary  to  that  end,  seek 
a  separation  from  the  northern.  This  idea  has  influence  on  the  fears  of  the 
party.  I  cannot  find,  that  they  have  as  yet  so  looked  forward  to  contingent 
events,  or  even  to  those  the  most  probable,  as  to  have  united  in,  or  formed, 
any  system  adapted  to  them." — New  York,  May  2gth. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  271 

rest  of  their  officers,  and  fixed  upon  the  mode  of  con 
ducting  the  business,  it  was  moved  by  some  one  of 
those  opposed  to  the  constitution  to  debate  the  whole 
by  paragraphs,  without  taking  any  question  until  the 
investigation  should  be  completed.  This  was  as  un 
expected  as  acceptable  to  the  federalists,  and  their 
ready  acquiescence  seems  to  have  somewhat  startled 
the  opposite  party,  for  fear  they  had  committed  them 
selves. 

Mr.  Nicholas  opened  the  business  by  very  ably 
advocating  the  system  of  representation.  Mr.  Henry 
in  answer  went  more  vaguely  into  the  discussion  of  the 
constitution,  intimating  that  the  federal  convention 
had  exceeded  their  powers,  and  that  we  had  been  and 
might  be  happy  under  the  old  confederation,  with  a 
few  alterations.  This  called  up  Governor  Randolph, 
who  is  reported  to  have  spoken  with  great  pathos  in 
reply,  and  who  declared,  that,  since  so  many  of  the 
States  had  adopted  the  proposed  constitution,  he  con 
sidered  the  sense  of  America  to  be  already  taken,  and 
that  he  should  give  his  vote  in  favor  of  it  without  in 
sisting  previously  upon  amendments.  Mr.  Mason  rose 
in  opposition,  and  Mr.  Madison  reserved  himself  to  ob 
viate  the  objections  of  Mr.  Henry  and  Colonel  Mason 
the  next  day.  Thus  the  matter  rested  when  the  last 
accounts  came  away. 

Upon  the  whole,  the  following  inferences  seem  to 
have  been  drawn  ;  that  Mr.  Randolph's  declaration  will 
have  considerable  effect  with  those,  who  had  hitherto 
been  wavering ;  that  Mr.  Henry  and  Colonel  Mason 
took  different  and  awkward  ground,  and  by  no  means 


272  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

equalled  the  public  expectation  in  their  speeches  ;  that 
the  former  has  probably  receded  somewhat  from  his 
violent  measures  to  coalesce  with  the  latter,  and  that  the 
leaders  of  the  opposition  appear  rather  chagrined,  and 
hardly  to  be  decided  as  to  their  mode  of  opposition. 

The  sanguine  friends  of  the  constitution  counted 
upon  a  majority  of  twenty  at  their  first  meeting,  which 
number  they  imagine  will  be  greatly  increased  ;  while 
those  equally  strong  in  their  wishes,  but  more  tem 
perate  in  their  habits  of  thinking,  speak  less  confi 
dently  of  the  greatness  of  the  majority,  and  express 
apprehensions  of  the  arts,  that  may  yet  be  practised 
to  excite  alarms  with  the  members  from  the  western 
district  (Kentucky).  All,  however,  agree,  that  the 
beginning  has  been  auspicious  as  could  possibly  have 
been  expected.  A  few  days  will  now  ascertain  us  of 
the  result.  With  sentiments  of  the  highest  esteem 
and  regard,  I  am,  &c. 


TO    WILLIAM    SMITH,    AND    OTHERS,  OF    BALTIMORE. 

GENTLEMEN,  MouNT  VERNON>  8  June>  ^S8- 

Captain  Barney  has  just  arrived  here  in  the  minia 
ture  ship  called  The  Federalist,  and  has  done  me  the 
honor  to  offer  that  beautiful  curiosity  as  a  present  to 
me  on  your  part.  I  pray  you,  Gentlemen,  to  accept 
the  warmest  expressions  of  my  sensibility  for  this 
specimen  of  American  ingenuity,  in  which  the  exacti 
tude  of  the  proportions,  the  neatness  of  the  workman 
ship,  and  the  elegance  of  the  decorations,  which  make 
your  present  fit  to  be  preserved  in  a  cabinet  of  curi- 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  273 

osities,  at  the  same  time  that  they  exhibit  the  skill 
and  taste  of  the  artists,  demonstrate  that  Americans 
are  not  inferior  to  any  people  whatever  in  the  use  of 
mechanical  instruments,  and  the  art  of  ship-building. 

The  unanimity  of  the  agricultural  State  of  Mary 
land  in  general,  as  well  as  of  the  commercial  town  of 
Baltimore  in  particular,  expressed  in  their  recent  de 
cision  on  the  subject  of  a  general  government,  will 
not,  (I  persuade  myself,)  be  without  its  due  efficacy 
on  the  minds  of  their  neighbors,  who,  in  many  in 
stances,  are  intimately  connected,  not  only  by  the 
nature  of  their  produce,  but  by  the  ties  of  blood  and 
the  habits  of  life.  Under  these  circumstances,  I  can 
not  entertain  an  idea,  that  the  voice  of  the  convention 
of*  this  State,  which  is  now  in  session,  will  be  dissonant 
from  that  of  her  nearly  allied  sister,  who  is  only  sepa 
rated  by  the  Potomac. 

You  will  permit  me,  Gentlemen,  to  indulge  my 
feelings  in  reiterating  the  heart-felt  wish,  that  the 
happiness  of  this  country  may  equal  the  desires  of  its 
sincerest  friends,  and  that  the  patriotic  town,  of  which 
you  are  inhabitants,  and  in  the  prosperity  of  which  I 
have  always  found  myself  strongly  interested,  may  not 
only  continue  to  increase  in  the  same  wonderful  man 
ner  it  has  formerly  done,  but  that  its  trade,  manufac 
tures,  and  other  resources  of  wealth,  may  be  placed 
permanently  in  a  more  flourishing  situation  than  they 
have  hitherto  been.  I  am,  with  respect,  &C.1 

1  The  citizens  of  Baltimore  had  recently  celebrated  the  adoption  of  the  con 
stitution  in  Maryland  by  various  demonstrations  of  joy.     There  was  a  proces 
sion,  in  which  the  mechanical  trades  and  liberal  professions  made  a  brilliant 
display  under  their  appropriate  banners.     Commodore  Barney  performed  a 
18 


274  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


TO    HENRY    KNOX. 

MOUNT  VBRNON,  17  June,  1788. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

I  received  your  letter  of  the  25th  of  May,  just  when 
I  was  on  the  eve  of  a  departure  for  Fredericksburg 
to  pay  a  visit  to  my  mother,  from  whence  I  returned 
only  last  evening.  The  information  of  the  accession 
of  South  Carolina  to  the  new  government  since  your 
letter,  gives  us  a  new  subject  of  mutual  felicitations. 
It  was  to  be  hoped  that  this  auspicious  event  would 
have  considerable  influence  upon  the  proceedings  of 
the  convention  of  Virginia,  but  I  do  not  find  that  to 
have  been  the  case.  Affairs  in  the  convention,  for 
some  time  past,  have  not  worn  so  good  an  aspect  as 
we  could  have  wished  ;  and,  indeed,  the  acceptance  of 
the  constitution  has  become  more  doubtful  than  it  was 
thought  to  be  at  their  first  meeting. 

The  purport  of  the  intelligence  I  received  from  my 
private  letters  by  the  last  night's  mail  is,  that  every 

conspicuous  part  on  this  occasion.  "He  had  a  small  boat,  fifteen  feet  in 
length,  completely  rigged  and  perfectly  equipped  as  a  ship,  which  was  called 
The  Federalist;  which,  being  mounted  on  four  wheels  and  drawn  by  the  same 
number  of  horses,  took  its  place  in  the  procession.  He  commanded  the  ship, 
and  was  honored  with  a  crew  of  captains,  who,  at  his  word  and  the  boatswain's 
pipe,  went  through  all  the  various  manoeuvres  of  making  and  taking  in  sail,  to 
the  great  delight  of  the  crowded  windows,  doors,  and  balconies,  by  which  they 
passed.  The  ship  was  immediately  followed  by  all  the  captains,  mates,  and 
seamen  at  that  time  in  the  port  of  Baltimore.  It  was  paraded  through  all  the 
principal  streets  of  FeU's  Point  and  other  portions  of  the  city,  and  finally 
anchored  on  the  beautiful  and  lofty  bank  of  the  Basin,  which  from  that  occur 
rence  received,  and  has  ever  since  borne,  the  name  of  Federal  Hill."  After 
the  pageant  was  over,  it  was  resolved  to  present  the  ship  to  General  Washing 
ton  in  the  name  of  the  merchants  and  ship-masters  of  Baltimore.  It  was 
launched,  and  navigated  by  Commodore  Barney  down  the  Chesapeake  Bay  to 
the  mouth  of  the  Potomac,  and  thence  up  the  river  to  Mount  Vernon. — Life 
of  Joshua  Barney,  p.  157. — Sparks. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  275 

species  of  address  and  artifice  has  been  put  in  prac 
tice  by  the  antifederalists  to  create  jealousies  and  ex 
cite  alarms.  Much  appears  to  depend  upon  the  final 
part  which  the  Kentucky  members  will  take  ;  into 
whose  minds  apprehensions  of  unreal  dangers,  respect 
ing  the  navigation  of  the  Mississippi,  and  their  organ 
ization  into  a  separate  State,  have  been  industriously 
infused.1  Each  side  seems  to  think  at  present,  that 
it  has  a  small  majority.  However  it  shall  turn,  it  will 
be  very  inconsiderable.  Though  for  my  own  part,  I 
cannot  but  imagine,  if  any  decision  is  had,  it  will  be 
in  favor  of  the  adoption.  My  apprehension  rather 
is,  that  a  strenuous  and  successful  effort  may  be  made 
for  an  adjournment,  under  an  idea  of  opening  a  cor 
respondence  with  those  who  are  opposed  to  the  con 
stitution  in  other  States.  Colonel  Oswald  has  been 
at  Richmond,  it  is  said,  with  letters  from  the  anti- 
federalists  in  New  York  and  Pennsylvania  to  their 
coadjutors  in  this  State. 

1  Chagrined  at  the  chances  that  had  prevented  the  erection  of  Kentucky 
into  a  separate  State,  and  influenced,  perhaps,  by  the  vote  of  the  Kentucky 
delegates  in  the  Virginia  Convention  on  the  new  Constitution,  Brown  was  ap 
proached  by  Gardoqui  with  a  hint  that  the  establishment  of  a  separate  district, 
without  maritime  designs,  would  give  Spain  an  excuse  for  "  devising  some  plan 
for  adjusting  the  markets  so  much  needed  in  some  of  our  possessions." — Gar 
doqui  to  Florida  Blanc  a,  25  July,  1788.  It  is  certain  that  Brown  interpreted 
Gardoqui's  offer  as  a  positive  promise.  "  I  have  been  assured  by  him  in  the 
most  explicit  terms,  that  if  Kentucky  will  declare  her  independence,  and  em 
power  some  proper  person  to  negotiate  with  him,  that  he  has  authority  and  will 
engage  to  open  the  navigation  of  the  Mississippi  for  the  exportation  of  their 
produce  on  terms  of  mutual  advantage  ;  but  that  this  privilege  can  never  be 
extended  to  them  while  part  of  the  United  States,  by  reason  of  commercial 
treaties  existing  between  that  Court  and  other  powers  of  Europe." — Brown  to 
George  Muter,  10  July,  1788.  The  proposition  was  submitted  only  to  a  few  of 
Brown's  correspondents,  and  does  not  appear  to  have  been  broached  in  the 
Kentucky  Convention  of  July,  1788. 


276  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

The  resolution,  which  came  from  the  antifederal- 
ists,  much  to  the  astonishment  of  the  other  party, 
that  no  question  should  be  taken  until  the  whole 
plan  should  have  been  discussed  paragraph  by  para 
graph,  and  the  remarkable  tardiness  in  their  proceed 
ings  (for  the  convention  has  been  able  as  yet  only  to 
get  through  the  second  or  third  section),  are  thought 
by  some  to  have  been  designed  to  protract  business 
until  the  time  when  the  Assembly  is  to  convene,  that 
is  the  23d  instant,  in  order  to  have  a  more  colorable 
pretext  for  an  adjournment.  But,  notwithstanding 
the  resolution,  there  has  been  much  desultory  debat 
ing,  and  the  opposers  of  the  constitution  are  reported 
to  have  gone  generally  into  the  merits  of  the  ques 
tion.  I  know  not  how  the  matter  may  be,  but  a  few 
days  will  now  determine. 

I  am  sorry  to  find,  not  only  from  your  intimations, 
but  also  from  many  of  the  returns  in  the  late  papers, 
that  there  should  be  so  great  a  majority  against  the 
constitution  in  the  convention  of  New  York  ;  and  yet 
I  can  hardly  conceive,  from  motives  of  policy  and 
prudence,  they  will  reject  it  absolutely,  if  either  this 
State  or  New  Hampshire  should  make  the  ninth  in 
adopting  it ;  as  that  measure,  which  gives  efficacy  to 
the  system,  must  place  any  State  that  shall  actually 
have  refused  its  assent  to  the  new  Union  in  a  very 
awkward  and  disagreeable  predicament. 

By  a  letter  I  have  just  received  from  a  young 
gentleman  who  lives  with  me,  but  who  is  now  at 
home  in  New  Hampshire,1  I  am  advised  that  there  is 

1  Tobias  Lear. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  277 

every  prospect  that  the  constitution  will  be  adopted 
in  that  State  almost  immediately  upon  the  meeting 
of  the  convention.  I  cannot  but  hope,  then,  that 
the  States,  which  may  be  disposed  to  make  a  secession, 
will  think  often  and  seriously  on  the  consequences. 
Colo.  Humphreys  who  is  still  here  occupied  with 
literary  pursuits,  desires  to  be  remembered  in  terms 
of  the  sincerest  friendship  to  you  and  yours. 

Mrs.  Washington  and  the  family  offer  with  me 
their  best  compliments  to  Mrs.  Knox  and  the  little 
ones.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    THE    MARQUIS    DE    LAFAYETTE. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  18  June,  1788. 

MY  DEAR  MARQUIS, 

I  like  not  much  the  situation  of  affairs  in  France. 
The  bold  demands  of  the  parliaments,  and  the  de 
cisive  tone  of  the  King,  show  that  but  little  more 
irritation  would  be  necessary  to  blow  up  the  spark  of 
discontent  into  a  flame,  that  might  not  easily  be 
quenched.  If  I  were  to  advise,  I  should  say  that 
great  moderation  should  be  used  on  both  sides.  Let 
it  not,  my  dear  Marquis,  be  considered  as  a  deroga 
tion  from  the  good  opinion,  that  I  entertain  of  your 
prudence,  when  I  caution  you,  as  an  individual  de 
sirous  of  signalizing  yourself  in  the  cause  of  your 
country  and  freedom,  against  running  into  extremes 
and  prejudicing  your  cause.  The  King,  though,  I 
think  from  every  thing  I  have  been  able  to  learn,  he 
is  really  a  good-hearted  though  a  warm-spirited  man, 
if  thwarted  injudiciously  in  the  execution  of  preroga- 


278  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

tives  that  belonged  to  the  crown,  and  in  plans  which 
he  conceives  calculated  to  promote  the  national  good, 
may  disclose  qualities  he  has  been  little  thought  to 
possess.  On  the  other  hand,  such  a  spirit  seems  to 
be  awakened  in  the  kingdom,  as,  if  managed  with 
extreme  prudence,  may  produce  a  gradual  and  tacit 
revolution  much  in  favor  of  the  subjects,  by  abolish 
ing  lettres  de  cachet,  and  defining  more  accurately  the 
powers  of  government.  It  is  a  wonder  to  me,  there 
should  be  found  a  single  monarch,  who  does  not  real 
ize  that  his  own  glory  and  felicity  must  depend  on  the 
prosperity  and  happiness  of  his  people.  How  easy  is 
it  for  a  sovereign  to  do  that,  which  shall  not  only  im 
mortalize  his  name,  but  attract  the  blessings  of  millions. 
In  a  letter  I  wrote  you  a  few  days  ago  by  Mr.  Bar 
low,  but  which  might  not  possibly  have  reached  New 
York  until  after  his  departure,  I  mentioned  the  ac 
cession  of  Maryland  to  the  proposed  government,  and 
gave  you  the  state  of  politics  to  that  period.  Since 
which  the  convention  of  South  Carolina  has  ratified 
the  constitution  by  a  great  majority.  That  of  this 
State  has  been  sitting  almost  three  weeks  ;  and,  so 
nicely  does  it  appear  to  be  balanced,  that  each  side 
asserts  that  it  has  a  preponderancy  of  votes  in  its 
favor.  It  is  probable,  therefore,  the  majority  will  be 
small,  let  it  fall  on  whichever  part  it  may.  I  am  in 
clined  to  believe  it  will  be  in  favor  of  the  adoption. 
The  conventions  of  New  York  and  New  Hampshire 
both  assemble  this  week.  A  large  proportion  of 
members,  with  the  governor  at  their  head,  in  the 
former,  are  said  to  be  opposed  to  the  government  in 
contemplation.  New  Hampshire,  it  is  thought,  will 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  279 

adopt  it  without  much  hesitation  or  delay.  It  is  a 
little  strange,  that  the  men  of  large  property  in  the 
south  should  be  more  afraid  that  the  constitution  will 
produce  an  aristocracy  or  a  monarchy,  than  the 
genuine  democratical  people  of  the  east.  Such  are 
our  actual  prospects.  The  accession  of  one  State 
more  will  complete  the  number,  which,  by  the  consti 
tutional  provision,  will  be  sufficient  in  the  first  instance 
to  carry  the  government  into  effect. 

And  then,  I  expect,  that  many  blessings  will  be 
attributed  to  our  new  government,  which  are  now 
taking  their  rise  from  that  industry  and  frugality,  into 
the  practice  of  which  the  people  have  been  forced 
from  necessity.  I  really  believe,  that  there  never  was 
so  much  labor  and  economy  to  be  found  before  in  the 
country  as  at  the  present  moment.  If  they  persist 
in  the  habits  they  are  acquiring,  the  good  effects  will 
soon  be  distinguishable.  When  the  people  shall  find 
themselves  secure  under  an  energetic  government, 
when  foreign  nations  shall  be  disposed  to  give  us 
equal  advantages  in  commerce  from  dread  of  retalia 
tion,  when  the  burdens  of  war  shall  be  in  a  manner 
done  away  by  the  sale  of  western  lands,  when  the 
seeds  of  happiness  which  are  sown  here  shall  begin 
to  expand  themselves,  and  when  every  one,  (under  his 
own  vine  and  fig-tree,)  shall  begin  to  taste  the  fruits 
of  freedom,  then  all  these  blessings  (for  all  these 
blessings  will  come)  will  be  referred  to  the  fostering 
influence  of  the  new  government.  Whereas  many 
causes  will  have  conspired  to  produce  them.  You 
see  I  am  not  less  enthusiastic  than  I  ever  have  been, 
if  a  belief  that  peculiar  scenes  of  felicity  are  reserved 


280  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

for  this  country  is  to  be  denominated  enthusiasm. 
Indeed,  I  do  not.  believe,  that  Providence  has  done  so 
much  for  nothing.  It  has  always  been  my  creed,  that 
we  should  not  be  left  as  an  awful  monument  to  prove, 
"  that  mankind,  under  the  most  favorable  circum 
stances  for  civil  liberty  and  happiness,  are  unequal  to 
the  task  of  governing  themselves,  and  therefore  made 
for  a  master." 

We  have  had  a  backward  spring  and  summer,  with 
more  rain  and  cloudy  weather  than  almost  ever  has 
been  known  ;  still  the  appearance  of  crops  in  some 
parts  of  the  country  is  favorable,  as  we  may  gener 
ally  expect  will  be  the  case,  from  the  difference  of  soil 
and  variety  of  climate  in  so  extensive  a  region  ;  inso 
much  that  I  hope,  some  day  or  another,  we  shall 
become  a  storehouse  and  granary  for  the  world.  In 
addition  to  our  former  channels  of  trade,  salted  pro 
visions,  butter,  and  cheese  are  exported  with  profit 
from  the  eastern  States  to  the  East  Indies.  In  con 
sequence  of  a  contract,  large  quantities  of  flour  are 
lately  sent  from  Baltimore  for  supplying  the  garrison 
of  Gibraltar.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    RICHARD    HENDERSON.1 

MOUNT  VERNON,  19  June,  1788. 

SIR, 

Your  favor  of  the  5th  instant  was  lodged  at  my 
house  while  I  was  absent  on  a  visit  to  my  mother.  I 
am  now  taking  the  earliest  opportunity  of  noticing  its 

1  A  gentleman,  who  had  forwarded  certain  queries  to  General  Washington, 
which  had  been  sent  to  him  from  Scotland  by  persons  proposing  to  emigrate 
to  America. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  281 

contents,  and  those  of  its  enclosure.  Willing-as  I  am 
to  give  satisfaction,  so  far  as  I  am  able,  to  every 
reasonable  inquiry,  (and  this  is  certainly  not  only  so, 
but  may  be  highly  important  and  interesting,)  I  must 
however  rather  deal  in  general  than  particular  observa 
tions  ;  as  I  think  you  will  be  able,  from  the  length  of 
your  residence  in  the  country,  and  the  extensiveness 
of  your  acquaintance  with  its  affairs,  to  make  the 
necessary  applications,  and  add  the  proper  details. 
Nor  would  I  choose  that  my  interference  in  the  busi 
ness  should  be  transmitted,  lest,  in  a  malicious  world, 
it  might  be  represented  that  I  was  officiously  using 
the  arts  of  seduction  to  depopulate  other  countries 
for  the  sake  of  peopling  our  own. 

In  the  first  place  it  is  a  point  conceded,  that  Amer 
ica,  under  an  efficient  government,  will  be  the  most 
favorable  country  of  any  in  the  world  for  persons  of 
industry  and  frugality  possessed  of  a  moderate  capital 
to  inhabit.  It  is  also  believed,  that  it  will  not  be  less 
advantageous  to  the  happiness  of  the  lowest  class  of 
people,  because  of  the  equal  distribution  of  property, 
the  great  plenty  of  unoccupied  lands,  and  the  facility 
of  procuring  the  means  of  subsistence.  The  scheme 
of  purchasing  a  good  tract  of  freehold  estate,  and 
bringing  out  a  number  of  able-bodied  men,  indented 
for  a  certain  time,  appears  to  be  indisputably  a  rational 
one. 

All  the  interior  arrangements  of  transferring  the 
property  and  commencing  the  establishment,  you  are 
as  well  acquainted  with  as  I  can  possibly  be.  It 
might  be  considered  as  a  point  of  more  difficulty  to 
decide  upon  the  place,  which  should  be  most  proper 


282  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


for  a  settlement.  Although  I  believe  that  emigrants 
from  other  countries  to  this,  who  shall  be  well-dis 
posed,  and  conduct  themselves  properly,  would  be 
treated  with  equal  friendship  and  kindness  in  all  parts 
of  it  ;  yet,  in  the  old  settled  States,  land  is  so  much 
occupied,  and  the  value  so  much  enhanced  by  the 
contiguous  cultivation,  that  the  price  would,  in  gen 
eral,  be  an  objection.  The  land  in  [the]  western 
country,  or  that  on  the  Ohio,  like  all  others,  has  its 
advantages  and  disadvantages.  The  neighborhood 
of  the  savages,  and  the  difficulty  of  transportation, 
were  the  great  objections.  The  danger  of  the  first 
will  soon  cease  by  the  strong  establishments  now 
taking  place  ;  the  inconveniences  of  the  second  will 
be,  in  a  great  degree,  remedied  by  opening  the  in 
ternal  navigation.  No  colony  in  America  was  ever 
settled  under  such  favorable  auspices,  as  that  which 
has  just  commenced  at  the  Muskingum.  Information, 
property,  and  strength,  will  be  its  characteristics.  I 
know  many  of  the  settlers  personally,  and  that  there 
never  were  men  better  calculated  to  promote  the 
welfare  of  such  a  community. 

If  I  was  a  young  man,  just  preparing  to  begin  the 
world,  or  if  advanced  in  life,  and  had  a  family  to  make 
a  provision  for,  I  know  of  no  country  where  I  should 
rather  fix  my  habitation  than  in  some  part  of  that  re 
gion,  for  which  the  writer  of  the  queries  seems  to  have 
a  predilection.  He  might  be  informed  that  his  name 
sake  and  distant  relation,  General  St.  Clair,  is  not  only 
in  high  repute,  but  that  he  is  governor  of  all  the  terri 
tory  westward  of  the  Ohio,  and  that  there  is  a  gentle 
man  (to  wit,  Mr.  Joel  Barlow)  gone  from  New  York 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  283 

by  the  last  French  packet,  who  will  be  in  London  in 
the  course  of  this  year,  and  who  is  authorized  to  dis 
pose  of  a  very  large  body  of  land  in  that  country. 
The  author  of  the  queries  may  then  be  referred  to 
the  "  Information  for  those  who  would  wish  to  remove 
to  America"  and  published  in  Europe  in  the  year 
1784,  by  the  great  philosopher  Dr.  Franklin.  Short 
as  it  is,  it  contains  almost  every  thing,  that  needs  to 
be  known  on  the  subject  of  migrating  to  this  country. 
You  may  find  that  excellent  little  treatise  in  "  Carey  s 
American  Museum?  for  September,  1787.  It  is 
worthy  of  being  republished  in  Scotland,  and  every 
other  part  of  Europe. 

As  to  the  European  publications  respecting  the 
United  States,  they  are  commonly  very  defective. 
The  Abbe  Raynal  is  quite  erroneous.  Guthrie,  though 
somewhat  better  informed,  is  not  absolutely  correct. 
There  is  now  an  American  Geography  preparing  for 
the  press  by  a  Mr.  Morse  of  New  Haven  in  Con 
necticut,  which,  from  the  pains  the  author  has  taken 
in  travelling  through  the  States,  and  acquiring  infor 
mation  from  the  principal  characters  in  each,  will 
probably  be  much  more  exact  and  useful.  Of  books 
at  present  existing,  Mr.  Jefferson's  "  Notes  on  Vir 
ginia  "  will  give  the  best  idea  of  this  part  of  the 
continent  to  a  foreigner  ;  and  the  "American  Farm 
er  s  Letters"  written  by  Mr.  Crevecceur  (commonly 
called  Mr.  St.  John),  the  French  consul  in  New  York, 
who  actually  resided  twenty  years  as  a  farmer  in  that 
State,  will  afford  a  great  deal  of  profitable  and  amusive 
information,  respecting  the  private  life  of  the  Ameri 
cans,  as  well  as  the  progress  of  agriculture,  manu- 


284  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

factures,  and  arts,  in  their  country.  Perhaps  the  picture 
he  gives,  though  founded  on  fact,  is  in  some  instances 
embellished  with  rather  too  flattering  circumstances. 
I  am,  &c. 

TO    CHARLES    CARTER. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  28  June,  1788. 

DEAR  SIR, 

When  Mrs.  Washington  was  at  the  Church  in 
Fredericksburg  she  perceived  the  Tomb  of  her 
Father,  the  late  John  Dandridge,  Esqr.,  to  be  much 
out  of  Sorts  and  being  desirous  to  have  it  done  up 
again,  will  you  permit  me  to  request  the  favor  of  you 
to  engage  a  workman  to  do  this,  the  cost  of  which  I 
will  remit  as  soon  as  you  shall  signify  to  me  that  the 
work  is  accomplished,  and  inform  me  of  its  amount.  I 
would  thank  you,  my  dear  Sir,  for  the  ascertainment 
of  this  before  hand.  I  have  (not  inclining  to  dispute 
Accounts)  felt,  in  too  many  instances,  the  expansion 
of  Tradesmen's  consciences  when  no  previous  agree 
ment  has  been  made,  ever  to  put  it  in  their  power  to 
charge  what  they  please  in  future.  My  best  wishes, 
in  which  Mrs.  Washington  joins  me,  are  tendered  to 
Mrs.  Carter.  With  much  truth. 


TO    CHARLES    COTESWORTH    PINCKNEY. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  28  June,  1788. 

DEAR  SIR, 

I  had  the  pleasure  to  receive,  a  day  or  two  ago, 
your  obliging  letter  of  the  24th  of  last  month,  in 
which  you  advise  me  of  the  ratification  of  the  federal 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  285 

constitution  by  South  Carolina.  By  a  more  rapid 
water  conveyance,  that  good  news  had  some  few 
days  before  arrived  at  Baltimore,  so  as  to  have  been 
very  opportunely  communicated  to  the  convention  of 
this  State  in  session  at  Richmond.  It  is  with  great 
satisfaction  I  have  it  now  in  my  power  to  inform  you, 
that,  on  the  25th  instant,  the  delegates  of  Virginia 
adopted  the  constitution  in  totoy  by  a  division  of 
eighty-nine  in  favor  of  it,  to  seventy-nine  against  it  ; 
and  that,  notwithstanding  the  majority  is  so  small, 
yet,  in  consequence  of  some  conciliatory  conduct  and 
recommendatory  amendments,  a  happy  acquiescence, 
it  is  said,  is  likely  to  terminate  the  business  here  in 
as  favorable  a  manner  as  could  possibly  have  been 
expected. 

No  sooner  had  the  citizens  of  Alexandria,  (who  are 
federal  to  a  man,)  received  the  intelligence  by  the  mail 
last  night,  than  they  determined  to  devote  this  day  to 
festivity.  But  their  exhilaration  was  greatly  increased, 
and  a  much  keener  zest  given  to  their  enjoyment,  by 
the  arrival  of  an  express,  two  hours  before  day,  with 
the  news  that  the  convention  of  New  Hampshire  had, 
on  the  2ist  instant,  acceded  to  the  new  confederacy 
by  a  majority  of  eleven  voices,  that  is  to  say,  fifty- 
seven  to  forty-six. 

Thus  the  citizens  of  Alexandria,  when  convened, 
constituted  the  first  public  company  in  America, 
which  had  the  pleasure  of  pouring  [a]  libation  to  the 
prosperity  of  the  ten  States,  that  had  actually  adopted 
the  general  government.  The  day  itself  is  memora 
ble  for  more  reasons  than  one.  It  was  recollected, 


286  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

that  this  day  is  the  anniversary  of  the  battles  of  Sulli 
van's  Island  and  Monmouth.  I  have  just  returned 
from  assisting  at  the  entertainment,  and  mention  these 
details,  unimportant  as  they  are  in  themselves,  the 
rather  because  I  think  we  may  rationally  indulge  the 
pleasing  hope,  that  the  Union  will  now  be  established 
upon  a  durable  basis,  and  that  Providence  seems 
still  disposed  to  favor  the  members  of  it  with  un 
equalled  opportunities  for  political  happiness. 

From  the  local  situation,  as  well  as  the  other  cir 
cumstances  of  North  Carolina,  I  should  be  truly 
astonished  if  that  State  should  withdraw  itself  from 
the  Union.  On  the  contrary,  I  flatter  myself  with  a 
confident  expectation,  that  more  salutary  counsels  will 
certainly  prevail.  At  present  there  is  more  doubt 
how  the  question  will  be  immediately  disposed  of  in 
New  York  ;  for  it  seems  to  be  understood,  that  there 
is  a  majority  in  the  convention  opposed  to  the  adop 
tion  of  the  new  federal  system.  Yet  it  is  hardly  to 
be  supposed,  (or  rather  in  my  judgment  it  is  irrational 
to  suppose,)  they  will  reject  a  government,  which, 
from  an  unorganized  embryo  ready  to  be  stifled  with 
a  breath,  has  now  in  the  maturity  of  its  birth  assumed 
a  confirmed  bodily  existence.  Or,  to  drop  the  meta 
phor,  the  point  in  debate  has  at  least  shifted  its  ground 
from  policy  to  expediency.  The  decision  of  ten  States 
cannot  be  without  its  operation.  Perhaps  the  wisest 
way  in  this  crisis  will  be  not  to  attempt  to  accept  or 
reject,  but  to  adjourn  until  the  people  in  some  parts 
of  the  State  can  consider  the  magnitude  of  the  ques 
tion,  and  of  the  consequences  involved  in  it,  more 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  287 

coolly  and  deliberately.  After  New  York  shall  have 
acted,  then  only  one  little  State  will  remain.  Suffice 
it  to  say,  it  is  universally  believed,  that  the  scales  are 
ready  to  drop  from  the  eyes,  and  the  infatuation  to  be 
removed  from  the  heart,  of  Rhode  Island.  May  this 
be  the  case  before  that  inconsiderate  people  shall 
have  filled  up  the  measure  of  iniquity,  before  it  shall 
be  too  late. 

Mrs.  Washington  and  all  with  us  desire  their  best 
compliments  may  be  presented  to  Mrs.  Pinckney  and 
yourself.  Wishing  that  mine  may  also  be  made  ac 
ceptable  to  you  both,  I  am,  &c. 


TO    BENJAMIN    LINCOLN. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  29  June,  1788. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

I  beg  you  will  accept  my  thanks  for  the  communi 
cations  handed  to  me  in  your  letter  of  the  3d  instant, 
and  my  congratulations  on  the  increasing  good  dis 
positions  of  the  citizens  of  your  State,  of  which  the 
late  elections  are  strongly  indicative.  No  one  can 
rejoice  more  than  I  do  at  every  step  the  people  of 
this  great  country  take  to  preserve  the  Union,  t« 
establish  good  order  and  government,  and  to  render 
the  nation  happy  at  home  and  respectable  abroad. 
No  country  upon  earth  ever  had  it  more  in  its  power 
to  attain  these  blessings  than  United  America.  Won- 
drously  strange,  then,  and  much  to  be  regretted 
indeed  would  it  be,  were  we  to  neglect  the  means,  and 
to  depart  from  the  road,  which  Providence  has 


288  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

pointed  us  to  so  plainly.  I  cannot  believe  it  will 
ever  come  to  pass.  The  great  Governor  of  the  uni 
verse  has  led  us  too  long  and  too  far  on  the  road  to 
happiness  and  glory,  to  forsake  us  in  the  midst  of  it. 
By  folly  and  improper  conduct,  proceeding  from  a 
variety  of  causes,  we  may  now  and  then  get  bewil 
dered  ;  but  I  hope  and  trust,  that  there  is  good  sense 
and  virtue  enough  left  to  recover  the  right  path 
before  we  shall  be  entirely  lost. 

You  will,  before  this  letter  can  have  reached  you, 
have  heard  of  the  ratification  of  the  new  government 
by  this  State.  The  final  question  without  previous 
amendments  was  taken  the  25th.  Ayes,  89.  Noes,  79 
—but  something  recommendatory  or  declaratory  of 
the  rights,  the  ultimate  decision.  This  account  and 
the  news  of  the  adoption  by  New  Hampshire  arrived 
in  Alexandria  nearly  about  the  same  time  on  Friday 
evening,  and  as  you  will  suppose  was  cause  for  great 
rejoicing  among  the  inhabitants,  who  have  not  I  be 
lieve  an  antifederalist  among  them.  Our  accounts 
from  Richmond  are,  that  the  debates,  through  all 
the  different  stages  of  the  business,  though  animated, 
have  been  conducted  with  great  dignity  and  temper  ; 
that  the  final  decision  exhibited  an  awful  and  solemn 
scene  ;  and  that  there  is  every  reason  to  expect  a  per 
fect  acquiescence  therein  by  the  minority.  Not  only 
the  declaration  of  Mr.  Henry,  the  great  leader  of  it, 
who  has  signified,  that,  though  he  can  never  be  recon 
ciled  to  the  constitution  in  its  present  form,  and  shall 
give  it  every  constitutional  opposition  in  his  power, 
yet  that  he  will  submit  to  it  peaceably,  as  he  thinks 


1788]  GEORGE   WASHINGTON.  289 

every  good  citizen  ought  to  do  when  it  is  in  exercise, 
and  that  he  will,  both  by  precept  and  example,  incul 
cate  this  doctrine  to  all  around  him. 

There  is  little  doubt  entertained  here  now  of  the 
ratification  of  the  proposed  constitution  by  North 
Carolina  ;  and,  however  great  the  opposition  to  it 
may  be  in  New  York,  the  leaders  thereof  will,  I 
should  conceive,  consider  well  the  consequences  be 
fore  they  reject  it.  With  respect  to  Rhode  Island, 
the  power  that  governs  there  has  so  far  baffled  all 
calculation  on  this  question,  that  no  man  would  choose 
to  hazard  an  opinion,  lest  he  might  be  suspected  of 
participating  in  its  phrensy.1  You  have  every  good 
wish  of  this  family,  and  the  sincere  regard  of  your 
affectionate,  &c. 


TO  JOHN  JAY. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  18  July,  1788. 

DEAR  SIR, 

A  few  days  ago  I  had  the  pleasure  to  receive  your 
letter  from  Poughkeepsie  ;  since  which  I  have  not 
obtained  any  authentic  advices  of  the  proceedings  of 
your  convention.  The  clue  you  gave  me  to  penetrate 
into  the  principles  and  wishes  of  the  four  classes  of 
men  among  you,  who  are  opposed  to  the  constitu 
tion,  has  opened  a  large  field  for  reflection  and  con- 

1  "  As  the  infamy  of  the  conduct  of  Rhode  Island  outgoes  all  precedent,  so 
the  influence  of  her  counsels  can  be  of  no  prejudice.  There  is  no  other  state 
or  description  of  Men  but  would  blush  to  be  involved  in  a  connection  with  the 
paper  money  junto  of  that  anarchy.  God  grant  that  the  honest  men  may 
acquire  an  ascendency  before  irrevocable  ruin  shall  confound  the  innocent  with 
the  guilty." — Washington  to  Trunibull,  20  July,  1788. 
19 


2Qo  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


jecture.  The  accession  of  ten  States  must  operate 
forcibly  with  all  the  opposition,  except  the  class 
which  is  comprehended  in  your  last  description.1 
Before  this  time  you  will  probably  have  come  to 
some  decision.  While  we  are  waiting  the  result 
with  the  greatest  anxiety,  our  printers  are  not  so 
fortunate  as  to  obtain  any  papers  from  the  eastward. 
Mine,  which  have  generally  been  more  regular, 
have  however  frequently  been  interrupted  for  some 
time  past. 

It  is  extremely  to  be  lamented,  that  a  new  arrange 
ment  in  the  post-office,  unfavorable  to  the  circulation 
of  intelligence,  should  have  taken  place  at  the  instant 
when  the  momentous  question  of  a  general  govern 
ment  was  to  come  before  the  people.  I  have  seen  no 
good  apology,  not  even  in  Mr.  Hazard's  publication, 
for  deviating  from  the  old  custom  of  permitting  print 
ers  to  exchange  their  papers  by  the  mail.  That 
practice  was  a  great  public  convenience  and  gratifica 
tion.  If  the  privilege  was  not  from  convention  an 
original  right,  it  had  from  prescription  strong  preten 
sions  for  continuance,  especially  at  so  interesting  a 
period.  The  interruption  in  that  mode  of  convey 
ance  has  not  only  given  great  concern  to  the  friends 
of  the  constitution,  who  wished  the  public  to  be  pos- 

1  "  The  leaders  in  opposition  seem  to  have  more  extensive  views  than  their 
adherents,  and,  until  the  latter  perceive  that  circumstance,  they  will  probably 
continue  combined.  The  greater  number  are,  I  believe,  averse  to  a  vote  of 
rejection.  Some  would  be  content  with  recommendatory  amendments  ;  others 
wish  for  explanatory  ones  to  settle  constructions,  which  they  think  doubtful  ; 
others  would  not  be  satisfied  with  less  than  absolute  and  previous  amendments  ; 
and  I  am  mistaken  if  there  be  not  a  few,  who  prefer  a  separation  from  the 
Union  to  any  national  government  whatever." — Jnv  to  Washington. 


1788]  GEORGE   WASHINGTON.  291 

sessed  of  every  thing,  that  might  be  printed  on  both 
sides  of  the  question,  but  it  has  afforded  its  enemies 
very  plausible  pretexts  for  dealing  out  their  scandals, 
and  exciting  jealousies  by  inducing  a  belief,  that  the 
suppression  of  intelligence,  at  that  critical  juncture, 
was  a  wicked  trick  of  policy,  contrived  by  an  aristo 
cratic  junto.  Now,  if  the  postmaster-general,  with 
whose  character  I  am  unacquainted,  and  therefore 
would  not  be  understood  to  form  an  unfavorable 
opinion  of  his  motives,  has  any  candid  advisers, 
who  conceive  that  he  merits  the  public  employ 
ment,  they  ought  to  counsel  him  to  wipe  away  the 
aspersion  he  has  incautiously  brought  upon  a  good 
cause.  If  he  is  unworthy  of  the  office  he  holds,  it 
would  be  well  that  the  ground  of  a  complaint,  ap 
parently  so  general,  should  be  inquired  into,  and,  if 
founded,  redressed  through  the  medium  of  a  better 
appointment. 

It  is  a  matter  in  my  judgment  of  primary  impor 
tance,  that  the  public  mind  should  be  relieved  from 
inquietude  on  this  subject.  I  know  it  is  said,  that 
the  irregularity  or  defect  has  happened  accidentally, 
in  consequence  of  the  contract  for  transporting  the 
mail  on  horseback,  instead  of  having  it  carried  in 
the  stages  ;  but  I  must  confess  I  could  never  account, 
upon  any  satisfactory  principles,  for  the  inveterate 
enmity  with  which  the  postmaster-general  is  asserted 
to  be  actuated  against  that  valuable  institution.  It 
has  often  been  understood  by  wise  politicians  and  en 
lightened  patriots,  that  giving  a  facility  to  the  means 
of  travelling  for  strangers,  and  of  intercourse  for 


292  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

citizens,  was  an  object  of  legislative  concern,  and  a 
circumstance  highly  beneficial  to  any  country.  In 
England,  I  am  told,  they  consider  the  mail-coaches 
as  a  great  modern  improvement  in  their  post-office 
regulations.  I  trust  we  are  not  too  old,  or  too  proud, 
to  profit  by  the  experience  of  others.  In  this  article 
the  materials  are  amply  within  our  reach.  I  am  taught 
to  imagine,  that  the  horses,  the  vehicles,  and  the 
accommodations  in  America,  with  very  little  encour 
agement,  might  in  a  short  period  become  as  good  as 
the  same  articles  are  to  be  found  in  any  country  of 
Europe.  And  at  the  same  time  I  am  sorry  to  learn, 
that  the  line  of  stages  is  at  present  interrupted  in 
some  parts  of  New  England,  and  totally  discontinued 
at  the  southward. 

I  mention  these  suggestions  only  as  my  particular 
thoughts  on  an  establishment,  which  I  had  conceived 
to  be  of  great  importance.  Your  proximity  to  the 
person  in  question,  and  connexion  with  the  characters 
in  power,  will  enable  you  to  decide  better  than  I  can 
on  the  validity  of  the  allegations,  and  in  that  case  to 
weigh  the  expediency  of  dropping  such  hints  as  may 
serve  to  give  satisfaction  to  the  public.  With  sen 
timents  of  the  highest  consideration  and  regard,  I 
am,  &c. 

P.  S. — Since  writing  the  foregoing  I  have  been 
favored  with  your  letter  which  was  begun  on  the  4th 
and  continued  till  the  8th  and  thank  you  for  the 
information  therein  contained.  Your  next  will  I  hope 
announce  the  ratification  by  your  State,  without  pre 
vious  amendments. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  293 


TO    NOAH    WEBSTER. 

MOUNT  VERNON,   31  July,  1788. 

SIR, 

I  duly  received  your  letter  of  the  i4th  of  July,  and 
can  only  answer  you  briefly,  and  generally  from  mem 
ory  ;  that  a  combined  operation  of  the  land  and  naval 
forces  of  France  and  America,  for  the  year  1781,  was 
preconcerted  the  year  before  :  that  the  point  at  attack 
was  not  absolutely  agreed  upon,  because  it  would  be 
easy  for  the  Count  de  Grasse  in  good  time  before  his 
departure  from  the  West  Indies  to  give  notice  by 
express  at  what  place  he  could  most  conveniently  first 
touch  to  receive  advices,  because  it  could  not  be  fore 
known  where  the  enemy  would  be  most  susceptible 
of  impression,  and  because  we,  (having  the  command 
of  the  water,  and  with  sufficient  means  of  convey 
ance,)  could  transport  ourselves  to  any  spot  with  the 
greatest  celerity :  that  it  was  determined  by  me, 
(nearly  twelve  months  beforehand,)  at  all  hazards 
to  give  out  and  cause  it  to  be  believed  by  the  highest 
military  as  well  as  civil  officers,  that  New  York  was 
the  destined  place  of  attack,  for  the  important  pur 
pose  of  inducing  the  eastern  &  middle  States  to  make 
greater  exertions  in  furnishing  specific  supplies  than 
they  otherwise  would  have  done,  as  well  as  for  the 
interesting  purpose  of  rendering  the  enemy  less  pre 
pared  elsewhere  :  that  these  means,  and  these  alone, 
artillery,  boats,  stores,  and  provisions  were  in  season 
able  preparation  to  move  with  the  utmost  rapidity  to 
any  part  of  the  continent ;  for  the  difficulty  consisted 
more  in  providing,  than  knowing  how  to  apply,  the 


294  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


military  apparatus :  that  before  the  arrival  of  the 
Count  de  Grasse,  it  was  the  fixed  determination 
to  strike  the  enemy  in  the  most  vulnerable  quarter  so 
as  to  ensure  success  with  moral  certainty,  as  our 
affairs  were  then  in  the  most  ruinous  train  imagina 
ble  :  that  New  York  was  thought  to  be  beyond  our 
effort,  and  consequently  the  only  hesitation  that 
remained  was  between  an  attack  upon  the  British 
army  in  Virginia  or  that  in  Charleston  :  and,  finally, 
that  (by  the  intervention  of  several  communications,) 
and  some  incidents  which  cannot  be  detailed  in  a 
letter,  and  which  were  altogether  unknown  to  the  late 
quartermaster-general  of  the  army,  who  was  informed 
of  nothing  but  what  related  to  the  immediate  duties 
of  his  own  department,)  the  hostile  post  in  Virginia, 
from  being  a  provisional  and  strongly  expected,  be 
came  the  definitive  and  certain  object  of  the  campaign. 
I  only  add,  that  it  never  was  in  contemplation  to  at 
tack  New  York,  unless  the  garrison  should  first  have 
been  so  far  disgarnished  to  carry  on  the  southern 
operations,  as  to  render  our  success  in  the  siege  of 
that  place  as  infallible  as  any  future  military  event 
can  ever  be  made.  For,  I  repeat  it,  and  dwell  upon 
it  again  and  again,  some  splendid  advantage  (whether 
upon  a  larger  or  smaller  scale  was  almost  immaterial) 
was  so  essentially  necessary  to  revive  the  expiring 
hopes  and  languid  exertions  of  the  country,  at  the 
crisis  in  question,  that  I  never  would  have  consented 
to  embark  in  any  enterprise,  wherein,  from  the  most 
rational  plan  and  accurate  calculations,  the  favorable 
issue  should  not  have  appeared  as  clear  to  my  view 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  295 


as  a  ray  of  light.  The  failure  of  an  attempt  against 
the  posts  of  the  enemy  could,  in  no  other  possible 
situation  during  the  war,  have  been  so  fatal  to  our 
cause. 

That  much  trouble  was  taken  and  finesse  used  to 
misguide  and  bewilder  Sir  Henry  Clinton  in  regard 
to  the  real  object,  by  fictitious  communications  as  well 
as  by  making  a  deceptive  provision  of  ovens,  forage, 
and  boats  in  his  neighborhood,  is  certain.  Nor  were 
less  pains  taken  to  deceive  our  own  army  ;  for  I  had 
always  conceived,  when  the  imposition  did  not  com 
pletely  take  place  at  home,  it  could  never  sufficiently 
succeed  abroad. 

Your  desire  of  obtaining  truth  is  very  laudable.  I 
wish  I  had  more  leisure  to  gratify  it,  as  I  am  equally 
solicitous  the  undisguised  verity  should  be  known. 
Many  circumstances  will  unavoidably  be  misconceived 
and  misrepresented.  Notwithstanding  most  of  the 
papers,  which  may  properly  be  deemed  official,  are 
preserved,  yet  the  knowledge  of  innumerable  things 
of  a  more  delicate  and  secret  nature  is  confined  to 
the  perishable  remembrance  of  some  few  of  the  pres 
ent  generation.  I  am,  with  sentiments  of  esteem 
and  regard,  Sir,  &c. 

TO    JAMES    MADISON,    IN    CONGRESS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  3  August,  1788. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

Your  favors  of  the  2ist  and  27th  of  last  month 
came  duly  to  hand.  The  latter  contained  the  pleas 
ing,  and  I  may  add  (though  I  could  not  reconcile  it 


296  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

to  any  ideas  I  entertained  of  common  policy)  unex 
pected  account  of  the  unconditional  ratification  of  the 
constitution  by  the  State  of  New  York.  That  North 
Carolina  will  hesitate  long  in  its  choice,  I  can  scarcely 
believe  ;  but  what  Rhode  Island  will  do  is  more  diffi 
cult  to  say,  though  not  worth  a  conjecture,  as  the 
conduct  of  the  majority  there  has  hitherto  baffled  all 
calculation. 

The  place  proper  for  the  new  Congress  to  meet  at 
will  unquestionably  undergo,  if  it  has  not  already  done 
it,  much  investigation  ;  but  there  are  certain  things, 
which  are  so  self-evident  in  their  nature,  as  to  speak 
for  themselves.  This  possibly  may  be  one.  Where 
the  true  point  lies  I  will  not  undertake  to  decide ;  but 
there  can  be  no  hesitation,  I  think,  in  pronouncing 
that  in  all  societies,  if  the  band  or  cement  is  strong 
and  interesting  enough  to  hold  the  body  together, 
the  several  parts  should  submit  to  the  inconveniences, 
for  the  benefits  which  they  derive  from  the  conven 
iences  of  the  compact.1 


1  "  Congress  have  deliberated  in  part  on  the  arrangements  for  putting  the  new 
machine  into  operation,  but  have  concluded  on  nothing  but  the  times  for  choos 
ing  electors,  &c.  Those,  who  wish  to  make  New  York  the  place  of  meeting, 
studiously  promote  delay  ;  others,  who  are  not  swayed  by  this  consideration,  do 
not  urge  despatch.  They  think  it  would  be  well  to  let  as  many  States  as  pos 
sible  have  an  opportunity  of  deciding  on  the  constitution  ;  and,  what  is  of 
more  consequence,  they  wish  to  give  opportunities,  where  they  can  take  place, 
for  as  many  elections  of  State  legislatures  as  can  precede  a  reasonable  time,  for 
making  the  appointments  and  arrangements  referred  to  them.  If  there  be  too 
great  an  interval  between  the  acts  of  Congress  on  this  subject,  and  the  next 
election  or  next  meeting  of  a  State  legislature,  it  may  afford  a  pretext  for  an 
intermediate  summoning  of  the  existing  members,  who  are  everywhere  less 
federal  than  their  successors  hereafter  to  be  elected  will  probably  be.  This  is 
particularly  the  case  in  Maryland,  where  the  antifederal  temper  of  the  execu 
tive  would  render  an  intermediate  and  extraordinary  meeting  of  the  Assembly 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON,  297 

We  have  nothing  in  these  parts  worth  communica 
ting.  Towards  New  York  we  look  for  whatever  is 
interesting  till  the  States  begin  to  act  under  the  new 
form,  which  will  be  an  important  epoch  in  the  annals 
of  this  country.  With  sentiments  of  sincere  friendship 
and  affection,  I  am  yours,  &c. 


TO    GEORGE    STEPTOE    WASHINGTON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  6  August,  1788. 

DEAR  GEORGE, 

It  was  with  equal  pain  and  surprise,  that  I  was 
informed  by  Colonel  Hanson  on  Monday  last  of  your 
unjustifiable  behavior  in  rescuing  your  brother  from 
that  chastisement,  which  was  due  to  his  improper 
conduct ;  and  which  you  know,  because  you  have 
been  told  it  in  explicit  language,  he  was  authorized 
to  administer  whensoever  he  should  deserve  it.  Such 


of  that  State  the  more  likely  to  be  called.  On  my  way  through  Maryland, 
I  found  such  an  event  to  be  much  feared  by  the  friends,  and  wished  by  the  ad 
versaries,  of  the  constitution.  We  have  no  late  news  from  Europe,  nor  any 
thing  from  North  Carolina." — Madison  to  Washington,  21  July,  1788. 

"  I  am  clearly  in  sentiment  with  you  that  the  longer  the  question  respecting 
the  permanent  Seat  of  Congress  remains  unagitated,  the  greater  certainty  there 
will  be  of  its  fixture  in  a  central  spot. — But  not  having  the  same  means  of  in 
formation  and  judging  that  you  have  ;  it  would  have  been  a  moot  point  with 
me,  whether  a  temporary  residence  of  that  body  at  New  York  would  not  have 
been  a  less  likely  means  of  keeping  it  itltimately  from  the  center  (being  further 
removed  from  it)  than  if  it  was  to  be  at  Philadelphia  ;  because,  in  proportion 
as  you  draw  it  to  the  center,  you  lessen  the  inconveniences  and  of  course  the 
solicitude  of  the  Southern  and  Western  extremities  ; — and  when  to  these  are 
super-added  the  acquaintances  and  connections  which  will  naturally  be  formed 
— the  expenses  which  more  than  probably  will  be  incurred  for  the  accommoda 
tion  of  the  public  Officers — with  a  long  train  of  et  ceteras,  it  might  be  found  an 
arduous  task  to  approach  nearer  to  the  Axis  thereafter. — These,  however,  are 
first  thoughts,  and  may  not  go  to  the  true  principles  of  policy  which  governs  in 
this  case." — Washington  to  Madison,  18  August,  1788. 


298  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


refractory  behavior  on  your  part  I  consider  as  an 
insult  equally  offered  to  myself,  after  the  above  com 
munications  ;  and  I  shall  continue  to  view  it  in  that 
light,  till  you  have  made  satisfactory  acknowledg 
ments  to  Colonel  Hanson  for  the  offence  given  him. 

o 

It  is  as  much  my  wish  and  intention  to  see  justice 
done  to  you  and  your  brother,  as  it  is  to  punish  either 
when  it  is  merited  ;  but  there  are  proper  modes  by 
which  this  is  to  be  obtained,  and  it  is  to  be  sought 
by  a  fair  and  candid  representation  of  facts  which  can 
be  supported,  and  not  by  vague  complaints,  diso 
bedience,  perverseness,  or  disobliging  conduct,  which 
make  enemies  without  producing  the  smallest  good. 
So  often  and  strenuously  have  I  endeavored  to  incul 
cate  this  advice,  and  to  show  you  the  advantages, 
which  are  to  be  expected  from  close  application  to 
your  studies,  that  it  is  unnecessary  to  repeat  it.  If 
the  admonitions  of  friendship  are  lost,  other  methods 
must  be  tried,  which  cannot  be  more  disagreeable  to 
you,  than  it  would  be  to  one,  who  wishes  to  avoid  it, 
who  is  solicitous  to  see  you  and  your  brother  (the 
only  remaining  sons  of  your  father)  turn  out  well,  and 
who  is  very  desirous  of  continuing  your  affectionate 
uncle.1 


1  "  On  my  return  home  last  night  I  found  my  nephew  Lawrence  here,  who 
said  he  was  afraid  to  remain  at  your  house,  and  offered  to  show  me  some  bruises 
he  had  received.  Being  prepared  for  it,  I  was  going  this  morning  to  correct 
him  ;  but  he  begged  so  earnestly  and  promised  so  faithfully,  that  there  should 
be  no  cause  of  complaint  against  him  for  the  future,  that  I  have  suspended  the 
punishment. 

"  The  letter,  which  I  have  written  to  his  brother  on  the  subject,  is  under  this 
cover,  and  open  for  your  perusal.  He  is  arrived  at  that  age  and  size  now,  as  to 
be  a  fitter  subject  to  be  reasoned  with  than  to  receive  corporal  punishment ;  and 
my  primary  object  in  placing  these  boys  with  you  last  was,  that  they,  at  least 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  299 


TO    CHARLES    PETTIT. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  16  August,  1788. 

SIR, 

I  have  to  acknowledge  with  much  sensibility  the 
receipt  of  your  letter,  dated  the  5th  instant,  in  which 
you  offer  your  congratulations  on  the  prospect  of  an 
established  government,  whose  principles  seem  calcu 
lated  to  secure  the  benefits  of  society  to  the  citizens 
of  the  United  States,  and  in  which  you  also  give  a 
more  accurate  state  of  federal  politics  in  Pennsylvania 
than  I  had  before  received.  It  affords  me  unfeigned 
satisfaction  to  find,  that  the  acrimony  of  parties  is 
much  abated. 

Doubtless  there  are  defects  in  the  proposed  system, 
which  may  be  remedied  in  a  constitutional  mode.  I 
am  truly  pleased  to  learn,  that  those,  who  have  been 
considered  as  its  most  violent  opposers,  will  not  only 
acquiesce  peaceably,  but  cooperate  in  its  organization, 
and  content  themselves  with  asking  amendments  in 
the  manner  prescribed  by  the  constitution.  The  great 
danger  in  my  view  was,  that  every  thing  might  be 
thrown  into  the  last  stage  of  confusion  before  any 
government  whatsoever  could  be  established,  and  that 

George,  should  be  treated  more  on  the  footing  of  friendship  and  as  companions, 
than  as  mere  schoolboys.  This  I  hoped  would  draw  George's  attention  to 
objects  and  conversations,  that  would  improve  and  might  contribute  in  a 
degree  to  wean  him  from  boyish  amusements,  the  influence  of  which  would 
extend  to  Lawrence. 

"  Necessary  and  decent  clothes  they  shall  have  no  cause  to  complain  for  the 
want  of  ;  and  if  you,  Sir,  once  a  month,  or  oftener,  would  be  so  obliging  as  to 
inspect  them  and  let  me  know  what  they  need,  I  will  take  care  that  they  shall 
be  provided.  A  line  from  one  of  them,  lodged  at  the  post,  signifying  their 
desire  of  sending  things  to  my  tailor  to  repair,  will  induce  the  occasional  call  of 
a  servant,  which  may  be  sent  to  town  on  other  business." — Washington  fc> 
Samuel  Hanson,  6  August,  1788. 


300  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


we  should  suffer  a  political  shipwreck  without  the  aid 
of  one  friendly  star  to  guide  us  into  port.  Every  real 
patriot  must  have  lamented,  that  private  feuds  and 
local  politics  should  have  unhappily  insinuated  them 
selves  into,  and  in  some  measure  obstructed,  the  dis 
cussion  of  a  great  national  question.  A  just  opinion, 
that  the  people  when  rightly  informed  will  decide  in 
a  proper  manner,  ought  certainly  to  have  prevented 
all  intemperate  or  precipitate  proceedings  on  a  sub 
ject  of  so  much  magnitude  ;  nor  should  a  regard  to 
common  decency  have  suffered  the  zealots  in  the 
minority  to  stigmatize  the  authors  of  the  constitution 
as  conspirators  and  traitors.  However  unfavorably 
individuals,  blinded  by  passion  and  prejudice,  might 
have  thought  of  the  characters  who  composed  the 
convention,  the  election  of  those  characters  by  the 
legislatures  of  the  several  States,  and  the  reference 
of  their  proceedings  to  the  free  determination  of 
their  constituents,  did  not  carry  the  appearance  of  a 
private  combination  to  destroy  the  liberties  of  their 
country.  Nor  did  the  outrageous  disposition,  which 
some  indulged  in  traducing  and  vilifying  the  mem 
bers,  seem  much  calculated  to  produce  concord  or 
accommodation. 

For  myself,  I  expected  not  to  be  exempted  from 
obloquy  any  more  than  others.  It  is  the  lot  of  hu 
manity.  But  if  the  shafts  of  malice  had  been  aimed 
at  me  in  ever  so  pointed  a  manner  on  this  occasion, 
shielded  as  I  was  by  a  consciousness  of  having  acted 
in  conformity  to  what  I  believed  my  duty,  they  would 
have  fallen  blunted  from  their  mark.  It  is  known  to 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  301 

some  of  my  countrymen,  and  can  be  demonstrated  to 
the  conviction  of  all,  that  I  was  in  a  manner  con 
strained  to  attend  the  general  convention,  in  compli 
ance  with  the  earnest  and  pressing  desires  of  many  of 
the  most  respectable  characters  in  different  parts  of 
the  continent. 

At  my  age,  and  in  my  circumstances,  what  sinister 
object  or  personal  emolument  had  I  to  seek  after  in 
this  life  ?  The  growing  infirmities  of  age,  and  the 
increasing  love  of  retirement,  daily  confirm  my  de 
cided  predilection  for  domestic  life  ;  and  the  great 
Searcher  of  human  hearts  is  my  witness,  that  I  have  no 
wish,  which  aspires  beyond  the  humble  and  happy  lot 
of  living  and  dying  a  private  citizen  on  my  own  farm. 

Your  candor  and  patriotism  in  endeavoring  to 
moderate  the  jealousies  and  remove  the  prejudices, 
which  a  particular  class  of  citizens  had  conceived 
against  the  new  government,  are  certainly  very  com 
mendable,  and  must  be  viewed  as  such  by  all  true 
friends  to  their  country.  In  this  description  I  shall 
fondly  hope  I  have  a  right  to  comprehend  myself ; 
and  shall  conclude  by  professing  a  grateful  sense  of 
your  favorable  opinion  for  me.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    JOHN    BEALE    BORDLEY. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  17  August,  1788. 


No  wheat  that  has  ever  yet  fallen  under  my  obser 
vation  exceeds  the  wheat  which  some  years  ago  I 
cultivated  extensively  but  which,  from  inattention 


3o2  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


during  my  absence  of  almost  nine  years  from  home, 
has  got  so  mixed  or  degenerated  as  scarcely  to  retain 
any  of  its  original  characteristics  properly.  But  if 
the  march  of  the  Hessian  fly,  southerly,  cannot  be 
arrested,  and  Colo.  Morgan's  experiments  are  corrob 
orated  by  others  of  equal  skill  and  attention,  it  must 
yield  to  the  palm  the  yellow  bearded  wheat,  which, 
alone,  it  is  said,  is  able  to  resist  the  depredations  of 
that  destructive  insect.  This  makes  your  present  of 
it  to  me  more  valuable.  I  shall  cultivate  it  with  care. 

The  Cape  wheat  I  have  cultivated  three  years  suc 
cessively — The  frost  of  the  last  year  almost  destroyed 
it. — In  neither,  did  it  produce  a  full  grain,  though  a 
large  one. — I  have  just  harvested  a  little  of  two  kinds 
of  wheat  sent  me  by  Arthur  Young,  Esqr.,  of  Eng 
land,  one  of  which  he  says  is  called  the  Harrison 
wheat,  and  is  in  high  estimation  in  that  country  ;  the 
other  is  a  large  white  wheat,  to  which  I  do  not  recol 
lect  he  has  given  any  name. — The  seed  being  in 
jured  in  its  passage,  came  up  badly  and  with  difficulty 
any  of  it  was  preserved  from  weads,  &c. — No  con 
clusive  opinion  therefore  can  be  formed  of  either 
from  the  trial  of  this  year,  but  if  there  is  any  thing 
which  indicates  a  superior  quality  in  it  next,  I  will 
reserve  some  of  the  seed  for  you. 

That  the  system  (if  it  deserves  the  appelation  of 
one)  of  corn,  wheat,  hay,  has  been  injurious,  and  if 
continued  would  prove  ruinous,  to  our  Lands,  I  be 
lieve  no  person  who  has  attended  to  the  ravages  which 
have  been  produced  by  it  in  our  fields  is  at  a  loss  to 
decide  ;  but  with  deference  let  me  ask  if  the  substitute 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  303 

you  propose  is  the  best  that  can  be  devised  ?  Wheat 
follows  Corn  :  here  are  not  only  two  Corn  Crops,  but 
those  of  the  most  exhausting  nature  following  each 
other  without  the  intervention  of  a  restorative,  when 
by  the  approved  courses  now  practiced  in  England 
Grain  and  (what  are  called)  fallow  Crops,  succeed 
each  other  alternately.  Though  I  am  not  strongly 
attached  to  a  particular  course  (being  open  to  convic 
tion)  yet  that  which  has  obtained  most  in  my  mind, 
and  which  I  have  been  endeavoring  (for  it  is  not  easy 
to  go  fully  into  any  system  which  produces  a  mate 
rial  change  at  once),  is  the  following,  which  for  the 
more  perfect  understanding  of  it  shall  have  dates  to 
their  respective  growths  of  the  Crops.  By  the  usual 
mode  it  is  scarcely  necessary  to  observe  we  have  three 
fields — viz — one  in  Corn,  one  in  wheat,  and  one  in 
hay. — By  my  plan,  these  three  fields  are  divided  into 
Six. — For  instance  one  of  them,  say  No.  i,  is  planted 
with  Corn  8  feet  by  2 — single  stalks  ;  with  Irish  Pota 
toes,  or  Carrots,  or  partly  both,  between  that  Corn 
planted  in  this  manner,  will  yield  as  much  to  the  Acre 
as  in  any  other ;  that  the  quantity  of  Potatoes  is  at  least 
quadruple  the  quantity  of  Corn,  and  that  Potatoes 
do  not  exhaust  the  Land,  are  facts  well  established  in 
my  mind. — In  April  1789  it  is  sown  with  Buck  wheat 
(for  manure)  which  is  plowed  in  before  harvest,  when 
the  seed  begins  to  ripen,  and  there  is  enough  to 
seed  the  ground  a  second  time.  In  July  it  is  again 
plowed  in  which  gives  two  dressings  to  the  Land  at 
the  expence  only  of  a  bushel  of  B.  W:  and  the  plow- 
ings  which  would  otherwise  be  essential  for  a  summer 


304  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

fallow. — In  August,  after  the  putrefaction  and  fermen 
tation  is  over,  wheat  is  sown,  and  in  i  790  harvested. 
—In  1791 — The  best — and  earliest  kind  of  Indian 
Pease  are  sown  in  broad  cast,  to  be  mown  when  gen 
erally  Ripe.  Since  the  adoption  of  this  course,  and 
the  progress  that  has  been  made  to  carry  it  into  effect, 
I  have  had  too  much  cause  to  be  convinced,  that, 
Pease,  harvested  in  this  manner  is  a  considerable  ex 
haustion  of  the  soil — I  have  some  thoughts  therefore 

o 

of  substituting  a  medley — of  Pease,  Buck  wheat  for 
seed,  Turnips,  Pom-kins,  &c.,  in  such  parts  of  the 
field  as  will  be  useful  on  the  farm,  and  all  of  them 
preparatives  of  the  ensuing  Crop.  In  1792  Spring 
Barley  or  Oats  ;  or  equal  quantities  of  each  will  fol 
low  with  Clover — The  latter  to  be  fed  with  light  Stock 
after  harvest. — In  1793  the  Field  remains  in  Clover 
for  Hay  or  grazing  according  to  circumstances.  In 
1794  it  comes  again  into  Corn  and  goes  on  as  before. 
It  may  be  remarked  here  as  an  objection  to  this 
System — that  wheat,  in  the  best  farming  Counties  in 
England,  follows  the  Clover  hay — is  sown  on  a  single 
plowing — and  has  been  found  profitable  from  practice. 
—My  reasons  for  departing  from  that  mode  are — ist 
our  plowing  is  not  equal  to  theirs,  of  course  the  Clover 
is  not  so  well  buried,  nor  the  ensuing  (wheat)  Crop 
so  free  from  grass  as  theirs  ;  and  2dly,  if  we  sow  wheat, 
at  an  early  and  proper  period,  we  loose  a  valuable 
part  of  the  clover  Crop — whereas  the  ground  for  Corn 
need  not  be  broken  till  the  season  for  grazing  is  over 
and  the  Stock  in  the  farm  yard.  By  the  tillage  too, 
which  the  Corn  Crop  ougJit  to  receive,  followed  by  B. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  305 

W.  twice  plowed  in,  Weeds  and  grass  must  be  entirely 
eradicated. 

To  contrast  the  probable  yield  of  this  with  the  old 
course,  of  Corn,  wheat  and  hay — suppose  a  farm  of 
300  acres  of  arable  Land. 

Old 

acres.  bush.    bush. 

100  of  Maiz  @  12^  is  1250  @  3/    ^187.  10.  o 
100  Wheat     @     6  600      5/        150.     o.  o 

100  Pasture  337.  10.  o 


diffe.  ;£n6.     5.  o 


453- 


New 

Acres.  B.       Bush. 

50  of  Maiz  at   12^  is     625  @  3/    £  93.   15.  o 

Potatoes  between  the^) 
Corn  rows  will  quad 
ruple  the  Corn  but  !  , 

}>I250@    I/  62.     10.    O 

allowing     for    seed,  ( 

accidence   &c.    only 

double 

50  of  wheat  @  9  is  450  @  5/  112.  10.  o 
50  of  Barley  @  10  is  500  @  3/6  87.  10.  o 
50  of  Clover  Hay — 25  Tons@5o/  62.  10.  o 

50  of  Pease  @  4  Bush.  200  @  3/6  35.  o.  o 
50  of  Pasture  ^453.  15.  o 

In  the  above  statement,  as  much,  I  conceive,  is 
allowed  to  the  old,  and  taken  from  the  new  course,  as 
can  be  done  with  Justice. — The  Pastures  of  the  latter 
will  be  fine,  and  improving ;  Those  of  the  former  are 
continually  declining,  and  washing  into  gullies. — The 
hand-machine  spoken  of  by  you  for  sowing  Clover 


306  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

Seed  I  have  wished  to  see  but  have  never  yet  seen 
one — but  I  cannot  conceive  that  by  this,  or  any  other 
contrivance  a  bushel  of  seed  can  be  made  to  subserve 
20  acres  of  Land,  and  without  a  considerable  mixture 
of  other  grass  seeds,  which  would  in  a  manner,  be 
washed  in  so  short  a  lay  as  is  proposed  by  either  of 
our  Systems. 

I  have  been  informed  that  you  have  in  possession 
one  of  Winlaw's  machines  for  threshing  wheat  :  Pray 
how  do  you  approve  of  it  on  trial?  Many  of  these 
newly  invented  things  meet  the  approbation  of  the 
moment  but  will  not  stand  the  test  of  constant  use, 
or  the  usage  of  common  laborers— I  have  requested 
Mr.  Young  if  this  machine  has  supported  its  reputa 
tion — either  in  his  opinion,  or  the  Judgment  of  those 
on  whom  he  can  rely,  to  send  me  one.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    THE    COUNT    UE    MOUSTIER. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  17  August,  1788. 

SIR, 

In  the  letter  I  did  myself  the  honor  to  address  to 
your  Excellency  on  the  26th  of  last  March,  I  inti 
mated  that  as  soon  as  I  should  have  obtained  more 
particular  information  concerning  the  commercial 
intercourse  between  France  and  the  United  States,  I 
would  most  willingly  communicate  the  result.  Ill 
prepared  as  I  still  am  to  treat  of  a  subject  so  compli 
cated  in  its  nature,  and  so  extensive  in  its  conse 
quences,  I  will  now  hazard  a  few  facts  and  general 
observations,  without  confining  myself  strictly  to  your 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  307 

questions,  to  which,  however,  you  may  find  there  will 
be  a  constant  allusion. 

Respecting  the  utility  or  hurtfulness  of  the  tobacco 
contract  between  Mr.  Morris  and  the  Farmers-Gen 
eral,  I  have  heard  so  many  specious  arguments  on 
one  side  and  the  other,  that  I  find  myself  embarrassed 
in  making  a  fair  judgment.  In  ordinary  cases  I  know 
that  all  exclusive  privileges  and  even  partial  monopo 
lies  are  pernicious.  How  far  in  this  instance  the 
contract  has  been  only  a  transference  of  the  business 
from  the  foreign  agents,  (English  or  Scottish,)  who 
used  to  conduct  it,  into  other  hands,  and  whether  the 
same  exportations  in  quantity  would  have  been  made 
directly  to  France  through  more  advantageous  chan 
nels,  I  cannot  pretend  to  determine.  A  free  compe 
tition  in  the  purchase  of  that  article  here,  as  well  as 
in  the  sale  at  the  place  of  market,  it  seems  reasonable 
to  conclude,  would  be  mutually  beneficial  to  both 
nations,  however  it  might  be  inconvenient  to  indi 
viduals.  Though  the  present  contract  will  soon  ex 
pire  of  course,  and  leave  an  equal  field  of  speculation 
on  this  side  of  the  Atlantic,  1  have,  been  taught  to 
believe,  that  the  Farmers-General  will  not  so  readily 
give  up  their  share  in  the  monopoly  on  the  other. 
So  the  business  must  in  all  probability  revert  to  its 
original  channel. 

In  reply  to  your  second,  third,  and  fourth  questions, 
I  would  only  briefly  observe,  that  we  are  yet  scarcely 
sufficiently  acquainted  with  the  coarse  French  wool 
lens,  and  their  lowest  prices,  to  determine  how  far 
they  can  come  in  rivalship  with  those  of  Britain.  The 


3o8  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

prevailing  opinion  is  in[favor  of]  the  latter ;  but  I  see 
no  reason  why  the  former,  when  calculated  for  the 
particular  purpose,  may  not  be  made  equally  cheap 
and  good.  As  to  other  articles  of  importation  di 
rectly  from  France,  they  might  consist  in  superfine 
broadcloths,  (particularly  blue  which  can  be  afforded 
cheaper  and  better  than  from  England,)  glass,  gloves, 
ribbons,  silks,  cambrics,  plain  lawns,  linens,  printed 
goods,  wine,  brandy,  oil,  fruit,  and  in  general  every 
thing  necessary  for  carrying  on  the  Indian  trade ; 
from  the  Islands,  sugar  and  coffee,  in  addition  to  the 
molasses  and  rum,  which  alone  are  permitted  to  be 
exported  to  the  United  States  at  present.  Our  prod 
uce  in  return  to  Europe  might  comprehend  tobacco 
(as  the  staple  from  this  State),  and  from  the  States 
aggregately  wheat,  rice,  other  grain,  bread,  flour,  fish, 
fish  oil,  potashes,  pearlashes,  skins,  furs,  peltry,  indigo, 
madder,  different  dyeing  woods,  lumber,  naval  stores, 
iron,  coals,  and  ships  ready  built ;  to  the  Islands, 
lumber,  bar  iron,  coals,  live  stock,  and  provisions  of 
all  kinds. 

It  may  be  mentioned  here  as  a  first  principle  of 
extending  the  intercourse,  and  as  a  theory  which  will 
be  found  incontestably  true  in  experiment,  that,  in 
proportion  as  France  shall  increase  the  facility  of  our 
making  remittances,  in  the  same  ratio  shall  ive  in 
crease  the  consumption  of  her  produce  and  manufac 
tures.  Common  sense  and  sound  policy  speak  thus 
on  our  part :  "  We  can  furnish  new  materials  of  great 
value,  and  our  ability  to  do  it  will  augment  with  our 
population  every  day  ;  we  want  no  money  for  them, 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  309 

and  we  desire  no  credit  may  be  given  to  us  ;  we 
cannot  manufacture  fine  articles  so  cheaply  as  we  can 
import  them,  and  must,  while  we  continue  an  agri 
cultural  people,  be  supplied  from  some  quarter ;  we 
offer  you  the  preference,  and  will  take  in  different 
goods  to  the  amount  received  from  us  in  our  staple 
commodities." 

This  doctrine  has  been  already  verified,  so  far  as 
an  opportunity  has  been  afforded  to  observe  the 
effect.  The  use  of  French  brandy  in  common  taverns, 
as  well  as  private  houses,  has  been  substituted  for  two 
or  three  years  past  very  much  in  the  room  of  Jamaica 
rum.  Probably  not  less  than  twenty-four  thousand 
gallons  have  been  imported  into  this  State  in  one 
year.  The  consumption  of  French  wines  is  also  much 
greater  than  it  has  formerly  been  ;  and  may,  by  a 
moderate  calculation,  amount  to  between  one  half 
and  one  third  of  all  that  is  imported.  The  demand 
for  both  these  articles  might  still  be  extended  with 
the  means  of  making  remittances.  Not  much  French 
salt  is  made  use  of  for  curing  provisions  in  Virginia. 
The  opinion  is,  that  it  is  not  so  clean  as  that  imported 
from  other  parts  of  Europe.  If  it  was  properly  puri 
fied,  it  might  and  certainly  would  be  brought  out  as 
ballast  in  great  quantities,  and  find  a  ready  market. 

About  half  the  exports  from  Virginia  are  carried 
in  American  bottoms,  the  remainder  principally  in 
British  bottoms.  There  are,  however,  a  number  of 
other  foreign  vessels  employed  in  the  trade. 

I  know  not  of  any  other  equivalents,  than  those  to 
be  derived  by  France  from  the  extension  of  her  com- 


3io  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


merce,  which  we  can  give  for  any  new  favors  in  your 
Islands.1  Under  the  present  rigorous  restrictions,  it 
is  thought  that  trade  is  unprofitable  for  us,  and  will 
decay  or  be  disused  as  soon  as  other  avenues  for 
receiving  our  produce  shall  be  gradually  opened. 
The  maritime  genius  of  this  country  is  now  steering 
our  vessels  in  every  ocean  ;  to  the  East  Indies,  the 
north-west  coasts  of  America,  and  the  extremities  of 
the  globe.  I  have  the  best  evidence,  that  the  scale 
of  commerce,  so  long  against  us,  is  beginning  to  turn 
in  our  favor,  and  that,  (as  a  new  thing  in  our  new 
world,)  the  amount  of  exports  from  one  State  last 
year  exceeded  that  of  the  imports  more  than  two 
hundred  and  thirty  thousand  pounds. 

What  change  in  systems,  and  amelioration  in  the 
general  complexion  of  our  affairs,  are  likely  to  be 
produced  in  consequence  of  the  national  government, 

1  "I  believe  I  told  your  Excellency  before,  I  was  so  little  conversant  in 
commercial  matters,  that  I  desired  but  small  stress  might  be  placed  upon  my 
opinions.  It  may  be  necessary  to  repeat  this  observation  as  an  apology  for 
what  I  am  about  to  say  on  the  commerce  between  this  country  and  the  West 
India  Islands.  I  have  every  reason  to  wish,  that  this  trade  might,  if  possible, 
be  made  reciprocally  beneficial.  Of  that,  however,  I  entertain  some  doubts  ; 
for  hitherto  I  have  thought  it  of  much  less  importance  to  the  United  States, 
than  people  commonly  imagine  it  to  be.  My  reasons  for  this  opinion  were  ; 
first,  because  I  could  not  learn  upon  inquiry,  that  it  turned  out  much,  if  any, 
to  the  advantage  of  those  concerned  in  it  ;  and,  secondly,  because  all  or  nearly 
all  the  produce  imported  from  thence  (cotton  excepted)  might  be  considered  as 
articles  of  luxury,  the  use  of  which  would  in  a  great  measure  be  dispensed 
with,  if  they  were  not  so  easily  to  be  obtained.  But  my  greatest  reason  for 
supposing  the  trade  detrimental  to  us  was,  that  rum,  the  principal  article  received 
from  thence,  is  in  my  opinion  the  bane  of  morals  and  the  parent  of  idleness. 

"I  have  been  informed,  that,  before  the  war,  while  all  the  British  Islands 
were  wholly  open  to  our  vessels  and  some  of  those  of  other  nations  partly  so, 
the  trade,  (by  enabling  the  adventurers  to  make  a  circuitous  remittance  to 
Europe,)  was  attended  with  pretty  certain,  but  very  small  profits  ;  and  that, 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  311 


which  is  on  the  eve  of  being  established,  I  will  not 
undertake  to  predict.  I  hope  and  trust  the  ties,  which 
connect  this  nation  with  France,  will  be  strengthened 
and  made  durable  by  it.  In  the  mean  time  there  are 
three  things,  which  I  flatter  myself  will  counterbal 
ance,  on  the  side  of  the  French  commerce,  the  three 
advantages,  of  which  I  conceive  the  British  merchants 
to  be  possessed.  The  circumstances  to  which  I  allude 
are,  ist,  the  increasing  prejudices  of  this  country 
against  a  commercial  intercourse  with  England,  occa 
sioned  by  provocations  and  augmented  by  impositions 
on  her  part ;  2ndly,  the  facility  given  in  many  in 
stances  by  the  French  government  for  our  making 
remittances  in  the  staple  commodities  of  this  country  ; 
and,  3dly,  the  change  of  taste  in  favor  of  articles  pro 
duced  or  manufactured  in  France,  which  may  indeed 
in  a  great  degree  be  attributed  to  the  affection  and 

since  the  war,  it  has  been  generally  a  losing  speculation,  even  in  the  State 
where  it  has  been  carried  on  to  the  greatest  extent,  and  with  more  economy  in 
the  outfits  and  navigation  than  elsewhere.  But  it  will  be  asked,  whether  the 
States,  which  produce  horses,  &c.,  for  this  trade,  would  not  be  greatly  injured, 
in  case  of  its  annihilation,  for  want  of  a  market  to  dispose  of  that  produce.  I 
answer,  that  in  my  judgment  it  would  be  better  to  alter  the  mode  of  farming, 
and  to  raise  sheep  and  black  cattle  instead  of  horses.  There  can  be  no  want 
of  sufficient  demands  for  wool  and  beef,  nor  can  I  conceive  that  it  would 
be  a  difficult  affair  to  substitute  the  growth  of  these,  in  the  room  of  less  useful 
articles.  Then  I  could  wish  to  see  the  direct  commerce  with  France  encour 
aged  to  the  greatest  degree  ;  and  that  almost  all  the  foreign  spirits,  which  we 
consume,  should  consist  of  the  wines  and  brandies  made  in  that  country.  The 
use  of  those  liquors  would  at  least  be  more  innocent  to  the  health  and  morals 
of  the  people,  than  the  thousands  of  hogsheads  of  poisonous  rum,  which  are 
annually  consumed  in  the  United  States ;  and  upon  further  reflection  it  seems 
obvious  to  me,  that  there  are  articles  enough  in  France,  which  are  wanted 
here,  and  others  in  turn  produced  here,  which  are  wanted  in  France,  to  form 
the  basis  of  a  beneficial,  extensive,  and  durable  commerce." — Washington  to 
Motistier,  15  December,  1788. 


3i2  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

gratitude  still  felt  for  her  generous  interposition  in 
our  favor. 

I  should  be  truly  happy  to  learn,  that  this  country 
and  its  inhabitants  have  become  agreeable  to  your 
Excellency  upon  acquaintance.  For  you  may  be  as 
sured,  Sir,  no  one  can  be  more  zealous  than  myself 
in  promoting  a  friendly  connexion  between  our  na 
tions,  or  in  rendering  your  situation  perfectly  satisfac 
tory,  while  the  United  States  shall  enjoy  the  benefit 
of  your  residence  in  them.  With  the  highest  con 
sideration  and  respect,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &C.1 


TO    BENJAMIN    LINCOLN. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  28  August,  1788. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

I  received  with  your  letter  of  the  gth  instant,  one 
from  Mr.  Minot,  and  also  his  "  History  of  the  Insur 
rections  in  Massachusetts."  The  work  seems  to  be 
executed  with  ingenuity,  as  well  as  to  be  calculated 
to  place  facts  in  a  true  point  of  view,  obviate  the 
prejudices  of  those,  who  are  unacquainted  with  the 
circumstances,  and  answer  good  purposes  in  respect 
to  our  government  in  general.  I  have  returned  him 
my  thanks  for  his  present  by  this  conveyance. 

The  public  appears  to  be  anxiously  waiting  for  the 
decision  of  Congress  respecting  the  place  for  conven 
ing  the  national  assembly  under  the  new  government, 
and  the  ordinance  for  its  organization.  Methinks  it  is 
a  great  misfortune,  that  local  interests  should  involve 
themselves  with  federal  concerns  at  this  moment. 

1  The  general  terms  of  this  letter  were  dictated  by  a  wish  to  say  nothing  that 
would  be  likely  to  embarrass  Jefferson's  negotiations  in  France. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  313 

So  far  as  I  am  able  to  learn,  federal  principles  are 
gaining  ground  considerably.  The  declaration  of 
some  of  the  most  respectable  characters  in  this  State 
(I  mean  of  those  who  were  opposed  to  the  govern 
ment)  is  now  explicit,  that  they  will  give  the  consti 
tution  a  fair  chance  by  affording  it  all  the  support  in 
their  power.  Even  in  Pennsylvania,  the  minority, 
who  were  more  violent  than  in  any  other  place,  say 
they  will  only  seek  for  amendments  in  the  mode 
pointed  out  by  the  constitution  itself. 

I  will,  however,  just  mention  by  way  of  caveat, 
there  are  suggestions,  that  attempts  will  be  made  to 
procure  the  election  of  a  number  of  antifederal  char 
acters  to  the  first  Congress,  in  order  to  embarrass  the 
wheels  of  government,  and  produce  premature  altera 
tions  in  its  constitution.  How  these  hints,  which 
have  come  through  different  channels,  may  be  well  or 
ill-founded,  I  know  not ;  but  it  will  be  advisable,  I 
should  think,  for  the  federalists  to  be  on  their  guard, 
so  far  as  not  to  suffer  any  secref  machinations  to  pre 
vail,  without  taking  measures  to  frustrate  them.1  That 
many  amendments  and  explanations  might  and  should 
take  place,  I  have  [no]  difficulty  in  conceding ;  but  I 
will  confess  my  apprehension  is,  that  the  New  York 
circular  letter  is  intended  to  bring  on  a  general  con- 

1  In  wiiting  of  these  election  cabals  to  James  McHenry,  31  July,  1788, 
Washington  said ' 

"  I  think  there  will  be  great  reason  for  those  who  are  well  affected  to  the 
government  to  use  their  utmost  exertions,  that  the  worthiest  citizens  may  be 
appointed  to  the  two  Houses  of  the  first  Congress,  and,  where  State  elections 
take  place  previous  to  this  choice,  that  the  same  principle  govern  in  these  also. 
For  much  will  doubtless  depend  on  their  prudence  in  conducting  business  at 
the  beginning,  and  reconciling  discordant  dispositions  to  a  reasonable  acqui 
escence  with  candid  and  honest  measures.  At  the  same  time  it  will  be  a  point 


314  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


vention  at  too  early  a  period,  and,  in  short,  by  refer 
ring  the  subject  to  the  legislatures,  to  set  every  thing 
afloat  again.  I  wish  I  may  be  mistaken  in  imagining, 
that  there  are  persons,  who,  upon  finding  they  could 
not  carry  their  point  by  an  open  attack  against  the 
constitution,  have  some  sinister  designs  to  be  silently 
effected  if  possible.  But  I  trust  in  that  Providence, 
which  has  saved  us  in  six  troubles,  yea,  in  seven,  to 
rescue  us  again  from  any  imminent  though  unseen 
dangers.  Nothing,  however,  on  our  part  ought  to  be 
left  undone.  I  conceive  it  to  be  of  unspeakable 
importance,  that  whatever  there  be  of  wisdom,  and 
prudence,  and  patriotism  on  the  continent,  should  be 
concentred  in  the  public  councils  at  the  first  outset. 
Our  habits  of  intimacy  will  render  an  apology  un 
necessary — Heaven  is  my  witnesss  that  an  inextin 
guishable  desire  for  the  felicity  of  my  country  may  be 
prompted  is  my  only  motive  in  making  these  observa 
tions.  I  am,  &c. 

TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  28  August,  1788. 

DEAR  SIR  : 

I  have  had  the  pleasure  to  receive  your  letter  dated 
the  1 3th,  accompanied  by  one  addressed  to  General 
Morgan.  I  will  forward  the  letter  to  General  Morgan 

of  no  common  delicacy  to  make  provision  for  effecting  such  explanations  and 
amendments,  as  might  be  really  proper  and  generally  satisfactory,  without 
producing,  or  at  least  fostering,  such  a  spirit  of  innovation  as  will  overturn  the 
whole  system. 

"I  earnestly  pray,  that  the  Omnipotent  Being,  who  hath  not  deserted  the 
cause  of  America  in  the  hour  of  its  extremest  hazard,  will  never  yield  so  fair  a 
heritage  of  freedom  a  prey  to  anarchy  or  despotism." 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  315 


by  the  first  conveyance,  and  add  my  particular  wishes, 
that  he  would  comply  with  the  request  contained  in  it. 
Although  I  can  scarcely  imagine  how  the  watch  of  a 
British  officer,  killed-  within  their  lines,  should  have 
fallen  into  his  hands,  who  was  many  miles  distant 
from  the  scene  of  action,  yet,  if  it  so  happened,  I 
flatter  myself  there  will  be  no  reluctance  or  delay  in 
restoring  it  to  the  family. 

As  the  perusal  of  the  political  papers  under  the 
signature  of  PUBLIUS  has  afforded  me  great  satisfac 
tion,  I  shall  certainly  consider  them  as  claiming  a  most 
distinguished  place  in  my  library.  I  have  read  every 
performance,  which  has  been  printed  on  one  side  and 
the  other  of  the  great  question  lately  agitated  (so  far 
as  I  have  been  able  to  obtain  them)  ;  and,  without  an 
unmeaning  compliment,  I  will  say,  that  I  have  seen 
no  other  so  well  calculated,  in  my  judgment,  to  pro 
duce  conviction  on  an  unbiassed  mind  as  the  pro 
duction  of  your  triumvirate.  When  the  transient 
circumstances  and  fugitive  performances,  which  at 
tended  this  crisis,  shall  have  disappeared,  that  work 
will  merit  the  notice  of  posterity,  because  in  it  are 
candidly  and  ably  discussed  the  principles  of  freedom 
and  the  topics  of  government,  which  will  be  always 
interesting  to  mankind,  so  long  as  they  shall  be 
connected  in  civil  society. 

The  circular  letter  from  your  convention  I  presume 
was  the  equivalent,  by  which  you  obtained  an  acqui 
escence  in  the  proposed  constitution.  Notwithstand 
ing  I  am  not  very  well  satisfied  with  the  tendency  of 
it,  yet  the  federal  affairs  had  proceeded,  with  few 


316  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

exceptions,  in  so  good  a  train,  that  I  hope  the 
political  machine  may  be  put  in  motion,  without 
much  effort  or  hazard  of  miscarrying.1 

On  the  delicate  subject  with  which  you  conclude 
your  letter,  I  can  say  nothing,  because  the  event 
alluded  to  may  never  happen,  and  because,  in  case 
it  should  occur,  it  would  be  a  point  of  prudence  to 
defer  forming  one's  ultimate  and  irrevocable  decision, 
so  long  as  new  data  might  be  afforded  for  one  to  act 
with  the  greater  wisdom  and  propriety.  I  would  not 
wish  to  conceal  my  prevailing  sentiment  from  you  ; 
for  you  know  me  well  enough,  my  good  Sir,  to  be 
persuaded,  that  I  am  not  guilty  of  affectation  when  I 
tell  you,  that  it  is  my  great  and  sole  desire  to  live  and 
die  in  peace  and  retirement  on  my  own  farm.  Were 
it  even  indispensable,  a  different  line  of  conduct 

1  On  this  topic  Mr.  Madison  wrote  :  "  You  will  have  seen  the  circular  letter 
from  the  convention  of  this  State.  It  has  a  pestilent  tendency.  If  an  early 
general  convention  cannot  be  parried,  it  is  seriously  to  be  feared,  that  the  sys 
tem,  which  has  resisted  so  many  direct  attacks,  may  be  at  last  successfully 
undermined  by  its  enemies.  It  is  now  perhaps  to  be  wished,  that  Rhode  Island 
may  not  accede,  till  this  new  crisis  of  danger  shall  be  over.  Some  think  it 
would  have  been  better,  if  New  York  had  held  out  till  the  operation  of  the  gov 
ernment  could  have  dissipated  the  fears,  which  artifice  had  created,  and  the 
attempts  resulting  from  those  fears  and  artifices." — New  York,  August  nth. 
This  circular  letter  was  sent  by  the  convention  of  New  York  to  the  legislatures 
of  the  several  States,  recommending  that  a  new  general  convention  should  be 
called  for  the  purpose  of  taking  into  consideration  various  amendments  to  the 
constitution.  See  the  letter  in  the  American  Museum,  vol.  iv.,  p.  158.  Al 
though  the  Virginia  convention  ratified  the  constitution  by  a  small  majority 
only,  yet  it  did  not  follow  the  example  of  New  York  in  this  particular.  The 
New  York  letter  was  intended  to  exert  an  influence  on  the  Virginia  conven 
tion,  but  through  an  accident  was  not  laid  before  that  body.  The  Assembly 
convened  soon  afterwards,  however,  and  adopted  strong  resolutions  to  the  same 
effect,  and  sent  an  application  to  Congress,  and  a  circular  letter  to  the  several 
States  recommending  another  general  convention. — Wirt's  Life  of  Patrick 
Henry,  pp. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  317 

should  be  adopted,  while  you  and  some  others  who 
are  acquainted  with  my  heart  would  acquit,  the  world 
and  posterity  might  possibly  accuse  me  [of]  incon 
sistency  and  ambition.  Still  I  hope  I  shall  always 
possess  firmness  and  virtue  enough  to  maintain  (what 
I  consider  the  most  enviable  of  all  titles),  the  charac 
ter  of  an  honest  man,  as  well  as  prove,  what  I  desire 
to  be  considered  in  reality,  that 

I  am,  with  great  sincerity  and  esteem, 

Dear  Sir,  &c.! 


TO    THOMAS   JEFFERSON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  31  August,  1788. 

SIR, 

I  was  very  much  gratified  a  little  time  ago  by  the 
receipt  of  your  letter  dated  the  2d  of  May.  You 
have  my  best  thanks  for  the  political  information 
contained  in  it,  as  well  as  for  the  satisfactory  account 
of  the  canal  of  Languedoc.  It  gives  me  great 
pleasure  to  be  made  acquainted  with  the  particulars 
of  that  stupendous  work,  though  I  do  not  expect  to 
derive  any  but  speculative  advantages  from  it. 

When  America  will  be  able  to  embark  in  projects 
of  such  pecuniary  extent,  I  know  not ;  probably  not 
for  very  many  years  to  come  ;  but  it  will  be  a  good 
example,  and  not  without  its  use,  if  we  can  carry  our 

1  "  I  take  it  for  granted,  Sir,  you  have  concluded  to  comply  with  what  will, 
no  doubt,  be  the  general  call  of  your  country  in  relation  to  the  new  gov 
ernment.  You  will  permit  me  to  say,  that  it  is  indispensable  you  should  lend 
yourself  to  its  first  operations.  It  is  to  little  purpose  to  have  introduced  a 
system,  if  the  weightiest  influence  is  not  given  to  its  firm  establishment  in 
the  outset." — Hamilton  to  Washington,  13  August,  1788. 


318  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

present  undertakings  happily  into  effect.  Of  this  we 
have  now  the  fairest  prospect.  Notwithstanding  the 
real  scarcity  of  money,  and  the  difficulty  of  collecting 
it,  the  laborers  employed  by  the  Potomac  Company 
have  made  very  great  progress  in  removing  the 
obstructions  at  the  Shenandoah,  Seneca,  and  Great 
Falls  ;  insomuch  that,  if  this  summer  had  not  proved 
unusually  rainy,  and  if  we  could  have  had  a  favorable 
autumn,  the  navigation  might  have  been  sufficiently 
opened  (though  not  completed)  for  boats  to  have 
passed  from  Fort  Cumberland  to  within  nine  miles  of 
a  shipping  port,  by  the  first  of  January  next.  There 
remains  now  no  doubt  of  the  practicability  of  the 
plan,  or  that,  upon  the  ulterior  operations  being  per 
formed,  this  will  become  the  great  avenue  into  the 
western  country  ;  a  country  which  is  now  settling  in 
an  extraordinarily  rapid  manner,  under  uncommonly 
favorable  circumstances,  and  which  promises  to  afford 
a  capacious  asylum  for  the  poor  and  persecuted  of  the 
earth. 

I  do  not  pretend  to  judge  how  far  the  flames  of 
war,  which  are  kindled  in  the  north  of  Europe,  may 
be  scattered,  or  how  soon  they  will  be  extinguished. 
The  European  politics  have  taken  so  strange  a  turn, 
and  the  nations  formerly  allied  have  become  so  curi 
ously  severed,  that  there  are  fewer  sure  premises  for 
calculation,  than  are  usually  afforded  even  on  the  pre 
carious  and  doubtful  subject.  But  it  appears  probable 
to  me,  that  peace  will  either  take  place  this  year,  or 
hostility  be  greatly  extended  in  the  course  of  the 
next.  The  want  of  a  hearty  cooperation  between  the 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON,  319 

two  imperial  powers  against  the  Porte,  or  the  failure 
of  success  from  any  other  cause,  may  accelerate  the 
first  contingency.  The  irritable  state,  into  which 
several  of  the  other  potentates  seem  to  have  been 
drawn,  may  open  the  way  to  the  second.  Hitherto 
the  event  of  the  contest  has  proved  different  from 
the  general  expectation.  If  in  our  speculations  we 
might  count  upon  discipline,  system,  and  resources, 
and  certainly  these  are  the  articles  which  generally 
give  decisive  advantages  in  war,  I  had  thought  full 
surely  the  Turks  must  at  least  have  been  driven  out 
of  Europe. 

Is  it  not  unaccountable,  that  the  Russians  and  Ger 
mans  combined  are  not  able  to  effect  so  much  as  the 
former  did  alone  in  the  late  war  ?  But  perhaps  these 
things  are  all  for  the  best,  and  may  afford  room  for 
pacification.  I  am  glad  our  Commodore  Paul  Jones 
has  got  employment,  and  heartily  wish  him  success. 
His  new  situation  may  possibly  render  his  talents  and 
services  more  useful  to  us  at  some  future  day.  I  was 
unapprized  of  the  circumstances,  which  you  mention, 
that  Congress  had  once  in  contemplation  to  give  him 
promotion.  They  will  doubtless  judge  now  how  far 
it  may  be  expedient.1 

By  what  we  can  learn  from  the  late  foreign  gazettes, 
affairs  seem  to  have  come  nearly  to  a  crisis  in  France, 
and  I  hope  they  are  beginning  to  meliorate.  Should 

1  The  Empress  of  Russia  had  recently  called  Paul  Jones  into  her  service,  to 
take  part  in  the  war  against  the  Turks,  and  promised  him  the  rank  of  rear- 
admiral.  Mr.  Jefferson  said,  that  Congress  had  it  once  in  contemplation  to 
confer  on  him  the  rank  of  admiral,  which  was  to  date  from  the  time  of  his 
taking  the  Serapis,  and  suggested  that  such  a  step  might  still  be  an  act  of 
policy. 


32o  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1787 

the  contest  between  the  King  and  the  parliaments 
result  in  a  well-constituted  national  assembly,  it  must 
ultimately  be  a  happy  event  for  the  kingdom.  But  I 
fear  that  kingdom  will  not  recover  its  reputation  and 
influence  with  the  Dutch  for  a  long  time  to  come. 
Combinations  appear  also  to  be  forming  in  other 
quarters.  It  is  reported  by  the  last  European  ac 
counts,  that  England  has  actually  entered  into  a  treaty 
with  Russia,  and  that  the  French  ambassador  at  the 
court  of  London  has  asked  to  be  informed  of  its 
tenor.  In  whatever  manner  the  nations  of  Europe 
shall  endeavor  to  keep  up  their  prowess  in  war,  and 
their  balance  of  power  in  peace,  it  will  be  obviously 
our  policy  to  cultivate  tranquillity  at  home  and  abroad  ; 
and  to  extend  our  agriculture  and  commerce  as  far  as 
possible. 

I  am  much  obliged  by  the  information  you  gave 
respecting  the  credit  of  different  nations  among  the 
Dutch  money-holders,  and  fully  accord  with  you  with 
regard  to  the  manner  in  which  our  own  ought  to  be 
used.  I  am  strongly  impressed  with  the  expediency 
of  establishing  our  national  faith  beyond  imputation, 
and  of  having  recourse  to  loans  only  on  critical  occa 
sions.  Your  proposal  for  transferring  the  whole 
foreign  debt  to  Holland  is  highly  worthy  of  con 
sideration.  I  feel  mortified,  that  there  should  have 
been  any  just  ground  for  the  clamor  of  the  foreign 
officers,  who  served  with  us  ;  but,  after  having  received 
a  quarter  of  their  whole  debt  in  specie,  and  their  in 
terest  in  the  same  for  some  time,  they  have  infinitely 
less  reason  for  complaint  than  our  native  officers,  of 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  321 

whom  the  suffering  and  neglect  have  been  only 
equalled  by  their  patience  and  patriotism.  A  great 
proportion  of  the  officers  and  soldiers  of  the  Ameri 
can  army  have  been  compelled  by  indigence  to  part 
with  their  securities  for  one  eighth  of  the  nominal 
value  ;  yet  their  conduct  is  very  different  from  what 
you  represented  that  of  the  French  officers  to  have 
been. 

The  merits  and  defects  of  the  proposed  constitution 
have  been  largely  and  ably  discussed.  For  myself,  I 
was  ready  to  have  embraced  any  tolerable  compro 
mise,  that  was  competent  to  save  us  from  impending 
ruin  ;  and  I  can  say  there  are  scarcely  any  of  the 
amendments,  which  have  been  suggested,  to  which  I 
have  much'  objection,  except  that  which  goes  to  the 
prevention  of  direct  taxation.  And  that,  I  presume, 
will  be  more  strenuously  advocated  and  insisted  upon 
hereafter,  than  any  other.  I  had  indulged  the  expec 
tation,  that  the  new  government  would  enable  those 
entrusted  with  its  administration  to  do  justice  to  the 
public  creditors,  and  retrieve  the  national  character. 
But,  if  no  means  are  to  be  employed  but  requisitions, 
that  expectation  was  vain,  and  we  may  as  well  recur 
to  the  old  confederation.  If  the  system  can  be  put  in 
operation,  without  touching  much  the  pockets  of  the 
people,  perhaps  it  may  be  done  ;  but,  in  my  judgment, 
infinite  circumspection  and  prudence  are  yet  necessary 
in  the  experiment.  It  is  nearly  impossible  for  any 
body  who  has  not  been  on  the  spot,  (from  any  de 
scription)  to  conceive  what  the  delicacy  and  danger 
of  our  situation  have  been.  Though  the  peril  is  not 


322  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

past  entirely,  thank  God  the  prospect  is  somewhat 
brightening. 

You  will  probably  have  heard,  before  the  receipt  of 
this  letter,  that  the  general  government  has  been 
adopted  by  eleven  States,  and  that  the  actual  Con 
gress  have  been  prevented  from  issuing  their  ordi 
nance  for  carrying  it  into  execution,  in  consequence  of 
a  dispute  about  the  place  at  which  the  future  Congress 
shall  meet.  It  is  probable,  that  Philadelphia  or  New 
York  will  soon  be  agreed  upon. 

I  will  just  touch  on  the  bright  side  of  our  national 
state,  before  I  conclude  ;  and  we  may  perhaps  rejoice, 
that  the  people  have  been  ripened  by  misfortune  for 
the  reception  of  a  good  government.  They  are  emer 
ging  from  the  gulf  of  dissipation  and  debt,  into  which 
they  had  precipitated  themselves  at  the  close  of  the 
war.  Economy  and  industry  are  evidently  gaining 
ground.  Not  only  agriculture,  but  even  manufactures, 
are  much  more  attended  to  than  formerly.  Notwith 
standing  the  shackles  under  which  our  trade  in  gen 
eral  labors,  commerce  to  the  East  Indies  is  prosecuted 
with  considerable  success.  Salted  provisions  and  other 
produce, (particularly  from  Massachusetts,)  have  found 
an  advantageous  market  there.  The  voyages  are  so 
much  shorter,  and  the  vessels  are  navigated  at  so 
much  less  expense,  that  we  may  hope  to  rival  and 
supply,  (at  least  through  the  West  Indies,)  some  part 
of  Europe  with  commodities  from  thence.  This  year 
the  exports  from  Massachusetts  have  amounted  to  a 
great  deal  more  than  their  imports.  I  wish  this  was 
the  case  everywhere.  *  *  * 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  323 

TO    HENRY    LEE,    IN    CONGRESS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  22  September,  1788. 

DEAR  SIR, 

Your  letter  of  the  i3th  instant  was  of  so  friendly 
and  confidential  a  complexion,  as  to  merit  my  early 
attention  and  cordial  acknowledgments.  I  am  glad 
Congress  have  at  last  decided  upon  an  ordinance  for 
carrying  the  new  government  into  execution.  In  my 
mind  the  place  for  the  meeting  of  the  new  Congress 
was  not  an  object  of  such  very  important  conse 
quence  ;  but  I  greatly  fear,  that  the  question  entailed 
upon  that  body,  respecting  their  permanent  residence, 
will  be  pregnant  with  difficulty  and  danger.  God 
grant  that  true  patriotism  and  a  spirit  of  moderation 
may  exclude  a  narrow  locality,  and  all  ideas  unfriendly 
to  the  Union,  from  every  quarter. 

Your  observations  on  the  solemnity  of  the  crisis, 
and  its  application  to  myself,  bring  before  me  subjects 
of  the  most  momentous  and  interesting  nature.  In 
our  endeavors  to  establish  a  new  general  government, 
the  contest,  nationally  considered,  seems  not  to  have 
been  so  much  for  glory  as  existence.  It  was  for  a 
long  time  doubtful  whether  we  were  to  survive  as  an 
independent  republic,  or  decline  from  our  federal 
dignity  into  insignificant  and  wretched  fragments  of 
an  empire.  The  adoption  of  the  constitution  so  exten 
sively,  and  with  so  liberal  an  acquiescence  on  the  part 
of  the  minorities  in  general,  promised  the  former ; 
until  lately  the  circular  letter  of  New  York  carried,  in 
my  apprehension,  an  unfavorable  if  not  an  insidious 
tendency  to  a  contrary  policy.  I  still  hope  for  the 


324  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


best ;  but,  before  you  mentioned  it,  I  could  not  help 
fearing  it  would  serve  as  a  standard  to  which  the  dis 
affected  might  resort.  It  is  now  evidently  the  part  of 
all  honest  men,  who  are  friends  to  the  new  constitu 
tion,  to  endeavor  to  give  it  a  chance  to  disclose  its 
merits  and  defects,  by  carrying  it  fairly  into  effect  in 
the  first  instance.  For  it  is  to  be  apprehended,  that, 
by  an  attempt  to  obtain  amendments  before  the  ex 
periment  has  been  candidly  made,  ''more  is  meant 
than  meets  the  ear,"  that  an  intention  is  concealed  to 
accomplish  slily  what  could  not  have  been  done 
openly,  to  undo  all  that  has  been  done. 

If  the  fact  so  exists,  that  a  kind  of  combination  is 
forming  to  stifle  the  government  in  embryo,  it  is  a 
happy  circumstance  that  the  design  has  become  sus 
pected.  Preparations  should  be  the  sure  attendant 
upon  forewarning.  Probably  prudence,  wisdom,  and 
patriotism  were  never  more  essentially  necessary,  than 
at  the  present  moment  ;  and  so  far  as  it  can  be  done 
in  an  irreproachably  direct  manner,  no  effort  ought  to 
be  left  unessayed  to  procure  the  election  of  the  best 
possible  characters  to  the  new  Congress.  On  their 
harmony,  deliberation,  and  decision  every  thing  will 
depend.  I  heartily  wish  Mr.  Madison  was  in  our 
Assembly,  as  I  think  with  you  it  is  of  unspeakable 
importance  Virginia  should  set  out  with  her  federal 
measures  under  right  auspices. 

The  principal  topic  of  your  letter  is  to  me  a  point 
of  great  delicacy  indeed,  insomuch  that  I  can  scarcely 
without  some  impropriety  touch  upon  it.  In  the  first 
place,  the  event  to  which  you  allude  may  never  hap- 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  325 


pen  ;  among  other  reasons,  because,  if  the  partiality 
of  my  fellow  citizens  conceive  it  to  be  a  means  by 
which  the  sinews  of  the  new  government  would  be 
strengthened,  it  will  of  consequence  be  obnoxious  to 
those,  who  are  in  opposition  to  it,  many  of  whom 
unquestionably  will  be  placed  among  the  electors. 

This  consideration  alone  would  supersede  the  ex 
pediency  of  announcing  any  definite  and  irrevocable 
resolution.  You  are  among  the  small  number  of  those, 
who  know  my  invincible  attachment  to  domestic  life, 
and  that  my  sincerest  wish  is  to  continue  in  the  enjoy 
ment  of  it  solely  until  my  final  hour.  But  the  world 
would  be  neither  so  well  instructed,  nor  so  candidly 
disposed,  as  to  believe  me  uninfluenced  by  sinister 
motives,  in  case  any  circumstance  should  render  a 
deviation  from  the  line  of  conduct  I  had  prescribed  to 
myself  indispensable. 

Should  the  contingency  you  suggest  take  place,  and 
(for  argument's  sake  alone  let  me  say  it)  should  my 
unfeigned  reluctance  to  accept  the  office  be  overcome 
by  a  deference  for  the  reasons  and  opinions  of  my 
friends,  might  I  not,  after  the  declarations  I  have 
made  (and  Heaven  knows  they  were  made  in  the  sin 
cerity  of  my  heart),  in  the  judgment  of  the  impartial 
world  and  of  posterity,  be  chargeable  with  levity  and 
inconsistency,  if  not  with  rashness  and  ambition  ?  Nay 
farther,  would  there  not  even  be  some  apparent 
foundation  for  the  two  former  charges  ?  Now  justice 
to  myself  and  tranquillity  of  conscience  require,  that 
I  should  act  a  part,  if  not  above  imputation,  at  least 
capable  of  vindication.  Nor  will  you  conceive  me  to 


326  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

be  too  solicitous  for  reputation.  Though  I  prize  as  I 
ought  the  good  opinion  of  my  fellow  citizens,  yet,  if  I 
know  myself,  I  would  not  seek  or  retain  popularity  at 
the  expense  of  one  social  duty  or  moral  virtue. 

While  doing  what  my  conscience  informed  me  was 
right,  as  it  respected  my  God,  my  country,  and  my 
self,  I  could  despise  all  the  party  clamor  and  unjust 
censure,  which  must  be  expected  from  some,  whose 
personal  enmity  might  be  occasioned  by  their  hostility 
to  the  government.  I  am  conscious,  that  I  fear  alone 
to  give  any  real  occasion  for  obloquy,  and  that  I  do 
not  dread  to  meet  with  unmerited  reproach.  And 
certain  I  am,  whensoever  I  shall  be  convinced  the 
good  of  my  country  requires  my  reputation  to  be  put 
in  risk,  regard  for  my  own  fame  will  not  come  in 
competition  with  an  object  of  so  much  magnitude. 
If  I  declined  the  task,  it  would  lie  upon  quite  another 
principle.  Notwithstanding  my  advanced  season  of 
life,  my  increasing  fondness  for  agricultural  amuse 
ments,  and  my  growing  love  of  retirement,  augment 
and  confirm  my  decided  predilection  for  the  character 
of  a  private  citizen,  yet  it  would  be  no  one  of  these 
motives,  nor  the  hazard  to  which  my  former  reputa 
tion  might  be  exposed,  nor  the  terror  of  encountering 
new  fatigues  and  troubles,  that  would  deter  me  from 
an  acceptance ;  but  a  belief,  that  some  other  person, 
who  had  less  pretence  and  less  inclination  to  be  ex 
cused,  could  execute  all  the  duties  full  as  satisfactorily 
as  myself.  To  say  more  would  be  indiscreet ;  as  a 
disclosure  of  a  refusal  beforehand  might  incur  the 
application  of  the  fable  in  which  the  fox  is  represented 


1788!  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  327 

as  undervaluing  the  grapes  he  could  not  reach.  You 
will  perceive,  my  dear  Sir,  by  what  is  here  observed, 
(and  which  you  will  be  pleased  to  consider  in  the 
light  of  a  confidential  communication,)  that  my  incli 
nations  will  dispose  and  decide  me  to  remain  as  I  am, 
unless  a  clear  and  insurmountable  conviction  should 
be  impressed  on  my  mind,  that  some  very  disagreeable 
consequences  must,  in  all  human  probability,  result 
from  the  indulgence  of  my  wishes. 

If  you  return  by  land,  I  shall  expect  without  failure 
the  pleasure  of  your  company.  I  am  much  indebted 
to  you  for  your  obliging  offer  of  forwarding  such 
articles  as  I  might  want  from  New  York,  though  I 
shall  not  have  occasion  at  this  moment  to  avail  myself 
of  your  goodness.  Mrs.  Washington  offers  her  best 
compliments  to  Mrs.  Lee,  with  ardent  wishes  for  the 
re-establishment  of  her  health,  which,  joined  with  my 
own,  will  conclude  me.  With  great  regard  and  esteem, 
I  am,  &c. 


TO   JAMES    MADISON,    IN    CONGRESS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  23  September,  1788. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

*  *  *  Upon  mature  reflection,  I  think  the  reasons 
you  offer  in  favor  of  Philadelphia,  as  the  place  for  the 
first  meeting  of  Congress,  are  conclusive  ;  especially 
when  the  farther  agitation  of  the  question  respecting 
its  permanent  residence  is  taken  into  consideration. 
But  I  cannot,  however,  avoid  being  satisfied,  that  the 
minority  should  have  acquiesced  in  any  plan,  rather 


328  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

than  have  prevented  the  system  from  being  carried 
into  effect.  The  delay  had  already  become  the 
source  of  clamors,  and  might  have  given  advantages 
to  the  anti-federalists.  Their  expedient  will  now 
probably  be  an  attempt  to  procure  the  election  of  so 
many  of  their  own  junto  under  the  new  government, 
as,  by  the  introduction  of  local  and  embarrassing  dis 
putes,  to  impede  or  frustrate  its  operations. 

In  the  mean  time  it  behoves  all  the  advocates  of 
the  constitution,  forgetting  partial  and  smaller  consid 
erations,  to  combine  their  exertions  for  collecting  the 
wisdom  and  virtue  of  the  continent  to  one  centre ;  in 
order  that  the  republic  may  avail  itself  of  the  oppor 
tunity  for  escaping  from  anarchy,  division,  and  the 
other  great  national  calamities  that  impended.  To 
be  shipwrecked  in  sight  of  the  port  would  be  the  se 
verest  of  all  possible  aggravations  to  our  misery,  and 
I  assure  you  I  am  under  painful  apprehensions  from 
the  single  circumstance  of  Mr.  H.1  having  the  whole 

o  o 

game  to  play  in  the  assembly  of  this  State  ;  and  the 
effect  it  may  have  in  others  should  be  counteracted  if 
possible.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  3  October,  1788. 

DEAR  SIR, 

In  acknowledging  the  receipt  of  your  candid  and 
kind  letter  by  the  last  post,  little  more  is  incumbent 
upon  me  than  to  thank  you  sincerely  for  the  frankness 
with  which  you  communicated  your  sentiments,  and 

1  Patrick  Henry. 


1 788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  329 

to  assure  you  that  the  same  manly  tone  of  intercourse 
will  always  be  more  than  barely  welcome  ;  indeed  it 
will  be  highly  acceptable  to  me.  I  am  particularly 
glad  in  the  present  instance,  that  you  have  dealt  thus 
freely  and  like  a  friend.1 

Although  I  could  not  help  observing,  from  several 
publications  and  letters,  that  my  name  had  been 
sometimes  spoken  of,  and  that  it  was  possible  the 
contingency  which  is  the  subject  of  your  letter  might 
happen,  yet  I  thought  it  best  to  maintain  a  guarded 
silence,  and  to  lack  the  counsel  of  my  best  friends, 

1  In  reply  to  General  Washington's  remarks  in  his  letter  of  the  28th  of  Au 
gust,  respecting  the  probability  of  his  being  elected  the  first  President  of  the 
United  States,  Colonel  Hamilton  had  written  as  follows  : 

"  I  should  be  deeply  pained,  my  dear  Sir,  if  your  scruples  in  regard  to  a  cer 
tain  station  should  be  matured  into  a  resolution  to  decline  it;  though  I  am  nei 
ther  surprised  at  their  existence,  nor  can  I  but  agree  in  opinion  that  the  caution 
you  observe  in  deferring  the  ultimate  determination  is  prudent.  I  have,  how 
ever,  reflected  maturely  on  the  subject,  and  have  come  to  a  conclusion  (in  which 
I  feel  no  hesitation),  that  every  public  and  personal  consideration  will  demand 
from  you  an  acquiescence  in  what  will  certainly  be  the  unanimous  wish  of  your 
country. 

"  The  absolute  retreat,  which  you  meditated  at  the  close  of  the  late  war,  was 
natural  and  proper.  Had  the  government  produced  by  the  revolution  gone  on 
in  a  tolerable  train,  it  would  have  been  most  advisable  to  have  persisted  in  that 
retreat.  But  I  am  clearly  of  opinion,  that  the  crisis,  which  brought  you  again 
into  public  view,  left  you  no  alternative  but  to  comply  ;  and  I  am  equally  clear 
in  the  opinion,  that  you  are  by  that  act  pledged  to  take  a  part  in  the  execution  of 
the  government.  I  am  not  less  convinced,  that  the  impression  of  the  neces 
sity  of  your  filling  the  station  in  question  is  so  universal,  that  you  run  no  risk 
of  any  uncandid  imputation  by  submitting  to  it.  But,  even  if  this  were  not 
the  case,  a  regard  to  your  own  reputation,  as  well  as  to  the  public  good,  calls 
upon  you  in  the  strongest  manner  to  run  that  risk. 

"  It  cannot  be  considered  as  a  compliment  to  say,  that  on  your  acceptance  of 
the  office  of  president,  the  success  of  the  new  government  in  its  commence 
ment  may  materially  depend.  Your  agency  and  influence  will  be  not  less  im 
portant  in  preserving  it  from  the  future  attacks  of  its  enemies,  than  they  have  been 
in  recommending  it  in  the  first  instance  to  the  adoption  of  the  people.  Inde 
pendent  of  all  considerations  drawn  from  this  source,  the  point  of  light  in  which 


330  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

(which  I  certainly  hold  in  the  highest  estimation,) 
rather  than  to  hazard  an  imputation  unfriendly  to  the 
delicacy  of  my  feelings.  For,  situated  as  I  am,  I 
could  hardly  bring  the  question  into  the  slightest  dis 
cussion,  or  ask  an  opinion  even  in  the  most  confiden 
tial  manner,  without  betraying,  in  my  judgment,  some 
impropriety  of  conduct,  or  without  feeling  an  appre 
hension,  that  a  premature  display  of  anxiety  might  be 
construed  into  a  vainglorious  desire  of  pushing  myself 
into  notice  as  a  candidate.  Now,  if  I  am  not  grossly 
deceived  in  myself,  I  should  unfeignedly  rejoice  in 


you  stand  at  home  and  abroad  will  make  an  infinite  difference  in  the  respecta 
bility  with  which  the  government  will  begin  its  operations,  in  the  alternative  of 
your  being  or  not  being  at  the  head  of  it.  I  forbear  to  mention  considerations 
which  might  have  a  more  personal  application.  What  I  have  said  will  suffice 
for  the  inferences  I  mean  to  draw. 

"  First  ;  in  a  matter  so  essential  to  the  well-being  of  society  as  the  pros 
perity  of  a  newly  instituted  government,  a  citizen  of  so  much  consequence  as 
yourself  to  its  success  has  no  option  but  to  lend  his  services  if  called  for.  Per 
mit  me  to  say,  it  would  be  inglorious,  in  such  a  situation,  not  to  hazard  the  glory, 
however  great,  which  he  might  have  previously  acquired. 

"  Secondly  ;  your  signature  to  the  proposed  system  pledges  your  judgment 
for  its  being  such  an  one  as  upon  the  whole  was  worthy  of  the  public  approba 
tion.  If  it  should  miscarry,  (as  men  commonly  decide  from  success  or  the  want 
of  it)  the  blame  will  in  all  probability  be  laid  on  the  system  itself.  And  the 
framers  of  it  will  have  to  encounter  the  disrepute  of  having  brought  about  a 
revolution  in  government,  without  substituting  any  thing  that  was  worthy  of 
the  effort ;  they  pulled  down  one  Utopia,  it  will  be  said,  to  build  up  another. 
This  view  of  the  subject,  if  I  mistake  not,  my  dear  Sir,  will  suggest  to  your 
mind  greater  hazard  to  that  fame,  which  must  be  and  ought  to  be  dear  to  you,  in 
refusing  your  future  aid  to  the  system,  than  in  affording  it.  I  will  only  add, 
that  in  my  estimate  of  the  matter,  that  aid  is  indispensable. 

"  I  have  taken  the  liberty  to  express  these  sentiments,  and  to  lay  before  you 
my  view  of  the  subject.  I  doubt  not  the  considerations  mentioned  have  fully 
occurred  to  you,  and  I  trust  they  will  finally  produce  in  your  mind  the  same 
result  which  exists  in  mine.  I  flatter  myself  the  frankness  with  which  I  have 
delivered  myself  will  not  be  displeasing  to  you.  It  has  been  prompted  by 
motives  which  you  would  not  disapprove." 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  331 

case  the  electors,  by  giving  their  votes  in  favor  of 
some  other  person,  would  save  me  from  the  dreaded 
dilemma  of  being  forced  to  accept  or  refuse. 

If  that  may  not  be,  I  am  in  the  next  place  earnestly 
desirous  of  searching  out  the  truth,  and  of  knowing 
whether  there  does  not  exist  a  probability  that  the 
government  would  be  just  as  happily  and  effectually 
carried  into  execution  without  my  aid  as  with  it.  I 
am  truly  solicitous  to  obtain  all  the  previous  informa 
tion,  which  the  circumstances  will  afford,  and  to  de 
termine  (when  the  determination  can  with  propriety 
be  no  longer  postponed)  according  to  the  principles 
of  right  reason,  and  the  dictates  of  a  clear  conscience, 
without  too  great  a  reference  to  the  unforeseen  con 
sequences,  which  may  affect  my  person  or  reputation. 
Until  that  period,  I  may  fairly  hold  myself  open  to 
conviction,  though  I  allow  your  sentiments  to  have 
weight  in  them  ;  and  I  shall  not  pass  by  your  argu 
ments  without  giving  them  as  dispassionate  a  consid 
eration  as  I  can  possibly  bestow  upon  them. 

In  taking  a  survey  of  the  subject,  in  whatever  point 
of  light  I  have  been  able  to  place  it,  I  will  not  sup 
press  the  acknowledgment,  my  dear  Sir,  that  I  have 
always  felt  a  kind  of  gloom  upon  my  mind,  as  often 
as  I  have  been  taught  to  expect  I  might,  and  perhaps 
must,  ere  long,  be  called  to  make  a  decision.  You 
will,  I  am  well  assured,  believe  the  assertion,  (though 
I  have  little  expectation  it  would  gain  credit  from 
those  who  are  less  acquainted  with  me,)  that,  if  I 
should  receive  the  appointment,  and  if  I  should  be 
prevailed  upon  to  accept  it,  the  acceptance  would  be 


332  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


attended  with  more  diffidence  and  reluctance  than  I 
ever  experienced  before  in  my  life.  It  would  be,  how 
ever,  with  a  fixed  and  sole  determination  of  lending 
whatever  assistance  might  be  in  my  power  to  pro 
mote  the  public  weal,  in  hopes  that  at  a  convenient 
and  early  period  my  services  might  be  dispensed  with, 
and  that  I  might  be  permitted  once  more  to  retire, 
to  pass  an  unclouded  evening  after  the  stormy  day 
of  life,  in  the  bosom  of  domestic  tranquillity. 

But  why  these  anticipations?  If  the  friends  to 
the  constitution  conceive  that  my  administering  the 
government  will  be  a  means  of  its  acceleration  and 
strength,  is  it  not  probable  that  the  adversaries  of  it 
may  entertain  the  same  ideas,  and  of  course  make  it 
an  object  of  opposition  ?  That  many  of  this  descrip 
tion  will  become  electors,  I  can  have  no  doubt  of,  any 
more  than  that  their  opposition  will  extend  to  any  char 
acter,  who,  (from  whatever  cause,)  would  be  likely  to 
thwart  their  measures.  It  might  be  impolitic  in  them 
to  make  this  declaration  previous  to  the  election  ;  but 
I  shall  be  out  in  my  conjectures  if  they  do  not  act 
conformably  thereto,  and  from  the  seeming  moder 
ation,  by  which  they  appear  to  be  actuated  at  present 
is  neither  more  nor  less  than  a  finesse  to  lull  and  de 
ceive.  Their  plan  of  opposition  is  systematized,  and  a 
regular  intercourse,  I  have  much  reason  to  believe, 
between  the  leaders  of  it  in  the  several  States  is  formed 
to  render  it  more  effectual.  With  sentiments  of  sin 
cere  regard  and  esteem,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &C.1 

1  These  views  produced  no  change  in  the  sentiments  of  Colonel  Hamilton, 
in  regard  to  the  main  topic  of  discussion.  "  I  feel  a  conviction,"  said  he  in 
reply,  "  that  you  will  finally  see  your  acceptance  to  be  indispensable.  It  is  no 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  333 


TO    BENJAMIN    LINCOLN. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  26  October,  1788. 

MY   DEAR  SIR, 

I  have  been  lately  favored  with  the  receipt  of  your 
letters  of  the  24th  and  3Oth  of  September,  with  their 
enclosures,  and  thank  you  sincerely  for  your  free  and 
friendly  communications.  As  the  period  is  now  rap 
idly  approaching,  which  must  decide  the  fate  of  the 
new  constitution,  as  to  the  manner  of  its  being  car 
ried  into  execution,  and  probably  as  to  its  usefulness, 
it  is  not  wonderful  that  we  should  all  feel  an  unusual 
degree  of  anxiety  on  the  occasion.  I  must  acknowl 
edge  my  fears  have  been  greatly  alarmed,  but  still  I 
am  not  without  hopes.  From  the  good  beginning, 
that  has  been  made  in  Pennsylvania,  a  State  from 
which  much  was  to  be  feared,  I  cannot  help  forebod 
ing  well  of  the  others.  That  is  to  say,  I  flatter  my 
self  a  majority  of  them  will  appoint  federal  members 
to  the  several  branches  of  the  new  government.  I 

compliment  to  say,  that  no  other  man  can  sufficiently  unite  the  public  opinion, 
or  can  give  the  requisite  weight  to  the  office,  in  the  commencement  of  the 
government.  These  considerations  appear  to  me  of  themselves  decisive.  I  am 
not  sure  that  your  refusal  would  not  throw  every  thing  into  confusion.  I  am 
sure  that  it  would  have  the  worst  effect  imaginable.  Indeed,  as  I  hinted  in 
a  former  letter,  I  think  circumstances  leave  no  option." 

Many  of  General  Washington's  correspondents  touched  upon  the  same  sub 
ject  ;  and  he  was  made  to  understand  from  all  quarters,  that  he  was  designated 
in  the  minds  of  the  people  as  the  first  chief  magistrate  under  the  new  constitu 
tion.  In  writing  from  Connecticut,  Colonel  Jonathan  Trumbull  said  :  "  In  the 
choice  of  president  we  have,  I  believe,  no  discordant  voice.  All  minds  are 
agreed,  and  every  heart  exults  in  the  pleasing  prospect  of  having  their  wishes 
so  nobly  gratified  in  this  first  great  appointment." — October  28th.  And  Gov 
ernor  Johnson  of  Maryland  wrote:  "We  cannot,  Sir,  do  without  you,  and  I 
and  thousands  more  can  explain  to  anybody  but  yourself  why  we  cannot  do 
without  you." — October  loth. — Sparks. 


334  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

hardly  should  think  that  Massachusetts,  Connecticut, 
New  Jersey,  Delaware,  Maryland,  South  Carolina,  and 
Georgia  would  be  for  attempting  premature  amend 
ments.  Some  of  the  rest  may  also,  in  all  probability, 
be  apprehensive  of  throwing  our  affairs  into  confusion 
by  such  ill-timed  expedients. 

There  will,  however,  be  no  room  for  the  advocates 
of  the  constitution  to  relax  in  their  exertions  ;  for,  if 
they  should  be  lulled  into  security,  appointments  of 
antifederal  men  may  probably  take  place,  and  the 
consequences,  which  you  so  justly  dread,  be  realized. 
Our  Assembly  is  now  in  session.  It  is  represented 
to  be  rather  antifederal,  but  we  have  heard  nothing 
of  its  doings.  Mr.  Patrick  Henry,  Mr.  R.  H.  Lee, 
and  Mr.  Madison  are  talked  of  for  the  senate.  Per 
haps  as  much  opposition,  or,  in  other  words,  as  great 
an  effort  for  early  amendments,  is  to  be  apprehended 
from  this  State  as  from  any  but  New  York.1  The 
constant  report  is,  that  North  Carolina  will  soon 
accede  to  the  new  Union.  A  new  Assembly  is  just 


1  "  Our  Assembly,  (according  to  different  reports,)  has  proved  itself  to  be,  as 
was  apprehended,  very  much  under  the  influence  of  Mr.  Henry.  The  choice 
of  delegates  for  the  Senate  in  Congress  has  fallen  upon  two  gentlemen,  who  are 
considered  to  be  rather  opposed  to  the  new  constitution,  namely,  Richard 
Henry  Lee,  and  Colonel  Gray  son.  But  notwithstanding  they  have  been  both 
of  them  solicitous  to  obtain  previous  amendments,  Colonel  Henry  Lee  told  me 
lately,  that  Mr.  R.  II.  Lee  had  declared  to  him  a  few  days  since,  he  wished  to 
see  the  government  fairly  carried  into  execution,  and  that  such  alterations  only 
should  be  adopted,  as  might  be  found  necessary  from  its  errors  or  defects.  If 
these  were  not  the  very  words,  the  observations,  I  think,  were  of  that  import. 

"  A  similar  sentiment,  I  have  been  credibly  informed,  has  been  expressed  to 
more  than  one  person  by  Colonel  Grayson.  But  the  federalists  in  the  Assem 
bly,  as  I  am  given  to  understand,  were  exceedingly  mortified  that  Mr.  Madison 
should  have  lost  his  election  by  eight  or  nine  votes.  It  is  now  much  dreaded 
by  the  same  characters,  that  the  State,  which  is  to  be  divided  into  districts  for 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  335 

elected  in  Maryland,  in  which  it  is  asserted  the  num 
ber  of  federalists  greatly  predominates  ;  and,  that 
being  the  case,  we  may  look  for  favorable  appoint 
ments,  in  spite  of  the  rancor  and  activity  of  a  few  dis 
contented  and,  I  may  say,  apparently  unprincipled 
men. 

I  would  willingly  pass  over  in  silence  that  part  of 
your  letter  in  which  you  mention  the  persons,  who 
are  candidates  for  the  first  two  offices  in  the  execu 
tive,  if  I  did  not  fear  the  omission  might  seem  to 
betray  a  want  of  confidence.  Motives  of  delicacy 
have  prevented  me  hitherto  from  conversing  or  writing 
on  this  subject,  whenever  I  could  avoid  it  with  de 
cency.  I  may,  however,  with  great  sincerity,  and  I 
believe  without  offending  against  modesty  or  propri 
ety,  say  to  you,  that  I  most  heartily  wish  the  choice  to 
which  you  allude  may  not  fall  upon  me  ;  and  that,  if 
it  should,  I  must  reserve  to  myself  the  right  of  mak 
ing  up  my  final  decision  at  the  last  moment,  when  it 
can  be  brought  into  one  view,  and  when  the  expedi- 

the  appointment  of  representatives  to  Congress,  will  be  so  arranged  as  to  place 
a  large  proportion  of  those,  who  are  called  antifederalists,  in  that  station." — 
Washington  to  Lincoln,  14  November,  1788. 

"The  accounts  from  Richmond  are  indeed,  very  unpropitious  to  federal 
measures.  The  whole  proceedings  of  the  Assembly,  it  is  said,  may  be  summed 
up  in  one  word — to  wit :  that  the  edicts  of  Mr.  H[enry]  are  enregistered 
with  less  opposition  by  the  members  of  that  body,  than  those  of  the  Grand 
Monarch  are  in  the  Parliament  of  France.  He  has  only  to  say,  let  this  be  Law, 
and  it  is  Law." — Washington  to  Madison,  17  November,  1788. 

On  December  2d  he  wrote  to  Stuart :  "  That  the  Assembly  has  displayed  the 
most  malignant  (and  if  one  may  be  allowed  the  expression,  the  most  unwarranta 
ble)  disposition  towards  the  new  government  in  all  its  acts  respecting  it,  needs 
no  other  evidence  than  their  public  records  ;  but  upon  what  ground  they  have 
undertaken  to  assert  things  which  the  representatives  of  the  people,  chosen  for 
the  express  purpose  in  Convention,  have  not  authorized  them  to  do,  lays  with 


336  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

ency  or  inexpediency  of  a  refusal  can  be  more  judi 
ciously  determined  than  at  present.  But  be  assured, 
my  dear  Sir,  if  from  any  inducement  I  shall  be  per 
suaded  ultimately  to  accept,  it  will  not  be  (so  far  as  I 
know  my  own  heart)  from  any  of  a  private  or  personal 
nature.  Every  personal  consideration  conspires  to 
rivet  me  (if  I  may  use  the  expression)  to  retirement. 
At  my  time  of  life,  and  under  my  circumstances, 
nothing  in  this  world  can  ever  draw  me  from  it,  unless 
it  be  a  conviction  that  the  partiality  of  my  countrymen 
had  made  my  services  absolutely  necessary,  joined  to 
a  fear  that  my  refusal  might  induce  a  belief  that  I 
preferred  the  conservation  of  my  own  reputation  and 
private  ease  to  the  good  of  my  country.  After  all,  if 
I  should  conceive  myself  in  a  manner  constrained  to 
accept,  I  call  Heaven  to  witness,  that  this  very  act 
would  be  the  greatest  sacrifice  of  my  personal  feelings 
and  wishes,  that  ever  I  have  been  called  upon  to 
make.  It  would  be  to  forego  repose  and  domestic 

the  wisdom  of  the  majority  of  that  Assembly  to  explain.  Nor  will  it  redound 
much  to  their  honor  I  conceive,  if  in  the  ultimate  appeal  to  the  people  there 
should  be  (as  you  have  intimated)  seven  out  of  the  ten  representatives  on  the 
fcederal  side.  But  excuse  me,  my  dear  Sir,  when  I  give  it  to  you  as  my  opinion, 
that  you  are  reckoning  without  your  host,  as  the  phrase  is,  not  that  there  may 
be  such  a  proportion  through  the  State  who  are  friends  to  the  adopted  consti 
tution,  but  they  either  do  not  see  the  necessity,  are  too  indolent,  or  too  much 
engaged  in  other  matters  to  come  forward,  or  too  much  disunited  among  them 
selves  to  act  in  unison.  Whilst  those  of  the  other  description  (or  I  am  much 
mistaken)  will  be  formed  into  one  solid  phalanx.  Need  I  go  out  of  this  district 
for  proof  ?  " 

And  again,  to  Knox,  I  January,  1789  : 

"  I  suppose  the  two  gentlemen  appointed  by  this  State  are  looked  upon  at  the 
eastward  as  being  included  in  that  class  of  antifederalists,  who  wish  to  cause 
such  great  and  premature  amendments,  as  will  render  the  government  abor 
tive.  This  idea,  I  have  the  best  reason  to  believe,  will  be  found  untrue.  My 
belief  is  founded  upon  the  unequivocal  assertions  of  Colonel  Grayson  previous 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  337 


enjoyment,  for  trouble,  perhaps  for  public  obloquy  ; 
for  I  should  consider  myself  as  entering  upon  an  unex 
plored  field  enveloped  on  every  side  with  clouds  and 
darkness. 

From  this  embarrassing  situation  I  had  naturally 
supposed  that  my  declarations  at  the  close  of  the 
war  would  have  saved  me  ;  and  that  my  sincere  inten 
tions,  then  publicly  made  known,  would  have  effectu 
ally  precluded  me  for  ever  afterwards  from  being 
looked  upon  as  a  candidate  for  any  office.  This 
hope,  as  a  last  anchor  of  worldly  happiness  in  old 
age,  I  had  still  carefully  preserved  ;  until  the  public 
papers,  and  private  letters  from  my  correspondents  in 
almost  every  quarter,  taught  me  to  apprehend  that 
I  might  soon  be  obliged  to  answer  the  question, 
whether  I  would  go  again  into  public  life  or  not. 

You  will  see,  my  dear  Sir,  from  this  train  of  re 
flections,  that  I  have  lately  had  enough  of  my  own 
perplexities  to  think  of,  without  adverting  much  to 
the  affairs  of  others.  So  much  have  I  been  otherwise 
occupied,  and  so  little  agency  did  I  wish  to  have  in 

to  his  election,  and  those  of  Mr.  Richard  Henry  Lee  posterior  to  his  election.  It 
is  also  pretty  well  ascertained,  that,  if  any  considerable  proportion  of  the  pains 
shall  be  taken  by  the  federalists,  which  will  be  by  the  antifederalists,  a  majority 
of  the  representatives  from  this  State  to  Congress  would  undoubtedly  be  com 
posed  of  the  former  description.  At  present,  however,  it  appears  very  uncer 
tain  whether  that  will  be  the  case  or  not  ;  as  several  federalists,  who  might  in 
all  probability  be  chosen,  have,  on  account  of  their  private  affairs,  declined 
standing  as  candidates  ;  insomuch,  that  it  is  to  be  feared,  in  some  instances, 
the  votes  of  the  advocates  for  the  constitution  will  be  scattered  and  lost. 

"  From  different  channels  of  information  it  seemed  probable  to  me,  even  be 
fore  the  receipt  of  your  letter,  that  Mr.  John  Adams  would  be  chosen  vice-pres 
ident.  He  will  doubtless  make  a  very  good  one  ;  and  let  whoever  may  occupy 
the  first  seat,  I  shall  be  entirely  satisfied  with  that  arrangement  for  filling  the 
second  office." 


338  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 

electioneering,  that  I  have  never  entered  into  a  sin 
gle  discussion  with  any  person,  nor,  to  the  best  of  my 
recollection,  expressed  a  single  sentiment,  orally  or  in 
writing,  respecting  the  appointment  of  a  vice-presi 
dent.  From  the  extent  and  respectability  of  Massa 
chusetts,  it  might  reasonably  be  expected,  that  he 
would  be  chosen  from  that  State.  But,  having  taken 
it  for  granted,  that  the  person  selected  for  that  im 
portant  place  would  be  a  true  federalist,  in  that  case 
I  was  altogether  disposed  to  acquiesce  in  the  prevail 
ing  sentiments  of  the  electors,  without  giving  any 
unbecoming  preference,  or  incurring  any  unnecessary 
ill  will.  Since  it  here  seems  proper  to  touch  a  little 
more  fully  upon  that  point,  I  will  frankly  give  you 
my  manner  of  thinking,  and  what,  under  certain  cir 
cumstances,  would  be  my  manner  of  acting. 

For  this  purpose  I  must  speak  again  hypothetically 
for  argument's  sake,  and  say,  supposing  I  should  be 
appointed  to  the  administration,  and  supposing  I 
should  accept  it,  I  most  solemnly  declare,  that  whoso 
ever  shall  be  found  to  enjoy  the  confidence  of  the 
States,  so  far  as  to  be  elected  vice-president,  cannot 
be  disagreeable  to  me  in  that  office.  And,  even  if  I 
had  any  predilection,  I  Hatter  myself  I  possess  patri 
otism  enough  to  sacrifice  it  at  the  shrine  of  my  coun 
try  ;  where  it  will  be  unavoidably  necessary  for  me 
to  have  made  infinitely  greater  sacrifices,  before  I  can 
find  myself  in  the  supposed  predicament,  that  is  to 
say,  before  I  can  be  connected  with  others  in  any 
possible  political  relation.  In  truth  I  believe,  that  I 
have  no  prejudices  on  the  subject,  and  that  it  would 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  339 


not  be  in  the  power  of  any  evil-minded  persons,  who 
wished  to  disturb  the  harmony  of  those  concerned  in 
the  government,  to  infuse  them  into  my  mind.  For, 
to  continue  the  same  hypothesis  one  step  farther, 
supposing  myself  to  be  connected  in  office  with  any 
gentleman  of  character,  I  would  most  certainly  treat 
him  with  perfect  sincerity  and  the  greatest  candor  in 
every  respect.  I  would  give  him  my  full  confidence, 
and  use  my  utmost  endeavors  to  cooperate  with 
him  in  promoting  and  rendering  permanent  the  na 
tional  prosperity.  This  should  be  my  great,  my  only 
aim,  under  the  fixed  and  irrevocable  resolution  of 
leaving  to  other  hands  the  helm  of  the  State,  as  soon 
as  my  services  could  possibly  with  propriety  be  dis 
pensed  with. 

I  have  thus,  my  dear  Sir,  insensibly  been  led  into 
a  longer  detail  than  I  intended,  and  have  used  more 
egotism  than  I  could  have  wished,  for  which  I  urge 
no  other  apology,  than  but  my  opinion  of  your  friend 
ship,  discretion,  and  candor.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    MATHEW    CAREY. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  27  October,  1788. 

SIR, 

In  reply  to  yours  of  the  2oth  of  this  month,  I  have 
to  observe,  that  the  fragment  of  the  letter  in  ques 
tion,  supposed  to  be  written  by  me,  is  spurious,  and 
that  there  was  a  pamphlet  containing  a  great  many 
letters  of  the  same  description  published  in  New 
York  at  the  same  time.  It  should  farther  be  observed, 


340  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


that  this  publication  was  made  soon  after  several 
of  my  letters  were  really  intercepted  with  the  mail, 
and  that  the  pretended  copies  of  them  not  only 
blended  many  truths  with  many  falsehoods,  but 
were  evidently  written  by  some  person  exceedingly 
well  acquainted  with  my  domestic  and  general  con 
cerns.  Advantage  was  adroitly  taken  of  this  knowl 
edge  to  give  the  greater  appearance  of  probability  to 
the  fiction. 

From  these  circumstances  you  will  perceive,  Sir, 
how  prudently  you  have  acted  in  making  an  applica 
tion  to  me  previous  to  your  meditated  republication. 
Otherwise  I  might  have  found  myself  under  the  ne 
cessity  of  denying  that  they  were  genuine,  from  any 
apprehension,  that  being  thus  preserved  in  a  manner 
under  my  eye  and  with  my  acquiescence,  they  must 
have  assumed  the  seal  of  veracity  in  the  estimation  of 
posterity.  For,  whatever  credit  some  of  those  letters 
might  be  thought  to  have  done  to  my  literary  or 
political  talents,  I  certainly  cannot  choose  to  avail 
myself  of  the  imposition. 

With  due  regard,  I  am,  &c. 


TO    ARTHUR     YOUNG. 

MOUNT  VKRNON,  4  December,  1788. 

SIR, 

I  have  been  favored  with  the  receipt  of  your  letter 
dated  the  first  day  of  July  ;  and  have  to  express  my 
thanks  for  the  three  additional  volumes  of  the  annals, 
which  have  also  come  safely  to  hand. 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON,  341 


The  more  I  am  acquainted  with  agricultural  affairs, 
the  better  I  am  pleased  with  them  ;  insomuch  that  I 
can  no  where  find  so  great  satisfaction  as  in  those 
innocent  and  useful  pursuits.  In  indulging  these 
feelings,  I  am  led  to  reflect  how  much  more  delight 
ful  to  the  undebauched  mind,  is  the  task  of  making 
improvements  on  the  earth,  than  all  the  vain  glory 
that  can  be  acquired  from  ravaging  it,  by  the  most 
uninterrupted  career  of  conquest.  The  design  of  this 
observation  is  only  to  shew  how  much,  as  a  member 
of  human  society,  I  feel  myself  obliged  by  your  labors 
to  render  respectable  and  advantageous,  an  employ 
ment  which  is  more  congenial  to  the  natural  disposi 
tions  of  mankind  than  any  other. 

I  am  also  much  indebted  to  you,  for  the  inquiries 
you  were  so  kind  as  to  make  respecting  the  threshing 
machines.  Notwithstanding  I  am  pretty  well  con 
vinced  from  your  account,  that  the  new-invented 
Scotch  machine  is  of  superior  merit  to  Winlaw's  ; 
yet  I  think  to  wait  a  little  longer  before  I  procure 
one.  In  the  intermediate  time,  I  am  not  insensible 
to  your  obliging  offers  of  executing  this,  or  any  other 
commission  for  me  ;  and  shall  take  the  liberty  to 
avail  myself  of  them  as  occasions  may  require. 

I  would  willingly  have  sent  you  a  lock  of  the  wool 
of  my  sheep,  agreeably  to  your  desire,  but  it  is  all 
wrought  into  cloth,  and  I  must  therefore  defer  it  until 
after  the  next  shearing.  You  may  expect  it  by  some 
future  conveyance.  A  manufacturer  from  Leeds,  who 
was  lately  here,  judges  it  to  be  of  about  the  same 
quality  with  the  English  wool  in  general — though 


342  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


there  is  always  a  great  difference  in  the  fineness  of 
different  parts  of  the  same  fleece.  I  cannot  help 
thinking  that  increasing  and  improving  our  breed  of 
sheep,  would  be  one  of  the  most  profitable  specula 
tions  we  could  undertake  ;  especially  in  this  part  of 
the  continent,  where  we  have  so  little  winter,  that 
they  require  either  no  dry  fodder,  or  next  to  none  ; 
and  where  we  are  sufficiently  distant  from  the  fron 
tiers,  not  to  be  troubled  with  wolves  or  other  wild 
vermin,  which  prevent  the  inhabitants  there  from 
keeping  flocks.  Though  we  do  not  feed  our  sheep 
upon  leaves,  as  you  mention  they  do  in  some  parts  of 
France,  yet  we  cannot  want  for  pastures  enough 
suitable  for  them.  I  am  at  a  loss,  therefore,  to 
account  for  the  disproportion  between  their  value  and 
that  of  black  cattle ;  as  well  as  for  our  not  augment 
ing  the  number.  So  persuaded  am  I  of  the  practica 
bility  and  advantage  of  it,  that  I  have  raised  near  200 
lambs  upon  my  farm  this  year.  I  am  glad  to  find 
that  you  are  likely  to  succeed  in  propagating  the 
Spanish  breed  of  sheep  in  England,  and  that  the 
wool  does  not  degenerate  ;  for  the  multiplication  of 
useful  animals  is  a  common  blessing  to  mankind.  I 
have  a  prospect  of  introducing  into  this  country  a 
very  excellent  race  of  animals  also,  by  means  of  the 
liberality  of  the  King  of  Spain.  One  of  the  Jacks 
which  he  was  pleased  to  present  to  me  (the  other 
perished  at  sea)  is  about  15  hands  high,  his  body  and 
limbs  very  large  in  proportion  to  his  height  ;  and  the 
mules  which  I  have  had  from  him,  appear  to  be  ex 
tremely  well  formed  for  service.  I  have  likewise  a 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  343 


jack  and  two  jennets  from  Malta,  of  a  very  good  size, 
which  the  Marquis  de  Lafayette  sent  to  me.  The 
Spanish  jack  seems  calculated  to  breed  for  heavy 
slow  draught ;  and  the  others  for  the  saddle,  or  lighter 
carriages.  From  these,  altogether,  I  hope  to  secure 
a  race  of  extraordinary  goodness,  which  will  stock 
the  country.  Their  longevity  and  cheap  keeping 
will  be  circumstances  much  in  their  favor.  I  am 
convinced,  from  the  little  experiments  I  have  made 
with  the  ordinary  mules  (which  perform  as  much 
labor,  with  vastly  less  feeding  than  horses),  that 
those  of  a  superior  quality  will  be  the  best  cattle  we 
can  employ  for  the  harness  ;  and  indeed  in  a  few 
years,  I  intend  to  drive  no  other  in  my  carriage, 
having  appropriated  for  the  sole  purpose  of  breeding 
them,  upwards  of  twenty  of  my  best  mares. 

Since  I  wrote  to  you  formerly,  respecting  the  ob 
jection  made  by  my  laborers  to  the  weight  of  the 
ploughs,  I  have  had  sufficient  experience  to  over 
come  the  ill-founded  prejudice,  and  find  them  answer 
the  purpose  exceedingly  well.  I  have  been  laying 
out  my  farm  into  fields  of  nearly  the  same  dimen 
sions,  and  assigning  crops  to  each  until  the  year 
1795.  The  building  of  a  brick  barn  has  occupied 
much  of  my  attention  this  summer.  It  is  constructed 
according  to  the  plan  you  had  the  goodness  to  send 
me  ;  but  with  some  additions.  It  is  now,  I  believe, 
the  largest  and  most  convenient  one  in  this  country. 
Our  seasons  in  this  country  (or  at  least  in  this  part 
of  it)  have  been  so  much  in  the  two  opposite  ex 
tremes  of  dry  and  wet,  for  the  two  summers  past, 


344  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


that  many  of  my  experiments  have  failed  to  give  a 
satisfactory  result,  or  I  would  have  done  myself  the 
pleasure  of  transmitting  it  to  you.  In  the  first  part 
of  last  summer,  the  rains  prevailed  beyond  what  has 
been  known  in  the  memory  of  man  ;  yet  the  crops  in 
most  parts  of  the  United  States  are  good.  They 
were  much  injured,  however,  in  those  places  on  my 
farm  where  the  soil  is  mixed  with  clay,  and  so  stiff  as 
to  be  liable  to  retain  the  moisture.  I  planted  a  large 
quantity  of  potatoes,  of  which  only  those  that  were 
put  in  as  late  as  the  end  of  June,  have  produced  tol 
erably  well.  I  am,  notwithstanding,  more  and  more 
convinced  of  the  prodigious  usefulness  of  this  root, 
and  that  it  is  very  little,  if  any  thing,  of  an  exhauster. 
I  have  a  high  opinion  also  of  carrots.  The  same 
unfavorableness  of  the  season  has  rendered  it  un 
important  to  give  a  detail  of  my  experiments  this 
year  in  flax,  though  I  had  sowed  25  bushels  of  the 
seed.  In  some  spots  it  has  yielded  well  ;  in  others 
very  indifferently,  much  injured  by  weeds  and 
lodgits. 

As  to  what  you  suggest  at  the  close  of  your  letter, 
respecting  the  publication  of  extracts  from  my  corre 
spondence  in  your  annals,  I  hardly  know  what  to 
say.  I  certainly  highly  approve  the  judicious  execu 
tion  of  your  well-conceived  project  of  throwing  light 
on  a  subject,  which  may  be  more  conducive  than 
almost  any  other  to  the  happiness  of  mankind.  On 
the  one  hand,  it  seems  scarcely  generous  or  proper, 
that  any  farmer,  who  receives  benefit  from  the  facts 
contained  in  such  publications,  should  withhold  his 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  345 

mite  of  information  from  the  general  stock.  On  the 
other  hand,  I  am  afraid  it  might  be  imputed  to  me  as 
a  piece  of  ostentation,  if  my  name  should  appear  in 
the  work.  And  surely  it  would  not  be  discreet  for 
me  to  run  the  hazard  of  incurring  this  imputation, 
unless  some  good  might  probably  result  to  society, 
as  some  kind  of  compensation  for  it.  Of  this  I  am 
not  a  judge — I  can  only  say  for  myself,  that  I  have 
endeavored,  in  a  state  of  tranquil  retirement,  to  keep 
myself  as  much  from  the  eye  of  the  world  as  I  possi 
bly  could.  I  have  studiously  avoided,  as  much  as 
was  in  my  power,  to  give  any  cause  for  ill-natured  or 
impertinent  comments  on  my  conduct  :  and  I  should 
be  very  unhappy  to  have  anything  done  on  my  behalf 
(however  distant  in  itself  from  impropriety),  which 
should  give  occasion  for  one  officious  tongue  to  use 
my  name  with  indelicacy.  For  I  wish  most  devoutly 
to  glide  silently  and  unnoticed  through  the  remainder 
of  life.  This  is  my  heart-felt  wish  ;  and  these  are 
my  undisguised  feelings.  After  having  submitted 
them  confidentially  to  you,  I  have  such  a  reliance 
upon  your  prudence,  as  to  leave  it  with  you  to  do 
what  you  think,  upon  a  full  consideration  of  the  mat 
ter,  shall  be  wisest  and  best.  I  am  &c. 


TO    WILLIAM    GORDON. 
DEAR    SiR  MOUNT  VERNON,  23  December,  1788. 

Your  letter  dated  in  London  the  24th  of  Septem 
ber  has  been  duly  forwarded  to  me  by  your  friend 
Mr.  Hazard.  As  I  shall  be  able  to  notice  the  con- 


346  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1788 


tents  but  generally  and  briefly,  I  request,  in  the  first 
place,  that  you  will  be  pleased  to  accept  my  best 
thanks  for  your  good  wishes  for  my  happiness  here 
and  hereafter.  I  am  pleased  to  learn,  that  your 
History  is  at  length  completed.  I  conclude  by  the 
spring  we  may  expect  to  be  favored  with  a  sight  of 
it.  Your  mention  of  the  several  objects,  you  judge 
of  national  consequence  to  the  United  States,  is  to 
be  esteemed  among  the  tokens  of  your  kind  remem 
brance  of  America,  and  regard  to  its  interests. 

How  far  I  may  ever  be  connected  with  its 
political  affairs  is  altogether  a  matter  of  uncertainty 
to  me.  My  heartfelt  wishes,  and,  I  would  fain  hope, 
the  circumstances  are  opposed  to  it.  I  flatter  myself 
my  countrymen  are  so  fully  persuaded  of  my  desire 
to  remain  in  private  life  ;  that  I  am  not  without 
hopes  and  expectations  of  being  left  quietly  to  enjoy 
the  repose,  in  which  I  am  at  present.  Or,  in  all 
events,  should  it  be  their  wish  (as  you  suppose  it  will 
be)  for  me  to  come  again  on  the  stage  of  public 
affairs — I  certainly  will  decline  it,  if  the  refusal  can 
be  made  consistently  with  what  I  conceive  to  be  the 
dictates  of  propriety  and  duty.  For  the  great 
Searcher  of  human  hearts  knows  there  is  no  wish  in 
mine,  beyond  that  of  liberty  and  dying  an  honest 
man,  on  my  own  farm. 

I  had  quite  forgotten  the  private  transaction  to 
which  you  allude,  nor  could  I  recall  it  to  mind  with 
out  much  difficulty.  If  I  now  recollect  rightly,  and 
I  believe  I  do  (though  there  were  several  applications 
made  to  me),  I  am  conscious  of  only  having  done 


1788]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  347 


my  duty.  As  no  particular  credit  is  due  for  that, 
and  as  no  good  but  some  harm  might  result  from  the 
publication,  the  letter,  in  my  judgment,  had  better 
remain  in  concealment.1 

The  prospect,  that  a  good  general  government  will 
in  all  human  probability  be  soon  established  in  Amer 
ica,  affords  me  more  substantial  satisfaction  than  I 
have  ever  before  derived  from  any  political  event  ; 
because  there  is  a  rational  ground  for  believing,  that 
not  only  the  happiness  of  my  own  countrymen,  but 
that  of  mankind  in  general,  will  be  promoted  by  it. 

As  it  is  really  so  long  since  I  have  had  any  occa 
sion  to  make  use  of  a  cipher  or  key  to  communicate 
my  sentiments  to  my  correspondents,  and  as  it  was 
so  little  probable  I  should  ever  have  any  occasion  to 
express  them  by  such  modes  in  future,  I  have  abso 
lutely  mislaid  or  entirely  lost  yours  with  others. 
Besides,  I  have  not  a  single  idea  to  communicate  to 
any  person  while  in  Europe,  the  knowledge  of  which 


1  The  singular  modesty  of  this  paragraph  will  be  fully  understood,  if  the 
reader  will  recur  to  the  letter  alluded  to,  dated  May  22(1,  1782,  (Vol.  X.  p. 
21,)  in  which  General  Washington  replies  to  a  proposition  from  a  high  quar 
ter  in  the  army  to  make  him  KING.  Dr.  Gordon  had  seen  that  letter  when  on 
a  visit  to  Mount  Vernon  after  the  war,  and  in  writing  the  one,  to  which  the 
above  is  an  answer,  he  requested  permission  to  publish  it,  referring  at  the  same 
time  only  to  its  contents,  and  the  circumstances  attending  it,  without  mention 
ing  its  date.  In  speaking  of  the  prospect  of  General  Washington's  being  the 
first  President  of  the  United  States,  Dr.  Gordon  said:  "The  good  of  the 
country  is  a  law,  that  you  must  submit  to,  when  you  are  called  to  possess  a 
power  in  the  most  honorable  way  by  all  professions  and  ranks  of  people, 
which,  to  your  everlasting  honor  when  known,  you  honestly  declined  with  the 
truest  patriotism  when  offered  in  an  irregular  manner.  This  is  a  secret,  which 
will  remain  till  you  are  dead,  unless  I  could  be  certain  of  not  offending  through 
the  publication  of  your  letter,  with  the  suppression  of  the  party  to  whom  it  was 
addressed." — London,  September  24th. — Sparks. 


348  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


could  give  any  advantage  to  those,  who  should  be  curi 
ous  enough,  or  mean  enough,  to  inspect  my  letters. 

Thus  much  I  thought  it  might  be  well  to  say,  in 
apology  for  my  not  being  able  to  comply  with  your 
request.  Indeed,  when  you  consider  the  domestic 
walk  of  life  in  which  I  pass  my  days,  the  multiplicity 
of  private  concerns  in  which  I  am  involved,  the  nu 
merous  literary  applications  from  different  quarters, 
the  round  of  company  I  have  at  my  house,  and  the 
avocations  occasioned  by  my  being  at  the  head  of  the 
Company  for  clearing  the  Potomac,  you  will  do  me 
the  justice  to  suppose,  that  I  can  have  few  topics  or 
little  time  for  correspondencies  of  mere  friendship, 
ceremony,  or  speculation.  This  I  entreat  may  be 
accepted  as  the  true  reason,  why  I  am  not  able  to 
write  to  you  very  fully,  or  very  regularly.  Mrs. 
Washington  joins  with  me  in  compliments  to  Mrs. 
Gordon.  I  remain,  &c. 


TO    WILLIAM     PIERCE. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  i  January,  1789. 

SIR  : 

As  it  would  be  altogether  improper  for  me  to 
anticipate  any  thing  on  the  event  which  you  suppose 
may  happen  ;  I  only  write  to  let  you  know  that  I 
have  duly  received  your  letter  of  Novr.  ist.  I  most 
sincerely  and  fervently  hope  it  will  be  found,  that  I 
shall  not  be  in  a  situation  to  have  any  agency  in  the 
disposal  of  federal  appointments.  For  you  will  per 
mit  me  to  say,  that  the  choice  is  as  yet  very  far  from 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  349 

being  certain  ;  and  that  should  it  (contrary  to  all  my 
wishes)  fall  upon  me,  I  shall  certainly  be  disposed  to 
decline  the  acceptance,  if  it  may  by  any  means  be 
done  consistently  with  the  dictates  of  duty. 

In  this  to  me  unpleasant  state  of  affairs  when  I 
cannot  but  feel  myself  disagreeably  affected  by  hav 
ing  the  subject  even  obliquely  forced  upon  my  mind, 
-You  will  be  pleased  to  consider  my  studied  reserve 
as  not  in  the  least  intended  to  militate  against  your 
pretensions,  and  as  not  having  any  reference,  in  the 
remotest  degree,  to  an  office,  for  which  I  perceive 
there  will  be  several  competitors. 

Although  I  have  thought  it  would  ill  become  me 
at  present  to  be  more  explicit  with  any  person  on 
public  matters  ;  yet  in  all  personal  considerations  I 
take  a  pleasure  in  subscribing  myself  with  sentiments 
of  great  respect  and  esteem,  &C.1 

1  "  It  would  take  up  more  time,  than  I  could  well  spare,  to  notice  the  ap 
plications  which  have  been  made  to  me  in  consequence  of  the  new  government. 
In  answer  to  as  many  as  I  have  been  at  leisure  to  acknowledge,  I  have  invari 
ably  represented  the  delicacy  of  my  situation,  the  impropriety  of  bringing 
such  things  before  me,  the  decided  resolution  I  had  formerly  made,  and  the 
ardent  wishes  I  still  entertain  of  remaining  in  a  private  life.  You  will  not 
then  expect,  that  I  should  commit  myself  by  saying  any  thing  on  a  subject, 
which  has  never  failed  to  embarrass  and  distress  me  beyond  measure,  when 
soever  it  has  been  forced  upon  my  consideration." — Washington  to  Lutterloh, 
I  January,  1789. 

"If  it  should  be  my  fate  to  administer  the  government,  I  will  go  into  it 
free  from  engagements  of  every  kind  and  nature  whatsoever — making,  when 
the  pretensions  of  every  candidate  are  brought  to  view,  as  far  as  my  judgment 
shall  direct  me,  justice  and  the  public  good,  the  sole  objects  of  my  pursuits. "- 
Washington  to  Benjamin  Fishbourn,  23  December,  1788. 

"  If  I  should  once  more  be  led  into  the  walks  of  public  life,  it  is  my  fixed 
determination  to  enter  there,  not  only  unfettered  by  promises,  but  even  un- 
chargeable  with  creating  or  feeding  the  expectation  of  any  man  living  for  my 
assistance  to  office.  And  sure  I  am,  a  gentleman  of  your  candor  and  judg- 


350  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


TO    THE    MARQUIS    DE    LAFAYETTE. 

TV-T  MOUNT  VERNON,  20  January,  1780. 

MY  DEAR  MARQUIS, 

By  the  last  post  I  was  favored  with  the  receipt  of 
your  letter  dated  the  5th  of  September  last.  Not 
withstanding  the  distance  of  its  date,  it  was  peculiarly 
welcome  to  me ;  for  I  had  not  in  the  mean  time 
received  any  satisfactory  advices  respecting  yourself 
or  your  country.  By  that  letter  my  mind  was  placed 
much  more  at  its  ease,  on  both  those  subjects,  than  it 
had  been  for  many  months. 

The  last  letter,  which  I  had  the  pleasure  of  writing 
to  you,  was  forwarded  by  Mr.  Gouverneur  Morris. 
Since  his  departure  from  America,  nothing  very 
material  has  occurred.  The  minds  of  men,  however, 
have  not  been  in  a  stagnant  state.  But  patriotism, 
instead  of  faction,  has  generally  agitated  them.  It  is 
not  a  matter  of  wonder,  that,  in  proportion  as  we 
approach  to  the  time  fixed  for  the  organization  and 
operation  of  the  new  government,  their  anxiety 
should  have  been  increased,  rather  than  diminished. 

ment  will  approve  the  resolution  ;  first,  because  all  offices  are  to  be  created  by 
law,  and  consequently  are  as  yet  uncertain  ;  2dly,  because  the  appointment  of 
officers  may  possibly  be  left  to  the  heads  of  departments,  or  in  many  instances 
referred  to  the  executives  of  the  respective  States  ;  and,  3dly,  because  the  ear 
of  the  nominator  ought  to  be  open  to  the  comments  on  the  merits  of  each 
candidate,  and  to  be  governed  primarily  by  the  abilities,  which  are  most 
peculiarly  adapted  to  the  nature  and  duties  of  the  office  which  is  to  be  filled. 
If,  unhappily  for  me,  it  should  be  my  lot  to  have  any  share  in  the  execution  of 
the  government,  it  will  be  under  the  influence  of  these  sentiments,  and  the 
best  knowledge  I  can  obtain  of  characters,  that  1  shall  invariably  act  with 
respect  to  appointments.  And  with  respect  to  my  conduct  as  a  private  man, 
I  do  verily  believe  I  never  shall  interfere  in  the  appointment  to  any  office 
whatsoever,  beyond  a  general  certificate  of  facts." — Washington  to  Samuel 
Hanson^  I  January,  1789. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  351 

The  choice  of  senators,  representatives,  and  elec 
tors,  which  (excepting  in  that  of  the  last  description) 
took  place  at  different  times  in  the  different  States, 
has  afforded  abundant  topics  for  domestic  news  since 
the  beginning  of  autumn.  I  need  not  enumerate  the 
several  particulars,  as  I  imagine  you  see  most  of 
them  detailed  in  the  American  gazettes.  I  will  con 
tent  myself  with  only  saying,  that  the  elections  have 
been  hitherto  vastly  more  favorable  than  we  could 
have  expected,  that  federal  sentiments  seem  to  be 
growing  with  uncommon  rapidity,  and  that  this  in 
creasing  unanimity  is  not  less  indicative  of  the  good 
disposition  than  the  good  sense  of  the  Americans. 
Did  it  not  savor  so  much  of  partiality  for  my  coun 
trymen,  I  might  add,  that  I  cannot  help  flattering 
myself,  that  the  new  Congress,  on  account  of  the 
self-created  respectability  and  various  talents  of  its 
members,  will  not  be  inferior  to  any  Assembly  in  the 
world.  From  these  and  some  other  circumstances  I 
really  entertain  greater  hopes,  that  America  will  not 
finally  disappoint  the  expectations  of  her  friends, 
than  I  have  at  almost  any  former  period.  Still,  how 
ever,  in  such  a  fickle  state  of  existence  I  would  not 
be  too  sanguine  in  indulging  myself  with  the  con 
templation  of  scenes  of  uninterrupted  prosperity,  lest 
some  unforeseen  mischance  or  perverseness  should 
occasion  the  greater  mortification,  by  blasting  the  en 
joyment  in  the  very  bud. 

I  can  say  little  or  nothing  new,  in  consequence  of 
the  repetition  of  your  opinion,  on  the  expediency 
there  will  be  for  my  accepting  the  office  to  which 


352  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

you  refer.  Your  sentiments,  indeed,  coincide  much 
more  nearly  with  those  of  my  other  friends,  than  with 
my  own  feelings.  In  truth  my  difficulties  increase 
and  magnify  as  I  draw  towards  the  period,  when, 
according  to  the  common  belief,  it  will  be  necessary 
for  me  to  give  a  definitive  answer,  in  one  way  or 
another.  Should  circumstances  render  it  in  a  man 
ner  inevitably  necessary  to  be  in  the  affirmative,  be 
assured,  my  dear  Sir,  I  shall  assume  the  task  with 
the  most  unfeigned  reluctance,  and  with  a  real  diffi 
dence,  for  which  I  shall  probably  receive  no  credit 
from  the  world.  If  I  know  my  own  heart,  nothing 
short  of  a  conviction  of  duty  will  induce  me  again  to 
take  an  active  part  in  public  affairs ;  and,  in  that 
case,  if  I  can  form  a  plan  for  my  own  conduct,  my 
endeavors  shall  be  unremittingly  exerted,  (even  at 
the  hazard  of  former  fame  or  present  popularity,) 
to  extricate  my  country  from  the  embarrassments  in 
which  it  is  entangled  through  want  of  credit ;  and  to 
establish  a  general  system  of  policy,  which  if  pursued 
will  ensure  permanent  felicity  to  the  commonwealth. 
I  think  I  see  a  path  as  clear  and  as  direct  as  a  ray  of 
light,  which  leads  to  the  attainment  of  that  object. 
Nothing  but  harmony,  honesty,  industry,  and  frugal 
ity  are  necessary  to  make  us  a  great  and  happy 
people.  Happily  the  present  posture  of  affairs,  and 
the  prevailing  disposition  of  my  countrymen,  promise 
to  cooperate  in  establishing  those  four  great  and 
essential  pillars  of  public  felicity. 

What  has  been  considered  at  the  moment  as  a  dis 
advantage,    will    probably   turn    out    for   our   good. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  353 

While  our  commerce  has  been  considerably  curtailed, 
for  want  of  that  extensive  credit  formerly  given  in 
Europe,  and  for  default  of  remittance,  the  useful  arts 
have  been  almost  imperceptibly  pushed  to  a  consider 
able  degree  of  perfection. 

Though  I  would  not  force  the  introduction  of 
manufactures,  by  extravagant  encouragements,  and 
to  the  prejudice  of  agriculture,  yet  I  conceive  much 
might  be  done  in  that  way  by  women,  children,  and 
others,  without  taking  one  really  necessary  hand  from 
tilling  the  earth.  Certain  it  is,  great  savings  are 
already  made  in  many  articles  of  apparel,  furniture, 
and  consumption.  Equally  certain  it  is,  that  no 
diminution  in  agriculture  has  taken  place,  at  the  time 
when  greater  and  more  substantial  improvements  in 
manufactures  were  making,  than  were  ever  before 
known  in  America.  In  Pennsylvania  they  have  at 
tended  particularly  to  the  fabrication  of  cotton  cloths, 
hats,  and  all  articles  in  leather.  In  Massachusetts, 
they  are  establishing  factories  of  duck,  cordage,  glass, 
and  several  other  extensive  and  useful  branches.  The 
number  of  shoes  made  in  one  town,  and  nails  in 
another,  is  incredible.  In  that  State  and  Connecticut 
are  also  factories  of  superfine  and  other  broadcloths. 
I  have  been  writing  to  our  friend  General  Knox  this 
day  to  procure  me  homespun  broadcloth  of  the  Hart 
ford  fabric,  to  make  a  suit  of  clothes  for  myself.  I 
hope  it  will  not  be  a  great  while  before  it  will  be  un 
fashionable  for  a  gentleman  to  appear  in  any  other 
dress.  Indeed,  we  have  already  been  too  long  sub 
ject  to  British  prejudices.  I  use  no  porter  or  cheese 
23 


354  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


in  my  family  but  such  as  is  made  in  America.  Both 
those  articles  may  now  be  purchased  of  an  excellent 
quality. 

While  you  are  quarrelling  among  yourselves  in 
Europe,  while  one  king  is  running  mad,  and  others 
acting  as  if  they  were  already  so,  by  cutting  the  throats 
of  the  subjects  of  their  neighbors,  I  think  you  need 
not  doubt,  my  dear  Marquis,  we  shall  continue  in 
tranquillity  here,  and  that  population  will  be  pro 
gressive  so  long  as  there  shall  continue  to  be  so  many 
easy  means  for  obtaining  a  subsistence,  and  so  ample 
a  field  for  the  exertion  of  talents  and  industry.  All 
my  family  join  in  compliments  to  Madame  de  Lafay 
ette  and  yourself.  Adieu. 


TO    BENJAMIN    LINCOLN. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  31  January,  1789. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

Your  two  letters  of  December  2Oth  and  January 
4th  are  before  me.1  I  am  much  obliged  to  you  for 
the  intelligence  contained  in  them,  because  it  enabled 
me  to  contradict  a  report  in  circulation  among  the 
antifederalists,  that  your  State  had  made  choice  of 

1  "  Last  Thursday  out-  votes  were  given  in  for  representatives,  and  for  electors 
of  president  and  vice-president.  Mr.  Ames  is  probably  chosen  for  this  dis 
trict.  He  was  an  active  member  in  our  convention,  and  has  always  distin 
guished  himself  as  an  honest,  good  man.  I  can  hardly  guess  who  will  represent 
the  other  districts,  except  the  western  one,  which  I  think  will  be  represented 
by  Mr.  Sedgwick.  The  majority,  however,  I  am  confident  will  be  good  mem 
bers.  There  were  great  exertions  made  for  Mr.  Samuel  Adams.  He  would 
probably  have  carried  the  vote,  could  the  people  have  been  persuaded,  that  he 
was  in  heart  a  federalist.  Our  senators  are  federal  indeed,  Mr.  Strong  and  Mr. 
Dalton." — Lincoln  to  Washington,  20  December,  1788. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  355 

only  one  representative  to  Congress,  that  no  more 
would  probably  be  appointed,  and  that  every  thing 
was  in  very  great  confusion.  Though  facts  will  ulti 
mately  become  known,  yet  much  mischief  to  the 
federal  cause  may  be  done  by  suffering  misrepresen 
tation  to  pass  unnoticed  or  unrefuted.  Last  winter 
the  antifederalists  in  Philadelphia  published,  "  that 
Connecticut  had  been  surprised  into  an  adoption  of 
the  constitution,  while  a  great  majority  of  the  freemen 
were  opposed  to  it."  Now  it  is  certain,  nothing  can 
fix  the  stigma  of  falsehood  upon  that  assertion  better 
than  the  late  respectable  appointments  in  that  State. 
Much  the  same  thing  has  happened  in  Maryland. 
The  federal  ticket  has  been  carried  by  a  majority  of 
thousands.  In  the  county  that  bears  my  name  there 
was  not  a  dissenting  vote. 

By  the  best  information  I  can  obtain,  federal  senti 
ments  are  spreading  perhaps  faster  than  ever  in  this 
commonwealth.  It  is  generally  supposed  that  six  if 
not  seven  of  the  representatives  from  it  to  Congress 
will  be  decided  friends  to  the  constitution.  Monday 
next  will,  however,  confirm  or  contradict  this  opinion, 
it  being  the  day  of  election  throughout  the  State.  I 
will  only  add,  that,  in  Maryland  and  this  State,  it  is 
probable  Mr.  John  Adams  will  have  a  considerable 
number  of  the  votes  of  the  electors.  Some  of  those 
gentlemen  will  have  been  advised,  that  this  measure 
would  be  entirely  agreeable  to  me,  and  that  I  consid 
ered  it  to  be  the  only  certain  way  to  prevent  the 
election  of  an  antifederalist.  With  sentiments  of  the 
greatest  esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  &c. 


356  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


TO    SAMUEL    POWEL. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  5  February,  1789. 

DEAR  SIR, 

The  letters  which  you  did  me  the  honor  of  writing 
to  me  on  the  6th  and  26th  last  month,  came  duly  at 
hand  ;  and  their  enclosures  were  safely  delivered  to 
my  nephew,  Bushrod  Washington,  who  has  lately  be 
come  a  resident  of  Alexandria,  where  and  at  the 
courts  in  its  vicinity  he  means  to  establish  himself  in 
the  practise  of  the  law.  No  apology,  my  dear  Sir,  on 
this  or  any  other  occasion,  was  or  will  be  necessary 
for  putting  any  letter  you  may  wish  to  have  safely 
conveyed  to  a  friend  in  these  parts,  under  cover 
to  me. 

All  the  political  manoeuvres  which  were  calculated 
to  impede,  if  not  to  prevent  the  operation  of  the 
Government,  are  now  brought  to  a  close  until  the 
meeting  of  the  new  Congress,  and  although  the  issue 
of  all  the  elections  is  not  yet  known,  they  are  suffi 
ciently  displayed  to  authorize  a  belief  that  the  oppos- 
ers  of  the  government  have  been  defeated  in  almost 
every  instance.  Although  the  elections  in  this  State 
are  over,  it  will  be  some  time  from  the  extent  of  it 
before  the  representatives  to  Congress  can  be  finally 
announced.  From  conjecture,  however,  it  is  supposed 
the  majority  will  be  federalists.  Some  are  so  sanguine 
as  to  believe  that  seven  out  of  the  ten  will  be  so  ;  but 
this,  as  I  have  already  said,  is  altogether  conjecture, 
and  vague  conjecture  ;  for  much  pains  has  been 
taken,  and  no  art  left  unessayed,  to  poison  the  mind 
and  alarm  the  fears  of  the  people  into  opposition. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  357 


On  the  list  of  the  Electors  which  has  been  published 
by  the  Executive  authority  of  the  State,  there  appear 
(as  far  as  I  am  acquainted  with  the  character  of  the 
gentlemen)  eight  decided  friends  to  the  hew  consti 
tution.  Be  the  cause  of  the  British  King's  insanity 
what  it  may,  his  situation  (if  alive)  merits  commisera 
tion.  Better  perhaps  would  it  have  been  for  his 
nation,  though  not  for  ours  (under  present  prospects), 
if  this  event  had  happened  at  the  time  Dr.  Franklin, 
you  say,  supposes  his  Majesty's  constitution  was  first 
tinged  with  the  malady  under  which  he  is  now 
laboring. 

Mrs.  Washington,  the  Major  and  Fanny,  and 
others  under  this  roof,  unite  in  best  wishes  and 
affectionate  regards  for  Mrs.  Powel. 


TO    THOMAS    JEFFERSON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  13  February,  1789. 

DEAR  SIR, 

Having  found  that  there  is  a  vessel  on  the  point 
of  sailing  from  Alexandria  for  Havre  de  Grace,  I 
would  not  forego  so  good  an  opportunity  of  address 
ing  a  letter  to  you,  although  nothing  very  material 
has  occurred  since  the  date  of  my  last,  which  was 
transmitted  by  Mr.  Gouverneur  Morris.  As  you  will 
doubtless  have  seen  in  the  gazettes  the  measures 
taken  by  the  different  States  for  carrying  the  new 
government  into  execution,  I  will  not  therefore  enter 
upon  any  report  of  news,  or  discussion  of  political 
topics. 


358  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


Exclusive  of  these  things,  the  greatest  and  most 

o     '  o 

important  objects  of  internal  concern,  which  at  pres 
ent  occupy  the  attention  of  the  public  mind,  are 
manufactures  and  inland  navigation.  Many  success 
ful  efforts  in  fabrics  of  different  kinds  are  every  day 
made.  Those  composed  of  cotton,  I  think  will  be  of 
the  most  immediate  and  extensive  utility.  Mr. 
Milne,  an  English  gentleman,  who  has  been  many 
years  introducing  those  manufactures  into  France, 
and  whose  father  is  now  carrying  them  on,  (under 
the  protection  of  government,)  at  the  royal  chateau 
of  Muette  in  Passy,  has  been  at  my  house  this  week, 
and  is  of  opinion  that  they  may  be  prosecuted  in 
America  to  greater  advantage  than  in  France  or 
England.  He  has  been  almost  two  years  in  Georgia, 
stimulating  and  instructing  the  planters  to  the  pro 
duction  of  cotton.  In  that  State  and  South  Carolina 
it  is  said  that  cotton  may  be  made  of  a  most  excellent 
quality,  and  in  such  abundant  quantities  as  to  prove 
a  more  profitable  species  of  agriculture  than  any 
other  crop.  The  increase  of  that  raw  material,  and 
the  introduction  of  the  late  improved  machines  to 
abridge  labor,  must  be  of  almost  infinite  consequence 
to  the  prosperity  of  United  America. 

A  desire  of  encouraging  whatever  is  useful  and 
economical  seems  now  generally  to  prevail.  Several 
capital  artists  in  different  branches  have  lately  arrived 
in  this  country.  A  factory  of  glass  is  established 
upon  a  large  scale  on  Monocacy  River  near  Freder- 
icktown  in  Maryland.  I  am  informed  it  will  this  year 
produce  glass  of  various  kinds  nearly  to  the  amount 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  359 


of  ten  thousand  pounds'  value.  This  factory  will  be 
essentially  benefited  by  having  the  navigation  of  the 
Potomac  completely  opened.  But  the  total  benefits 
of  that  navigation  will  not  be  confined  to  narrower 
limits  than  the  extent  of  the  whole  western  territory 
of  the  United  States. 

You  have  been  made  acquainted,  my  dear  Sir,  with 
my  ideas  of  the  practicability,  importance,  and  extent 
of  that  navigation,  as  they  have  been  occasionally, 
though  fully  expressed,  in  my  several  letters  to  you. 
*  *  *  Notwithstanding  my  constant  and  utmost 
endeavors  to  obtain  precise  information  respecting 
the  nearest  and  best  communication  between  the 
Ohio  and  Lake  Erie,  I  am  not  yet  able  to  add  any 
thing  more  satisfactory  to  the  observations,  which  I 
had  the  honor  to  make  on  that  subject  in  my  letter 
of  the  ist  of  January,  1788;  but  I  have  lately  re 
ceived  a  correct  draft,  executed  principally  from 
actual  surveys,  of  the  country  between  the  sources  of 
the  Potomac  and  those  navigable  waters  that  fall  into 
the  Ohio.  Of  this  I  enclose  you  such  a  rough  sketch 
as  my  avocations  would  permit  me  to  make  ;  my 
principal  object  therein  being  to  show,  that  the  dis 
tance  between  the  two  waters  is  shorter,  and  that  the 
means  of  communication  are  easier,  than  I  had 
hitherto  represented  or  imagined.  I  need  not  de 
scribe  what  and  how  extensive  the  rivers  are,  which 
will  be  thus  in  a  wonderful  manner  connected,  as 
soon  as  the  Potomac  shall  be  rendered  entirely  pass 
able.  The  passage  would  have  been  opened  from 
Fort  Cumberland  to  the  Great  Falls  (nine  miles  from 


360  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

tide-water)  before  this  time,  as  I  mentioned  in  my 
letter  of  the  3ist  of  August  last,  had  it  not  been  for 
the  unfavorableness  of  the  season.  In  spite  of  that 
untoward  circumstance,  I  have  the  pleasure  to  inform 
you  that  two  or  three  boats  have  actually  arrived  at 
the  last-mentioned  place. 

I  am  going  on  Monday  next  to  visit  the  works,  as 
far  as  the  Seneca  Falls.  Could  I  have  delayed  writ 
ing  this  letter  until  my  return  from  thence,  and  after 
wards  availed  myself  of  the  same  conveyance,  I  might 
have  been  more  particular  in  my  account  of  the  state 
of  the  several  works,  and  especially  of  the  situation 
of  the  land  adjoining  to  the  Canal  at  the  Great  Falls. 
Whensoever  the  produce  of  those  parts  of  the  coun 
try  bordering  on  the  sources  of  the  Potomac,  and 
contiguous  to  the  long  rivers  (particularly  the  Shen- 
andoah  and  South  Branch)  that  run  into  it,  shall  be 
water-borne,  down  to  tide-water  for  exportation,  I 
conceive  this  place  must  become  very  valuable. 
From  the  conveniency  of  the  basin  a  little  above  the 
spot  where  the  locks  are  to  be  placed,  and  from  the 
inducements  which  will  be  superadded  by  several  fine 
mill-seats,  I  cannot  entertain  a  doubt  of  the  establish 
ment  of  a  town  in  that  place.  Indeed  mercantile 
people  are  desirous  that  the  event  should  take  place 
as  soon  as  possible.  Manufactures  of  various  com 
modities,  and  in  iron  particularly,  will  doubtless  be 
carried  on  to  advantage  there.  The  mill-seats  I  well 
know  have  long  been  considered  as  very  valuable 
ones.  How  far  buildings  erected  upon  them  may  be 
exposed  to  injuries  from  freshets  or  the  breaking  up 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  361 


of  the  ice,  I  am  not  competent  to  determine  from  my 
own  knowledge  ;  but  the  opinion  of  persons  better 
acquainted  with  these  matters  than  I  am,  is,  that  they 
may  be  rendered  secure.  On  the  commodiousness  of 
Alexandria  for  carrying  on  the  fur  trade  throughout 
the  whole  western  country,  I  treated  in  a  very  minute, 
and  I  may  say  almost  voluminous  manner,  in  my 
communication  to  you  on  the  3<Dth  of  May,  1787. 
Probably  Georgetown,  and  the  place  which  I  have 
just  mentioned,  will  participate  largely  and  happily  in 
the  great  emoluments  to  be  derived  from  that  and 
other  valuable  articles,  through  the  inland  navigation 
of  the  upper  and  western  country.  I  am,  dear  Sir, 
yours,  &c. 

TO    HARRY    INNES. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  2  March,  1789. 

SIR, 

I  have  been  favored  by  the  receipt  of  your  obliging 
letter,  dated  the  i8th  of  December  last,  just  in  time 
to  send  my  acknowledgment  by  a  person  who  is  im 
mediately  returning  to  Kentucky.1  This  circum 
stance  prevents  me  from  expressing  so  fully  as  I 


1  "  In  the  latter  end  of  this  summer,  it  was  suggested  to  me,  that  the  British 
court  had  emissaries  in  Kentucky.  From  the  abhorrence  and  detestation 
which  I  have  to  a  British  connexion,  other  than  that  of  friends  and  allies,  I 
was  induced  to  keep  a  look-out,  and  scrutinize  the  conduct  of  all  strangers. 
My  observations  soon  convinced  me  of  the  truth  of  the  case.  Among  others, 
Lieutenant-Colonel  Connolly  (late  of  Fort  Pitt)  from  Detroit  has  visited  this 
district.  His  conduct  has  alarmed  my  fears.  He  had  some  confidential  con 
ferences  with  influential  characters.  He  touched  the  key  to  fomentations, 
and  offered  assistance  to  enable  the  inhabitants  of  the  western  country  to  seize 
on  the  city  of  New  Orleans,  and  secure  thereby  the  navigation  of  the  Missis 
sippi.  How  his  machinations  are  to  be  counteracted  is  the  great  object.  I 


362  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

might  otherwise  have  done,  the  sense  I  have  of  the 
very  patriotic  sentiments  you  entertain  respecting 
the  important  matter,  which  is  the  subject  of  your 
letter.  As  a  friend  to  United  America,  I  embrace 
with  extreme  satisfaction  the  proposals  you  are 
pleased  to  offer  of  transmitting  farther  intelligence. 
For  which  purpose  I  will  endeavor  to  arrange  and 
send  you  a  cypher  by  the  earliest  safe  conveyance. 
In  the  mean  time,  I  rely  implicitly  upon  that  honor 
which  you  have  pledged,  and  those  professions  which 
you  have  made ;  and  sincerely  hope,  that  your 
activity  and  discretion  will  be  successful  in  develop 
ing  the  machinations  of  all  those,  who,  by  sowing  the 
seeds  of  disaffection,  may  attempt  to  separate  any 
portion  of  the  United  States  from  the  Union.  I 
will  only  add,  for  myself  I  have  little  doubt  but  that 

would  be  more  explicit  if  the  conveyance  of  my  letter  were  more  certain.  It 
is  entrusted  to  chance  ;  I  must  therefore  act  with  caution. 

"  Relying  implicitly  on  this  fact,  that  whatever  tends  to  disturb  the  peace  of 
United  America  would  distress  and  injure  your  tranquillity  and  repose,  and 
that  your  aiding  hand  would  not  lie  withheld  when  your  country's  cause 
required  it,  I  have  ventured  to  solicit  your  advice  and  directions  on  this  inter 
esting  subject,  and  would  wish  to  write  confidentially  to  you  on  this  business, 
if  by  your  answer  I  should  conceive  myself  justified  in  the  attempt.  Should 
this  proposed  communication  meet  your  approbation,  will  it  not  be  advisable 
to  invent  a  cypher  for  the  preservation  of  that  secrecy,  which  the  magnitude 
of  the  subject  requires  ?  This  being  arranged,  1  pledge  my  honor  to  give  you 
from  time  to  time  a  faithful  detail  of  facts." — Innes  to  Washington,  18  De 
cember,  1788. 

In  October,  1788,  John  Connolly,  who  at  one  time  played  quite  an  im 
portant  part  as  an  agent  of  Lord  Dunmore,  a  British  recruiting  agent  and  a 
Tory  prisoner,  came  from  Detroit  to  Kentucky  ostensibly  to  look  after  some 
lands  he  claimed,  but  in  reality  as  a  messenger  from  Lord  Dorchester  to  sound 
opinion  in  that  region.  He  claimed  to  be  authorized  by  Lord  Dorchester  to 
offer  British  aid  to  an  armed  force  intended  to  operate  against  New  Orleans. 
Wilkinson  to  Miro,  12  February,  1789.  Tie  had  conferences  with  Wilkinson, 
Thomas  Marshall,  George  Muter,  and  Charles  Scott,  and  returning  to  Detroit, 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  363 

a  perseverance  in  temperate  measures  and  good  dis 
positions  will  produce  such  a  system  of  national 
policy  as  shall  be  mutually  advantageous  to  all  parts 
of  the  American  republic.  I  am,  Sir,  with  much 
esteem,  yours,  &c. 


TO    CAPTAIN    RICHARD    CONWAY. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  4  March,  1789. 

DEAR  SIR, 

Never  till  within  these  two  years  have  I  ever 
experienced  the  want  of  money.  Short  crops,  and 
other  causes  not  entirely  within  my  controul,  make  me 
feel  it  now  very  sensibly.  To  collect  money  without 
the  intervention  of  Suits,  (and  these  are  tedious,) 
seems  impracticable — and  Land,  which  I  have  offered 


gave  his  employer  the  impression  that  a  British  protectorate  might  be  made 
useful  to  check  the  efforts  of  Spain  to  win  over  the  Kentuckians,  and  that  a 
British  party  could  be  fostered  in  the  west.  Miro  had  an  idea  that  his  com 
mercial  agreements  with  Wilkinson  had  established  a  Spanish  hold  that  could 
not  be  shaken,  and  Gardoqui,  with  his  scheme  of  Morgan's  colony  and  free 
port,  thought  he  had  for  the  time  smoothed  over  the  irritation  that  the  Ken 
tuckians  had  shown  at  the  iron  restrictions  that  the  colonial  policy  of  Spain 
had  imposed  on  her  trade.  France,  also,  was  in  possession  of  a  suggestion 
that  might  bear  fruit  :  to  secure  from  Spain  the  peaceable  cession  of  New 
Orleans,  and  so  come  between  the  resentments  of  the  Americans  and  Spaniards 
with  a  grant  of  privileges  advantageous  to  all  concerned.  An  end  was  put  to 
this  intriguing  by  Washington's  election  to  the  presidency. 

"Judgment,  impartiality,  and  decision  are  conspicuous  in  every  transaction 
of  the  President,  and  from  the  appointments  which  he  has  made,  there  is 
every  reason  to  expect  that  the  different  departments  will  be  conducted  with 
justice  and  ability.  I  consider  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Jefferson  (vice  Jay)  as 
a  measure  favorable  to  the  interests  of  the  Western  Country,  and  calculated  to 
remove  those  fears  which  exist  respecting  the  navigation  of  the  river  Missis 
sippi.  I  am  fully  convinced  that  we  have  nothing  to  fear  on  that  score  from 
the  President.  This  I  speak  from  a  knowledge  of  his  sentiments." — John 
Broivn  to  Harry  Innes,  28  September,  1789. 


364  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

for  sale,  will  not  command  Cash  at  an  undervalue,  if 
at  all.  Under  this  statement,  I  am  inclined  to  do 
what  I  never  expected  to  be  driven  to,  that  is,  to 
borrow  money  on  Interest.  Five  hundred  pounds 
would  enable  me  to  discharge  what  I  owe  in  Alexan 
dria,  &c.,  and  to  leave  the  State  (if  it  shall  not  be  in 
my  power  to  remain  at  home  in  retirement)  without 
doing  this,  would  be  exceedingly  disagreeable  to  me. 
Having  thus  fully  and  candidly  explained  myself, 
permit  me  to  ask  if  it  is  in  your  power  to  supply  me 
with  the  above  or  a  smaller  Sum.  Any  security  you 
may  best  like  I  can  give,  and  you  may  be  assured, 
that  it  is  no  more  my  inclination  than  it  can  be  yours, 
to  let  it  remain  long  unpaid.  Could  I  get  in  one 
fourth  part  of  what  is  due  to  me  on  Bonds,  or  sell 
any  of  the  Landed  property  which  I  am  inclined  to 
dispose  of,  I  could  do  it  with  ease  ;  but  independently 
of  these,  my  rents  and  Crops  would  soon  enable  me 
to  do  it,  provided  I  am  tolerably  successful  in  the 
latter,  and  have  common  justice  done  me  in  the 
former.  Your  answer  will  much  oblige  yours,  &C.1 


TO    BENJAMIN    HARRISON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  9  March,  1789. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

My  friendship  is  not  in  the  least  lessened  by  the 
difference,  which  has  taken  place  in  our  political  sen 
timents,  nor  is  my  regard  for  you  diminished  by  the 

1  The  loan  was  increased  by  one  hundred  pounds,  to  enable  Washington  to 
go  to  New  York. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  365 


part  you  have  acted.  Men's  minds  are  as  variant 
as  their  faces,  and,  where  the  motives  to  their 
actions  are  pure,  the  operation  of  the  former  is  no 
more  to  be  imputed  to  them  as  a  crime,  than  the 
appearance  of  the  latter  ;  for  both,  being  the  work 
of  nature,  are  equally  unavoidable.  Liberality  and 
charity,  instead  of  clamor  and  misrepresentation 
(which  latter  only  serve  to  foment  the  passions 
without  enlightening  the  understanding),  ought  to 
govern  in  all  disputes  about  matters  of  importance. 
Whether  the  former  have  appeared  in  some  of 
the  leaders  of  opposition,  the  impartial  world  will 
decide. 

According  to  report,  your  individual  endeavors  to 
prevent  inflammatory  measures  from  being  adopted, 
redound  greatly  to  your  credit.  The  reasons,  my 
dear  Sir,  why  I  have  not  written  to  you  for  a  long 
time  are  two  ;  first,  because  I  found  it  an  insupport 
able  task  to  answer  the  letters,  which  were  written  to 
me,  and,  at  the  same  time,  to  pay  that  attention  to 
my  private  concerns  which  they  required,  and  there 
being  lately  little  besides  politics  worthy  of  notice  ; 
secondly,  because  I  did  not  incline  to  appear  as  a 
partisan  in  the  interesting  subject,  that  has  agitated 
the  public  mind  since  the  date  of  my  last  letter  to 
you.  For  it  was  my  sincere  wish,  that  the  consti 
tution,  which  had  been  submitted  to  the  people, 
might,  after  a  fair  and  dispassionate  investigation, 
stand  or  fall  according  to  its  merits  or  demerits. 
Besides,  I  found  from  disagreeable  experience,  that 
almost  all  the  sentiments  extracted  from  me  in 


366  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


answer  to  private  letters,  or  communicated  orally,  by 
some  means  or  another  found  their  way  into  the 
public  gazettes,  as  well  as  some  other  sentiments 
ascribed  to  me,  which  never  had  an  existence  in  my 
imagination. 

In  touching  upon  the  more  delicate  part  of  your 
letter,  (the  communication  of  which  fills  me  with  real 
concern,)  I  will  deal  by  you  with  all  that  frankness, 
which  is  due  to  friendship,  and  which  I  wish  should 
be  a  characteristic  feature  in  my  conduct  through  life. 
I  will  therefore  declare  to  you,  that,  if  it  should  be 
my  inevitable  fate  to  administer  the  government,  (for 
Heaven  knows,  that  no  event  can  be  less  desired  by 
me,  and  that  no  earthly  consideration  short  of  so 
general  a  call,  together  with  a  desire  to  reconcile 
contending  parties  as  far  as  in  me  lies,  could  again 
bring  me  into  public  life,)  I  will  go  to  the  chair  under 
no  pre-engagement  of  any  kind  or  nature  whatso 
ever.  But,  when  in  it,  I  will,  to  the  best  of  my 
judgment,  discharge  the  duties  of  the  office  with  that 
impartiality  and  zeal  for  the  public  good,  which  ought 
never  to  suffer  connections  of  blood  or  friendship  to 
intermingle  so  as  to  have  the  least  sway  on  decisions 
of  a  public  nature.  I  may  err,  notwithstanding  my 
most  strenuous  efforts  to  execute  the  difficult  trust 
with  fidelity  and  unexceptionably  ;  but  my  errors 
shall  be  of  the  head,  not  of  the  heart.  For  all 
recommendations  for  appointments,  so  far  as  they 
may  depend  upon  or  come  from  me,  a  due  regard 
shall  be  had  to  the  fitness  of  characters,  the  preten 
sions  of  different  candidates,  and,  so  far  as  is  proper, 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  367 


to  political  considerations.     These  shall  be  invariably 
my  governing  motives.1 

You  will  perceive,  then,  my  dear  Sir,  that  I  cannot 
with  propriety  say  any  thing  more  on  the  subject, 
than  that  several  applications  have  been  made  to  me 
for  the  office  immediately  in  question  without  having 
received  any  answer.  I  wish  you  had  pursued  the 
policy,  which  the  gentleman  who  now  occupies  it  has 

1  To  another  application  for  office  from  a  foreigner,  Samuel  Vaughan, 
he  wrote  : 

"  From  the  moment  when  the  necessity  had  become  more  apparent,  and  a-s 
it  were  inevitable,  I  anticipated,  with  a  heart  filled  with  distress,  the  ten 
thousand  embarrassments,  perplexities,  and  troubles,  to  which  I  must  again 
be  exposed  in  the  evening  of  a  life  already  nearly  consumed  in  public  cares. 
Among  all  these  anxieties,  T  will  not  conceal  from  you,  I  anticipated  none 
greater,  than  those  that  were  likely  to  be  produced  by  applications  for 
appointments  to  the  different  offices,  which  would  be  created  under  the 
new  government.  Nor  will  I  conceal,  that  my  apprehensions  have  already 
been  but  too  well  justified.  Scarcely  a  day  passes,  in  which  applications 
of  one  kind  or  another  do  not  arrive  ;  insomuch  that,  had  I  not  early  adopted 
some  general  principles,  I  should  before  this  time  have  been  wholly  occupied 
in  this  business.  As  it  is,  I  have  found  the  number  of  answers,  which  I  have 
been  necessitated  to  give  in  my  own  hand,  an  almost  insupportable  burden 
to  me. 

"  The  points  in  which  all  these  answers  have  agreed  in  substance  are,  that, 
should  it  be  my  lot  to  go  again  into  public  office,  I  would  go  without  being 
under  any  possible  engagements  of  any  nature  whatsoever  ;  that,  so  far  as  I 
knew  my  own  heart,  I  would  not  be  in  the  remotest  degree  influenced,  in 
making  nominations,  by  motives  arising  from  the  ties  of  family  or  blood  ;  and 
that,  on  the  other  hand,  three  things,  in  my  opinion,  ought  principally  to  be 
regarded,  namely,  the  fitness  of  characters  to  fill  offices,  the  comparative  claims 
from  the  former  merits  and  sufferings  in  service  of  the  different  candidates, 
and  the  distribution  of  appointments  in  as  equal  a  proportion  as  might  be  to 
persons  belonging  to  the  different  States  in  the  Union.  Without  precautions 
of  this  kind,  I  clearly  foresaw  the  endless  jealousies,  and  possibly  the  fatal 
consequences,  to  which  a  government,  depending  altogether  on  the  good  will 
of  the  people  for  its  establishment,  would  certainly  be  exposed  in  its  early 
stages.  Besides,  I  thought,  whatever  the  effect  might  be  in  pleasing  or  dis 
pleasing  any  individuals  at  the  present  moment,  a  due  concern  for  my  own 
reputation,  not  less  decisively  than  a  sacred  regard  to  the  interests  of  the  com- 


368  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


done,  of  obtaining  the  appointment  from  the  execu 
tive  of  this  State.  Although  that  gentleman  was  an 
officer,  yet  he  is  quite  unknown  to  me,  and  therefore 
I  cannot  speak  at  all  upon  the  ground  of  comparative 
claims  of  personal  merits.  I  conceive,  however,  it 
will  be  found  no  pleasant  thing,  possibly  very  much 
the  reverse,  to  displace  one  man  under  these  circum- 

munity,  required,  that  I  should  hold  myself  absolutely  at  liberty  to  act,  while 
in  office,  with  a  sole  reference  to  justice  and  the  public  good. 

"  The  limits  of  a  letter  would  not  suffice  to  describe  the  difficulties,  which 
I  fear  might  occur  in  conferring  important  offices  upon  persons,  however 
meritorious  they  may  really  be,  who  have  resided  but  a  little  time,  and  are 
consequently  but  little  known,  in  America.  A  single  disgust,  excited  in  a 
particular  State,  on  this  account,  might  perhaps  raise  a  flame  of  opposition, 
that  could  not  easily,  if  ever,  be  extinguished.  For  the  fact,  I  apprehend, 
will  be  found  to  be,  that  there  will  be  at  least  a  hundred  competitors  for  every 
office  of  any  kind  of  importance.  Indeed,  the  number  of  offices  will,  in  our 
economical  management  of  the  affairs  of  the  republic,  be  much  fewer,  as  I 
conceive,  and  the  pretensions  of  those  who  may  wish  to  occupy  them  much 
more  forcible,  than  many  well  informed  men  have  imagined.  At  all  events, 
so  much  I  can  with  truth  declare,  that  several  of  the  candidates,  who  have 
already  come  forward,  have  claims  to  the  public  attention  and  gratitude,  which 
cannot  be  set  aside  without  a  palpable  act  of  injustice.  Some  of  them  are 
men  of  unquestionable  talents,  who  have  wasted  the  flower  of  their  lives  in 
the  civil  or  military  service  of  their  country  ;  men,  who  have  materially  injured 
their  properties,  and  excluded  themselves  from  obtaining  a  subsistence  for 
their  families  by  the  professions  they  were  accustomed  to  pursue.  There  are 
some,  I  may  add,  who  have  shed  their  blood,  and  deserved  all  that  a  grateful 
country  has  to  bestow.  Nor  are  they,  in  my  judgment,  incapable  of  reflecting 
lustre  on  the  most  dignified  stations. 

"  I  have  no  conception  of  a  more  delicate  task,  than  that  which  is  imposed 
by  the  constitution  on  the  executive.  It  is  the  nature  of  republicans,  who  are 
nearly  in  a  state  of  equality,  to  be  extremely  jealous  as  to  the  disposal  of  all 
honorary  or  lucrative  appointments.  Perfectly  convinced  I  am,  that,  if  injudi 
cious  or  unpopular  measures  should  be  taken  by  the  executive  under  the  new 
government,  with  regard  to  appointments,  the  government  itself  would  be  in 
the  utmost  danger  of  being  utterly  subverted  by  those  measures.  So  neces 
sary  is  it  at  this  crisis  to  conciliate  the  good  will  of  the  people,  and  so  impossi 
ble  is  it,  in  my  judgment,  to  build  the  edifice  of  public  happiness  but  upon 
their  affections.  Your  good  sense  and  native  candor  must  serve  me  as  an 
apology  for  being  thus  explicit." — March  21  st. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  369 


stances  of  actual  occupancy,  merely  to  make  room 
for  another,  however  considerable  his  abilities,  or 
unimpeached  his  integrity  may  appear  to  the  public 
eye.1 

Mrs.  Washington  joins  me  in  every  good  wish  for 
Mrs.  Harrison  and  your  family. 

I  am,  Sir,  &c. 


TO    GEORGE    STEPTOE    WASHINGTON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  23  March,  1789. 

DEAR    GEORGE, 

As  it  is  probable  I  shall  soon  be  under  the  neces 
sity  of  quitting  this  place,  and  entering  once  more 
into  the  bustle  of  publick  life,  in  conformity  to  the 
voice  of  my  Country  and  the  earnest  entreaties  of  my 
friends,  however  contrary  it  is  to  my  own  desires  or 
inclinations  ;  I  think  it  incumbent  on  me  as  your 
Uncle  and  friend,  to  give  you  some  advisory  hints, 
which  if  properly  attended  to,  will,  I  conceive,  be 
found  very  useful  to  you  in  regulating  your  conduct 
and  giving  you  respectability  not  only  at  present  but 
through  every  period  of  life.  You  have  now  arrived 
to  that  age  when  you  must  quit  the  trifling  amuse 
ments  of  a  boy,  and  assume  the  more  dignified  man 
ners  of  a  man. 

At  this  crisis  your  conduct  will  attract  the  notice 
of  those  who  are  about  you  ;  and  as  the  first  impres- 

1  The  office  wanted  was  that  of  naval  officer  of  the  District  of  Portsmouth 
and  Norfolk.     Col.  Parker  had  just  resigned  it,  to  take  his  seat  in  Congress, 
and  the  Virginia  Council  had  chosen  Capt.  William  Lindsay  to  succeed  him. 
24 


370  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


sions  are  generally  the  most  lasting  ;  your  doings  now 
may  mark  the  leading  traits  of  your  character  through 
life.  It  is  therefore,  absolutely  necessary,  if  you  mean 
to  make  any  figure  upon  the  stage,  that  you  should 
take  the  first  steps  right.  What  these  steps  are  and 
what  general  line  is  to  be  pursued  to  lay  the  founda 
tion  of  an  honorable  and  happy  progress,  is  the  part 
of  age  and  experience  to  point  out.  This  I  shall  do, 
as  far  as  in  my  power  with  the  utmost  chearfulness  ; 
and,  I  trust,  that  your  own  good  sense  will  shew  you 
the  necessity  of  following  it.  The  first  and  great 
object  with  you  at  present  is  to  acquire,  by  industry 
and  application,  such  knowledge  as  your  situation 
enables  you  to  obtain,  as  will  be  useful  to  you  in 
life.  In  doing  this  two  other  important  objects 
will  be  gained  besides  the  acquisition  of  knowledge 
—namely  a  habit  of  industry,  and  a  disrelish  of  that 
profusion  of  money  and  dissipation  of  time  which  are 
ever  attendant  upon  idleness.  I  do  not  mean  by  a 
close  application  to  your  studies  that  you  should 
never  enter  into  those  amusements  which  are  suited 
to  your  age  and  station.  They  may  be  made  to  go 
hand  in  hand  with  each  other,  and  used  in  their 
proper  seasons,  will  ever  be  found  to  be  a  mutual 
assistance  to  each  other.  But  what  amusements  are 
to  be  taken,  and  when,  is  the  great  matter  to  be 
attended  to — your  own  judgement,  with  the  advice 
of  your  real  friends  who  may  have  an  opportunity  of 
a  personal  intercourse  with  you  can  point  out  the 
particular  manner  in  which  you  may  best  spend  your 
moments  of  relaxation,  much  better  than  I  can  at  a 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  371 

distance. — One  thing,  however,  I  would  strongly  im 
press  upon  you,  viz  :  that  when  you  have  leisure,  to 
go  into  company  ;  that  it  should  always  be  of  the 
best  kind  that  the  place  you  are  in  will  afford ;  by  this 
means  you  will  be  constantly  improving  your  man 
ners  and  cultivating  your  mind  while  you  are  relaxing 
from  your  books  ;  and  good  company  will  always  be 
found  much  less  expensive  than  bad.  You  cannot 
offer,  as  an  excuse  for  not  using  it,  that  you  cannot 
gain  admission  there,  or  that  you  have  not  a  proper 
attention  paid  you  in  it,  this  is  an  apology  made  only, 
by  those  whose  manners  are  disgusting,  or  whose 
character  is  exceptionable  ;  neither  of  which,  I  hope 
will  ever  be  said  of  you.  I  cannot  enjoin  too  strongly 
upon  you  a  due  observance  of  economy  and  frugality  : 
As  you  well  know  yourself,  the  present  state  of  your 
property  and  finances  will  not  admit  of  any  unneces 
sary  expense.  The  article  of  clothing  is  now  one  of 
the  chief  expenses,  you  will  incur ;  and  in  this,  I  fear, 
you  are  not  so  economical  as  you  should  be.  Decency 
and  cleanliness  will  always  be  the  first  object  in  the 
dress  of  a  judicious  and  sensible  man.  A  conformity 
to  the  prevailing  fashion  in  a  certain  degree  is  neces 
sary — but  it  does  not  follow  from  thence  that  a  man 
should  always  get  a  new  coat,  or  other  clothes,  upon 
every  trifling  change  in  the  mode,  when,  perhaps  he 
has  two  or  three  very  good  ones  by  him.  A  person 
who  is  anxious  to  be  a  leader  of  the  fashion,  or  one  of 
the  first  to  follow  it,  will  certainly  appear  in  the  eyes 
of  judicious  men,  to  have  nothing  better  than  a  fre 
quent  c[h]ange  of  dress  to  recommend  hi  to  notice. 


372  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


I  would  always  wish  you  to  appear  sufficiently  decent 
to  entitle  you  to  admission  into  any  company,  where 
you  may  be, — but  I  cannot  too  strongly  enjoin  it  upon 
you — and  your  own  knowledge  must  convince  you  of 
the  truth  of  it — that  you  should  be  as  little  expensive 
in  this  respect  as  you  properly  can — You  should 
always  keep  some  clothes  to  wear  to  church,  or  on 
particular  occasions,  which  should  not  be  worn  every 
day.  This  can  be  done  without  any  additional  ex 
pense  ;  for  whenever  it  is  necessary  to  get  new  clothes, 
those  which  have  been  kept  for  particular  occasions, 
will  then  come  in  as  every  day  ones,  unless  they 
should  be  of  a  superior  quality  to  the  new.  What  I 
have  said  with  respect  to  clothes  will  apply  perhaps 
more  pointedly  to  Lawrence  than  to  you, — and  as  you 
are  much  older  than  he  is,  and  more  capable  of  jud 
ging  of  the  propriety  of  what  I  have  here  observed,  you 
must  pay  attention  to  him,  in  this  respect,  and  see  that 
he  does  not  wear  his  clothes  improperly  or  extrava 
gantly.  Much  more  might  be  said  to  you,  as  a  young 
man,  upon  the  necessity  of  paying  due  attention  to 
the  moral  virtues, — but  this  may,  perhaps,  more  prop 
erly  be  the  subject  of  a  future  letter  when  you  are 
about  to  enter  into  the  world.  If  you  comply  with 
the  advice  herein  given,  to  pay  a  diligent  attention  to 
your  studies,  and  employ  your  time  of  relaxation  in 
proper  company,  you  will  find  but  few  opportunities  and 
little  inclination,  while  you  continue  at  an  Acadimy,  to 
enter  into  those  scenes  of  vice  and  dissipation  which 
too  often  present  themselves  to  youth  in  every  place, 
and  particularly  in  towns.  If  you  are  determined  to 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  .  373 


neglect  your  books,  and  plunge  into  extravagance  and 
dissipation  nothing  that  I  can  now  say  would  prevent 
it, — for  you  must  be  employed,  and  if  it  is  not  in 
pursuit  of  those  things  profitable,  it  must  be  in  pur 
suit  of  those  which  are  -  — .  As  your  time  of  con 
tinuing  with  Mr.  Hanson  expires  the  last  of  this 
month  and  I  understand  that  Doctor  Craik  has 
expressed  an  inclination  to  take  you  and  Lawrence  to 
board  with  him,  I  shall  know  his  determination  re 
specting  the  matter, — and  if  it  is  agreeable  to  him 
and  Mrs.  Craik  to  take  you  I  shall  be  pleased  with 
it  ;  for  I  am  certain  that  nothing  will  be  wanting  on 
their  part  to  make  your  situation  agreeable  and  use 
ful  to  you.  Should  you  live  with  the  Doctor,  I  shall 
request  him  to  take  you  both  under  his  peculiar  care 
—provide  such  clothes  for  you  from  time  to  time,  as 
he  shall  judge  necessary, — and  do  by  you  in  the  same 
manner  as  he  would  if  you  were  his  own  children  : 
which  if  he  will  undertake,  I  am  sensible,  from  knowl 
edge  which  I  have  of  him,  and  the  very  amiable 
character  and  disposition  of  Mrs.  Craik,  that  they  will 
spare  no  proper  exertions  to  make  your  situation 
pleasing  and  profitable  to  you.  Should  you  or  Lawrence 
therefore  behave  in  such  a  manner  as  to  occasion  any 
complaint  being  made  to  me,  you  may  depend  upon 
losing  that  place  which  you  now  have  in  my  affec 
tions,  and  any  future  hope  you  may  have  from  me. 
But  if,  on  the  contrary,  your  conduct  is  such  as  to 
merit  my  regard  you  may  always  depend  upon  the 
warmest  attachment  and  sincere  regard  of 

Your  affectionate  friend  and  Uncle. 


374  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


TO    JAMES    MADISON,    IN    CONGRESS. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  30  March,  1789. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

I  have  been  favored  with  your  letter  of  the  iQth, 
by  which  it  appears  that  a  quorum  of  Congress  was 
hardly  to  be  expected  before  the  beginning  of  the  next 
week.  As  this  delay  must  be  very  irksome  to  the 
attending  members,  and  every  day's  continuance  of 
it,  before  the  government  is  in  operation,  will  be  more 
sensibly  felt,  I  am  resolved,  that  none  shall  proceed 
from  me  that  can  well  be  avoided,  after  notice  of  the 
election  is  announced,  and  therefore  I  take  the  liberty 
of  requesting  the  favor  of  you  to  engage  lodgings  for 
me  previous  to  my  arrival. 

Mr.  Lear,  who  has  lived  with  me  three  years  as  a 
private  secretary,  will  accompany  or  precede  me  in  the 
stage  ;  and  Colonel  Humphreys  I  presume  will  be  of 
my  party.  On  the  subject  of  lodgings,  I  will  frankly 
declare  to  you,  that  I  mean  to  go  into  none  but  hired 
ones.  If  these  cannot  be  had  tolerably  convenient 
(for  I  shall  not  be  nice  about  them),  I  would  take 
rooms  in  the  most  decent  tavern,  till  a  house  can  be 
provided  for  the  more  permanent  reception  of  the 
President.  I  have  already  declined  a  very  polite 
and  pressing  invitation  from  the  Governor  to  lodge 
at  his  house,  till  a  place  could  be  prepared  for  me  ; 
after  which,  should  any  other  offer  of  a  similar  nature 
be  made,  there  could  be  no  propriety  in  my  acceptance 
of  it.  As  you  are  fully  acquainted  with  my  senti 
ments  on  this  head,  I  shall  only  add,  that,  as  I  mean 
to  avoid  private  families  on  the  one  hand,  so  on  the 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  375 


other  I  am  not  anxious  to  be  placed  early  in  a  situa 
tion  for  entertaining  ;  for  which  reason  private  lod 
gings,  till  I  can  feel  the  way  a  little,  would  not  only  be 
more  agreeable  to  my  own  wishes,  but  possibly.rnore 
consistent  with  sound  policy.1. 

As  it  is  my  intention  to  conform  to  the  public  de 
sire  and  expectation  with  respect  to  the  style  proper 
for  the  President  to  live  in,  it  may  be  well  to  know 
what  these  are  before  he  enters  upon  it.  After  all, 
something  may  perhaps  have  been  decided  upon  be 
fore  this  will  reach  you,  that  may  make  the  request 
nugatory.  If  otherwise,  I  will  only  in  one  word  say, 
that  my  wish  is  to  be  placed  in  an  independent  situa 
tion  for  the  purpose  I  have  mentioned.  I  have  the 
honor  to  be,  with  sentiments  of  the  highest  regard, 
&c. 


TO    THOMAS    GREENE 
THOMAS    GREEN,  MOUNT  VERNON,  31  March,  1789. 

I  am  about  to  leave  my  home  whether  for  a  length 
of  time  is  more  than  I  can  tell  at  present. — But  be 
this  as  it  may  I  expect  the  agreement  to  which  we 

1  Both  Governor  Clinton  and  John  Jay  invited  Washington  to  stay  with  them 
on  his  arrival  in  New  York.  To  Clinton  he  replied,  25  March,  1789  : 

"  I  shall  make  it  a  point  to  take  hired  lodgings  or  rooms  in  a  tavern  until  some 
house  can  be  provided.  Because  it  would  be  wrong,  in  my  real  judgment,  to 
impose  such  a  burden  on  any  private  family,  as  must  unavoidably  be  occasioned 
by  my  company  ;  and  because  I  think  it  would  be  generally  expected,  that,  being 
supported  by  the  public  at  large,  I  should  not  be  burdensome  to  individuals. 
With  respect  to  the  other  part  of  your  letter,  which  is  expressive  of  a  wish  to  be 
apprized  of  the  time  of  my  approach  to  the  city,  I  can  assure  you,  with  the 
utmost  sincerity,  that  no  reception  can  be  so  congenial  to  my  feelings  as  a 
quiet  entry  devoid  of  ceremony,  be  the  manner  of  it  what  it  may." 

-  "  A  Rough  and  incorrect  Draught  of  a  letter." — Note  by  Washington, 


376  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


have  subscribed,  will  be  as  strictly  complied  with  on 
your  part  as  it  shall  be  punctually  fulfilled  on  mine.  To 
enable  you  to  do  this,  you  would  do  well  to  keep  two 
things  always  in  remembrance — First  that  all  Bar 
gains  are  intended,  for  the  mutual  benefit  of  and  are 
equally  binding  on  both  the  Parties,  and  are  either 
binding  in  all  their  parts  or  are  of  no  use  at  all — If 
then  a  man  receives  for  his  labor,  and  he  with  holds 
that  labor,  or  if  he  trifles  away  that  time  for  which  he 
is  paid,  it  is  a  robbery — and  a  robbery  of  the  worst 
kind,  because  it  is  not  only  a  fraud  but  a  dishonorable, 
unmanly  and  a  deceitful  fraud  ; — but  it  is  unnecessary 
to  dwell  on  this  because  there  is  no  Man  so  ignorant 
of  the  common  obligations  of  Justice,  as  not  to  know 
it — altho'  there  are  hundreds  who  do  not  scruple  to 
practice  it,  at  the  same  time  that  they  would  think 
hard,  on  the  other  hand,  if  they  were  to  be  deprived 
of  their  money.  The  other  matter  which  I  advise 
you  to  keep  always  in  remembrance  is  the  good  name, 
which  common  policy  as  well  as  common  honesty, 
makes  it  necessary  for  every  workman  who  wishes  to 
pass  thro'  life  with  reputation  and  to  secure  employ 
ment.  Having  said  thus  much  by  way  of  exhorta 
tion  I  shall  inform  you  in  the  most  serious  and 
positive  terms  that  I  have  left  strict  orders  with  the 
Major  my  nephew,  who  is  vested  with  full  powers  to 
transact  all  my  business,  that  if  he  should  find  you 
unfaithful  to  your  engagements,  either  from  the  love 
of  liquor,  from  a  disposition  to  be  running  about,  or 
from  proneness  to  idle  when  at  your  work — to  discard 
you  immediately,  and  to  remove  your  family  from 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  377 


their  present  abode.  The  sure  means  to  avoid  this 
evil  is — first  to  refrain  from  drink  which  is  the  source 
of  all  evil — and  the  ruin  of  half  the  workmen  in  this 
Country — and  next  to  avoid  bad  company,  which  is 
the  bane  of  good  morals,  economy  and  industry. 
You  have  every  inducement  to  do  this — Reputation 
—the  care  and  support  of  a  growing  family — and 
society  which  this  family  affords  within  your  own 
doors,  which  may  not  be  the  case  with  some  of  the 
idle  (to  say  nothing  worse  of  them)  characters  who 
may  lead  you  into  temptation.  Were  you  to  look 
back,  and  had  the  means,  either  from  recollection,  or 
accounts,  to  ascertain  the  cost  of  the  liquor  you  have 
expended  it  would  astonish  you — In  the  manner  this 
expence  is  generally  incurred,  that  is  by  getting  a 
little  now — a  little  then,  the  impropriety  of  it  is  not 
seen,  in  as  much  as  it  passes  away  without  much 
thought.  But  view  it  in  the  aggregate  you  will  be 
convinced  at  once,  whether  any  man  who  depends 
upon  the  labor  of  his  hands,  not  only  for  his  own 
support,  but  that  of  an  encreasing  family,  can  afford 
such  a  proportion  of  his  wages  to  that  article.  But 
the  expence  is  not  the  worst  consequence  that  attends 
it,  for  it  naturally  leads  a  man  into  the  company  of 
those  who  encourage  dissipation  and  idleness,  by 
which  he  is  led  by  degrees  to  the  perpetration  of 
acts  which  may  terminate  in  his  Ruin.  But  suppos 
ing  this  not  to  happen,  a  disordered  frame,  and  a 
body  debilitated,  renders  him  unfit  (even  if  his  mind 
was  disposed  to  discharge  the  duties  of  his  station 
with  honor  to  himself  or  fidelity  to  his  employer) 


378  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


from  the  execution  of  it.  An  aching  head  and  trem 
bling  limbs,  which  are  the  inevitable  effects  of  drink 
ing,  disincline  the  hands  from  work ;  hence  begins 
sloth  and  that  Listlessness,  which  end  in  idleness, 
but  which  are  no  reasons  for  withholding  that  labor 
for  which  money  is  paid. 

I  have  no  other  inducement  for  giving  you  this 
advice  (in  this  my  hour  of  hurry)  but  your  own  good  ; 
for  the  wages  and  previleges  which  you  have  I  well 
know  would  obtain  for  me  the  best  workmen  in  this 
country,  without  the  charges  of  such  a  family  as 
yours  ;  but  as  it  has  been  a  custom  with  me  through 
life  to  give  a  preference  to  those  who  have  long  lived 
with  me,  and  my  wish  to  see  them  do  well,  I  have 
taken  the  trouble  of  writing  you  this  letter.  If  you 
have  gratitude,  or  a  mind  capable  of  reflection,  it  will 
make  such  an  impression  on  it  as  may  be  serviceable 
to  you  thro  life  ;  if  not,  I  have  my  labor  for  my  pains. 

Whilst  the  negro  carpenters  work  at  the  same  spot 
where  you  are,  they  will  be  subject  to  your  inspection 
and  orders — and  at  other  times  if  it  should  be  found 
necessary  to  put  them  under  yr.  care  it  will  be  ex 
pected  that  you  see  that  they  do  their  duty.  I  am,  &C.1 

1  The  patience  of  Washington  was  sorely  tried  by  Green,  and  subsequently 
an  annual  contract  appears  to  have  been  made  between  them.  The  last  con 
tract  was  made  2  October,  1793,  by  which  Green  and  his  four  negro  carpenters 
were  to  receive  ,£10  a  month  and  certain  articles  of  food,  and  Green  engaged 
never  to  be  away  while  his  people  were  at  work,  and  he  in  health,  or  be  ab 
sent  without  permission.  "  And  whereas  it  too  often  happens  that  men  (regard 
less  of  their  engagements  and  of  course  their  reputation)  when  working  on 
standing  wages,  are  apt  to  be  idle,  careless  and  indifferent  to  the  interest  of 
their  employers,  thereby  setting  the  reverse  of  good  examples,  it  is  hereby 
clearly  understood  and  expressly  agreed  to  by  the  said  Thomas  Green,  that  he 
will  be  at  his  business  as  soon  as  it  is  light,  and  remain  thereat  until  dark, 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  379 

TO    HENRY    KNOX. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  i  April,  1789. 

DEAR  SIR, 

The  mail  of  the  3Oth  brought  me  your  favor  of  the 
23d,  by  which,  and  the  regular  information  you  have 
had  the  goodness  to  transmit  to  me  of  the  state  of 
things  in  New  York,  I  am  very  much  obliged,  and 
thank  you  accordingly. 

I  feel  for  those  members  of  the  new  Congress,  who 
hitherto  have  given  an  unavailing  attendance  at  the 
theatre  of  action.  For  myself  the  delay  may  be  com 
pared  to  a  reprieve  ;  for  in  confidence  I  tell  you,  (with 
the  world  it  would  obtain  little  credit,)  that  my  move 
ments  to  the  chair  of  government  will  be  accompanied 
by  feelings  not  unlike  those  of  a  culprit,  who  is  going 
to  the  place  of  his  execution  ;  so  unwilling  am  I,  in 
the  evening  of  a  life  nearly  consumed  in  public  cares, 
to  quit  a  peaceful  abode  for  an  ocean  of  difficulties, 
without  that  competency  of  political  skill,  abilities,  and 
inclination,  which  are  necessary  to  manage  the  helm. 
I  am  sensible  that  I  am  embarking  the  voice  of  the 


when  he  is  in  health  ;  and  when  not  employed  in  laying  out,  or  marking  off 
work  for  others,  that  he  will  labor  as  faithfully,  and  as  effectually  as  any  hand 
under  him  ;  as  well  for  the  purpose  of  fulfilling  this  agreement  as  for  the  good 
example  he  would  set  by  so  doing  to  those  who  are  under  his  care,  and  who  are 
not  so  ignorant  (knowing  this  is  required  of  him)  as  not  to  relax  as  he  relaxes, 
and  be  idle  in  proportion  as  he  is  idle  ;  because  all  of  them  have  discernment 
enough  to  know  that  no  man  can,  with  propriety,  or  a  good  conscience,  correct 
others  for  a  fault  he  is  guilty  of  himself  ;  the  consequence  of  which  is,  that  in 
dolence  and  sloth  take  possession  of  the  whole." — Agreement.  In  February, 
1794,  Washington  wrote  to  Pearce,  his  overseer,  that  he  had  become  convinced 
of  Green's  unfitness  to  look  after  his  carpenters,  that  only  the  helpless  condition 
of  the  family  had  prevailed  to  retain  him  so  long,  and  that  a  change  must 
be  made.  Green,  in  September,  left  of  his  own  accord. 


380  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

people,  and  a  good  name  of  my  own,  on  this  voyage ; 
but  what  returns  will  be  made  for  them,  Heaven  alone 
can  foretell.  Integrity  and  firmness  are  all  I  can 
promise.  These,  be  the  voyage  long  or  short,  shall 
never  forsake  me,  although  I  may  be  deserted  by  all 
men  ;  for  of  the  consolations,  which  are  to  be  derived 
from  these,  under  any  circumstances,  the  world  can 
not  deprive  me.  I  am  &C.1 


TO    JOHN    LANGDON. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  14  April,  1789. 

I  had  the  honor  to  receive  your  official  communi 
cation,  by  the  hand  of  Mr.  Secretary  Thomson,  about 
one  o'clock  this  day.  Having  concluded  to  obey  the 
important  and  flattering  call  of  my  country,  and  hav 
ing  been  impressed  with  an  idea  of  the  expediency 
of  my  being  with  Congress  at  as  early  a  period  as 
possible,  I  propose  to  commence  my  journey  on 
Thursday  morning,  which  will  be  the  day  after  to 
morrow.  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  sentiments  of 
esteem,  Sir,  &c.- 


1  The  day  appointed  for  the  assembling  of  Congress  was  the  4th  of  March  ; 
but  so  tardily  did  the  members  come  together,  that  a  quorum  of  both  Houses 
was  not  formed  until  the  6th  of  April.  "  The  stupor  or  listlessness,  with  which 
our  public  measures  seem  to  be  pervaded,  is  to  me  a  matter  of  deep  regret.  In 
deed  it  has  so  strange  an  appearance,  that  I  cannot  but  wonder  how  men,  who  are 
anxious  to  get  into  office  or  who  are  ever  prevailed  upon  toaccept  it,  can  recon 
cile  such  conduct  with  their  sense  of  propriety.  The  delay  is  inauspicious  to 
say  the  least  of  it,  and  the  world  must  condemn  it." — Washington  to  A'nojc, 
10  April,  1789. 

'2  On  the  6th  of  April,  when  the  electoral  votes  were  opened,  it  appeared  that 
Washington  was  unanimously  chosen  President  of  the  United  States.  With 
marked  fitness,  Charles  Thomson  was  appointed  to  notify  Washington  of  the 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  381 


INAUGURAL    SPEECH    TO    BOTH     HOUSES    OF    CONGRESS, 
APRIL    3<DTH,     1789. 

FELLOW-CITIZENS  OF  THE  SENATE 

AND   HOUSE  OF  REPRESENTATIVES, 

Among  the  vicissitudes  incident  to  life,  no  event  could  have 
filled  me  with  greater  anxieties,  than  that  of  which  the  notifica 
tion  was  transmitted  by  your  order,  and  received  on  the  i4th  day 
of  the  present  month.  On  the  one  hand,  I  was  summoned  by  my 
country,  whose  voice  1  can  never  hear  but  with  veneration  and 
love,  from  a  retreat  which  I  had  chosen  with  the  fondest  predi 
lection,  and,  in  my  flattering  hopes,  with  an  immutable  decision, 
as  the  asylum  of  my  declining  years  ;  a  retreat  which  was  rendered 
every  day  more  necessary  as  well  as  more  dear  to  me,  by  the  ad 
dition  of  habit  to  inclination,  and  of  frequent  interruptions  in  my 
health  to  the  gradual  waste  committed  on  it  by  time.  On  the  other 
hand,  the  magnitude  and  difficulty  of  the  trust,  to  which  the  voice  of 
my  country  called  me,  being  sufficient  to  awaken  in  the  wisest 
and  most  experienced  of  her  citizens  a  distrustful  scrutiny  into 
his  qualifications,  could  not  but  overwhelm  with  despondence 
one,  who,  inheriting  inferior  endowments  from  nature,  and 
unpractised  in  the  duties  of  civil  administration,  ought  to  be  pe 
culiarly  conscious  of  his  own  deficiencies.  In  this  conflict  of 
emotions,  all  I  dare  aver  is,  that  it  has  been  my  faithful  study  to 
collect  my  duty  from  a  just  appreciation  of  every  circumstance 
by  which  it  might  be  affected.  All  I  dare  hope  is,  that,  if  in 
executing  this  task,  I  have  been  too  much  swayed  by  a  grateful 
remembrance  of  former  instances,  or  by  an  affectionate  sensibility 

result.  On  April  I4th  he  reached  Mount  Vernon  and  in  a  few  words  per 
formed  the  object  of  his  mission.  In  reply  the  President-elect  said  : 

"  I  have  been  accustomed  to  pay  so  much  respect  to  the  opinion  of  my  fel 
low  citizens,  that  the  knowledge  of  their  having  given  their  unanimous  suffrages 
in  my  favor  scarcely  leaves  me  the  alternative  for  an  option.  I  cannot,  I  believe, 
give  a  greater  evidence  of  my  sensibility  to  the  honor,  which  they  have  done 
me,  than  by  accepting  the  appointment. 

"  I  am  so  much  affected  by  this  fresh  proof  of  my  country's  esteem  and  con 
fidence,  that  silence  can  best  explain  my  gratitude.  While  I  realize  the  ardu 
ous  nature  of  the  task,  which  is  imposed  upon  me,  and  feel  my  own  inability  to 
perform  it,  I  wish  that  there  may  not  be  reason  for  regretting  the  choice ;  for, 


382  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

to  this  transcendent  proof  of  the  confidence  of  my  fellow-citizens  ; 
and  have  thence  too  little  consulted  my  incapacity  as  well  as 
disinclination  for  the  weighty  and  untried  cares  before  me  ;  my 


indeed,  all  I  can  promise  is  only  to  accomplish  that,  which  can  be  done  by  an 
honest  zeal." 

Recognizing  the  importance  of  being  in  New  York  at  an  early  day,  that 
there  might  be  no  delay  in  organizing  the  new  executive,  he  set  out  from  Mount 
Vernon  on  April  i6th,  recording  in  his  Diary  :  "  About  ten  o'clock,  I  bade 
adieu  to  Mount  Vernon,  to  private  life,  and  to  domestic  felicity  ;  and,  with  a 
mind  oppressed  with  more  anxious  and  painful  sensations  than  I  have  words  to 
express,  set  out  for  New  York  in  company  with  Mr.  Thomson  and  Colonel 
Humphreys,  with  the  best  disposition  to  render  service  to  my  country  in  obedi 
ence  to  its  call,  but  with  less  hope  of  answering  its  expectations."  The  inci 
dents  attending  his  journey  to  the  seat  of  government  and  his  inauguration  are 
so  fully  described  in  the  volume  commemorative  of  the  celebration  in  1889,  as  to 
make  even  a  summary  unnecessary.  On  the  3Oth  of  April  the  oath  of  office  was 
administered  by  the  Chancellor  of  New  York,  and  an  address  delivered  to  both 
Houses  of  Congress.  Three  contemporary  records  may  be  quoted.  The  fol 
lowing  account  is  from  a  manuscript  Diary  kept  by  Mr.  Lear,  who  was  at  that 
time  the  President's  secretary  : 

"  April  y>th. — The  morning  was  employed  in  making  such  arrangements  as 
were  necessary  for  the  ceremonies  of  the  day.  At  nine  o'clock  all  the  churches 
in  the  city  were  opened,  and  prayers  offered  up  to  the  Great  Ruler  of  the  uni 
verse  for  the  preservation  of  the  President.  At  twelve  the  troops  of  the  city 
paraded  before  our  door,  and,  soon  after,  the  committees  of  Congress  and  heads 
of  departments  came  in  their  carriages  to  wait  upon  the  President  to  the  Federal 
Hall.  At  half  past  twelve  the  procession  moved  forward,  the  troops  marching 
in  front  with  all  the  ensigns  of  military  parade.  Next  came  the  committees  and 
heads  of  departments  in  their  carriages.  Next  the  President  in  the  state  coach, 
and  Colonel  Humphreys  and  myself  in  the  President's  own  carriage.  The 
foreign  ministers  and  a  long  train  of  citizens  brought  up  the  rear. 

"  About  two  hundred  yards  before  we  reached  the  hall,  we  descended  from 
our  carriages,  and  passed  through  the  troops,  who  were  drawn  up  on  each  side, 
into  the  Hall  and  Senate-chamber,  where  we  found  the  Vice-President,  the 
Senate,  and  House  of  Representatives  assembled.  They  received  the  President 
in  the  most  respectful  manner,  and  the  Vice-President  conducted  him  to  a  spa 
cious  and  elevated  seat  at  the  head  of  the  room.  A  solemn  silence  prevailed. 
The  Vice-President  soon  arose  and  informed  the  President,  that  all  things  were 
prepared  to  administer  the  oath  whenever  he  should  see  fit  to  proceed  to  the 
balcony  and  receive  it.  He  immediately  descended  from  his  seat,  and  ad 
vanced  through  the  middle  door  of  the  Hall  to  the  balcony.  The  others  passed 
through  the  doors  on  each  side.  The  oath  was  administered  in  public  by 
Chancellor  Livingston  ;  and,  the  moment  the  chancellor  proclaimed  him  Presi- 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  383 


error  will  be  palliated  by  the  motives  which  misled  me,  and  its 
consequences  be  judged  by  my  country  with  some  share  of  the 
partiality  in  which  they  originated. 

dent  of  the  United  States,  the  air  was  rent  by  repeated  shouts  and  huzzas, — 
'  God  bless  our  Washington  !  Long  live  our  beloved  President !  '  We  again 
returned  into  the  Hall,  where,  being  seated  as  before  for  a  few  moments,  the 
President  arose  and  addressed  the  two  branches  of  Congress  in  a  speech,  which 
was  heard  with  eager  and  marked  attention. 

"After  the  President  had  finished  his  speech,  we  proceeded  from  the  Senate- 
chamber,  on  foot  to  St.  Paul's  church,  in  the  same  order  that  we  had  observed 
in  our  carriages,  where  the  bishop  read  prayers  suited  to  the  occasion.  We 
were  then  met  at  the  church  door  by  our  carriages,  and  we  went  home. 

"  In  the  evening  there  was  a  display  of  most  beautiful  fire-works  and  trans 
parent  paintings  at  the  Battery.  The  President,  Colonel  Humphreys,  and 
myself  went  in  the  beginning  of  the  evening  in  the  carriages  to  Chancellor 
Livingston's  and  General  Knox's,  where  we  had  a  full  view  of  the  fire-works. 
We  returned  home  at  ten  on  foot,  the  throng  of  people  being  so  great  as  not  to 
permit  a  carriage  to  pass  through  it," 

Fisher  Ames  noted  :  "I  was  present  in  the  pew  with  the  President,  and 
must  assure  you  that,  after  making  all  deductions  for  the  delusion  of  one's  fancy 
in  regard  to  characters,  I  still  think  of  him  with  more  veneration  than  for  any 
other  person.  Time  has  made  havoc  upon  his  face.  That,  and  many  other 
circumstances  not  to  be  reasoned  about,  conspire  to  keep  up  the  awe  which  I 
brought  with  me.  He  addressed  the  two  Houses  in  the  Senate-chamber  ;  it 
was  a  very  touching  scene,  and  quite  of  a  solemn  kind.  His  aspect  grave, 
almost  to  sadness  ;  his  modesty,  actually  shaking  ;  his  voice  deep,  a  little 
tremulous,  and  so  low  as  to  call  for  close  attention  ;  added  to  the  series  of 
objects  presented  to  the  mind,  and  overwhelming  it,  produced  emotions  of  the 
most  affecting  kind  upon  the  members. " 

Senator  McClay  gave  another  account  :  "  This  great  man  was  agitated 
and  embarrassed  more  than  he  was  by  the  levelled  cannon  or  pointed  musket. 
He  trembled,  and  several  times  could  scarce  make  out  to  read,  though  it  must 
lie  supposed  he  had  often  read  it  before.  He  put  part  of  the  fingers  of  his 
left  hand  into  the  side  of  what  I  think  the  tailors  call  the  fall  of  the  breeches, 
changing  the  paper  into  his  left  [right?]  hand.  After  some  time,  he  then  did 
the  same  thing  with  some  of  the  fingers  of  his  right  hand.  When  he  came  to 
the  words  'all  the  world,'  he  made  a  flourish  with  his  right  hand,  which  left 
rather  an  ungainly  impression.  I,  for  my  part,  wished  all  set  ceremony  in  the 
hands  of  the  dancing  masters,  and  that  this  first  of  men  had  read  off  his 
address  in  the  plainest  manner  without  ever  taking  his  eyes  from  the  paper, 
for  I  felt  hurt  that  he  was  not  first  in  every  thing.  He  was  dressed  in  deep 
brown,  with  metal  buttons,  with  an  eagle  on  them,  white  stockings,  a  bag, 
and  sword." 


384  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


Such  being  the  impressions  under  which  I  have,  in  obedience 
to  the  public  summons,  repaired  to  the  present  station,  it  would 
be  peculiarly  improper  to  omit,  in  this  first  official  act,  my  fervent 
supplications  to  that  Almighty  Being,  who  rules  over  the  universe, 
who  presides  in  the  councils  of  nations,  and  whose  providential 
aids  can  supply  every  human  defect,  that  his  benediction  may 
consecrate  to  the  liberties  and  happiness  of  the  people  of  the  United 
States  a  government  instituted  by  themselves  for  these  essential 
purposes,  and  may  enable  every  instrument  employed  in  its  ad 
ministration  to  execute  with  success  the  functions  allotted  to  his 
charge.  In  tendering  this  homage  to  the  great  Author  of  every 
public  and  private  good,  I  assure  myself  that  it  expresses  your 
sentiments  not  less  than  my  own  ;  nor  those  of  my  fellow-citizens 
at  large,  less  than  either.  No  people  can  be  bound  to  acknowl 
edge  and  adore  the  invisible  hand,  which  conducts  the  affairs  of 
men,  more  than  the  people  of  the  United  States.  Every  step,  by 
which  they  have  advanced  to  the  character  of  an  independent 
nation,  seems  to  have  been  distinguished  by  some  token  of  provi 
dential  agency.  And,  in  the  important  revolution  just  accom 
plished  in  the  system  of  their  united  government,  the  tranquil 
deliberations  and  voluntary  consent  of  so  many  distinct  commu 
nities,  from  which  the  event  has  resulted,  cannot  be  compared 
with  the  means  by  which  most  governments  have  been  established, 
without  some  return  of  pious  gratitude  along  with  an  humble  an 
ticipation  of  the  future  blessings  which  the  past  seem  to  presage. 
These  reflections,  arising  out  of  the  present  crisis,  have  forced 
themselves  too  strongly  on  my  mind  to  be  suppressed.  You  will 
join  with  me,  I  trust,  in  thinking  that  there  are  none,  under  the 
influence  of  which  the  proceedings  of  a  new  and  free  government 
can  more  auspiciously  commence. 

By  the  article  establishing  the  executive  department,  it  is  made 
the  duty  of  the  President  "  to  recommend  to  your  consideration 
such  measures  as  he  shall  judge  necessary  and  expedient."  The 
circumstances,  under  which  I  now  meet  you,  will  acquit  me 
from  entering  into  that  subject  farther  than  to  refer  you  to  the 
great  constitutional  charter  under  which  we  are  assembled  ;  and 
which,  in  defining  your  powers,  designates  the  objects  to  which 


789]  GEORGE   WASHINGTON.  385 


your  attention  is  to  be  given.  It  will  be  more  consistent  with 
those  circumstances,  and  far  more  congenial  with  the  feelings 
which  actuate  me,  to  substitute,  in  place  of  a  recommendation 
of  particular  measures,  the  tribute  that  is  due  to  the  talents, 
the  rectitude,  and  the  patriotism,  which  adorn  the  charac 
ters  selected  to  devise  and  adopt  them.  In  these  honora 
ble  qualifications  I  behold  the  surest  pledges,  that  as,  on  one  side, 
no  local  prejudices  or  attachments,  no  separate  views  or  party 
animosities,  will  misdirect  the  comprehensive  and  equal  eye, 
which  ought  to  watch  over  this  great  assemblage  of  communities 
and  interests  ;  so,  on  another,  that  the  foundations  of  our  national 
policy  will  be  laid  in  the  pure  and  immutable  principles  of  private 
morality,  and  the  pre-eminence  of  a  free  government  be  exem 
plified  by  all  the  attributes,  which  can  win  the  affections  of  its 
citizens,  and  command  the  respect  of  the  world. 

I  dwell  on  this  prospect  with  every  satisfaction,  which  an  ardent 
love  for  my  country  can  inspire  ;  since  there  is  no  truth  more 
thoroughly  established,  than  that  there  exists  in  the  economy  and 
course  of  nature  an  indissoluble  union  between  virtue  and  happi 
ness,  between  duty  and  advantage,  between  the  genuine  maxims 
of  an  honest  and  magnanimous  policy,  and  the  solid  rewards  of 
public  prosperity  and  felicity  ;  since  we  ought  to  be  no  less  per 
suaded  that  the  propitious  smiles  of  Heaven  can  never  be  ex 
pected  on  a  nation  that  disregards  the  eternal  rules  of  order  and 
right,  which  Heaven  itself  has  ordained  ;  and  since  the  preserva 
tion  of  the  sacred  fire  of  liberty,  and  the  destiny  of  the  republican 
model  of  government,  are  justly  considered  as  deeply,  perhaps  as 
finally  staked,  on  the  experiment  intrusted  to  the  hands  of  the 
American  people. 

Besides  the  ordinary  objects  submitted  to  your  care,  it  will 
remain  with  your  judgment  to  decide,  how  far  an  exercise  of  the 
occasional  power  delegated  by  the  fifth  article  of  the  Constitu 
tion  is  rendered  expedient  at  the  present  juncture  by  the  nature 
of  objections  which  have  been  urged  against  the  system,  or  by 
the  degree  of  inquietude  which  has  given  birth  to  them.  Instead 
of  undertaking  particular  recommendations  on  this  subject,  in 
which  I  could  be  guided  by  no  lights  derived  from  official 


386  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


opportunities,  I  shall  again  give  way  to  my  entire  confidence  in 
your  discernment  and  pursuit  of  the  public  good  ;  for  I  assure 
myself,  that,  whilst  you  carefully  avoid  every  alteration,  which 
might  endanger  the  benefits  of  a  united  and  effective  government, 
or  which  ought  to  await  the  future  lessons  of  experience  ;  a 
reverence  for  the  characteristic  rights  of  freemen,  and  a  re 
gard  for  the  public  harmony,  will  sufficiently  influence  your 
deliberations  on  the  question,  how  far  the  former  can  be  more 
impregnably  fortified,  or  the  latter  be  safely  and  advantageously 
promoted. 

To  the  preceding  observations  I  have  one  to  add,  which 
will  be  most  properly  addressed  to  the  House  of  Representatives. 
It  concerns  myself,  and  will  therefore  be  as  brief  as  possible. 
When  I  was  first  honored  with  a  call  into  the  service  of  my  coun 
try,  then  on  the  eve  of  an  arduous  struggle  for  its  liberties,  the 
light  in  which  I  contemplated  my  duty  required,  that  I  should 
renounce  every  pecuniary  compensation.  From  this  resolution 
I  have  in  no  instance  departed.  And  being  still  under  the 
impressions  which  produced  it,  I  must  decline  as  inapplicable  to 
myself  any  share  in  the  personal  emoluments,  which  may  be  in 
dispensably  included  in  a  permanent  provision  for  the  executive 
department  ;  and  must  accordingly  pray,  that  the  pecuniary  esti 
mates  for  the  station  in  which  I  am  placed  may,  during  my  con 
tinuance  in  it,  be  limited  to  such  actual  expenditures  as  the  public 
good  may  be  thought  to  require. 

Having  thus  imparted  to  you  my  sentiments,  as  they  have  been 
awakened  by  the  occasion  which  brings  us  together,  I  shall  take 
my  present  leave  ;  but  not  without  resorting  once  more  to  the 
benign  Parent  of  the  human  race,  in  humble  supplication,  that, 
since  he  has  been  pleased  to  favor  the  American  people  with 
opportunities  for  deliberating  in  perfect  tranquillity,  and  dis 
positions  for  deciding  with  unparalleled  unanimity  on  a  form 
of  government  for  the  security  of  their  union  and  the  advance 
ment  of  their  happiness  ;  so  his  divine  blessing  may  be  equally 
conspicuous  in  the  enlarged  views,  the  temperate  consultations, 
and  the  wise  measures,  on  which  the  success  of  this  government 
must  depend. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  387 


REPLY    TO    THE    ANSWER    OF    THE    SENATE. 

GENTLEMEN, 

I  thank  you  for  your  address,  in  which  the  most  affectionate 
sentiments  are  expressed  in  the  most  obliging  terms.  The  coin 
cidence  of  circumstances,  which  led  to  this  auspicious  crisis,  the 
confidence  reposed  in  me  by  my  fellow-citizens,  and  the  assist 
ance  I  may  expect  from  counsels,  which  will  be  dictated  by  an 
enlarged  and  liberal  policy,  seem  to  presage  a  more  prosperous 
issue  to  my  administration,  than  a  diffidence  of  my  abilities  had 
taught  me  to  anticipate.  I  now  feel  myself  inexpressibly  happy 
in  a  belief,  that  Heaven,  which  has  done  so  much  for  our  infant 
nation,  will  not  withdraw  its  providential  influence  before  our 
political  felicity  shall  have  been  completed  ;  and  in  a  conviction 
that  the  Senate  will  at  all  times  co-operate  in  every  measure  which 
may  tend  to  promote  the  welfare  of  this  confederated  republic. 

Thus  supported  by  a  firm  trust  in  the  great  Arbiter  of  the  uni 
verse,  aided  by  the  collected  wisdom  of  the  Union,  and  imploring 
the  divine  benediction  on  our  joint  exertions  in  the  service  of 
our  country,  I  readily  engage  with  you  in  the  arduous  but  pleas 
ing  task  of  attempting  to  make  a  nation  happy. 


REPLY     TO    THE     ANSWER    OF    THE     HOUSE    OF 

REPRESENTATIVES. 
GENTLEMEN, 

Your  very  affectionate  address  produces  emotions,  which  I 
know  not  how  to  express.  I  feel,  that  my  past  endeavors  in 
the  service  of  my  country  are  far  overpaid  by  its  goodness  ;  and 
I  fear  much,  that  my  future  ones  may  not  fulfil  your  kind  antici 
pation.  All  that  I  can  promise  is,  that  they  will  be  invariably 
directed  by  an  honest  and  an  ardent  zeal.  Of  this  resource  my 
heart  assures  me.  For  all  beyond,  I  rely  on  the  wisdom  and 
patriotism  of  those  with  whom  I  am  to  co-operate,  and  a  contin 
uance  of  the  blessings  of  Heaven  on  our  beloved  country.1 

1  The  form  of  these  speeches  was  that  used  by  the  colonial  governors  in 
addressing  the  colonial  assemblies,  but  was  later  set  aside  in  favor  of  a  single 


388  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


TO    EDWARD    RUTLEDGE. 

NEW  YORK,  5  May,  1789. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

I  cannot  fail  of  being  much  pleased  with  the  friendly 
part  you  take  in  every  thing  which  concerns  me  ; 
and  particularly  with  the  just  scale  on  which  you 
estimate  this  last  great  sacrifice,  which  I  consider 
myself  as  having  made  for  the  good  of  my  country. 
When  I  had  judged,  upon  the  best  appreciation  I 
was  able  to  form  of  the  circumstances  which  related 
to  myself,  that  it  was  my  duty  to  embark  again  on 
the  tempestuous  and  uncertain  ocean  of  public  life,  I 
gave  up  all  expectations  of  private  happiness  in  this 
world.  You  know,  my  dear  Sir,  I  had  concentered 
all  my  schemes,  all  my  views,  all  my  wishes,  within 
the  narrow  circle  of  domestic  enjoyment.  Though  I 
flatter  myself  the  world  will  do  me  the  justice  to  be 
lieve,  that  at  any  time  of  life  and  in  my  circumstances, 
nothing  but  a  conviction  of  duty  could  have  in 
duced  me  to  depart  from  my  resolution  of  remaining 
in  retirement ;  yet  I  greatly  apprehend  that  my  Coun 
trymen  will  expect  too  much  from  me.  I  fear,  if  the 

message  to  which  no  replies  by  the  respective  houses  of  Congress  were  given. 
The  President  had  consulted  Madison  on  the  replies  : 

"  Notwithstanding  the  conviction  I  am  under  of  the  labor  which  is  imposed 
upon  you  by  Public  Individuals  as  well  as  public  bodies — yet  as  you  have 
begun,  so  I  would  wish  you  to  finish,  the  good  work  in  a  short  reply  to 
the  Addresses  of  the  House  of  Representatives  (which  I  now  inclose)  that  there 
may  be  an  accordance  in  this  business. 

"  Thursday  12  o'clock,  I  have  appointed  to  receive  the  Addresses. — The 
proper  plan  is  with  the  House  to  determine. — As  the  first  of  every  thing,  in  our 
situation  which  serve  to  establish  a  Precedent,  it  is  devoutly  wished  on  my  part, 
that  these  precedents  may  be  fixed  on  true  principles." — Washington  to  Madi 
son,  5  May,  1789. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  389 


issue  of  public  measures  should  not  correspond  with 
their  sanguine  expectations,  they  will  turn  the  extrav 
agant  (and  I  may  say  undue)  praises  which  they  are 
heaping  upon  meat  this  moment,  into  equally  extrav 
agant  (though  I  will  fondly  hope  unmerited)  censures. 
So  much  is  expected,  so  many  untoward  circumstances 
may  intervene,  in  such  a  new  and  critical  situation, 
that  I  feel  an  insuperable  diffidence  in  my  own  abili 
ties — I  feel,  in  the  execution  of  the  duties  of  my  ardu 
ous  office,  how  much  I  shall  stand  in  need  of  the 
countenance  and  aid  of  every  friend  to  myself,  of 
every  friend  to  the  Revolution,  and  of  every  lover  of 
good  Government.  I  thank  you,  my  dear  Sir,  for 
your  affectionate  expressions  on  this  point. 

I  anticipate  that  one  of  the  most  difficult  and  deli 
cate  parts  of  the  duty  of  my  office  will  be  that  which 
relates  to  nominations  for  appointments.  I  receive 
with  the  more  satisfaction  the  strong  testimonials  in 
behalf  of  Mr.  Hall,  because  I  hope  they  will  tend  to 
supersede  the  difficulty  in  this  instance.  Though, 
from  a  system  which  I  have  prescribed  to  myself,  I 
can  say  nothing  decisive  on  particular  appointments  ; 
yet  I  maybe  allowed  to  observe  in  general,  that  noth 
ing  could  be  more  agreeable  to  me  than  to  have  one 
candidate  brought  forward  for  every  office  with  such 
clear  pretensions  as  to  secure  him  against  competition.1 

1  Similar  sentiments  were  expressed  in  a  letter  to  General  Wayne.  "  My 
greatest  apprehension  at  present  is,  that  more  will  be  expected  from  me,  than 
I  shall  be  able  to  perform.  All  that  an  honest  zeal  can  dictate  for  the  advance 
ment  of  the  interests  of  our  country  will,  however,  be  cheerfully  and  perse- 
veringly  attempted." — May  4th.  And  to  General  Schuyler  :  "  It  is  only  from 
the  assurances  of  support,  which  I  have  received  from  the  respectable  and  wor- 


390  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

Mrs.  W.  is  not  here,  but  is  shortly  expected  on  her 
arrival.1  I  will  offer  the  Complts.  of  Mrs.  R.  & 
yourself  to  her.  In  the  meantime  I  pray  you  to  be 
lieve  that  I  am,  with  sentiments  of  the  purest  esteem 
&  the  highest  consideration,  &c. 


TO    JAMES    MADISON. 

NEW  YORK,  12  May,  1789. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

To  draw  such  a  line  for  the  conduct  of  the  Presi 
dent  as  will  please  everybody,  I  know  is  impossible, 
but  to  mark  out  and  follow  one,  which,  by  being  con 
sonant  with  reason,  will  meet  general  approbation, 

thy  characters  in  every  part  of  the  Union,  that  I  am  enabled  to  overcome  the 
diffidence,  which  I  have  in  my  own  abilities  to  execute  my  great  and  important 
trust  to  the  best  interest  of  our  country.  An  honest  zeal,  and  an  unremitting 
attention  to  the  interests  of  the  United  States,  are  all  that  I  dare  promise."  — 
May  gth.  And  again  to  Mr.  Jones  :  "  The  numerous  and  friendly  congratula 
tions,  which  I  have  received  from  respectable  characters  in  every  part  of  the 
Union,  are  truly  pleasing  to  me  ;  not  only  on  account  of  their  discovering  a 
warm  attachment  to  my  person,  but  because  they  convey  the  most  flattering 
idea  of  the  good  dispositions  of  the  people  in  the  several  States,  and  the  strong 
est  assurances  of  support  to  the  government.  It  affords  me  likewise  no  small 
satisfaction  to  find,  that  my  friends  have  done  justice  to  the  motives,  which 
again  brought  me  into  public  life.  Under  all  these  circumstances  I  shall  feel  a 
degree  of  confidence  in  discharging  the  duties  of  my  administration,  with  which 
a  consciousness  alone  of  the  purity  of  my  intentions  could  not  have  inspired  me." 
— May  T4th.  To  Robert  R.  Livingston,  after  stating  the  principles  which  he  had 
adopted  for  regulating  his  conduct  in  regard  to  appointments,  he  wrote  :  "  The 
delicacy  with  which  your  letter  was  written,  and  your  wishes  insinuated,  did 
not  require  me  to  be  thus  explicit  on  this  head  with  you  ;  but  the  desire  which 
I  have,  that  those  persons  whose  good  opinion  I  value,  should  know  the  prin 
ciples  on  which  I  mean  to  act  in  this  business,  has  led  me  to  this  full  declaration, 
and  I  trust,  that  the  truly  worthy  and  respectable  characters  in  this  country 
will  do  justice  to  the  motives  by  which  I  am  actuated  in  all  my  public  transac 
tions." —  May  3ist. 

1  Mrs.  Washington  did  not  arrive  in  New  York  till  May  27th. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  391 


may  be  as  practicable  as  it  is  desirable.  The  true 
medium  I  conceive  must  lie  in  pursuing  such  a  course, 
as  will  allow  him  time  for  all  the  official  duties  of  his 
station.  This  should  be  the  primary  object.  The 
next,  to  avoid  as  much  as  may  be  the  charge  of  su 
perciliousness,  and  seclusion  from  information,  by 
too  much  reserve  and  too  great  a  withdraw  of  himself 
from  company  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  inconven 
iences,  as  well  as  a  reduction  of  respectability,  from 
too  free  an  intercourse  and  too  much  familiarity  on 
the  other. 

Under  these  impressions  I  have  submitted  the  en 
closed  queries '  for  your  consideration,  and  would 
thank  you  for  your  sentiments  thereon,  with  the 
return  of  the  paper.  For  the  remarks  which  it  con 
tains,  it  is  necessary  that  some  plan  should  be  adopted 
by  the  President  for  his  mode  of  living,  that  the  pecu 
niary  estimates  for  the  department  may  have  an  eye 
thereto  ;  and,  though  secondary,  it  is  a  motive  for  my 
bringing  the  matter  before  you  at  this  time.  I  am 
your  affectionate  friend,  &c. 

QUERIES. 

1.  Whether  a  line  of  conduct,  equally  distant  from  an  associa 
tion  with  all  kinds  of  company  on  the  one  hand,  and  from  a  total 
seclusion  from  society  on  the  other,  ought  to  be  adopted  by  him 
And  in  that  case,  how  is  it  to  be  done  ? 

2.  What   will  be  the   least  exceptionable  method   of  bringing 
any  system,  which  may  be  adopted  on  this  subject,  before  the  pub 
lic  and  into  use  ? 

3.  Whether,  after  a  little  time,  one  day  in  every  week  will  not 
be  sufficient  for  receiving  visits  of  compliment  ? 

1  The  queries  were  also  sent  to  Mr.  Jay. 


392  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


4.  Whether  it  would  tend  to  prompt   impertinent   applications, 
and  involve  disagreeable  consequences,  to  have  it  known  that  the 
President  will,  every  morning  at  eight  o'clock,  be  at  leisure  to  give 
audience  to  persons,  who  may  have  business  with  him  ? 

5.  Whether,    when  it   shall   have    been    understood,  that  the 
President  is  not  to  give  general  entertainments  in  the  manner  the 
presidents  of  Congress  have  formerly  done,  it  will  be  practicable 
to  draw  such  a  line  of  discrimination,  in  regard  to  persons,  as 
that  six,  eight,  or  ten  official  characters,  including  in  rotation  the 
members  of  both  Houses  of  Congress,  may  be  invited  informally, 
or  otherwise,  to  dine  with  him  on  the  days  fixed  for  receiving 
company,  without  exciting  clamors  in  the  rest  of  the  community  ? 

6.  Whether  it  would  be  satisfactory  to  the  public  for  the  Pres 
ident  to  make  about  four  great  entertainments  in  a  year,  on  such 
great  occasions  as  the  anniversary  of  the  Declaration  of  Indepen 
dence,  the  alliance  with  France,  the  peace  with  Great  Britain,  the 
organization  of  the  general  government  ;  and  whether  arrange 
ments  of  these  two  last  kinds  could  be  in  danger  of  diverting  too 
much  of  the  President's  time  from  business,  or  of  producing  the 
evils,  which  it  was  intended  to  avoid  by  his  living  more  recluse 
than  the  presidents  of  Congress  have  heretofore  lived  ? 

7.  Whether  there  would  be  any  impropriety  in  the  President's 
making  informal  visits  ;  that  is  to  say,  in  his  calling  upon  his  ac 
quaintances  or  public  characters,  for  the  purpose  of  sociability  or 
civility  ?   And  what,  as  to  the  form  of  doing  it,  might  evince  these 
visits  to  have  been  made  in  his  private  character,  so  as  that  they 
may  not  be  construed  into  visits  from  the  President  of  the  United 
States  ?     And  in  what  light  would  his  appearance  rarely  at  tea- 
parties  be  considered  ? 

8.  Whether,   during  the  recess  of  Congress,   it   would  not  be 
advantageous  to  the  interests  of  the  Union  for  the  President  to 
make  the  tour  of  the  United   States,  in  order  to  become  better 
acquainted  with  their  principal  characters  and  internal  circum 
stances,  as  well  as  to  be  more  accessible  to  numbers  of  well-in 
formed  persons,  who  might  give  him  useful  information  and  advice 
on  political  subjects? 

9.  If  there   is  a  probability,  that  either   of  the  arrangements 
take  place,  which  will  eventually  cause  additional  expenses, 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  393 

whether  it  would  not  be  proper  that  those  ideas  should  come  into 
contemplation  at  the  time  when  Congress  shall  make  a  permanent 
provision  for  the  support  of  the  executive  ? 

Remarks.  On  the  one  side,  no  augmentation  can  be  effected 
in  the  pecuniary  establishment,  which  shall  be  made  in  the  first 
instance  for  the  support  of  the  executive.  On  the  other,  all 
moneys  destined  to  that  purpose,  beyond  the  actual  expenditures, 
will  be  left  in  the  treasury  of  the  United  States,  or  sacredly  ap 
plied  to  the  promotion  of  some  national  objects. 

Many  things,  which  appear  of  little  importance  in  themselves 
and  at  the  beginning,  may  have  great  and  durable  consequences 
from  their  having  been  established  at  the  commencement  of  a 
new  general  government.  It  will  be  much  easier  to  commence 
the  administration  upon  a  well-adjusted  system,  built  on  tenable 
grounds,  than  to  correct  errors,  or  alter  inconveniences,  after  they 
shall  have  been  confirmed  by  habit.  The  President,  in  all  mat 
ters  of  business  and  etiquette,  can  have  no  object  but  to  demean 
himself  in  his  public  character  in  such  a  manner  as  to  maintain 
the  dignity  of  his  office,  without  subjecting  himself  to  the  imputa 
tion  of  superciliousness  or  unnecessary  reserve.  Under  these 
impressions,  he  asks  for  your  candid  and  undisguised  opinion. 


TO    MARY    WOOSTER.1 

NEW  YORK,  21  May,  1789. 

MADAM, 

I  have  duly  received  your  affecting  letter,  dated  the 
8th  day  of  this  month.  Sympathizing  with  you  as  I 
do  in  the  great  misfortunes,  which  have  befallen  your 
family  in  consequence  of  ^  the  war,  my  feelings  as  an 
individual  would  forcibly  prompt  me  to  do  every  thing 
in  my  power  to  repair  those  misfortunes.  But  as  a 

1  The  widow  of  General  Wooster,  who  died  of  the  wounds  he  received  in  an 
action  with  the  enemy  when  the  British  made  an  incursion  to  Danbury  in  April, 
1777- 


394  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

public  man,  acting  only  with  a  reference  to  the  public 
good,  I  must  be  allowed  to  decide  upon  all  points  of 
my  duty,  without  consulting  my  private  inclinations 
and  wishes.  I  must  be  permitted,  with  the  best  lights 
I  can  obtain,  and  upon  a  general  view  of  characters 
and  circumstances,  to  nominate  such  persons  alone  to 
offices,  as  in  my  judgment  shall  be  the  best  qualified 
to  discharge  the  functions  of  the  departments  to  which 
they  shall  be  appointed. 

Hitherto  I   have  oriven  no  decisive  answers  to  the 

o 

applications  of  any  candidates  whatsoever.  Nor 
would  it  be  proper  for  me,  before  offices  shall  be  cre 
ated,  and  before  I  can  have  a  general  knowledge  of  the 
competitors  for  them,  to  say  any  thing  that  might  be 
construed  as  intended  to  encourage  or  discourage  the 
hopes,  which  individuals  may  have  formed  of  success.1 
I  only  wish,  so  far  as  my  agency  in  this  business  is 
concerned,  that  candidates  for  offices  would  save 


!  In  no  respect  was  Washington's  anxious  care  more  fully  shown  than  in  seek 
ing  the  proper  persons  for  the  offices  in  the  new  government.  "  That  part  of 
the  President's  duty  which  obliges  him  to  nominate  persons  for  office,"  he  wrote 
to  Joseph  Jones,  14  May,  1789,  "  is  the  most  delicate,  and  in  many  instances 
will  be,  to  me,  the  most  unpleasing  ;  for  it  may  frequently  happen  that  there 
will  be  several  applicants  for  the  same  office,  whose  merits  and  pretensions  are 
so  nearly  equal,  that  it  will  almost  require  the  aid  of  supernatural  intuition  to 
fix  upon  the  right.  I  shall,  however,  in  all  events,  have  the  consolation  of  know 
ing  that  I  entered  upon  my  office  unconfined  by  any  engagements,  and  unin 
fluenced  by  any  ties  ;  and  that  no  means  in  my  power  will  be  left  untried  to 
find  out,  and  nominate  those  character*  who  will  discharge  the  duties  of  their 
respective  offices  to  the  best  interests  and  highest  credit  of  the  American  Union." 
That  he  was  sincere  in  this  wish,  there  will  be  abundant  evidence  afforded  in 
these  volumes  ;  and  that  he  was  successful  in  his  policy  is  proved  by  the  frequent 
reference  to  his  administration  as  the  type  of  a  true  and  honest  civil  service. 

"  Conversing  on  the  subject  of  these  appointments  [revenue]  lately  with  the 
P.,  I  mentioned  two  principles  which  I  had  the  pleasure  to  hear  him  approve 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  395 


themselves  the  trouble  and  consequent  expense  of 
personal  attendance.  All  that  /  require  is  the  name 
and  such  testimonials  with  respect  to  abilities,  integ 
rity,  and  fitness,  as  it  may  be  in  the  power  of  the 
several  applicants  to  produce.  Beyond  this,  nothing 
with  me  is  necessary,  or  will  be  of  any  avail  to  them 
in  my  decisions.  In  the  mean  time  I  beg  you  will  be 
persuaded,  Madam,  that,  let  the  result  be  whatsoever 
it  may,  I  can  have  no  interest  to  promote  but  that 
of  the  public  ;  and  that  I  remain  in  all  personal 
considerations,  with  the  highest  respect,  your  most 
obedient  servant. 


TO    COUNT    DE    MOUSTIER. 

[CONFIDENTIAL.] 

NEW  YORK,  25  May,  1789. 

SIR, 

What  circumstances  there  may  be  existing  between 
our  two  nations,  to  which  you  allude,  on  account  of 

of.  The  first  that  State  officers  in  similar  lines  who  had  behaved  well,  deserved 
preference  in  the  service  of  the  United  States  ;  and  2dly,  that  having  discharged 
these  duties  undivided,  now  that  they  become  divided,  the  same  officers  were 
entitled  to  the  best.  He  assigned  some  strong  reasons  in  support  of  both  these 
ideas." — Richard  Hem  y  Lee  to  —  — ,  7  June,  1789. 

"You  cannot  doubt  my  wishes  to  see  you  appointed  to  any  office  of  honor 
or  emolument  in  the  new  government,  to  the  duties  of  which  you  are  compe 
tent  ;  but  however  deserving  you  may  be  of  the  one  you  have  suggested,  your 
standing  at  the  bar  would  not  justify  my  nomination  of  you  as  attorney  to  the 
federal  District  Court  in  preference  of  some  of  the  oldest  and  most  esteemed 
general  court  lawyers  in  your  own  State,  who  are  desirous  of  this  appointment. 
My  political  conduct  in  nominations,  even  if  I  were  uninfluenced  by  principle, 
must  be  exceedingly  circumspect  and  proof  against  just  criticism  ;  for  the  eyes 
of  Argus  are  upon  me,  and  no  slip  will  pass  unnoticed,  that  can  be  improved 
into  a  supposed  partiality  for  friends  or  relations." — Washington  to  Bushrod 
Washington,  27  July,  1789. 


396  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


their  peculiarity  I  know  not.  But,  as  those  nations 
are  happily  connected  in  the  strictest  ties  of  amity, 
not  less  by  inclination  and  interest,  than  by  the  solem 
nity  of  a  treaty,  and  as  the  United  States  are  too 
remote  from  Europe  to  take  any  share  in  the  local 
politics  of  that  continent,  I  had  concluded,  that  com 
merce  was  the  only  subject  of  negotiations,  which 
could  at  present  be  very  interesting  to  the  inhabitants 
of  the  two  countries. 

In  two  letters,  which  I  had  the  pleasure  of  writing 
to  you  before  I  returned  into  public  life,  I  stated  (if 
I  remember  rightly,  for  I  have  not  the  copies  of  the 
letters  with  me),  that  I  was  so  little  acquainted  with 
commercial  affairs,  that  I  should  very  much  distrust 
my  own  judgment,  even  in  the  opinions  which  I  might 
be  obliged  to  hazard  in  treating  casually  of  them. 
This  fact,  if  there  had  been  no  other  circumstance 
that  merited  a  consideration,  would  be  a  conclusive 
reason  for  preventing  me  individually  from  entering 
^cpon  any  kind  of  negotiations  on  that  subject.  For 
while  I  find  myself  incompetent  to  it,  I  really  believe, 
that  much  reciprocal  advantage  might  be  acquired,  if 
that  subject  could  be  candidly  and  intelligently  man 
aged.  This  I  should  hope,  too,  might  be  the  case  ; 
and  so  far  shall  I  be  from  throwing  any  obstacles  in 
the  way,  that  I  shall  certainly  take  a  great  pleasure 
in  removing,  (so  far  as  lays  in  my  power,)  such  as  may 
occur.1 


1  Moustier's  "commercial  ideas  are  probably  neither  illiberal  nor   unfriendly 
to  this  country.    The  contrary  has  been  supposed." — Madison  to  Jefferson,  27 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  397 

Every  one,  who  has  any  knowledge  of  my  manner 
of  acting  in  public  life,  will  be  persuaded  that  I  am 
not  accustomed  to  impede  the  despatch  or  frustrate 
the  success  of  business  by  a  ceremonious  attention  to 
idle  forms.  Any  person  of  that  description  will  also 
be  satisfied,  that  I  should  not  readily  consent  to  lose 
one  of  the  most  important  functions  of  my  office,  for 
the  sake  of  preserving  an  imaginary  dignity.  But 
perhaps,  if  there  are  rules  of  proceeding,  which  have 
originated  from  the  wisdom  of  statesmen,  and  are 
sanctioned  by  the  common  consent  of  nations,  it  would 
not  be  prudent  for  a  young  state  to  dispense  with 
them  altogether,  at  least,  without  some  substantial 
cause  for  so  doing.  I  have  myself  been  induced  to 
think,  possibly  from  the  habits  of  experience,  that  in 
general  the  best  mode  of  conducting  negotiations,  the 
detail  and  progress  of  which  might  be  liable  to  acci 
dental  mistakes,  or  unintentional  misrepresentations, 
is  by  writing.  This  mode,  if  I  was  obliged  myself  to 
negotiate  with  any  one,  I  should  still  pursue.  I  have, 
however,  been  taught  to  believe,  that  there  is  in  most 
polished  nations  a  system  established,  with  regard  to 
the  foreign  as  well  as  the  other  great  departments, 
which,  from  the  utility,  the  necessity,  and  the  reason 
of  the  thing,  provides,  that  business  should  be  di 
gested  and  prepared  by  the  heads  of  those  depart 
ments. 

The  impossibility  that  one  man  should  be  able  to 
perform  all  the  great  business  of  the  state,  I  take  to 
have  been  the  reason  for  instituting  the  great  depart 
ments,  and  appointing  officers  therein,  to  assist  the 


398  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


supreme  magistrate  in  discharging  the  duties  of  his 
trust.  And  perhaps  I  may  be  allowed  to  say  of  my 
self,  that  the  supreme  magistrate  of  no  state  can  have 
a  greater  variety  of  important  business  to  perform  in 
person,  than  I  have  at  this  moment.  Very  many 
things  will  doubtless  occur  to  you,  Sir,  as  being  inci 
dent  to  the  office  of  President  in  the  commencement 
of  the  government,  which  cannot  be  done  by  the  in 
tervention  of  a  third  person.  You  will  give  me  leave 
to  say,  likewise,  that  no  third  person  (were  there  a 
disposition  for  it)  shall  ever  have  it  in  his  power  to 
erect  a  wall  between  me  and  the  diplomatic  corps,  that 
is  to  say,  to  prevent  necessary  communications.  Nor 
has  anybody  insinuated,  that  it  would  be  beneath  the 
dignity  of  a  President  of  the  United  States  occasion 
ally  to  transact  business  with  a  foreign  minister.  But 
in  what  light  the  public  might  view  the  establishment 
of  a  precedent  for  negotiating  the  business  of  a  de 
partment,  without  any  agency  of  the  head  of  the  de 
partment,  who  was  appointed  for  that  very  purpose,  I 
do  not  at  present  pretend  to  determine  ;  nor  whether  a 
similar  practice  in  that  case  must  not  of  right  be  ex 
tended  hereafter  to  all  diplomatic  characters  of  the 
same  rank. 

Here  you  will  be  pleased  to  observe,  Sir,  that  I  am 
writing  as  General  Washington  to  the  Count  de  Mous- 
tier.  Happy  am  I,  that  my  regard  for  yourself  and 
your  nation  is  so  far  from  being  equivocal,  that  I  have 
had  several  occasions  of  making  it  known  to  you, 
both  in  conversation  and  writing.  And  I  hope  you 
will  consider  this  confidential  letter  as  an  evidence  of 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON,  399 


the  extreme  regret,  which  I  should  feel,  in  being 
obliged  to  decline  any  propositions,  as  to  the  mode  of 
doing  business,  from  a  person  who  has  so  many  titles 
to  my  esteem  as  the  Count  de  Moustier. 

I  will  only  add,  that,  under  my  present  impressions, 
I  cannot  persuade  myself,  that  I  should  be  justifiable 
in  deviating  essentially  from  established  forms.  With 
the  highest  sentiments  of  esteem  and  regard, 

I  am,  Sir,  &c. 


TO    MATHEW    CAREY. 

NEW  YORK,  29  May,  1789. 

SIR, 

In  the  course  of  my  whole  existence,  I  never  before 
have  been  made  the  subject  of  such  extraordinary 
conduct  as  that  which  I  have  been  obliged  to  suffer 
by  your  sending  to  me  unsealed,  through  a  public 
conveyance,  my  letter  of  the  226.  and  yours  of  the 
27th  of  this  month. 

After  the  candid  and  my  heart  witnessed  for  me  no 
unfriendly  part  I  had  always  acted  towards  you,  I 
hoped  for  the  credit  of  human  nature,  at  least  to  have 
escaped  an  intentional  insult.  I  am,  &C.1 

1  "  In  addition  to  what  I  wrote  to  you  formerly  on  the  subject  of  a  loan,  I 
now  inform  you  (and  desire  that  this  letter  which  conveys  the  information  may 
be  destroyed  so  soon  as  it  is  read)  that  my  utmost  exertions  were  ineffectually 
used  to  borrow  a  sum  of  money  (even  at  a  high  interest,  and  for  me  on  disad 
vantageous  terms)  to  comply  with  contracts  of  my  own  before  I  left  Virginia. 
Having  made  this  communication  it  is  unnecessary  to  adduce  further  proof 
of  my  inability  to  comply  with  the  request  which  is  contained  in  your  letter  of 
the  i8th  instant." — Washington  to  Carey,  22  May,  1789. 


400  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

TO     THE     SECRETARY     OF    FOREIGN    AFFAIRS.1 

NEW  YORK,  8  June,  1789. 

SIR, 

Although  in  the  present  unsettled  state  of  the 
executive  departments,  under  the  government  of  the 
Union,  I  do  not  conceive  it  expedient  to  call  upon 
you  for  information  officially,  yet  I  have  supposed, 
that  some  informal  communications  from  the  office  of 
foreign  affairs  might  neither  be  improper  or  unprof 
itable.  For  finding  myself  at  this  moment  less  occu 
pied  with  the  duties  of  my  office,  than  I  shall  proba 
bly  be  at  almost  any  time  hereafter,  I  am  desirous  of 
employing  myself  in  obtaining  an  acquaintance  with 
the  real  situation  of  the  several  great  departments,  at 
the  period  of  my  acceding  to  the  administration  of 
the  general  government.  For  this  purpose  I  wish  to 
receive  in  writing  such  a  clear  account  of  the  depart 
ment,  at  the  head  of  which  you  have  been  for  some 
years  past,  as  may  be  sufficient  (without  overbur 
dening  or  confusing  the  mind,  which  has  very  many 

1  The  secretaries  of  the  several  executive  departments  under  the  new  govern 
ment  were  not  appointed  till  September.  In  the  meantime  the  usual  business 
of  the  departments  was  transacted  by  the  officers  who  had  charge  of  them  when 
the  old  government  expired.  Mr.  Jay  continued  to  fill  the  office  of  secretary  of 
foreign  affairs,  till  Mr.  Jefferson  entered  upon  its  duties  in  March,  1790.  The 
name  of  the  department  was  changed  by  law  to  that  of  the  Department  of  State, 
and  its  head  was  thenceforward  called  Secretary  of  State.  General  Knox  acted 
as  Secretary  of  War,  till  his  new  appointment  to  the  same  post,  on  the  I2th  of 
September,  1789.  The  affairs  of  the  treasury  were  administered  by  a  Board, 
consisting  of  Samuel  Osgood,  Walter  Livingston,  and  Arthur  Lee.  These  gen 
tlemen  retained  their  places  till  September  nth,  when  Hamilton  was  appointed 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury.  The  reason  why  the  appointments  were  so  long 
delayed  was,  that  the  laws  instituting  the  departments,  and  fixing  the  salaries 
of  the  officers,  were  not  sooner  passed  by  Congress. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  401 

objects  to  claim  its  attention  at  the  same  instant,)  to 
impress  me  with  a  full,  precise,  and  distinct  general 
idea  of  the  affairs  of  the  United  States,  so  far  as 
they  are  comprehended  in,  or  connected  with,  that 
department. 

As  I  am  now  at  leisure  to  inspect  such  papers  and 
documents,  as  may  be  necessary  to  be  acted  upon 
hereafter,  or  as  may  be  calculated  to  give  me  an  in 
sight  into  the  business  and  duties  of  that  department, 
I  have  thought  fit  to  address  this  notification  to  you 
accordingly.  I  am,  &C.1 


TO  JAMES  McHENRY. 

NEW  YORK,  3  July,  1789. 

DEAR   SIR, 

I  have  received  your  very  friendly  letter  of  the  28th 
of  June,  and  feel  a  grateful  sense  of  the  interest  which 
you  take  in  my  welfare  and  happiness,  and  the  kind 
solicitude,  which  you  express  for  the  recovery  of  my 
health.  I  have  now  the  pleasure  to  inform  you,  that 
my  health  is  restored,  but  a  feebleness  still  hangs 
upon  me,  and  I  am  yet  much  incommoded  by  the  in 
cision,  which  was  made  in  a  very  large  and  painful 
tumor  on  the  protuberance  of  my  thigh.  This  pre 
vents  me  from  walking  or  sitting.  However,  the 
physicians  assure  me  that  it  has  had  a  happy  effect 
in  removing  my  fever,  and  will  tend  very  much  to  the 
establishment  of  my  general  health  ;  it  is  in  a  fair 

1  A  copy  of  the  same  letter  was  sent  to  the  Secretary  of  War  and  to  the  Board 
of  the  Treasury  ;  and  a  similar  one   to  Ebenezer  Hazard,  Postmaster-General. 
26 


402  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

way  of  healing,  and  time  and  patience  only  are  want 
ing  to  remove  this  evil.  I  am  able  to  take  exercise 
in  my  coach,  by  having  it  so  contrived  as  to  extend 
myself  the  full  length  of  it. 

I  thank  you,  my  dear  Sir,  for  the  anxiety  which  you 
express,  that  I  should  have  some  person  about  me, 
who  is  well  acquainted  with  my  constitution,  and 
who  has  been  accustomed  to  my  confidence.  The 
habits  of  intimacy  and  friendship,  in  which  I  have 
long  lived  with  Dr.  Craik,  and  the  opinion  I  have  of 
his  professional  knowledge,  would  most  certainly 
point  him  out  as  the  man  of  my  choice  in  all  cases  of 
sickness.  I  am  convinced  of  his  sincere  attachment 
to  me,  and  I  should  with  cheerfulness  trust  my  life  in 
his  hands,  but,  how  far  circumstances  at  present  would 
justify  his  quitting  his  practice  in  Alexandria  and  its 
vicinity  to  gratify  his  inclinations  and  my  wishes,  I 
am  not  able  to  say  ;  but,  could  it  be  made  consistent 
with  his  advantage  to  be  near  me,  I  am  sure  it  would 
be  highly  pleasing  to  me.  I  must,  however,  in  justice 
to  Dr.  Bard,  who  has  attended  me  during  my  late  in 
disposition,  declare,  that  neither  skill  nor  attention 
has  been  wanting  on  his  part,  and,  as  I  could  not 
have  the  assistance  of  my  good  friend,  Dr.  Craik,  I 
think  myself  fortunate  in  having  fallen  into  such  good 
hands.1 


1  An  anecdote  characteristic  of  Washington  is  related  by  Professor  McVickar, 
in  his  narrative  of  Dr.  Bard's  life,  respecting  an  incident  that  happened  in  the 
course  of  his  illness.  "  It  was  a  case  of  anthrax,  so  malignant  as  for  several 
days  to  threaten  mortification.  During  this  period  Dr.  Bard  never  quitted  him. 
On  one  occasion,  being  left  alone  with  him,  General  Washington,  looking  stead 
fastly  in  his  face,  desired  his  candid  opinion  as  to  the  probable  termination  of 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  403 

You  have  my  sincere  wishes,  that  your  intended 
journey  to  the  Sweet  Springs  may  be  the  means  of 
restoring  the  health  of  your  brother,  and  that  it  may 
be  pleasant  and  healthful  to  yourself.  I  am,  dear  Sir, 
with  very  great  esteem,  your  affectionate,  &c. 


TO    JOHN    JAY. 

[PRIVATE.] 

NEW  YORK,  14  July,  1789. 

DEAR  SIR, 

I  find  myself  incompetent  to  form  any  decided 
opinion  upon  the  paper  I  received  from  you  the  other 
day,  without  having  a  view  of  the  transactions,  which 
have  been  had  with  the  Spanish  minister.  I  wish 
also  to  know  whether,  if  the  negotiations  are  renewed, 
it  can  be  made  to  appear  from  any  thing,  which  that 
gentleman  has  said,  as  the  result  of  an  advance  tow 
ards  it  from  him  in  his  official  character.  Unless  this 
is  the  case,  and  prima  facie  the  reverse,  will  it  not 
convey  to  him  and  his  court  an  idea,  that  a  change  of 
sentiment  has  taken  place  in  the  governing  powers  of 
this  country  ?  Will  it  be  expedient  and  proper  (at 
this  moment)  for  the  President  to  encourage  such  an 
idea  ;  at  any  rate,  without  previously  advising  with 
the  Senate  ?  With  very  sincere  esteem  and  regard, 

I  am,  &c. 

his  disease,  adding,  with  that  placid  firmness  which  marked  his  address,  '  Do 
not  flatter  me  with  vain  hopes  ;  I  am  not  afraid  to  die,  and  therefore  can  bear 
the  worst.'  Dr.  Bard's  answer,  though  it  expressed  hope,  acknowledged  his 
apprehensions.  The  President  replied  :  '  Whether  to-night,  or  twenty  years 
hence,  makes  no  difference  ;  I  know  that  I  am  in  the  hands  of  a  good  Provi 
dence.'  " — Life  of  Dr.  Samuel  Bard,  p.  136. 


4o4  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

TO   CHARLES   THOMSON. 

NEW  YORK,  24  July,  1789. 

SIR, 

I  have  contemplated  your  note,  wherein,  after  men 
tioning  your  having  served  in  quality  of  secretary  of 
Congress  from  the  first  meeting  of  that  body,  in  i  774, 
to  the  present  time,  through  an  eventful  period  of 
almost  fifteen  years,  you  announce  your  wish  to  retire 
to  private  life  ;  and  I  have  to  regret,  that  the  period  of 
my  coming  again  into  public  life  should  be  exactly 
that,  in  which  you  are  about  to  retire  from  it. 

The  present  age  does  so  much  justice  to  the  un 
sullied  reputation,  with  which  you  have  always  con 
ducted  yourself  in  the  execution  of  the  duties  of  your 
office,  and  posterity  will  find  your  name  so  honorably 
connected  with  the  verification  of  such  a  multitude 
of  astonishing  facts,  that  my  single  suffrage  would 
add  little  to  the  illustration  of  your  merits.  Yet  I 
cannot  withhold  any  just  testimonial  in  favor  of  so 
old,  so  faithful,  and  so  able  a  public  officer,  which 
might  tend  to  soothe  his  mind  in  the  shade  of  retire 
ment.  Accept,  then,  this  serious  declaration,  that 
your  services  have  been  important,  as  your  patriotism 
was  distinguished  ;  and  enjoy  that  best  of  all  rewards, 
the  consciousness  of  having  done  your  duty  well. 

You  will  be  pleased,  Sir,  to  deliver  the  books, 
records,  and  papers  of  the  late  Congress,  the  great 
seal  of  the  federal  Union,  and  the  seal  of  the  admi 
ralty,  to  Mr.  Roger  Alden,  the  late  deputy  secretary 
of  Congress,  who  is  requested  to  take  charge  of  them 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  405 

until  farther  directions  shall  be  given.  I  beg  you 
to  be  persuaded,  that  it  will  always  afford  me  real 
pleasure  to  extend  whatever  encouragement  may  be 
consistent  with  my  general  duties,  to  such  particular 
persons  as  have  long  been  faithful  and  useful  servants 
to  the  community.  I  finally  commend  you  to  the 
protection  of  Heaven,  and  sincerely  wish  you  may 
enjoy  every  species  of  felicity.  I  am,  &c. 


TO  DAVID  STUART. 

NEW  YORK,  26  July,  1789. 

DEAR  SIR, 

In  the  first  moment  of  my  ability  to  sit  in  an  easy 
chair,  and  that  not  entirely  without  pain,  I  occupy 
myself  in  acknowledging  the  receipt  of  your  letter  of 
the  1 4th  instant,  and  thanking  you  for  it. 

Although  my  time  (before  I  was  confined)  had 
been  and  probably  now  will  be  much  more  engaged, 
yet  your  communications  without  any  reserve  will  be 
exceedingly  grateful  and  pleasing  to  me.  While  the 
eyes  of  America,  perhaps  of  the  world,  are  turned  to 
this  government,  and  many  are  watching  the  move 
ments  of  all  those,  who  are  concerned  in  its  adminis 
tration,  I  should  like  to  be  informed,  through  so  good 
a  medium,  of  the  public  opinion  of  both  men  and 
measures,  and  of  none  more  than  myself  ;  not  so  much 
of  what  may  be  thought  commendable  parts,  if  any,  of 
my  conduct,  as  of  those  which  are  conceived  to  be 
of  a  different  complexion.  The  man,  who  means  to 


406  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


commit  no  wrong,  will  never  be  guilty  of  enormities  ; 
consequently  he  can  never  be  unwilling  to  learn  what 
is  ascribed  to  him  as  foibles.  If  they  are  really  such, 
the  knowledge  of  them  in  a  well-disposed  mind  will 
go  half  way  towards  a  reform.  If  they  are  not  errors, 
he  can  explain  and  justify  the  motives  of  his  actions. 
At  a  distance  from  the  theatre  of  action,  truth  is 
not  always  related  without  embellishment,  and  some 
times  is  entirely  perverted,  from  a  misconception  of  the 
causes  which  produce  the  effects  that  are  the  subjects 
of  censure,  i.  This  leads  me  to  think,  that  a  sys 
tem,  which  I  found  it  indispensably  necessary  to  adopt 
upon  my  first  coming  to  this  city,  might  have  under 
gone  severe  strictures,  and  have  had  motives  very  for 
eign  from  those  that  govern  me,  assigned  as  causes 
therefor.  I  mean,  returning  \\Qvisits !  /  2ly,  appointing 
certain  days  to  receive  them  generally,  (not  to  the 
exclusion  however  of  visits  on  any  other  days  under 
particular  circumstances  ;)  and,  3ly,  at  first  entertain 
ing  no  company,  and  afterwards  until  I  was  unable  to 
entertain  any  at  all  confining  it  to  official  characters.  A 
few  days  evinced  the  necessity  of  the  two  first  in  so 
clear  a  point  of  view,  that,  had  I  not  adopted  it,  I 
should  have  been  unable  to  have  attended  to  any  sort 
of  business,  unless  I  had  applied  the  hours  allotted  to 
rest  and  refreshment  to  this  purpose  ;  for  by  the  time 
I  had  done  breakfast,  and  thence  till  dinner,  and 
afterwards  till  bed-time,  I  could  not  get  relieved  from 
the  ceremony  of  one  visit,  before  I  had  to  attend  to 
another.  In  a  word,  I  had  no  leisure  to  read  or  to 

1  He  seems  to  have  made  visits  of  ceremony  before  his  inauguration. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON,  407 


answer  the  despatches,  that  were  pouring  in  upon  me 
from  all  quarters. 

And  with  respect  to  the  third  matter,  I  early  re 
ceived  information  through  very  respectable  channels, 
that  the  adoption  thereof  was  not  less  essential,  than 
that  of  the  other  two,  if  the  President  was  to  preserve 
the  dignity  and  respect,  that  was  due  to  the  first  magis 
trate.  For  that  a  contrary  conduct  had  involved  the 
late  presidents  of  Congress  in  insuperable  difficulties, 
and  the  office,  (in  this  respect,)  in  perfect  contempt ;  for 
the  table  was  considered  as  a  public  one,  and  every 
person,  who  could  get  introduced,  conceived  that  he 
had  a  right  to  be  invited  to  it.  This,  although  the 
table  was  always  crowded  (and  with  mixed  company, 
and  the  President  considered  in  no  better  light  than 
as  a  maitre  d?  hotel),  was  in  its  nature  impracticable, 
and  as  many  offences  given  as  if  no  table  had  been 
kept. 

The  citizens  of  this  place  were  well  knowing  to  this 
fact,  and  the  principal  members  of  Congress  in  both 
Houses  were  so  well  convinced  of  the  impropriety 
and  degrading  situation  of  their  President,  that 
it  was  the  general  opinion,  that  the  President  of 
the  United  States  should  neither  give  or  receive  in 
vitations  ;  some  from  a  belief,  independent  of  the 
circumstances  I  have  mentioned,  that  this  was  fun 
damentally  right  in  order  to  acquire  respect.  But  to 
this  I  had  two  objections,  both  powerful  in  my  mind  ; 
first,  the  novelty  of  it  I  knew  would  be  considered  as 
an  ostentatious  show  of  mimicry  of  sovereignty  ;  and, 
secondly,  that  so  great  a  seclusion  would  have  stopped 


4o8  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

the  avenues  to  useful  information  from  the  many,  and 
make  me  more  dependent  on  that  of  the  few.  But  to 
hit  on  a  discriminating  medium  was  found  more  diffi 
cult  than  it  appeared  to  be  at  first  view  ;  for,  if  the 
citizens  at  large  were  begun  upon,  no  line  could  be 
drawn  ;  all,  of  decent  appearance,  would  expect  to  be 
invited,  and  I  should  have  been  plunged  at  once  into 
the  evil  I  was  endeavoring  to  avoid.  Upon  the 
whole,  it  was  thought  best  to  confine  my  invitations  to 
official  characters  and  strangers  of  distinction.  This 
line  I  have  hitherto  pursued.  Whether  it  may  be 
found  best  to  adhere  to,  or  depart  from  it,  in  some 
measure  must  be  the  result  of  experience  and  infor 
mation. 

So  strongly  had  the  citizens  of  this  place  imbibed 
an  idea  of  the  impropriety  of  my  accepting  invitations 
to  dinner,  that  I  have  not  received  one  from  any  fam 
ily  (though  they  are  remarkable  for  hospitality,  and 
though  I  have  received  every  civility  and  attention 
possible  from  them)  since  I  came  to  the  city,  except 
dining  with  the  governor  on  the  day  of  my  arrival  ;  so 
that,  if  this  should  be  adduced  as  an  article  of  im 
peachment,  there  can  be  at  least  one  good  reason  ad 
duced  for  my  not  dining  out  ;  to  wit,  never  having 
been  asked  to  do  so. 

One  of  the  gentlemen,  whose  name  is  mentioned 
in  your  letter,  though  high-toned,  has  never,  I  believe, 
appeared  with  more  than  two  horses  in  his  carriage ]  ; 

1  A  report  had  gone  abroad,  that  the  Vice- President  never  appeared  publicly 
except  with  a  coach  and  six  horses,  which  Dr.  Stuart  said  was  creating  much 
excitement  in  Virginia,  and  was  put  forward  by  the  opponents  of  the  constitu 
tion  as  a  proof  of  the  monarchical  tendency  of  the  government. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  409 

but  it  is  to  be  lamented,  that  he  and  some  others  have 
stirred  a  question,  which  has  given  rise  to  so  much 
animadversion,  and  which  I  confess  has  given  me 
much  uneasiness,  lest  it  should  be  supposed  by  some, 
(unacquainted  with  facts,)  that  the  object  they  had  in 
view  was  not  displeasing  to  me.  The  truth  is,  the 
question  was  moved  before  I  arrived,  without  any 
privity  or  knowledge  of  it  on  my  part,  and  urged, 
after  I  was  apprized  of  it,  contrary  to  my  opinion  ; 
for  I  foresaw  and  predicted  the  reception  it  has  met 
with,  and  the  use  that  would  be  made  of  it  by  the 
adversaries  of  the  government.  Happily  the  matter 
is  now  done  with,  I  hope  never  to  be  revived.1 

1  This  paragraph  relates  to  a  scheme,  which  had  lately  been  before  Congress, 
respecting  the  titles  by  which  the  high  officers  of  government  should  be  ad 
dressed.  "  Nothing  could  equal  the  ferment  and  disquietude,"  said  Dr.  Stu 
art,  "  occasioned  by  the  proposition  respecting  titles.  As  it  is  believed  to  have 
originated  with  Mr.  Adams  and  Mr.  Lee,  they  are  unpopular  to  an  extreme." 
The  history  of  the  proceedings  on  this  subject  is  briefly  as  follows  : 

A  committee  was  appointed  by  the  Senate,  April  23d,  "  to  consider  and  re 
port  what  style  or  titles  it  will  be  proper  to  annex  to  the  offices  of  President  and 
Vice-President  of  the  United  States."  Richard  Henry  Lee  was  chairman. 
The  next  day  a  committee  was  appointed  by  the  House  of  Representatives  to 
confer  with  the  committee  of  the  Senate  on  the  same  subject.  This  joint  com 
mittee  reported,  "  That  it  is  improper  to  annex  any  style  or  title  to  the  respec 
tive  styles  or  titles  of  office  expressed  in  the  constitution."  The  report  was 
unanimously  adopted  by  the  House,  but  was  not  agreed  to  by  the  Senate. 
The  question  was  then  taken  in  that  body,  whether  the  President  of  the 
United  States  should  be  addressed  by  the  title  of  His  Excellency,  which  passed 
in  the  negative,  and  the  subject  was  referred  to  another  committee,  of  which 
Lee,  Ellsworth,  and  Dr.  Johnson  were  members. 

A  proposal  to  the  House  of  Representatives  to  confer  with  this  second  com 
mittee  brought  on  a  debate,  which  was  conducted  with  considerable  warmth, 
and  was  stopped  by  the  previous  question,  which  set  the  subject  aside,  and  it 
was  never  again  brought  forward  in  that  House.  The  committee  of  the  Senate 
reported,  however,  that  it  was  proper  to  style  the  President,  His  Highness 
the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America,  and  Protector  of  the  Liber 
ties  of  the  same.  In  the  meantime  the  House  of  Representatives  had  addressed 


4io  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

The  opposition  of  the  Senate  to  the  discrimination 
in  the  tonnage  bill  was  so  adverse  to  my  ideas  of  jus 
tice  and  policy,  that  I  should  have  suffered  it  to  pass 
silently  into  a  law  without  my  signature,  had  I  not 
been  assured  by  some  members  of  the  Senate,  that 
they  were  preparing  another  bill,  which  would  answer 
the  purpose  more  effectually  without  being  liable  to 

the  President,  in  reply  to  his  inaugural  speech,  as  President  of  the  United  States  ; 
and  the  Senate,  for  the  purpose  of  preserving  harmony  with  the  other  House, 
resolved,  May  I4th,  to  follow  its  example  in  an  address  about  to  be  made  to 
the  President,  and  postponed  the  report  of  their  committee  ;  agreeing  at  the 
same  time  in  the  resolve,  that,  "From  a  decent  respect  for  the  opinion  and 
practice  of  civilized  nations,  whether  under  monarchical  or  republican  forms  of 
government,  whose  custom  is  to  annex  titles  of  respectability  to  the  office  of 
their  chief  magistrate,  and  that,  in  intercourse  with  foreign  nations,  a  due  re 
spect  for  the  majesty  of  the  people  of  the  United  States  may  not  be  hazarded 
by  an  appearance  of  singularity,  the  Senate  have  been  induced  to  be  of  opinion, 
that  it  would  be  proper  to  annex  a  respectable  title  to  the  office  of  the  President 
of  the  United  States."  With  this  declaration  of  their  opinion  the  Senate  al 
lowed  the  matter  to  rest,  audit  was  never  afterwards  revived.  Senator  McClay 
was  one  of  the  most  active  opponents  to  titles,  and  has  left  the  fullest  record  of 
the  contest  on  this  question. 

While  the  subject  was  thus  solemnly  treated  by  Congress,  it  caused  much 
excitement  throughout  the  country.  It  was  discussed  in  the  gazettes,  but  the 
advocates  of  titles  found  few  supporters.  By  these  it  was  affirmed,  however, 
that  titles  were  as  harmless  as  they  were  necessary,  and  that  the  President,  as 
representing  the  majesty  of  the  people,  might  even  be  styled  His  Majesty  with 
out  reasonable  offence  to  republican  ears.  Others  said  that  His  Excellency 
was  not  a  proper  title,  because  it  was  applied  to  officers  below  him,  particularly 
in  the  diplomatic  department.  In  some  of  the  newspapers  the  President  was 
called"  His  HigJmess,  the  President-General"  The  Senate  was  denominated 
Most  Honorable,  and  the  same  epithet  was  applied  to  the  members  of  that  body. 
For  instance,  it  was  published,  that  the  Most  Honorable  Rufus  King  and  the 
Most  Honorable  Philip  Schuyler  were  appointed  Senators.  And  when  Mrs. 
Washington  came  to  New  York,  she  was  accompanied  by  the  "'Lady  of  the 
Most  Honorable  Robert  Morris ."  The  Representatives,  and  even  the  secreta 
ries  of  the  executive  departments,  were  favored  with  no  higher  title  than  Hon 
orable.  In  the  debates  on  the  subject,  Mr.  Clymer  said  that,  "as  soon  as  a 
man  is  selected  for  the  public  service,  his  fellow  citizens  with  a  liberal  hand 
showered  down  titles  upon  him,  either  excellency  or  honorable  ;  he  would  ven 
ture  to  affirm  there  were  more  Honorable  Esquires  in  the  United  States  than  in 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  411 

the  objections  and  to  the  consequences,  which  they 
feared  would  have  attended  the  discrimination,  which 
was  proposed  in  the  tonnage  law.  Why  they  keep 
their  doors  shut,  when  acting  in  a  legislative  capacity, 
I  am  unable  to  inform  you,  unless  it  is  because  they 
think  there  is  too  much  speaking  to  the  gallery  in  the 
other  House,  and  business  thereby  retarded. 

all  the  world  besides."  There  appears  not  to  have  been  a  single  member  of 
the  House  of  Representatives  in  favor  of  titles.  The  habit  of  bestowing  them 
gradually  subsided.  It  would  be  ludicrous  at  the  present  day  to  affix  the  super 
lative  epithet  to  a  senator's  name,  and  not  less  so  to  use  the  anticlimax  Honor 
able  Esquire,  which  prevailed  during  the  Revolution.  General  Washington  Avas 
scrupulous  to  give  every  man  his  official  appellation,  but  was  opposed  to  all  titles 
as  marks  of  rank  in  a  republican  government.  A  person  sent  to  him  a  manu 
script  treatise  on  heraldry,  the  publication  of  which  was  suppressed  by  his  advice, 
as  he  thought  its  tendency  would  be  hostile  to  the  sentiments  of  the  people 
and  unfavorable  to  liberty. 

"  Titles  to  both  the  President  and  Vice-President  were  formally  and  unani 
mously  condemned  by  a  vote  of  the  House  of  Representatives.  This,  I  hope, 
will  shew  to  the  friends  of  Republicanism  that  our  new  Government  was  not 
meant  to  substitute  either  monarchy  or  aristocracy,  and  that  the  genius  of  the 
people  is  as  yet  averse  to  both." — Madison  to  Jefferson,  9  May,  1789.  "  The 
address  is  purged,  you  will  observe,  of  all  titles  whatsoever,  except  the  Consti 
tutional  one.  This  point  had  been  previously  determined  by  a  Report  from  a 
joint  committee  originated  by  the  Senate,  for  the  purpose  of  settling  what,  or 
whether  any,  titles  should  be  annexed  to  the  President  and  Vice-President. 
The  Report  was  unanimously  agreed  to  by  the  House  of  Representatives 
previous  to  the  address.  I  am  sorry  to  find  that  the  Senate  do  not  concur  in 
this  principle  of  dignified  simplicity.  They  have  disagreed  to  the  Report  of 
the  joint  Committee,  and  have  proposed  another  consultation  on  the  subject. 
The  House  of  Representatives  will  assuredly  adhere  to  the  first  determination. 
The  friends  of  titles  in  the  other  Branch  are  headed  by  the  Vice-President,  who 
is  seconded  with  all  the  force  and  urgency  of  natural  temper  by  R.  H.  L[ee]." — 
Madison  to  Pendleton,  10  May,  1789.  The  Senate  used  no  title  in  its  answer, 
an  "  imitation  that  was  extorted.  .  .  .  The  projected  title  was,  his  Highness 
the  President  of  the  United  States  and  protector  of  their  liberties.  Had  the 
project  succeeded,  it  would  have  subjected  the  President  to  a  severe  dilemma, 
and  given  a  deep  wound  to  our  infant  Government." — Madison  to  Jefferson,  23 
May,  1789.  "Honorary  titles  lead  to  permanent  distinctions  and  hereditary 
establishments,  these  to  monstrous  taxes,  and  both  to  the  ruin  of  liberty." — Boston 
Gazette. 


4i2  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


Your  letter  is  the  first  intimation  I  ever  received  of 
any  defect  in  the  title  or  of  any  claim  to  the  land 
called  Claiborn's.  It  is  hardly  to  be  conceived  that 
Philip  Whitehead  Claiborn,  who  was  Brother  (and  as 
you  say  Executor)  to  William  Claiborn,  for  the  pay 
ment  of  whose  debts  it  was  sold,  should  have  joined 
in  the  conveyance  of  land,  to  which  he  himself  had  a 
right  by  entail.  Admit  this,  and  bad  motives  must 
be  ascribed  to  the  action  ;  viz.,  a  knowledge  that  his 
son,  if  the  entail  was  good,  would  not  be  barred  by 
his  conveyance,  if  no  act  of  Assembly  or  writ  of  ad 
quod  animum  had  previously  docked  it.  Such  a  sus 
picion  I  cannot  harbor  of  that  Gentleman,  because  he 
possessed  an  exceeding  fair  character.  To  the  best 
of  my  recollection  there  are  some  papers  in  the  gar 
ret  at  Mount  Vernon,  which  belong  to  the  estate  of 
Mr.  Custis.  In  making  a  hasty  arrangement  of  my 
own  I  came  across  and  had  them  put  into  a  trunk  or 
box  by  themselves.  From  a  cursory  inspection  they 
appeared  altogether  unimportant,  or  I  should  have 
sent  them  to  you  ;  and  in  another  trunk  in  my  study 
there  are  papers  which  relate  to  my  accounts  and 
transactions  with  that  estate.  Possibly  (for  it  is  not 
very  probable,)  you  may  find  something  in  one  or  the 
other  of  those  that  may  be  useful.  If  in  the  first,  I 
wish,  if  they  are  deserving  of  the  carriage,  that  you 
would  take  them  home.  The  others  maybe  necessary 
for  my  own  security,  and  therefore  I  would  not  have 
them  removed.  The  decree  of  King  William's  Court 
will  not,  I  fear  avail  much,  for  I  do  not  conceive  that 
it  could  extend  (if  there  was  an  entail  in  force)  be- 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  413 

yond  the  life  of  William  Claiborn  if  then  living,  or 
that  Phil.  Claiborn's  act  could  bind  his  son.  Your 
trouble  in  this  and  the  other  disputes  with  Mr.  Custis's 
estate  I  perceive  will  be  very  great.  That  your  suc 
cess  may  be  correspondent  I  sincerely  wish.  We  shall 
be  anxious  after  the  decisions  to  learn  the  result. 

I  am  mistaken  greatly,  if  I  did  not  in  the  year  1778 
convey  both  the  King  William  and  the  King  and 
Queen  lands  to  Mr.  Custis  by  deeds  executed  at 
Camp  before  Colonels  Harrison,  Mead,  and  many 
others  as  witnesses  to  prove  it  in  the  General  Court, 
and  this  in  the  presence  of  Mr.  Custis.  If  it  was  not 
received  for  want  of  due  proof,  I  am  ready  to  reac- 
knowledge  the  same  deed,  or  a  copy  of  it,  for  I  recol 
lect  (pretty  well)  taking  the  opinion  of  Col.  Harrison 
upon  the  nature  of  the  conveyance — and  if  my  mem 
ory  has  not  failed  me  you  will  find  some  mention  of 
the  matter  in  one  of  my  letters  to  Mr.  Custis  which 
you  called  upon  me  some  time  ago  to  authenticate. 

Mr.  Danclridge  gave  me  an  order  upon  Mr.  Brown 
(of  Kentucky)  for  /8oo  to  be  applied  if  received  to 
the  credit  of  Mr.  Custis's  Estate  but  the  order  was 
protested,  and  Mr.  Dandridge  had  been  advertised 
thereof. 

Nothing  would  give  me  more  pleasure,  than  to 
serve  any  of  the  descendants  of  General  Nelson, 
of  whose  merits,  when  living,  no  man  could  entertain 
a  higher  opinion  than  I  did.  At  the  same  time  I 
must  confess,  there  are  few  persons  of  whom  I  have 
no  personal  knowledge,  or  good  information,  that 
I  would  take  into  my  family,  where  many  qualifica- 


4i4  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

tions  are  necessary  to  fit  them  for  the  duty  of  it ;  to 
wit,  a  good  address,  abilities  above  mediocrity,  secrecy 
and  prudence,  attention  and  industry,  good  temper, 
and  a  capacity  and  disposition  to  write  correctly  and 
well  and  to  do  it  obligingly. 

Most  clerkships  will,  I  presume,  either  by  law  or 
custom,  be  left  to  the  appointment  of  their  principals 
in  office.  Little  expectation  therefore  could  Mr. 
Nelson,  or  any  stranger,  have  from  this  source. 
This  latter  consideration,  added  to  the  desire  I  feel 
of  serving  the  son  of  my  old  friend  and  acquaintance, 
has  induced  me  at  all  hazards  to  offer  Mr.  Thomas 
Nelson,  his  son,  a  place  in  my  family. 

I  shall  not  trouble  you  with  legislative  or  any 
other  accounts,  which  are  detailed  in  the  papers,  but 
that  I  have  sent  you  the  journals  of  the  Senate,  as 
far  as  they  have  been  published  and  handed  to  me. 
If  the  successor  of  Mr.  Richards  would  get  the 
Federal  Gazette,  published  by  Fenno,  from  this  city, 
it  would  enable  him  to  collect  as  much  information 
of  what  is  passing  on  the  theatre  of  New  York,  as  he 
could  extract  from  all  the  other  papers  of  the  place 
(and  they  are  very  numerous),  were  he  to  go  to  the 
expense  of  them.  My  best  wishes  attend  Mrs.  Stuart 
and  all  the  family  ;  and  I  am,  dear  Sir,  your  affec 
tionate  friend  and  servant.1 

1  The  first  appointment  submitted  to  the  Senate  by  the  President  was  that 
of  William  Short  to  be  in  charge  of  the  American  legation  in  Paris,  during 
the  absence  of  Thomas  Jefferson,  the  minister  under  the  confederation.  This 
nomination  was  made  on  June  i6th,  and  confirmed  on  the  i8th.  On  August 
3d,  a  long  list  of  appointments  in  the  revenue  service  was  submitted,  and  the 
Senate  acted  upon  them,  rejecting  but  one — the  nomination  of  Benjamin 
Fishbourn  as  naval  officer  for  the  port  of  Savannah.  In  sending  in  the  name 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  415 

TO    JAMES    MADISON. 

NEW  YORK,  9  August,  1789. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

In  consequence  of  the  enclosed  resolution,  I  had  a 
conference  with  the  committee  therein  named  yester 
day,  when  I  expressed  the  sentiments,  which  you  also 
have  enclosed. 

I  was  assured  by  the  committee,  that  the  only 
object  the  senate  had  in  view  was  to  be  informed  of 
the  mode  of  communication  which  would  be  most 
agreeable  to  the  President,  and  that  a  perfect  acqui 
escence  would  be  yielded  thereto.  But  I  could 
plainly  perceive,  notwithstanding,  that  oral  com 
munication  was  the  point  they  aimed  at.  Indeed, 
one  of  the  gentlemen  candidly  declared,  that  a  great 
object  with  him,  in  wishing  this,  was  to  effect  a  viva 
voce  vote  in  that  body.  He  added,  however,  that  he 
was  not  without  hopes  of  accomplishing  this  without. 
To  this  I  replied,  finding  all  three  were  opposed  to 
the  balloting  system,  that  nothing  would  sooner 
induce  me  to  relinquish  my  mode  of  nomination  by 
written  messages,  than  to  accomplish  this  end. 
Thus  the  matter  stands  for  my  further  consideration. 

What  do  you  think  I  had  best  do  ?  I  am  willing 
to  pursue  that  line  of  conduct,  which  shall  appear  to 

of  Lachlan  Mclntosh  as  his  substitute,  Washington  showed  that  the  rejection 
had  not  a  little  touched  him.  "  Permit  me  to  submit  to  your  consideration, 
whether  on  occasions,  where  the  propriety  of  a  nomination  appears  questionable 
to  you,  it  would  not  be  expedient  to  communicate  that  circumstance  to  me, 
and  thereby  avail  yourselves  of  the  information  which  led  me  to  make  them 
and  which  I  would  with  pleasure  lay  before  you."  And  he  proceeded  to  gire 
his  reasons  for  naming  Fishbourn. — Message,  6  August,  1789. 


4i 6  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


be  most  conducive  to  the  public  good,  without 
regard  to  the  indulgence  of  my  inclination,  which,  I 
confess,  and  for  other  reasons  in  addition  to  those 
which  are  enumerated,  although  they  are  secondary, 
would  not  be  gratified  by  personal  nominations.1 

The  period  is  now  arrived,  when  the  seat  of  the 
vacant  judge  in  the  western  district  is  to  be  filled. 
Would  Colonel  Carrington,  do  you  think,  be  pleased 
with  this  appointment?  Or  are  you  acquainted  with 
any  professional  character  of  fitness  for  the  office, 
south  of  New  Jersey,  that  would  accept  it?'2 

I    have    had    some    conversation    with    Mr.    Jay 


1  A  motion  had  been  made  in  the  Senate  on  the  3d  of  August  proposing 
that  in  place  of  determining  upon  a  nomination  by  ballot,  as  settled  by  a  rule 
adopted  June  i8th,  some  other  mode  should  be  adopted,  like  a  viva  voce  vote  ; 
but  the  motion  was  lost.  On  the  5th  of  August  another  motion  was  made, 
"  That  it  is  the  opinion  of  the  Senate,  that  their  advice  and  consent  to  the 
appointment  of  officers  should  be  given  in  the  presence  of  the  President." 
This  motion  was  postponed  to  the  next  day,  when  it  was  ordered,  "  That  Mr. 
Izard,  Mr.  King,  and  Mr.  Carroll  be  a  committee  to  wait  on  the  President  of 
the  United  States,  and  confer  with  him  on  the  mode  of  communication  proper 
to  be  pursued  between  him  and  the  Senate  in  the  formation  of  treaties,  and 
making  appointments  to  offices."  The  committee  accordingly  waited  on  the 
President,  and  had  the  conference  mentioned  in  the  above  letter. 

In  regard  to  treaties,  a  practice  was  at  first  begun,  which  was  not  pursued. 
On  the  2ist  of  August,  the  following  message  was  sent  to  the  Senate.  "  The 
President  of  the  United  States  will  meet  the  Senate  in  the  Senate  chamber,  at 
half-past  eleven  o'clock  to-morrow,  to  advise  with  them  on  the  terms  of  the 
treaty  to  be  negotiated  with  the  southern  Indians."  He  accordingly  took  his 
seat  in  the  Senate,  attended  by  General  Knox,  the  Secretary  of  War,  for  two 
days  in  succession,  when  the  outlines  of  a  treaty  proposed  by  the  Secretary 
were  discussed.  But  this  practice,  being  found  inconvenient,  and  subject  to 
various  objections,  particularly  in  regard  to  treaties  with  foreign  powers,  was 
soon  discontinued. — Story's  Commentaries,  vol.  iii.,  p.  371. 

"2  On  the  i8th  the  following  nominations  for  the  several  offices  in  the  Western 
Territory  were  sent  to  the  Senate  :  for  Governor,  Arthur  St.  Clair ;  for 
Secretary,  Winthrop  Sergeant  ;  Judges,  Samuel  Holden  Parsons,  John  Cleve 
Symmes,  and  William  Barton. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  417 


respecting  his  views  to  office,  which  I  will  communi 
cate  to  you  at  our  first  interview  ;  and  this,  if  perfectly 
convenient  and  agreeable  to  you,  may  be  this  after 
noon,  as  I  shall  be  at  home,  and  expect  no  company. 

I  am  yours  affectionately. 


SENTIMENTS  EXPRESSED  "BY  THE  PRESIDENT  TO  THE 
COMMITTEE  FROM  THE  SENATE,  APPOINTED  TO  CON 
FER  WITH  HIM  ON  THE  MODE  OF  COMMUNICATION 
BETWEEN  THE  PRESIDENT  AND  THE  SENATE  RESPECT 
ING  TREATIES  AND  NOMINATIONS. 

August  8th,  1789. 

In  all  matters  respecting  Treaties,  oral  communications  seem 
indispensably  necessary  ;  because  in  these  a  variety  of  matters  are 
contained,  all  of  which  not  only  require  consideration,  but  some 
of  them  may  undergo  much  discussion  ;  to  do  which  by  written 
communications  would  be  tedious  without  being  satisfactory. 

Oral  communications  may  be  proper,  also,  for  discussing  the 
propriety  of  sending  representatives  to  foreign  courts,  and  ascer 
taining  the  grade,  or  character,  in  which  they  are  to  appear,  and 
may  be  so  in  other  cases. 

But  it  may  be  asked  where  are  these  oral  communications  to 
be  made  ?  If  in  the  Senate-chamber,  how  are  the  President  and 
Vice-President  to  be  arranged  ?  the  latter  by  the  constitution 
being  ex-officio  President  of  the  Senate.  Would  the  Vice-Presi 
dent  be  disposed  to  give  up  the  chair  ?  If  not,  ought  the  Presi 
dent  of  the  United  States  to  be  placed  in  an  awkward  situation 
when  there  ?  These  are  matters,  which  require  previous  con 
sideration  and  adjustment  for  meetings  in  the  Senate-chamber  or 
elsewhere. 

With  respect  to  nominations,  my  present  ideas  are,  that,  as  they 
point  to  a  single  object,  unconnected  in  its  nature  with  any  other 
object,  they  had  best  be  made  by  written  messages.  In  this  case 
the  acts  of  the  President  and  the  acts  of  the  Senate  will  stand 

upon  clear,  distinct,  and  responsible  ground. 
27 


418  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


Independently  of  this  consideration,  it  could  be  no  pleasing 
thing,  I  conceive,  for  the  President,  on  the  one  hand,  to  be  present 
and  hear  the  propriety  of  his  nominations  questioned,  nor  for  the 
Senate,  on  the  other  hand,  to  be  under  the  smallest  restraint  from 
his  presence  from  the  fullest  and  freest  inquiry  into  the  character 
of  the  person  nominated.  The  President,  in  a  situation  like  this, 
would  be  reduced  to  one  of  two  things  ;  either  to  be  a  silent  wit 
ness  of  the  decision  by  ballot,  if  there  are  objections  to  the  nomi 
nation,  or  in  justification  thereof  (if  he  should  think  it  right)  to 
support  it  by  argument ;  neither  of  which  might  be  agreeable,  and 
the  latter  improper  ;  for,  as  the  President  has  a  right  to  nominate 
without  assigning  his  reasons,  so  has  the  Senate  a  right  to  dissent 
without  giving  theirs. 

SENTIMENTS      DELIVERED      BY       THE      PRESIDENT      AT      A      SECOND 

CONFERENCE     WITH     THE     COMMITTEE     OF     THE 

SENATE,    AUGUST    TO,    1789. 

The  President  has  the  power,  by  and  with  the  advice  and  con 
sent  of  the  Senate,  to  make  treaties  and  to  appoint  officers. 

The  Senate,  when  this  power  is  exercised,  is  evidently  a  council 
only  to  the  President,  however  its  concurrence  may  be  to  his  acts. 
It  seems  incident  to  this  relation  between  them,  that  not  only  the 
time,  but  \\\Q place  and  manner  of  consultation,  should  be  with  the 
President.  It  is  probable,  that  the  place  may  vary.  The  indis 
position  or  inclination  of  the  President  may  require,  that  the 
Senate  should  be  summoned  to  the  President's  house.  Whenever 
the  government  shall  have  buildings  of  its  own,  an  executive 
chamber  will  no  doubt  be  provided,  where  the  Senate  will 
generally  attend  the  President.  It  is  not  impossible,  that  the 
place  may  be  made  to  depend  in  some  degree  on  the  nature  of 
the  business.  In  the  appointment  to  offices,  the  agency  of  the 
Senate  is  purely  executive,  and  they  may  be  summoned  to  the 
President.  In  treaties,  the  agency  is  perhaps  as  much  of  a 
legislative  nature,  and  the  business  may  possibly  be  referred  to 
their  deliberations  in  their  legislative  chamber.  The  occasion 
for  this  distinction  will  be  lessened  if  not  destroyed,  when  a 
chamber  shall  be  appropriated  for  the  joint  business  of  the  Presi 
dent  and  the  Senate. 


1789]  GEORGE   WASHINGTON.  419 

The  manner  of  consultation  may  also  vary.  The  indisposition 
of  the  President  may  supersede  the  mere  question  of  conveniency. 
The  inclination  or  ideas  of  different  Presidents  may  be  different. 
The  opinions,  both  of  President  and  Senators,  as  to  the  proper 
manner,  may  be  changed  by  experience.  In  some  kinds  of  busi 
ness  it  may  be  found  best  for  the  President  to  make  his  proposi 
tions  orally  and  in  person,  in  others  by  a  written  message.  On 
some  occasions  it  may  be  most  convenient,  that  the  President 
should  attend  the  deliberations  and  decisions  on  his  propositions  ; 
on  others  that  he  should  not  ;  or  that  he  should  not  attend  the 
whole  of  the  time.  In  other  cases,  again,  as  in  treaties  of  a  com 
plicated  nature,  it  may  happen,  that  he  will  send  his  propositions 
in  writing,  and  consult  the  Senate  in  person  after  time  shall  have 
been  allowed  for  consideration.  Many  other  varieties  may  be 
suggested  as  to  the  mode  by  practice. 

If  these  remarks  be  just,  it  would  seem  not  amiss,  that  the 
Senate  should  accommodate  their  rules  to  the  uncertainty  of  the 
particular  mode  and  place,  that  may  be  preferred,  providing  for 
the  reception  of  either  oral  or  written  propositions,  and  for  giving 
their  consent  and  advice  in  either  the  presence  or  absence  of  the 
President,  leaving  him  free  to  use  the  mode  and  place,  that  may 
be  found  most  eligible  and  accordant  with  other  business,  which 
may  be  before  him  at  the  time.1 

1  "  IN  SENATE,  August  2ist,  1789. 

"  The  committee  appointed  to  wait  on  the  President  of  the  United  States, 
and  confer  with  him  on  the  mode  of  communication  proper  to  be  pursued 
between  him  and  the  Senate  in  the  formation  of  treaties,  and  making  appoint 
ments  to  offices,  reported  ;  which  report  was  agreed  to  as  follows. 

"Resolved,  That  when  nominations  shall  be  made  in  writing  by  the  President 
of  the  United  States  to  the  Senate,  a  future  day  shall  be  assigned,  unless  the 
Senate  shall  direct  otherwise,  for  taking  them  into  consideration  ;  that  when 
the  President  of  the  United  States  shall  meet  the  Senate  in  the  Senate-chamber, 
the  President  of  the  Senate  shall  have  a  chair  on  the  floor,  be  considered  as  at 
the  head  of  the  Senate,  and  his  chair  shall  be  assigned  to  the  President  of  the 
United  States  ;  that,  when  the  Senate  shall  be  convened  by  the  President  of 
the  United  States  at  any  other  place,  the  President  of  the  Senate  and  Senators 
shall  attend  at  the  place  appointed.  The  secretary  of  the  Senate  shall  also 
attend  to  take  the  minutes  of  the  Senate  ;  that  all  questions  shall  be  put  by  the 
President  of  the  Senate,  either  in  the  presence  or  absence  of  the  President  of 
the  United  States,  and  the  Senators  shall  signify  their  assent  or  dissent  by  an 
swering  viva  voce  AY  or  No." 


420  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

TO    JAMES    MADISON. 

[CONFIDENTIAL.] 

[August,  1789.] 

The  points  which  at  present  occur  to  me,  and  on 
which  I  wish  your  aid,  are  brought  to  view  in  the 
inclosed  statement — I  give  you  the  trouble  of  re 
ceiving  this  evening  that  you  may  (if  other  matter 
do  not  interfere)  suffer  them  to  run  through  your 
mind  between  this  and  to-morrow  afternoon  when  I 
shall  expect  to  see  you  at  the  appointed  time. 
Besides  the  enclosed 

Would  it  do  now  that  Mr.  Barton  has  declined  the 
Judge's  Seat  (Western  Territory)  to  nominate  Col, 
Carrington  for  that  office? — If  not,  can  you  think  of 
any  other  that  would  suit  him,  of  new  creation  ;  by 
this  I  mean,  which  has  not  an  actual  occupant,  or 
some  who,  from  similarity  of  Office,  may  have  better 
pretensions  to  it. 

Can  you  bring  to  mind  any  fit  character  for  the 
vacancy  just  mentioned  (West  of  New  Jersey).  As 
Virga.  has  given  and  may  furnish  characters  for  im 
portant  offices,  probably  it  would  be  better  to  exclude 
her  also  on  this  occasion. 

What  sort  of  a  character  in  point  of  respectability 
and  fitness  for  this  office  has  Maj.  [George]  Turner 
late  of  S.  Carolina,  now  of  Philadelphia  P1 

Have  you  any  knowledge  of  the  character  of  Mr. 
Lawrence — a  practicing  attorney,  and  son-in-law  to 
General  St.  Clair  ? 

1  September    nth    George    Turner   was    nominated,    in    place   of    Barton, 
declined. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  421 

What  can  I  do  with  A[rthur]  L[ee]  ?  He  has  ap 
plied  to  be  nominated  one  of  the  Associate  Judges, 
but  I  cannot  bring  my  mind  to  adopt  the  request. 
The  opinion  entertained  of  him  by  those  with  whom 
I  am  most  conversant,  is  unpropitious,  and  yet  few 
men  have  received  more  marks  of  public  favor  and 
confidence  than  he  has.  These  contradictions  are 
embarrassing. 

Should  the  sense  of  the  Senate  be  taken  on  the 
propriety  of  sending  public  characters  abroad — say, 
to  England,  Holland,  and  Portugal  ?  And  of  a  day 
for  thanksgiving  ? 

Would  it  be  well  to  advise  with  them  before  the 
adjournment,  on  the  expediency  and  justice  of  de 
manding  a  surrender  of  our  Posts  ? 

Being  clearly  of  opinion  that  there  ought  to  be  a 
difference  in  the  Wages  of  the  Members  of  the  two 
branches  of  the  Legislature,  would  it  be  politic  or 
prudent  in  the  President,  when  the  Bill  comes  to 
him,  to  send  it  back  with  his  reasons  for  non 
concurring  ? 

TO    BENJAMIN    LINCOLN. 

NEW  YORK,  n  August,  1789. 

DEAR  SIR, 

On  the  1 5th  of  September  next  there  is  to  be  a 
treaty  held  in  the  State  of  Georgia,  between  the 
Indians  on  the  Southern  frontiers  and  Commissioners 
on  the  part  of  Georgia.  At  this  treaty  there  will  be  a 
numerous  and  respectable  concourse  of  Indians :  two, 
and  some  say  three  thousand.  Their  famous  Counsel- 


422  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


lor,  the  noted  McGillivray,  is  to  be  present  at  it ;  and  it 
is  now  in  agitation,  and  a  bill  is  before  the  House  of 
Representatives  for  that  purpose,  to  appoint  Commis 
sioners  on  the  part  of  the  United  States  to  attend  at 
this  treaty,  to  establish  a  permanent  and  lasting  peace 
between  the  United  States  and  the  Indians  on  the 
Southern  &  Western  frontiers. — It  is  necessary,  in 
a  matter  of  such  importance  to  this  country,  that 
these  Commissioners  should  be  persons  who  have 
been  known  in  public  life,  and  who  are  very  respecta 
ble  characters, — and  if  to  these  two  circumstances 
could  be  added,  their  being  held  in  high  estimation 
in  the  Southern  States,  without  being  inhabitants  of 
any  of  them,  it  would  be  a  very  desirable  thing.— 
Under  these  circumstances,  it  is  my  wish  that  you 
should  be  one  of  these  Commissioners  ; — and  I  have 
therefore  given  you  this  early  intimation  of  the  mat 
ter  that  you  might  (if  it  should  be  determined  to 
appoint  Commissioners,  and  is  agreeable  to  you,  and 
can  be  made  to  comport  with  your  present  office)  be 
making  such  arrangements  as  will  enable  you  to  be 
at  New  York  and  ready  to  embark  for  Georgia,  on 
or  before  the  first  day  of  September  ;  and  with  an 
expectation  of  being  absent  3  or  4  months. 

You  will  make  up  your  mind  on  this  matter,  and 
give  me  an  answer  by  the  first  post  after  you  receive 
this,  as  you  see  no  time  is  to  be  lost,  for  it  is  abso 
lutely  necessary  that  the  Commissioners  should  be  on 
the  spot  the  i5th  of  September  to  prevent  the  enor 
mous  expense  which  would  be  incurred  by  detaining 
such  a  numerous  body  of  Indians  for  any  time. — In 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  423 

the  meantime  you  will  keep  this  intimation  to  your 
self,  for  in  the  first  place  it  is  not  certain  that  Com 
missioners  will  be  appointed — And  if  they  should 
other  circumstances  might  render  a  concealment  of 
this  intimation  proper.1  I  am,  my  dear  Sir,  &c. 

1  Alexander  McGillivray,  who  controlled  the  Creek  Indians,  was  the  son  of  a 
tory  inhabitant  of  Georgia,  and  a  principal  woman  of  the  Creek  nation.  He 
had  received  an  English  education,  and  his  ability  and  ambition  were  great 
and  sharpened  by  a  resentment  against  Georgia,  which  had  confiscated  his 
estates  in  the  late  war.  On  the  signing  of  peace  at  Paris,  he  had  proposed  a 
treaty  of  alliance  and  commerce  to  the  Spanish  Governor  of  Pensacola  (Arthur 
O'Neal  or  O'Neil),  thus  virtually  seeking  the  protection  of  Spain,  and  even 
hinting  at  a  separation  of  the  Western  territory,  now  rapidly  being  colonized 
from  the  Atlantic  States,  from  the  Confederation. — Gayarre,  Louisiana  under 
the  Spanish  Domination,  158,  159.  A  treaty  was  made,  and  the  profits  of  the 
resulting  commerce,  carried  on  as  a  monopoly  under  Spanish  protection,  cen 
tred  in  Great  Britain,  one  of  the  Bahamas  being  the  place  of  deposit.  The 
validity  of  certain  treaties  of  cession  made  between  Georgia  and  the  Creeks 
resulted  in  hostilities,  and  the  Continental  Congress  (15  July,  1788)  notified  the 
Indians  that  "should  they  persist  in  refusing  to  enter  into  a  treaty  upon 
reasonable  terms,  the  arms  of  the  United  States  shall  be  called  forth  for  the 
protection  of  that  frontier."  A  condition  of  war  and  the  unfulfilled  threat  of 
Congress  were  forced  upon  the  attention  of  Washington. 

In  August,  1789,  the  President  took  counsel  of  Congress  in  the  matter,  and 
Benjamin  Lincoln,  Cyrus  Griffin,  and  David  Humphreys  were  named  Commis 
sioners  to  treat  with  the  southern  Indians,  the  "  first  great  object  of  their  mis 
sion  "  being  to  effect  peace  between  Georgia  and  the  Creeks.  "  On  your  success 
materially  depends  the  internal  peace  of  Georgia,  and  probably  its  attachment 
to  the  General  Government  of  the  United  States."  Every  effort  was  to  be 
made  to  detach  McGillivray  from  his  Spanish  alliance  and  make  him  a  warm 
friend  of  the  United  States.  (The  full  instructions  may  be  found  in  American 
State  Papers,  Indian  Affairs,  i.,  65.)  The  mission  ended  in  a  total  failure  so 
far  as  the  Creeks  were  concerned,  and  the  commissioners  laid  the  entire  blame 
on  McGillivray,  a  pensioner  of  Spain,  who  seemed  to  be  influenced  by  his 
private  interests.  For  in  August,  1790,  when  he,  with  some  of  the  kings  and 
head  men  of  the  Creeks  came  to  New  York  and  entered  into  negotiations  for  a 
treaty,  the  trade  problems  were  the  most  difficult  to  solve.  This  trade  of  the 
Creeks,  amounting  to  ^12,000  a  year,  was  entirely  in  the  hands  of  British 
merchants  who  enjoyed  special  privileges  in  Spanish  ports.  "  As  the  trade  of 
the  Indians  is  a  main  mean  of  their  political  management,  it  is  therefore 
obvious,  that  the  United  States  cannot  possess  any  security  for  the  performance 


424  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


TO    JAMES    CRAIK. 

NEW  YORK,  8  September,  1789. 

DEAR  SIR, 

The  letter,  with  which  you  favored  me  on  the  24th 
ultimo  came  duly  to  hand,  and  for  the  friendly  senti 
ments  contained  in  it  you  have  my  sincere  and  hearty 
thanks. 

My  disorder  was  of  long  and  painful  continuance, 
and,  though  now  freed  from  the  latter,  the  wound 
given  by  the  incision  is  not  yet  closed.  Persuaded  as 
I  am,  that  the  case  has  been  treated  with  skill,  and 
with  as  much  tenderness  as  the  nature  of  the  com 
plaint  would  admit,  yet  I  confess  I  often  wished  for 
your  inspection  of  it.  During  the  paroxysm,  the 
distance  rendered  this  impracticable,  and  after  the 
paroxysm  had  passed,  I  had  no  conception  of  being 
confined  to  a  lying  posture  on  one  side  six  weeks, 
and  that  I  should  feel  the  remains  of  it  more  than 
twelve.  The  part  affected  is  now  reduced  to  the  size 
of  a  barley-corn,  and  by  Saturday  next,  which  will 
complete  the  thirteenth  week,  I  expect  it  will  be 
skinned  over.  Upon  the  whole,  I  have  more  reason 
to  be  thankful,  that  it  is  no  worse,  than  to  repine  at 
the  confinement. 

The  want  of  regular  exercise,  with  the  cares  of 
office,  will,  I  have  no  doubt,  hasten  my  departure  for 

treaties  with  the  Creeks,  while  their  trade  is  liable  to  be  interrupted  or  with 
held,  at  the  caprice  of  two  foreign  powers.  Hence  it  becomes  an  object  of 
real  importance  to  form  new  channels  for  the  commerce  of  the  Creeks  through 
the  United  States." — Washington  s  Message  to  the  Senate,  4  August,  1790. 
Three  days  later  a  treaty  was  sent  to  the  Senate  which  was  intended  to  close 
all  controversies  with  that  nation,  and  would  have  done  so,  had  it  not  been  for 
the  efforts  of  the  Spanish  authorities  to  defeat  its  execution. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  425 

that  country  from  whence  no  traveller  returns ;  but  a 
faithful  discharge  of  whatsoever  trust  I  accept,  as  it 
ever  has,  so  it  always  will  be,  the  primary  considera 
tion  in  every  transaction  of  my  life,  be  the  conse 
quences  what  they  may.  Mrs.  Washington  has,  I 
think,  better  health  than  usual,  and  the  children  are 
well  and  in  the  way  of  improvement. 

I  always  expected,  that  the  gentleman,  whose  name 
you  have  mentioned,  would  mark  his  opposition  to 
the  new  government  with  consistency.  Pricle  on  the 
one  hand,  and  want  of  manly  candor  on  the  other 
will  not,  I  am  certain,  let  him  acknowledge  an  error 
in  his  opinions  respecting  it,  though  conviction  should 
flash  on  his  mind  as  strongly  as  a  ray  of  light.  If 
certain  characters,  which  you  have  also  mentioned, 
should  tread  blindfold  in  his  steps,  it  would  be  mat 
ter  of  no  wonder  to  me.  They  are  in  the  habit  of 
thinking  that  everything  he  says  and  does  is  right, 
and  (if  capable)  they  will  not  judge  for  themselves. 

It  gives  me  pleasure  to  hear,  and  I  wish  you  to 
express  it  to  them,  that  my  nephews  George  and 
Lawrence  Washington  are  attentive  to  their  studies, 
and  obedient  to  your  orders  and  admonition.  That 
kind  of  learning,  which  is  to  fit  them  for  the  most 
useful  and  necessary  purposes  of  life,  among  which 
writing  well,  arithmetic,  and  the  less  abstruse  branches 
of  the  mathematics  are  certainly  to  be  comprehended, 
ought  to  be  particularly  attended  to,  and  it  is  my 
earnest  wish  that  it  should  be  so. 

The  gazettes  are  so  full  of  the  occurrences  of  public, 
and  indeed  a  private  nature,  which  happen  in  this 


426  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

place  that  it  is  unnecessary,  (if  I  had  more  leisure 
than  falls  to  my  lot,)  to  attempt  a  repetition.  I  shall 
therefore  refer  you  to  them,  or  to  the  Alexandria 
paper,  through  which  they  may,  if  pains  are  taken, 
be  retailed.  Mrs.  Washington  and  the  rest  of  the 
family  join  me  in  every  good  and  friendly  wish  for 
Mrs.  Craik,  yourself  and  the  rest  of  your  family  ;  and 
with  sentiments  of  sincere  regard  and  friendship,  I 
am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 

TO    MRS.    BETTY    LEWIS. 

NEW  YORK,  13  September,   1789. 

MY  DEAR  SISTER, 

Colonel  Ball's1  letter  gave  me  the  first  account  of 
my  mother's  death.2  Since  that  I  have  received  Mrs. 
Carter's  letter,  written  at  your  request,  and  previous 
to  both  I  was  prepared  for  the  event  by  some  advices 
of  her  illness  communicated  to  your  son  Robert. 

Awful  and  affecting  as  the  death  of  a  parent  is, 
there  is  consolation  in  knowing,  that  heaven  has 
spared  ours  to  an  age  beyond  which  few  attain,  and 
favored  her  with  the  full  enjoyment  of  her  mental 
faculties,  and  as  much  bodily  strength  as  usually  falls 
to  the  lot  of  four  score.  Under  these  considerations, 
and  a  hope  that  she  is  translated  to  a  happier  place, 
it  is  the  duty  of  her  relatives  to  yield  due  submission 
to  the  decrees  of  the  Creator.  When  I  was  last  at 
Fredericksburg,  I  took  a  final  leave  of  my  mother, 
never  expecting  to  see  her  more. 

1  Burges  Ball. 

2  Mary    Washington    died   at    PVedericksburg,    August  25th,   1789,    in    the 
eighty-third  year  of  her  age.     She  had  been  a  widow  forty-six  years.     General 
Washington's  father  died  on  the  I2th  of  April,  1743. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  427 

It  will  be  impossible  for  me  at  this  distance,  and 
circumstanced  as  I  am,  to  give  the  smallest  attention 
to  the  execution  of  her  will  ;  nor  indeed  is  much  re 
quired,  if,  as  she  directs,  no  security  should  be  given, 
or  appraisement  made  of  her  estate ;  but  that  the 
same  should  be  allotted  to  the  devisees  with  as  little 
trouble  and  delay  as  may  be.  How  far  this  is  legal, 
I  know  not.  Mr.  Mercer  can,  and  I  have  no  doubt 
would,  readily  advise  you  if  asked,  which  I  wish  you 
to  do.  If  the  ceremony  of  inventorying,  appraising, 
&c.  can  be  dispensed  with,  all  the  rest,  (as  the  will 
declares  that  few  or  no  debts  are  owing,)  can  be  done 
with  very  little  trouble.  Every  person  may  in  that 
case  immediately  receive  what  is  specifically  devised. 
The  negroes  who  are  engaged  in  the  crops  and  under 
an  overseer,  must  remain  I  conceive  on  the  planta 
tion  until  the  crop  is  finished  (which  ought  to  be  as 
soon  as  possible),  after  which  the  horses,  stock  of  all 
sorts,  and  every  species  of  property  not  disposed  of 
by  the  will,  (the  debts  if  any  being  first  paid)  must  by 
law  be  equally  divided  into  five  parts,  one  of  which 
you,1  another  my  brother  Charles  and  a  third  myself 
are  entitled  to,  the  other  two  thirds  fall  to  the  share  of 
the  children  of  our  deceased  brothers  Samuel  and  John. 

Were  it  not,  that  the  specific  legacies,  which  are 
given  to  me  by  the  will,  are  meant  and  ought  to  be 
considered  and  received  as  mementos  of  parental 
affection,  in  the  last  solemn  act  of  life,  I  should  not 
be  desirous  of  receiving  or  removing  them  ;  but  in 

1  As  Mrs.  Washington  was  possessed  of  the  negroes  only  during  her  life,  her 
husband  having  disposed  of  them  by  will  after  her  death,  Mrs.  Lewis  was  not 
entitled  to  any  part  of  them. 


428  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

this  point  of  view  I  set  a  value  on  them  much  beyond 
their  intrinsic  worth. 

Whilst  it  occurs  to  me,  it  is  necessary  it  should  be 
known  that  there  is  a  fellow  belonging  to  that  estate 
now  at  my  house,  who  never  stayed  elsewhere,  for 
which  reason,  and  because  he  has  a  family  I  should 
be  glad  to  keep  him.  He  must  I  should  conceive  be 
far  short  in  value  of  the  fifth  of  the  other  negroes 
which  will  be  to  be  divided,  but  I  shall  be  content  to 
take  him  as  my  proportion  of  them — and,  if  from  a 
misconception  either  of  the  number  or  the  value  of 
these  negroes  it  should  be  found  that  he  is  of  greater 
value  than  falls  to  my  lot  I  shall  readily  allow  the 
difference,  in  order  that  the  fellow  may  be  gratified, 
as  he  never  would  consent  to  go  from  me. 

Debts,  if  any  are  due,  should  be  paid  from  the  sale 
of  the  crops,  Plantation  utensils,  Horses  and  Stock, 
and  the  sooner  an  account  is  taken  of  the  latter  and 
they  can  conveniently  be  disposed  of,  the  better  it 
will  be  for  two  reasons ;  first  because  the  Overseer 
(if  he  is  not  a  very  honest  man)  may  take  advantage 
of  circumstances,  and  convert  part  of  these  things  to 
his  own  use — and  secondly  because  the  Season  is  now 
fast  approaching  when  without  feeding  (which  would 
lessen  the  sale  of  the  corn  and  fodder)  the  stock  will 
fall  off,  and  consequently  sell  to  a  disadvantage. 
Whether  my  mother  has  kept  any  accounts  that  can 
be  understood  is  more  than  I  am  able  to  say — If  any 
thing  is  owing  to  her  it  should  be  received — and,  if 
due  from  her,  paid  after  due  proof  thereof  is  made — 
She  has  had  a  great  deal  of  money  from  me  at  times, 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  429 


as  can  be  made  appear  by  my  books,  and  the  accounts 
of  Mr.  L.  Washington  during  my  absence, — and  over 
and  above  this  has  not  only  had  all  that  was  ever 
made  from  the  Plantation,  but  got  her  provisions  and 
every  thing  else  she  thought  proper  from  thence.  In 
short  to  the  best  of  my  recollection  I  have  never  in 
my  life  received  a  copper  from  the  estate — and  have 
paid  many  hundred  pounds  (first  and  last)  to  her  in 
cash — However  I  want  no  retribution — I  conceived  it 
to  be  a  duty  whenever  she  asked  for  money,  and  I 
had  it,  to  furnish  her,  notwithstanding  she  got  all  the 
crops  or  the  amount  of  them  and  took  every  thing 
she  wanted  from  the  plantation  for  the  support  of  her 
family,  horses,  &c.  besides. 

As  the  accounts  for  or  against  the  estate  must  not 
only  from  the  declaration  in  the  will,  but  from  the 
nature  of  the  case  be  very  trifling  and  confined  I 
should  suppose  to  the  town  of  Fredericksburg,  it 
might  be  proper  therefore  in  that  paper  to  require 
in  an  advertisement  all  those  who  have  any  demands 
to  bring  them  in  properly  attested  immediately,  and 
those  who  are  owing  to  pay  forthwith.  The  same 
advertisement  might  appoint  a  day  for  selling  the 
stock,  and  every  thing,  excepting  Negroes,  at  the 
plantation,  that  is  not  devised  by  the  will,  as  it  will 
be  more  convenient  I  should  suppose  for  the  heirs  to 
receive  their  respective  dividends  of  the  money  aris 
ing  from  the  sales  than  to  be  troubled  with  receiving 
a  cow,  a  calf,  or  such  like  things  after  the  debts 
(which  must  be  the  case)  have  been  first  paid.  It 
might  be  well  in  fixing  the  day  of  sale,  to  consult 


430  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


the  Overseer,  to  know  when  the  business  of  the 
plantation  will  admit  the  Cart,  Team  and  Utensils 
to  be  taken  from  it. 

As  the  number  of  articles  to  be  sold  cannot  be 
many  and  will  be  of  small  value,  I  think  they  had 
better  be  sold  for  ready  money  and  so  advertised,  for 
though  they  would  fetch  more  on  credit,  there  would 
more  than  probable  be  bad  debts  contracted,  and  at 
any  rate  delay,  if  not  law  suits,  before  the  money 
could  be  collected,  and  besides  if  there  are  debts  to 
be  paid  money  will  be  wanted  for  the  purpose,  and  in 
no  way  can  be  so  readily  and  properly  obtained  as  by 
a  ready  money  sale,  and  from  the  crops. 

If  you  think  this  business  will  be  too  troublesome 
for  you  with  the  aid  of  your  sons — Mr.  Carter  and 
Colonel  Ball — who  I  am  persuaded  will  give  each  of 
us  assistance,  and  you  will  let  me  know  it,  I  will  de 
sire  Major  George  Washington  to  attend. 

As  the  land  at  the  Little-falls  Plantation  goes  to 
Mr.  Bushrod  Washington  he  should  be  apprised  in 
time  of  the  breaking  of  it  up,  otherwise  there  may 
be  injury  to  the  houses  and  fencing  if  left  without 
some  person  to  attend  to  them.  Have  particular 
care  taken  of  her  papers,  the  letters  to  her,  &c. 

I  should  prefer  selling  the  houses  and  lotts  on 
which  my  Mother  lived  to  renting  of  them, — and 
would  give  a  year  or  two  years'  credit  to  the  pur 
chasers  paying  interest — and  not  being  acquainted 
with  the  value  of  lotts  in  Fredericksburg,  I  would 
leave  the  price  to  any  three  indifferent  and  impartial 
Gentleman  to  say  what  they  are  worth,  and  that  sum 
I  will  take. 


i789l  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  431 

If  they  cannot  be  sold  and  soon  I  would  rent  them 
from  year  to  year  to  any  orderly  Tenant  on  a  mode 
rate  rent.  If  they  are  not  disposed  of  on  sale  or  by 
tennanting  before  the  weather  gets  cool  the  paling 
will,  I  expect,  be  soon  burnt  up. 

Give  my  love  to  Mrs.  Carter,  and  thank  her  for  the 
letter  she  wrote  to  me.  I  would  have  done  this  my 
self,  had  I  more  time  for  private  correspondences. 
Mrs.  Washington  joins  in  best  wishes  for  her,  your 
self,  and  all  other  friends  ;  and  I  am,  with  the  most 
sincere  regard,  your  affectionate  brother.1 


TO    BENJAMIN    FRANKLIN. 

NEW  YORK,  23  September,  1789. 

DEAR  SIR, 

The  affectionate  congratulations  on  the  recovery  of 
my  health,  and  the  warm  expressions  of  personal 
friendship,  which  were  contained  in  your  letter  of  the 
1 6th  instant,  claim  my  gratitude.  And  the  considera 
tion,  that  it  was  written  when  you  were  afflicted  with  a 
painful  malady,  greatly  increases  my  obligation  for  it.2 

1  The  will  of    Mary  Washington  and  some  letters   of   Washington  on  the 
estate,  are  printed  in  my  Wills  of  George  Washington  and  his  Immediate  Ances 
tors,  1891. 

2  Dr.   Franklin's  letter  : 

"  PHILADELPHIA,  16  September,  1789. 
"  DEAR  SIR, 

"  My  malady  renders  my  sitting  up  to  write  rather  painful  to  me  ;  but  I 
cannot  let  my  son-in-law,  Mr.  Bache,  part  for  New  York,  without  congratu 
lating  you  by  him  on  the  recovery  of  your  health,  so  precious  to  us  all ;  and 
on  the  growing  strength  of  our  new  government  under  your  administration. 
For  my  own  personal  ease,  I  should  have  died  two  years  ago  ;  but,  though 
those  years  have  been  spent  in  excruciating  pain,  I  am  pleased  that  I  have 
lived  them,  since  they  have  brought  me  to  see  our  present  situation.  I  am  now 
finishing  my  eighty-fourth  year,  and  probably  with  it  my  career  in  this  life  ; 


432  THE   WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


Would  to  God,  my  dear  Sir,  that  I  could  congratu 
late  you  upon  the  removal  of  that  excruciating  pain, 
under  which  you  labor,  and  that  your  existence  might 
close  with  as  much  ease  to  yourself,  as  its  continu 
ance  has  been  beneficial  to  our  country  and  useful  to 
mankind ;  or,  if  the  united  wishes  of  a  free  people, 
joined  with  the  earnest  prayers  of  every  friend  to 
science  and  humanity,  could  relieve  the  body  from 
pains  or  infirmities,  you  could  claim  an  exemption  on 
this  score.  But  this  cannot  be,  and  you  have  within 
yourself  the  only  resource  to  which  we  can  confidently 
apply  for  relief,  a  philosophic  mind. 

If  to  be  venerated  for  benevolence,  if  to  be  ad 
mired  for  talents,  if  to  be  esteemed  for  patriotism,  if 
to  be  beloved  for  philanthropy,  can  gratify  the  human 
mind,  you  must  have  the  pleasing  consolation  to  know, 
that  you  have  not  lived  in  vain.  And  I  flatter  myself 
that  it  will  not  be  ranked  among  the  least  grateful 
occurrences  of  your  life  to  be  assured,  that,  so  long 
as  I  retain  my  memory,  you  will  be  thought  on  with 
respect,  veneration,  and  affection  by  your  sincere 
friend. 


TO    EDMUND    RANDOLPH. 

NEW  YORK,  27  September,  1789. 

DEAR  SIR, 

Impressed  with  a  conviction,  that  the  due  adminis 
tration  of  justice  is  the  firmest  pillar  of  good  govern 
ment,  I  have  considered  the  first  arrangement  of  the 

but  in  whatever  state  of  existence  I  am  placed  hereafter,  if  I  retain  any  mem 
ory  of  what  has  passed  here,  I  shall  with  it  retain  the  esteem,  respect,  and 
affection,  with  which  I  have  long  been,  my  dear  friend,  &c." 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  433 


judicial  department  as  essential  to  the  happiness  of 
our  country,  and  to  the  stability  of  its  political  sys 
tem.  Hence  the  selection  of  the  fittest  characters  to 
expound  the  laws,  and  dispense  justice,  has  been  an 
invariable  object  of  my  anxious  concern.1 

I  mean  not  to  flatter  when  I  say,  that  considera 
tions  like  these  have  ruled  in  the  nomination  of  the 
attorney-general  of  the  United  States,  and  that  my 
private  wishes  would  be  highly  gratified  by  your  ac 
ceptance  of  the  office.  I  regarded  the  office  as  re 
quiring  those  talents  to  conduct  its  important  duties, 
and  that  disposition  to  sacrifice  to  the  public  good, 
which  I  believe  you  to  possess  and  entertain.  In 
both  instances  I  doubt  not  the  event  will  justify  the 
conclusion.  The  appointment  I  hope  will  be  ac 
cepted,  and  its  functions,  I  am  assured,  will  be  well 
performed. 

Notwithstanding  the  prevailing  disposition  to  fru 
gality,  the  salary  of  this  office  appears  to  have  been 
fixed  at  what  it  is,  from  a  belief  that  the  station  would 
confer  preeminence  on  its  possessor,  and  procure  for 
him  a  decided  preference  of  professional  employment. 
As  soon  as  the  acts,  which  are  necessary  accompani- 

1  As  early  as  July  loth  Washington  had  talked  with  Cyrus  Griffin,  of  the 
Virginia  delegation,  on  the  judiciary  and  customs  appointments  in  Virginia,  and 
appeared  anxious  to  know  if  Edmund  Pendleton,  George  Wythe,  Lyons, 
or  John  Blair  would  prefer  a  federal  to  a  State  appointment.  Edmund  Ran 
dolph  was  also  suggested,  but  no  mention  was  made  of  particular  offices  for 
the  person  to  be  named.  Late  in  July  or  early  in  August,  the  President  wrote 
to  Madison  that  he  had  determined  to  nominate  Mr.  Blair  and  Colonel  Pendle 
ton  as  associate  and  district  judges,  and  Randolph  as  Attorney-General :  "  Mr. 
Randolph  in  this  character  I  would  prefer  to  any  person  I  am  acquainted  with 
of  not  superior  abilities,  from  habits  of  intimacy  with  him."  Pendleton 
declined  to  serve,  and  Cyrus  Griffin  was  named  in  his  place. 
28 


434  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

ments  of  the  appointment,  can  be  got  ready,  you  will 
receive  official  notice  of  the  latter.  This  letter  is 
only  to  be  considered  as  an  early  communication 
of  my  sentiment  on  this  occasion,  and  as  a  testimony 
of  the  sincere  regard  and  esteem,  with  which  I  am,  &C.1 


TO    GOUVERNEUR    MORRIS. 

NEW  YORK,  13  October,  1789. 

DEAR  SIR, 

In  my  first  moments  of  leisure  I  acknowledge  the 
receipt  of  your  several  favors  of  the  23d  of  February, 
3  of  March  and  29  of  April. 

To  thank  you  for  the  interesting  communications 
contained  in  those  letters,  and  for  the  pains  you  have 
taken  to  procure  me  a  watch,  is  all,  or  nearly  all,  I 
shall  attempt  in  this  letter ;  for  I  could  only  repeat 


1  Randolph's  private  affairs  and  his  incompleted  revision  of  the  laws  of  the 
State,  were  urged  as  reasons  for  delaying  an  acceptance  of  the  office. 

In  announcing  their  appointments  to  the  associate  judges  of  the  Supreme 
Court,  Washington  wrote,  30  September,  1789  :  "  Considering  the  judicial 
system  as  the  chief  pillar  upon  which  our  national  government  must  rest,  I 
have  thought  it  my  duty  to  nominate  for  the  high  offices  in  that  department, 
such  men  as  I  conceived  would  give  dignity  and  lustre  to  our  national 
character ;  and  I  flatter  myself  that  the  love,  which  you  bear  to  our  country, 
and  a  desire  to  promote  general  happiness,  will  lead  you  to  a  ready  acceptance 
of  the  enclosed  commission,  which  is  accompanied  with  such  laws  as  have 
passed  relative  to  your  office."  Five  days  later  he  inclosed  a  commission  to 
John  Jay,  appointing  him  Chief  Justice,  and  added  :  "In  nominating  you 
for  the  important  station,  which  you  now  fill,  I  not  only  acted  in  conformity 
to  my  best  judgment,  but  I  trust  I  did  a  grateful  thing  to  the  good  citizens  of 
these  United  States  ;  and  I  have  a  full  confidence,  that  the  love  which  you  bear 
to  our  country,  and  a  desire  to  promote  general  happiness,  will  not  suffer  you 
to  hesitate  a  moment  to  bring  into  action  the  talents,  knowledge,  and  integrity, 
which  are  so  necessary  to  be  exercised  at  the  head  of  that  department,  which 
must  be  considered  as  the  key-stone  of  our  political  fabric." 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  435 

things,  were  I  to  set  about  it,  which  I  have  reason  to 
believe  have  been  regularly  communicated  to  you  in 
detail,  at  the  periods  which  gave  birth  to  them.  It 
may  not,  however,  be  unpleasing  to  you  to  hear  in 
one  word,  that  the  national  government  is  organized, 
and,  as  far  as  my  information  goes,  to  the  satisfaction 
of  all  parties ;  that  opposition  to  it  is  either  no  more, 
or  hides  its  head  ;  that  it  is  hoped  and  expected  it 
will  take  strong  root  ;  and  that  the  non-acceding 
States  will  very  soon  become  members  of  the  Union. 
No  doubt  is  entertained  of  North  Carolina ;  nor 
would  there  be  of  Rhode  Island,  had  not  the  ma 
jority  of  that  people  bid  adieu,  long  since,  to  every 
principle  of  honor,  common  sense,  and  honesty.  A 
material  change  however  has  taken  place,  it  is  said, 
at  the  late  election  of  representatives,  and  confident 
assurances  are  given,  from  that  circumstance,  of  bet 
ter  dispositions  in  their  legislature  at  its  next  session, 
now  about  to  be  held. 

The  revolution,  which  has  been  effected  in  France 
is  of  so  wonderful  a  nature,  that  the  mind  can  hardly 
realize  the  fact.  If  it  ends  as  our  last  accounts,  to 
the  first  of  August,  predict,  that  nation  will  be  the 
most  powerful  and  happy  in  Europe  ;  but  I  fear, 
though  it  has  gone  triumphantly  through  the  first 
paroxysm,  it  is  not  the  last  it  has  to  encounter  before 
matters  are  finally  settled.  In  a  word,  the  revolution 
is  of  too  great  magnitude  to  be  effected  in  so  short  a 
space,  and  with  the  loss  of  so  little  blood.  The 
mortification  of  the  king,  the  intrigues  of  the  queen, 
and  the  discontent  of  the  princes  and  the  noblesse, 


436  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

will  foment  divisions,  if  possible,  in  the  National 
Assembly  ;  and  they  will  unquestionably  avail  them 
selves  of  every  faiix  pas  in  the  formation  of  the 
constitution,  if  they  do  not  give  a  more  open,  active 
opposition.  To  these,  the  licentiousness  of  the  people 
on  one  hand,  and  sanguinary  punishments  on  the 
other,  will  alarm  the  best  disposed  friends  to  the 
measure,  and  contribute  not  a  little  to  the  overthrow 
of  their  object.  Great  temperance,  firmness,  and 
foresight  are  necessary  in  the  movements  of  that 
body.  To  forbear  running  from  one  extreme  to 
another  is  no  easy  matter  ;  and,  should  this  be  the 
case,  rocks  and  shelves,  not  visible  at  present,  may 
wreck  the  vessel. 

This  letter  is  an  evidence,  though  of  a  trifling  sort, 
that  in  the  commencement  of  any  work  one  rarely 
sees  the  progress  or  end  of  it.  I  declared  to  you  in 
the  beginning  that  I  had  little  to  say.  I  have  got 
beyond  the  second  page  and  find  I  have  a  good  deal 
to  add  ;  but  that  no  time  or  paper  may  be  wasted  in 
a  useless  preface  I  will  come  to  the  point. 

Will  you  then,  my  good  Sir,  permit  me  to  ask  the 
favor  of  you  to  provide  and  send  to  me  by  the  first 
Ship,  bound  to  this  place,  or  Philadelphia,  mirrors  for 
a  table,  with  neat  and  fashionable  but  not  expensive 
ornaments  for  them — such  as  will  do  credit  to  your 
taste — The  mirrors  will  of  course  be  in  pieces  that 
they  may  be  adapted  to  the  company,  (the  size  of  it  I 
mean)  the  aggregate  length  of  them  may  be  ten  feet 
—the  breadth  two  feet — The  frames  may  be  plated 
ware,  or  any  thing  else  more  fashionable  but  not 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  437 

more  expensive.  If  I  am  defective  recur  to  what 
you  have  seen  on  Mr.  Robert  Morris's  table  for  my 
ideas  generally.  Whether  these  things  can  be  had 
on  better  terms  and  in  a  better  style  in  Paris  than  in 
London  I  will  not  undertake  to  decide.  I  recollect 
however  to  have  had  plated  ware  from  both  places, 
and  those  from  the  latter  came  cheapest, — but  a 
single  instance  is  no  evidence  of  a  general  fact. 

Of  plated  ware  may  be  made  I  conceive  handsome 
and    useful    Coolers   for  wine  at  and  after  dinner. 
Those  I  am  in  need  of  viz  :  eight  double  ones  (for 
madeira  and  claret  the  wines  usually  drank  at  dinner) 
each  of  the  apertures  to  be  sufficient  to  contain  a 
pint  decanter,  with  an  allowance  in  the  depth  of  it 
for  ice  at  bottom  so   as  to   raise   the  neck  of    the 
decanter  above  the  cooler — between  the  apertures  a 
handle  is  to  be  placed  by  which  these  double  coolers 
may  with  convenience  be  removed  from  one  part  of 
the  table  to  another.     For  the  wine  after  dinner  four 
quadruple  coolers  will  be  necessary,  each  aperture  of 
which  to  be  of  the  size  of  a  quart  decanter  or  quart 
bottle  for  four  sorts  of  wine — These    decanters   or 
bottles  to  have  ice   at  bottom,   and  to  be  elevated 
thereby  as  above — a  central  handle  here  also  will  be 
wanting — Should  my  description  be  defective,  your 
imagination  is  fertile  and  on  this  I  shall  rely.      One 
idea  however  I  must  impress  you  with  and  that  is  in 
whole  or  part  to  avoid  extravagance.      For  extrava 
gance  would  not  comport  with  my  own  inclination, 
nor  with  the  example  which  ought  to  be  set.      The 
reason  why  I  prefer  an  aperture  for  every  decanter  or 


438  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

bottle  to  coolers  that  would  contain  two  and  four 
is  that  whether  full  or  empty  the  bottles  will  always 
stand  upright  and  never  be  at  variance  with  each 
other. 

The  letter  enclosed  with  your  draught  accompany 
ing  it  will  provide  the  means  for  payment — The 
clumsy  manner  in  which  Merchants  (or  rather  their 
tradesmen)  execute  commissions,  where  taste  is  re 
quired,  for  persons  at  a  distance  must  be  my  apology, 
and  the  best  that  can  be  offered  by- 
Dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO    THOMAS    JEFFERSON. 

NEW  YORK,  13  October,  1789. 

DEAR  SIR, 

In  the  selection  of  characters  to  fill  the  important 
offices  of  government  in  the  United  States,  I  was 
naturally  led  to  contemplate  the  talents  and  disposi 
tion,  which  I  knew  you  to  possess  and  entertain  for 
the  service  of  your  country  ;  and,  without  being  able 
to  consult  your  inclination,  or  to  derive  any  knowl 
edge  of  your  intentions  from  your  letters,  either  to 
myself  or  to  any  other  of  your  friends,  I  was  deter 
mined,  as  well  by  motives  of  private  regard  as  a  con 
viction  of  public  propriety,  to  nominate  you  for  the 
Department  of  State,  which,  under  its  present  organi 
zation,  involves  many  of  the  most  interesting  objects 
of  the  executive  authority.  But,  grateful  as  your 
acceptance  of  this  commission  would  be  to  me,  I  am 
at  the  same  time  desirous  to  accommodate  your 
wishes,  and  I  have  therefore  forborne  to  nominate 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  439 

your  successor  at  the  court  of  Versailles,  until  I 
should  be  informed  of  your  determination. 

Being  on  the  eve  of  a  journey  through  the  eastern 
States,  with  a  view  to  observe  the  situation  of  the 
country,  and  in  a  hope  of  perfectly  reestablishing  my 
health,  which  a  series  of  indispositions  has  much  im 
paired,  I  have  deemed  it  proper  to  make  this  com 
munication  of  your  appointment,  in  order  that  you 
might  lose  no  time,  should  it  be  your  wish  to  visit 
Virginia  during  the  recess  of  Congress,  which  will 
probably  be  the  most  convenient  season,  both  as  it 
may  respect  your  private  concerns  and  the  public 
service. 

Unwilling  as  I  am  to  interfere  in  the  direction  of 

o 

your  choice  of  assistants,  I  shall  only  take  the  liberty 
of  observing  to  you,  that,  from  warm  recommendations 
which  I  have  received  in  behalf  of  Roger  Alden,  Es 
quire,  assistant  secretary  to  the  late  Congress,  I  have 
placed  all  the  papers  thereunto  belonging  under  his 
care.  Those  papers,  which  more  properly  appertain 
to  the  office  of  foreign  affairs,  are  under  the  superin 
tendence  of  Mr.  Jay,  who  has  been  so  obliging  as  to 
continue  his  good  offices,  and  they  are  in  the  immedi 
ate  charge  of  Mr.  Remsen.  With  sentiments  of  very 
great  esteem  and  regard,  I  have  the  honor,  to  be,  &C.1 

1  Mr.  Jefferson  arrived  at  Norfolk  on  the  23d  of  November  ;  and  at  Epping- 
ton  in  Chesterfield  county,  on  his  way  to  Monticello,  received  the  above  letter, 
and  also  another  from  President  Washington  on  the  same  subject  dated  No 
vember  3Oth.  In  his  reply  he  said  that  his  inclinations  led  him  to  prefer  his 
former  station  in  France,  to  which  it  had  been  his  intention  to  return. 

"  But"  he  added,  "  it  is  not  for  an  individual  to  choose  his  post.  You  are 
to  marshal  us  as  may  be  best  for  the  public  good  ;  and  it  is  only  in  case  of  its 
being  indifferent  to  you,  that  I  would  avail  myself  of  the  option  you  have  so 


440  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


TO    GOUVERNEUR    MORRIS. 

NEW  YORK,  13  October,  1789. 

SIR, 

It  being  important  to  both  countries,  that  the 
treaty  of  peace  between  Great  Britain  and  the  United 
States  should  be  observed  and  performed  with  per 
fect  and  mutual  good  faith,  and  that  a  treaty  of  com 
merce  should  be  concluded  by  them,  on  principles  of 
reciprocal  advantage  to  both,  I  wish  to  be  ascertained 
of  the  sentiments  and  intentions  of  the  court  of  Lon 
don  on  these  interesting  subjects. 

It  appears  to   me  most  expedient   to   have   these 

kindly  offered  in  your  letter.  If  you  think  it  better  to  transfer  me  to  another 
post,  my  inclination  must  be  no  obstacle  ;  nor  shall  it  be,  if  there  is  any  desire 
to  suppress  the  office  I  now  hold,  or  to  diminish  its  grade.  In  either  of  these 
cases  be  so  good  as  to  signify  to  me  by  another  line  your  ultimate  wish,  and  I 
shall  conform  to  it  accordingly.  If  it  should  be  to  remain  at  New  York,  my 
chief  comfort  will  be  to  work  under  your  eye,  my  only  shelter  the  authority  of 
your  name,  and  the  wisdom  of  measures  to  be  dictated  by  you  and  implicitly 
executed  by  me.  Whatever  you  may  please  to  decide,  I  do  not  see,  that  the 
matters,  which  have  called  me  hither,  will  permit  me  to  shorten  the  stay  I 
originally  asked  ;  that  is  to  say,  to  set  out  on  my  journey  northward  till  the 
month  of  March.  As  early  as  possible  in  that  month,  I  shall  have  the  honor  of 
paying  my  respects  to  you  in  New  York." — December  I5th. 

On  this  subject  Mr.  Madison  wrote  to  the  President  as  follows  : 
"  A  few  days  before  I  was  allowed  to  set  out  for  New  York,  I  took  a  ride  to 
Monticello.  The  answer  of  Mr.  Jefferson  to  the  notification  of  his  appoint 
ment  will  no  doubt  have  explained  the  state  of  his  mind  on  the  subject.  I  was 
sorry  to  find  him  so  little  biassed  in  favor  of  the  domestic  service  allotted  to 
him,  but  was  glad  that  his  difficulties  seemed  to  result  chiefly  from  what  I  take 
to  be  an  erroneous  view  of  the  kind  and  quantity  of  business  annexed  to  that, 
which  constituted  the  foreign  department.  He  apprehends  that  it  will  far 
exceed  the  latter,  which  has  of  itself  no  terrors  to  him.  On  the  other  hand,  it 
was  supposed,  and  I  believe  truly,  that  the  domestic  part  will  be  very  trifling, 
and  for  that  reason  improper  to  be  made  a  distinct  department.  After  all,  if 
the  whole  business  can  be  executed  by  any  one  man,  Mr.  Jefferson  must  be 
equal  to  it.  All  whom  I  have  heard  speak  on  the  subject  are  remarkably 
solicitous  for  his  acceptance,  and  I  flatter  myself,  that  they  will  not  in  the 
event  be  disappointed." — Georgetown,  January  4th,  1790. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  441 

inquiries  made  informally,  by  a  private  agent ;  and, 
understanding  that  you  will  soon  be  in  London,  I 
desire  you  in  that  capacity,  and  on  the  authority  and 
credit  of  this  letter,  to  converse  with  his  Britannic 
Majesty's  ministers  on  these  joints,  namely,  whether 
there  be  any  and  what  objections  to  performing  those 
articles  in  the  treaty,  which  remain  to  be  performed 
on  his  part ;  and  whether  they  incline  to  a  treaty  of 
commerce  with  the  United  States  on  any  and  what 
terms. 

This  communication  ought  regularly  to  be  made  to 
you  by  the  Secretary  of  State  ;  but,  that  office  not 
being  at  present  filled,  my  desire  of  avoiding  delays 
induces  me  to  make  it  under  my  own  hand.  It  is  my 
wish  to  promote  harmony  and  mutual  satisfaction  be 
tween  the  two  countries  ;  and  it  would  give  me  great 
pleasure  to  find  that  the  result  of  your  agency,  in  the 
business  now  committed  to  you,  will  conduce  to  that 
end.  I  am,  Sir,  yours,  &c. 


TO    GOUVERNEUR    MORRIS. 

NEW  YORK,  13  October,  1789. 

SIR, 

My  letter  to  you,  herewith  enclosed,  will  give  you 
the  credence  necessary  to  enable  you  to  do  the  busi 
ness,  which  it  commits  to  your  management,  and 
which  I  am  persuaded  you  will  readily  undertake. 

Your  inquiries  will  commence  by  observing,  that, 
as  the  present  constitution  of  government,  and  of  the 
courts  established  in  pursuance  of  it,  removes  the  ob 
jections  heretofore  made  to  putting  the  United  States 


442  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

in  possession  of  their  frontier  posts,  it  is  natural  to 
expect  from  the  assurances  of  his  Majesty  and  the 
national  good  faith,  that  no  unnecessary  delays  will 
take  place.  Proceed  then  to  press  a  speedy  perform 
ance  of  the  treaty  respecting  that  object. 

Remind  them  of  the  article  by  which  it  was  agreed, 
that  negroes  belonging  to  our  citizens  should  not  be 
carried  away,  and  of  the  reasonableness  of  making 
compensation  for  them.  Learn  with  precision,  if 
possible,  what  they  mean  to  do  on  this  head. 

The  commerce  between  the  two  countries  you  well 
understand.  You  are  apprized  of  the  sentiments  and 
feelings  of  the  United  States  on  the  present  state  of 
it ;  and  you  doubtless  have  heard,  that,  in  the  late 
session  of  Congress,  a  very  respectable  number  of 
both  houses  were  inclined  to  a  discrimination  of 
duties  unfavorable  to  Britain,  and  that  it  would  have 
taken  place  but  for  conciliatory  considerations,  and 
the  probability  that  the  late  change  in  our  government 
and  circumstances  would  lead  to  more  satisfactory 
arrangements. 

Request  to  be  informed,  therefore,  whether  they 
contemplate  a  treaty  of  commerce  with  the  United 
States,  and  on  what  principles  or  terms  in  general. 
In  treating  this  subject,  let  it  be  strongly  impressed 
on  your  mind,  that  the  privilege  of  carrying  our  pro 
ductions  in  our  vessels  to  their  Islands,  and  of  bring 
ing  in  return  the  productions  of  those  Islands  to  our 
own  ports  and  markets,  is  regarded  here  as  of  the 
highest  importance  ;  and  you  will  be  careful  not  to 
countenance  any  idea  of  our  dispensing  with  it  in  a 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  443 


treaty.  Ascertain,  if  possible,  their  views  on  this 
point  ;  for  it  would  not  be  expedient  to  commence 
negotiations  without  previously  having  good  reasons 
to  expect  a  satisfactory  termination  of  them. 

It  may  also  be  well  for  you  to  take  a  proper  occa 
sion  of  remarking,  that  their  omitting  to  send  a  min 
ister  here,  when  the  United  States  sent  one  to  London, 
did  not  make  an  agreeable  impression  on  this  country  ; 
and  request  to  know  what  would  be  their  future  con 
duct  on  similar  occasions. 

It  is  in  my  opinion  very  important,  that  we  avoid 
errors  in  our  system  of  policy  respecting  Great 
Britain  ;  and  this  can  only  be  done  by  forming  a  right 
judgment  of  their  disposition  and  views.  Hence  you 
will  perceive  how  interesting  it  is,  that  you  obtain  the 
information  in  question,  and  that  the  business  be  so 
managed,  as  that  it  may  receive  every  advantage, 
which  abilities,  address,  and  delicacy  can  promise  and 
afford.  I  am,  Sir,  yours,  &C.1 

1  Morris  in  his  first  interview  with  the  Duke  of  Leeds,  on  March  29th,  out 
lined  the  wishes  of  the  President  as  given  in  this  letter,  and  was  well  received  ; 
but  by  September,  when  Morris  returned  to  France,  nothing  definite  had  been 
concluded  upon  any  of  the  subjects  in  dispute.  In  June  following  Colonel 
William  S.  Smith  arrived  in  America,  bearing  reports  of  some  conversations  he 
had  held  with  British  officials,  but  they  were  no  more  conclusive  than  Morris'. 
— Sparks'  Washington,  x.,  168  ;  Madison's  Writings,  i.,  537. 

As  there  was  now  a  recess  of  Congress,  which  had  been  adjourned  from  the 
2gth  of  September  to  the  ist  of  January,  the  President  resolved  to  embrace  this 
opportunity  to  make  a  tour  through  the  Eastern  States.  He  left  New  York, 
accompanied  by  his  secretaries,  Mr.  Lear  and  Mr.  Jackson,  on  the  I5th  of 
October.  Travelling  in  his  own  carriage  by  the  way  of  New  Haven,  Hartford, 
Worcester,  Boston,  Salem,  and  Newburyport,  he  reached  Portsmouth  in  New 
Hampshire  on  the  3ist,  having  been  attended  nearly  the  whole  distance  by 
military  escorts,  which  were  prepared  to  receive  him  at  different  points  on  the 
route.  In  all  the  principal  towns,  also,  he  was  greeted  with  public  addresses, 


444  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


TO    JOHN    HANCOCK. 

WESTON,  23  October,  1789. 

SIR, 

I  have  this  moment  received  your  Excellency's 
polite  letter  of  to-day,  and  have  the  honor  to  inform 
you,  that,  in  consequence  of  suggestions  made  by  the 
gentlemen  from  Boston,  and  the  deputy  adjutant- 
general,  (whom  I  met  at  Worcester)  this  morning, 
that  it  would  make  it  more  convenient  for  the  troops, 
many  of  whom  lived  at  a  distance  from  the  place  of 
parade,  if  I  should  pass  through  Cambridge  at  an 
earlier  hour  than  I  intended,  I  thought  it  best  to  alter 
the  time  of  my  arrival  at  that  place,  which.  I  had  the 
pleasure  to  mention  to  your  Excellency  in  my  letter 
of  yesterday  ;  and  the  alteration,  which  I  had  made, 
I  immediately  communicated  to  you  by  a  letter,  which 
the  gentlemen  from  Boston  were  so  kind  as  to  take 
charge  of.  But  lest  any  accident  should  prevent  that 
letter  from  getting  to  your  hands,  I  would  here  men 
tion,  that  it  is  my  determination  to  be  at  Cambridge 
to-morrow  at  ten  o'clock,  and  from  thence  proceed  to 
Boston  as  soon  as  circumstances  will  permit,  where  it 
is  probable  I  may  arrive  by  twelve  o'clock  ;  and  I  will 
do  myself  the  honor  to  accept  your  Excellency's  po 
lite  invitation  of  taking  an  informal  dinner  with  you. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c.1 

the  ringing  of  bells,  entertainments,  and  every  demonstration  of  joy  from  the 
whole  body  of  the  people.  He  returned  through  the  country  from  Portsmouth 
to  Hartford  by  a  different  road  from  the  one  he  had  before  taken,  and  arrived 
in  New  York  on  the  I3th  of  November. — Sparks,  His  diary  of  this  journey 
has  been  printed  under  the  editorship  of  Benson  J.  Lossing. 

1  This  visit  to  Boston  occasioned  a  somewhat  amusing  exchange  of  words  be 
tween  the  President  and  Governor  Hancock  on  a  point  of  etiquette.     On  Octo- 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  445 

TO    BEVERLEY    RANDOLPH,    GOVERNOR    OF    VIRGINIA. 

NEW  YORK,  22  November,  1789. 

SIR, 

From  the  original  letter,  which  I  forward  herewith, 
your  Excellency  will  comprehend  the  nature  of  a  pro 
posal  for  introducing  and  establishing  the  woollen 
manufactory  in  the  State  of  Virginia.  In  the  present 
stage  of  population  and  agriculture,  I  do  not  pretend 
to  determine  how  far  that  plan  may  be  practicable 
and  advisable  ;  or,  in  case  it  should  be  deemed  so, 

her  21  st  Hancock  wrote  offering  his  house  for  Washington's  use  during  his 
visit,  and  informing  him  of  the  measures  taken  for  his  reception  : 

"  As  governor  of  the  commonwealth  I  feel  it  to  be  my  duty  to  receive  your 
visit  with  such  tokens  of  respect,  as  may  answer  the  expectations  of  my  con 
stituents,  and  may  in  some  measure  express  the  high  sentiments  of  respect  they 
feel  towards  you.  I  have  therefore  issued  orders  for  proper  escorts  to  attend 
you,  and  Colonel  Hall,  deputy  adjutant-general,  will  wait  upon  you  at 
Worcester,  and  will  inform  you  of  the  disposition  I  have  made  of  the  troops  at 
Cambridge,  under  the  command  of  General  Brooks,  and  request,  that  you 
would  be  so  obliging  as  to  pass  that  way  to  the  town,  where  you  will  receive 
such  other  tokens  of  respect  from  the  people,  as  will  serve  further  to  evince 
how  gratefully  they  recollect  your  exertions  for  their  liberties,  and  their  confi 
dence  in  you  as  President  of  the  United  States  of  America.  The  gentlemen  of 
the  Council  will  receive  you  at  Cambridge,  and  attend  you  to  town." 

To  this  Washington  replied  from  Brookfield,  October  22d,  outlining  his 
progress,  and  adding  : 

"  I  am  highly  sensible  of  the  honor  intended  me.  But  could  my  wish  prevail, 
I  should  desire  to  visit  your  metropolis  without  any  parade  or  extraordinary 
ceremony.  From  a  wish  to  avoid  giving  trouble  to  private  families,  I  deter 
mined,  on  leaving  New  York,  to  decline  the  honor  of  any  invitation  to  quarters, 
which  I  might  receive  while  on  my  journey  ;  and,  with  a  view  to  observe  this 
rule,  I  had  requested  a  gentleman  to  engage  lodgings  for  me  during  my  stay  at 
Boston.  I  beg  your  Excellency  to  be  persuaded  of  the  grateful  sense,  which  I 
entertain,  of  the  honor  you  intended  to  confer  on  me,  and  I  desire  to  assure 
you  of  the  respectful  regard  with  which  I  am,  &c." 

Hancock,  regretting  that  his  house  could  not  be  accepted,  then  requested 
that  Washington  should  arrive  in  Boston  some  hours  before  he  had  planned, 
and  that  he  and  the  gentlemen  of  his  suite  should  dine  with  hin  en  famille  on 
Saturday,  at  any  hour  that  the  circumstances  of  the  day  will  admit.  The 
arrangements  of  the  receiving  committee  allowed  the  first  to  be  done,  and  the 


446  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


whether  any  or  what  public  encouragement  ought  to 
be  given  to  facilitate  its  execution.  I  have  however 
no  doubt,  as  to  the  good  policy  of  increasing  the 
number  of  sheep  in  every  State.  By  a  little  legisla 
tive  encouragement  the  farmers  of  Connecticut  have, 
in  two  years  past,  added  one  hundred  thousand  to 
their  former  stock.  In  my  late  tour  through  the 
eastern  States  I  found,  that  the  manufacturers  of 
woollens  (for  the  manufacture  of  woollens  is  carried 
on  there  to  very  considerable  extent  and  advantage) 

President  accepted.  Not  only  did  some  differences  between  the  Governor  and 
the  civic  committee  occur  to  delay  matters  (detailed  in  a  letter  of  Benjamin 
Russell,  printed  in  Sparks'  Washington,  x.,  491),  but  the  Governor  insisted 
that  the  President  should  make  the  first  visit  upon  him.  Learning  of  this 
Washington  went  direct  to  the  house  prepared  for  him,  a  boarding-house  on 
the  corner  of  Tremont  and  Court  streets,  kept  by  Joseph  Ingersoll,  and,  it  is 
said,  sent  Major  Jackson  to  the  Governor,  with  a  message  that  if  Hancock's 
health  permitted  him  to  receive  company,  it  would  admit  of  his  visiting  the 
President.  In  the  evening  the  friends  of  the  Governor  induced  him  to  recede 
from  his  position,  which  led  to  the  following  interchange  of  notes  : 

GOVERNOR    HANCOCK    TO    PRESIDENT    WASHINGTON. 

"  Sunday,  26  October,  half  past  twelve  o'clock. 

"  The  Governor's  best  respects  to  the  President.  If  at  home,  and  at  leisure, 
the  Governor  will  do  himself  the  honor  to  pay  his  respects  in  half  an  hour. 
This  would  have  been  done  much  sooner,  had  his  health  in  any  degree  permit 
ted.  He  now  hazards  every  thing,  as  it  respects  his  health,  for  the  desirable 
purpose." 

THE  PRESIDENT'S  REPLY. 

"  Sunday,  26  October,  one  o'clock. 

"  The  President  of  the  United  States  presents  his  best  respects  to  the  Gov 
ernor,  and  has  the  honor  to  inform  him,  that  he  shall  be  at  home  till  two  o'clock. 

"  The  President  needs  not  express  the  pleasure  it  will  give  him  to  see  the 
Governor  ;  but,  at  the  same  time,  he  most  earnestly  begs  that  the  Governor  will 
not  hazard  his  health  on  the  occasion." 

Fisher  Ames  said  "  The  gout  came  so  opportunely  last  Saturday,  that  it  has 
been  doubtful  whether  his  [Hancock's]  humility  would  be  gratified  with  the 
sight  of  his  superior" 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  447 

preferred  the  wool  raised  in  Virginia  for  its  fineness, 
to  that  raised  in  more  northern  parts  of  the  conti 
nent.  If  a  greater  quantity  of  wool  could  be  pro 
duced,  and  if  the  hands,  which  are  often  in  a  manner 
idle,  could  be  employed  in  manufacturing  it,  a  spirit 
of  industry  might  be  promoted,  a  great  diminution 
might  be  made  in  the  annual  expenses  of  individual 
families,  and  the  public  would  eventually  be  exceed 
ingly  benefited. 

Under  these  impressions  I  have  thought  proper  to 
transmit  the  proposal,  and  will  only  add,  that,  if  it 
should  be  judged  expedient  to  submit  the  subject  to 
the  legislature,  or  if  any  private  company  should 
engage  in  promoting  the  business,  the  necessity  of 
keeping  the  manufacturer's  name  concealed  would 
undoubtedly  occur  ;  as  a  premature  knowledge  of  it 
might  not  only  frustrate  the  success  of  the  project, 
but  also  subject  the  person  principally  concerned  to 
the  most  distressing  consequences.  I  have  the  honor 
to  be,  &c. 


TO  JAMES  McHENRY. 
[CONFIDENTIAL.] 

NEW  YORK,  30  November,  1789. 

DEAR  SIR, 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  I4th  instant,  and 
in  consequence  of  the  suggestions  contained  therein, 
added  to  other  considerations  which  occurred  to  me, 
I  have  thought  it  best  to  return  Judge  [Robert  Han 
son]  Harrison  his  commission,  and  I  sincerely  hope, 
that  upon  a  further  consideration  of  the  subject  he 


448  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 


may  be  induced  to  revoke  his  former  determination, 
and  accept  the  appointment.1 

Mr.  [Thomas]  Johnson  has  likewise  declined  his 
appointment  of  district  judge,  and  I  have  no  informa 
tion  of  Mr.  [Richard]  Potts  the  attorney,  or  Mr. 
[Nathaniel]  Ramsay  the  marshal,  having  accepted 
their  commissions.  Thus  circumstanced  with  respect 
to  Maryland,  I  am  unwilling  to  make  a  new  appoint 
ment  of  judge  for  that  district,  until  I  can  have  an 
assurance,  or  at  least  a  strong  presumption,  that  the 
person  appointed  will  accept  ;  for  it  is  to  me  an  un 
pleasant  thing  to  have  commissions  of  such  high 
importance  returned  ;  and  it  will,  in  fact,  have  a  ten 
dency  to  bring  the  government  into  discredit. 

Mr.  [Alexander  Contee]  Hanson  is  the  person, 
whom  I  now  have  it  in  contemplation  to  bring  for 
ward  as  district  judge  of  Maryland,  and  shall  do  so, 
provided  I  can  obtain  an  assurance,  that  such  an  ap 
pointment  would  be  acceptable  to  him.  But  as  I 
cannot  take  any  direct  measures  to  draw  from  him  a 
sentiment  on  this  head,  I  must  request,  my  dear  Sir, 
that  you  will  be  so  good  as  to  get  for  me,  if  you  can, 
such  information  upon  the  subject  as  will  enable  me 
to  act  with  confidence  in  it,  and  convey  the  same  to 
me  as  soon  as  possible.  I  shall  leave  to  your  pru 
dence  and  discretion  the  mode  of  gaining  this  knowl 
edge.  It  is  a  delicate  matter,  and  will  not  bear  any 
thing  like  a  direct  application,  if  there  is  the  least 
cause  to  apprehend  a  refusal.  I  have  observed  in  the 
papers,  that  Mr.  Hanson  has  been  appointed  chancel- 

1  Washington's  letter  to  Harrison  is  printed  by  Sparks,  x.,  52. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  449 


lor  of  the  State  since  the  death  of  Mr.  [John]  Rogers. 
What  the  emoluments  of  this  office  are,  or  its  tenure, 
I  know  not,  therefore  can  form  no  opinion  how  far  it 
may  operate  in  this  matter. 

Mr.  Johnson's  resignation  came  to  hand  too  late  to 
admit  of  a  new  appointment,  and  information  to  be 
given  of  it  before  the  time  fixed  by  the  act  for  hold 
ing  the  first  District  Court  in  Maryland.  However, 
if  this  had  not  been  the  case,  I  should  hardly  have 
hazarded  a  new  appointment  for  the  reasons  before 
mentioned,  until  I  had  good  grounds  to  believe  it 
would  be  accepted. 

Should  it  be  found,  that  the  office  of  district  judge 
would  not  be  acceptable  to  Mr.  Hanson,  Mr.  Paca 
has  been  mentioned  for  that  appointment ;  and,  al 
though  his  sentiments  have  not  been  altogether  in 
favor  of  the  general  government,  and  a  little  adverse 
on  the  score  of  paper  emissions,  I  do  not  know  but  his 
appointment  on  some  other  accounts  might  be  a 
proper  thing.  However,  this  will  come  more  fully 
under  consideration  if  Mr.  Hanson  should  not  wish 
to  be  brought  forward ;  and,  in  that  case,  I  will  thank 
you  to  give  me  information  relative  to  Mr.  Paca.1 

I  On  this  point  Mr.  McHenry  answered  :   "  I  have  had  a  long  conversation 
with  Mr.  Paca.     I  have  every  reason  to  say,  that  he  will  make  every  exertion 
in  his  power  to  execute  the  trust  in  the  most  unexceptionable   manner.     I 
believe,  also,  that  the  appointment  will   be  highly  gratifying  to  him,  and  I 
think  it  may  have  political  good  consequences." — Annapolis,  December  loth. 

II  Mr.  Johnson  has,  as  you  supposed,  declined  the  appointment  of  judge  to 
the  district  of  Maryland,  and  I  have  lately  appointed  Mr.   Paca  to  fill  that 
office.     Mr.  Thomas,  whom  you  recommend  for  that  place,  undoubtedly  pos 
sesses  all  those  qualifications,  which  you  have  ascribed  to  him  ;  and,  so  far  as 
my  own  knowledge  of  that  gentleman  extends,  he  is  justly  entitled  to  the  repu 
tation  which  he  sustains.     But  in  appointing  persons  to  office,  and  more  espe- 

29 


450  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

Mr.  Gustavus  Scott  and  Mr.  Robert  Smith  of  Balti 
more  have  also  been  mentioned  for  the  office  ;  but  the 
age  and  inexperience  of  the  latter  is  in  my  opinion 
an  insuperable  objection ;  for,  however  good  the 
qualifications  or  promising  the  talents  of  Mr.  Smith 
may  be,  it  will  be  expected  that  the  important  offices 
of  the  general  government,  and  more  especially  those 
of  the  judges,  should  be  filled  by  men  who  have  been 
tried  and  proved.  I  thank  you,  my  good  Sir,  for 
your  kind  wishes  for  my  health  and  happiness,  and 
reciprocate  them  with  sincerity.  With  very  great 
regard,  I  am,  &c. 


TO    EDMUND    RANDOLPH. 

NEW  YORK,  30  November,  1789. 

DEAR  SIR, 

Your  letter  of  the  8th  of  October  gave  me  pleasure, 
as  I  not  only  entertain  hopes,  but  shall  fully  expect 
from  the  contents  of  it,  to  see  you  in  the  office  of 
attorney-general  when  the  purposes  mentioned  by  you 
for  the  delay  are  answered. 

I  shall  now  mention  some  matters  to  you  in  confi 
dence.  Mr.  Pendleton's  declining  to  accept  the  ap 
pointment  of  district  judge  has  embarrassed  me,  and 
this  embarrassment  was  not  a  little  increased  by  the 

cially  in  the  judicial  department,  my  views  have  been  much  guided  to  those 
characters,  who  have  been  conspicuous  in  their  country  ;  not  only  from  an  im 
pression  of  their  services,  but  upon  a  consideration,  that  they  had  been  tried, 
and  that  a  readier  confidence  would  be  placed  in  them  by  the  public  than  in 
others  perhaps  of  equal  merit,  who  had  never  been  proved.  Upon  this  prin 
ciple  Mr.  Paca  certainly  stands  prior  to  Mr.  Thomas,  although  the  latter  may 
possess  in  as  high  a  degree  every  qualification  requisite  in  a  judge." — Washing 
ton  to  William  Fitzhugh,  24  December,  1789. 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  451 

lateness  of  the  period  at  which  (being  on  a  tour 
through  the  eastern  States)  I  came  to  the  knowledge 
of  it.  When  I  was  about  to  make  the  nominations 
in  the  judiciary  for  the  Union,  the  character  and 
abilities  of  Mr.  Wythe  did  not  escape  me ;  and  I 
accordingly  consulted  such  gentlemen  from  the  State 
of  Virginia,  (then  in  this  city,)  as  I  thought  most 
likely  to  have  some  knowledge  of  his  inclinations. 
Their  opinion  was,  that,  as  he  had  lately  been  ap 
pointed  sole  Chancellor,  an  office  to  which  by  incli 
nation  he  was  led,  and  engaged  in  other  avocations, 
which  engrossed  his  attention  and  appeared  to  afford 
him  pleasure,  he  would  not  exchange  the  former  for 
a  federal  appointment.  However,  since  these  ap 
pointments  have  been  announced,  I  have  heard  that 
it  has  been  the  wonder  of  some  in  Virginia,  that  Mr. 
Wythe  should  have  been  overlooked.  The  cause  (if 
the  epithet  applies)  I  have  assigned.  And  if  there 
was  reason  to  apprehend  a  refusal  in  the  first  instance, 
the  non-acceptance  of  Colonel  Pendleton  would  be 
no  inducement  to  him  to  come  forward  in  the  second. 
To  consult  him  through  the  medium  of  a  friend  there 
was  not  time,  as  the  third  Tuesday  in  December  is 
the  day  appointed  for  holding  the  District  Court  in 
the  district  of  Virginia,  and  to  hazard  a  second 
refusal  I  was  on  many  accounts  unwilling  to  do. 
Under  these  circumstances  I  have,  by  the  powers  of 
the  constitution,  appointed  Mr.  Cyrus  Griffin  during 
the  recess  of  the  Senate. 

My  reasons  for  this  appointment  in  preference  to 
any  other,  except  Mr.  Wythe,  are,   because  he  has, 


452  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

(as  I  am  informed,)  been  regularly  bred  to  the  law, 
has  been  in  the  court  of  appeals,  has  been  discon 
tinued  of  the  Council  in  Virginia,  (contrary  to  the 
expectation  of  his  friends  here  at  the  time,  who 
thought  that  his  temporary  appointment  as  a  nego 
tiator  with  the  southern  Indians  would  not  bring 
him  under  the  disqualifying  law  of  Virginia,)  and 
thereby  thrown  entirely  out  of  employment,  and 
because  I  had  it  in  my  power  to  ascertain  with  pre 
cision  his  acceptance.  I  shall  say  nothing  of  his 
being  a  man  of  amiable  character  and  of  competent 
abilities,  because  in  these  respects  some  of  the  pres 
ent  judges  in  that  State  may  be  his  equals ;  but  to 
what  I  have  said  may  be  added,  he  has  no  employ 
ment  now,  and  needs  the  emolument  of  one  as  much 
as  any  of  them. 

I  will  not  conceal  from  you,  that  two  motives  have 
induced  me  to  give  this  explanation  ;  the  first,  if  a 
favorable  opportunity  should  present  itself,  is,  that 
Mr.  Wythe  may,  in  a  delicate  manner,  be  informed 
of  the  principles  by  which  I  was  governed  in  this 
business  ;  the  second,  that  my  inducements  to  ap 
point  Mr.  Griffin  may  not,  (if  the  propriety  of  it 
should  be  questioned,)  be  altogether  unknown.  For 
having  in  every  appointment  endeavored,  as  far  as 
my  own  knowledge  of  characters  extended,  or  infor 
mation  could  be  obtained,  to  select  the  fittest  and 
most  acceptable  persons,  and  having  reason  to 
believe  that  the  appointments,  which  have  been 
made  heretofore,  have  given  very  general  satis 
faction,  it  would  give  me  pain  if  Mr.  Wythe  or  any 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  453 

of  his  friends  should  conceive,  that  he  has  been 
passed  by  from  improper  motives.  I  have  prejudices 
against  none,  nor  partialities  which  shall  bias  me  in 
favor  of  any  one.  If  I  err,  then,  my  errors  will  be 
of  the  head,  and  not  of  the  heart  of,  my  dear  Sir, 
your  most  obedient,  &C.1 


TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON,    SECRETARY    OF    THE 
TREASURY. 

NEW  YORK,  17  December,  1789. 

SIR, 

As  I  am  uncertain  of  the  condition,  and  even  the 
office,  in  which  the  papers  containing  accounts  of 
our  disbursements  for  subsistence  of  British  prisoners 
remain  ;  and  as  it  is  not  improbable,  that  some  nego 
tiations  may  (whenever  our  union  under  the  general 
government  shall  be  completed)  take  place  between 
the  United  States  and  Great  Britain,  in  which  an 
accurate  understanding  of  those  accounts  will  become 
necessary,  I  have  therefore  tho't  proper  to  suggest 
the  expediency  of  having  some  immediate  attention 
paid  to  them. 

Notwithstanding,  on  as  fair  a  statement  of  expendi- 

1  In  reply,  Mr.  Randolph  said:  "You  may  be  assured,  that  Mr.  Wythe 
neither  wished  nor  expected  to  be  the  successor  of  Mr.  Pendleton." — Decem 
ber  1 5th.  Again  :  "I  found  a  fortunate  moment  for  a  conversation  with  Mr. 
Wythe.  He  repeated  what  I  wrote  to  you  in  answer  to  your  favor  of  the  3<Dth 
ultimo.  Indeed  he  declared  himself  happy  in  believing,  that  he  held  a  place 
in  your  esteem,  and  that  he  was  confident  you  had  looked  towards  him  with 
every  partiality,  which  he  could  wish.  Nay,  without  going  into  the  detail  of 
our  discourse,  I  am  convinced  from  his  own  mouth,  that  the  knowledge  of  his 
present  situation  is  considered  by  him  as  the  only  reason  of  a  seat  on  the  bench 
not  being  tendered  to  him." — Richmond,  December  23d. 


454  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1789 

tures  as  could  now  be  made,  much  property  must 
undoubtedly  be  lost  by  the  United  States  for  want 
of  vouchers,  and  by  reason  of  the  negligence  with 
which  the  business  was  conducted  on  our  part,  yet  I 
was  always  impressed  with  an  idea,  that,  under  all 
these  disadvantageous  circumstances,  a  very  consid 
erable  balance  would  still  be  found  in  our  favor. 
My  present  wish  is,  to  have  the  subject  so  far 
investigated,  as  that  we  might  not  commit  ourselves 
by  bringing  forward  accounts,  which  had  better  con 
tinue  dormant.  Shou'd  there  be  no  danger  of  that 
kind,  it  would  then  be  desirable  to  have  the  business 
placed  in  a  state,  which  might  enable  us  to  speak 
from  a  general  knowledge  of  facts,  and  in  a  proper 
tone,  in  case  a  demand  of  the  American  posts  held 
by  the  King  of  Great  Britain  should  draw  pecuniary 
subjects  into  discussion.  I  believe  lists  of  property, 
carried  away  by  the  British  at  the  time  when  they 
evacuated  the  posts  they  had  occupied  during  the 
late  war,  are  lodged  in  the  office  of  Foreign  Affairs. 
I  am,  Sir,  &c. 


TO    JABEZ    BOWEN. 

NEW  YORK,  27  December,  1789. 

SIR, 

The  letters  with  which  you  have  been  pleased  to 
favor  me,  dated  in  October,  and  the  i5th  of  the  pres 
ent  month,  came  duly  to  hand,  and  are  entitled  to  my 
thanks  for  the  communications  contained  in  them.  As 
it  is  possible  the  conduct  of  Rhode  Island,  (if  perse- 


1789]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  455 

vered  in,)  may  involve  questions  in  Congress,  which 
will  call  for  my  official  decisions,  it  is  not  fit  that  I 
should  express  more  than  a  wish,  in  reply  to  your 
letter,  that  the  legislature  at  the  coming  session  would 
consider  well  before  it  again  rejects  the  proposition 
for  calling  a  convention  to  decide  on  their  accession 
to,  or  rejection  of,  the  present  government.  The 
adoption  of  it  by  North  Carolina  has  left  them  en 
tirely  alone.1  I  am  much  obliged  to  you  for  your 
good  wishes,  and  with  esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  Sir, 
&c. 

1  At  the  first  convention  in  North  Carolina  the  Constitution  was  not  ratified  ; 
but  at  a  second  convention,  held  in  November,  1789,  it  was  adopted  by  a  ma 
jority  of  more  than  two  to  one,  the  vote  being  one  hundred  and  ninety-three 
in  the  affirmative,  and  seventy-five  in  the  negative.  The  legislature  of  Rhode 
Island,  during  the  session  in  September,  had  sent  an  address  to  "The  Presi 
dent,  the  Senate,  and  the  House  of  Representatives  of  the  Eleven  United  States 
of  America  in  Congress  assembled,"  in  which  were  contained  explanations  of 
the  course  pursued  by  that  State  in  not  adopting  the  Constitution. 

The  address  was  on  the  whole  conciliatory,  and  gave  indications  that  the 
tone  of  opposition  was  somewhat  subsiding  in  Rhode  Island,  and  would  in  no 
event  interrupt  the  harmony  of  the  Union.  After  stating  the  grounds  upon 
which  the  objections  of  Rhode  Island  had  mainly  rested,  the  governor  closes 
his  communication,  in  behalf  of  the  legislature,  as  follows  :  "  We  feel  ourselves 
attached  by  the  strongest  ties  of  friendship,  kindred,  and  of  interest  to  our  sis 
ter  States  ;  and  we  cannot,  without  the  greatest  reluctance,  look  to  any  other 
quarter  for  those  advantages  of  commercial  intercourse  which  we  conceive  to 
be  more  natural  and  reciprocal  between  them  and  us." — Sparks. 

Nearly  six  months  later  Washington  was  given  an  opportunity  of  acknowl 
edging  the  ratification  by  Rhode  Island  of  the  Constitution  : 

"  Having  now  attained  the  desirable  object  of  uniting  under  one  general  gov 
ernment  all  those  States,  which  were  originally  confederated,  we  have  a  right 
to  expect,  with  the  blessing  of  a  divine  Providence,  that  our  country  will  afford 
us  all  those  domestic  enjoyments,  of  which  a  free  people  only  can  boast ;  and 
at  the  same  time  secure  that  respectability  abroad,  which  she  is  entitled  to  by 
nature  and  from  circumstances.  Since  the  bond  of  union  is  now  complete,  and 
we  once  more  consider  ourselves  as  one  family,  it  is  much  to  be  hoped,  that 
reproaches  will  cease  and  prejudices  be  done  away  ;  for  we  should  all  remember, 
that  we  are  members  of  that  community,  upon  whose  general  success  depends, 


456  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

SPEECH    TO   BOTH    HOUSES   OF    CONGRESS,    JANUARY  8TH, 

1790. 

FELLOW-CITIZENS  OF  THE  SENATE 

AND  HOUSE  OF  REPRESENTATIVES  : 

I  embrace  with  great  satisfaction  the  opportunity,  which  now 
presents  itself,  of  congratulating  you  on  the  present  favorable 
prospects  of  our  public  affairs.  The  recent  accession  of  the  im 
portant  State  of  North  Carolina  to  the  constitution  of  the  United 
States  (of  which  official  information  has  been  received), 'the  ris 
ing  credit  and  respectability  of  our  country,  and  the  general  and 
increasing  good  will  towards  the  government  of  the  Union,  and 
the  concord,  peace,  and  plenty,  with  which  we  are  blessed,  are 
circumstances  auspicious,  in  an  eminent  degree,  to  our  national 
prosperity. 

In  resuming  your  consultations  for  the  general  good,  you  cannot 
but  derive  encouragement  from  the  reflection,  that  the  measures 
of  the  last  session  have  been  as  satisfactory  to  your  constituents, 
as  the  novelty  and  difficulty  of  the  work  allowed  you  to  hope. 
Still  further  to  realize  their  expectations,  and  to  secure  the  bless 
ings,  which  a  gracious  Providence  has  placed  within  our  reach, 
will,  in  the  course  of  the  present  important  session,  call  for  the 
cool  and  deliberate  exertion  of  your  patriotism,  firmness,  and 
wisdom. 

Among  the  many  interesting  objects,  which  will  engage  your 
attention,  that  of  providing  for  the  common  defence  will  merit 
particular  regard.  To  be  prepared  for  war  is  one  of  the  most 
effectual  means  of  preserving  peace. 

A  free  people  ought  not  only  to  be  armed,  but  disciplined  ;  to 
which  end  a  uniform  and  well-digested  plan  is  requisite  ;  and  their 
safety  and  interest  require,  that  they  should  promote  such  manu 
factories  as  tend  to  render  them  independent  on  others  for  essen 
tial,  particularly  for  military,  supplies. 

our  particular  and  individual  welfare  ;  and,  therefore,  if  we  mean  to  support 
the  liberty  and  independence,  which  it  has  cost  us  so  much  blood  and  treasure  to 
establish,  we  must  drive  faraway  the  demon  of  party  spirit  and  local  reproach." 
—  Washington  to  Governor  Arthur  Fcnner,  4  June,  1790. 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  457 


The  proper  establishment  of  the  troops,  which  may  be  deemed 
indispensable,  will  be  entitled  to  mature  consideration.  In  the 
arrangements  which  may  be  made  respecting  it,  it  will  be  of  im 
portance  to  conciliate  the  comfortable  support  of  the  officers  and 
soldiers  with  a  due  regard  to  economy. 

There  was  reason  to  hope,  that  the  pacific  measures,  adopted 
with  regard  to  certain  hostile  tribes  of  Indians,  would  have  re 
lieved  the  inhabitants  of  our  southern  and  western  frontiers  from 
their  depredations.  But  you  will  perceive,  from  the  information 
contained  in  the  papers,  which  I  shall  direct  to  be  laid  before 
you,  (comprehending  a  communication  from  the  commonwealth 
of  Virginia,)  that  we  ought  to  be  prepared  to  afford  protection  to 
those  parts  of  the  Union,  and,  if  necessary,  to  punish  aggressors. 

The  interest  of  the  United  States  requires,  that  our  intercourse 
with  other  nations  should  be  facilitated  by  such  provisions  as  will 
enable  me  to  fulfil  my  duty  in  that  respect,  in  the  manner  which 
circumstances  may  render  most  conducive  to  the  public  good  ; 
and,  to  this  end,  that  the  compensations,  to  be  made  to  the  per 
sons  who  may  be  employed,  should,  according  to  the  nature  of 
their  appointments,  be  defined  by  law,  and  a  competent  fund 
designated  for  defraying  the  expenses  incident  to  the  conduct  of 
our  foreign  affairs. 

Various  considerations  also  render  it  expedient,  that  the  terms, 
on  which  foreigners  may  be  admitted  to  the  rights  of  citizens, 
should  be  speedily  ascertained  by  a  uniform  rule  of  naturalization. 

Uniformity  in  the  currency,  weights,  and  measures  of  the 
United  States  is  an  object  of  great  importance,  and  will,  I  am 
persuaded,  be  duly  attended  to. 

The  advancement  of  agriculture,  commerce,  and  manufactures, 
by  all  proper  means,  will  not,  I  trust,  need  recommendation.  But 
I  cannot  forbear  intimating  to  you  the  expediency  of  giving  effec 
tual  encouragement,  as  well  to  the  introduction  of  new  and  useful 
inventions  from  abroad,  as  to  the  exertions  of  skill  and  genius  in 
producing  them  at  home  ;  and  of  facilitating  the  intercourse  be 
tween  the  distant  parts  of  our  country  by  a  due  attention  to  the 
post-office  and  post-roads. 

Nor  am  I  less  persuaded,  that  you  will  agree  with  me  in  opin 
ion,  that  there  is  nothing  which  can  better  deserve  your  patron- 


THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 


age  than  the  promotion  of  science  and  literature.  Knowledge  is 
in  every  country  the  surest  basis  of  public  happiness.  In  one, 
in  which  the  measures  of  government  receive  their  impression  so 
immediately  from  the  sense  of  the  community,  as  in  ours,  it  is 
proportionably  essential.  To  the  security  of  a  free  constitution  it 
contributes  in  various  ways  ;  by  convincing  those  who  are  in 
trusted  with  the  public  administration,  that  every  valuable  end  of 
government  is  best  answered  by  the  enlightened  confidence  of  the 
people  ;  and  by  teaching  the  people  themselves  to  know,  and  to 
value  their  own  rights  ;  to  discern  and  provide  against  invasions 
of  them  ;  to  distinguish  between  oppression  and  the  necessary  ex 
ercise  of  lawful  authority,  between  burthens  proceeding  from  a 
disregard  to  their  convenience  and  those  resulting  from  the  inev 
itable  exigencies  of  society  ;  to  discriminate  the  spirit  of  liberty 
from  that  of  licentiousness,  cherishing  the  first,  avoiding  the  last, 
and  uniting  a  speedy  but  temperate  vigilance  against  encroach 
ments,  with  an  inviolable  respect  to  the  laws. 

Whether  this  desirable  object  will  be  the  best  promoted  by 
affording  aids  to  seminaries  of  learning  already  established,  by 
the  institution  of  a  national  university,  or  by  any  other  expedi 
ents,  will  be  well  worthy  of  a  place  in  the  deliberations  of  the 
legislature. 


GENTLEMEN  OF  THE  HOUSE  OF  REPRESENTATIVES  : 

I  saw  with  peculiar  pleasure,  at  the  close  of  the  last  session,  the 
resolution  entered  into  by  you,  expressive  of  your  opinion,  that 
an  adequate  provision  for  the  support  of  the  public  credit  is  a 
matter  of  high  importance  to  the  national  honor  and  prosperity. 
In  this  sentiment  I  entirely  concur.  And  to  a  perfect  confidence 
in  your  best  endeavors  to  devise  such  a  provision  as  will  be  truly 
consistent  with  the  end,  I  add  an  equal  reliance  on  the  cheerful 
co-operation  of  the  other  branch  of  the  legislature.  It  would  be 
superfluous  to  specify  inducements  to  a  measure,  in  which  the 
character  and  permanent  interests  of  the  United  States  are  so 
obviously  and  so  deeply  concerned,  and  which  has  received  so 
explicit  a  sanction  from  your  declaration. 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  459 

GENTLEMEN  OF  THE  SENATE 

AND  HOUSE  OF  REPRESENTATIVES  : 

I  have  directed  the  proper  officers  to  lay  before  you  respect 
ively  such  papers  and  estimates  as  regard  the  affairs  particularly 
recommended  to  your  consideration,  and  necessary  to  convey  to 
you  that  information  of  the  State  of  the  Union,  which  it  is  my 
duty  to  afford. 

The  welfare  of  our  country  is  the  great  object  to  which  our 
cares  and  efforts  ought  to  be  directed  ;  and  I  shall  derive  great 
satisfaction  from  a  co-operation  with  you  in  the  pleasing  though 
arduous  task  of  insuring  to  our  fellow-citizens  the  blessings 
which  they  have  a  right  to  expect  from  a  free,  efficient,  and  equal 
government. 


TO    CATHARINE    MACAULAY    GRAHAM. 

NEW  YORK,  9  January,  1790. 

MADAM, 

Your  obliging  letter  dated  in  October  last  has  been 
received,  and,  as  I  do  not  know  when  I  shall  have 
more  leisure  than  at  present  to  throw  together  a  few 
observations  in  return  for  yours,  I  take  up  my  pen  to 
do  it  by  this  early  occasion. 

In  the  first  place  I  thank  you  for  your  congratula 
tory  sentiments  on  the  event,  which  has  placed  me  at 
the  head  of  the  American  government,  as  well  as  for 
the  indulgent  partiality,  which  it  is  to  be  feared,  how 
ever,  may  have  warped  your  judgment  too  much  in 
my  favor.  But  you  do  me  no  more  than  justice  in 
supposing,  that,  if  I  had  been  permitted  to  indulge 
my  first  and  fondest  wish,  I  should  have  remained  in 
a  private  station. 

Although  neither  the  present  age  nor  posterity 
may  possibly  give  me  full  credit  for  the  feelings,  which 


460  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

I  have  experienced  on  this  subject,  yet  I  have  a  con 
sciousness  that  nothing  short  of  an  absolute  convic 
tion  of  duty  could  ever  have  brought  me  upon  the 
scenes  of  public  life  again.  The  establishment  of 
our  new  government  seemed  to  be  the  last  great  ex 
periment  for  promoting  human  happiness  by  a  rea 
sonable  compact  in  civil  society.  It  was  to  be  in  the 
first  instance,  in  a  considerable  degree,  a  government 
of  accommodation  as  well  as  a  government  of  laws. 
Much  was  to  be  done  by  prudence,  much  by  concili 
ation,  much  by  firmness.  Few,  who  are  not  philo 
sophical  spectators,  can  realize  the  difficult  and  deli 
cate  part,  which  a  man  in  my  situation  had  to  act. 
All  see,  and  most  admire,  the  glare  which  hovers 
round  the  external  happiness  of  elevated  office.  To 
me  there  is  nothing  in  it  beyond  the  lustre,  which  may 
be  reflected  from  its  connexion  with  a  power  of  pro 
moting  human  felicity. 

In  our  progress  towards  political  happiness  my 
station  is  new,  and,  if  I  may  use  the  expression,  I  walk 
on  untrodden  ground.  There  is  scarcely  an  action, 
the  motive  to  which  may  not  be  subject  to  a  double 
interpretation.  There  is  scarcely  any  part  of  my  con 
duct,  which  may  not  hereafter  be  drawn  into  prece 
dent.  Under  such  a  view  of  the  duties  inherent  to 
my  arduous  office,  I  could  not  but  feel  a  diffidence  in 
myself  on  the  one  hand,  and  an  anxiety  for  the  com 
munity,  that  every  new  arrangement  should  be  made 
in  the  best  possible  manner,  on  the  other.  If,  after 
all  my  humble  but  faithful  endeavors  to  advance  the 
felicity  of  my  country  and  mankind,  I  may  indulge  a 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  461 

hope  that  my  labors  have  not  been  altogether  with 
out  success,  it  will  be  the  only  real  compensation  I 
can  receive  in  the  closing  scenes  of  life. 

On  the  actual  situation  of  this  country  under  its 
new  government,  I  will,  in  the  next  place,  make  a  few 
remarks.  That  the  government,  though  not  actually 
perfect,  is  one  of  the  best  in  the  world,  I  have  little 
doubt.  I  always  believed,  that  an  unequivocally  free 
and  equal  representation  of  the  people  in  the  legisla 
ture,  together  with  an  efficient  and  responsible  execu 
tive,  were  the  great  pillars  on  which  the  preservation 
of  American  freedom  must  depend.  It  was  indeed 
next  to  a  miracle,  that  there  should  have  been  so  much 
unanimity  in  points  of  such  importance  among  such 
a  number  of  citizens,  so  widely  scattered,  and  so  dif 
ferent  in  their  habits  in  many  respects,  as  the  Ameri 
cans  were.  Nor  are  the  growing  unanimity  and  in 
creasing  good  will  of  the  citizens  to  the  government 
less  remarkable,  than  favorable  circumstances.  So 
far  as  we  have  gone  with  the  new  government,  (and 
it  is  completely  organized  and  in  operation,)  we  have 
had  greater  reason,  than  the  most  sanguine  could 
expect,  to  be  satisfied  with  its  success.  Perhaps  a 
number  of  accidental  circumstances  have  concurred 
with  the  real  effects  of  the  government  to  make  the 
people  uncommonly  well  pleased  with  their  situation 
and  prospects.  The  harvests  of  wheat  have  been 
remarkably  good,  the  demand  for  that  article  from 
abroad  is  great,  the  increase  of  commerce  is  visible 
in  every  port,  and  the  number  of  new  manufactures 
introduced  in  one  year  is  astonishing.  I  have  lately 


462  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

made  a  tour  through  the  eastern  States.  I  found  the 
country  in  a  great  degree  recovered  from  the  ravages 
of  war ;  the  Towns  flourishing,  and  the  people 
delighted  with  a  government  instituted  by  themselves, 
and  for  their  own  good.  The  same  facts  I  have  also 
reason  to  believe,  from  good  authority,  exist  in  the 
southern  States. 

By  what  I  have  just  observed,  I  think  you  will  be 
persuaded,  that  the  ill-boding  politicians,  who  prog 
nosticated  that  America  never  would  enjoy  any  fruits 
from  her  independence,  and  that  she  would  be  obliged 
to  have  recourse  to  a  foreign  power  for  protection, 
have  at  least  been  mistaken.  I  shall  sincerely  rejoice 
to  see,  that  the  American  revolution  has  been  pro 
ductive  of  happy  consequences  on  both  sides  of  the 
Atlantic.  The  renovation  of  the  French  constitu 
tion  is  indeed  one  of  the  most  wonderful  events 
in  the  history  of  mankind,  and  the  agency  of 
the  Marquis  de  Lafayette  in  a  high  degree  honorable 
to  his  character.  My  greatest  fear  has  been,  that  the 
nation  would  not  be  sufficiently  cool  and  moderate  in 
making  arrangements  for  the  security  of  that  liberty, 
of  which  it  seems  to  be  fully  possessed. 

Mr.  Warville,  the  French  gentleman  you  mention, 
has  been  in  America  and  at  Mount  Vernon,  but  has 
returned  some  time  since  to  France.  Mrs.  Washing 
ton  is  well,  and  desires  her  compliments  may  be  pre 
sented  to  you.  We  wish  the  happiness  of  your  fire 
side,  as  we  also  long  to  enjoy  that  of  our  own  at 
Mount  Vernon.  Our  wishes,  you  know  were  limited, 
and  I  think  that  our  plans  of  living  will  now  be 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  463 

deemed  reasonable  by  the  considerate  part  of  our 
species.  Her  wishes  coincide  with  my  own,  as  to 
simplicity  of  dress,  and  every  thing  which  can  tend 
to  support  propriety  of  character,  without  partaking 
of  the  follies  of  luxury  and  ostentation.  I  am  with 
great  regard,  &c. 


TO  CHARLES  PINCKNEY,  GOVERNOR  OF  SOUTH  CAROLINA. 

[PRIVATE.] 

NEW  YORK,  n  January,  1790. 

DEAR  SIR, 

Although  it  is  not  in  my  power  to  enter  so  fully  as 
I  could  wish  into  an  investigation  of  the  interesting 
subjects,  discussed  in  your  letter  of  the  i4th  of  last 
month,  yet  I  would  not  deny  myself  the  satisfaction 
of  acknowledging  the  receipt  of  it,  and  of  expressing 
my  obligations  for  the  sentiments,  which  your  Excel 
lency  has  been  pleased  to  suggest.1 

1  Governor  Pinckney's  letter  related  to  a  treaty  with  Spain,  and  with  the 
southern  Indians.  As  to  the  former,  he  said  : 

"  Upon  the  conclusion  of  peace  I  believe  it  was  the  intention  of  that  court 
to  enter  into  a  treaty  of  amity  and  commerce  with  us,  to  be  our  friends,  and  to 
do  every  thing  in  their  power  to  promote  the  intercourse.  But  they  mistook 
the  means  ;  for,  instead  of  forming  a  treaty  upon  the  terms,  which  would  have 
ensured  a  reciprocity  of  benefits,  they  thought  the  best  way  to  remove  every 
future  ground  of  difference,  to  prevent  our  becoming  dangerous  neighbors, 
and  to  keep  us  at  a  distance,  was  to  propose  the  surrender  of  a  right,  as  degrad 
ing  to  the  honor,  as  it  would  have  been  injurious  to  the  interests,  of  the  Union. 
I  happened  to  be  in  Congress  at  the  time  the  proposal  was  brought  forward 
through  the  then  secretary,  Mr.  Jay.  Having  more  leisure,  or  having  more 
maturely  considered  the  offer,  I  was  requested  by  the  oppoiients  to  prepare  an 
answer  to  the  reasons,  which  Mr.  Jay  offered  in  support  of  Mr.  Gardoqui's 
proposals.  This  I  did,  and  being  afterwards  desired  by  many  of  the  southern 
members  to  furnish  them  with  copies,  I  had  a  few  printed,  which  were  confi- 


464  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 


A  new  monarch  having  succeeded  to  the  throne 
of  Spain,  it  remains  to  be  ascertained  how  far  his 
court  may  insist  upon  those  exclusive  claims  to  the 
navigation  of  the  Mississippi,  which  have  hitherto 


dentially  delivered  to  some  of  my  friends  for  their  information  upon  a  subject, 
which  at  that  time  very  much  engaged  the  attention  of  the  public. 

"  The  court  of  Spain,  being  defeated  in  this  measure,  have  appeared  to  me 
entirely  to  change  their  ground.  The  original  and  I  believe  the  only  reason  of 
Spain's  anxiety  to  conclude  a  treaty  with  us  was,  to  secure  her  American  con 
tinental  possessions  from  being  at  any  time  the  object  of  invasion  or  insult  from 
the  southern,  or  more  probably  the  western,  inhabitants  of  the  Union.  They 
ever  dreaded  the  settlement  of  the  western  territory,  and  looked  forward  to  the 
time  when  it  would  become  necessary  for  its  inhabitants  to  use  the  Mississippi, 
as  a  period  very  likely  to  produce  those  uneasinesses,  which  would  perhaps  end 
in  the  invasion  of  their  dominions.  Had  they  at  first  proposed  a  solid  and  re 
ciprocally  beneficial  treaty,  it  would  have  prevented,  or  at  least  postponed  for 
a  number  of  years,  any  danger  of  this  sort  ;  but  having,  as  I  have  already  ob 
served,  wrongly  conceived  of  the  means  of  effecting  it,  and  being  foiled  in  their 
first  attempt,  they  have  now  changed  their  ground.  They  are  endeavoring,  by 
every  exertion  in  their  power,  to  attach,  not  only  the  southern  Indians,  but  as 
many  as  they  possibly  can  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  western  territory,  closely  to 
their  interest." — Charleston,  December  I4th,  1789. 

These  views,  respecting  the  disposition  of  the  Spanish  court  towards  the 
United  States  at  the  time  of  the  general  treaty  of  peace,  may  at  least  be 
doubted.  The  refusal  of  that  court  to  receive  Mr.  Carmichael  in  the  charac 
ter  of  Charge  de  Affaires,  after  the  signing  of  the  treaty,  and  the  reluctance 
with  which  they  at  last  assented,  through  the  personal  agency  of  Lafayette, 
would  not  indicate  any  desire  to  form  ties  of  alliance  with  the  United  States. 
— Diplomatic  Correspondence,  vol.  x.,  p.  30.  Nor  did  the  tedious  manner  in 
which  the  negotiation  was  carried  on  by  Mr.  Gardoqui,  after  he  came  to  the 
United  States,  and  the  claims  made  by  him,  present  the  designs  of  the  Span 
ish  cabinet  under  a  more  favorable  aspect.  Much  light  on  this  subject  may 
be  gathered  from  a  curious  Memoir,  addressed  by  Count  d'Aranda  to  the  King 
of  Spain  immediately  after  signing  the  treaty  of  Paris,  in  which  the  indepen 
dence  of  the  United  States  was  recognized  by  Spain.  See  U  Espagne  sous  les  Rois 
de  la  Maison  de  Bourbon,  torn,  vi.,  p.  45.  This  work  is  a  French  translation 
of  Coxe's  Memoirs  of  the  Kings  of  Spain  of  the  House  of  Bourbon,  and  contains, 
beside  the  above  Memoir  by  Count  d'Aranda,  several  important  additions,  par 
ticularly  in  regard  to  the  policy  and  conduct  of  Spain  during  the  American 
war. — Sparks. 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  465 

prevented  the  conclusion  of  a  treaty  between  the 
United  States  and  that  nation.  Mr.  Gardoqui  went 
to  Spain  some  time  ago  ;  nor  have  we  received 
any  thing  official  from  thence  since  his  departure. 
A  private  gentleman,  (a  man  of  good  intelligence,) 
lately  returned  from  Spain  to  America,  mentions 
a  report  was  believed  when  he  sailed,  that  the 
Americans  of  the  United  States  had  formed  a 
successful  expedition  against  the  Spanish  territory 
in  their  neighborhood,  and  that  the  report  had  oc 
casioned  great  sensations  in  the  kingdom.  What 
ever  may  be  the  future  policy  of  that  nation,  I  am 
disposed  to  become  as  well  acquainted  with  the 
merits  of  the  subjects,  which  have  been  agitated 
between  them  and  us  since  the  war,  as  my  other 
duties  and  avocations  will  admit.  For  this  reason, 
in  particular,  I  thank  your  Excellency  for  your  con 
fidential  communication. 

As  to  the  subject  of  Indian  affairs,  I  can  only  say 
in  general,  that  your  sentiments  on  the  expediency  of 
entering  into  treaties  with  those  nations,  upon  just 
terms,  perfectly  coincide  with  my  own.  From  the 
official  report  of  the  late  commissioners  for  treating 
with  the  Creeks,  &c.,  it  seems  almost  certain,  that 
the  connexion  of  Mr.  McGillivray  with  Spain  was 
the  principal  cause  for  preventing  the  conclusion  of 
the  proposed  treaty.  Their  report,  (which  is  this 
day  to  be  delivered  by  the  Secretary  at  War  to  the 
Senate,)  will  indicate  fully  the  progress  and  issue  of 

that  business,  and    the  executive  will   probably  be 
30 


466  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

possessed  of  such  documents,  as  may  be  useful  in 
taking  ulterior  measures.1  For  my  own  part,  I  am 
entirely  persuaded,  that  the  present  general  govern 
ment  will  endeavor  to  lay  the  foundation  for  its  pro 
ceedings  in  national  justice,  faith,  and  honor.  But 
should  the  government,  after  having  attempted  in 
vain  every  reasonable  pacific  measure,  be  obliged  to 
have  recourse  to  arms  for  the  defence  of  its  citizens, 
I  am  also  of  opinion,  that  sound  policy  and  good 
economy  will  point  to  a  prompt  and  decisive  effort, 
rather  than  to  defensive  and  lingering  operations. 

Should  your  Excellency,  after  the  expiration  of 
your  office,  prosecute  your  proposed  voyage  to  France, 
you  will  find,  I  presume,  most  extraordinary  events 
have  taken  place  in  that  kingdom.  Although  all  their 
political  arrangements  are  not  yet  settled,  I  hope 
they  will  be  happily,  before  the  period  to  which  you 
allude. 

My  late  tour  through  the  eastern  States  has  been 
of  salutary  consequence  in  confirming  my  health.  I 
have  likewise  had  an  opportunity  of  seeing  how  far 
the  country  is  recovered  from  the  ravages  of  war,  and 
how  well  the  inhabitants  are  disposed  to  support  the 
general  government. 

Not  being  master  of  my  own  time,  nor  accustomed 
to  make  personal  engagements,  which  from  contin 
gency  might  become  impracticable,  I  can  only  say 
in  regard  to  the  last  paragraph  of  your  letter,  that 
nothing  would  give  me  greater  pleasure  than  to 

1  This  report  is  printed  in  Lowrie  &   Clarke's  American   State  Papers,  vol. 
iv.,  p.  59. 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  467 

have  it  in  my  power  to  visit  all  the  southern  States. 
With  sentiments  of  the  highest  respect,  I  am,  dear 
Sir,  &c.  

TO    THOMAS    JEFFERSON. 
T-^  ~,  NEW  YORK,  21  January,  1700. 

DEAR  SIR, 

I  had  the  pleasure  to  receive  duly  your  letter,  dated 
the  1 5th  of  December  last ;  but  I  thought  proper  to 
delay  answering  or  mentioning  the  contents  of  it, 
until  after  the  arrival  of  Mr.  Madison,  who,  I  under 
stood,  had  been  with  you.  He  arrived  yesterday  ; 
and  I  now  take  the  earliest  opportunity  of  mention 
ing  to  you  the  result  of  my  reflections,  and  the  expe 
diency  of  your  deciding,  at  as  early  a  period  as  may 
consist  with  your  convenience,  on  the  important  sub 
ject  before  you. 

Previous  to  any  remarks  on  the  nature  of  the  office, 
to  which  you  have  been  recently  appointed,  I  will 
premise  that  I  feel  such  delicacy  and  embarrassment, 
in  consequence  of  the  footing  on  which  you  have 
placed  your  final  determination,  as  to  make  it  neces 
sary  for  me  to  recur  to  the  first  ground  on  which  I 
rested  the  matter.  In  confidence,  therefore,  I  will 
tell  you  plainly,  that  I  wish  not  to  oppose  your 
inclinations,  and  that,  after  you  shall  have  been  made 
a  little  farther  acquainted  with  the  light  in  which  I 
view  the  office  of  Secretary  of  State,  it  must  be  at 
your  option  to  determine  relative  to  your  acceptance 
of  it,  or  continuance  in  your  office  abroad.1 

1  "  I  wrote  you  on  what  footing  I  had  placed  the  President's  proposal  to  me 
to  undertake  the  office  of  Secretary  of  State.     His  answer  still  left  me  at  lib- 


468  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

I  consider  the  successful  administration  of  the  gen 
eral  government,  as  an  object  of  almost  infinite  con 
sequence  to  the  present  and  future  happiness  of  the 
citizens  of  the  United  States.  I  consider  the  office 
of  secretary  for  the  department  of  state  very  impor 
tant  on  many  accounts,  and  I  know  of  no  person,  who 
in  my  judgment  could  better  execute  the  duties  of  it 
than  yourself.  Its  duties  will  probably  be  not  quite 
so  arduous  and  complicated  in  their  execution,  as 
you  might  have  been  led  at  the  first  moment  to  ima 
gine.  At  least,  it  was  the  opinion  of  Congress,  that, 
after  the  division  of  all  the  business  of  a  domestic 
nature  between  the  departments  of  the  treasury,  war, 
and  state,  those  which  would  be  comprehended  in  the 
latter  might  be  performed  by  the  same  person,  who 
should  have  the  charge  of  conducting  the  department 
of  foreign  affairs.  The  experiment  was  to  be  made  ; 
and,  if  it  shall  be  found,  that  the  fact  is  different,  I 
have  little  doubt  that  a  farther  arrangement  or  divi 
sion  of  the  business  in  the  office  of  the  department  of 
state  will  be  made  in  such  manner  as  to  enable  it  to 
be  performed,  under  the  superintendence  of  one  man, 
with  facility  to  himself,  as  well  as  with  advantage  and 
satisfaction  to  the  public.  Those  observations,  how 
ever,  you  will  be  pleased  to  remark,  are  merely  mat 
ters  of  opinion.  But,  in  order  that  you  may  be  the 
better  prepared  to  make  your  ultimate  decision  on 

erty  to  accept  it  or  return  to  France  ;  but  I  saw  plainly  he  preferred  the  former, 
and  have  learned  from  several  quarters  it  will  be  generally  more  agreeable. 
Consequently,  to  have  gone  back  would  have  exposed  me  to  the  danger  of  giv 
ing  disgust,  and  I  value  no  office  enough  for  that.  I  am,  therefore,  now  on 
my  way  to  enter  on  the  new  office." — Jefferson  to  Short,  12  March,  1790. 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  469 

good  grounds,  I  think  it  necessary  to  add  one  fact, 
which  is  this,  so  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  obtain 
information  from  all  quarters,  your  late  appointment 
has  given  very  extensive  and  very  great  satisfaction 
to  the  public.  My  original  opinion  and  wish  may  be 
collected  from  my  nomination. 

As  to  what  you  mention  in  the  latter  part  of  your 
letter,  I  can  only  observe,  I  do  not  know  that  any 
alteration  is  likely  to  take  place  in  the  commission 
from  the  United  States  to  the  court  of  France.  The 
necessary  arrangements,  with  regard  to  our  inter 
course  with  foreign  nations,  have  never  yet  been  taken 
up  on  a  great  scale  by  this  government,  because  the 
department,  which  comprehended  affairs  of  that  na 
ture,  has  never  been  properly  organized,  so  as  to 
bring  the  business  well  and  systematically  before  the 
executive.  If  you  should  finally  determine  to  take 
upon  yourself  the  duties  of  the  department  of  state, 
it  would  be  highly  requisite  for  you  to  come  on  im 
mediately,  as  many  things  are  required  to  be  done 
while  Congress  is  in  session,  rather  that  at  any 
other  time,  and  as  in  that  case  your  presence 
might  doubtless  be  much  better  dispensed  with 
after  a  little  time  than  at  the  present  moment. 
Or,  in  all  events,  it  will  be  essential  that  I  should 
be  informed  of  your  conclusive  option,  so  that,  if 
you  return  to  France,  another  person  may  be,  at 
as  early  a  day  as  possible,  nominated  to  fill  the 
department  of  state. 

With  sentiments  of  the  highest  regard  and  esteem, 
I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


470  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

TO    EDMUND    RANDOLPH,  ATTORNEY-GENERAL. 

NEW  YORK,  u  February,  1790. 

SIR, 

I  have  weighed  with  deliberate  attention  the  con 
tents  of  your  letter  of  yesterday  ;  and,  although  that 
consideration  may  result  in  an  approbation  of  the 
ideas  therein  suggested,  yet  I  do  not  at  present  feel 
myself  authorized  to  give  a  sanction  to  the  measures 
which  you  propose.  For,  as  the  constitution  of  the 
United  States  and  the  laws  made  under  it  must  mark 
the  line  of  my  official  conduct,  I  could  not  justify  my 
taking  a  single  step  in  any  matter,  which  appeared 
to  me  to  require  their  agency,  without  its  being  first 
obtained  ;  and,  so  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  form  a 
judgment  upon  the  objects  held  up  to  view  in  your 
letter,  they  cannot  be  effected  without  the  operation 
of  a  law. 

As  an  act  must  necessarily  be  passed  to  extend 
the  judicial  power  of  the  United  States  to  the  State 
of  North  Carolina,  it  appears  to  me  that  a  clause  might 
be  there  introduced  to  establish  that  uniformity  and 
precision  in  the  business  of  the  United  States  in  each 
district,  which  you  observe  is  highly  proper  to  be 
effected,  and  to  make  such  other  regulations  as  may 
be  thought  necessary.  I  however  only  suggest  this 
idea  to  you,  that  you  may,  if  you  think  proper,  men 
tion  it  to  such  members  of  the  Senate  and  House  of 
Representatives  as  are  acquainted  with  the  subject, 
and  thereby  have  the  matter  brought  to  view  when 
ever  the  abovementioned  act  shall  be  under  consider 
ation.  I  am,  with  great  esteem,  &c. 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  471 

TO    DAVID    STUART. 

DEAR  SIR,  NEW  YoRK» 28  March,  1790. 

****** 

I  am  sorry  such  jealousies  as  you  speak  of  should 
be  gaining  ground,  and  are  poisoning  the  minds  of  the 
southern  people  ; l  but  admit  the  fact,  which  is  alleged 
as  the  cause  of  them,  and  give  it  full  scope,  does  it 
amount  to  more  than  what  was  known  to  every  man 
of  information  before,  at,  and  since  the  adoption 
of  the  constitution  ?  Was  it  not  always  believed, 
that  there  are  some  points  which  peculiarly  interest 
the  eastern  States  ?  And  did  any  one,  who  reads 
human  nature,  and  more  especially  the  character  of 
the  eastern  people,  conceive  that  they  would  not  pur 
sue  them  steadily  by  a  combination  of  their  force  ? 

1  From  Dr.  Stuart's  Letter. — "A  spirit  of  jealousy,  which  may  become  dan 
gerous  to  the  Union,  towards  the  eastern  States,  seems  to  be  growing  fast 
among  us.  It  is  represented,  that  the  northern  phalanx  is  so  firmly  united,  as 
to  bear  down  all  opposition,  while  Virginia  is  unsupported,  even  by  those  whose 
interests  are  similar  to  hers.  It  is  the  language  of  all  I  have  seen  on  their  re 
turn  from  New  York.  Colonel  Lee  tells  me,  that  many,  who  were  warm  sup 
porters  of  the  government,  are  changing  their  sentiments,  from  a  conviction  of 
the  impracticability  of  union  with  States,  whose  interests  are  so  dissimilar  to 
those  of  Virginia.  I  fear  the  Colonel  is  one  of  the  number.  The  late  appli 
cations  to  Congress,  respecting  the  slaves,  will  certainly  tend  to  promote  this 
spirit.  It  gives  particular  umbrage,  that  the  Quakers  should  be  so  busy  in  this 
business.  That  they  will  raise  up  a  storm  against  themselves,  appears  to  me 
very  certain.  Mr.  Madison's  sentiments  are  variously  spoken  of  ;  so  much  so, 
that  it  is  impossible  to  ascertain  whether  they  are  approved  of  by  a  majority  or 
not.  The  commercial  and  most  noisy  part  is  certainly  against  them.  It 
appears  to  me  to  be  such  a  deviation  from  the  plain  and  beaten  track,  as  must 
make  every  creditor  of  the  public  tremble.  His  plan  of  discrimination  is 
founded  too  much  on  principles  of  equity  to  please  even  those,  who  have  advo 
cated  always  a  discrimination.  If  the  public  was  to  gain  what  the  original 
holders  lost  in  their  sales,  I  believe  it  would  have  pleased  this  description  of 
citizens  better." — Abingdon,  Virginia,  March  15th. 


472  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

Are  there  not  other  points,  which  equally  concern  the 
southern  States  ?  If  these  States  are  less  tena 
cious  of  their  interest,  or  if,  whilst  the  eastern  move 
in  a  solid  phalanx  to  effect  their  views,  the  southern 
are  always  divided,  which  of  the  two  is  most  to  be 
blamed  ?  That  there  is  a  diversity  of  interests  in  the 
Union  none  has  denied.  That  this  is  the  case,  also, 
in  every  State  is  equally  certain  ;  and  that  it  even  ex 
tends  to  the  counties  of  individual  States  can  be  as 
readily  proved.  Instance  the  southern  and  northern 
parts  of  Virginia,  the  upper  and  lower  parts  of 
South  Carolina,  &c.  Have  not  the  interests  of  these 
always  been  at  variance  ?  Witness  the  county  of 
Fairfax.  Have  not  the  interests  of  the  people  of 
that  county  varied,  or  the  inhabitants  been  taught 
to  believe  so  ?  These  are  well  known  truths,  and  yet 
it  did  not  follow,  that  separation  was  to  result  from 
the  disagreement. 

To  constitute  a  dispute  there  must  be  two  parties. 
To  understand  it  well,  both  parties,  and  all  the  cir 
cumstances,  must  be  fully  heard  ;  and,  to  accommo 
date  differences,  temper  and  mutual  forbearance 
are  requisite.  Common  danger  brought  the  States 
into  confederacy,  and  on  their  union  our  safety  and 
importance  depend.  A  spirit  of  accommodation  was 
the  basis  of  the  present  constitution.  Can  it  be  ex 
pected,  then,  that  the  southern  or  the  eastern  parts 
of  the  empire  will  succeed  in  all  their  measures  ? 
Certainly  not.  But  I  will  readily  grant,  that  more 
points  will  be  carried  by  the  latter  than  the  former, 
and  for  the  reason  which  has  been  mentioned,  namely, 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  473 

that,  in  all  great  national  questions,  they  move  in 
unison,  whilst  the  others  are  divided.  But  I  ask 
again,  which  is  most  blameworthy,  those  who  see, 
and  will  steadily  pursue  their  interest,  or  those  who 
cannot  see,  or,  seeing,  will  not  act  wisely  ?  And  I  will 
ask  another  question,  of  the  highest  magnitude  in  my 
mind,  to  wit,  if  the  eastern  and  northern  States  are 
dangerous  in  union,  will  they  be  less  so  in  separation  f 
If  self-interest  is  their  governing  principle,  will  it  for 
sake  them,  or  be  less  restrained  by  such  an  event  ?  I 
hardly  think  it  would.  Then,  independent  of  other 
considerations,  what  would  Virginia,  (and  such  other 
States  as  might  be  inclined  to  join  her,)  gain  by  a 
separation  ?  Would  they  not,  most  unquestionably, 
be  the  weaker  party  ? 

Men,  who  go  from  hence  without  feeling  themselves 
of  so  much  consequence  as  they  wished  to  be  con 
sidered,  and  disappointed  expectants,  added  to  malig 
nant,  designing  characters,  who  miss  no  opportunity 
of  aiming  a  blow  at  the  constitution,  paint  highly  on 
one  side,  without  bringing  into  view  the  arguments, 
which  are  offered  on  the  other. 

It  is  to  be  lamented,  that  the  editors  of  the  differ 
ent  gazettes  in  the  Union  do  not  more  generally  and 
more  correctly  (instead  of  stuffing  their  papers  with 
scurrility  and  nonsensical  declamation,  which  few 
would  read  if  they  were  apprized  of  the  contents,) 
publish  the  debates  in  Congress  on  all  great  national 
questions.  And  this,  with  no  uncommon  pains,  every 
one  of  them  might  do.  The  principles  upon  which 
the  difference  of  opinion  arises,  as  well  as  the  deci- 


474  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 


sions,  would  then  come  fully  before  the  public,  and 
afford  the  best  data  for  its  judgment. 

Mr.  Madison  on  the  question  of  discrimination 
was  actuated,  I  am  convinced,  by  the  purest  motives 
and  most  heart-felt  conviction  ;  but  the  subject  was 
delicate,  and  perhaps  had  better  never  been  stirred. 

The  assumption  of  the  State  debts  by  the  United 
States  is  another  subject,  that  has  given  rise  to  long 
and  labored  debates,  without  having  yet  taken  a  final 
form. 

The  memorial  of  the  Quakers  (and  a  very  mal 
apropos  one  it  was)  has  at  length  been  put  to  sleep, 
and  will  scarcely  awake  before  the  year  iSoS.1 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 

1  At  the  annual  meetings  of  the  Quakers,  held  at  Philadelphia  and  New  York, 
in  the  year  1789,  they  had  sent  memorials  to  Congress,  praying  that  measures 
might  be  adopted  for  the  abolition  of  the  slave-trade.  These  memorials  were 
referred  to  a  committee,  who  brought  in  a  report,  which  was  debated  from  time 
to  time,  and  after  various  amendments  was  reported  by  the  committee  of  the 
whole  House  as  follows  : 

"  That  the  migration  or  importation  of  such  persons,  as  any  of  the  States 
now  existing  shall  think  proper  to  admit,  cannot  be  prohibited  by  Congress 
prior  to  the  year  1808. 

"  That  Congress  have  no  authority  to  interfere  in  the  emancipation  of  slaves, 
or  in  the  treatment  of  them  within  any  of  the  States  ;  it  remaining  with  the  several 
States  alone  to  provide  any  regulations  therein,  which  humanity  and  true  policy 
may  require. 

"  That  Congress  have  authority  to  restrain  the  citizens  of  the  United  States 
from  carrying  on  the  African  trade,  for  the  purpose  of  supplying  foreigners 
with  slaves,  and  of  providing  by  proper  regulations  for  the  humane  treatment, 
during  their  passage,  of  slaves  imported  by  the  said  citizens  into  the  States 
admitting  such  importation." 

Such  was  considered  by  a  majority  of  Congress  as  a  just  interpretation  of  the 
Constitution  on  this  subject.  The  first  paragraph  is  a  recital  of  the  clause  in 
the  Constitution,  which  refers  to  the  slave-trade  as  then  existing.  By  a  pros 
pective  legislation  Congress  prohibited  the  importation  of  slaves  by  an  act, 
which  took  effect  in  the  year  1808.  By  a  subsequent  act,  passed  in  the  year 
1820,  the  slave-trade  was  declared  to  be  piracy,  and  punishable  with  death. — 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  475 

TO    THE    MARQUIS    DE    LA    LUZERNE.1 

NEW  YORK,  29  April,  1790. 

SIR, 

Your  letter  of  the  I7th  of  January,  replete  with 
politeness  to  myself  and  useful  informations  respect 
ing  public  affairs,  has  but  lately  been  received.2 

In  making  my  acknowledgments  for  the  distin 
guished  place  I  hold  in  your  remembrance,  and  for 
the  obliging  terms  in  which  you  allude  to  my  con 
duct  in  war  and  peace,  I  should  do  injustice  to 
conceal  the  favorable  sentiments,  which  were  always 
entertained  by  myself  and  my  countrymen  of  your 
private  deportment  and  ministerial  agency,  while  you 
resided  in  America.  Those  times,  in  which  we  always 

Story's  Commentaries,  vol.  iii.,  p.  205.  For  a  condensed  history  of  slavery  in 
the  United  States,  and  of  the  progress  of  emancipation,  see  Kent's  Commenta 
ries,  vol.  i.,  p.  347,  2d  edition.  [Von  Hoist,  Constitutional  History  of  the 
United  States.~\  Much  information  respecting  colonial  slavery,  drawn  from  the 
best  authorities,  and  judiciously  arranged,  is  contained  in  Bancroft's  History  of 
the  United  States,  vol.  i.,  chap.  5.  See  also  Walsh's  Appeal,  p.  306. — Sparks. 

I  M.  de  la  Luzerne  had  been  raised  to  the  rank  of  Marquis,  and  was  now  the 
Ambassador  from  the  Court  of  France  in  London. 

II  From  the  Marquis  de  la  Luzerne 's  Letter. — "  I  dare  flatter  myself,  that  your 
Excellency  does  justice  to  the  very  tender  and  respectful  attachment,  which  I 
have  long  entertained  towards  you,  and  that  you  will  be  persuaded  of  the  great 
pleasure  with  which  I  have  learned  the  success,  that  has  followed  the  first  move 
ments  of  your  administration.  After  having  given  freedom  to  your  country,  it  was 
worthy  of  the  virtues  and  great  character  of  your  Excellency  to  establish  its  happi 
ness  on  a  solid  and  permanent  basis,  which  is  assuredly  the  result  of  the  new  federal 
constitution,  in  framing  which  you  assisted  by  your  counsel,  and  which  you  now 
support,  as  much  by  the  splendor  of  your  talents  and  patriotism,  as  by  the  emi 
nent  situation  confided  to  you  by  your  fellow-citizens.     They  possess  the  advan 
tage  of  enjoying  more  particularly  your  beneficence,  and  the  honor  of  having 
you  born  among  them  ;  but  I  dare  assure  you,  that  the  consideration  which  you 
enjoy  throughout  Europe,  and  particularly  in  my  country,  yields  not  even  to 
that,  which  you  have  obtained  in  your  native  land  ;  and,  notwithstanding  the 
prejudices  of  the  people,  with  whom  I  here  live,  there  is  not  one  among  them, 
who  does  not  pronounce  your  name  with  sentiments  of  respect  and  veneration. 


476  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

found  you  a  sincere  friend,  were  truly  times  of  peril 
and  distress.  Now  our  situation  is  indeed  much 
more  eligible,  and  our  prospects  perhaps  as  good  as 
could  reasonably  have  been  expected.  We  are  recov 
ering  slowly  from  the  calamities  and  burdens,  with 
which  we  were  almost  overwhelmed  by  a  long  and 
expensive  war.  Our  crops  the  year  past  have  been 
more  abundant,  and  our  markets  much  better,  than 
usual.  These  circumstances  will  assist  in  enabling 
our  citizens  to  extricate  themselves  from  their  private 
and  public  debts.  I  hope  a  disposition  will  be  found 
to  prevail  among  us  for  doing  justice,  as  far  as  the 
nature  of  the  case  will  admit,  to  all  who  afforded  us 
their  assistance  in  the  hour  of  adversity.  In  the 
arrangement  of  such  new  and  complicated  business, 
as  must  inevitably  come  before  our  general  govern 
ment,  it  is  reasonably  to  be  expected,  that  the  pro 
ceedings  will  be  slow.  It  is  devoutly  to  be  wished, 
that  they  may  terminate  in  such  just  and  wise  meas 
ures,  as  will  fully  establish  our  happiness  at  home 
and  credit  abroad.  I  am  much  pleased  with  the 
interest  you  take  in  our  national  reputation,  and  the 
information  you  give  that  our  credit  is  becoming  so 

All  are  acquainted  with  the  services  you  have  rendered  to  your  country  as  their 
general  in  the  course  of  the  war,  and  with  those,  perhaps  still  greater,  which 
you  now  render  as  a  statesman  in  peace. 

"  The  love  of  glory  and  of  freedom,  which  led  the  Americans  to  surmount 
such  great  difficulties,  must  still  prevail  to  establish  the  principles  of  justice 
towards  those  of  their  fellow-citizens  and  strangers,  who  assisted  them  in  their 
distress  ;  and  I  have  seen  with  great  pleasure,  that,  from  the  first  moment  in 
which  you  have  appeared  at  the  head  of  the  federal  government,  the  credit  of 
the  American  nation  has  been  established  in  every  country  of  Europe,  and  that 
the  confidence  in  her  resources  and  means  is  infinitely  better  founded  than  in 
many  of  the  older  powers." — 17  January,  1790. 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  477 

respectable  in  Europe,  under  the  influence  of  our  new 
government. 

You  are  right  in  conceiving,  that  nothing  can  be 
indifferent  to  me,  which  regards  the  welfare  of  the 
French  nation.  So  far  removed  from  that  great 
theatre  of  political  action,  and  so  little  acquainted 
with  many  of  the  minute  circumstances,  which  may 
induce  important  decisions,  as  I  am,  it  would  be 
imprudent  for  me  to  hazard  opinions,  which  might 
possibly  be  unfounded.  Indeed,  the  whole  business  is 
so  extraordinary  in  its  commencement,  so  wonderful 
in  its  progress,  and  may  be  so  stupendous  in  its  con 
sequences,  that  I  am  almost  lost  in  the  contemplation. 
Of  one  thing,  however,  you  may  rest  perfectly 
assured,  that  nobody  is  more  anxious  for  the  happy 
issue  of  that  business,  than  I  am  ;  as  nobody  can 
wish  more  sincerely  for  the  prosperity  of  the  French 
nation,  than  I  do.  Nor  is  it  without  the  most  sensi 
ble  pleasure  I  learn,  that  our  friend  the  Marquis  de 
Lafayette  has,  in  acting  the  arduous  part  which  has 
fallen  to  his  share,  conducted  himself  with  so  much 
wisdom  and  apparently  to  such  general  satisfaction. 

We,  at  this  great  distance  from  the  northern  parts 
of  Europe,  hear  of  wars  and  rumors  of  wars,  as  if 
they  were  the  events  or  reports  of  another  planet. 
What  changes  the  death  of  the  Emperor  will  occa 
sion  in  the  other  cabinets  of  Europe,  time  is  yet  to 
inform  us.  A  spirit  for  political  improvements  seems 
to  be  rapidly  and  extensively  spreading  through  the 
European  countries.  I  shall  rejoice  in  seeing  the 
condition  of  the  human  race  happier  than  ever  it  has 


478  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

hitherto  been.  But  I  should  be  sorry  to  see,  that 
those,  who  are  for  prematurely  accelerating  those 
improvements,  were  making  more  haste  than  good 
speed  in  their  innovations.  So  much  prudence,  so 
much  perseverance,  so  much  disinterestedness,  and 
so  much  patriotism  are  necessary  among  the  leaders 
of  a  nation,  in  order  to  promote  the  national  felicity, 
that  sometimes  my  fears  nearly  preponderate  over 
my  expectations.  Better,  however,  will  it  be  for  me 
to  leave  such  foreign  matters  to  those,  who  are  more 
competent  to  manage  them,  and  to  do  as  much  good 
as  I  can,  in  the  little  sphere  where  I  am  destined  to 
move  at  present.  With  sentiments  of  the  highest 
esteem  and  consideration,  I  have  the  honor  to 
be,  &c. 


TO    THE    MARQUIS    DE    LAFAYETTE. 

NEW  YORK,  3  June,  1790. 

MY  DEAR  MARQUIS, 

Your  kind  letter  of  the  i2th  of  January  is,  as  your 
letters  always  are,  extremely  acceptable  to  me.  By 
some  chance  its  arrival  had  been  retarded  to  this 
time.  Conscious  of  your  friendly  dispositions  for  me, 
and  realizing  the  enormous  burden  of  public  business 
with  which  you  was  oppressed,  I  felt  no  solicitude 
but  that  you  should  go  directly  forward,  and  happily 
effect  your  great  undertakings.  How  much,  how 
sincerely  am  I  rejoiced,  my  dear  Marquis,  to  find  that 
things  are  assuming  so  favorable  an  aspect  in  France. 
Be  assured,  that  you  always  have  my  best  and  most 
ardent  wishes  for  your  success ;  and  that,  if  I  have 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  479 

not  troubled  you  with  letters  of  late,  it  was  because  I 
had  nothing,  which  it  was  very  essential  to  communi 
cate,  and  because  I  knew  how  much  better  your  time 
was  employed,  than  in  answering  letters  merely  of  a 
private  nature. 

You  have  doubtless  been  informed,  from  time  to 
time,  of  the  happy  progress  of  our  affairs.  The  prin 
cipal  difficulties,  which  opposed  themselves  in  any 
shape  to  the  prosperous  execution  of  our  government, 
seem  in  a  great  measure  to  have  been  surmounted. 
A  good  temper  prevails  among  our  citizens.  Rhode 
Island  has  just  now  acceded  to  the  constitution,  and 
has  thus  united  under  the  general  government  all  the 
States  of  the  original  confederacy.1  Vermont  we 
hope  will  soon  come  within  the  pale  of  the  Union. 
Two  new  States  exist  under  the  immediate  direction 
of  the  general  government,  viz.,  that  at  the  head  of 
which  is  General  St.  Clair,  and  that  which  consists 
of  the  territory  lately  ceded  by  the  State  of  North 
Carolina. 

Our  government  is  now  happily  carried  into  opera 
tion.  Although  some  thorny  questions  still  remain, 
it  is  to  be  hoped  that  the  wisdom  of  those  concerned 
in  the  national  legislature  will  dispose  of  them  pru 
dently.  A  funding  system  is  one  of  the  subjects, 
which  occasions  most  anxiety  and  perplexity.  Yet 
our  revenues  have  been  considerably  more  productive 
than  it  was  imagined  they  would  be.  In  the  last 
year  the  plentiful  crops  and  great  prices  of  grain 
have  vastly  augmented  our  remittances.  The  rate 

1  The  ratification  took  place  on  the  2Qth  of  May  at  Newport. 


480  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

of  exchange  is  also  much  in  our  favor.  Importa 
tions  of  European  goods  have  been  uncommonly 
extensive,  and  the  duties  payable  into  the  public 
treasury  proportionably  so.  Our  trade  to  the  East 
Indies  flourishes.  The  profits  to  individuals  are  so 
considerable,  as  to  induce  more  persons  to  engage  in 
it  continually.  A  single  vessel,  just  arrived  in  this 
port,  pays  thirty  thousand  dollars  to  government. 
Two  vessels,  fitted  out  for  the  fur  trade  to  the 
northwest  coast  of  America,  have  succeeded  well. 
The  whole  outfits  of  vessels  and  cargoes  cost  but 
seven  thousand  pounds.  One  is  returning  home, 
loaded  with  India  produce,  the  other  going  back 
to  the  coast  of  America,  and  they  have  deposited 
one  hundred  thousand  dollars  of  their  profits  in 
China.  I  mention  this  to  show  the  spirit  of  enter 
prise  that  prevails.  I  hope  and  trust  our  commerce 
with  the  West  India  Islands,  belonging  to  different 
nations,  which  is  at  present  of  no  great  consequence, 
will  shortly  be  placed  upon  a  better  footing.  As  the 
people  of  this  country  are  sensible  of  the  generous 
conduct  of  the  French  nation,  I  can  with  great  satis 
faction  give  it  as  my  decided  opinion  that  the  most 
friendly  dispositions  prevail  on  our  side  of  the  water 
towards  that  nation. 

Many  of  your  old  acquaintances  and  friends  are 
concerned  with  me  in  the  administration  of  this  gov 
ernment.  By  having  Mr.  Jefferson  at  the  head  of  the 
Department  of  State,  Mr.  Jay  of  the  Judiciary,  Ham 
ilton  of  the  Treasury,  and  Knox  of  that  of  War,  I 
feel  myself  supported  by  able  coadjutors,  who  har- 


i7po]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  481 

monize  extremely  well  together.  I  believe  that  these 
and  the  other  appointments  generally  have  given  per 
fect  satisfaction  to  the  public.  Poor  Colonel  Harri 
son,  who  was  appointed  one  of  the  judges  of  the 
Supreme  Court,  and  declined,  is  lately  dead.1 

I  have  a  few  days  since  had  a  severe  attack  of  the 
peripneumony  kind  ;  but  am  now  recovered,  except  in 
point  of  strength.  My  physicians  advise  me  to  more 
exercise  and  less  application  to  business.  I  cannot, 
however,  avoid  persuading  myself,  that  it  is  essential 
to  accomplish  whatever  I  have  undertaken,  though 
reluctantly,  to  the  best  of  my  abilities.  But  it  is 
thought  Congress  will  have  a  recess  this  summer, 
in  which  case  I  propose  going  for  a  while  to  Mount 
Vernon.  With  sentiments  of  the  sincerest  affection, 
I  am,  my  dear  Marquis,  &c. 


TO    DAVID    STUART. 

NEW  YORK,  15  June,  1790. 

DEAR  SIR, 

Your  letter  of  the  26.  instant  came  duly  to  hand. 
If  there  are  any  gazettes  among  my  files  at  Mount 
Vernon,  which  can  be  of  use  to  you,  they  are  at  your 
service. 

Your  description  of  the  public  mind  in  Virginia 
gives  me  pain.  It  seems  to  be  more  irritable,  sour, 
and  discontented,  than,  (from  the  information  I  re 
ceive,)  it  is  in  any  other  State  in  the  Union,  except 


1  Colonel  Robert  H.  Harrison. 
31 


482  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

Massachusetts,  which,  from  the  same  causes,  but  on 
quite  different  principles,  is  tempered  like  it.1 

That  Congress  does  not  proceed  with  all  that  de 
spatch,  which  people  at  a  distance  expect,  and  which, 

1  From  Dr.  Stuart's  Letter:  "  I  shall  now  endeavor  to  give  you  all  the  infor 
mation  I  have  been  able  to  collect  during  my  journey,  respecting  the  present 
temper  of  mind  of  the  people  of  Virginia,  so  far  as  I  can  judge  from  those  I 
mixed  with,  and  from  what  I  could  hear.  I  could  wish  indeed  to  speak  more 
favorably  of  it ;  but  it  appears  to  me,  that  the  late  transactions  of  Congress 
have  soured  the  public  mind  to  a  great  degree  ;  which  was  just  recovering 
from  the  fever,  which  the  slave  business  had  occasioned,  when  the  late  much- 
agitated  question  of  the  State  debts  came  on.  With  respect  to  the  slave  business, 
I  am  informed  by  Mr.  Lomax,  whom  I  met  on  his  return  from  Pittsylvania,  that 
great  advantages  had  been  taken  of  it  in  that  distant  quarter  by  many,  who 
wished  to  purchase  slaves,  circulating  a  report,  that  Congress  were  about  to  pass 
an  act  for  their  general  emancipation.  This  occasioned  such  an  alarm,  that 
many  were  sold  for  the  merest  trifle.  The  sellers  were  of  course  much  en 
raged  at  Congress  for  taking  up  a  subject  they  were  precluded  by  the  constitu 
tion  from  meddling  with  for  the  present,  and  thus  furnishing  the  occasion  for 
the  alarm  which  induced  them  to  sell.  As  the  people  in  that  part  of  the 
country  were  before  much  opposed  to  the  government,  it  may  naturally  be 
supposed,  that  this  circumstance  has  embittered  them  much  more  against  it. 

"As  to  the  assumption  of  the  State  debts,  I  scarce  think  it  would  be  a 
measure  generally  acceptable  on  any  principles.  On  such  as  have  been  con 
tended  for,  I  hardly  think  it  would  be  acquiesced  in  by  this  State.  How  far 
indeed  a  certain  degree  of  shame  or  obstinacy  natural  to  the  human  mind, 
which  acts  as  a  constant  check  on  every  rising  disposition  to  depart  from  a 
cause  or  side  once  resolutely  espoused,  would  continue  to  operate,  I  know 
not.  But  setting  this  aside,  I  think  I  should  not  be  far  wrong  in  saying  there 
would  be  as  nearly  a  unanimity  of  opinion  for  an  opposition,  as  perhaps  could 
ever  be  expected  on  any  subject.  There  is,  in  general,  I  think,  in  conse 
quence  of  these  two  instances,  a  strong  apprehension,  that  the  predictions 
relative  to  the  grasping  at  power  by  unwarrantable  constructions  of  the  con 
stitution  will  be  verified.  On  these  two  subjects,  at  least,  it  is  observed  by 
most,  (for  there  are  some,  who,  after  a  proper  liquidation  and  allowance  of 
credit  to  the  States  for  what  has  been  paid,  approve  of  the  assumption,)  that 
the  constitution  appeared  so  clear  as  to  be  incapable  of  misconstruction  by 
those,  who  wished  to  make  it  a  rule  and  guide  to  their  conduct. 

"  At  any  rate,  on  a  subject  of  such  ^importance,  which  may  be  considered  as 
doubtful  in  any  shape  under  the  constitution,  it  would  at  least  have  been  pru 
dent  in  the  members  to  consult  the  general  sentiments  entertained  of  it  in  their 
respective  States.  But  it  really  appears,  as  if  they  were  so  charmed  with  the 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  483 

were  they  to  hurry  business,  they  possibly  might,  is 
not  to  be  denied.  That  measures  have  been  agitated, 
which  are  not  pleasing  to  Virginia,  and  others,  pleas 
ing  perhaps  to  her,  but  not  so  to  some  other  States, 

plenitude  of  their  powers,  as  to  have  considered  this  a  degrading  step.  A 
strong  suspicion,  too,  is  entertained,  from  the  number  of  speculators,  who  have 
been  traversing  the  State  purchasing  up  State  securities,  that  there  is  a  good 
deal  of  selfishness  mixed  with  the  plan  ;  and  this  perhaps  causes  it  to  be 
viewed  with  more  particular  dislike.  Mr.  Madison's  conduct  in  this  business 
has  gained  him  great  popularity,  even  among  those  who  are  illiberal  enough  to 
pass  severe  censures  on  his  motives  respecting  his  discrimination  plan. 

"As  I  passed  through  Richmond,  the  news  of  the  rejection  of  the  motion 
made  by  Mr.  Lee,  for  opening  the  doors  of  the  Senate,  agreeably  to  his  in 
structions  from  our  legislature,  had  just  arrived.  It  occasioned  much  dis 
gust  ;  but  the  manner  of  the  rejection  seemed  to  be  as  offensive  as  the 
rejection  itself  ;  it  being  said,  that,  after  speaking  two  days  ably  on  the  sub 
ject  without  receiving  an  answer,  the  question  was  called  for  and  lost  ;  no  one 
voting  with  him  but  his  colleague  and  Mr.  Maclay.  It  is  supposed  it  will  be 
productive  of  an  application  from  our  legislature  to  the  other  States,  calling 
on  them  to  join  them  in  similar  instructions  to  their  members.  It  is  a  pity  the 
public  wish,  as  I  believe  it  to  be,  in  so  trivial  a  matter,  cannot  be  gratified. 
The  slowness  with  which  the  business  is  carried  on  is  another  cause  of  com 
plaint.  Congress,  it  is  said,  sit  only  four  houfs  a  day,  and  like  school-boys 
observe  every  Saturday  as  a  holiday.  If  this  be  true,  it  is  certainly  trifling 
with  their  constituents  in  the  extreme,  who  pay  them  liberally,  and  have 
therefore  a  right  to  expect  more  diligence  from  them.  It  is  the  more  unfor 
tunate,  as  it  is  represented,  at  the  same  time,  that  they  generally  live  for  two 
dollars  a  day. 

"  I  have  now  gone  through  the  catalogue  of  public  discontents,  and  it  really 
pains  me  much,  and  I  believe  every  friend  to  the  government,  to  think  that 
there  should  be  so  much  cause  for  them  ;  and  that  a  spirit  so  subversive  of  the 
true  principles  of  the  constitution,  productive  of  jealousies  alone,  and  fraught 
with  such  high  ideas  of  their  power,  should  have  manifested  itself  at  so  early 
a  period  of  the  government.  If  Mr.  Henry  has  sufficient  boldness  to  aim  the 
blow  at  its  existence,  which  he  has  threatened,  I  think  he  can  never  meet  with 
a  more  favorable  opportunity,  if  the  assumption  should  take  place  on  the 
principles  on  which  it  has  been  contended  for  ;  and  I  understand,  that, 
though  lost  at  present,  it  is  to  be  again  brought  on.  But  I  doubt  much 
whether  he  possesses  so  adventurous  a  spirit.  It  will  be  the  fault  of  those, 
who  are  the  promoters  of  such  disgustful  measures,  if  he  ever  does,  or  indeed 
any  one  else.  I  believe  it  has  ever  been  considered  as  a  maxim  in  govern 
ments  recently  established,  and  which  depend  on  the  affections  of  the  people, 


484  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

is  equally  unquestionable.  Can  it  well  be  otherwise  in 
a  country  so  extensive,  so  diversified  in  its  interests  ? 
And  will  not  these  different  interests  naturally  pro 
duce  in  an  assembly  of  representatives,  who  are  to  legis 
late  for  and  to  assimilate  and  reconcile  them  to  the^Tz- 
eral  welfare,  long,  warm,  and  animated  debates  ?  Most 
assuredly  they  will ;  and  if  there  was  the  same  propen 
sity  in  mankind  for  investigating  the  motives,  as  there 
is  for  censuring  the  conduct  of  public  characters,  it 
would  be  found,  that  the  censure  so  freely  bestowed 
is  oftentimes  unmerited  and  uncharitable.  For  in 
stance,  the  condemnation  of  Congress  for  sitting  only 
four  hours  in  the  day.  The  fact  is,  by  the  established 
rules  of  the  House  of  Representatives,  no  committee 
can  sit  whilst  the  House  is  sitting  ;  and  this  is  and  has 
been  for  a  considerable  time  from  ten  o'clock  in  the 
forenoon  until  three,  often  later,  in  the  afternoon  ; 

that  what  is  rigidly  right  ought  not  to  be  the  only  standard  of  conduct  with 
those  who  govern.  Their  inclinations  and  passions,  too,  must  be  consulted 
more  or  less  in  order  to  effect  ultimately  what  is  right.  How  much  more  ought 
this  to  be  done,  when  it  rests  solely  on  a  construction  of  their  powers,  whether 
a  measure  in  contemplation  ought  to  be  carried  into  execution  or  not. 

"  A  member  of  the  Council,  who  wrote  privately  to  Mr.  Henry  to  know  if 
he  would  accept  of  the  office  of  Senator  in  Congress  if  appointed,  showed  me 
his  answer  ;  in  which  he  declines  it,  and  says  he  is  too  old  to  fall  into  those 
awkward  imitations,  which  are  now  become  fashionable.  From  this  expression 
I  suspect  the  old  patriot  has  heard  some  extraordinary  representations  of  the 
etiquette  established  at  your  levees.  Those  of  his  party  no  doubt  think  they 
promote  themselves  in  his  good  opinion  by  such  high  coloring.  It  may  not 
be  amiss,  therefore,  to  inform  you  that  Bland  is  among  the  dissatisfied  on  this 
score.  I  am  informed  by  good  authority,  that  he  represented  that  there  was 
more  pomp  used  there  than  at  St.  James's,  where  he  had  been,  and  that  your 
bows  were  more  distant  and  stiff.  This  happened  at  the  governor's  table  in 
Richmond.  By  such  accounts,  I  have  no  doubt  the  party  think  to  keep  alive 
the  opposition  and  aversion  to  the  government,  and  probably,  too,  to  make 
proselytes  to  their  opinions." — Abingdon,  June  2d. 


17 go]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  485 

before  and  after  which  the  business  is  going  on  in 
committees.  If  this  application  is  not  as  much  as 
most  constitutions  are  equal  to,  I  am  mistaken. 

Many  other  things,  which  undergo  malignant  con 
structions,  would  be  found,  upon  a  candid  examina 
tion,  to  wear  better  faces  than  is  given  to  them.  The 
misfortune  is,  that  the  enemies  to  the  government, 
always  more  active  than  its  friends,  and  always  upon 
the  watch  to  give  it  a  stroke,  neglect  no  opportunity 
to  aim  one.  If  they  tell  truth,  it  is  not  the  whole 
truth,  by  which  means  one  side  only  of  the  picture  is 
exhibited  ;  whereas,  if  both  sides  were  seen,  it  might 
and  probably  would  assume  a  different  form,  in  the 
opinion  of  just  and  candid  men,  who  are  disposed  to 
measure  matters  by  a  Continental  scale. 

I  do  not  mean,  however,  from  what  I  have  here 
said,  to  justify  the  conduct  of  Congress  in  all  its 
movements  ;  for  some  of  these  movements,  in  my 
opinion,  have  been  injudicious,  and  others  unseason 
able  ;  whilst  the  questions  of  assumption,  residence, 
and  other  matters  have  been  agitated  with  a  warmth 
and  intemperance,  with  prolixity  and  threats,  which 
it  is  to  be  feared  has  lessened  the  dignity  of  that 
body,  and  decreased  that  respect,  which  was  once 
entertained  for  it.  And  this  misfortune  is  increased 
by  many  members,  even  among  those  who  wish  well 
to  the  government,  ascribing  in  letters  to  their  respec 
tive  States,  when  they  are  defeated  in  a  favorite 
measure,  the  worst  motives  for  the  conduct  of  their 
opponents  ;  who,  viewing  matters  through  another 
medium,  may  and  do  retort  in  their  turn,  by  which 


486  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 


means  jealousies  and  distrusts  are  spread  most  im- 
politically  far  and  wide,  and  will,  it  is  to  be  feared, 
have  a  most  unhappy  tendency  to  injure  our  public 
affairs,  which  if  wisely  managed  might  make  us,  as 
we  are  now  by  Europeans  thought  to  be,  the  happiest 
people  upon  earth.  As  a  proof  of  it,  our  reputation 
has  risen  in  every  part  of  the  globe,  and  our  credit, 
especially  in  Holland  (above  par,  where  our  funds 
are),  has  got  higher  than  that  of  any  nation  in 
Europe,  as  appears  by  official  advices  just  received. 
But  the  conduct  we  seem  to  be  pursuing  must  soon 
bring  us  back  to  our  former  disreputable  condition. 
The  introduction  of  the  Quaker  memorial  respecting 
slavery  was,  to  be  sure,  not  only  ill-timed,  but  occa 
sioned  a  great  waste  of  time.  The  final  decision, 
however,  thereon,  was  as  favorable  as  the  proprietors 
of  this  species  of  property  could  well  have  expected, 
considering  the  light  in  which  slavery  is  viewed  by  a 
large  part  of  this  Union. 

The  question  of  assumption  has  occupied  a  great 
deal  of  time,  and  no  wonder,  for  it  is  certainly  a  very 
important  question  ;  and,  under  proper  restrictions 
and  scrutiny  into  accounts,  will  be  found,  I  conceive, 
to  be  a  just  one.  The  cause,  in  which  the  expenses 
of  the  war  were  incurred,  was  a  common  cause.  The 
States  (in  Congress)  declared  it  so  at  the  beginning, 
and  pledged  themselves  to  stand  by  each  other.  If, 
then,  some  States  were  harder  pressed  than  others, 
or  from  particular  and  local  circumstances  con 
tracted  heavier  debts,  it  is  but  reasonable,  when  this 
fact  is  clearly  ascertained,  though  it  is  a  sentiment 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  487 

which  I  have  not  communicated  here,  that  an  allow 
ance  ought  to  be  made  them.  Had  the  invaded 
and  hard  pressed  States  believed  the  case  would  have 
been  otherwise,  opposition  would  very  soon,  I  be 
lieve,  have  changed  to  submission  in  them,  and  given 
a  different  termination  to  the  war.1 

In  a  letter  of  last  year,  to  the  best  of  my  recollec 
tion,  I  informed  you  of  the  motives,  which  compelled 
me  to  allot  a  day  for  the  reception  of  idle  and  cere 
monious  visits,  (for  it  never  has  prevented  those  of 
sociability  and  friendship  in  the  afternoon,  or  at  any 
other  time  ;)  but,  if  I  am  mistaken  in  this,  the  history 
of  this  business  is  simply  and  shortly  as  follows.  Be 
fore  the  custom  was  established,  which  now  accom 
modates  foreign  characters,  strangers,  and  others, 

1  In  his  report  on  Public  Credit,  gth  January,  1790,  Hamilton  gave  it  as  his 
full  conviction  4<  that  an  assumption  of  the  debts  of  the  particular  States  by  the 
Union,  and  a  like  provision  for  them  as  for  those  of  the  Union,  will  be  a 
measure  of  sound  policy  and  substantial  justice."  He  distinctly  recognized 
that  the  principles  of  equitable  settlement  between  the  States  and  the  United 
States  would  require  all  the  moderation  and  wisdom  of  the  government,  and 
suggested  that  the  balance  in  favor  of  each  State  be  first  determined,  and  then 
"  to  equalize  the  contributions  of  the  States,  let  each  be  charged  with  its  pro 
portion  of  the  aggregate  of  those  balances,  according  to  some  equitable  ratio, 
to  be  devised  for  that  purpose."  On  this  point  were  made  the  heaviest  attacks, 
for  it  was  claimed  Virginia  would  suffer  peculiarly,  while  Massachusetts  and 
South  Carolina  would  benefit  as  greatly.  On  these  divisions  the  various  States 
ranged  themselves  according  to  their  interest,  and  early  in  April  the  opposition 
obtained  a  rejection  of  the  scheme  in  the  House,  but  its  advocates  still  held  to 
the  measure.  This  was  the  situation  when  Washington  wrote.  Jefferson  hinted 
that  the  scruples  of  those  who,  in  favoring  the  Constitution,  had  argued  the 
improbability  of  Congress  laying  taxes  where  the  States  could  do  it  separately, 
stood  in  the  way  of  the  assumption  scheme.  The  blocking  of  the  bill  for  a 
permanent  residence  of  Congress  afforded  an  opportunity  to  play  the  one  meas 
ure  against  the  other,  and  a  bargain  was  made  that  passed  the  assumption 
and  removed  the  seat  of  government  to  the  Potomac.  The  President  did  not 
escape  some  abuse  on  the  result,  and  Jefferson,  through  whom  the  bargain  was 
effected,  regarded  himself  as  "  duped"  by  Hamilton. 


488  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

who,  from  motives  of  curiosity,  respect  to  the  Chief 
Magistrate,  or  any  other  cause,  are  induced  to  call  upon 
me,  I  was  unable  to  attend  to  any  business  what 
soever  ;  for  gentlemen,  consulting  their  own  conven 
ience  rather  than  mine,  were  calling  from  the  time  I 
rose  from  breakfast,  often  before,  until  I  sat  down  to 
dinner.  This,  as  I  resolved  not  to  neglect  my  public 
duties,  reduced  me  to  the  choice  of  one  of  these 
alternatives,  either  to  refuse  them  altogether,  or  to 
appropriate  a  time  for  the  reception  of  them.  The 
former  would,  I  well  knew,  be  disgusting  to  many  ; 
the  latter  I  expected  would  undergo  animadversion 
and  blazoning  from  those,  who  would  find  fault  with 
or  without  cause.  To  please  everybody  was  impos 
sible.  I  therefore  adopted  that  line  of  conduct,  which 
combined  public  advantage  with  private  convenience, 
and  which  in  my  judgment  was  unexceptionable  in  it 
self.  That  I  have  not  been  able  to  make  bows  to  the 
taste  of  poor  Colonel  Bland,  (who,  by  the  by,  I  believe 
never  saw  one  of  them),  is  to  be  regretted,  especially  too, 
as  (upon  those  occasions,)  they  were  indiscriminately 
bestowed,  and  the  best  I  was  master  of,  would  it 
not  have  been  better  to  throw  the  veil  of  chanty  over 
them,  ascribing  their  stiffness  to  the  effects  of  age,  or 
to  the  unskillfulness  of  my  teacher,  than  to  pride  and 
dignity  of  office,  which  God  knows  has  no  charms  for 
me  ?  For  I  can  truly  say,  I  had  rather  be  at  Mount 
Vernon  with  a  friend  or  two  about  me,  than  to  be 
attended  at  the  seat  of  government  by  the  officers  of 
state  and  the  representatives  of  every  power  in 
Europe. 


1 79°]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  489 

These  visits  are  optional.  They  are  made  without 
invitation.  Between  the  hours  of  three  and  four 
every  Tuesday  I  am  prepared  to  receive  them.  Gen 
tlemen,  often  in  great  numbers,  come  and  go,  chat 
with  each  other,  and  act  as  they  please.  A  porter 
shows  them  into  the  room,  and  they  retire  from  it 
when  they  please,  and  without  ceremony.  At  their 
first  entrance,  they  salute  me,  and  I  them,  and  as 
many  as  I  can  talk  to,  I  do.  What  pomp  there  is  in 
all  this,  I  am  unable  to  discover.  Perhaps  it  consists 
in  not  sitting.  To  this,  two  reasons  are  opposed  : 
first,  it  is  unusual  ;  secondly,  which  is  a  more  sub 
stantial  one,  because  I  have  no  room  large  enough  to 
contain  a  third  of  the  chairs,  which  would  be  suffi 
cient  to  admit  it.  If  it  is  supposed,  that  ostentation, 
or  the  fashions  of  courts  (which,  by  the  by,  I  believe 
originate  oftener  in  convenience,  not  to  say  necessity, 
than  is  generally  imagined),  gave  rise  to  this  custom, 
I  will  boldly  affirm,  that  no  supposition  was  ever  more 
erroneous  ;  for,  if  I  was  to  give  indulgence  to  my 
inclinations,  every  moment  that  I  could  withdraw 
from  the  fatigue  of  my  station  should  be  spent  in  re 
tirement.  That  they  are  not,  proceeds  from  the  sense 
I  entertain  of  the  propriety  of  giving  to  every  one  as 
free  access,  as  consists  with  that  respect,  which  is  due  to 
the  chair  of  government ;  and  that  respect,  I  conceive, 
is  neither  to  be  acquired  nor  preserved  but  by  observ 
ing  a  just  medium  between  much  state  and  too  great 
familiarity. 

Similar  to  the  above,  but  of  a  more  sociable  kind, 
are  the  visits  every  Friday  afternoon  to   Mrs.  Wash- 


490  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

ington,  where  I  always  am.  These  public  meetings, 
and  a  dinner  once  a  week  to  as  many  as  my  table 
will  hold,  with  the  references  to  and  from  the  differ 
ent  departments  of  state,  and  other  communications 
with  all  parts  of  the  Union,  are  as  much,  if  not  more, 
than  I  am  able  to  undergo  ;  for  I  have  already  had 
within  less  than  a  year,  two  severe  attacks,  the  last 
worse  than  the  first.  A  third,  more  than  probable,  will 
put  me  to  sleep  with  my  fathers.  At  what  distance 
this  may  be  I  know  not.  Within  the  last  twelve 
months  I  have  undergone  more  and  severer  sickness, 
than  thirty  preceding  years  afflicted  me  with.  Put  it 
all  together  I  have  abundant  reason,  however,  to  be 
thankful,  that  I  am  so  well  recovered ;  though  I  still 
feel  the  remains  of  the  violent  affection  of  my  lungs  ; 
the  cough,  pain  in  my  breast,  and  shortness  in  breath 
ing  not  having  entirely  left  me.  I  propose  in  the 
recess  of  Congress  to  visit  Mount  Vernon  ;  but  when 
this  recess  will  happen  is  beyond  my  ken,  or  the  ken 
I  believe  of  any  of  its  members. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO    CLEMENT    BIDDLE. 

NEW  YORK,  20  July,  1790. 

DEAR  SIR, 

The  first  request  of  this  letter  is  that  you  would 
burn  it  as  soon  as  you  have  read  it,  and  keep  the 
contents  to  yourself  ;  at  least  for  the  present. 

Some  months  ago  farms  lately  in  the  tenure  of  Mr. 
Abel  James  were  advertised  for  sale  by  you  and  Mr. 


i79°]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  491 

Henry  Drinker.  These  farms  I  have  seen  ;  but  not, 
it  is  to  be  acknowledged  with  the  eyes  of  a  Purchaser. 
The  one  near  Frankfort  you  inform  the  public  con 
tains  284  acres,  that  another  called  Callender's  con 
tains  79  acres,  and  a  third,  near  the  last,  contains 
upwards  of  60  acres. 

Let  me  now  ask  if  all  or  any  of  these  are 
yet  for  sale  ?  What  is  the  lowest  price  that  would 
be  taken  for  each  ?  and  whether  payment  would 
be  received  in  valuable  lands,  improved,  in  the 
counties  of  Fayette  and  Washington  in  the  State 
of  Pennsylvania. 

One  tract  of  which  in  Fayette-county,  contains  be 
tween  sixteen  and  1 700  acres  on  the  great  road  from 
Fort  Cumberland  to  Pittsburg,  distant  75  miles  from 
the  former  and  40  from  the  latter  place  ;  equal  in 
quality  to  any  tract  in  that  country,  with  what  has  been 
a  very  valuable  mill  and  iron  ore  adjoining,  but  which 
is  now  much  out  of  repair.  The  other  tract  (contain 
ing  upwards  of  3000  acres)  lyes  about  sixteen  miles 
from  Pittsburg  and  is  also  good  in  quality,  and  more 
level  than  usual. 

I  shall  candidly  declare  that  to  pay  money  is  out  of 
the  question  with  me — I  have  none  and  would  not  if 
it  was  to  be  had,  run  in  debt  to  borrow — nor  would 
it  do  for  me  to  dispose  of  real  property  to  obtain  it, 
when  that  species  of  property  is  brought  to  low  ebb 
and  dull  market.1  An  exchange,  as  proposed,  if  ready 

1  "  To  be  instrumental,  in  any  degree  to  the  accomplishment  of  the  object, 
which  is  mentioned  in  your  letter,  would,  I  do  assure  you,  give  me  pleasure  ; 
but  with  truth  I  can  add  that  I  know  no  person  who  has  either  money  to  lend 
or  who  seems  willing  to  part  with  it.  The  most  conclusive  proof  of  which  I 


492  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

money  is  not  indispensable,  might  be  mutually  advanta 
geous  to  both  parties,  in  as  much  as  the  probability 
is,  that  the  price  of  the  exterior  will  increase  in  a  full 
ratio  with  that  of  the  interior  lands. 

If  the  farms  advertised  by  you  and  Mr.  Drinker 
are  sold,  or  if  they  are  not  now  for  sale,  let  me  next 
ask  if  they  will  be  to  be  rented  ?  and  for  what  ?  I 
ask  these  questions  however  more  from  motives  of 
curiosity  than  from  any  expectation  of  becoming  the 
Renter  of  either  of  them  ;  because  the  principal  build 
ings  (which  would  be  of  little  value  to  me,  in  this 
case)  might  considerably  enhance  the  rent,  and  be 
cause  my  objects  being  for  the  amusement  of  farming, 
and  for  the  benefit  arising  from  exercise  (the  distance 
from  the  city  being  convenient  for  the  latter),  I  should 
not  incline  to  lay  out  much  money  upon  a  rented 
farm,  for  a  short  tenure  ;  and  for  a  long  one  I  should 
have  no  occasion  for  a  place  in  that  way.  Having 
communicated  the  matter  thus  far  to  you,  I  will,  in  a 
few  words  add,  as  my  own  opinion,  strengthened  by 
those  of  my  Physicians,  that  my  late  change  from 
active  scenes,  to  which  I  had  been  accustomed,  and 
in  which  the  mind  has  been  agreeably  amused,  to  the 

shall  give  you  :  I  was  much  in  want  of  a  sum,  to  answer  some  call  upon  me, 
which  I  did  not  care  to  have  unsatisfied,  when  I  set  out  for  New  York  the 
Spring  before  last ;  but  was  unable  to  obtain  more  than  half  of  it,  (though  it 
was  not  much  I  required,)  and  this  at  an  advanced  interest  with  other  rigid  con 
ditions.  After  this  I  took  an  occasion  to  sound  Mr.  Carroll  of  Carrollton,  as 
the  most  likely,  being  the  most  monied  man,  I  was  acquainted  with — but  with 
out  success — He  assured  me  that  he  could  not  collect  the  interest  of  the  money 
that  had  been  loaned,  by  his  father  and  himself,  and  his  other  resources  were 
not  more  than  adequate  to  his  own  occasions — thenceforward  I  made  no  fur 
ther  attempts,  not  knowing  indeed  where  to  apply." — Washington  to  Charles 
Carter,  14  September,  1790. 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  493 

one  of  inactivity  which  I  now  lead,  and  where  the 
thoughts  are  continually  on  the  stretch,  has  been  the 
cause  of  more  illness  and  severe  attacks  of  my  consti 
tution  within  the  last  twelve  months,  than  I  had 
undergone  in  30  years  preceding  put  together.  A 
deviation  therefore  is  necessary.  I  have  not,  because 
you  were  one  from  whom  the  terms  of  sale  of  James's 
lands  were  to  be  known,  scrupled  to  make  these  com 
munications  at  the  moment  that  I  ask  the  lowest  price 
that  would  be  taken  for  each  of  these  farms.  Frankly, 
I  declare  it  to  be  my  intention  not  to  give  a  high 
price  for  either  of  them  (depreciated  as  real  property 
is)  nor  will  I  higgle  about  the  price.  If  it  is  moder 
ate  and  I  am  dealt  with  candidly,  I  will  say  in  a  word 
whether  it  will  suit  me  to  become  a  purchaser — chaf 
fering  I  shall  avoid.  The  largest  farm  would  be  most 
congenial  to  my  wishes — perhaps  one  of  the  others 
might  do.  I  am,  &c. 


TO    THE    MARQUIS    DE    LAFAYETTE. 

NEW  YORK,  n  August,  1790. 

MY  DEAR  MARQUIS, 

I  have  received  your  affectionate  letter  of  the  1 7th 
of  March  by  one  conveyance,  and  the  token  of  vic 
tory  *  gained  by  liberty  over  despotism  by  another, 
for  both  which  testimonials  of  your  friendship  and 
regard  I  pray  you  to  accept  my  sincerest  thanks.  In 
this  great  subject  of  triumph  for  the  new  world,  and 
for  humanity  in  general,  it  will  never  be  forgotten 

1  Key  of  the  Bastile,  sent  through  Thomas  Paine,  at   this  time  an  ardent 
believer  in  the  revolution. 


494  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

how  conspicuous  a  part  you  bore,  and  how  much  lus 
tre  you  reflected  on  a  country  in  which  you  made  the 
first  displays  of  character.1 

Happy  am  I,  my  good  friend,  that,  amidst  all  the 
tremendous  tempests,  which  have  assailed  your  politi 
cal  ship,  you  have  had  address  and  fortitude  enough 
to  steer  her  hitherto  safely  through  the  quicksands 
and  rocks  which  threatened  instant  destruction  on 
every  side,  and  that  your  young  King  in  all  things 
seems  so  well  disposed  to  conform  to  the  wishes  of 
the  nation.  In  such  an  important,  such  a  hazardous 
voyage,  when  every  thing  dear  and  sacred  is  em 
barked,  you  know  full  well  my  best  wishes  have 
never  left  you  for  a  moment.  Yet  I  will  avow 
that  the  accounts  we  received  through  the  English 
papers,  which  were  sometimes  our  only  channels  for 
information,  caused  our  fears  of  a  failure  almost  to 
exceed  our  expectations  of  success. 

How  much  will  the  concerned  be  indebted  to  the 
exertions  of  the  principal  pilot,  when  the  ship  shall, 
at  the  end  of  her  dangerous  course,  be  securely  har 
bored  in  the  haven  of  national  tranquillity,  freedom, 
and  glory,  to  which  she  is  destined,  and  which  I 
hope  she  is  near  attaining. 

Congress,  after  having  been  in  session  ever  since 
last  fall,  are  to  adjourn  in  two  or  three  days.  Though 

1  "  Give  me  leave,  my  dear  General,  to  present  you  with  a  picture  of  the 
Bastille  just  as  it  looked  a  few  days  after  I  had  ordered  its  demolition,  with 
the  main  key  of  the  fortress  of  despotism.  It  is  a  tribute  which  I  owe  as  a 
son  to  my  adopted  father,  as  an  aid-de-camp  to  my  general,  as  a  missionary  of 
liberty  to  its  patriarch." — Lafayette  to  Washington,  17  March,  1790. 

The  key  of  the  Bastile  is  still  preserved  in  the  mansion-house  at  Mount  Ver- 
non.  The  drawing  was  sold  at  auction  in  Philadelphia  in  1871. 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  495 

they  have  been  much  perplexed  and  delayed  in  their 
proceedings  on  some  questions  of  a  local  and  intri 
cate  nature,  yet  they  have  done  a  great  deal  of  im 
portant  business,  and  will  leave  the  public  affairs  in 
as  satisfactory  a  state  as  could  reasonably  have  been 
expected.  One  of  the  last  acts  of  the  executive  has 
been  the  conclusion  of  a  treaty  of  peace  and  friend 
ship  with  the  Creek  nation  of  Indians,  who  have 
been  considerably  connected  with  the  Spanish  prov 
inces,  and  hostile  to  the  Georgian  frontiers  since  the 
war  with  Great  Britain.1  McGillivray  and  about 
thirty  of  the  kings  and  head  men  are  here.  This 
event  will  leave  us  in  peace  from  one  end  of  our  bor 
ders  to  the  other,  except  where  it  may  be  interrupted 
by  a  small  refugee  banditti  of  Cherokees  and  Shaw- 
nees,  who  can  be  easily  chastised,  or  even  extirpated, 
if  it  shall  become  necessary.  But  this  will  only  be 
done  in  an  inevitable  extremity,  since  the  basis  of  our 
proceedings  with  the  Indian  nations  has  been,  and 
shall  be,  justice  during  the  period  in  which  I  have 
any  thing  to  do  with  the  administration  of  this 
government. 

Our  negotiations  and  transactions,  though  many  of 
them  are  on  a  small  scale  as  to  the  objects,  ought  to 
be  governed  by  the  immutable  principles  of  equity, 
as  much  as  your  European  politics,  which  are  more 
extended  in  their  compass.  How  your  wars  proceed 

1  The  treaty  was  important  "  as  drawing  a  line  between  the  Creeks  and 
Georgia,  and  enabling  the  government  to  do,  as  it  will  do,  justice  against 
either  party  offending." — Jefferson  to  Randolph,  14  August,  1790.  The  treaty 
was  attacked  by  Jackson,  one  of  the  Georgia  delegation,  as  sacrificing  the  rec 
ognized  claims  of  that  State. 


496  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

in  the  north,  or  in  whose  favor  they  are  likely  to  ter 
minate,  what  probability  there  may  be,  that  the  mis 
understandings  between  Britain  and  Spain  should 
issue  in  an  open  rupture,  and  what  other  powerful 
nations,  in  that  event,  will  be  drawn  in  to  take  an 
active  part  on  one  side  or  the  other,  are  subjects  of 
vast  magnitude,  on  which  we,  in  these  distant  regions, 
must  abstain  from  deciding  positively,  even  in  our 
minds,  until  we  shall  have  more  unequivocal  data  to 
go  upon.  It  seems  to  be  our  policy  to  keep  in  the 
situation,  in  which  nature  has  placed  us,  to  observe 
a  strict  neutrality,  and  to  furnish  others  with  those 
good  things  of  subsistence,  which  they  may  want, 
and  which  our  fertile  land  abundantly  produces,  if 
circumstances  and  events  will  permit  us  so  to  do.1 

1  The  Spaniards  had  seized  and  looted  a  British  vessel  at  Nootka  Sound,  on 
the  ground  of  trespassing  on  Spanish  territory,  and  were  unwilling  to  make 
reparation.  As  Spain  would  be  anxious  to  secure  the  aid,  or  at  least  the  neu 
trality,  of  the  United  States  in  the  event  of  war,  for  the  protection  of  her 
American  possessions,  Washington  thought  this  a  fitting  opportunity  to  open 
negotiations  at  Madrid  for  the  opening  of  the  Mississippi.  Humphreys  was 
sent  to  co-operate  with  Carmichael  in  this  negotiation,  and  the  influence  of 
France  was  to  be  invoked  ;  but  before  the  envoy  reached  Madrid  an  agreement 
had  been  arrived  at  between  the  two  powers,  and  the  fears  or  interest  of  Spain 
could  no  longer  be  worked  upon  to  secure  the  coveted  privilege. 

When  the  first  indications  of  the  difference  between  Spain  and  Great  Britain 
appeared,  Major  George  Beckwith  sounded  the  American  executive  on  the 
attitude  that  the  United  States  would  assume,  and  learned  that  there  was  no 
alliance  that  would  lead  them  to  favor  Spain.  Washington  thought  that  in  the 
prospective  war  Great  Britain  would  attack  the  Spanish  colonies  in  America 
from  Canada,  and  interpreted  the  mission  of  Beckwith  as  follows:  "We 
[Great  Britain]  did  not  incline  to  give  any  satisfactory  answer  to  Mr.  Morris, 
who  was  officially  commissioned  to  ascertain  our  intentions  with  respect  to  the 
evacuation  of  the  western  posts  within  the  territory  of  the  United  States  and 
other  matters  into  which  he  was  empowered  to  enquire,  till  by  this  unauthenti- 
cated  mode  we  can  discover  whether  you  will  enter  into  an  alliance  with  us  and 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  497 

This  letter  is  committed  to  Colonel  Humphreys  to 
carry  to  London,  whither  he  is  going.  Should  he  by 
any  accident  be  in  France,  he  will  be  able  to  give  you 
a  full  state  of  our  affairs  and  prospects.  Gradually 
recovering  from  the  distresses  in  which  the  war  left 
us,  patiently  advancing  in  our  task  of  civil  govern 
ment,  unentangled  in  the  crooked  policies  of  Europe, 
wanting  scarcely  any  thing  but  the  free  navigation  of 

make  common  cause  against  Spain.  In  that  case  we  will  enter  into  a  commer 
cial  treaty  with  you,  and  promise  perhaps  to  fulfil  what  they  [we]  already  stand 
engaged  to  perform." — Diary,  1790. 

On  the  27th  of  August  the  President  communicated  the  following  statement 
and  queries  to  the  several  members  of  the  Cabinet,  and  to  the  Vice-President 
and  Chief  Justice  : 

"  Provided  the  dispute  between  Great  Britain  and  Spain  should  come  to  the 
decision  of  arms,  from  a  variety  of  circumstances  (individually  unimportant 
and  inconclusive,  but  very  much  the  reverse  when  compared  and  combined), 
there  is  no  doubt  in  my  mind,  that  New  Orleans,  and  the  Spanish  posts  above 
it  on  the  Mississippi,  will  be  among  the  first  attempts  of  the  former,  and  that 
the  reduction  of  them  will  be  undertaken  by  a  combined  operation  from 
Detroit. 

"  The  consequences  of  having  so  formidable  and  enterprising  a  people  as  the 
British  on  both  our  flanks  and  rear,  with  their  navy  in  front,  as  they  respect 
our  western  settlements,  which  may  be  reduced  thereby,  and  as  they  regard 
the  security  of  the  Union  and  its  commerce  with  the  West  Indies,  are  too 
obvious  to  need  enumeration. 

"  What  then  should  be  the  answers  of  the  Executive  of  the  United  States  to 
Lord  Dorchester,  in  case  he  should  apply  for  permission  to  march  troops 
through  the  territory  of  the  said  States  from  Detroit  to  the  Mississippi  ? 

"  What  notice  ought  to  be  taken  of  the  measure,  if  it  should  be  undertaken 
without  leave,  which  is  the  most  probable  proceeding  of  the  two?" 

A  difference  of  opinion  prevailed  in  the  Cabinet.  On  one  side  it  was  advised 
that  permission  to  march  troops  through  the  territory  should  be  pointedly 
refused,  and,  if  persisted  in  afterwards,  that  a  remonstrance  should  be  made  to 
the  Court  of  Great  Britain.  On  the  other  side  it  was  recommended  to  grant  the 
request ;  but,  if  the  march  should  be  attempted  without  leave,  and  after  pro 
hibition,  that  it  should  be  "  opposed  and  prevented  at  every  risk  and  hazard." 
The  principles  of  national  law  and  the  practice  of  nations  were  discussed,  and 
brought  to  bear  on  the  point.  The  general  result,  as  recorded  by  Washington, 
was  to  "  treat  the  communications  of  Major  Beckwith  very  civilly  ;  to  intimate, 
32 


498  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

the  Mississippi  (which  we  must  have,  and  as  certainly 
shall  have  as  we  remain  a  nation),  I  have  supposed, 
that,  with  the  undeviating  exercise  of  a  just,  steady, 
and  prudent  national  policy,  we  shall  be  the  gainers, 
whether  the  powers  of  the  old  world  may  be  in  peace 
or  war,  but  more  especially  in  the  latter  case.  In 
that  case,  our  importance  will  certainly  increase,  and 
our  friendship  be  courted.  Our  dispositions  would 
not  be  indifferent  to  Britain  or  Spain.  Why  will  not 
Spain  be  wise  and  liberal  at  once  ?  It  would  be  easy 
to  annihilate  all  causes  of  quarrels  between  that  nation 
and  the  United  States  at  this  time.  At  a  future 
period,  that  may  be  far  from  being  a  fact.  Should  a 
war  take  place  between  Great  Britain  and  Spain,  I 
conceive,  from  a  great  variety  of  concurring  circum 
stances,  there  is  the  highest  probability  that  the 
Floridas  will  soon  be  in  the  possession  of  the  former. 
Adieu,  my  dear  Marquis.  Believe  me  to  be  assuredly 
and  affectionately  your  friend,  &c. 

P.  S.  Not  for  the  value  of  the  thing,  my  dear  Mar 
quis,  but  as  a  memorial,  and  because  they  are  the 
manufacture  of  this  city,  I  send  you  herewith  a  pair 
of  shoe-buckles. 

delicately,  that  they  carried  no  marks  official  or  authentic,  nor  in  speaking  of 
alliance,  did  they  convey  any  definite  meaning  by  which  the  precise  object  of 
the  British  Cabinet  could  be  discovered.  In  a  word,  that  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury  was  to  extract  as  much  as  he  could  from  Major  Beckwith,  and  to 
report  to  me,  without  committing,  by  any  assurances  whatever,  the  Government 
of  the  United  States,  leaving  it  entirely  free  to  pursue,  unreproached,  such  a 
line  of  conduct  in  the  dispute  as  her  interest  (and  honor)  shall  dictate." 

The  full  history  of  this  incident  is  related  in  the  editor's  The  United  States 
and  Spain  in  if 90. 


1 79°]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  499 

TO    HENRY    KNOX,    SECRETARY    OF    WAR. 

NEW  YORK,  13  August,  1790. 

SIR, 

The  session  of  Congress  having  closed,  and  it 
being  my  intention  to  go  to  Virginia  as  soon  as  the 
public  business  will  permit,  and  wishing,  during  my 
absence  from  the  seat  of  government,  to  have  my 
mind  as  free  from  public  cares  as  circumstances  will 
allow,  I  am  desirous  of  having  such  matters  as  may, 
by  law  or  otherwise,  require  the  agency  or  sanction 
of  the  President  of  the  United  States,  brought  to 
view  before  my  departure.  I  therefore  request,  that 
you  will  cause  such  business,  within  your  department, 
as  may  be  necessary  to  receive  the  aid  or  approbation 
of  the  President,  to  be  submitted  to  me,  as  soon  as 
its  nature  will  permit ;  particularly  regulations  for 
trade  and  intercourse  with  the  Indian  tribes,  agreea 
bly  to  the  act  ;  and  information  and  opinions  on  the 
following  points— 

Whether  any  other  and  what  steps  shall  be  taken 
with  them  to  restrain  their  hostilities. 

Whether  the  orders  given,  and  measures  adopted, 
are  adequate  to  the  peace  of  the  western  frontiers. 
If  not,  what  further  is  to  be  done  for  this  purpose  ? 

Upon  the  expediency  and  policy  of  a  proclamation 
forbidding  encroachments  upon  the  territory  of  the 
Indians,  or  treating  with  them  contrary  to  the  law 
lately  passed.  Instructions  for  the  governor  of  the 
ceded  territory  south  of  the  Ohio.  Where  ought 
the  governor  to  reside  ?  What  notice  should  be  taken 
of  the  insult  offered  to  Major  Doughty  ?  What  steps 


500  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

should  be  taken  with  respect  to  his  recommendation 
of  a  post  at  the  mouth  of  the  Tennessee  ? 

Other  measures  than  those  pursued  by  the  present 
contractors  for  supplying  the  western  posts  ought 
to  be  adopted,  that  the  troops  in  that  country  may 
be  more  efficiently  employed  in  sudden  emergencies, 
and  the  posts  better  secured.  Have  any  orders 
been  given  concerning  the  condemned  soldiers  ?  I 
am,  Sir,  &C.1 

1  Congress  adjourned  on  the  I2th  of  August,  and  Washington  took  the  oppor 
tunity  to  visit  Rhode  Island,  where  he  did  not  touch  on  his  Eastern  tour,  because 
that  State  had  not  then  acceded  to  the  Union.  A  short  sketch  of  this  visit  was 
made  by  William  Smith,  a  member  of  Congress  from  South  Carolina,  who 
accompanied  the  President's  party  for  a  pdrt  of  the  journey,  and,  as  this  record 
is  but  little  known,  I  give  the  main  points  : 

The  party  set  off  on  the  I5th,  on  board  a  Rhode  Island  packet,  and  reached 
Newport  on  Tuesday  morning  (i7th).  "As  we  entered  the  harbor,  a  salute 
was  fired  from  the  fort  and  some  pieces  on  the  wharves  ;  at  our  landing  we  were 
received  by  the  principal  inhabitants  of  the  town,  and  the  clergy,  who,  forming 
a  procession,  escorted  us  through  a  considerable  concourse  of  citizens  to  the 
lodgings  which  had  been  prepared  for  us  ;  the  most  respectable  inhabitants 
were  there  severally  presented  to  the  President  by  Mr.  Marchant,  Judge  of  the 
District  Court. 

44  The  President  then  took  a  walk  around  the  town  and  the  heights  above  it, 
accompanied  by  the  gentlemen  of  the  party  and  a  large  number  of  gentlemen 
of  Newport.  We  returned  to  our  lodgings,  and  at  four  o'clock  the  gentlemen 
waited  again  on  the  President,  and  we  all  marched  in  procession  to  the  Town 
Hall  or  State  House,  where,  while  dinner  was  serving  up,  a  number  of  gentle 
men  were  presented.  The  dinner  was  well  dished,  and  conducted  with  regu 
larity  and  decency  ;  the  company  consisted  of  about  eighty  persons  ;  after 
dinner  some  good  toasts  were  drank  ;  among  others,  following  :  '  May  the  last 
be  first,'  in  allusion  to  Rhode  Island,  being  the  last  State  which  ratified  the 
Constitution.  The  President  gave  4  The  Town  of  Newport,'  and  as  soon  as  he 
withdrew,  Judge  Marchant  gave  4  The  man  we  love,'  which  the  company  drank 
standing.  The  company  then  followed  the  President  in  another  walk  which 
he  took  around  the  town.  He  passed  by  Judge  Marchant's,  and  drank  a  glass 
of  wine,  and  then  went  to  his  lodgings,  which  closed  the  business  of  the  day. 
I  slept  in  the  room  with  Governor  Clinton. 

44  Wednesday,  i8th.  Immediately  after  breakfast,  addresses  were  presented 
by  the  clergy  and  the  town  of  Newport.  That  of  the  latter,  by  a  committee, 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  501 

TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON,    SECRETARY    OF    THE 
TREASURY. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  10  October,  1790. 

DEAR  SIR, 

Your  letter  of  the  3Oth  ultimo  duly  came  to  hand 
with  its  enclosures.  For  the  information  contained  in 
it  I  thank  you.  The  motives,  however,  by  which  the 
author  of  the  communication  to  you  was  actuated, 
although  they  may  have  been  pure,  and  in  that  case 
praiseworthy,  do  also  (but  it  may  be  uncharitable  to 

the  chairman  of  which,  Judge  Marchant,  began  to  read  the  address,  but  before 
he  had  proceeded  far  he  was  so  agitated  he  had  to  resign  it  to  Col.  Sherbet,  who 
read  it  very  composedly.  We  then  formed  another  long  procession  down  to 
the  wharf,  and  embarked  for  Providence.  .  .  .  We  had  a  tedious  passage 
to  Providence,  being  seven  hours  in  performing  it.  The  same  salute  took  place 
as  at  Newport,  but  the  procession  up  to  the  tavern  was  more  solemn  and  con 
ducted  with  a  much  greater  formality,  having  troops  and  music.  The  Governor 
of  the  State  was  so  zealous  in  his  respects  that  he  jumped  aboard  the  packet  as 
soon  as  she  got  to  the  wharf  to  welcome  the  President  to  Providence.  The 
President,  with  the  Governor  of  the  State  on  his  right  hand,  and  Mr.  Forster, 
a  Senator  in  Congress  from  Rhode  Island,  on  his  left,  moved  in  the  front 
ranks  ;  then  followed  Governor  Clinton,  Mr.  Jefferson  (the  Secretary  of  State 
for  the  United  States),  Mr.  Blair  (a  judge  of  the  Supreme  Federal  Court), 
myself,  and  the  three  gentlemen  of  the  President's  family,  viz.,  Col.  Hum 
phreys,  Maj.  Jackson,  and  Mr.  Nelson — who  formed  the  party — afterward 
followed  the  principal  inhabitants  of  Providence  and  some  from  Newport,  and 
other  citizens,  making  a  long  file,  preceded  by  some  troops  and  music  ;  the 
doors  and  windows  for  the  length  of  a  mile  were  all  crowded  with  ladies  and 
spectators.  When  we  arrived  at  the  tavern  (Dagget's)  the  President  stood  at 
the  door,  and  the  troops  and  procession  passed  and  saluted.  In  the  procession 
were  three  negro  scrapers  making  a  horrible  noise.  We  then  sat  down  to 
a  family  dinner.  After  tea,  just  as  the  President  was  taking  leave  to  go  to  bed, 
he  was  informed  by  Col.  Peck  (Marshal  of  the  District,  who  had  sailed  with 
us  from  New  York),  that  the  students  of  the  college  had  illuminated  it,  and 
would  be  highly  flattered  at  the  President's  going  to  see  it,  which  he  politely 
agreed  to  do,  though  he  never  goes  out  at  night,  and  it  then  rained  a  little,  and 
was  a  disagreeable  night.  We  now  made  a  nocturnal  procession  to  the  college, 
which  indeed  was  worth  seeing,  being  very  splendidly  illuminated.  .  .  . 

"Thursday  morning  began  with  a  heavy  rain  and  cold,  easterly  wind.  It 
cleared  at  nine  o'clock,  and  then  the  President,  accompanied  as  before,  began 


502  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

harbour  the  suspicion)  admit  of  a  different  interpre 
tation,  and  by  an  easy  and  pretty  direct  clue  may  be 
developed.1 

We  are  approaching  the  first  Monday  in  Decem 
ber  by  hasty  strides.  I  pray  you,  therefore,  to 
revolve  in  your  mind  such  matters  as  may  be  proper 

a  walk  which  continued  until  one  o'clock  and  which  completely  fatigued  the 
company  which  formed  his  escort.  We  walked  all  around  the  Town,  visited 
all  the  apartments  of  the  college,  went  on  the  roof  to  view  the  beautiful  and 
extensive  prospect,  walked  to  a  place  where  a  large  Indiaman  of  goo  tons  was 
on  the  stocks,  went  on  board  her,  returned  to  town,  stopped  and  drank  wine 
and  punch  at  Mr.  Clarke's,  Mr.  Brown's,  Gov.  Turner's,  and  Gov.  Bowen's, 
and  then  returned  home.  As  soon  as  the  President  was  rested,  he  received  the 
addresses  of  the  Cincinnati,  the  Rhode  Island  Colleges,  and  the  Town  of  Provi 
dence,  and  then  went  immediately  to  dinner  to  the  Town  Hall.  The  dinner 
was  attended  by  200  persons,  and  an  immense  crowd  surrounded  the  hall. 
After  dinner  several  toasts  were  drank  ;  the  second  was  '  The  President  of  the 
United  States,'  at  which  the  whole  company  within  and  without  gave  three 
huzzas  and  a  long  clapping  of  hands.  The  President  then  rose  and  drank  the 
health  of  all  the  company  ;  he  afterward  gave  'The  Town  of  Providence.' 
.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  toasts,  the  President  rose,  and  the  whole 
company,  with  a  considerable  crowd  of  citizens,  walked  down  to  the  wharf, 
where  he  and  his  suite  embarked  for  New  York." 

On  Monday,  August  3Oth,  the  President  and  suite  set  out  from  New  York 
for  the  south. 

1  Acting  upon  a  suggestion  from  the  English  Cabinet,  Lord  Dorchester  sent 
Major  George  Beckwith  to  Philadelphia  to  sound  the  Executive  upon  the 
attitude  of  the  United  States  in  the  event  of  a  war  between  Great  Britain 
and  Spain.  The  results  of  this  informal  mission  were  communicated  to 
Dorchester,  and  Beckwith  was  retained  at  Philadelphia,  as  the  unrecognized 
diplomatic  agent  of  the  British  government,  a  convenience  while  no  regular 
minister  had  been  appointed.  In  this  capacity  he  had  approached  Hamilton 
with  hints  that  Gouverneur  Morris  in  his  informal  mission,  was  not  so  discreet 
as  he  might  be,  as  he  was  in  too  close  intimacy  with  the  French  Minister  in 
London  (Luzerne),  and  had  given  offence  to  the  court  by  consorting  with  the 
opposition  party,  of  which  Fox  was  the  leader. — Hamilton's  Works  (Lodge), 
iv.,  49.  Diary  and  Letters  of  Gouverneur  Morris,  i.,  310  et  seq. 

In  reply  Mr.  Hamilton  said  :  "  It  is  certainly  very  possible,  that  motives, 
different  from  the  one  avowed,  may  have  produced  a  certain  communication  ; 
and  in  matters  of  such  a  nature  it  is  not  only  allowable,  but  the  dictate  of 
prudence,  to  receive  suggestions  with  peculiar  caution." — October  lyth. 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  503 

for  me  to  lay  before  Congress,  not  only  in  your  own 
department,  (if  any  there  be,)  but  such  others  of  a 
general  nature,  as  may  happen  to  occur  to  you,  that 
I  may  be  prepared  to  open  the  session  with  such 
communications,  as  shall  appear  to  merit  attention. 
With  sincere  regard,  I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO    TOBIAS    LEAR. 

MOUNT  VERNON,  14  November,  1790. 

DEAR  SIR, 

Having  wrote  two  letters  to  you  on  the  subject  of 
Page's  stage  coach  one  or  the  other  of  which  if  not 
both,  it  is  presumable  have  got  to  hand  before  this 
can,  I  shall  add  nothing  more  thereto  than  that 
Page's  coach  is  now  [my]  dependence. 

I  am,  I  must  confess,  exceedingly  unwilling  to  go 
into  any  house  without  first  knowing  on  what  terms 
I  do  it,  and  wish  that  this  sentiment  could  be  again 
hinted,  in  delicate  terms,  to  the  parties  concerned 
with  me.  I  cannot,  if  there  are  no  latent  motives 
which  govern  in  this  case,  see  any  difficulty  in  the 
business.2  Mr.  Morris  has  most  assuredly  formed  an 
idea  of  what  ought,  in  equity,  to  be  the  rent  of  the 

1  From  Mr.  Hamilton's  Reply  :  "  The  subject  suggested  in  your  letter,  as 
preparatory  to  the  meeting  of  the  legislature,  shall  engage  my  particular  atten 
tion.     The  papers  of  the  departments  of  state  and  the  treasury,  and  of  the 
commissioners  for  settling  accounts,  are  on  their  way  to  Philadelphia.     On  the 
2Oth  I  propose  with  my  family  to  set  out  for  the  same  place." 

2  Relating  to  a  house  in  Philadelphia,  belonging  to  Mr.  Morris,  which  was 
fitting  up  for  the  residence  of  the  President,  when  Congress  should  remove  to 
that  place.     Mr.  Lear  was  in  Philadelphia  making  preparation  for  the  Presi 
dent's  arrival  and  accommodation. 


504  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

tenement  in  the  condition  he  left  it ;  and  with  this 
aid  the  committee  ought,  I  conceive,  to  be  as  little 
at  a  loss  in  determining  what  it  should  rent  for,  with 
the  additions  and  alterations,  which  are  about  to  be 
made,  and  which  ought  to  be  done  in  a  plain  and 
neat,  not  by  any  means  in  an  extravagant  style  ;  be 
cause  the  latter  is  not  only  contrary  to  my  wish,  but 
would  really  be  detrimental  to  my  interest  and  con 
venience,  principally  because  it  would  be  the  means 
of  keeping  me  out  of  the  use  and  comforts  of  the 
house  to  a  late  period,  and  because  the  furniture, 
and  every  thing  else,  would  require  to  be  accordant 
therewith  ;  besides  it  's  making  me  pay  an  extrava 
gant  price,  perhaps  accommodate  the  alterations  to 
the  taste  of  another,  or  to  the  exorbitant  rates  of 
workmen  or  their  blended  performances  in  the  two 
houses. 

I  do  not  know,  nor  do  I  believe,  that  any  thing 
unfair  is  intended  by  either  Mr.  Morris  or  the  com 
mittee  ;  but  let  us  for  a  moment  suppose,  that  the 
rooms  (the  new  ones  I  mean)  was  to  be  hung  with 
tapestry,  or  a  very  rich  and  costly  paper,  neither  of 
which  would  suit  my  present  furniture  ;  that  costly 
ornaments  for  the  bow  windows,  extravagant  chim 
ney-pieces,  &c.,  &c.,  were  to  be  provided  ;  that 
workmen,  from  extravagance  of  the  times,  for  every 
twenty  shillings'  worth  of  work  would  charge  forty 
shillings  ;  and  that  advantage  should  be  taken  of  the 
occasion  to  new  paint  every  part  of  the  house,  build 
ings,  &c.  ;  would  there  be  any  propriety  in  adding 
ten  or  twelve  and  a  half  per  cent,  for  all  this  to  the 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  505 

rent  of  the  house  in  its  original  state  for  the  two 
years  that  I  am  to  hold  it  ?  If  the  solution  of  these 
questions  is  in  the  negative,  wherein  lies  the  diffi 
culty  of  determining,  that  the  houses  and  lots  when 
finished  according  to  the  proposed  plan  ought  to  rent 
for  so  much  ?  When  all  is  done  that  can  be  done 
thereto  the  residence  will  not  be  so  commodious  as 
the  house  I  left  in  New  York  ;  (with  the  additional 
buildings  made  there)  for  there  (and  the  want  of  it 
will  be  found  a  real  inconvenience  at  Mr.  Morris's) 
my  office  was  in  a  front  room  below,  where  persons 
on  business  were  at  once  admitted  ;  whereas  now 
they  will  have  to  ascend  two  pair  of  stairs,  and  to 
pass  by  the  public  rooms  to  get  to  it.  Notwithstand 
ing  which,  I  am  willing  to  allow  as  much  as  was  paid 
to  Mr.  Macomb,  and  shall  say  nothing  if  more  is 
demanded,  unless  there  is  apparent  extortion. — Ex 
tortion  if  it  should  be  intended  by  delay  is  to  see  to 
what  height  rents  will  rise,  I  should  be  unwilling  to 
—and  to  take  it  at  the  expense  of  any  public  body, 
I  will  not.1  There  is  one  expression  in  your  letter 
of  the  4th  the  meaning  of  which  I  do  not  clearly 
understand,  viz.  :  "  the  additions,  repairs,  &c.,  of  the 
house  in  which  Mr.  Morris  now  lives  are  likewise  to 
be  comprehended  in  the  expenditure  to  be  refunded 
by  the  rent  of  the  house."  Is  it  meant  by  this  that 
the  rent  of  the  house  you  are  now  in  is  to  be  in 
creased  by  the  expenditures  on  the  one  Mr.  Morris 

1  In  transcribing,  some  words  or  lines  appear  to  have  been  omitted.  The 
letter  is  printed  as  transcribed  by  William  Jackson,  one  of  Washington's 
Secretaries. 


5o6  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

has  removed  to,  or  is  no  more  meant  by  it  than  that 
the  rent  of  the  former  is  intended  as  security  for  the 
refund.  The  latter  may  be  very  proper,  but  the  for 
mer  could  be  submitted  to  on  no  other  ground  than 
that  of  dire  necessity. 

I  had  rather  have  heard,  that  my  repaired  coach 
was  plain  and  elegant,  than  rich  and  elegant. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO    HENRY    KNOX,    SECRETARY    OF    WAR. 

[PRIVATE.] 

MOUNT  VERNON,  19  November,   1790. 

MY  DEAR  SIR, 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  loth  inst.,  and 
will  declare  to  you  without  reserve  that  my  fore 
bodings  with  respect  to  the  Expedition  against  the 
Wabash  Indians  are  of  disappointment  ;  and  a  dis 
graceful  termination  under  the  conduct  of  Brigadier 
General  Harmar. — 

I  expected  little  from  the  moment  I  heard  he  was 
a  drunkard. — I  expected  less  as  soon  as  I  heard  that 
on  this  account  no  confidence  was  reposed  in  him  by 
the  people  of  the  Western  Country. — And  I  gave  up 
all  hope  of  success,  as  soon  as  I  heard  that  there 
were  disputes  with  him  about  command.— 

The  latter  information  is  from  report  only  ;  but 
the  report  of  bad  news  is  rarely  without  foundation. 
— If  the  issue  of  this  Expedition  is  honorable  to  the 
Concerters  of  it,  and  favorable  to  our  arms,  it  will  be 
double  pleasing  to  me  ;  but  my  mind,  from  the  silence 


1 79°]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  507 

which  reigns,  and  other  circumstances,  is  prepared 
for  the  worst  ; — that  is — for  expence  without  honor 
or  profit. — 1 

If  any  thing  more  than  the  statement  of  this  busi 
ness  for  the  information  of  Congress  should  occur  to 
you,  previous  to  my  arrival,  be  so  good  as  to  digest 
it,  for  it  is  my  wish  to  have  every  matter  which  may 
occur  to  the  heads  of  Departments  as  well  as  to 

1  "  Your  favor  of  the  26th  ultimo  came  to  my  hands  last  night.  If  the  in 
formation  of  Captain  Brant  be  true,  the  issue  of  the  expedition  against  the 
Indians  will  indeed  prove  unfortunate  and  disgraceful  to  the  troops,  who 
suffered  themselves  to  be  ambuscaded. 

"  The  relation  of  this  event  carries  with  it,  I  must  confess,  the  complexion 
of  truth  ;  yet  I  will  suspend  my  opinion  until  I  hear  something  more  of  the 
matter.  The  force,  which  was  employed  against  these  hostile  Indians,  or  the 
drawing  out  of  which  was  authorized,  ought  not  to  have  regarded  a  thousand 
of  them,  because  it  was  calculated  for,  and  undertaken  under  the  expecta 
tion  of,  meeting  a  larger  number,  if  blows  were  to  terminate  the  dispute. 

14  It  gives  me  pleasure  to  learn  from  you  the  friendly  sentiments  of  Captain 
Brant ;  and  with  you  I  think  they  merit  cultivation  ;  but  he  has  not  been 
candid  in  his  account  of  the  conduct  of  General  St.  Clair,  nor  done  justice  in 
his  representation  of  matters  at  Muskingham.  It  is  notorious,  that  he  used 
all  the  art  and  influence,  of  which  he  was  possessed,  to  prevent  any  treaty 
being  held  ;  and  that,  except  in  a  small  degree,  General  St.  Clair  aimed  at  no 
more  land  by  the  treaty  of  Muskingham,  than  had  been  ceded  by  the  preceding 
treaties." — Washington  to  Governor  Clinton,  i  December,  1790. 

On  the  outbreaks  by  the  Indians  on  the  frontiers,  St.  Clair  collected  a 
motley  force  of  about  fourteen  hundred  men,  badly  armed  and  poorly  dis 
ciplined,  and  divided  by  the  jealousies  of  the  officers.  One  division  under 
John  Hardin,  was  surprised  and  defeated  ;  a  subsequent  advantage  did  much 
to  retrieve  his  reputation,  but  this  advantage  was  not  followed  up,  and  the 
destruction  of  some  Indian  villages  was  the  chief  result  of  the  expedition. 
The  Indians  become  bolder,  and  more  serious  operations  were  planned  by  the 
general  government. 

44  I  am  apprehensive  that  Governor  St.  Clair's  communication  of  the  object 
of  the  expedition  to  the  officer  commanding  at  Detroit,  has  been  unseason 
able,  and  may  have  unfavorable  consequences.  It  was  certainly  premature  to 
announce  the  operation  intended  until  the  troops  were  ready  to  move,  since 
the  Indians  through  that  channel,  might  receive  such  information  as  would 
frustrate  the  expedition." — Washington  to  Knox,  4  November,  1790. 


5o8  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

myself,  ready,  if  proper  to  lay  before  that  body,  at 
the  opening  of  the  Session. 

With  sincere  friendship,  &c. 

P.  S.  I  expect  to  commence  my  journey  for  Phila 
delphia  on  Monday  1 — but  from  the  state  of  the  Roads 
after  the  incessant  and  heavy  rains  which  have  fallen, 
my  progress  must  be  slow.— 


TO    GEORGE    STEPTOE    WASHINGTON. 

PHILADELPHIA,  5  December,  1790. 

DEAR  GEORGE, 

Agreeably  to  the  promise,  which  I  gave  to  you  in 
Virginia,  I  have  made  the  necessary  inquiries  respect 
ing  the  course  of  studies  and  expenses,  which  would 
enable  you  and  your  brother  Lawrence  to  finish  your 
education  at  the  college  in  this  place,  provided  you 
are  masters  of  those  books  and  studies,  which  you 
informed  me  you  had  passed  through. 

The  enclosed  account  of  studies  and  expenses, 
which  I  wish  you  to  return  to  me,  you  will  see  is 
under  the  hand  of  the  Reverend  Dr.  Smith,  provost 
of  the  college,  and  may  therefore  be  relied  upon  for 
its  accuracy.  After  you  and  Lawrence  have  carefully 
perused  and  well  considered  the  enclosed  statement, 
I  wish  you  to  determine  whether  you  will  come  or 
not.  If  your  determination  should  be  in  favor  of 
coming  on,  I  must  impress  this  upon  you  both  in  the 
strongest  manner,  namely,  that  you  come  with  good 

1  Philadelphia  was  now  the  seat  of  government. 


1790]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  509 

dispositions,  and  full  resolution  to  pursue  your 
studies  closely,  conform  to  the  established  rules  and 
customs  of  the  college,  and  to  conduct  yourselves  on 
all  occasions  with  decency  and  propriety. 

To  you,  George,  I  would  more  particularly  address 
myself  at  this  time,  as  from  your  advanced  age  it 
may  be  presumed,  that  such  advice,  as  I  am  about  to 
give,  will  make  a  deeper  impression  upon  you,  than 
upon  your  brother,  and  your  conduct  may  very  prob 
ably  mark  the  line  of  his  ;  but,  at  the  same  time, 
Lawrence  must  remember,  that  this  is  equally  appli 
cable  to  him. 

Should  you  enter  upon  the  course  of  studies  here 
marked  out,  you  must  consider  it  as  the  finishing  of 
your  education,  and,  therefore,  as  the  time  is  limited, 
that  every  hour  misspent  is  lost  for  ever,  and  that 
future  years  cannot  compensate  for  lost  days  at  this 
period  of  your  life.  This  reflection  must  show  the 
necessity  of  an  unremitting  application  to  your  studies. 
To  point  out  the  importance  of  circumspection  in 
your  conduct,  it  may  be  proper  to  observe,  that  a 
good  moral  character  is  the  first  essential  in  a  man, 
and  that  the  habits  contracted  at  your  age  are  gen 
erally  indelible,  and  your  conduct  here  may  stamp 
your  character  through  life.  It  is  therefore  highly 
important,  that  you  should  endeavor  not  only  to  be 
learned,  but  virtuous.  Much  more  might  be  said  to 
show  the  necessity  of  application  and  regularity  ;  but 
when  you  must  know,  that  without  them  you  can 
never  be  qualified  to  render  service  to  your  country, 
assistance  to  your  friends,  or  consolation  to  your 


510  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  [1790 

retired  moments,  nothing  further  need  be  said  to 
prove  their  utility. 

As  to  your  clothing1,  it  will,  I  presume,  cost  much 
the  same  here  as  in  Alexandria.  I  shall  always  wish 
to  see  you  clothed  decently  and  becoming  your  sta 
tions  ;  but  I  shall  ever  discountenance  extravagance 
or  foppishness  in  your  dress.  At  all  times,  and  upon 
all  occasions,  I  shall  be  happy  to  give  you  both  such 
marks  of  my  approbation,  as  your  progress  and  good 
conduct  merit. 

If  you  determine  to  come  on,  you  had  better  do  it 
immediately,  and  Major  Washington  will  furnish  you 
with  such  money  as  may  be  necessary  for  the  stage 
and  expenses  from  Alexandria  to  this  place.  But  I 
must  repeat  what  I  have  before  enjoined,  that  you 
come  with  good  dispositions  and  determined  resolu 
tions  to  conform  to  establishments  and  pursue  your 
studies. 

Your  aunt  joins  me  in  love  to  you  both,  and  best 
wishes  to  Dr.  Craik  and  family.  I  am,  dear  George, 
your  sincere  friend  and  affectionate  uncle. 


END    OF    VOL.    XI. 


LOAN  DEPT 


*T^JCD 

£±!*** 
ISMAY^Y 

— — -    - 


LD  2lA-50m-4,'60 
(A9562slO)476B 


