I 


THE  WRITINGS 


GEORGE  WASHINGTON 


VOL.    XII. 


1 790- 1 794 


Of  this  Letter-press  Edition 
y^o  Copies  have  been  Printed  for  Sale 


No. 


December,  i8i)i 


THE  WRITINGS 


GEORGE  WASHINGTON 


COLLECTED    AND    EDIIED 


WORTHINGTON  CHAUNCEY   FORD 


Vol.  XII. 


1 790-1 794 


NEW  YORK  AND  LONDON 

G.    P.    PUTNAM 'S    SONS 
€1^t  ^nkkerbocktr  ^ress 


Press  of 

G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons 

New  York 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XII. 


1790. 

PAGE 

Speech  to  Congress,  December  8th     ....  i 

1791. 
To  Arthur  St.  Clair,  January  2d  ....  4 

Certain  executive  regulations  improper,  requiring  to  be  es- 
tablished by  law — Need  of  circumspection. 

To  Beverley  Randolph,  January  13th         ...  6 

A  woollen  manufactory  in  Virginia — Reasons  for  not  being 
active  in  the  matter — Virginia  free  to  act  as  she  pleases. 

To  Henry  Knox,  January  14th 7 

Lands  of  the  Indians — Can  lands  once  ceded  by  treaty  be  re- 
stored without  participation  of  the  Senate  ? 

To  Edward  Rutledge,  January  i6th  ....  9 

His  proposed  southern  tour — Reasons  for  declining  private 
hospitalities. 

Speech  to  the  Seneca  Chiefs,  January  19th         .         .         10 
To  Timothy  Pickering,  January  20th  .         .         .         12 

Introducing  husbandry  among  the  Indians — Strongly  in  favor 
of  it. 

To  William   Deakins,  Jr.,    and    Benjamin    Stoddert, 

February  3d         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         13 

Location  of  the  federal  territory — Advantages  of  respective 
situations — Suggested  lines  to  be  run — Desires  them  to  nego- 
tiate a  purchase  as  if  for  themselves — A  clear  purchase  pre- 
ferable. 

To  John  Armstrong,  February  6th     .         .         .         .  16 

Expressions  of  friendship — Rules  laid  down  for  governing 
appointments. 


vi  CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XII. 


To  Alexander  Hamilton,  February  i6th     .         .         .         i8 

Calls  for  an  opinion  on  the  constitutionality  of  the  proposed 
bank. 

To  David  Humphreys,  March  i6th     ....         19 

European  opinions  of  America — Paine  and  Rumsey — What 
Congress  has  accomplished — Affairs  in  Europe — Indian  hos- 
tilities— His  southern  tour. 

To  M.  Lafayette,  March  19th 23 

Prosperous  outlook  in  America — An  expression  of  opinion 
on  the  National  Assembly — The  best  confirmation,  that  of  the 
people. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  March  31st       .         .         .         .         26 

Has  reconciled  differences  between  Georgetown  and  Car- 
rollsburg — Terms  of  the  bargain. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  April  ist  ....         29 

Barclay's  commission — Frontier  troubles — Land  speculations 
—  Ilis  travels  outlined. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  April  3d  .         .         .         ,         .         31 

Indians  receiving  supplies  from  Canada — Lord  Dorchester 
must  be  warned. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  April  4th     ....          32 
Indian  troubles — Interference  of  New  York  State. 

To  the  Secretaries,  April  4th       .....         34 
Directions  for  communicating  matters  of  importance  arising 
during  his  absence — His  tour  outlined. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  April  13th         ....         36 

riie  influence  of  Morris'  mission  on  Spanish  negotiations — 
(■r»l)ies  of  liis  letters  should  be  communicated  to  Carmichael. 

To  Johnson,  Stuart,  and  Carroll,  May  7th  ,         .         39 

Is  imiiuMl  that  dilliculties  should  arise— The  dispute  as  to 
territory — How  his  expressions  should   be  interpreted. 

To  James  .Seaf^rove,  May  20th     .....         41 

His  mission  to  (^uesa<la— The  restoration  of  fugitive  slaves. 

Id  Charles  Cotesworth  Pinckney  and   LLdward   Rut- 

k-d<4c,  May  2.1  Ih 43 

Till-  rfsignali.Mi  ..f  |olin  Kutiedge  creates  a  vacancy  on  tiie 
SuprcMiic  bench— 'liie  i>]acc  offered  to  one  of  them— Why  the 
offer  w.is  not  nia<]e  before. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL:  XII. 


PAGE 


To  Alexander  Hamilton,  June  13th  ....         44 

Wolcott  appointed — Delays  in  receiving  letters — His  tour 
uninterrupted. 

To  Catharine  Macaulay  Graham,  July  19th        .         .         47 

Her  pamphlet  on  the  French  Revolution — Why  his  letter  is 
short. 

To  David  Humphreys,  July  20th        ....         48 

His  account  of  the  Spanish  nation— His  southern  progress — 
Impressions  gained  of  the  country  through  which  he  passed — 
Difficulties  over  the  excise — High  position  of  public  credit — 
Indian  hostilities  and  their  causes — The  new  federal  district — 
The  situation  of  Europe. 

To  Gouverneur  Morris,  July  28th        .         .         .         .         53 

Influence  of  the  European  commotions  upon  America — 
Prejudices  against  the  new  nation — The  danger  of  forming  new 
connections  with  European  powers — The  situation  in  the 
southern  States — The  success  of  the  bank  subscriptions — The 
census  returns. 

To  M.  Lafayette,  July  28th 57 

French  decrees  on  tobacco  and  oil  unfavorably  received  in 
America — Difficulty  of  his  position — The  situations  in  Europe 
and  the  United  States  compared. 

To  Thomas  Johnson,  August  7th        ....         59 
May  be  exempted  from  circuit  duty — Probable  discontinaance 
of  these  tours. 

To  M.  de  la  Luzerne,  September  loth        ...         60 

Interest  in  the  happiness  of  the  French  people — Conditions 
of  future  order  and  happiness — Prosperity  of  the  United  States. 

To  M.  Lafayette,  September  loth       ....         62 

In  suspense  as  to  the  French  nation — M.  Temant's  appoint- 
ment— Matters  at  Mt.  Vernon. 

To  Gouverneur  Morris,  September  12th     ...         64 
The  proposition  to  finance  the  debt  due  to  France — Reasons 
for  not  accepting  the  proposition. 

To  George  Clinton,  September  14th  ....         68 

Extraordinary  action  of  the  British — Moderation  and  for- 
bearance necessary — Extremities  should  be  the  result  of  a  de- 
liberate plan — A  messenger  sent  to  examine  into  the  matter. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XII. 


PAGE 


To  Edmund  Randolph,  October  loth         ...         70 

The  laws  relating  to  Indians — Must  be  cured  of  defects  if 
peace  is  to  be  secured — Encroachments  of  the  Tennessee  Com- 
pany. 

Communication  of  Sentiments  to  Benjamin  Hawkins,         71 

Conduct  of  the  government  towards  the  Indians. 

To  Robert  Lewis,  October  15th  ....         74 

Conduct  of  his  land  business — Details  to  be  obtained  from 
Muse — Rights  of  the  landlord  to  be  enforced — Transfers  not 
warranted  by  the  leases — Warnings  against  neglect. 

Speech  to  Congress,  October  25th      .         .         .         .         "j"] 
To  Harriot  Washington,  October  30th       ...         84 

A  hint  upon  bad  excuses — Advice  and  counsel. 

To  David  Stuart,  November  20th       ....         86 

Refusal  of  L'Enfant  to  supply  the  maps  of  the  federal  city — 
High  opinion  of  the  man — Probable  explanation  of  his  conduct 
— Has  informed  him  that  he  is  under  the  commissioners — Un- 
accountable behavior  of  the  engraver — Importance  of  laying 
out  the  city — Opposition  subsiding. 

To  M.  Lafayette,  November  22d         ....         91 

Introducing  John  Trumbull — His  productions  well  received 
— The  King's  acceptance  of  the  Constitution. 

To  the  Commissioners  of  the  Federal  District,  De- 
cember 1 8th  .......         93 

The  dispute  between  Carroll  and  L'Enfant — Restraints  upon 
the  engineer — Ilis  reasoning  in  pulling  down  Carroll's  house. 

1792. 

To  Gouverncur  Morris,  January  28th  ...         96 

His  apijointment  to  the  court  of  France — Criticism  of  his 
conduct  and  conversation — Friendly  warning  to  be  more  cir- 
cumspect. 

To  Charles  I'inckncy,  January  31st     .         .         .         .        loo 
Arrival  o'  the  (^lierokec  de|>utation — Peculiarly  desirable  to 
cultivate  friendship  with  the  Indians. 

To  H.  D.  (jough,  February  4th  ....       loi 

Siicep  raising  in  a  private  and  public  view — Ills  own  success. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XII.  ix 


To  Reuben  Slaughter,  February  25th         .         .         .       103 

His  claim  to  lands  on  the  Kanhawa — Will  resist  every  en- 
croachment— On'gin  of  his  rights. 

To  David  Stuart,  March  8th 104 

Delays  annoying — Trouble  with  L'Enfant — Advantage  will 
be  taken  of  his  dereliction — Has  been  controlled  by  one  idea 
from  the  beginning — Plan  should  look  beyond  the  present  day 
— Opposition  to  be  expected  from  L'Enfant — ^Jealousy  and  dis- 
trust cultivated  to  defeat  the  accomplishment  of  the  design — 
Suggestion  for  a  superintendent — Compensation  to  L'Enfant — 
Rumor  of  a  misapplication  of  money — Importation  of  foreign 
artisans. 

Opinion  of  the  General  Officers,  March  9th        .         .       506 
To  John  Armstrong,  March  nth        .         .         .         .110 

The  defeat  of  St.  Clair. 

To  Charles  Pinckney,  March  17th       .         .         .         .112 

Surrender  of  forgers  by  East  Florida — Lord  Wycombe — 
Action  of  South  Carolina  on  slavery — St.  Clair's  defeat — 
General  Pickens. 

To  Major-General  Arthur  St.  Clair,  April  4th    .         .       115 

The  retention  of  his  commission — The  law  has  allowed  for 
only  one  major-general — Will  have  an  opportunity  of  defend- 
ing himself. 

To  John  Carroll,  April  loth         .         .         .         .         .116 

Instructing  the  Indians  in  the  principles  and  duties  of  Chris- 
tianity— Obstacles  to  his  plan — Is  in  favor  of  it. 

To  the  Earl  of  Buchan,  May  ist  .         .         .         .118 

His  portrait  by  Robertson — The  Wallace  box — Wishes  to  be 
relieved  of  the  responsibility  laid  upon  him. 

To  Thomas  Paine,  May  6th 120 

His  Rights  of  Man — Apologies  for  not  discussing  the  points 
touched  on  in  his  letter. 

To  Charles  Carter,  May  19th 12 1 

As  to  receiving  his  son  into  his  family — Why  he  cannot 
recommend  clerks  to  the  heads  of  departments — Size  of  his 
household — A  military  appointment  suggested. 

To  James  Madison,  May  20th 123 

His  eagerness  for  retirement — Nothing  short  of  necessity 
will  induce  him  to  remain — How  and  when  should  the  an- 
nouncement be  made — A  valedictory  address — General  sketch 
of  its  contents — Asks  for  his  views. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XII. 


PAGB 


To  Gouverneur  Morris,  June  2ist       .         .         .         .       131 

His  letters — Great  Britain  not  requested  to  serve  as  mediator 
between  the  United  States  and  the  Indians — What  is  being 
done  in  Indian  affairs — Results  of  a  conference  with  some 
tribes — Indecency  of  the  gazettes — As  to  communications. 

To  James  Anderson,  June  26th  ....       136 

Volumes  of  The  Bee. 

To  Henry  Lee,  June  30th 137 

His  rule  of  judging  character — Col.  Darke's  assertions — 
His  conduct  uncandid  and  his  letter  equivocal — The  true  state 
of  the  case — Was  never  more  embarrassed  over  any  appoint- 
ment— Was  inclined  in  his  favor — Reasons  against  appointing 
him — The  result  of  naming  Wayne. 

To  John  Francis  Mercer,  July  23d      ....       143 

The  debt  due  him — Broken  engagements  and  vague  promises 
— A  meeting  proposed — Legal  measures  threatened — The  com- 
plaint of  Henshaw. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  July  29th    ....       147 

General  sentiments  of  the  people  on  public  measures — An 
enumeration  of  the  criticisms  made — Desires  his  views  on  the 
discontents  described. 

To  Henry  Knox,  August  1st 1 52 

Propriety  of  Colonel  Kerr's  conduct — Tranquillity  on  the 
frontiers  may  not  set  aside  the  necessity  for  war — Economy 
necessary — Disciplining  the  troops — Appointments  in  the  army 
— Drunkenness  of  officers — Fish  and  Posey. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  August  5th  .         .         .154 

Compensation  to  inspecting  officers — Reasons  that  induced 
him  to  sign — The  laws  must  be  enforced. 

To  Henry  Knox,  August  13th 155 

Slow  progress  of  recruiting — Enterprise  against  the  Nashville 
banditti — Treating  with  the  Wabash  Indians — Foundations  of 
the  negotiation — General  Putnam's  plans — Favorable  opinion 
of  Wilkinson. 

To  Henry  Knox,  August  19th 158 

Sentiments  on  Seagrove's  communications — Spanish  intrigues 
with  the  Indians — Turbulent  behavior  of  the  Georgia  settlers — 
His  projected  meeting  with  the  Creeks — Restricting  trading 
with  the  Indians — Intemperate  conduct  of  Major  Call — Exami- 
nation of  each  subject — Mr.  Scagrove. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XII. 


To  Henry  Knox,  August  22d      .....       i68 

Little  prospect  of  peace  with  the  western  Indians — Evidence 
of  a  concerted  plan  to  encourage  outbreaks — Proposed  station 
on  the  Muskingum — Importance  of  the  recruiting  service — 
Supplying  the  troops  with  food. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  August  23d      .         .         .         .171 

Carmichael — Extraordinary  interference  of  the  Spaniards  to 
the  southward — Disposition  of  the  Indians — Causes  of  their 
unrest — Misfortune  of  internal  dissensions — A  plea  for  mutual 
forbearance — Nothing  personal  intended — Speech  to  Congress. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  August  26th        .         .         .176 

More  charity  in  passing  on  the  opinions  of  others — Tempo- 
rizing yieldings  on  both  sides — The  permanence  of  the  Union 
involved. 

To  Edmund  Randolph,  August  26th  .         .         .       179 

Hopes  his  determination  on  a  re-election  will  be  for  the  best 
— Wishes  to  see  a  cessation  of  the  abuse  of  public  officers  and 
measures  of  government — If  it  continues,  no  man  living  can 
keep  the  machine  together. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  September  7th   .         .         .       181 

Disorders  in  Pennsylvania — Spirit  much  to  be  regretted — 
The  measures  taken  are  prudent  and  proper — His  duty  to  see 
the  laws  executed — The  meeting  at  Pittsbui^. 

To  Henry  Knox,  September  7th         ....       183 

Wayne's  plan  for  carrying  on  the  war — Proposed  strokes  may 
be  made  if  deemed  feasible — The  magazine  on  Big  Beaver — 
Caution  as  to  hay. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  September  16th  .         .       186 

Proclamation  to  be  signed  by  Secretary  of  State — Its  connec- 
tion with  an  army — To  be  sent  to  the  governors. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  September  17th  .         .       188 

Proclamation  will  be  forwarded  from  MonticeUo — Longer 
forbearance  has  become  unjustifiable  remissness — Some  other 
measures  may  be  necessary. 

To  Henry  Knox,  September  24th       .         .         .         .189 

Inauspicious  aspect  of  Indian  affairs — Intelligence  wanted  as 
to  the  strength  of  the  confederation — Covering  the  troops  for 
the  winter — When  one  person  is  adequate  to  an  office,  more 
should  not  be  appointed — Trial  of  Ensign  Morgan. 


xii  CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XII. 

PAGE 

To  John  Francis  Mercer,  September  26th  .         .       192 

Object  in  taking  his  land — An  offer  made — Use  of  his  name 
for  electioneering  purposes — Criticisms  on  his  conduct. 

To  Henry  Knox,  September  28th       ....       196 

His  return  to  Philadelphia — Disposition  of  the  troops  for  the 
winter — Future  movements  and  operations. 

To  Mrs.  Betty  Lewis,  October  7th     ....       199 

Harriot  sent  to  Fredericksburg — What  is  to  be  done  for 
her — No  disposition  to  industry. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  October  i8th  ....       201 

His  attachment  to  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States — 
Harmony  in  the  Cabinet — No  reason  to  doubt  the  honesty  of 
his  opinions — No  discordance  in  views. 

To  Gouverneur  Morris,  October  20th  .         .         .       202 

No  fair  statement  of  facts  and  causes  of  events  in  France 
available — Commercial  treaty  with  that  country — Frontier 
troubles — Misleading  complexion  of  the  newspapers 

To  David  Stuart,  October  2 1  St 204 

Mercer's  charge  against  Hamilton — Wishes  a  definite  state- 
ment. 

Speech  to  Congress,  November  6th    ....       205 
To  Benjamin  Stoddert,  November  14th     .         .         .211 

A  superintendent  wanted  for  the  federal  city — Blodget  sug- 
gested for  the  appointment — Conflicting  interests  to  be  met — 
A  comprehensive  view  should  be  taken. 

To  the  Commissioners  of  the  Federal   District,  No- 
vember 17th         .         .         .         .         .         .         .213 

Is  gratified  with  the  sale  of  lots — Mechanics  among  the  pur- 
chasers—Sale of  ground  about  the  Capitol  and  the  President's 
house — Pledget's  purchase  and  scheme  for  extending  the  mar- 
ket for  lots — A  superintendent. 

To  the  Commissioners  of  the   Federal   District,   De- 
cember 1 8th         .          .         .         .         .         .         .215 

Importing  workmen  from  abroad. 

To  Robert  Lewis,  December  23d         ....       220 
Harrison's   land   and   its  rascally  set    of   tenants — Why    he 
wishes  t(j  ])urcliasc — Proposals  to  be  made. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XII.  xiii 


PACK 

Agricultural  Methods 222 

Washington's  early  attention  to  fanning — Note  books — A 
pioneer  in  the  new  system — The  tobacco  trade  of  the  colony — 
Situation  of  the  planters  in  production  and  exchange — Early 
readings  and  experience  in  the  Revolution — Slave  labor  con- 
demned economically — Notes  and  observations,  1785 — Conclu- 
sions— Directions  for  George  A.  Washington,  1789 — Manager's 
weekly  report. 

To  Anthony  Whiting,  October  to  December     .         .       239 

Cuttings  to  be  planted — Grub  well — Care  of  negroes — No 
more  to  be  undertaken  than  can  be  well  done — Fences — 
Entertaining  visitors  at  Mount  Vernon — Sick  negroes — His 
illness — Clover  seed — Idle  slaves — English  seeds  and  ploughs — 
Alternation  of  crop  and  fallows — Green's  reports — Wheat — 
Report  on  stock — Roads  and  trees — Renting  the  fisheries — 
Alteration  in  the  rotation — Live  hedges — Loss  of  stock — Ex- 
periments on  fattening  hogs — Jones,  the  overseer — Notes  on 
directions — Labor  not  to  be  moved  from  one  plantation  to 
another — Arrangement  of  the  posts — Labor  of  slaves — A  new 
overseer — Neglect  on  the  part  of  the  miller — The  Major's  con- 
dition— Practice  of  running  to  stores  ruinous — Directions  for 
the  miller — Fires — The  keeping  of  dogs — Butler  engaged — The 
smiths'  book — To  aid  the  gardener — Poor  work  of  the  sewers 
— Smiths  and  horses — Duty  of  overseer — Use  of  lime — A  hint 
to  be  given  to  the  miller. 

1793- 
To  Henry  Lee,  January  20th 256 

His  re-election — His  wish  for  retirement — Death  of  Col. 
Bassett. 

To  Charles  Carroll,  January  23d  ....       257 

Wishes  to  appoint  him  on  an  Indian  commission. 

To  George  Augustine  Washington,  January  27th       .       259 

Why  he  does  not  write  oftener — Must  submit  to  the  will  of 
Heaven. 

To  the  Commissioners  of  the  Federal  District,  Janu- 
ary 31st         260 

Plans  of  the  Capitol — Favors  Dr.  Thornton's — Hallet  must 
be  prepared  for  a  rejection. 

To  the  Marchioness  de  Lafayette,  January  31st         .       261 

Some  money  deposited  in  Holland  for  her  use. 


xiv  CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XII. 

PAGE 

To  Frances  Washington,  February  24th     .         .         .       262 

Words  of  condolence — Wishes  her  to  return  to  Mount 
Vernon. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton  and  Henry  Knox,  February 

27th 264 

As  to  taking  the  oath  of  office. 

To  David  Stuart,  March  3d 265 

The  question  of  the  commissioners'  compensation — What  is 
required  by  justice — Suggests  that  he  take  the  position  of 
superintendent — Mr.  Ellicott. 

To  Burvvell  Bassett,  March  4th 268 

Condolences  on  the  death  of  his  friend — What  he  can  do  as 
executor. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  March  13th      ....       269 

The  letter  to  Morris — Wishes  an  informal  expression  of 
opinion  in  regard  to  Lafayette. 

To  Frances  Washington,  March  17th  .         .         .       270 

As  to  coming  to  Mount  Vernon — Bad  conduct  of  her  over- 
seer— The  work  on  the  building. 

To  the  Secretaries  of  State,  of  the  Treasury,  of  War, 
and  the  Attorney-General  of  the  United  States, 
March  21st 273 

The  coming  negotiations  with  the  Indians — Proposal  of  the 
Quakers. 

To  David  Humphreys,  March  23d      ....       275 

Rapidity  and  magnitude  of  national  revolutions — Trusts 
America  will  not  be  involved  in  war — Enterprises  undertaken — 
His  second  term. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  April  12th        ....       278 

The  maintenance  of  neutrality. 

To  the  Secretaries  and  Attorney-General,  April  iSth,       279 

Questions  on  measures  to  be  observed  in  case  of  war  between 
France  and  Great  Britain. 

Proclamation  of  Neutrality,  April  22d         .         .         .281 
To  the  Earl  of  Buchan,  April  22d       ....       282 

Sincere  wish  of  United  America  to  have  nothing  to  do  with 
the  troubles  of  European  nations — The  new  federal  city  and 
other  ventures — ilic  Fairfax  family. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XII.  xv 


PACK 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  May  5th      ....       285 

The  reception  of  Noailles. 

To  Henry  Lee,  May  6th 286 

The  proclamation  of  neutrality — Indian  hostilities  on  the 
western  frontiers — Advice  on  taking  service  in  France. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  May  7th      ....       289 

A  misconception  that  may  check  ship-building. 

To  M.  Temant,  May  23d 290 

Letter  of  commendation. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  June  ist  .         .         .         .         .       291 

On  policy  to  be  pursued  towards  Hammond. 

To  Frances  Washington,  June  loth    ....       292 

Renting  the  estate  in  Berkeley — Nature  of  the  property — 
Force  needed  to  work  it — Suggestions  on  hiring  it — Details  of 
the  covenant — Is  to  be  at  Mount  Vernon  soon. 

To  Henry  Knox,  June  14th 297 

Intelligence  on  Spanish  matters. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  June  20th   ....       298 

Loans — Application  of  the  proceeds  of  former  loans. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  June  30th         ....       301 
Complaint  of  the  French  consul — The  Cabinet  to  consider  it. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  July  nth  .         .         .         .       302 

The  case  of  the  LittU  Sarah — Can  the  French  minister  set 
the  acts  of  government  at  defiance  with  impunity 

To  Burges  Ball,  July  21st    .         .         .         .         .         .       303 

Lawrence  Lewis  as  a  manager. 

To  William  Tilghman,  July  21st         .         .         .         .       304 

Is  in  want  of  a  manager — Reasons  for  looking  to  the  eastern 
shore  — Qualifications  required — Persons  suggested. 

To  Henry  Lee,  July  21st 308 

Pestered  by  the  disputes  of  the  French  and  British  ministers 
— Discontented  characters  and  their  abuse — Publications  in 
Freneau's  and  Bache's  papers  outrages  on  common  decency — 
Genet's  conduct. 

To  the  Justices  of  the  Supreme  Court,  July  23d        .       311 

Wishes  to  take  their  opinion. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XII. 


PAGS 


To  Thomas  Jefferson,  July  25th  ....       312 

The  French  privateers — The  conduct  of  Genet  to  be  seriously 
considered. 

To  the   Heads  of  Departments   and  the  Attorney- 
General,  July  29th       .         .         .         .         .         •       3^3 

Instructions  to  custom-house  officers  expedient. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  July  31st  .         .         .         -313 

The  French  minister's  letters  to  be  considered  the  next  day. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  August  4th      .         .         .         .314 

The  eight  rules  on  equipments — Further  facts  to  be  weighed 
— Convening  the  legislature  at  an  earlier  day — A  French  decree. 

To  Hiland  Crow,  August  4th      .         .         .         .         .318 

His  application  for  an  increased  salary — Why  no  further  rise 
can  be  expected. 

To  Burges  Ball,  August  4th         ,         .         .         .         .319 

A  manager  for  his  estate — Lawrence  Lewis. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  August  12th     .         .         .         .321 

Would  wish  him  to  continue  in  office  till  the  close  of  the 
session. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  August  19th    ....       322 

Tapers  relating  to  a  French  privateer. 

To  Henry  Knox,  September  9th         ....       323 

Webster's  report  on  Genet's  conversation — Not  advisable  to 
expose  himself  to  the  plague. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  September  loth        .         .         .       324 
Tlie  Spanish  negotiations — Carmichael. 

To  Edmund  Pendleton,  September  23d      .         .         .       325 

Had  been  led  to  fear  his  conduct  was  disapproved  by  him — 
The  conduct  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury — Has  no  object 
in  view  but  the  Constitution  and  the  interests  of  the  country — 
Docs  not  agree  with  every  measure  of  Congress. 

To  Tobias  Lear,  September  25th        ....       328 

A  luttery  ticket  for  Lincoln  Lear — The  fever  in  Philadelphia 
— Greeiileaf  ventures  heavily  in  the  new  city — A  watch  and  a 
blacksmith  wanted — The  portrait  for  the  Earl  of  Buchan — An 
appointment  in  New  Hamjishire. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XII. 


To  Thomas  Jefferson,  October  6th     .         .         .         -331 

A  meeting  of  the  Cabinet  at  Germantown — Genet's  conduct  in 
New  York — The  public  mind  may  be  poisoned — The  despatches 
for  France. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  October  nth   ....       332 

Revoking  the  French  consul's  exequatur — His  return  route 
and  the  Cabinet  council — Convening  Congress  elsewhere — A 
notification  to  be  drawn. 

To  Thomas  Sim  Lee,  October  13th    ....       336 

The  ship  Rochampton — Attitude  of  the  general  government 
to  the  belligerent  powers — Cannot  decide  upon  the  specific 
points   submitted. 

To  James  Madison,  October  14th        ....       337 

As  to  convening  Congress — The  progress  of  the  fever. 

To  Henry  Lee,  October  i6th 340 

Threshing  machines — Difficulty  of  inducing  overseers  to 
adopt    new    methods — A    manager — Awaiting   the   action   of 

Congress. 

To  Edmund  Randolph,  October  23d  ....       343 

The  session  of  Congress — Lodging  for  his  own  use — His 
following. 

To  Richard  Henry  Lee,  October  24th        .         .         .       345 

Motives  of  those  who  are  attacking  the  government — How 
Genet  has  tested  the  temper  of  the  Executive — Entirely  unfit 
for  his  mission. 

To  Francis  Willis,  October  25th  ....       347 

Negroes  belonging  to  the  estate  of  Mrs.  Samuel  Washington 
— Error  in  property  rights — What  has  governed  his  own  conduct 
in  the  matter — An  offer  to  close  all  controversy. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  December  1st  .         .         .         .       349 

Morris'  puzzling  references — The  message  on  France  and 
Great  Britain. 

Speech  to  Congress,  December  3d      ...         .  350 
Message  to  Congress  respecting  Genet  and  the  Rela- 
tions with  France,  December  5th        .         .         .  356 
To  Arthur  Young,  December  I2th      ....  358 

Wishes  to  dispose  of  his  property  at  Mount  Vernon — Nature 
and  situation  of  the  land— The  various  farms  described — Terms 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XII. 


on  which  he  will  rent — Farm  animals  and  labor — Immigration 
of  farmers — The  English  law  forV^idding  the  emigration  of 
artisans — Why  he  writes  to  Young. 

Message  to  Congress  relative  to  Spain,  December  i6th       370 
To  Edmund  Randolph,  December  24th      .         .         .       372 

Wishes  to  nominate  him  as  Secretary  of  State. 

To  William  White,  December  31st     .         .         .         .       373 

A  contribution  for  the  needy  of  Philadelphia — Asks  his  advice 
in  applying  it. 

To  Anthony  Whiting,  January  to  June      .         ,         .       374 

Transfer  of  hands  from  one  plantation  to  another — Garner's 
rascality — Live  fences — Mud  as  manure — Young  on  fallows — 
Folding  of  sheep — Dying  of  sheep — The  experiments  at  the 
mill — Disappointment  in  the  crop  of  wheat — Sowing  clover — 
Union  plantation — Some  seeds  to  be  planted — Conversion  of 
nails — Sarah  Flatfoot — Misconduct  of  Taylor — Davenport's 
sloth — Prevention  of  quarrels — Green — Matilda's  Ben — Taxes 
— Money  calls — Sowing  clover  seed — Allowance  of  meal — "  A 
penny  saved,  is  a  penny  got  " — Culling  the  sheeiD — Loss  of 
calves — Penning  the  sheep — Bakewell — Weaving  the  wool — 
Renting  the  fisheries — Butler — Thieving  among  the  people — 
A  suggestion  on  directions — The  flour  experiment — Cutting 
grain — Spirits  at  harvest — Meal  for  the  negroes — The  garden- 
er's notice  of  leaving — The  mill  accounts — Small  quantity  of 
wool — Saving  his  strength — The  gardener's  allowance. 

To  William  Pearce,  October  to  December  .         .         .       396 

Farm  implements — Course  of  crops — Manure — Neglect  of 
ploughing  by  overseers — The  overseers  to  be  watched — Treat- 
ment of  them — Stuart  —  Crow — McKoy  —  Butler — Davy — 
Thomas  Green. 

1794. 

To  Thomas  Jefferson,  January  1st       .         .         .         .401 
Regrets  his  resignation — Friendly  assurances. 

To  John  Adams,  January  8th 402 

The  case  of  (jcnct. 

Mcs.sagc    to    Congress   Announcing   the    Recall    of 

(icnct,  January  20th    ......       403 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XII. 


PAGE 


To  Charles  Cotesworth  Pinckney,  January  22d  .         .       404 

Oflfers  him  the  secretaryship  of  war — The  qualities  needed. 

To  Thomas  Johnson,  January  23d      ....       406 

The  commission  on  the  federal  city — Shortcomings  of 
Blodget — His   speculations. 

To  George  Clinton,  March  31st .  ....       408 

Dorchester's  speech  to  the  Indians — Has  no  doubt  of  its 
authenticity — Political  conduct  of  Great  Britain — Inquiries  on 
Canadian  affairs. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  April  8th     ....       410 

General  certificate  on  disposition  of  loans — Written  and 
verbal   communications. 

To  James  McHenry,  April  8th   .         .         .         .         .412 

Does  not  as  a  rule  answer  letters  on  appointments — His  policy 
in  such  matters — Lafayette. 

To  James  Monroe,  April  9th       .....       414 

On  his  objections  to  the  appointment  of  Hamilton  for  the 
English  mission. 

To  Richard  Henry  Lee,  April  15th     ....       416 

Fauchet  and  Genet  compared — Disclaimer  of  the  British 
ministry — Madison's  resolutions. 

To  Edmund  Randolph,  April  15th     ....       419 

Message  naming  Jay  as  envoy  extraordinary — Objects  of  the 
mission. 

To  John  Fitzgerald,  April  27th  ....       420 

Services  rendered  by  Thomas  Digges  in  the  late  war — 
Specific  instances — Since  the  war — Testimony  of  John  Trum- 
bull. 

To  John  Jay,  April  29th 422 

Has  determined  to  recall  Gouvemeur  Morris — Suggests  that 
Pinckney  be  sent  to  France,  and  that  Jay  be  permanently  in 
London. 

To  Edmund  Randolph,  April  29th     ....       423 

Care  requisite  in  preparing  a  reply  to  British  minister. 

To  Tobias  Lear,  May  6th    ......       424 

The  British  provision  orders — Jay's  mission — Measures  pro- 
posed in  Congress — Resolution  to  prohibit  trade  with  Great 
Britain  —  Professor  Anderson — Lincoln's  lottery  ticket — Has 
taken  a  house  in  Germantown. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XII. 


PACK 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  May  6th      ....       427 

Reception  of  Talleyrand — Embarrassment  from  a  public  in- 
troduction— Policy  to  be  pursued. 

To  Robert  Lewis,  May  i8th 429 

His  lots  in  Winchester  and  Bath — A  proposed  exchange  of 
lands — Leases  for  lives — Purchase  of  leases — Accokeek  lands 
and  his  title  to  them. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  May  29th    ....       432 

Is  pleased  at  his  determination  to  continue  in  office. 

To  Gouverneur  Morris,  June  25th       ....       433 

His  recall  will  not  affect  his  position  in  his  estimation — Dis- 
appointments in  receiving  intelligence — Unauthorized  state- 
ments of  Major  Jackson — Watchful  guardians  of  America — 
His  object  is  to  preserve  peace  or  be  prepared  for  war — Jay's 
mission  to  England. 

To  Edmund  Randolph,  June  25th      ....       436 

The  British  minister  more  captious  than  conciliatory — In- 
jured while  riding. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  July  2d        ...         .       437 

Compensation  for  British  vessels  taken  by  prescribed  French 
privateers — Original  communication  of  the  subject — Relaxing 
the  powers  of  the  Executive. 

To  Sir  John  Sinclair,  July  20th 440 

His  agricultural  writings — Importance  of  agricultural  opera- 
tions— Difference  between  the  net  result  of  farming  in  Great 
Britain  and  the  United  States — Congressional  aid  and  agricul- 
tural societies — Domestic  animals — His  own  experience  in  wool 
raising— Beef — Sheep  raising. 

Proclamation  Warning  the  Insurgents  in  the  Western 
Parts  of  Pennsylvania  to  Desist  from  their  Oppo- 
sition to  the  Laws,  August  7th  ....       445 

To  Purges  Pall,  August  loth       .....       448 
Establishing    the   arsenals — Little    prospect   of    taking   his 
property — Wliat    is  thought  of  the  western  insurrection  and 
coercion  on  the  part  of  the  government. 

To  Charles  M.  Thruston,  August  loth        .         .         .       450 

I'celing  in  Kentucky — Endeavors  of  the  general  government 
in  behalf  of  the  wishes  of  its  people — Leaven  of  the  societies — 
Actual  rebellion  in  the  western  parts  of  Pennsylvania — If  per- 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XII. 


rAOB 

mitted,  there  is  an  end  to  republican  government — Opposition 
to  coercion — Merits  of  General  Morgan — His  ardent  wish  for 
peace. 

To  Henry  Lee,  August  26th 453 

The  western  insurrection  and  Virginia — Attempts  to  suspend 
proceedings  against  the  insurgents — First  fruit  of  the  Demo- 
cratic societies — Diabolical  attempts  to  destroy  the  government 
— Programme  of  discord — Reported  assertions  about  Henry — 
His  relations  and  obligation  to  him — His  wish  to  ally  him  to 
administration — Alleged  words  of  Jefferson. 

To  John  Jay,  August  30th 459 

His  arrival — A  protest  from  Upper  Canada — Will  Great 
Britain  allow  it  to  pass  with  impunity  ? — Indian  troubles  the 
effect  of  British  intrigue — The  only  road  to  peace. 

To  David  Stuart,  September  21st        .         .         .         .       462 

His  brother's  estate — Hea\-y  charges  arising  from  it — How 
far  measures  may  be  taken  to  arrest  process. 

To  Burges  Ball,  September  25th  ....       464 

Spirited  opposition  to  the  insurrection — Idle  fears  of  its  su{>- 
ports — Self-created  censors  of  Congress — Their  institution  for 
the  express  purpose  of  dissension. 

Proclamation  Concerning  the  Western  Insurrection, 

September  25th .57 

To  Major-General  Morgan,  October  8th     .         .         .       469 

Is  on  his  way  to  Fort  Cumberland— May  cross  the  mountains 
with  the  troops— Unless  the  opposition  is  crushed,  there  is  an 
end  to  government. 

To  Edmund  Randolph,  October  nth 

Delay  in  sending  on  troops— Arrival  of  Findley  and  Riddick 
— His  address  to  Congress. 

To  Edmund  Randolph,  October  i6th         .         .         .       47^ 

Troops  at  Fort  Cumberland— Impertinence  of  Bache  in 
questioning  his  command— Madison  and  the  opposition— Sub- 
jects of  the  speech— Is  com-inced  that  the  societies  must  be  put 
down,  or  they  will  destroy  government— Suggestion  for  a 
reference  in  his  address. 

To  Edmund  Randolph,  October  i8th         .         .         .       476 

Despatches  from  Jay— Good  dispositions  of  the  British  min- 
istry. 


471 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  XII. 


To  Henry  Lee,  October  20th 478 

Thanks  the  militia  army  for  their  service — Importance  of  the 
matters  at  issue — As  supporters  of  the  law,  the  army  should 
not  be  guilty  of  infractions — Parting  words. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  October  26th       .         .         .       480 

His  progress  on  his  return — Malconduct  of  some  of  the 
soldiery — His  movements — Bradford  and  Husband  should  be 
secured. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton,  October  31st       .         .         .       482 

Has  reached  Philadelphia — Intelligence  from  Europe — Arri- 
val of  Monroe — Congress — Hints  for  the  return  of  the  soldiers. 

To  John  Jay,  November  ist        .         .         .         .         .       484 

Testimony  of  remembrance — Favorable  prospects  of  his 
mission — Criticism  to  be  expected — What  the  Executive  may 
do — The  western  insurrection  and  the  self-created  societies — 
Spirit  shown  by  the  troops — Effect  on  the  insurgents — Will 
refer  to  this  in  his  message — Cannot  encourage  emigrants. 

To  John  Adams,  November  15th        ....       489 

The  Genevese  university  and  the  proposal  to  bring  it  to 
America — His  opinion  on  emigration. 

Speech  to  Congress,  November  19th  .         .         .       491 

To  Alexander  Spotswood,  November  23d  .         .       499 

New  countries  and  their  advantages — Lands  on  the  Ohio — 
Suggestions  as  to  disposing  of  his  lands — His  position  towards 
slavery. 

To  Tobias  Lear,  December  14th         ....       501 

Disregard  of  delegated  powers — Petition  of  the  Potomac 
Company — Impropriety  of  his  writing  to  members  of  the  Vir- 
ginia Assembly. 

To  John  Jay,  December  i8th 503 

Monroe's  communications  to  the  national  convention — His 
defence — Business  of  the  session — Report  that  United  States 
will  be  chosen  mediator  between  France  and  England — Vir- 
ginia escheats  of  British  property. 


THE  WRITINGS  OF 

GEORGE  WASHINGTON. 


SPEECH    TO    CONGRESS. 

8  December,  1790. 
Fellow-Citizens  of  the  Senate 

AND  House  of  Representatives  : 

In  meeting  you  again  I  feel  much  satisfaction  in  being  able  to 
repeat  my  congratulations  on  the  favorable  prospects  which  con- 
tinue to  distinguish  our  public  affairs.  The  abundant  fruits  of 
another  year  have  blessed  our  Country  with  plenty  and  with  the 
means  of  a  flourishing  commerce.  The  progress  of  public  credit 
is  witnessed  by  a  considerable  rise  of  American  stock  abroad  as 
well  as  at  home.  And  the  revenues  allotted  for  this  and  other 
national  purposes,  have  been  productive  beyond  the  calculations 
by  which  they  were  regulated.  This  latter  circumstance  is  the- 
more  pleasing  as  it  is  not  only  a  proof  of  the  fertility  of  our  re- 
sources, but  as  it  assures  us  of  a  further  increase  of  the  national: 
respectability  and  credit  ;  and,  let  me  add,  as  it  bears  an  honora- 
ble testimony  to  the  patriotism  and  integrity  of  the  mercantile- 
and  marine  part  of  our  citizens.  The  punctuality  of  the  former- 
in  discharging  their  engagements  has  been  exemplary. 

In  conforming  to  the  powers  vested  in  me  by  the  acts  of  the 
last  session,  a  loan  of  three  millions  of  florins,  towards  which, 
some  provisional  measures  had  previously  taken  place,  has  been^ 
completed  in  Holland.  As  well  the  celerity  with  which  it  has 
been  filled,  as  the  nature  of  the  terms  (considering  the  more  than 
ordinary  demand  for  borrowing,  created  by  the  situation  of 
Europe,)  gives  a  reasonable  hope,  that  the  further  execution  of 
those  powers  may  proceed  with  advantage  and  success.  The 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  my  directions  to  communicate  such. 


2  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1790 

further  particulars  as  may  be  requisite  for  more  precise  in- 
formation. 

Since  your  last  sessions,  I  have  received  communications  by 
which  it  appears,  that  the  district  of  Kentucky,  at  present  a  part 
of  Virginia,  has  concurred  in  certain  propositions  contained  in 
a  law  of  that  State,  in  consequence  of  which  the  district  is  to 
become  a  distinct  member  of  the  Union,  in  case  the  requisite 
sanction  of  Congress  be  added.  For  this  sanction  application  is 
now  made.  I  shall  cause  the  papers  on  this  very  important  trans- 
action to  be  laid  before  you.  The  liberality  and  harmony,  with 
which  it  has  been  conducted,  will  be  found  to  do  great  honor 
to  both  the  parties  ;  and  the  sentiments  of  warm  attachment  to 
the  Union  and  its  present  government,  expressed  by  our  fellow- 
citizens  of  Kentucky,  cannot  fail  to  add  an  affectionate  concern 
for  their  particular  welfare  to  the  great  national  impressions 
under  which  you  will  decide  on  the  case  submitted  to  you. 

It  has  been  heretofore  known  to  Congress,  that  frequent  incur- 
sions have  been  made  on  our  frontier  settlements  by  certain 
banditti  of  Indians  from  the  northvv^est  side  of  the  Ohio.  These, 
with  some  of  the  tribes  dwelling  on  and  near  the  Wabash,  have 
of  late  been  particularly  active  in  their  depredations  ;  and,  being 
emboldened  by  the  impunity  of  their  crimes,  and  aided  by  such 
parts  of  the  neighboring  tribes  as  could  be  seduced  to  join  in 
their  hostilities  or  afford  them  a  retreat  for  their  prisoners  and 
plunder,  they  have,  instead  of  listening  to  the  humane  invitations 
and  overtures  made  on  the  part  of  the  United  States,  renewed 
their  violences  with  fresh  alacrity  and  greater  effect.  The  lives 
of  a  number  of  valuable  citizens  have  thus  been  sacrificed  and 
some  of  them  under  circumstances  peculiarly  shocking,  whilst 
others  have  been  carried  into  a  deplorable  captivity. 

These  aggravated  provocations  rendered  it  essential  to  the 
safety  of  the  western  settlements,  that  the  aggressors  should 
be  made  sensible,  that  the  government  of  the  Union  is  not 
less  capable  of  punishing  their  crimes,  than  it  is  disposed  to 
respect  their  rights  and  reward  their  attachments.  As  this  object 
could  not  be  effected  l)y  defensive  measures,  it  became  neces- 
sary to  i)ut  in  force  the  act,  wliich  empowers  the  President  to  call 
out  the  militia  for  the  protection  of  the  frontiers  ;  and  I  have 


i79o]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  3 

accordingly  authorized  an  expedition,  in  which  the  regular  troops 
in  that  quarter  are  combined  with  such  drafts  of  militia  as  were 
deemed  sufficient.  The  event  of  the  measure  is  yet  unknown  to 
me.  The  Secretary  of  War  is  directed  to  lay  before  you  a  state- 
ment of  the  information  on  which  it  is  founded,  as  well  as  an 
estimate  of  the  expense  with  which  it  wull  be  attended. 

The  disturbed  situation  of  Europe,  and  particularly  the  critical 
posture  of  the  great  maritime  powers,  whilst  it  ought  to  make  us 
more  thankful  for  the  general  peace  and  security  enjoyed  by  the 
United  States,  reminds  us  at  the  same  time  of  the  circumspection 
with  which  it  becomes  us  to  preserve  these  blessings.  It  requires 
also,  that  we  should  not  overlook  the  tendency  of  a  war,  and 
even  of  preparations  for  a  war,  among  the  nations  most  con- 
cerned in  active  commerce  with  this  country,  to  abridge  the 
means,  and  thereby  at  least  enhance  the  price,  of  transporting  its 
valuable  productions  to  their  proper  markets.  I  recommend  it 
to  your  serious  reflection,  how  far  and  in  what  mode  it  may  be 
expedient  to  guard  against  embarrassments  from  these  contin- 
gencies, by  such  encouragements  to  our  own  navigation  as  will 
render  our  commerce  and  agriculture  less  dependent  on  foreign 
bottoms,  which  may  fail  us  in  the  very  moments  most  interesting 
to  both  of  these  great  objects.  Our  fisheries,  and  the  transporta- 
tion of  our  own  produce,  offer  us  abundant  means  for  guarding 
ourselves  against  this  evil. 

Your  attention  seems  to  be  not  less  due  to  that  particular 
branch  of  our  trade,  which  belongs  to  the  Mediterranean.  So 
many  circumstances  unite  in  rendering  the  present  state  of  it 
distressful  to  us,  that  you  will  not  think  any  deliberations  mis- 
employed, which  may  lead  to  its  relief  and  protection. 

The  laws  you  have  already  passed  for  the  establishment  of  a 
judiciary  system,  have  opened  the  doors  of  justice  to  all  descrip- 
tions of  persons.  You  will  consider  in  your  wisdom,  whether 
improvements  in  that  system  may  yet  be  made,  and  particularly 
whether  a  uniform  process  of  execution  on  sentences  issuing 
from  the  federal  courts  be  not  desirable  through  all  the  States. 

The  patronage  of  our  commerce,  of  our  merchants  and  sea- 
men, has  called  for  the  appointment  of  consuls  in  foreign  coun- 
ries.     It  seems  expedient  to  regulate  by  law  the  exercise  of  that 


4  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

jurisdiction  and  those  functions,  which  are  permitted  them,  either 
by  express  convention,  or  by  a  friendly  indulgence  in  the  places 
of  their  residence.  The  consular  convention,  too,  with  his  Most 
Christian  Majesty  has  stipulated,  in  certain  cases,  the  aid  of  the 
national  authority  to  his  consuls  established  here.  Some  legis- 
lative provision  is  requisite  to  carry  these  stipulations  into  full 
effect. 

The  establishment  of  the  militia,  of  a  mint,  of  standards  of 
weights  and  measures,  of  the  post-office  and  post-roads,  are  sub- 
jects which  (I  presume)  you  will  resume  of  course,  and  which  are 
abundantly  urged  by  their  own  importance. 

Gentlemen  of  the  House  of  Representatives  : 

The  sufficiency  of  the  revenues  you  have  established,  for  the 
objects  to  which  they  are  appropriated,  leaves  no  doubt  that  the 
residuary  provisions  will  be  commensurate  to  the  other  objects 
for  which  the  public  faith  stands  now  pledged.  Allow  me,  more- 
over, to  hope,  that  it  will  be  a  favorite  policy  with  you,  not  merely 
to  secure  a  payment  of  the  interest  of  the  debt  funded,  but,  as 
far  and  as  fast  as  the  growing  resources  of  the  country  will  per- 
mit, to  exonerate  it  of  the  principal  itself.  The  appropriation 
you  have  made  of  the  western  lands  explains  your  dispositions 
on  this  subject ;  and  I  am  persuaded  the  sooner  that  valuable 
fund  can  be  made  to  contribute,  along  with  other  means,  to  the 
actual  reduction  of  the  public  debt,  the  more  salutary  will  the 
measure  be  to  every  public  interest,  as  well  as  the  more  satis- 
factory to  our  constituents. 


TO     ARTHUR    ST.    CLAIR,    GOVERNOR    OF    THE    NORTH- 
WESTERN   TERRITORY. 

[private.] 
Dear  Sir  Philadelphia,  2  January,  1791. 

In  the  journals  of  the  proceedings  of  the  executive 
in  the  Northwestern  Territory,  there  appear  to  be 
certain  regulations  made  by  the  executive,  under  the 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  5 

articles  of  the  25th  of  April,  6th,  28th,  and  29th  of 
June  last,  which  can  with  propriety  only  be  estab- 
lished by  laws. 

In  noticing  these,  my  mind  naturally  recurred  to 
your  letter  to  me,  dated  at  Cahokia  on  the  ist  of 
May  last,  wherein  you  observe,  that  the  absence  of 
the  judges  had  embarrassed  you  a  great  deal,  and 
after  waiting  for  them  as  long  as  possible,  that  you 
had  been  under  the  necessity  of  directing  by  procla- 
mation certain  regulations  suited  to  the  peculiar  cir- 
cumstances of  the  country.  These  you  had  no  doubt 
would  be  soon  confirmed  by  law,  and  the  necessity  of 
the  case  offered  an  excuse  for  having  exceeded  your 
proper  powers.^ 

The  imperfect  state  in  which  the  legislation  of  the 
Northwestern  Territory  is,  the  want  which  the  execu- 
tive has  often  felt  of  the  necessary  coadjutors  to  adopt 
even  the  most  urgent  laws,  and  the  peculiar  situation 
of  a  frontier  country,  are  circumstances  which  may 
not  strike  every  one,  who  will  observe  that  the  execu- 
tive has  gone  beyond  its  proper  powers.  It  therefore 
becomes  a  matter  of  high  importance,  that  the  utmost 
circumspection  should  be  observed  in  the  conduct  of 
the  executive ;  for  there  are  not  wanting  persons,  who 
would  rejoice  to  find  the  slightest  ground  of  clamor 
against  public  characters  ;  and,  paying  no  regard  to 
the  absolute  necessity  of  the  case,  which  caused  a 
momentary  stretch  of  power,  nor  the  public  good 
which  might  be  produced  by  it,  they  would  seize 
the  occasion  of   making    impressions  unfavorable  to 

'  See  The  St.  Clair  Papers,  ii.,  163,  164. 


6  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

government,  and  possibly  productive  of  disagreeable 
effects. 

I  have  therefore  thought  it  best  to  give  you  this 
intimation  in  a  private  and  friendly  letter,  that  by  cir- 
cumspection malice  itself  may  be  disarmed.  With 
the  compliments  of  the  season,  and  great  esteem  and 
regard,  I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO  BEVERLEY  RANDOLPH,  GOVERNOR  OF  VIRGINIA. 

Philadelphia,  13  January,  1791. 

Sir, 

The  various  and  important  business,  which  required 
my  particular  attention  in  the  beginning  of  the  pres- 
ent session  of  Congress,  will,  I  presume,  sufficiently 
apologize  to  your  Excellency  for  this  late  acknowledg- 
ment of  your  letter  of  November  last. 

I  have  attentively  considered  the  request,  which 
your  Excellency  has  made  by  desire  of  the  legisla- 
ture, that  I  would  again  open  the  business  of  estab- 
lishing a  woollen  manufactory  in  Virginia  ;  and  it  is 
with  infinite  regret,  that  I  must  decline  any  further 
agency  in  It,  at  least  so  far  as  relates  to  carrying  on 
a  correspondence  with  the  person  in  Great  Britain, 
who  has  proposed  to  establish  the  manufactory.  I 
am  persuaded,  that  your  Excellency  and  the  legisla- 
ture will  see,  upon  reflection,  the  Impropriety  of  my 
appearing  In  this  business,  while  I  remain  in  my  pres- 
ent situation  ;  for  I  am  told  that  it  is  felony  to  export 
the  machines,  which  it  Is  probable  the  artist  contem- 
plates to  bring  with  him,  and  it  certainly  would  not 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  7 

carry  an  aspect  very  favorable  to  the  dignity  of  the 
United  States,  for  the  President  in  a  clandestine 
manner  to  entice  the  subjects  of  another  nation  to 
violate  its  laws. 

I  have  communicated  the  subject  of  your  letter  to 
the  secretary  of  state  and  the  attorney-general,  who 
are  both  of  the  same  sentiment  which  I  have  ex- 
pressed, and  for  the  reason  mentioned. 

I  am  however  happy,  that  my  agency  is  not  abso- 
lutely necessary  to  the  completion  of  this  object  ;  for 
the  project  has  been  announced  to  Virginia,  and  the 
original  letter  from  the  artist  has  been  transmitted  to 
your  Excellency.  This  communicates  ever}'  thing  on 
the  subject  of  which  I  am  possessed,  and  leaves  it 
with  the  State  of  Virginia  to  do  whatever  may  be 
thought  best  in  the  affair. 

Impressed  as  I  am  with  the  utility  of  such  an  estab- 
lishment, I  shall  ever  be  ready  to  give  it  every  aid  that 
I  can  with  propriety ;  and  I  am  certain  that  your  Ex- 
cellency and  the  legislature  will  impute  my  conduct 
on  this  occasion  to  its  true  motive.  With  due  con- 
sideration, I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


TO  HENRY  KNOX,  SECRETARY  OF  WAR. 
Q  Philadelphia,  14  January-,  1791. 

On  as  full  a  consideration  of  the  last  speech  made 
to  me  by  Cornplanter,  Halftown,  and  the  Great-tree, 
chiefs  of  the  Seneca  nation,  as  my  comprehension  of 
their  meaning  enables  me  to  give,  I  am  led  to  the 
following  conclusions,  which,  if  there  is  any  propriety 


8  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

in  discussing  their  request,  or  yielding  the  land  asked 
for,  I  wish  you  to  consider  as  the  basis  of  the  commu- 
nications to  be  made  to  these  people. 

In  the  first  place,  it  appears  to  me,  that  Cornplanter 
and  the  other  chiefs  now  in  the  city  of  Philadelphia 
do  not  constitute  a  representation  of  their  nation  ;  and 
to  undo,  or  perhaps  even  to  enter  on  the  revision  of 
treaties,  which  have  been  deliberately  and  formally 
concluded,  but  under  circumstances  of  equal  delibera- 
tion and  form,  would  be  to  open  a  door  to  certain 
inconvenience,  and  probable  difficulty,  by  encouraging 
applications,  which  the  Indians  would  not  fail  to  make 
to  the  United  States  ;  that  it  is  a  matter,  which  re- 
quires mature  consideration,  how  far  any  assurances 
regarding  the  restoration  of  lands,  which  have  been 
ceded  by  treaty  to  the  United  States,  can  be  made 
without  the  participation  of  the  Senate,  and  that  no 
assurance  should  be  given,  which  may  involve  a  dis- 
pute with  any  individual  State,  respecting  its  claim  to 
the  land  applied  for  ;  that  they  be  informed,  that  no 
agent  for  Indian  affairs  will  be  authorized  to  dispose 
of  their  lands. 

Not  comprehending  the  precise  meaning  of  the 
clause  respecting  children,  I  do  not  remark  upon  it. 

In  reply  to  the  last  clause  of  their  speech,  I  have  to 
observe,  that  such  expense  cannot  be  incurred.  What 
is  made  will  be  for  objects  the  most  beneficial.  The 
enclosed  letter  from  Colonel  Pickerine  contains  some 
good  ideas  of  improvement,  and,  if  necessary,  may  be 
useful  in  framing  the  answer  to  the  Cornplanter,  and 
the  other  Indians  who  are  with  him.      I  am,  &c. 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  9 

TO  EDWARD  RUTLEDGE. 

Philadelphia,  16  January,  1791. 

My  Dear  Sir, 

I  can  but  love  and  thank  you,  and  I  do  it  sincerely, 
for  your  polite  and  friendly  letter  of  the  nth  of  No- 
vember, which  came  to  my  hands  the  day  before 
yesterday  07ily.  The  sentiments  contained  in  it  are 
such  as  have  uniformly  flowed  from  your  pen,  and 
they  are  not  less  flattering  than  pleasing  to  me. 

The  present  Congress  can  sit  no  longer  than  the 
4th  of  March,  and  should  it  not  be  found  expedient 
to  convene  the  new  one  immediately  upon  the  rising 
of  It — and  should  not  the  old  one,  by  Acts  of  the 
present  session  cut  out  work  for  the  Executive,  which 
may  render  my  absence  from  the  seat  of  government 
(soon  after  the  adjournment)  incompatible  with  my 
public  duties  ;  I  shall  most  assuredly  indulge  myself 
in  a  tour  thro'  the  Southern  States  in  the  Spring. 
But  it  will  readily  be  perceived  that  this  event  must 
depend  upon  the  time  I  shall  be  able  to  commence  the 
journey,  for  I  do  not  hesitate  to  acknowledge,  that  I 
am  not  inclined  to  be  in  the  southernmost  States  after 
the  month  of  May  ;  and  my  journey  must,  on  many 
accounts  be  made  slow  and  easy. 

It  was  among  my  first  determinations  when  I  en- 
tered upon  the  duties  of  my  present  station  to  visit 
every  part  of  the  United  States  in  the  course  of 
my  administration  of  the  government,  provided  my 
health  and  other  circumstances  would  admit  of  it. 
And  this  determination  was  accompanied  with  an- 
other :  viz. — not,  by  making  my  head  quarters  in  pri- 


TO  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

vate  families,  to  become  troublesome  to  them  in  any  of 
these  tours.  The  first  I  have  accomplished  in  part 
only,  without  departing  in  a  single  instance  from  the 
second,  although  pressed  to  it  by  the  most  civil  and 
cordial  invitations.  After  having  made  this  commu- 
nication you  will  readily  perceive,  my  dear  Sir,  that  it 
is  not  in  my  power  (however  it  might  comport  with 
my  inclinations,)  to  change  my  plan,  without  exposing 
myself  to  the  charge  of  inconsistency,  if  not  something 
more  exceptionable — especially  too,  as  it  is  not  more 
than  ten  days  since  I  declined  a  very  kind  and  friendly 
invitation  from  my  namesake  and  kinsman  Colonel 
W.  Washington  of  your  State  to  lodge  at  his  house 
when  I  should  visit  Charleston. 

With  affectionate  esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  &c. 


ADDRESS    OF    THE    PRESIDENT     OF    THE    UNITED    STATES 

TO    CORNPLANTER,    HALFTOWN,    AND    GREAT-TREE, 

CHIEFS    OF    THE    SENECA    NATION    OF    INDIANS. 

Brothers, 

I  have  maturely  considered  your  second  written  speech. 

You  say  your  nation  complain,  that,  at  the  treaty  of  Fort  Stan- 
wix,  you  were  compelled  to  give  up  too  much  of  your  lands  ; 
that  you  confess  your  nation  is  bound  by  what  was  there  done, 
and,  acknowledging  the  power  of  the  United  States,  that  you 
have  now  appealed  to  ourselves  against  that  treaty,  as  made  while 
we  were  angry  against  you,  and  that  the  said  treaty  was  therefore 
unreasonable  and  unjust. 

But  while  you  complain  of  the  treaty  of  Fort  Stanwix  in  1784, 
you  seem  entirely  to  forget  that  you  yourselves,  the  Cornplanter, 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  ii 

Halftown,  and  Great-tree,  with  others  of  your  nation,  confirmed 
by  the  treaty  of  Fort  Harmar  upon  the  Muskingum,  so  late  as 
the  9th  of  January,  1789,  the  boundaries  marked  at  the  treaty  of 
Fort  Stanwix,  and  that  in  consequence  thereof  you  then  received 
goods  to  a  considerable  amount. 

Although  it  is  my  sincere  desire,  in  looking  forward,  to  en- 
deavor to  promote  your  happiness  by  all  just  and  humane 
arrangements,  yet  I  cannot  disannul  treaties  formed  by  the 
United  States  before  my  administration,  especially  as  the  boun- 
daries mentioned  therein  have  been  twice  confirmed  by  your- 
selves. 

The  lines  fixed  at  Fort  Stanwix  and  Fort  Harmar  must  there- 
fore remain  established. 

But  Halftown  and  others,  who  reside  upon  the  land  you  desire 
may  be  relinquished,  have  not  been  disturbed  in  their  possession, 
and  I  should  hope,  while  they  continue  to  demean  themselves 
peaceably,  and  to  manifest  their  friendly  dispositions  towards 
the  people  of  the  United  States,  that  they  will  be  sufi"ered  to 
remain  where  they  are. 

The  agent,  who  will  be  appointed  by  the  United  States,  will  be 
your  friend  and  protector.  He  will  not  be  suffered  to  defraud 
you,  or  to  assist  in  defrauding  you,  of  your  lands,  or  of  any  other 
thing  ;  as  all  his  proceedings  must  be  reported  in  writing,  so  as  to 
be  submitted  to  the  President  of  the  United  States. 

You  mention  your  design  of  going  to  the  Miami  Indians,  to 
endeavor  to  persuade  them  to  peace.  By  this  humane  measure 
you  will  render  those  mistaken  people  a  great  service,  and  prob- 
ably prevent  their  being  swept  from  off  the  face  of  the  earth. 
The  United  States  require  only,  that  those  people  should  demean 
themselves  peaceably.  But  they  may  be  assured,  that  the 
United  States  are  able,  and  will  most  certainly  punish  them 
severely  for  all  their  robberies  and  murders. 

You  may,  when  you  return  from  this  city  to  your  own  country, 
mention  to  your  nation  my  desire  to  promote  their  prosperity,  by 
teaching  the  use  of  domestic  animals,  and  the  manner  that  the 
white  people  plough  and  raise  so  much  com  ;  and  if,  upon  con- 
sideration, it  would  be  agreeable  to  the  nation  at  large  to  learn 


12  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [179 1 

these  arts,  I  will  find  some  means  of  teaching  them  at  such  places 
within  their  country  as  shall  be  agreed  upon. 

I  have  nothing  more  to  add,  but  to  refer  you  to  my  former 
speech,  and  to  repeat  my  wishes  for  the  happiness  of  the  Seneca 
nation. 

Given  under  my  hand,  and  the  seal  of  the  United  States,  at 
Philadelphia,  this  19th  day  of  January,  1791. 


TO    TIMOTHY    PICKERING. 

Philadelphia,  20  January,  1791. 

Sir, 

I  have  had  the  pleasure  to  receive  your  letters  of 
the  8th  and  15th  of  this  month.  I  feel  myself  much 
obliged  by  the  trouble  you  have  taken,  in  the  former, 
to  detail  your  ideas  with  respect  to  introducing  the 
art  of  husbandry  and  civilization  among  the  Indians. 
I  confess  that  your  plan,  or  something  like  it,  strikes 
me  as  the  most  probable  means  of  effecting  this  de- 
sirable end  ;  and  I  am  fully  of  opinion  with  you,  that 
the  mode  of  education,  which  has  hitherto  been  pur- 
sued with  respect  to  those  young  Indians,  who  have 
been  sent  to  our  colleges,  is  not  such  as  can  be  pro- 
ductive of  any  good  to  their  nations.  Reason  might 
have  shown  it,  and  experience  clearly  proves  it  to 
have  been  the  case.  It  is  perhaps  productive  of  evil. 
Humanity  and  good  policy  must  make  it  the  wish  of 
every  good  citizen  of  the  United  States,  that  hus- 
bandry, and  consequently  civilization,  should  be  intro- 
duced among  the  Indians.  So  strongly  am  I  impressed 
with  the  beneficial  effects,  which  our  country  would 
receive  from  such  a  thing,  that  I  shall  always  take  a 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  13 

singular  pleasure  in  promoting,  as  far  as  may  be 
in  my  power,  every  measure  which  may  tend  to 
ensure  it. 

I  should  have  been  very  glad,  if  it  had  comported 
with  your  interest  and  inclination  to  superintend  the 
northern  Indians,  as  I  am  persuaded  that  nothing 
would  have  been  wanting  on  your  part  to  attach 
them  to  the  United  States,  and  to  cultivate  that 
spirit  for  civilization,  which  now  begins  to  dawn 
among  them/  Whoever  undertakes  this  business 
must  be  actuated  by  more  enlarged  views,  than  his 
individual  interest,  or  he  can  never  accomplish  the 
wished  for  end. 

With  very  great  regard,  I  am,  &c. 


TO  WILLIAM  DEAKINS,  JR.   AND  BENJAMIN  STODDERT. 

Philadelphia,  3  February,  1791. 

Gentlemen, 

In  asking  your  aid  in  the  following  case,  per- 
mit me,  at  the  same  time,  to  ask  the  most  perfect 
secresy. 

The  federal  territory-  being  located,  the  competi- 
tion for  the  location  of  the  town  now  rests  between 

"^  From  Colonel  Pickering  s  Letter :  "General  Knox  informed  me,  that  it 
would  be  agreeable  to  you  that  I  should  undertake  the  superintendency  of  the 
northern  Indians  ;  I  mean  particularly  the  Six  Nations.  I  answered,  that,  by 
the  new  constitution  of  Pennsylvania,  a  Continental  appointment  was  declared 
to  be  incompatible  with  the  appointments  I  held  under  the  State  :  and  I  sup- 
posed the  nature  of  such  superintendency  would  not  warrant  any  considerable 
emolument.  In  a  subsequent  conversation  I  intimated  a  willingness  to  per- 
form the  necessary  services  respecting  the  Six  Nations,  without  any  formal 
appointment ;  but  this  idea  seems  not  to  have  been  approved.     Afterwards  I 


14  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

the  mouth  of  the  Eastern  branch  and  the  lands  on 
the  river  below  and  adjacent  to  Georgetown.  In 
favor  of  the  former,  nature  has  furnished  powerful 
advantages  :  In  favor  of  the  latter,  is  its  vicinity  to 
Georgetown — which  puts  it  in  the  way  of  deriving 
aids  from  it  in  the  beginning,  and  of  communicating 
in  return  an  increased  value  to  the  property  of  that 
town.  These  advantages  have  been  so  poised  in  my 
mind  as  to  give  it  different  tendencies  at  different 
times.  There  are  lands  which  stand  yet  in  the  way 
of  the  latter  location  and  which  if  they  could  be  ob- 
tained for  the  purposes  of  the  town,  would  remove  a 
considerable  obstacle  to  it,  and  go  near  indeed  to 
decide  what  has  been  so  lono-  on  the  balance  with  me. 
These  are  first,  the  lands  on  the  Southwest  side  of 
a  line  to  be  run  from  where  the  Road  crosses  Goose 
creek  (in  going  from  Georgetown  to  the  Eastern 
branch, — to  the  corner  of  Beatty's  lot,  including  by 
the  Plat,  of  Beatty  and  Orme  the  house  of  William 
Pearce)  or,  if  the  whole  of  this  parcel  cannot  be  ob- 
tained then,  secondly,  so  much  as  would  lie  within  a 
line  to  be  run  from  the  said  ford,  or  thereabouts,  to 
the  middle  of  the  line  of  cession  which  extends  from 


found,  that  all  the  Indians  north  of  the  Ohio  were  already  arranged  under 
one  department,  of  whicli  Cieiieral  St.  Clair  was  the  superintendent,  who,  with 
your  permission,  might  appoint  a  deputy.  General  Knox  seemed  to  wish,  that 
the  matter  might  be  suspended  until  the  arrival  of  General  St.  Clair,  who  was 
daily  expected.  Sinee  that  time  1  have  reflected  on  the  subject,  and,  upon  the 
whole,  would  beg  leave  to  decline  taking  the  superintendency  proposed  ; 
though  not  without  expressing  the  real  pleasure  I  feel  in  the  favorable  senti- 
ments you  entertain  concerning  me,  and  assuring  you  of  my  reatliness  to  per- 
form any  occasional  services  in  that  line,  which  your  wishes  for  the  public  good 
may  re<iuirc." — I'liiladelphia,  January  15th. 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  15 

the  corner  of  Beatty's  lot  as  above  mentioned  to  its 
termination  in  Goose  creek.  Thirdly,  the  lands  of 
Mr.  Carrol,  between  Goose  creek,  the  river,  and  Mr. 
Young's,  to  the  same  ford  of  the  creek. 

The  object  of  this  letter  is  to  ask  you  to  endeavor 
to  purchase  these  grounds  of  the  owners  for  the 
public,  particularly  the  second  parcel,  but  as  if  for 
yourselves,  and  to  conduct  your  propositions  so  as 
to  excite  no  suspicion  that  they  are  on  behalf  of  the 
public. 

The  circumstances  of  the  funds  appropriated  by 
the  States  of  Virginia  and  Mar}'land  will  require 
that  a  twelve  month's  credit  be  stipulated,  in  order 
that  they  may  cover  you  from  any  inconvenience 
which  might  attend  your  personal  undertakings.  As 
the  prices  at  which  the  lands  can  be  obtained  would 
have  its  weight  also  with  me,  I  would  wish  that,  in 
making  your  bargains  you  should  reserv'e  to  your- 
selves a  fortnight's  time  to  consider,  at  the  end  of 
which  you  should  be  free  to  be  off  or  on  but  the 
seller  not  so  :  This  will  admit  your  writing  to  me  and 
receiving  my  definitive  answer. 

A  clear  purchase  is  so  preferable  to  every  other 
arrangement,  that  I  should  scarcely  think  any  other 
worthy  attention.^ 

'  "  Major  L'Enfant  comes  on  to  make  such  a  sur%"ey  of  the  grounds  in  your 
vicinity  as  may  aid  in  fixing  the  site  of  the  federal  town  and  buildings  :  his 
present  instructions  express  those  alone  which  are  within  the  Eastern  branch, 
the  Potowmac,  the  Tyber,  and  the  road  leading  from  Georgetown  to  the  Ferry 
on  the  Eastern  branch.  He  is  directed  to  begin  at  the  lower  end  and  work 
upwards,  and  nothing  further  is  communicated  to  him.  The  purpose  of  this 
letter  is  to  desire  you  will  not  be  yourselves  misled  by  this  appearance,  nor  be 
diverted  from  the  pursuit  of  the  objects  I  have  recommended  to  you.     I  expect 


1 6  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [179 1 

I  am  obliged  to  add  that  all  the  despatch  is  requi- 
site which  can  consist  with  the  success  of  your  opera- 
tions, and  I  shou'd  be  glad  to  hear  by  post  of  your 
progress,  and  prospect  of  the  accomplishment  of  this 
business  in  whole  or  in  part.      I  am,  &c. 

P.  S.  That  my  description  of  the  lands  required  in 
the  foregoing  letter  may  be  more  clearly  understood, 
and  my  wishes  further  explained,  I  enclose  you  a 
rough,  and  very  rough  indeed  it  is,  copy  of  the 
ceded  tracts,  roads,  &c.,  of  Messrs.  Beatty  and 
Orme's  survey,  adding  thereto  lines  of  augmenta- 
tion.— To  obtain  the  lands  included  within  the  lines 
A  B  &  C  is  my  first  wish, — and  next  to  that  the 
lands  within  the  lines  D  E  &  F  ;  but  those  within 
the  lines  D  E  and  along  the  creek  to  C  are  indispen- 
sably necessary  ;  and  being  not  over  250  acres  might, 
I  suppose,  be  easily  obtained. 

It  ought  to  be  the  first  essay  ;  and  I  wish  to  know 
the  result  of  it  before  any  others  are  directly  at- 
tempted. 


TO    JOHN    ARMSTRONG. 
Dear    General,  Philadelphia,  6  February,  1791. 

Acknowledging  the  receipt  of  your  letter  of  the 
29th  of  December,  and  offering  to  you  my  best 
thanks  for  the  interest  it  expresses  in  my  behalf,  I 
beg  you  to  be  persuaded,  that  neither  my  late  silence 

that  your  progress  in  accomplishing  them  will  be  facilitated  by  the  presump- 
tion which  will  arise  on  seeing  this  operation  begun  at  the  eastern  branch  ;  and 
that  the  proprietors  nearer  (jeorgctuwn  who  have  hitherto  refused  to  accommo- 
date, will  let  themselves  down  to  reasonable  terms." — Washington  to  Dcakins 
and  Stoddcrt,  2  March,  1791. 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  17 

nor  my  present  brevity  is  in  any  degree  the  conse- 
quence of  diminished  regard.  Your  friendship  re- 
ceives from  me  the  same  grrateful  and  affectionate 
return,  which  I  have  ever  made  to  it  ;  but  the  multi- 
plied duties  of  my  public  station  allow  me  little  or 
no  leisure  for  the  cultivation  of  private  regards  ;  and 
the  necessity  of  a  prior  attention  to  those  duties 
cannot  fail,  my  dear  Sir,  to  excuse  me  to  you. 

Having  in  all  cases  of  application  for  appointment 
to  office  prescribed  as  an  invariable  rule  to  myself, 
the  riorht  of  remainino-  to  the  last  moment  free  and 
unengaged,  I  did  not  find  myself  at  liberty,  even  in 
your  regard,  to  deviate  from  that  rule,  which  you 
will  be  so  good  as  to  assign  as  the  reason  why  I  did 
not  answer  your  letter  of  last  spring. 

I  have  the  best  disposition  to  serve  the  person, 
whom  you  then  recommended,  and,  in  whatever  may 
comport  with  circumstances  and  public  propriety,  I 
shall  be  happy  to  do  so.  At  present  I  know  not 
what  offices  may  be  created,  and  applicants  multiply 
with  every  new  office,  and  some  of  them  come  for- 
ward under  such  fair  pretensions  and  pressing  wants, 
that  preference  is  difficult  and  painful  to  a  degree. 
In  a  word,  to  a  man,  who  has  no  ends  to  serve,  nor 
friends  to  provide  for,  nomination  to  office  is  the 
most  irksome  part  of  the  executive  trust. 

The  concern  which  you  take  in  my  health,  en- 
hances the  pleasure  I  have  in  assuring  you,  that  it 
is  now  perfectly  reestablished.  It  will  add  greatly 
to  my  enjoyment  to  hear  that  yours  is  also  improved. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


1 8  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON,    SECRETARY    OF    THE 
TREASURY. 
gjj^  •  Philadelphia,  16  February,  1791. 

"  An  act  to  incorporate  the  subscribers  to  the  Bank 
of  the  United  States  "  is  now  before  me  for  con- 
sideration. 

The  constitutionality  of  it  is  objected  to.  It 
therefore  becomes  more  particularly  my  duty  to 
examine  the  ground  on  which  the  objection  is  built. 
As  a  mean  of  investigation  I  have  called  upon  the 
Attorney  General  of  the  United  States,  in  whose  line 
it  seemed  more  particularly  to  be,  for  his  official 
examination  and  opinion.  His  report  is,  that  the 
Constitution  does  not  warrant  the  act.  I  then 
applied  to  the  Secretary  of  State  for  his  sentiments 
on  the  subject.  These  coincide  with  the  Attorney 
General's,  and  the  reasons  for  their  opinions  having 
been  submitted  in  writing,  I  now  require,  in  like 
manner,  yours,  on  the  validity  and  propriety  of  the 
above  recited  act :  and  that  you  may  know  the  points 
on  which  the  Secretary  of  State  and  the  Attorney 
General  dispute  the  constitutionality  of  the  act ;  and 
that  I  may  be  fully  possessed  of  the  argument  for 
and  against  the  measure,  before  I  express  any  opinion 
of  my  own — I  give  you  an  opportunity  of  examining 
and  answering  the  objections  contained  in  the  en- 
closed papers.  I  require  the  return  of  them,  when 
your  own  sentiments  are  handed  me  (which  I  wish 
may  be  as  soon  as  is  convenient),  and  further,  that 
no  copies  of  them  be  taken,  as  it  is  for  my  own 
satisfaction  they  have  been  called  for. 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  19 

TO    DAVID    HUMPHREYS. 

Philadelphia,  16  March,  1791. 

My  dear  Sir, 

As  this  letter  is  wholly  of  a  private  nature,  I  refer 
you  to  Mr.  Jefferson's  official  communications  for  every 
thing-  relative  to  your  appointment  at  the  court  of  Lis- 
bon, &c.,  and  shall  confine  myself  to  acknowledging 
your  two  letters,  viz.  one  from  London  of  October  31 
and  the  other  from  Lisbon  of  November  30,  1 790,  and 
to  such  general  observations  as  may  occur  in  the 
course  of  my  writing. 

The  desponding  accounts  of  our  public  affairs, 
which  you  mention  to  have  been  transmitted  to 
Europe  by  a  person  high  in  office  here,  are  happily 
contradicted  by  facts  too  stubborn  to  be  overturned  ; 
and,  although  it  is  to  be  regretted,  that  such  gloomy 
relations  should  be  given  by  a  man,  who,  it  may  be 
supposed,  is  perfectly  acquainted  with  our  political 
situation,  yet  there  is  some  pleasure  in  knowing,  that 
his  better  half  has  asserted  things  quite  contrar}'.^ 

The  remarks  of  a  foreign  Count  are  such  as  do  no 
credit  to  his  judgment,  and  as  little  to  his  heart.  They 
are  the  superficial  observations  of  a  few  months'  resi- 
dence, and  an  insult  to  the  inhabitants  of  a  country, 
where  he  has  received  much  more  attention  and 
civility  than  he  seems  to  merit.^ 


^  This  relates  only  to  a  rumor,  which  had  come  to  the  ears  of  Colonel 
Humphreys,  that  the  Vice-President  had  written  to  Europe  despondingly  of 
American  affairs,  but  that  letters  from  his  wife  were  in  a  different  tone. 

'"The  Count  Andriani  has  written  things  monstrously  absurd  and  ill- 
founded  ;  such,  in  respect  to  their  import,  as  follows  :  That  the  United  States 
are  divided  into  two  factions,  Mr.  Jefferson  and  the  northern  States  in  favor  of 
France,  the  southern  States  and  New  York  in  favor  of  Great  Britain  ;  that 


2  0  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

It  gives  me  pleasure  to  hear,  that  Mr.  Paine  is 
likely  to  succeed  with  his  bridge,  and  Rumsey  in  his 
ingenious  projects/ 

Congress  finished  their  session  on  the  3d  of  March, 
in  the  course  of  which  they  received  and  granted  the 
applications  of  Kentucky  and  Vermont  for  admission 
into  the  Union  ^;  the  former  after  August,  1792,  and 

Congress  had  done  nothing  but  quarrel  about  the  seat  of  government,  and  that 
this  circumstance  was  what  probably  gave  you  the  air  of  anxiety,  which  he  had 
remarked  ;  that  there  was  no  man  in  Congress,  but  Mr.  Madison,  who  argued 
in  a  gentlemanlike  and  solid  manner,  nor,  in  short,  any  man  out  of  it  in  Amer- 
ica but  Colonel  Hamilton,  who  possessed  abilities  ;  with  a  great  deal  about 
American  parade  and  luxury,  not  worth  repeating." — Humphreys  to  Washing- 
ton, 31  October,  1790. 

'  Mr.  Rumsey  had  gone  to  Europe  to  seek  encouragement  for  his  inventions. 
Of  Paine's  bridge  Colonel  Humphreys  said  :  "  It  is  an  arch  of  one  hundred  and 
fifteen  feet  on  the  upper  side,  and  has  the  most  beautifully  light  appearance  I 
ever  beheld.  The  truth  of  the  principles,  and  the  extent  of  the  utility  of  the 
invention,  are  demonstrated."  This  bridge  was  constructed  of  iron.  Mr. 
Rumsey  was  engaged  in  constructing  a  steamboat,  but  died  suddenly  in 
London. 

-  "  I  never  doubted  but  that  the  operations  of  this  government,  if  not  per- 
verted by  prejudice  or  evil  designs,  would  inspire  the  citizens  of  America  with 
such  confidence  in  it,  as  effectually  to  do  away  those  apprehensions,  which, 
under  the  former  confederation,  our  best  men  entertained  of  divisions  among 
ourselves,  or  allurements  from  other  nations.  I  am  therefore  happy  to  find, 
that  such  a  disposition  prevails  in  your  part  of  the  country  [Kentucky],  as  to 
remove  any  idea  of  that  evil,  which  a  few  years  ago  you  so  much  dreaded. 

"  I  shall  receive  with  great  satisfaction  and  due  thanks  any  information  of  a 
public  or  private  nature,  that  you  may  think  proper  to  communicate  to  me 
from  your  district.  These  communications  will  be  the  more  grateful,  as  we 
seldom  hear  the  particulars  of  any  transactions  from  that  quarter,  and  the  in- 
telligence often  comes  through  such  chanels,  as  in  a  great  measure  to  prevent 
confidence  from  being  placed  in  it." — IVashington  to  Thomas  Marshall,  6 
February,  1791. 

It  was  in  Kentucky  that  Jefferson  saw  the  beginnings  of  a  party,  which  he 
assiduously  cultivated.  Urging  Harry  Innes  to  enter  Congress  he  said  : 
"  I  have  such  confidence  in  the  purity  of  your  republicanism,  that  I  know 
your  efforts  would  go  in  a  right  direction.  Zeal  and  talents  added  to  the 
Republican  scale  will  do  no  harm  in  Congress.  It  is  fortunate  that  our  first 
executive  magistrate  is  purely  and  realously  republican.    "We  cannot  expect 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  21 

the  latter  immediately.  They  made  provision  for  the 
interest  on  the  national  debt,  by  laying  a  higher  duty 
than  that  which  heretofore  existed  on  spirituous 
liquors,  imported  or  manufactured  ;  they  established 
a  national  bank  ;  they  passed  a  law  for  certain  meas- 
ures to  be  taken  towards  establishing  a  mint  ;  and 
finished  much  other  business  of  less  importance,  con- 
ducting on  all  occasions  with  great  harmony  and 
cordiality.  In  some  few  instances,  particularly  in 
passing  the  law  for  higher  duties  mentioned  above, 
and  more  especially  on  the  subject  of  the  bank,  the 
line  between  the  southern  and  eastern  interests  ap- 
peared more  strongly  marked  than  could  have  been 
wished  ;  the  former  against,  and  the  latter  in  favor  of, 
those  measures.  But  the  debates  were  conducted 
with  temper  and  candor. 

The  convention  between  Spain  and  England  seems 
once  more  to  have  composed  the  European  powers, 
except  the  Empress  and  the  Turks,  and  the  Emperor 
appears  to  have  settled  matters  pretty  thoroughly  in 

all  his  successors  to  be  so,  and  therefore  should  avail  ourselves  the  present  day 
to  establish  principles  and  examples  which  may  fence  us  against  future  heresies, 
preached  now,  to  be  practised  hereafter." — 13  March,  1791. 

"  In  the  interim  the  arrangements  of  government  have  in  a  great  measure 
silenced  our  complaints,  as  there  is  at  present  a  disposition  to  remedy  our 
wants  by  the  active  measures  adopted  against  the  Indians  and  to  obtain  the 
navigation  of  the  Mississippi." — Harry  Innes  to  Jefferson,  30  May,  1791. 

"The  people  of  Kentucky  are  all  turned  politicians— from' the  highest  in 
office  to  the  peasant.  The  peasantry  are  perfectly  mad.  Exlraordinarj-  preju- 
dices, and  without  foundation,  have  arisen  against  the  present  officers  of 
government,  the  lawyers,  and  the  men  of  fortune.  They  say  plain  honest 
farmers  are  the  only  men  who  ought  to  be  elected  to  form  our  Constitution. 
What  will  be  the  end  of  these  prejudices  it  is  difficult  to  say.  They  have  given 
a  very  serious  alarm  to  every  thinking  man,  who  are  determined  to  watch  and 
court  the  temper  of  the  people." — Harry  Innes  to  Jefferson,  27  August,  1791. 


2  2  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

his  dominions.  Of  the  state  of  thino^s  in  France  we 
can  form  no  just  idea,  so  various  and  contradictory 
are  our  accounts  from  thence ;  but  we  most  devoutly 
wish  a  speedy  and  happy  termination  of  the  struggle, 
which  has  for  some  time  past  convulsed  that  king- 
dom. 

Peace  and  tranquillity  pervade  the  territory  of  the 
United  States,  except  on  the  N.  W.  side  of  the  Ohio, 
where  the  frequent  depredations  of  the  Indians  made 
it  necessary  to  form  an  expedition  against  them  last 
fall.  But  that  has  not  been  productive  of  the  conse- 
quences, which  were  expected  from  it.  The  Indians 
still  continue  their  hostilities,  and  measures  are  now 
taking  to  convince  them,  if  they  do  not  see  the  folly 
of  their  ways  before  they  can  be  carried  into  effect, 
that  the  enmity  of  the  United  States  is  as  much  to  be 
dreaded,  as  their  friendship  is  to  be  desired.  Our 
public  credit  is  restored,  our  resources  are  increasing, 
and  the  general  appearance  of  things  at  least  equals 
the  most  sanguine  expectation,  that  was  formed  of 
the  effects  of  the  present  government. 

I  am  about  to  set  out  to-morrow  or  next  day  on  a 
tour  through  the  southern  States.  I  am  under  the 
necessity  of  commencing  my  journey  with  very  bad 
roads,  in  order  that  I  may  take  such  advantage  of  the 
season  as  to  be  leaving  the  southern  extremity  before 
the  travelling  shall  be  rendered  disagreeable,  and  per- 
haps dangerous  by  the  heat.  I  expect  to  return  to 
this  city  in  the  latter  end  of  June,  or  early  in  July. 
Since  the  rising  of  Congress  I  have  been,  and  shall 
be  till  my  departure,  very  busily  engaged  in  making 


179']  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  23 

such  arrangements  with  the  several  departments  as 
will  enable  me  to  be  absent  for  several  months,  with- 
out interrupting  public  business  ;  and  if  I  have  not 
said  every  thing  in  this  letter  that  I  intended,  or  that 
you  might  expect,  it  must  be  imputed  to  the  hurry  of 
the  moment.  But  at  any  rate  there  is  one  thing  I 
must  not  omit,  which  is  to  tell  you,  that  I  am  very 
sincerely  your  affectionate  friend. 


TO    M.    LAFAYETTE.^ 

Philadelphia,  19  March,  1791. 

Renewinor  to  vou,  mv  dear  Sir,  assurances  of  the 
most  perfect  esteem  and  affection,  I  desire  to  refer 
the  interruptions,  which  our  correspondence  has  lately 
sustained  on  my  part,  to  causes  which  I  am  persuaded 
you  will  readily  admit  as  excusable.  To  the  fulfil- 
ment of  public  duties,  too  interesting  to  be  neglected, 
and  too  multiplied  to  allow  me  much  leisure,  I  am 
forced  to  sacrifice  the  wishes  of  friendship  and  the 
pleasures  of  private  life.  This  reason  to  you,  who 
suffer  the  same  privations,  will  apologize  for  the 
abridgment  of  an  intercourse,  ever  grateful  to  my 
feelings  and  conducive  to  my  happiness. 

The  tender  concern,  which  you  express  on  my  late 
illness,  awakens  emotions,  which  words  will  not  ex- 
plain, and  "to  which  your  own  sensibility  can  best  do 
justice.     My   health    is    now   quite   restored,   and    I 

'  The  abolition  of  the  KcbUsse  in  France,  by  a  decree  of  the  National 
Assembly,  took  place  on  the  19th  of  June,  1790.  Afterwards  the  title  of  Mar- 
quis was  dropped  in  Washington's  letters  to  Lafayette. 


24  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

flatter  myself  with  the  hope  of  a  long  exemption 
from  sickness.  On  Monday  next  I  shall  enter  on 
the  practice  of  your  friendly  prescription  of  exercise, 
intending  at  that  time  to  begin  a  journey  to  the 
southward,  during  which  I  propose  visiting  all  the 
southern   States. 

Our  country,  my  dear  Sir,  (and  it  is  X.x\Ay  yours)  is 
fast  progressing  in  its  political  importance  and  social 
happiness.  The  last  session  of  Congress  has  been 
occupied  in  additional  arrangements  of  finance,  to 
establish  the  public  credit,  and  provide  for  the  expen- 
ditures of  government.  A  small  increase  of  our  mili- 
tary establishment  has  also  been  judged  necessary  to 
reclaim,  if  possible,  and  to  chastise,  if  required,  the 
irregularities  of  some  Indian  tribes  on  the  western 
waters.  Your  friend,  General  St.  Clair,  resumes  his 
functions  as  major-general.^ 

'  Congress  directed  the  raising  of  one  regular  regiment,  two  regiments  of 
levies  for  six  months,  and  such  a  proportion  of  levies  as  may  be  thought  neces- 
sary. To  St.  Clair  was  given  the  command  in  chief ;  to  Richard  Butler,  the 
levies  ;  and  to  Charles  Scott  the  militia. 

The  appointment  and  conduct  of  Butler  gave  rise  to  some  discontent  in  the 
army,  on  which  Washington  wrote  to  Col.  William  Darke,  9  August,  1791  : 

"  I  need  not  tell  you,  that  my  regret  is  seriously  excited  by  learning,  that 
any  cause  of  discontent  should  exist,  either  on  your  own  part,  or  that  of  your 
officers,  with  General  Butler  ;  and  it  is  hardly  necessary  to  express  my  earnest 
wish,  that  it  may  speedily  subside,  and  be  entirely  done  away.  But,  as  I  rely 
greatly  on  your  disposition  to  advance  the  public  interest,  though  even  by  the 
relinquishment  of  private  ojiinions,  I  shall  offer  to  your  consideration  some 
remarks,  which  I  am  persuaded  will  have  weight  with  you,  and  induce  your 
influence  willi  your  officers  to  dismiss  their  discontents,  and  to  think  only  of 
their  public  duty. 

"  Let  it  in  the  first  place  be  rcmeml)ered,  tliat  one  common  cause  engages 
your  service,  and  recjuires  all  your  exertions.  It  is  the  interest  of  your  country. 
'i'o  that  interest  all  inferior  considerations  must  yield.  As  an  apology  for  the 
seeming  inattention  of  a  commanding  officer,  it  should  be  considered,  that  the 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  25 

The  laws  of  the  United  States,  adapted  to  the 
public  exigencies,  are  framed  with  wisdom  and  mod- 
eration, and  acquiesced  in  with  cheerfulness.  The 
administration  of  them,  aided  by  the  affectionate  par- 
tiality of  my  countrymen,  is  attended  with  no  un- 
necessary inconvenience,  and  every  circumstance  is 
auspicious  to  the  felicity  of  your  fellow-citizens  In 
this  section  of  the  globe.  They  are  not  less  so,  I 
devoutly  hope,  In  that  country  which  Is  more  Imme- 
diately the  object  of  your  patriotic  attentions. 

The  distance,  which  separates  us,  joined  to  the 
delicacy  of  the  subject,  has  always  suspended  my 
opinion  on  your  national  affairs.  I  am  well  aware, 
that  it  is  impossible  to  judge  with  precision  of  meas- 
ures, the  motives  of  which  are  sometimes  unknown, 
and  the  necessity  of  them  not  always  understood  ; 
but  there  is  one  circumstance  on  which  I  find  it  diffi- 
cult to  suppress  an  anxious  wish  ;  that  the  present 
National  Assembly  may  not  protract  their  own  exist- 
ence so  long,  as  to  beget  any  uneasiness  on  that  score. 
The  confirmation  of  their  decrees  will  be  best  made 
by  a  second  representation  of  the  people  ;  and  that 
representation,  to  act  efficiently  as  a  legislative  body, 
may  possibly  be  required  to  be  reorganized.  My  af- 
fection for  the  French  nation,  my  sincere  wish  that 

variety  of  objects,  which  engage  him,  may  produce  an  appearance  of  neglect 
by  no  means  intended.  In  General  Butler's  particular  instance,  some  allow- 
ance should  be  made  for  the  effects  of  bodily  indisposition,  combined  with  the 
cares  of  his  station  ;  and  I  am  satisfied  no  one,  either  from  temper  or  reflection, 
will  more  cheerfully  make  this  allowance  than  yourself. 

"  On  this  belief  I  rest  an  expectation,  that  every  uneasiness  will  be  com- 
posed, and  that  the  public  service  will  be  proceeded  in  with  harmony  and 
zeal." 


26  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

their  government  may  be  respectable  and  the  people 
happy,  will  excuse  the  disclosure  of  this  sentiment,  the 
only  one,  I  believe,  that  I  have  ventured  to  offer  on 
the  subject  of  the  revolution. 

Like  you,  my  dear  Sir,  I  sighed  for  retirement ; 
like  me,  I  am  afraid  you  must  continue  the  sacrifice. 
I  have  obeyed  your  request  in  communicating  your 
remembrance  to  the  friends  mentioned  in  your  letter 
of  the  26th  of  August.  Mrs.  Washington  joins  me  in 
respectful  compliments  to  Madame  de  Lafayette,  and 
I  entreat  you  to  be  assured  of  the  inviolable  respect 
and  esteem  with  which  I  am,  my  dear  Sir,  &c. 

P.  S.  Your  old  aid-de-camp,  George  Augustine 
Washington,  has  got  another  son,  to  whom  he  has 
given  your  name.^ 


TO    THOMAS    JEFFERSON,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 

Mount  Vernon,  31  March,  1791. 

Dear  Sir, 

Having  been  so  fortunate  as  to  reconcile  the  con- 
tending interests  of  Georgetown  and  Carrollsburg, 
and  to  unite  them  in  such  an  agreement  as  permits 
the  public  purposes  to  be  carried  into  effect  on  an 
extensive  and  proper  scale,  I  have  the  pleasure  to 
transmit   to   you   the   enclosed   proclamation,  which, 

'  Accordiiif;  to  the  intimation  <^iven  in  this  letter,  tlie  President  commenced 
his  tour  througli  the  Sonlhern  States.  lie  proceeded  by  way  of  Richmond, 
Wilmington,  and  Charleston  as  far  south  as  Savannah  ;  thence  to  Augusta  and 
Columbia,  and  returned  througli  the  interior  of  North  Carolina  and  Virginia. 
His  journal  of  this  tour  has  Ijceii  published  under  the  editorship  of  Benson  J. 
Lossing. 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  27 

after  annexing  the  seal  of  the  United  States,  and 
your  countersignature,  you  will  cause  to  be  published/ 
The  terms  entered  into  by  me,  on  the  part  of  the 
United  States,  with  the  landholders  of  Georgetown 
and  CarroUsburg  are,  that  all  the  land  from  Rock 
Creek  along  the  river  to  the  Eastern  Branch,  and  so 
upwards  to  or  above  the  Ferry,  including  a  breadth 
of  about  a  mile  and  a  half,  the  whole  containing  from 
three  to  five  thousand  acres,  is  ceded  to  the  public 

'  "Finding  the  interests  of  the  Landholders  about  Georgetown  and  those 
about  Carrollsburgh  much  at  variance,  and  that  their  fears  and  jealousies  of 
each  were  counteracting  the  public  purposes,  and  might  prove  injurious  to  its 
best  interests,  whilst  if  properly  managed  they  might  be  made  to  subserve  it — 
I  requested  them  to  meet  me  at  six  o'clock  this  afternoon  at  my  lodgings, 
which  they  accordingly  did. 

"To  this  meeting  I  represented  that  the  contention  in  which  they  seemed 
engaged,  did  not  in  my  opinion  comport  either  with  the  public  interest  or  that 
of  their  own  ; — that  while  each  party  was  aiming  to  obtain  the  public  buildings, 
they  might  by  placing  the  matter  on  a  contracted  scale,  defeat  the  measure 
altogether,  not  only  by  procrastination,  but  for  want  of  the  means  necessary 
to  effect  the  work  ; — That  neither  the  offer  from  Georgetown  or  Carrollsburgh, 
seperately,  was  adequate  to  the  end  of  ensuring  the  object ; — That  both 
together  did  not  comprehend  more  ground  nor  would  afford  greater  means 
than  was  required  for  the  federal  City  ; — and  that  instead  of  contending  which 
of  the  two  should  have  it,  they  had  better,  by  combining  more  offers  to  make 
a  common  cause  of  it,  and  thereby  secure  it  to  the  district — Other  arguments 
were  used  to  show  the  danger  which  might  result  from  delay,  and  the  good 
effects  that  might  proceed  from  a  union." — Diary.  Convinced  by  these 
arguments,  the  landholders  agreed  to  surrender  for  the  public  interest  one  half 
of  the  lands  they  held,  with  some  other  stipulations.  The  proclamation,  dated 
30  March,  1791,  fixed  the  following  boundary  lines  : 

"Beginning  at  Jones's  Point,  being  the  upper  Cape  of  Hunting  Creek  in 
Virginia,  and  at  an  angle  in  the  outset  of  forty-five  degrees  west  of  the  north, 
and  running  in  a  direct  line  ten  miles,  for  the  first  line  ;  then  beginning  again 
at  the  same  Jones's  Point,  and  running  another  direct  line  at  a  right  angle  with 
the  first  across  the  Potomac,  ten  miles,  for  the  second  line  ;  then,  from  the 
termination  of  the  said  first  and  second  lines,  running  two  other  direct  lines  of 
ten  miles  each,  the  one  crossing  the  Eastern  Branch  aforesaid,  and  the  other 
the  Potomac,  and  meeting  each  other  in  a  point." 


28  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

on  condition,  that,  when  the  whole  shall  be  surveyed 
and  laid  off  as  a  city  (which  Major  L'Enfant  is  now 
directed  to  do),  the  present  proprietors  shall  retain 
every  other  lot ;  and  for  such  part  of  the  land  as  may 
be  taken  for  public  use,  for  squares,  walks,  &c.,  they 
shall  be  allowed  at  the  rate  of  twenty-five  pounds  per 
acre,  the  public  having  the  right  to  reserve  such 
parts  of  the  wood  on  the  land,  as  may  be  thought 
necessary  to  be  preserved  for  ornament ;  the  land- 
holders to  have  the  use  and  profits  of  all  the  grounds 
until  the  city  is  laid  off"  into  lots,  and  sale  is  made  of 
those  lots,  which,  by  this  agreement,  become  public 
property.  Nothing  is  to  be  allowed  for  the  ground, 
which  may  be  occupied  as  streets  or  alleys. 

To  these  considerations  all  the  principal  landhold- 
ers, except  the  purchaser  of  Slater's  property,  who  was 
not  present,  have  subscribed  ;  and  it  is  not  doubted, 
that  the  few,  who  were  not  present,  will  readily  come 
into  the  measure,  even  the  obstinate  Mr.  Burns. 

The  enlarged  plan  of  this  agreement  having  done 
away  the  necessity,  and  indeed  postponed  the  pro- 
priety, of  designating  the  particular  spot  on  which  the 
public  building  should  be  placed,  until  an  accurate 
survey  and  subdivision  of  the  whole  ground  is  made, 
I  have  left  out  that  paragraph  of  the  proclamation. 

It  was  found  on  running  the  lines,  that  the  compre- 
hension of  Bladensburg  within  the  district  must  have 
occasioned  the  exclusion  of  more  important  objects  ; 
and  of  this  I  am  convinced,  as  well  by  my  own  obser- 
vation, as  Mr.  Ellicott's  opinion.  With  great  regard 
and  esteem,  I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


j-jgi]  GEORGE  W ASHING TOX.  29 

TO    THOMAS   JEFFERSON,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 

Mount  Vernon,  i  April,  1791. 

Dear  Sir, 

I  have  had  the  pleasure  to  receive  your  letter  of 
the  27th  ultimo,  with  the  papers  which  accompanied 
it.  Referring  to  your  judgment,  whether  a  commis- 
sion similar  to  that  intended  for  Mr.  Barclay^  may  be 
given  without  the  agency  of  the  Senate,  I  return  both 
papers  to  you  signed,  in  order  that  the  one  you  deem 
most  proper  may  be  used. 

Your  opinions  respecting  the  acts  of  force,  which 
have  already  taken  place,  or  may  yet  take  place,  on 
our  boundaries,  meet  my  concurrence  as  the  safest 
mode  of  compelling  propositions  to  an  amicable  set- 
tlement ;  and  it  may  answer  a  good  purpose  to  have 
them  suggested  in  the  way  you  mention.  Should 
this  matter  assume  a  serious  aspect  during  my  ab- 
sence, I  beg  you  to  communicate  particulars  with  all 
possible  despatch.^ 

The  most  superb  edifices  may  be  erected,  and  I 
shall  wish  their  inhabitants  much  happiness,  and  that 

'  Going  on  a  mission  to  Morocco,  but  with  the  commission  of  a  consul  only. 

-  Difi5culties  had  arisen  among  the  settlers  on  the  eastern  and  northwestern 
boundaries.  It  was  reported  that  acts  of  force  had  been  committed.  "  Tlie 
impossibility,"  said  Mr.  Jefferson,  "  of  bringing  the  court  of  London  to  an  ad- 
justment of  any  differences  whatever,  renders  our  situation  perplexing.  Should 
any  applications  from  the  States,  or  their  citizens,  be  so  urgent  as  to  require 
something  to  be  said  before  your  return,  my  opinion  would  be,  that  they  should 
be  desired  to  make  no  new  settlements  on  our  part,  nor  suffer  any  to  be  made 
on  the  part  of  the  British,  within  the  disaffected  territon- ;  and,  if  any  attempts 
should  be  made  to  remove  them  from  the  settlements  already  made,  that  they 
are  to  repel  force  by  force,  and  ask  aid  of  the  neighboring  militia  to  do  this 
and  no  more.  I  see  no  other  safe  way  of  forcing  the  British  government  to 
come  forward  themselves,  and  demand  an  amicable  settlement." — March  27th. 


so  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

too  very  disinterestedly,  as  I  shall  never  be  of  the 
number  myself.^ 

It  will  be  fortunate  for  the  American  public,  if 
private  speculations  in  the  lands  still  claimed  by 
the  aborigines  do  not  aggravate  those  differences, 
which  policy,  humanity,  and  justice  concur  to  depre- 
cate."^ 

I  am  much  indebted  to  your  kind  concern  for  my 
safety  in  travelling.  No  accident  has  yet  happened, 
either  from  the  high  hanging  of  the  carriage,  or 
the  mode  of  driving.  The  latter  I  must  continue, 
as  my  postilion  is  still  too  much  indisposed  to  ride 
the  journey.  It  occurs  to  me  that  you  may  not 
have  adverted  to  Judge  Putnam's  being  in  the  wes- 
tern country  at  present.  Perhaps  General  Knox 
can  furnish  you  with  the  maps  you  want,  or  they 
may  be  found  among  those  that  are  in  my  study  at 
Philadelphia. 

I  expect  to  leave  Mount  Vernon,  in  prosecution  of 
my  southern  tour,  on  Tuesday  or  Wednesday  next. 
1  shall  halt  one  day  at  Fredericksburg  and  two  at 
Richmond  ;  thence  I  shall  proceed  to  Charleston  by 
the  way  of   Petersburg,  Halifax,   Tarborough,  New- 

'  It  was  from  this  sentence,  probably,  that  Jefferson  drew  the  inference  that 
Washington  "  meant  to  retire  from  tlie  government  ere  long." — Anas. 

A  bill  had  been  ordered  to  be  brought  into  the  House  of  Representatives  of 
Pennsylvania  for  granting  money  to  build  a  Federal  Hall  and  President's 
House. 

■■'  Alluding  to  the  large  purchases  of  new  lands,  situate  in  the  western  part 
of  New  York,  which  had  recently  been  made  by  Robert  Morris  of  Gorham  and 
Phelps.  Tlie  (juantity  as  stated  by  Mr.  Jefferson,  was  one  million  three  hun- 
dred thousand  acres  at  five  pence  an  acre  ;  with  an  additional  tract,  for  the  gross 
sum  of  one  hundred  thousand  pounds. 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  31 

bern,  Wilmington,  and  Georgetown,  without  making 
any  halts  between  Richmond  and  Charleston,  but 
such  as  may  be  necessary  to  accommodate  my  jour- 
ney.    I  am  sincerely  and  affectionately  yours. 


TO    THOMAS   JEFFERSON,  SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 

Mount  Vernon,  3  April,  1791. 

Dear  Sir, 

You  will  readily  agree  with  me,  that  the  best  inter- 
ests of  the  United  States  require  such  an  intimation 
to  be  made  either  directly  or  indirectly  to  the  Gov- 
ernor of  Canada,  as  may  produce  instructions  to 
prevent  the  Indians  receiving  military  aid  or  supplies 
from  the  British  posts  or  garrisons.  The  notoriety  of 
this  assistance  has  already  been  such,  as  renders  in- 
quiry into  particulars  unnecessary.  Major  Beckwith 
seems  peculiarly  designated  to  be  the  channel  of  an 
indirect  intimation.  Referring  the  mode  and  extent 
of  communicating  with  him  to  your  own  discretion,  I 
wish  it  may  be  suggested,  in  such  manner  as  to  reach 
Lord  Dorchester,  or  the  officer  commanding  in  Can- 
ada, that  certain  information  has  been  received  of 
large  supplies  of  ammunition  being  delivered  from 
British  posts  to  the  hostile  Indians,  about  the  begin- 
ning of  last  campaign  ;  and  as  the  United  States  have 
no  other  view  in  prosecuting  the  present  war  against 
the  Indians,  than,  in  the  failure  of  negotiation,  to 
procure,  by  arms,  peace  and  safety  to  the  inhabitants 
of  their  frontier,  they  are  equally  surprised  and  disap- 
pointed at  such  an  interference  by  the  ser\'ants  or 


32  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

subjects  of  a  foreign  state,  as  seems  intended  to  pro- 
tract the  attainment  of  so  just  and  reasonable  an 
object. 

These  are  my  sentiments  on  this  subject  at  the 
present  moment ;  yet  so  unsettled  do  some  circum- 
stances appear,  that  it  is  possible  you  may  see  a 
necessity  either  to  treat  it  very  delicately,  or  to 
decline  acting  on  it  altogether.  The  option  is  there- 
fore left  to  your  judgment,  as  events  may  make  the 
one  or  the  other  the  part  of  propriety.^  The  enclosed 
paper  is  transmitted,  and  referred  to  you  in  the  state 
I  received  it.     I  am,  &c. 


TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon,  4  April,  1791. 

Dear  Sir, 

Your  letter  of  the  27th  ultimo  came  duly  to  hand. 
For  the  information  given  in  it,  and  for  the  notes 
which  accompanied  the  same,  I  thank  you. 

Every  expedient,  as  I  believe  you  know,  is  tried  to 
avert  a  war  with  the  hostile  tribes  of  Indians,  and  to 
keep  those  who  are  in  treaty  with  us  in  good  humor ; 
but  I  am  almost  thoroughly  convinced,  that  neither 
will  be  effected,  or,  if  effected,  will  be  of  short  dura- 
tion, whilst  land-jobbing,  and  the  disorderly  conduct 

'  Beckwith  had  already  assured  Hamilton  that  nothing  more  had  been  given 
to  the  Indians  than  the  annual  present  at  the  usual  time.  Jefferson  thought  an 
opportunity  presented  itself  of  forcing  the  British  to  come  forward  and  demand 
an  amicable  settlement.  He  would  forbid  settlements  in  the  disputed  territory, 
and  in  case  of  conflict,  which  was  inevitable,  to  resort  to  arms. — Jefferson  to 
Washington,  27  March,  1791.  He  asked  Madison,  who  lodged  in  the  same 
house  with  the  British  agent,  to  meet  Beckwith  and  to  represent,  that  while  an 


179']  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  ZZ 

of  our  borderers,  are  suffered  with  impunity ;  and 
while  the  States  individually  are  omitting  no  occasion 
to  intermeddle  in  matters,  which  belong  to  the  gen- 
eral government. 

It  is  not  more  than  four  or  five  months  since  the 
Six  Nations,  or  part  of  them,  through  the  medium  of 
Colonel  Pickering,  were  assured,  that  henceforward 
they  would  be  spoken  to  by  the  government  of  the 
United  States  only,  and  the  same  thing  was  repeated 
in  strong  terms  to  the  Cornplanter  at  Philadelphia 
afterwards.  Now,  as  appears  by  the  extract  from 
Mr.  King,  the  legislature  of  New  York  were  going 
into  some  negotiations  with  these  very  people.  What 
must  this  evince  to  them  ?  Why,  that  we  pursue  no 
system,  and  that  there  is  no  reliance  on  any  of  our 
declarations.  To  sum  the  whole  up  into  a  few  words, 
the  interference  of  States,  and  the  speculations  of 
individuals,  will  be  the  bane  of  all  our  public  meas- 
ures.    Sincerely  and  affectionately  yours.^ 

annual  present  might  be  innocent  in  time  of  peace,  it  might  be  otherwise  in  a 
period  of  war  ;  that  it  was  a  violation  of  neutrality  to  furnish  arms  to  either 
power  at  war.  This  meeting  was  held  on  the  evening  of  April  7th. —  Writings 
of  Madison,  i.,  530.  Jefferson  to  Washington,  17  and  24  April,  1791.  One- 
of  the  first  acts  of  the  British  Minister,  George  Hammond,  was  to  give  an 
explicit  disclaimer  that  the  government  of  Canada  had  supported  or  encouraged 
the  hostility  of  the  Indians  in  the  west. — Jefferson  to  Hammond,  2  February-, 
1792. 

'  The  letter  from  Mr.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasurj-  contained  the 
following  passage,  after  mentioning  that  danger  was  apprehended  from  the 
Indians  in  the  western  parts  of  New  York. 

"  You  are  sensible,  that  almost  every  person  here  is  interested  in  our  western 
lands.  Their  value  depends  upon  the  settlement  of  the  frontiers.  These 
settlements  depend  on  peace  with  the  Indians  ;  and  indeed  the  bare  possibility 
of  a  war  with  the  Six  Nations  would  break  up  our  whole  frontier.  It  is  from 
this  state  of  things,  that  the  war  with  the  Wabash  Indians  is  so  much  dis- 
relished here.  The  legislature  have  authorized  the  governor  to  draw  money 
3 


34  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

TO    THE    SECRETARIES    OF   THE   DEPARTMENTS  OF   STATE, 
TREASURY,    AND   WAR. 

Mount  Vernon,  4  April,  1791. 
Gentlemen, 

As  the  public  service  may  require,  that  communications  should 
be  made  to  me  during  my  absence  from  the  seat  of  government 
by  the  most  direct  conveyances,  and  as,  in  the  event  of  any  very 

from  the  treasury,  and  to  take  such  measures  as  he  may  judge  suitable  to 
preserve  the  good  will  of  the  neighboring  Indians.  I  have  said,  and  I  pre- 
sume it  will  be  the  case,  that  all  pnident  means  will  be  used  to  keep  the  Six 
Nations  quiet  ;  that  we  are  embarked,  and  that  it  has  become  necessaiy  to  go 
forward  with  the  war,  if  peace  can  be  obtained  by  no  other  means  ;  but  I  am 
more  and  more  convinced,  that  it  behoves  the  government,  if  practicable,  to 
finish  this  Indian  business  in  the  course  of  the  summer." 

The  opinion  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  on  the  subject  of  the  Presi- 
dent's letter  above,  is  expressed  in  the  following  extract  from  his  answer. 

"  It  is  to  be  lamented,  that  our  system  is  such  as  still  to  leave  the  public 
peace  of  the  Union  at  the  mercy  of  each  State  government.  This  is  not  only 
the  case  as  it  regards  direct  interferences,  but  as  it  regards  the  inability  of 
the  national  government  in  many  particulars  to  take  those  direct  measures 
for  carrying  into  execution  its  views  and  engagements  which  exigences  require. 
For  example  ;  a  party  comes  from  a  county  of  Virginia  into  Pennsylvania  and 
wantonly  murders  some  friendly  Indians.  The  national  government,  instead 
of  having  power  to  apprehend  the  murderers  and  bring  them  to  justice,  is 
obliged  to  make  a  representation  to  that  of  Pennsylvania  ;  that  of  Pennsylvania 
again  is  to  make  a  representation  to  that  of  Virginia.  And  whether  the  mur- 
derers shall  be  brought  to  justice  at  all  must  depend  upon  the  particular  policy 
and  energy  and  good  disposition  of  two  State  governments,  and  the  efiicacy  of 
the  provisions  of  their  respective  laws  ;  and  the  security  of  other  States,  and 
the  money  of  all,  are  at  the  discretion  of  one.  These  things  require  a  remedy." 
— April  loth. 

Of  this  instance  Washington  had  written  to  Knox,  i  April,  1791  : 

"  Your  letter  of  the  27th  ultimo  was  received  last  evening.  Your  i-)roceeding 
upon  the  intelligence  therein  contained,  which  I  think  truly  alarming,  meets 
my  entire  approbation,  and  appears  to  promise  as  good  effects  as  the  limited 
sphere  of  action,  allotted  to  the  general  government  in  cases  so  deeply  affecting 
its  dignity  and  the  happiness  of  the  citizens,  will  allow. 

"  Should  you  suppose  additional  instructions  to  General  St.  Clair,  or  any 
other  measures  within  the  reach  of  j^ropriety,  may  have  a  tendency  to  appease 
the  friends  of  the  murdered  Indians,  I  wish  you  to  confer  with  the  heads  of  de. 
partments,  and  to  carry  into  immediate  effect  the  result  of  your  deliberations." 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  35 

extraordinary  occurrence,  it  will  be  necessary  to  know  at  what 
time  I  may  be  found  in  any  particular  place,  I  have  to  inform 
you,  that,  unless  the  progress  of  my  journey  to  Savannah  is 
retarded  by  unforeseen  interruptions,  it  will  be  regulated,  includ- 
ing days  of  halt,  in  the  following  manner.  I  shall  be  on  the  8th 
of  April  at  Fredericksburg,  the  nth  at  Richmond,  the  14th  at 
Petersburg,  the  i6th  at  Halifax,  the  i8th  at  Tarborough,  the  20th 
at  Newbem,  the  24th  at  Wilmington,  the  29th  at  Georgetown, 
South  Carolina  ;  on  the  2d  of  May  at  Charleston,  halting  there 
five  days;  on  the  nth  at  Savannah,  halting  there  two  days. 
Thence,  leaving  the  line  of  the  mail,  I  shall  proceed  to  Augusta  ; 
and,  according  to  the  information  which  I  may  receive  there,  my 
return  by  an  upper  road  will  be  regulated. 

The  route  of  my  return  is  at  present  uncertain,  but  in  all  prob- 
ability it  will  be  through  Columbia,  Camden,  Charlotte,  Salisbur>', 
Salem,  Guilford,  Hillsborough,  Harrisburg,  Williamsburg  to  Tay- 
lor's Ferry  on  the  Roanoke,  and  thence  to  Fredericksburg  by 
the  nearest  and  best  road. 

After  thus  explaining  to  you,  as  far  as  I  am  able  at  present,  the 
direction  and  probable  progress  of  my  journey,  I  have  to  express 
my  wish,  if  any  serious  and  important  cases  (of  which  the  proba- 
bility is  but  too  strong)  should  arise  during  my  absence,  that  the 
Secretaries  for  the  Departments  of  State,  Treasury,  and  War, 
may  hold  consultations  thereon,  to  determine  whether  they  are 
of  such  a  nature  as  to  demand  my  personal  attendance  at  the 
seat  of  government  ;  and,  should  they  be  so  considered,  I  will 
return  immediately  from  any  place  at  which  the  information  may 
reach  me.  Or  should  they  determine,  that  measures,  relevant  to 
the  case,  may  be  legally  and  properly  pursued  without  the 
immediate  agency  of  the  President,  I  will  approve  and  ratify 
the  measures,  which  may  be  conformed  to  such  determina- 
tion. 

Presuming  that  the  Vice-President  will  have  left  the  seat  of 
government  for  Boston,  I  have  not  requested  his  opinion  to  be 
taken  on  the  supposed  emergency  ;  should  it  be  otherwise,  I  wish 
him  also  to  be  consulted.  I  am,  Gentlemen,  your  most  obedient 
servant. 


36  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 


TO    THOMAS    JEFFERSON,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 

Richmond,  13  April,  1791. 

Dear  Sir, 

Your  letter  of  the  2d  came  to  my  hand  at  this 
place.  Part  of  it  did,  as  you  supposed,  and  might 
well  suppose,  astonish  me  exceedingly.  I  think  it  not 
only  right,  that  Mr.  Carmichael  should  be  furnished 
with  a  copy  of  the  genuine  letter  to  Mr.  Morris,  but 
that  Mr.  Morris  should  know  the  result  of  his  confer- 
ences with  the  Count  Florida  Blanca^  at  the  court  of 
Madrid.^     The  contents  of  my  public  letters  to  him, 

'  The  manuscript  reads  Duke  of  Leeds,  a  manifest  error. 

^  Mr.  Carmichael,  the  chargtf  d'affaires  from  the  United  States  to  the  court 
of  Spain,  had  informed  the  Secretary  of  State  that  he  had  seen  in  Madrid  ex- 
tracts from  the  President's  letter  to  Gouverneur  Morris  (dated  October  13th, 
1789),  authorizing  him  to  enter  into  a  private  negotiation  for  certain  objects 
with  the  British  Cabinet.  He  supposed  these  extracts  to  have  been  sent 
secretly  by  the  British  Minister  to  the  representative  from  that  court  in  Spain, 
to  have  an  influence  on  a  discussion  then  pending  between  England  and  Spain. 
Mr.  Carmichael  supposed  the  extracts  were  mutilated  or  forged.  Mr.  Jefferson 
recommended  that  a  genuine  copy  of  the  letter  should  be  sent  to  him,  with  per- 
mission to  use  it  as  he  should  think  proper.  The  history  and  particulars  of 
this  negotiation  may  be  seen  in  Ford,  The  United  States  and  Spain  in  ijgi. 

During  the  absence  of  the  President  on  his  tour  through  the  southern  States, 
Mr.  Jefferson  wrote  to  him  on  May  8,  1791,  as  follows,  respecting  his  agency 
in  the  republication  of  the  first  part  of  Paine's  Rights  of  Man  : 

"  Philadelphia,  May  8th.  — The  last  week  does  not  furnish  one  single  public 
event  worthy  communicating  to  you  ;  so  that  I  have  only  to  say,  '  All  is  well.' 
Paine's  answer  to  Burke's  pamphlet  begins  to  produce  some  squibs  in  our  pub- 
lic papers.  In  Fenno's  paper  they  are  Burkites,  in  the  others  tliey  are  Painites. 
One  of  Fenno's  was  evidently  from  the  author  of  the  Discourses  on  Davila.  I 
am  afraid  the  indiscretion  of  a  printer  has  committed  me  with  my  friend,  Mr. 
Adams,  for  whom,  as  one  of  the  most  honest  and  disinterested  men  alive,  I 
have  a  cordial  esteem,  increased  by  long  habits  of  concurrence  in  opinion  in 
the  days  of  his  republicanism,  and  even  since  his  apostasy  to  hereditary 
monarchy  and  nobility,  though  we  differ,  we  differ  as  friends  should  do. 
Beckley  had  the  only  copy  of  Paine's  pamphlet  and  lent  it  to  me,  desiring, 
when  I  should  have  read  it,  that  I  should  send  it  to  a  Mr.  J.  1$.  Smith,  who  had 
asked  it  for  his  brother  to  reprint  it.     Being  an  utter  stranger  to  J.  B.  Smith, 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  37 

you  are  acquainted  with.  My  private  ones  were  few, 
and  there  was  nothing  in  any  of  them  respecting 
England  or  Spain.  How  it  comes  to  pass,  therefore, 
that  such  interpretations,  as  the  extracts  recite,  should 
be  given,  he  best  can  account  for. 

both  by  sight  and  character,  I  wrote  a  note  to  explain  to  him  why  I  (a  stranger 
to  him)  sent  him  a  pamphlet,  namely,  that  Mr.  Beckley  had  desired  it  ;  and, 
to  take  off  a  little  of  the  drj'ness  of  the  note,  I  added,  that  I  was  glad  to  find, 
that  it  was  to  be  reprinted,  that  something  would  at  length  be  publicly  said 
against  the  political  heresies,  which  had  lately  sprung  up  among  us,  and  that 
I  did  not  doubt  our  citizens  would  rally  again  around  the  standard  of  Common 
Sense. 

"  That  I  had  in  my  view  the  Discourses  on  Davila,  which  had  filled  Fenno's 
papers  for  a  twelvemonth  without  contradiction,  is  certain  ;  but  nothing  was 
ever  further  from  my  thoughts,  than  to  become  myself  the  contradictor  before 
the  public.  To  my  great  astonishment,  however,  when  the  pamphlet  came 
out,  the  printer  had  prefixed  my  note  to  it,  without  having  given  me  the  most 
distant  hint  of  it.  Mr.  Adams  will  unquestionably  take  to  himself  the  charge 
of  political  heresy,  as  conscious  of  his  own  views  of  drawing  the  present  gov- 
ernment to  the  form  of  the  English  constitution,  and  I  fear  will  consider  me  as 
meaning  to  injure  him  in  the  public  eye.  I  learn  that  some  Anglomen  have 
censured  it  in  another  point  of  view,  as  a  sanction  of  Paine's  principles  tends  to 
give  offence  to  the  British  government.  Their  real  fear  however,  is,  that  this 
popular  and  republican  pamphlet,  taking  wonderfully,  is  likely  at  a  single 
stroke  to  wipe  out  all  the  unconstitutional  doctrines,  which  their  bell-wether 
Davila  has  been  preaching  for  a  twelvemonth. 

"I  certainly  never  made  a  secret  of  my  being  anti-monarchical,  and  anti- 
aristocratical ;  but  I  am  sincerely  mortified  to  be  thus  brought  forward  on  the 
public  stage,  where  to  remain,  to  advance,  or  to  retire,  will  be  equally  against 
my  love  of  silence  and  quiet,  and  my  abhorrence  of  dispute." 

See  also  Jefferson  to  John  Adams,  17  July,  1791,  in  Life  and  Works  of 
fohn  Adams,  viii.,  504.  The  essays  mentioned  as  having  appeared  in  Fenno's 
paper  were  written  by  John  Quincy  Adams. 

A  further  account  of  this  matter  is  contained  in  a  letter  from  Mr.  Lear  to  the 
President,  dated  May  8th.  He  says,  that  a  few  evenings  before,  at  Mrs. 
Washington's  drawing-room,  he  had  held  a  conversation  with  Major  Beckwith, 
in  which  the  latter  expressed  his  surprise,  that  Paine's  pamphlet  should  be 
dedicated  to  the  President  of  the  United  States,  and  published  in  Philadelphia, 
especially  as  it  contained  many  remarks  that  could  not  but  be  offensive  to  the 
British  government.  Mr.  Lear  replied  that  the  pamphlet  was  written  and  first 
published  in  England,  and  that  the  President  had  neither  seen  it,  nor  knew 
what  it  contained,   and  of  course  could  not  in  any  sense  be   considered  as 


38  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

Being  hurried,  I  shall  only  add,  that  I  shall  proceed 
on  my  journey  to-morrow,  and,  from  good  information, 
have  a  dreary  one  before  me  in  parts  of  it.     *     *     * 

approving  its  sentiments,  or  as  being  responsible  for  them.  What  follows  is 
expressed  in  Mr.  Lear's  own  words  : 

"  Beckwith. — True  ;  but  I  observe  in  the  American  edition,  that  the 
Secretary  of  State  has  given  a  most  unequivocal  sanction  to  the  book,  as  Secre- 
tary of  State  ;  it  is  not  said  as  Mr.  Jefferson. 

"Lear. — I  have  not  seen  the  American,  nor  any  other  edition  of  this 
pamphlet,  but  I  will  venture  to  say,  that  the  Secretary  of  State  has  not  done  a 
thing,  which  he  would  not  justify. 

"Beckwith. — On  this  subject  you  will  consider,  that  I  have  only  spoken 
as  an  individual,  and  as  a  private  person. 

"  Lear. — I  do  not  know  you.  Sir,  in  any  other  character. 

"Beckwith. — I  was  apprehensive,  that  you  might  conceive,  that,  on  this 
occasion,  I  meant  to  enter  the  lists  in  more  than  a  private  character. 

"At  this  moment  the  gentlemen  of  the  Cincinnati,  who  are  here  at  the 
general  meeting,  entered  the  room  in  form,  to  pay  their  respects  to  Mrs.  Wash- 
ington. This  broke  off  the  conversation  ;  and,  as  Major  Beckwith  did  not 
afterwards  seek  an  occasion  to  renew  it,  nothing  more  passed  on  the  subject. 
Yesterday  the  attorney-general  and  Mrs.  Randolph  dined,  in  a  family  way, 
with  Mrs.  Washington,  and  after  dinner,  the  subject  of  Mr.  Paine's  pamphlet 
coming  on  the  carpet,  I  related  to  the  attorney-general  the  substance  of  my 
conversation  with  Major  Beckwith. 

"  Soon  after  I  bad  finished  my  relation  to  the  attorney-general,  a  person 
called  for  him  at  the  door,  with  whom  he  went  out  upon  business.  In  the 
evening  I  saw  him  again,  when  he  informed  me,  that,  upon  being  called  upon 
after  dinner,  he  went  to  Mrs.  House's  with  the  person  who  called  him.  While 
he  was  there.  Major  Beckwith  came  in,  and  in  the  course  of  conversation  the 
subject  of  Mr.  Paine's  pamphlet  was  introduced,  when  Major  Beckwith  made 
the  same  observations,  which  I  had  before  related.  Upon  leaving  Mrs. 
House's,  tlie  attorney-general  said,  he  went  to  Mr.  Jefferson's,  to  know  from 
him  if  he  had  authorized  the  publication  of  the  extract  from  his  note,  which 
appeared  prefixed  to  the  American  edition  of  Mr.  Paine's  pamphlet.  Mr. 
Jefferson  said,  that,  so  far  from  having  authorized  it,  he  was  exceedingly 
sorry  to  see  it  there  ;  not  from  a  disavowal  of  the  approbation,  which  it 
gave  the  work,  but  l)ecause  it  had  been  sent  to  the  printer,  with  the  pamphlet 
for  republication,  without  the  most  distant  idea  that  he  would  think  of 
publishing  any  part  of  it.  And  Mr.  Jefferson  further  added,  that  he  wished 
it  might  be  understood,  that  he  did  not  authorize  the  publication  of  any 
part  of  his  note. 

"  This  publication   of    Mr.  Jefferson's   sentiments   respecting  Mr.    Paine's 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  39 


TO   MESSRS.   JOHNSON,    STUART,  AND  CARROLL.^ 

Charleston,  7  May,  1791. 

Gentlemen, 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  14  of  last  month 
— It  is  an  unfortunate  circumstance,  in  the  present 
stage  of  the  business,  relative  to  the  federal  city,  that 
difficulties  unforeseen  and  unexpected  should  arise  to 
darken,  perhaps  to  destroy  the  fair  prospect,  which  it 
presented  when  I  left  Georgetown — and  which  the 
instrument,  then  signed  by  the  combined  interest  (as 
it  was  termed)  of  Georgetown  and  Carrollsburg,  so 
plainly  describes — The  pain  which  this  occurrence 
occasions  me  is  the  more  sensibly  felt,  as  I  had  taken 
pleasure,  during  my  journey  through  the  several 
States,  to  relate  the  agreement  and  to  speak  of  it,  on 
every  proper  occasion,  in  terms,  which  applauded  the 
conduct  of  the  Parties,  as  being  alike  conducive  to 
the  public  welfare,  and  to  the  interest  of  individuals, 
which  last,  it  was  generally  thought  would  be  most 
benefitted  by  the  amasing  encrease  of  the  property 
reser\'ed  to  the  Landholders. 

The  words  cited  by  Messrs.  Young,  Peters  Lingan, 

pamphlet  will  set  him  in  direct  opposition  to  Mr.  Adams's  political  tenets  ; 
for  Mr.  Adams  has,  in  the  most  pointed  manner,  expressed  his  detestation  of 
the  book  and  its  tendency.  I  had  myself  an  opportunity  of  hearing  Mr. 
Adams's  sentiments  on  it  one  day  soon  after  the  first  copies  of  it  arrived  in 
this  place.  I  was  at  the  Vice-President's  house,  and  while  there  Dr.  and 
Mrs.  Rush  came  in.  The  conversation  turned  upon  this  book,  and  Dr.  Rush 
asked  the  Vice-President  what  he  thought  of  it.  After  a  little  hesitation,  he 
laid  his  hand  upon  his  breast,  and  said  in  a  very  solemn  manner.  '  I  detest 
that  book  and  its  tendency,  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart.'" — Philadelphia, 
May  8th. 

'  Thomas  Johnson,  David  Stuart,  and  Daniel  Carroll,  Commissioners  of  the 
Federal  District. 


40  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

and  Forrest  and  Stoddert,  may  be  nearly  what  I  ex- 
pressed. But  will  these  Gentlemen  say  this  was  given 
as  the  precise  boundary,  or  will  they,  by  detaching 
these  words,  take  them  in  a  sense  unconnected  with 
the  general  explanation  of  my  ideas  and  views  upon 
that  occasion  or  without  the  qualifications,  which,  un- 
less I  am  much  mistaken  were  added  of  running  about 
so  and  so — for  I  had  no  map  before  me  for  direction. 
Will  they  not  recollect  my  observation  that  Philadel- 
phia stood  upon  an  area  of  three  by  two  miles,  and 
that  if  the  metropolis  of  one  State  occupied  so  much 
ground,  what  ought  that  of  the  United  States  to 
occupy  ?  Did  I  not  moreover  observe  that  before 
the  city  could  be  laid  out,  and  the  spot  for  the  public 
buildings  be  precisely  fixed  on,  the  water  courses  were 
to  be  levelled,  the  heights  taken  &c.,  &c — 

Let  the  whole  of  my  declaration  be  taken  together, 
and  not  a  part  only  and  being  compared  with  the  in- 
strument then  subscribed,  together  with  some  other 
circumstances  which  might  be  alluded  to,  let  any  im- 
partial man  judge  whether  I  had  reason  to  expect 
that  difficulties  would  arise  in  the  conveyances. 

When  the  instrument  was  presented  I  found  no 
occasion  to  add  a  word  with  respect  to  boundary,  be- 
cause the  whole  was  surrendered  upon  the  conditions 
which  were  expressed.  Had  I  discovered  a  disposi- 
tion in  the  subscribers  to  contract  my  views,  I  should 
then  have  pointed  out  the  inconveniences  and  the  im- 
policy of  the  measure. 

Upon  the  whole  I  shall  hope  and  expect  that  the 
business  will  be  suffered  to  proceed  ;  and  the  more  so, 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  41 

as  they  cannot  be  ignorant  that  the  farther  considera- 
tion of  a  certain  measure  in  a  neighboring  state,  stands 
postponed — for  what  reason  is  left  to  their  own  infor- 
mation or  conjectures.  I  expect  to  be  with  you  at 
the  time  appointed,  and  should  be  exceedingly  pleased 
to  find  all  difficulties  removed.      I  am,  &c. — 


TO    JAMES    SEAGROVE. 

Augusta,  Georgia,  20  May,  1791. 

Sir, 

The  confidence,  which  your  character  inclines  me 
to  place  in  you,  has  induced  me  to  commit  the  en- 
closed letter  from  the  Secretary  of  State  to  Governor 
Quesada,^  and  the  negotiation,  which  will  be  conse- 
quent thereon,  to  your  care  and  management.  The 
letter,  which  is  under  a  flying  seal,  to  be  closed  be- 
fore it  is  delivered,  will  inform  you  of  the  import,  and 
serve  to  instruct  you  in  the  mode  of  conducting  the 
object  of  your  mission.  Delicate  in  its  nature,  it  will 
require  the  greatest  address  and  temper  in  its  treat- 
ment. Nor  must  any  proposition  or  declaration  be 
made,  which  in  its  consequence  might  commit  the 
government  of  the  United  States. 

'  Spanish  governor  of  Florida.  By  order  of  his  court,  he  was  inviting  for- 
eigners to  settle  in  that  territory.  "  This  is  meant  for  our  people,"  said  Mr, 
Jefferson  April  2d  ;  "  debtors  take  advantage  of  it,  and  go  off  with  their  prop- 
erty. Our  citizens  have  a  right  to  go  where  they  please.  Tt  is  the  business  of 
the  States  to  take  measures  to  stop  them  till  their  debts  are  paid.  This  done, 
I  wish  a  hundred  thousand  of  our  inhabitants  would  accept  the  invitation.  It 
■will  be  the  means  of  delivering  to  us  peaceably  what  may  otherwise  cost  us  a 
war.  In  the  meantime  we  may  complain  of  this  reduction  of  our  inhabitants 
just  enough  to  make  them  believe  we  think  it  very  wise  policy  for  them,  and 
confirm  them  in  it." 


42  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

The  enclosed  copy  of  a  letter,  written  by  my  direc- 
tion from  the  Secretary  of  State  to  the  Governor  of 
Georgia,  which  is  now  confidentially  communicated  to 
you,  is  another  source,  whence  some  information  may 
be  drawn ;  but,  as  my  ideas  of  your  personal  acquaint- 
ance with  this  business,  combined  with  my  opinion 
of  your  character  and  talents  to  transact  it,  have  de- 
termined me  to  appoint  you,  it  is  from  your  own 
knowledge,  and  the  circumstances  which  may  arise, 
that  you  must  decide  on  the  best  means  to  accom- 
plish the  negotiation.  Your  first  care  will  be  to  arrest 
the  farther  reception  of  fugitive  slaves  ;  your  next  to 
obtain  restitution  of  those  slaves,  who  have  fled  to 
Florida,  since  the  date  of  Governor  Quesada's  letter 
to  Mr.  Jefferson,  notifying  the  orders  of  his  Catholic 
Majesty  ;  and  your  last  object,  which  may  demand 
the  greatest  address,  will  be  to  give  a  retrospective 
force  to  the  orders  of  the  court  of  Spain,  beyond  the 
date  of  that  letter,  and  to  procure  the  Governor's  or- 
der for  a  general  relinquishment  of  all  fugitive  slaves, 
who  were  the  property  of  citizens  of  the  United 
States.  This  last  instruction  will  require  peculiar 
delicacy,  and  must  be  entered  on  with  caution  and 
circumspection,  or  not  be  taken  up  at  all,  as  appear- 
ances of  compliance  may  justify  the  one  or  the 
other. 

If  your  collectorate  cannot  furnish  money  to  defray 
your  expenses,  in  which  you  will  observe  due  economy, 
and  of  which  you  will  transmit  an  account  to  the  Sec- 
retary of  State,  you  will  supply  yourself  from  the 
collector  of  Savannah.     I  am,  Sir,  &c. 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  43 

TO    CHARLES    COTESWORTH    PINCKNEY    AND    EDWARD 
RUTLEDGE. 
Columbia,  South  Carolina,  24  May,  1791. 

Gentlemen, 

An  address  to  you  jointly,  on  a  subject  of  the  fol- 
lowing nature,  may  have  a  singular  appearance  ;  but 
that  singularity  will  not  exceed  the  evidence,  which 
is  thereby  given  of  my  opinion  of,  and  confidence  in 
you,  and  of  the  opinion  I  entertain  of  your  confi- 
dence in  and  friendship  for  each  other. 

The  office  lately  resigned  by  the  Honble.  Mr.  John 
Rutledge,  in  the  supreme  judiciary  of  the  Union, 
remains  to  be  filled.  Will  either  of  you  two  gentle- 
men accept  it  ?  And,  in  that  case,  which  of  you  ?  It 
will  occur  to  you,  that  appointments  to  offices  in  the 
recess  of  the  Senate  are  temporary  ;  but  of  their 
confirmation  in  such  a  case  there  can  be  no  doubt. 

It  may  be  asked  why  a  proposition  similar  to  this 
has  never  been  made  to  you  before.  This  is  my  an- 
swer. Your  friends,  with  whom  I  have  often  con- 
versed on  like  occasions,  have  always  given  it  as  their 
decided  opinion,  that  no  place  in  the  disposal  of  the 
general  government  could  be  a  compensation  for  the 
relinquishment  of  your  private  pursuits,  or,  in  their 
belief,  would  withdraw  you  from  them.^     In  making 

'  In  a  joint  reply,  Mr.  Pinckney  and  Mr.  Rutledge  declined  accepting  the 
proposed  appointment.  They  placed  their  objection  chiefly  on  private  grounds  ; 
"  but  others,"  they  added,  "  of  a  more  general  and  more  powerful  nature  have 
influenced  our  resolution.  We  think  we  can  be  of  more  real  advantage  to  the 
general  government,  and  to  our  own  State  government,  by  remaining  in  the 
legislature,  than  we  could  possibly  be  by  accepting  any  office  under  either, 
which  fills  the  public  eye  with  the  appearance  of  being  lucrative.     Under  this 


44  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

the  attempt,  however,  in  the  present  instance,  I  dis- 
charge my  duty,  and  shall  await  your  answer  (which 
I  wish  to  receive  soon)  for  the  issue.  Of  my  sincere 
esteem  and  regard  for  you  both,  I  wish  you  to  be 
persuaded,  and  that  I  am.   Gentlemen,  &c. 


TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON,    SECRETARY    OF    THE 
TREASURY. 

[private.] 

Mount  Vernon,  13  June,  1791. 

My  DEAR  Sir, 

I  am  arrived  at  this  place,  and  just  in  time  to  ac- 
knowledge (in  a  hasty  manner  by  this  day's  post,  the 
first  opportunity  that  has  offered  of  writing  to  Phila- 
delphia since  I  left  Savannah,)  the  receipt  of  your 
private  letter  of  the  17th  of  April,  by  Mr.  Smith, 
who  lodged  it  at  Camden,  through  which  it  was 
known  my  route  would  be  on  my  return  to  the 
seat  of  the  government. 

Mr.  Wolcott  may  be  informed  that  it  is  my  inten- 
tion to  appoint  him  to  the  office  of  comptroller.^ 
With  respect  to  his  successor  as  auditor,  I  shall  sus- 

opinion  you  will  be  in  sentiment  with  us,  that  it  is  our  indispensable  duty  to 
continue  in  the  station  we  are,  so  long  as  we  possess  the  confidence  of  the  pub- 
lic. But  as  we  devoted  a  large  portion  of  our  early  years  to  the  service  of  our 
country,  so,  whenever  her  honor,  or  her  interest,  shall  seem  to  require  our  aid, 
we  shall  cheerfully  lay  aside  all  private  or  partial  considerations,  and  imitate  as 
far  as  may  be  in  our  power  the  best  and  brightest  of  examples." — Charleston, 
June  I2th. 

'  He  had  been  recommended  for  the  a])pointment  by  Colonel   Hamilton,  in 
terms  expressive  of  the  highest  opinion  of  his  character  and  qualifications. 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  45 

pend  my  determination,  if  no  manifest  inconvenience 
will  result  from  it,  until  my  arrival  in  Philadelphia, 
which,  however,  is  not  likely  to  happen  before  the 
5th  or  6th  of  July,  as,  by  appointment  at  the  last 
meeting,  I  am  to  meet  the  commissioners  under  the 
residence  act,  on  Monday  the  27th  instant  at  George- 
town, and  may,  for  aught  I  know  to  the  contrary,  be 
detained  there  several  days  ;  and  afterwards  must 
move  slowly,  on  account  of  the  exhausted  condition 
of  my  horses. 

No  letters  from  the  northward  or  eastward  of  this, 
bearing  date  between  the  15th  and  30th  of  May,  have 
come  to  my  hands  ;  and  having  abundant  evidence, 
before  I  reached  Charleston,  of  the  slow  movements 
of  the  mail  through  the  three  southernmost  States,  I 
did,  before  I  left  that  place,  on  the  9th  of  that  month, 
direct  that  all  letters,  which  might  be  for  and  follow- 
ing me,  to  be  returned  to  Fredericksburg,  as  the  first 
place  I  should  touch  the  post  line  upon  my  return. 
But,  these  directions  not  arriving  in  Richmond  in 
time,  as  I  conjecture,  the  letters  of  that  interval 
agreeably  to  the  superscriptions  which  I  am  in- 
formed were  on  them,  were  forwarded  from  that 
place  to  Taylor's  Ferry,  in  expectation  of  meeting 
me  there.  But  to  this  circumstance,  which  was  un- 
known to  me,  and  to  finding  from  better  information 
than  I  set  out  with,  that  it  would  be  more  convenient 
to  cross  James  River  higher  up  than  at  Taylor's,  is  to 
be  ascribed  my  missing  the  communications,  which 
were  made  between  the  15th  and  30th  of  May  as 
mentioned  before.     These  despatches  I  may  be  long 


46  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

without,  and  perhaps  never  get  ;  for  there  are  no 
cross  posts  in  those  parts,  and  the  letters,  which 
will  have  to  pass  through  many  hands,  may  find  some 
who  are  not  deficient  in  curiosity. 

My  return  to  this  place  is  sooner  than  I  expected, 
owing  to  the  uninterruptedness  of  my  journey  by 
sickness,  from  bad  weather,  or  accidents  of  any  kind 
whatsoever.  Having  obtained,  before  I  left  Phila- 
delphia, the  most  accurate  account  I  could  get  there 
of  the  places  and  roads  through  and  by  which  I  was 
to  perform  my  tour,  and  the  distances  between  the 
former,  I  formed  my  line  of  march  accordingly,  fixed 
each  day's  journey  and  the  day  to  halt ;  from  neither 
of  which  have  I  departed  in  a  single  instance,  except 
staying  from  a  particular  circumstance  two  days  in 
Columbia,  and  none  at  Charlotte,  instead  of  one  at 
each,  and  crossing  James  River  at  Carter's  Ferry  in 
place  of  Taylor's,  as  was  the  original  intention.  But 
the  improbability  of  performing  a  tour  of  seventeen 
hundred  miles  (I  have  already  rode  more)  with  the 
same  set  of  horses  without  encountering  any  accident, 
by  which  a  deviation  would  be  rendered  unavoidable, 
appeared  so  great,  that  I  allowed  eight  days  for  casu- 
alties, and  six  to  refresh  at  this  place  when  I  should 
have  returned  to  it.  None  of  the  former  having  hap- 
pened, accounts  for  the  fourteen  days  I  shall  remain 
here  before  the  meeting  with  the  commissioners  ;  one 
of  whom,  Mr.  Johnson,  Chief  Justice  of  the  State  of 
Maryland,  and  living  at  a  pretty  considerable  distance 
from  Georgetown,  having  made  his  arrangements 
agreeably  thereto,  would  not  be  able  to  meet  me  sooner. 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  47 

I  mention  this  matter,  that,  if  there  is  any  thing 
pressing  in  either  of  the  departments,  it  maybe  known 
where  I  am.  With  affectionate  regard,  I  am  sincerely 
yours. 

TO    CATHARINE    MACAULAY    GRAHAM. 

Philadelphia,  19  July,  1791. 

Madam, 

At  the  same  time  that  I  acknowledge  the  receipt 
of  your  letter  of  the  ist  of  March,  with  which  I  have 
been  honored,  let  me  request  you  to  accept  my  thanks 
for  your  polite  attention  in  sending  me  the  pamphlet.^ 
which  accompanied  it.  The  importance  of  the  sub- 
ject, which  has  called  forth  your  production  and 
numerous  others,  is  so  deeply  interesting  to  mankind, 
that  ever)'  philanthropic  mind,  however  far  removed 
from  the  scene  of  action,  cannot  but  feel  anxious  to 
see  its  termination  ;  and  it  must  be  the  ardent  wish 
of  every  good  man,  that  its  event  may  increase  the 
happiness  of  the  human  race. 

I  often  regret,  that  my  public  duties  do  not  allow 
me  so  much  time  as  my  inclination  requires,  to  attend 
to  my  private  correspondences,  especially,  with  you. 
Madam.  But  I  persuade  myself,  your  goodness  will 
lead  you  to  place  the  brevity  of  this  letter  to  its  proper 
account,  particularly  when  I  add,  that  I  am  but  just 
returned  from  a  tour  of  near  two  thousand  miles 
through  the  southern  States,  to  perform  which  took  me 
more  than  three  months.  I  shall  only  further  add  to 
it,  what  I  know  must  give  you  great  pleasure,  that 

*  Observations  on  Mr.  Burke's  ^^Reflections  on  the  French  Revolution." 


48  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

the  United  States  enjoy  a  scene  of  prosperity  and 
tranquillity  under  the  new  government,  that  could 
hardly  have  been  hoped  for  under  the  old,  and  that, 
while  you,  in  Europe,  are  troubled  with  war  and 
rumors  of  war,  every  one  here  may  sit  under  his  own 
vine,  and  none  to  molest  or  make  him  afraid.  I  am, 
&c/ 


TO    DAVID    HUMPHREYS. 

Philadelphia,  20  July,  1791. 

My  dear  Sir, 

I  have  received  your  letters  of  the  i6th  of  Febru- 
ary and  3d  of  May,  and  am  much  obliged  by  your 
observations  on  the  situation,  manners,  customs,  and 
dispositions  of  the  Spanish  nation.  In  this  age  of 
free  inquiry  and  enlightened  reason,  it  is  to  be  hoped, 
that  the  condition  of  the  people  in  every  country 
will  be  bettered,  and  the  happiness  of  mankind  pro- 
moted, Spain  appears  to  be  so  much  behind  the  other 
nations  of  Europe  in  liberal  policy,  that  a  long  time 
will  undoubtedly  elapse,  before  the  people  of  that 
kingdom  can  taste  the  sweets  of  liberty,  and  enjoy 
the  natural  advantages  of  their  country. 

In  my  last  I  mentioned  my  intention  of  visiting 
the  southern  States,  which  I  have  since  accomplished, 
and  have  the  pleasure  to  inform  you,  that  I  per- 
formed a  journey  of  eighteen  hundred  and  eighty- 
seven  miles  without  meeting  with  any  interruption 
by  sickness,  bad  weather,  or  any  untoward  accident. 

'  Mrs.  Graham  died  on  the  22d  of  June,  1791,  and  consequently  before  the 
letter  was  written. 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  49 

Indeed,  so  highly  were  we  favored,  that  we  arrived 
at  each  place,  where  I  proposed  to  make  any  halt,  on 
the  very  day  I  fixed  upon  before  we  set  out.  The 
same  horses  performed  the  whole  tour  ;  and  although 
much  reduced  in  flesh,  kept  up  their  full  spirits  to 
the  last  day. 

I  am  much  pleased  that  I  have  taken  this  journey, 
as  it  has  enabled  me  to  see  with  my  own  eyes  the 
situation  of  the  country  through  which  we  travelled, 
and  to  learn  more  accurately  the  disposition  of  the 
people  than  I  could  have  done  by  any  information. 

The  country  appears  to  be  in  a  very  improving 
state,  and  industry  and  frugality  are  becoming  much 
more  fashionable  than  they  have  hitherto  been  there. 
Tranquillity  reigns  among  the  people,  with  that  dis- 
position towards  the  general  government,  which  is 
likely  to  preserve  it.  They  begin  to  feel  the  good 
effects  of  equal  laws  and  equal  protection.  The 
farmer  finds  a  ready  market  for  his  produce,  and  the 
merchant  calculates  with  more  certainty  on  his  pay- 
ments. Manufacturers  have  as  yet  made  but  little 
progress  in  that  part  of  the  country',  and  it  will  prob- 
ably be  a  long  time  before  they  are  brought  to  that 
state,  to  which  they  have  already  arrived  in  the 
middle  and  eastern  parts  of  the  Union. 

Each  day's  experience  of  the  government  of  the 
United  States  seems  to  confirm  its  establishment, 
and  to  render  it  more  popular.  A  ready  acquiescence 
in  the  laws  made  under  it  shows  in  a  strong  light  the 
confidence,  which  the  people  have  in  their  represen- 
tatives, and  in  the  upright  views  of  those,  who  ad- 


50  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

minister  the  government.  At  the  time  of  passing 
a  law  imposing  a  duty  on  home-made  spirits,  it  was 
vehemently  affirmed  by  many,  that  such  a  law  could 
never  be  executed  in  the  southern  States,  particularly 
in  Virginia  and  North  Carolina.'  As  this  law  came 
in  force  only  on  the  ist  of  this  month,  little  can  be 
said  of  its  effects  from  experience  ;  but,  from  the 
best  information  I  could  get  on  my  journey,  respect- 
ing its  operation  on  the  minds  of  the  people,  (and  I 
took  some  pains  to  obtain  information  on  this  point,) 

'  In  his  southern  tour  he  recorded,  on  reaching  Richmond  :  "I  cannot 
discover  that  any  discontents  prevail  among  the  people  at  large  at  the  proceed- 
ings of  Congress.  The  conduct  of  the  assembly  respecting  assumption  he 
[Carrington]  thinks  is  condemned  by  them  as  intemperate  and  unwise — and  he 
seems  to  have  no  doubt  but  that  the  Excise  law — as  it  is  called — may  be  exe- 
cuted without  difficulty — nay  more,  that  it  will  become  popular  in  a  little 
time.  His  duty  as  marshall  having  carried  him  through  all  parts  of  the  State 
lately,  and  of  course  given  him  the  best  means  of  ascertaining  the  temper  and 
disposition  of  its  inhabitants — he  thinks  them  favorable  towards  the  General 
Government — and  that  they  only  require  to  have  matters  explained  to  them  in 
order  to  obtain  their  full  assent  to  the  measures  adopted  by  it." — 12  April 
T7gi. 

"The  resolutions  of  the  House  of  Delegates  of  your  Commonwealth, 
respecting  the  Senate  of  the  United  States,  had  previously  been  submitted  to 
our  Legislature.  The  aristocratic  faction  among  us,  supported  by  a  host  of 
stock  jobbers  and  speculators  who  have  suddenly  amassed  great  wealth,  and 
consequently  possess  a  considerable  degree  of  influence,  endeavored  to  oppose 
a  concurrence  with  the  measure,  especially  in  the  form  of  instructions.  It  is 
with  pleasure,  however,  I  can  now  inform  you,  that  their  attempts  proved 
abortive,  and  that  resolutions  have  been  entered  into  by  large  majorities  of 
both  Houses,  which,  tho'  not  precisely  in  the  same  words  of  those  of  Virginia, 
are  as  strongly  expressive  of  the  same  sentiments  ;  and  I  flatter  myself,  that 
in  a  measure  so  essential  to  the  preservation  of  our  Liberties,  we  shall  find 
ourselves  supported  by  most  of  the  States  in  the  Union. 

"  The  removal  of  one  of  our  Senators  afl^ords  some  evidence  of  a  declension 
of  influence  in  a  certain  faction,  and  I  hope  will  serve  to  teach  others  that 
there  are  periods  when  they  must  fall  within  the  power  of  their  constituents, 
and  rest  upon  them  for  their  political  existence." — George  Clinton  to  James 
Monroe,  i6  February,  1791. 


i79il  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  51 

there  remains  no  doubt  but  it  will  be  carried  into 
effect,  not  only  without  opposition,  but  with  very 
general  approbation  in  those  very  parts  where  it  was 
foretold,  that  it  would  never  be  submitted  to  by  any 
one.  It  is  possible,  however,  and  perhaps  not  im- 
probable, that  some  demagogue  may  start  up,  and 
produce  and  get  signed  some  resolutions  declaratory 
of  their  disapprobation  of  the  measure. 

Our  public  credit  stands  on  that  ground,  which 
three  years  ago  it  would  have  been  considered  as  a 
species  of  madness  to  have  foretold.  The  astonish- 
ing rapidity,  with  which  the  newly  instituted  bank 
was  filled,  gives  an  unexampled  proof  (here)  of  the 
resources  of  our  countrymen,  and  their  confidence  in 
public  measures.  On  the  first  day  of  opening  the 
subscription,  the  whole  number  of  shares  (twenty 
thousand)  were  taken  up  in  one  hour,  and  application 
made  for  upwards  of  four  thousand  shares  more  than 
were  granted  by  the  institution,  besides  many  others 
that  were  coming  in  from  different  quarters. 

For  some  time  past  the  western  frontiers  have 
been  alarmed  by  depredations  committed  by  some 
hostile  tribes  of  Indians ;  but  such  measures  are  now 
in  train  as  will,  I  presume,  either  bring  them  to  sue 
for  peace  before  a  stroke  is  struck  at  them,  or  make 
them  feel  the  effects  of  an  enmity  too  sensibly  to 
provoke  it  again  unnecessarily,  unless,  as  is  much 
suspected,  they  are  countenanced,  abetted,  and  sup- 
ported in  their  hostile  views  by  the  British.  Though 
I  must  confess  I  cannot  see  much  prospect  of  living 
in  tranquillity  with  them,  so  long  as  a  spirit  of  land- 


52  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

jobbing  prevails,  and  our  frontier  settlers  entertain 
the  opinion,  that  there  is  not  the  same  crime  (or  in- 
deed no  crime  at  all)  in  killing  an  Indian,  as  in  killing 
a  white  man. 

You  have  been  informed  of  the  spot  fixed  on  for 
the  seat  of  government  on  the  Potomac  ;  and  I  am 
now  happy  to  add,  that  all  matters  between  the  pro- 
prietors of  the  soil  and  the  public  are  settled  to  the 
mutual  satisfaction  of  the  parties,  and  that  the  busi- 
ness of  laying  out  the  city,  the  grounds  for  public 
buildings,  walks,  &c.  is  progressing  under  the  inspec- 
tion of  Major  L'Enfant  with  pleasing  prospects. 

Thus  much  for  our  American  affairs.  And  I  wish 
I  could  say  as  much  in  favor  of  circumstances  in 
Europe.  But  our  accounts  from  thence  do  not  paint 
the  situation  of  the  inhabitants  in  very  pleasing 
colors.  One  part  exhibits  war  and  devastations, 
another  preparations  for  war,  a  third  commotions,  a 
fourth  direful  apprehensions  of  commotions ;  and  in- 
deed there  seems  to  be  scarcely  a  nation  enjoying 
uninterrupted,  unapprehensive  tranquillity. 

The  example  of  France  will  undoubtedly  have  its 
effects  on  other  kingdoms.  Poland,  by  the  public 
papers,  appears  to  have  made  large  and  unexpected 
strides  towards  liberty,  which,  if  true,  reflects  great 
honor  on  the  present  King,  who  seems  to  have  been 
the  principal  promoter  of  the  business. 

By  the  by,  I  have  never  received  any  letter  from 
Mr.  Littlepage,  or  from  the  King  of  Poland,  which 
you  say  Mr.  Carmichael  informed  you  were  sent  to 
me  last  summer. 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  53 

I  yesterday  had  Mr.  Jaudenes/  who  was  in  this 
country  with  Mr.  Gardoqui,  and  is  now  come  over  in 
a  public  character,  presented  to  me  for  the  first  time 
by  Mr.  Jefferson.  Colonel  Ternant  is  expected  here 
every  day  as  minister  from  France. 

I  am  glad  to  learn,  that  the  air  of  Lisbon  agrees 
so  well  with  you.  I  sincerely  hope  you  may  long, 
very  long,  enjoy  the  blessing  of  health,  accompanied 
with  such  other  blessings  as  may  contribute  to  your 
happiness.  I  have  been  in  the  enjoyment  of  very 
good  health  during  my  journey,  and  have  rather 
gained  flesh  upon  it.  Mrs.  Washington  desires  her 
best  wishes  may  be  presented  to  you.  You  are 
always  assured  of  those  of,  my  dear  Sir,  your  sincere 
and  affectionate  friend. 


TO    GOUVERNEUR    MORRIS. 
De\R    Sir  Philadelphia,  2S  July,  1791. 

I  have  not  before  me  your  favors  of  the  22  of 
November,  i  and  24  of  December,  1790,  and  of  the 
9th  of  March,  1791. 

The  plateaux  which  you  had  the  goodness  to  pro- 
cure for  me  arrived  safe  and  the  account  of  them  has 
been  settled  as  you  desired  with  Mr.  Robert  Morris. 
For  this  additional  mark  of  attention  to  my  wishes 
you  must  accept  my  thanks. 

The  communications  in  your  several  letters,  rela- 
tive to  the  state  of  affairs  in  Europe,  are  very  grate- 
fully received  ;  and  I  should  be  glad  if  it  was  in  my 

'  He  was  associated  with  Viar  in  the  management  of  Spanish  interests  in  the 
United  States. 


54  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

power  to  reply  to  them  more  in  detail  than  I  am  able 
to  do.  But  my  public  duties,  which  are  at  all  times 
sufficiently  numerous,  being  now  much  accumulated 
by  an  absence  of  more  than  three  months  from  the 
seat  of  government,  make  the  present  a  very  busy 
moment  for  me. 

The  change  of  systems,  which  have  so  long  pre- 
vailed in  Europe,  will,  undoubtedly,  affect  us  in  a 
degree  proportioned  to  our  political  or  commercial 
connexions  with  the  several  nations  of  it.  But  I 
trust  we  shall  never  so  far  lose  sight  of  our  own 
interest  and  happiness  as  to  become,  unnecessarily, 
a  party  in  their  political  disputes.  Our  local  situation 
enables  us  to  keep  that  state,  with  them,  which  other- 
wise could  not,  perhaps,  be  preserved  by  human 
wisdom.  The  present  moment  seems  pregnant  with 
great  events  ;  but,  as  you  observe,  it  is  beyond  the 
ken  of  mortal  foresight  to  determine  what  will  be  the 
result  of  those  changes,  which  are  either  making,  or 
contemplated,  in  the  general  system  of  Europe.  Al- 
though, as  fellow  men,  we  sincerely  lament  the  dis- 
orders, oppressions,  and  incertitude,  which  frequently 
attend  national  events,  and  which  our  European 
brethren  must  feel,  yet  we  cannot  but  hope,  that  it 
will  terminate  very  much  in  favor  of  the  rights  of 
man.  And,  that  a  change  there  will  be  favorable  to 
this  country,  I  have  no  doubt.  For  under  the  former 
system  we  were  seen  either  in  the  distresses  of  war, 
or  viewed  after  the  peace  in  a  most  unfavorable  light 
through  the  medium  of  our  distracted  state.  In 
neither  point  could  we  appear  of  much  consequence 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  55 

amone  nations.  And  should  affairs  continue  in 
Europe  in  the  same  state  they  were,  when  these 
impressions  respecting  us  were  received,  it  would  not 
be  an  easy  matter  to  remove  the  prejudices  imbibed 
against  us.  A  change  of  system  will  open  a  new 
view  of  things,  and  we  shall  then  burst  upon  them, 
as  it  were,  with  redoubled  advantages. 

Should  we,  under  the  present  state  of  affairs,  form 
connexions  other  than  we  now  have  with  any  Euro- 
pean powers,  much  must  be  considered  in  effecting 
them,  on  the  score  of  our  increasing  importance  as  a 
nation  ;  and,  at  the  same  time,  should  a  treaty  be 
formed  with  a  nation,  whose  circumstances  may  not 
at  this  moment  be  very  bright,  much  delicacy  would 
be  necessary  in  order  to  show  that  no  undue  advan- 
tages were  taken  on  that  account.  For  unless  treaties 
are  mutually  beneticial  to  the  parties,  it  is  in  vain  to 
hope  for  a  continuance  of  them  beyond  the  moment 
when  the  one,  which  conceives  itself  overreached,  is 
in  a  situation  to  break  off  the  connexion.  And  I 
believe  it  is  among  nations  as  with  individuals,  that 
the  party  taking  advantage  of  the  distresses  of  another 
will  lose  infinitely  more  in  the  opinion  of  mankind, 
and  in  subsequent  events,  than  he  will  gain  by  the 
stroke  of  the  moment. 

In  my  late  tour  through  the  southern  States,  I  ex- 
perienced great  satisfaction  in  seeing  the  good  effects 
of  the  general  government  in  that  part  of  the  Union. 
The  people  at  large  have  felt  the  security  which  it 
gives,  and  the  equal  justice  which  it  administers  to 
them.     The  farmer,  the  merchant,  and  the  mechanic 


56  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

have  seen  their  several  interests  attended  to,  and  from 
thence  they  unite  in  placing  a  confidence  in  their 
representatives,  as  well  as  in  those  in  whose  hands 
the  execution  of  the  laws  is  placed.  Industry  has 
there  taken  place  of  idleness,  and  economy  of  dissi- 
pation. Two  or  three  years  of  good  crops,  and  a 
ready  market  for  the  produce  of  their  lands,  has  put 
every  one  in  good  humor  ;  and  in  some  instances  they 
even  impute  to  the  government  what  is  due  only  to 
the  goodness  of  Providence. 

The  establishment  of  public  credit  is  an  immense 
point  gained  in  our  national  concerns.  This,  I  be- 
lieve, exceeds  the  expectation  of  the  most  sanguine 
among  us.  And  a  late  instance,  unparalleled  in  this 
country,  has  been  given  of  the  confidence  reposed  in 
our  measures,  by  the  rapidity  with  which  the  sub- 
scriptions to  the  bank  of  the  United  States  were 
filled.  In  two  hours  after  the  books  were  opened  by 
the  commissioners,  the  whole  number  of  shares  was 
taken  up,  and  four  thousand  more  applied  for  than 
were  allowed  by  the  institution.  This  circumstance 
was  not  only  pleasing,  as  it  related  to  the  confidence 
in  government,  but  as  it  exhibited  an  unexpected 
proof  of  the  resources  of  our  citizens. 

In  one  of  my  letters  to  you,  the  account  which 
I  gave  of  the  number  of  inhabitants,  which  would 
probably  be  found  in  the  United  States  on  enumera- 
tion, was  too  large.  The  estimate  was  then  founded 
on  the  ideas  held  out  by  the  gentlemen  in  Congress 
of  the  population  of  their  several  States,  each  of 
whom  (as  was  very  natural)  looking  through  a  mag- 


i79f]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  57 

nifier,  would  speak  of  the  greatest  extent,  to  which 
there  was  any  probability  of  their  numbers  reaching. 
Returns  of  the  census  have  already  been  made  from 
several  of  the  States,  and  a  tolerably  just  estimate 
has  been  formed  now  in  others  ;  by  which  it  appears, 
that  we  shall  hardly  reach  four  millions  ;  but  this  you 
are  to  take  along  with  it,  that  the  real  number  will 
greatly  exceed  the  official  returns  of  them  ;  because, 
from  religious  scruples,  some  would  not  give  in  their 
lists  ;  that  it  was  intended  as  the  foundation  of  a  tax, 
the  fears  of  others  induced  them  to  conceal,  or  dimin- 
ished theirs  ;  and  from  the  indolence  of  the  mass, 
and  want  of  activity  in  many  of  the  deputy  enumera- 
tors, numbers  are  omitted.  The  authenticated  num- 
ber will,  however,  be  far  greater,  I  believe,  than  has 
ever  been  allowed  in  Europe  ;  and  will  have  no  small 
influence  in  enabling  them  to  form  a  more  just 
opinion  of  our  present  growing  importance,  than  has 
yet  been  entertained  there. 

This  letter  goes  with  one  from  Mr.  Jefferson,  to 
which  I  must  refer  you  for  what  respects  your  public 
transactions ;  and  I  shall  only  add  to  it  the  repeated 
assurances  of  regard  and  affection,  with  which  I  am, 
dear  Sir,  your  obedient  and  obliged,  &c. 


TO    M.    LAFAYETTE. 
]\Iy  dear  Sir,  Philadelphia,  23  July,  1791. 

*  *  *  Hs  *  * 

The  decrees  of  the  National  Assembly,  respecting 
our  tobacco  and  oil,  do  not  appear  to  be  ver}'  pleasing 
to  the  people  of  this  country  ;  but  I  do  not  presume, 


58  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

that  any  hasty  measures  will  be  adopted  in  conse 
quence  thereof ;  for  we  have  never  entertained  a 
doubt  of  the  friendly  disposition  of  the  French  nation 
toward  us,  and  are  therefore  persuaded,  that,  if  they 
have  done  any  thing,  which  seems  to  bear  hard  upon 
us,  at  a  time  when  the  Assembly  must  have  been 
occupied  in  very  important  matters,  and  which  per- 
haps would  not  allow  time  for  a  due  consideration  of 
the  subject,  they  will,  in  the  moment  of  calm  delibera- 
tion, alter  it  and  do  what  is  right. 

I  readily  perceive,  my  dear  Sir,  the  critical  situation 
in  which  you  stand,  and  never  can  you  have  greater 
occasion  to  show  your  prudence,  judgment,  and 
magnanimity. 

On  the  6th  of  this  month  I  returned  from  a  tour 
through  the  southern  States,  which  had  employed  me 
for  more  than  three  months.  In  the  course  of  this 
journey  I  have  been  highly  gratified  in  observing  the 
flourishing  state  of  the  country,  and  the  good  disposi- 
tions of  the  people.  Industry  and  economy  have 
become  very  fashionable  in  these  parts,  which  were 
formerly  noted  for  the  opposite  qualities,  and  the 
labors  of  man  are  assisted  by  the  blessings  of  Provi- 
dence. The  attachment  of  all  classes  of  citizens  to  the 
general  government  seems  to  be  a  pleasing  presage  of 
their  future  happiness  and  respectability. 

The  complete  establishment  of  our  public  credit  is 
a  strong  mark  of  the  confidence  of  the  people  in  the 
virtue  of  their  representatives,  and  the  wisdom  of 
their  measures  ;  and,  while  in  Europe  wars  or  com- 
motions seem  to  agitate  almost  every  nation,  peace 
and  tranquillity  prevail   among  us,  exce[)t  on  some 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  59 

parts  of  our  western  frontiers,  where  the  Indians  have 
been  troublesome,  to  reclaim  or  chastise  whom  proper 
measures  are  now  pursuing.  This  contrast  between 
the  situation  of  the  people  of  the  United  States,  and 
those  of  Europe,  is  too  striking  to  be  passed  over, 
even  by  the  most  superficial  observer,  and  may,  I 
believe,  be  considered  as  one  great  cause  of  leading 
the  people  here  to  reflect  more  attentively  on  their 
own  prosperous  state,  and  to  examine  more  minutely, 
and  consequently  approve  more  fully  of  the  govern- 
ment under  which  they  live,  than  they  otherwise 
would  have  done.  But  we  do  not  wish  to  be  the  only 
people,  who  may  taste  the  sweets  of  an  equal  and 
good  government.  We  look  with  an  anxious  eye  to 
the  time,  when  happiness  and  tranquillity  shall  prevail 
in  your  country,  and  when  all  Europe  shall  be  freed 
from  commotions,  tumults,  and  alarms. 

Your  friends  in  this  country  often  express  their 
great  attachment  to  you  by  their  anxiety  for  your 
safety.  Knox,  Jay,  Hamilton,  Jefferson,  remember 
you  with  affection  ;  but  none  with  more  sincerity  and 
true  attachment  than,  my  dear  Sir,  your  affectionate, 
&c. 


TO    THOMAS   JOHNSON. 
Dear  Sir,  Philadelphia,  7  August,  1791. 

I  have  been  duly  favored  with  your  letters  of  the 
27th  and  30th  of  July,  the  last  of  which  came  to  hand 
while  the  judges  of  the  Supreme  Court  were  with  me 
on  an  invitation  to  dinner. 

I  took  this  opportunity  of  laying  your  letter  before 
the  Chief   Justice   (as  you  mentioned  your  having 


6o  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

written  to  him  and  to  Mr.  Wilson  on  the  subject),  in 
order  that  it  might  be  communicated  to  the  other 
judges.  After  a  few  minutes'  consultation  together, 
the  Chief  Justice  informed  me,  that  the  arrangement 
had  been,  or  would  be,  so  agreed  upon,  that  you  might 
be  wholly  exempted  from  performing  this  tour  of  duty 
at  that  time.  And  I  take  the  present  occasion  to 
observe  that  an  opinion  prevails  pretty  generally 
among  the  judges,  as  well  as  others,  who  have  turned 
their  minds  to  the  subject,  against  the  expediency  of 
continuing  the  circuits  of  the  associate  judges,  and 
that  it  is  expected  some  alterations  in  the  judicial 
system  will  be  brought  forward  at  the  next  session  of 
Congress,  among  which  this  may  be  one. 

Upon  considering  the  arrangements  of  the  judges 
with  respect  to  the  ensuing  circuit,  and  the  probability 
of  future  relief  from  these  disagreeable  tours,  I 
thought  it  best  to  direct  your  commission  to  be  made 
out  and  transmitted  to  you,  which  has  accordingly 
been  done  ;  and  I  have  no  doubt  but  that  the  public 
will  be  benefited,  and  the  wishes  of  your  friends  grati- 
fied, by  your  acceptance.  With  sentiments  of  very 
great  regard,  &c.^         

TO    M.    DE    LA    LUZERNE.'^' 
Cjj^  Philadelphia,  10  September,  1791. 

In  acknowledging  the  receipt  of  your  letter  of  the 
15th  of  May,  which  reached  me  but  a  few  days  ago, 

'  Mr.  Johnson  was  appointed  one  of  the  Associate  Justices  of  the  Supreme 
Conrt  of  the  United  States,  in  the  place  of  John  Rutlcdge,  who  had  resigned. 

^  By  the  abolition  of  the  A^ohlesse  in  France,  M.  de  la  Luzerne  had  lost  his 
title  of  Marquis.     He  died  before  this  letter  reached  him. 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  6i 

I  cannot  forbear  to  express  the  sensibility  with  which 
I  receive  those  warm  effusions  of  personal  attachment 
and  respectful  remembrance,  which  are  contained  in 
it ;  and  at  the  same  time  I  beg  you  will  be  assured, 
that  I  reciprocate  them  with  truth  and  sincerity. 

As  the  happiness  of  the  French  nation  cannot  be 
indifferent  to  the  people  of  this  country,  when  we  re- 
member the  aid  which  we  received  therefrom  in  an 
hour  of  distress,  you  will  readily  believe,  that  we  view 
with  no  small  anxiety  the  troubles,  which  for  some 
time  past  have  agitated  that  kingdom  ;  and  the  sus- 
pense in  which  we  are  held  as  to  what  may  be  the 
consequence  of  a  late  important  event,  which  has 
taken  place  there,  deprives  us,  in  some  measure,  of 
the  full  enjoyment  of  those  feelings,  which  would 
naturally  result  from  a  reflection  on  the  prosperous 
situation  of  the  United  States.  But,  however  gloomy 
the  face  of  things  may  at  this  time  appear  in  France, 
yet  we  will  not  despair  of  seeing  tranquillity  again 
restored  ;  and  we  cannot  help  looking  forward  with  a 
lively  wish  to  the  period,  when  order  shall  be  estab- 
lished by  a  government,  respectfully  energetic  and 
founded  on  the  broad  basis  of  liberality  and  the  rights 
of  man,  which  will  make  millions  happy,  and  place 
your  nation  in  the  rank  which  she  ought  to  hold. 

In  a  tour,  which  I  made  last  spring  through  the 
southern  States,  I  confirmed  by  observation  the  ac- 
counts, which  we  had  all  along  received  of  the  happy 
effects  of  the  general  government  upon  our  agricul- 
ture, commerce,  and  industr)^  The  same  effects  per 
vade  the  middle  and  eastern  States,  with  the  addition 


62  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

of  vast  progress  in  the  most  useful  manufactures. 
The  complete  restoration  of  our  public  credit  holds 
us  up  in  a  high  light  abroad.  Thus  it  appears,  that 
the  United  States  are  making  great  progress  towards 
national  happiness  ;  and,  if  it  is  not  attained  here  in 
as  high  a  degree  as  human  nature  will  admit  of  its 
going,  I  think  we  may  then  conclude,  that  political 
happiness  is  unattainable.  But,  at  the  same  time,  we 
wish  it  not  to  be  confined  to  this  country  alone ;  and, 
as  it  expands  through  the  world,  our  enjoyments  will 
expand  with  it,  and  that  you  may  find  it  in  your 
nation,  and  realize  it  yourself,  is  the  sincere  prayer  of, 
Sir,  &c. 


TO    M.    LAKAYETTE. 

Philadelphia,  10  September,  1791. 

The  lively  interest,  which  I  take  in  your  welfare, 
my  dear  Sir,  keeps  my  mind  in  constant  anxiety  for 
your  personal  safety  amidst  the  scenes  in  which  you 
are  perpetually  engaged.  Your  letter  of  the  6th  of 
June  by  M.  de  Ternant  gave  me  that  pleasure,  which 
I  receive  from  all  your  letters,  which  tell  me  you  are 
well.  But,  from  the  account  you  there  gave,  it  did  not 
appear,  that  you  would  be  soon  relieved  from  your 
arduous  labors  ;  and,  from  the  information  we  have 
received  of  an  important  event,  which  has  taken  place 
since  that  time,  it  does  not  appear  likely,  that  the 
clouds  which  have  long  obscured  your  political  hori- 
zon will  be  soon  dispersed.  As  yet  we  are  in  suspense 
as  to  what  may  have  been  the  consequences  of  this 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  63 

event ;  and  feeling,  as  we  do  in  this  country,  a  sincere 
regard  for  the  French  nation,  we  are  not  a  little 
anxious  about  them.  Opinions  we  are  not  able  to 
form  here  ;  therefore  none  can  be  given  on  the  subject. 
But  at  any  rate,  you  may  be  assured,  my  dear  Sir, 
that  we  do  not  view  with  indifference  the  happiness  of 
so  many  millions. 

I  am  glad  of  M.  de  Ternant's  appointment  to  this 
country;  for  I  have  a  good  opinion  of  his  abilities, 
discretion,  and  proper  views  ;  and,  as  you  observe,  as 
he  seems  to  belong  to  both  countries,  there  is  no 
doubt  but  this,  joined  to  the  good  information  which 
he  possesses  of  the  relative  and  particular  interests  of 
both,  will  enable  him  to  render  as  much  service,  and 
be  as  acceptable  to  each,  as  any  man  can  be.^ 

I  shall  next  week  set  off  for  Mount  Vernon  with 
Mrs.  Washington  and  the  children,  where  I  shall,  if 

'  "  To  M.  de  Ternant  I  refer  for  more  particulars.  Mr.  Jefferson  and  myself 
had  long  thought  that  Ternant  was  a  very  proper  man  to  act  as  French  minister 
in  America.  He  in  a  great  measure  belongs  to  both  countries.  He  is  sensible, 
honest,  well  informed,  and  has  a  plain  and  decisive  way  of  doing  business, 
which  will  be  very  convenient.  He  has  long  been  an  officer  under  your  com- 
mand, feeling  and  acting  in  an  American  capacity.  He  is  personally  much 
attached  to  you,  and  I  have  had  in  this  revolution  many  instances  of  his  friend- 
ship for  me.  He  might  have  been  a  minister  in  the  Council,  but  was  rather 
backward  on  the  occasion,  and  behaved  as  a  prudent,  not  an  ambitious  man. 

"  Mr.  Short,  who  does  the  business  of  the  United  States  with  all  the  zeal  and 
ingenuity  of  a  most  patriotic  and  sensible  man,  and  who  is  respected  and  loved 
in  France  in  a  manner  equally  useful  to  the  public  and  honorable  to  himself, 
has  written  to  Mr.  Jefferson  respecting  New  Orleans.  France  will  do  every 
thing  in  her  power  to  bring  Spain  to  reason,  but  will  have  a  difficult  and  prob- 
ably unsuccessful  task.  Upon  the  whole,  that  navigation  [of  the  Mississippi] 
we  must  have,  and  in  case  the  people  of  Louisiana  wish  to  make  a  fifteenth 
State,  who  can  help  it,  and  who  ought,  Spaniards  excepted,  not  to  rejoice  at  it? 
For  my  part,  certainly,  I  should  not  be  a  mourner." — Lafayette  to  Washington, 
6  June,  1791. 


64  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

possible,  enjoy  a  few  weeks  of  retirement  before  the 
meeting  of  Congress  in  the  last  of  October.  Indeed, 
my  presence  there,  (as  it  will  not  at  this  time  interfere 
with  my  public  duties,)  is  necessary  for  my  interest, 
as  George,  your  old  aid,  has  for  some  time  past  been 
too  much  indisposed  to  pay  attention  to  my  concerns, 
and  is  now  over  the  mountains  for  his  health.  The 
last  account  from  him  was  favorable.  He  had  re- 
ceived benefit  from  his  journey.  I  sincerely  wish, 
my  dear  Sir,  that  the  affairs  of  your  country  were  in 
such  a  train  as  would  permit  you  to  relax  a  little  from 
the  excessive  fatigues  to  which  you  have  of  late  been 
exposed  ;  and  I  cannot  help  looking  forward  with  an 
anxious  wish,  and  a  lively  hope,  to  the  time  when 
peace  and  tranquillity  will  reign  in  your  borders,  un- 
der the  sanction  of  a  respectable  government,  founded 
on  the  broad  basis  of  liberality  and  the  rights  of  man. 
It  must  be  so.  The  great  Ruler  of  events  will  not 
permit  the  happiness  of  so  many  millions  to  be 
destroyed  ;  and  to  his  keeping  I  resign  you,  my  dear 
Sir,  with  all  that  friendship  and  affectionate  attach- 
ment, with  which  you  know  me  to  be,  &c. 


TO    GOUVERNEUR    MORRIS. 
Dear    Sir  Philadelphia,  12  September,  1791. 

Your  letter  of  the  27th  of  May  with  its  enclosures 
came  duly  to  hand.^ 

During  my  absence  on  my  late  Southern  tour  the 
proposals  of  Messrs.  Schweizer  and  Jeannerett  made 

'  While  France  was  greatly  pressed  for  ready  money,  there  were  many  sug- 
gestions thrown  out  that  the  debt  due  from  the  United  States  might  be  realized 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  65 

their  appearance  here,  as  well  through  Mr.  Otto, 
Charge  des  Affaires  of  France,  to  the  Secretary'  of 
State,  as  through  Mr.  Short,  to  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury. 

In  pursuance  of  certain  arrangements,  made  pre- 
vious to  my  departure,  an  answer  was  given  :  which 
answer  was  in  substance,  that  it  did  not  appear  to  be 
for  the  interest  of  the  United  States  to  accept  those 
proposals. 

The  reasons  which  have  been  assio^ned  to  me  as 
havinof  dictated  this  answer  are  as  follows. 

First,  That  the  rate  of  interest  to  be  stipulated  in 
the  new  contract,  as  well  upon  the  part  of  the  debt 
which  had  not  fallen  due,  as  upon  that  which  had 
fallen  due,  was  5  p.  cent. — It  was  a  question  whether 
a  contract  stipulating  such  a  rate  of  interest  with 
regard  to  the  first  mentioned  part  of  the  debt,  was 
fairly  within  the  meaning  of  that  clause  of  the  law 
which  requires  that  the  payment  of  it  should  be  made 
upon  "terms  advantageous  to  the  United  States." 
And  while  there  was  no  reason  to  apprehend  that  it 
would  be  necessary  to  allow  a  higher  interest  than  5 
p.  cent,  on  any  loans,  which  might  be  made  to  dis- 
charge the  arrears  of  principal  and  interest,  it  did  not 
appear  expedient  to  forego  the  chance  of  a  lower  rate. 

2nd.  The  commission  or  premium  of  5  p.  ct.  de- 
manded in  the  proposal  is  one  p.  ct.    more  than   is 

upon,  cither  by  a  direct  transfer  to  a  number  of  bankers,  or  by  a  loan  raised 
upon  the  security  of  that  debt.  Morris  had  been  active  in  some  scheme  of  this 
nature,  and  had  at  last  submitted  a  definite  proposal  to  the  President.  The 
reply  was  doubtless  inspired  by  Hamilton,  and  the  decision  was  based  more 
upon  political  than  financial  reasons. 
5 


66  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

given  up  on  the  loans  going  on  in  Holland — This 
would  amount  to  a  loss  of  one  p.  ct.  on  the  part,  which 
the  United  States  were  bound  immediately  to  pay; 
and  in  respect  to  that,  which  had  not  become  due, 
would  be  an  unnecessary  sacrifice  of  5  p.  cent. 

3rd.  The  immediate  proposers  are  understood  to 
be  a  House  not  of  primary  consequence  themselves, 
and  though  they  alledged,  they  did  not  prove,  that 
they  were  supported  by  others  who  could  be  deemed 
-Capitalists  equal  to  the  undertaking.  From  the 
difference  of  exchange  between  Holland  and  Paris 
they  could  afford  sacrifices  in  the  sale  of  the  bonds 
of  the  United  States  ;  and  if  there  was  not  great 
force  of  capital  among  those  engaged  in  the  under- 
taking, such  sacrifices  were  to  be  expected.  A  great 
quantity  of  bonds,  thrown  suddenly  into  the  market, 
by  persons  who  were  pressed  to  raise  money  from 
them,  could  not  but  have  effects  the  most  injurious  to 
the  credit  of  the  U.  S. 

4th.  Paris  being  the  sti]5ulated  place  of  payment, 
if,  from  the  state  of  exchange,  payment  could  be 
made  there  in  gold  and  silver  with  a  saving  to  the 
United  States,  there  could  be  no  good  objection  to 
profiting  by  the  circumstance — but  this  advantage, 
and  more,  even  to  the  full  extent  of  the  depreciation 
of  the  Assignats,  would  be  transferred  by  the  pro- 
posed bargain  to  the  undertakers. 

5th.  The  single  advantage  which  the  proposals 
held  out,  of  a  prolonged  period  of  reimbursement, 
would  be  obtained  of  course  by  loans  in  the  ordinary 
way — and  as  to  the  effect  of  the  measure  upon  loans 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  67 

for  the  redemption  of  the  domestic  debt,  this  would 
be  good  or  bad  according  as  the  undertakers  might 
or  not  have  occasion  to  bring  the  bonds  of  the  United 
States  to  market 

The  foregoing  reasons  appeared  to  me  to  have  so 
much  weight  that  I  saw  no  ground  for  directing  any 
alterations  in  what  was  done. 

It  appears  in  their  letter  to  you  that  the  gentlemen 
in  question  are  willing  to  wave  the  claim  of  premium 
or  commission  on  the  part  of  the  debt  not  yet  due ; 
but  this  obviates  only  one  of  the  objections  which 
have  been  stated. 

You  observe  also  that  they  had  given  you  proofs 
that  persons  of  the  first  fortune  were  connected  with 
them  in  the  business — They  were  deficient  in  not 
having  given  the  like  proof  to  Mr.  Short,  whose 
enquiries  had  been  directed  to  this  object. 

The  observations  you  make  concerning  the  views, 
which  ought  to  govern  the  United  States  in  their 
reimbursements  to  France,  are  founded  in  propriety — 
You  may  conclude  that  no  unequitable  advantage 
will  be  taken  ;  and  it  is  hoped  that  the  measures  now 
in  execution  will  be  more  conducive  to  the  real 
interests  of  that  country-  than  would  have  been  an 
acceptance  of  the  proposals  of  Messrs.  S.  &  J.,  who,  it 
is  presumable,  founded  their  speculation  chiefly  upon 
the  idea  of  availing  themselves  of  the  full  benefit 
resulting  from  the  depreciation  of  the  Assignats. 

Thanking  you  for  the  communication  you  have 
made  me  on  the  subject,  I  assure  you  that  I  do  jus- 
tice to  the  motives  which  dictated  it.     ^     *     ^ 


68  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

TO    GEORGE    CLINTON,    GOVERNOR    OF    NEW    YORK. 
3lR  14  September,  1791. 

Your  letter  of  the  7th  instant,  with  its  enclosure, 
did  not  reach  me  till  yesterday.  The  intelligence  it 
communicates  is  of  a  nature  both  serious  and  im- 
portant. Indeed,  the  step  it  announces,  as  about  to 
be  taken  by  the  British,  would  be  one  so  extra- 
ordinary in  every  view,  as  to  justify  a  question, 
whether  the  indications,  which  are  alleged  to  have 
been  given,  have  not  rather  proceeded  from  some 
indiscreet  levity  on  the  part  of  the  officers  alluded  to, 
than  from  any  real  design  of  doing  what  appears  to 
have  been  threatened.  A  little  time,  however,  will 
explain  the  true  state  of  the  matter. 

Your  Excellency  need  not,  I  am  persuaded,  be 
assured,  that,  in  connexion  with  the  more  general 
considerations,  which  are  involved  in  the  circum- 
stance, I  feel  a  due  concern  for  any  injury,  incon- 
venience, or  dissatisfaction,  which  may  have  arisen  or 
may  arise,  in  respect  to  the  State  of  New  York,  or 
any  part  of  its  inhabitants,  in  consequence  of  the 
detention  of  the  posts,  or  the  interferences  which 
may  have  grown  out  of  it.  Nor  has  the  matter 
failed  to  receive  from  me  the  degree  of  attention 
to  which  it  is  entitled.  Yet  in  a  point  of  such  vast 
magnitude,  as  that  of  the  preservation  of  the  peace 
of  the  Union,  particularly  in  this  still  very  early 
stage  of  our  affairs,  and  at  a  period  so  little  remote 
from  a  most  exhausting  and  affecting,  though  suc- 
cessful war,  the  public  welfare  and  safety  evidently 
enjoin  a  conduct  of  circumspection,  moderation,  and 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  69 

forbearance.  And  it  is  relied  upon,  that  the  known 
good  sense  of  the  community  ensures  its  approbation 
of  such  a  conduct. 

There  are,  however,  bounds  to  the  spirit  of  for- 
bearance, which  ought  not  to  be  exceeded.  Events 
may  occur,  which  may  demand  a  departure  from  it. 
But  if  extremities  are  at  any  time  to  ensue,  it  is 
of  the  utmost  consequence,  that  they  should  be  the 
result  of  a  deliberate  plan,  not  of  an  accidental 
collision,  and  that  they  should  appear,  both  at  home 
and  abroad,  to  have  flowed  either  from  a  necessity, 
which  left  no  alternative,  or  from  a  combination  of 
advantageous  circumstances,  which  left  no  doubt  of 
the  expediency  of  hazarding  them.  Under  the  im- 
pression of  this  opinion,  and  supposing  that  the 
event,  which  is  apprehended,  should  be  realized,  it 
is  my  desire,  that  no  hostile  measure  be  in  the  first 
instance  attempted. 

With  a  view,  nevertheless,  to  such  ultimate  pro- 
ceedings as  the  nature  of  the  case  may  require,  and 
that  upon  the  ground  of  well  authenticated  facts,  I 
have  concluded  to  send  a  gentleman  to  the  spot,  who 
will  be  charged  to  ascertain  and  report  to  me  what- 
ever may  take  place,  together  with  the  general  situa- 
tion of  the  part  of  the  country  immediately  affected 
by  the  vicinity  of  the  British  posts.  An  additional 
motive  to  this  measure  is  the  desire  of  obtaining  in- 
formation, in  reference  to  the  establishment  of  the 
custom-house  in  the  State  of  Vermont,  which  is  also 
connected  with  the  position  of  those  posts. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


70  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

TO  EDMUND  RANDOLPH,  ATTORNEY-GENERAL. 

Mount  Vernon,  10  October,  1791. 

Sir, 

TT  TP  7P  W  TT  w 

It  Is  my  wish  and  desire,  that  you  would  examine 
the  laws  of  the  general  government,  which  have 
relation  to  Indian  affairs,  that  is,  for  the  purpose  of 
securing  their  lands  to  them,  restraining  States  or 
individuals  from  purchasing  their  lands,  and  forbid- 
ding unauthorized  intercourse  in  their  dealings  with 
them  ;  and,  moreover,  that  you  would  suggest  such 
auxiliary  laws,  as  will  supply  the  defects  of  those, 
which  are  in  being,  thereby  enabling  the  executive  to 
enforce  obedience. 

If  Congress  expect  to  live  in  peace  with  the  neigh- 
boring Indians,  and  to  avoid  the  expenses  and  hor- 
rors of  continual  hostilities,  such  a  measure  will  be 
found  indispensably  necessary  ;  for,  unless  adequate 
penalties  are  provided,  that  will  check  the  spirit  of 
speculation  in  lands,  and  will  enable  the  executive 
to  carry  them  into  effect,  this  country  will  be  con- 
stantly embroiled  with  and  appear  faithless  in  the 
eyes  not  only  of  the  Indians,  but  of  the  neighboring 
powers  also.  For,  notwithstanding  the  existing 
laws,  solemn  treaties,  and  proclamations,  which 
have  been  issued  to  enforce  a  compliance  with  both, 
and  some  attempts  of  the  government  southwest  of 
the  Ohio  to  restrain  their  proceedings,  yet  the  agents 
for  the  Tennessee  Company  are  at  this  moment,  by 
public  advertisements  under  the  signature  of  a  Zach- 
ariah  Cox,   encouraging  by  offers  of  land  and  other 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  71 

inducements  a  settlement  at  the  Muscle  Shoals,  and 
is  likely  to  obtain  emigrants  for  that  purpose,  although 
there  is  good  evidence,  that  the  measure  is  disap- 
proved by  the  Creeks  and  Cherokees  ;  and  it  is  pre- 
sumed it  is  so  likewise  by  the  Chickasaws  and 
Choctaws,  unless  they  have  been  imposed  upon  by 
assurances,  that  tra.de  is  the  only  object  in  view  by 
the  establishment.     I  am,  Sir,  &c. 


COMMUNICATION    OF    SENTIMENTS    TO    BENJAMIN 
HAW^KINS.^ 

Errors  of  Government  toward  the  Indians  : — Have  not  these 
been  repaired  by  the  subsequent  treaties  and  purchases  from 
those  who  claimed  the  soil  ?  Some  of  the  Tribes  it  is  said  would 
not  attend  the  treaty  at  Fort  Harmar,  because  they  expect'd  a 
relinquishment  of  their  right  to  the  land  would  be  demanded. 
May  it  not  rather  be  said  that  while  they  could  War  with  impu- 
nity, they  were  better  pleased  and  found  it  more  profitable  to 
plunder  than  to  hunt,  especially  as  they  were  stimulated  to  the 
first  by  the  B[ritish]  traders  and  the  withholding  of  the  Western 
Posts  from  the  U.  States. 

But  we  are  involved  in  actual  war  !  is  it  just  ?  or  is  it  unjust  ? 
Mr.  H.  cannot  believe  fully  in  tRe  latter  because  he  is  for  provid- 
ing m  part  the  means  for  carrj'ing  it  on.  Is  this  to  be  done  by 
offensive  or  defensive  operations  ?  Defensive  ones  I  say,  and  I 
speak  it  boldly,  from  experience,  and  from  the  nature  of  things, 
are  not  only  impracticable  against  such  an  enemy,  but  the  expence 
attending  them  would  be  ruinous  both  to  our  finances  and  fron- 
tier settlements. 

'  A  senator  from  North  Carolina.  Although  these  sentiments  were  delivered 
at  a  later  date  than  the  letter  to  Randolph,  I  have  inserted  them  here  as  ex- 
pressive of  Washington's  ideas  on  Indian  affairs.  The  letter  of  Hawkins  has 
been  lost. 


72  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

If  offensive  measures  are  to  be  carried  on,  must  not  troops  ad- 
vance into  the  enemy's  Country  ?  What  possible  objection  then 
can  there  be  to  the  establishing  of  Posts  there,  v/hen  these  posts 
answer  the  double  purposes  of  annoyance  and  security  ?  Cannot 
these  posts,  if  peace  should  be  concluded,  be  either  demolished, 
or  retained  merely  for  the  protection  of  our  trade  with  these  peo- 
ple, and  to  restrain  settlements  on  the  Indian  lands  ?  Without 
which  it  would  be  no  easy  matter.  This  experience  has  proved 
— and  Mr.  H.  is  not  to  be  told  that  the  Miami  Village  is  a  consid- 
erable distance  from  the  B garrison  at  Detroit.     What  cause 

then  for  alarm  ?  True  it  is,  pacific  overtures  were  to  have  pre- 
ceded hostile  measures  last  campaign — and  as  true  it  is  they  did 
so.  Though  all  the  avenues  thro'  which  they  were  intended  could 
not  be  opened,  yet  enough  were  opened  to  inform  the  Indians  of 
the  disposition  of  Government  towards  them  ; — and  the  obstacles 
in  the  others  are  strong  evidences  of  the  difficulties  this  govern- 
ment has  to  encounter. 

The  Kaskaskias  is  a  circuitous,  if  not  a  dangerous  rout 
by  which  to  communicate  with  the  Indians  with  whom  we 
are  at  War.  The  Canadian  French,  subject  to  G.  B.  are 
not  to  be  relied  upon,  unless  particular  characters  could  be 
selected,  and  that  is  hardly  to  be  done  with  certainty  and 
precision. 

The  defeat  of  the  4th  of  November  may  be  ascribed  to  several 
causes  ;  perhaps  to  none  more  justly  than  to  the  short  enlistment 

of  part  of  the  force. — Mr.  H s's  ideas  and  mine  with  respect 

to  the  force,  the  composition  of  the  troops,  and  the  time  for  which 
they  are  to  be  engaged,  differ  very  widely  indeed — reasons  to  be 
assigned.     The    number   of   hostile    Indians    according    to    Mr. 

H is  under  rated  ;  the   Estimate  last  year  was   1200,  when 

confined  to  the  Miami  and  Wabash  Tribes — now  we  have  good 
reasons  to  believe  that  the  Delawares,  Wyandots  and  others  were 
in  the  action  with  Genl.  St.  Clair. 

Plan  of  the  Secretary  of  War  having  passed  thro'  the  hands  of 

the  P .  and  remaining  in  them  (as  will  appear  by  a  recurrence 

to  dates)  ten  or  more  days,  is  a  strong  presumption  of  its  having 
been  considered  and  ajjproved  by  him.     Motives  of  delicacy  have 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  73 

uniformly  restrained  the  P from  introducing  any  topic  which 

relates  to  Legislative  matters  to  members  of  either  House  of 
Congress,  lest  it  should  be  suspected  that  he  wished  to  influence 
the  question  before  it. 

A  Committee,  from  either  house,  would  in  his  opinion  (so  far 
as  the  business  related  to  legislative  matters)  have  been  mw  and 
embarrassing.  If  it  did  not  mean  to  be  governed  by  the  senti- 
ments which  were  drawn  from  the  P ,  why  ask  his  opinion  ? 

as  the  official  application  for  and  disregard  of  them  could  not  fail 
to  wound  his  feelings.  A  free  communication  to  a  friend  on  any 
matter  depending,  wfun  asked,  he  would  have  no  scruple  to 
make. 

The  sentiments  of  members  of  Senate  or  their  views  are  unknown 

to  the  P and  what  maybe  the  object  of  the  Secretary  of  War, 

or  others,  he  knows  not — his  own  are  not  concealed  nor  can  he 
see  more  danger  in  raising  men  for  three  years  than  for  three 
months,  when  withholding  their  pay  and  subsistence  will  dis- 
charge them  at  any  time,  but  he  can  see  an  immense  diflFerence 
between  the  advantages  of  the  one  over  the  other,  they  are  too 
numerous  and  self-evident  to  need  detail — a  few  only  will  suffice. 
Short  enlistments  will,  nay  must,  have  an  uncontroulable  influence 
upon  all  the  operations — long  enlistments  enable  one  to  take 
advantage  of  time  and  circumstances.  In  the  first  case,  before 
men  become  acquainted  with  their  duty  or  the  service  they  are 
destined  for,  their  term  expires,  and  there  is  to  be  a  second  edi- 
tion of  them.  In  the  other  case  they  grow  more  valuable  every 
month  and  at  half  the  expense  of  new  men.  In  the  first  case  too 
it  is  impossible  to  retain  a  man  an  hour  beyond  the  term  of  his 
engagement.  In  the  other  he  is  bound  for  three  years  and  may 
be  discharged  in  three  months  or  three  days,  if  the  service  will 
admit  of  it.  No  man  wishes  less  than  the  P to  see  a  stand- 
ing army  established  ;  but  if  Congress  will  not  enact  a  proper 
Militia  Law  (not  such  a  milk  and  water  thing  as  I  expect  to  see 
— if  I  ever  see  any) — Defense  and  the  Garrisons  will  always 
require  some  troops — it  has  ever  been  my  opinion  that  a  select 
militia  properly  trained  might  supercede  the  necessity  for  these, 
— but  I  despair  on  that  head. 


74  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 


TO    ROBERT    LEWIS. 

Mount  Vernon,  15  October,  1791. 

Dear  Sir, 

Enclosed  is  a  letter  for  Mr.  Muse/  requesting  him 
to  put  my  papers  into  your  hands,  and  to  give  you 
such  information  with  respect  to  the  business,  as  is 
necessary  to  bring  you  acquainted  with  the  present 
state  of  it.  After  you  have  read  the  letter,  and  no- 
ticed the  contents,  seal  and  deliver  it  to  him. 

Receive  from  Mr.  Muse  all  the  blank  leases,  with 
which  I  have  furnished  him,  as  well  as  those  which 
have  been  filled  up  and  executed.  It  will  be  indis- 
pensably necessary  for  you  to  get  the  precise  state  of 
the  rents,  which  are  due  on  each  tenement,  the  ability 
of  the  tenants,  and  the  prospect  of  receiving  the 
rents.  Make  yourself  master,  also,  of  the  disputes, 
if  any  there  be,  to  which  the  tenements  are  subject. 

From  long  experience  I  have  laid  it  down  as  an 
unerring  maxim,  that  to  exact  rents  with  punctuality 
is  not  only  the  right  of  the  landlord,  but  that  it  is 
also  for  the  benefit  of  the  tenant  that  it  should  be  so, 
unless  by  uncontrollable  events  and  providential 
strokes  the  latter  is  rendered  unable  to  pay  them. 
In  such  cases  he  should  not  only  meet  with  indul- 
gence, but  in  some  instances  with  a  remittal  of  the 
rent.  But  in  the  ordinary  course  of  these  transac- 
tions, the  rents  ought  to  be  collected  with  the  most 
rigid  exactness,  especially  from  my  tenants,  who  do 
not,  for  most  of  the  farms,  pay  a  fourth  of  what  the 

'  Battaile  Muse,  who  liad  acted  as  Washington's  agent  in  leasing  his  lands 
and  collecting  his  rents. 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  75 

tenements  would  let  for,  if  they  were  now  in  my 
possession.  If  it  is  found  difficult  for  a  tenant  to 
pay  one  rent,  it  is  more  difficult  for  him  to  pay  two. 
When  three  are  due  he  despairs,  or  cares  little  about 
them  ;  and  if  it  runs  to  a  greater  number,  it  is  highly 
[probable],  that,  to  avoid  paying  any,  he  will  leave 
you  the  bag  to  hold.  For  these  reasons,  except  un- 
der the  circumstances  before  mentioned,  it  is  my 
desire  that  you  will  give  all  the  tenants  timely  notice, 
that  you  will  give  no  indulgences  beyond  those 
allowed  by  the  covenants  in  the  leases.  If  they  find 
you  strict,  they  will  be  ptmctual ;  if  otherwise,  your 
trouble  will  be  quadrupled,  and  I  can  have  no  de- 
pendence upon  my  rents,  which  are  now  my  principal 
support,  since,  by  the  diligence  of  Mr.  Muse,  the 
tenants  are  brought  into  a  proper  way  of  thinking 
and  acting  respecting  them,  and  my  crops  are  almost 
continually  failing  me. 

As  there  have  been  many  transfers,  and  some  with- 
out any  privity  of  mine,  although  it  is  contrary  to  a 
covenant  in  the  leases,  it  is  a  matter  which  will  claim 
your  particular  attention.  And,  as  I  have  already 
observed,  as  the  leases  of  old  date  are  given  for  less 
than  one  fourth  of  their  present  value,  it  is  my  par- 
ticular request,  that  you  will  endeavor  to  investigate 
with  great  accuracy,  and  inform  me  of  the  result, 
what  lives  still  remain  in  each  lease  ;  throwing  the 
proof  (unless  you  are  advised  by  able  counsel  that  it 
cannot  be  done),  where  the  lessees  are  not  to  be  pro- 
duced, upon  the  tenant  to  show  that  they  are  actually 
in  existence. 


76  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

As  all  the  rents  become  due  on  or  before  the  first 
day  of  January  in  every  year,  and  distrainable  at  the 
expiration  of  a  certain  number  of  days  thereafter,  I 
shall  expect,  that,  in  some  short  and  reasonable  time 
after  the  days  of  grace  expire,  the  amount  of  your 
collection  will  be  paid  into  the  hands  of  Major  George 
A.  Washington,  my  present  attorney,  or  whosoever 
hereafter  may  have  the  superintendence  of  my  busi- 
ness in  this  State,  during  my  absence  in  the  service 
of  the  public. 

Although  I  flatter  myself,  that  there  is  no  occasion 
for  the  admonition,  yet  I  will  accompany  this  ap- 
pointment with  suggesting  to  you,  that  business  is 
rarely  well  executed,  that  is  not  diligently  pursued, 
and  that  the  same  consequences  of  neglect  will  hap- 
pen to  you,  that  would  to  any  idle,  inattentive,  or 
deficient  collector.  If  any  of  these  should  appear  in 
your  conduct ;  and  the  more  so,  as  it  is  owing  to  the 
attentive  and  close  watchings  of  Muse,  that  this 
resource  has  been  productive  and  useful  to  me,  and 
that  many  rents  have  been  recovered,  which  ap- 
peared to  be  desperate,  by  his  activity  and  per- 
severance. 

If  they  are  admitted  in  the  first  instances,  you  will 
have  a  thousand  pleas  to  forbearance  ;  but,  consid- 
ering the  low  and  easy  rents,  at  which  my  tenants 
stand,  I  know  of  none  which  ought  to  be  admitted, 
except  losses  by  fire,  by  storms,  or  such  droughts  as 
are  apparent  and  well  attested ;  for  bad  crops,  pro- 
ceeding from  idleness,  may  and  will  be  a  constant 
plea,  as  they  ought  to  be  inadmissible. 


1 791 J  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  77 

It  is  of  essential  consequence,  that  you  should  ex- 
amine accurately,  whether  the  covenants  in  the  leases, 
with  respect  to  the  buildings  to  be  erected,  orchards 
to  be  planted,  meadows  to  be  made,  and  woods  to 
be  preserved,  have  been  complied  with.  These  were 
important  objects  with  me  at  the  time  the  leases  were 
granted,  and  are  so  still — well  knowing  how  much 
they  would  contribute  to  enhance  the  value  of  the 
lots,  at  the  expiration  of  the  term  for  which  the 
leases  were  given.  My  best  wishes  attend  Mrs. 
Lewis  and  yourself,  and  I  remain  your  affectionate 
uncle. 

P.  S.  If  as  I  have  heard,  you  should  not  conceive 
the  collection  of  my  rents,  to  be  an  object  sufficient 
to  engage  your  attention,  the  letter  for  Mr.  Muse  is 
not  to  be  given  him. 


SPEECH  TO  BOTH  HOUSES  OF  CONGRESS  OCTOBER  25TH, 

1791- 

Fellow-Citizens  of  the  Senate 

AND  House  of  Representatives  : 

I  meet  you  upon  the  present  occasion  with  the  feelings,  which 
are  naturally  inspired  by  a  strong  impression  of  the  prosperous 
situation  of  our  common  country,  and  by  a  persuasion  equally 
strong,  that  the  labors  of  the  session  which  has  just  commenced 
will,  under  the  guidance  of  a  spirit  no  less  prudent  than  patriotic, 
issue  in  measures  conducive  to  the  stability  and  increase  of  national 
prosperity. 

Numerous  as  are  the  providential  blessings,  which  demand  our 
grateful  acknowledgments,  the  abundance,  with  which  another  year 
has  again  rewarded  the  industry  of  the  husbandman,  is  too  important 
to  escape  recollection. 


78  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

Your  own  observations,  in  your  respective  situations,  will  have 
satisfied  you  of  the  progressive  state  of  agriculture,  manufactures, 
commerce,  and  navigation.  In  tracing  their  causes,  you  will  have 
remarked,  with  particular  pleasure,  the  happy  effects  of  that  revival 
of  confidence,  public  as  well  as  private,  to  which  the  constitution 
and  laws  of  the  United  States  have  so  eminently  contributed  ;  and 
you  will  have  observed,  with  no  less  interest,  new  and  decisive 
proofs  of  the  increasing  reputation  and  credit  of  the  nation.  But 
you,  nevertheless,  cannot  fail  to  derive  satisfaction  from  the  con- 
firmation of  these  circumstances,  which  will  be  disclosed  in  the 
several  official  communications,  that  will  be  made  to  you  in  the 
course  of  your  deliberations. 

The  rapid  subscriptions  to  the  Bank  of  the  United  States,  which 
completed  the  sum  allowed  to  be  subscribed  in  a  single  day,  is 
among  the  striking  and  pleasing  evidences  which  present  them- 
selves, not  only  of  confidence  in  the  government,  but  of  resource 
in  the  community. 

In  the  interval  of  your  recess,  due  attention  has  been  paid  to  the 
execution  of  the  different  objects,  which  were  specially  provided  for 
by  the  laws  and  resolutions  of  the  last  session. 

Among  the  most  important  of  these,  is  the  defence  and  security 
of  the  western  frontiers.  To  accomplish  it  on  the  most  humane 
principles  was  a  primary  wish. 

Accordingly,  at  the  same  time  that  treaties  have  been  provision- 
ally concluded,  and  other  proper  means  used  to  attach  the  wavering, 
and  to  confirm  in  their  friendship  the  well-disposed  tribes  of  In- 
dians, effectual  measures  have  been  adopted  to  make  those  of  a 
hostile  description  sensible,  that  a  pacification  was  desired  upon 
terms  of  moderation  and  justice. 

These  measures  having  proved  unsuccessful,  it  became  necessary 
to  convince  the  refractory  of  the  power  of  the  United  States  to  pun- 
ish their  depredations.  Offensive  operations  have,  therefore,  been 
directed  ;  to  be  conducted,  however,  as  consistently  as  possible 
with  the  dictates  of  humanity.  Some  of  these  have  been  crowned 
with  full  success,  and  others  are  yet  depending.  The  expeditions, 
which  have  been  completed,  were  carried  on,  under  the  authority 


1790  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  79 

and  at  the  expense  of  the  United  States,  by  the  militia  of  Kentucky  ; 
whose  enterprise,  intrepidity,  and  good  conduct  are  entitled  to 
peculiar  commendation. 

Overtures  of  peace  are  still  continued  to  the  deluded  tribes,  and 
considerable  numbers  of  individuals  belonging  to  them  have  lately 
renounced  all  further  opposition,  removed  from  their  former  situa- 
tions, and  placed  themselves  under  the  immediate  protection  of  the 
United  States. 

It  is  sincerely  to  be  desired,  that  all  need  of  coercion  in  future 
may  cease  ;  and  that  an  intimate  intercourse  may  succeed,  calcu- 
lated to  advance  the  happiness  of  the  Indians,  and  to  attach  them 
firmly  to  the  United  States. 

In  order  to  this,  it  seems  necessary,  that  they  should  experience 
the  benefits  of  an  impartial  dispensation  of  justice  ;  that  the  mode 
of  alienating  their  lands,  the  main  source  of  discontent  and  war, 
should  be  so  defined  and  regulated  as  to  obviate  imposition,  and, 
as  far  as  may  be  practicable,  controversy  concerning  the  reality  and 
extent  of  the  alienations  which  are  made  ;  that  commerce  with 
them  should  be  promoted  under  regulations  tending  to  secure  an 
equitable  deportment  towards  them,  and  that  such  rational  experi- 
ments should  be  made  for  imparting  to  them  the  blessings  of 
civilization,  as  may  from  time  to  time  suit  their  condition  ;  that  the 
executive  of  the  United  States  should  be  enabled  to  employ  the 
means,  to  which  the  Indians  have  been  long  accustomed,  for 
uniting  their  immediate  interests  with  the  preservation  of  peace  ; 
and  that  efficacious  provision  should  be  made  for  inflicting  ade- 
quate penalties  upon  all  those,  who,  by  violating  their  rights,  shall 
infringe  the  treaties  and  endanger  the  peace  of  the  Union. 

A  system  corresponding  with  the  mild  principles  of  religion  and 
philanthropy  towards  an  unenlightened  race  of  men,  whose  happi- 
ness materially  depends  on  the  conduct  of  the  United  States, 
would  be  as  honorable  to  the  national  character  as  conformable  to 
the  dictates  of  sound  policy. 

The  powers  specially  vested  in  me  by  the  act  laying  certain 
duties  on  distilled  spirits,  which  respect  the  subdivisions  of  the 
districts  into  surveys,  the  appointment  of  officers,  and  the  assign- 


8o  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

ment  of  compensations,  have  likewise  been  carried  into  effect.  In 
a  matter,  in  which  both  materials  and  experience  were  wanting  to 
guide  the  calculation,  it  will  be  readily  conceived,  that  there  must 
have  been  difficulty  in  such  an  adjustment  of  the  rates  of  compen- 
sation, as  would  conciliate  a  reasonable  competency  with  a  proper 
regard  to  the  limits  prescribed  by  the  law.  It  is  hoped  that  the 
circumspection,  which  has  been  used,  will  be  found  in  the  result  to 
have  secured  the  last  of  the  two  objects  ;  but  it  is  probable,  that, 
with  a  view  to  the  first,  in  some  instances  a  revision  of  the  provision 
will  be  found  advisable. 

The  impressions,  with  which  this  law  has  been  received  by  the 
community,  have  been,  upon  the  whole,  such  as  were  to  be  ex- 
pected among  enlightened  and  Avell-disposed  citizens,  from  the 
propriety  and  necessity  of  the  measure.  The  novelty,  however, 
of  the  tax,  in  a  considerable  part  of  the  United  States,  and  a 
misconception  of  some  of  its  provisions,  have  given  occasion  in 
particular  places  to  some  degree  of  discontent.  But  it  is  satis- 
factory to  know,  that  this  disposition  yields  to  proper  explanations 
and  more  just  apprehensions  of  the  true  nature  of  the  law.  And 
I  entertain  a  full  confidence,  that  it  will,  in  all,  give  way  to  motives, 
which  arise  out  of  a  just  sense  of  duty  and  a  virtuous  regard  to  the 
public  welfare. 

If  there  are  any  circumstances  in  the  law,  which,  consistently 
with  its  main  design,  may  be  so  varied  as  to  remove  any  well- 
intentioned  objections  that  may  happen  to  exist,  it  will  consist  with 
a  wise  moderation  to  make  the  proper  variations.  It  is  desirable, 
on  all  occasions,  to  unite  with  a  steady  and  firm  adherence  to 
constitutional  and  necessary  acts  of  government,  the  fullest  evidence 
of  a  disposition,  as  far  as  may  be  practicable,  to  consult  the  wishes 
of  every  part  of  the  community,  and  to  lay  the  foundations  of  the 
public  administration  in  the  affections  of  the  people. 

Pursuant  to  the  authority  contained  in  the  several  acts  on  that 
subject,  a  district  of  ten  miles  square,  for  the  permanent  seat  of 
the  government  of  the  United  States,  has  been  fixed,  and  announced 
by  proclamation  ;  which  district  will  comprehend  lands  on  both 
sides  of  the  river  Potomac,  and  the  towns  of  Alexandria  and 
Georgetown.     A  city  has  also  been  laid  out  agreeably  to  a  plan 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  8i 

which  will  be  placed  before  Congress  ;  and,  as  there  is  a  prospect, 
favored  by  the  rate  of  sales  which  have  already  taken  place,  of 
ample  funds  for  carrying  on  the  necessary  public  buildings,  there  is 
every  expectation  of  their  due  progress. 

The  completion  of  the  census  of  the  inhabitants,  for  which  pro- 
vision was  made  by  law,  has  been  duly  notified  (excepting  in  one 
instance,  in  which  the  return  has  been  informal,  and  another,  in 
which  it  has  been  omitted  or  miscarried)  ;  and  the  returns  of  the 
officers  who  were  charged  with  this  duty,  which  will  be  laid  before 
you,  will  give  you  the  pleasing  assurance,  that  the  present  popula- 
tion of  the  United  States  borders  on  four  millions  of  persons. 

It  is  proper  also  to  inform  you,  that  a  further  loan  of  two  mil- 
lions and  a  half  of  florins  has  been  completed  in  Holland  ;  the 
terms  of  which  are  similar  to  those  of  the  one  last  announced, 
except  as  to  a  small  reduction  of  charges.  Another,  on  like  terms, 
for  six  millions  of  florins  had  been  set  on  foot,  under  circum- 
stances that  assured  immediate  completion. 

Gentlemen  of  the  Senate  : 

Two  treaties,  which  have  been  provisionally  concluded  with  the 
Cherokees,  and  Six  Nations  of  Indians,  will  be  laid  before  you  for 
your  consideration  and  ratification. 

Gentlemen  of  the  House  of  Representatives  : 

In  entering  upon  the  discharge  of  your  legislative  trust,  you 
must  anticipate  with  pleasure,  that  many  of  the  difficulties,  neces- 
sarily incident  to  the  first  arrangements  of  a  new  government  for 
an  extensive  country,  have  been  happily  surmounted  by  the  zealous 
and  judicious  exertions  of  your  predecessors  in  cooperation  with 
the  other  branch  of  the  legislature.  The  important  objects,  which 
remain  to  be  accomplished,  will,  I  am  persuaded,  be  conducted 
upon  principles  equally  comprehensive,  and  equally  well  calculated 
for  the  advancement  of  the  general  weal. 

The  time  limited  for  receiving  subscriptions  to  the  loans  pro- 
posed by  the  act  making  provision  for  the  debt  of  the  United 
States  having  expired,  statements  from  the  proper  department  will 
as  soon  as  possible  apprize  you  of  the  exact  result.      Enough, 


82  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 


however,  is  known  already  to  afford  an  assurance,  that  the  views 
of  that  act  have  been  substantially  fulfilled.  The  subscription  in 
the  domestic  debt  of  the  United  States  has  embraced  by  far  the 
greatest  proportion  of  that  debt ;  affording  at  the  same  time  proof 
of  the  general  satisfaction  of  the  public  creditors  with  the  system 
which  has  been  proposed  to  their  acceptance,  and  of  the  spirit  of 
accommodation  to  the  convenience  of  the  government  with  which 
they  are  actuated.  The  subscriptions  in  the  debts  of  the  respective 
States,  as  far  as  the  provisions  of  the  law  have  permitted,  may  be 
said  to  be  yet  more  general.  The  part  of  the  debt  of  the  United 
States,  which  remains  unsubscribed,  will  naturally  engage  your 
further  deliberations. 

It  is  particularly  pleasing  to  me  to  be  able  to  announce  to  you, 
that  the  revenues  which  have  been  established  promise  to  be  ade- 
quate to  their  objects,  and  may  be  permitted,  if  no  unforeseen 
exigency  occurs,  to  supersede  for  the  present  the  necessity  of  any 
new  burthens  upon  our  constituents. 

An  object  which  will  claim  your  early  attention  is  a  provision 
for  the  current  service  of  the  ensuing  year,  together  with  such 
ascertained  demands  upon  the  treasury  as  require  to  be  immediately 
discharged,  and  such  casualties  as  may  have  arisen  in  the  execution 
of  the  public  business,  for  which  no  specific  appropriation  may 
have  yet  been  made  ;  of  all  which  a  proper  estimate  will  be  laid 
before  you. 

Gentlemen  of  the  Senate 

AND  House  of  Representatives  : 

I  shall  content  myself  with  a  general  reference  to  former  com- 
munications for  several  objects,  upon  which  the  urgency  of  other 
affairs  has  hitherto  postponed  any  definite  resolution.  Their  import- 
ance will  recall  them  to  your  attention  ;  and  I  trust,  that  the 
progress  already  made  in  the  most  arduous  arrangements  of  the 
government  will  afford  you  leisure  to  resume  them  with  advantage. 

There  are,  however,  some  of  them,  of  which  1  cannot  forbear  a 
more  particular  mention.  These  are,  the  militia  ;  the  post-ofiice 
and  post-roads  ;  the  mint ;  weights  and  measures  ;  a  provision  for 
the  sale  of  the  vacant  lands  of  the  United  States. 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  83 

The  first  is  certainly  an  object  of  primary  importance,  whether 
viewed  in  reference  to  the  national  security,  to  the  satisfaction  of 
the  community,  or  to  the  preser\ation  of  order.  In  connexion 
with  this,  the  establishment  of  competent  magazines  and  arsenals, 
and  the  fortification  of  such  places  as  are  peculiarly  important  and 
vulnerable,  naturally  present  themselves  to  consideration.  The 
safety  of  the  United  States,  under  divine  protection,  ought  to  rest 
on  the  basis  of  systematic  and  solid  arrangements,  exposed  as  little 
as  possible  to  the  hazards  of  fortuitous  circumstances. 

The  importance  of  the  post-office  and  post-roads  on  a  plan 
sufficiently  liberal  and  comprehensive,  as  they  respect  the  expedi- 
tion, safety,  and  facility  of  communication,  is  increased  by  the 
instrumentality  in  diffusing  a  knowledge  of  the  laws  and  proceed- 
ings of  the  government ;  which,  while  it  contributes  to  the  security 
of  the  people,  serves  also  to  guard  them  against  the  effects  of  mis- 
representation and  misconception.  The  establishment  of  additional 
cross  posts,  especially  to  some  of  the  important  points  in  the  west- 
em  and  northern  parts  of  the  Union,  cannot  fail  to  be  of  material 
utility. 

The  disorders  in  the  existing  currency,  and  especially  the 
scarcity  of  small  change,  a  scarcity  so  peculiarly  distressing  to 
the  poorer  classes,  strongly  recommend  the  carr^'ing  into  immediate 
effect  the  resolution  already  entered  into  concerning  the  establish- 
ment of  a  mint.  Measures  have  been  taken,  pursuant  to  that 
resolution,  for  procuring  some  of  the  most  necessary  articles, 
together  with  the  requisite  apparatus. 

A  uniformity  in  the  weights  and  measures  of  the  country  is 
among  the  important  objects  submitted  to  you  by  the  constitution  ; 
and,  if  it  can  be  derived  from  a  standard  at  once  invariable  and 
universal,  must  be  no  less  honorable  to  the  public  councils,  than 
conducive  to  the  public  convenience. 

A  provision  for  the  sale  of  the  vacant  lands  of  the  United  States 
is  particularly  urged,  among  other  reasons,  by  the  important  con- 
siderations, that  they  are  pledged  as  a  fund  for  reimbursing  the 
public  debt ;  that  if  timely  and  judiciously  applied,  they  may  save 
the  necessity  of  burthening  our  citizens  with  new  taxes  for  the 
extinguishment  of  the  principal  and  that,  being  free  to  discharge 


84  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

the  principal  but  in  a  limited  proportion,  no  opportunity  ought 
to  be  lost  for  availing  the  public  of  its  rights.' 


Philadelphia,  30  October,  1791. 

Dear  Harriot, 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  21st  instant,  and 
shall  always  be  glad  to  hear  from  you.  When  my 
business  will  permit,  inclination  will  not  be  wanting  in 
me  to  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  your  letters  ;  and 
this  I  shall  do  more  cheerfully,  as  it  will  afford  me 
opportunities  at  those  times  of  giving  you  such  occa- 
sional advice,  as  your  situation  may  require. 

At  present  I  could  plead  a  better  excuse  for  cur- 
tailing my  letter  to  you,  than  you  had  for  shortening 
of  yours  to  me,  having  a  multitude  of  occupations 
before  me,  while  you  have  nothing  to  do  ;  conse- 
quently you  might  with  equal  convenience  to  yourself 
have  sat  down  to  write  your  letter  an  hour  or  two  or 
even  a  day  sooner,  as  to  have  delayed  it  until  your 

'  "  How  far,  in  addition  to  the  several  matters  mentioned  in  that  letter 
would  there  be  propriety,  do  you  think,  in  suggesting  the  policy  of  encour- 
aging the  growth  of  cotton  and  hemp  in  such  parts  of  the  United  States  as  are 
adapted  to  the  culture  of  them  ?  The  advantages,  which  would  result  to  this 
country  from  the  encouragement  of  these  articles  for  home  manufacture,  I 
have  no  doubt  of ;  but  how  far  bounties  on  them  come  within  the  powers  of 
the  general  government,  or  it  might  comport  with  the  temper  of  the  times  to 
expend  money  for  such  purposes,  is  necessary  to  be  considered,  and  without  a 
bounty  I  know  of  no  means  by  which  they  can  be  effectually  encouraged. 
The  establishment  of  arsenals  in  convenient  and  proper  places  is,  in  my 
opinion,  a  measure  of  high  national  importance,  meriting  the  serious  atten- 
tion of  Congress  ;  and  is  one  of  tliose  measures,  which  ought  to  be  brought 
to  their  view." — Washington  to  Hamilton,  14  October,  1791. 

'  An  orphan  niece,  who  had  resided  for  some  time  in  General  Washington's 
family,  and   to  whom   lie  continued  to  extend   his   care  and   aid. 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  85 

cousin  was  on  the  point  of  sending  to  the  post-office. 
I  make  this  remark  for  no  other  reason,  than  to 
show  you  it  is  better  to  offer  no  excuse  than  a  bad  one, 
if  at  any  time  you  should  happen  to  fall  into  an  error. 

Occupied  as  my  time  now  is,  and  must  be  during 
the  sitting  of  Congress,  I  nevertheless  will  endeavor 
to  inculcate  upon  your  mind  the  delicacy  and  danger 
of  that  period,  to  which  you  are  now  arrived  under 
peculiar  circumstances.  You  are  just  entering  into 
the  state  of  womanhood,  without  the  watchful  eye  of 
a  mother  to  admonish,  or  the  protecting  aid  of  a 
father  to  advise  and  defend  you  ;  you  may  not  be 
sensible,  that  you  are  at  this  moment  about  to  be 
stamped  with  that  character,  which  will  adhere  to  you 
through  life  ;  the  consequences  of  which  you  have  not 
perhaps  attended  to,  but  be  assured  it  is  of  the  utmost 
im.portance  that  you  should. 

Your  cousins,  with  whom  you  live,  are  well  quali- 
fied to  give  you  advice  ;  and  I  am  sure  they  will,  if 
you  are  disposed  to  receive  it.  But,  if  you  are  dis- 
obliging, self-willed,  and  untowardly,  it  is  hardly  to 
be  expected  that  they  will  engage  themselves  in  un- 
pleasant disputes  with  you,  especially  Fanny,  whose 
mild  and  placid  temper  will  not  permit  her  to  exceed 
the  limits  of  wholesome  admonition  or  gentle  rebuke. 
Think,  then,  to  what  dangers  a  giddy  girl  of  fifteen 
or  sixteen  must  be  exposed  in  circumstances  like 
these.  To  be  under  but  little  or  no  control  may  be 
pleasing  to  a  mind  that  does  not  reflect,  but  this 
pleasure  cannot  be  of  long  duration  ;  and  reason,  too 
late  perhaps,  may  convince  you  of  the  folly  of  mis- 


86  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

spending  time.  You  are  not  to  learn,  I  am  certain,, 
that  your  fortune  is  small.  Supply  the  want  of  it,, 
then,  with  a  well  cultivated  mind,  with  dispositions  to 
industry  and  frugality,  with  gentleness  of  manners^ 
obliging  temper,  and  such  qualifications  as  will  attract 
notice,  and  recommend  you  to  a  happy  establishment 
for  life. 

You  might,  instead  of  associating  with  those  from 
whom  you  can  derive  nothing  that  is  good,  but  may 
have  observed  every  thing  that  is  deceitful,  lying,  and 
bad,  become  the  intimate  companion  of,  and  aid  to, 
your  cousin  in  the  domestic  concerns  of  the  family. 
Many  girls,  before  they  have  arrived  at  your  age, 
have  been  found  so  trustworthy  as  to  take  the  whole 
trouble  of  a  family  from  their  mothers  ;  but  it  is  by  a 
steady  and  rigid  attention  to  the  rules  of  propriety, 
that  such  confidence  is  obtained,  and  nothing  would 
give  me  more  pleasure  than  to  hear  that  you  had 
acquired  it.  The  merits  and  benefits  of  it  would 
redound  more  to  your  advantage  in  your  progress 
through  life,  and  to  the  person  with  whom  you  may 
in  due  time  form  a  matrimonial  connexion,  than  to 
any  others  ;  but  to  none  would  such  a  circumstance 
afford  more  real  satisfaction,  than  to  your  affectionate 
uncle. 


TO    DAVID    STUART. 
Dear     Sir  Philadklphia,  20  November,  1791. 

I  had  heard  before  the  receipt  of  your  letter  of  the 
29th  of  October,  and  with  a  degree  of  surprise  and 
concern  not  easy  to  be  expressed,  that  Major  L'En- 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  87 

fant  had  refused  the  map  of  the  Federal  City,  when 
it  was  requested  by  the  commissioners  for  the  satis- 
faction of  the  purchasers  at  the  sale.  It  is  much  to 
be  regretted,  however  common  the  case  is,  that  men, 
who  possess  talents  which  fit  them  for  peculiar  pur- 
poses, should  almost  invariably  be  under  the  influ- 
ence of  an  untoward  disposition,  or  are  sottish,  idle, 
or  possessed  of  some  other  disqualification,  by  which 
they  plague  all  those  with  whom  they  are  concerned. 
But  I  did  not  expect  to  have  met  with  such  per- 
verseness  in  Major  L'Enfant  as  his  late  conduct 
exhibited. 

Since  my  first  knowledge  of  the  gentleman's  abilities 
in  the  line  of  his  profession,  I  have  received  him  not 
only  as  a  scientific  man,  but  one  who  added  consider- 
able taste  to  professional  knowledge  ;  and  that,  for 
such  employment  as  he  is  now  engaged  in,  for  prose- 
cuting public  works,  and  carrying  them  into  effect,  he 
was  better  qualified  than  any  one,  who  had  come 
within  my  knowledge  in  this  country,  or  indeed  in 
any  other,  the  probability  of  obtaining  whom  could 
be  counted  upon. 

I  had  no  doubt,  at  the  same  time,  that  this  was  the 
light  in  which  he  considered  himself,  and,  of  course, 
that  he  would  be  so  tenacious  of  his  plans  as  to  con- 
ceive, that  they  would  be  marred  if  they  underwent 
any  change  or  alteration  ;  but  I  did  not  suppose,  that 
he  would  have  interfered  further  in  the  mode  of  sell- 
ing the  lots,  than  by  giving  an  opinion  with  his  rea- 
sons in  support  of  it ;  and  this  perhaps  it  might  be 
well  always  to  hear,  as  the  latter  would  stamp  the 


88  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 


propriety  or  show  the  futility  of  it.  To  advise  this 
I  am  the  more  inclined,  as  I  am  persuaded  that  all 
those,  who  have  any  agency  in  the  business,  have 
the  same  objects  in  view,  although  they  may  differ  in 
sentiment  with  respect  to  the  mode  of  execution  ; 
because,  from  a  source  even  less  productive  than 
L'Enfant's  may  flow  ideas,  that  are  capable  of  im- 
provements ;  and  because  I  have  heard,  that  Ellicott, 
who  is  also  a  man  of  uncommon  talents  in  his  way, 
and  of  a  more  placid  temper,  has  Intimated  that  no 
information  had  been  required  either  from  him  or 
L'Enfant  on  some  point  or  points  (I  do  not  now 
particularly  recollect  what),  which  they  thought 
themselves   competent  to  give. 

I  have  no  other  motive  for  mentioning  the  latter 
circumstance,  than  merely  to  show,  that  the  feelings 
of  such  men  are  always  alive,  and,  where  their  assist- 
ance is  essential,  that  it  is  policy  to  honor  them,  or 
to  put  on  the  appearance  of  doing  it. 

I  have,  however,  since  I  have  come  to  the  knowl- 
edge of  Major  L'Enfant's  refusal  of  the  map  at  the 
sale,  given  him  to  understand  through  a  direct  chan- 
nel, though  not  an  official  one  as  yet,  (further  than 
what  casually  passed  between  us,  previous  to  the  sale, 
at  Mount  Vernon,)  that  he  must  in  future  look  to 
the  commissioners  for  directions.  They  having  laid 
the  foundation  of  this  grand  design,  the  super- 
structure depended  upon  them  ;  that  I  was  perfectly 
satisfied  his  plans  and  opinions  would  have  due 
weight,  if  properly  offered  and  explained  ;  that,  if 
the  choice  of  commissioners  was  again  to  be  made, 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  89 

I  could  not  please  myself  better,  or  hit  upon  those 
who  had  the  measure  more  at  heart,  or  better  dis- 
posed to  accommodate  the  various  interests  and 
persons  concerned  ;  and  that  it  would  give  me  great 
concern  to  see  a  goodly  prospect  clouded  by  impedi- 
ments, which  might  be  thrown  in  the  way,  or  injured 
by  disagreements,  which  would  only  serve  to  keep 
alive  the  hopes  of  those,  who  are  enemies  to  the 
plan.  But,  that  you  may  not  infer  from  hence,  he 
has  expressed  any  dissatisfaction  at  the  conduct  of 
the  commissioners  towards  him,  it  is  an  act  of  justice 
I  should  declare,  that  I  never  have  heard,  directly  or 
indirectly,  that  he  has  expressed  any.  His  pertinacity 
would,  I  am  persuaded,  be  the  same  in  all  cases  and 
to  all  men.  He  conceives,  or  would  have  others 
believe,  that  the  sale  was  promoted  by  withholding 
the  general  map,  and  thereby  the  means  of  compari- 
son ;  but  I  have  caused  it  to  be  signified  to  him,  that 
I  am  of  a  different  opinion,  and  that  it  is  much  easier 
to  impede  than  to  force  a  sale,  as  none  who  knew 
what  they  were  about  would  be  induced  to  buy,  to 
borrow  an  old  adage,  "  <^  pig  ifi  a  poke.'' 

There  has  been  something  very  unaccountable  in 
the  conduct  of  the  engraver,  yet  I  cannot  be  of 
opinion  the  delays  were  occasioned  by  L'Enfant.  As 
soon,  however,  as  a  correct  draft  of  the  city  is  pre- 
pared, the  same  or  some  other  person,  shall  be 
pressed  to  the  execution.  I  say  a  correct  draft,  be- 
cause I  have  understood  that  Mr.  Ellicott  has  eiven 
it  as  his  opinion,  it  was  lucky  that  engravings  did  not 
come  out  from  the  first  plan,    in  as  much   as  they 


90  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

would  not  have  been  so  perfectly  exact,  as  to  have 
justified  a  sale  by  them.  It  is  of  great  importance, 
in  my  opinion,  that  the  city  should  be  laid  out  into 
squares  and  lots  with  all  the  despatch  that  the  nature 
and  accuracy  of  the  work  will  admit.  And  it  is  the 
opinion  of  intelligent  and  well-informed  men,  now  in 
this  city,  who  are  friends  to  this  measure,  that  for 
this  purpose,  and  to  accommodate  the  two  great  in- 
terests of  Georgetown  and  Carrollsburg,  it  would  be 
advisable,  rather  than  delay  another  public  sale  till 
the  whole  can  be  completed,  to  lay  all  the  ground  into 
squares,  which  shall  be  west  of  the  avenue  leading  from 
Georgetown  to  the  President's  house,  thence  by  the 
avenue  to  the  house  for  Congress,  thence  by  a  proper 
avenue  (I  have  not  the  plan  by  me  to  say  which)  to 
the  Eastern  Branch,  comprehending  the  range  of 
squares  next  to  and  bounding  on  the  said  avenues  on 
the  east  side,  and  to  appoint  as  early  a  day  for  the  sale 
as  a  moral  certainty  of  their  completion  will  warrant. 
When  I  speak  of  the  importance  of  despatch,  it 
does  not  proceed  from  any  doubt  I  harbor,  that  the 
enemies  to  the  measure  can  shake  the  establishment 
of  it  ;  for  it  is  with  pleasure  I  add  as  my  opinion, 
that  the  roots  of  the  permanent  seat  are  penetrating 
deep,  and  spreading  far  and  wide.  The  eastern 
States  are  not  only  getting  more  and  more  reconciled 
to  the  measure,  but  are  beginning  to  view  it  in  a 
more  advantageous  light,  as  it  respects  their  policy 
and  interests  ;  and  some  members  from  that  quarter, 
who  were  its  bitterest  foes  while  the  question  was 
pending  in  Congress,  have  now  declared  in  unequivo- 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  91 

cal  terms  to  various  people,  and  at  various  times, 
that,  if  attempts  should  be  made  to  repeal  the  law, 
they  would  give  it  ever)'-  opposition  in  their  power. 
These  sentiments  of  the  eastern  people,  being  pretty- 
well  known,  will,  I  am  persuaded,  arrest  the  design, 
if  a  repeal  has  been  contemplated ;  but  it  will  not 
prevent  those,  who  are  irreconcilable,  from  aiming 
all  the  side  blows  in  their  power  at  it  ;  and  the  rumor, 
which  was  spread  at  the  sale,  that  Congress  never 
would  reside  there,  is  one  of  the  expedients,  that 
will  be  exerted  in  all  its  force,  with  a  view  to  discour- 
age the  sales  of  the  lots,  and  the  buildings  thereon, 
that  the  accommodations  may  be  unfit  for  the  govern- 
ment when  the  period  shall  arrive  that  the  removal 
is  to  take  place. 

When  I  see  Major  L'Enfant,  who  it  is  said  will 
shortly  be  here,  I  shall  endeavor  to  bring  him  to 
some  explanation  of  the  terms  on  which  he  will  serve 
the  public  ;  and  will  also  impress  upon  him  the 
necessity  of  despatch,  that  as  early  a  sale  as  circum- 
stances will  admit  may  ensue.'       *       *       * 

With  very  great  esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  &c. 


TO    M.    LAFAYETTE. 
My  dear  Sir,  Philadelphia,  22  November.  1791. 

Mr.  John  Trumbull,  with  whom  you  are  acquainted, 
is  engaged  in  painting  a  series  of  pictures  of  the  most 
important  events  of  the  revolution  in  this  country, 

'  "  It  having  been  found  impracticable  to  employ  Major  L'Enfant  about  the 
federal  city,  in  that  degree  of  subordination  which  was  lawful  and  proper,  he 


92  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 


from  which  he  proposes  to  have  plates  engraved.  I 
have  taken  pecuHar  satisfaction  in  giving  every  proper 
aid  in  my  power  to  a  subscription  for  supporting  this 
work,  which  has  been  likewise  patronized  by  the 
principal  people  of  this  country.  In  the  hope  of  meet- 
ing the  patronage  of  the  French  nation,  to  whose 
honor,  as  well  as  that  of  America,  this  plan  is  directed, 
Mr.  Trumbull  informs  me  he  has  ordered  a  subscrip- 
tion to  be  opened  in  Paris.  And  the  object  of  this 
letter  is  to  engage  your  support  to  the  subscription 
in  that  city,  and  other  parts  of  the  nation  where  it 
may  be  offered.  I  should  not,  however,  do  justice  to 
Mr.  Trumbull's  talents  and  merits,  were  I  barely  to 
mention  his  views  and  wishes  on  this  occasion. 

His  pieces,  as  far  as  they  are  executed,  meet  the 
warm  applause  of  all,  who  have  seen  them.  The 
greatness  of  the  design,  and  the  masterly  execution 
of  the  work,  equally  interest  the  man  of  a  capacious 
mind  and  the  approving  eye  of  the  connoisseur.  He 
has  spared  no  pains  in  obtaining  from  the  life  the 
likenesses  of  those  characters,  (French  as  well  as 
American,)  who  bore  a  conspicuous  part  in  our  revo- 
lution ;  and  the  success  with  which  [his]  efforts  have 
been  crowned  will  form  no  small  part  of  the  value  of 
his  pieces. 

To  you,  my  dear  Sir,  who  knew  Mr.  Trumbull  as 
a  man  and  as  an  artist,  it  would  perhaps  have  been 
hardly  necessary  to  say  so  much  as  I  have  done  on 
this  occasion.      But  I  could  not  in  justice  say  less  of 

has  been  notified  that  his  services  are  at  an  end." — yefferson  to  the  Commis- 
sioners, 6  March,  1792. 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  93 

him,  when  I  believe,  in  his  profession,  he  will  do  much 
honor  to  the  liberal  art  of  painting,  as  well  as  credit 
to  this  his  native  country. 

I  cannot  conclude  this  letter  without  congratulating 
you  most  sincerely  on  the  King's  acceptance  of  the 
constitution,  presented  to  him  by  the  National  As- 
sembly, and  upon  the  happy  consequences,  which 
promise  to  flow  upon  your  country  as  well  as  to  man- 
kind in  general  from  that  event.  The  prayers  and 
wishes  of  the  friends  of  the  human  race  have  attended 
the  exertions  of  your  nation  ;  and  when  your  affairs 
are  completely  settled,  under  an  energetic  and  equal 
government,  the  hearts  of  good  men  will  be  gratified, 
and  no  one  will  rejoice  in  your  felicity,  and  for  the 
noble  and  disinterested  part  you  have  acted,  more 
than  your  truly  affectionate,  &c. 


TO  THE  COMMISSIONERS  FOR  THE  FEDERAL  DISTRICT. 

Philadelphia,  iSth  December,  1791. 

Gentlemen, 

It  gave  me  much  pleasure  to  find  by  a  late  letter 
of  yours  to  Mr.  Jefferson,  that  the  dispute  between 
Major  L'Enfant  and  Mr.  Carroll  is  likely  to  terminate 
more  favorably  than  might  have  been  expected  from 
the  nature  of  it  ;  and  that  you  are  disposed  to  take 
no  further  notice  of  his  late  unjustifiable  proceedings. 

You  will  perceive  by  the  enclosed  copy  of  a  letter 
which  I  have  just  written  to  him  that  I  have  placed 
it  beyond  a  doubt  (if  he  had  any  before,  from  an 
opinion  that  the  Commissioners  were  appointed  for 


94  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1791 

one  purpose  and  himself  for  another,  and  that  they 
were  to  act  independent  of  each  other)  that  his  powers 
and  instructions  are  to  flow  from  you. 

His  aim  is  obvious — It  is  to  have  as  much  scope 
as  possible  for  the  display  of  his  talents — perhaps  for 
his  ambition. — A  copy  of  his  letter  of  the  7th  instant 
herewith  sent,  not  only  evinces  this,  but  shows  the 
extent  to  which  he  wishes  to  carry  it.  If  however 
he  will  bear  the  curb  which  is  put  upon  him  by  the 
letter  of  which  you  have  the  copy  (and  which  will 
admit  of  no  misinterpretation)  I  submit  to  your  con- 
sideration whether  it  might  not  be  politic  to  give  him 
pretty  general  and  ample  powers  for  defined  objects, 
until  you  shall  discover  in  him  a  disposition  to  abuse 
them. 

His  pride  would  be  gratified  and  his  ambition 
excited,  by  such  a  mark  of  your  confidence.  If  for 
want  of  these,  or  from  any  other  cause  he  should  take 
miff  and  leave  the  business,  I  have  no  scruple  in  de- 
claring to  you  (though  I  do  not  want  him  to  know 
it)  that  I  know  not  where  another  is  to  be  found  who 
could  supply  his  place. 

His  conduct  in  the  dispute  with  Mr.  Carroll  of 
Duddington,  I  will  readily  acknowledge  is  no  induce- 
ment to  entrust  him  with  extensive  powers  ;  because 
after  your  interference  /zz>  proceedings  was  unwarrant- 
able ;  and  previous  to  it  (in  the  last  act)  it  was  im- 
prudent. Having  said  this,  I  must  go  farther  and 
declare,  that  under  the  statement  I  received  of  this 
matter  when  I  was  at  George  town  (not  only  from 
Major  L'Enfant,  but  from  another  on  whom  I  could 


i79i]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  95 

depend)  I  think  Mr.  Carroll  of  Duddington  is  equally 
to  blame,  and  without  entering  far  into  the  detail  of 
the  dispute  between  these  two  Gentlemen  ;  the  follow- 
ing will  comprise  in  my  opinion,  and  bear  solution  of 
the  motives  which  influenced  the  former.  The  work 
of  Maj.  L'Enfant  (which  is  greatly  admired)  will  show 
that  he  had  many  objects  to  attend  to,  and  to  com- 
bine, not  on  paper  merely,  but  to  make  them  corre- 
spond with  the  actual  circumstances  of  the  ground. 
This  required  more  time  than  the  patience — perhaps 
the  convenience, — of  Mr.  Carroll  would  admit,  and 
therefore,  notwithstanding  the  assurances  of  the 
other,  that  he  was  using  all  the  despatch  in  his  power 
to  ascertain  the  principal  Streets  and  objects,  and  that 
he,  Mr,  Carroll,  should  not  suffer  by  the  delay  ;  the 
latter  proceeded  after  a  while  to  the  completion  of 
his  buildings. 

This  excited  resentment  in  L'Enfant  ;  and,  more 
than  probably  gave  birth  to  expressions  which  begat 
mutual  warmth  ;  and  conceiving  (without  adverting 
to,  or  perhaps  even  knowing  the  formalities  which 
are  required  by  our  laws)  that,  by  the  Deeds  of  ces- 
sion, houses,  and  ever>'  other  impediment  which 
might  happen  to  stand  in  the  way  were  to  be  re- 
moved (paying  the  value  thereof) — he  took  the  de- 
termination to  demolish,  without  ceremony,  the  house 
of  Mr.  Carroll  ;  and  having  proceeded  to  the  execu- 
tion, his  pride  (however  false)  would  not  permit  him 
to  recede.  This  in  my  opinion,  is  a  true  state  of  the 
case  ; — to  which  a  reserve,  and  an  unwillingness  to 
answer  enquiries  respecting  his  plan,  has  given  dis- 


96  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

gust.  But  how  far  a  compliance  on  his  part,  in  an 
unfinished  stage  of  the  work  would  have  been  con- 
sistent with  his  duty,  is  a  matter  worthy  of  considera- 
tion. If  this  reserve  &c.  proceeded  from  self  im- 
portance, and  the  insolence  of  office,  the  motives  were 
unworthy. — If  from  a  conviction  of  the  impropriety  of 
developing  his  designs  to  the  public  before  they  were 
matured  and  approved  ;  they  were  good ; — at  any  rate 
not  condemnable. 

These  sentiments  being  the  result  of  my  reflections 
upon  this  subject,  I  communicate  them  for  your 
private  information  ;  and  for  that  reason  request  that 
this  letter  may  not  be  mixed  with  other  papers  that 
respect  your  public  transactions. — An  imprudent  use 
made  of  them  might  sow  the  seeds  of  discord,  whilst 
reconciliation  ought  to  be  promoted,  and  discontents 
of  every  sort  ought  to  be  buried,  by  all  those  who  have 
any  concern  or  interest  in  the  business.      I  am,  &c. 


TO    GOUVERNEUR    MORRIS.  ' 
[private.] 

Philadelphia,  28  January,  1792. 

My  dear  Sir, 

Your  favor  of  the  30th  of  September  came  duly  to 
hand,  and  I  thank  you  for  the  important  information 
contained  in  it. 

'  On  22  December,  1791,  Washington  sent  to  the  Senate  the  nominations  for 
diplomatic  positions  :  Morris  to  be  minister  plenipotentiary  at  Paris  ;  Thomas 
Pinckney,  at  London  ;  and  William  Short,  minister  resident  at  The  Hague. 
Opposition  was  at  once  shown  to  a  confirmation,  and  after  three  days  of  debate 
the  following  motion  was  made  :  "  That  in  the  opinion  of  the  Senate,  it  would 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  97 

The  official  communications  from  the  secretar}^  of 
state,  accompanying  this  letter,  will  convey  to  you 
the  evidence  of  my  nomination  and  appointment  of 
you  to  be  minister  plenipotentiary  for  the  United 
States  at  the  court  of  France  ;  and  my  assurance, 
that  both  were  made  with  all  my  heart,  will,  I  am 
persuaded,  satisfy  you  as  to  that  fact.  I  wish  I 
could  add,  that  the  advice  and  consent  flowed  from  a 
similar  source.  Candor  forbids  it,  and  friendship 
requires,  that  I  should  assign  the  causes,  as  far  as 
they  have  come  to  my  knowledge. 

not  be  for  the  interest  of  the  United  States  to  appoint  Ministers  Plenipotentiary 
to  reside  permanently  at  foreign  courts."  This  was  amended  so  as  to  assert 
that  "The  Senate  do  not  possess  evidence  sufficient  to  convince  them  that 
it  will  be  for  the  interest,"  &c.  The  message  making  the  nominations  was 
referred  (30  December)  to  a  committee  composed  of  Strong,  Burr,  Lee,  Ells- 
worth, and  Gunn,  who  reported  (6  January,  1792)  in  favor  of  appointments 
to  London  and  The  Hague,  but  made  no  mention  of  Morris.  Taking  up 
the  report  in  detail,  the  Senate  decided  that  a  minister  should  be  sent  to 
London,  but  on  Pinckney  being  named,  postponed  the  matter.  When  a 
motion  was  made  that  a  "special  occasion"  existed  for  a  minister  at  Paris, 
another  motion  to  adjourn  was  made,  but  defeated  ;  and  on  taking  up  the 
original  motion  it  was  adopted,  19  to  7  :  Bradley,  Burr,  Few,  Robinson, 
Sherman,  Strong,  and  Wingate  being  the  nays.  On  the  12th  of  January 
Morris  was  put  in  nomination  for  the  office,  and  confirmed. 

The  instructions  given  by  Jefferson  to  Morris  were  :  "  I  shall  only  express 
our  desire,  that  they  [the  functions  of  his  office]  be  constantly  exercised  in 
that  spirit  of  sincere  friendship  and  attachment  which  we  bear  to  the  French 
nation  ;  and  that  in  all  transactions  with  the  minister,  his  good  dispositions 
be  conciliated  by  whatever  in  language  or  attentions  may  tend  to  that  effect. 
With  respect  to  their  government,  we  are  under  no  call  to  express  opinions 
which  might  please  or  offend  any  party,  and  therefore  it  will  be  best  to 
avoid  them  on  all  occasions,  public  or  private.  Could  any  circumstances 
require  unavoidably  such  expressions,  they  would  naturally  be  in  conformity 
with  the  sentiments  of  the  great  mass  of  our  countrymen,  who,  having  first, 
in  modem  times,  taken  the  ground  of  government  founded  on  the  will  of 
the  people,  cannot  but  be  delighted  on  seeing  so  distinguished  and  so 
esteemed  a  nation  arrive  on  the  same  ground,  and  plant  their  standard  by 
our  side." — 23  Jaauar)',  1792. 
7 


98  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

Whilst  your  abilities,  knowledge  in  the  affairs  of 
this  country,  and  disposition  to  serve  it,  were  ad- 
duced and  asserted  on  one  hand  ;  you  were  charged, 
on  the  other  hand,  with  levity  and  imprudence  of 
conversation  and  conduct.  It  was  urged,  that  your 
habits  of  expression  indicated  a  hauteur  disgusting 
to  those,  who  happen  to  differ  from  you  in  sentiment ; 
and  among  a  people,  who  study  civility  and  polite- 
ness more  than  any  other  nation,  it  must  be  displeas- 
ing ;  that  in  France  you  were  considered  as  a  favorer 
of  aristocracy,  and  unfriendly  to  its  revolution  (I 
suppose  they  meant  constitutioji)  ;  that,  under  this 
impression,  you  could  not  be  an  acceptable  public 
character,  of  consequence  would  not  be  able,  however 
willing,  to  promote  the  interest  of  this  country  in  an 
essential  degree  ;  that  in  England  you  indiscreetly 
communicated  the  purport  of  your  mission  in  the 
first  instance  to  the  minister  of  France,  at  that  court, 
who,  availing  himself  in  the  same  moment  of  the 
occasion,  gave  it  the  appearance  of  a  movement 
through  his  court ;  this,  and  other  circumstances  of  a 
similar  nature,  added  to  a  close  intercourse  with  the 
opposition  members,  occasioned  distrust,  and  gave 
displeasure  to  the  ministry,  which  was  the  cause,  it 
is  said,  of  that  reserve  which  you  experienced  in 
negotiating  the  business,  which  had  been  intrusted 
to  you. 

But  not  to  go  further  into  detail,  I  will  place  the 
ideas  of  your  political  adversaries  in  the  light,  which 
their  arguments  have  presented  them  to  me,  vizt,  that 
the  promptitude,  with  which  your  lively  and  brilliant 


1792]  GEORGE   WASHINGTON.  99 

imagination  is  displayed,  allows  too  little  time  for 
deliberation  and  correction,  and  is  the  primary  cause 
of  those  sallies,  which  too  often  offend,  and  of  that 
ridicule  of  characters,  which  begets  enmity  not  easy 
to  be  forgotten,  but  which  might  easily  be  avoided, 
if  it  was  under  the  control  of  more  caution  and  pru- 
dence ;  in  a  word,  that  it  is  indispensably  necessary', 
that  more  circumspection  should  be  observed  by  our 
representatives  abroad,  than  they  conceive  you  are 
inclined  to  adopt. 

In  this  statement  you  have  the  pros  and  cons.  By 
reciting  them  I  give  you  a  proof  of  my  friendship,  if 
I  give  none  of  my  policy  or  judgment.  I  do  it  on 
the  presumption,  that  a  mind,  conscious  of  its  own 
rectitude,  fears  not  what  is  said  of  it,  but  will  bid 
defiance  to  and  despise  shafts,  that  are  not  barbed 
with  accusations  against  honor  or  integrity  ;  and  be- 
cause I  have  the  fullest  confidence  (supposing  the 
allegations  to  be  founded  in  whole  or  part)  that  you 
would  find  no  difficulty,  being  apprized  of  the  excep- 
tionable light  in  which  they  are  viewed,  and  consider- 
ing yourself  as  the  representative  of  this  country^,  to 
effect  a  change,  and  thereby  silence,  in  the  most 
unequivocal  and  satisfactory  manner,  your  political 
opponents. 

Of  my  good  opinion,  and  of  my  friendship  and 
regard,  you  may  be  assured,  and  that  I  am  always 
your  affectionate,  &c.  ^ 

'  Jefferson  wrote  to  Short,  28  January,  1792,  that  the  nomination  of  Morris 
"was  extremely  unpopular,  and  so  little  relished  by  several  of  the  Senate, 
that  every  effort  was  used  to  negative  it.  Those  whose  personal  objections 
to  Mr.  Morris  overruled  their  deference  to  the  President,  finding  themselves 


THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 


TO    CHARLES    PINCKNEY,    GOVERNOR    OF    SOUTH 
CAROLINA. 

[private.] 

Philadelphia,  31  January,  1792. 

Dear  Sir, 

I  had  the  pleasure  to  receive  your  letter  of  the 
2 2d  of  November  last,  with  the  enclosures  from 
General  Pickens  and  Colonel  Anderson  to  yourself, 
respecting  the  deputation  from  the  Cherokee  nation. 
I  have  likewise  the  pleasure  to  acknowledge  the 
receipt  of  your  letter  of  the  6th  of  the  same  month. 

The  Cherokees  arrived  in  this  city  after  a  tedious 
passage  from  Charleston,  which  I  believe  they  will 
consider  as  the  most,  if  not  the  only  disagreeable 
circumstance  attending  their  mission ;  for  the  re- 
quests, which  they  had  to  make,  were  of  a  nature  to 
be  readily  complied  with,  and  they  appeared  not 
only  satisfied,  but  highly  pleased  with  their  reception, 
and  the  manner  in  which  their  business  had  been 
done. 

They  have  been  detained  here  longer  than  was 
expected  on  their  arrival,  owing  to  the  navigation  of 

a  minority,  joined  with  another  small  party  who  are  against  all  foreign 
appointments,  and  endeavored  with  them  to  put  down  the  whole  system, 
rather  than  let  this  article  pass.  The  plan  was  defeated,  and  Mr.  Morris 
passed  by  a  vote  of  i6  against  ii.  .  .  .  When  the  biennial  bill  furnish- 
ing money  for  the  support  of  the  foreign  establishment  shall  come  up  at 
the  next  session,  to  be  continued,  the  same  contest  will  arise  again,  and  I 
think  it  very  possible  that  if  the  opponents  of  Mr.  Morris  cannot  remove 
him  otherwise,  they  will  join  again  with  those  who  are  against  the  whole 
establishment,  and  try  to  discontinue  the  whole."  The  supposed  monarchical 
tendencies  of  Morris  made  his  appointment  very  unpalatable  to  the  leading 
republicans  of  Virginia,  and  was  interpreted  by  them  as  a  deliberate  insult 
offered  to  France, 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  loi 

this  river  being  totally  obstructed,  and  that  of  New 
York  harbor  having  been  so  for  some  days  past  by 
the  severity  of  the  weather.  As  soon  as  the  harbor 
of  New  York  opens,  they  will  proceed  to  embark  at 
that  place  for  Charleston. 

It  is  at  all  times  very  desirable,  but  peculiarly  so  at 
the  present  moment,  that  we  should  be  upon  terms 
of  friendship  and  good  understanding  with  those 
powerful  tribes  of  Indians,  who  border  on  our 
southern  and  western  frontiers  ;  and  I  have  strong 
hopes,  that  the  favorable  impression,  which  this  depu- 
tation have  received,  will  not  only  ensure  the  attach- 
ment of  the  Cherokees  to  the  United  States,  but  will 
likewise  have  a  beneficial  influence  on  the  Creeks, 
the  Chickasaws,  and  the  Choctaws,  from  which 
nations  they  brought  belts  and  messages,  as  well  as 
from  their  own.  For  your  attention  to  these  Indians 
at  Charleston,  and  in  procuring  them  a  passage  to 
this  place,  permit  me  to  offer  you  my  thanks,  and  at 
the  same  time  to  assure  you  that  I  am,  with  great 
regard  and  esteem,  dear  Sir,  your  obedient  servant. 


TO    H.    D.    GOUGH. 

Philadelphia,  4  February-,  1792. 

Sir, 

I  have  the  pleasure  to  acknowledge  the  receipt  of 
your  polite  letter  of  the  ist  instant,  and  to  inform 
you  that  the  verj^  fine  mutton  which  you  have  had 
the  goodness  to  send  me  has  come  to  hand  in  the 
best  order. 


I02  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

While  I  beg  your  acceptance  of  my  thanks  for  this 
mark  of  polite  attention,  permit  me  to  express  the 
satisfaction  which  I  feel  in  learning  from  your  letter 
the  success  you  have  met  with  in  your  laudable 
attempts  to  improve  the  breed  of  our  sheep,  by 
introducing  among  them  the  broad-tail'd  Persian 
breed.  I  have  ever  been  satisfied  in  my  own  mind, 
that  by  a  proper  attention  to  our  sheep  (particularly 
in  Maryland  and  Virginia,  where  the  climate  and 
other  circumstances  seem  to  be  peculiarly  favorable 
to  the  object)  they  might  be  made  not  only  a  most 
profitable  subject  to  the  farmer,  but  rendered  highly 
important  in  a  public  view,  by  encouraging  extensive 
establishments  of  woollen  manufactories  from  the 
abundance  of  wool  which  they  could  furnish. 

During  the  time  of  my  residing  at  home,  between 
the  close  of  the  war  and  the  entrance  on  my  present 
of^ce,  I  had  paid  much  attention  to  my  sheep,  and 
was  proud  in  being  able  to  produce  perhaps  the 
largest  mutton  and  the  greatest  quantity  of  wool 
from  my  sheep  that  could  be  then  produced.  But  I 
was  not  satisfied  with  this  ;  and  contemplated  further 
improvements  both  in  the  flesh  and  wool  by  the 
introduction  of  other  breeds,  which  I  should  by  this 
time  have  carried  into  effect,  had  I  been  permitted 
to  pursue  my  favorite  occupation. — I  am,  however, 
much  pleased  to  see  that  some  gentlemen  seem  to 
view  this  matter  in  the  light  which  it  deserves,  and 
exert  themselves  in  promoting  it ;  and  if  I  cannot 
give  my  aid  by  a  personal  attention  to  the  object, 
those  who  do,  will  always  have  my  best  wishes  for 
their  success.      I  am. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  103 

TO    REUBEN    SLAUGHTER. 

Philadelphia,  25  February,  1792. 

Sir, 

I  thank  you  for  the  information  given  me  in  your 
letter  of  the  21st  of  November  last,  of  your  claiming 
two  hundred  acres  of  the  land  within  the  limits  of 
my  survey  on  the  Great  Kanhawa,  as  it  gives  me  an 
opportunity  of  letting  you  know  my  fixed  determina- 
tion to  defend  my  title  to  all  that  land  within  the 
lines  of  my  patent,  and  to  warn  you  in  the  most 
pointed  manner  not  to  make  any  settlements  thereon, 
or  to  exercise  any  other  right  of  proprietorship  within 
the  limits  of  my  patent 

It  may  be  proper  to  inform  you,  that,  in  the  year 
1769  or  1770,  there  was  a  special  order  of  the  Gov- 
ernor and  Council  of  Virg-inia  for  reservingr  all  the 
lands  on  the  Great  Kanhawa,  to  satisfy  the  military- 
claims  of  myself  and  others  of  the  first  Virginia 
regiment;  that  in  1770  I  was  myself  on  the  Great 
Kanhawa  with  the  surveyor  to  look  out  the  land  for 
the  militar}'-  claims  ;  and  that  my  patent  for  the  tract 
you  speak  of  has  been  in  my  possession  for  many 
years.  I  cannot  therefore  entertain  the  smallest 
doubt  of  the  legality  and  validity  of  my  title  to 
every  acre  of  land  within  the  lines  of  that  patent ; 
and  from  a  conviction  of  this  I  am  resolved  to  defend 
it  at  all  events,  and  to  prosecute  to  the  extremity  of 
the  law  every  encroachment,  that  may  be  made  upon 
the  boundaries  of  it.  I  therefore  desire  you  will 
consider  this  letter  as  a  solemn  warning  not  to  make 
any  settlement,  or  exercise  any  other  right  of  proprie- 
torship, on  any  part  of  the  land  within  the  lines  of 


I04  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [179^ 

my  patent ;  assuring  you,  that  if  you  should,  after 
this  warning,  persevere  in  your  intention  of  settHng 
or  otherwise  encroaching  upon  my  land,  you  must 
expect  to  be  prosecuted  as  far  as  right  and  justice 
will  admit.     I  am,  Sir,  your  very  humble  servant. 


TO    DAVID    STUART. 

Philadelphia,  8   March,    1792. 

Dear  Sir, 

In  a  short  letter  which  I  wrote  to  you  by  the  last 
Post,  I  promised  a  lengthy  one  by  the  post  of  to- 
morrow ;  but  such  is  my  present  situation  that  I 
must  pass  by  some  things,  and  be  more  concise  on 
others  than  I  intended. 

That  Mr.  Johnson's  health  did  not  permit  him  to 
come  to  this  City  as  he  proposed  and  was  expected, 
is  matter  of  exceeding  great  regret — as  many  things 
relative  to  the  Federal  district — the  City  and  the 
public  buildings  might  have  been  more  satisfactorily 
arranged,  and  delays  avoided  ;  but  as  there  is  no 
contending  against  acts  of  Providence,  we  must  sub- 
mit as  it  becomes  us  so  to  do  and  endeavor  to  recover 
the  time  lost,  in  the  best  manner  we  can. 

That  the  Commissioners  have  had  more  than  a 
little  trouble  and  vexation  with  Maj.  L'Enfant,  I  can 
readily  conceive  (if  your  representation  of  the  fact 
had  been  wanting)  from  the  specimens  he  has  given 
of  his  untoward  temper  since  his  arrival  in  this  City. 
And  I  can  as  easily  conceive  that,  in  proportion  to 
the   yieldings  of  the  Commissioners  his  claims  would 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  105 

extend.  Such  upon  a  nearer  view,  appears  to  be  the 
nature  of  the  Ma7i  / 

Every  advantage  will  be  taken  of  the  Major's  dere- 
liction. A  vigorous  counteraction,  therefore,  is  essen- 
tial.— If  he  does  not  come  forward  openly  to  declare 
it — his  friends  and  the  e7ie?mes  to  the  7neasiire  will 
do  it  for  him — that,  he  found  matters  were  likely  to 
be  conducted  upon  so  pimping  a  scale,  that  he 
would  not  hazard  his  character  or  reputation  on  the 
event,  under  the  controul  he  was  to  be  placed.  It  is 
even  said  (but  nothing  has  appeared  yet)  that  he 
meant  to  publish  this  to  the  world. — The  half  friends 
to  the  new  City  (if  this  is  not  allowing  them  more 
than  their  due)  undertake  to  predict  that  it  now 
stands  in  equilibrio  :  that  a  feather  will  turn  the  scale 
either  way. — If,  say  they,  the  matter  is  pushed 
with  vigor,  and  upon  a  plan  commensurate  to  the 
design,  and  the  public's  expectation,  the  permanent 
seat  of  Government  will  be  fixed  on  the  Potommack. — 
On  the  other  hand,  if  inactivity  and  contractedness 
should  mark  the  steps  of  the  Commissioners  of  the 

District, — whilst    in    on    the    part   of   this 

State  is  displayed  in  providing  commodious  build- 
ings for  Congress  &c — the  Government  will  remain 
where  it  now  is.  That  exertions  will  be  made  by 
this  State  to  effect  the  purpose  there  can  be  no 
doubt. — A  late  message  from  the  Government  to  the 
Assembly  proposing  a  certain  grant  of  money  for 
the  erection  of  the  building-s  designed  for  the  Presi- 
ident,  is  one  among  other  instances  which  have 
occurred. 


io6  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

It  would  have  been  very  agreeable  to  me  that  you 
should  have  shewn  the  copies  of  the  letters  I  had 
written  to  Major  L'Enfant  declaratory  of  the  subor- 
dinate part  he  was  destined  to  act  under  the  Commis- 
sioners. It  does  not  appear  to  have  been  so  under- 
stood by  the  Proprietors,  from  the  sentiments  ex- 
pressed by  Mr.  Walker  (while  he  was  in  this  City), 
for  when  he  was  told  in  what  explicit  language  Major 
L'Enfant  was  given  to  understand  this,  he  seemed 
quite  surprized.  You  did  me  no  more  than  justice 
when  you  supposed  me  incapable  of  duplicity  in  this 
business.  I  have  had  but  one  idea  on  the  subject 
from  the  beginning,  nor  but  one  design  and  that  was 
to  convince  the  Major  of  the  subordinate  part  he 
was  destined  to  act  in  it.  I  was  obliged,  as  you  have 
seen,  to  use  stronger  and  stronger  language  as  I  found 
his  repugnance  encreasing  until  he  was  told,  in  even 
harsh  terms,  that  the  Commissioners  stood  between 
him  and  the  President  of  the  U.  States,  and  that  it 
was  from  them  alone  he  was  to  receive  directions. 

The  doubts  and  opinion  of  others  with  respect  to 
the  permanent  seat  have  occasioned  no  change  in 
my  sentiments  on  the  subject.  They  have  always 
been,  that  the  plan  ought  to  be  prosecuted  with  all 
the  despatch  the  nature  of  the  case  will  admit,  and  that 
the  public  buildings  in  size,  form  and  elegance,  should 
look  beyond  the  present  day.  I  would  not  have  it 
understood  from  hence  that  I  lean  to  extravagance. — 
A  chaste  plan  sufficiently  capacious  and  convenient 
for  a  period  not  too  remote,  but  one  to  which  we  may 
reasonably  look  forward,  would  meet  my  idea  in  the 


I792J  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  107 

Capitol.  For  the  President's  House  I  would  design 
a  buildinof  which  should  also  look  forward  but  ex- 
ecute  no  more  of  it  at  present  than  might  suit  the 
circumstances  of  this  country,  when  it  shall  be  first 
wanted.  A  Plan  comprehending  more  may  be  exe- 
cuted at  a  future  period  when  the  wealth,  population, 
and  importance  of  it  shall  stand  upon  much  higher 
ground  than  they  do  at  present. 

How  and  when  you  will  be  able  to  obtain  Plans  of 
such  buildings  is  with  yourselves  to  decide  on. — No 
aid,  I  am  persuaded  is  to  be  expected  from  Major 
L'Enfant  in  the  exhibition — rather  I  apprehend,  op- 
position and  a  reprobation  of  every  07ie  designed  by 
any  other,  however  perfect. 

The  part  which  Mr.  Johnson,  by  your  letter  to  me, 
and  another  from  Mr,  Johnson  to  Mr.  Jefferson,  ap- 
pears to  have  acted  surprizes  me  exceedingly.  His 
interest  in  the  City,  and  the  discernment  with  which 
he  seems  to  have  viewed  the  measure  in  the  early 
stages  of  it,  would  have  lead  me   to   have  drawn  a 

different  conclusion. — The which  seem 

to  have  been to  him  and  the  Major  are 

more  to  be  despised  than  to  be  regarded  or  resented. 
More  than  once,  you  will  remember,  I  have  given  it  to 
you  as  my  opinion,  that  it  would  be  by  by-blows  and 

indirect that  attempts  would  be  made 

to  defeat  the  Law.  To  sow  the  seeds  of  dissension, 
jealousy  and  distrust  are  among  the  means  that  will 
be  practised. — There  is  a  current  in  this  City  which 
sets  so  strongly  against  ever}'  thing  that  relates  to 
the   federal  district,  that  it  is  next   to   impossible  to 


io8  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

stem  it.  To  this  cause  is  to  be  ascrib'd  the  back- 
wardness of  the  engraving.  Danger  from  them  is 
to  be  apprehended  ;  and  in  my  opinion,  from  no 
other.  The  best  antidote  against  them  is  persever- 
ance, and  vigorous  exertion  on  the  part  of  the  Com- 
missioners ;  and  good  temper  and  mutual  forbearance 
with  one  another,  on  the  part  of  the  Proprietors. 
For  who  are  so  much  interested  in  the  success  and 
progress  of  the  measure  as  they  ? 

I  see  no  necessity  for  diminishing  the  Square 
allotted  for  the  President's  House,  &c.,  at  this  time. 
It  is  easier  at  all  times  to  retrench,  than  it  is  to 
enlarge  a  Square,  and  a  deviation  from  the  Plan  in 
this  instance,  would  open  the  door  to  the  other  ap- 
plications, which  might  perplex,  embarrass  and  delay 
business  exceedingly  ;  and  end,  more  than  probably 
in  violent  discontents. 

Where  you  will  find  a  character  qualified  in  all 
respects  for  a  Superintendent  I  know  not, — none 
present  themselves  to  my  view — yet  one  must  be 
had. — A  better  than  Mr.  Ellicott  for  all  matters,  at 
present,  can  not  be  had. — No  one  I  presume  who 
can  lay  out  the  ground  with  more  accuracy — lay  out 
the  squares  and  divide  them  into  lots,  better.  He 
must  understand  levelling  also  perfectly — and  has,  I 
suppose,  competent  skill  in  conducting  the  Water. — 
Beyond  these  your  opportunities  to  form  an  opinion 
of  him,  must  exceed  mine.  Whether  he  is  a  man  of 
arrangement — sober  and  industrious  are  matters  un- 
known to  me,  I  believe  he  is  obliging — and  would 
be  perfectly  subordinate. — What  he  asks,  5  dollars  a 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  109 

day  (if  Sundays  are  included),  seems  high  ;  but 
whether  a  fit  character  can  be  had  for  less,  I  am 
unable  to  say. 

The  plan  of  the  City  having  met  universal  applause 
(as  far  as  my  information  goes)  and  Major  L'Enfant 
having  become  a  very  discontented  man, — it  was 
thought  that,  less  than  from  2,500  to  3,000  dollars 
would  not  be  proper  to  offer  him  for  his  services  ; 
instead  of  this,  suppose  five  hundred  guineas,  and  a 
Lot  in  a  good  part  of  the  city  were  to  be  substi- 
tuted ?  I  think  it  would  be  more  pleasing  and  less 
expensive.  I  have  never  exchanged  a  word  with  Mr. 
Roberdeau  since  he  came  to  this  place,  consequently 
am  unable  to  relate  what  his  expressions  have  been, 
or  what  his  ideas  are  ;  he  lives  with,  and  more  than 
probably  partakes  of  the  sentiments  of  Major 
L'Enfant ;  unless  the  dismission  of  the  latter  may 
have  worked  a  change  in  them  which,  not  unlikely,  is 
the  case  with  both  ;  as  I  can  hardly  conceive  that  either 
of  them  contemplated  the  result  of  their  conduct. 

Altho'  what  I  am  going  to  add  may  be  a  calumny, 
it  is  nevertheless  necessary  that  you  should  be 
apprized  of  the  report  that  Colo.  Deakins  applies  the 
public  money  in  his  hands  to  speculative  purposes  ; 
and  is  unable,  at  times,  to  answer  the  call  of  the 
workmen.  An  instance  has  been  given.  There  are 
doubts  also  of  the  sincerity  of  Mr.  Francis  Cabot, 
Of  both  these  matters  you  are  to  judge  from  the 
evidence  before  you.  I  have  nothing  to  charge 
either  with  myself,  these  hints  are  disclosed  in  confi- 
dence, to  place  you  on  your  guard. 


no  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

The  idea  of  importing  Germans  and  Highlanders 
as  artizans,  and  laborers,  has  been  touched  upon  in 
the  letter  from  Mr.  Jefferson  to  the  Commissioners. 
It  is,  in  my  opinion,  worthy  of  serious  consideration, 
in  an  economical  point  of  view,  and  because  it  will 
contribute  to  the  population  of  the  place. — The 
enclosed  extract  of  a  letter  from  Genl.  Lincoln  to 
Mr.  Lear  is  sent,  that  you  may  see  the  prospect 
in  that  quarter. 

The  General  is  a  candid  undesigning  man  in  whose 
word  much  confidence  may  be  placed  ;  and  having 
been  in  this  city,  and  lately  returned  from  it,  has  had 
opportunities  of  making  the  remarks  which  are  con- 
tained in  the  extract. 

I  began  with  telling  you  that  I  should  not  write  a 
lengthy  letter  but  the  result  has  been  to  contradict  it. 
It  is  to  be  considered  as  a  private  letter  in  answer  to 
yours  of  the  26th  ulto.  but  it  may  under  that  idea  be 
communicated  to  your  associates  in  office.  They 
and  you  must  receive  it  blotted  and  scratched  as  you 
find  it,  for  I  have  not  time  to  copy  it.  It  is  now  ten 
o'clock  at  night,  after  my  usual  hour  for  retiring  to 
rest,  and  the  mail  will  be  closed  early  tomorrow 
morning.      Sincerely  &c. 


TO    JOHN    ARMSTRONG. 
[private.] 
Dear    Sir  Philadelphia,  ii  March,  171)2. 

I  am  persuaded,  that  no  one  will  be  more  ready 
than  yourself  to  make  the  proper  allowances  for  my 
not  having  sooner  acknowledged  the  receipt  of  your 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  iii 

friendly  letter  of  the  23d  of  December,  as  you  there 
express  a  conviction,  that  the  pressure  of  my  public 
duties  will  allow  me  but  very  little  time  to  attend  to 
my  private  correspondences.  This  is  literally  the 
truth,  and  to  it  must  be  imputed  the  lateness  as  well 
as  the  brevity  of  this  letter. 

The  loss  of  the  brave  officers  and  men,  who  fell  in 
the  late  unfortunate  affair  at  the  westward,  is,  I  hope, 
the  only  one  which  the  public  sustain  on  the  occa- 
sion, that  cannot  be  readily  repaired.  The  loss  of 
these  is  not  only  painful  to  their  friends,  but  is  a 
subject  of  serious  regret  to  the  public.  It  is  not, 
however,  our  part  to  despond  ;  we  must  pursue  such 
measures  as  appear  best  calculated  to  retrieve  our 
misfortune,  and  give  a  happy  issue  to  the  business. 
I  am  sure  there  never  was  a  people,  who  had  more 
reason  to  acknowledge  a  divine  interposition  in  their 
affairs,  than  those  of  the  United  States ;  and  I 
should  be  pained  to  believe,  that  they  have  forgotten 
that  agency,  which  was  so  often  manifested  during 
our  revolution,  or  that  they  failed  to  consider  the 
omnipotence  of  that  God,  who  is  alone  able  to 
protect  them. 

Your  friendly  wishes  for  my  happiness  and  pros- 
perity are  received  with  gratitude,  and  are  sincerely 
reciprocated  by,  dear  Sir,  your  affectionate,  &c.^ 

'  The  following  remarks  respecting  St.  Clair's  defeat,  contained  in  General 
Armstrong's  letter,  will  have  value  as  coming  from  the  hero  of  Kittaning,  who 
had  distinguished  himself  in  a  warfare  with  Indians. 

"  Who  could  doubt,  who  knows  the  abilities  of  the  first  officers  of  that  army, 
that  the  only  successful  mode  of  coping  with  Indians  in  a  forest  had  not  been 
preconcerted  over  and  over  long  before  that  day.     The  partial  or  momentary 


112  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

TO  CHARLES  PINCKNEY,  GOVERNOR  OF  SOUTH  CAROLINA. 

[private.] 
Dfatj  Str  Philadelphia,  17  March,  1792. 

I  have  the  pleasure  to  acknowledge  the  receipt  of 
your  letters  of  the  8th  of  January,  and  their  dupli- 
cates. That  of  a  public  nature,  on  the  subject  of  a 
proposed  application  from  yourself  to  the  Governor 
of  East  Florida  for  the  redelivery  of  certain  fugitives, 
charged  with  having  forged  the  indents  assumed  by 

advantage,  gained  by  the  flanking  parties  only  as  I  apprehend  with  screwed 
bayonets,  would  easily  discover  the  error  of  the  former  arrangement  ;  but,  alas, 
it  was  then  too  late,  either  to  devise  a  new  one,  or  change  the  old  for  a  better. 
Placing  the  militia  in  a  body  over  the  brook,  permit  me  to  say,  was  an  unwar- 
rantable step,  where  two  or  three  small  pickets  would  have  served  a  better 
purpose.  It  seems  probable,  that  too  much  attachment  to  regular  or  military 
rule,  or  a  too  great  confidence  in  the  artillery  (which  it  seems  formed  part  of 
the  lines,  and  had  a  tendency  to  render  the  troops  stationary),  must  have  been 
the  motives,  which  led  to  the  adopted  order  of  action.  I  call  it  adopted,  be- 
cause the  General  does  not  speak  of  having  intended  any  other,  whereby  he 
presented  a  large  and  visible  object,  perhaps  in  close  order  too,  to  an  enemy 
near  enough  to  destroy,  but  from  their  known  modes  of  action  comparatively 
invisible  ;  whereby  we  may  readily  infer,  that  five  hundred  Indians  were  fully 
sufficient  to  do  us  all  the  injury  we  have  sustained,  nor  can  I  conceive  them  to 
have  been  many  more.  But  tragical  as  the  event  has  been,  we  have  this  con- 
solation, that  during  the  action  our  officers  and  troops  discovered  great  bravery, 
and  that  the  loss  of  a  battle  is  not  always  the  loss  of  the  cause.  In  vain,  how- 
ever, may  we  expect  success  against  our  present  adversaries,  without  taking  a 
few  lessons  from  them,  which  I  thought  Americans  had  learned  long  ago. 
Tiie  principles  of  their  military  action  are  rational,  and  therefore  often  success- 
ful. We  must  in  a  great  degree  take  a  similar  method  in  order  to  counteract 
them. 

"  As  the  best  of  men  are  liable  to  mistakes,  shall  we  lay  all  the  blame  of  this 
heavy  misfortune  to  the  score  of  natural  causes,  and  our  half-surprised  and 
mangled  army  ?  No,  verily  ;  for,  if  we  do,  the  last  error  will  be  greater  than 
the  first.  No,  Sir  ;  the  people  at  large,  in  behalf  of  whom  the  action  was 
brought  on,  are  more  essentially  to  blame,  and  lost  the  battle.  An  infatuating 
security  seemed  to  pervade  the  minds,  of  all  men  amongst  us.  We  pondered 
not  sufficiently  the  nature  and  importance  of  the  object." — December  23, 
1791. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  113 

the  U.  States,  will  be  answered  by  the  Secretary  of 
State/  To  your  private  favor  I  shall  now  reply. 
And  in  the  first  place,  let  me  beg  your  acceptance  of 
my  thanks  for  the  remembrance  of,  and  kind  atten- 
tion to,  my  wishes  in  sending  the  box  of  seeds,  which 
I  have  received  by  Captain  Ort. 

I  am  flattered  by  the  regret,  which  you  express  at 
having  been  absent  from  Charleston  during  the  stay 
of  Lord  Wycombe '  in  that  city,  and  being  thereby 
deprived  of  an  opportunity  of  paying  the  attention 
which  you  wished  to  that  nobleman,  to  whom  I  had 
given  a  letter  for  you  ;  and  am  glad  that  his  intention 
of  returning  among  you  after  having  visited  the 
Floridas  will  permit  you  to  do  it. 

I  must  say  that  I  lament  the  decision  of  your  legis- 
lature upon  the  question  of  importing  slaves  after 
March,  1 793.     I  was  in  hopes,  that  motives  of  policy 

*  The  project  mentioned  in  the  following  letter  was  framed  to  cover  this 
question  : 

"  The  President  of  the  United  States  has  attentively  considered  the  '  Project 
of  a  Convention  with  the  Spanish,'  which  was  submitted  to  him  by  the  Secre- 
tary of  State,  and  informs  the  Secretary,  that  the  same  meets  his  approbation. 
The  President,  however,  thinks  it  proper  to  observe,  that  in  perusing  the 
before-mentioned  Project,  some  doubts  arose  in  his  mind  as  to  the  expediency 
of  two  points  mentioned  therein  ;  the  one  relative  to  instituting  a  civil,  instead 
of  a  criminal  process  against  forgers,  who  generally,  if  not  always,  are  possessed 
of  little  property  ;  the  other  respecting  the  unlimited  time  in  which  a  person 
may  be  liable  to  an  action. 

"  By  expressing  these  queries,  the  President  would  not  be  understood  as  ob- 
jecting to  the  points  touched  upon  ;  he  only  wishes  to  draw  the  Secretary's 
further  attention  to  them  ;  and  if  he  should  upon  reconsideration  think  it  right 
for  them  to  stand  upon  their  present  footing,  the  President  acquiesces  therein." 
—  Washington  to  Jefferson,  25  March,  1792.  The  project  is  printed  in  Jeffer- 
son's  Works,  iii.,  350.  See  also,  Jefferson  to  Washington,  17  November, 
1791- 

^  Eldest  son  of  the  Marquis  of  Lansdowne. 
8 


114  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

as  well  as  other  good  reasons,  supported  by  the  dire- 
ful effects  of  slavery,  which  at  this  moment  are  pre- 
sented, would  have  operated  to  produce  a  total 
prohibition  of  the  importation  of  slaves,  whenever 
the  question  came  to  be  agitated  in  any  State,  that 
might  be  interested  in  the  measure/ 

Our  misfortune  at  the  westward  is  certainly  a  cir- 
cumstance much  to  be  regretted  ;  but  it  affords  conso- 
lation to  know,  that  every  public  loss  on  that  occasion 
may  be  readily  repaired,  except  that  of  the  lives  of 
the  brave  officers  and  men,  who  fell  in  the  conflict. 
I  believe  with  you,  that  the  absence  of  the  Cherokee 

'  From  Governor  Pitickney's  Letter :  "Our  legislature  among  other  ques- 
tions agitated  the  one  respecting  the  future  importation  of  slaves,  as  the 
prohibition  expires  in  March,  1793.  Great  pains  were  used  to  effect  a  total 
prohibition  ;  but,  upon  the  question  being  taken  in  the  Senate,  it  was  lost  by 
so  decided  a  majority,  that  I  think  we  may  consider  it  as  certain  this  State 
will,  after  March,  1793,  import  as  largely  as  they  ever  did.  It  is  a  decision, 
upon  the  policy  of  which  I  confess  I  have  my  doubts. 

"  We  have  been  much  concerned  at  the  intelligence  lately  received,  respect- 
ing the  defeat  of  the  army  by  the  northern  and  western  Indians.  The  gentle- 
men on  our  frontiers  now  think,  that  it  is  fortunate  the  chiefs  of  the  Cherokee 
nation  are  absent ;  as,  from  their  disturbed  situation  and  the  successes  of  their 
neighbors,  it  might  not  have  been  a  difficult  thing  to  render  them  hostile.  I 
must  take  the  liberty  to  mention  to  you,  that,  if  our  affairs  should  still  remain 
in  the  same  unsettled  state  with  the  Indians,  or  their  combinations  extend  to 
our  frontiers,  and  render  a  defence  there  necessary,  I  know  no  man  whom  I 
ought  to  recommend  to  you  so  soon  to  be  employed  as  General  Pickens  ;  a  man 
at  least  as  well  qualified  to  manage  a  contest  with  the  Indians  as  any  in  the 
Union.  I  consider  it,  as  I  ol)served,  a  duty  to  mention  this  gentleman  to  you, 
in  case  it  should  be  necessary  to  employ  any  person  from  this  State,  in  the 
event  of  the  Indian  war  extendingto  the  southward  ;  because  we  are  acquainted 
with  his  influence  among  the  Indians,  and  his  knowledge  of  their  affairs,  and 
know  that  his  modesty  is  so  great,  that  he  rather  wishes  to  retire  from  tlie 
public  view,  than  court  its  favors  or  employments.  As  he  will  therefore  never 
solicit  or  offer  himself,  it  is  a  duty  for  us,  who  know  his  consequence  among 
the  southern  Indians,  to  bring  him  forward  to  your  view,  should  his  services  he 
necessary,  whicli  I  ho)>e  will  not  be  the  case." — Charleston,  January  8th. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  115 

chiefs  from  their  nation  at  so  critical  a  moment  was 
a  fortunate  event  ;  and  I  trust  they  have  received 
such  impressions  here,  as  will  not  fail  to  have  a  happy 
influence  in  their  nation  with  regard  to  us. 

If  in  the  course  of  our  military  arrangements,  it 
should  be  found  compatible  with  the  plan,  which  it  is 
proposed  to  adopt,  to  require  the  services  of  General 
Pickens,  I  shall  not  be  unmindful  of  your  recom- 
mendation of  that  gentleman  ;  and  from  his  talents, 
knowledge,  and  influence,  should  look  for  the  best 
effects.  But  I  most  sincerely  join  with  you  in  hoping, 
that  the  war  with  the  Indians  may  not  extend  so  far 
to  the  southward,  as  to  render  your  frontiers  an 
object  of  immediate  defence.  I  beg  my  best  respects 
may  be  presented  to  Mrs.  Pinckney  and  to  Colo. 
Laurens,  when  you  see  him.  With  very  great  esteem 
and  regard,  I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO    MAJOR-GENERAL     ARTHUR    ST,    CLAIR. 

United  States  [Phil.\delphia],  4  April,  1792. 

Sir, 

I  have  read  and  duly  considered  your  letter  of  the 
31st  ultimo.  The  reasons  you  offer  for  retaining 
your  commission,  until  an  opportunity  should  be 
presented,  if  necessary,  of  investigating  your  conduct 
in  ever}'  mode  prescribed  by  law,  would  be  conclusive 
with  me  under  any  other  circumstances  than  the  pres- 
ent. But  the  establishment  of  the  troops  allows  only 
of  one  major-general.  You  have  manifested  your 
intention  of  retiring,  and   the  essential  interests  of 


ii6  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

the  public  require,  that  your  successor  should  be 
immediately  appointed,  in  order  to  repair  to  the 
frontiers. 

As  the  House  of  Representatives  have  been  pleased 
to  institute  an  inquiry  into  the  causes  of  the  failure 
of  the  late  expedition,  I  should  hope  an  opportunity 
would  thereby  be  afforded  you  of  explaining  your 
conduct  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the  public  and 
yourself.     I  am,   &c.  ^ 


TO    JOHN    CARROLL.'^ 

S  Philadelphia,  10  April,  1792. 

IR, 

I  have  received  and  duly  considered  your  memorial 
of  the  20th  ultimo,  on  the  subject  of  instructing  the 
Indians,  within  and  contiguous  to  the  United  States, 
in  the  principles  and  duties  of  Christianity. 

'  "  Your  knowledge  of  the  country  northwest  of  the  Ohio,  and  of  the  re- 
sources for  an  army  in  its  vicinity,  added  to  a  full  confidence  in  your  military 
character  founded  on  mature  experience,  induced  my  nomination  of  you  to  the 
command  of  the  troops  on  the  frontiers. 

"Your  desire  of  rectifying  any  errors  of  the  public  opinion,  relatively  to 
your  conduct,  by  an  investigation  of  a  court  of  inquiry,  is  highly  laudable,  and 
would  be  readily  complied  with,  were  the  measure  practicable.  But  a  total 
deficiency  of  officers  in  actual  service,  of  competent  rank  to  form  a  legal 
court  for  that  purpose,  precludes  the  power  of  gratifying  your  wishes  on  the 
occasion. 

"  The  intimation  of  your  readiness  to  afford  your  successor  all  the  informa- 
tion of  which  you  are  capable,  although  unnecessary  for  my  personal  conviction, 
must  be  regarded  as  an  additional  evidence  of  the  goodness  of  your  heart,  and 
of  your  attachment  to  your  country." — Washington  to  St.  Clair,  28  March, 
1792. 

A  cabinet  council  to  consider  the  call  of  a  committee  of  Congress  on  Knox 
for  the  papers  connected  with  St.  Clair's  expedition,  is  given  by  Jefferson  in 
his  Anas,  under  dates  Marcli  31st  and  April  2d. 

"^  Archbishop  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  in  the  United  States.  He  re- 
sided at  Baltimore. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  117 

The  war  now  existing  between  the  United  States 
and  some  tribes  of  the  western  Indians  prevents,  for 
the  present,  any  interference  of  this  nature  with  them. 
The  Indians  of  the  Five  Nations  are,  in  their  reli- 
gious concerns,  under  the  immediate  superintendence 
of  the  Reverend  Mr.  Kirkland  ;  and  those,  who  dwell 
in  the  eastern  extremity  of  the  United  States,  are, 
according  to  the  best  information  that  I  can  obtain, 
so  situated  as  to  be  rather  considered  as  a  part  of 
the  inhabitants  of  the  State  of  Massachusetts  than 
otherwise,  and  that  State  has  always  considered  them 
as  under  its  immediate  care  and  protection.  Any 
application,  therefore,  relative  to  these  Indians,  for 
the  purposes  mentioned  in  your  memorial,  would 
seem  most  proper  to  be  made  to  the  government  of 
Massachusetts.  The  original  letters  on  this  subject, 
which  were  submitted  to  my  inspection,  have  been 
returned  to  Charles  Carroll,  Esq.  of ^ 

Impressed  as  I  am  with  an  opinion,  that  the  most 
effectual  means  of  securing  the  permanent  attach- 
ment of  our  savage  neighbors  is  to  convince  them 
that  we  are  just,  and  to  show  them  that  a  proper  and 
friendly  intercourse  with  us  would  be  for  our  mutual 
advantage,  I  cannot  conclude  without  giving  you  my 
thanks  for  your  pious  and  benevolent  wishes  to  effect 
this  desirable  end,  upon  the  mild  principles  of  religion 
and  philanthropy.^   And,  when  a  proper  occasion  shall 

'  Carrollton. 

-  "The  first  wish  of  the  U.  States,  with  respect  to  the  Indians,  is,  to  be 
at  peace  with  them  all,  and  to  cultivate  a  good  understanding,  to  our  mutual 
benefit.  As  we  have  not  been  able  to  obtain  this  without  the  effusion  of  blood, 
the  next  wish  is,  to  pursue  such  measures  as  may  terminate  the  hostilities  in 


ii8  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

offer,  I  have  no  doubt  but  such  measures  will  be 
pursued,  as  may  seem  best  calculated  to  communicate 
liberal  instruction,  and  the  blessings  of  society,  to 
their  untutored  minds.  With  very  great  esteem  and 
regard,  I  am.  Sir,  &c. 


TO    THE    EARL    OF    BUCHAN. 
My  Lord  Philadelphia,  i  May,  1792. 

I  should  have  had  the  honor  of  acknowledging 
sooner  the  receipt  of  your  letter  of  the  28th  of  June 
last,  had  I  not  concluded  to  defer  doing  it  till  I  could 
announce  to  you  the  transmission  of  my  portrait, 
which  has  been  just  finished  by  Mr.  Robertson,  (of 
New  York),  who  has  also  undertaken  to  forward  it.^ 
The  manner  of  the  execution  does  no  discredit,  I  am 
told,  to  the  artist,  of  whose  skill  favorable  mention 
has  been  made  to  me.  I  was  further  induced  to 
intrust  the  execution  to  Mr.  Robertson,  from  his 
having  informed  me,  that  he  had  drawn  others  for 
your  Lordship,  and  knew  the  size  which  would  best 
suit  your  collection.^ 

the  speediest  manner,  and  most  for  the  honor  and  interest  of  the  United 
States.  Observations,  therefore,  which  are  founded  in  experience,  tending  to 
effect  this,  cannot  but  merit  the  thanks  of  those,  who  have  the  management  of 
public  affairs." — Washington  to  William  Moultrie,  5  May,  1792. 

'  This  portrait  had  been  solicited  by  the  Earl  of  Buchan.  The  artist,  Archi- 
bald Robertson,  came  to  America  in  October,  1791,  and  drew  a  miniature  of 
Washington,  13  December,  1791,  from  which  was  painted  a  largo  picture  in 
oil  for  the  Earl. 

'■"'Your  letter  of  the  20th  ultimo  was  presented  to  me  yesterday  by  Mr. 
Williams,  who  as  a  professional  man  may  or  may  not  be,  for  aught  I  know,  a 
luminary  of  the  first  magnitude.  But  to  be  frank,  and  1  hope  you  will  not  be 
displeased  with  nic  for  Ijoing  so,  T  am  so  luartily  tired  of  liie  attendance,  which. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  119 

I  accept  with  sensibility  and  with  satisfaction  the 
significant  present  of  the  box,  which  accompanied 
your  Lordship's  letter.  In  yielding  the  tribute  due 
from  every  lover  of  mankind  to  the  patriotic  and 
heroic  virtues  of  which  it  is  commemorative,  I  esti- 
mate, as  I  ought,  the  additional  value  which  it  de- 
rives from  the  hand  that  sent  it,  and  my  obligation 
for  the  sentiments  that  induced  the  transfer. 

I  will,  however,  ask,  that  you  will  exempt  me  from 
a  compliance  with  the  request  relating  to  its  eventual 
destination.  In  an  attempt  to  execute  your  wish  in 
this  particular,  I  should  feel  embarrassment  from  a 
just  comparison  of  relative  pretensions,  and  should 
fear  to  risk  injustice  by  so  marked  a  preference.  With 
sentiments  of  the  truest  esteem  and  consideration,  I 
remain  your  Lordship's,  &c.' 

from  one  cause  or  another  has  been  given  to  these  people,  that  it  is  now  more 

than  two  years  since  I  have  resolved  to  sit  no  more  for  any  of  them,  and  have 
adhered  to  it,  except  in  instances  where  it  has  been  requested  by  public  bodies, 
or  for  a  particular  purpose  (not  of  the  painters),  and  could  not  without  offence 
be  refused. 

"I  have  been  led  to  make  this  resolution  for  another  reason,  besides  the 
irksomeness  of  sitting  and  the  time  I  lose  by  it,  which  is,  that  these  produc- 
tions have  in  my  estimation  been  made  use  of  as  a  sort  of  tax  on  individuals, 
by  being  engraved,  and  that  badly,  and  hawked  about  or  advertised  for  sale." 
—  Washington  to  Henry  Lee,  2  July,  1792. 

'  The  box  here  alluded  to  was  made  of  the  oak  that  sheltered  William  Wal- 
lace after  the  battle  of  Falkirk.  The  following  account  of  it  is  given  in  a 
letter  from  the  Earl  of  Buchan,  written  subsequently  to  the  one  which  was 
brought  by  Mr.  Robertson. 

"  Sir  ;  some  time  ago  I  did  myself  the  pleasure  to  transmit  to  you  by  Mr. 
Robertson,  of  Aberdeen,  a  testimony  of  my  sincere  respect,  contained  in  a  box 
made  of  the  oak,  which  sheltered  our  great  Wallace  after  his  defeat  at  Falkirk  ; 
which  box  was  cut  out  of  the  tree  by  the  proprietor  and  sent  to  the  Corpora- 
tion of  Goldsmiths  at  Edinburgh,  and  by  them  presented  to  me  with  the  free- 
dom of  their  Company  in  the  box  above  mentioned,  and  which  I  hope  you  will 
receive.     It  is  a  respectable  curiosity,  and  will,  I  flatter  myself,  be  a  relic  of 


I20  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

TO    THOMAS    PAINE. 
■r>,  ^  Philadelphia,  6  May,  1702. 

Dear  Sir, 

To  my  friends,  and  those  who  know  my  occupa- 
tions, I  am  sure  no  apology  is  necessary  for  keeping 
their  letters  so  much  longer  unanswered,  than  my  in- 
clination would  lead  me  to  do.  I  shall  therefore  offer 
no  excuse  for  not  having  sooner  acknowledged  the 
receipt  of  your  letter  of  the  21st  of-  June.  My  thanks, 
however,  for  the  token  of  your  remembrances,  in  the 
fifty  copies  of  "  The  Rights  of  Man ^'  are  offered  with 
no  less  cordiality,  than  they  would  have  been,  had  I 
answered  your  letter  in  the  first  moment  of  receiving  it.^ 

long  endurance  in  America,  as  a  mark  of  that  esteem  with  which  I  have  the 
honor  to  be,  &c. — Dryburgh  Abbey,  Septemer  15th,  lygi." 

The  Company  of  Goldsmiths  had  signified  to  the  Earl  of  Buchan  their 
approbation  of  the  manner  in  which  he  proposed  to  dispose  of  the  box.  He 
accompanied  the  gift  with  the  request,  that  Washington,  in  the  event  of  his 
decease,  vv'ould  transmit  it  to  the  man  in  his  own  country  who  should  appear 
in  his  judgment  to  merit  it  best.  This  circumstance  explains  the  closing  para- 
graph of  Washington's  letter.  The  box  was  ultimately  returned  to  the  Earl  of 
Buchan. 

^  From  Air.  Paine' s  Letter:  "I  received  your  favor  of  last  August  by 
Colonel  Humphreys,  since  which  I  have  not  written  to  or  heard  from  you.  I 
mention  this,  that  you  may  know  no  letters  have  miscarried.  I  took  the 
liberty  of  addressing  my  late  work,  '  The  Rights  of  Man,"  to  you  ;  but 
though  I  left  it,  at  that  time,  to  find  its  way  to  you,  I  now  request  yoijr  accept- 
ance of  fifty  copies  as  a  token  of  remembrance  to  yourself  and  my  friends. 
The  work  has  had  a  run  beyond  any  thing  that  has  been  ]>ublished  in  this 
country  on  the  subject  of  government,  and  the  demand  continues.  In  Ire- 
land it  has  had  a  much  greater.  A  letter  I  received  from  Dublin,  loth  of 
May,  mentioned  that  the  fourth  edition  was  then  on  sale.  I  know  not 
what  number  of  copies  were  jjrinted  at  each  edition,  except  the  second,  which 
was  ten  thousand.  Tlie  same  fate  follows  me  here  as  I  at  first  experienced  in 
America,  strong  friends  and  violent  enemies  ;  but,  as  I  have  got  the  ear  of  the 
country,  I  shall  go  on,  and  at  least  show  them,  what  is  a  novelty  here,  that 
there  can  be  a  person  beyond  the  reach  of  corruption. 

"  I  have  printed  sixteen  thousand  copies.  When  the  whole  are  gone,  of  which 
there  remain  between  three  and  four  thousand,  I  shall  tlien  make  a  cheap  edi- 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  121 

The  duties  of  my  office,  which  at  all  times, 
especially  during  the  session  of  Congress,  require  an 
unremitting  attention,  naturally  become  more  pres- 
sing towards  the  close  of  it ;  and  as  that  body  have 
resolved  to  rise  to-morrow,  and  as  I  have  determined, 
in  case  they  should,  to  set  out  for  Mount  Vernon  on 
the  next  day,  you  will  readily  conclude,  that  the 
present  is  a  busy  moment  with  me  ;  and  to  that  I  am 
persuaded  your  goodness  will  impute  my  not  entering 
into  the  several  points  touched  upon  in  your  letter. 
Let  it  suffice,  therefore,  at  this  time,  to  say,  that  I 
rejoice  in  the  information  of  your  personal  pros- 
perity, and,  as  no  one  can  feel  a  greater  interest  in 
the  happiness  of  mankind  than  I  do,  that  it  is  the 
first  wish  of  my  heart,  that  the  enlightened  policy  of 
the  present  age  may  diffuse  to  all  men  those  blessings, 
to  which  they  are  entitled,  and  lay  the  foundation  of 
happiness  for  future  generations.  With  great  esteem, 
I  am,  dear  sir,  &c. 

P.  S.  Since  writing  the  foregoing,  I  have  received 
your  letter  of  the  13th  of  February,  with  the  twelve 
copies  of  your  new  work,  which  accompanied  it,  and 
for  which  you  must  accept  my  additional  thanks. 


TO    CHARLES    CARTER. 
De\R  Sir  mount  Vernon,  19  May,  1792. 

Your  letter  of  the  30th  ultimo  was  on  its  way  to 
Philadelphia  whilst  I  was  on  my  journey  to  this  place 
— owing  to  which  I  did  not  receive  it  until  it  rever- 

tion,  jxist  sufficient  to  bring  in  the  price  of  the  printing  and  paper,  as  I  did 
by  '  Comnioit  Sense.' "  —  'L.owAo-a..  June  2rst.  1791. 


122  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

berated — this  must  be  my  apology  for  not  giving  the 
receipt  of  it  an  earlier  acknowledgment. 

It  would  give  me  pleasure  to  receive  your  son  into 
my  family,  if  it  could  be  made  tolerably  convenient 
to  me — or  if  any  advantage  was  likely  to  result  from 
it  to  the  young  gentleman  himself.  I  was  in  no  real 
want  even  of  Howell  Lewis,  but  understanding  that 
he  was  spending  his  time  rather  idly,  and  at  the  same 
time  very  slenderly  provided  for  by  his  father,  I 
thought  for  the  few  months  which  remained  to  be 
accomplished  of  my  own  servitude,  by  taking  him 
under  my  care,  I  might  impress  him  with  ideas,  and 
give  him  a  turn  to  some  pursuit  or  other  that  might 
be  serviceable  to  him  hereafter ;  but  what  that  will 
be  I  am  at  present  as  much  at  a  loss  to  decide  as  you 
would  be — for  as  the  heads  of  the  different  depart- 
ments have  by  law  the  appointment  of  their  own 
Clerks — are  responsible  for  the  conduct  of  them — 
are  surrounded  always  with  applicants — and,  I  pre- 
sume, have  their  own  inclinations  and  friends  to 
gratify — I  never  have,  in  a  single  instance,  and  I  am 
pretty  sure  I  shall  not  now  begin,  recommending  any 
one  to  either  of  them. 

My  family,  now  Howell  is  admitted  into  it,  will  be 
more  than  full,  and  in  truth  than  is  convenient  for 
the  House,  as  Mr.  Dandridge  (a  nephew  of  Mrs. 
Washington's)  is  already  one  of  it,  and  but  one  room 
for  him,  Howell  and  another  person  to  sleep  in,  all  the 
others  being  appropriated  to  public  or  private  uses. 

If  your  son  Charles  is  of  age,  and  it  should  be  yours 
and  his  own  inclination  to  pursue  a  military  course,  I 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  123 

would,  if  any  vacancy  should  happen  (at  present 
there  is  none)  in  one  of  the  Regiments,  endeavor  to 
place  him  therein. — You  will  perceive  I  have  made 
age  the  condition — the  reason  is,  it  is  established 
as  a  rule  in  the  War  Office  to  appoint  none  know- 
ingly, that  are  under  it. 

My  best  respects  to  Mrs.  Carter.     I  am,  &c. 


TO    JAMES    MADISON. 

Mount  Vernon,  20  May,  1792. 

My  dear  Sir, 

As  there  is  a  possibility  if  not  a  probability,  that  I 
shall  not  see  you  on  your  return  home ; — or,  if  I 
should  see  you  that  it  may  be  on  the  road  and  under 
circumstances  which  will  prevent  my  speaking  to  you 
on  the  subject  we  last  conversed  upon  ;  I  take  the 
liberty  of  committing  to  paper  the  following  thoughts, 
and  requests. 

I  have  not  been  unmindful  of  the  sentiments  ex- 
pressed by  you  in  the  conversations  just  alluded  to  : 
— on  the  contrary  I  have  again,  and  again  revolved 
them  with  thoughtful  anxiety  ;  but  without  being  able 
to  dispose  my  mind  to  a  longer  continuation  in  the 
office  I  now  have  the  honor  to  hold. — I  therefore  still 
look  forward  to  the  fulfilment  of  my  fondest  and  most 
ardent  wishes  to  spend  the  remainder  of  my  days 
(which  I  cannot  expect  will  be  many)  in  ease  and 
tranquillity. 

Nothing  short  of  conviction  that  my  deriliction  of 
the  Chair  of  Government  (if  it  should  be  the  desire 


124  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

of  the  people  to  continue  me  in  it)  would  involve  the 
Country  in  serious  disputes  respecting  the  chief 
Magestrate,  and  the  disagreeable  consequences  which 
might  result  there  from  in  the  floating  and  divided 
opinions  which  seem  to  prevail  at  present,  could,  in 
any  wise,  induce  me  to  relinquish  the  determination 
I  have  formed  :  and  of  this  I  do  not  see  how  any 
evidence  can  be  obtained  previous  to  the  Election. 
My  vanity,  I  am  sure  is  not  of  that  cast  to  allow  me 
to  view  the  subject  in  this  light/ 

^  The  first  definite  expression  of  a  wish  to  retire  at  the  end  of  his  first  term 
is  to  be  found  in  a  conversation  between  the  President  and  Jefferson  on  the  29th 
of  February,  1792.  Washington  is  reported  to  have  said  that  "  many  motives 
obliged  him  to  it.  He  had,  through  the  whole  course  of  the  war,  and  most 
particularly  at  the  close  of  it,  uniformly  declared  his  resolution  to  retire  from 
public  affairs,  and  never  to  act  in  any  public  office  ;  that  he  had  retired  under 
that  firm  resolution  ;  that  the  government,  however,  which  had  been  formed, 
being  found  evidently  too  inefficacious,  and  it  being  supposed  that  his  aid  was 
of  some  consequence  towards  bringing  the  people  to  consent  to  one  of  sufficient 
efficacy  for  their  own  good,  he  consented  to  come  into  the  convention,  and  on 
the  same  motive,  after  much  pressing,  to  take  a  part  in  the  new  government, 
and  get  it  under  way.  That  were  he  to  continue  longer,  it  might  give  room  to 
say,  that  having  tasted  the  sweets  of  ofKice,  he  could  not  do  without  them  :  that 
he  really  felt  himself  growing  old,  his  bodily  health  less  firm,  his  memory, 
always  bad,  becoming  worse,  and  perhaps  the  other  faculties  of  his  mind  show- 
ing a  decay  to  others  of  which  he  was  insensible  himself ;  that  this  apprehen- 
sion particularly  oppressed  him  :  that  he  found,  moreover,  his  activity  lessened  ; 
business  therefore  more  irksome,  and  tranquillity  and  retirement  become  an 
irresistible  passion.  That  however  he  felt  himself  obliged,  for  these  reasons  to 
retire  from  the  government,  yet  he  should  consider  it  as  unfortunate,  if  that 
should  bring  on  the  retirement  of  the  great  officers  of  the  government,  and  that 
this  might  produce  a  shock  on  the  public  mind  of  dangerous  consequence." — 
Jeffersofi  s  Alias. 

It  is  very  [probable  that  thoughts  of  retiring  in  March,  1793,  had  been  in  the 
President's  mind  for  some  time  before  he  broached  them  to  Jefferson  ;  but 
there  is  no  positive  record  of  an  expression  of  them,  and  when  on  May  5th, 
1792,  he  called  Madison  to  advise  him  on  the  mode  and  time  most  proper  for 
making  known  his  intention  to  retire,  he  said,  he  "  had  forborne  to  communi- 
cate his  intentions  tf)  any  other  persons  whatever  but  Mr.  Jefferson,  Col. 
Hamilton,   General    Knox,  and   myself,  and  of   late  to   Mr.    Randolph.      Col. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  125 

Under  these  impressions  then,  permit  me  to  reit- 
erate the  request  I  made  to  you  at  our  last  meeting 
— namely,  to  think  of  the  proper  time,  and  the  best 
mode  of  announcing  the  intention  ;  and  that  you 
would  prepare  the  latter. — In  revolving  this  subject 
myself,  my  judgment  has  always  been  embarrassed. — 
On  the  one  hand,  a  previous  declaration  to  retire,  not 
only  carries  with  it  the  appearance  of  vanity  and  self- 
importance,  but  it  may  be  construed  into  a  manoeuvre 
to  be  invited  to  remain. — And  on  the  other  hand,  to 
say  nothing,  implys  consent ;  or,  at  any  rate,  would 
leave  the  matter  in  doubt ;  and  to  decline  afterwards 
miofht  be  deemed  as  bad,  and  uncandid. 

I  would  fain  carr}'  my  request  to  you  farther  than 
is  asked  above,  although  I  am  sensible  that  your 
compliance  with  it  must  add  to  your  trouble  ;  but  as 
the  recess  may  afford  you  leizure,  and  I  flatter  myself 
you  have  dispositions  to  oblige  me,  I  will,  without 
apolog}',  desire  (if  the  measure  in  itself  should  strike 

Hamilton  and  Gen'l  Knox,  he  observed,  were  extremely  importunate  that  he 
should  relinquish  his  purpose,  and  had  made  pressing  representations  to  induce 
him  to  it.  Mr.  Jefferson  had  expressed  his  wishes  to  the  like  effect.  He  had 
not,  however,  persuaded  himself  that  his  continuance  in  public  life  could  be  of 
so  much  necessity  or  importance  as  was  conceived,  and  his  disinclination  to 
it  was  becoming  ever}-  day  more  and  more  fixed."  He  preferred  a  mode  of 
announcing  his  retirement  which  "  would  be  most  remote  from  the  appearance 
of  arrogantly  presuming  on  his  re-election  in  case  he  should  not  withdraw  him- 
self, and  such  a  time  as  would  be  most  convenient  to  the  public  in  making  the 
choice  of  his  successor.  It  had,  he  said,  at  first  occurred  to  him,  that  the  com- 
mencement of  the  ensuing  session  of  Congress  would  furnish  him  with  an  apt 
occasion  for  introducing  the  intimation  ;  but  besides  the  lateness  of  the  day,  he 
was  apprehensive  that  it  might  possibly  produce  some  notice  in  the  reply  of 
Congress  that  might  entangle  him  in  farther  explanations." 

Madison  urged  that  the  aspect  of  public  affairs  demanded  his  continuance  in 
the  public  service,  and  that  "under  such  an  impression,  I  held  it  a  duty,  not 
indeed  to  express  my  wishes,  which  would  be  superfluous,  but  to  offer  my 


126  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

you  as  proper,  and  likely  to  produce  public  good,  or 
private  honor)  that  you  would  turn  your  thoughts  to 
a  valedictory  address  from  me  to  the  public,  express- 
ing in  plain  and  modest  terms,  that  having  been 
honored  with  the  Presidential  chair,  and  to  the  best 
of  my  abilities  contributed  to  the  organization  and 
administration  of  the  government — that  having 
arrived  at  a  period  of  life  when  the  private  walks  of 
it,  in  the  shade  of  retirement,  becomes  necessary  and 
will  be  most  pleasing  to  me  ; — and  the  spirit  of  the 
government  may  render  a  rotation  in  the  elective 
officers  of  it  more  congenial  with  their  ideas  of  liberty 
and  safety,  that  I  take  my  leave  of  them  as  a  public 
man  ;  and  in  bidding  them  adieu  (retaining  no  other 

opinion  that  his  retiring  at  the  present  juncture  might  have  effects  that  ought 
not  to  be  hazarded."  The  President  "  then  entered  on  a  more  explicit  dis- 
closure of  the  state  of  his  mind  ;  observing  that  he  could  not  believe  or  con- 
ceive himself  anywise  necessary  to  the  successful  administration  of  the  Govern- 
ment ;  that,  on  the  contrary,  he  had  from  the  beginning  found  himself  deficient 
in  many  of  the  essential  qualifications,  owing  to  his  inexperience  in  the  forms 
of  public  business,  his  unfitness  to  judge  of  legal  questions,  and  questions  aris- 
ing out  of  the  Constitution  ;  that  others  more  conversant  in  such  matters  would 
be  better  able  to  execute  the  trust  ;  that  he  found  himself,  also,  in  the  decline 
of  life,  his  health  becoming  sensibly  more  infirm,  and  perhaps  his  faculties 
also ;  that  the  fatigues  and  disagreeableness  of  his  situation  were  in  fact 
scarcely  tolerable  to  him  ;  that  he  only  uttered  his  real  sentiments  when  he 
declared  that  his  inclination  would  lead  him  rather  to  go  to  his  farm,  take  his 
spade  in  hand,  and  work  for  his  bread,  than  remain  in  his  present  situation  ; 
that  it  was  evident,  moreover,  that  a  spirit  of  party  in  the  Government  was 
becoming  a  fresh  source  of  difficulty,  and  he  was  afraid  was  dividing  some 
(alluding  to  the  Secretary  of  State  and  Secretary  of  the  Treasury)  more  particu- 
larly connected  with  him  in  tlie  administration  ;  that  there  were  discontents 
among  the  people  which  were  also  shewing  themselves  more  and  more,  and 
that  although  the  various  attacks  against  public  men  and  measures  had  not  in 
general  been  pointed  at  him,  yet,  in  some  instances,  it  haii  been  visible  that  he 
was  the  indirect  object,  and  that  it  was  probable  llie  evidence  would  grow 
stronger  and  stronger  that  his  return  to  private  life  was  consistent  with  every 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  127 

concern  than  such  as  will  arise  from  fervent  wishes 
for  the  prosperity  of  my  Country)  I  take  the  liberty 
at  my  departure  from  civil,  as  I  formerly  did  at  my 
military'  exit  to  invoke  a  continuation  of  the  blessings 
of  Providence  upon  it,  and  upon  all  those  who  are 
the  supporters  of  its  interests,  and  the  promoters  of 
harmony,  order  and  good  government. 

That  to  impress  these  things  it  might,  among 
other  things  be  obser\^ed,  that  we  are  all  the  children 
of  the  same  countr}^ — a  countr}^  great  and  rich  in 
itself — capable  and  promising  to  be,  as  prosperous 
and  as  happy  as  any  the  annals  of  history  have  ever 
brought  to  our  view — That  our  interest,  however 
deversified  in  local  and  smaller  matters,  is  the  same 

public  consideration,  and,  consequently,  that  he  was  justified  in  giving  way  to 
his  inclination  for  it." 

Madison  then  remarked,  -that  with  the  aid  of  the  oflBcial  opinions  and  in- 
formations at  his  command,  he  was  as  competent  to  judge  of  questions  of 
business  as  any  other  man  ;  that  he  had  already  rendered  essential  sen-ices  in 
conciliating  all  parties  under  a  government  which  had  excited  such  violent 
controversies  and  divisions  ;  that  by  remaining  in  office  he  could  still  further 
do  much  in  deciding  public  opinion  and  the  character  of  the  government, 
giving  it  such  a  tone  and  firmness  as  would  secure  it  from  its  enemies  or  from 
faction  ;  and  that  "although  his  retirement  might  not  be  fatal  to  the  public 
good,  yet  a  postponement  of  it  was  another  sacrifice  exacted  by  his  patriotism." 
In  a  second  interview,  held  on  May  9th,  the  details  of  an  announcement  were 
mentioned  and  received  by  the  President  in  a  manner  that  proved  he  had  not 
relinquished  his  idea  of  withdrawing. 

The  following  day  Washington  set  out  for  Mount  Vernon,  where  he  re- 
mained a  few  days,  and  the  25th,  when  on  the  road  returning  to  Philadelphia, 
he  met  Madison,  and  handed  him  this  letter  of  the  20th  May,  1792.  "  Its  con- 
tents are  ver}- interesting,"  wrote  Madison  to  Jefferson,  "  but  do  not  absolutely 
decide  the  problem  which  dictated  yours  to  him."  Jefferson's  letter,  dated 
May  23d,  had  passed  the  President  on  the  road,  and  did  not  reach  him  till  it 
was  returned  to  Philadelphia.  He  also  urged  the  disturbed  condition  of  pub- 
lic opinion,  detailed  the  causes  in  language  which  Washington  incorporated 
almost  word  for  word  in  his  letter  of  July  29th  to  Hamilton  (printed post),  and 


128  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

in  all  the  great  and  essential  concerns  of  the  Nation. 
— That  the  extent  of  our  Country — the  diversity  of 
our  climate  and  soil — and  the  various  productions  of 
the  States  consequent  of  both,  are  such  as  to  make 
one  part  not  only  convenient,  but  perhaps  indispen- 
sably necessary  to  the  other  part ; — and  may  render 
the  whole  (at  no  distant  period)  one  of  the  most 
independant  in  the  world. — That  the  established 
government  being  the  work  of  our  own  hands,  with 
the  seeds  of  amendment  engrafted  in  the  Consti- 
tution, may  by  wisdom,  good  dispositions,  and 
mutual  allowances  ;  aided  by  experience,  bring  it  as 
near  to  perfection  as  any  human  institution  ever 
approximated  ;  and  therefore,  the  only  strife  among 
us  ought  to  be,  who  should  be  foremost  in  facilitating 
and  finally  accomplishing  such  great  and  desirable 

added  :  "  The  confidence  of  the  whole  Union  is  centred  in  you.  Your  being 
at  the  helm  will  be  more  than  an  answer  to  every  argument,  which  can  be  used 
to  alarm  and  lead  the  people  in  any  quarter  into  violence  or  secession.  North 
and  south  will  hang  together,  if  they  have  you  to  hang  on  ;  and,  if  the  first 
corrective  of  a  numerous  representation  should  fail  in  its  effect,  your  presence 
will  give  time  for  trying  others  not  inconsistent  with  the  union  and  peace  of 
the  States."  At  least,  he  said,  await  the  result  of  the  election.  "  Should  an 
honest  majority  result  from  the  new  and  enlarged  rcjiresentation,  should  those 
acquiesce,  whose  principles  or  interests  they  may  control,  your  wishes  for  re- 
tirement would  be  gratified  with  less  danger,  as  soon  as  that  shall  be  manifest, 
without  awaiting  the  completion  of  the  second  period  of  four  years." — Works 
of  ycffcrson,  iii.,  359. 

July  loth  Washington  broached  the  subject  again  to  Jefferson.  "  He  said 
that  the  declaration  he  had  made  when  he  quitted  his  military  command,  of 
never  again  entering  into  public  life,  was  sincere.  That,  however,  when  he 
was  called  on  to  come  forward  to  set  the  present  government  in  motion,  it  ap- 
peared to  him  that  circumstances  were  so  changed  as  to  justify  a  change  in  his 
resolution  :  he  was  made  to  believe  that  in  two  years  all  would  be  well  in 
motion,  anfi  he  might  retire.  At  the  end  of  two  years  he  found  some  things 
still  to  be  done.  At  the  end  of  the  third  year,  he  thouglit  it  was  not  worth 
while  to  disturb  the  course  of  things,  as  in  one  year  more  his  office  would  ex- 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  129 

objects ;  by  giving  ever>"  possible  support,  and 
cement  to  the  Union. — That  however  necessary*  it 
may  be  to  keep  a  watchful  eye  over  public  servants, 
and  public  measures,  yet  there  ought  to  be  limits  to 
it ;  for  suspicions  unfounded,  and  jealousies  too 
lively,  are  irritating  to  honest  feeling ;  and  often- 
times are  productive  of  more  evil  than  good. 

To  enumerate  the  various  subjects  which  might  be 
introduced  into  such  an  address  would  require 
thought ;  and  to  mention  them  to  you  would  be 
unnecessary,  as  your  own  judgment  will  comprehend 
«// that  will  be  proper  ;  whether  to  touch,  specifically, 
any  of  the  exceptionable  parts  of  the  Constitution  may 
be  doubted. — All  I  shall  add  therefore  at  present,  is, 
to  beg  the  favor  of  you  to  consider — ist,  the  propri- 
ety of  such  an  address. — 2d,  if  approved,  the  several 

pire,  and  he  was  decided  th'en  to  retire.  Now  he  was  told  there  would  still  be 
danger  in  it.  Certainly,  if  he  thought  so  too,  he  would  conquer  his  longing 
for  retirement.  But  he  feared  it  would  be  said  his  former  professions  of  re- 
tirement had  been  mere  affectation,  and  that  he  was  like  other  men,  when  once 
in  office  he  could  not  quit  it.  He  was  sensible,  too,  of  a  decay  of  his  hearing, 
perhaps  his  other  faculties  might  fall  off  and  he  not  be  sensible  of  it.  That 
with  respect  to  the  existing  causes  of  uneasiness,  he  thought  there  were  sus- 
picions against  a  particular  party,  which  had  been  carried  a  great  deal  too  far  ; 
that  there  might  be  desires,  but  he  did  not  believe  there  were  designs  to  change 
the  form  of  government  into  a  monarchy  ;  that  there  might  be  a  few  who 
wished  it  in  the  higher  walks  of  life,  particularly  in  the  great  cities,  but  that 
the  main  body  of  the  people  in  the  eastern  States  were  as  steadily  for  republi- 
canism as  in  the  southern.  That  the  pieces  lately  published,  and  particularly 
in  Freneau's  paper,  seemed  to  have  in  view  the  exciting  opposition  to  the  gov- 
ernment. That  this  had  taken  place  in  Pennsylvania  as  to  the  excise  law, 
according  to  information  he  had  received  from  General  Hand.  That  they  tended 
to  produce  a  separation  of  the  Union,  the  most  dreadful  of  all  calamities,  and 
that  whatever  tended  to  produce  anarchy,  tended,  of  course,  to  produce  a 
resort  to  monarchical  government.  He  considered  those  papers  as  attacking 
him  directly,  for  he  must  be  a  fool  indeed  to  swallow  the  little  sugar  plums 
here  and  there  thrown  out  to  him.  That  in  condemning  the  administration  of 
9 


I30  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

matters  which  ought  to  be  contained  in  it — and  3d, 
the  time  it  should  appear :  that  is,  whether  at  the 
declaration  of  my  intention  to  withdraw  from  the 
service  of  the  public — or  to  let  it  be  the  closing  act 
of  my  administration — which  will  end  with  the  next 
session  of  Congress  (the  probability  being  that  that 
body  will  continue  sitting  until  March,)  when  the 
House  of  Representatives  will  also  dissolve. 

'Though  I  do  not  wish  to  hurry  you  (the  case's  not 
pressing)  in  the  execution  of  either  of  the  publica- 
tions beforementioned,  yet  I  should  be  glad  to  hear 
from  you  generally  on  both — and  to  receive  them  in 
time,  if  you  should  not  come  to  Philadelphia  until 
the  session  commences,  in  the  form  they  are  finally 
to  take. — I  beg  leave  to  draw  your  attention  also  to 
such   things   as   you   shall    conceive   fit   subjects  for 

the  government,  they  condemned  him,  for  if  they  thought  there  were  meas- 
ures pursued  contrary  to  his  sentiments,  they  must  conceive  him  too  careless 
to  attend  to  them,  or  too  stupid  to  understand  them.  That  though,  indeed,  he 
had  signed  many  acts  which  he  did  not  approve  in  all  their  parts,  yet  he  had 
never  put  his  name  to  one  which  he  did  not  think,  on  the  whole,  was  eligible. 
That  as  to  the  bank,  which  had  been  an  act  of  so  much  complaint,  until  there 
was  some  infallible  criterion  of  reason,  a  difference  of  opinion  must  be  tol- 
erated. He  did  not  believe  the  discontents  extended  far  from  the  seat  of 
government.  He  had  seen  and  spoken  with  many  people  in  Maryland  and 
Virginia  in  his  late  journey.  He  found  the  people  contented  and  happy.  He 
wished,  however,  to  be  better  informed  on  this  head.  If  the  discontents  were 
more  extensive  than  he  supposed,  it  might  be  that  the  desire  that  he  should 
remain  in  the  government  was  not  general." — ycffcrsoii' s  A>tas. 

The  arguments  of  his  advisers  so  far  availed  as  to  cause  "  some  relaxation 
in  the  disposition"  he  had  discovered  to  decline  a  re-election.  Hamilton 
assured  him  of  a  uniform  impression  "that  your  declining  would  be  to  be  de- 
plored as  the  greatest  evil  that  could  befall  the  country  at  the  present  juncture, 
and  as  critically  hazardous  to  your  own  reputation  ;  that  your  continuance  will 
be  justified  in  the  mind  of  every  friend  to  his  country  by  the  evident  necessity 
for  it." — Hamilton  to  Washini^ton,  30  July,  1792.  Randolph,  six  days  later, 
made  much  the  same  pleas.     "  The  most  inauspicious  struggles  are  past,  but 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  131 

communication  on  that  occasion  ;  and  noting  them 
as  they  occur  that  you  would  be  so  good  as  to 
furnish  me  with  them  in  time  to  be  prepared,  and 
engrafted  with  others  for  the  opening  of  the  session. 
With  very  sincere  and  affectionate  regard,  I  am,  &c. 


TO    GOUVERNEUR    MORRIS. 

[private.] 

My    DEAR    Sir,  PHiLAnELPmA.  21  June.  1792. 

Since  writing  to  you  on  the  28th  of  January,  I 
have  received  your  several  favors  of  the  27th  of 
December  from   Paris ;    4th  of  February,    1 7th  and 

the  public  deliberations  need  stability.     You  alone  can  give  them  stability 
.     .    It  is  the  fixed  opinion  of  the  world,  that  you  surrender  nothing  incom- 
plete."— Randolph  to  Washington,  5  August,  1792. 

That  the  growing  differences  of  opinion  among  his  cabinet,  led  by  Hamilton 
and  Jefferson,  were  potent  in  forming  his  decision  to  retire,  is  shown  by  the 
strenuous  attempt  he  made  when  called  to  Mount  Vernon  by  his  nephew's  ill- 
ness to  reconcile  the  matters  in  dispute  between  these  two  men.  He  sub- 
mitted to  Hamilton  (July  2gth)  all  the  criticisms  made  on  his  measures  by 
Jefferson.  The  reply  of  Hamilton  was  dated  August  iSth,  but  before  it  was 
received,  Washington  had  appealed  to  Jefferson  against  internal  dissensions 
(August  23d).  On  recei\-ing  Hamilton's  answer  to  Jefferson's  charges,  the 
President  also  urged  him  to  sink  differences  in  political  opinions  (August  26th). 
Hamilton  frankly  avowed  his  being  engaged  in  retaliating  on  Jefferson,  by 
showing  up  the  Freneau  matter,  but  gave  his  word  that  he  would  concur  in  any 
plan  that  should  unite  the  members  of  the  cabinet  upon  some  steady  principle 
of  co-operation.  Jefferson's  reply  to  Washington's  appeal  was  a  lengthy  attack 
upon  Hamilton,  and  the  offer  of  his  resignation.  The  subsequent  history  of 
this  attempt  at  reconciliation  is  told  in  the  correspondence  of  the  two  leaders. 

On  October  ist  Jefferson  had  a  conversation  with  Washington  at  Mount 
Vernon,  which  covered  pretty  much  the  same  ground  that  he  had  traversed  in 
his  letter,  and  showed  the  President  still  in  doubt  on  the  proper  course  to 
pursue.  Between  that  date  and  December  13th,  if  Jefferson's  inferences  be 
correct,  the  decision  to  accept  a  re-election  was  made,  with  a  probability  of 
retiring  within  two  years. 


132  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

2 1  St  of  March,  and  6th  and  loth  of  April  from 
London.  I  thank  you  very  much  for  the  interesting 
and  important  information  contained  in  several  of 
these  letters,  particularly  that  of  the  4th  of  February. 
If  the  last  article  of  which  it  is  comprised  should  in 
your  judgment  require  an  acknowledgment,  I  shall 
rely  on  your  goodness  to  make  it  in  suitable  and 
respectful  terms.  You  can  be  at  no  loss  to  discover 
the  paragraph  to  which  I  allude.^ 

The  plot  thickens  and  development  must  have  be- 
gun ;  but  what  the  final  issue  will  be,  lyes  too  deep  for 
human  ken.  I  will  hope  for  the  best,  without  allowing 
myself  to  wander  in  the  field  of  conjecture  for  the 
result.  Your  letters,  though  extremely  interesting  in 
point  of  information,  require  but  little  to  be  said  in 
the  way  of  reply.  The  accts.  given  therein  will  be 
treasured  up,  to  be  acted  upon  as  circumstances  will 
warrant,  and  as  occasions  may  present.  One  thing, 
however,  I   must  not  pass  over  in  silence,  lest  you 


'  Relating  to  a  message  from  the  King  and  Queen  of  France,  as  communi- 
cated by  Mr.  Morris.  He  had  been  speaking  of  the  political  doings  of  the 
leaders  in  the  French  Revolution.  "  The  King  and  Queen,"  said  he,  "are 
wounded  to  the  soul  by  these  rash  measures.  They  have,  I  believe,  given  all 
needful  assurances  to  the  Emperor  and  King  of  Spain.  A  confidential  person 
has  desired  me  to  assure  you  on  their  behalf,  that  they  are  very  far  from 
wishing  to  change  the  system  of  French  politics  and  abandon  their  old  allies  ; 
and  therefore,  if  any  advantage  is  taken  of  the  present  advances  to  Britain, 
that  you  will  consider  them  as  originating  merely  in  the  madness  of  the 
moment  ;  and  not  as  proceeding  from  them ,  or  as  meeting  with  their  approba- 
tion, but  the  contrary.  I  shall  send  this  letter  in  such  a  way  as  promises  the 
greatest  safety,  and  I  must  entreat  you,  my  dear  Sir,  to  destroy  it  for  fear  of 
accidents  ;  you  will  feel  how  important  it  is  to  them,  that  this  communication 
be  not  disclosed.  It  is  merely  personal  from  them  to  you,  and  expressive  of 
sentiments,  which  can  have  no  action  until  they  have  some  authority." — 
.Sparks'  Life  of  Gouvcrneur  Morris,  vol.  ii.,  ji.  163. 


1792]  GEORGE   WASHINGTON.  133 

should  infer  from  it,  that  Mr.  D[undas]  had  author- 
ity for  reporting,  that  the  United  States  had  asked 
the  mediation  of  Great  Britain  to  bring  about  a  peace 
between  them  and  the  Indians.  You  may  be  fully 
assured,  Sir,  that  such  mediation  never  was  asked, 
that  the  asking  of  it  never  was  in  contemplation,  and 
I  think  I  might  go  further  and  say,  that  it  not  only 
never  will  be  asked,  but  would  be  rejected  if  offered. 
The  United  States  will  never  have  occasion,  I  hope, 
to  ask  for  the  interposition  of  that  power,  or  any 
other,  to  establish  peace  within  their  own  territory. 

That  it  is  the  wish  of  that  government  to  inter- 
meddle, and  bring  this  measure  to  pass,  many  con- 
current circumstances  (small  indeed  when  singly 
considered)  had  left  no  doubt  on  my  mind,  before 
your  letter  of  the  6th  of  April  came  to  hand.  What 
is  there  mentioned'  of  the  views  of  Mr.  P[itt],  as 
well  as  of  the  assertions  of  Mr.  D.,  is  strong  as 
"  proof  of  Holy  Writ  "  in  confirmation  of  it.^  The 
attempt  has,  however,  in  its  remotest  movements 
been  so  scouted  as  to  have  retarded,  if  it  has  not 
entirely  done  away  the  idea ;  but  I  do  not  hesitate 
to  give  it  to  you,  my  private  and  decided  opinion, 
that  it  is  to  these  interferences,  and  to  the  under- 
handed support,  which  the  Indians  receive,  (notwith- 

'  From  Mr.  Morris'  Letter  :  "I  was  told  yesterday,  that  Mr.  Dundas  has 
said,  that  the  United  States  have  asked  for  the  mediation  of  this  country  to 
treat  about  a  peace  with  the  Indians.  He  told  the  same  person,  that  the 
treaty  made  long  since  by  Sir  William  Johnson  seemed  to  be  the  proper  ground 
on  which  to  fix  a  boundary  line  between  the  United  States  and  the  Indian 
tribes.  I  learn  these  facts  in  such  a  way,  that  I  am  confident  of  their  truth, 
and  therefore  submit  them  without  any  comment  to  your  consideration." — 
London,  April  6th. 


134  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

standing  the  open  disavowal  of  it,)  that  all  our 
difficulties  with  them  may  be  imputed.  We  are  es- 
saying every  means  in  our  power  to  undeceive  these 
hostile  tribes,  with  respect  to  the  disposition  of  this 
country  towards  them,  and  to  convince  them  that  we 
neither  seek  their  extirpation,  nor  the  occupancy  of 
their  lands,  as  they  are  taught  to  believe,  except  such 
of  the  latter  as  has  been  obtained  by  fair  treaty,  and 
purchase  bona  fide  made  and  recognised  by  them  in 
more  instances  than  one.  If  they  will  not,  after  this 
explanation  (if  we  can  get  at  them  to  make  it),  listen 
to  the  voice  of  peace,  the  sword  must  decide  the  dis- 
pute ;  and  we  are,  though  very  reluctantly,  vigor- 
ously preparing  to  meet  the  event. 

In  the  course  of  last  winter,  I  had  some  of  the 
chiefs  of  the  Cherokees  in  this  city,  and  in  the  spring 
I  obtained,  (with  some  difficulty  indeed,)  a  full  repre- 
sentation of  the  Six  Nations  to  come  hither.  I  have 
sent  all  of  them  away  well  satisfied,  and  fully  con- 
vinced of  the  justice  and  good  dispositions  of  this 
government  towards  the  Indian  nations  generally. 
The  latter,  that  is  the  Six  Nations,  who  before  ap- 
peared to  be  divided  and  distracted  in  their  councils, 
have  given  strong  assurances  of  their  friendship,  and 
have  resolved  to  send  a  deputation  of  their  tribes  to 
the  hostile  Indians  with  an  acct.  of  all  that  has 
passed,  accompanying  it  with  advice  to  them  to  de- 
sist from  further  hostilities.  With  difficulty  still 
greater,  I  have  brought  the  celebrated  Captain  Joseph 
Brant  to  this  city,  with  a  view  to  impress  him  also 
with  the  equitable  intentions  of  this  government 
towards    all    the    nations    of    his    color.       He    only 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  135 

arrived  last  night,  and  I  am  to  give  him  an  audience 
at  twelve  this  day. 

Nothing  has,  as  yet,  been  hinted  on  this  side  of  the 
water  to  any  of  the  officers  of  government,  of  the 
other  matter  mentioned  in  your  letter  of  the  6th  of 
April,  though  suspicions  of  it  have  been  entertained.^ 

Knowing  from  the  letters  of  the  Secretary  of^State 
to  you,  that  you  are  advised  in  all  matters  of  public 
concern,  and  will  have  transmitted  to  you  the  laws  as 
they  are  enacted,  and  the  gazettes  as  they  are  pub- 
lished, I  shall  not  trouble  you  with  a  detail  of  domes- 
tic occurrences.  The  latter  are  ^^^rcharged  and  some 
of  them  indecently  communicative  of  charges  that 
stand  in  need  of  evidence  for  their  support. 

There  can  be  but  few  things  of  a  public  nature 
likely  to  fall  in  your  line,  requiring  to  be  acted  upon 
by  this  government;  that  may  not  be  freely  com- 
municated to  the  department  to  which  it  belongs ; 
because  in  proceeding  thereon  the  head  of  the  depart- 
ment will  necessarily  be  made  acquainted  therewith. 
But  there  may,  nevertheless,  be  other  matters,  more 
remote  in  their  consequences,  of  the  utmost  import- 
ance to  be  known,  that  not  more  than  one  inter- 
mediate person  would  be  entrusted  with.  Here, 
necessity  as  well  as  propriety  will  confine  you  to  a 
point.  Cases,  not  altogether  under  the  control  of 
necessity,  may  also  arise  to  render  it  advisable  to  do 
this,  and  your  own  good  judgment  will  be  the  best 
direction  in  these.  With  much  truth  and  affection,  I 
am,  &c. 


'  Suspicion  that  the  death  of  the  King  of  Sweden  had  been  effected  through 
the  instrumentality  of  the  Jacobins  in  France. 


136  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

TO    JAMES    ANDERSON. 

Philadelphia,  26  June,  1792. 

Sir, 

I  had  the  pleasure  a  few  days  ago  to  receive  your 
letter  of  the  28th  of  September,  enclosing  a  letter 
from  the  Earl  of  Buchan,  and  accompanied  with  some 
seeds  of  the  Swedish  turnip,  or  ruta  baga.  At  the 
same  time  I  received  from  Mr.  Campbell,  a  bookseller 
in  New  York,  six  volumes  of  The  Bee,^  which  he  in- 
formed me  were  transmitted  by  your  directions.  In 
your  letter  you  mentioned  having  sent  the  first  four 
volumes  of  The  Bee,  and  the  Earl  mentions  in  his 
that  he  has  sent  me  a  set.  I  therefore  concluded, 
that  the  six  volumes  which  I  have  received  are  those 
mentioned  by  his  Lordship,  and  especially  as  the 
pamphlet  on  wool,  by  Sir  John  Sinclair,  which  you 
observed  in  your  letter  accompanied  the  books  which 
you  sent,  was  not  with  those  which  I  received.  I 
mention  these  circumstances  in  order  that,  if  there  is 
any  mistake  in  the  transmission  of  the  books,  it  may 
be  set  right. 

I  feel  no  less  grateful,  Sir,  for  your  polite  attention, 
whether  the  books  which  I  have  received  be  those 
sent  by  yourself  or  by  the  Earl.  I  must  beg  your 
acceptance  of  my  best  thanks  for  the  Swedish  turnip 
seed,  and  the  particular  account  which  you  were  so 

'  A  periodical  magazine  published  weekly  at  Edinburgh,  under  the  direction 
of  Dr.  Anderson.  It  was  devoted  to  agriculture,  politics,  and  miscellaneous 
topics.  In  the  year  1776  Dr.  Anderson  published  Free  Thoui^his  on  the 
Avierican  Contest,  and  in  1782  another  tiact,  entitled  The  Interest  of  Great 
Britain  with  Regard  to  her  American  Colonies  Considered.  He  was  likewise 
the  author  of  numerous  other  works  and  essays  on  politics,  rural  economy, 
ntiquities,  jjhilosophy,  and  literature.  —  Sparks. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  137 

good  as  to  give  me  respecting  it.  As  I  have  spent 
a  great  part  of  my  life,  and  that  not  the  least  pleas- 
ing, in  rural  affairs,  I  am  always  obliged  by  receiving 
such  communications  or  novelties  in  that  way,  as 
may  tend  to  promote  the  system  of  husbandr}^  in  this 
country. 

When  you  first  determined  upon  publishing  The 
Bee,  the  Earl  of  Buchan  had  the  goodness  to  transmit 
to  me  the  plan  of  the  work,  with  which  I  was  much 
pleased  ;  and,  from  the  answer  which  I  then  gave  to 
his  Lordship's  letter,  I  have  considered  myself  as  a 
subscriber  to  the  publication,  and  must  beg  to  be  in- 
formed to  whom,  or  in  what  manner,  I  shall  cause 
payment  to  be  made  for  it. 

I  have  not  yet  had  it  in  my  power  to  peruse  those 
volumes  of  The  Bee,  which  I  have  received,  but  I 
promise  myself  much,  entertainment  and  information 
from  them  ;  for  the  extensive  and  liberal  ground,  upon 
which  you  appear  to  have  undertaken  the  work,  must 
make  it  interesting  to  the  good  citizens  of  every 
countr}',  and  for  your  complete  success  in  it  you  have 
my  best  wishes.      I  am,  Sir,  &c. 


TO    HEXRV    LEE,    GOVERNOR    OF    VIRGINIA. 
[private.] 

Philadelphia,  30  June,  1792. 

Dear  Sir, 

Your  favor  of  the  15th  came  duly  to  hand,  but  at 
a  time  when  I  was  much  engaged  with  the  Secretary 
of  State  in  despatching  Mr.  Pinckney  to  the  court  of 


138  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

London,   and   in   considering  other  business  of  im- 
portance. 

I  shall  repeat  in  this  letter,  what  I  have  declared 
to  you  on  a  former  occasion,  vizt.,  that,  wishing  to 
promote  the  public  weal,  and  to  make  justice  and 
impartiality  the  lines  by  which  to  walk  to  accomplish 
this,  every  information  that  can  enable  me  to  tread 
on  such  firm  ground,  or  which  would  enable  me  to 
investigate  with  more  accuracy  the  characters  of 
public  men,  or  the  utility  of  public  measures,  cannot 
fail  of  being  acceptable  to  me,  whilst  I  have  any 
thing  to  do  with  either,  particularly  the  latter.^ 

'  As  soon  as  the  defeat  of  St.  Clair  was  known,  Henry  Lee,  then  Governor 
of  Virginia,  sought  to  obtain  the  appointment  to  the  command.  In  April  the 
general  officers  were  named,  and  Lee  was  not  among  them.  He  wrote  to 
Washington,  June  15th: 

"  You  cannot  be  a  stranger  to  the  extreme  disgust,  which  the  late  appoint- 
ment to  the  command  of  the  army  excited  among  all  orders  in  this  State. 
Whether  the  same  be  just  or  not,  is  immaterial  at  present ;  or  whether  taking 
into  view  all  the  circumstances  of  the  case  a  better  appointment  could  have 
been  made,  is  by  no  means  the  object  of  my  inquiry.  The  event  was  the  sub- 
ject of  general  conversation,  during  which  period  Colonel  Darke  visited  Rich- 
mond, and  of  course  became  a  party  in  the  opinions  and  communications 
given  on  the  occasion.  What  he  said  to  me  was  in  my  judgment  necessary  to 
you,  and  I  took  the  liberty  to  write  to  Colonel  Darke,  requesting  him  to 
commit  to  paper  the  conversation  between  us  the  previous  day.  This  he  did, 
and  I  enclose  it  for  your  perusal. 

"  I  thought  it  ]:)roper  to  send  you  the  original,  although  the  handwriting  is 
rather  obscure,  lest  a  copy  might  in  any  degree  change  the  meaning  of  the 
communication.  If  Colonel  Darke  is  right,  it  follows  clearly,  that,  in  a  very 
important  matter  to  yourself  and  the  community,  one  of  your  officers  exerted 
himself  to  increase  certain  difficulties,  which  obstructed  the  execution  of  your 
own  wishes,  instead  of  endeavoring  to  remove  them  ;  acting  in  obedience  to 
his  own  desire,  rather  than  following  the  decision  of  his  superior.  If  your 
ministers  dare  thus  to  do,  you  must  be  subject  to  hourly  impositions,  and  the 
national  concerns  will  be  regulated  by  their  and  not  your  judgment.  I  have 
not  nor  shall  I  lisp  a  word  of  this  communication  to  the  gentlemen  whom  it 
concerns.     For  yourself  only  it  is  intended.     It  is  not  in  my  power  to  ascer- 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  139 

Having  premised  these  truths,  I  shall  add,  on  the 
subject  of  your  letter,  that  I  can  no  more  condemn 
G.  K.^  on  the  evidence  of  Colonel  D.'s^  letter  to  you, 
than  I  am  disposed  to  go  into  a  full  vindication  of 
his  conduct  against  the  implications,  which  are  con- 
tained in  that  letter.  When  assertion  stands  against 
assertion,  recourse  must  be  had  to  collateral  circum- 
stances to  come  at  the  truth,  or  the  preponderating 

tain  whether  the  same  be  true  or  not.  You  can  readily  distinguish  this  fact. 
Colonel  Darke  is  a  man  of  truth  and  honor,  and  he  speaks  positively.  You 
will,  I  trust,  be  the  event  as  it  may,  impute  my  conduct  to  the  motives  which 
produce  it,  respect  and  attachment  to  yourself.  Personally  I  do  not  feel  on 
the  occasion,  only  that  I  cannot  dissemble  the  gratification,  which  the  opinion 
you  were  pleased  to  express  of  my  talents  afforded  ;  and  indeed  I  am  candid 
to  declare,  that  I  prefer  such  a  testimonial  to  the  office  itself,  to  which  I  might 
have  been  appointed." 

From  Colonel  Darke  s  Letter  to  Governor  Lee  :  "In  answer  to  your  letter, 
concerning  the  conversation  I  had  the  honor  to  have  with  the  President,  as  it 
was  not  of  a  private  nature  as  far  as  it  related  to  you,  I  will  give  as  good  an 
account  as  my  memory  will  allo\v,  as  it  could  not  be  the  President's  desire  that 
I  should  not.  He  mentioned  you  as  commander-in-chief  of  the  army,  spoke 
much  in  favor  of  your  abilities  in  so  respectful  a  manner,  that  I  thought  you 
would  certainly  have  been  appointed.  He  indeed  said  something  of  your  rank 
in  the  late  Continental  army,  and  asked  me  if  I  would  serve,  should  you  be 
appointed  to  the  chief  command  ;  which  question  I  did  not  answer,  though  I 
confess  I  think  I  should.  But  being  so  distressed  in  mind,  for  reasons  that  I 
need  not  mention  to  you,  I  did  not  give  his  Excellency  an  answer,  but 
intended  to  do  it  before  I  left  town,  which  I  did  not.  Knowing  he  was  much 
^^g^ged  in  business  of  importance,  I  was  in  doubt  he  would  think  I  intruded  ; 
at  the  same  time  was  determined,  if  you  had  been  appointed,  to  have  gone 
with  you  and  given  you  what  little  assistance  I  was  capable  of,  or  indeed  any 
other  of  my  acquaintance,  that  I  thought  equal  to  that  great  and  important  trust. 

"The  Secretary  of  war  said  something  to  me  concerning  my  accepting  of 
some  appointment.  I  told  him  I  first  wanted  to  know  who  would  command 
the  army,  and  said  something  of  you  and  some  others.  He  let  me  understand 
some  time  after,  that  he  thought  I  could  not  serve  with  you  with  propriety, 
honor,  or  words  to  that  purpose,  but  that  you  would  not  be  appointed.  This 
I  confess  I  thought  General  Knox  might  be  mistaken  in,  as,  from  what  I  heard 
from  the  President,  I  had  a  right  to  expect  you  would." — May  I2th. 

'  General  Knox.  ■'■  John  Darke. 


I40  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

weight ;  but  these  are  not  necessary  in  the  instance 
before  us,  for  it  will  not  be  unfair  to  declare,  that  the 
conduct  of  Colonel  D.  is  uncandid,  and  that  his  letter 
is  equivocal.  He  acknowledges  in  it,  that,  when  I 
asked  if  he  would  serve  if  you  should  be  appointed 
to  the  chief  command,  he  gave  no  answer ;  but 
does  not  in  any  part  of  his  letter  tell  you  what 
answer  he  gave  G.  K.  to  the  same  question,  unless 
you  take  the  following  for  one,  when  he  was  applied 
to,  to  know  if  he  would  accept  of  an  appointment.  "  I 
told  him  I  first  wanted  to  know  who  would  command 
the  army,  and  said  something  of  you  and  some  others." 
But  are  these  equivocal  expressions  to  be  placed 
against  the  positive  declarations  of  the  other  ? 
Especially,  too,  when  Colonel  D.,  in  relating  the 
conversation  which  passed  between  himself  and  me, 
has  mistaken  both  the  substance  and  tendency  of  it. 
For  you  may  be  assured,  Sir,  I  never  mentioned 
your  name,  or  the  name  of  any  man  living,  to  him  as 
one  who  was  in  the  smallest  degree  fixed  on  for  the 
command.  The  Secretary  of  War  himself  was  unac- 
quainted with  the  final  decision,  when  Colonel  D. 
left  this  city.  The  truth  is,  I  never  was  more  embar- 
rassed in  any  appointment ;  and  the  object  of  my 
conversation  with  the  latter  was,  to  learn  the  public 
sentiment,  as  far  as  it  could  be  obtained  from  him, 
with  respect  to  this  matter.  To  questions  of  this 
tendency,  he  said  he  had  heard  Morgan,  Scott,  and 
yourself  mentioned  on  his  journey  through  and  from 
Kentucky  to  his  own  house  ;  and,  if  I  understood 
the  significancy  of  things  not  expressed,  he  compli- 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  141 

merited  himself.  I  took  an  occasion  then  to  observe, 
that  I  conceived  few  men  were  better  qualified  for 
such  a  command  than  you  were,  and  asked  if  he 
thought  your  junior  rank  in  the  late  army  would  be 
an  objection  with  those,  who  had  been  your  seniors 
in  it,  to  serve  under  you.  His  reply,  (when  a  little 
pushed  by  bringing  the  case  home  to  himself,  for  I 
wanted  to  draw  an  explicit  declaration  from  him), 
was,  that  he  believed  it  would  be  an  unpleasant  or 
grating  thing,  or  words  to  that  effect ;  but  the 
manner,  more  than  the  expression,  throughout  the 
whole  of  the  conversation,  which  was  after  dinner, 
and  when  we  were  alone,  led  me  to  conclude  that  it 
would  not  be  relished  by  him.  What  his  real  inten- 
tions might  be  at  that  time,  when  he  was  speaking 
to  G.  K.,  or  lastly  to  you,  no  one  but  himself  is 
master  of. 

I  have  no  hesitation  in  declaring  to  you,  that  the 
bias  of  my  inclination  was  strongly  in  your  favor  ;  but 
that  the  result  of  my  inquiries,  direct  and  indirect,  of 
military  and  indeed  of  other  characters,  (who  were 
well  disposed  to  see  you  in  nomination,)  was,  that,  if 
you  were  appointed  to  the  command,  it  would  be  vain 
to  look  for  senior  officers  to  act  subordinately,  or,  if 
they  consented,  it  would  be  so  grudgingly  as  that 
more  than  probably  the  seeds  of  sedition  would  be 
coeval  with  the  formation  of  the  army,  such  being 
the  nature  of  military  pride.  Admitting  this,  then, 
one  of  two  things  would  inevitably  have  followed  ; 
either  an  army  composed  of  discontented  materials, 
or  of  junior  characters.     The  first  might  be  attended 


142  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

with  fatal  consequences  ;  the  other,  (however  excel- 
lent the  officers  might  be,)  if  any  disaster  should  be- 
fall the  army,  it  would  instantly  be  ascribed  to  the 
inexperience  of  the  principal  officers  in  stations  to 
which  they  had  never  been  accustomed,  thereby  draw- 
ing a  weight  upon  my  shoulders  too  heavy  to  be 
borne.  This  was  my  own  viezv  of  the  subject,  and 
the  principle  upon  which  I  acted  ;  not,  be  assured, 
because  G.  K.  was  of  this  or  of  that  opinion.  The 
fact,  I  sincerely  believe,  is,  that  he  was  as  much  puz- 
zled as  I  was  to  fix  on  the  first  officer,  under  the 
circumstances  that  existed. 

How  far  the  appointment  of  G.  W.^  is  a  popular  or 
an  unpopular  measure  is  not  for  me  to  decide.  It 
was  not  the  determination  of  a  moment,  nor  was  it 
the  effect  of  partiality  or  of  influence  ;  for  no  applica- 
tion (if  that  in  any  instance  could  have  warped  my 
judgment)  was  ever  made  in  his  behalf  from  any  one, 
who  could  have  thrown  the  weight  of  a  feather  into 
his  scale,  but  because,  under  a  full  view  of  all  circum- 
stances, he  appeared  most  eligible.  To  a  person  of 
your  observation  and  intelligence  it  is  unnecessary  to 
remark,  that  an  appointment,  which  may  be  unpopu- 
lar in  one  place,  and  with  one  set  of  men,  may  not 
be  so  in  another  place,  or  with  another  set  of  men, 
and  vice  versd ;  and  that  to  attempt  to  please  every 
body  is  the  sure  way  to  please  nobody  ;  of  course,  the 
attempt  would  be  as  idle,  as  the  execution  would  be 
impracticable.      G.  W.  has  many  good  points  as  an 

'  General  Wayne,  wlio  had  been  appointed   to  the  command  of  the  western 
expedition  as  successoi  to  t^eneral  St.  Clair,  who  had  resigned. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  143 

officer,  and  it  is  to  be  hoped,  that  time,  reflection, 
good  advice,  and,  above  all,  a  due  sense  of  the  im- 
portance of  the  trust,  which  is  committed  to  him, 
will  correct  his  foibles,  or  cast  a  shade  over  them. 
With  esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  &:c. 


TO    JOHN    FRANCIS    MERCER. 

Mount  Vernon,  23  July,  1792. 

Sir, 

Your  favor  of  the  loth  did  not  get  to  my  hands 
until  Saturday  last,  although  I  sent  to  the  Post  Office 
regularly,  every  Post  day  since  I  came  to  this  place 
for  the  letters  which  I  expected. 

Your  letter  conveys  no  specific  assurance  of  the  time, 
or  manner  of  discharging  the  bal'e  which  is  due  to  me. 
— I  am  placed  on  no  better,  indeed  on  no  worse 
ground,  than  I  stood  years  ago  with  respect  to  this 
debt ;  and  you  cannot  have  forgotten  that  these  were 
my  apprehensions,  which  I  expressed  to  you  upon 
more  occasions  than  one. — Why  then  should  I  be  told 
at  this  late  day,  after  every  endeavor  on  my  part  to 
accommodate  matters  to  your  convenience,  of  your 
intention  of  offering  all  your  property  for  sale  when 
part  of  it  ought  to  have  been  applied  to  my  use  years 
since  ? — or  to  what  purpose  (for  me  I  mean)  is  it  that 
you  should  offer  property  for  sale,  if  the  price  set 
thereon  will  admit  no  purchasers, — or  if  sold  that  the 
money  is  to  be  converted  to  other  uses  than  for  my 
benefit  ?  The  latter  you  must  be  sensible  I  know  to 
have  been   the   case,   and   the   other,  as   it   respects 


144  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792, 

negroes  which  you  offered  to  me  formerly,  and  from 
other  circumstances,  I  have  no  reason  to  disbelieve. 

It  is  not  from  inclination,  that  I  become  acquainted 
with  any  Gentleman's  circumstances,  and  far  is  it  from 
my  practice  to  investigate  what  he  owes  ;  but  you 
must  excuse  me  when  I  tell  you  that  I  have  heard 
enough  of  yours  to  give  me  some  uneasiness,  as  well 
on  your  acct.  as  on  mine. — To  two  facts  I  shall 
glance. — A  Gentn.  in  Phila.,  without  having  the  least 
suspicion  (I  believe)  how  matters  stood  between  you 
and  me,  was  enquiring  into  the  value  of  your  Marl- 
borough Estate  ;  and  through  another  channel  I  un- 
derstd.  the  reason  was  that  your  debt  to  him  was 
considerable  ;  and  that  that  was  the  mean  by  which  he 
was  to  be  secured. — The  other  is  the  agency  of  Mr. 
Montague,  who  I  know  is  determined  to  push  the 
settlement  of  that  business. — Others  I  have  also 
heard  of  :  but  nothing,  I  beg  you  to  be  persuaded, 
Sir,  but  my  own  interest  in  the  case  would  have  in- 
duced me  to  mention  them  to  you. — Hard  indeed 
then  would  it  be  upon  me,  if  after  twenty  Odd  years 
endulgence  and  receiving  any  thing  and  driblets  as 
they  were  offered,  which  dissipated 
as  inscru  bly  as  the  morning  dew,  that  I  should 
be  still  postponed,  or  put  off  with  vague  promises, 
until  perhaps  you  and  your  property  may  have 
parted. 

There  can  be  no  difficulty  in  settling  this,  or  any 
account  where  the  debits  and  credits  are  regular,  and 
the  intentions  of  the  parties  are  fair  ;  and  I  am  per- 
suaded if  you  will  be  at  the  trouble  of  riding  to  this 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  145 

place,  a  few  hours  will  ascertain  the  bal'e  which  is  due 
to  me — Or  in  case  a  disagreement  should  arise  on  any 
point,  it  might  be  so  stated  as  that  an  impartial  um- 
pire might  decide  it  for  us,  witht.  trouble  or  lawsuit. — 
Besides,  I  have  at  this  place  a  number  of  Letters, 
Papers,  and  the  Mill  Books,  which  might  throw  light 
upon  things  which  to  you  may  seem  to  want  explana- 
tion, and  cannot  be  had  elsewhere.  Other  matters  also 
might  be  more  clearly  explained,  and  better  understd. 
by  oral  conversation  than  is  practicable  by  letter. — 
I  know  of  nothing  (at  present)  that  will  call  me  from 
home  soon,  unless  I  should  go  to  the  New  City  the 
first  day  of  next  month  ;  of  which  I  gave  the  Commrs. 
some,  but  no  positive  intimation. — However  if  you 
are  inclined  to  comply  with  this  request,  and  will  name 
the  precise  day  you  will  be  here,  I  will  not  be  from 
home. 

I  beg  you  to  be  assured,  that  it  will  be  extremely 
irksome  and  painful  to  me  to  go  into  a  Court  of  Justice 
for  the  recovery  of  what  is  due  to  me,  and  for  which  I 
have  with  very  great  inconvenience  and  disadvantage 
to  myself,  waited  so  long  ;  but  it  must  be  the  case 
unless  it  can  be  averted  by  some  measure  wch.  possi- 
bly may  be  adopted  at  the  meeting,  wch.  is  now  pro- 
posed, and  which  it  may  be  well  for  you  to  think  on 
previous  thereto. 

I  have  not  yet  been  called  upon  legally  to  answer 
the  complaint  of  Henshaw  ;  but  shall  be  ready  to  do 
it  whenever  it  shall  be  found  necessary  or  expedient, 
and  for  that  purpose  shall  keep  the  Bill,  and  the  answer 
which  you  have  drawn  until  I  either  see  you,  or  hear 


146  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

from  you  again. — The  answer  as  drawn  mistated  a 
fact  with  respect  to  the  power  vested  in  Mr.  Lund 
Washinpfton. — The  truth  of  that  matter  stands  thus 
— the  sale  as  you  have  recited,  was  made  in  Novr., 
1774,  on  12  month's  credit. — In  May  following,  I 
went  to  the  second  Congress,  as  a  member  thereof, 
without  giving  Lund  Washtn.,  then  or  at  any  time 
thereafter  powers,  fully  expecting  to  re- 

turn as  soon  as  the  business  of  the  session  should 
close  ;  but  being  chosen  to  commd.  the  Army,  I  pro- 
ceeded to  Cambridge  and  from  thence — as  soon  as  it 
became  apparent  to  me  that  my  absence  from  home 
was  likely  to  be  of  much  longer  continuance  than  I 
had  calculated  upon,  I  wrote  to  Col.  Tayloe  inform- 
ing him  thereof,  and  desiring  him  to  take  the  sole 
management  of  the  trust  wch.  had  been  commitd.  to 
us,  upon  himself,  as  my  situation  would  no  longer 
permit  me  to  pay  any  further  attention  to  it,  and 
because  I  should  not  consider  myself  responsible  for 
any  transaction  subsequent  to  the  sale — previous  to 
which  he  had  thrown  the  whole  burthen  upon  me,  and 
nothing  remained  for  him  to  do  but  appoint  a 
collector  (if  he  did  not  chuse  to  be  at  the  trouble 
himself),  and  submit  the  money  to  the  decision  of  the 
court,  agreeably  to  its  decretal  order — What  he  did — 
or  rather  what  he  neglected  to  do,  would  be  tedious 
to  relate,  and  I  presume  can  compose  no  part  of 
my  answer. — And  with  respect  to  the  particular  in- 
stance of  depreciation  as  stated  in  the  answer  my 
memory  is  not  furnished  with  the  circumstance  at 
present.      I  am.  Sir,  Yr.  m.ost  obedt.  Hble.  Servt. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  147 

TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON,    SECRETARY    OF    THE 
TREASURY. 

[private  and  confidential.] 

Mount  Vermon,  29  July,  1792, 

My  DEAR  Sir, 

I  have  not  yet  received  the  new  regulations  of  al- 
lowances to  the  surveyors  or  collectors  of  the  duties 
on  spirituous  liquors ;  but  this  by  the  by.  My  pres- 
ent purpose  is  to  write  you  a  letter  on  a  more  inter- 
esting and  important  subject.  I  do  it  in  strict 
confidence,  and  with  frankness  and  freedom. 

On  my  way  home,  and  since  my  arrival  here,  I 
have  endeavored  to  learn  from  sensible  and  moderate 
men,  known  friends  to  the  government,  the  senti- 
ments which  are  entertained  of  public  measures. 
These  all  agree,  that  the  country  is  prosperous  and 
happy,  but  they  seem  to  be  alarmed  at  that  system 
of  policy,  and  those  interpretations  of  the  constitu- 
tion, which  have  taken  place  in  Congress.  Others 
less  friendly,  perhaps,  to  the  government,  and  more 
disposed  to  arraign  the  conduct  of  its  officers  (among 
whom  may  be  classed  my  neighbor  and  quondam 
friend  Colonel  M.  ^),  go  further,  and  enumerate  a 
variety  of  matters,  which,  as  well  as  I  recollect,  may 
be  adduced  under  the  following  heads,  viz.  : 

I.  "  That  the  public  debt  is  greater  than  we  can  possibly  pay, 
before  other  causes  of  adding  new  debt  to  it  will  occur  ;  and  that 
this  has  been  artificially  created  by  adding  together  the  whole 
amount  of  the  debtor  and  creditor  sides  of  the  accounts,  instead 
of  taking  only  their  balances,  which  could  have  been  paid  off  in 
a  short  time. 

'  George  Mason. 


148  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

2.  "  That  this  accumulation  of  debt  has  taken  for  ever  out  of 
our  power  those  easy  sources  of  revenue,  which,  applied  to  the 
ordinary  necessities  and  exigencies  of  government,  would  have 
answered  them  habitually,  and  covered  us  from  habitual  murmur- 
ings  against  taxes  and  tax-gatherers,  reserving  extraordinary  calls 
for  extraordinary  occasions,  would  animate  the  people  to  meet 
them. 

3.  "  That  the  calls  for  money  have  been  no  greater  than  we 
must  generally  expect  for  the  same  or  equivalent  exigencies,  yet 
we  are  already  obliged  to  strain  the  impost  till  it  produces  clamor, 
and  will  produce  evasion,  and  war  on  our  own  citizens  to  collect 
it  ;  and  even  to  resort  to  an  excise  law,  of  odious  character  with 
the  people,  partial  in  its  operation,  unproductive,  unless  enforced 
by  arbitrary  and  vexatious  means,  and  committing  the  authority 
of  the  government  in  parts  where  resistance  is  most  probable  and 
coercion  least  practicable. 

4.  "  They  cite  propositions  in  Congress,  and  suspect  other 
projects  on  foot,  still  to  increase  the  mass  of  the  debt. 

5.  "  They  say,  that  by  borrowing  at  two  thirds  of  the  interest 
we  might  have  paid  off  the  principal  in  two  thirds  of  the  time  ; 
but  that  from  this  we  are  precluded  by  its  being  made  irredeema- 
ble but  in  small  portions  and  long  terms. 

6.  "  That  this  irredeemable  quality  was  given  it  for  the  avowed 
purpose  of  inviting  its  transfer  to  foreign  countries. 

7.  "  They  predict,  that  this  transfer  of  the  principal,  when  com- 
pleted, will  occasion  an  exportation  of  three  millions  of  dollars  an- 
nually for  the  interest,  a  drain  of  coin,  of  which  as  there  has  been 
no  example,  no  calculation  can  be  made  of  its  consequences. 

8.  "  That  the  banishment  of  our  coin  will  be  completed  by  the 
creation  of  ten  millions  of  paper  money  in  the  form  of  bank  bills, 
now  issuing  into  circulation. 

9.  "  They  think  the  ten  or  twelve  per  cent,  annual  profit,  paid 
to  the  lenders  of  this  paper  medium,  are  taken  out  of  the  pocket 
of  the  people,  who  would  have  had  without  interest  the  coin  it  is 
banishing. 

10.  "That  all  the  capital  employed  in  paper  speculation  is 
barren  and  useless,  producing,  like  that  on  a  gaming-table,  no 
accession  to  itself,  and  is  withdrawn  from  commerce  and  agricul- 


1792J  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  149 

ture,  where  it  would  have  produced  an  addition  to  the  common 
mass. 

11.  "  That  it  nourishes  in  our  citizens  vice  and  idleness  instead 
of  industry  and  morality. 

12.  "  That  it  has  furnished  effectual  means  of  corrupting  such 
a  portion  of  the  legislature,  as  turns  the  balance  between  the 
honest  voters,  whichever  way  it  is  directed. 

13.  *'  That  this  corrupt  squadron,  deciding  the  voice  of  the 
legislature,  have  manifested  their  dispositions  to  get  rid  of  the 
limitations  imposed  by  the  constitution  on  the  general  legislature  ; 
limitations,  on  the  faith  of  which  the  States  acceded  to  that 
instrument. 

14.  "  That  the  ultimate  object  of  all  this  is  to  prepare  the  way 
for  a  change,  from  the  present  republican  form  of  government  to 
that  of  a  monarchy,  of  which  the  British  constitution  is  to  be  the 
model. 

15.  "  That  this  was  contemplated  in  the  Convention  they  say 
is  no  secret,  because  its  partisans  have  made  none  of  it.  To 
eifect  it  then  was  impracticable,  but  they  are  still  eager  after 
their  object,  and  are  predisposing  every  thing  for  its  ultimate 
attainment. 

16.  "  So  many  of  them  have  got  into  the  legislature,  that, 
aided  by  the  corrupt  squadron  of  paper-dealers,  who  are  at  their 
devotion,  they  make  a  majority  in  both  houses. 

17.  "The  republican  party,  who  wish  to  preserve  the  govern- 
ment in  its  present  form,  are  fewer,  even  when  joined  by  the  two, 
three,  or  half-dozen  antifederalists,  who,  though  they  dare  not 
avow  it,  are  still  opposed  to  any  general  government ;  but,  being 
less  so  to  a  republican  than  a  monarchical  one,  they  naturally 
join  those  whom  they  think  pursuing  the  lesser  evil. 

18.  "  Of  all  the  mischiefs  objected  to  the  system  of  measures 
before  mentioned,  none,  they  add,  is  so  afflicting  and  fatal  to 
every  honest  hope,  as  the  corruption  of  the  legislature.  As  it 
was  the  earliest  of  these  measures,  it  became  the  instrument  for 
producing  the  rest,  and  will  be  the  instrument  of  producing  in 
future  a  king,  lords,  and  commons,  or  whatever  else  those  who 
direct  it  may  choose.  Withdrawn  such  a  distance  from  the  eye 
of  their  constituents,  and  these  so  dispersed  as  to  be  inaccessi- 


I50  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

ble  to  public  information,  and  particularly  to  that  of  the  conduct 
of  their  own  representatives,  they  will  form  the  worst  government 
upon  earth  if  the  means  of  their  corruption  be  not  prevented. 

ig.  "  The  only  hope  of  safety,  they  say,  hangs  now  on  the 
numerous  representation,  which  is  to  come  forward  the  ensuing 
year  ;  but,  should  the  majority  of  the  new  members  be  still  in 
the  same  principles  with  the  present,  show  so  much  dereliction 
of  republican  government,  and  such  a  disposition  to  encroach 
upon  or  explain  away  the  limited  powers  of  the  constitution  in 
order  to  change  it,  it  is  not  easy  to  conjecture  what  would  be  the 
result,  nor  what  means  would  be  resorted  to  for  the  correction  of 
the  evil.  True  wisdom,  they  acknowledge,  should  direct  temper- 
ate and  peaceable  measures  ;  but,  they  add,  the  division  of  senti- 
ments and  interest  happens  unfortunately  to  be  so  geographical, 
that  no  mortal  can  say  that  what  is  most  wise  and  temperate 
would  prevail  against  what  is  more  easy  and  obvious.  They 
declare  they  can  contemplate  no  evil  more  incalculable,  than  the 
breaking  of  the  Union  into  two  or  more  parts  ;  yet  when  they 
view  the  mass,  which  opposed  the  original  coalescence,  when 
they  consider  that  it  lay  chiefly  in  the  southern  quarter,  and  that 
the  legislature  have  availed  themselves  of  no  occasion  of  allaying 
it,  but,  on  the  contrary,  whenever  northern  and  southern  preju- 
dices have  come  into  conflict,  the  latter  have  been  sacrificed  and 
the  former  soothed. 

20.  "  That  the  owers  of  the  debt  are  in  the  southern,  and  the 
holders  of  it  in  the  northern  division. 

21.  "That  the  antifederal  champions  are  now  strengthened  in 
argument  by  the  fulfilment  of  their  predictions,  which  has  been 
brought  about  by  the  monarchical  federalists  themselves  ;  who, 
having  been  for  the  new  government  merely  as  a  stepping-stone 
to  monarchy,  have  themselves  adojited  the  very  constructions  of 
the  constitution,  of  which,  when  advocating  the  acceptance 
before  the  tribunal  of  the  people,  they  declared  it  unsusceptible  ; 
whilst  the  republican  federalists,  who  espoused  the  same  govern- 
ment for  its  intrinsic  merits,  are  disarmed  of  their  weapons,  that 
which  they  denied  as  prophecy  being  now  become  true  history. 
Who,  therefore,  can  be  sure,  they  ask,  that  these  things  may  not 
proselyte   the   small   number,  which   was   wanting   to    place   the 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  151 

majority  on  the  other  side  ?     And  this,  they  add,  is  the  event  at 
which  they  tremble."  ' 

These,  as  well  as  my  memory  serves  me,  are  the 
sentiments,  which  directly  and  indirectly  have  been 
disclosed  to  me.  To  obtain  light  and  to  pursue  truth 
being  my  sole  aim,  and  wishing  to  have  before  me 
explanations  of,  as  well  as  the  complaints  on,  meas- 
ures, in  which  the  public  interest,  harmony,  and  peace 
is  so  deeply  concerned,  and  my  public  conduct  so 
much  involved,  it  is  my  request,  and  you  would 
oblige  me  by  furnishing  me  with  your  ideas  upon 
the  discontents  here  enumerated  ;  and  for  this  pur- 
pose I  have  thrown  them  into  heads  or  sections,  and 
numbered  them,  that  those  ideas  may  be  applied  to 
the  correspondent  numbers.  Although  I  do  not 
mean  to  hurr^'  you  in  giving  your  thoughts  on 
occasion  of  this  letter,  yet,  as  soon  as  you  can  make 
it  convenient  to  yourself,"  it  would  for  more  reasons 
than  one  be  agreeable  and  very  satisfactory  to  me. 

The  enclosure  in  your  letter  of  the  i6th  was  sent 
back  to  the  post,  after  I  received  it,  with  my  approv- 
ing signature,  and  in  a  few  days  I  will  write  to  the 
purport  mentioned  in  your  letter  of  the  22d,  both  to 
the  Secretary  of  War  and  yourself.  At  present  all  my 
business  public  and  private  is  on  my  own  shoulders  ; 
the  two  young  gentlemen  who  came  home  with  me, 
being  on  visits  to  their  friends,  and  my  nephew,  the 
Major,  too  much  indisposed  to  afford  me  any  aid. 
With  affectionate  regard,  I  am,  &c. 

This  summary  is  copied  almost  verbatim  from  a  letter  which  the  writer  had 
recently  received  from  Mr.  Jefferson.  Hamilton's  reply  is  printed  in  his 
Works  (Lodge),  ii.,  236,  but  is  wrongly  described  as  a  "  cabinet  paper." 


152  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 


TO    HENRY    KNOX,    SECRETARY    OF    WAR. 

Mount  Vernon,  i  August,  1792. 

Sir, 

Your  despatches  of  the  14th  and  21st  ultimo  came 
duly  to  hand  ;  and  it  is  probable  the  servant,  who 
carries  this  letter  to  the  post-office,  will  bring  me  a 
third  of  this  week's  date.  I  did  not  acknowledge  the 
receipt  of  the  first  letter  at  an  earlier  date,  because 
there  was  nothing  contained  in  it,  which  required  a 
reply  ;  and  I  am  too  little  acquainted  with  the  au- 
thority, under  which  Colonel  Henry  Kerr  detached 
Lieutenant-Colonel  Phillips,  or  the  cause  or  the  ob- 
ject of  that  detachment,  to  form  so  good  an  opinion 
of  the  propriety  of  the  measure,  as  it  is  easy  for  me 
to  predict  the  probable  consequences  of  it.  I  hope 
Major  Gaither  has  before  this  embarked  for  that 
quarter,  strongly  impressed  with  the  views  of  the 
general  government,  and  the  disposition  of  it  to 
preserve  peace,  if  it  can  be  done  upon  just  and 
honorable    grounds. 

The  tranquillity,  which,  (by  your  last  accounts 
handed  to  me,)  prevails  on  our  northwestern  fron- 
tiers, gives  me  much  satisfaction,  and  affords  a  pleas- 
ing prospect,  that  the  exertions  of  government  to 
bring  the  hostile  Indian  tribes  into  a  pacific  mood 
will  not  have  been  made  in  vain.  This,  however,  is 
not  to  relax  any  preparation  for  a  contrary  event. 
Proceed  as  if  war  was  inevitable  ;  but  do  it,  I  entreat 
you,  with  all  the  economy  which  can  result  from  sys- 
tem and  good  regulations.  Our  finances  call  for  it, 
and,  if  these  did  not,  our  reputation  does.      The  sup- 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  153 

plies  of  an  army,  through  so  long  and  rugged  a  land 
transportation,  must  under  the  best  management  be 
expensive ;  our  attention,  therefore,  ought  to  be 
proportionate.  That  I  may  form  some  ideas  of  the 
former,  I  desire  you  would  report  to  me  the  regula- 
tions, which  you  have  adopted  for  providing,  for- 
warding, and  issuing  of  them,  and  the  mode  of  having 
them  accounted  for  to  the  department  of  war.  I  have 
written  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  for  similar 
information  on  these  points,  so  far  as  any  of  them  may 
come  within  the  purview  of  his  department.  Reiterate, 
in  your  letters  to  General  Wayne,  the  necessity  of 
employing  the  present  calm  in  disciplining  and  train- 
ing the  troops  under  his  command  for  the  peculiar 
service  for  which  they  are  destined.  He  is  not  to  be 
sparing  of  powder  and  lead,  in  proper  and  reasonable 
quantities,  to  make  the  soldiers  marksmen. 

There  is  no  propriety,  that  I  can  perceive,  in  giving 
the  rank  of  brigadier  to  Major  Sargent  ;  nor  do  I 
conceive  that  General  Wilkinson  would,  or  indeed 
ought  to  relinquish  his  present  command.  I  have 
turned  this  matter  in  my  thoughts,  but  as  yet  have 
not  been  able  to  hit  upon  a  character  to  my  mind  for 
the  office  of  adjutant-general.  I  will  think  again  and 
again  on  the  subject,  and  will  inform  you  of  the 
result. 

So  long  as  the  vice  of  drunkenness  exists  in  the 
army,  so  long,  I  hope,  ejections  of  those  officers,  who 
are  found  guilty  of  it,  will  continue  ;  for  that  and 
gaming  will  debilitate  and  render  unfit  for  active 
service  any  army  whatsoever.      I   am.   Sir,  &c. 


154  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

P.  S.  Would  Major  Fish  accept  the  appointment 
of  adjutant-general  with  the  rank  of  lieutenant- 
colonel  ?  He  strikes  me  as  an  eligible  character. 
Colonel  Posey,  also,  who  wants  to  be  employed, 
might,  if  ready  at  his  pen,  make  a  good  one  ;  for,  in 
other  respects,  (and  I  do  not  know  that  he  is  deficient 
in  this,)  he  is  said  to  be  an  excellent  officer. 


TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON,    SECRETARY    OF    THE 
TREASURY. 

Mount  Vernon,  5  August,  1792. 

Sir, 

Since  the  date  of  my  last  despatch  to  you  of  the 
I  St  instant,  I  have  received  your  letters  of  the  26th 
and  30th  ultimo,  and  have  affixed  my  signature  to 
the  arrangement  of  compensations  to  the  officers  of 
inspection,  in  consequence  of  additional  latitude 
given  to  the  President  of  the  United  States  by  the 
act  of  the  last  session,  entitled  "  An  act  concerning 
the  duties  on  spirits  distilled  within  the  United 
States." 

I  have  done  this  on  full  conviction,  that  the  best 
information  the  nature  of  the  case  would  admit  has 
been  obtained  at  the  treasury,  to  keep  the  aggregate 
within  the  limitations  of  the  law,  and  to  proportion 
the  compensations  to  the  services  of  the  respective 
officers  ;  presuming,  also,  that  it  appeared  essential, 
(from  a  full  view  of  circumstances,  and  the  benefits 
likely  to  be  derived  from  the  measure  to  the  public,) 
that  an  increase  of  the  officers  of  revenue  was  really 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  155 

necessary  ;  for  I  should  be  unwilling  to  add  to  the 
former  establishment,  unless  the  propriety  of  it  was 
apparent.  Unless  the  attorney-general  should  be  of 
opinion,  that  the  President  of  the  United  States  has 
power,  under  the  act  of  March,  1791,  or  the  subse- 
quent one  of  last  session,  to  appoint,  (in  the  recess 
of  the  Senate,)  an  inspector  of  the  survey  newly  con- 
stituted in  Maryland,  it  must  remain,  as  is  proposed, 
under  the  immediate  direction  of  the  supervisor. 

If,  after  these  regulations  are  in  operation,  oppo- 
sition to  the  due  exercise  of  the  collection  is  still 
experienced,  and  peaceable  procedure  is  no  longer 
effectual,  the  public  interest  and  my  duty  will  make 
it  necessary  to  enforce  the  laws  respecting  this  mat- 
ter ;  and,  however  disagreeable  this  would  be  to  me, 
it  must  nevertheless  take  place.     *     *     •* 


TO    HENRY    KNOX,    SECRETARY    OF    WAR. 

Mount  Vernon,  13  August,  1792. 

Sir, 

My  last  to  you  was  dated  the  5th  instant,  since 
which  I  have  received  your  letters  of  the  4th,  5th, 
and  7th,  and  shall  reply  to  such  parts  of  them  as 
appear  to  require  it. 

It  is  painful  to  find  the  recruiting  service  advancing 
so  slowly  as  your  last  letters  indicate.  Endeavor  to 
rouse  the  officers,  who  are  engaged  in  this  business, 
to  fresh  exertions.  The  unhappy  fate  of  our  messen- 
gers is  a  lamentable  proof  of  Indian  barbarity,  and  a 
strong  evidence   of  the  bad  dispositions  of  at  least 


156  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

some  of  their  tribes.'  This  ought  to  stimulate  every 
nerve  to  prepare  for  the  worst. 

If  the  banditti,  which  made  the  successful  stroke 
on  the  station  at  Nashville,  could  be  come  at  without 
involving  disagreeable  consequences  with  the  tribes 
to  which  they  respectively  belong,  an  attempt  to  cut 
them  off  ought  by  all  means  to  be  encouraged.^  An 
enterprise  judiciously  concerted,  and  spiritedly  exe- 
cuted, would  be  less  expensive  to  the  government, 
than  keeping  up  guards  of  militia,  which  will  always 
be  eluded  in  the  attack,  and  never  be  overtaken  in  a 
pursuit. 

No  measures  should  be  left  unessayed  to  treat  with 
the  Wabash  Indians  ;  nor  can  the  goods  be  better  ap- 
plied, than  in  effectuating  this  desirable  purpose  ;  but 
I  think  a  person  of  more  dignified  character  than 
Major  Hamtranck  should  be  employed  in  the  negotia- 
tion. No  idea  of  purchasing  land  from  them  ought 
to  be  admitted  ;  for  no  treaty  or  other  communica- 
tions with  the  Indians  have  ever  been  satisfactory  to 
them  when  this  has  been  the  subject.    The  principles 

'  Alluding  to  the  case  of  Major  Trueman  ;  and  also  to  that  of  Colonel  Har- 
din, who  had  been  sent  as  a  messenger  to  the  Indians,  and  was  murdered  by 
them. — Marshall's  History  of  Kentucky,  vol.  ii.,  p.  41.  Butler's  History  of 
Kentucky,  p.  219. 

''  "  I  wish  Governor  Blount  may  have  been  able  to  terminate  the  conferences, 
which  he  was  to  have  had  at  Nashville  about  the  25th  of  last  month  with  the 
Cherokees,  Chickasaws,  and  Choctaws,  to  the  mutual  advantage  and  satisfac- 
tion of  all  the  parties  concerned  ;  but  the  difficulty  of  deciding  between  lawless 
settlers  and  greedy  land  speculators  on  one  side,  and  the  jealousy  of  the  Indian 
nations  and  their  banditti  on  the  other,  becomes  more  and  more  obvious  every 
day  ;  and  these,  from  the  interference  of  the  Spaniards,  if  the  reports  we  have 
be  true,  and  other  causes,  whicli  are  too  evident  to  require  specification,  add 
not  a  little  to  our  embarrassments." — Washington  to  Knox,  5  August,  1792. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  157 

and  general  outlines  of  all  these  treaties  ought  to  be 
given  to  the  negotiator,  notwithstanding  the  right  of 
disannulling  is  reserved  to  the  government.  Illiterate 
people  are  not  easily  made  sensible  of  the  propriety 
or  policy  of  giving  a  power,  and  rejecting  what  is 
done  under  it.  These  may  be  contained  in  General 
Putnam's  instructions.^ 

General  Putnam  merits  thanks,  in  my  opinion,  for 
his  plan,  and  the  sentiments  he  has  delivered  on  what 
he  conceives  to  be  a  proper  mode  of  carrying  on  the 
war  against  the  hostile  nations  of  Indians  ;  and  I 
wish  he  would  continue  to  furnish  them  without  re- 
serve in  future.  But  in  the  present  instance  two 
reasons  are  so  strongly  opposed  to  the  measure 
recommended  by  him,  as  to  render  it  unadvisable 
and  dangerous.  One  of  which',  the  collision  it  might 
occasion,  and  the  consequences  thereof  in  the  pend- 
ing negotiation  with  Great  Britain,  he  could  not  be 
acquainted  with.  The  other,  the  inadequacy  of  our 
force  to  admit  a  division,  and  thereby  running  the 
hazard  of  being  beaten  in  detail  by  encountering  the 
enemy's  whole  strength  with  part  of  our  own,  are 
such  as  not  to  be  overcome.  The  other  reasons 
assigned  by  you  are  not  without  weight,  but  less  in 
degree  ;  for  peace  and  war  are  now  in  balance. 
Which  will  preponderate,  remains  to  be  known.  If 
the  latter,  (which  heaven  avert !)  we  must  expect  to 
encounter  a  powerful  confederacy,  and  ought  not  to 
put  any  thing  to  hazard,  which  can  be  avoided  by 
military  foresight. 

'  General  Rufus  Putnam. 


158  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

I  can  form  no  judgment  of  the  object  or  propriety 
of  establishing  the  post  on  the  Muskingum,  men- 
tioned in  General  Putnam's  letter  to  you  of  the  9th 
of  July,  as  no  copy  of  that  letter  has  been  sent  to 
me.  Equally  unable  am  I  to  give  any  opinion  on 
the  speeches  and  wishes  of  Fish-carrier,  as  I  know- 
not  the  contents  of  them  ;  twenty  copies  having 
accompanied  the  letter  of  General  Chapin. 

General  Wilkinson  has  displayed  great  zeal  and 
ability  for  the  public  weal  since  he  came  into  service. 
His  conduct  carries  strong  marks  of  attention,  ac- 
tivity, and  spirit,  and  I  wish  him  to  know  the  favora- 
ble light  in  which  it  is  viewed.  With  esteem,  I  am, 
Sir,  &c. 


TO    HENRY    KNOX,    SECRETARY    OF    WAR. 

Mount  Vernon,  19  August,  1792. 

Sir, 

In  my  letter  of  the  15th,  I  promised  you  my  senti- 
ments on  Mr.  Seagrove's  ^  communications  ;  and, 
though  I  am  not  enabled  to  do  it  so  fully  as  I  could 
wish,  I  shall  nevertheless  give  them  as  fully  as  I  can. 

His  letters,  and  the  enclosures  therein  contained, 
with  the  evidence  in  support,  go  to  points  which  may 
be  classed  under  six  heads. 

I  St.  Spanish  interferences  to  prevent  the  treaty 
between  the  United  States  and  the  Creek  nation 
from  being  carried  into  effect.  To  accomplish  which, 
these  Indians,  together  with  the  Cherokees,  Chicka- 
saws  and  Choctaws,  are  invited  to  a  grand  council  at 

'  James  Seagrovc. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  159 

Pensacola  ;  where,  if  they  will  attend,  it  is  intimated 
to  them,  they  shall  be  furnished  with  arms,  ammuni- 
tion, and  goods  of  all  sorts.  An  agent  of  Spain,  a 
Captain  Oliver,  who  is  established  at  Little  Tellas- 
see  in  the  Creek  nation,  and  supposed  to  be  acting 
in  concert  with  McGillivray,  \\2.s  forbid  X}i\€\r  running 
the  line,  that  was  established  by  treaty  with  these 
people,  promising  them  the  support  of  Spain  against 
any  measures,  which  may  be  pursued  by  the  United 
States,  in  case  of  their  refusal ;  and,  in  a  word,  aided 
by  McGillivray  and  Panton,^  is  stimulating  all  the 
southern  Indians  to  acts  of  hostility  against  the 
United  States  ;  to  facilitate  which,  he  is  distributing 
goods  and  holding  talks  with  the  chiefs.  Three  things, 
it  is  said,  will  be  attempted  at  the  proposed  meeting 
at  Pensacola  :  ist,  to  establish  posts  in  the  Indian  coun- 
try. 2d,  to  fix  three  agents  amongst  them,  of  whom  Mc- 
Gillivray is  to  be  the  principal.  And,  3d,  to  exclude 
the  citizens  of  the  United  States  from  having  any 
trade  with  these  Indians.  To  carry  the  whole  of  this 
plan  into  effect,  it  is  further  said,  that  five  regiments 
of  about  six  hundred  men  each,  and  a  large  quantity 
of  ordnance  and  stores,  are  actually  arrived  from  Old 
Spain,  and  the  like  number  of  troops  are  expected 
from  the  Havana ;  and  suspicions  are  alive,  that 
the  capture  of  Bowles'  was  a  preconcerted  scheme 
between  the  Spanish  government  and  himself. 

'  William  Panton  was  a  privileged  trader  at  Pensacola,  who  supplied  the 
Indians  with  goods  under  their  agreement  with  the  Spanish  government. 

*  William  Augustus  Bowles,  a  native  of  Maryland,  had  served  in  the  British 
army  in  the  Resolution,  deserted  and  lived  with  the  Indians  for  some  years, 
married  an  Indian  woman,  and  after  the  war  became  an  actor.     Meeting  with 


i6o  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 


2d.  The  turbulent  disposition  of  the  settlers  on 
the  western  frontier  of  Georgia,  and  their  endeavors 
(as  appears  by  the  declaration  of  Colonel  Alexander 
and  others,  which  could  be  adduced,)  to  oppose  the 
measures  of  the  general  government,  and  to  bring 
on  a  war  between  the  United  States  and  the  Creek 
nation  ;  with  the  nefarious  means  practised  by  them 
to  accomplish  this  project,  and  the  effect  it  has  had 
upon  the  latter  who  are  afraid,  though  generally  well- 
disposed  towards  the  United  States,  and  in  all  their 
public  talks  have  given  strong  assurances  of  their  in- 
tention to  execute  the  treaty,  and  the  attempts  to 
induce  them  to  meet  at  Rock  Landing  on  the  Oconee, 
in  the  vicinity  of  these  characters, 

3d.  His  conditional  engagement  to  meet  the  lower 
Creeks  on  the  head  of  St.  Mary's  River  in  Novem- 
ber next.  His  opinion,  that,  with  more  extensive 
powers,  and  a  larger  field  to  display  In,  he  should  be 
able  not  only  to  counteract  the  unprovoked  inter- 
ference of  the  Spaniards,  by  keeping  the  Indians  in 
our  interest,   but  could  even  engage  them  to  act  for 

the  favor  of  Lord  Dunmore,  the  governor  of  the  Bahamas,  he  was  sent  as  an 
agent  to  the  southern  Indians,  where  his  capacity  for  intrigue  was  developed 
to  the  cost  of  Georgia,  Spain,  and  the  English  factor,  Panton.  In  this  busi- 
ness he  sought  to  undermine  the  influence  of  McGillivray,  who  seized  him, 
and  delivered  him  to  the  Spanish  authorities  (March  I2th).  They  sent  him  to 
Madrid,  where  every  effort  was  made  to  seduce  him  from  his  English  sympa- 
thies ;  but  these  failing,  he  was  transported  to  Manila,  where  he  remained 
until  1797,  when  he  returned  to  America,  and  again  became  troublesome  to 
Spanish  and  Americans.  Gayarre,  Louisiana  under  Spanish  Domination, 
315-320.  Washington's  suspicion  of  an  agreement  between  Bowles  and  the 
Spanish  authorities  was  not  well  founded.  The  British  minister,  acting  on 
instructions  from  the  ministry,  was  strong  in  disavowing  him,  calling  him  an 
"  unauthorized  impostor." 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  i6i 

us,  if  circumstances  should  make  it  desirable  ;  but,  to 
do  this,  he  must  be  furnished  with  goods,  and  be 
authorized  to  distribute  them  as  occasion  should 
require.  That,  but  for  his  endeavors  to  support  the 
authority  of  McGillivray,  and  to  reinstate  him  in  the 
good  opinion  of  his  nation,  who  began  to  see  into 
his  views,  and  nine  tenths  of  it  to  despise  him,  this 
might  have  been  in  a  more  progressive  state  than  it 
is  at  present. 

4th.  The  necessity  of  restricting  the  licenses  of 
traders,  and  passes  to  people  of  other  descriptions, 
who,  under  various  pretences,  (but  oftentimes  with 
bad  intentions,)  go  into  the  Indian  villages ;  and  the 
expediency  and  the  advantages,  which  would  result 
from  having  proper  forms  for  both,  with  checks  to 
prevent  counterfeits  and  impositions  on  the  Indians. 

5th.  The  probable  consequence  ol  a  severe  drought 
to  the  Indians,  and  the  policy  of  relieving  them  from 
impending  famine. 

6th.  The  intemperance  of  Major  Call ;  his  improper 
conduct  in  raising  three  troops  of  horse,  with  promise 
of  payment  from  the  general  government ;  leaving  a 
party  on  the  southwestern  frontier  of  Georgia  without 
an  officer,  or  even  a  sergeant ;  and  the  agent's  opinion 
of  the  necessity  of  a  respectable  force  on  the  south- 
western frontier  of  that  State,  and  the  little  use  of  them 
in  its  present  stations. 

These  heads,  as  well  as  I  can  recollect,  contain  the 
substance  of  Mr.  Seagrove's  communications,  on 
which  I  give  the  following  sentiments  and  obsen-a- 
tions. 


1 62  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

I  St.  The  conduct  of  Spain  in  this  business  is  so 
unprovoked  (by  any  event  that  has  come  to  my 
knowledge,)  so  mysterious,  and  so  hostile  in  appear- 
ance, that,  although  the  evidence  is  strong  and  cor- 
roborated by  a  variety  of  information  through  a 
variety  of  channels,  and  even  confirmed  by  McGilli- 
vray  himself,  yet  the  mind  can  scarcely  realize  a 
procedure  so  base  and  inhuman,  as  the  encouraging 
(not  only  without  the  exhibition  of  complaint,  but 
under  professions  of  good  neighborhood  and  friend- 
ship towards  us)  a  war,  which  must  expose  helpless 
women  and  children  to  the  relentless  fury  of  savages, 
and  to  the  cruelties  of  the  tomahawk  and  scalping- 
knife  ;  but  the  evidence  of  their  intrigues  to  set  aside 
the  treaty,  to  exclude  the  United  States  from  having 
trade  or  intercourse  with  the  southern  Indians,  will 
scarcely  admit  of  a  doubt ;  and  there  is  too  much  reason 
to  suspect  that  McGillivray  has  an  agency  in  promot- 
ing these  measures. 

My  opinion,  therefore,  is,  that  the  commissioners 
of  Spain,  in  Philadelphia,  should  be  informed,  deli- 
cately, and  perhaps  informally,  (until  matters  can  be 
more  fully  investigated  or  developed,)  that,  though 
we  are  ready  to  acquit  the  Spanish  oovcrnme7it  of 
measures  so  unfriendly  to  the  United  States,  yet  the 
evidence  of  these  proceedings  in  some  of  its  officers  is 
too  strong  to  admit  of  a  doubt,  and  of  too  important 
a  nature  to  pass  over  in  silence  ;  that  it  creates  seri- 
ous alarms  in  the  minds  of  our  citizens  in  the  southern 
quarter,  and  gives  much  trouble  to  the  government  of 
the  United  States,  which  has  no  views  incompatible 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  163 

with  good  faith  towards  Spain,  and  with  justice  and 
honor  towards  the  Indians. 

Something  to  this  effect  was  written  or  spoken  to 
these  gentlemen  by  the  Secretary  of  State,  on  the  first 
representation  of  this  matter  from  the  southern  agent 
for  Indian  affairs  ;  but  what  notice  was  taken  of  it  by 
them,  or  whether  any,  I  do  not  recollect  to  have  been 
informed.  Inquir)%  however,  should  be  made  ;  but, 
whether  documents  respecting  it  are  to  be  found  in 
his  office,  or  are  deposited  among  the  private  trans- 
actions in  his  own  keeping,  is  uncertain.  In  the  latter 
case  no  information  can  be  obtained  in  time. 

2d.  My  opinion  on  this  head  is,  that  Governor 
Tellfair  should  be  written  to,  and  informed  in  delicate, 
but  in  firm  and  unequivocal  terms,  that  the  United 
States,  from  a  concatenation  of  causes  are  so  delicately 
circumstanced  as  to  render  peace  in  the  southern 
quarter  indispensably  necessar^^  if  it  be  possible  to 
preserve  it  upon  just  and  honorable  terms  ;  that  gov- 
ernment has  received  information,  unequivocal  in  its 
nature,  of  designs  in  some  of  the  frontier  inhabitants 
of  Georgia,  not  only  to  impede  but  absolutely  to  op- 
pose running  the  line,  which  was  agreed  upon  as  a 
boundary  between  that  State  and  the  Creeks ;  and  of 
conduct,  in  some  of  them,  tending  to  provoke  war, 
rather  than  to  promote  peace  with  these  Indians; 
that  it  was  (and  subsequent  events  have  proved  it) 
with  great  difficulty  the  boundary,  then  agreed  on, 
could  be  obtained ;  that  now  it  has  become  a  law 
of  the  land,  and,  if  the  Indians  can  be  prevailed  on  to 
carry    it  into  execution,   it  must  be  enforced ;    and. 


1 64  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

lastly,  to  exhort  him  by  every  motive  to  peace  and 
good  order,  that  he  would  use  his  influence  and 
address  to  redress  all  turbulent  and  illegal  proceed- 
ings in  this  behalf,  as  the  consequences  cannot  fail  to 
be  distressing  from  a  contrary  conduct. 

3d.  Although  the  opinions  and  propositions  of  the 
southern  agent  ought,  in  this  case,  to  be  received  with 
a  due  degree  of  caution,  inasmuch  as  he  is  removing 
the  theatre  of  action  from  Rock  Landing  to  his  own 
or  brother's  store,  at  the  head  of  the  St.  Mary's,  cov- 
ering thereby  that  frontier  where  his  interest  is  more 
immediately  affected ;  building  his  own  consequence 
upon  the  ruins  of  another,  as  occasion  and  circum- 
stances may  require  ;  acquiring  a  power  to  distribute 
goods,  which,  though  they  are  limited  and  issued 
under  certain  restrictions,  may  nevertheless  be 
abused  ;  and  investing  himself  with  more  ample 
power  to  act  from  the  circumstances  of  the  moment ; 
I  say,  notwithstanding  the  liability  to  abuse  in  some 
or  all  of  these  cases,  I  am  of  opinion  from  the  circum- 
stances which  exist  and  press,  and  from  the  delay 
which  would  result  from  references,  at  the  distance  he 
is  from  the  seat  of  the  government,  that  he  ought,  as 
far  as  I  have  the  power  of  doing  it,  to  be  instructed — 

To  hold  a  meeting  with  the  Indian  chiefs,  at  the 
time  and  place  mentioned  in  his  letter  of  the  27th 
ultimo, — and. 

That  he  should,  under  defined  restrictions,  have  au- 
thority given  him  to  distribute  goods  as  circumstances 
and  his  own  judgment  shall  dictate. 

That  he  ouirht  to  counteract  the  nefarious  schemes 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  165 

of  Spain,  by  all  the  influence  and  address  he  is  mas- 
ter of. 

That  if,  upon  further  and  more  unequivocal  proof, 
McGillivray's  duplicity  and  treacher}'  should  appear 
more  evident,  that  he  is,  in  that  case,  to  destroy  as 
far  as  it  is  in  his  power  the  consequence  of  that  man 
in  the  Creek  nation ;  and,  as  the  most  effectual  step 
towards  it,  and  serving  the  United  States,  to  take,  if 
he  can,  his  place  in  the  nation, 

4th.  The  propriety  of  this  restrictive  proposition  is 
apparent,  but  to  draw  the  line  is  difficult.  To  vest  it 
solely  (which  I  believe  would  be  the  least  evil)  with 
the  Indian  agents  would  increase  their  consequence 
amazingly,  and  would  give  them  in  a  manner,  if  they 
are  indirectly  engaged  in  trade,  a  monopoly  thereof, 
and  all  other  intercourse  with  the  Indians;  and,  in 
the  instance  before  us,  would  create  much  jealousy 
and  disgust  in  the  executive  of  the  State  of  Georgia. 
Under  this  impression  of  my  sentiments,  decide  as 
shall  appear  best  upon  a  full  view  of  the  case.  The 
idea  of  an  engraving,  with  the  proposed  check,  to 
prevent  counterfeit  passes  and  impositions,  is  a  good 
thought,  and  merits  adoption. 

5th.  If  the  Indians  should  be  reduced  to  the  de- 
plorable situation,  which  is  apprehended,  by  an  act 
of  Providence,  which  human  foresight  is  unable  to 
avert,  it  is  my  opinion,  that  we  ought,  if  they  exhibit 
signs  of  good  dispositions  towards  us,  as  well  from 
motives  of  policy  as  those  of  humanity,  to  afford  them 
relief.  But  the  power  of  the  executive  to  do  this, 
the  state  of  the  treasur)%  the  extent  of  the  evil,  and 


1 66  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

the  consequences  of  giving  to  one  nation  and  not  to 
all,  if  it  should  be  asked,  are  matters  to  be  consid- 
ered before  any  explicit  assurance  is  given,  that  sup- 
plies will  be  granted. 

6th.  There  can  be  no  doubt  of  the  propriety  of 
bringing  Major  Call  before  a  general  court-martial 
for  his  intemperate  conduct,  for  authorizing  the  rais- 
ing of  three  troops  of  horse  at  the  expense  of  the 
Union  (unless  as  commanding  officer  he  was  in- 
structed or  empowered  to  do  it,  of  which  I  have  no 
recollection),  and  for  leaving  a  party  of  soldiers  on 
the  southwestern  frontier,  without  an  officer,  or  even 
a  sergeant,  to  command  and  provide  for  them. 

As  to  the  necessity  of  having  a  respectable  force 
on  the  southwestern  frontier  of  Georgia,  and  of  the 
little  use  of  those  on  the  more  western  part  of  the 
State,  no  reasons  are  assigned  for  either  by  which  a 
judgment  can  be  formed  ;  and,  having  no  accurate 
map  of  that  country  with  me,  I  am  unable  to  give  any 
other  sentiment  on  either  of  these  points,  than  that, 
for  the  reason  which  has  been  given  under  another 
head,  this  measure  should  be  decided  on  with  caution. 

I  do  not  give  these  opinions,  or  any  one  of  them, 
as  decisive,  or  as  directions  to  be  implicity  followed  ; 
because  that  would  render  deliberation,  and  the  re- 
quest contained  in  my  letter  of  the  15th,  nugatory. 
They  are  given  as  crude  and  undigested  first  thoughts 
only,  to  be  closely  examined,  compared,  and  com- 
bined with  other  information,  which  may  be  found  in 
the  public  offices,  and  the  letters  and  instruction 
drafted  accordingly. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  167 

Let  these  (except  the  communication,  if  any,  to 
the  commissioners  of  Spain)  pass  through  my  hands 
unsealed.  I  am  persuaded  there  will  be  no  delay  on 
account  of  disapprobation  and  consequent  alterations. 
The  express  not  expecting,  as  he  says,  to  have  pro- 
ceeded further  than  Mount  Vernon,  will  want  a  sup- 
ply of  money  to  take  him  back,  to  be  accounted  for 
with  the  Indian  agent.  He  has  already  received  two 
guineas  from  me. 

I  presume  Mr.  Seagrove  would  wish  to  be  placed 
upon  some  more  permanent  establishment,  with  re- 
spect to  his  pay ;  but,  if  there  be  any  doubt  of  my 
power  to  fix  this,  and  to  render  his  office  more  stable, 
matters,  with  assurances  that  his  services  will  neither 
pass  unnoticed  nor  unrewarded,  must  remain  as  they 
are  until  the  meeting  of  Congress.  And  as  he 
appears  to  have  acted  with  zeal  and  intelligence, 
he  ought  to  be  informed  of  the  satisfaction  his  con- 
duct has  given,  and  to  be  requested,  in  a  particular 
and  pointed  manner,  to  have  some  one  or  more 
persons  in  whom  entire  confidence  can  be  placed,  as 
well  in  their  ability  as  fidelity,  to  attend  the  meet- 
ing at  Pensacola,  to  watch  the  motions  of  Oliver, 
and  to  be  informed  precisely  and  accurately  of  the 
Spanish  movements  in  both  East  and  West  Florida. 
Money  (reasonably  bestowed)  must  not  be  spared  to 
accomplish  these  objects. 

What  is  become  of  the  surveyor  Ellicott,  and  what 
is  proper  to  be  done  with  him  ?  He  ought  not  to 
be  retained  in  that  country  at  a  certain  expense, 
awaiting  a  ver^-  nncertain  event. 


1 68  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

I  did  not  think  of  it  when  I  was  writing  my  letter 
of  the  15th,  but  now  request,  that  the  attorney-general 
may  be  called  on  to  aid  with  his  sentiments  in  the 
several  matters,  which  are  referred  for  your  considera- 
tion and  decision/ 

Not  having  thought  of  any  character  more  eligible 
for  adjutant-general  than  Major  Fish,  I  request  that 
he  may  be  sounded,  or  even  directly  applied  to. 
Should  he  be  indisposed  to  the  office,  some  other 
must  be  appointed  without  delay.  With  esteem 
and  regard,   I  am,  &c. 


TO    HENRY    KNOX,    SECRETARY    OF    WAR. 

Mount  Vernon,  22  August,  1792. 

Dear  Sir  : 

In  my  letter  of  the  15th  I  acknowledged  the  receipt 
of  yours  of  the  nth  ;  since  which  your  despatches  of 
the  1 6th  are  come  to  hand,  and  convey  but  a  gloomy 
prospect  of  peace  with  the  Indians,  but  show  the  ne- 
cessity of  preparing  more  vigorously  if  possible  for 
the  dernier  resort.  That  the  western  Indians  are 
stimulated  to  acts  of  hostility  on  one  side,  and  every 
mean,  which  can  be  devised,  to  set  aside  the  treaties, 
which  exist  between  the  southern  Indians  and  the 
United  States,  and  to  encourage  them  to  break  with 
us,  on  the  other,  admits  of  no  doubt  in  my  mind  ;  and 
that   it    may   be   a  concerted   plan    between    certain 


'  Washington  had  sent  Seagrove's  communications  to  Knox  on  the  rsth, 
with  a  request  that  he  lay  lliem  before  Jefferson  and  Hamilton,  and  take  their 
opinion  on  them. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  169 

powers  to  check  the  growth  of  this  rising  country,  is 
far  from  improbable,  diaboHcal  as  it  may  seem. 

The  enclosure  of  General  Putnam's  letter  of  the 
9th  of  July  enables  me  (which  I  could  not  do  before) 
to  form  some  idea  of  his  proposition  to  establish  a 
post  on  the  Muskingum  ;  and,  though  I  shall  give  no 
decided  opinion  on  this  particular  case,  my  sentiments 
generally  with  respect  to  posts  are  not  changed,  and 
are  shortly  these ;  that,  except  for  the  preservation 
of  stores,  and  the  security  of  convoys  upon  a  commu- 
nication, they  are  of  no  use  but  to  protect  the  people 
within  them ;  for  unless  the  garrison  is  of  such 
strength,  and  can  detach  in  such  force,  as  to  bid 
defiance  to  the  enemy,  it  is  always  cooped  up.  Ex- 
cept for  the  purposes  I  have  mentioned,  of  what 
advantage  are  Forts  Hamilton;  St.  Clair,  and  Jeffer- 
son ?  The  strength  of  stationary  parties  is  soon 
discovered  by  the  Indians,  and,  when  discovered, 
they  are  liable  to  be  cut  off,  unless  they  confine 
themselves  solely  to  the  defence  of  the  post ;  and  of 
what  avail  would  this  be  on  the  Muskingum  or  else- 
where ?  Posts  can  be  i7isulted  or  avoided  at  the 
option  of  the  enemy  in  a  covered  country- ;  but  the 
best  vigilance  of  the  most  cautious  enemy  cannot  pre- 
vent scouting  parties  falling  on  their  trail.  Besides, 
we  shall  never  be  respectable  at  any  point,  if  the 
troops  are  divided  and  subdivided  for  the  quietude  of 
particular  settlements  or  neighborhoods ;  nor  will 
they  ever  be  disciplined  and  under  due  subordina- 
tion, whilst  they  are  scattered  over  the  country  in 
small  parties  under  subaltern  officers  ;  except  when 


I70  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

they  are  employed  in  ranging,  which  is  an  essential 
part  of  their  miHtary  education  in  the  service  for 
which  they  are  designed. 

If  all  the  measures,  which  have  been  pursued  by 
government  to  convince  the  hostile  Indians  of  the 
just  and  honorable  intentions  the  United  States  tow- 
ards them,  should  prove  ineffectual,  we  may  certainly 
calculate  upon  a  powerful  opposition  from  their  com- 
bined force  ;  in  which  case  we  shall  not  only  be 
unprepared  to  penetrate  their  country  this  year,  but 
there  appears  to  me  to  be  very  little  prospect  of  doing 
it  early  in  the  next,  unless  there  can  be  some  stimulus 
to  the  recruiting  service,  and  the  officers  absolutely  re- 
strained from  enlisting  improper  men.  I  am  told, 
notwithstanding  the  pointed  instructions,  which  have 
been  issued  to  them  on  this  head,  that  boys  in  many 
instances,  and  the  worst  miscreants  in  others,  are 
received  ;  to  the  latter  of  which  may  be  attributed 
the  number  of  desertions,  that  are  reported  to  the 
war  office.  Under  this  view  of  the  matter,  your 
intimation  to  General  Wayne,  respecting  the  Chicka- 
saws  and  Choctaws,  was  prudent  and  proper  ;  but  I 
conceive,  nevertheless,  if  a  few  of  each  southern 
nation,  say  six  or  eight  respectable  characters,  were 
to  visit  and  remain  with  the  army  as  long  as  should 
be  agreeable  to  themselves,  be  well  fed  and  clothed, 
and  in  all  respects  treated  with  attention  and  kind- 
ness, it  would  be  an  effectual  inducement  to  the  com- 
ing of  the  number  that  might  be  required  next  year. 

I  perceive  by  Mr.  Belli's  ^  letter,  that  the  difference 

'  Deputy  ciuartermaster-gencral  in  the  army. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  171 

between  supplying  the  troops  with  their  rations  by 
contracts,  and  by  a  purchasing  commissary,  must  be 
very  great  indeed,  although  he  has  not  given  the 
wages  and  other  charges  of  the  latter  gentry.  I  am 
of  opinion,  that  the  difference  in  favor  of  the  latter 
will  be  found,  from  the  nature  of  things,  much  greater 
on  the  exterior  than  it  would  be  in  the  interior  coun- 
try ;  and  as  the  public  pays  for  all  lost  provisions  (by 
the  enemy),  is  at  the  expense  of  stores  and  guards,  it 
is  a  matter  worthy  of  serious  investigation  and  conse- 
quent decision.  Consult,  therefore,  with  the  Secre- 
tary of  the  Treasury,  and  act  as  in  the  result  may 
appear  best. 

The  hair  must  have  stood  on  Major  S.'s  head,  and 
a  stake  full  in  his  view,  when  his  letter  of  the  8th  of 
July  was  writing  to  General  Wilkinson,  or  the  style 
of  it  would  certainly  have  been  varied.  With  esteem 
and  regard,  I  am,  &c. 


TO    THOMAS   JEFFERSON,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 
[private.] 

Mount  Vernon,  23  August,  1792. 

My  dear  Sir, 

Your  letters  of  the  12th  and  13th  came  duly  to 
hand,  as  did  that  enclosing  Mr.  Blodget's  plan  of  a 
Capitol.  The  latter  I  forwarded  to  the  commission- 
ers, and  the  enclosures  of  the  two  first  are  now 
returned  to  you. 

I  believe  we  are  never  to  hear  from  Mr.  Carmi- 
chael,  nor  of  him,  but  through  the  medium  of  a  third 


172  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

person.     His  I   really  do  not  know  with  what 

epithet  to  fill  the  blank,  is,  to  me,  amongst  the  most 
unaccountable  of  all  the  unaccountable  things !  I 
wish  much  to  hear  of  the  arrival  of  Mr.  Short  at 
Madrid,  and  the  result  of  their  joint  negotiations  at 
that  court,  as  we  have  fresh  and  much  stronger  rep- 
resentations from  Mr.  Seagrove  of  the  extraordinary 
interference  of  the  Spaniards  in  West  Florida  to  pre- 
vent running  the  boundary  line,  which  had  been 
established  by  treaty  between  the  United  States 
and  the  Creeks  ;  of  their  promising  them  support 
in  case  of  their  refusal  ;  and  of  their  endeavoring  to 
disaffect  the  four  southern  tribes  of  Indians  towards 
this  country.  In  these  projects  Seagrove  is  convinced 
McGillivray  and  his  partner  Panton  are  embarked, 
and  have  become  principal  agents  ;  and  there  are  sus- 
picions, he  adds,  that  the  capture  of  Bowles  was  a 
preconcerted  measure  between  the  said  Bowles  and 
the  Spaniards.  That  the  former  is  gone  to  Spain 
(and  to  Madrid  I  think)  is  certain.  That  McGilli- 
vray has  removed  from  Little  Tellassee  to  a  place  he 
has  within  or  bordering  on  the  Spanish  line  ;  that  a 
Captain  Oliver,  a  Frenchman  (but  an  officer  in  a 
Spanish  regiment  at  New  Orleans),  has  taken  his 
place  at  Tellassee,  and  is  holding  talks  with  the  chiefs 
of  the  several  towns  in  the  nation  ;  and  that  every 
exertion  is  making  by  the  governor  of  West  Florida 
to  obtain  a  full  and  general  meeting  of  the  southern 
tribes  at  Pensacola,  are  facts  that  admit  of  no  doubt. 
It  is  also  affirmed  that  five  regiments  of  about  six 
hundred  men  each,  and  a  large  quantity  of  ordnance 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  173 

and  stores,  arrived  lately  at  New  Orieans,  and  that 
the  like  number  of  regiments  (but  this  can  only  be 
from  report)  was  expected  at  the  same  place  from  the 
Havana.  Recent  accounts  from  Arthur  Campbell,  I 
hope  without  much  foundation,  speak  of  very  hostile 
dispositions  in  the  lower  Cherokees,  and  of  great  ap- 
prehension for  the  safety  of  Governor  Blount  and 
General  Pickens,  who  had  set  out  for  the  proposed 
meeting  with  the  Chickasaws  and  Choctaws  at  Nash- 
ville, and  for  the  goods  which  were  going  down  the 
Tennessee  by  water  for  that  meeting. 

Our  accounts  from  the  western  Indians  are  not 
more  favorable  than  those  just  mentioned.  No 
doubt  remains  of  their  having  put  to  death  Major 
Trueman  and  Colonel  Hardin,  and  the  harbingers  of 
their  mission.  The  report  from-  their  grand  council 
is,  that  war  was,  or  soon  would  be,  decided  on,  and 
that  they  will  admit  no  flags.  The  meeting  was 
numerous,  and  not  yet  dissolved,  that  we  have  been 
informed  of.  What  influence  our  Indian  agents  may 
have  at  it,  remains  to  be  known.  Hendricks  left 
Buffalo  Creek  between  the  i8th  and  20th  of  June 
accompanied  by  two  or  three  of  the  Six  Nations. 
Some  of  the  chiefs  of  those  nations  were  to  follow  in 
a  few  days,  only  waiting,  it  was  said,  for  the  Caugh- 
nawaga  Indians  from  Canada;  and  Captain  Brant 
would  not  be  long  after  them.  If  these  attempts  to 
disclose  the  just  and  pacific  disposition  of  the  United 
States  to  these  people  should  also  fail,  there  remains 
no  alternative  but  the  sword  to  decide  the  difference  ; 
and   recruiting  goes   on  heavily.      If  Spain  is  really 


174  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

intriguing  with  the  southern  Indians,  as  represented 
by  Mr.  Seagrove,  I  shall  entertain  strong  suspicions 
that  there  is  a  very  clear  understanding  in  all  this 
business  between  the  courts  of  London  and  Madrid, 
and  that  it  is  calculated  to  check,  as  far  as  they  can, 
the  rapid  increase,  extension,  and  consequence  of  this 
country ;  for  there  cannot  be  a  doubt  of  the  wishes  of 
the  former  (if  we  may  judge  from  the  conduct  of  its 
officers)  to  impede  any  eclaircissement  of  ours  with  the 
western  Indians,  and  to  embarrass  our  negotiations 
with  them,  any  more  than  there  is  of  their  traders 
and  some  others,  who  are  subject  to  their  government, 
aiding  and  abetting  them  in  acts  of  hostility/ 

How  unfortunate,  and  how  much  is  it  to  be  re- 
gretted then,  that,  while  we  are  encompassed  on  all 
sides  with  avowed  enemies  and  insidious  friends,  in- 
ternal dissensions  should  be  harrowing  and  tearing 
our  vitals.  The  last,  to  me,  is  the  most  serious,  the 
most  alarming,  and  the  most  afflicting  of  the  two  ;  and, 
without  more  charity  for  the  opinions  and  acts  of 
one  another  in  governmental  matters,  or  some  more 
infallible  criterion  by  which  the  truth  of  speculative 
opinions,  before  they  have  undergone  the  test  of 
experience,  are  to  be  forejudged,  than  has  yet  fallen 
to  the  lot  of  fallibility,  I  believe  it  will  be  difficult,  if 
not  impracticable,  to  manage  the  reins  of  government, 
or  to  keep  the  parts  of  it  together ;  for  if,  instead  of 

'  "Your  letter  to  Messrs.  Carmichael  &  Short  (now  returned)  is  full  and 
proper.  I  have  added  a  word  or  two  with  a  pencil  which  may  be  inserted,  or 
not,  as  you  shall  think  Ijest.  The  intention  of  them  is  to  do  away  the  charge 
of  assumed  sovereignty  over  more  of  the  Creeks  than  are  within  our  own 
territory." — Washington  to  jfefferson,  3  November,   1792. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  175 

laying  our  shoulders  to  the  machine  after  measures 
are  decided  on,  one  pulls  this  way  and  another  that, 
before  the  utility  of  the  thing  is  fairly  tried,  it  must 
inevitably  be  torn  asunder  ;  and  in  my  opinion  the 
fairest  prospect  of  happiness  and  prosperity,  that  ever 
was  presented  to  man,  will  be  lost  perhaps  y^r  ever. 

My  earnest  wish  and  my  fondest  hope,  therefore, 
is,  that  instead  of  wounding  suspicions  and  irritating 
charges,  there  may  be  liberal  allowances,  mutual  for- 
bearances, and  temporizing  yieldings  on  all  sides. 
Under  the  exercise  of  these,  matters  will  go  on 
smoothly,  and,  if  possible,  more  prosperously.  With- 
out them,  every  thing  must  rub  ;  the  wheels  of 
government  will  clog ;  our  enemies  will  triumph,  and, 
by  throwing  their  weight  into  the  disaffected  scale, 
may  accomplish  the  ruin  of  the-  goodly  fabric  we 
have  been  erecting:. 

I  do  not  mean  to  apply  this  advice,  or  these  obser- 
vations, to  any  particular  person  or  character.  I  have 
given  them  in  the  same  general  terms  to  other  officers 
of  the  government ;  because  the  disagreements,  which 
have  arisen  from  difference  of  opinions,  and  the  at- 
tacks, which  have  been  made  upon  almost  all  the 
measures  of  government,  and  most  of  its  executive 
officers,  have  for  a  long  time  past  filled  me  with  pain- 
ful sensations,  and  cannot  fail,  I  think,  of  producing 
unhappy  consequences  at  home  and  abroad. 

The  nature  of  Mr.  Seagrove's  communications  was 
such,  and  the  evidence  in  support  of  it  so  strongly 
corroborative,  that  I  gave  it  as  my  sentiment  to  Gen- 
eral Knox,  that  the  commissioners  of  Spain  ought  to 


176  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

have  the  matter  brought  before  them,  in  the  manner 
it  was  before,  but  in  stronger,  (though  not  in  com- 
mitting) language  ;  as  the  government  was  embar- 
rassed, and  its  citizens  in  the  southern  States  made 
uneasy  by  such  proceedings,  however  unauthorized 
they  might  be  by  their  courts. 

I  pray  you  to  note  down,  or  rather  to  frame  into 
paragraphs  or  sections,  such  matters  as  may  occur  to 
you  as  fit  and  proper  for  general  communication  at 
the  opening  of  the  next  session  of  Congress,  not  only 
in  the  department  of  state,  but  on  any  other  subject 
applicable  to  the  occasion,  that  I  may  in  due  time 
have  every  thing  before  me.  With  sincere  esteem 
and  friendship,   I  am   always   your   affectionate,  &c. 


TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON,    SECRETARY    OF    THE 
TREASURY. 

[private.] 

Mount  Vernon,  26  August,  1792. 

My  DEAR  Sir, 

Your  letter  of  the  i8th,  enclosing  answers  to  certain 
objections  communicated  to  you  in  my  letter  of  the 
29th  ultimo,  came  duly  to  hand  ;  and  although  I  have 
not  as  yet,  from  a  variety  of  causes,  been  able  to  give 
them  the  attentive  reading  I  mean  to  bestow,  I  feel 
myself  much  obliged  by  the  trouble  you  have  taken 
to  answer  them  ;  as  I  persuade  myself,  from  the  full 
manner  in  which  you  appear  to  have  taken  up  the 
subject,  that  I  shall  receive  both  satisfaction  and  profit 
from  the  perusal. 

Differences  in  political  opinions  are  as  unavoidable, 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  177 

as,  to  a  certain  point,  they  may  perhaps  be  necessary  . 
but  it  is  exceedingly  to  be  regretted,  that  subjects' 
cannot  be  discussed  with  temper  on  the  one  hand,  or 
decisions  submitted  to  without  having  the  motives, 
which  led  to  them,  improperly  implicated  on  the  other  ; 
and  this  regret  borders  on  chagrin,  when  we  find  that 
men  of  abilities,  zealous  patriots,  having  the  same  gen- 
eral objects  in  view,  and  the  same  upright  intentions 
to  prosecute  them,  will  not  exercise  more  charity  in 
deciding  on  the  opinions  and  actions  of  one  another. 
When  matters  get  to  such  lengths,  the  natural  infer- 
ence is,  that  both  sides  have  strained  the  cords  be- 
yond their  bearing,  and  that  a  middle  course  would  be 
found  the  best,  until  experience  shall  have  decided  on 
the  right  way,  or  (which  is  not  to  be  expected,  because 
it  is  denied  to  mortals)  there  shall  be  some  infallible 
rule  by  which  we  could  forejudge  events. 

Having  premised  these  things,  I  would  fain  hope, 
that  liberal  allowances  will  be  made  for  the  political 
opinions  of  each  other  ;  and,  instead  of  those  wound- 
ing suspicions,  and  irritating  charges,  with  which 
some  of  our  gazettes  are  so  strongly  impregnated,  and 
cannot  fail,  if  persevered  in,  of  pushing  matters  to 
extremity,  and  thereby  to  tear  the  machine  asunder, 
that  there  might  be  mutual  forbearances  and  tem- 
porizing yieldings  071  all  sides.  Without  these,  I  do 
not  see  how  the  reins  of  government  are  to  be  man- 
aged, or  how  the  Union  of  the  States  can  be  much 
longer  preserved. 

How  unfortunate  would  it  be,  if  a  fabric  so  goodly, 
erected  under  so  many  providential  circumstances, 
and  in  its  first  stages  having  acquired  such  respecta- 


178  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

bility,  should,  from  diversity  of  sentiments,  or  inter- 
nal obstructions  to  some  of  the  acts  of  government 
(for  I  cannot  prevail  on  myself  to  believe,  that  these 
measures  are  as  yet  the  deliberate  acts  of  a  deter- 
mined party),  be  harrowing  our  vitals  in  such  a  man- 
ner as  to  have  brought  us  to  the  verge  of  dissolution. 
Melancholy  thought  !  But,  at  the  same  time  that  it 
shows  the  consequences  of  diversified  opinions,  when 
pushed  with  too  much  tenacity,  it  exhibits  evidence 
also  of  the  necessity  of  accommodation,  and  of  the 
propriety  of  adopting  such  healing  measures  as  may 
restore  harmony  to  the  discordant  members  of  the 
Union,  and  the  governing  powers  of  it. 

I  do  not  mean  to  apply  this  advice  to  any  measures, 
which  are  passed,  or  to  any  particular  character.  I 
have  given  it  in  the  same  general  terms  to  other 
officers  of  the  government.  My  earnest  wish  is,  that 
balsam  may  be  poured  into  all  the  wounds,  which 
have  been  given,  to  prevent  them  from  gangrening, 
and  from  those  fatal  consequences,  which  the  com- 
munity may  sustain  if  it  is  withheld.  The  friends  of 
the  Union  must  wish  this.  Those,  who  are  not,  but 
wish  to  see  it  rended,  will  be  disappointed,  and  all 
things,  I  hope,  will  go  well. 

We  have  learnt,  through  the  medium  of  Mr.  Har- 
rison to  Dr.  Craik,  that  you  have  some  thoughts  of 
taking  a  trip  this  way.  I  felt  pleasure  at  hearing  it, 
and  hope  it  is  unnecessary  to  add,  that  it  would  be 
considerably  increased  by  seeing  you  under  this  roof  ; 
for  you  may  be  assured  of  the  sincere  and  affectionate 
regard  of  yours,  &c. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  179 

P.  S.  I  pray  you  to  note  down  whatever  may 
occur  to  you,  not  only  in  your  own  department,  but 
other  matters  also  of  general  import,  that  may  be  fit 
subjects  for  the  speech  at  the  opening  of  the  ensuing 


TO    EDMUND    RANDOLPH,    ATTORNEY-GENERAL. 
[private.] 

Mount  Vernon,  26  August,  1792. 

My  DEAR  Sir, 

The  purpose  of  this  letter  is  merely  to  acknowledge 
the  receipt  of  your  favors  of  the  5th  ^  and  13th  instant, 
and  to  thank  j'ou  for  the  information  contained  in  both, 
without  entering  into  the  details  of  either. 

'  The  same  request  was  made  to  the  attorney-general,  who  said  in  reply, 
that  he  could  discover  nothing  worthy  of  notice  in  his  department,  except  the 
reform  of  the  judfciary  system,  which  embraced  particulars  too  minute  to  be 
communicated  by  the  executive.  "And  besides,"  said  he,  "  Congress  cannot 
forget  the  admonitions,  which  they  have  already  received  on  this  head.  I  am 
so  deeply  impressed  with  the  dangers  to  which  the  government  is  exposed  from 
this  quarter,  that  it  would  be  a  happy  circumstance,  if  they  could  be  stimulated 
to  the  discussion.  Were  I  to  indulge  myself  in  a  general  review  of  our  politi- 
cal situation,  I  should  probably  repeat,  without  use,  topics,  which  have  pre- 
sented themselves  to  your  own  mind,  or  which  have  been  suggested  more 
accurately  by  others,  to  whose  departments  they  belong.  I  confess,  indeed, 
that  I  feel  at  the  present  crisis  these  strong  solicitudes  ;  that  the  public  be 
assured  of  stability  in  the  existing  fiscal  arrangements  ;  that  the  redemption  of 
the  public  debt  be  commenced  at  no  distant  day  ;  that  the  land  office,  if  the 
hostility  of  the  Indians  will  permit,  be  employed  as  one  of  the  instruments  of 
redemption  ;  that  the  State  governments  be  prohibited  from  intermeddling 
with  the  Indian  tribes,  to  the  utmost  limit  of  the  constitution  ;  that  some  tem- 
porary' mode  be  provided  for  the  relief  of  many  crippled  soldiers,  who  must 
beg  or  starve,  until  the  schism  between  the  legislature  and  judiciary  be  estab- 
lished ;  and  that  the  violence  of  the  sanguine  States,  which  may  be  disap- 
pointed on  the  final  settlement  of  their  accounts  with  the  United  States,  may 
in  some  manner  or  other  be  softened." — October  28th. 

*  Urging  him  to  accept  a  re-election. 


i8o  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

With  respect,  however,  to  the  interesting  subject 
treated  on  in  that  of  the  5  th,  I  can  express  but  one 
sentiment  at  this  time,  and  that  is  a  wish,  a  devout 
one,  that,  whatever  my  ultimate  determination  shall 
be,  it  may  be  for  the  best.  The  subject  never  recurs 
to  my  mind  but  with  additional  poignancy  ;  and,  from 
the  declining  state  in  the  health  of  my  nephew,  to 
whom  my  concerns  of  a  domestic  and  private  nature 
are  entrusted,  it  comes  with  aggravated  force.  But 
as  the  All-wise  Disposer  of  events  has  hitherto 
watched  over  my  steps,  I  trust,  that,  in  the  important 
one  I  may  soon  be  called  upon  to  take,  he  will  mark 
the  course  so  plainly,  as  that  I  cannot  mistake  the 
way.  In  full  hope  of  this,  I  will  take  no  measures 
yet  a  while,  that  will  not  leave  me  at  liberty  to  decide 
from  circumstances,  and  the  best  lights  I  can  obtain 
on  the  subject. 

I  shall  be  happy,  in  the  mean  time,  to  see  a  cessa- 
tion of  the  abuses  of  public  officers,  and  of  those 
attacks  upon  almost  every  measure  of  government, 
with  which  some  of  the  gazettes  are  so  strongly  im- 
pregnated ;  and  which  cannot  fail,  if  persevered  in 
with  the  malignancy  with  which  they  now  teem,  of 
rending  the  Union  asunder.  The  seeds  of  discon- 
tent, distrust,  and  irritation,  which  are  so  plentifully 
sown,  can  scarcely  fail  to  produce  this  effect,  and  to 
mar  that  prospect  of  happiness,  which  perhaps  never 
beamed  with  more  effulgence  upon  any  people  under 
the  sun  ;  and  this  too  at  a  time,  when  all  Europe  are 
gazing  with  admiration  at  the  brightness  of  our  pros- 
pects.    And  for  what  is  all  this  ?   Among  other  things. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  181 

to  afford  nuts  for  our  transatlantic  (what  shall  I  call 
them  ?)  foes. 

In  a  word,  if  the  government  and  the  officers  of  it 
are  to  be  the  constant  theme  for  newspaper  abuse, 
and  this  too  without  condescending  to  investigate  the 
motives  or  the  facts,  it  will  be  impossible,  I  conceive, 
for  any  man  living  to  manage  the  helm  or  to  keep  the 
machine  together.  But  I  am  running  from  my  text, 
and  therefore  will  only  add  assurances  of  the  affec- 
tionate esteem  and  regard,  with  which  I  am,  &c. 


TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON,    SECRETARY    OF    THE 
TREASURY. 

3iR  Mount  Vernon,  7  September,  1792. 

The  last  post  brought  me  your  fetter  of  the  ist  in- 
stant, with  the  enclosures  respecting  the  disorderly 
conduct  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  western  survey  of 
the  district  of  Pennsylvania,  in  opposing  the  execu- 
tion of  what  is  called  the  excise  law  ;  and  of  the  in- 
sults which  have  been  offered  by  some  of  them  to  the 
officers,  who  have  been  appointed  to  collect  the  duties 
on  distilled  spirits  agreeably  thereto.^ 

Such  conduct  in  any  of  the  citizens  of  the  United 
States,  under  any  circumstances  that  can  well  be  con- 
ceived, would  be  exceedingly  reprehensible  ;  but,  when 
it  comes  from  a  part  of  the  community  for  whose  pro- 
tection the  money  arising  from  the  tax  was  principally 
designed,  it  is  truly  unaccountable,  and  the  spirit  of  it 
much  to  be  regretted. 

'  He  had  already  been  informed  of  similar  conduct  in  North  Carolina. 


1 82  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

The  preliminary  steps  taken  by  you  in  ordering  the 
supervisor  of  the  district  to  repair  to  the  survey,  where 
these  disorders  prevail,  with  a  view  to  ascertain  in 
person  '*  the  true  state  of  the  survey ;  to  collect  evi- 
dences respecting  the  violences  that  have  been  com- 
mitted, in  order  to  a  prosecution  of  the  offenders ;  to 
ascertain  the  particulars  as  to  the  meeting  which  ap- 
pears to  have  been  held  at  Pittsburg ;  to  encourage 
the  perseverance  of  the  officers  in  their  duty,  and  the 
well-disposed  inhabitants  in  discountenancing  such 
violent  proceedings,"  ^  are  prudent  and  proper,  and  I 
earnestly  wish  they  may  have  the  desired  effect.  But 
if,  notwithstanding,  opposition  is  still  given  to  the  due 
execution  of  the  law,  I  have  no  hesitation  in  declaring, 
if  the  evidence  of  it  is  clear  and  unequivocal,  that  I 
shall,  however  reluctantly  I  exercise  them,  exert  all 
the  legal  powers  with  which  the  executive  is  invested 
to  check  so  daring  and  unwarrantable  a  spirit.  It  is 
my  duty  to  see  the  laws  executed.  To  permit  them 
to  be  trampled  upon  with  impunity  would  be  repug- 
nant to  it ;  nor  can  the  government  longer  remain  a 
passive  spectator  of  the  contempt,  with  which  they 
are  treated.  Forbearance,  under  a  hope  that  the  in- 
habitants of  that  survey  would  recover  from  the 
delirium  and  folly  into  which  they  were  plunged, 
seems  to  have  had  no  other  effect  than  to  increase 
the  disorder. 

If  it  shall  be  the  attorney-general's  opinion,  under  a 
full  consideration  of  the  case  (adverting,  as  I  presume 
he  will,  as  well  to  the  laws  and  constitution  of  Penn- 

'  The  last  phrases  are  not  cxjjressed  in  the  terms  used  in  Hamilton's  letter. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  183 

sylvania,  as  to  those  of  the  United  States),  that  the 
meeting,  which  appears  to  have  been  held  at  Pittsburg, 
was  illegal,  and  the  members  of  it  indictable,  and  it 
shall  further  appear  to  you  from  such  information  as 
you  may  be  able  to  obtain  from  a  comparative  view 
of  all  circumstances,  that  it  would  be  proper  to  bring 
the  matter  before  the  circuit  court  to  be  holden  at 
Yorktown  in  October  next,  you  have  all  the  sanction 
and  authority  I  can  give  to  do  it.     I  am,  Sir,  &c.^ 


TO    HENRY    KNOX,    SECRETARY    OF    WAR. 

Mount  Vernon,  7  September,  1792. 

Sir, 

Your  letters  of  the  31st  of  August,  and  the  ist  of 
the  present  month,  have  been  duly  received.  The 
enclosures  in  the  first  for  Governor  Tellfair  and  Mr. 
Seagrove  have  been  approved  and  forwarded.  Those 
of  the  second  I  have  read,  but  will  give  them  a 
second  and  more  attentive  consideration  before  I 
express  any  decisive  opinion  upon  General  Wayne's 
plan  for  carrying  on  the  war. 

My  first  impression  of  it  however  is,  that  it  differs 
immaterially,  if  in  any  thing,  from  the  basis  or  princi- 
pal features  of  the  one  that  has  been  and  now   is 

'  Writing  again  on  the  gth,  Hamilton  suggested  the  issue  of  a  proclamation 
by  the  President  "  adverting  in  general  terms  to  the  irregular  proceedings,  and 
manifesting  an  intention  to  put  the  laws  in  force  against  offenders."  In  this 
he  was  supported  by  Knox  and  Randolph,  and,  in  conjunction  with  the  latter, 
prepared  the  draft  of  a  proposed  proclamation.  In  sending  it  to  Washington 
he  thought  that  it  was  unnecessary  to  have  it  countersigned  by  the  Secretary  of 
State,  as  that  officer  was  at  Monticello  and  delay  was  dangerous.  As  will  be 
seen,  the  President  was  of  another  mind. 


1 84  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

pursuing  ;  except  In  the  establishing  of  a  post  on  Big 
Beaver  Creek,  and  in  the  two  desultory  strokes  to  be 
aimed  at  Sandusky  and  St.  Joseph's.  The  latter  will 
be  right  or  wrong  according  to  the  actual  state  of 
things  at  those  places  at  the  time  it  is  proposed  to 
make  them  (to  be  ascertained  from  indubitable  informa- 
tion), and  by  a  comparison  of  the  hazards,  which  must 
be  run,  of  failure,  with  the  advantages  to  be  gained 
in  case  of  success.  In  all  other  respects,  I  see  little 
more  than  the  incidents  and  detail  of  the  original 
plan  ;  for,  if  all  the  pacific  overtures  are  rejected  by 
the  hostile  Indians,  and  the  troops  are  neither  in  force 
nor  discipline  to  make  a  forward  movement  the  en- 
suing fall,  it  follows  of  course,  that  it  must  be  delayed 
till  the  spring,  and  every  exertion  used,  in  the  estab- 
lishment of  posts,  magazines,  &c.,  for  as  early  an  ex- 
pedition as  high  water  and  the  state  of  the  forage  will 
permit  at  that  period.  If  General  Wayne  has  any 
doubt  of  this,  and  his  power  to  arrange  and  effectuate 
these,  you  have,  I  perceive  by  the  copy  of  your  letter 
to  him,  very  properly  removed ;  and  it  is  my  wish  and 
desire,  that  his  exertion  to  accomplish  the  objects 
he  has  contemplated  may  be  commensurate  to  the 
importance  of  them. 

With  respect  to  the  proposition  for  establishing  a 
magazine  on  Big  Beaver,  there  is  but  one  objection 
to  It  in  my  mind,  admitting  that  it  does  not  look  for- 
ward to  the  event  contemplated  by  General  Wayne, 
and  provided  the  position  is  judiciously  chosen,  and 
that  Is,  the  multiplication  of  posts  ;  for  it  has  for  a 
great  lengtli  of  time  been  my  opinion,  that  a  strong 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  185 

post  at  that  place  would  cover  much  more  effectually 
the  western  frontier  of  Pennsylvania  and  the  northern 
parts  of  Virginia,  than  a  post  at  Pittsburg.  But  habit, 
and  the  deep  root  the  latter  has  taken,  to  which  may 
be  added  its  being  a  convenient  deposit,  and  a  place 
of  more  safety  with  a  small  garrison,  (on  account 
of  its  inhabitants,)  than  any  other,  have  restrained 
my  mentioning  of  it  before.  But  in  case  of  a  move- 
ment towards  Sandusky,  one  there  does  in  that  design 
become  important. 

If,  upon  more  mature  consideration  of  the  ideas 
submitted  by  General  Wayne,  I  should  find  cause  to 
change  the  sentiments  herein  expressed,  the  altera- 
tions shall  be  communicated  in  my  next  ;  if  not,  you 
will  consider  what  I  have  here  said  as  the  substance 
of  my  opinion  thereon.     *     *     *     " 

A  caution,  both  to  General  Wavne,  and  througfh 
him  to  General  Wilkinson,  ought  to  be  given  to  guard 
effectually  the  hay  at  the  outposts.  Unless  this  is 
done,  the  Indians  will  most  assuredly  set  fire  to  it  ; 
and  to  do  it  without  having  the  stacks  in  the  range 
of  their  defences,  or  as  a  cover  to  the  approaches  of 
the  enemy,  is  no  easy  matter.      I  am.  Sir,  &;c.^ 

'  "  Your  letter  of  the  8lh  with  its  enclosures  came  duly  to  hand,  and  requires 
but  little  in  reply  to  it,  as  your  answer  to  General  Wa}iie's  communications 
contains  every  direction,  which  is  necessarj'  for  his  government  at  this  time. 
Whatever  maybe  the  attorney-general's  opinion  with  respect  to  the  legality  of 
calling  out  the  militia  by  the  governor  of  Pennsylvania  for  suppljing  the  place 
of  the  rangers,  it  is  not  an  easy  matter,  under  the  circumstances  which  now 
do  and  have  existed  during  the  summer,  to  discover  any  necessity  for  the  meas- 
ure, especially  if  the  order  was  subsequent  to  your  solution  of  his  queries. 

"  Captain  Brant's  letter,  and  the  speech  of  the  chiefs  of  the  Six  Nations  to 
General  Chapin  are  no  more  than  a  continuation  of  the  evidence,  which  long  since 
has  established  a  fact,  and  left  no  doubt  in  mv  mind  of  the  causes  to  which  all 


1 86  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON,    SECRETARY    OF    THE 
TREASURY. 

Mount  Vernon,  16  September,  1792. 

Dear  Sir, 

Your  private  letter  of  the  iith,  accompanying  an 
official  one  of  the  9th,  came  safe,  as  did  your  other 
private  letter  of  the  9th,  and  I  feel  myself  obliged  by 
the  observations  contained  in  the  first  respecting  the 
proclamation. 

As  the  former  proclamations  on  similar  occasions 
have  been  countersigned  by  the  Secretary  of  State,  I 
have  for  that  reason,  and  for  another  which  has  some 
weight  in  my  mind,  thought  it  best  not  to  depart  in 
this  instance  from  the  precedent,  which  has  been  set ; 
and  therefore,  as  it  cannot,  (unless  unforeseen  delays 
happen,)  be  withheld  from  you  more  than  six  days 
longer  than  if  it  had  been  returned  by  this  day's  post, 
I  despatched  by  express  the  proclamation  to  Mr.  Jef- 
ferson for  the  purpose  above  mentioned. 

I    have   no   doubt  but  that  the  proclamation  will 

our  difficulties  with  the  western  Indians  are  to  be  ascribed  ;  and  I  am  equally 
clear,  that  the  period  is  not  very  distant,  when  this  business  will  assume  a  less 
disguised  appearance." — Washington  to  Henry  Knox,  i6  September,  1792. 

Observations  of  the  President  on  General  Wayne's  letter  of  the  14th 
November,  1792  : 

"  It  is  unfortunate,  and  very  extraordinary  tliat  he  should  have  suspended 
an  opinion  with  respect  to  the  disposition  of  the  army  for  the  winter,  from  a 
vague  report  of  Mr.  II[ammond]'s  declaration  concerning  the  Western  posts. 
If  this  had  been  founded,  he  ought  to  have  looked  for  it  from  a  better  source, 
or  to  have  disregarded  it  altogether.  Now  I  presume,  it  is  too  late  to  carry 
what  w<7«A/(had  he  not  been  under  false  imjjressions)  have  been  his  plan  into 
execution.  But  I  think  he  ought  to  be  charged  in  strong  and  explicit  terms  to 
run  the  public  to  no  more  expcnce  in  the  l;arracks  he  is  about  to  build,  than  is 
indispensably  necessary  to  cover  and  secure  the  officers  and  soldiers  from  the 
weather — avoiding  all  deeorations  ;  and  as  viueh  as  possible  all  conveniences  ; 
considering  themselves  as  it  were  under  marching  orders,  to  remove  during 
Winter,  or  in  th<;  Spriiti;;,  actonling  to  events  and  circumstances." 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  187 

undergo  many  strictures  ;  and,  as  the  effect  proposed 
may  not  be  answered  by  it,  it  will  be  necessar}'-  to  look 
forward  in  time  to  ulterior  arrangements.  And  here 
not  only  the  constitution  and  laws  must  strictly  gov- 
ern, but  the  employing  of  the  regular  troops  avoided, 
if  it  be  possible  to  effect  order  without  their  aid  ; 
otherwise  there  would  be  a  cry  at  once,  "  The  cat  is 
let  out ;  we  now  see  for  what  purpose  an  army  w^as 
raised."  Yet,  if  no  other  means  will  effectually  an- 
swer, and  the  constitution  and  laws  will  authorize 
these,  they  must  be  used  as  the  dernier  resort.^ 

If  you  remain  in  opinion,  that  it  would  be  advisable 
for  tlie  President  to  transmit  the  proclamation  to  the 
governors  of  North  and  South  Carolina,  and  to  the 
governor  of  Pennsylvania,  I  pray  you  to  draft  such 
letters  to  them,  to  be  forwarded  from  hence  (with 
proclamations,  which  must  also  be  sent  to  me),  as 
you  may  think  best  calculated  to  produce  the  end 
proposed.     I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 

'  "  This  letter  goes  by  express  to  obtain  the  signature  of  the  Secretary  of 
State  to  the  enclosed  proclamation.     . 

"  If  good  is  to  result  from  the  proclamation,  no  time  is  to  be  lost  in  issuing 
it,  as  the  opposition  to  what  is  called  the  excise  law  in  the  western  survey  of 
the  district  of  Pennsylvania  is  become  too  open,  violent,  and  serious  to  be  longer 
A^nnked  at  by  government,  without  prostrating  its  authority,  and  subjecting  the 
executive  to  the  charge  of  censurable  inattention  to  the  outrages  which  are 
threatened. 

"  I  have  no  doubt  but  that  the  measure  I  am  about  to  take  will  be 
severely  criticized  ;  but  I  shall  disregard  any  animadversions  upon  my  conduct, 
when  I  am  called  upon  by  the  nature  of  my  office  to  discharge  what  I  conceive 
to  be  a  duty  ;  and  none  is  in  my  opinion  more  important  than  to  carry  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  into  effect.     ... 

"  I  have  scored  a  few  words,  which  possibly  may  as  well  be  omitted  ;  and,  if 
upon  attentive  perusal  of  the  draft  others  should  appear,  which  you  think  might 
as  well  be  expunged  or  altered,  mark  them  in  like  manner  with  a  pencil,  and  I 
will  give  due  consideration  thereto." — Washington  to  Jefferson,  15  September, 
1792. 


1 88  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON,    SECRETARY    OF    THE 
TREASURY. 

Mount  Vernon,  17  September,  1792. 

Sir, 

Your  letters  of  the  8th  and  9th  inst.  are  received. 
The  latter  came  to  me  on  Saturday  morning  by  ex- 
press, from  the  post  office  in  Alexandria.  I  gave 
the  proclamation  my  signature,  and  forwarded  it  in 
the  afternoon  of  the  same  day,  by  a  special  messen- 
ger, to  the  Secretary  of  State,  for  his  countersign. 
If  no  unforeseen  delay  happens,  the  return  of  it  may 
be  in  time  for  Friday  s  post,  so  as  to  be  with  you  on 
the  Tuesday  following. 

It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  occurrences  of  a 
nature  so  repugnant  to  order  and  good  government 
should  not  only  afford  the  occasion,  but  render  such 
an  interference  of  the  executive  indispensably  neces- 
sary. When  these  happen,  and  lenient  and  temporiz- 
ing means  have  been  used,  and  serve  only  to  increase 
the  disorder,  longer  forbearance  would  become  un- 
justifiable remissness,  and  a  neglect  of  that  duty 
which  is  enjoined  on  the  President.  I  can  have  no 
hesitation,  therefore,  under  this  view  of  the  case,  to 
adopt  such  legal  measures  to  check  the  disorderly 
opposition  which  is  given  to  the  execution  of  the 
laws  laying  a  duty  on  distilled  spirits,  as  the  constitu- 
tion has  invested  the  executive  with  ;  and  however 
painful  thp  measure  would  be,  if  the  Proclamation 
should  fail  to  produce  the  effect  desired,  ulterior 
arrangements  must  be  made  to  support  the  laws,  and 
to  prevent  the  prostration  of  government. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  189 

Were  it  not  for  the  peculiar  circumstances  of  my 
family,  I  would  return  to  the  seat  of  Government 
immediately  ;  at  any  rate,  I  hope  to  do  it  in  the  early 
part  of  next  month,  or  before  the  middle  thereof. 


TO    HENRY    KNOX,    SECRETARY    OF    WAR. 

Mount  Vernon,  24  September,  1792. 

Sir, 

Your  letter  of  the  15th  instant  with  its  enclosures 
came  duly  to  hand.  It  is  exceedingly  to  be  regretted, 
that  all  the  attempts  of  government  to  bring  the 
hostile  Indians  acquainted  with  the  real  designs  of  it, 
(so  far  as  it  respects  the  disputes  with  them,)  should 
be  so  pointedly  marked  with  misfortune,  disappoint- 
ment, or  delay.  Captain  Brant's  illness,  and  the 
sickness  and  delays  of  the  other  chiefs  of  the  Six 
Nations,  are  inauspicious  of  a  favorable  result ;  for 
much  is  not  to  be  expected  from  the  single  attempt 
of  Captain  Hendricks,  however  zealously  he  may 
labor  in  the  cause  of  humanity  and  peace.  As  pres- 
ent appearances  are  so  ominous  of  a  continuation  of 
the  war,  no  pains  nor  no  expense  within  the  bounds 
of  moderation  ought  to  go  unessayed  to  ascertain  the 
nature,  extent,  and  strength  of  the  confederation, 
against  which  we  are  to  contend,  that  our  measures 
may  be  regulated  accordingly.  Without  a  competent 
knowledge  of  these  facts  we  shall  grope  in  the  dark, 
and  may  meet  disaster  when  danger  is  not  expected. 
To  this  end  General  Wayne  should  be  particularly 
instructed,  and  the  Indian  agents  also  ;  nor  would  it 


I90  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

be  amiss,  if  some  expedient  could  be  devised  to  ob- 
tain intelligence  from  Detroit  that  the  British, 
accounts  of  these  matters  might  be  likewise  known. 
From  the  nature  and  circumstances  of  this  war,  good 
information  is  scarcely  to  be  obtained,  at  least  not  to 
be  relied  on,  but  from  a  comparison  of  the  intelli- 
gence, which  is  obtained  through  different  channels. 

In  your  letter  to  General  Wayne  of  the  7th  instant, 
a  copy  of  which  is  among  the  enclosures  you  have 
forwarded  to  me,  he  is  informed  that  you  will  "  im- 
mediately write  to  the  President  of  the  United 
States,  and  request  his  orders  on  certain  conditional 
statements  relatively  to  the  proportion  of  troops 
which  it  may  probably  be  necessary  to  retain  on  the 
upper  parts  of  the  Ohio."  No  such  statement  is  yet 
come  to  my  hands.  Of  course  I  am  unprovided  with 
the  means  by  which  to  form  a  judgment  on  this  head  ; 
but,  under  my  present  view  of  the  matter,  and  the 
uncertainty  in  which  we  seem  to  be  of  the  Jinal  and 
positive  result  of  the  grand  council  of  the  Indians 
holden  at  the  Miami,  the  longer  the  decision  is  with- 
held the  better ;  provided  sufficient  time  is  allowed 
the  troops  to  cover  themselves  comfortably  for  the 
winter.  And  here,  while  it  occurs,  let  me  ask  why 
the  same  kind  of  huts  and  mode  of  covering,  that 
was  adopted  by  the  army  in  the  last  war,  may  not  be 
again  used,  except  permanent  barracks  for  sufficient 
garrisons  at  the  established  posts  ?  If  scantling, 
brick,  &c.,  are  to  be  provided  by  the  quartermaster,  it 
will  be  attended  with  considerable  expense,  and,  if 
for  a  temporary  purpose  only,  will  be  thought  inju- 
diciously incurred.     Besides,  how  can  this  be  done 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  191 

conveniently  before  the  disposition  of  the  troops  is 
resolved  on  ? 

I  am  in  sentiment  with  you,  that  sub-legionary  pay- 
masters and  sub-legionar)^  adjutants,  the  latter  aided 
by  the  sergeant-majors,  are  competent  to  their  re- 
spective duties  without  battalion  officers  of  this 
description.  At  any  rate,  I  conceive  that  the  experi- 
ment ought  to  be  made  with  the  latter  in  the  first 
instance. 

My  observation  on  every  employment  in  life  is, 
that,  wherever  and  whenever  one  person  is  found 
adequate  to  the  discharge  of  a  duty  by  close  appli- 
cation thereto,  it  is  worse  executed  by  two  persons, 
and  scarcely  done  at  all  if  three  or  more  are  employed 
therein  ;  besides,  as  you  have  very  properly  observ^ed, 
the  danger  of  money  is  increased  in  proportion  to  the 
number  of  hands  into  which  it  is  committed.    *    *     * 

If  the  evidence  in  the  case  of  Ensiofn  ]\Iorofan  is  all 
given  in,  it  becomes  proper  he  should  be  ordered  to 
the  army  for  his  trial  ;  and,  if  it  is  necessary  in  this 
case,  and  will  not  be  establishing  a  bad  precedent  to 
do  it  in  the  name  of  the  President,  I  have  no  objec- 
tion to  the  measure.  If  discretion  was  a  trait  of  this 
officer's  character,  or  fairness  the  view  of  his  advisers, 
I  should  hope  he  would  abandon  the  idea  of  present- 
ing a  memorial  to  be  tried  in  Philadelphia,  and  that 
he  would  not  hesitate  a  moment  to  2:0  where  he  is 
ordered.  If,  however,  the  latter  should  happen,  it 
would  be  well,  before  it  is  reported  to  me,  to  have 
him  and  his  friends  admonished  in  a  friendly  way  of 
the  consequences,  that  must  follow  disobedience  ;  for 
neither  the  militar}^   nor  civil   government  shall    be 


192  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

trampled  upon  with  impunity  whilst  I  have  the  honor 
to  be  at  the  head  of  them.  I  have  no  objection  to 
his  being  tried  at  Pittsburg,  and  if  there  are  no 
reasons  opposed  to  it,  unknown  to  me,  I  would 
advise  it.  That  it  cannot  happen  in  Philadelphia  is 
certain.  Military  propriety,  the  public  service,  and 
the  precedent  such  a  measure  would  establish,  are  so 
strongly  opposed  to  it,  that  it  is  wonderful  he  should 
ever  have  suffered  the  idea  to  enter  into  his  mind. 
Why  might  not  another  officer,  if  indulgence  was 
granted  in  this  instance,  apply  for  a  similar  one  ? 
Nay,  why  not  be  carried  to  Boston,  or  Charleston, 
as  inclination,  or  the  expectation  of  benefits  to  be 
derived  from  it,  might  prompt. 

I  perceive  by  the  copy  of  General  Wayne's  letter 
to  you  before  mentioned,  that  there  has  been  some 
remissness  on  the  part  of  the  contractors  at  Pitts- 
burg. This  ought  not  to  be  suffered  in  the  smallest 
degree,  for  one  neglect  or  omission  is  too  apt  to 
beget  another,  to  the  discontentment  of  the  troops 
and  injury  of  the  service  ;  whereas  a  rigid  exaction  in 
every  case  checks  a  departure  on  their  part  from  the 
contract  in  any  ;  and  no  indulgence  is  ever  allowed 
by  them  to  the  public.     *     *     * 


TO    JOHN    FRANCIS    MERCER, 
gjj^  Mount  Vernon,  26  September,  1792. 

Your  Letter  of  the  15th  inst.  was  presented  to  me 
by  Mr.  Carlin,  on  his  return  from  Philadelphia. 

As  my  object  in  taking  your  Land  near  Monocacy 
(in  payment  of  the  debt  due  from  the  Estate  of  your 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  193 

deed.  Father  to  me)  is  to  convert  it  into  cash  as  soon 
as  possible  without  loss,  I  can  have  no  other  objection 
to  an  advantageous  portion  of  the  Tract  than  what 
might  result  from  the  uncertainty  of  the  price  that 
may  be  affixed  to  it,  and  the  consequent  possibility 
that  the  amount  of  a  moiety  may  exceed  the  Sum 
which  is  due  to  me  by  the  last  Settlement  of  the 
accts.,  thereby  occasioning  a  payment  of  money  in- 
stead of  receiving  it.  If  these  difficulties  were  re- 
moved, I  have  none  other  to  your  proposal  of 
dividing  the  Tract  into  two  equal  parts,  and  fixing 
the  property  therein  by  Lot.  A  mean  of  doing  this, 
I  will  suggest.  It  is — if  you  have  not  heard  the 
sentiments  of  the  Gentlemen,  or  either  of  them,  who 
were  chosen  to  affix  a  ready  money  price  on  the  land 
(and  I  give  you  my  honor  I  have  not — and  moreover 
that  I  have  never  exchanged  a  word  on  the  subject 
with  any  one,  except  what  I  told  you  was  Colo.  Wm. 
Deakins's  opinion  of  it's  worth) — I  will  allow  you 
seven  Dollars  per  acre  for  a  moiety ;  to  be  ascer- 
tained in  the  manner  before  mentioned.  I  name 
seven  Dollars  for  the  following  reasons  :  ist.  because 
I  have  been  assured  by  the  above  Gentleman  (who 
professes  to  be  well  acquainted  with  the  Land)  that, 
in  his  judgment,  it  would  not  sell  for  more  than  six 
Dollars  cash,  or  seven  Dollars  on  credit,  and  2d. 
because  you  have  set  it  at  Eight  Dollars  yourself, 
without  being  able  to  obtain  that  price.  Five  hun- 
dred and  fifty  acres  (if  the  Tract  contains  iioo) 
would  then  be  within  the  compass  of  my  claim ; 
and  the  surplus,  if   any,   I  would   receive  in  young 

cows,   or   full    grown    heifers  from    Marlborough  at 

13 


194  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

three  pounds  a  head,  if  more  agreeable  to  you  than 
to  pay  the  cash.  Your  answer  to  this  proposal,  soon, 
would  be  convenient  to  me,  as  I  shall  be  on  my 
return  to  Philadelphia  in  a  short  time. 

I  come  now  to  another  part  of  your  letter,  and  in 
touching  upon  it,  do  not  scruple  to  declare  to  you 
that  I  was  not  a  little  displeased  to  find  by  a  letter 
from  Captn.  Campbell,  to  a  gentleman  in  this  neigh- 
borhood, that  my  name  had  been  freely  used  by  you 
or  your  friends  for  electioneering  purposes,  when  I 
had  never  associated  your  name  and  the  election  to- 
gether ;  and  when  there  had  been  the  most  scrupulous 
and  pointed  caution  observed  on  my  part,  not  to  express 
a  sentiment  respecting  the  fitness  or  unfitness  of  any 
candidate  for  representation  that  cou'd  be  construed, 
by  the  most  violent  torture  of  the  words,  into  an  in- 
terference in  favor  of  one,  or  to  the  prejudice  of 
another.  Conceivingr  that  the  exercise  of  an  influ- 
ence  (if  I  really  possess  any)  however  remote  would 
be  highly  improper  ;  as  the  people  ought  to  be 
entirely  at  liberty  to  chuse  whom  they  pleased  to 
represent  them  in  Congress.  Having  pursued  this 
line  of  conduct  steadily,  my  surprise,  and  consequent 
declaration  can  be  a  matter  of  no  wonder,  when  I 
read  the  following  words  in  the  letter  above  al- 
luded to. 

"  I  arrived  yesterday  from  Philada.  since  which  I  find  Colo. 
Mercer  has  openly  declared,  that  Mr.  Richd.  Sprigg,  Junr.,  in- 
formed him,  that  Bushrod  Washington  told  him  that  the  Presi- 
dent in  his  presence  declared,  that  he  hoped  Colo.  Mercer  would 
not  be  left  out  of  the  next  representation  in  Congress  ;  and 
added  that  he  thought  him  the  best  representative  that  now  goes 
or  ever  did  go  to  that  Body  from  this  State." 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  195 

I  instantly  declared  to  the  person  who  shewed  me 
the  Letter  ; — "  that  to  the  best  of  my  recollection,  I 
never  had  exchanged  a  word  to.  or  before  Bushrod 
Washington  on  the  subject  of  your  election,  much 
less  to  have  given  such  a  decided  opinion.  That 
such  a  measure  would  have  been  incompatible  with 
the  rule  I  had  prescribed  to  myself,  and  which  I  had 
invariably  observed,  of  not  interfering  directly,  or 
indirectly  with  the  suffrages  of  the  people,  in  the 
choice  of  their  representatives, — and  added,  that  I 
wished  B.  Washington  might  be  called  upon  to  cer- 
tify what,  or  whether  any  conversation  had  ever 
passed  between  us  on  this  subject,  as  it  was  my 
desire  that  every  thing  should  stand  upon  its  proper 
foundations."  Other  sentiments  have  been  reported 
as  mine,  that  are  equally  erroneous.^ 

Whether  you  have,  upon  any  occasion,  expressed 

'  "  Agreeably  to  your  request,  I  shew'd  Mr.  Campbell's  letter  to  you.  to  the 
President  of  the  U.  S.  who  appeared  to  be  exceedingly  surprised  at  the  Con- 
tents, and  at  the  liberty  wch.  had  been  taken  in  making  declarations  for  him 
which  he  had  never  made  for  himself.  He  added,  that  to  the  best  of  his  recol- 
lection, he  never  exchanged  a  word  with  Bushrod  Washington  on  the  subject  of 
Colo.  Mercer's  election,  much  less  to  have  given  a  decided  opinion  of  his  fitness 
or  mifitness  to  represent  the  District  for  which  he  is  a  Candidate.  That  such  a 
measure  would  have  been  inconsistent  with  the  rule  he  has  prescribed  to  him- 
self, and  which  he  has  invariably  obsers'ed,  of  not  interfering  directly  nor  indi- 
rectly with  the  suffrages  of  the  people  in  the  choice  of  their  Representatives  ; 
and  said  he  wished  that  Bushrod  Washington,  might  be  called  upon  to  certify 
what,  or  whether  any  conversation  of  the  kind  ever  passed  between  them  on 
this  subject,  as  it  was  desire[d]  that  every  thing  might  stand  upon  its  proper 
foundation. 

"  The  above  is  what  Uoctr.  Craik  was  authorized  to  say,  or  write  to  Mr.  Fen- 
dal,  on  the  subject  of  a  letter  from  Mr.  Campbell  to  him,  signifying  that 
Colo.  Mercer,  or  some  of  his  friends,  were  reporting  that  I  had,  to  Bushrod 
Washington,  declared  that  he  was  the  best  Representative  in  Congress,  &  that 
it  was  my  earnest  wish  that  he  should  be  rechosen  by  the  State  of  Marjland.'' — 
Washington  s  Memorandum  for  Dr.  Craik,  7  September,  1792. 


196  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

yourself  in  disrespectful  terms  of  me,  I  know  not — it 
has  never  been  the  subject  of  my  enquiry.  If  noth- 
ing impeaching  my  honor  or  honesty  is  said,  I  care 
little  for  the  rest.  I  have  pursued  one  uniform  course 
for  three  score  years,  and  am  happy  in  believing 
that  the  world  have  thought  it  a  right  one — of  it's 
being  so,  I  am  so  well  satisfied  myself,  that  I  shall  not 
depart  from  it  by  turning  either  to  the  right  or  to  the 
left,  until  I  arrive  at  the  end  of  my  pilgrimage. 

I  am,  &c. 


TO    HENRY    KNOX,    SECRETARY    OF    WAR. 

Mount  Vernon,  28  September,  1792, 

Sir, 

Your  letter  of  the  22d  inst.  and  the  enclosures  came 
to  my  hands  by  Wednesday's  post. 

I  adhere  to  my  resolution  of  commencing  my  jour- 
ney for  Philadelphia  the  8th  of  next  month,  if  the 
condition  of  my  servants  will  admit  of  it.  Two  of 
them,  one  a  postilion,  having  been  extremely  ill  with 
remittent  fevers,  which  have  not  yet  left  them.  My 
order  for  the  carriage  from  Philadelphia,  to  be  here 
by  the  8th  for  my  accommodation  back,  is  not  counter- 
manded on  this  account. 

But  as  my  journey  may  be  delayed  something  longer 
than  was  expected,  as  the  cold  is  approaching,  I  shall, 
in  addition  to  what  I  said  on  the  subject  in  my  last, 
give  you  in  general  terms  my  ideas  for  the  disposition 
of  the  troops  for  the  winter,  under  the  uncertainty  in 
which  we  are  of  peace  with  the  western  Indians. 

My  first  wish  would  be  to  keep  the  army  as  com- 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  197 

pact  as  possible,  for  the  purpose  of  disciplining  and 
training  the  men  to  such  kinds  of  manoeuvres  and 
firings,  as  are  proper  for  Indian  warfare.  But,  as  this 
would  involve  one  of  two  evils  of  magnitude,  namely, 
an  exposed  frontier,  or  an  expensive  militia  for  its 
protection,  this  wish  is  scarcely  attainable.  How  to 
dispose  of  the  troops,  then,  to  the  best  advantage  for 
defence  is  next  to  be  considered  ;  and,  to  do  this 
properly,  the  ulterior  movements  of  the  army  must  be 
held  in  view,  and  the  period  of  their  commencement 
also. 

There  are  two  principal  and  one  intermediate  points 
on  the  Ohio,  which  claim  particular  attention,  to  wit, 
Pittsburg,  or  some  place  not  far  from  it,  Fort  Wash- 
ington, and  Marietta.  The  grand-  movement,  in  the 
present  train  of  things,  must  certainly  proceed  from 
Fort  Washington  ;  but  it  does  not  follow,  unless  cir- 
cumstances should  point  to  advantages  to  be  derived 
from  a  winter  campaign,  when  frost  would  prevent  the 
descent  of  the  Ohio,  that  the  force  ought  necessarily 
to  be  assembled  at  that  place,  until  about  to  make  a 
forward  movement,  ist,  because  the  enemy's  atten- 
tion would  be  less  fixed  to  it.  2dly,  because  the  maga- 
zines of  provisions,  military  stores,  and  forage,  would 
accumulate  with  more  ease  at  that  place  by  lessening 
the  consumption  there.  And,  3dly,  because  the  river 
from  Pittsburg  to  that  post  might  be  descended  when 
the  waters  are  up  in  six  or  eight  days,  and,  matters 
being  previously  arranged  thereat,  the  army  might 
march  as  soon  as  the  junction  should  be  formed  ; 
whilst  the  desultor}^  movement,  which  has  been  con- 


198  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 


templated,  might  proceed,  If  from  good  Intelligence 
it  might  be  thought  advisable,  from  Big  Beaver  to 
Sandusky.  Under  this  idea  of  the  matter,  one  sub- 
legion  might  be  posted  under  the  command  of  General 
Wilkinson  at  the  post  below  ;  one  at  Marietta,  under 
the  command  of  General  Putnam  ;  and  the  other  two 
in  the  upper  part  of  the  river,  under  the  commander- 
in-chief,  with  whom  the  Intercourse  would  be  easy  from 
Philadelphia,  and  his  orders  quickly  despatched  to  the 
subordinate  parts  of  the  army  below. 

Without  being  decided,  I  ask  whether  the  upper 
division  of  the  army,  (except  the  garrison  of  Fcrt 
Franklin  and  a  sufficient  one  for  the  stores,  &c.,  at 
Pittsburg,)  had  not  better  be  hutted  in  a  secure  man- 
ner on  some  convenient  spot  near  the  mouth  of,  or 
somewhere  on.  Big  Beaver  Creek  ;  keeping  out,  as 
ought  also  to  be  the  case  at  other  stations,  a  regular 
succession  of  scouts  to  scour  the  country  above  and 
below,  as  well  for  defence  as  an  essential  part  of  their 
tactics  ?  Such  a  disposition  of  the  force,  if  the  real 
movements  and  plan  of  operations  is  kept  secret, 
which  they  undoubtedly  ought  to  be,  would  embarrass 
the  enemy  not  a  little,  and  more  than  probably  be 
attended  with  solid  advantages.  I  do  not,  however, 
convey  these  sentiments  to  you  as  an  order,  but  give 
them  rather  as  thoughts,  that  have  arisen  from  the 
Incomplete  state  of  our  force  and  the  uncertainty  of 
the  result  of  the  Indian  councils,  and  for  free  obser- 
vations and  remarks  both  by  yourself  and  General 
Wayne,  if  there  is  time  to  obtain  them,  than  from  any 
other  motive  at  present. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  199 


Perhaps  a  sufficient  garrison  might  be  better  at 
Marietta,  (as  the  intermediate  post,)  than  a  larger 
force  ;  and  two  sub-legionary  corps,  including  the  said 
garrison  and  all  others  lower  down,  as  the  calls  for 
troops  below  are  great  on  account  of  the  communica- 
tion with  the  advanced  posts,  be  wintered  in  huts 
secured  by  intrenchments,  or  a  fortified  camp  at  Fort 
Washington,  if  there  are  not  barracks  sufficient  to 
contain  them  at  that  place.     I  am,  &c. 


TO    MRS.    BETTY     LEWIS. 

Mount  Vernon,  7  October  [1792]. 

My  dear  Sister  : 

As  Mrs.  Washington  and  myself  expect  to  set  out 
to-morrow  for  Philadelphia,  I  have  taken  advantage 
of  the  good  opportunity  afforded  by  Mr.  Robt.  Lewis 
of  sending  Harriet  to  Fredericksburg.  It  is  done  at 
this  time  (notwithstanding  your  proposed  visit  to 
Albemarle),  ist.  because  it  would  be  improper  to 
leave  her  here  after  we  are  all  gone ;  2nd.  because 
there  would  be  no  person  to  accompany  her  down 
afterwards  ;  and  3rd.  because  it  might  be  inconvenient 
for  her  to  travel  alone. 

She  comes,  as  Mrs.  Washington  informs  me,  very 
well  provided  with  everything  proper  for  a  girl  in 
her  situation.  This  much  I  know,  that  she  costs 
me  enough.  I  do  not  however,  want  you  (or  any 
one  else)  to  do  more  by  her  than  merely  to  admit  her 
into  your  family,  whilst  this  House  is  uninhabited  by 
a  female  white  woman,  and  thereby  rendered  an  unfit 


200  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

place  for  her  to  remain  at.  I  shall  continue  to  do  for 
her  what  I  have  already  done  for  seven  years  past, 
and  that  is  to  furnish  her  with  such  reasonable  and 
proper  necessaries  as  she  may  stand  in  need  of,  not- 
withstanding I  have  had  both  her  brothers  upon  my 
hands  and  I  have  been  obliged  to  pay  several  hundred 
pounds  out  of  my  own  pocket  for  their  board,  school- 
ing, and  cloathing,  &c.,  for  more  than  the  period 
aforementioned,  their  father's  estate  being  unable  to 
discharge  the  executions  as  fast  as  they  are  issued 
against  it. 

Harriet  has  sense  enough  but  no  disposition  to 
industry,  nor  to  be  careful  of  her  cloathes.  Your 
example  and  admonition  may  with  proper  restraints 
overcome  the  two  last ;  and  to  that  end  I  wish  you 
would  examine  her  cloathes,  and  direct  her  in  their 
use  and  application  of  them,  for  without  this  they 
will  be  (I  am  told)  dabbed  about  in  every  hole  and 
corner,  and  her  best  things  always  in  use.  Fanny 
was  too  easy,  too  much  of  her  own  indolent  turn,  and 
had  too  little  authority  to  cause  either  by  precept  or 
example  any  change  in  this  for  the  better,  and  Mrs. 
Washington's  absence  has  been  injurious  to  her  in 
many  respects.  But  she  is  young  and,  with  good 
advice,  may  yet  make  a  fine  woman.  If,  notwith- 
standing the  suggestion  that  she  is  well  provided  with 
everything  (except  a  cloak  which  may  not  be  had  in 
Alexandria  and  may  be  got  at  Fredericksburg,)  a 
deficiency  is  found  and  you  wish  to  supply  it,  there 
will  be  no  occasion  for  your  laying  in  advance  more 
than  ten  days,  as  I  could  at  any  time  remit  a  bank 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  201 

note  in  a  letter  in  four  days  after  I  was  made  ac- 
quainted with  the  amount.  I  do  not  mean  by  this  to 
launch  into  expensiveness  ;  she  has  no  pretensions  to 
it,  nor  would  the  state  of  my  finances  enable  me  to 
indulge  her  in  that  if  she  had. 

Mrs.  Washington  joins  me  in  best  wishes  for  the 
perfect  restoration  of  your  health,  and  every  other 
blessing. 


TO    THOMAS   JEFFERSON,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 
[private.] 

18  October,  1792. 

My  DEAR  Sir, 

I  did  not  require  the  evidence  of  the  extracts,  which 
you  enclosed  to  me,  to  convince  me  of  your  attachment 
to  the  constitution  of  the  United  States,  or  of  your 
disposition  to  promote  the  general  welfare  of  this 
country- ;  but  I  regret,  deeply  regret,  the  difference 
in  opinions,  which  have  arisen  and  divided  you  and 
another  principal  officer  of  the  government ;  and  wish 
devoutly  there  could  be  an  accommodation  of  them 
by  mutual  yieldings. 

A  measure  of  this  sort  would  produce  harmony  and 
consequent  good  in  our  public  councils.  The  contrary 
will  inevitably  introduce  confusion  and  serious  mis- 
chiefs ;  and  for  what  ?  Because  mankind  cannot  think 
alike,  but  would  adopt  different  means  to  attain  the 
same  ends.  For  I  will  frankly  and  solemnly  declare, 
that  I  believe  the  views  of  both  of  you  to  be  pure  and 
well-meant,  and  that  experience  only  will  decide,  with 
respect  to  the  salubrity  of  the  measures,  which  are  the 


202  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

subjects  of  dispute.  Why,  then,  when  some  of  the 
best  citizens  in  the  United  States,  men  of  discern- 
ment, uniform  and  tried  patriots,  who  have  no  sinister 
views  to  promote,  but  are  chaste  in  their  ways  of 
thinking  and  acting,  are  to  be  found,  some  on  one 
side  and  some  on  the  other  of  the  questions,  which 
have  caused  these  agitations,  should  either  of  you  be 
so  tenacious  of  your  opinions,  as  to  make  no  allow- 
ances for  those  of  the  other  ?  I  could,  and  indeed 
was  about  to  add  more  on  this  interesting  subject,  but 
will  forbear,  at  least  for  the  present,  after  expressing 
a  wish,  that  the  cup,  which  has  been  presented  to  us 
may  not  be  snatched  from  our  lips  by  a  discordance 
of  action,  when  I  am  persuaded  there  is  no  discord- 
ance in  your  views.  I  have  a  great,  a  sincere  esteem 
and  regard  for  you  both,  and  ardently  wish  that  some 
line  could  be  marked  out  by  which  both  of  you  could 
walk.     I  am,  always,  &c.^ 


TO    GOUVERNEUR    MORRIS. 

[private.] 

Philadelphia,  20  October,  1792. 

My  dear  Sir, 

Although  your  letter  of  the  loth  of  June,  which  I 
have  received,  did  not  paint  the  prospects  of  France 
in  the  most  pleasing  colors,  yet  the  events  which  have 

'  This  letter  was  in  answer  to  a  brief  one  from  Mr.  Jefferson,  accompanying 
extracts  from  letters  written  by  him  to  different  persons,  and  giving  his  views 
of  the  Constitution  as  expressed  soon  after  that  instrument  was  adopted  by  the 
general  convention.  For  the  letters  containing  these  extracts,  see  Jefferson's 
Writings,  vol.  ii.,  p.  2qo.      .Nortit  American  Knnew,  vol.  xxv.,  p.  268. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  203 

since  taken  place  give  a  more  gloomy  aspect. to  the 
public  affairs  of  that  kingdom,  than  your  letter  gave 
reason  to  apprehend. 

A  thousand  circumstances,  besides  our  distance 
from  the  theatre  of  action,  made  it  improbable  that 
we  should  have,  in  this  country,  a  fair  statement  of 
facts  and  causes  through  the  medium  of  the  public 
prints ;  and  I  have  received  no  other  accounts,  than 
what  have  come  in  that  channel.  But,  taking  up  the 
most  favorable  of  these,  and  gloomy  indeed  appears 
the  situation  of  France  at  this  juncture,  it  is  hardly 
probable,  that  even  you,  who  are  on  the  spot,  can  say 
with  any  precision  how  these  things  will  terminate  ; 
much  less  can  we,  at  this  distance,  pretend  to  augur 
the  event.  We  can  only  repeat  the  sincere  wish,  that 
much  happiness  may  arise  to  the  French  nation,  and 
to  mankind  in  general,  out  of  the  severe  evils  which 
are  inseparable  from  so  important  a  revolution. 

In  the  present  state  of  things  we  cannot  expect, 
that  any  commercial  treaty  can  now  be  formed  with 
France  ;  but  I  have  no  doubt  of  your  embracing  the 
proper  moment  of  arrangement,  and  of  doing  what- 
ever may  be  in  your  power  for  the  substantial  interests 
of  our  country. 

The  affairs  of  the  United  States  go  on  well.  There 
are  some  few  clouds  in  our  political  hemisphere,  but 
I  trust  the  bright  sun  of  our  prosperity  will  disperse 
them. 

The  Indians  on  our  southern  and  western  frontiers 
are  still  troublesome,  but  such  measures  are  taking 
as  will,  I  presume,  prevent  any  serious  mischief  from 


204  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

them  ;  I  confess,  however,  that  I  do  not  believe  these 
tribes  will  ever  be  brought  to  a  quiescent  state,  so 
long  as  they  may  be  under  an  influence,  which  is 
hostile  to  the  rising  greatness  of  these  States. 

From  the  complexion  of  some  of  our  newspapers, 
foreigners  would  be  led  to  believe,  that  inveterate  po- 
litical dissensions  existed  among  us,  and  that  we  are 
on  the  very  verge  of  disunion ;  but  the  fact  is  other- 
wise. The  great  body  of  the  people  now  feel  the 
advantages  of  the  general  government,  and  would  not, 
I  am  persuaded,  do  any  thing  that  should  destroy  it ; 
but  these  kind  of  representations  is  an  evil,  which 
must  be  placed  in  opposition  to  the  infinite  benefits 
resulting  from  a  free  press  ;  and  I  am  sure  you  need 
not  be  told,  that  in  this  country  a  personal  difference 
in  political  sentiments  is  often  made  to  take  the  garb 
of  general  dissensions. 

From  the  department  of  State  you  are,  I  am  told, 
furnished  with  such  papers  and  documents  from  time 
to  time,  as  will  keep  you  more  particularly  informed 
of  the  state  of  our  affairs.  I  shall  therefore  add 
nothing  further  to  this  letter,  than  assurances  of 
being,  with  very  sincere  regard,  yours,  &c. 


TO    DAVID    STUART. 

Philadelphia,  21  October,  1792. 

Dr.   Sir, 

You  informed  me  when  I  was  at  Georgetown  on 
my  way  to  this  city  that  Colo.  Mercer  upon  receiving, 
or  being  told  of  Colo.  Hamilton's  letter  to  him,  re- 
questing to  know  if  the   words   with   which   he  was 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  205 

charg'd  by  Major  Ross  as  having  uttered  in  his  pub- 
lic harangues  against  the  conduct  of  the  Secretar}^  of 
the  Treasury,  were  true  ;  expressed,  if  I  understand 
you  rightly,  much  surprize  at  the  application  ;  as  he, 
Colo.  Hamilton,  must  be  conscious  of  his  having  at- 
tempted to  bribe  him,  Colo.  Mercer,  to  vote  for  a  fur- 
ther assumption  of  the  State  debts, — and  that  this 
surprize  was  expressed  at  a  public  table  before  many 
gentlemen. 

This  is  a  charge  of  so  serious  a  nature  that  it  is  in- 
cumbent  on  Colo.  Hamilton  to  clear  it  up,  or  for  the 
President  of  the  United  States  to  take  notice  of  it. 
For  this  reason,  before  I  communicate  the  matter  to 
Colo.  Hamilton,  I  beg  to  be  informed  whether  I  pre- 
cisely understand  the  information  you- gave  me,  and  in 
that  case,  who  were  the  persons  that  heard  Colo. 
Mercer  express  himself  to  that  effect.  It  was  my 
intention  to  have  asked  this  at  the  time  you  men- 
tioned the  matter,  but  I  was  diverted  from  it  by 
something  that  occurred  at  the  moment  and  the 
variety  of  things  which  have  been  thrown  in  my  way 
since  I  came  to  this  place  have  prevented  it  till  now. 

With  great  esteem  and  regard,  &c. 


speech  to  both  houses  of  congress,  november 
6th,   1792. 

Fellow-Citizens  of  the  Senate 

AND  House  of  Representatives  : 
It  is  some  abatement  of  the  satisfaction,  with  which  I  meet  you 
on  the  present  occasion,  that,  in  felicitating  you  on  a  continuance 
of  the  national  prosperity  generally,  I  am  not  able  to  add  to  it 


2o6  THE  V/RI TINGS  OF  [1792 

information,  that  the  Indian  hostilities,  which  have  for  some  time 
past  distressed  our  northwestern  frontier,  have  terminated. 

You  will,  I  am  persuaded,  learn,  with  no  less  concern  than  I 
communicate  it,  that  reiterated  endeavors  towards  effecting  a 
pacification  have  hitherto  issued  only  in  new  and  outrageous 
proofs  of  persevering  hostility  on  the  part  of  the  tribes  with 
whom  we  are  in  contest.  An  earnest  desire  to  procure  tran- 
quillity to  the  frontiers,  to  stop  the  further  effusion  of  blood,  to 
arrest  the  progress  of  expense,  to  forward  the  prevalent  wish  of 
the  nation  for  peace,  has  led  to  strenuous  efforts  through  various 
channels  to  accomplish  these  desirable  purposes  ;  in  making 
which  efforts  I  consulted  less  my  own  anticipations  of  the 
event,  or  the  scruples  which  some  considerations  were  calculated 
to  inspire,  than  the  wish  to  find  the  object  attainable,  or,  if  not 
attainable,  to  ascertain  unequivocally,  that  such  is  the  case. 

A  detail  of  the  measures  which  have  been  pursued,  and  of 
their  consequences,  which  will  be  laid  before  you,  while  it  will 
confirm  to  you  the  want  of  success  thus  far,  will,  I  trust,  evince 
that  means,  as  proper  and  as  efficacious  as  could  have  been 
devised,  have  been  employed.  The  issue  of  some  of  them,  in- 
deed, is  still  depending  ;  but  a  favorable  one,  though  not  to  be 
despaired  of,  is  not  promised  by  any  thing  that  has  yet  happened. 

In  the  course  of  the  attempts  which  have  been  made,  some 
valuable  citizens  have  fallen  victims  to  their  zeal  for  the  public 
service.  A  sanction  commonly  respected,  even  among  savages, 
has  been  found,  in  this  instance,  insufficient  to  protect  from 
massacre  the  emniissaries  of  peace  ;  it  will.  I  presume,  be  duly 
considered,  whether  the  occasion  does  not  call  for  an  exercise 
of  liberalitv  towards  the  families  of  the  deceased. 

It  must  add  to  your  concern  to  be  informed,  that,  besides  the 
continuation  of  hostile  api)oarances  among  the  tribes  north  of 
the  Ohio,  some  threatening  symptoms  have  of  late  been  revived 
among  some  of  those  south  of  it. 

A  part  of  tlie  Cherokees,  known  by  the  name  of  Chickamagas, 
inhabiting  five  villages  on  the  Tennessee  River,  have  long  been 
in  the  j)ractice  of  committing  depredations  on  the  neighboring 
settlements. 

It    was    hoped    that    the    treaty    of    Holston,  made    with    the 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  207 

Cherokee  nation  in  July,  1791,  would  have  prevented  a  repetition 
of  such  depredations  ;  but  the  event  has  not  answered  this  hope. 
The  Chickamagas,  aided  by  some  banditti  of  another  tribe  in 
their  vicinity,  have  recently  perpetrated  wanton  and  unprovoked 
hostilities  upon  the  citizens  of  the  United  States  in  that  quarter. 
The  information  which  has  been  received  on  this  subject  will  be 
laid  before  you.  Hitherto,  defensive  precautions  only  have  been 
strictly  enjoined  and  observed. 

It  is  not  understood  that  any  breach  of  treaty,  or  aggression 
whatsoever,  on  the  part  of  the  United  States,  or  their  citizens,  is 
even  alleged  as  a  pretext  for  the  spirit  of  hostility  in  this  quarter. 

I  have  reason  to  believe,  that  every  practicable  exertion  has 
been  made  (pursuant  to  the  provision  by  law  for  that  purpose)  to 
be  prepared  for  the  alternative  of  a  prosecution  of  the  war,  in 
the  event  of  a  failure  of  pacific  overtures.  A  large  proportion 
of  the  troops  authorized  to  be  raised  have  been  recruited,  though 
the  number  is  still  incomplete  ;  and  pains  have  been  taken  to 
discipline  and  put  them  in  condition  for  the  particular  kind  of 
service  to  be  performed.  A  delay  of  operations  (besides  being 
dictated  by  the  measures  which  were  pursuing  towards  a  pacific 
termination  of  the  war)  has  been  in  itself  deemed  preferable  to 
immature  efforts.  A  statement,  from  the  proper  department, 
with  regard  to  the  number  of  troops  raised,  and  some  other 
points  which  have  been  suggested,  will  afford  more  precise  infor- 
mation as  a  guide  to  the  legislative  consultations  ;  and,  among 
other  things,  will  enable  Congress  to  judge  whether  some  addi- 
tional stimulus  to  the  recruiting  service  may  not  be  advisable. 

In  looking  forward  to  the  future  expense  of  the  operations, 
which  may  be  found  inevitable,  I  derive  consolation  from  the 
information  I  receive,  that  the  product  of  the  revenues  for  the 
present  year  is  likely  to  supersede  the  necessity  of  additional 
burthens  on  the  community  for  the  service  of  the  ensuing  year. 
This,  however,  will  be  better  ascertained  in  the  course  of  the 
session  ;  and  it  is  proper  to  add,  that  the  information  alluded  to 
proceeds  upon  the  supposition  of  no  material  extension  of  the 
spirit  of  hostility. 

I  cannot  dismiss  the  subject  of  Indian  affairs,  without  again 
recommending  to  your  consideration   the  expediency  of  more 


2o8  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

adequate  provision  for  giving  energy  to  the  laws  throughout  our 
interior  frontier,  and  for  restraining  the  commission  of  outrages 
upon  the  Indians  ;  without  which  all  pacific  plans  must  prove 
nugatory.  To  enable,  by  competent  rewards,  the  employment 
of  qualified  and  trusty  persons  to  reside  among  them  as  agents, 
would  also  contribute  to  the  preservation  of  peace  and  good 
neighborhood.  If,  in  addition  to  these  expedients,  an  eligible 
plan  could  be  devised  for  promoting  civilization  among  the 
friendly  tribes,  and  for  carrying  on  trade  with  them  upon  a  scale 
equal  to  their  wants,  and  under  regulations  calculated  to  protect 
them  from  imposition  and  extortion,  its  influence  in  cementing 
their  interests  with  ours  could  not  but  be  considerable. 

The  prosperous  state  of  our  revenue  has  been  intimated. 
This  would  be  still  more  the  case,  were  it  not  for  the  impedi- 
ments, which  in  some  places  continue  to  embarrass  the  collection 
of  the  duties  on  spirits  distilled  within  the  United  States.  These 
impediments  have  lessened,  and  are  lessening,  in  local  extent ; 
and,  as  applied  to  the  community  at  large,  the  contentment  with 
the  law  appears  to  be  progressive. 

But,  symptoms  of  increased  opposition  having  lately  mani- 
fested themselves  in  certain  quarters,  I  judged  a  special  interpo- 
sition on  my  part  proper  and  advisable  ;  and  under  this  impres- 
sion have  issued  a  proclamation,  warning  against  all  unlawful 
combinations  and  proceedings  having  for  their  object,  or  tending, 
to  obstruct  the  operation  of  the  law  in  question,  and  announcing 
that  all  lawful  ways  and  means  would  be  strictly  put  in  execution 
for  bringing  to  justice  the  infractors  thereof,  and  securing  obedi- 
ence thereto. 

Measures  have  also  been  taken  for  the  prosecution  of  offend- 
ers. And  Congress  may  be  assured,  that  nothing  within  consti- 
tutional and  legal  limits,  which  may  depend  on  me,  shall  be 
wanting  to  assert  and  maintain  the  just  authority  of  the  laws.  In 
fulfilling  this  trust,  I  shall  count  entirely  upon  the  full  co- 
operation of  the  other  departments  of  government,  and  upon 
the  zealous  support  of  all  good  citizens. 

I  cannot  forbear  to  bring  again  into  the  view  of  the  legislature 
the  subject  of  a  revision  of  the  judiciary  system.  A  representa- 
tion from  the  judges  of  the  Supreme  Court,  which  will  be  laid 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  209 

before  you,  points  out  some  of  the  inconveniences  that  are 
experienced.  In  the  course  of  the  execution  of  the  laws,  consid- 
erations rise  out  of  the  structure  of  that  system,  which  in  some 
measure  tend  to  relax  their  efficacy.  As  connected  with  this 
subject,  provisions  to  facilitate  the  taking  of  bail  upon  processes 
out  of  the  courts  of  the  United  States,  and  supplementary  defi- 
nition of  offences  against  the  constitution  and  laws  of  the  Union, 
and  of  the  punishment  for  such  offences,  will,  it  is  presumed,  be 
found  worthy  of  particular  attention. 

Observations  on  the  value  of  peace  with  other  nations  are 
unnecessary.  It  would  be  wise,  however,  by  timely  provisions, 
to  guard  against  those  acts  of  our  own  citizens  which  might  tend 
to  disturb  it,  and  to  put  ourselves  in  a  condition  to  give  that 
satisfaction  to  foreign  nations,  which  we  may  sometimes  have 
occasion  to  require  from  them.  I  particularly  recommend  to 
your  consideration  the  means  of  preventing  those  aggressions  by 
our  citizens  on  the  territory  of  other  nations,  and  other  infrac- 
tions of  the  law  of  nations,  which,  furnishing  just  subject  of 
complaint,  might  endanger  our  peace  with  them.  And,  in  gen- 
eral, the  maintenance  of  a  friendly  intercourse  with  foreign 
powers  will  be  presented  to  your  attention  by  the  expiration  of 
the  law  for  that  purpose,  which  takes  place,  if  not  renewed,  at 
the  close  of  the  present  session. 

In  execution  of  the  authority  given  by  the  legislature,  meas- 
ures have  been  taken  for  engaging  some  artists  from  abroad  to 
aid  in  the  establishment  of  our  mint ;  others  have  been  employed 
at  home.  Provision  has  been  made  for  the  requisite  buildings, 
and  these  are  now  putting  into  proper  condition  for  the  purposes 
of  the  establishment.  There  has  also  been  a  small  beginning  in 
the  coinage  of  half-dimes,  the  want  of  small  coins  in  circulation 
calling  the  first  attention  to  them. 

The  regulation  of  foreign  coins,  in  correspondency  with  the 
principles  of  our  national  coinage,  as  being  essential  to  their  due 
operation,  and  to  order  in  our  money  concerns,  will,  I  doubt  not, 
be  resumed  and  completed. 

It  is  represented  that  some  provisions  in  the  law,  which  estab- 
lishes the  post-office,  operate,  in  experiment,  against  the  trans- 
mission of  newspapers  to  distant  parts  of  the  country.  Should 
14 


2IO  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

this,  upon  due  inquir)^,  be  found  to  be  the  fact,  a  full  conviction 
of  the  importance  of  facilitating  the  circulation  of  political  intel- 
ligence and  information  will,  I  doubt  not,  lead  to  the  application 
of  a  remedy. 

The  adoption  of  a  constitution  for  the  State  of  Kentucky  has 
been  notified  to  me.  The  legislature  will  share  with  me  in  the 
satisfaction,  which  arises  from  an  event,  interesting  to  the  happi- 
ness of  the  part  of  the  nation  to  which  it  relates,  and  conducive 
to  the  general  order. 

It  is  proper  likewise  to  inform  you,  that,  since  my  last  commu- 
nication on  the  subject,  and  in  further  execution  of  the  acts, 
severally  making  provision  for  the  public  debt,  and  for  the 
reduction  thereof,  three  new  loans  have  been  effected,  each  for 
three  millions  of  florins  ;  one  at  Antwerp,  at  the  annual  interest 
of  four  and  one  half  per  cent,  with  an  allowance  of  four  per 
cent,  in  lieu  of  all  charges  ;  and  the  other  two  at  Amsterdam,  at 
the  annual  interest  of  four  per  cent,  with  an  allowance  of  five 
and  one  half  per  cent,  in  one  case  and  of  five  per  cent,  in  the 
other,  in  lieu  of  all  charges.  The  rates  of  these  loans  and  the 
circumstances  under  which  they  have  been  made,  are  confirma- 
tions of  the  high  state  of  our  credit  abroad. 

Among  the  objects  to  which  these  funds  have  been  directed  to 
be  applied,  the  payment  of  the  debts  due  to  certain  foreign 
officers,  according  to  the  provision  made  during  the  last  session, 
has  been  embraced. 

Gentlemen  of  the  House  of  Representatives  : 

I  entertain  a  strong  hope  that  the  state  of  the  national  finances 
is  now  sufficiently  matured  to  enable  you  to  enter  upon  a  sys- 
tematic and  effectual  arrangement  for  the  regular  redemption 
and  discharge  of  the  public  debt,  according  to  the  right  which 
has  been  reserved  to  the  government.  No  measure  can  be  more 
desirable,  whether  viewed  with  an  eye  to  its  intrinsic  importance, 
or  to  the  general  sentiment  and  wish  of  the  nation. 

Provision  is  likewise  requisite  for  the  reimbursement  of  the 
loan,  which  has  been  made  for  the  Bank  of  the  United  States, 
pursuant  to  the  eleventh  section  of  the  act  by  which  it  is  incor- 
porated. In  fulfilling  the  public  stipulations  in  this  particular,  it 
is  expected  a  valuable  saving  will  be  made. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  211 

Appropriations  for  the  current  service  of  the  ensuing  year, 
and  for  such  extraordinaries  as  may  require  provision,  will 
demand,  and  I  doubt  not  will  engage,  your  early  attention. 

Gentlemen  of  the  Senate 

AND  House  of  Representatives  : 

I  content  myself  with  recalling  your  attention,  generally,  to 
such  objects  not  particularized  in  my  present,  as  have  been  sug- 
gested in  my  former  communications  to  you. 

Various  temporary  laws  will  expire  during  the  present  session. 
Among  these,  that  which  regulates  trade  and  intercourse  with  the 
Indian  tribes  will  merit  particular  notice. 

The  results  of  your  common  deliberations  hitherto  will,  I 
trust,  be  productive  of  solid  and  durable  advantages  to  our  con- 
stituents ;  such  as,  by  conciliating  more  and  more  their  ultimate 
suffrage,  will  tend  to  strengthen  and  confirm  their  attachment  to 
that  constitution  of  government,  upon  which,  under  Divine 
Providence,  materially  depend  their  union,  their  safety,  and 
their  happiness. 

Still  further  to  promote  and  secure  these  inestimable  ends, 
there  is  nothing  which  can  have  a  more  powerful  tendency,  than 
the  careful  cultivation  of  harmony,  combined  with  a  due  regard  to 
stability  in  the  public  councils. 


TO    BENJAMIN    STODDERT. 

Philadelphia,  14  November,  1792. 

Sir, 

Your  favor  of  the  24th  ultimo  came  duly  to  hand, 
but  the  variety  of  important  matters,  which  pressed 
between  the  receipt  of  it  and  the  meeting  of  Congress, 
allowed  me  no  time  to  give  it  an  earlier  acknowledg- 
ment ;  and  now  I  pray  you  to  consider  what  I  am 
about  to  say,  as  coming  from  me  in  my  private 
capacity. 

It  has  always  been  my  opinion,  and  still  is  so,  that 


212  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

the  administration  of  the  affairs  of  the  Federal  City 
ought  to  be  under  the  immediate  direction  of  a  judi- 
cious and  skilful  superintendent,  appointed  by  and 
subject  to  the  orders  of  the  commissioners  (who,  in 
the  eye  of  the  law,  are  the  responsible  characters), 
one  in  whom  is  united  knowledge  of  men  and  things, 
industry,  integrity,  impartiality,  and  firmness  ;  and 
that  this  person  should  reside  on  the  spot.  This,  I 
believe,  is  also  the  opinion  of  the  commissioners  ;  and, 
if  they  think  Mr.  Blodget  possesses  these  qualifica- 
tions (I  know  very  little  of  him  myself,  and  after 
what  has  happened  shall  be  cautious  in  recommend- 
ing), or  that  he  is  the  most  competent  character  that 
presents,  who  is  willing  to  undertake  and  ready  to 
enter  upon  the  duties  of  such  an  office,  their  appoint- 
ment of  him  will  meet  my  entire  approbation. 

I  can  readily  conceive.  Sir,  that  the  motives  to  your 
communication  were  pure  and  laudable,  and  shall  give 
you  credit  for  them  accordingly.  On  my  part,  permit 
me  to  add,  that  I  have  a  mind  open  to  information, 
and  a  disposition  always  to  correct  abuses,  (that  shall 
come  properly  before  me,)  as  far  as  I  am  able  ;  but  I 
am  sure  it  is  unnecessary  to  remark  to  a  person  of 
your  observation,  that,  from  the  two  great  interests, 
which  divide  the  Federal  City,  and  the  lesser  ones 
into  which  these  are  branched,  it  will  be  found  diffi- 
cult, if  not  impossible,  for  any  set  of  commissioners 
whatsoever  to  steer  clear  of  censure.  One  wants 
this  thing,  another  wants  that  thing,  and  all,  or  most 
of  them,  perhaps,  want  things  which  our  resources 
are    incompetent    to   the   accomplishment   of.      You 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  213 

will  excuse  my  candor,  therefore,  my  good  Sir,  for 
observing  that  there  is,  in  my  own  judgment,  but  one 
line  of  conduct  proper  for  these  gentlemen  to  pursue, 
and  that  is  to  take  a  comprehensive  view  of  the  trust 
reposed  in  them,  the  general  expectation  of  the 
community  at  large  and  the  means  to  effect  it,  form 
their  plans  agreeably  thereto,  upon  sound  and  just 
principles,  and  to  see  that  they  are  carried  into  effect 
by  whomsoever  they  shall  employ  in  the  execution 
thereof,  without  regard  to  any  local  concern  or  inter- 
est whatsoever.  Such  a  conduct  will  meet  general 
approbation,  and  of  none,  I  am  persuaded,  more  than 
your  own.     With  esteem,  I  am,  Sir,  &c. 


TO    THE   COMMISSIONERS    OF    THE    FEDERAL    DISTRICT. 

Philadelphia,  17  November,  1792. 

Gentlemen, 

I  have  duly  received  your  letter  of  the  13th  of 
October,  enclosing  a  list  of  the  sale  of  Lots  in  the 
federal  City  with  the  prices,  of  which  I  am  more 
gratified  than  I  am  by  the  numbers  which  have  been 
disposed  of.  I  am  pleased  to  find  that  several  of 
your  mechanics  were  among  the  purchasers  of  Lots, 
as  they  will  not  only,  in  all  probability,  be  among  the 
first  improvers  of  them,  but  will  be  valuable  citizens. 

I  agree  with  you  in  opinion  that  ground  in  such 
eligible  places  as  about  the  Capitol  and  the  Presi- 
dent's house,  should  not  be  sold  in  squares,  unless 
there  are  some  great  and  apparent  advantages  to  be 
derived  from  specified  buildings — immediate  improve- 


214  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

ment,  or  something  which  will  have  a  tendency  to 
promote  the  advancement  of  the  City. 

The  circumstances  under  which  Mr.  Blodofet  bid 
off  the  square  near  the  Capitol,  were  such  as  occur  at 
almost  every  public  sale, — and,  in  that  instance  his 
having  done  so  appeared  very  proper  for  the  interest 
of  the  public.  I  agree,  however,  with  you  that  it 
wou'd  be  best  for  the  circumstance,  not  to  be  gen- 
erally known. 

How  far  the  idea  which  Mr.  Blodget  suggests  of 
having  an  Agent  to  pass  through  the  several  States 
to  dispose  of  Lots,  might  be  beneficial  or  not,  I  am 
unable  to  say ;  but  it  appears  to  me  that  if  a  respect- 
able and  responsible  character  in  the  principal  town 
of  each  State,  could  be  authorised  to  dispose  of  the 
public  Lots,  as  purchasers  might  appear ;  provided 
the  matter  could  be  so  arranged  that  no  confusion  or 
inconvenience  should  arise  from  the  same  Lot  being 
disposed  of  by  two  or  more  Agents  (which  might 
possibly  be  done  by  monthly  returns  being  made  to 
the  Commissioners,  from  the  several  Agents,  ascer- 
taining the  day  and  even  hour,  of  each  sale,  to  be  by 
them  confirmed  previous  to  any  payment — a  small 
per  centum  to  be  allowed  the  vendor — and  all  private 
sales  to  cease  a  month  before  every  public  sale,)  it 
would  be  a  means  of  accommodating  persons  in  dif- 
ferent parts  of  the  Union, — and  would  expedite  the 
sales  of  the  Lots.  But  this,  as  well  as  Mr.  Blodget's 
suggestion  (which  rather  appears  to  me  to  be  hawking 
the  Lots  about,)  must  be  weighed  and  determined  upon 
according  to  your  best  judgment  and  information. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  215 

I  think  that  a  further  public  sale  in  the  Spring,  or 
early  in  the  summer  would  be  advantageous — for  it  is 
desirable  that  every  opportunity  which  could  be  made 
convenient,  on  account  of  the  season  and  other  cir- 
cumstances, to  dispose  of  Lots  in  this  way,  should 
be  embraced. 

In  proportion  as  numbers  become  interested  in  the 
Federal  City  and  the  public  works  advance,  a  con- 
stant attendance  at  the  spot  will  be  more  and  more 
requisite  on  the  part  of  those  who  superintend  or 
direct  the  business  thereof ;  and  I  am  of  opinion  it 
will  be  found  necessary,  as  neither  of  the  Commis- 
sioners reside  there,  that  some  active  and  competent 
character  vested  with  proper  authority  by  them  should 
be  constantly  on  the  ground  to  superintend  the  busi- 
ness carrj'ing  on  there.  But  who  this  person  shall 
be,  is  altogether  with  yourselves  to  choose,  and  the 
various  and  essential  qualifications  requisite  in  him 
will  readily  occur  to  you.     With  great  esteem, 

I  am,  &c. 


TO    THE    COMMISSIONERS    OF    THE    FEDERAL    DISTRICT. 

[private.] 

Philadelphia,  18  December,  1792. 

Gentlemen, 

Your  letter  to  the  Secretar}-  of  State  dated  if  I  rec- 
ollect rightly  the  5th  instant  intimating  among  other 
things  that  you  had  failed  in  an  attempt  which  had 
been  made  to  import  workmen  from  Scotland,  equally 
with  that  for  obtaining  them  from  Holland,  fills  me 


2i6  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

with  real  concern  ;  for  I  am  very  apprehensive  if 
your  next  campaign  in  the  Federal  City  is  not  marked 
with  vigor,  it  will  cast  such  a  cloud  over  this  business 
and  will  so  arm  the  enemies  of  the  measure,  as  to 
enable  them  to  give  it  (if  not  its  death  blow)  a 
wound  from  which  it  will  not  easily  recover.  No 
means  therefore,  in  my  opinion,  should  be  left  un- 
essayed  to  facilitate  the  operations  of  next  year. 
Every  thing,  in  a  manner,  depends  upon  the  celerity 
with  which  the  public  buildings  are  then  carried 
on. — Sale  of  Lots — private  buildings — good  or  evil 
report — all,  all  will  be  regulated  thereby. — Noth- 
ing therefore  short  of  the  absolute  want  of  money, 
ought  to  retard  the  work. 

The  more  I  consider  the  subject,  the  more  I  am 
convinced  of  the  expediency  of  importing  a  number 
of  workmen  from  Europe  to  be  employed  in  the 
Federal  City.  The  measure  has  not  only  ceconomy 
to  recommend  it,  but  is  important  by  placing  the 
quantity  of  labor  which  may  be  performed  by  such 
persons  upon  a  certainty  for  the  term  for  which  they 
shall  be  engaged. 

Upon  more  minute  enquiry  I  am  informed  that 
neither  the  merchants  here  nor  in  Holla^id  will  under- 
take to  procure  redemptioners  from  Germany  ;  and 
that  the  most  eligible  and  certain  mode  of  obtaining 
from  thence  such  mechanics  and  laborers  as  may  be 
thought  advisable  to  procure  from  that  quarter,  will 
be  to  engage  some  person,  a  German,  to  go  from 
hence  into  Germany,  where  he  is  acquainted,  to  pro- 
cure the  requisite  number  of  men  and  bring  them  to 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  217 

the  shipping  port,  which  is  generally  Amsterdam  or 
Rotterdam,  and  that  any  merchant  here  (who  is  en- 
gaged in  shipping  trading  to  Holland)  will  engage  to 
have  a  vessel  ready  to  take  them  on  board  at  a  time 
which  shall  be  fixed,  and  bring  them  to  any  port  of 
the  United  States  that  may  be  specified  and  receive 
the  amount  of  their  passage  on  delivery  of  them. 
The  person  who  may  be  employed  to  go  over  to 
Germany  will  expect,  it  is  said,  an  advance  of  one 
guinea  per  head  for  the  number  wanted,  to  enable 
him  to  pay  the  expenses  of  such  as  may  not  be  able 
to  bear  their  own  from  the  place  where  he  procures 
them  to  the  shipping  Port,  and  this  advance  is  ac- 
counted for  and  taken  into  consideration  at  the  time 
of  paying  for  their  passage  when  they*  arrive  here. 
The  customary  passage  it  seems,  is  Eleven  guineas 
per  head — and  the  compensation  of  the  person  em- 
ployed to  procure  them,  is  either  one  guinea  a  head 
for  as  many  as  he  may  deliver,  part  of  which  is  paid 
by  those  who  employ  him  to  go  over,  and  part  by 
the  merchant  who  furnishes  the  vessel  to  bring  them, 
as  he  receives  a  benefit  by  the  freight — or  the  person 
employed  keeps  an  account  of  his  necessar}'  expences 
while  on  this  business,  which  is  paid  by  his  em- 
ployers, and  a  consideration  for  his  services  is  made 
him  according  to  a  previous  agreement. 

The  term  of  time  for  which  these  people  are 
bound  to  serve,  depends  much,  it  is  added,  upon 
their  age,  or  ability  as  laborers,  or  their  skill  as  me- 
chanics— the  former  generally  serve  three  or  four 
years  ;  and  the  latter,  if  good  workmen  at  their  trade. 


2i8  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

two. — But  in  this  case  that  it  would  be  better  for  the 
person  employed  to  get  them,  to  have  them  indented 
at  the  time  of  engaging  them — Specifying  the  num- 
ber of  years  they  are  to  serve  to  commence  at  the 
time  of  their  landing  in  the  United  States  ;  and  that 
he  ought  to  be  furnished  with  the  necessary  forms  of 
indentures  and  particular  instructions  on  this  head 
before  he  goes  over.  And  if  mechanics  of  a  par- 
ticular description  are  most  essential  it  would  be  well, 
in  order  to  secure  their  services  beyond  the  term  for 
which  they  might  be  engaged  for  their  passages,  to 
stipulate  at  the  time  of  engaging  them  that  they 
should  serve  one,  two  or  three  years  over  and  above 
that  time  at  £ per  annum.  And,  as  it  may  hap- 
pen, that  some  good  mechanics  may  be  willing  to 
come  over,  who  are  able  to  pay  their  own  passage, 
might  it  not  be  well  to  empower  them  at  per 

year  for  (say)  four  years  ?  In  all  cases  to  provide, 
that  if  those  who  engage  as  mechanics  should  be 
found  incompetent  to  the  business  for  which  they 
engage  from  a  want  of  skill  or  knowledge  in  it,  and 
shall  appear  to  have  used  imposition  in  engaging 
themselves  as  such,  they  shall  be  obliged  to  serve 
the  time  of  common  laborers. 

Should  you  be  of  opinion  that  it  would  be  expe- 
dient to  import  a  number  of  workmen  and  the  mode 
here  pointed  out,  meets  your  ideas,  no  time  should  be 
lost  in  carrying  it  into  effect  ; — and  if  you  have  not 
contemplated  a  proper  character  for  this  business 
and  will  inform  me  thereof,  I  will  endeavor  to  ob- 
tain  one  in  this  City  to  go  over  to  Germany,  and  a 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  219 

merchant  also  to  furnish  the  vessel  at  the  time  and 
place  which  shall  be  agreed  on  between  them.^ 

It  is  not  however,  my  wish  that  the  idea  of  import- 
ing workmen  should  be  confined  solely  to  Germany — 
I  think  it  ought  to  be  extended  to  other  places  par- 
ticularly Scotland,  from  whence  many  good  and 
useful  mechanics  may  undoubtedly  be  had.  I  have 
been  more  particular  in  respect  to  Germany  because 
they  may  probably  be  obtained  from  thence  on  better 
terms  than  from  other  quarters,  and  they  are  known 
to  be  a  steady,  laborious  people.  It  will  be  necessary, 
if  you  should  determine  upon  an  importation  from 
Germany,  to  state  the  number  of  mechanics  you  would 
wish  in  each  trade,  to  be  brought  from  thence,  as  well 
as  the  number  of  Laborers. 

Mr.  George  Walker,  who  is  in  this  City  informs 
me,  that  he  shall  sail  for  Scotland  about  the  first  of 
January,  and  says  if  he  could  render  any  service  in 
this  business  he  would  willingly  do  it.  To  get  work- 
men is  part  of  the  business  which  carries  him  over  ; 
but  how  far,  after  the  part  he  has  acted  with  respect 
to  yourselves  you  may  chuse  to  confide  in  him,  is 
fitter  for  you  than  it  is  for  me  to  decide  ;  especially 
as  I  know  no  more  of  his  private  character  and  cir- 
cumstances, than  I  do  of  the  terms  on  which  he 
would  undertake  to  render  the  ser\^ice. 

A  thought  has  also  occurred  to  me  and  altho' 
crude  and  almost  in  embryo,  I  will  nevertheless  men- 

'  Many  details  on  the  importation  of  indented  servants,  or  redemptioners, 
into  the  United  States,  are  to  be  found  in  Ford,  Washington  as  an  Employer 
and  Importer  of  Labor. 


220  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

tion  it. — It  is,  if  the  character  of  Mr.  Hallet  (from 
the  knowledge  you  have  acquired  of  it)  is  such  as  to 
have  impressed  you  with  confidence  in  his  abilities 
and  activity,  whether  in  the  unsettled  state  of  things 
in  France,  he  might  not  be  employed  this  winter  in 
engaging  from  that  country  and  bringing  over  in  the 
Spring  such  workmen,  and  on  such  terms  as  might 
be  agreed  upon. 

Boston  too  has  been  mentioned  as  a  place  from 
whence  many  and  good  workmen  might  be  had  ;  but 
the  reasons  which  have  been  assigned  for  the  failure 
here  are  not  within  my  recollection,  if  I  ever  heard 
them. 

Upon  the  whole  it  will  readily  be  perceived  in 
what  a  serious  light  I  consider  delay  in  the  progress 
of  the  public  buildings,  and  how  anxious  I  am  to 
have  them  pushed  forward. —  In  a  word,  the  next  is 
the  year  that  will  give  the  tone  to  the  City, — if 
marked  with  energy,  individuals  will  be  inspirited, — 
the  sales  will  be  enhanced — confidence  diffused  and 
emulation  created.  Without  it  I  should  not  be  sur- 
prized to  find  the  Lots  unsaleable,  and  every  thing 
at  a  stand.  With  great  and  sincere  regard  and 
esteem.     I  am. 


TO    ROBERT    LEWIS. 

Philadelphia,  23  December,  1792. 


Dear  Sir, 

I  have  been  informed  within  these  few  days,  that 
Major  Harrison  of  Loudoun  County  who  owns  a 
piece  of  Land  adjoining  mine   in  Fairfax,  is  disposed 


1792J  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  221 

to  sell  it ;  and  to  convert  the  money  to  more  useful 
purposes. 

I  am  led  from  the  rascally  set  of  tenants  who  occupy 
that  land,  and  by  no  other  consideration  whatsoever,  to 
become  the  purchaser  of  it,  that  I  may  be  relieved 
by  that  means  from  the  villainies  which  the  livers 
thereon  are  frequently  committing  on  my  property, 
in  the  practice  of  which  their  art  and  cunning  is  too 
great  for  detection. — I  have  said  my  only  motive 
to  this  purchase  is  to  get  rid  of  this  pest  of  society, 
and  in  saying  so  I  have  declared  the  honest  truth  ; 
for  the  land  would  not  answer  for  a  farm,  being 
without  timber,  and  too  poor  for  cultivation — nor 
would  it  be  profitable  in  Tenements,  because  men 
who  intended  a  livelihood  by  honest  industry,  would 
give  little  or  no  rent  for  it — and  my  inducement  to 
buy  is  to  get  rid  of  those  of  a  contrar}^  description. 

Major  Harrison  must  be  sensible  that  no  one  can 
be  better  acquainted  with  the  land  than  I  am  ;  it 
would  be  unnecessary'  therefore  (if  he  has  any  in- 
clination to  sell  it)  to  ask  a  price  which  it  will  not 
bear  ;  but  if  he  is  disposed  to  take  a  reasonable 
price,  and  will  act  the  part  of  a  frank  and  candid 
man  in  fixing  it,  I  would  not  have  you  higgle  (which 
I  dislike)  in  making  a  bargain.  I  will  pay  ready 
money,  if  we  can  agree — but  it  must  be  on  two  con- 
ditions— first,  that  the  title  is  good — and  secondly, 
that  it  is  not  under  the  incumbrance  (any  part  of  it) 
of  a  lease  ;  for  that  would  defeat  the  sole  end  I 
should  propose  by  the  purchase — namely,  to  purge 
the  neighborhood  of  these  impure  characters. 


2  22  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

Under  this  view  of  my  ideas,  and  the  knowledge 
you  have  of  my  sentiments  respecting  the  Land,  any 
bargain  you  shall  make  in  my  behalf  with  Major 
Harrison,   shall  be  binding  on  me. 

Your  Aunt  unites  with  me  in  best  regards  for 
yourself  and  Mrs.   Lewis,  and  I  am,  &c. 


AGRICULTURAL  CORRESPONDENCE. 

Certainly,  one  of  the  most  interesting  characteristics  of  Washington  was  his 
intense  love  of  the  country  and  his  eagerness  in  the  pursuit  of  agriculture.  In 
the  early  years  of  his  life  he  was  a  thorough  student  of  agricultural  writings, 
and  he  made  very  full  summaries  in  note-books  of  what  he  read.  Tull's  and 
Duhamel's  Husbandry  and  The  Farmer  s  Compleat  Guide  were  thus  digested, 
and  the  MS.  shows  that  this  was  done  when  he  was  still  a  youth.  The  absence, 
also,  of  any  notes  or  comments,  comparison  of  views,  or  records  of  his  own 
experiments,  points  to  a  very  early  date  for  these  note-books.  Not  only  was 
he  an  excellent  farmer,  but  a  gardener  as  well  ;  and  the  voluminous  notes 
among  his  papers  attest  the  zeal,  and  often  the  profit,  with  which  he  pursued 
his  fancies. 

This  constituted  but  a  very  small  part  of  his  activity  in  agriculture,  but  it 
was  probably  the  influence  that  made  him  one  of  the  pioneers  in  modifying 
the  culture  in  Virginia.  During  the  colonial  days,  English  interest  had  im- 
posed upon  Virginia  and  Maryland  the  culture  of  tobacco,  and  legislation  had 
been  called  into  action  to  create,  as  far  as  possible,  a  British  monopoly  in  the 
commerce  and  marketing  of  that  commodity.  This  was  enormously  profitable 
to  English  and  Scotch  factors,  into  whose  hands  the  navigation  and  tariff  laws 
of  the  mother  country  had  turned  the  colonial  trade,  both  export  and  import. 
Adam  Smith  noted  that  of  the  g6,ooo  hogsheads  of  tobacco  annually  imported 
into  Great  Britain  from  the  colonies  of  Virginia  and  Maryland,  only  14,000 
hogsheads  were  consumed  in  that  country,  and  the  rest  was  sent  to  the  markets 
of  continental  Europe.  The  prosperity  of  Glasgow  was  based  upon  this  tobacco 
trade.  There  was  a  "  Virginia  walk  "  on  the  Royal  Exchange,  in  London,  where 
transactions  in  that  commodity  were  conducted  ;  and  at  the  "  Virginia  Coffee 
House"  the  planters  (when  in  England),  ship  captains,  and  factors  would  con- 
gregate and  arrange  for  future  oj)crations.  This  compression  of  a  very  large 
trade  into  one  channel  was  greatly  to  the  profit  of  the  British  merchant,  factor, 
and  ship-owner,  but  ruinous  to  the  planter.  The  latter  sold  his  commodity  in 
a  monopoly  market,  at  prices  determined  by  those  who  were  interested  in 
keeping  them    low.     He  bought  all   the  manufactured  articles  used   on  the 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  223 


the  plantation,  in  the  same  market,  not  only  at  high  prices,  but  under  the  risk 
of  getting  an  indifferent  article,  made  principally  for  the  colonial  market,  and 
technically  known  as  "colonials."  The  lack  of  market  towns  in  Virginia  for 
the  establishment  of  prices  based  upon  the  fluctuating  conditions  of  crops, 
supply,  etc.,  the  infrequent  opportunities  for  shipping  and  receiving  goods,  and 
the  length  of  time  that  must  elapse  before  an  error  could  be  rectified  or  com- 
plaint made,  placed  the  planter  in  a  verj-  disadvantageous  position,  and  prac- 
tically at  the  mercy  of  the  English  agent.  There  are  many  proofs  of  this  in 
the  letters  printed  in  the  early  volumes  of  this  collection. 

Nor  were  outside  relations  alone  responsible.  The  tastes  of  the  planters 
were  extravagant,  and  their  style  of  living  inclined  to  lavishness  of  expense. 
But  few  of  the  plantations  raised  a  sufficiency  to  cover  even  the  necessary  cost 
of  keeping  them  in  condition,  and  a  partial  failure  of  the  crop  would  throw  the 
planter  into  the  hands  of  the  usurer,  and  induce  him  to  mortgage  his  tobacco 
crops  years  in  advance  ;  while  a  total  failure  meant  ruin.  That  is  to  say,  most 
of  the  planters  were  not  only  poor  (except  in  land,  which  might  almost  be 
had  for  the  asking),  but  they  were  continually  becoming  poorer,  and  estate 
after  estate  passed  by  foreclosure  into  the  hands  of  factors,  who  had  made 
advances  to  the  planters.  More  than  this,  the  land  itself  was  deteriorating, 
because  of  the  insistance  upon  taking  crop  after  crop  of  tobaqco  from  it — 
exhausting  in  itself — and  without  undertaking  by  intensive  ciilture  to  restore 
the  land  to  heart.  The  usual  course  of  Virginia  agriculture  is  accurately 
described  by  Washington  in  his  letter  to  Arthur  Young,  November,  1787, 
vol.  xi,  p.  178,  ante. 

At  a  verj'  early  period  Washington  became  con\-inced  that  tobacco  was  not 
a  very  profitable  crop,  and  he  began  to  look  to  the  English  writers  on  agricul- 
ture for  some  suggestions.  If  I  may  judge  of  the  writing,  etc.,  Tull's  Hus- 
bandry was  the  first  systematic  work  on  agriculture  that  he  studied,  and  the 
important  improvements  suggested  by  that  experimenter  in  drilling  and  horse 
and  hand  hoeing,  were  adopted  by  him.  David  Henry's  Complete  English 
Farmer  [1772],  Duhamel's  work  based  upon  Tull's,  and  Henry  Home's 
popular  work,  7"^!?  Gentleman  Farmer  [1776]  exercised  an  influence  in  pre- 
paring for  the  better  understanding  of  what  ought  to  be  done  to  improve 
his  estate.  In  all  these  years  before  the  Revolution  he  was  experimenting  in  a 
small  way,  and  had  come  to  the  conclusion  that  tobacco  culture  was  to  be 
practically  abandoned,  only  sufficient  quantity  being  raised  each  year  to  pay 
for  what  he  imported  from  England. 

The  Revolution  intervened  and  prevented  his  continuing  his  experiments  at 
Mount  Vernon,  but  greatly  increased  his  knowledge  of  different  cultures.  For 
in  the  course  of  that  contest  he  had  abundant  opportunity  of  noting  what  was 
the  practice  in  the  different  Eastern  and  Middle  States  and  the  results,  a  fund 
of  information  to  be  used  in  later  years.  He  was  not  only  confirmed  in  his 
intention  of  abandoning  the  culture  of  tobacco  as  a  staple,  but  he  was  con- 
vinced of  the  necessity  of  high  farming  if  profit  was  the  end.  In  New  Eng- 
land and  Pennsylvania  he  noted  the  importance  of  cattle  and  sheep  to  an 


2  24  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [179: 


estate,  and  in  Pennsylvania  and  Delaware  the  milling  industry  attracted  his 
notice.  Grains,  roots,  and  live  stock,  a  succession  or  rotation  of  crops,  and 
the  value  of  flour  as  an  article  of  export,  may  be  said  to  sum  up  in  a  few 
words,  the  results  of  his  observations.  More  important  still  was  the  realization 
that  slave  labor  was  far  more  costly  and  inefficient  than  free,  that  the  cheapness 
of  slave  labor  was  disproved  by  economic  reasons  of  the  gravest  weight.  But 
saddled  as  he  was  with  this  quality  of  labor,  and  disapproving  of  it  on  moral 
as  well  as  economic  grounds,  he  saw  no  way  of  making  a  change  without  sell- 
ing his  negroes — a  step  he  was  unwilling  to  take. 

Washington  returned  to  Mount  Vernon  after  the  war  better  prepared  to  carry 
out  a  new  plan  of  farming  his  estates  than  he  was  in  1775,  and  into  this  new 
plan  he  threw  himself  heart  and  soul,  for  he  loved  Mount  Vernon  and 
delighted  in  schemes  for  improving  and  beautifying  it.  From  Europe  he 
received  many  seeds  and  cuttings,  and  his  friends  at  home  and  abroad  were 
constant  in  supplying  him  with  novelties,  and  in  keeping  him  acquainted  with 
what  improvements  in  methods  were  being  devised.  He  corresponded  with 
Arthur  Young,  who  had  just  begun  to  publish  his  Annals  of  Agriculture 
[1784],  and  with  Doctor  James  Anderson,  whose  journal,  the  Bee,  never 
attained  the  reputation  that  the  Annals  justly  gained.  In  closely  written  note- 
books Washington  jotted  down  what  attracted  his  notice  in  the  Annals,  classi- 
fying his  notes  by  articles,  and  particular  attention  being  paid  to  grains  and 
roots,  courses  of  crops,  and  cattle.  In  Maryland,  he  watched  with  interest  the 
experiments  of  John  Beale  Bordley,  who  was  working  upon  the  same  lines, 
and  was  among  the  first  to  publish  the  results — A  Viezu  of  the  Courses  of  Crops 
in  England  and  Maryland  [1784].'  An  elaborate  record  of  his  plowings, 
sowings,  and  crops  extending  from  1785  to  1789  is  preserved,  in  which  was 
noted  every  detail  that  could  enable  him  to  come  to  a  conclusion  on  the  best 
available  system.  First  came  a  day-to-day  record  of  what  was  done,  as 
follows  : — 

NOTES  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

April  1th,  1785. — Cut  two  or  three  rows  of  the  wheat  (Cape 
wheat)  within  six  inches  of  the  ground,  it  being  near  eighteen 
inches  high,  that  which  was  first  sown,  and  the  blades  of  the 
whole  singed  with  the  frost.  * 

Zth. — Sowed  oats  to-day  in  drills  at  Muddy  Hole  with  my  barrel 
plough.  Ground  much  too  wet ;  some  of  it  had  been  manured,  but 
had  been  twice  ploughed,  then  listed,  then  twice  harrowed  before 
sowing  ;  which,  had  it  not  been  for  the  frequent  rains,  would 
have  put  the  ground  in  fine  tilth.  Ploughed  up  the  turnip  patch 
at  home  for  orchard  grass. 

*  I  find  in  a  note-book  of  Washington's  a  very  full  and  careful  summary  of 
Bry  Higgins  on  Calcareous  Cements,  dated  1784. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  225 

\oth. — Began  bricklaying  to-day.  Completed  sowing,  with 
twenty-four  quarts  of  oats,  thirty-eight  rows  at  Muddy  Hole  ten 
feet  apart,  in  the  ground  intended  for  com. 

\ith. — Sowed  twenty-six  rows  of  barley  in  the  same  field  at 
Muddy  Hole  in  the  same  manner,  with  the  drill  plough,  and  with 
precisely  the  same  workings  the  oats  had  adjoining  thereto.  This 
was  done  with  twelve  quarts  of  seed.  After  three  ploughings 
and  three  harrowings,  sowed  millet  in  eleven  rows  three  feet 
apart,  opposite  to  the  overseer's  house  in  the  Neck.  Perceived 
the  last  sowed  oats  at  Dogue  Run,  and  those  sown  in  the  Neck, 
were  coming  up. 

\2th. — Sowed  sixteen  acres  of  Siberian  wheat,  with  eighteen 
quarts,  in  rows  between  com,  eight  feet  apart.  This  ground  had 
been  prepared  in  the  following  manner,  i.  A  single  furrow  ;  2. 
another  in  the  same  to  deepen  it ;  3.  four  furrows  to  throw  the 
earth  back  into  the  two  first,  which  made  ridges  of  five  furrows. 
These,  being  done  some  time  ago.  and  the  sowing  retarded  by 
frequent  rains,  had  got  hard  ;  therefore,  4.  before  the  seed  was 
sown,  these  ridges  were  split  again  by  running  twice  in  the  mid- 
dle of  them,  both  times  in  the  same  furrow  ;  5.  after  which  the 
ridges  were  harrowed  ;  and,  6.  where  the  ground  was  lumpy,  run 
a  spiked  roller  with  a  harrow  at  the  tail  of  it,  which  was  found 
very  efficacious  in  breaking  the  clods  and  pulverizing  the  earth, 
and  would  have  done  it  perfectly,  if  there  had  not  been  too 
much  moisture  remaining  from  the  late  rains.  After  this,  har- 
rowing and  rolling  were  necessary,  the  wheat  was  sown  with  the 
drill  plough  on  the  reduced  ridges  eight  feet  apart,  as  above  men- 
tioned, and  harrowed  in  with  the  small  harrow  belonging  to  the 
plough.  But  it  should  have  been  observed,  that,  after  the  ridges 
were  split  by  the  middle  double  furrows,  and  before  they  were 
closed  again  by  the  harrow,  a  little  manure  was  sprinkled  in  them. 

At  Dogue  Run,  listing  the  ground  intended  for  Siberian  wheat, 
barley,  &c.,  a  second  time. 

At  Muddy  Hole  sewed  with  the  drill  plough  two  rows  of  the 

Albany  pease  between  the  corn  rows,  to  see  whether  they  would 

come  to  any  thing  for  want  of  the  support  which  they  give  one 

another  when  sown  broad-cast.     The  same  management  given 

the  ground  as  for  oats  and  barley  at  this  place. 
15 


226  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

13/A. — Sowed  oats  in  drills  ten  feet  apart,  between  corn  rows 
in  the  Neck,  twenty-four  rows,  in  the  following  manner,  i.  A 
single  furrow  ;  2.  another  and  deep  furrow  in  this  ;  3.  four 
bouts  to  these  ;  4.  ploughed  again  in  the  same  manner ;  5.  a 
single  furrow  in  the  middle  of  these  ;  6.  manure  sprinkled  in 
this  furrow  ;  7.  the  great  harrow  over  all  these  ;  and,  8.  the  seed 
sowed  after  the  harrow  with  the  drill  or  barrel  plough,  and  har- 
rowed in  with  the  harrow  at  the  tail  of  it.  Note. — It  should  have 
been  observed,  that  the  field  intended  for  experiments  at  this 
plantation  is  divided  into  three  parts,  by  bouting  rows  running 
crosswise  ;  and  that  manure,  and  the  last  single  furrow,  are  (at 
least  for  the  present)  bestowed  on  the  most  westerly  of  those 
nearest  the  Barn. 

lAfth. — Harrowed  the  ground  at  Muddy  Hole,  which  had  been 
twice  ploughed,  for  Albany  pease  in  broad-cast.  At  Dogue  Run 
began  to  sow  the  remainder  of  the  Siberian  wheat,  about  four- 
teen quarts,  which  had  been  left  at  the  Ferry  ;  run  deep  furrows 
in  the  middle,  and  made  five-feet  ridges.  Did  the  same  for 
carrots  in  the  same  field  on  the  west  side  next  the  meadow. 
Ordered  a  piece  of  ground,  two  acres,  to  be  ploughed  at  the 
Ferry  around  the  old  corn-house,  to  be  drilled  with  corn  and 
potatoes  between,  each  ten  feet  apart,  row  from  row  of  the  same 
kind.  Sowed  in  the  Neck,  or  rather  planted,  next  to  the  eleven 
rows  of  millet,  thirty-five  rows  of  the  rib-grass  seeds,  three  feet 
apart  and  one  foot  asunder  in  the  rows. 

At  the  end  of  the  season  the  pages  of  notes  and  observations  (thirty-one 
folio  pages  closely  written)  were  carefully  indexed,  and  the  results  for  each 
crop  on  each  plantation  were  summarized,  particular  attention  being  paid  to 
the  dates  of  sowing,  first  appearance  and  gathering  of  the  different  crops,  and 
finally  were  entered  his  "  conclusions,  drawn  from  the  foregoing  statement  of 
facts,"  of  which  a  few  extracts  are  given. 

Clover.  That  it  is  not  worth  raising  for  the  seed,  to  get  which 
out  is  very  troublesome.' 

'  In  his  summary  of  Duhamel  he  noted  on  Chapter  VIII.  of  that  work,  on 
the  culture  of  sainfoin  :  "  Altho'  sainfoin  seems  to  be  a  very  desirable  plant  to 
cultivate,  yet  the  difficulty  of  getting  it  to  grow  in  this  country  renders  it  un- 
necessary to  say  anything  upon  this  head  here." 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  227 

Corn.  On  rows  10  feet  one  way,  and  18  Inches  thick  single 
stalks  ;  will  yield  as  much  to  the  Acre  in  equal  ground,  as  at  5 
feet  each  way  with  two  stalks  in  a  hill ;  &  that  Potatoes,  Carrots 
&  Pease  between  the  drilled  Corn,  if  not  exhaustive,  which 
they  are  declared  not  to  be,  are  nearly  a  clear  profit,  except  in 
putting  them  in,  and  taking  them  from  the  ground — the  same 
labor — which  is  necessary  for  the  Corn,  being  sufficient  for  the 
other  things.  Corn  ought,  if  practicable,  to  be  planted  by  the 
15th  of  May  at  furthest  ;  by  the  loth  would  be  better — perhaps 
by  the  first  preferable  to  either — In  short  as  soon  as  the  ground 
has  acquired  warmth  enough  to  vegetate  the  plant,  the  grain 
ought  to  be  put  in.  It  should  be  kept  clean  and  well  worked  in 
the  early  part  of  i*^s  growth — till  it  shoots  and  tassels  at  least  ; 
this  when  the  sod  is  light  may  be  done  with  the  Hoe  Harrow. — 

The  Corn  blades  to  be  pulled  before  the  tops  are  cut  &  when 
there  are  two  stalks  in  a  hill  laid  between  them  untied,  that  they 
may  cure  quick  and  without  moulding  under  the  band. — 
****** 

Carts. — Should  be  well  supplied  with  oxen,  that  by  shifting 
them  they  may  be  always  in  good  heart,  &:  do  the  work  well,  with- 
out grain,  or  extra  feed. — They  should  carry  rails,  or  other 
materials  for  fencing  to  the  spot  where  the  fences  are  to  be 
erected  in  the  Winter  (whilst  the  grd. — is  froze)  that  they  may 
not  be  interrupted  in  carting  out  dung  in  the  Spring,  before  the 
last  plowing  is  given  to  the  land. 

Flax.  That  which  was  sowed  on  the  2Sth  of  April  was  very 
good,  but  whether  this  was  owing  to  the  proper  time  of  sowing, 
or  the  very  moist  weather  that  followed  is  not  certain. 

Farm-Pens. — To  be  made  by  the  first,  or  at  furthest  the  mid- 
dle of  November  well  covered  with  mud  ;  and  this  spread  over 
with  broom  straw  or  whatever  is  intended  for  litter  of  which  a 
plentiful  store  should  be  laid  up  by  the  yard.  After  the  middle 
of  Novr.  the  Cattle  ought  never  to  go  out  of  the  Pens  but  to 
water,  if  it  is  not  provided  in  them. — The  dung  by  this  manage- 
ment is  more  than  an  equivalent  for  the  extra  feed  ;  little  food 
being  to  be  got  in  common  Pastures  after  the  middle  of  Novem- 
ber,— when  it  is  too  late  in  the  season  (the  nights  being  too  long 
&  cold)  to  confine  them  in  open  pens  at  night. — 


228  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

An  Acct.  of  the  number  and  kind  of  Cattle  to  be  taken  at  the 
times  of  putting  them  up  in  the  fall,  &  turning  them  out  to  grass 
in  the  Spring. — 

Fallows.  As  soon  as  the  Corn  is  laid  by  and  the  Winter 
grain  and  seeds  in  the  ground,  the  Plows  shd.  be  breaking  it  up 
for  Barley,  Oats,  Turnips,  and  other  Spring  &  Summer  Crops. — 
&  as  soon  as  these  are  in  the  ground  should  be  plowed  for 
Wheat,  Rye,  and  Winter  sowing  ;  unless  sowing  on  lay  land  is 
adopted  and  found  to  answer. — In  a  word  the  Plows  should 
never  stop  when  the  ground  is  in  order  to  be  worked  ;  for  if  they 
do,  the  business  of  a  farm  will  never  be  carried  on  fully  and  to 
advantage.     *     *     * 

Meadows.  To  get  them  cut  in  due  Season,  &  that  Hay  making 
may  be  over  before  harvest  commences, — begin  as  soon  as  the 
head  of  the  Timothy  appears  through  the  blade — and  the  clover 
as  soon  as  it  gets  pretty  fully  into  the  blossom. — The  Orchard 
grass  will  all  be  wanted  for  seed.     *     *     * 

Plowing. — This  business  should  never  stop. — For  Spring  and 
Summer  Crops,  the  ground  shd.  be  broke  in  the  Fall  &  Winter  ; 
— and  for  Winter  grain,  in  the  Spring  and  Summer. — From  the 
experience  of  this  spring's  sowing  as  also  from  the  fall's  sowing, 
on  lay  land  (but  the  weather  in  the  fall  being  uncommonly  moist, 
might  have  occasioned  the  latter)  it  appears  that  the  quicker  the 
sowing  and  harrowings  after  it,  follow  the  Plow  the  mellower  & 
more  crumbling  the  land  works. — When  much  time  intervenes 
between  the  Plowing  &  sowing,  hard  rains  beat  and  high  winds 
dry  the  ground  in  such  a  manner  as  to  make  it  work  rough  and 
cloddy. — quaere  then. — Would  it  not  be  better,  instead  of  plow- 
ing a  whole  field  through  (before  the  sowing  commences)  to  lay 
it  off  by  the  furrows  of  a  Plow  into  such  squares,  as  that  the 
Plowing,  sowing,  harrowing,  and  cross  harrowing,  may  all  be 
accomplished  in  3  or  4  days — or  at  most  not  to  exceed  a  week. 
This  too  wd.  be  a  means  of  detecting  idleness  in,  &  keeping 
the  Plowmen  to  their  duty. — When  Oats,  or  other  grain  is  to 
be  sown  on  a  single  plowing,  the  furrow  ought  to  be  narrow 
— when  the  ground  is  to  be  cross  plowed,  this  is  not  so  neces- 
sary.— It  is  always  best  when  circumstances  will  admit  not  to 
plow  when  the  ground  is  wet — but  (when  not  bound  together 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  229 

by  the  sward)  when  it  will  crumble   as  it  is  turned  from  the 
mould  board. 

****** 

Wheat. — The  earlier  it  is  sown  the  better.  The  latter  end  of 
July  is  to  be  preferred  to  any  sown  after  the  middle  of  Septem- 
ber. August  is  a  good  seed  month. — If  it  is  sown  on  lay  land 
Plow  (as  has  been  mentioned  under  the  article  plowing)  in  no 
larger  squares  than  may  be  compleated  in  a  week,  at  farthest. 
Try  the  experimt.  of  sowing  with  a  six  foot  barrel,  and  with 
grain  dropped  6  Inches  square, — to  be  harrowed  in. — Water 
drains  should  be  cut  to  let  the  Water  pass  of  freely  from  all  low 
places  ;  otherwise  those  that  would  yield  most  wheat  produce 
none  at  all.  Begin  to  cut  it,  if  circumstances  will  admit,  as  soon 
as  the  Milk  is  out  of  the  grain, — and  manage  it  as  directed  page 
20.  Where  there  is  no  Bam  and  the  grain  must  be  tred  out, 
begin  this  operation  before  the  Corn  is  gathered  ;  for  if  it  is 
delayed  beyond  it  the  Weather  rarely  admits  of  its  being  done  to 
advantage — and  where  the  fly  is,  it  may  be  lost. 

Additional. 

A  Weekly  allowance  of  Meat  to  the  Negro  Oversrs.  is  preferable 
to  an  Annual  one — because  the  annual  one  is  not  taken  care  of 
but  either  profusely  used,  or  stolen. — 

By  having  the  Com  &  Rye,  for  the  Negros  and  horses  sent  to 
the  Mill  from  the  several  Plantations,  and  the  weekly  allowance 
for  both  delivered  from  thence,  great  saving  will  accrue  and  no  em- 
bezzlement can  well  take  place — because  by  this  means  no  more  will 
go  throw  the  Mill  than  is  allowed — and  the  Miller  passing  receipts 
for  what  is  sent  to  the  Mill,  the  remainder  of  the  Crop  which 
was  measured  and  lofted  must  be  accted.  for  by  the  Overseer — 
or  the  Doors  may  be  locked  and  the  keys  taken  away. 

That  this  may  be  done  with  greater  propriety  leave  no  horses 
on  the  Plantations  but  those  which  work — and  such  horse  Colts 
as  are  to  be  raised  without  grain  ;  and 

Raise  no  more  Hogs  on  them  than  can  be  supported  with  the 
offal — and  these  only  to  the  age  of  a  year  old  when  they  may  be 
bro't  to  a  place  to  be  provided  &  properly  constructed  at  the 
Mansion  house  to  fat  them  for  Bacon. 


230  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

Such  a  record,  kept  for  six  years  by  an  enthusiastic  and  very  practical 
observer,  would  prove  an  invaluable  guide  and  lead  to  a  system  of  cultivation, 
in  which  the  different  uses  of  each  field  could  be  accurately  laid  down  for 
years  in  advance,  and  every  contingency  provided  for  as  far  as  care  and  intelli- 
gence could  provide.  And  so  long  as  Washington  was  in  person  superintend- 
ing his  estate,  good  results  were  obtained.  A  steady  advance  in  product, 
more  labor  accomplished  by  the  slaves,  and  a  marked  improvement  in  live  stock, 
were  the  immediate  issues  ;  while  the  increasing  diversity  of  crops  and  a 
milling  industry  promised  in  the  near  future  to  give  a  surplus  over  expenditure. 

The  election  to  the  Presidency  came  when  the  new  order  was  progressing, 
and  made  it  necessary  for  Washington  to  entrust  the  care  of  his  estate  to  the 
hands  of  agents,  but  acting  under  his  specific  directions.  Not  only  did  he 
draw  up  with  great  care  a  schedule  of  what  was  to  be  done,  leaving  it  for  the 
guidance  of  his  agent,  but  each  week  he  received  a  full  report  of  what  was 
done  on  the  different  properties,  and  each  week  he  wrote  with  his  own  hand 
such  additional  instructions  as  might  seem  necessary.  A  failure  to  remit  the 
report  was  to  him  a  grievous  fault,  and  his  replies,  often  extending  over 
sixteen  closely  written  pages,  would  constitute,  if  complete,  one  of  the  most 
noticeable  features  of  the  man's  character.  Two  series  of  these  letters  have 
been  preserved,  one  to  Anthony  Whiting,  and  the  other  to  William  Pearce,  and 
from  these,  extending  as  they  do  from  1792  to  1797,  I  shall  make  such  ex- 
tracts as  may  illustrate  their  general  nature.  The  letters  to  Pearce  have  been  pub- 
lished by  the  Long  Island  Historical  Society,  under  the  editorship  of  Moncure 
D.  Conway.  That  there  may  be  a  certain  continuity,  the  general  instructions 
given  to  his  first  agent,  George  Augustine  Washington,  and  a  specimen  weekly 
report  of  the  manager  or  agent,  are  inserted. 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  GEORGE  A.  WASHINGTON. 

31  March,  1789. 

Having  given  very  full  and  ample  details  of  the  intended  crops, 
and  my  ideas  of  the  modes  of  managing  them  at  the  several  plan- 
tations, little,  if  these  are  observed,  needs  be  added  on  this  subject. 
But  as  the  profit  of  every  farm  is  greater  or  less,  in  proportion  to 
the  quantity  of  manure,  which  is  made  thereon,  or  can  be  obtained 
by  keeping  the  fields  in  good  condition,  these  two  important  requi- 
sites ought  never  to  be  lost  sight  of. 

To  effect  the  former,  besides  the  ordinary  means  of  farm-yards, 
cow-pens,  sheep-folds,  stables,  &c.,  it  would  be  of  essential  use, 
if  a  certain  proportion  of  the  force  of  each  plantation  could  be 
appropriated,  in  the  summer  or  early  part  of  autumn,  to  the  pur- 
pose of  getting  up  mud  to  be  ameliorated  by  the  frosts  of  winter 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  231 

for  the  spring  crops,  which  are  to  follow.  And  to  accomplish  the 
latter,  the  gullies  in  these  fields,  previous  to  their  being  sown  with 
grain  and  grass-seeds,  ought  invariably  to  be  filled  up.  By  so 
doing,  and  a  small  sprinkling  of  manure  thereon,  they  will  acquire 
a  green  sward,  and  strength  of  soil  sufficient  to  preserve  them. 
These  are  the  only  means  I  know  of,  by  which  exhausted  lands 
can  be  recovered,  and  an  estate  rescued  from  destruction. 

Although  a  precise  number  of  tobacco  hills  is  by  my  general 
directions  allotted  to  each  plantation,  yet  my  real  intention  is,  that 
no  more  ground  shall  be  appropriated  to  this  crop,  than  what  is 
either  naturally  very  good  (for  which  purpose  small  spots  may  be 
chosen),  or  what  can  be  made  strong  by  manure  of  some  kind 
or  other  ;  for  my  object  is  to  labor  for  profit,  and  therefore  to  re- 
gard quality,  instead  of  quantity,  there  being,  except  in  the  article 
of  manuring,  no  difference  between  attending  a  good  plant  and  an 
indifferent  one.  But  in  any  event,  let  the  precise  number  of  hills 
be  ascertained,  that  an  estimate  may  be  formed  of  their  yield  to 
the  thousand. 

Being  thoroughly  convinced,  from  experience,  that  embezzle- 
ment and  waste  of  crops  (to  say  nothing  of  the  various  accidents 
to  which  they  are  liable  by  delays)  are  increased  proportionably  to 
the  time  they  are  suffered  to  remain  on  hand,  my  wish  is  as  soon  as 
circumstances  wijl  permit  after  the  grain  is  harvested,  that  it  may 
be  got  out  of  the  straw,  especially  at  the  plantations  where  there 
are  no  barns,  and  either  disposed  of  in  proper  deposits,  or  sold,  if 
it  is  wheat,  and  the  price  is  tolerable,  after  it  has  been  converted 
into  flour.  AVhen  this  work  is  set  about  as  the  sole,  or  as  a  serious 
business,  it  will  be  executed  properly.  But  when  a  little  is  done 
now,  and  a  little  then,  there  is  more  waste,  even  if  there  should  be 
no  embezzlement,  than  can  well  be  conceived. 

One  or  two  other  matters  I  beg  may  be  invariably  attended  to. 
The  first  is  to  begin  harvest  as  soon  as  the  grain  can  be  cut  with 
safety  ;  and  the  next,  to  get  it  in  the  ground  in  due  season. 
Wheat  should  be  %ovm  by  the  last  of  August  ;  at  any  rate  by  the 
10th  of  September  ;  and  other  fall  grain  as  soon  after  as  possible. 
Spring  grain  and  grass  seeds  should  be  sown  as  soon  as  the  ground 
can  possibly,  with  propriety,  be  prepared  for  their  reception. 

For  such  essential  purposes  as  9iay  absolutely  require  the  aid  o^ 


232  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

the  ditchers,  they  may  be  taken  from  that  work.  At  all  other  times 
they  must  proceed  in  the  manner,  which  has  been  directed  for- 
merly ;  and  in  making  the  new  roads  from  the  Ferry  to  the  Mill, 
and  from  the  Tumbling  Dam  across  the  Neck,  till  it  communicates 
with  the  Alexandria  road,  as  has  been  pointed  out  on  the  spot. 
The  ditch  from  the  Ferry  to  the  Mill  along  this  road  may  be  a 
common  four-feet  one.  But  from  the  Mill  to  the  Tumbling  Dam, 
and  thence  across  to  the  head  of  the  old  field  by  Muddy-Hole 
fence,  it  must  be  five  feet  wide  at  top,  but  no  deeper  than  the 
four-feet  one,  and  the  same  width  at  bottom  as  the  latter. 

After  the  carpenters  have  given  security  to  the  old  barn  in  the 
Neck,  they  must  proceed  to  the  completion  of  the  new  one  at  the 
Ferry,  according  to  the  plan  and  the  explanations,  which  have 
been  given.  Gunner  and  Davis  should  get  bricks  made  for  this 
purpose  ;  and  if  John  Knowles  could  be  spared  (his  work,  not  only 
with  respect  to  time,  but  quantity  and  quality  to  be  amply  re- 
turned) to  examine  the  bilged  walls,  and  the  security  of  them,  but 
to  level  and  lay  the  foundations  of  the  other  work,  when  the  bricks 
are  ready,  it  would  be  rendering  me  an  essential  service  ;  and,  as 
the  work  might  be  returned  in  proper  season,  would  be  no  detri- 
ment to  your  building. 

When  the  brick  work  is  executed  at  the  Ferry  Barn,  Gunner 
and  Davis  must  repair  to  Dogue  Run,  and  make  bricks  there ;  at 
the  place  and  in  the  manner,  which  have  been  directed,  that  I 
may  have  no  salmon  bricks  in  that  building. 

Oyster  shells  should  be  bought,  whenever  they  are  offered  for 
sale,  if  good  and  on  reasonable  terms. 

Such  moneys  as  you  may  receive  for  flour,  barley,  fish,  as  also 
for  other  things,  which  can  be  spared  and  sold  ;  and  for  rents,  the 
use  of  the  jacks,  &c.;  and  for  book  debts,  which  may  be  tried, 
though  little  is  expected  from  the  justice  of  those  who  have  been 
long  indulged  ;  may  be  applied  to  the  payment  of  workmen's 
wages  as  they  arise,  Fairfax,'  and  the  taxes,  and  likewise  to  the 
payment  of  any  just  debts,  which  I  may  be  owing  in  small  sums, 
and  have  not  been  able  to  discharge  previous  to  my  leaving  the 
State.     The  residue  may  await  further  orders. 

'  John  Fairfax,  one  of  his  overseers. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  233 

As  I  shall  want  shingles,  plank,  nails,  rum  for  harvest,  scantling, 
and  such  like  things,  which  would  cost  me  money  at  another  time, 
fish  may  be  bartered  for  them.  The  scantling,  if  any  is  taken, 
must  be  such  as  will  suit  for  the  bam  now  about  to  be  built,  or 
that  at  Dogue  Run,  without  waste  and  of  good  quality. 

I  find  it  is  indispensably  necessar}',  for  two  reasons,  to  save 
my  own  clover  and  timothy  seed  ;  first,  because  it  is  the  only 
certain  means  of  having  it  good  and  in  due  season  ;  and,  sec- 
ondly, because  I  find  it  is  a  heavy  article  to  purchase. 

Save  all  the  honey-locusts  you  can,  of  those  which  belong  to 
me ;  if  more  could  be  obtained,  the  better.  And,  in  the  fall, 
plant  them  on  the  ditches  where  they  are  to  remain,  about  six 
inches  apart,  one  seed  from  another. 

The  seeds,  which  are  on  the  case  in  my  study,  ought,  without 
loss  of  time,  to  be  sown  and  planted  in  my  botanical  garden,  and 
proper  memoranda  kept  of  the  times  and  places. 

You  will  use  your  best  endeavors  to  obtain  the  means  for 
support  of  G.  and  L.  Washington,  who,  I  expect,  will  board,  till 
something  further  can  be  decided  on,  with  Dr.  Craik  ;  who  must  be 
requested  to  see  that  they  are  decently  and  properly  provided  with 
clothes  from  Mr.  Porter's  store.  He  will  give  them  a  credit  on 
my  becoming  answerable  to  him  for  the  payment.  And,  as  I 
know  of  no  resource,  that  H.  has  for  supplies  but  from  me,  Fanny 
will,  from  time  to  time,  as  occasion  may  require,  have  such  things 
got  for  her,  on  my  account,  as  she  shall  judge  necessary.  Mrs. 
Washington  will,  I  expect,  leave  her  tolerably  well  provided  with 
common  articles  for  the  present. 

My  memorandum  books,  which  will  be  left  in  my  study,  will 
inform  you  of  the  times  and  places,  when,  and  where,  different 
kinds  of  wheat,  grass-seeds,  &c.,  were  sown.  Let  particular  atten- 
tion be  paid  to  the  quality  and  quantity  of  each  sort,  that  a  proper 
judgment  of  them  may  be  formed.  To  do  this,  great  care  must  be 
taken  to  prevent  mixture  of  the  several  sorts,  as  they  are  so 
contiguous  to  each  other. 

The  general  superintendence  of  my  affairs  is  all  I  require  of 
you  ;  for  it  is  neither  my  desire  nor  wish,  that  you  should  become 
a  drudge  to  it,  or  that  you  should  refrain  from  any  amusements  or 
visitings,  which  may  be  agreeable,  either  to  Fanny  or  yourself  to 


234 


THE  WRITINGS  OF 


[1792 


make  or  receive.  If  Fairfax  the  farmer,  and  Thomas  Green  on 
each  of  whom  I  have  endeavored  to  impress  a  proper  sense  of 
their  duty,  will  act  their  part  with  propriety  and  fidelity,  nothing 
more  will  be  necessary  for  you  to  do,  than  would  comport  with 
amusement  and  that  exercise  which  is  conducive  to  health.  Nor 
is  it  my  wish,  that  you  should  live  in  too  parsimonious  a  manner. 
Frugality  and  economy  are  undoubtedly  commendable,  and  all 
that  is  required.  Happily  for  this  country,  these  virtues  prevail 
more  and  more  every  day  among  all  classes  of  citizens.  I  have 
heard  of,  and  I  have  seen  with  pleasure,  a  remarkable  change  in 
the  mode  of  living  from  what  it  was  a  year  or  two  ago  ;  and  noth- 
ing but  the  event,  which  I  dreaded  would  take  place  soon,  has 
prevented  my  following  the  example.  Indeed,  necessity,  if  this 
had  not  happened,  would  have  forced  me  into  the  measure,  as  my 
means  are  not  adequate  to  the  expense  at  which  I  have  lived  since 
my  retirement  to  what  is  called  private  life.  Sincerely  wishing  you 
health  and  happiness,  I  am  ever  your  warm  friend  and  affectionate 
uncle. 

MANAGER'S  WEEKLY  REPORT. 

April  14TH,  1792. 

Meteorological  Table. 


Morninp;. 

Noon. 

Night. 

April  Wi, 

E.  Clear. 

S.  E.  Cloudy. 

S.  E.  Rain. 

"     <^th, 

S.  E.   Rain. 

S.  E.  Cloudy. 

S.  E.  Cloudy. 

"    loM, 

S.  W.  Cloudv. 

S.  W.  Rain. 

60  S.  E.  Rain. 

"    wth, 

58          E.  Rain. 

S.  E.  Rain. 

58  S.  E.  Rain. 

"     \2th, 

57    N.  E.  Rain. 

56  N.  E.  Hard  Rain 

54  N.  E.  Cloudy. 

"    '^'i^h. 

52    N.  E.  Cloudy. 

56  N.  E.  Rain. 

58  N.  E.  Rain. 

"     T^4^^i, 

54  N.  W.  Cloudy. 

58  N.W.  Cloudy. 

52  N.W.  Clear. 

Dr. 
Mansion-House  Farm  for  the  work  of  12  men,  6  boys, 

and  4  girls,  amounting  per  week  to  .... 

Cr. 
By  a  wagon  hauling  })osts  and  rails  to  Ferry-Barn  lane, 
By  do.  hauling  hay  i,  stocks  i,  timber  for  shafts  for  carts 

and  moving  park  rails  i, 

By  hauling  six  barrels  salt  to  Major  Washington's  landing, 

and  bringing  home  straw, 

By  carts  hauling  mnnure  from  Ferry  Barn  to  No.  2  French's, 


Days. 


132 


1792] 


GEORGE  WASHINGTON 


235 


By  cleaning  loose  manure  about  stables,  and  hauling  it  to 
lot  intended  for  lucerne,  ..... 

By  hauling  com  from  Ferry,  and  bran  and  meal  from  Mill 
wood  to  Mansion,    .,..,., 

By  hauling  stones  to  repair  the  crossing-place  of  Muddy- 
Hole  Swamp,  at  the  head  of  French's  meadow, 

By  Old  Jack  in  care  of  granary  6,  Old  Frank  in  care  of 
stock  6,    ........         . 

By  Peter,  in  care  of  mares,  mules,  and  jacks. 

By  Gunner  digging  brick  earth  3,  cutting  poles  to  build  a 
brick  house  2,  ....... 

By  putting  up  post-and-rail  fence  leading  to  Ferry  Bam, 

By  hauling  seine,  cleaning,  striking,  and  packing  fish. 

By  Easter  Monday,      ....... 

By  sickness  Boatswain  6,  Mima  3,  Richmond,  3,  Postilion 
Joe  3,  Synna  3,  Sam  3,  .         .         .         .         . 


12 
6 

5 

5 

41 

22 


Total,  .         .         .       132 

Increase,  2  Calves  and  2  Mules.  Received  from  Mill,  22  bush- 
els of  Meal,  and  29  bushels  of  Bran  ;  from  Ferry,  3  barrels  of 
Com.  Stock,  II  head  of  Cattle,  4  Calves,  60  Sheep,  28  Lambs,  4 
working  Mares,  4  do.  Horses,  5  Colts,  4  Spring  do.,  2  Jacks,  2  old 
Jennies,  i  do.  three  years  old,  i  do.  two  years  old,  i  do.  one  year 
old.  15  Mules,  10  one  year  old,  2  spring  do.;  and  11  Mares. 

Dr.  Days. 

Ditchers,  for  the  work  of  6  men,  amounting  per  week  to      .  36 

Cr.  

By  Baths  and  Paschal  mortising  posts  i,  fencing  Ferry- 
Barn  new  lane  4,      .......         .  10 

By  Boatswain  and  Robin  mauling  Rails  i,  and  fencing  as 

above  4,  ..........  10 

By  Charles  hauling  seine      .......  5 

By  Dundee  sawing  trunnels  with  Dogue  Run  hands,  .         .  5 

By  Easter  Monday 6 


Total,         ...         36 

N.  B.     There  has  been  almost  one  day  and  part  of  another  lost 
by  rain  this  week. 


236 


THE  WRITINGS  OF 


[1792 


Dr. 
Muddy-Hole  Farm  for  the  work  of  3  men  and  9  women 

amounting  per  week  to    . 
Cr. 
By  listing  in  No.  2,     ......         , 

By  a  cart  hauling  stakes  and  trunnels  to  the  fence  between 

Nos.  I  and  7,  ....... 

By  hauling  rails  to  No.  i  Lane  fence, 

By  raising  the  bank  with  a  plough  and  hoes  between  No.  i 

and  No.  7, 

By  putting  up  fences  on  said  bank  19,  cutting  stakes  and 

trunnels  for  do.  7,    . 
By  taking  down  and  new  setting  the  Lane  fence  of  No.  i 
By  Easter  Monday,     ....... 

By  sickness,  Kate  3,  Amy  2,  Molly  3,  .         .         . 


Days. 

72 


26 

7 


72 


Total, 

Received  from  Mill  6  bushels  of  Meal,  and  6  bushels  of  Rye 
Meal. — Stock,  37  head  of  cattle,  5  Calves,  30  Sheep,  8  working 
Horses,  and  i  Mule. 

Dr. 

Ferry  and  French's  Farms  for  the  work  of  7  men,  16 

women,  and  4  boys,  amounting  per  week  to     . 
Cr. 
By  listing  new  ground  in  French's  meadow. 
By  carts  hauling  stakes,  rails,  and  trunnels  to  different  fences, 
By  hauling  manure  to  No.  2  French's  3,  hauling  corn  to 

Mill  I, 

By  repairing   fences,  34,  burning   logs  and   brush  in  the 

swamp,  30,       .         .         . 
By  heaping  manure  4,  beating   out   corn  4,  cutting   and 

mauling  stakes  and  trunnels  4,         ....         . 
By  spinning  3,  hauling  seine  5,  French's  Tom  at  Mansion- 

House  5,  ......... 

By  Easter  Monday, 

By  sickness,  Doll  6,  Old  Daph  5,  Betty  4,  Rose  3,  Delia  2, 


Days. 

162 

16 
6 

4 
64 


Total, 


162 


1792] 


GEORGE  WASHINGTON. 


237 


Increase  2  Calves,  and  5  Lambs. — Received  from  Mill,  i2\ 
bushels  of  Meal,  sent  do.  54  bushels  of  Com.  To  Mansion- 
House  3  barrels  of  do.  feed  to  Horses  i  barrel  of  do. — Stock, 
83  head  of  Cattle,  5  Calves,  136  Sheep,  60  Lambs,  16  working 
Horses,  and  2  Mules. 


Dr. 
River  Farm  for  the  work  of  9  men,  18  women,  and  i  girl, 

amounting  per  week  to    ......         . 

Cr. 
By  listing  in  No.  6,      .....         . 

By  carts  hauling  manure  on  do.. 

By  hauling  rails  2,  going  to  Mill  i,     . 

By  loading  carts  with  manure  6,  cutting  straw  3, 

By  plashing  thorn  hedge  4,  repairing  the  bank  of  Lane 

fence  No.  6,  2, 
By  stopping  hog-hole  in  do.  6,  putting  up  new  fence  next 

to  the  woods  of  do.  18,    . 
By  cutting  cornstalks,  and  getting  them  off, 
Lost  by  rain,  or  very  little  done. 

By  Easter  Monday 

By  Cornelia  in  childbed      .... 

Total, 

Increase,  2  Calves. — Received  from  Mill,  9^  bushels  of  Meal, 
and  10  bushels  of  Rye  Meal. — Stock,  83  head  of  Cattle,  5  Calves, 
221  Sheep,  45  Lambs,  4  working  Mares,  13  working  Horses,  and 
I  Mule. 


Days. 

168 

10 
6 
3 
9 


24 
56 
20 
28 
6 

168 


Dr. 
DoGUE-RuN  Farm  for  the  work  of  6  men,  8  women,  and 

2  girls,  amounting  per  week  to         ...         . 
Cr. 
By  listing  in  No.  2,  5,  by  ploughing  in  Mill  meadow  2, 
By  raising  a  bank  with  a  plough  and  hoes  in  Mill  meadow 

for  the  fence, 

By   sawing   trunnels   5,   mauling   do.    5,    cutting  in   Mill 

meadow  2,       ..,,...,         ^ 
By  repairing  fence  around  the  middle  meadow, . 


Days. 
96 


19 

12 

10 


238 


THE  WRITINGS  OF 


[1792 


By  repairing  fence  around  No.  2,  7,  by  spinning  2, 

By  hauling  post  and  rails  to  Ferry-Barn  new  lane, 

By  hauling  rails  to  Mill  meadow  fence, 

By  hauling  rails  to  the  middle  meadow  fence. 

By  Easter  Monday,      ..... 

By  sickness,  Grace  3,  Molly  3,  Sail  3,  Cicely  4, 

Total, 


9 
5 
3 
2 
16 
i;5 


96 


Received  from  Mill,  6|  bushels  of  Meal. — Stock,  57  head  of 
Cattle,  I  Calf,  124  Sheep,  9  working  Horses,  and  i  Mule. 


Dr.  Days. 

Joiners  and  Carpenters  for  the  work  of  6  men  and  2 

boys,  amounting  per  week  to  .         .         .         .         .         ,  48 

Cr.  

By  Thomas  Green  making  sashes  for  the  new  quarter,         .  5 

By  Mahony  putting  up  the  berths  in  do 5 

By  Isaac  making  and  mending  ploughs  4,  getting  ash  for 

rake-handles  i,         .......         .  5 

By  Jam  making  a  new  cart  and  shafts,  and  getting  beach 

stocks  for  planes,     ........  5 

By  Sambo  and  David  sawing  gate  stuff  2,  getting  stocks  and 

ash  for  rake-handles,  6, 8 

By  Sambo  ripping  plank  on  account  of  rain,        ...  i 

By  David  with  Isaac  on  account  of  do.,       ....  i 

By  Joe  planing  plank, 5 

By  Christopher  at  do.  4,  and  i  day  with  the  wagon,    .         .  5 

By  Easter  Monday, 8 

Total,         ...  48 


Dr.      Mill  for  Sundries. 


Ferry  and  French's, 
Toll  Corn  received, 

Total  received, 

Toll  Corn  ground,    . 


Corn. 
53 

62  J 
56 


Cr. 


By  Dogue-Run  Plantation, 
By  River  Plantation,     . 
By  Muddy  Hole,  . 
By  Ferry  and  French's, 
By  Mansion  House, 

Total  delivered, 
By  Coopers  and  Miller, 


Meal. 

Kran. 

Rye 
Meal. 

■     6| 

•      9j 

10 

.     6 

6 

•    12} 

.    22 

.    56J 

20 

16 

.       I 

1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  239 

LETTERS   TO   ANTHONY   WHITING,    1 792.' 

I  would  have  the  gardener  also,  with  these  people,  if  the  autumn 
is  a  proper  season  for  it,  if  not,  without  fail,  in  the  Spring,  plant 
cuttings  of  the  weeping  willow,  yellow  willow  or  Lombardy  pop- 
lar, preferring  the  first  and  last  mentioned,  at  a  distance  of  a  foot 
or  18  inches  apart  from  the  Smith's  shop,  quite  as  the  post  and 
rail  fence  runs  around  both  these  inclosures  ; — and  also  the  vine 
yard  inclosure  ; — also  that  lately  sown  in  Lucern  from  the  ster- 
corary  to  the  river  fence  ;  that  by  ent^nning  them  as  they  grow  up 
I  may  have  a  substitute  for  the  fences  that  are  now  there.  To  do 
this,  is  of  the  utmost  importance  to  my  interest ;  as  it  also  is  in  a 
more  essential  degree,  to  supply  by  hedges  of  this,  or  some  other 
kind  all  my  other  fences  ;  as  well  the  exterior  ones  as  those  which 
separate  the  different  fields  from  one  another.  I  have  labored  to 
effect  this  latter  point  for  years.  I  have  pressed  it,  and  pressed  it 
again,  but,  strange  to  tell  !  the  season  has  either  been  suffered  to 
pass  away  before  it  is  set  about  ;  or  it  has  either  been  set  about 
improperly  ;  or  no  care  has  been  taken  afterwards  to  preserve  and 
nourish  the  young  plants  so  as  to  fit  them  for  the  purpose  they 
were  intended.  Let  me  therefore  in  the  strongest  terms  possible, 
call  your  attention  to  this  business,  as  one,  than  which  nothing  is 
nearer  both  to  my  interest  and  wishes  ;  first,  because  it  is  indis- 
pensably necessary  to  save  timber  and  labor  ;  and  secondly, 
because  it  is  ornamental  to  the  farm,  and  reputable  to  the 
farmer.     *     *     * 

Let  the  hands  at  the  Mansion  House  grub  well,  and  perfectly 
prepare  the  old  clover  lot  at  the  Mansion  House  for  whatever  you 
may  incline  to  put  into  it,  preparatory  for  grass,  with  which  it  is  to 
be  laid  down,  ^\'hen  I  say  grub  well,  I  mean  that  ever)'thing, 
which  is  not  to  remain  as  trees,  should  be  taken  up  by  the  roots, 
so  as  that  the  plow  may  meet  with  no  interruption,  and  the  field 
lye  perfectly  smooth  for  the  scythe.  Let  this,  I  earnestly  request, 
be  received  as  a  general  and  positive  direction  ;  for  I  seriously  as- 

'  Formerly  manager  for  General  Cadwalader.  In  1790  he  agreed  to  ser^e  as 
overseer  to  two  of  Washington's  farms,  known  as  the  Ferry  and  French's,  for 
an  annual  salary  of  forty  guineas,  with  certain  allowances  of  produce  and  the 
use  of  a  boy  or  girl  to  cook  for  him. 


240  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

sure  you,  that  I  had  rather  have  one  acre  cleared  in  this  manner, 
than  four  in  the  common  mode  ;  especially  in  all  grounds  designed 
for  grass  ;  and  for  the  reasons  which  I  have  often  mentioned  to 
you.  It  is  a  great  and  very  disagreeable  eye-sore  to  me,  as  well  as 
a  real  injury  in  the  loss  of  labor  and  the  crop  (ultimately),  and  the 
destruction  of  scythes,  to  have  foul  meadows.     *     *     * 

Although  it  is  last  mentioned  it  is  foremost  in  my  thoughts,  to 
desire. you  will  be  particularly  attentive  to  my  negros  in  their  sick- 
ness ;  and  to  order  every  overseer  positively  to  be  so  likewise  ;  for 
I  am  sorry  to  observe  that  the  generality  of  them  view  these  poor 
creatures  in  scarcely  any  other  light  than  they  do  a  draught  horse 
or  ox  ;  neglecting  them  as  much  when  they  are  unable  to  work  ; 
instead  of  comforting  and  nursing  them  when  they  lye  on  a  sick 
bed.  I  lost  more  negros  last  winter  than  I  had  done  in  1 2  or  15  years 
before,  put  them  altogether.  If  their  disorders  are  not  common, 
and  the  mode  of  treating  them  plain,  simple  and  well  understood, 
send  for  Doctor  Craik  in  time.  In  the  last  stage  of  the  complaint 
it  is  unavailing  to  do  it.     It  is  incurring  an  expense  for  nothing. 

I  shall  now  briefly  say,  that  the  trust  I  have  reposed  in  you  is 
great,  and  my  confidence  that  you  will  faithfully  discharge  it,  is 
commensurate  thereto.  I  am  persuaded  of  your  abilities,  industry 
and  integrity  ;  cautioning  you  only  against  undertaking  more  than 
you  can  execute  well,  under  almost  any  circumstances,  and  against 
(but  this  I  have  no  cause  to  suspect)  being  absent  from  your  busi- 
ness ;  as  the  example,  be  it  good  or  bad,  will  be  followed  by  all 
those  who  look  up  to  you.  Keep  every  one  in  their  places,  and  to 
their  duty  ;  relaxation  from,  or  neglects  in  small  matters,  lead  to 
like  attempts  in  matters  of  greater  magnitude,  and  are  often  trials 
in  the  under-overseers  to  see  how  far  they  durst  go.  *  *  * 
14  October,  1792. 

*  *  *  It  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  that  the  field  No.  7  at  the 
River  Plantation  should  want  a  new  post  and  rail  fence,  when  it 
is  seen  what  kind  my  people  make  (in  spite  of  all  I  can  do  to  pre- 
vent it)  ;  that  is,  posts  when  morticed  that  a  strong  man  could 
break  across  his  knee,  and  rails  so  long,  and  so  weak,  as  to  warp 
or  be  unable  to  bear  the  weight  of  a  child  in  getting  over  them. 
This  custom  I  hope  you  will  get  the  better  of.     *     *     * 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  241 

I  suppose  it  was  owing  to  the  hurry  and  distress  in  which  Mrs. 
Fanny  Washington  was  at  the  time  she  left  Mount  Vernon  that  a 
little  wine,  &c.,  was  not  left  out  for  extraordinary  occasions  ;  be- 
cause I  know  it  was  intended — but  not  for  sick  negros,  unless  it 
might  be  in  particular  cases  which  rendered  it  indispensably  neces- 
sary ;  for  Dr.  Craik  never  practiced  anything  of  this  kind  when 
Mrs.  Washington  and  myself  were  at  home,  or  even  suggested  it  as 
necessary.  Nor  was  it  my  intention  to  leave  it  for  the  purpose  of 
entertaining  travellers,  because  there  is  a  striking  impropriety  in 
travellers  making  use  of  it  as  a  house  of  convenience,  knowing,  as 
they  certainly  must  do,  that  neither  my  family  nor  the  Major's,  is 
there  ;  and  when  it  is  far  removed  from  the  post,  or  any  other 
public  road.  And  if  people  were  led  there  by  curiosity,  as  soon 
as  that  was  satisfied,  they  would  retire,  without  expecting,  under 
the  circumstances  just  mentioned,  to  be  invited  to  lodge,  dine,  or 
spend  their  time  there.  However,  as  it  may  happen  that  charac- 
ters to  whom  one  would  wish  to  shew  civility,  and  others,  that  may 
have  a  line  from  me  (as  was  the  case  the  other  day  with  the 
Hon'ble  Judge  Gushing)  may  call  there,  I  shall,  by  a  vessel  which 
will  leave  this  according  to  the  master's  account  on  Thursday 
next,  send  you  a  little  wine,  tea  and  coffee,  along  with  the  iron, 
and  some  things  which  will  accompany  it. 

When  I  recommended  care  of,  and  attention  to  my  negros  in 
sickness,  it  was  that  the  first  stage  of,  and  the  whole  progress 
through  the  disorders  with  which  they  might  be  seized  (if  more 
than  a  slight  indisposition)  should  be  closely  watched,  and  timely 
applications  and  remedies  be  administered  ;  especially  in  the 
pleurisies,  and  all  inflammatory  disorders  accompanied  with  pain, 
when  a  few  days'  neglect,  or  want  of  bleeding,  might  render  the 
ailment  incurable.  In  such  cases  sweeten'd  teas,  broths  and  (ac- 
cording to  the  nature  of  the  complaint,  and  the  doctor's  prescrip- 
tion) sometimes  a  little  wine,  may  be  necessary  to  nourish  and 
restore  the  patient ;  and  these  I  am  perfectly  willing  to  allow, 
when  it  is  really  requisite.  My  fear  is,  as  I  expressed  to  you  in  a 
former  letter,  that  the  under  overseers  are  so  unfeeling,  in  short 
viewing  the  negros  in  no  other  light  than  as  a  better  kind  of  cattle, 
the  moment  they  cease  to  work,  they  cease  their  care  of  them. 

*     *     *     28  October,  1792. 
16 


242  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

I  was  very  glad  to  receive  your  letter  of  the  31st  ultimo,  be- 
cause I  was  afraid,  from  the  accounts  given  me  of  your  spitting 
blood,  by  my  nephews  George  and  Lawrence  Washington,  that 
you  would  hardly  have  been  able  to  have  written  at  all.  And  it 
is  my  request  that  you  will  not,  by  attempting  more  than  you  are 
able  to  undergo,  with  safety  and  convenience,  injure  yourself,  and 
thereby  render  me  a  disservice.  For  if  this  should  happen  under 
present  circumstances,  my  affairs,  in  the  absence  of  both  the 
Major  and  myself,  will  be  thrown  into  a  disagreeable  situation.  I 
had  rather  therefore  hear  that  you  had  nursed  than  exposed  your- 
self. And  the  things  which  I  sent  from  this  place  (I  mean  the 
wine,  tea,  coffee  and  sugar),  and  such  other  matters  as  you  may  lay 
in  by  the  doctor's  directions  for  the  use  of  the  sick,  I  desire  you  will 
make  use  of  as  your  own  personal  occasions  may  require.   *    *    * 

It  would  be  difficult  for  me,  if  I  was  ever  so  well  disposed,  to 
procure  the  full  quantity  of  clover  seed  mentioned  in  your  memo- 
randum, as  it  is  (from  such  information  as  I  have  received)  both 
scarce  and  dear  in  these  parts.  But  while  I  am  on  this  subject,  I 
beg  that  whatever  you  do  sow  (if  covered  at  all)  may  be  very 
slightly  covered.  Harrowing  clover  seed,  in  the  vicinity  of  this 
city  [Philadelphia],  is  quite  disused,  and  I  never  saw  better  clover 
any  where  than  is  about  it.  Five  or  six  pounds  of  seed,  if  they 
can  depend  upon  its  goodness,  is  all  they  allow  to  an  acre,  and  in 
no  case  more  than  10  lbs.,  or  as  many  pints.  I  mention  these 
things  for  your  government ;  and  that  from  experience  they  find 
no  better  season  for  sowing  than  towards  the  last  of  winter,  or 
opening  of  the  spring,  on  winter  grain,  leaving  it  to  the  snow  or 
frosts  to  bury  the  seeds.     *     *     * 

Doll  at  the  Ferry  must  be  taught  to  knit,  and  made  to  do  a 
sufficient  day's  work  of  it — otherwise  (if  suffered  to  be  idle)  many 
more  will  walk  in  her  steps.  Lame  Peter,  if  no  body  else  will,  must 
teach  her,  and  she  must  be  brought  to  the  house  for  that  purpose. 

Tell  house  Frank  I  expect  he  will  lay  up  a  more  plentious  store 
of  the  black  common  walnut  than  he  usually  does.  Nor  ought 
he  to  spend  his  time  wholly  in  idlene.ss.     4  November,  1792. 

*  *  *  I  send  you  also,  under  cover  with  this  letter,  some 
seeds,  which  were  given  to  me  by  an  English  farmer  from  the 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  243 

county  of  Essex,  in  England,  lately  arrived  in  this  country  to 
settle,  and  who  appears  to  be  a  very  sensible  and  judicious  man, 
and  a  person  of  property.  He  also  gave  me  a  pamphlet  upon  the 
construction  of  the  kind  of  plough,  which  he  has  used  for  many 
years  ;  and  the  principles  for  putting  the  parts  together,  to  make 
it  work  true  and  easy,  which  I  will  send  to  you  so  soon  as  I  shall 
receive  it  from  a  gentlemen  to  whom  I  lent  it.  The  plough  is 
simple  in  its  make.  The  oats,  which  he  gave  me  as  a  sample, 
exceed  very  little,  if  any,  what  I  have  grown  myself.  They  may, 
however,  in  the  spring  be  put  into  the  ground  by  single  seeds,  to 
try  what  can  be  made  of  them.  The  cattle  cabbage  may  also  be 
tried. 

Mr.  Lambert,  the  name  of  the  farmer  from  whom  I  had  these 
things,  says  that  the  land,  on  which  he  and  his  father  before  him 
have  lived  for  fifty  or  sixty  years,  is  a  stiff  white  clay  ;  and, 
being  at  a  distance  from  any  source  of  manure,  besides  that 
which  is  made  on  the  farm,  they  have  pursued  a  different  mode 
of  cropping  from  that  which  is  usually  followed  in  England  ; 
and  by  so  doing,  with  the  aid  of  the  internal  manure  of  the  farm, 
they  have  brought  their  poor,  stiff  land,  which  originally  did  not 
yield  them  more  than  five  or  six  bushels  of  wheat  to  the  acre, 
and  other  grain  in  proportion,  to  produce  very  generally  from 
twenty-five  to  thirty  of  wheat,  and  from  forty  to  fifty  of  bar- 
ley. Their  method  has  been  to  keep  the  arable  land  always 
perfectly  clean,  and  alternately  in  crop  or  fallow  ;  that  is,  to 
take  a  corn  crop  from  it  one  year,  and  have  it  under  the  plough 
in  a  naked  fallow,  by  way  of  preparation  for  the  next  crop,  the 
next  year  ;  beginning  this  fallow  in  the  autumn,  when  the  ground 
is  dry,  again  in  the  spring,  as  soon  as  it  becomes  dry,  and  three  or 
four  times  after,  before  seeding  for  wheat  (if  wheat  is  the  crop)  ; 
never  ploughing  it  wet,  which  is  the  cause,  he  says,  of  its  run- 
ning. He  seems  to  understand  the  principles  as  well  as  the 
practice  of  husbandry,  being  a  sensible  man,  and  inured  for  a 
number  of  years  (I  suppose  he  is  sixty)  to  the  labor  and  practice 
of  it.  He  has  travelled  a  good  deal  about  this  country,  and  is  of 
opinion  that  our  great  error  lies  in  not  keeping  our  arable  land 
clean,  and  free  from  weeds.  I  observed  to  him,  that  the  people 
of  this  country  are  of  opinion,  that  naked  fallows  under  our  hot 


244  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

sun  are  injurious.  He  will  not  by  any  means  admit  the  principle 
or  the  fact  ;  but  ascribes  the  impoverished  state  of  our  lands  and 
bad  crops  to  the  weeds  which  he  everywhere  sees,  and  which  both 
exhaust  and  foul  it.  By  constant  ploughing,  these,  he  says,  are 
eradicated  ;  and  when  the  fields  come  to  be  laid  in  grass,  which 
is  sown,  the  hay  will  be  pure  and  unmixed  with  any  thing  hurtful 
to  it.     *     *     * 

Desire  Thomas  Green  to  date  his  reports.  That  of  the  week 
before  last  I  send  back  for  explanation  of  his  measurement  of 
the  sawing.  I  fancy  it  will  puzzle  him  to  make  out  508  feet  in 
the  twenty-four  plank  there  set  down  ;  for,  as  plank,  length  and 
breadth  only  could  be  measured.  This  would  amount  to  no  more 
than  296  feet.  As  scantling,  length  and  side  and  edge  would  be 
measured,  and  this  would  give  only  about  310  or  312  feet.  If  he 
goes  on  at  this  rate,  he  will,  in  appearance,  amend  their  work, 
though  it  will  not  in  reality  be  any  better.  But,  admitting  that 
the  true  admeasurement  was  508  feet,  this  would  make  but  a 
miserable  quantity  for  the  time  they  were  about  it.  That  these 
people  (sawyers  I  mean)  may  have  no  pretence  for  such  idleness, 
not  only  get  them  two  saws,  but  let  them  be  of  the  largest  and 
best  kind.     *     *     * 

How  does  your  growing  wheat  look  at  this  time  ?  I  hope  no 
appearance  of  the  Hessian  fly  is  among  it.  On  Patuxent,  not 
far  from  you,  I  am  told  it  is  making  such  havoc  amongst  the 
growing  wheat,  as  to  render  it  necessary  to  sow  over  again.  I 
am  sorry  to  find  No.  i,  at  French's,  turn  out  so  poor  a  crop  of 
wheat,  and  that  the  fields  at  Muddy  Hole  have  yielded  still  worse. 
How  much  wheat  at  that  place  came  off  the  lot  by  the  overseer's 
house  ? 

In  ploughing  fields  No.  3  and  No.  4,  Dogue  Run,  let  them  be 
so  begun  as  that  the  rows  when  planted  may  run  north  and  south, 
or  as  nearly  so  as  the  situation  of  the  fields  will  admit. 

In  making  your  weekly  reports,  instead  of  referring  to  the 
preceding  week  or  weeks,  for  the  state  of  your  stock  of  different 
kinds,  enumerate  the  number  of  each.  I  shall  have  it  in  my 
power  then  to  see  at  one  view  the  precise  state  of  it  without 
resorting  to  old  accounts.  And  let  me  entreat,  that  you  will 
examine  them  yourself,  frequently,  as  a  check  upon  the  over- 
seers ;  without  which,  rather  than  be  themselves  at  the  trouble 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  245 

of  counting   them,  they   will   make   you   that  kind   of   general 
report.     *     *     * 

P.  S.  In  clearing  the  wood,  mark  a  road  by  an  easy  and 
graduated  ascent  from  the  marsh  or  low  ground,  up  the  hollow 
which  leads  into  the  lot  beyond  the  fallen  chestnut,  about  midway 
of  the  lot  ;  and  leave  the  trees  standing  thick  on  both  sides  of  it, 
for  a  shade  to  it.  On  the  west  side  of  this  hollow,  if  I  recollect 
rightly,  there  was  an  old  road  formerly,  but  not  laid  out  agreeably 
to  the  directions  here  given.  It  would  look  well,  and  perhaps 
might  be  convenient,  if  there  was  a  road  on  both  sides  of  this 
hollow,  notwithstanding  the  hill-side  on  the  east  is  steep.  At  any 
rate,  trees  where  the  road  would  go,  if  made,  might  be  left  for 
future  decision,  as  they  might  also  be  along  the  side  of  the  low 
land  at  the  foot  of  the  hill  quite  from  the  wharf  to  the  gate  by 
Richard's  house.  If  that  meadow  should  ever  be  thoroughly 
reclaimed,  and  in  good  grass,  a  walk  along  the  edge  of  it  would 
be  an  agreeable  thing  ;  and  leaving  trees  for  this  purpose  may  not 
be  amiss,  as  they  may  at  any  time  be  removed,  although  time 
only  can  restore  them  if  taken  away  in  the  first  instance.  And 
this  would  be  a  good  general  rule  for  you  to  observe  in  other 
parts  of  the  same  ground  ;  as,  if  too  thick,  they  can  always  be 
thinned  ;  but,  if  too  thin,  there  is  no  remedy  but  time  to  retrieve 
the  error,     n  November,  1792. 

Your  letter  of  the  9th  came  to  my  hands  last  night,  and  though 
I  am  much  hurried  will  briefly  observe  that  I  had  rather  repair  my 
seins  and  fish  myself,  than  hire  the  landing  with  the  negros.  If  a 
good  price  could  be  obtained  for  the  landing  without  the  negros, 
and  an  express  prohibition  of  wagons  coming  thither,  I  should  like 
and  would  prefer  that.  But  at  any  rate  repair  and  keep  the  seins 
dry  and  out  of  the  way  of  mice,  that  you  may  have  an  alternative. 
In  the  meanwhile  give  it  out,  and  make  it  as  public  as  you  can, 
that  the  landing  alone,  or  landing  and  boat  (with  the  prohibition 
above)  is  to  be  rented  ;  but  that  the  person  renting  it  is  to  furnish 
me  with  a  certain  quantity  of  shad  and  herring,  to  be  specified 
in  the  early  part  of  the  season.  Or  if  the  boat  is  reserved,  I 
could  easily  catch  what  fish  I  should  want  at  the  landing  by  Bish- 
op's house,  which  used  to  be,  and  no  doubt  still  is,  a  good  fishery. 
*     *     *     14  November,  1792. 


246  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

*  *  *  As  you  think  (as  I  do  also)  that  the  new  part  of  the 
old  clover  lot  at  the  Mansion  House  had  better  be  in  potatoes, 
perhaps  it  would  be  well  to  apply  those  you  have  to  this  purpose  ; 
and  instead  of  cultivating  field  No.  4  at  Dogue  Run  in  this  article, 
let  it  lay  over,  and  in  lieu  thereof,  fallow  (with  buckwheat  for 
manure)  No  i.  at  that  place,  for  wheat.  This  is  the  rotation  I 
had  marked  out  for  that  plantation  before  you  suggested  potatoes 
for  No.  4  next  year.  By  this  alteration  the  last  mentioned  field 
will,  as  was  intended,  come  into  corn  in  1794  ;  succeeding  No.  3, 
which  will  be  in  that  article  next  year,  and  succeeded  by  No.  5 
the  year  following,  that  is  in  1795,  and  so  on,  bringing  them  all 
on  with  corn,  in  the  order  of  their  numbers.  And  this,  consider- 
ing you  have  not  a  sufficiency  of  potatoes  for  both  purposes  (and 
I  find  it  too  expensive,  and  too  much  unlike  a  farmer  to  be  always 
upon  the  purchase  of  my  seeds),  and  that  by  the  double  dressing 
with  green  manure  may  be  got  in  fine  order  for  wheat,  if  you  can 
prepare  and  sow  it  with  buckwheat  early  in  the  Spring,  to  be 
plowed  in  before  harvest,  when  seed  enough  is  ripe  to  bring  for- 
ward a  second  crop  for  plowing  in  timously  for  wheat  seeding.  I 
feel  more  inclination  for  the  adoption  of  this  plan  than  I  do  for 
planting  No.  4.  at  Dogue  Run  with  the  potatoes  you  have,  espe- 
cially as  the  quantity  on  hand  are  inadequate  to  the  demands  of 
that  field,  and  because  they  are  at  the  Mansion  House  in  readi- 
ness for  the  other  purpose.     *     *     * 

I  am  very  willing,  nay  desirous,  that  part  of  the  vineyard  in- 
closure  should  be  appropriated  to  raising  any  and  all  kind  of 
plants  fit  for  hedging,  or  to  repair  hedges.  Those  of  the  most 
valuable  and  scarcer  kind  of  plants  for  this  purpose  may  receive 
nourishment  in  my  little  garden,  as  the  firze,  for  instance.  But 
I  am  of  opinion  that  all  such  hedges  as  are  to  be  raised  from  the 
seed,  for  instance,  cedar,  honey  locust,  white  thorn,  sycamore, 
&c.  &c.,  had  better  be  sown  in  places  where  they  are  to  remain, 
having  the  ground  well  prepared  previous  to  the  reception  of  it, 
and  well  attended  to  afterwards,  for  I  have  been  very  unsuccessful 
in  all  my  transplantation.     *     *     * 

I  perceive  by  the  last  report  that  8  sheep  are  missing,  but  that 
it  is  not  known  whether  taken  from  Dogue  Run,  or  the  Ferry,  or 
French's.     This  confirms  what  I  observed  to  you,  in  my  last,  or 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  247 

one  of  my  last  letters,  viz,  that  the  overseers  know  very  little  of 
what  relates  to  their  own  stock,  giving  in  the  number  from  old 
reports  instead  of  from  actual  weekly  counting  ;  by  which  means 
half  my  stock  may  be  stolen,  or  eaten,  before  they  are  missed  : — 
whereas  a  weekly,  or  even  a  more  frequent  count  of  the  sheep,  and 
inspection  of  the  hogs  (articles  most  likely  to  be  depredated  upon) 
would  prevent,  or  if  not  prevent,  enable  them  to  pursue  while  the 
scent  was  hot,  those  atrocious  villainies,  and  either  bring  them  to 
light  or  so  alarm  the  perpetrators  of  them,  as  to  make  them  less 
frequent.  As  the  overseers,  I  believe,  conduct  matters,  a  sheep 
or  hog  or  two,  may  every  week  be  taken  without  suspicion  of  it 
for  months.  An  enquiry  then  comes  too  late  ;  and  I  shall  have 
to  submit  to  one  robbery  after  another,  until  I  shall  have  nothing 
left  to  be  robbed  of.     *     *     * 

It  is  now,  I  believe,  ten  or  1 2  months  ago,  since  I  desired  that 
ten  or  12  shoats  might  be  put  into  a  stye,  as  soon  as  they  were 
weaned,  and  well  fed  ;  to  see  what  they  could  be  brought  to  at  a 
year  old  (keeping  an  exact  account  of  the  expence),  but  whether 
it  was  ever  done,  or  what  the  result  of  it  was,  I  know  not.  I  wish 
however  that  directions  of  this  kind  may  be  always  duly  attended 
[to].  Few  things  will  bear  delay,  but  those  of  experiment  worst 
of  all  ;  as  it  defeats  the  ascertaining  of  facts  which  might  be  of 
infinite  importance,  as  in  this  very  instance  ;  for  as  the  case  now 
is,  I  am  raising  hogs  to  a  certain  age  for  others,  not  for  myself. 
Whereas,  if  this  method  would  succeed,  a  stye  by  a  house  could 
not  be  robbed,  and  fewer  sows  would  raise  more  hogs,  and  I  be- 
lieve at  infinite  less  expence.  I  am  your  friend  and  well  wisher. 
25  November,  1792. 

*  *  *  You  were  perfectly  right  in  discharging  Jones.*  He 
always  appeared  to  me  to  be  incapable  of  the  management  of  a 
plantation  from  his  want  of  capacity  ;  but  for  his  insolent  and 

'  Henry  Jones,  overseer  of  the  Dogue  Run  plantation.  He  agreed  not  to 
absent  himself  from  said  plantation  without  permission  ;  to  obey  all  orders  and 
directions  ;  to  be  particularly  attentive  to  the  stock  of  every  kind,  and  "  in  a 
particular  manner  will  attend  to  the  plow  horses  and  working  oxen,  to  see  that 
their  allowance  is  given  them  in  due  season  and  without  embezzlement  or  waste. 
.  .  .  That  he  will  discourage  company  from  resorting  to  the  plantation, 
unless  it  may  be  his  relatives  now  and  then,  and  will  prevent  all  gunning  and 


248  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 


wilful  neglects,  there  can  be  no  excuse  ;  and  he  would  meet  with 
no  more  than  his  deserts  if  he  was  made  to  pay  for  the  damage 
my  wheat  fields  have  sustained  :  for  he  had  sufficient  warn- 
ing from  myself,  before  I  left  home,  to  guard  him  against  this 
evil.  It  is  to  such  inattention,  and  want  of  exertion,  together 
with  the  opportunities  that  are  given  to  my  negros,  that  robberies 
have  got  to  the  height  they  are.  If  some  of  the  nights  in  which 
these  overseers  are  frolicking  at  the  expense  of  my  business  and 
to  the  destruction  of  my  horses,  were  spent  in  watching  the  barns, 
visiting  the  negro  quarters  at  unexpected  hours,  waylaying  the 
roads,  or  contriving  some  device  by  which  the  receivers  of  stolen 
goods  might  be  entrapped,  and  the  facts  proved  upon  them,  it 
would  be  no  more  than  the  performance  of  a  duty  which  I  have  a 
right  to  expect  for  the  wages  they  draw  from  me  ;  and  it  would 
redound  much  more  to  their  own  credit  and  reputation  as  good 
and  faithful  overseers  than  running  about.     *     *     * 

That  you  may  never  forget  directions  that  are  given,  it  would 
be  well  to  extract  them  from  my  letters,  and  place  them  in  a 
pocket  memorandum  book,  that  they  may  be  easily  and  frequently 
resorted  to  ;  without  this,  they  may  when  a  letter  is  laid  by  go  out 
of  your  mind,  to  my  disappointment.  And  I  would  have  nothing 
left  undone  which  is  required  to  be  done,  without  being  informed 
of  it,  and  the  reasons  assigned,  that  I  may  judge  of  their 
weight.     *     *     * 

In  one  of  my  last  letters,  I  think  I  desired  (I  know  I  intended 
to  do  it)  that  you  would,  after  you  had  finally  designated  the 
Mansion  House  gang,  keep  them  steadily  at  work  at  that  place, 
suffering  them  on  no  occasion  (unless  very  immergent  ones)  to  be 
sent  to  any  of  the  plantations  to  work.  For  besides  loosing  much 
time  in  marching  and  countermarching,  it  weakens  the  exertion, 
and  destroys  the  ambition  of  the  different  overseers  to  excel  one 

fowling  within  his  inclosurcs.  .  .  .  That  he  will  provide  in  due  season 
meal  for  the  negros,  and  see  it  regularly  delivered  to  them,  and  also  that  they 
have  (if  butter  is  made)  the  butter  milk  after  the  milk  is  churned  ;  and  when 
occasion  requires  it  for  sick  persons  or  negro  children,  that  they  moreover  have 
sweet  milk  given  them.  That  he  will  be  very  careful  of  the  negros  in  sickness 
.  .  and  to  sum  up  the  whole,  that  he  will  act  the  part  of  a  sober  and 
industrious  man."  Me  received  for  this  thirty  pounds  Virginia  currency  a  year, 
;ind  certain  farm  produce. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  249 

another  in  the  good  condition  of  their  respective  plantations, 
when  by  extraneous  force  they  are  relieved  from  difficulties  which, 
more  than  probable,  their  own  idleness  has  been  the  cause  of.  I 
can  conceive  nothing  except  ditching  (which  is  a  kind  of  trade) 
that  the  hands  of  every  plantation  are  not  competent  to,  and 
should  be  made  to  execute.     *     *     * 

Perhaps  you  may  not  know  that  if  the  Thursday  post  (which 
leaves  Alexandria  before  day)  is  missed,  no  letter  if  sent  to  the 
ofl&ce  even  half  an  hour  afterwards,  will  reach  this  place  before 
Tuesday  afternoon.  Tuesday's  post  from  that  place  reaches  this 
on  Thursdays,  Thursday's  comes  in  on  Saturdays,  and  Saturday's 
not  till  Tuesdays,  on  account  of  Sundays  intervening.  You  will 
see  by  this  the  necessity  of  sending  up  your  reports  in  time  always 
on  Wednesdays.  It  is  more  convenient  for  me  to  receive  them  on 
Saturdays  than  any  other  day,  because  between  that  and  the  de- 
parture of  the  post  on  Monday,  which  gets  into  Alexandria  on 
Wednesday,  I  can  write  with  less  interruption  than  at  any  other 
time.     2  December,  1792. 

*  *  *  Put  long  litter  against  the  cellar  windows  ;  Frank 
knows  how,  and  should  be  made  to  do  it,  as  well  as  the  other 
things  ;  otherwise  he  will  be  ruined  by  idleness.  And  can  Lucy 
find  sufficient  employment  in  the  kitchen  ?  It  was  expected  her 
leizure  hours,  of  which,  I  conceive,  she  must  have  very  many  from 
cooking,  would  be  employed  in  knitting,  of  which  both  Peter  and 
Sarah  do  too  little.  I  expected  Sinah  was  one  of  those  who  would 
have  been  sent  to  one  of  the  plantations  ;  whether  she  remains  at 
the  Mansion  House  or  not,  it  is  my  desire  that  when  Kitty  is  un- 
able to  attend  the  dair)-  alone,  that  Anna  may  be  the  assistant. 
The  other,  besides  idling  away  half  the  day  under  that  pretence, 
never  failed,  I  am  well  convinced,  to  take  a  pretty  ample  toll  of 
both  milk  and  butter. 

I  hope  the  overseer  you  have  got  from  Boggess's  will  answer 
your  expectations  ;  but  I  have  no  opinion  of  any  recommendation 
from  that  person  ; — and  besides,  a  stayed,  elderly  man,  for  such 
an  important  plantation  as  Dogue  Run  would  have  been  to  be 
preferred  to  a  young  one,  although  the  latter  should  be  a  married 
man.     But  I  am  sensible  any  one  would  be  better  than  Jones,  and 


250  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

that  the  season  was  too  for  advanced  to  look  for  many  to  chuse 
from.     *     *     * 

I  do  not  know  what  quantity  of  wheat  is  yet  to  go  to  the  mill, 
but  wish  it  may  not  fall  short  of  your  expectation  of  5,000  bushels 
in  the  whole,  for  market.  It  appears  to  me  that  the  miller  must 
have  been  very  inattentive  to  his  duty  to  have  manufactured  only 
102  barrels  of  flour,  besides  15  barrels  of  middlings  and  19  of  ship 
stuff,  out  of  2,387^  bushels  of  wheat,  which  has  been  delivered 
into  the  mill.  I  wish  he  may  not  have  forgot  what  is  usual  for  all 
millers  to  do,  and  what  I  am  sure  he  must  have  done  himself,  and 
that  is  to  grind  of  nights,  as  well  as  days,  when  the  water  and 
seasons  will  admit.  A  little  time  more  and  the  frosts  will  stop  the 
mill,  and  in  a  little  time  after  the  frosts  are  over,  the  droughts  will 
stop  it,  and  my  grain  will  remain  unground.  He  has,  it  must  be 
acknowledged,  a  fine  time  of  it.  Whether  he  works  at  night  or 
not,  I  hope  particular  charge  will  be  given  him  respecting  fire. 
The  loss  of  the  mill,  and  its  contents,  would  be  too  heavy  for  me 
to  support  ;  and  I  find  the  accident  of  fires  is  already  begun — the 
loss  sustained  by  which  and  how  it  happened  at  the  house  kennels, 
ought  to  have  been  more  particularly  detailed  than  by  the  simple 
mention  of  it  in  the  report,  as  if  it  was  a  thing  of  course.    *    *    * 

You  ask  directions  from  me  respecting  your  conduct  in  the 
building  of  my  poor  nephew,  Major  Geo.  A.  Washington's  house. 
From  every  account  we  receive,  his  disorder  is  at  a  crisis,  and 
must  soon  (if  that  is  not  the  case  already)  change  for  the  better, 
or  terminate  in  his  speedy  dissolution  :  and  as  the  latter  is  most 
likely  to  happen,  I  think  you  had  better  not  (until  further  orders) 
procure  any  more  scantling,  especially  such  as  must  be  cut  to 
waste.  It  may  be  proper  for  Gunner  to  continue  throwing  up 
brick  earth,  and  for  the  Major's  two  men  to  be  preparing  plank  for 
the  floors,  because  these  (especially  the  latter)  cannot  be  lost.  A 
very  few  weeks  (before  the  end  of  the  ensuing  holidays)  will 
enable  him  or  his  friends  to  decide  more  accurately  on  the  meas- 
ures necessary  to  be  pursued.     9  December,  1792. 

If  (or  whenever)  you  can  obtain  a  good  price  for  the  middlings 
or  ship-stuff  in  Alexandria,  I  would  have  you  sell  them  to  raise 
cash  for  such  purposes  as  indispensably  call  for  it ;  but  I  earnestly 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  251 

exhort  you  to  buy  nothing  you  can  either  make  within  yourselves, 
or  can  do  well  without.  The  practice  of  running  to  stores,  &c., 
for  everything  that  is  wanting,  or  thought  to  be  wanting,  is  the 
most  ruinous  custom  that  can  be  adopted,  and  has  proved  the  de- 
struction of  many  a  man  before  he  was  aware  of  the  pernicious 
consequences.  There  is  no  proverb  in  the  whole  catalogue  of 
them  more  true  than  that  a  penny  saved  is  a  penny  got.  I  well 
know  that  many  things  must  be  bought,  such  for  instance  as  you 
have  enumerated  in  your  letter  ;  but  I  know  also  that  expedients 
may  be  hit  upon,  and  things  (though  perhaps  not  quite  so  hand- 
some) done  within  ourselves,  that  would  ease  the  expences  of  any 
estate  very  considerably.     *     *     * 

I  observed  to  you  in  my  last,  that  I  thought  the  miller  was  very 
negligent  and  inattentive  to  his  duty  in  not  having  more  wheat 
manufactured  than  what  appeared  by  the  report  of  the  preceding 
week  ; — and  I  now  desire  you  will  let  him  know  that  I  am  by  no 
means  well  pleased  at  the  delay.  I  fear  he  makes  so  large  a  por- 
tion of  flour  superfine,  as  to  endanger,  or  at  least  to  impoverish 
the  fine.  This  will  not  be  good  policy  for  either  kind.  And  I 
perceive  he  makes  the  wheat  weigh  only  58  lbs.  per  bushel.  I  wish 
you  would,  now  and  then,  see  a  load  tried.  58  is  less  than  I  have 
heard  of  any  wheats  weighing  this  year.  Tell  Davenport '  it  is  my  de- 
sire that  he  would  immediately  try  with  100  bushels  of  wheat  (care- 
fully measured,  and  as  it  is  received  at  the  mill),  what  quantity  of 
superfine,  fine,  middlings,  shipstuff,  and  bran,  will  come  from  it. 
This  100  bushels  of  wheat  (after  it  is  measured  and  weighed)  is  to 
pziss  as  usual  through  the  mill  screen  and  fan.  My  object  you  will 
readily  perceive  is  to  compare  the  prices  of  the  wheat  before  and 
after  it  is  manufactured,  together,  that  I  may  be  enabled  to  form  a 
precise  judgment  of  the  value  of  each.  He  must  therefore  be  very 
careful  that  no  mistake  is  made,  and  the  experiment  such  as  he  can 
be  responsible  for.  It  is  for  this  reason  I  have  directed  the  wheat  to 
be  measured  and  weighed  before  it  goes  through  the  mill  opera- 
tions for  cleaning.  A  similar  experiment  to  this  was  made  last 
year,  but  I  want  another,  and  to  have  it  done  without  delay  and 
with  great  exactness. 

'  Joseph  Davenport,  the  miller. 


252  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

If  Isaac  had  his  deserts  he  would  receive  a  severe  punishment 
for  the  house,  tools,  and  seasoned  stuff,  which  has  been  burned  by 
his  carelessness.  He  must  have  left  the  fire  in  a  very  unjustifiable 
situation  or  have  been  a  fine  time  absent  from  it,  for  such  an  acci- 
dent to  have  happened  before  it  was  too  late  to  have  extinguished 
it.  I  wish  you  to  inform  him,  that  I  sustain  injury  enough  by  their 
idleness  ;  they  need  not  add  to  it  by  their  carelessness.     *     *     * 

I  am  not  less  concerned  to  find  that  I  am  forever  sustaining 
loss  in  my  stock,  of  sheep  (particularly).  I  not  only  approve  of 
your  killing  those  dogs  which  have  been  the  occasion  of  the  late 
loss,  and  of  thinning  the  plantations  of  others,  but  give  it  as  a 
positive  order,  that  after  saying  what  dog,  or  dogs,  shall  remain, 
if  any  negro  presumes  under  any  pretence  whatsoever,  to  pre- 
serve, or  bring  one  into  the  family,  that  he  shall  be  severely  pun- 
ished, and  the  dog  hanged.  I  was  obliged  to  adopt  this  practice 
whilst  I  resided  at  home,  and  from  the  same  motives,  that  is,  for 
the  preservation  of  my  sheep  and  hogs  ;  but  I  observed  when  I 
was  at  home  last,  that  a  new  set  of  dogs  was  rearing  up,  and  I 
intended  to  have  spoke  about  them  ;  but  one  thing  or  another 
always  prevented  it.  It  is  not  for  any  good  purpose  negros  raise, 
or  keep  dogs,  but  to  aid  them  in  their  night  robberies  ;  for  it  is 
astonishing  to  see  the  command  under  which  their  dogs  are.  I 
would  no  more  allow  the  overseers  than  I  would  the  negros  to 
keep  dogs.  One,  or  at  most  two  on  a  plantation  is  enough. 
The  pretences  for  keeping  more  will  be  various  and  urgent,  but 
I  will  not  allow  more  than  the  above  notwithstanding. 

I  hope  your  new  overseer  will  turn  out  well.  His  age  (although 
he  now  has,  or  soon  may  have,  a  wife)  is  much  against  him,  for 
a  large  concern,  in  my  estimation  ;  but  the  season  made  it  almost 
Hobson's  choice — him  or  none.  I  have  engaged  an  elderly  man' 
who  may  probably  be  with  you  on  Sunday  next,  to  look  after  the 
home  house  gang.  He  is  an  Irishman,  and  not  long  from  that 
country.  According  to  his  own,  and  the  account  given  of  him 
by  others,  he  is  well  practiced  in  both  farming  and  grazing.  He 
is  old  enough  to  be  steady,  and  to  have  had  much  experience  in 
both  these  branches  ;  though  old,  and  clumsy  withall,  he  prom- 

'  James  Butler. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  253 

ises  that  activity  shall  not  be  wanting,  nor  obedience  to  any 
directions  you  may  give  him.  I  have  agreed  to  allow  him  sev- 
enty dollars  for  the  ensuing  year,  and  have  told  him  that  further 
encouragement,  either  in  an  augmentation  of  wages,  or  removal 
to  a  better  place,  will  depend  altogether  upon  his  own  conduct 
and  good  behavior.  If  he  is  such  a  man  as  is  represented  he 
may  be  useful  to  me,  having  it  is  said  a  perfect  knowledge  in 
horses  and  stock  of  all  kinds.  *  *  *  \  have  informed  Mr. 
Butler  (that  is  his  name)  that  sobriety,  industry  and  honesty  are 
such  indispensable  qualifications  in  my  eyes,  that  he  will  remain 
but  a  short  time  with  me,  if  he  is  found  deficient  of  either,  and 
I  request  you,  not  only  in  his  case,  but  with  all  the  other  over- 
seers likewise,  to  pass  over  no  faults  without  noticing  and  ad- 
monishing them  against  the  commission  of  the  like  or  similar 
ones  ;  for  in  this  as  in  everything  else,  it  is  easier  to  prevent 
evils  than  to  apply  remedies  after  they  have  happened.  One 
fault  overlooked  begets  another,  that  a  third,  and  so"  on  ;  whereas 
a  check  in  the  first  instance  might  prevent  a  repetition,  or  at  any 
rate  cause  circumspection.     *     *     *     16  December,  1792. 

By  Mr.  James  Butler,  who  left  this  city  on  Friday  last,  I  wrote 
you  a  few  lines,  enclosing  the  agreement  I  had  entered  into  with 
him.  I  request  that  the  Smith's  book  may  be  put  into  his  hands, 
and  a  regular  account  taken  every  night  of  what  they  have  done 
in  the  day  ;  and  that  he  will  see  they  do  as  much  as  they  ought. 
Let  an  account  be  raised  in  that  book,  or  some  other,  for  each 
plantation,  and  everything  done  for  it  as  regularly  charged  to  it 
as  if  it  had  been  done  for  one  of  the  neighbors,  who  was  to  pay 
therefore.  A  practice  of  this  sort  answers  two  purposes  :  first, 
to  see  that  the  smiths  do  their  duty ;  and  secondly,  as  a  check 
upon  the  plantations  who  ought  to  account  for  what  is  received 
from  thence,  as  well  as  for  everything  else  that  is  furnished  them 
in  the  course  of  the  year,  as  soon  as  it  shall  have  expired. 

It  is  my  desire  also  that  Mr.  Butler  will  pay  some  attention  to 
the  conduct  of  the  gardener  and  the  hands  who  are  at  work  with 
him  ;  so  far  as  to  see  that  they  are  not  idle.  For  though  I  will 
not  charge  them  with  idleness,  I  cannot  forbear  saying,  and  I 
wish  you  to  tell  the  gardener  so  (provided  you  shall  think  there 


254  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

is  cause  for  it)  that  the  matters  entrusted  to  him  appear  to  me  to 
progress  amazingly  slow.  *  *  *  If  it  is  found  that  the  hands 
with  the  gardener  are  not  usefully  (I  mean  industriously)  em- 
ployed, I  shall  withdraw  them  ;  as  I  did  not  give  them  to  him 
iox  parade,  to  be  idle,  or  to  keep  him  in  idleness.     *     *     * 

It  is  observed,  by  the  weekly  reports,  that  the  sewers  make 
only  six  shirts  a  week,  and  the  last  week  Carolina  (without  being 
sick)  made  only  five.  Mrs.  Washington  says  their  usual  task 
was  to  make  nine  with  shoulder  straps  and  good  sewing.  Tell 
them  therefore  from  me,  that  what  has  been  done,  shall  be  done 
by  fair  or  foul  means  ;  and  they  had  better  make  choice  of  the 
first,  for  their  own  reputation,  and  for  the  sake  of  peace  and 
quietness.  Otherwise  they  will  be  sent  to  the  several  plantations, 
and  be  placed  as  common  laborers  under  the  overseers  thereat. 
Their  work  ought  to  be  well  examined  or  it  will  be  most  shame- 
fully executed,  whether  little  or  much  of  it  be  done,  and  it  is 
said,  the  same  attention  ought  to  be  given  to  Peter  (and  I  sup- 
"pose  to  Sarah  likewise,)  or  the  stockings  will  be  knit  too  small 
for  those  for  whom  they  are  intended  ;  such  being  the  idleness 
and  deceit  of  those  people.     23  December,  1792. 

*  *  *  Amongst  which,  none  I  think  call  louder  for  it 
[particular  attention]  than  the  smiths,  who,  from  a  variety  of 
instances  which  fell  within  my  own  observation  whilst  I  was  at 
home,  I  take  to  be  two  very  idle  fellows.  A  daily  account  (which 
ought  regularly  to  be)  taken  of  their  work,  would  alone  go  a 
great  way  toward  checking  their  idleness  ;  but,  besides  this,  be- 
ing always  about  the  house  (except  at  haymaking  and  harvest) 
and  not  far  from  them  he  might  have  a  pretty  constant  eye  both 
to  them,  and  to  the  people  who  are  at  work  with  the  gardener, 
some  of  whom  I  know  to  be  as  lazy  and  deceitful  as  any  in  the 
world  (Sam  particularly).  My  horses  too,  (in  the  management 
of  which  he  [Butler]  professes  to  have  some  skill)  might  derive 
much  benefit  from  a  careful  attention  to  them  ;  not  only  to  those 
which  work,  but  to  the  young  ones,  and  to  the  breeding  mares  : 
— for  I  have  long  suspected  that  Peter  under  pretence  of  riding 
about  the  plantations  to  look  after  the  mares,  mules,  &c.,  is  in 
pursuit  of  other  objects  ;  either  of  traffic  or  amusement,  more 
advancive  of  his  own  pleasures  than  my  benefit.     It  is  not  other- 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  255 

wise  to  be  conceived  that  with  the  number  of  mares  I  have,  five 
and  twenty  of  which  were  bought  for  the  express  purpose  of 
breeding,  though  now  considerably  reduced  from  that  purpose 
alone,  should  produce  not  more  than  six  or  eights  colts  a  year. 
This  I  say  will  hardly  be  believed  by  any  person  who  has  ever 
been  in  a  similar  practice.  The  evil  stands  much  in  need  of  a 
remedy.     *     *     * 

All  such  work  as  you  have  enumerated,  I  think  is  the  duty  of 
every  overseer  to  render  ;  and  if  he  [Butler]  is  a  man  of  an 
industrious  turn,  he  will  do  it,  whether  he  is  compelled  by  articles 
or  not.  On  the  other  hand,  if  he  is  of  an  indolent  cast  (such  as 
Jones  was,)  all  the  articles  in  the  world  would  not  enforce  the 
measure  longer  than  he  himself  was  under  the  observation  of  an 
overlooker  :  and  probably  to  avoid  working  himself,  (the  negros 
knowing  it  to  be  his  duty  to  do  so,  by  agreement)  he  would  suf- 
fer them  to  be  idle,  to  bribe  them  against  a  discovery  of  his  own 
idleness.  For  these  reasons  I  have  always  had  doubts  (where 
there  is  a  large  gang  of  hands  to  overlook)  of  the  propriety  of 
attempting  to  compell  by  articles  an  overseer  to  do  more  work 
than  his  own  inclination  would  naturally  prompt  him  to  do  vol- 
untarily. Indeed,  where  there  are  a  number  of  hands,  his  time 
probably  would  be  better  employed  in  seeing  them  well  engaged 
than  in  working  himself,  especially  if  all  are  not  within  his  full 
view  at  the  time.     *     *     * 

You  speak  of  the  quantity  of  lime  which  it  has  taken  to  repair 
the  overseer's  house  in  the  Neck.  It  is  occasioned  in  a  great 
measure  by  the  profuse  use  of  it  by  Davis,'  and  the  unnecessary 
strength  which  he  gives  to  the  mortar,  in  which  he  ought  to  be 
corrected.  Of  stone  lime,  and  the  lime  made  from  oyster  shells, 
the  quantity  diifers,  but  the  proportion  of  each  are  well  ascer- 
tained for  different  kinds  of  work.  For  here  again,  mortar  is 
made  stronger  or  weaker  according  to  the  nature  of  it.  Rules 
for  all  these  might  easily  be  obtained,  and  observed.  Another 
bad  practice  which  he  is  in,  ought  to  be  corrected  ;  and  that  is, 
laying  his  mortar  too  thick  in  the  joints.  This  hurts  the  look  of 
a  building,  rather  diminishes  than  adds  to  the  strength  of  it,  and 
consumes  much  lime. 


'  Thomas  Davis. 


256  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

If,  as  you  suppose  is  the  case,  the  miller  spends  more  time  than 
he  ought  to  do  in  his  dwelling  house,  it  is  justice  due  to  me,  to 
inform  him  of  it ;  and  to  add,  that  if  the  practice  is  continued 
your  duty  will  require  that  I  should  be  informed  of  it.  The  slow 
progress  made  by  him  in  manufacturing  my  wheat  in  such  an 
open  and  mild  fall  and  winter  as  we  have  had  is,  if  there  was 
water,  the  strongest  evidence  that  can  be  given  of  his  indolence, 
and  the  bad  use  he  has  made  of  so  favorable  a  season.  *  *  * 
30  December,  1792. 


TO    HENRY    LEE,    GOVERNOR    OF    VIRGINIA. 

Philadelphia,  20  January,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

I  have  been  favored  with  your  letter  of  the  6th 
instant,  congratulatory  on  my  re-election  to  the  chair 
of  government.  A  mind  must  be  insensible  indeed, 
not  to  be  gratefully  impressed  by  so  distinguished 
and  honorable  a  testimony  of  public  approbation  and 
confidence  ;  and  as  I  suffered  my  name  to  be  contem- 
plated on  this  occasion,  it  is  more  than  probable  that  I 
should,  for  a  moment,  have  experienced  chagrin,  if  my 
re-election  had  not  been  by  a  pretty  respectable  vote.^ 

'  In  the  last  session  of  Congress,  an  act  relative  to  the  election  of  a  President 
and  Vice-President,  and  declaring  the  succession  in  case  of  vacancies,  had  been 
passed,  and  under  it  the  election  was  held.  Fifteen  states  chose  electors ;  in 
nine,  Vermont,  Rhode  Island,  Connecticut,  New  York,  New  Jersey,  Delaware, 
South  Carolina,  Georgia  and  Kentucky,  they  were  chosen  by  the  legislature  ; 
and  in  five.  New  Hampshire,  Massachusetts,  Pennsylvania,  Maryland  and 
Virginia,  by  the  people.  A  temporary  expedient  was  resorted  to  in  North 
Carolina,  the  state  being  arbitrarily  divided  into  four  districts,  and  the  mem- 
bers of  the  legislature  in  each  district  meeting  to  choose  three  electors.  Some 
attempt  was  made  to  urge  George  Clinton  as  the  President,  but  proved  unsuc- 
cessful. Washington  received  the  full  vote  of  the  college,  one  hundred  and 
thirty-two  votes.  Adams  received  seventy-seven,  sufficient  to  elect  ;  while  fifty 
were  cast  for  Clinton,  four  for  Jefferson  (the  Kentucky  vote),  and  one  for  Burr. 
New  York,  Virginia,  North  Carolina  and  Georgia  were  unanimous  for  Clinton. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  257 

But  to  say  I  feel  pleasure  from  the  prospect  of 
commencing  another  tour  of  duty  would  be  a  de- 
parture from  truth  ;  for,  however  it  might  savor  of 
affectation  in  the  opinion  of  the  world  (who,  by  the 
by,  can  only  guess  at  my  sentiments,  as  it  never  has 
been  troubled  with  them),  my  particular  and  confi- 
dential friends  well  know,  that  it  was  after  a  long  and 
painful  conflict  in  my  own  breast,  that  I  was  with- 
held, (by  considerations  which  are  not  necessar}^  to  be 
mentioned,)  from  requesting  in  time,  that  no  vote 
might  be  thrown  away  upon  me,  it  being  my  fixed 
determination  to  return  to  the  walks  of  private  life  at 
the  end  of  my  term. 

I  am  sorry  to  be  informed  by  your  letter,  that 
death  has  snatched  from  us  my  old  acquaintance  and 
friend  Colonel  Bassett.  The  manner  of  it  adds  to 
the  regret.^  We  shall  all  follow ;  some  sooner  and 
some  later  ;  and,  from  accounts,  my  poor  nephew  is 
likely  to  be  amongst  the  first. 

Mrs.  Washington  joins  me  in  wishing  you  the 
return  of  many  new  and  happy  years.  With  very 
great  esteem  and  regard,  I  am  always  your  affection- 
ate servant. 


TO    CHARLES   CARROLL,    OF    CARROLLTON. 

Philadelphia,  23  Januan',  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

The  western  Indians  having  proposed  to  us  a  con- 
ference at  Auglaise,  not  far  distant  from  Detroit,  in 
the  ensuing  spring,  I   am  now  about  to  proceed  to 

'  His  death  was  caused  by  a  fall  from  his  horse. 
17 


258  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

nominate  three  commissioners  to  meet  and  treat  with 
them  on  the  subject  of  peace.  What  may  be  the 
issue  of  the  conference  it  is  difficult  to  foresee  ;  but 
it  is  extremely  essential,  that,  whatever  it  be,  it 
should  carry  with  it  the  perfect  confidence  of  our 
citizens,  that  every  endeavor  will  have  been  used  to 
obtain  peace,  which  their  interests  would  permit. 
For  this  reason  it  is  necessary,  that  characters  be 
appointed,  who  are  known  to  our  citizens  for  their 
talents  and  integrity,  and  whose  situation  in  life 
places  them  clear  of  every  suspicion  of  a  wish  to  pro- 
long the  war  ;  or  say  rather,  whose  interest  in  com- 
mon with  that  of  their  country  is  clearly  to  produce 
peace.  Characters,  uniting  these  desiderata,  do  not 
abound.  Some  of  them  too  are  in  offices  inconsist- 
ent with  the  appointment  now  in  question,  and 
others  under  impediments  of  health  or  other  circum- 
stances, so  as  to  circumscribe  the  choice  within  a 
small  circle.  Desirous  in  the  first  instance,  that  you 
should  be  in  this  commission,  I  have  mentioned 
these  difficulties  to  show  you,  in  the  event  of  your 
declining,  how  serious  they  are,  and  to  induce  you  to 
come  forward  and  perform  this  important  service  to 
your  country,  a  service  with  which  its  prosperity  and 
tranquillity  are  intimately  connected. 

It  will  be  necessary  to  set  out  from  this  place  about 
the  ist  of  May.  The  route  will  be  by  the  North 
River  and  Niagara.  It  will  be  safe,  and  the  measures 
for  your  comfortable  transportation  and  subsistence 
taken  as  effectually  as  circumstances  will  admit.  Will 
you  then  permit  me,  Sir,  to  nominate  you  as  one  of 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  259 

the  commissioners,  with  a  certain  reliance  on  your 
acceptance  ?  Your  answer  to  this  by  the  first  post 
will  oblige,  dear  Sir,  &c/ 


TO    GEORGE    AUGUSTINE    WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  27  January,  1793. 

My  dear  George, 

I  do  not  write  to  you  often,  because  I  have  no 
business  to  write  upon, — because  all  the  news  I 
could  communicate  is  contained  in  the  papers  which 
I  forward  every  week — because  I  conceive  it  un- 
necessary to  repeat  the  assurances  of  sincere  regard 
and  friendship,  I  have  always  professed  for  you — 
or  the  disposition  I  feel  to  render  every  service  in 
my  power  to  you  and  yours  ; — and  lastly,  because  I 
conceive  the  more  undisturbed  you  are,  the  better  it 
is  for  you. 

It  has  given  your  friends  much  pain  to  find  that 
change  of  air  has  not  been  productive  of  that  favora- 
ble change  in  your  health  which  was  the  wish  of  them 
all.  But  the  will  of  Heaven  is  not  to  be  contro- 
verted or  scrutinized  by  the  children  of  this  world. 
It  therefore  becometh  the  creatures  of  it  to  submit 
to  the  will  of  the  Creator,  whether  it  be  to  prolong 
or  to  shorten  the  number  of  our  days,  to  bless  them 
with  health,  or  afflict  them  with  pain. 

My  fervent  wishes  attend  you,  in  which  I  am  heart- 

'  A  copy  of  the  same  letter  was  sent  to  Charles  Thomson.  Both  these 
gentlemen  declined  the  appointment.  The  persons  nominated  were  Benjamin 
Lincoln,  Beverley  Randolph,  and  Timothy  Pickering.  The  nomination  was 
confirmed  by  the  Senate. — Executive  yournal,  March  i,  1793. 


26o  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

ily  joined  by  your  Aunt,  and  these  are  extended  with 
equal  sincerity  to  Fanny  and  the  children. 

I  am  always  your  affectionate  Uncle. 


TO    THE    COMMISSIONERS    OF    THE    FEDERAL   DISTRICT. 

[private.] 

Philadelphia,  31  January,  1793. 

Gentlemen, 

I  have  had  under  consideration  Mr.  Hallet's  plans 
for  the  Capitol,  which  undoubtedly  have  a  great  deal 
of  merit.  Doctor  Thornton  has  also  given  me  a  view 
of  his.  These  last  come  forward  under  some  very  ad- 
vantageous circumstances — The  grandeur,  simplicity, 
and  beauty  of  the  exterior ;  the  propriety  with  which 
the  apartments  are  distributed,  and  oeconomy  in  the 
whole  mass  of  the  structure,  will  I  doubt  not  give  it 
a  preference  in  your  eyes,  as  it  has  done  in  mine,  and 
those  of  several  others  whom  I  have  consulted,  and 
who  are  deemed  men  of  skill  in  architecture.  I  have 
therefore  thought  it  better  to  give  the  Doctor  time  to 
finish  his  plan  and  for  this  purpose  to  delay  'till  your 
next  meeting  a  final  decision.  Some  difficulty  arises 
with  respect  to  Mr.  Hallet,  who  you  know  was  in 
some  degree  led  into  his  plan  by  ideas  we  all  ex- 
pressed to  him.  This  ought  not  to  induce  us  to 
prefer  it  to  a  better ;  but  while  he  is  liberally  re- 
warded for  the  time  and  labor  he  has  expended  on 
it,  his  feelings  should  be  saved  and  soothed  as  much 
as  possible. 

I  leave  it  to  yourselves  how  best  to  prepare  him 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  261 

for  the  possibility  that  the  Doctor's  plan  may  be  pre- 
ferred to  his.  Some  ground  for  this  will  be  furnished 
you  by  the  occasion  you  probably  will  have  for 
recourse  to  him  as  to  the  interior  of  the  apartments, 
and  the  taking  him  into  service  at  a  fixed  allowance, 
and  I  understand  that  his  necessities  render  it  mate- 
rial that  he  should  know  what  his  allowance  is  to  be. 
I  am,  &c. 


TO    THE    MARCHIONESS    DE    LAFAYETTE. 

Philadelphia,  31  January,  1793. 

Madam, 

If  I  had  words  that  could  convey  to  you  an  ade- 
quate idea  of  my  feelings  on  the  present  situation  of 
the  Marquis  de  Lafayette,  this  letter  would  appear  to 
you  in  a  different  garb.  The  sole  object  in  writing 
to  you  now  is,  to  inform  you  that  I  have  deposited 
in  the  hands  of  Mr.  Nicholas  Van  Staphorst,  of  Am- 
sterdam, two  thousand  three  hundred  and  ten  guilders, 
Holland  currency,  equal  to  two  hundred  guineas,  sub- 
ject to  your  orders. 

This  sum  is,  I  am  certain,  the  least  I  am  indebted 
for  services  rendered  to  me  by  the  Marquis  de  Lafay- 
ette, of  which  I  never  yet  have  received  the  account. 
I  could  add  much,  but  it  is  best  perhaps  that  I  should 
say  little  on  this  subject.  Your  goodness  will  supply 
my  deficiency. 

The  uncertainty  of  your  situation,  after  all  the  in- 
quiries I  have  made,  has  occasioned  a  delay  in  this 
address  and  remittance  ;  and  even  now  the  measure 
adopted  is  more  the  effect  of  a  desire  to  find  where 


262  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

you  are,  than  from  any  knowledge  I  have  obtained  of 
your  residence. 

At  all  times  and  under  all  circumstances,  you  and 
yours  will  possess  the  affectionate  regards  of  him,  who 
has  the  honor  to  be,  &c/ 


TO    FRANCES    WASHINGTON/ 

Philadelphia,  24  February,  1793. 

My  dear  Fanny, 

To  you,  who  so  well  know  the  affectionate  regard 
I  had  for  our  departed  friend,  it  is  unnecessary  to 
describe  the  sorrow  with  which  I  was  afflicted  at  the 
news  of  his  death,  although  it  was  an  event  I  had 
expected  many  weeks  before  it  happened.  To 
express  this  sorrow  with  the  force  I  feel  it,  would 
answer  no  other  purpose  than  to  revive  in  your 
breast  that  poignancy  of  anguish,  which  by  this  time 
I  hope  is  abated. 

'  Shortly  after  the  date  of  this  letter.  President  Washington  received  one 
from  the  Marchioness  de  Lafayette,  dated  at  Chavaniac,  October  8th,  1792. 
It  had  been  conveyed  by  a  private  hand  through  England,  which  had  caused  it 
to  be  long  on  its  passage.  It  was  accompanied  by  another  letter  written  from 
England  by  Mr.  John  Dyson,  who  had  been  residing  for  several  months  in  the 
family  of  Lafayette.  Speaking  of  the  Marchioness  he  says:  "Her  present 
situation  is  truly  affecting  ;  separated  from  her  husband  without  the  means  of 
hearing  from  him,  herself  in  captivity  under  the  safeguard  of  the  municipality, 
she  is  anxiously  expecting  the  decision  of  his  and  her  own  destiny.  Under 
these  circumstances  she  relies  on  your  influence  to  adopt  such  measures  as  may 
effectuate  their  mutual  freedom." 

An  account  of  the  captivity  of  Lafayette,  and  of  the  proceedings  of  the 
American  ministers  abroad  in  consequence  of  it,  and  also  particulars  respecting 
his  wife  and  family,  may  be  seen  in  Spark's  Life  of  Gouverneur  Morris,  vol. 

i-,  PP-  397-4"  ;  439-447  ;  457- 

'■*  Widow  of  George  Augustine  Washington. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  263 

The  object  of  this  letter  is  to  convey  to  your  mind 
the  warmest  assurances  of  my  love,  friendship,  and 
disposition  to  serve  you.  These  also  I  profess  to 
have,  in  an  eminent  degree,  for  your  children. 

What  plan  you  have  contemplated,  or  whether,  in 
so  short  a  time,  you  have  contemplated  any,  is 
unknown  to  me  ;  and  therefore  I  add,  that  the  one 
which  strikes  me  most  favorably,  by  being  best  calcu- 
lated to  promote  the  interest  of  yourself  and  children, 
is  to  return  to  your  old  habitation  at  Mount  Vernon. 
You  can  go  to  no  place  where  you  will  be  more  wel- 
come, nor  to  any,  where  you  can  live  at  less  expense 
or  trouble.  Matters  at  Mount  Vernon  are  now  so 
arranged,  as  to  be  under  the  care  of "  responsible 
persons,  and  so  they  may  continue ;  which  would 
ease  you  of  that  anxiety,  which  the  care  of  so  large 
a  family  othervvise  would  naturally  involve  you  in. 
It  is  unnecessary  to  observe  to  you,  that  house- 
keeping, under  any  circumstances  and  with  the  best 
economy,  is  expensive ;  and,  where  provision  for 
it  is  to  be  made,  will  be  found,  I  fear,  beyond  your 
means. 

You  might  bring  my  niece,  Harriot  Washington, 
with  you  for  a  companion,  whose  conduct  I  hear  with 
pleasure  has  given  much  satisfaction  to  my  sister.  I 
shall,  under  my  present  view  of  things,  be  at  Mount 
Vernon  about  the  ist  of  April,  for  perhaps  a  fort- 
night ;  but  your  aunt  and  family  will  not,  I  expect, 
be  there  before  the  middle  of  July.  My  affectionate 
regards  attend  you  and  your  children  ;  and  I  shall 
always  be  your  sincere  friend. 


264  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

TO  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON  AND  HENRY  KNOX. 

27  February,  1793. 

Sir, 

As  the  day  is  near  at  hand,  when  the  President- 
elect is  to  take  the  oath  of  qualification,  and  no  mode 
is  pointed  out  by  the  Constitution  or  law  ;  I  could 
wish  that  you,  Mr.  Jefferson  (Genl.  Knox,  or  Colo. 
Hamilton)  and  Mr.  Randolph  could  meet  to-morrow 
morning,  at  any  place  which  you  may  fix  between 
yourselves ;  and  communicate  to  me  the  result  of 
your  opinions  as  to  time,  place  and  manner  of  quali- 
fication. 

P.  S.  Mr.  Jefferson  and  Mr.  Randolph  have  sug- 
gested the  idea  of  meeting  at  the  War  office  at  nine 
o'clock  to-morrow  morning ;  if  this  is  convenient 
and  agreeable  to  you  you  will  be  there  accordingly 
— If  otherwise  you  will  be  so  good  as  to  let  me 
know.^ 

'  Jefferson  and  Hamilton  thought  it  ought  to  be  in  private,  and  that  one  of 
the  judges  should  administer  the  oath  at  the  President's  own  house.  Knox 
and  Randolph  were  of  a  different  sentiment,  and  advised  that  the  ceremony 
should  be  in  public.  The  President  inclined  to  this  view,  and  at  a  subsequent 
cabinet  meeting  on  the  ist  of  March,  at  which  Mr.  Jefferson  was  not  present, 
the  following  decision  was  made  : 

"It  is  our  opinion, 

"  I.   That  the  President  ought  to  take  the  oath  in  public. 

"  2.   That  the  time  be  on  Monday  next  at  twelve  o'clock  at  noon. 

"  3.  That  the  place  be  the  Senate-chamber. 

"  4.  That  the  marshal  of  the  district  inform  the  Vice-President,  that  the 
Senate-chamber,  being  the  usual  place  of  the  President's  public  acts,  is  sup- 
posed to  be  the  best  place  for  taking  the  oath,  and  that  it  is  wished,  that  the 
chamber  may  be  open. 

"  5.  That  it  may  be  informally  notified  to  the  Vice-President,  the  Governor 
[of  Pennsylvania],  and  foreign  ministers,  that  the  oath  is  to  be  taken  at  the 
time  and  place  above  mentioned. 

"6.   That  Mr.  Gushing  be  requested  to  attend  and  administer  the  oath. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  265 

TO    DAVID    STUART. 

Philadelphia,  3  March,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

The  official  Letter  from  the  Commissioners  to  me, 
dated  the  eighth  of  last  month,  promising  their  senti- 
ments on  the  subject  of  compensation  so  soon  as  a 
meeting  was  had  with  Mr.  Johnson,  prevented  my 
acknowledging  the  receipt  of  your  private  letter  of 
the  same  date  and  on  the  same  subject  until  now, — 


"  7.  That  the  President  go  without  form,  attended  by  such  gentlemen  as 
he  may  choose,  and  return  without  form,  except  that  he  be  preceded  by  the 
marshal. 

"  H.  Knox. 

"  Edmund  Randolph." 

"  My  opinion  given  yesterday  was  founded  on  prudential  considerations  of 
the  moment ;  though  I  think  it  right  in  the  abstract  to  give  publicity  to  the 
act  in  question.  If  this  is  to  be  done  on  the  present  occasion,  I  see  no  objec- 
tion to  the  above  form.  I  am  not,  however,  satisfied  that  prudential  consid- 
erations are  not  equally  balanced. 

"A.    H.^MILTON." 

The  oath  was  finally  administered  publicly  in  the  Senate-chamber.  The 
heads  of  the  departments,  foreign  ministers,  such  members  of  the  House  of 
Representatives  as  were  in  town,  and  as  many  other  spectators  as  could  be 
accommodated,  were  present.  After  the  audience  had  assembled,  the  President 
rose  and  said  : 

''Fellow-citizens:  I  am  again  called  upon,  by  the  voice  of  my  country,  to 
execute  the  functions  of  its  Chief  Magistrate.  When  the  occasion  proper  for 
it  shall  arrive,  I  shall  endeavor  to  express  the  high  sense  I  entertain  of  this 
distinguished  honor,  and  of  the  confidence  which  has  been  reposed  in  me  by 
the  people  of  United  America.  Previous  to  the  execution  of  any  ofiicial  act  of 
the  President,  the  constitution  requires  an  oath  of  ofi5ce.  This  oath  I  am  now 
about  to  take  and  in  your  presence ;  that,  if  it  shall  be  found  during  my 
administration  of  the  government,  I  have  in  any  instance  violated  willingly  or 
knowingly  the  injunction  thereof,  I  may,  besides  incurring  constitutional  pun- 
ishment, be  subject  to  the  upbraidings  of  all  who  are  now  witnesses  of  the 
present  solemn  ceremony." 

The  oath  was  then  administered  by  Mr.  Justice  Gushing,  and  the  President 
retired. 


266  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

nor  shall  I  do  more  than  slightly  touch  on  it  until  I 
receive  the  further  sentiments  of  the  Board  there- 
upon. 

It  may  not  be  amiss,  however,  in  this  friendly  and 
confidential  manner,  previously  to  regret  that  the 
expectations  of  the  Commissioners,  and  the  opinions 
of  those  who  were  consulted  on  the  compensation 
proper  to  be  made  them  for  past  and  future  services 
should  accord  so  little.  It  is  to  be  observed  (as  was 
mentioned  in  my  last)  that  the  Law  authorizing  the 
appointment  contemplates  no  pay  ; — justice,  however, 
requires  it — and  therefore,  such  as  it  was  conceived 
wou'd  meet  the  concurrence  of  the  public  was  al- 
lotted.' In  similar  cases  it  rarely  happens,  if  ever, 
that  high,  if  any  salaries  are  allowed — instance  the 
Directors  of  the  Potomac  Company,  of  the  Canal 
Navigations  of  this  State,  the  Bank,  &c,  &c.  I  do 
not  quote  these  cases,  however,  to  prove  that  salaries 
ought  not  to  be  allowed,  in  the  case  of  the  Com- 
missioners of  the  Federal  District,  for  the  past, — and 
compensation  for  their  future  services  ;  but  only  to 
shew  the  necessity  of  their  being  as  low  as  could 
comport  with  justice.  With  respect  to  your  ideas  of 
a  future  allowance,  I  am  bold  in  assuring  you,  that 
no  fixed  salary  in  the  United  States  (however  they  1 
have  been  reprobated  for  their  extravagance)  from  \ 
the  Chief  Magistrate  to  the  Door  Keeper  of  the  i 
House  of  Representatives,  is  equal  to  One  thousand 


'  Six  dollars  a  day,  and  an  allowance  for  travelling  expenses,  had  been  pro- 
posed as  the  compensation. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  267 

Dollars  clear  of  expences.  The  reasons  are  too 
obvious  to  stand  in  need  of  enumeration  ;  and  I 
must  candidly  declare  that  I  see  little  use  for  a 
Superintendent,  if  more  will  be  requir'd  of  the  Com- 
missioners than  either  to  form  or  to  adopt  plans, 
give  the  great  out-lines  thereof  in  instruction,  and 
leave  the  detail,  and  execution  to  the  Superintendent ; 
who  ought  as  I  have  declared  in  a  Letter  to  you 
dated  the  30  of  November  last,  to  be  always  on  the 
spot — (unless  the  duties  of  the  trust  should  take  him 
away  to  facilitate  the  objects  of  it).  Under  this  idea, 
could  it  suit  any  person  better  than  yourself  to  visit 
the  Federal  City,  once  every  three  or  four  months — 
suppose  every  two  months — when  you  have  an  Es- 
tate opposite  to  it,  which  has  a  claim  to  a  share  of 
your  attention  ?  As  to  the  suspicion  which  may 
arise,  if  you  serve  for  daily  pay,  that  your  sessions 
will  be  prolonged  by  it,  they  are  not  worth  regard- 
ing. The  malevolence  of  man  is  not  to  be  avoided — 
but  instead  of  touching  the  subject  only,  in  the 
manner  I  proposed,  I  find  I  am  enlarging  upon  it, 
and  therefore  will  change  it. 

Mr.  Jefferson  is  at  a  loss  to  discover  what  could 
have  proceeded  from  him  to  Mr.  Ellicott,  that  should 
have  occasioned  any  discontent  in  the  mind  of  the 
latter  with  the  Commissioners,  and  having  shewn  me 
the  only  Letter  which  (he  says)  he  has  written  to 
him  for  many  months  I  see  nothing  therein  on  which 
to  found  the  conjecture  contained  in  the  latter  part 
of  your  Letter  of  the  8  of  February.     *     *     * 


268  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

TO    BURWELL    BASSETT. 

Philadelphia,  4  March,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

Your  letter  of  the  i8th  ultimo,  and  its  enclosure, 
came  duly  to  hand.  Expected  as  the  death  of  my 
departed  relation  and  friend  was,  I  could  not  but  feel 
sensibly  when  the  news  of  it  arrived  ;  and  I  take  the 
present  occasion  to  offer  you  my  condolence  on  your 
own  late  loss  of  your  father  and  my  friend,  for  whom, 
when  alive,  I  had  the  sincerest  regard. 

I  wish  some  other  person,  competent  and  more 
active  than  I  can  be,  had  been  placed  as  an  executor 
of  the  will  of  my  nephew.  All  the  aid  I  can  give  by 
advice,  in  the  management  of  the  estate  and  whatever 
may  respect  it,  would  have  been  afforded  without 
being  named  in  it.  More  cannot  be  done  by  me 
from  that  circumstance,  for  my  situation  will  pre- 
clude me  from  qualifying  as  an  executor,  and  from 
incurring  any  responsibility  in  the  management  of 
the  estate. 

The  time  for  proving  the  will,  and  qualifying  as  an 
executrix,  must  depend  upon  your  sister.  I  expect 
to  be  at  Mount  Vernon  about  the  first  week  in  April, 
and  will  make  a  point  of  it,  if  public  duties  do  not 
forbid  it,  to  be  in  the  county  on  the  court-day  of  that 
month,  which  I  think  happens  on  the  15th  day  of  it; 
provided  she  chooses  to  be  up  then,  either  tem- 
porarily or  permanently ;  and  with  much  pleasure 
and  satisfaction  to  myself  will  give  her  every  aid 
in  my  power  to  arrange  the  business  of  the  estate. 
My  returning  thither  again  will  depend  upon  circum- 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  269 

stances,  which  are  not  always  under  my  control,  and 
probably  will  not  admit  it  before  July  or  August. 
With  these  things  be  pleased  to  bring  Fanny 
acquainted.  Offer  my  love  to  her  and  the  children, 
my  respects  and  good  wishes  to  Mrs.  Bassett,  and  be 
assured  of  the  esteem  and  regard  with  which  I  am, 
dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO    THOMAS    JEFFERSON,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 

Philadelphia,  13  March,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

The  returned  draft  of  a  letter  to  Mr.  Gouverneur 
Morris  accords  with  my  sentiments,^  taking  it  for 
granted  that  the  words  "  we  suppose  this  will  rather 
overpay  the  instalments  and  interest  due  on  the  loans 
of  eighteen,  six,  and  ten  millions,"  mean  all  that 
could  be  demanded  by  the  French  government  to  the 
close  of  last  year ;  this  being  the  idea  I  have  enter- 
tained of  the  payments  and  engagements. 

If  it  has  not  been  done  in  a  former  letter,  it  would 
be  agreeable  to  me,  that  Mr.  Morris  should  be 
instructed  to  neglect  no  favorable  opportunity  of 
expressing,  informally ,  the  sentiments  and  wishes  of 
this  country  respecting  the  Marquis  de  Lafayette  ; 
and  I  pray  you  to  commit  to  paper,  in  answer  to  the 
enclosed  letter  from  Madame  de  Lafayette  to  me,  all 
the  consolation  I  can  with  propriety  give,  consistent 
with  my  public  character  and  the  national  policy,  cir- 

'  Jefferson  to  Morris,  I2  March,  1793. 


270  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

cumstanced  as  things  are.  My  last  and  only  letter 
to  her  is  herewith  sent,  that  you  may  see  what  has 
been  written  heretofore.     I  am,  &c.^ 


TO    FRANCES    WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  17  March,  1793. 

My  dear  Fanny, 

I  have  duly  received  your  letter,  dated  Hanover, 
March  5th,  and  was  happy  to  hear,  that  yourself  and 
the  children  were  well.  It  is  not  by  any  means  a 
wish  of  mine,  that  you  should  come  to  Mount  Vernon 
next  month,  on  account  of  my  short  visit  to  that  place. 
It  was  merely  on  your  own  account,  and  that  of  the 
estate,  that  I  suggested  the  measure  ;  more  indeed  for 
consideration,  than  by  way  of  advice ;  for  either  of 
your  brothers,  or  Mr.  John  Dandridge,  can  speak  to 
the  latter  with  more  propriety  than  I  am  able  to  do, 
as  they  know  in  what  time  and  in  what  manner  the 

^  Lafayette  was  made  the  subject  of  a  separate  letter  to  Morris,  dated  15 
March,  1793,  and  a  similar  one  was  sent  to  Pinckney. 

"  I  have  still  to  sympathize  with  you  on  the  deprivation  of  the  dearest  of  all 
your  resources  of  happiness,  in  comparison  with  which  others  vanish.  I  do  it 
in  all  the  sincerity  of  my  friendship  for  him,  and  with  ardent  desires  for  his 
relief ;  in  which  sentiment  I  know  that  my  fellow  citizens  participate. 

"  The  measures,  you  were  pleased  to  intimate  in  your  letter,  are  perhaps 
not  exactly  those,  which  I  could  pursue  ;  perhaps,  indeed,  not  the  most  likely, 
under  actual  circumstances,  to  obtain  our  object  ;  but  be  assured,  that  I  am 
not  inattentive  to  his  condition,  nor  contenting  myself  with  inactive  wishes  for 
his  liberation.  My  affection  to  his  nation  and  to  himself  are  unabated,  and 
notwithstanding  the  line  of  separation,  which  has  been  unfortunately  drawn 
between  them,  I  am  confident  that  both  have  been  led  on  by  a  pure  love  of 
liberty,  and  a  desire  to  secure  public  happiness  ;  and  I  sliali  deem  that  among 
the  most  consoling  moments  of  my  life,  which  should  see  them  reunited  in  the 
end,  as  they  were  in  the  beginning,  of  their  virtuous  enterprise." — Washington 
to  the  Marchioness  de  Lafayette,  16  March,  1793. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  271 

will  of  our  departed  friend  ought  to  be  proved,  and 
the  execution  of  the  trust  entered  upon. 

My  last  to  you,  enclosing  the  copy  of  a  letter, 
which  I  had  previously  written  to  your  brother  Bur- 
well,  would  have  conveyed  to  you  fully  my  ideas  on 
this  subject ;  and  to  that  communication  I  now  beg 
leave  to  refer  you. 

The  offer  of  a  residence  at  Mount  Vernon  was 
made  to  you  with  my  whole  heart ;  but  it  is  with  you, 
nevertheless,  to  consider  whether  any  other  plan  will 
comport  better  with  the  views,  which  my  nephew  had, 
or  with  such  as  you  may  have  entertained  for  your 
own  ease,  for  the  education  of  your  children,  or  for 
the  interest  of  the  estate.  And  your  decision  thereon 
will  be  perfectly  agreeable  to  me  ;  for  I  can  assure  you 
with  much  truth  I  have  no  wish  in  the  case,  beyond 
that  of  seeing  you  settled  to  your  entire  satisfaction  ; 
the  means  for  doing  which,  either  in  Alexandria  or 
elsewhere,  you  have  no  doubt  considered  and  calcu- 
lated. With  the  best  economy,  I  conceive  it  must  be 
expensive  to  purchase  furniture  and  keep  a  house. 

The  carriage  which  I  sent  to  Mount  Vernon  for 
your  use,  I  never  intended  to  reclaim,  and  therefore 
now  making  you  a  more  formal  present  of  it,  it  may 
be  sent  for  whenever  it  suits  your  convenience,  and 
be  considered  as  your  own,  and  I  shall,  when  I  see 
you,  request  that  Fayette  may  be  given  up  to  me, 
either  at  that  time,  or  as  soon  after  as  he  is  old 
enough  to  go  to  school.  This  will  relieve  you  of  that 
portion  of  attention,  which  his  education  would  other- 
wise call  for. 


272  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

It  is  to  be  feared,  that  your  overseer  in  Fairfax  is 
neither  the  best  of  that  description,  nor  the  honestest 
of  men.  A  month  or  more  ago,  Mr.  Whiting  in- 
formed me,  that  this  said  overseer  had  one,  if  not 
two  horses  of  his  own  on  the  plantation,  fed  no 
doubt,  (whatever  his  declarations  to  the  contrary 
might  be,)  at  your  expense.  I  immediately  directed 
Mr.  Whiting  to  go  to  him,  and  in  my  name  to  order 
the  horse,  or  horses,  (if  more  than  one,)  to  be  sent 
away  instantly,  unless  he  could  show  a  written  per- 
mission for  their  being  kept  on  the  place  ;  and  to  in- 
form him,  moreover,  if  they  were  to  be  found  on  it 
when  I  came  home,  I  would  not  only  send  the  horses 
off,  but  himself  along  with  them.  Since  then,  some 
suspicions  have  also  been  entertained  of  his  not  deal- 
ing fairly  by  the  wheat  under  his  care,  which  was  for 
market.  Such  is  the  villainy  of  these  sort  of  people, 
when  they  have  it  in  their  power,  as  they  conceive, 
to  cheat  with  impunity.  What  has  been  done  in  either 
of  these  cases,  I  remain  unadvised  ;  as  poor  Whiting, 
by  a  letter  which  I  received  from  Doctor  Craik,  dated 
the  6th  instant,  was  then  confined  to  his  bed  by  a 
more  violent  return  of  his  old  disorder  (spitting  blood) 
than  ever.  Since  that  date,  I  have  heard  nothing 
from  thence,  which  is  presumptive  evidence,  that  he 
is  not  able  to  write  himself ;  and  of  this  there  is  the 
evidence  also  of  the  Doctor's  letter,  pronouncing  his  \ 
case  critical  and  dangerous  ;  the  effect  of  these  to  be 
avoided  by  extreme  care  only. 

From  what  Mr.   Bassett  said  to  Mr.  Whiting,  re- 
specting the  materials  for  the   building,  which   had 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  273 

been  begun  at  your  place,  I  directed  him  to  have 
them  put  away  securely,  and  to  let  your  carpenters 
work  along  with  mine,  keeping  an  account  of  the 
time,  that  I  might  allow  you  the  usual  hire.  There 
they  may  remain,  unless  you  have  other  employment 
for  them,  as  I  have  work  on  hand  that  requires 
despatch  ;  and  I  would,  to  facilitate  the  execution 
thereof,  hire  others  if  I  do  not  retain  these. 

Your  aunt  joins  me  in  ever)'  affectionate  regard 
for  you  and  the  children,  and  in  best  wishes  for 
the  friends  among  whom  you  are.  At  all  times,  and 
under  all  circumstances,  I  shall  always  remain,  your 
sincere  friend. 


TO    THE   SECRETARIES   OF    STATE,  OF   THE    TREASURY,  OF 

WAR    AND    THE    ATTORNEY-GENERAL    OF 

THE    UNITED    STATES. 

[circular.] 

United  States,  21st  March,  1793. 
Gentlemen, 

The  treaty,  which  is  agreed  to  be  held  on  or  about  the  ist  of 
June  next  at  the  Lower  Sandusky  of  Lake  Erie,  being  of  great 
moment  to  the  interests  and  peace  of  this  country,  and  hkely  to  be 
attended  with  difficulties  arising  from  circumstances  (not  unknown 
to  you,)  of  a  peculiar  and  embarrassing  nature,  it  is  indispensably 
necessary  that  our  rights  under  the  treaties,  which  have  been 
entered  into  with  the  Six  Nations — the  several  tribes  of  Indians 
now  in  hostiHty  with  us, — and  the  claims  of  others,  should  be  care- 
fully investigated  and  well  ascertained,  that  the  commissioners, 
who  are  appointed  to  hold  it,  may  be  well  informed  and  clearly 
instructed  on  all  the  points  that  are  likely  to  be  discussed,  thereby 
knowing  what  they  are  to  insist  upon,  with  or  without  compensa- 
tion, and  the  amount  of  the  compensation  if  any,  and  what  for  the 

sake  of  peace  they  may  yield. 
l8 


2  74  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

You  are  not  to  learn  from  me  the  different  views,  which  our 
citizens  entertain  of  the  war  we  are  engaged  in  with  the  Indians, 
and  how  much  these  different  opinions  add  to  the  deHcacy  and 
embarrassments  alluded  to  above,  nor  the  criticisms,  which  more 
than  probable  will  be  made  on  the  subject,  if  the  proposed  treaty 
should  be  unsuccessful. 

Induced  by  these  motives,  and  desirous  that  time  may  be 
allowed  for  a  full  and  deliberate  consideration  of  the  subject 
before  the  departure  of  the  commissioners,  it  is  my  desire  that 
you  will  on  the  25  th  of  this  month  meet  together  at  the  war  office 
(or  at  such  other  time  and  place  as  you  may  agree  upon)  where 
the  principal  documents  are,  with  whatever  papers  you  may  re- 
spectively be  possessed  of  on  the  subject  and  such  others  as  I 
shall  cause  to  be  laid  before  you,  and  then  and  there  decide  on  all 
the  points,  which  you  shall  conceive  necessary  for  the  information 
and  instruction  of  the  commissioners,  and  having  drawn  them 
into  form,  to  revise  the  same,  and  have  them  ready  in  a  finished 
state  for  my  perusal  and  consideration  when  I  return,  together 
with  a  digest  of  such  references  as  shall  be  adjudged  necessary 
for  the  commissioners  to  take  with  them. 

And  as  it  has  been  suggested  to  me,  that  the  Society  of  Quakers 
are  desirous  of  sending  a  deputation  from  their  body  to  be  present 
at  the  aforesaid  treaty,  which,  if  done  with  pure  motives,  and  a 
disposition  accordant  with  the  sentiments  entertained  by  govern- 
ment respecting  boundary,  may  be  a  mean  of  facilitating  the  good 
work  of  peace,  you  will  consider  how  far,  if  they  are  approved 
characters,  they  ought  to  be  recognised  in  the  instructions  to  the 
commissioners,  and  how  proper  it  may  be  for  them  to  participate 
therein,  or  be  made  acquainted  therewith.     I  am,  &c.' 


'  "  In  addition  to  the  several  matters  contained  in  my  circular  letter  to  you 
before  I  left  Philadelphia,  which  you  were  desired  to  take  into  consideration,  I 
now  submit  to  you  (and  to  the  other  gentlemen  to  whom  the  abovementioned 
letter  was  directed,  and  whom  you  will  now  also  consult)  a  request  of  the 
Society  of  Quakers  to  be  permitted  to  make  presents  to  the  Indians  at  the  pro- 
posed treaty  at  Sandusky. 

"You  will  determine  among  yourselves  as  to  the  propriety  of  granting  this 
request  at  all,  and  to  what  amount,  and  what  kind  of  articles  they  may  pre- 
sent  to  the  Indians.     The  result  of  your  united  deliberations,  as  I  am  satisfied 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  275 

TO    DAVID    HUMPHREYS. 

Philadelphia,  23  March,  1793. 

My  dear  Sir, 

Closely  engaged  in  the  business  incident  to  my 
office  during  the  session  of  Congress,  and  as  closely 
employed  since  in  making  arrangements  for  carrying 
into  effect  the  laws  then  passed,  and  in  discharging 
other  public  duties,  I  have  not  till  this  moment  found 
myself  enough  at  leisure  to  acknowledge  the  receipt 
of  your  letter  of  the  23d  to  July  ;  and,  being  now  on 
the  eve  of  setting  out  for  Mount  Vernon,^  I  shall  be 
able  to  do  but  little  more  than  barely  acknowledge 
the  receipt  of  it,  and  of  your  favors  of  .the  23d  of 
January  and  the  8th  of  February,  both  of  which 
have  reached  my  hands  within  these  few  days. 

Even  if  I  had  time,  it  might  not  be  proper  for  me 
to  reply  particularly  to  the  several  parts  of  your  let- 
ters, especially  to  that  of  the  23d  July.  I  shall  there- 
fore content  myself  at  present,  my  dear  Sir,  with  making 
a  few  general  observations  on  the  existing  state  of 
things,  and  rely  upon  your  being  assured,  that,  how- 
ever concise  my  letter  may  be,  it  does  not  become  so 
from  any  diminution  of  my  regard  for  you. 

it  will  meet  my  approbation,  you  may  communicate  to  the  Society  ;  as  they  may 
want  to  make  some  arrangements,  in  case  their  request  should  be  granted, 
before  the  commissioners  depart  for  Sandusky." —  Washington  to  Knox,  5  April, 
1793- 

'  "  I  shall  leave  this  on  Wednesday  next,  so  as  to  be  at  Georgetown  on  the 
Monday  following  (the  first  of  April)  ;  and  if  not  detained  there  by  business,  shall 
be  at  Mount  Vernon  the  day  after.  I  shall  take  Osborne  and  the  two  postil- 
lions with  me,  and  eight  horses." —  Washington  to  Anthony  Whiting,  24  March, 
1793- 


276  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

If  it  can  be  esteemed  a  happiness  to  live  in  an  age 
productive  of  great  and  interesting  events,  we  of  the 
present  age  are  very  highly  favored.  The  rapidity 
of  national  revolutions  appear  no  less  astonishing, 
than  their  magnitude.  In  what  they  will  terminate 
is  known  only  to  the  Great  Ruler  of  events  ;  and, 
confiding  in  his  wisdom  and  goodness,  we  may  safely 
trust  the  issue  to  him,  without  perplexing  ourselves 
to  seek  for  that,  which  is  beyond  human  ken  ;  only 
taking  care  to  perform  the  parts  assigned  us,  in  a 
way  that  reason  and  our  own  consciences  approve  of. 

All  our  late  accounts  from  Europe  hold  up  the  ex- 
pectation of  a  general  war  in  that  quarter.  For  the 
sake  of  humanity  I  hope  such  an  event  will  not  take 
place  ;  but,  if  it  should,  I  trust  that  we  shall  have  too 
just  a  sense  of  our  own  interest  to  originate  any 
cause,  that  may  involve  us  in  it.  And  I  ardently 
wish  we  may  not  be  forced  into  it  by  the  conduct  of 
other  nations.  If  we  are  permitted  to  improve  with- 
out interruption  the  great  advantages,  which  nature 
and  circumstances  have  placed  within  our  reach, 
many  years  will  not  revolve  before  we  may  be 
ranked,  not  only  among  the  most  respectable,  but 
among  the  happiest  people  on  this  globe.  Our  ad- 
vances to  these  points  are  more  rapid,  than  the  most 
sanguine  among  us  ever  predicted.  A  spirit  of  im- 
provement displays  itself  in  every  quarter,  and  prin- 
cipally in  objects  of  the  greatest  public  utility,  such 
as  opening  the  inland  navigation,  which  is  extensive 
and  various  beyond  conception,  improving  the  old 
roads  and  making   new  ones,   building  bridges   and 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  277 

houses,  and,  in  short,  pursuing  those  things,  which 
seem  eminently  calculated  to  promote  the  advantage 
and  accommodation  of  the  people  at  large.  Besides 
these,  the  enterprises  of  individuals  show  at  once 
what  are  the  happy  effects  of  personal  exertions  in  a 
country,  where  equal  laws  and  equal  rights  prevail. 

For  myself,  you  see  me  again  entering  upon  the 
arduous  duties  of  an  important  office,  to  which  the 
unanimous  voice  of  my  country  has  once  more  called 
me.  To  you,  who  know  my  love  of  retirement  and 
domestic  life,  it  is  unnecessary  to  say,  that,  in  accept- 
ing this  re-appointment,  I  relinquish  those  personal 
enjoyments  to  which  I  am  peculiarly  attached.  The 
motives,  which  induced  my  acceptance,  are  the  same 
which  have  ever  ruled  my  decision,  when  the  public 
desire,  or,  (as  my  country-men  are  pleased  to  denomi- 
nate it,  the  p2iblic  good^  was  placed  in  the  scale 
against  my  personal  enjoyment  or  private  interest. 
The  latter  I  have  ever  considered  as  subservient  to 
the  former ;  and  perhaps  in  no  instance  of  my  life 
have  I  been  more  sensible  of  the  sacrifice  than  in  the 
present ;  for  at  my  age  the  love  of  retirement  grows 
every  day  more  and  more  powerful,  and  the  death  of 
my  nephew,  the  poor  Major,  will,  I  apprehend,  cause 
my  private  concerns  to  suffer  very  much.  This 
melancholy  event  took  place  on  the  5th  of  last 
month,  at  Colonel  Bassett's,  where  he  had  gone, 
hoping  to  benefit  from  a  change  of  air  and  situation. 
Although  it  had  been  long  expected,  and  indeed  to 
me  of  late  appeared  inevitable,  yet  I  have  felt  it  ver}' 
keenly. 


278  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

You  will  receive  from  Mr.  Jefferson  every  official 
communication  necessary  for  your  conduct,  together 
with  laws,  public  papers,  &c.  He  will  also  inform 
you,  that  the  steps  which  you  took  in  consequence  of 
Mr.  Barclay's  death  met  my  entire  approbation.^ 

I  set  out  with  intimating,  that  my  letter  would  be 
very  short,  but  upon  looking  back  I  find  it  can  hardly 
be  said  to  have  that  fault;  and,  lest  it  should  partake 
of  another  at  least  as  bad,  I  shall  close  it  with  as- 
suring you  that  you  have  the  best  wishes,  for  your 
health  and  happiness,  of  your  sincere  friend  and 
affectionate  servant. 


TO    THOMAS   JEFFERSON,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 

Mount  Vernon,  12  April,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

Your  letter  of  the  7th  was  brought  to  me  by  the 
last  post.  War  having  actually  commenced  between 
France  and  Great  Britain,  it  behoves  the  govern- 
ment of  this  country  to  use  every  means  in  its  power 
to  prevent  the  citizens  thereof  from  embroiling  us 
with  either  of  those  powers,  by  endeavoring  to  main- 
tain a  strict  neutrality.  I  therefore  require,  that  you 
will  give  the  subject  mature  consideration,  that  such 
measures  as  shall  be  deemed  most  likely  to  effect  this 

'  Mr.  Barclay  was  the  American  consul  in  Morocco.  He  had  died  suddenly, 
and  Mr.  Humphreys,  then  resident  in  Lisbon  as  minister  to  Portugal,  on  hear- 
ing of  his  death,  proceeded  immediately  to  Gibraltar,  and  took  charge  of  the 
public  property  in  that  place,  which  had  been  under  the  care  of  Mr.  Barclay. 
The  service  was  important,  and,  as  it  was  performed  without  instructions,  Mr. 
Humphreys  had  requested  the  President  to  state  explicitly  whether  it  met  with 
his  approbation. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  279 

desirable  purpose  may  be  adopted  without  delay  ;  for 
I  have  understood,  that  vessels  are  already  desig- 
nated privateers,  and  are  preparing  accordingly. 

Such  other  measures  as  may  be  necessary  for  us  to 
pursue  against  events,  which  it  may  not  be  in  our 
power  to  avoid  or  control,  you  will  also  think  of,  and 
lay  them  before  me  at  my  arrival  in  Philadelphia  ; 
for  which  place  I  shall  set  out  to-morrow,  but  will 
leave  it  to  the  advices,  which  I  may  receive  to-night  by 
the  post,  to  determine  whether  it  is  to  be  by  the  most 
direct  route,  or  by  the  one  I  proposed  to  have  come, 
that  is,  by  Reading,  the  canals  between  the  rivers  of 
Pennsylvania,  Harrisburg,  Carlisle,  &c.,  &c.^  With 
very  great  esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  &c.  " 


TO    THE    SECRETARIES    AND    ATTORNEY-GENERAL. 
[circular.] 

Philadelphia,  18  April,  1793. 

The  posture  of  affairs  in  Europe,  particularly  be- 
tween France  and  Great  Britain,  places  the  United 
States  in  a  delicate  situation,  and  requires  much 
consideration,  of  the  measures  which  will  be  proper 
for  them  to  observe  in  the  war  between  those  powers. 
With  a  view  to  forming  a  general  plan  of  conduct  for 
the  executive,  I  have  stated  and  enclosed  sundry 
questions,  to  be  considered  preparatory  to  a  meeting 
at  my  house  to-morrow,  where  I  shall  expect  to  see 
you  at  9  o'clock,  and  to  receive  the  result  of  your 
reflections  thereon.      I  am,  &c. 

'   He  reached  Philadephia  on  Wednesday,  April  17th. 


28o  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

QUESTIONS    SUBMITTED    BY    THE    PRESIDENT. 

Philadelphia,  18  April,  1793. 

I.  Shall  a  proclamation  issue  for  the  purpose  of  preventing  in- 
terferences of  the  citizens  of  the  United  States  in  the  war  between 
France  and  Great  Britain,  &c.  ?  Shall  it  contain  a  declaration  of 
neutrality  or  not  ?     What  shall  it  contain  ? 

II.  Shall  a  minister  from  the  Republic  of  France  be  received  ? 

III.  If  received,  shall  it  be  absolutely  or  with  qualifications  ; 
and,  if  with  qualifications,  of  what  kind  ? 

IV.  Are  the  United  States  obliged  by  good  faith  to  consider 
the  treaties  heretofore  made  with  France  as  applying  to  the 
present  situation  of  the  parties  ?  May  they  either  renounce 
them,  or  hold  them  suspended  till  the  government  of  France 
shall  be  established  2 

V.  If  they  have  the  right,  is  it  expedient  to  do  either,  and 
which  ? 

VI.  If  they  have  an  option,  would  it  be  a  breach  of  neutrality 
to  consider  the  treaties  still  in  operation  ? 

VII.  If  the  treaties  are  to  be  considered  as  now  in  operation, 
is  the  guarantee  in  the  treaty  of  alliance  applicable  to  a  defensive 
war  only,  or  to  war  either  offensive  or  defensive  ? 

VIII.  Does  the  war  in  which  France  is  engaged  appear  to  be 
offensive  or  defensive  on  her  part  ?  Or  of  a  mixed  and  equivocal 
character  ? 

IX.  If  of  a  mixed  and  equivocal  character,  does  the  guarantee 
in  any  event  apply  to  such  a  war  ? 

X.  What  is  the  effect  of  a  guarantee  such  as  that  to  be  found  in 
the  treaty  of  alliance  between  the  United  States  and  France  ? 

XI.  Does  any  article  in  either  of  the  treaties  prevent  ships  of 
war,  other  than  privateers,  of  the  powers  opposed  to  France  from 
coming  into  the  ports  of  the  United  States  to  act  as  convoys  to 
their  own  merchantmen  ?  Or  does  it  lay  any  other  restraint  upon 
them  more  than  would  ajjply  to  the  ships  of  war  of  France  ? 

XII.  Should  the  future  regent  of  France  send  a  minister  to  the 
United  States,  ought  he  to  be  received  ? 

XIII.  Is   it    necessary  or   advisable    to   call  together   the    two 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  281 

Houses  of  Congress,  with  a  view  to  the  present  posture  of  Euro- 
pean aflfairs  ?  If  it  is,  what  should  be  the  particular  object  of 
such  a  call  ? ' 


PROCLAMATION    OF    NEUTRALITY. 

Whereas  it  appears,  that  a  state  of  war  exists  between  Austria, 
Prussia,  Sardinia,  Great  Britain,  and  the  United  Netherlands,  on 
the  one  part,  and  France  on  the  other  ;  and  the  duty  and  interest 
of  the  United  States  require,  that  they  should  with  sincerity  and 
good  faith  adopt  and  pursue  a  conduct  friendly  and  impartial 
towards  the  belligerent  powers  ; 

I  have  therefore  thought  fit  by  these  presents  to  declare  the 
disposition  of  the  United  States  to  observe  the  conduct  aforesaid 
towards  those  powers  respectively,  and  to  exhort  and  warn  the 
citizens  of  the  United  States  carefully  to  avoid  all  acts  and  pro- 
ceedings whatsoever,  which  may  in  any  manner  tend  to  contravene 
such  disposition. 

And  I  do  hereby  also  make  known,  that  whosoever  of  the 
citizens  of  the  United  States  shall  render  himself  liable  to  pun- 
ishment or  forfeiture  under  the  law  of  nations,  by  committing, 
aiding,  or  abetting  hostilities  against  any  of  the  said  powers,  or 
by  carrying  to  any  of  them  those  articles,  which  are  deemed  con- 

'  The  opinion  of  the  cabinet  was  thus  expressed  in  a  memorandum  drawn  up 
by  JefiFerson  : 

"  At  a  meeting  of  the  heads  of  departments  and  the  attorney-general  at  the 
President's,  April  igth,  1793,  to  consider  the  foregoing  questions  proposed  by 
the  President,  it  was  determined  by  all,  on  the  first  question,  that  a  proclama- 
tion shall  issue  forbidding  our  citizens  to  take  part  in  any  hostilities  on  the 
seas,  with  or  against  any  of  the  belligerent  powers  ;  and  warning  them  against 
carrying  to  any  such  powers  any  of  those  articles  deemed  contraband,  accord- 
ing to  the  modern  usage  of  nations  ;  and  enjoining  them  from  all  acts  and 
proceedings  inconsistent  with  the  duties  of  a  friendly  nation  towards  those 
at  war. 

"  On  the  second  question,  '  Shall  a  minister  from  the  Republic  of  France  be 
received  ?  '  it  was  unanimously  agreed,  that  he  shall  be  received. 

"  The  remaining  questions  were  postponed  for  further  consideration." 

On  the  third  question,  Jefferson  and  Randolph  were  of  opinion,  that  the 
minister  should  be  received  absolutely  and  without  qualifications.     Hamilton 


282  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

traband  by  the  modern  usage  of  nations,  will  not  receive  the  pro- 
tection of  the  United  States  against  such  punishment  or  forfeiture  ; 
and  further,  that  I  have  given  instructions  to  those  officers,  to 
whom  it  belongs,  to  cause  prosecutions  to  be  instituted  against  all 
persons,  who  shall  Avithin  the  cognizance  of  the  courts  of  the 
United  States  violate  the  law  of  nations  with  respect  to  the  powers 
at  war,  or  any  of  them. 

In  testimony  whereof  I  have  caused  the  seal  of  the  United 
States  of  America  to  be  affixed  to  these  presents,  and  signed  the 
same  with  my  hand.  Done  at  the  city  of  Philadelphia,  the  2 2d 
day  of  April,  1793,  and  of  the  independence  of  the  United  States 
of  America  the  seventeenth. 


TO    THE    EARL    OF    BUCHAN. 

Philadelphia,  22  April,  1793. 

My  Lord, 

The  favorable  wishes  which  your  Lordship  has  ex- 
pressed for  the  prosperity  of  this  young  and  rising 
country,  cannot  but  be  gratefully  received  by  all  its 

and  Knox  deemed  it  ' '  advisable,  that  the  reception  of  the  minister  expected 
from  the  Republic  of  France  should  be  qualified  substantially  to  this  effect : 

"  That  the  government  of  the  United  States,  uniformly  entertaining  cordial 
wishes  for  the  happiness  of  the  French  nation,  and  disposed  to  maintain  with 
it  an  amicable  communication  and  intercourse,  uninterrupted  by  political  vicis- 
situdes, does  not  hesitate  to  receive  him  in  the  character,  which  his  creden- 
tials import ;  yet,  considering  the  origin,  course,  and  circumstances  of  the 
relations  continued  between  the  two  countries,  and  the  existing  position  of  the 
affairs  of  France,  it  is  deemed  advisable  and  proper  on  the  part  of  the  United , 
States  to  reserve  to  future  consideration  and  discussion  the  question,  whether  j 
the  operation  of  the  treaties,  by  which  those  relations  were  formed,  ought  not  to 
be  deemed  temporarily  and  provisionally  sus]>ended  ;  and  under  this  impression 
it  is  thought  due  to  a  spirit  of  candid  and  friendly  procedure,  to  apprize  him 
beforehand  of  the  intention  to  reserve  that  question,  lest  silence  on  the  point 
should  occasion  misconstruction." 

The  other  questions  were  elaborately  discussed  by  each  member  of  the 
cabinet  in  writing,  and  the  relations  between  France  and  the  United  States, 
as  then  existing,  were  largely  examined. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  283 

citizens  and  every  lover  of  it.  One  mean  to  the  con- 
tribution of  which,  and  its  happiness,  is  very  judi- 
ciously portrayed  in  the  following  words  of  your 
letter,  "  To  be  little  heard  of  in  the  great  world  of 
politics."  These  words,  I  can  assure  your  Lordship, 
are  expressive  of  my  sentiments  on  this  head  ;  and  I 
believe  it  is  the  sincere  wish  of  United  America  to 
have  nothing  to  do  with  the  political  intrigues,  or 
the  squabbles,  of  European  nations  ;  but,  on  the  con- 
trar}',  to  exchange  commodities  and  live  in  peace  and 
amity  with  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  And 
this  I  am  persuaded  they  will  do,  if  rightly  it  can  be 
done.  To  administer  justice  to,  and  receive  it  from, 
every  power  with  whom  they  are  connected  will,  I 
hope,  be  always  found  the  most  prominent  feature  in 
the  administration  of  this  countr}' ;  and  I  flatter  my- 
self that  nothing  short  of  imperious  necessity  can 
occasion  a  breach  with  any  of  them.  Under  such 
a  system,  if  we  are  allowed  to  pursue  it,  the  agricul- 
ture and  mechanical  arts,  the  wealth  and  population 
of  these  States  will  increase  with  that  deofree  of 
rapidity  as  to  bafifle  all  calculation,  and  must  sur- 
pass any  idea  your  Lordship  can  hitherto  have  en- 
tertained on  the  occasion. 

To  evince  that  our  views,  whether  realized  or  not, 
are  expanded,  I  take  the  liberty  of  sending  you  the 
plan  of  a  new  city,  situated  about  the  centre  of  the 
Union  of  these  States,  which  is  desiornated  for  the 
permanent  seat  of  the  government.  And  we  are  at 
this  moment  deeply  engaged  and  far  advanced  in 
extending  the  inland  navigation  of  the  River  Poto- 


284  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

mac,  on  which  it  stands,  and  the  branches  thereof, 
through  a  tract  of  as  rich  country  for  four  hundreds 
of  miles,  as  any  in  the  world.  Nor  is  this  a  solitary 
instance  of  attempts  of  the  kind,  although  it  is  the 
only  one  which  is  near  completion,  and  in  partial  use. 
Several  other  very  important  ones  are  commenced, 
and  little  doubt  is  entertained,  that  in  ten  years,  if 
left  undisturbed,  we  shall  open  a  communication  by 
water  with  all  the  lakes  northward  and  westward  of 
us,  with  which  we  have  territorial  connexion  ;  and 
inland  navigation  in  a  very  few  years  more  from 
Rhode  Island  to  Georgia  inclusively  ;  partly  by  cuts 
between  the  great  bays  and  sounds,  and  partly  be- 
tween the  islands  and  sand-banks  and  the  main  from 
Albemarle  Sound  to  the  River  St.  Mary's.  To  these 
may  also  be  added  the  erection  of  bridges  over  con- 
siderable rivers,  and  the  commencement  of  turnpike 
roads,  as  further  indications  of  improvements  in  hand. 
The  family  of  Fairfax  in  Virginia,  of  whom  you 
speak,  is  also  related  to  me  by  several  marriages 
before  it  came  to  this  country,  (as  I  am  informed,) 
and  since ;  and  what  remain  of  the  old  stock  are 
near  neighbors  to  my  estate  of  Mount  Vernon.  The 
late  Lord  (Thomas),  with  whom  I  was  perfectly  ac- 
quainted, lived  at  the  distance  of  sixty  miles  from 
me,  after  he  had  removed  from  Belvoir,  the  seat  of 
his  kinsman,  which  adjoins  my  estate  just  mentioned, 
and  is  going  to  be  inhabited  by  a  young  member  of 
the  family  as  soon  as  the  house,  which  was  some 
years  ago  burnt  down,  can  be  rebuilt.  With  great 
esteem  and  respect,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  285 

TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON,    SECRETARY    OF    THE 
TREASURY. 

[private.] 

Sunday  Noon,  5  May,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

Before  you  despatch  the  circular  letter,  of  which 
you  enclosed  me  a  copy,  to  the  several  collectors,  I 
would  speak  to  you  respecting  a  particular  clause 
in  it/ 

In  the  conversation  you  may  have  with  a  certain 
gentleman  ^  to-day,  I  pray  you  to  intimate  to  him 
gently  and  delicately,  that,  if  the  letters  or  papers, 
which  he  has  to  present,  are  (knowingly  to  him)  of  a 
nature  which  relates  to  public  matters,  and  not  par- 
ticularly addressed  to  me,  or  if  he  has  any  verbal 
com.munications  to  make  of  a  similar  kind,  I  had 
rather  they  should  come  through  the  proper  channel. 
Add  thereto,  generally,  that  the  peculiar  situation  of 
European  affairs  at  this  moment,  my  good  wishes  for 
his  nation  aggregately,  my  regard  for  those  of  it  in 
particular,  with  whom  I  have  had  the  honor  of  an 
acquaintance,  my  anxious  desire  to  keep  this  country 
in  peace,  and  the  delicacy  of  my  situation,  render  a 

'  This  may  have  referred  to  the  clause  that  awakened  the  fears  of  Jefferson, 
leading  him  to  suspect  Hamilton  of  making  the  revenue  officers  a  "  corps 
trained  to  the  arts  of  spies,  in  the  service  of  the  Treasur)'." 

•  This  gentleman  was  the  Viscount  de  Noailles,  a  French  nobleman,  who  had 
served  with  distinction  in  the  United  States  during  the  Revolution.  He  married 
a  sister  of  the  Marchioness  de  Lafayette.  Having  engaged  with  enthusiasm 
in  the  early  movements  of  the  French  Revolution,  and  acted  a  conspicuous 
part,  he  at  length  found  himself  in  a  proscribed  party,  and  was  obliged  to  flee 
from  his  country  to  escape  the  rage  of  the  contending  factions.  He  passed  by 
way  of  England  to  the  United  States.  Genet  characterized  him  and  his  com- 
panion. Talon,  as  representatives  of  the  "  pretended  regent  of  France." 


286  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

circumspect  conduct  indispensably  necessary  on  my 
part.  I  do  not,  however,  mean  by  this,  that  I  am  to 
withhold  from  him  such  civilities  as  are  common  to 
others.  Those  more  m,arked,  notwithstanding  our 
former  acquaintance,  would  excite  speculations,  which 
had  better  be  avoided  ;  and  if  the  characters  similarly 
circumstanced,  could  be  introduced  by  any  other  than 
himself,  especially  on  Tuesday  next,  in  the  public 
room,  when  it  is  presumed  the  officers  of  the  French 
frigate  will  be  presented,  it  would  unquestionably  be 
better.  But  how  this  can  be  brought  about,  as  they 
are  strangers,  without  embarrassment,  as  the  F.  M.^ 
is  shy  on  the  occasion,  I  do  not  at  this  moment  see ; 
for  it  may  not  escape  observation,  as  every  movement 
is  watched,  if  the  head  of  any  department  should  ap- 
pear prompt  in  this  business,  in  the  existing  state  of 
things.     I  am,  &c. 


TO    HENRY    LEE,    GOVERNOR    OF    VIRGINIA. 

[private.] 

Philadelphia,  6  May,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

On  Saturday  last  your  favor  of  the  29th  ultimo 
was  handed  to  me.  My  visit  to  Mourt  Vernon,  (in- 
tended to  be  short  when  I  set  out,)  was  curtailed  by 
the  declaration  of  war  by  France  against  Great  Britain 
and  Holland  ;  for  I  foresaw,  in  the  moment  informa- 
tion of  that  event  came  to  me  at  that  place,  the 
necessity  for  announcing  the  disposition  of  this 
country  towards  the  belligerent  powers,  and  the  pro- 

'  French  Minister. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  287 

priety  of  restraining,  as  far  as  a  proclamation  would 
do  it,  our  citizens  from  taking  part  in  the  contest. 
This  proclamation,  I  presume,  must  have  reached 
you  soon  after  the  date  of  your  letter.^ 

It  gives  me  inexpressible  pain  to  receive  such  fre- 
quent and  distressing  accounts  from  the  western 
frontiers  of  this  Union,  occasioned  by  Indian  hos- 
tilities ;  more  especially  as  our  hands  are  tied  to 
defensive  measures,  and  little  if  any  thing  more  to 
be  expected  from  the  proposed  negotiation  of  peace 
with  the  hostile  tribes,  to  be  assembled  at  Sandusky, 
(though  perhaps  it  is  best  for  me  to  be  silent  on  this 
head,)  than  in  case  of  failure  to  let  the  good  people 
of  these  States  see,  that  the  executive  has  left  nothing 
unessayed  to  accomplish  this  desirable  end  ;  to  re- 
move those  suspicions,  which  have  been  unjustly 
entertained,  that  peace  is  not  its  object  ;  and  to 
evince  to  them,  that  the  difficulties  which  it  has  had 
to  encounter,  (from  causes  which  at  present  can  only 
be  guessed),  has  been  greater  than  was  apprehended  ; 
and  lastly,  if  the  sword  is  to  decide,  that  the  arm  of 
government  may  be  enabled  to  strike  home. 

I  come  now  to  a  more  difficult  part  of  your  letter.^ 

^  In  Governor  Lee's  letter,  written  before  he  received  the  proclamation,  he 
had  hinted  at  such  a  measure.  "  The  minds  of  the  people  of  my  acquaint- 
ance," said  he,  "are  much  agitated  by  reports  of  privateers  being  fitted  out  in 
some  of  our  ports.  The  considerate  part  of  society  hope  for  peace,  which  can 
only  be  obtained  by  strict  neutrality.  Do  you  not  think  your  proclamation  on 
this  subject  would  be  useful  ?  Pardon  the  suggestion,  and  regard  it  only  as  mv 
opinion  ;  and  you  know  how  uninformed  I  must  be  on  this  subject." 

*  From  Governor  Lee  s  Letter  :  "As  soon  after  my  hearing  of  your  return 
to  Mount  Vernon  as  I  could,  I  set  out  on  a  \-isit  to  you,  but  unfortunately  your 
stay  at  home  was  so  short  that  I  could  not  see  you.  I  had  reached  Stafford 
Court-House,  when  I  accidentally  learned  that  you  had  departed  on  the  previ- 
ous Sunday;  and  on  knowing  this  I  instantly  turned  back  from  whence  I  came. 


288  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

As  a  public  character,  I  can  say  nothing  on  the  sub- 
ject of  it.  As  a  private  man,  I  am  unwilling  to  say 
much.  Give  advice  I  shall  not.  All  I  can  do,  then, 
towards  complying  with  your  request  is  to  declare, 
that,  if  the  case  which  you  have  suggested  was  mine,  I 
should  ponder  well  before  I  resolved ;  not  only  for 
private  considerations,  but  on  public  grounds.  The 
latter,  because,  being  the  first  magistrate  of  a  respec- 
table State,  much  speculation  would  be  excited  by 
such  a  measure,  and  the  consequences  thereof  not 
seen  into  at  the  first  glance.  As  it  might  respect 
myself  only,  because  it  would  appear  a  boundless 
ocean   I  was  about  to  embark  on,  from  whence  no 

This  disappointment  would  have  always  been  mortifying  to  me,  as  it  deprived 
me  of  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you  ;  but  it  was  uncommonly  so  then,  as  I  had  vast 
solicitude  to  obtain  your  opinion  on  a  subject  highly  interesting  to  me  per- 
sonally. 

"  Bred  to  arms,  I  have  always  since  my  domestic  calamity  wished  for  a 
return  to  my  profession,  as  the  best  resort  for  my  mind  in  its  affliction. 
Finding  the  serious  turn,  which  the  French  affairs  took  last  year,  I  interposed 
with  the  Marquis  to  obtain  me  a  commission  in  their  army,  and  at  the  same 
time  made  the  same  application  in  another  way.  The  Marquis,  about  the 
time  he  got  my  letter,  took  the  part,  which  issued  so  unfortunately  to  him. 
From  him  I  had  no  reply.  But  from  the  other  source  I  am  informed,  that  a 
major-general's  commission  will  be  given  to  me  on  my  appearance  in  Paris, 
and  that  probably  it  would  be  sent  to  me.  I  have  detailed  this  to  you,  merely 
that  your  mind  might  be  fully  informed,  inasmuch  as  the  step  I  may  take  will 
be  to  me  all-important.  I  am  consequently  solicitous  for  the  best  advice,  and 
this  I  am  persuaded  you  can  give.  Should  it  be  improper  on  your  part,  much 
as  I  want  it.  I  must  relinquish  the  hope.  But  as  your  opinion  to  me  will  never 
be  known  but  to  myself,  and  as  I  ask  your  counsel  in  your  private  character,  I 
feel  a  presumption  in  favor  of  my  wishes. 

"  If  fair  war  on  terms  of  honor,  with  certainty  of  sustenance  to  the  troops, 
and  certainty  of  concert  among  the  citizens,  will  and  can  be  supported  by 
France,  I  will  embark.  If  the  reverse  in  any  part  is  probable,  to  go  would  be 
the  completion  of  my  lot  of  misery.  You  see  my  situation  ;  you  have  experi- 
enced my  secrecy  in  my  younger  days,  and  you  know  the  inviolable  affection  I 
bear  towards  you.  Apprehend  no  improper  effects  of  your  free  opinion  to 
me." — Richmond,  April  29th. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  289 

land  is  to  be  seen.  In  other  words,  because  the 
affairs  of  [France]  would  seem  to  me  to  be  in  the 
highest  paroxysm  of  disorder ;  not  so  much  from  the 
pressure  of  foreign  enemies,  (for  in  the  cause  of 
liberty  this  ought  to  be  fuel  to  the  fire  of  a  patriot 
soldier,  and  to  increase  his  ardor,)  but  because  those 
in  whose  hands  the  government  is  intrusted  are  ready 
to  tear  each  other  to  pieces,  and  will  more  than  prob- 
ably prove  the  worst  foes  the  country'  has.  To  all 
which  may  be  added  the  probability  of  the  scarcity 
of  bread,  from  the  peculiar  circumstances  of  the  con- 
tending parties,  and  which,  if  it  should  happen,  would 
accelerate  a  crisis  of  sad  confusion,  and  possibly  of 
entire  change  in  the  political  system. 

The  enclosed  came  under  cover  to  me  by  one  of 
the  late  arrivals.  If  the  date  of  it  is  as  old  as  the 
one  to  me,  which  accompanied  it,  it  can  contain 
nothing  new.  Although  no  name  will  appear  to  this 
letter,  I  beg  it  may  be  committed  to  the  flames  as 
soon  as  it  is  read.  I  need  not  add,  because  you 
must  know  it,  that  I  am  always  yours. 


TO     ALEXANDER     HAMILTON,     SECRETARY     OF     THE 
TREASURY. 

PHII.ADELPHIA,  7  May,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

As  I  perceive  there  has  been  some  misconception, 

respecting  the  building  of  vessels  in  our  ports,  which 

vessels  may  be  converted  into  armed  ones  ;  and  as  I 

understand  from  the  attorney-general  there  is  to  be 

a  meeting  to-day  or  to-morrow  of  the  gentlemen  on 
19 


290  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

another  occasion,  I  wish  to  have  that  part  of  your 
circular  letter,  which  respects  this  matter,  reconsid- 
ered by  them  before  it  goes  out. 

I  am  not  disposed  to  adopt  any  measure,  which 
may  check  ship-building  in  this  country ;  nor  am  I 
satisfied  that  we  should  too  promptly  adopt  measures 
in  the  first  instance,  that  are  not  indispensably  neces- 
sary. To  take  fair  and  supportable  ground  I  con- 
ceive to  be  our  best  policy,  and  it  is  all  that  can  be 
required  of  us  by  the  powers  at  war  ;  leaving  the  rest 
to  be  managed  according  to  circumstances  and  the 
advantages  to  be  derived  from  them.     I  am,  &c. 

Quere  —  Is  it  not  expedient  that  the  District 
Attornies  should  be  written  to,  requiring  their  at- 
tention to  the  observance  of  the  injunctions  of  the 
Proclamation  ? 


TO    M.    TERNANT. 

Philadelphia,  [23  ?]  May,  1793. 

Sir, 

The  first  intimation,  which  I  received  of  your  mis- 
sion to  the  United  States  in  the  capacity  you  lately 
filled,  gave  me  pleasure.  I  anticipated  on  your  part  a 
conduct,  which,  while  it  was  calculated  to  promote 
the  objects  of  your  duty,  would,  in  its  manner,  be 
pleasing  to  the  government  and  citizens  of  this  coun- 
try. My  anticipations  have  not  been  disappointed. 
Uniformly  attentive  to  the  advancement  of  the  inter- 
ests confided  to  your  care,  (notwithstanding  the  agi- 
tations and  vicissitudes  experienced  in  the  govern- 
ment of  your  country,)  the  tenor  of  your  ofificial  and 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  291 

private  conduct  throughout  the  course  of  your  mis- 
sion has  appeared  to  me  deserving  of  approbation, 
and  has  acquired  to  you  a  new  title  to  my  regard. 

I  give  you  this  private  and  personal  mark  of  my 
satisfaction  and  esteem  in  remembrance  of  your  ser- 
vices as  an  officer  in  the  army  of  the  United  States, 
and  in  consideration  of  the  peculiar  and  extraordinary 
circumstances  under  which  you  have  acted.  With 
sentiments  of  attachment  and  regard,  I  am,  dear 
Sir,  &c.^  

TO    THOMAS    JEFFERSON,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 

Philadelphia,  i  June,  1793. 

Sir, 

To  call  upon  Mr.  Hammond  without  further  delay, 
for  the  result  of  the  reference  to  his  court  concerning 
the  surrender  of  the  western  posts,  or  to  await  the 

'  The  above  letter  was  written  at  the  request  of  M.  de  Temant,  communi- 
cated in  the  following  note  : 

"  Sir ;  I  have  just  handed  to  the  Secretary  of  State  an  official  information  of 
my  recall,  and  of  the  appointment  of  Citizen  Genet  to  be  minister  of  the 
French  Republic  near  the  United  States.  Though  I  have  reason  to  hope  the 
official  answer  to  my  letter  on  the  subject  may  do  justice  to  my  conduct,  jet 
I  cannot  help  wishing  to  obtain  from  you  a  personal  and  private  assurance, 
that,  notwithstanding  the  \'iolent  agitations  and  great  vicissitudes  experienced 
by  the  government  of  my  country,  I  have  always  uniformly  and  faithfully 
attended  to  the  interests  intrusted  to  my  care,  and  that  my  public  and  private 
conduct  throughout  the  whole  of  my  mission  has  appeared  unexceptionable  to 
you.  I  hope  the  expression  of  such  a  wish  may  neither  prove  disagreeable  to 
you,  nor  be  ^\-ithout  effect.  With  lively  sentiments  of  respect  and  attachment, 
believe  me,  &c." — May  17th. 

On  the  back  of  the  President's  letter  in  reply  to  this  note  is  the  following 
endorsement : 

"  This  letter  was  drafted  in  answer  to  the  one  which  covers  it ;  but,  on 
reflection,  was  not  sent,  nor  any  written  reply  given  to  the  recal'ed  French 
minister ;  forasmuch  as  the  motives  to  that  recall  were  not  communicated,  and 
the  policy  of  the  measure  questionable,  as  the  consequences  could  not  be 
foreseen." 


292  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

decision  of  the  trial  at  Richmond  on  the  subject  of 
British  debts  before  it  be  done,  is  a  question  on 
which  my  mind  has  balanced  for  some  time. 

If  your  own  judgment  is  not  clear  in  favor  of  one 
or  the  other,  it  is  my  desire,  as  the  heads  of  the 
departments  are  now  together,  that  you  would  take 
their  opinions  thereupon  and  act  accordingly. 

I  am,  Sir,  &c.^ 


TO    FRANCES    WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  10  June,  1793. 

My  dear  Fanny  : 

Your  Aunt  has  lately  received  a  Letter  from  you, 
to  which  an  answer  was  given  about  a  week  ago. 

As  this  answer,  so  far  as  it  respected  the  renting 
of  the  Estate  in  Berkeley,  of  which  you  are  pos- 
sessed, was  dictated  by  me,  in  a  hurry,  I  will  now 
give  you  my  ideas  more  at  large  on  that  subject ; 
altho'  they  will  still  appear,  from  my  immersion  in 
other  business,  to  carry  with  them  strong  marks  of 
indignation. 

'  "  I  leave  it  to  you,  and  the  heads  of  the  other  two  departments,  to  say 
what  or  whether  any  answer  should  be  given  to  the  British  minister's  letter  of 
the  19th.  It  would  seem  as  if  neither  he,  nor  the  Spanish  commissioners, 
were  to  be  satisfied  with  any  thing  this  government  can  do  ;  but,  on  the  con- 
trary, are  resolved  to  drive  matters  to  extremity." — Washington  to  yefferson, 
20  June,  1793. 

The  questions  pending  between  Great  Britain  and  the  United  States  under 
the  treaty  of  1783,  the  altitude  of  the  British  ministry  on  the  commercial 
relations  between  the  two  countries,  and  the  many  complaints  of  bad  faith  on 
both  sides,  were  sufficient  to  cause  friction  in  determining  any  matters  that 
might  arise,  and  excite  a  feeling  of  injury  that  prevented  a  fair  examination  of 
such  matters.  The  little  spirit  of  conciliation  shown  by  both  parties,  when- 
ever the  discussion  became  anything  more   than  general  or   informal,   gave 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  293 

The  will  of  my  deceased  Nephew,  if  I  have  suffi- 
cient recollection  of  it,  directs  a  second  plantation  to 
be  settled  in  Berkeley  County.  This  may  and  I 
think  ought  to  be  done  in  conformity  therewith  ;  and 
in  so  doing  it  might  be  well  to  include  some,  if  not 
all  the  hands  which  are  in  Fairfax  County,  as  well 
to  comply  with  the  dictates  of  the  Will,  as  because 
there  are  too  many  at  the  latter  place  to  be  employed 
to  good  profit — the  Farm  being  small,  poor  and 
worn.  As  a  mere  small  grain,  or  grass  farm,  it 
might  be  turned  to  good  account,  if  an  industrious 
man,  who  would  work  constantly  himself,  was  fixed 
on  it,  with  a  negro  fellow  and  boy  only ;  with  an 
allowance  of  four  plough  horses,  two  ploughs  and  a 
yoke  of  oxen,  with  other  stock  proportioned  thereto. 
This  force  would  be  adequate  to  the  cultivation  of 
the  whole  of  that  Farm,  in  small  grain  and  grass ; 
and  might  raise  as  much  (and  ought  to  do  no  more) 
Indian  Corn  as  would  suffice  for  themselves.  And  if 
you  found  it  more  convenient,  the  old  woman  there, 
for  whom  I  presume  no  hire  could  be  obtained,  with 

occasion  to  recriminations,  and  by  creating  false  impressions,  impeded  the 
conclusion  of  an  agreement  on  subjects  over  which  it  did  not  seem  possible  a 
material  difference  of  opinion  could  have  occurred.  The  position  of  the 
British  minister  was,  from  the  first,  one  of  great  delicacy.  George  Hammond, 
the  first  British  minister  accredited  to  the  United  States,  was  at  this  time  only 
28  years  of  age,  but  his  experience  as  secretary  to  David  Hartley,  during  the 
negotiations  at  Paris,  had  made  him  familiar  with  American  questions,  and  his 
diplomatic  experience  had  already  been  wide.  Yet  almost  from  the  first,  he 
seems  to  have  made  a  disagreeable  impression  upon  Washington,  Jefferson, 
and  Randolph.  I  have  carefully  read  the  originals  of  his  communications  to 
the  Department  of  State  during  his  residence  in  this  country,  and  find  them 
exceedingly  moderate  in  tone,  well-framed,  and  in  exceeding  good  taste,  with- 
out a  mark  of  the  petulant  temper  with  which  he  has  been  accredited. 


294  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

such  young  children  as  have  no  mothers  living  and 
others  that  cou'd  not  be  well  disposed  of — might  be 
placed  there  ;  and  would  be  at  hand  to  receive  your 
own  attentions. 

The  force  I  have  mentioned  would  be  able  to  put 
in  as  much  small  grain  annually,  as  the  size  of  the 
Farm  would  admit,  to  be  kept  in  proper  order  ;  and 
in  case  you  should  do  what  you  have  talked  of  doing 
for  the  sake  of  your  children's  education — that  is,  to 
live  in  Alexandria,  would  furnish  you  with  poultry, 
pigs,  lambs,  &c.,  which,  if  always  to  be  bought  from 
the  Butcher  and  others,  would  be  more  expensive 
than  you  at  present  have  any  conception  of. 

I  have  not  sufficient  knowledge  of  the  Estate  in 
Berkeley  to  give  any  other  advice  respecting  it,  than 
merely  to  say  that  renting  it  instead  of  keeping  it  in 
your  own  hands,  has  a  preference  in  my  mind  for 
many  reasons,  which  might  be  assigned ;  and  as  the 
Will  enjoins  a  division  of  the  Land,  I  should  suppose 
the  negroes  had  better  be  allotted  to  each  parcel,  and 
rented  therewith.  But  of  this  you,  with  the  advice  of 
your  friends  on  the  spot,  must  be  a  better  judge  than 
I  am.  Among  these  George  S.  Washington,  who 
has  already  acted  the  part  you  are  about  to  do,  will 
be  able  to  give  you  useful  information,  as  by  this  time 
he  may  have  perceived  the  good,  or  felt  the  incon- 
veniences of  the  measures  he  pursued.  It  would, 
however,  seem  best  to  me,  that  the  lands  and  negroes 
should  go  together,  in  the  manner  already  mentioned. 
The  latter  might  hire  for  more  singly,  but  then  the 
trouble  of  collecting  would  also  be  greater  ;  nor  could 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  295 

there  be  the  same  attention  paid  to  them  as  when 
together,  and  under  the  immediate  eye  of  your 
brother-in-law. 

You  will  readily  see  the  necessity  of  insisting  upon 
ample  security  for  the  performance  of  whatever  agree- 
ment you  may  enter  into  ;  for  the  Land,  negroes  and 
stock  thereon  will  be  none,  because  they  are  your 
own  already  ;  and  as  the  transaction  is  important, 
and  will  be  interesting  to  yourself  and  the  children, 
I  advise  you  to  pay  a  Lawyer  of  note  to  draw  the 
articles,  rather  than  hazard  an  imperfect  instrument, 
which  may  be  turned  to  your  disadvantage  here- 
after. 

Besides  the  usual  covenants  to  compel  payments 
when  they  become  due,  there  ought  to  be  a  clause 
making  all  sums  in  arrear  to  carry  interest.  This 
will  be  some  compensation  for  the  want  of  punctuality, 
but  forfeiture  of  the  Lease,  in  case  of  non-perform- 
ance of  the  conditions,  should  be  strongly  expressed, 
as  it  will  be  the  principle  hold  you  will  have  on  the 
Tenant.  Reservation  of  woodland,  limitation  with 
respect  to  clearing,  restraint  upon  selling  or  disposing 
of  any  timber  or  wood  except  for  the  purposes  of  the 
plantations,  and  prevention  of  all  sorts  of  abuse ; 
keeping  the  Houses,  fences  and  meadows  in  order; 
care  of  the  negroes  in  sickness  and  in  health  ;  clothing 
them  properly,  and  feeding  them  as  negroes  usually 
are  ; — are  all  matters  which  should  be  noticed  in  the 
Instrument.  Nor  ought  there  to  be  any  transfer  of 
the  Lease,  or  re-hire  of  the  negroes  without  your 
consent  first  had  and  obtained  in  writi7ig. 


296  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

The  number  of  years  for  which  you  would  part 
with  the  Estate  deserves  consideration,  and  a  consul- 
tation of  circumstances,  of  which  you  can  judge  as 
well  or  better  than  I.  My  own  opinion,  however,  is, 
that  it  ought  not  to  go  for  more  than  five  or  seven  ; 
for  less  than  three,  I  presume  no  good  tenant  would 
take  it.  The  Horses,  cattle  and  other  stock,  together 
with  the  implements  of  the  Farm,  you  might  either 
sell,  or  let  go  with  the  places  at  the  valuation  of  two, 
or  more  judicious  and  impartial  men,  to  be  returned 
in  equal  numbers,  and  in  the  specific  articles  of  equal 
value,  when  the  places  are  surrendered,  paying  in  the 
mean  while  a  regular  annual  interest  on  the  aggre- 
gate valuation  as  above. 

The  peculiar  situation  of  our  public  affairs  is  such, 
and  likely  to  remain  such,  that  I  see  no  prospect  of 
my  being  able  to  leave  the  Seat  of  Government  but 
for  a  mere  flying  visit  home  ;  which  I  am  more  than 
ever  called  upon  to  do,  as,  by  a  letter  received  on 
Saturday,  it  appears  that  Mr.  Whiting  is  in  a  con- 
firmed consumption,  and  so  much  reduced  as  to  be 
scarcely  able  to  mount  a  horse.  What  I  am  to  do 
under  a  circumstance  of  this  kind,  I  really  know  not ; 
not  being  able,  in  the  short  time  I  have  had  to  reflect 
upon  this  disagreeable  event,  to  call  to  mind  a  single 
character  (if  to  be  obtained)  that  would  answer  my 
purposes. 

I  shall  strive  hard  to  be  at  Mount  Vernon  by  the 
first  of  next  month,  but  to  say  positively  I  shall  ac- 
complish it,  is  more  than  I  dare  do.  My  stay  there 
cannot  exceed,  if  it  should  amount  to  ten  days. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  297 

I  request  you  to  remember  me  in  the  most  affec- 
tionate manner  to  my  Brother,  Sister  and  the  rest  of 
the  family ;  my  love  to  the  Children — compliments 
to  Mrs.  Warner  Washington  and  family  if  you  should 
see  them.  In  all  which  your  Aunt,  Nelly  &c.  join 
me.  With  much  truth  I  am,  your  sincere  friend  and 
affte.  relation. 


TO    HENRY    KNOX,    SECRETARY    OF    WAR. 

[private.] 

Philadelphia,  14  June,  1793. 

Sir, 

By  the  Gazettes  of  to-day,  I  perceive  a  Vessel  is 
just  arrived  in  this  Port  from  New  Orleans,  on  board 
of  which  are  several  of  our  citizens ;  who,  having 
passed  down  the  Mississippi,  are  now  on  their  return 
to  the  Ohio,  their  place  of  residence. 

It  is  of  great  importance  that  this  Government 
should  be  fully  informed  of  the  Spanish  force  in  the 
Floridas,  the  number  of  their  Posts,  and  the  strength 
and  situation  of  each,  together  with  such  other  cir- 
cumstances as  would  enable  it  to  adopt  correspond- 
ent measures  in  case  we  should,  in  spite  of  our 
endeavors  to  avoid  it,  get  embroiled  in  a  dispute  with 
that  Nation.  It  would  be  too  improvident,  might  be 
too  late,  and  certainly  would  be  disgraceful,  to  have 
this  information  to  obtain  when  our  plans  ought  to 
be  formed.  I  desire  therefore,  that  you  would  cause 
in  as  unsuspected  a  manner  as  the  case  will  admit, 
the    above    persons    to    be    examined    touching    the 


298  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

above  points,  and  what  number  of  Troops  have  lately 
arrived  at  New  Orleans  ;  and  commit  the  result  to 
Paper.  Were  they  to  be  examined  separately,  advan- 
tages might  follow  by  comparing  their  accounts.  I 
point  you  to  the  above  as  one  source  only  of  informa- 
tion ;  my  desire  to  obtain  a  knowledge  of  these  facts, 
lead  me  to  request  with  equal  earnestness,  that  you 
would  improve  every  other  to  ascertain  them  with 
certainty.  No  reasonable  expence  should  be  spared 
to  accomplish  objects  of  such  magnitude  in  times  so 
critical. 


TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON,  SECRETARY    OF    THE 
TREASURY. 

Philadelphia,  20  June,  1793. 

Sir, 

I  have  received  and  paid  attention  to  your  report 
of  the  15th  instant.  The  result  is,  that  the  loan  of 
two  millions  of  florins  ought,  in  my  opinion,  to  be 
urged  without  delay,  if  it  can  be  obtained  within  the 
limitations  of  the  law.  The  further  proposal  of  bor- 
rowing three  millions  of  florins  in  addition,  I  shall, 
(seeing  no  inconvenience  that  will  arise  from  the 
delay,)  take  a  few  days  longer  to  consider ;  as  some 
reasons  occur  against  as  well  as  for  the  measure,  in 
the.  present  unsettled  state  of  credit,  and  military  and 
other  operations  in  Europe.^ 

'  On  June  3d  Hamilton  wrote  to  the  President :  "  The  failure  of  the  late 
enterprise  against  the  United  Netherlands  may  be  expected  to  have  made  a 
favorable  alteration  in  regard  to  the  prospects  of  obtaining  loans  there  for  the 
United  States.     Such  an  expectation  is  also  countenanced  by  a  late  letter  from 


17931  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  299 

In  the  mean  time  it  would  contribute  to  my  under- 
standing of  the  subject  better,  if  you  was  to  let  me 
know  how  the  whole  sum  borrowed  under  the  acts  of 
the  4th  and  12th  of  August,  1790,  (instead  of  the 
sums  which  have  been  transferred  to  the  United 
States,)  has  been  applied  ;  and  whether  the  two  hun- 
dred thousand  dollars,  "  first  instalment  to  the 
Bank    of   the    United    States,"    is    a    legal    charge, 

our  bankers  at  Amsterdam,  which  however  as  yet  gives  no  certainty  that  can 
be  a  basis  of  operation. 

"The  existing  instructions  from  this  department  to  Mr.  Short  do  not  extend 
beyond  two  millions  of  florins.  A  comprehensive  view  of  the  affairs  of  the 
United  States  in  various  relations  appears  to  me  to  recommend  a  still  further 
loan,  if  obtainable.  Yet  I  do  not  think  it  advisable  to  take  the  step,  by  virtue 
of  the  general  powers  from  you,  without  your  special  approbation  ;  particularly 
as  there  is  little  probability,  that  the  loan  can  be  effected  on  better  terms  than 
five  per  cent  interest  and  four  per  cent  charges.  The  further  loan  which  I 
should  contemplate  would  embrace  three  millions  of  florins. " 

Before  committing  himself  Washington  asked  for  a  report  on  the  following 
points  :  i.  Whether  all  the  moneys  borrowed  under  the  acts  of  the  4th  and 
I2th  of  August,  1790,  had  been  expended  on  their  respective  objects.  If  not, 
what  was  the  balance  under  each  date  ?  2.  Under  which  of  the  two  laws  the 
Secretary  proposed  to  open  the  new  loan  ?  and  3.  To  what  use  the  money  of 
the  new  loan  was  to  be  applied  ?  Hamilton  answered  in  a  report,  which  the 
President  submitted  to  Jefferson,  asking  his  views  on  the  propriety  of  the 
suggestion,  and  further  wrote  : 

"  The  answers  contained  in  the  report  show  the  points  on  which  I  required 
information  from  him.  In  addition  to  the  motives  assigned  in  the  report  for 
borrowing  the  additional  sum,  there  are  others  (if  the  act  of  doing  it  is 
warranted  by  law)  very  cogent  in  my  mind,  as  inducements  to  the  measure, 
namely,  the  uncertain  result  of  the  Indian  treaty,  the  invasion  of  our  southern 
frontiers,  and  the  peculiarly  delicate  situation  in  which  we  are  placed  with 
respect  to  some  of  the  European  powers,  who,  in  spite  of  all  we  can  do, 
may  involve  us  in  a  dispute  with  one  or  other  of  them  ;  in  wch.  case  it  might 
be  too  late  for  us  to  effect  a  loan  in  Europe." — Washington  to  yefferson,  16 
June,  1793. 

Jefferson  had  already  given  his  opinion  that  a  loan  would  be  unnecessary 
{Opinion,  5  June,  1793)  and  in  his  reply  of  June  17th  admitted  that  a  loan  of 
one  million  florins  might  be  expedient.  He  gave  more  reasons  against  than 
for  it. —  Works,  vii.,  629,  633. 


300  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

under  those  acts  or  any  other,  in  the  account  A. 
referred  to  in  the  report  ;  also,  whether  the  two 
hundred  and  eighty-four  thousand  nine  hundred 
and  one  dollars  and  eighty-nine  cents,  expended  in 
the  purchase  of  the  public  debt,  does  not  appear  in 
the  report  of  the  commissioners  of  the  sinking  fund, 
or  some  other  report  made  to  Congress  last  session,  as 
appertaining  more  properly  to  the  surplus  revenue. 
I  ask  these  questions  for  information  ;  because,  if 
the  answer  should  be  in  the  affirmative,  the  difference 
will  be  very  material,  and,  when  added  to  the  balance 
of  five  hundred  and  sixty-five  thousand  four  hundred 
and  eighty-four  dollars  and  twenty-eight  cents,  as  per 
your  statement  A,  would,  with  the  two  millions  of 
florins  negotiating,  cover  all  the  ascertained  demands 
upon  the  United  States  for  the  years  1793  and  1794, 
exclusive  of  what  may  be  required  for  the  sinking 
fund ;  for  which  you  have  made  no  specific  appro- 
priation whereby  to  form  an  estimate  of  the  aggre- 
gate sum  required.      I  am,  &c.^ 

'  Mr.  Hamilton  had  at  this  time  resolved  to  resign  his  place  as  Secretary  of 
the  Treasury. 

"  Considerations  relative  both  to  the  public  interest  and  to  my  own  delicacy, 
have  brought  me,  after  mature  reflection,  to  a  resolution  to  resign  the  office  I 
hold,  towards  the  close  of  the  ensuing  session  of  Congress.  I  postpone  the 
final  act  to  that  period,  because  some  propositions  remain  to  be  submitted  by 
me  to  Congress,  which  are  necessary  to  the  full  development  of  my  plan,  and, 
as  I  suppose,  of  some  consequence  to  my  reputation  ;  and  because,  in  the 
second  place,  I  am  desirous  of  giving  an  opportunity,  while  I  shall  be  still  in 
office,  to  the  revival  and  more  deliberate  prosecution  of  the  inquiry  into  my 
conduct,  which  was  instituted  during  the  last  session. 

"  I  think  it  proper  to  communicate  my  determination  thus  early,  among 
other  reasons,  because  it  will  afford  full  time  to  investigate  and  weigh  all  the 
considerations,  which  ought  to  guide  the  appointment  of  my  successor." — 
Hamilton  to  Washington,  21  June,  1793. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  301 

TO  THOMAS    JEFFERSON,  SECRETARY  OF  STATE. 

Mount  Vernon,  30  June,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

The  enclosed  letter  from   the  governor  of   New 
York,   covering  a  communication  to   him   from   the 
I     consul  of  the  French  Republic  at  that  place,  respect- 
ing the  continuance  of  a  British  letter  of  marque  in 
I     the  harbor  of  New  York,  reached  my  hands  by  the 
I     post  of  last  evening  ;  and  I  now  transmit  it  to  you, 
I     that  it  may  be  taken  into  consideration  by  yourself 
I     and  the  other  heads  of  the  departments,  as  soon  as 
may  be  after  this  letter  gets  to  your  hands.      If  you 
should   be    unanimous   in   your  opinions,  as   to    the 
measures  which  ought  to  be  pursued  by  the  govern- 
ment,  in   the  case  now  communicated,  you,  or   the 
Secretar}'  at  War,  to  whose  department  it  belongs, 
will  transmit  in  my  name  the  result  of  your  delibera- 
tions on  the  subject  to  the  governor  of  New  York 
for  his  information,  and  to  be  communicated  by  him 
to  the  French  consul  at  that  place. 

But,  in  case  there  should  be  a  difference  of  senti- 
ment among  the  gentlemen  on  the  matter,  I  must 
request  that  the  several  opinions  may  be  sent  to  me 
for  my  consideration,  and  the  governor  of  New  York 
informed,  that  a  decision  will  be  had  in  the  case  as 
soon  as  I  return  to  the  seat  of  government,  which  I 
expect  will  be  about  the  loth  of  next  month,  not- 
withstanding the  death  of  my  manager,  and  the  con- 
sequent derangement  of  my  concerns,  would  make 
my  presence  here  for  a  longer  time,  at  this  important 
season,  almost  indispensable.      But  I   know  the   ur- 


302  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

gency  and  delicacy  of  our  public  affairs  at  present 
will  not  permit  me  to  be  longer  absent.  I  must 
therefore  submit  with  the  best  grace  I  can  to  the  loss 
and  inconvenience,  which  my  private  affairs  will  sus- 
tain from  the  want  of  my  personal  attention,  or  that 
of  a  confidential  character,  the  obtaining  of  whom  I 
have  no  prospect  at  present.     I  am,  &c. 


TO  THOMAS  JEFFERSON,  SECRETARY  OF  STATE. 

Philadelphia,  ii  July,  1793. 

Sir, 

After  I  had  read  the  papers,  (which  were  put  into 
my  hands  by  you,)  requiring  *'  instant  attention,"  and 
before  a  messenger  could  reach  your  office,  you  had 
left  town. 

What  is  to  be  done  in  the  case  of  the  Little  Sarah 
now  at  Chester  ?  Is  the  minister  of  the  French  Re- 
public to  set  the  acts  of  this  government  at  defiance 
with  impmiity  ?  And  then  threaten  the  executive 
with  an  appeal  to  the  people  ?  What  must  the  world 
think  of  such  conduct,  and  of  the  government  of  the 
United  States  in  submitting  to  it  ? 

These  are  serious  questions.  Circumstances  press 
for  decision,  and,  as  you  have  had  time  to  consider 
them,  (upon  me  they  come  unexpectedly,)  I  wish  to 
know  your  opinion  upon  them,  even  before  to-mor- 
row, for  the  vessel  may  then  be  gone.      I  am,  &c.^ 

•  From  Mr.  ye fferson' s  Note  of  the  same  date  :  "  Thomas  Jefferson  pre- 
sents his  respects  to  the  President.  He  had  expected  that  the  Secretaries  of 
the  Treasury  and  War  would  have  given  to  the  President  immediately  the  state- 
ment of  facts  in  the  case  of  the  Little  Sarah,  as  drawn  by  the  former  and 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  303 

TO    BURGES    BALL. 

Philadelphia,  21  July,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

I  have,  in  due  course  of  post,  been  favored  with 
your  letter  of  the  i  ith  inst. 

I  thank  you  for  the  prompt  compliance  with  my 
request — as  I  do  Mr.  Fitzhugh  also  for  the  ready 
belief  he  yielded  that  I  would  do  nothing  unfriendly, 
or  ungenteel  in  the  case  you  were  desired  to  mention 
to  him. 

Before  the  receipt  of  your  letter  I  had  dispatched 
Howell  Lewis  (who  was  first  to  go  to  Fredericks- 
burgh  for  purposes  of  his  own)  to  Mount  Vernon  ; 
but  had  I  known  at  the  time  that  his  brother  Law- 
rence would  have  undertaken  the  business,  I  should 
have  thought  him  (on  account  of  his  age)  the  most 
eligible,  and  would  have  preferred  him  accordingly  ; 
for,  possibly,  if  he  had  chosen  to  continue  there,  his 

agreed  to,  as  also  their  reasons  ;  but,  Colonel  Hamilton  having  informed 
Thomas  Jefferson,  that  he  has  not  been  able  to  prepare  copies,  Thomas  Jeffer- 
son sends  the  President  the  copies  they  had  given  him,  which  being  prefixed 
to  his  opinion  will  make  the  case  complete,  as  it  is  proper  the  President  should 
see  both  sides  of  it  at  once.  T.  J.  has  had  a  fever  the  two  last  nights, 
which  has  held  him  till  the  morning.  Something  of  the  same  is  now  coming 
on  him  ;  but  nothing  but  absolute  inability  will  prevent  his  being  in  town  early 
to-morrow  morning. 

"  T.  J.  had  written  the  above  before  he  had  the  honor  of  the  President's 
note  on  the  subject  of  this  vessel.  He  has  received  assurance  from  M.  Genet 
to-day,  that  she  will  not  be  gone  before  the  President's  decision.  T.  J.  is 
himself  of  opinion,  that  whatever  is  aboard  of  her  of  arms,  ammunition,  or 
men,  contrary  to  the  rules  heretofore  laid  down  by  the  President,  ought  to  be 
withdrawn.  On  this  subject  he  will  have  the  honor  of  conferring  with  the 
President,  or  any  others,  whenever  he  pleases." — July  nth. 

The  Little  Sarah  was  refitted,  and  as  the  Democrat  (or  Little  Democrat^) 
sailed  from  Philadelphia. 


304  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

conduct  might  have  been  found  such,  as  to  super- 
cede the  necessity  of  employing  any  other  ;  because, 
as  I  could  place  entire  confidence  in  his  integrity, 
and  presume  I  may  do  so  in  his  sobriety,  industry, 
care  and  oeconomy,  with  strict  attention  to  the  con- 
duct of  the  overseers,  and  to  the  plans  marked  out  for 
their  government,  my  business  might  progress  as 
well  under  his  auspice,  as  under  that  of  any  other  I 
am  likely  to  get ;  for  a  married  man  would  not  only 
be  inconvenient  for  me,  but  (by  keeping  a  separate 
house)  would  add  considerably  to  my  expences. 
Whereas  a  single  man  whether  at  my  first  (if  from 
his  walk  of  life  he  should  be  entitled  to  it)  or  at  my 
second  table,  would  with  respect  to  his  board  be  not 
more  than  a  drop  in  the  bucket. 

But  after  all,  is  not  Lawrence  Lewis  on  the  point 
of  matrimony  ?  Report  says  so,  and  if  truly,  it 
would  be  an  effectual  bar  to  a  permanent  establish- 
ment in  my  business,  as  I  never  again  will  have  two 
women  in  my  house  when  I  am  there  myself.   *    *    * 


TO    WILLIAM    TILGHMAN. 

Philadelphia,  21  July,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

The  death  of  my  late  manager,  Mr.  Anthony 
Whiting,  making  it  necessary  for  me  to  look  out  for 
some  person  to  supply  his  place,  I  take  the  advan- 
tage of  your  polite  tender  of  your  services  which  you 
have  heretofore  been  so  obliging  as  to  make  me,  to 
beg  your  assistance  in  obtaining  and  conveying  to 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  305 

me  information  of  such  characters  in  your  part  of  the 
country,  as  are  qualified  to  fill  that  station,  and  who 
can  be  obtained  for  that  purpose. 

Altho'  my  affairs  at  Mount  Vernon  suffer  much  at 
present  for  want  of  a  manager,  yet  I  have  thought  it 
better  to  bear  this  temporary  evil,  than  to  engage  one 
immediately  who  might  not  have  all  the  necessary 
qualifications  for  that  place.  I  have  directed  my  en- 
quiries for  a  manager  to  different  parts  of  the  country  ; 
but  I  think  there  is  a  greater  probability  that  a  per- 
son may  be  found  in  the  best  farming  counties  on  the 
Eastern  shore  of  Maryland  to  answer  my  purposes, 
than  in  almost  any  other  quarter ;  for  there  seems  to 
be  more  large  Estates  cultivated  altogether  in  the 
farming  system  there,  than  in  other  parts  of  the 
Country ;  and  that  reclaiming  Swamps,  raising  grass, 
Ditching,  Hedging,  &c.,  are  the  greatest  pursuits  on 
my  Estate. 

It  is  hardly  possible,  and  indeed  it  is  not  necessary 
here  to  point  out  minutely  all  the  qualifications  re- 
quired in,  or  duties  expected  from,  a  man  of  the 
character  wanted.  The  leading  points  in  such  a  per- 
son must  be  a  compleat  knowledge  of  the  farming 
business  in  its  various  branches  ;  an  ability  to  plan 
and  direct  generally  the  business  of  four  or  five  large 
farms,  adjoining  each  other,  but  under  separate  over- 
seers ;  and  a  sufficient  acquaintance  with  business 
and  accounts  to  enable  him  to  buy  and  sell,  with  dis- 
cretion and  judgment,  such  things  as  may  be  wanted 
for  the  use  of  the  Estate,  and  to  be  disposed  of  from 
it ;  and  to  keep  an  account  of  the  same.     An  expe- 


3o6  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

rience  of  many  years  can  alone  give  the  first  qualifi- 
cation mentioned ;  and  a  residence  of  some  years  in 
a  part  of  the  country  where  the  labor  is  done  by 
negroes,  and  having  had  the  management  of  pretty 
extensive  business  in  that  line,  can  only  give  the 
second.  For  the  third,  it  is  not  necessary  that  a 
man  should  be  a  complete  Clerk,  or  particularly  con- 
versant in  mercantile  transactions.  Perfect  honesty, 
sobriety  and  industry  are  indispensable.  In  fine,  if  I 
could  [find]  a  man  as  well  qualified  for  my  purposes 
as  the  late  Mr.  Whiting  (whom  I  presume  you  know, 
as  he  managed  an  Estate  of  Genl.  Cadwalader's  in 
your  neighborhood  for  some  years)  I  should  esteem 
myself  very  fortunate.  A  single  man  would  suit  me 
much  better  than  one  with  a  family — indeed  is  al- 
most indispensable,  as  he  would  live  at  the  mansion 
house  ;  and  I  should  like  the  age  between  35  and  45, 
as  that  period  seems  most  likely  to  unite  experience 
with  activity. 

The  names  of  the  following  persons  in  your  quar- 
ter have  been  mentioned  to  me  as  well  qualified  to 
manage  a  large  Estate,  vizt.  William  Pierce  [Pearce], 
who  has  done,  and  still  continues  to  do  business  for 
Mr.  Ringgold,  recommended  by  Mr.  Ringgold  him- 
self. 

Owen  Craw,  said  to  have  been  a  manager  for  Mr. 
Chew  for  some  years,  and  now  rents  land  and  negroes 
from  him. 

James  Cannon,  said  to  have  been  an  overseer,  and 
in  some  measure  a  manager  for  Mr.  Chew.  But  I 
would   here   observe,   that  a  man    may   be   a   good 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  307 

farmer  and  an  excellent  overseer  for  a  single  planta- 
tion, who  would  be  wholly  unequal  to  the  duties  of  a 
manager. 

Brisco,  on  an  Estate  of  the  deceased  Mr.  Chew 
of  Herring-bay,  in  Cecil  County,  which,  I  am  in- 
formed, he  means  to  quit.  This  person  is  rather  out 
of  your  neighborhood  ;  but  it  is  possible  you  may 
know  or  hear  something  of  him.  From  Mr.  Jacob 
Hollingsvorth  of  Elkton — I  have  his  character. 

I  have  understood  also,  that  Mr.  Lloyd's  manager, 
of  the  name  of  Bryant,  intends  leaving  him.  If  this 
should  be  the  case,  and  he  can  be  well  recommended 
by  Mr.  Lloyd,  I  confess  I  should  feel  a  predilection 
for  him,  because  I  know  Mr.  Llovd  is  considered  as 
one  of  the  largest  and  best  farmers  in  the  country, 
and  so  good  a  manager  himself,  that  he  would  not 
employ  a  man  who  did  not  fully  understand  his  busi- 
ness. But  it  must  be  remembered,  that  I  speak  of 
this  person  merely  as  having  heard  that  he  intended 
leaving  Mr.  Lloyd,  and  was  well  qualified  for  my 
purposes ;  for  I  would  not,  upon  any  consideration, 
have  a  measure  taken  in  my  behalf  that  would  look 
like  drawing  a  man  from  the  service  of  another,  to 
whom  he  was  engaged,  with  a  view  of  taking  him 
into  mine. 

I  have  now.  Sir,  given  you  a  pretty  full  detail  of 
my  wants  and  wishes  on  this  subject,  and  shall  feel 
obliged  by  any  information  you  may  give  me  relative 
to  it ;  as  well  as  for  the  mention  of  the  terms  upon 
which  persons  of  the  character  before  described,  are 
employed  upon  large  Estates  on  the  Eastern  shore, 


3o8       •  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

and  for  what  they  may  be  induced  to  go  to  Virginia. 
The  Estate  for  which  I  want  a  manager  lies  about 
nine  miles  below  Alexandria  on  the  river  Potowmac 
— and  12  from  the  Federal  City.     I  am,  &c. 


TO    HENRY    LEE,    GOVERNOR    OF    VIRGINIA. 
[private.] 
Dear    Sir  Philadelphia,  21  July,  1793. 

I  should  have  thanked  you  at  an  earlier  period  for 
your  obliging  letter  of  the  14th  ultimo,  had  it  not 
come  to  my  hands  a  day  or  two  only  before  I  set  out 
for  Mount  Vernon,  and  at  a  time  when  I  was  much 
hurried,  and  indeed,  very  much  perplexed  with  the 
disputes,  memorials,  and  what  not,  with  which  the 
government  were  pestered  by  one  or  the  other  of 
the  petulant  representatives  of  the  powers  at  war, 
and  because,  since  my  return  to  this  city,  nine  days 
ago,  I  have  been  more  than  ever  overwhelmed  with 
their  complaints.  In  a  word,  the  trouble  they  give 
is  hardly  to  be  described.^ 

'  The  appeals  and  representations  of  the  British  representative  were  frequent 
and  urgent,  and  by  no  means  stronger  than  the  occasion  called  for.  Jefferson 
was  postponing  a  settlement,  while  stirring  up  his  correspondents  with  outcries 
against  the  pusillanimity  of  the  proclamation  and  the  insolent  demands  of 
Hammond.  The  President  was  "  pestered  "  into  a  sensitive  state  of  mind  by 
the  conflicting  memorials  from  the  French  and  British  ministers,  and  by  the 
difference  of  opinion  in  his  own  cabinet.  He  determined  to  take  advice  of 
persons  learned  in  the  law  on  the  subject  of  prizes,  and  belligerent  vessels 
leaving  or  entering  the  ports  of  the  United  States  ;  and  pending  such  a  refer- 
ence, Jefferson  requested  the  British  minister  not  to  allow  the  vessels  giving 
rise  to  the  question  to  dc[)art.  —  Jefferson  to  Hammond,  12  July,  1793.  Ham- 
mond naturally  expressed  some  surprise  that  he  should  receive  such  a  requisi- 
tion, for  he  had  no  control  over  any  one  of  them,  and  indeed  all  but  one  were 
either  vessels  of  force,  fitted  out  to  prey  upon  British  commerce,  or  prizes  of 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  309 

My  journey  to  and  from  Mount  Vernon  was  sudden 
and  rapid,  and  as  short  as  I  could  make  it.  It  was 
occasioned  by  the  unexpected  death  of  Mr.  Whiting, 
my  manager,  at  a  critical  season  for  the  business 
with  which  he  was  intrusted.  Where  to  supply  his 
place  I  know  not ;  of  course  my  concerns  at  Mount 
Vernon  are  left  as  a  body  without  a  head ;  but  this 
by  the  by. 

The  communications  in  your  letter  were  pleasing 
and  grateful ;  for,  although  I  have  done  no  public 
act  with  which  my  mind  upbraids  me,  yet  it  is  highly 
satisfactory  to  learn,  that  the  things  which  I  do,  of 
an  interesting  tendency  to  the  peace  and  happiness 
of  this  countr}%  are  generally  approved  ty  my  fellow 
citizens.  But,  were  the  case  otherwise,  I  should  not 
be  less  inclined  to  know  the  sense  of  the  people  upon 
every  matter  of  great  public  concern  ;  for,  as  I  have 
no  wish  superior  to  that  of  promoting  the  happiness 
and  welfare  of  this  country,  so,  consequently,  it  is 
only  for  me  to  know  the  means  to  accomplish  the 
end,  if  it  be  within  the  compass  of  my  powers. 

those  vessels.  By  a  curious  oversight,  the  Sans  Culotte,  then  at  Baltimore,  was 
omitted  by  Jefferson,  a  circumstance  that  did  not  increase  Hammond's  faith  in 
the  suggested  mode  of  determining  the  questions  he  was  so  much  interested  in, 
and  other  circumstances  were  not  wanting  to  confirm  his  suspicion.  The  Little 
Sarah,  now  refitted  as  a  French  privateer.  The  Little  Democrat,  sailed  from 
Philadelphia,  although  this  was  one  of  the  vessels  Jefferson  named  in  his  letter 
of  the  1 2th.  A  few  days  later  a  prize  was  sent  in  by  Le  Citoyen  Genet,  another 
vessel  included  by  Jefferson,  and  Hammond  was  careful  to  quote  the  verj' 
words  of  the  Secretary  of  State  in  calling  his  attention  to  these  evidences  of 
bad  faith  on  the  part  of  the  Government. 

It  was  the  President's  intention  to  consult  the  Justices  of  the  Supreme 
Bench  on  this  matter,  "  whose  knowledge  of  the  subject  would  secure  against 
errors  dangerous  to  the  peace  of  the  United  States,  and  their  authority  insure 
the  respect  of  all  parties."     The  result  is  given  in  the  note  to  the  next  letter. 


3IO  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

That  there  are  in  this,  as  well  as  in  all  other  coun- 
tries, discontented  characters,  I  well  know  ;  as  also 
that  these  characters  are  actuated  by  very  different 
views  ;  some  good,  from  an  opinion  that  the  measures 
of  the  general  government  are  impure  ;  some  bad, 
and,  if  I  might  be  allowed  to  use  so  harsh  an  expres- 
sion, diabolical,  inasmuch  as  they  are  not  only  meant 
to  impede  the  measures  of  that  government  generally, 
but  more  especially,  (as  a  great  mean  towards  the 
accomplishment  of  it,)  to  destroy  the  confidence, 
which  it  is  necessary  for  the  people  to  place,  (until 
they  have  unequivocal  proof  of  demerit,)  in  their 
public  servants.  For  in  this  light  I  consider  myself, 
whilst  I  am  an  occupant  of  office  ;  and,  if  they  were 
to  go  further  and  call  me  their  slave,  during  this 
period,  I  would  not  dispute  the  point. 

But  in  what  will  this  abuse  terminate  ?  The 
result,  as  it  respects  myself,  I  care  not ;  for  I  have 
a  consolation  within,  that  no  earthly  efforts  can 
deprive  me  of,  and  that  is,  that  neither  ambitious  nor 
interested  motives  have  influenced  my  conduct.  The 
arrows  of  malevolence,  therefore,  however  barbed 
and  well  pointed,  never  can  reach  the  most  vulner- 
able part  of  me  ;  though,  whilst  I  am  up  as  a  mark, 
they  will  be  continually  aimed.  The  publications  in 
Freneau's  and  Bache's  papers  are  outrages  on  com- 
mon decency  ;  and  they  progress  in  that  style,  in 
proportion  as  their  pieces  are  treated  with  contempt, 
and  are  passed  by  in  silence,  by  those  at  whom  they 
are  aimed.  The  tendency  of  them,  however,  is  too 
obvious  to  be  mistaken  by  men  of  cool  and  dis- 
passionate minds,  and,  in  my  opinion,  ought  to  alarm 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  311 

them  ;  because  it  is  difficult  to  prescribe  bounds  to 
the  effect. 

The  light  in  which  you  endeavored  to  place  the 
views  and  conduct  of  this  country  to  M.  Genet,  and 
the  sound  policy  thereof,  as  it  respected  his  own, 
was  unquestionably  the  true  one,  and  such  as  a  man 
of  penetration,  left  to  himself,  would  most  certainly 
have  viewed  them  in  ;  but  mum  on  this  head.  Time 
may  unfold  more  than  prudence  ought  to  disclose  at 
present.  As  we  are  told  that  you  have  exchanged 
the  rugged  and  dangerous  field  of  Mars  for  the  soft 
and  pleasurable  bed  of  Venus  I  do  in  this,  as  I  shall 
in  every  thing  you  may  pursue  like  unto.it,  good  and 
laudable,  wish  you  all  imaginable  success  and  happi- 
ness.    With  esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  &c. 


TO    THE    JUSTICES    OF    THE    SUPREME    COURT. 

Philadelphia,  23  July,  1793. 

Gentlemen, 

The  circumstances,  which  had  induced  me  to  ask 
your  counsel  on  certain  legal  questions  interesting  to 
the  public,  exist  now  as  they  did  then  ;  but  I  by  no 
means  press  a  decision,  whereon  you  wish  the  advice 
and  participation  of  your  absent  brethren.  When- 
ever, therefore,  their  presence  shall  enable  you  to 
give  it  with  more  satisfaction  to  yourselves,  I  shall 
accept  it  with  pleasure.  With  sentiments  of  high 
respect,   I  am,  &c.^ 

'  "  I  mentioned  to  you  that  we  had  convened  the  judges  to  consult  them  on  the 
questions  which  have  arisen  on  the  law  of  nations.  They  declined  being  con- 
sulted. In  England,  you  know,  such  questions  are  referred  regularly  to  the 
Judge  of  Admiralty.     I  asked  E.  R.  if  we  could  not  prepare  a  bill  for  C^n- 


312  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

TO    THOMAS    JEFFERSON,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 

Philadelphia,  25  July,  1793. 

Sir, 

A  letter  from  Colonel  S,  Smith  of  Baltimore  to 
the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  giving  information 
of  the  conduct  of  the  privateers  Citizen  Genet  and 
Sans  Culotte,  is  sent  for  your  perusal ;  after  which 
it  may  be  returned,  because  contained  therein  is  a 
matter,  which  respects  the  treasury  department  solely/ 

As  the  letter  of  the  minister  of  the  Republic  of 
France,  dated  the  22d  of  June,  lies  yet  unanswered, 
and  as  the  official  conduct  of  that  gentleman,  rela- 
tively, to  the  affairs  of  this  government,  will  have  to 
undergo  a  very  serious  consideration  (so  soon  as  the 
special  court  at  which  the  attorney-general  is  now 
engaged  will  allow  him  to  attend  with  convenience), 
in  order  to  decide  upon  measures  proper  to  be  taken 
thereupon,  it  is  my  desire  that  all  the  letters  to  and 
from  that  minister  may  be  ready  to  be  laid  before 
me,  the  heads  of  departments,  and  the  attorney- 
general,  whom  I  shall  advise  with  on  the  occasion, 
together  with  the  minutes  of  such  official  oral  com- 
munications, as  you  may  have  had  with  him  on  the 

gress  to  appoint  a  board  or  some  other  body  of  advice  for  the  Executive  on 
such  questions.  He  said  he  should  propose  to  annex  it  to  his  office.  In  plain 
language  this  would  be  to  make  him  the  sole  arbiter  of  the  line  of  conduct 
for  the  United  States  towards  foreign  nations." — yefferson  to  Madison,  ii 
August,  1793. 

'  These  privateers  had  been  fitted  out  by  Genet  in  Charleston,  and  had 
already  made  prizes  of  some  English  merchant  vessels,  which  were  sent  in 
to  Philadelphia.  Tiie  Citoyen  Genet  followed,  and  took  measures  to  increase 
the  force  of  the  vessel,  while  the  Sans  Culotte  went  for  the  same  purpose  to 
Baltimore,  and  as  was  said,  to  watch  the  movements  of  a  valuable  British  ship 
then  in  that  port. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  313 

subject  of  those  letters.  And  as  the  memorials  from 
the  British  minister  and  answers  thereto  are  mate- 
rially connected  therewith,  it  will  be  proper,  I  conceive, 
to  have  these  ready  also.     I  am,  &c. 


TO  THE  HEADS  OF  DEPARTMENTS  AND  THE  ATTORNEY- 
GENERAL. 

Philadelphia,  29  July,  1793. 
Gentlemen, 

It  will  not  be  amiss,  I  conceive,  at  the  meeting  you  are  about 
to  have  to-day,  to  consider  the  expediency  of  directing  the 
custom-house  officers  to  be  attentive  to  the  arming  or  equipping 
vessels,  either  for  offensive  or  defensive  war,  in  the  several  ports 
to  which  they  belong,  and  make  report  thereof  to  the  governor 
or  some  other  proper  officer. 

Unless  this,  or  some  other  effectual  mode  is  adopted  to  check 
this  evil  in  the  first  stage  of  its  growth,  the  executive  of  the 
United  States  will  be  incessantly  harassed  with  complaints  on 
this  head,  and  probably  when  it  may  be  difficult  to  afford  a 
remedy.     I  am,  &c. 


TO    THOiMAS    JEFFERSON,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 

Philadelphia,  31  July.  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

As  there  are  several  matters,  which  must  remain 
in  a  suspended  state,  perhaps  not  very  conveniently, 
until  a  decision  is  had  on  the  conduct  of  the  minister 
of  the  French  Republic,  and  as  the  attorney-general 
will,  more  than  probably,  be  engaged  at  the  Supreme 
Court  next  week,  it  is  my  wish,  under  these  circum- 
stances, to  enter  upon  the  consideration  of  the  letters 
of  that  minister  to-morrow  at  nine  o'clock.      I   there- 


314  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

fore  desire  you  will  be  here  at  that  hour,  and  bring 
with  you  all  his  letters,  your  answers,  and  such  other 
papers  as  are  connected  therewith. 

As  the  consideration  of  this  business  may  require 
some  time,  I  should  be  glad  if  you  and  the  other 
gentlemen  would  take  a  family  dinner  with  me  at 
four  o'clock.  No  other  company  is  or  will  be  in- 
vited.     I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c.^ 


TO    THOMAS    JEFFERSON,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 

Philadelphia,  4  August,  1793. 

Sir, 

If  the  heads  of  departments  and  the  attorney-gen- 
eral, who  have  prepared  the  eight  rules,  which  you 
handed  to  me  yesterday,  are  well  satisfied  that  they 
are  not  repugnant  to  treaties,  or  to  the  laws  of 
nations,  and  moreover  are  the  best  we  can  adopt  to 
maintain  neutrality,  I  not  only  give  them  my  appro- 
bation, but  desire  they  may  be  made  known  without 
delay  for  the  information  of  all  concerned.^ 

'  For  two  days  the  conduct  of  Genet  was  made  the  subject  of  a  cabinet 
council.  It  was  unanimously  agreed  that  a  letter  should  be  written  to  the 
Minister  of  the  United  States  at  Paris  summarizing  the  points  of  difference 
that  had  arisen  between  the  government  of  the  United  States  and  Genet, 
assigning  the  reasons  for  the  opinions  of  the  former,  and  desiring  the  recall  of 
the  latter  :  this  letter  to  be  laid  before  the  French  executive.  Jefferson  wished 
the  desire  to  recall  to  be  expressed  with  great  delicacy  ;  Hamilton  and  Knox 
favored  peremptory  terms.  Knox  would  even  have  him  sent  away.  On 
August  15th  the  draft  of  the  letter  was  read  for  consideration,  and  though  not 
agreed  to  till  the  20th,  it  was  dated  the  1 6th,  and  a  second  letter  dated  the 
23d  was  written.  That  of  the  i6th  is  printed  in  Jefferson's  Works,  iv.,  31.  A 
copy  was  sent  by  the  Secretary  of  State  to  Genet. 

'  Harassed  by  the  complaints  and  representations  of  both  the  English  and 
the  French  ministers  on  alleged  violations  of  neutrality,  Washington  and  his 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  315 

The  same  expression  will  do  for  the  other  paper, 
which  has  been  subscribed  as  above,  and  submitted 
to  my  consideration,  for  restoring  or  making  resti- 

advisers  undertook  to  frame  a  set  of  rules  that  would  embody  the  policy 
of  the  government,  as  determined,  and  that  would  be  conformable  to  treaties 
and  the  laws  of  nations.  For  this  purpose  a  meeting  of  the  cabinet  was  held 
on  July  29th.  "  It  was  agreed  that  a  letter  of  marque,  or  vessel  arme  en  guerre, 
and  in  merchandise,  is  not  a  privateer,  and  therefore  not  to  be  ordered  out  of 
our  ports.  It  was  agreed  by  Hamilton,  Knox  and  myself,  that  the  case  of  such 
a  vessel  does  not  depend  on  the  treaties,  but  on  the  laws  of  nations.  E.  Ran- 
dolph thought  as  she  had  a  mixed  character  of  merchant  vessel  and  privateer, 
she  might  be  considered  under  the  treaty  ;  but  this  being  over  ruled  " — the 
Attorney-General  and  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  proposed  some  rules  which 
were  considered. — Jefferson  Anas.  At  a  subsequent  meeting  (August  3d), 
the  rules  as  digested  were  submitted  and  unanimously  approved,  and  on  the 
next  day  issued  by  Hamilton  as  a  Treasury  circular.  The  rules  were  as 
follows : 

"  I.  The  original  arming  and  equipping  of  vessels  in  the  ports  of  the  United 
States  by  any  of  the  belligerent  parties  for  military  service  offensive  or  defen- 
sive is  deemed  unlawful. 

"  2.  Equipments  of  merchant  vessels  by  either  of  the  belligerent  parties,  in 
the  ports  of  the  United  States,  purely  for  the  accommodation  of  them  as  such, 
is  deemed  lawful. 

"  3.  Equipments,  in  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  of  vessels  of  war  in  the 
immediate  service  of  the  government  of  any  of  the  belligerent  parties,  which, 
if  done  to  other  vessels,  would  be  of  a  doubtful  nature,  as  being  applicable 
either  to  commerce  or  war,  are  deemed  lawful ;  except  those  which  shall  have 
made  prize  of  the  subjects,  jjeople,  or  property  of  France,  coming  with  their 
prizes  into  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  pursuant  to  the  seventeenth  article 
of  our  treaty  of  amity  and  commerce  with  France. 

"  4.  Equipments  in  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  by  any  of  the  parties  at 
war  with  France,  of  vessels  fitted  for  merchandise  and  war,  whether  with  or 
without  commissions,  which  are  doubtful  in  their  nature,  as  being  applicable 
either  to  commerce  or  war,  are  deemed  lawful,  except  those  which  shall  be 
made  prize,  &c. 

"  5.  Equipments  of  any  of  the  vessels  of  France  in  the  ports  of  the  United 
States,  which  are  doubtful  in  their  nature,  as  being  applicable  to  commerce  or 
war,  are  deemed  unlawful. 

"6.  Equipments  of  every  kind,  in  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  of  pri- 
vateers of  the  powers  at  war  with  France,  are  deemed  lawful. 

"  7.  Equipments  of  vessels  in  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  which  are  of  a 
nature  solely  adapted  to  war,  are  deemed  unlawful ;  except  those  stranded  or 


3i6  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

tution  of  prizes  under  the  circumstances  therein  men- 
tioned/ 

It  is  proper  you  should  be  informed,  that  the  min- 
ister of  France  intends  to  leave  this  city  for  New 
York  to-morrow  ;  and  not  amiss,  perhaps,  to  know, 
that,  in  mentioning  the  seasonable  aid  of  hands,  which 
the  Ambuscade  received  from  the  French  Indiaman 
the  day  preceding  her  meeting  the  Boston,  he  added, 
that  seamen  would  no  longer  be  wanting,  as  he  had 
now  fifteen  hundred  at  his  command.    This  being  the 

wrecked,  as  mentioned  in  the  eighteenth  article  of  our  treaty  with  France,  the 
sixteenth  of  our  treaty  with  the  United  Netherlands,  the  ninth  of  our  treaty 
with  Prussia  ;  and  except  those  mentioned  in  the  nineteenth  article  of  our 
treaty  with  France,  the  seventeenth  of  our  treaty  with  the  United  Netherlands, 
the  eighteenth  of  our  treaty  with  Prussia. 

"  8.  Vessels  of  either  of  the  parties  not  armed,  or  armed  previous  to  their 
coming  into  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  which  shall  not  have  infringed  any 
of  the  foregoing  rules,  may  lawfully  engage  or  enlist  their  own  subjects  or  citi- 
zens, not  being  inhabitants  of  the  United  States  ;  except  privateers  of  the 
powers  at  war  with  France,  and  except  those  vessels  which  shall  have  made 
prize,  &c." 

'  "  Opinion  of  the  Cabinet  on  the  Restitution  of  Prizes,  5  August, 
1793  : — That  the  minister  of  the  French  Republic  be  informed,  that  the  Presi- 
dent considers  the  United  States  as  bound,  pursuant  to  positive  assurances, 
given  in  conformity  to  the  laws  of  neutrality,  to  effectuate  the  restoration  of, 
or  to  make  compensation  for  prizes,  which  shall  have  been  made  of  any  of 
the  parties  at  war  with  France,  subsequent  to  the  5th  day  of  June  last  by 
privateers  fitted  out  of  their  ports. 

"  That  it  is  consequently  expected,  that  he  will  cause  restitution  to  be  made 
of  all  prizes  taken  and  brought  into  our  ports  subsequent  to  the  abovementioned 
day  by  such  privateers  ;  in  defect  of  which,  the  President  considers  it  as  in- 
cumbent upon  the  United  States  to  indemnify  the  owners  of  those  prizes  ;  the 
indemnification  to  be  reiml)ursed  by  the  French  nation. 

"  That,  besides  taking  efficacious  measures  to  prevent  the  future  fitting  out 
of  privateers  in  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  they  will  not  give  asylum 
therein  to  any,  which  shall  have  been  at  any  time  so  fitted  out,  and  will  cause 
restitution  of  all  such  prizes  as  shall  be  hereafter  brought  within  their  ports 
by  any  of  the  said  privateers. 

"  That  instructions  be  sent  to  the  respective  governors  in  conformity  to  the 
above  communication." 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  317 

case,  (although  the  allusion  was  to  the  subject  he 
was  then  speaking  upon,)  some  of  these  men  may  be 
employed  in  the  equipment  of  privateers,  other  than 
those  now  in  existence,  as  the  right  of  fitting  out 
such  in  our  ports  is  asserted  in  unequivocal  terms. 

Was  the  propriety  of  convening  the  legislature  at 
an  earlier  day,  than  that  on  which  it  is  to  assemble 
by  law,  considered  yesterday  ?  ^ 

The  late  decree  of  the  National  Convention  of 
France,  dated  the  19th  of  May,  authorizing  their  ships 

•  Gideon  Henfield,  an  American  citizen,  had  enlisted  to  sene  on  the  French 
privateer  Le  Citoyen  Genet,  and  on  the  complaint  of  Hammond  his  case  came 
before  the  President.  Randolph  gave  his  opinion  that  Henfield  could  be 
prosecuted  in  the  federal  courts ;  that  by  the  common  law^  independent  of 
any  statute,  the  federal  courts  have  power  to  punish  ofiFences  against  the 
federal  sovereignty.  Henfield  was  arrested  and  reclaimed  by  Genet.  Chief- 
Justice  Jay  in  a  charge  to  the  grand  jury,  impanelled  at  Richmond,  very 
clearly  laid  down  the  principle  that  any  American  citizen  who  should  violate 
the  neutrality  by  committing,  aiding,  or  abetting  hostilities  against  either  of 
the  powers  at  war,  was  to  be  deemed  guilty  of  a  violation  of  the  laws  of  the 
United  States,  and  liable  to  a  prosecution  in  the  federal  courts,  under  an 
indictment  at  common  law  for  disturbing  the  peace.  [The  charge  is  printed 
in  Wharton,  State  Trials.^  The  same  rule  was  even  more  broadly  stated  by 
Justice  Wilson  in  his  charge  in  Henfield's  case  ;  but  in  spite  of  the  united 
opinion  of  the  judges  on  the  law  and  the  legal  arguments  of  Randolph  and 
Rawle,  a  verdict  of  acquittal  was  rendered.  This  result  was  regarded  as  a 
victory  for  Genet,  who  it  was  said  advanced  the  money  to  pay  for  the  defence, 
and  as  a  severe  blow  to  the  prestige  of  the  administration.  Randolph  rushed 
into  print  to  assert  that  the  verdict  did  not  alter  the  legal  aspects  of  the  case, 
and  some  deficiency  in  point  of  fact,  or  some  circumstance  of  equity,  had 
brought  about  the  result.  The  enlisting  on  French  privateers  to  commit  hos- 
tilities against  Great  Britain  was  clearly  unlawful. — Conway,  Edmund  Ran- 
dolph, 183,  185.  It  may  be  added  that  the  doctrine  so  strongly  enounced  by 
the  justices  and  Randolph  was  soon  unsettled,  and  in  later  decisions  of  the 
court  entirely  set  aside. 

In  view  of  this  verdict,  the  question  of  Genet's  conduct,  the  situation  of 
Indian  affairs,  and  the  general  complexion  of  political  matters,  Washington 
thought  of  calling  Congress  together  at  an  earlier  date  than  that  on  which  it 
was  to  meet  by  law.  Knox,  Randolph,  and  Hamilton  were  against  it ;  Jefferson 
was  in  favor  of  it.    Genet  was  staking  all  on  Congress  and  was  anxious  to  have 


3i8  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

of  war  and  armed  vessels  to  stop  any  neutral  vessel 
loaded  in  whole  or  in  part  with  provisions,  and  send 
them  into  their  ports,  adds  another  motive  for  the 
adoption  of  this  measure.     I  am,  &c. 


TO    HILAND    CROW. 

Philadelphia,  4  August,  1793. 

By  a  Letter  which  I  have  just  received  from  my 
nephew,  Mr.  Lewis,  at  Mount  Vernon,  he  informs 
me  that  you  are  applying  to  have  your  wages  raised. 
This,  I  think,  was  the  case  last  year,  and  may  be  the 
case  another  year.  Nor  is  this  all.  For  when  one 
succeeds,  another  comes  forward  ;  a  stop  therefore 
might  as  well  be  put  to  these  kind  of  cravings  at  one 
time  as  at  another.  However,  as  your  crop  was 
the  most  productive  of  any  I  made  last  year ; 
and  as  I  hope  the  present  one  will  not  be  bad, 
if  properly  taken  care  of,  I  agree,  by  way  of  en- 
couraging your  future  exertions,  to  raise  your  wages 
to  forty  pounds  next  year  ;  and  make  you  the  same 
allowance  of  provisions  and  other  things  as,  by  agree- 
ment, you  were  to  receive  this  year. 

To  make  an  attempt  after  this,  to  encrease  your 
wages,  will  be  fruitless  ;  and  I  mention  it,  that  when- 

it  assembled,  believing  that  he  would  receive  its  full  support.  A  little  inci- 
dent is  recorded  by  Jefferson.  "  Knox  said  we  should  have  had  fine  work,  if 
Congress  had  been  sitting  these  last  two  months.  The  fool  thus  let  the  secret 
out,  Hamilton  endeavored  to  patch  up  the  indiscretion  of  this  blabber,  by 
saying,  '  he  did  not  know  ;  he  rather  thought  tliey  would  have  strengthened 
the  executive  arm.'  It  is  evident  they  do  not  wish  to  lengthen  the  session  of 
the  next  Congress,  and  probalily  they  jjarticularly  wish  it  should  not  meet  till 
Genet  is  gone." — Anas. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  319 

ever  you  want  more,  you  must  seek  for  it  elsewhere. 
Forty  pounds  per  annum,  clear  of  all  expenses, 
whether  the  wind  blows  high  or  blow  low — whether 
the  ground  is  deluged  with  rain,  or  laid  waste  by  a 
parching  drought ;  by  either  of  which,  and  by  many 
other  casualties,  crops  may  be  destroyed,  though  the 
expences  incurred  in  the  making  do  not  lessen,  nor 
the  mouths  which  are  to  be  fed,  nor  the  backs  which 
are  to  be  clothed  do  not  decrease — is  equal  to  the 
chance  of  double  that  sum  in  a  proportion  of  the 
crop  ;  which,  was  it  not  for  the  labor  spent  in  making 
meadows,  and  other  jobs,  some  on  and  others  off  the 
farm,  I  had  much  rather  give ;  but  have  been  re- 
strained from  doing  it  to  avoid  grurhbling  ;  and 
because  I  may  apply  the  hands  at  such  places  and  in 
such  a  manner  as  to  me,  or  my  manager,  should 
seem  most  conducive  to  my  interest,  when  no  other 
was  to  be  affected  by  it.  With  this  explanation  of 
my  sentiments,  I  remain,  &c. 


TO    BURGES    BALL. 

Philadelphia,  4  August,  1793. 

Dear  Sir  : 

Previously  to  the  receipt  of  your  letter  of  the  25th 
ulto  :  some  persons  have  been  mentioned  to  me  as 
one  well  qualified  for  the  superintendence  of  my 
business  at  Mount  Vernon,  and  until  something  is 
decided  with  respect  to  them  (letters  having  passed 
on  the  subject)  I  can  say  nothing  further  with  respect 
to  Mr.  Lawrence  Lewis.     So  much  am  I  engaged  in 


•?20 

THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 


public  business,  and  so  little  have  I  it  in  my  power  to 
visit  or  attend  to  my  private  concerns  that  it  becomes 
extremely  necessary  (besides  fidelity)  to  have  an  ex- 
perienced and  skilful  man  of  some  weight  to  manage 
my  business — one  whose  judgment  is  able  to  direct 
him  in  cases  which  may  arise  out  of  circumstances 
that  can  neither  be  foreseen  nor  previously  guarded 
against. 

What  the  age  of  Mr.  Lawrence  Lewis  is,  what 
opportunities  he  may  have  had  to  acquire  any  knowl- 
edge in  the  management  of  a  farm,  what  his  disposi- 
tion, whether  active  or  indolent,  whether  clear  in  his 
perceptions  and  of  good  judgment,  whether  sober 
and  sedate,  or  fond  of  amusements  and  running  about, 
with  other  queries  which  might  be  asked  as  well  ap- 
plying to  a  young  man  just  entering  on  the  career  of 
life,  are  all  matters  to  which  I  am  an  entire  stranger, 
and  if  you  can  give  me  information  respecting  them, 
I  shall  thank  you. 

You  will  readily  perceive  that  my  sole  object  in 
these  enquiries  is  to  ascertain  the  competency  of  a 
character  to  whom  I  should  commit  an  important 
trust.  Consequently  going  no  further  can  operate 
nothing  to  the  prejudice  of  my  nephew,  whatever 
you  may  say  to  me  on  the  foregoing  points  and  such 
others  as  may  occur  to  you. 

So  far  as  integrity  and  I  presume  sobriety,  would 
qualify  him,  I  should  give  him  my  entire  confidence  ; 
but  though  these  are  very  essential,  something  more, 
circumstanced  as  I  am,  is  equally  necessary.  Was  I 
at  home  myself,  I  should  prefer  a  person  connected 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  321 

with  me,  as  he  is,  to  a  more  skilful  man  that  was  not 
(provided  he  had  no  thoughts  of  soon  forming  a 
matrimonial  alliance)  because  he  could  aid  me  in  at- 
tention to  company,  which  I  should  stand  as  much  in 
need  of  as  of  one  to  look  after  my  estate,  as  my  dis- 
position would  lead  me  to  endulge  in  retirement 
whenever  I  shall  quit  my  public  walks.  My  love  to 
Mrs.  Ball  and  your  family,  in  w'ch  Mrs.  Washington 
joins.     With  sincere  regard  and  friendship,  &c. 


TO    THOMAS    JEFFERSON,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE.^ 

Philadelphia,  12  August,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

I  clearly  understood  you  on  Saturday,  and  of  what 
I  conceive  to  be  two  evils  must  prefer  the  least,  that 
is,  to  dispense  with  your  temporary  absence  in  the 
autumn,  in  order  to  retain  you  in  office  till  January, 
rather  than  part  with  you  altogether  at  the  close  of 
September. 

'  This  letter  has  reference  to  the  following  note,  written  by  the  Secretarj-  of 
State  the  day  before. 

"  T.  Jefferson,  with  his  respects  to  the  President,  begs  leave  to  express  in 
writing  more  exactly  what  he  meant  to  have  said  yesterday.  A  journey  home 
in  the  autumn  is  of  a  necessity,  which  he  cannot  control,  after  the  arrange- 
ments he  has  made,  and,  when  there,  it  would  be  his  extreme  wish  to  remain  ; 
but  if  his  continuance  in  ofiSce  to  the  last  of  December,  as  intimated  by  the 
President,  would,  by  bringing  the  two  appointments  nearer  together,  enable 
him  to  marshal  them  more  beneficially  to  the  public,  and  more  to  his  own 
satisfaction,  either  motive  will  suffice  to  induce  T.  J.  to  continue  till  that  time. 
He  submits  it  therefore  to  the  President's  judgment,  which  he  will  be  glad  to 
receive  when  convenient,  as  the  arrangements  he  has  taken  may  require  some 
change." — August  nth. 

A  few  days  previously  Mr.  Jefferson  had  formally  notified  to  the  President 
his  intention  to  resign  his  office. — Jefferson,   Works,  iv.,  26  ;  ix..  165. 


322  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

It  would  be  an  ardent  wish  of  mine,  that  your  con- 
tinuance in  office,  even  at  the  expense  of  some  sacri- 
fice of  inclination,  would  have  been  through  the 
whole  of  the  ensuing  session  of  Congress,  for  many, 
very  many  weighty  reasons,  which  present  themselves 
to  my  mind ;  one  of  which,  and  not  the  least,  is,  that 
in  my  judgment  the  affairs  of  this  country,  as  they 
relate  to  foreign  powers,  Indian  disturbances,  and 
internal  policy,  will  have  taken  a  more  decisive  and 
I  hope  agreeable  form  than  they  now  bear  before 
that  time,  when  perhaps  other  public  servants  might 
also  indulge  in  retirement.  If  this  cannot  be,  my 
next  wish  is,  that  your  absence  from  the  seat  of 
government  in  the  autumn  may  be  as  short  as  you 
conveniently  can  make  it. 

With  much  esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  &c. 


TO    THOMAS    JEFFERSON,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 

Philadelphia,  19  August,  1793. 

Sir, 

I  send,  for  the  consideration  and  opinion  of  the 
heads  of  departments  and  the  attorney-general  of 
the  United  States,  a  communication  from  the  gov- 
ernor of  Pennsylvania  respecting  the  privateer  Citi- 
zen Genet,  together  with  copies  of  two  letters  from 
the  French  consul  to  the  governor  on  the  same  sub- 
ject, and  a  report  of  persons,  who  had  examined  the 
aforesaid  privateer  by  the  governor's  order,  which 
were  enclosed  in  the  governor's  letter  to  me. 

The  gentlemen  will  decide,  whether  these  circum- 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  323 

stances  reported  respecting  the  unfitness  of  the  said 
privateer  to  proceed  to  sea  are  such,  as  would  make 
it  proper  to  depart  from  the  rules  already  adopted, 
and  allow  a  longer  time  for  her  to  prepare  to  depart, 
than  is  granted  by  the  governor,  or  whether  the  orders 
given  by  him  on  this  head  shall  be  executed. 

It  will  be  seen  that  the  subject  requires  despatch, 
and  the  Secretary  of  War  will  inform  the  governor 
of  the  result  of  your  deliberations  on  this  subject  as 
soon  as  it  is  given.     I  am,  &c. 


TO    HENRY    KNOX,    SECRETARY    OF    WAR. 

[private.] 

Philadelphia,  9  September,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

It  was  the  opinion  of  the  gentlemen  at  their  meeting 
on  Saturday  last,  if  I  mistake  not,  that  Mr.  Wolcott 
should  be  desired  to  request  Mr.  Webster  to  sub- 
stantiate the  language  of  the  minister  of  the  French 
republic,  as  related  by  him  in  the  enclosed  letter. 

Colonel  Hamilton's  situation,  for  which  I  feel  ex- 
treme regret,^  does  not  permit  his  having  any  agency 
in  the  matter  at  present.  I  therefore  send  the  letter, 
which  he  forwarded  to  me,  from  Mr.  Webster  to  Mr. 
Wolcott,  to  your  care,  being  persuaded  that  whatever 
measure  shall  be  deemed  right  and  proper  will  be 
put  in  train  by  you.' 

'  He  was  ill  with  the  malignant  fever. 

*  On  August  1 2th,  Webster  had  dined  at  the  same  table  with  Genet,  Captain 
Bompard,  and  one  of  Genet's  secretaries.  In  the  course  of  the  conversation 
Paschal  (the  secretary)  asserted  that  Washington  made  war  upon  the  French 


324  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

I  think  it  would  not  be  prudent  either  for  you,  or 
the  clerks  in  your  office,  or  the  office  itself,  to  be  too 
much  exposed  to  the  malignant  fever,  which,  by  well 
authenticated  report,  is  spreading  through  the  city. 
The  means  to  avoid  [it,]  your  own  judgment  under 
existing  circumstances  must  dictate. 

As  the  spreading  and  continuance  of  the  disorder 
may  render  it  unadvisable  for  me  to  return  to  this 
city  so  soon  as  I  at  first  intended,  I  would  thank 
you,  in  case  you  should  remain  in  the  vicinity  of  it, 
to  write  me  a  line  by  every  Monday's  post,  informing 
me  concisely  of  the  then  state  of  matters,  with  other 
occurrences,  which  may  be  essential  for  me  to  be 
made  acquainted  with.     *     *     * 


TO    THOMAS    JEFFERSON,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 

Chester,  10  September,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

I  return  from  this  place  the  papers,  which  you  put 
into  my  hands  on  the  road  to-day.  The  unpromising 
state  of  the  negotiation  at  Madrid,  and  the  opinion 
of  the  commissioners,  that  their  commission  should 
be  withdrawn,  and  matters  in  that  court  placed  in 
statu  quo,  deserve  very  serious  consideration.  I  pray 
you  to  give  it  ;  and  if  it  rests  altogether  with  the 
executive,  after  the  agency  the  Senate  [have  taken] 
in  the  business,  let  me  know  the  result.  ' 

nation.  Genet  agreed  in  this,  and  went  on  to  say  that  the  Executive  of  the 
United  States  (not  the  President)  was  under  the  influence  of  British  gold,  and  the 
officers  were  in  the  British  influence  and  had  formed  a  plan  to  subject  America 
to  Great  Britain.     He  asserted  that  he  had  very  good  letters  to  prove  this. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  325 

Mr.  Carmichael  must  not  be  the  person  left  there ; 
for  from  him  we  should  never  hear  a  tittle  of  what  is 
going  forward  at  the  court  of  Madrid. 

I  am  yours,  &c. 


TO    EDMUND    PENDLETON. 

Mount  Vernon,  23  September,  1793. 

My  dear  Sir, 

With  very  sincere  pleasure  I  received  your  private 
letter  of  the  nth  instant.  This  pleasure  was  not  a 
little  enhanced  by  your  reiterated  assurance  of  my 
still  holding  that  place  in  your  estimation,  of  which, 
on  more  occasions  than  one,  you  hav^e  given  me  the 
most  flattering  testimony,  highly  gratifying  to  my 
mind.  This  assurance  came  opportunely,  as  I  had 
begun  to  conceive,  though  unable  to  assign  a  cause, 
that  some  part  of  my  public  conduct,  (however  well- 
meant  my  endeavors,)  had  appeared  unfavorably  in 
your  eyes  ;  for  you  will  please  to  recollect,  that 
formerly  you  promised  me,  and  I  always  expected, 
an  annual  letter  from  you.  It  is  now,  (if  my  memory 
has  not  failed  me,)  at  least  four  years  since  I  have 
had  that  pleasure. 

Sequestered  you  say  you  are  from  the  world,  and 
know  little  of  what  is  transacting  in  it,  but  from 
newspapers.  I  regret  this  exceedingly.  I  wish  you 
had  more  to  do  on  the  great  theatre,  and  that  your 
means  of  information  were  co-equal  to  your  abilities 
and  the  disposition  I  know  you  to  possess  to  judge 
properly  of  public  measures.  It  would  be  better, 
perhaps,    for   that   public,    it   should  be   so  ;    for,  be 


326  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

assured,  we  have  some  infamous  papers,  calculated  to 
disturb  the  public  mind,  if  not  absolutely  intended  to 
do  mischief. 

With  respect  to  the  fiscal  conduct  of  the  Secretary 
of  the  Treasury,  I  will  say  nothing,  because  an  in- 
quiry, more  than  probable,  will  be  instituted  next 
session  of  Congress  into  some  of  the  allegations 
against  him,  which  eventually  may  involve  the  whole  ; 
and  because,  if  I  mistake  not,  he  will  seek,  rather 
than  shrink  from  an  investigation.  A  fair  oppor- 
tunity will,  in  that  case,  be  offered  the  impartial 
world  to  form  a  just  estimate  of  his  acts,  and  proba- 
bly of  his  motives.  No  one,  I  will  venture  to  say, 
wishes  more  devoutly  than  I  do,  that  they  may  be 
probed  to  the  bottom,  be  the  result  what  it  will.^ 


'  "  I  am  an  utter  stranger  to  the  gentleman  at  the  head  of  that  department, 
and  pretty  much  so  to  the  detail  of  his  conduct  ;  but  I  will  confess  to  you,  Sir, 
that  all  his  reports  on  ways  and  means,  from  that  on  the  funding  system  to  the 
present  day,  have  impressed  me  with  an  idea  of  his  having  made  the  system  of 
the  British  ministry  the  model  of  his  conduct  as  assumed  American  primate, 
choosing  rather  to  trust  to  a  moneyed  interest  he  has  created,  for  the  support 
of  his  measures,  than  to  their  rectitude.  I  do  not  say  these  were  his  motives, 
but  such  they  appear  to  me  ;  and  I  fear  we  shall  long  feel  the  effects  of  the 
system  if  it  were  now  to  be  changed,  which  it  is  supposed  would  be  improper, 
at  least  as  to  the  funding  system. 

"  The  non-discrimination,  which  he  so  much  labored,  appeared  to  me  a 
sacrifice  of  the  substance  of  justice  to  its  shadow  ;  its  effects  to  throw  unearned 
wealth  into  a  few  unmeriting  hands,  instead  of  diffusing  it  (after  repaying  them 
their  purchase  money)  to  those,  who  entitled  themselves  to  it  by  tlie  most  meri- 
torious consideration.  The  assumption  of  the  State  debts  in  a  lump,  before  it 
was  ascertained  that  they  were  created  for  common  benefit  (which  woukl  make 
them  an  equitable  charge  on  the  Union),  seemed  to  me  unaccountable,  unless 
derived  from  the  Secretary's  position,  that  increase  of  public  debt  is  beneficial  ; 
a  maxim  adopted  by  the  British  cabinet,  but  unsupported  by  reason  or  other 
example,  and  its  national  effects  there  strangely  misrepresented. 

"The  various  kinds  and  value  of  the  new  certificates  I  see  inconveniences 
in,  but  can  discover  no  other  reason  for,  than  to  give  the  rich  speculators  at  or 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  327 

With  the  most  scrupulous  truth  I  can  assure  you, 
that  your  free  and  unreserved  opinion,  upon  any 
public  measure  of  importance,  will  always  be  accepta- 
ble to  me,  whether  it  respects  men  or  measures  ;  and 
on  no  man  do  I  wish  it  to  be  expressed  more  fully 
than  on  myself,  for,  as  I  can  conscientiously  declare, 
I  have  no  object  in  view  incompatible  with  the  con- 
stitution, and  the  obvious  interests  of  this  country, 
nor  no  earthly  desire  half  so  strong  as  that  of  return- 
ing to  the  walks  of  private  life  ;  so,  of  consequence,  I 
only  wish,  whilst  I  am  a  servant  of  the  public,  to 
know  the  will  of  my  masters,  that  I  may  govern  my- 
self accordingly. 

You  do  me  no  more  than  justice  when  you  sup- 
pose, that,  from  motives  of  respect  to  the  legislature 
(and  I  might  add  from  my  interpretation  of  the  con- 
stitution), I  give  my  signature  to  many  bills,  with 
which  my  judgment  is  at  variance.  In  saying  this, 
however,  I  allude  to  no  particular  act.  From  the 
nature  of  the  constitution  I  must  approve  all  the 
parts  of  a  bill,  or  reject  it  hi  toto.  To  do  the  latter 
can  only  be  justified  upon  the  clear  and  obvious 
ground  of  propriety  ;  and  I  never  had  such  confidence 
in  my  own  faculty  of  judging,  as  to  be  ever  tenacious 
of  the  opinions  I  may  have  imbibed  in  doubtful  cases. ^ 

near  the  seat  of  government  an  advantage  over  the  distant,  uninformed,  un- 
wary, or  distressed  citizens  ;  and  the  recommended  irredeemable  quality,  as  a 
means  of  increasing  their  credit  in  circulation,  is  a  paradox  of  which  no  solution 
has  yet  occurred  to  my  mind." — Pendleton  to  Washington,  ii  September,  1793. 
'  In  the  eight  years  of  his  service  as  President,  Washington  resorted  to  the 
use  of  the  veto  but  twice.  In  1792  he  returned  the  apportionment  of  repre- 
sentatives, and  in  1797  the  military  establishment  bill.  In  both  cases  Congress 
modelled  new  measures  in  accord  with  the  President's  suggestions. 


328  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

Mrs.  Washington,  who  enjoys  tolerable  health, 
joins  me  most  cordially  in  best  wishes  to  you  and 
Mrs.  Pendleton.  I  wish  you  may  live  long,  continue 
in  good  health,  and  end  your  days,  as  you  have  been 
wearing  them  away,  happily  and  respected.  Always 
and  very  affectionately  yours,  &c. 


TO    TOBIAS    LEAR. 

Mount  Vernon,  25  September,  1793. 

My  dear  Sir, 

I  have  not  written  to  you  since  we  parted,  but  had 
just  set  down  to  do  it  when  your  letter  of  the  13th 
instt.  was  brought  to  me  from  the  Post  ofifice  in 
Alexandria. 

It  gave  Mrs.  Washington,  myself  and  all  who 
knew  him,  sincere  pleasure  to  hear  that  our  little 
favourite'  had  arrived  safe,  and  was  in  good  health  at 
Portsmouth.  We  sincerely  wish  him  a  long  continu- 
ance of  the  latter — that  he  may  always  be  as  charm- 
ing and  promising  as  he  now  is — and  that  he  may 
live  to  be  a  comfort  and  blessing  to  you,  and  an 
ornament  to  his  country.  As  a  testimony  of  my 
affection  for  him  I  send  him  a  ticket  in  the  lottery 
which  is  now  drawing  in  the  Federal  City  ;  and  if  it 
should  be  his  fortune  to  draw  the  hotel  it  will  add  to 
the  pleasure  I  have  in  giving  it. 

We  remained  in  Philadelphia  until  the  loth  instant. 
— It  was  my  wish  to  have  continued  there  longer  ; 
but  as   Mrs.  Washington  was  unwilling  to  leave  me 

'  Lincoln  Lear. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  329 

surrounded  by  the  malignant  fever  which  prevailed, 
I  could  not  think  of  hazarding  her,  and  the  Children 
any  longer  by  my  continuance  in  the  City,  the  house 
in  which  we  lived  being,  in  a  manner  blockaded,  by 
the  disorder,  and  was  becoming  every  day  more  and 
more  fatal ;  I  therefore  came  off  with  them  on  the 
above  day  and  arrived  at  this  place  the  14th,  without 
incountering  the  least  accident  on  the  road. 

You  will  learn  from  Mr.  Greenleaf,  that  he  has 
dipped  deeply  in  the  concerns  of  the  Federal  city, — 
I  think  he  has  done  so  on  very  advantageous  terms 
for  himself,  and  I  am  pleased  with  it  notwithstanding 
on  public  ground  ;  as  it  may  give  facility  to  the 
operations  at  that  place,  at  the  same  time  that  it  is 
embarking  him  and  his  friends  in  a  measure  which, 
although  [it]  could  not  well  fail  under  any  circum- 
stances that  are  likely  to  happen,  may  be  considerably 
promoted  by  men  of  Spirit  with  large  Capitals.  He 
can,  so  much  better  than  I,  detail  his  engagements  and 
the  situation  of  things  in  and  about  the  city,  that  I 
shall   not  attempt  to  do   it  at  this  time. 

Mrs.  Washington  having  decided  to  let  Nelly 
Custis  have  her  watch  and  chain,  is  disposed  to  receive 
substitutes  in  lieu  thereof  at  about  25  guineas  price  ; 
and  leaves  the  choice  of  them  to  you,  the  plainness 
of  the  watch  she  will  not  object  to.  120  dollars  in 
Bank  notes  are  inclosed  for  the  purchase  of  them. 

If  it  should  be  convenient  and  perfectly  safe  for 
you  to  engage  for  me,  on  reasonable  terms  a  com- 
plete Black  Smith  you  would  oblige  me  by  doing  so. 
But  as  there  are  Laws  in  England  prohibiting  such 


330  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

engagements  under  severe  penalties,  and  such  may 
exist  in  other  countries,  you  will  understand  me 
clearly,  that  for  no  consideration  whatever  would  I 
have  you  run  the  smallest  risk  of  encountering  them. 
You  know  full  well  what  kind  of  a  Smith  would  Suit 
my  purposes  ;  it  is  unnecessary  therefore  for  me  to 
be  particular  on  this  head.  He  must  however  have 
a  character  on  which  you  can  rely,  not  only  as  a  com- 
pleat  workman  for  a  Farm,  but  as  an  honest,  sober 
and  Industrious  man.  If  he  comes  on  wages  they 
must  be  moderate — and  with,  or  without  wages,  he 
must  be  bound  to  serve  me  3  years  ;  4  would  be  better. 
Mrs.  Washington  thanks  you  for  your  kind  recol- 
lection of  her  request  with  respect  to  Lincoln,  and 
desires  me  to  assure  you  of  her  sincere  love  for  him, 
in  which  I  join,  and  of  her  friendship  and  regard  for 
you.  In  whatever  place  you  may  be,  or  in  whatever 
walk  of  life  you  may  move,  my  best  wishes  will  at- 
tend you,  for  I  am,  and  always  shall  be. 

Your  sincere  friend,  &c. 

P.  S.  I  have  just  received  a  letter  from  the  Earl 
of  Buchan  in  which  he  says,  my  letter  intended  to 
accompany  the  Portrait  had  got  safe  to  his  hands  but 
that  he  had  heard  nothing  of  the  Picture.  If  you 
should,  while  in  New  York,  see  the  Painter  of  it,  be 
so  ofood  as  to  mention  this  circumstance  to  him  and 
enquire  into  the  cause  of  the  failure. 

The  District  Attorney  of  New  Hampshire  has 
sent  his  resignation. — I  am  entirely  unacquainted 
with   the   characters   in   that   line  in  that  State  and 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  331 

would  thank  you  to  name  the  Person  whom  you 
think  best  quaHfied  to  succeed  Mr.  Shelburne  and 
most  likely  to  give  general  satisfaction. 


TO    THOMAS    JEFFERSON,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 
T^  ^  Mount  Vernon,  6  October,  1793. 

Dear  Sir  : 

It  appearing  to  me  that  the  public  business  will  re- 
quire the  executive  officers  to  be  together  sometime 
before  the  meeting  of  Congress,  I  have  written  to 
the  Secretaries  of  the  Treasury  and  War  to  meet  me 
at  Philadelphia  or  vicinity,  say  Germantown,  by  the 
first  of  November,  and  should  be  glad  to  see  you 
there  at  the  same  time.  The  Attorney  General  is 
advised  of  this  also. 

In  a  letter  from  General  Knox  of  the  24th  ulto., 
who  was  then  performing  quarantine  at  Elizabeth- 
town  before  he  could  be  admitted  into  New  York,  is 
the  following  paragraph  : 

"  The  French  fleet  is  still  in  New  York,  in  a  wretched  state  of 

disorganization,  which  prevents  its  sailing.    Mr.  G 1  has  been 

low  spirited  for  ten  days  past.  The  fleet  have  been  told  by  him 
that  the  Executive  of  the  United  States  prevents  their  selling  their 
prizes,  and  Citizen  Bompard,  who  belongs  to  a  club  in  France, 
as  well  as  his  sailors,  say  that  they  shall  represent  the  matter  upon 

their  return  in  its  proper  colors.     I  do  not  find  Mr.  G 1  has 

promulgated  the  last  letter  of  the  Secretary  of  State,  excepting  as 
to  the  effect  of  the  measure  with  the  consuls  ;  which  prevent 
their  selling  their  prizes.  Would  to  God  it  had  been  thought 
proper  to  publish  the  letter  to  Mr.  Morris.  The  minds  of  our 
own  people  would  have  been  convinced  of  the  propriety  of  the 
measures  which  have  been  adopted,  and  all  cavil  at  the  meeting 
of  Congress  prevented." 


332  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

I  should  be  of  this  opinion  likewise,  if  there  is 
danger  of  the  public  mind  receiving  unfavorable  im- 
pressions from  the  want  of  information  on  one  hand, 
whilst  the  insidious  attempts  to  poison  it,  are  so  im- 
pudently and  unweariedly  practised  on  the  other. 

In  another  letter  from  Gen'l  Knox,  dated  the  ist. 
inst.,  at  the  same  place,  after  having  performed  quar- 
antine from  the  19th  of  September  to  that  date,  he 
says  : 

"  The  French  fleet,  excepting  the  Ambuscade,  will  sail  tomorrow 
from  New  York,  upon  some  cruise  unknown.  The  Surveillant 
sailed  on  the  29th  ulto.  for  France  with  despatches  from  Mr. 
G[ene]t  and  such  is  his  desire  that  they  should  arrive  safely,  that 
he  will  in  a  day  or  two  despatch  the  Ceres,  an  armed  brig,  with 
duplicates." 

If  our  despatch  boat  should  fail,  and  duplicates  are 
not  sent,  he  will  play  the  whole  game  himself.  *  "'^  * ' 


TO    THOMAS   JEFFERSON,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 

Mount  Vernon,  ii  October,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

Your  despatch  of  the  3d,  with  its  several  enclosures, 
reached  Alexandria  on  Wednesday  evening,  and  got 
to  my  hands  yesterday  morning.     This  afternoon  I 

'  At  this  time  Genet  was  sending  a  remarkable  despatch  to  his  government, 
representing  that  his  ends  would  be  attained  in  the  next  Congress  in  spite  of 
General  Washington,  who  sacrificed  the  rights  of  France.  "  This  friend  of 
Lafayette,  who  affects  to  adorn  his  parlor  with  medallions  of  Capet  and  his 
family  ;  who  has  received  letters  from  the  pretended  regent,  which  were 
brought  to  him  by  Noailles  and  Talon  ;  and  who  continues  to  see  these  villains, 
calls  me  anarchist,  Jacobin,  and  threatens  to  have  me  recalled  because  I  have 
not  delivered  myself  to  the  federalist  party,  who  wish  to  do  nothing  for  us,  and 
whose  only  aim  is  to  establish  here  a  monarchy." — Genet  to  the  Minister  of 
Foreign  Affairs,  19  Se])tember,  1793. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  nz 

shall  send  to  the  post  office  the  letters  from  Mr. 
Bankson,  with  my  signature  to  the  exequatur 
for  Mr.  Dannery  and  Letters  Patent  revoking  that 
of  Mr.  Duplaine.  Your  letter  to  the  latter,  two  to 
the  French  Minister,  one  to  his  secretar}^  Mons. 
Bournonville,  and  another  to  Mr.  Morris  being- 
approved,  are  also  forwarded. 

To  a  letter  written  to  you  a  few  days  ago,  I  refer 
for  the  time  and  place  mentioned  for  the  meeting  of 
the  heads  of  departments,  and  hope  it  will  be  con- 
venient for  you  to  attend.  If  I  do  not  take  a  circui- 
tous route  by  Fredericktown  in  Maryland,  &c.,  I 
shall  not  leave  this  before  the  28th,  and  in  that  case 
should  be  glad  of  your  company,  if  it  is  not  incon- 
venient for  you  to  call.  Since  writing  that  letter, 
however,  I  have  received  the  enclosed  from  the  at- 
torney-general, which  may  make  a  change  of  place 
necessary ;  but  I  shall  wait  further  advices  before 
this  is  resolved  on. 

I  have  also  received  a  letter  from  the  late  Speaker, 
Trumbull,^  and  as  I  understand,  sentiments  similar  to 
his  are  entertained  by  others.  What  had  I  best  do  ? 
You  were  of  opinion  when  here,  that  neither  the  con- 
stitution nor  laws  gave  power  to  the  President  to  con- 
vene Congress  at  any  other  place,  than  where  the  seat 
of  government  is  fixed  by  their  own   act.     Twelve 

'  He  said  he  thought  the  occasion  sufficiently  "  extraordinary"  to  warrant 
the  President  to  use  his  discretionary  power  to  convene  the  national  legislature 
by  a  special  call,  and  also  at  some  other  place  than  that  to  which  Congress  then 
stood  adjourned.  He  added  that  unless  this  discretionary  power  should  inter- 
pose, a  majority  of  the  two  Houses  tnust  assemble  in  Philadelphia,  however 
great  might  be  the  danger,  before  an  adjournment  could  be  made  to  a  place  of 
safety  and  convenience. 


334  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 


days  ago  I  wrote  to  the  attorney-general  for  an  official 
opinion  on  this  head,  but  have  received  no  answer/ 
If  the  importance  and  urgency  of  the  case,  arising 
from  the  unabating  fever  in  Philadelphia,  would 
justify  calling  the  legislature  at  any  other  place, 
where  ought  it  to  be  ?  This,  if  Germantown  is 
affected  with  the  malady,  involves  the  executive  in 

'  Mr.  Randolph  did  not  think  that  the  President  had  power  to  change  the 
place  of  the  meeting  of  Congress.  He  drew  up  an  official  paper  on  the  subject, 
but  his  opinion  is  expressed  in  the  following  extract  from  one  of  his  letters. 

"  I  have  travelled  over  the  subject  of  your  interposition,  as  to  the  place  for 
the  next  session  of  Congress,  but  have  not  been  able  to  complete  my  remarks 
on  paper.  They  will  be  ready  on  your  arrival  at  Germantown.  In  the  mean 
time,  I  beg  leave  to  suggest  the  result  of  my  reflections,  as  being  adverse  to  a 
call  of  Congress  from  the  executive.  It  seems  to  be  unconstitutional.  It  is 
also  unnecessary  at  this  moment ;  for  if  the  two  Houses  should  happen  to  meet 
within  the  limits  of  Philadelphia  on  the  first  Monday  in  December,  they  may 
adjourn  to  some  other  place.  If  they  do  not  meet,  then  the  President  will 
stand  justified  to  convene  them  ;  inasmuch  as  a  failure  to  meet  in  the  present 
posture  of  public  affairs  on  the  appointed  day  will,  by  producing  a  well- 
grounded  apprehension  that  they  may  not  assemble  for  a  long  time,  of  itself 
create  an  '■''extraordinary  occasion."  Some  days  may  be  lost,  if  the  members 
may  not  have  come  into  the  neighborhood  ;  but  not  many  more  than  by  an 
adjournment  of  their  own  to  a  new  place.  By  my  mode,  the  object  will  be 
accomplished  in  an  easy  and  natural  course  ;  by  a  summons  from  the  President, 
serious  discontents  may  be  excited. 

"  I  ought  however  to  inform  you,  Sir,  that  the  governor  of  Pennsylvania 
(whose  authority  is,  so  far  as  the  constitution  of  this  State  goes,  nearly  the  same 
with  yours)  will  prol^ably  call  his  legislature  a  few  days  before  the  regular  meet- 
ing to  Germantown,  instead  of  Philadelphia.  Mr.  Dallas  thinks  that  he  may 
do  so  with  safety  ;  but  the  question  is  to  be  submitted  to  the  attorney-general. 
He  tells  me  that  Mr.  Rawle  is  of  opinion,  that,  although  you  should  convene 
Congress,  they  must  assemble  in  the  first  instance  at  Philadelphia.  I  intended 
to  consult  with  him  and  Mr.  Lewis  ;  but  having  heard  from  Major  Lenox,  that 
Colonel  Hamilton  came  home  last  night.  I  shall  postpone  going  over  to  them, 
until  I  can  converse  with  him.  But,  in  pursuance  of  your  instruction,  I  en- 
close what  appears  to  be  a  proper  proclamation,  if  my  sentiments  should 
unfortunately  not  accord  with  your  decision." — Octol)er  24th. 

"  Mr.  Jefferson,  upon  a  superficial  view  of  the  subject  when  here,  thought 
there  was  no  power  in  either  to  do  this.  But  the  laws  were  not  examined 
carefully,  and  the  constitution  is,  I  believe,  silent  respecting  it." — Washington 
to  Randolph,  30  Scptenil)er,  1793. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  335 

a  serious  and  delicate  decision.  Wilmington  and 
Trenton  are  equidistant  in  opposite  directions,  both 
on  the  great  thoroughfare,  equally  dangerous,  and 
would,  (I  presume,)  be  equally  obnoxious  to  one  or 
other  set  of  members,  according  to  their  situations. 
Annapolis  has  conveniences,  but  it  might  be  thought 
I  had  interested  and  local  views  in  naming  this  place. 
What  sort  of  a  town  then  is  Reading  ?  And  how 
would  it  answer  ?  Neither  northern  nor  southern 
members  would  have  cause  to  complain  of  its  situa- 
tion.     Lancaster  favors  the  southern  ones  most. 

You  will  readily  perceive,  if  any  change  takes 
place,  not  a  moment  is  to  be  lost  in  the  notification, 
whether  by  a  simple  statement  of  facts  (among  which, 
I  presume,  the  house  intended  for  them  in  Philadel- 
phia will  be  unfinished),  and  an  intimation  that  you 
shall  be  at  a  certain  place  days  before 

the  1st  of  December  to  meet  them  in  their  leofislative 
capacity,  or  to  advise  with  them  on  measures  proper 
to  be  taken  in  the  present  exigency.  If  something 
of  this  sort  should  strike  you  favorably,  draw,  (and  if 
necessar}'  sign,)  a  proper  instrument,  to  avoid  delay, 
leaving  the  place  blank,  but  giving  your  opinion 
thereon.  Germantown  would  certainly  have  been 
the  best  place  for  them  to  have  met  in  the  first  in- 
stance, there  to  take  ulterior  resolutions  without 
involving  the  executive. 

I  have  no  objection  to  the  director  of  the  mint, 
with  your  concurrence,  choosing  an  engraver  in  place 
of  Mr.  Wright.  No  report  has  been  made  to  me 
relative  to  the  tonnage  of  the  French  ships  from  St. 
Domingo. 


336  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 


Major  Lenox,  I  perceive  by  the  papers,  is  marshal 
of  the  district  of  Pennsylvania.  Limits  of  jurisdic- 
tion and  protection  must  lie  over  till  we  meet,  when 
I  request  you  would  remind  me  of  it.  I  am,  Sir, 
yours,  &c. 

TO    THOMAS    SIM    LEE,    GOVERNOR    OF    MARYLAND. 

c^  Mount  Vernon,  13  October,  1793. 

biR, 

The  letter,  with  which  your  Excellency  was  pleased 
to  favor  me,  dated  the  7th  instant,  was  received  on 
the  loth,  and  might  have  had  an  acknowledgment 
the  next  day  ;  but  I  waited  the  arrival  of  Friday's 
mail,  in  hopes  that  I  should  have  had  a  report  from 
the  Secretary  of  War  relatively  the  ship  RocJiampton. 
Disappointed  in  this,  I  am  not  able  to  give  you  any 
opinion  thereon,  uninformed  as  I  am  of  the  specific 
articles  of  charges  exhibited  by  the  British  consul. 
The  French  minister  complains  of  the  detention. 

With  respect  to  the  second  case  mentioned  in  your 
letter,  and  these  of  the  British  consuls,  I  have  only 
to  observe,  that,  as  these  gentlemen  cannot  but  know, 
that  the  custom-house  officers  in  every  port  are  in- 
structed to  keep  a  vigilant  watch  upon  all  armed  ves- 
sels, and  the  presumption  being,  that  they  also  are 
not  inattentive,  there  seems  to  have  been  no  necessity 
for  lodging  a  complaint  unaccompanied  with  proofs. 

It  is  scarcely  possible  to  give  instructions,  which 
will  embrace  minutely  every  case  that  may  arise 
during  the  war  ;  nor  do  I  conceive  it  essential.  Your 
Excellency  will  readily  perceive,  by  the  communica- 
tions  which  have  been  made  to  you,  the  principles 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  337 

upon  which  the  general  government  act,  in  the  recess 
of  Congress,  respecting  the  belligerent  powers.  These 
principles  are,  to  adhere  strictly  to  treaties,  accord- 
ing to  the  plain  construction  and  obvious  meaning  of 
them,  and,  regarding  these,  to  act  impartially  towards 
all  the  nations  at  war.  Keeping  these  principles  in 
view,  and  observing  the  rules  which  are  founded  on 
them,  with  your  disposition  to  do  justice,  and  to 
preserve  this  country  in  peace,  I  persuade  myself  you 
can  be  at  no  loss,  that  your  decisions  will  be  always 
right  ;  and  I  hope  they  will  always  be  prompt. 

Being  removed  from  the  public  offices,  intending 
when  I  left  Philadelphia  not  to  be  absent  more  than 
fifteen  or  eighteen  days,  I  brought  no  public  papers 
of  any  sort  (not  even  the  rules  which  have  been 
established  in  these  cases,)  along  with  me.  Conse- 
quently I  am  not  prepared  at  this  place  to  decide 
points,  which  may  require  a  reference  to  papers  not 
within  my  reach.  But,  as  I  find  cases  are  daily 
occurring,  which  call  for  attention  and  decision,  I 
have  requested  the  heads  of  the  departments  to  attend 
at  Philadelphia  or  vicinity,  by  the  ist  of  next  month, 
whither  I  shall  go  and  be  present  myself.  With  great 
esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  &c. 


TO    JAMES    MADISON. 

Mount  Vernon,  14  October,  1793. 


My  dear  Sir, 

The  calamitous  situation  of  Philadelphia,  and  the 
little  prospect,  from  the  present  appearance,  of  its 
eligibility  to  receive  Congress  by  the  first  Monday  in 


338  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

December,  involve  a  serious  difficulty.  It  has  been 
intimated  by  some,  that  the  President  ought,  by  proc- 
lamation, to  convene  Congress  a  few  days  before 
the  above  period,  at  some  other  place  ;  and  by  others, 
(although  in  extraordinary  cases  he  has  the  power  to 
convene,)  yet  that  he  has  none  to  change  the  place. 
Mr.  Jefferson,  when  here  on  his  way  home,  was  of 
the  latter  opinion  ;  but  the  laws  were  not  fully  exam- 
ined, nor  was  the  case  at  that  time  so  serious  as  it 
now  is.  From  the  attorney-general,  to  whom  I  have 
since  written  on  this  subject,  requesting  an  official 
opinion,  I  have  received  no  answer,  nor  is  it  likely  I 
shall  soon,  as  I  believe  he  has  no  communication  with 
Philadelphia.^ 

Time  presses,  and  the  malady,  at  the  usual  place 
of  meeting,  is  becoming  more  and  more  alarming. 
What,  then,  do  you  think  is  the  most  advisable  course 
for  me  to  pursue  in  the  present  exigency  ?  Summon 
Congress  to  meet  at  a  certain  time  and  place,  in  their 
legislative  capacity  ?  Simply  to  state  facts  and  say  I 
will  meet  the  members  at  the  time  and  place  just 
mentioned  for  ulterior  arrangements  ?  Or  leave  mat- 
ters as  they  are,  if  there  is  no  power  in  the  executive 
to  alter  the  place  legally?  In  the  first  and  second 
cases,  especially  the  first,  the  delicacy  of  my  naming 
a  place  will  readily  occur  to  you.  My  wish  would  be, 
that  Congress  could  be  assembled  at  Germantown,  to 
show  I  meant  no  partiality,  leaving  it  to  themselves, 
(if  there  should  appear  to  be  no  prospect  of  getting 

'  He  also  wrote  to   Hamilton  ;  the  letter  is  printed  in   Sparks'   Washing- 
ton, X.,  378.     Also  to  Pickering,  Life  of  Pickering,  iii.,  58. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  339 

into  Philadelphia  soon,)  to  decide  what  should  be 
done  thereafter.  But  accounts  say,  that  some  people 
have  died  in  Germantown  also  of  the  malignant  fever. 
Every  death,  now,  however,  is  now  ascribed  to  that 
cause,  be  the  disorder  what  it  may.  Wilmington  and 
Trenton  are  nearly  equidistant  from  Philadelphia,  in 
opposite  directions  ;  but  both  are  on  the  great  thor- 
oughfare, and  equally  exposed  to  danger  from  the 
multitude  of  travellers  ;  and  neither  may  have  a 
chamber  sufficient  for  the  House  of  Representatives. 
Annapolis  and  Lancaster  are  more  secure,  and  have 
good  accommodations.  But  to  name  either,  especially 
the  first,  would  be  thought  to  favor  the  southern  con- 
venience ;  and,  perhaps,  might  be  attributed  to  local 
views,  especially  as  New  York  is  talked  of  for  this 
purpose.  Reading,  if  there  are  proper  conveniences 
at  it,  would  favor  neither  the  southern  nor  northern 
interest  most,  but  would  be  alike  to  both. 

I  have  written  to  Mr.  Jefferson  on  this  subject. 
Notwithstanding  which,  I  would  thank  you  for  your 
opinion,  and  that  fully,  as  you  see  my  embarrassment. 
I  even  ask  more.  I  would  thank  you,  (not  being  ac- 
quainted with  forms,)  to  sketch  some  instrument 
for  publication,  adapted  to  the  course  you  may  think 
it  would  be  most  expedient  for  me  to  pursue  in 
the  present  state  of  things,  if  the  members  are  called 
together  as  before. 

The  difficulty  of  keeping  clerks  in  the  public  offices 
had  in  a  manner  put  a  stop  to  business  before  I  left 
Philadelphia  ;  and  the  heads  of  departments  having 
matters  of  their  own,  which  called  them  away,  has 


340  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

prevented  my  return  thither  longer  than  I  had  in- 
tended. I  have  now  desired  the  different  Secretaries 
to  meet  me  there,  or  in  the  vicinity,  the  ist  of  next 
month,  for  which  I  shall  set  out  the  27th  or  the  28th 
of  the  present  one. 

The  accounts  from  the  city  are  really  affecting. 
Two  gentlemen  now  here  from  New  York,  (Colonels 
Piatt  and  Sergeant,)  say,  that  they  were  told  at  the 
Swedes'  Ford  of  Schuylkill,  by  a  person  who  had  it 
from  the  Governor  (Mifflin),  that,  by  an  official 
report  from  the  mayor  of  the  city,  upwards  of  three 
thousand  and  five  hundred  had  died,  and  the  disorder 
raging  more  violently  than  ever.  If  cool  weather, 
accompanied  by  rain,  does  not  put  a  stop  to  the 
malady,  distressing  indeed  must  be  the  case  of  that 
city,  now  almost  depopulated  by  removals  and  deaths. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c.^ 


TO    HENRY    LEE,    GOVERNOR    OF    VIRGINIA. 
[private.] 

Mount  Vernon,  16  October,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

Since  my  arrival  at  this  place  I  have  been  favored 
with  your  letters  of  the  i  7th  ultimo  and  7th  instant. 
For  your  kind  attentions  to  me  I  pray  you  to  receive 
my  sincere  acknowledgments. 

'  "  It  has  been  my  intention  ever  since  my  return  to  the  city,  to  contribute 
my  mite  towards  the  relief  of  the  most  needy  inhabitants  of  it.  The  pressure  of 
public  business  hitherto  has  suspended,  but  not  altered  my  resolution.  I  am 
at  a  loss,  however,  for  whose  benefit  to  apply  the  little  I  can  give,  and  in 
whose  hands  to  place  it  ;  whether  for  the  use  of  the  fatherless  children  and 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  341 

I  have  always,  (from  the  accounts  given  of  it,) 
entertained  a  high  opinion  of  Colonel  Taliaferro's 
threshing  machine,  but  knew  at  the  same  time  I  had 
no  stream  that  could  supply  water  for  one  on  any  of 
my  farms.  This  was  confirmed  when  Mr.  Payne 
came  hither  and  examined  them.  The  model  brought 
over  by  the  English  farmers  may  also  be  a  good  one, 
but  the  utility  of  it  among  careless  negroes  and 
ignorant  overseers  will  depend  absolutely  upon  the 
simplicity  of  the  construction  ;  for,  if  there  is  any 
thing  complex  in  the  machinery,  it  will  be  no  longer 
in  use  than  a  mushroom  is  in  existence.  I  have  seen 
so  much  of  the  beginning  and  ending  of  new  inven- 
tions, that  I  have  almost  resolved  to  go  on  in  the  old 
way  of  treading,  until  I  get  settled  again  at  home, 
and  can  attend  myself  to  the  management  of  one. 
As  a  proof  in  point,  of  the  almost  impossibility  of 
putting  the  overseers  of  this  country  out  of  the  track 
they  have  been  accustomed  to  walk  in,  I  have  one  of 
the  most  convenient  barns  in  this,  or  perhaps  any 
other  country,  where  thirty  hands  may  with  great 
ease  be  employed  in  threshing.  Half  of  the  wheat 
of  the  farm  was  actually  stowed  in  this  barn  in  the 
straw,  by  my  order,  for  threshing  ;  notwithstanding, 
when  I  came  home  about  the  middle  of  September, 

widows,  made  so  by  the  late  calamity,  who  may  find  it  difficult,  whilst  provi- 
sions, wood,  and  other  necessaries  are  so  dear,  to  support  themselves  ;  or  to 
other  and  better  purposes,  if  any,  I  know  not,  and  therefore  have  taken  the 
liberty  of  asking  your  advice. 

"I  persuade  myself  justice  will  be  done  to  my  motives  for  giving  you  this 
trouble.  To  obtain  information,  and  to  render  the  little  I  can  afford,  without 
ostentation  or  mention  of  my  name,  are  the  sole  objects  of  these  inquiries." — 
Washington  to  Bishop  William  White,  31  December,  1793. 


342  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 


I  found  a  treading-yard  not  thirty  feet  from  the  barn- 
door, the  wheat  again  brought  out  of  the  barn,  and 
horses  treading  it  out  in  an  open  exposure,  liable  to 
the  vicissitudes  of  weather.  I  am  now  erecting  a 
building  for  the  express  purpose  of  treading.  I  have 
sanguine  expectations  of  its  utility  ;  and,  if  I  am  not 
deceived  in  them,  it  may  afford  you  some  satisfaction, 
when  you  come  into  this  part  of  the  country,  to  call 
and  look  at  it. 

I  have  a  grateful  sense  of  your  kind  offer  of  Mr. 
Workman.  Previous,  however,  to  the  communica- 
tion, I  had  engaged  a  manager  from  the  eastern 
shore  of  Maryland  ;  but  the  impression  on  my  mind 
for  the  favor  intended  me  is  not  lessened  on  that 
account. 

I  have  not,  as  you  will  perceive,  touched  the  sub- 
ject of  politics  in  this  letter.  The  reasons  are,  your 
letter  of  the  1 7th  has  expressed  precisely  my  ideas 
of  the  conduct  and  views  of  those,  who  are  aiming  at 
nothing  short  of  the  subversion  of  the  government 
of  these  States,  even  at  the  expense  of  plunging  this 
country  in  the  horrors  of  a  disastrous  war  ;  and  be- 
cause I  wish  to  wait  a  little  longer  to  see  what  may 
be  the  sense  of  legally  constituted  bodies,  at  the 
meetings  which  are  about  to  take  place. 

The  public  service  requiring  it,  I  shall  set  off  in 
about  ten  days  for  Philadelphia  or  the  vicinity. 
Though  unknown  to  your  lady,  I  beg  my  respectful 
compliments  may  be  presented  to  her.  I  wish  an 
agreeable  and  harmonious  session,  and  am,  with 
much  truth,  your  affectionate  humble  servant. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  343 

TO    EDMUND    RANDOLPH,     ATTORNEY-GENERAL. 

Mount  Vernon,  23  October,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

Your  letter  of  the  14th  instant  only  came  by  the  post 
of  last  night  to  Alexandria,  and  this  is  sent  thither  to- 
day, that  it  may  go  by  to-morrow's  mail,  and  thereby 
reach  you  as  soon  as  the  nature  of  the  case  will  admit. 

As  you  have  given  no  positive  opinion  respecting 
the  power  of  the  executive  to  change  the  place  for 
Congress  to  meet  at,^  and  as  it  is  uncertain  what 
will  be  the  result  of  this  business,  I  am  really  at  a  loss 
to  decide  which  of  the  three  houses,  mentioned  in 
the  postscript  to  your  letter  of  the  above  date,  would 
best  suit  me,  or  whether  either  of  them  would. 

If,  from  the  present  state  of  the  malady,  with  which 
Philadelphia  is  visited,  and  there  is  an  unfavorable 
prospect  of  its  ceasing,  Germantown  should  be 
thought  unsafe,  and  of  course  an  ineligible  spot 
for  Congress  to  sit  in  or  meet  at,  even  in  the  first 
instance,  any  kind  of  lodging  and  board  would  suffice 
for  the  short  stay  I  should  have  to  remain  there, 
especially  as  all  the  time,  not  employed  in  business 
with  the  heads  of  departments  and  yourself,  might 
be  spent  in  little  excursions  to  places  at  a  small  dis- 
tance therefrom.  Of  course  all  idea  of  furnishing 
and  keeping  a  house  myself,  being  entirely  unpro- 
vided with  servants  or  means  of  any  sort,  ought  to 
be  banished  entirely,  if  it  be  practicable,  and  some 
rooms,  even  in  a  tavern,  if  I  could  be  retired  in  them, 
taken  in  preference.     On  the  other  hand,  if  my  stay 

'  The  official  paper  by  the  Attorney-General  on  the  subject  came  afterwards. 


344  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

there  Is  likely  to  be  of  any  continuance,  then  unques- 
tionably Colonel  Franks's  (If  to  be  had)  would  suit 
me  best,  because  more  commodious  for  myself  and  the 
entertainment  of  company  ;  and,  next  to  this,  Bensel's. 

This  Is  the  light  In  which  the  matter  strikes  me  at 
this  distance.  But,  as  you  are  on  the  spot,  know 
more  precisely  than  I  possibly  can  do  the  real  state 
of  things,  and  besides,  have  been  In  the  way  of  having 
the  various  opinions  of  people  on  the  subject  of  what 
Congress  ought  to  do,  I  would  leave  much  to  your 
judgment.  I  shall  set  out,  so  as  to  be  in  German- 
town  or  thereabouts  the  ist  of  November,  if  no  diffi- 
culties should  be  encountered  on  the  road.  As  there 
can  be  but  a  short  interval  between  your  receipt  of 
this  letter  and  my  arrival,  any  place  might  do  for  my 
first  reception. 

It  Is  not  in  my  power  to  despatch  a  servant  before 
me.  I  shall  have  but  two,  neither  of  which  can  be 
spared  for  such  a  purpose.  These,  with  five  horses, 
Mr.  Dandridge,  and  myself,  form  the  total  of  my 
family  and  equipage.  It  would  be  very  convenient 
for  me,  therefore,  to  meet  a  letter  from  you  at  Wil- 
mington, that  I  may  know  better  how  to  proceed 
from  thence,  and  where  to  cross  the  Schuylkill. 

My  best  wishes,  in  which  Mrs.  Washington  unites, 
attend  you,  Mrs.  Randolph,  and  family.  We  are  glad 
to  hear,  that  your  apprehensions  on  account  of  Peyton 
have  subsided.  With  sincere  esteem  and  regard,  I 
am,  dear  Sir,  &c.^ 

'  By  letter  from  Mr.  Randolph,  written  a  few  clays  after  the  above,  it  ap- 
pears that  he  had  in  contemplation  an  important  undertaking. 

"I  have  examined,"  said   he,    "the  addresses,   resolutions,  and   answers, 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  345 

TO     RICHARD    HENRY  LEE. 
T-\  CjTj  Mount  Vernon,  24  October,  1793. 

Your  favor  of  yesterday  was  handed  to  me  upon 
my  return  from  my  usual  ride,  and  almost  at  the 
moment  I  was  sitting  down  with  company  to  dinner, 
which  prevented  my  acknowledging  the  receipt  of  it 
by  your  servant.  I  am  sorry,  I  shall  not  have  the 
pleasure  of  seeing  you  and  your  lady  before  I  return 
to  the  northward,  and  regret  the  cause.  On  Sunday, 
if  .1  can  previously  arrange  some  business  that 
presses,  I  shall  commence  my  journey  ;  and,  if  I  can 
render  you  any  service  whither  I  am  going,  I  should 
be  happy  in  doing  it. 

On   fair  ground,    it  would  be  difficult    to    assign 

which  are  now  returned.  In  many  of  them  the  Proclamation  is  called  a 
declaration  of  neutrality  ;  and  therefore  confirms  the  opinion,  that  the  speech 
ought  (as  it  clearly  may)  put  this  paper  upon  its  true  and  a  satisfactory  footing. 
"  What  has  been  published  concerning  it,  united  ^vith  numberless  misrepre- 
sentations in  other  instances,  determined  me  some  months  ago  to  begin  a 
histor)'  and  review  of  your  administration.  I  had  made  some  progress  in  it, 
and  should  have  advanced  further,  had  I  not  found  some  difficulty  in  asking 
from  the  Secretary  of  State  access  to  the  public  archives,  without  communica- 
ting at  the  same  time  my  object.  However,  had  it  not  been  for  the  interrup- 
tion, which  has  been  given  for  some  time  past  to  every  business  connected  with 
Philadelphia,  I  should  have  persevered,  and  endeavored  to  procure  the  means 
of  full  and  accurate  information.  The  essay  of  Agricola  convinces  me  of  the 
importance  of  such  a  work,  upon  public  as  well  as  other  interesting  considera- 
tions ;  and,  let  my  future  arrangements  be  as  they  may,  I  shall  not  relinquish 
it.  But  I  am  extremely  apprehensive,  that  the  pestilence  of  Philadelphia  will 
reduce  the  practice  of  the  law  within  the  city  to  such  a  modicum,  as  to  force 
me  to  think  of  reestablishing  myself  in  Virginia.  For  although  I  do  not  doubt, 
that,  were  I  to  go  into  as  large  a  field  as  some  others  of  the  bar  here,  my  share 
of  profit  would  content  me  ;  yet,  as  that  cannot  be  done  consistently  with  my 
office,  the  share  which  I  had  must  be  considerably  diminished.  Whatever 
delay  may  proceed  from  this  circumstance,  the  work  itself  shall  proceed  ;  and 
I  have  now  taken  the  liberty  of  saying  ;hus  much  to  you  in  confidence,  only  to 
prepare  the  way,  if  on  some  occasion  I  shall  find  it  necessary  to  beg  the  com- 
munication of  any  particular  information." — November  loth. 


346  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

reasons  for  the  conduct  of  those,  who  are  arraigning 
and,  constantly  so  far  (as  they  are  able)  embarrass- 
ing the  measures  of  government,  with  respect  to  its 
pacific  disposition  towards  the  belligerent  powers  in 
the  convulsive  dispute,  which  agitated  them.  But 
their  motives  are  too  obvious  to  those,  who  have  the 
means  of  information,  and  have  viewed  the  different 
grounds  they  have  taken,  to  mistake  their  object.  It 
is  not  the  cause  of  France,  nor  I  believe  of  liberty, 
which  they  regard  ;  for,  could  they  involve  this 
country  in  war  (no  matter  with  whom)  and  disgrace, 
they  would  be  among  the  first  and  loudest  of  the 
clamorers  against  the  expense  and  impolicy  of  the 
measure. 

The  specimens  you  have  seen  of  M.  Genet's  senti- 
ments and  conduct  in  the  gazettes  form  a  small  part 
only  of  the  aggregate.  But  you  can  judge  from  these 
to  what  test  the  temper  of  the  executive  has  been 
put,  in  its  various  transactions  with  this  gentleman. 
It  is  probable  that  the  whole  will  be  exhibited  to 
public  view  in  the  course  of  the  next  session  of  Con- 
gress. Delicacy  towards  his  nation  has  restrained 
doing  it  hitherto.  The  best  that  can  be  said  of  this 
agent  is,  that  he  is  entirely  unfit  for  the  mission 
on  which  he  is  employed  ;  unless,  contrary  to  the 
express  and  unequivocal  declaration  of  his  country 
(which  I  hope  is  not  the  case),  made  through  him- 
self, It  is  meant  to  involve  ours  in  all  the  horrors  of 
a  European  war.  This,  or  interested  motives  of  his 
own,  or  having  become  the  dupe  and  the  tool  of  a 
party  formed  on  various  principles,  but  to  effect  local 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  347 

purposes,  is  the  only  solution  that  can  be  given  of 
his  conduct.  I  sincerely  wish  that  Mrs.  [Lee]  and 
yourself  may  soon  and  effectually  recover  your 
health  ;  and  with  very  great  esteem  and  regard,  I 
am,  &c.^ 

TO    FRANCIS    WILLIS. 

Mount  Vernon,  25  October,  1793. 

Sir, 

Your  letter  of  the  4th  of  August  had  to  go  to 
Philadelphia  and  come  back,  before  I  received  it. 

The  mistakes  which  have  happened  respecting  the 
Negroes  of  the  late  Mrs.  Samuel  Washington  are 
somewhat  singular  ;  and  it  is  not  a  little  surprizing 
after  the  first  mistake  had  happened,  and  so  much 
pains  had  been  taken  to  account  for,  and  set  it  right, 
that  now,  after  a  lapse  of  five  or  six  years,  the  whole 
matter  should  assume  quite  a  different  face.  It  should 
be  Discovered  at  this  late  hour  that,  that  \2.dy  herself 
had  no  right  to  the  Negroes,  which  by  the  bye,  I 
believe  possession  alone  would  give  her. 

If  I  had  ever  intended  to  avail  myself  of  the  Law 
for  my  own  benefit  (which  made  me  heir  to  those 
Negroes,)  I  would  not  have  relinquished  my  claim 
without  a  thorough  investigation  of  the  subject  of 
defective  title.  For  presuming  that  all  Law  is 
founded  on  equity,  and  being  under  a  conviction 
that  if  Mrs.  Washington  had  survived  her  husband, 

'  The  malignant  fever  in  Philadelphia  subsided,  and  the  President  and  heads 
of  departments  returned  to  that  city  before  the  end  of  November.  Congress 
assembled  there  on  the  2d  of  December,  being  the  day  appointed  by  the  con- 
stitution for  the  annual  meeting. 


348  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

she  would  have  released  nothino-  to  which  she  would 
have  been  entitled  by  law,  I  saw  no  injustice  or  im- 
propriety upon  the  ground  of  reciprocity,  of  receiv- 
ing for  my  Brother's  Children  that  which  in  the  other 
case  would  have  been  taken  from  them.  But  not 
having  finally  resolved  in  my  own  mind  (as  you  may 
readily  infer  from  my  long  silence)  whether  to  take 
from  Mrs.  Washington's  family  for  the  benefit  of  my 
Brother's  only  daughter  (who,  from  the  involved 
state  of  his  affairs,  had  left  her  by  his  will  a  very 
small  pittance ;  and  the  obtainment  of  that,  even 
doubtful)  the  whole  or  only  part  of  what  the  law 
entitled  me  to,  I  let  the  matter  rest  till  your  second 
letter  had  revived  the  subject. 

I  now,  in  order  to  close  the  business  finally,  have 
come  to  the  following  conclusions.  Pay  me  one  hun- 
dred pounds  which  I  shall  give  to  my  Niece  for  her 
immediate  support,  and  I  will  quit  claim  to  all  the 
Negroes  which  belonged  to  Mrs.  Saml.  Washington, 
and  will  release  them  accordingly.     I  am,  &c.^ 

'  "  I  do  not  as  yet  know  whether  I  shall  get  a  substitute  for  William  : 
nothing  short  of  excellent  qualities  and  a  man  of  good  appearance,  would 
induce  me  to  do  it — and  under  my  present  view  of  the  matter,  too,  who  would 
employ  himself  otherwise  than  William  did — that  is  as  a  butler  as  well  as  a 
valette — for  my  wants  of  the  latter  are  so  trifling  that  any  man  (as  William 
was)  would  soon  be  ruined  by  idleness,  who  had  only  them  to  attend  to. 
Having  given  these  ideas,  if  your  time  will  permit,  I  should  be  glad  if  you 
would  touch  the  man  upon  the  strings  1  have  mentioned,  probe  his  character 
deeper — say  what  his  age,  appearance  and  country  is — what  are  his  expecta- 
tions, and  how  he  should  be  communicated  with,  if  upon  a  thorough  investiga- 
tion of  matters  you  should  l)e  of  opinion  he  would  answer  my  purposes  well — 
for  Kennedy  is  too  little  acquainted  with  the  arrangement  of  a  table,  and  too 
stupid  for  a  butler,  to  be  continued  if  I  could  get  a  better." — Washington  to 
Lear,  3  November,  1793. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  349 

TO    THOMAS   JEFFERSON,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 

Philadelphia,  i  December,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

Is  there  no  clue  to  Mr.  Morris's  meaning  respect- 
ing Monsieur  Merlino  ?  The  next  paragraph  of  his 
letter  is  enigmatical  to  me  from  the  want  of  my  recol- 
lecting perfectly  the  subjects  alluded  to.  What  are 
the  orders  given  him,  which  he  will  implicitly  obey, 
and  which  were,  according  to  his  account,  received 
so  very  opportunely  ?  Has  not  a  letter  of  his,  of 
subsequent  date  to  that  laid  before  me  yesterday, 
acknowledged  the  receipt  of  the  plans  of  the  Federal 
City. 

There  can  be  no  doubt,  since  the  information 
which  has  come  to  hand  from  our  ministers  at  Paris 
and  London,  of  the  propriety  of  changing  the  ex- 
pression of  the  message  as  it  respects  the  acts  of 
France.  And  if  any  bad  consequences,  (which  I  still 
declare  I  see  no  cause  to  apprehend,)  are  likely  to 
flow  from  2, public  communication  of  matters  relative 
to  Great  Britain,  it  might  be  well  to  revise  the  thing 
again  in  your  owji  mind  before  it  is  sent  in,  especially 
as  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  more  than  once 
declared,  and  has  offered  to  discuss  and  prove,  that 
we  receive  more  substantial  benefits  (favors  are  be- 
side the  question  with  any  of  them,  because  they  are 
not  intended  as  such,)  from  British  regulations,  with 
respect  to  the  commerce  of  this  country,  than  we  do 
from  those  of  France  ;  antecedent,  I  mean,  to  those 
of  very  recent  date.     We  should  be  very  cautious,  if 


350  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

this  be  the  case,  not  to  advance  any  thing  that  may 
recoil,  or  take  ground  we  cannot  support. 

Yours  always/ 

SPEECH    TO    BOTH    HOUSES    OF   CONGRESS,    DECEMBER    3D, 

1793- 
Fellow-Citizens  of  the  Senate 

AND  House  of  Representatives  : 
Since  the  commencement  of  the  term,  for  which  I  have  been 
again  called  into  office,  no  fit  occasion  has  arisen  for  expressing 
to  my  fellow-citizens  at  large,  the  deep  and  respectful  sense, 
which  I  feel,  of  the  renewed  testimony  of  public  approbation. 
While,  on  the  one  hand,  it  awakened  my  gratitude  for  all  those 
instances  of  affectionate  partiality,  with  which  I  have  been  hon- 
ored by  my  country  ;  on  the  other,  it  could  not  prevent  an  earnest 
wish  for  that  retirement,  from  which  no  private  consideration 
should  ever  have  torn  me.  But  influenced  by  the  belief,  that  my 
conduct  would  be  estimated  according  to  its  real  motives,  and 
that  the  people,  and  the  authorities  derived  from  them,  would 
support  exertions  having  nothing  personal  for  their  object,  I  have 
obeyed  the  suffrage,  which  commanded  me  to  resume  the  execu- 
tive power  ;  and  I  humbly  implore  that  Being,  on  whose  will  the 

?  "  On  a  severe  review  of  the  question,  whether  the  British  communications 
should  carry  any  such  mark  of  being  confidential,  as  to  prevent  the  legislature 
from  publishing  them,  I  am  clearly  of  opinion  they  ought  not.  Will  they  be 
kept  secret,  if  secrecy  be  enjoined  ?  Certainly  not  ;  and  all  the  offence  will 
be  given  (if  it  be  possible  any  should  be  given),  which  would  follow  their  com- 
plete publication.  If  they  could  be  kept  secret,  from  whom  would  it  be? 
From  our  own  constituents  only,  for  Great  Britain  is  possessed  of  every  tittle. 
Why  then  keep  it  secret  from  them  ?  No  ground  of  support  for  the  executive 
will  ever  be  so  sure,  as  a  complete  knowledge  of  their  proceedings  by  the 
people  ;  and  it  is  only  in  cases  where  the  public  good  could  be  injured,  and 
because  it  would  be  injured,  that  proceedings  should  be  secret.  In  such  cases, 
it  is  the  duty  of  the  executive  to  sacrifice  their  personal  interest  (which  would 
be  promoted  by  piil)licity)  to  the  public  interest. 

"  The  negotiations  with  England  are  at  an  end.  If  not  given  to  the  public 
now,  when  are  they  to  be  given  ?  And  what  moment  can  be  so  interesting? 
If  any  thing  amiss  should  happen  from  the  concealment,  where  will  the  blame 
originate  &i  least?     It  may  l)e  said  indeed,  that  the  President /m/j  zV /«  the 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  351 

fate  of  nations  depends,  to  crown  with  success  our  mutual 
endeavors   for   the   general   happiness. 

As  soon  as  the  war  in  Europe  had  embraced  those  powers,  with 
whom  the  United  States  have  the  most  extensive  relations,  there 
was  reason  to  apprehend,  that  our  intercourse  with  them  might 
be  interrupted,  and  our  disposition  for  peace  dra\s-n  into  question, 
by  the  suspicions  too  often  entertained  by  belligerent  nations.  It 
seemed,  therefore,  to  be  my  duty  to  admonish  our  citizens  of  the 
consequences  of  a  contraband  trade,  and  of  hostile  acts  to  any  of 
the  parties  ;  and  to  obtain,  by  a  declaration  of  the  existing  legal 
state  of  things,  an  easier  admission  of  our  right  to  the  immunities 
belonging  to  our  situation.  Under  these  impressions,  the  Procla- 
mation, which  will  be  laid  before  you,  was  issued. 

In  this  posture  of  affairs,  both  new  and  delicate,  I  resolved  to 
adopt  general  rules,  which  should  conform  to  the  treaties  and 
assert  the  privileges  of  the  United  States.  These  were  reduced 
into  a  system,  which  will  be  communicated  to  you.  Although  I 
have  not  thought  myself  at  liberty  to  forbid  the  sale  of  the  prizes, 
permitted  by  our  treaty  of  commerce  with  France  to  be  brought 
into  our  ports,  I  have  not  refused  to  cause  them  to  be  restored, 
when  they  were  taken  within  the  protection  of  our  territory,  or  by 
vessels  commissioned  or  equipped  in  a  warlike  form  within  the 
limits  of  the  United  States. 

power  of  the  legislature  to  communicate  these  proceedings  to  their  constitu- 
ents;  but  is  it  more  their  duty  to  communicate  them  to  their  constituents, 
than  it  is  the  President's  to  communicate  them  to  his  constituents?  And  if 
they  were  desirous  of  communicating  them,  ought  the  President  to  restrain 
them  by  making  the  communication  confidential  ?  I  think  no  harm  can  be 
done  by  the  publication,  because  it  is  impossible  England,  after  doing  us  any 
injur}',  should  declare  war  against  us  merely  because  we  tell  our  constituents  of 
it  ;  and  I  think  good  may  be  done,  because,  while  it  puts  it  in  the  power  of 
the  legislature  to  adopt  peaceable  measures  of  doing  ourselves  justice,  it  pre- 
pares the  minds  of  our  constituents  to  go  cheerfully  into  an  acquiescence  under 
these  measures,  by  impressing  them  with  a  thorough  and  enlightened  convic- 
tion, that  they  are  founded  in  right.  The  motives,  too,  of  pro^•ing  to  the 
people  the  impartiality  of  the  executive,  between  the  two  nations  of  France 
and  England,  urge  strongly,  that  while  they  are  to  see  the  disagreeable  things, 
which  have  been  going  on  as  to  France,  we  should  not  conceal  from  them  what 
has  been  passing  with  England,  and  induce  a  belief  that  nothing  has  been 
doing." — "Jefferson  to  Washington,  2  December,  1793. 


352  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

It  rests  with  the  wisdom  of  Congress  to  correct,  improve,  or 
enforce  this  plan  of  procedure  ;  and  it  will  probably  be  found 
expedient  to  extend  the  legal  code,  and  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
courts  of  the  United  States,  to  many  cases,  which,  though  de- 
pendent on  principles  already  recognised,  demand  some  further 
provisions. 

Where  individuals  shall  within  the  United  States  array  them- 
selves in  hostility  against  any  of  the  powers  at  war  ;  or  enter 
upon  military  expeditions  or  enterprises  within  the  jurisdiction 
of  the  United  States  ;  or  usurp  and  exercise  judicial  authority 
within  the  United  States  ;  or  where  the  penalties  on  violations  of 
the  law  of  nations  may  have  been  indistinctly  marked,  or  are 
inadequate  ;  these  offences  cannot  receive  too  early  and  close 
an  attention,  and  require  prompt  and  decisive  remedies. 

Whatsoever  those  remedies  may  be,  they  will  be  well  ad- 
ministered by  the  judiciary,  who  possess  a  long-established  course 
of  investigation,  effectual  process,  and  officers  in  the  habit  of 
executing  it.  In  like  manner,  as  several  of  the  courts  have 
doubted^  under  particular  circumstances,  their  power  to  liberate 
the  vessels  of  a  nation  at  peace,  and  even  of  a  citizen  of  the 
United  States,  although  seized  under  a  false  color  of  being  hostile 
property  ;  and  have  denied  their  power  to  liberate  certain  captures 
within  the  protection  of  our  territory  ;  it  would  seem  proper  to 
regulate  their  jurisdiction  in  these  points.  But  if  the  executive 
is  to  be  the  resort  in  either  of  the  two  last-mentioned  cases,  it  is 
hoped,  that  he  will  be  authorized  by  law  to  have  facts  ascertained 
by  the  courts,  when,  for  his  own  information,  he  shall  request  it. 

I  cannot  recommend  to  your  notice  measures  for  the  fulfil- 
ment of  our  duties  to  the  rest  of  the  world,  without  again  pressing 
upon  you  the  necessity  of  placing  ourselves  in  a  condition  of 
complete  defence,  and  of  exacting  from  them  the  fulfilment  of 
their  duties  towards  us.  The  United  States  ought  not  to  indulge 
a  persuasion,  that,  contrary  to  the  order  of  human  events,  they 
will  for  ever  keep  at  a  distance  those  painful  appeals  to  arms, 
with  which  the  history  of  every  other  nation  abounds.  There  is 
a  rank  due  to  the  United  States  among  nations,  which  will  be 
withheld,  if  not  absolutely  lost,  by  the  reputation  of  weakness. 
If  we  desire  to  avoid  insult,  we  must  be  able  to  repel  it ;  if  we 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  353 

desire  to  secure  peace,  one  of  the  most  powerful  instruments  of 
our  rising  prosperity,  it  must  be  known,  that  we  are  at  all  times 
ready  for  war. 

The  documents,  which  will  be  presented  to  you,  will  show  the 
amount  and  kinds  of  arms  and  military  stores  now  in  our  maga- 
zines and  arsenals  ;  and  yet  an  addition  even  to  these  supplies 
cannot  with  prudence  be  neglected,  as  it  would  leave  nothing  to 
the  uncertainty  of  procuring  a  warlike  apparatus  in  the  moment 
of  public  danger.  Nor  can  such  arrangements,  with  such  objects, 
be  exposed  to  the  censure  or  jealousy  of  the  warmest  friends  of 
republican  government.  They  are  incapable  of  abuse  in  the 
hands  of  the  militia,  who  ought  to  possess  a  pride  in  being  the 
depository  of  the  force  of  the  Republic,  and  may  be  trained  to  a 
degree  of  energy,  equal  to  every  military  exigency  of  the  United 
States.  But  it  is  an  inquiry,  which  cannot  be  too  solemnly  pur- 
sued, whether  the  act  "  more  effectually  to  provide  for  the  na- 
tional defence  by  establishing  a  uniform  militia  throughout  the 
United  States,"  has  organized  them  so  as  to  produce  their  full 
effect ;  whether  your  own  experience  in  the  several  States  has  not 
detected  some  imperfections  in  the  scheme  ;  and  whether  a  ma- 
terial feature,  in  an  improvement  of  it,  ought  not  to  be  to  afford 
an  opportunity  for  the  study  of  those  branches  of  the  military 
art,  which  can  scarcely  ever  be  attained  by  practice  alone. 

The  connexion  of  the  United  States  with  Europe  has  become 
extremely  interesting.  The  occurrences,  which  relate  to  it,  and 
have  passed  under  the  knowledge  of  the  executive,  will  be  ex- 
hibited to  Congress  in  a  subsequent  communication. 

When  we  contemplate  the  war  on  our  frontiers,  it  may  be  truly 
affirmed,  that  every  reasonable  effort  has  been  made  to  adjust 
the  causes  of  dissension  with  the  Indians  north  of  the  Ohio. 
The  instructions  given  to  the  commissioners  evince  a  moderation 
and  equity  proceeding  from  a  sincere  love  of  peace,  and  a  lib- 
erality having  no  restriction  but  the  essential  interests  and  dignity 
of  the  United  States.  The  attempt,  however,  of  an  amicable 
negotiation  having  been  frustrated,  the  troops  have  marched  to 
act  offensively.  Although  the  proposed  treaty  did  not  arrest  the 
progress  of  military  preparation,  it  is  doubtful  how  far  the  advance 

of  the  season,  before  good  faith  justified  active  movements,  may 
23 


354  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

retard  them,  during  the  remainder  of  the  year.  From  the  papers 
and  intelligence,  which  relate  to  this  important  subject,  you  will 
determine,  whether  the  deficiency  in  the  number  of  troops, 
granted  by  law,  shall  be  compensated  by  succors  of  militia  ;  or 
additional  encouragements  shall  be  proposed  to  recruits.  An 
anxiety  has  been  also  demonstrated  by  the  executive  for  peace 
with  the  Creeks  and  the  Cherokees.  The  former  have  been  re- 
lieved with  corn  and  with  clothing,  and  offensive  measures  against 
them  prohibited,  during  the  recess  of  Congress.  To  satisfy  the 
complaints  of  the  latter,  prosecutions  have  been  instituted  for  the 
violences  committed  upon  them.  But  the  papers,  which  will  be 
delivered  to  you,  disclose  the  critical  footing  on  which  we  stand 
in  regard  to  both  those  tribes  ;  and  it  is  with  Congress  to  pro- 
nounce what  shall  be  done. 

After  they  shall  have  provided  for  the  present  emergency,  it 
will  merit  their  most  serious  labors,  to  render  tranquillity  with 
the  savages  permanent  by  creating  ties  of  interest.  Next  to  a 
rigorous  execution  of  justice  on  the  violators  of  peace,  the  estab- 
lishment of  commerce  with  the  Indian  nations  on  behalf  of  the 
United  States  is  most  likely  to  conciliate  their  attachment.  But 
it  ought  to  be  conducted  without  fraud,  without  extortion,  with 
constant  and  plentiful  supplies,  with  a  ready  market  for  the  com- 
modities of  the  Indians,  and  a  stated  price  for  what  they  give  in 
payment,  and  receive  in  exchange.  Individuals  will  not  pursue 
such  a  traffic,  unless  they  be  allured  by  the  hope  of  profit ;  but  it 
will  be  enough  for  the  United  States  to  be  reimbursed  only. 
Should  this  recommendation  accord  with  the  opinion  of  Con- 
gress, they  will  recollect,  that  it  cannot  be  accomplished  by  any 
means  yet  in  the  hands  of  the  Executive. 

Gentlemen  of  the  House  of  Representatives  : 

The  commissioners,  charged  with  the  settlement  of  accounts 
between  the  United  and  individual  States,  concluded  their  im- 
portant functions  within  the  time  limited  by  law  ;  and  the  bal- 
ances, struck  in  their  rejiort,  which  will  be  laid  before  Congress, 
have  been  placed  on  the  books  of  the  treasury. 

On  the  first  day  of  June  last,  an  instalment  of  one  million  of 
florins  became  payable  on  the  loans  of  the  United  States  in  Hoi- 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  355 

land.  This  was  adjusted  by  a  prolongation  of  the  period  of 
reimbursement,  in  the  nature  of  a  new  loan,  at  interest  at  five  per 
cent,  for  the  term  of  ten  years  :  and  the  expenses  of  this  opera- 
tion were  a  commission  of  three  per  cent. 

The  first  instalment  of  the  loan  of  two  millions  of  dollars  from 
the  bank  of  the  United  States  has  been  paid,  as  was  directed  by 
law.  For  the  second,  it  is  necessary  that  provision  should  be 
made. 

No  pecuniary  consideration  is  more  urgent  than  the  regular 
redemption  and  discharge  of  the  public  debt  ;  on  none  can  delay 
be  more  injurious,  or  an  economy  of  time  more  valuable. 

The  productiveness  of  the  public  revenues  hitherto  has  con- 
tinued to  equal  the  anticipations  which  were  formed  of  it ;  but 
it  is  not  expected  to  prove  commensurate  with  all  the  objects, 
which  have  been  suggested.  Some  auxiliary  provisions  will, 
therefore,  it  is  presumed,  be  requisite  ;  and  it  is  hoped  that  these 
may  be  made,  consistently  with  a  due  regard  to  the  convenience 
of  our  citizens,  who  cannot  but  be  sensible  of  the  true  wisdom  of 
encountering  a  small  present  addition  to  their  contributions,  to 
obviate  a  future  accumulation  of  burdens. 

But  here  I  cannot  forbear  to  recommend  a  repeal  of  the  tax  on 
the  transportation  of  public  prints.  There  is  no  resource  so  firm 
for  the  government  of  the  United  States,  as  the  affections  of  the 
people,  guided  by  an  enlightened  policy  ;  and  to  this  primary 
good,  nothing  can  conduce  more  than  a  faithful  representation 
of  public  proceedings,  diffused  without  restraint  throughout  the 
United  States. 

An  estimate  of  the  appropriations  necessary  for  the  current 
service  of  the  ensuing  year,  and  a  statement  of  a  purchase  of 
arms  and  military  stores  made  during  the  recess,  will  be  pre- 
sented to  Congress. 

Gentlemen  of  the  Senate 

AND  House  of  Representatives  : 

The  several  objects,  to  which  I  have  now  referred,  open  a  wide 

range  to  your  deliberations,  and  involve  some  of  the  choicest 

interests  of  our  common  country.     Permit  me  to  bring  to  your 

remembrance  the  magnitude  of  your  task.     Without  an  unpreju- 


356  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

diced  coolness,  the  welfare  of  the  government  may  be  hazarded  ; 
without  harmony,  as  far  as  consists  with  freedom  of  sentiment, 
its  dignity  may  be  lost.  But  as  the  legislative  proceedings  of 
the  United  States  will  never,  I  trust,  be  reproached  for  the  want 
of  temper  or  candor  ;  so  shall  not  the  public  happiness  languish 
from  the  want  of  my  strenuous  and  warmest  cooperations. 


MESSAGE    TO    BOTH    HOUSES    OF    CONGRESS  \    RESPECTING 
THE    FRENCH    MINISTER    GENET,    AND    THE    RELA- 
TIONS   WITH    FRANCE,    DECEMBER    5,     I  793- 

As  the  present  situation  of  the  several  nations  of  Europe,  and 
especially  of  those  with  which  the  United  States  have  important 
relations,  cannot  but  render  the  state  of  things  between  them 
and  us  matter  of  interesting  inquiry  to  the  legislature,  and  may 
indeed  give  rise  to  deliberations,  to  which  they  alone  are  compe- 
tent, I  have  thought  it  my  duty  to  communicate  to  them  certain 
correspondences  which  have  taken  place. 

The  representative  and  executive  bodies  of  France  have  mani- 
fested generally  a  friendly  attachment  to  this  country,  have 
given  advantages  to  our  commerce  and  navigation,  and  have 
made  overtures  for  placing  these  advantages  on  permanent 
ground  ;  a  decree,  however,  of  the  National  Assembly,  subject- 
ing vessels  laden  with  provisions  to  be  carried  into  their  ports, 
and  making  enemy  goods  lawful  prize  in  the  vessel  of  a  friend, 
contrary  to  our  treaty,  though  revoked  at  one  time  as  to  the 
United  States,  has  been  since  extended  to  their  vessels  also,  as 
has  been  recently  stated  to  us.  Representations  on  the  subject 
will  be  immediately  given  in  charge  to  our  minister  there,  and 
the  result  shall  be  communicated  to  the  legislature. 

It  is  with  extreme  concern  I  have  to  inform  you,  that  the  pro- 
ceedings of  the  person,  whom  they  have  unfortunately  appointed 
their  minister  plenii)otentiary  here,  have  breathed  nothing  of  the 
friendly  spirit  of  the  nation,  which  sent  him  ;  their  tendency,  on 
the  contrary,  has  been  to  involve  us  in  war  abroad,  and  discord 
and  anarchy  at  home.  So  far  as  his  acts,  or  those  of  his  agents, 
have    threatened    our    immediate    commitment    in    the   war,    or 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  357 

flagrant  insult  to  the  authority  of  the  laws,  their  effect  has  been 
counteracted  by  the  ordinary  cognizance  of  the  laws,  and  by  an 
exertion  of  the  powers  confided  to  me.  Where  their  danger  was 
not  imminent,  they  have  been  borne  with,  from  sentiments  of 
regard  to  his  nation  ;  from  a  sense  of  their  friendship  towards 
us  ;  from  a  conviction,  that  they  would  not  suffer  us  to  remain 
long  exposed  to  the  action  of  a  person,  who  has  so  little  respected 
our  mutual  dispositions  ;  and,  I  will  add,  from  a  reliance  on  the 
firmness  of  my  fellow-citizens  in  their  principles  of  peace  and 
order. 

In  the  mean  time,  I  have  respected  and  pursued  the  stipula- 
tions of  our  treaties,  according  to  what  I  judged  their  true  sense  ; 
and  have  withheld  no  act  of  friendship,  which  their  affairs  have 
called  for  from  us,  and  which  justice  to  others  left  us  free  to 
perform.  I  have  gone  further  ;  rather  than  employ  force  for  the 
restitution  of  certain  vessels,  which  I  deemed  the  United  States 
bound  to  restore,  I  thought  it  more  advisable  to  satisfy  the 
parties,  by  avowing  it  to  be  my  opinion,  that,  if  restitution  were 
not  made,  it  would  be  incumbent  on  the  United  States  to  make 
compensation.  The  papers,  now  communicated,  will  more  par- 
ticularly apprize  you  of  these  transactions. 

The  vexations  and  spoliation,  understood  to  have  been  com- 
mitted on  our  vessels  and  commerce  by  the  cruisers  and  officers 
of  some  of  the  belligerent  powers,  appeared  to  require  attention. 
The  proofs  of  these,  however,  not  having  been  brought  forward, 
the  description  of  citizens  supposed  to  have  suffered  were  noti- 
fied, that,  on  furnishing  them  to  the  executive,  due  measures 
would  be  taken  to  obtain  redress  of  the  past,  and  more  effectual 
provisions  against  the  future.  Should  such  documents  be  fur- 
nished, proper  representations  will  be  made  thereon,  with  a  just 
reliance  on  a  redress  proportioned  to  the  exigency  of  the  case. 

The  British  government  having  undertaken,  by  orders  to  the 
commanders  of  their  armed  vessels,  to  restrain,  generally,  our 
commerce  in  corn  and  other  provisions  to  their  own  ports  and 
those  of  their  friends,  the  instructions  now  communicated  were 
immediately  forwarded  to  our  minister  at  that  court.  In  the 
mean  time,  some  discussions  on  the  subject  took  place  between 
him   and  them.     These  are   also   laid  before  you  ;  and   I   may 


358  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 


expect  to  learn  the  result  of  his  special  instructions,  in  time  to 
make  it  known  to  the  legislature,  during  their  present  session. 

Very  early  after  the  arrival  of  a  British  minister  here,  mutual 
explanations  on  the  inexecution  of  the  treaty  of  peace  were 
entered  into  with  that  minister  ;  these  are  now  laid  before  you 
for  your  information. 

On  the  subjects  of  mutual  interest  between  this  country  and 
Spain,  negotiations  and  conferences  are  now  depending.  The 
public  good  requiring  that  the  present  state  of  these  should  be 
made  known  to  the  legislature  in  confidence  only,  they  shall  be  the 
subject  of  a  separate  and  subsequent  communication.' 


TO    ARTHUR    YOUNG. 

Philadelphia,  12  December,  1793. 

Sir  : 

I  wrote  to  you  three  months  ago,  or  more,  by  my 
late  secretary  and  friend,  Mr.  Lear  ;  but  as  his  depar- 
ture from  this  country  for  Great  Britain,  was  delayed 
longer  than  he  or  I  expected,  it  is  at  least  probable 
that  that  letter  will  not  have  reached  your  hands 
at  a  much  earlier  period  than  the  one  I  am  now 
writing. 

'  Accompanying  this  message  was  all  the  correspondence  that  had  passed 
between  Genet  and  the  Executive,  except  a  note  to  Washington,  demanding 
his  denial  of  a  statement,  and  one  to  Randolph,  asking  that  he  institute  a  suit 
against  Jay  and  Rufus  King  for  an  alleged  libel  on  (jcnet.  The  French  Min- 
ister had  taken  in  very  ill  part  the  demand  for  his  recall,  and  determined  to 
appeal  to  the  people.  On  December  20th  he  wrote  a  highly  offensive  note  to 
Jeflerson,  enclosing  some  printed  copies  of  his  instructions,  and  desiring  that 
"  they  may  be  distributed  among  the  members  of  Congress,  and  that  you  will 
request  the  President  of  the  United  States  to  lay  them  officially  before  both 
houses  of  the  legislative  body."  He  issued  a  collection  of  his  notes  to  the 
Executive  to  be  disposed  of  in  the  same  manner.  Hut  these  last  steps  were  to 
his  disadvantage,  and  alienated  from  his  cause  many  warm  republicans,  who 
had  up  to  this  point  stood  by  him.     His  usefulness  was  at  an  end. 


€* 
^ 


|B<^ 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  359 

At  the  time  it  was  written,  the  thoughts  which 
I  am  now  about  to  disclose  to  you,  were  not  even  in 
embryo ;  and  whether,  in  the  opinion  of  others,  there 
be  impropriety,  or  not,  in  communicating  the  object 
which  has  given  birth  to  them,  is  not  for  me  to 
decide.  My  own  mind  reproaches  me  with  none  ; 
but  if  yours  should  view  the  subject  differently, 
burn  this  letter,  and  the  draught  which  accompa- 
nies it,  and  the  whole  matter  will  be  consigned  to 
oblivion. 

All  my  landed  property,  east  of  the  Apalachian 
mountains,  is  under  rent,  except  the  estate  called 
Mount  Vernon.  This,  hitherto,  I  have  kept  in  my 
own  hands  ;  but,  from  my  present  situation,  from  my 
advanced  time  of  life,  from  a  wish  to  live  free  from 
care,  and  as  much  at  my  ease  as  possible,  during  the 
remainder  of  it,  and  from  other  causes,  which  are  not 
necessar)'  to  detail,  I  have,  latterly,  entertained  seri- 
ous thoughts  of  letting  this  estate  also,  reserving 
the  mansion  house  farm  for  my  own  residence,  occu- 
pation and  amusement  in  agriculture ;  provided  I 
can  obtain  what  is,  in  my  own  judgment,  and  in  the 
opinions  of  others  whom  I  have  consulted,  the  low 
rent  which  I  shall  mention  hereafter ;  and  provided 
also  I  can  settle  it  with  good  farmers. 

The  quantity  of  ploughable  land  (including  mead- 
ow), the  relative  situation  of  the  farms  to  one 
another,  and  the  division  of  those  farms  into  separate 
inclosures,  with  the  quantity  and  situation  of  the 
woodlands  appertaining  to  the  tract  will  be  better 
delineated  by  the  sketch  herewith  sent  (which  is  made 


36o  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

from  actual  surveys,  subject,  nevertheless,  to  revision 
and  correction),  than  by  a  volume  of  words. 

No  estate  in  United  America,  is  more  pleasantly 
situated  than  this.  It  lies  in  a  high,  dry  and  healthy 
country,  300  miles  by  water  from  the  sea,  and,  as 
you  will  see  by  the  plan,  on  one  of  the  finest  rivers 
in  the  world.  Its  margin  is  washed  by  more  than 
ten  miles  of  tide  water ;  from  the  bed  of  which,  and 
the  innumerable  coves,  inlets,  and  small  marshes, 
with  which  it  abounds,  an  inexhaustible  fund  of  rich 
mud  may  be  drawn,  as  a  manure,  either  to  be  used 
separately,  or  in  a  compost,  according  to  the  judg- 
ment of  the  farmer.  It  is  situated  in  a  latitude 
between  the  extremes  of  heat  and  cold,  and  is  the 
same  distance  by  land  and  water,  with  good  roads, 
and  the  best  navigation  (to  and)  from  the  Federal 
City,  Alexandria,  and  Georgetown  ;  distant  from  the 
first,  twelve,  from  the  second,  nine,  and  from  the  last 
sixteen  miles.  The  Federal  City,  in  the  year  1800, 
will  become  the  seat  of  the  general  government  of 
the  United  States.  It  is  increasing  fast  in  buildings, 
and  rising  into  consequence ;  and  will,  I  have  no 
doubt,  from  the  advantages  given  to  it  by  nature* 
and  its  proximity  to  a  rich  interior  country,  and  the 
western  territory,  become  the  emporium  of  the 
United  States.  The  soil  of  the  tract  of  which  I  am 
speaking,  is  a  good  loam,  more  inclined  however,  to 
clay  than  sand.  From  use,  and  I  might  add,  abuse, 
it  is  become  more  and  more  consolidated,  and  of 
course  heavier  to  work.  The  greater  part  is  a  grey- 
ish clay  ;  some  part  is  a  dark  mould  ;  a  very  little  is 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  361 

inclined  to  sand ;  and  scarcely  any  to  stone/  A 
husbandman's  wish  would  not  lay  the  farms  more 
level  than  they  are  ;  and  yet  some  of  the  fields  (but 
in  no  great  degree)  are  washed  into  gullies,  from 
which  all  of  them  have  not  yet  been  recovered. 

This  river,  which  encompasses  the  land  the  dis- 
tance above-mentioned,  is  well  supplied  with  various 
kinds  of  fish,  at  all  seasons  of  the  year ;  and,  in  the 
spring,  with  the  greatest  profusion  of  shad,  herrings, 
bass,  carp,  perch,  sturgeon,  &c.  Several  valuable 
fisheries  appertain  to  the  estate  ;  the  whole  shore,  in 
short,  is  one  entire  fishery. 

There  are,  as  you  will  perceive  by  the  plan,  four 
farms  besides  that  at  the  mansion  house  :  these  four 
contain  3260  acres  of  cultivable  land,  to  which  some 
hundreds  more,  adjoining,  as  may  be  seen,  might  be 
added,  if  a  greater  quantity  should  be  required  ;  but 
as  they  were  never  designed  for,  so  neither  can  it  be 
said  they  are  calculated  to  suit,  tenants  of  either  the 
first,  or  of  the  lower  class ;  because,  those  who  have 
the  strength  and  resources  proportioned  to  farms  of 
from  500  to  1200  acres  (which  these  contain),  would 

*  "  I  have  been  favored  with  your  letter  of  the  gth  and  sample  of  free  stone 
from  my  Quarry,  sent  by  Mr.  Hoben,  for  which  I  thank  you  both ; — and 
should  be  obliged  to  him  for  information  of  the  spot  from  whence  it  was  taken. 
— I  always  knew,  that  the  River  banks  from  my  spring  house,  to  the  Ferry 
formerly  kept  by  Captn.  Posey,  were  almost  an  entire  bed  of  freestone  ;  but  I 
had  conceived  before  the  late  sample  came  to  hand,  that  it  was  of  a  very  soft 
nature. 

"  As  the  quantity,  from  outward  appearances  is,  in  a  manner  inexhaustible, 
I  should  have  no  objections  to  an  investigation  of  the  Banks  by  skilful  and 
orderly  people  ;  as  the  public  as  well  as  myself  might  be  benefitted  by  the  dis- 
covery of  a  quarry  of  good  stone  so  near  the  Federal  City." — Washington  to 
Daniel  Carroll,  i6  December,  1793. 


362  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

hardly  be  contented  to  live  in  such  houses  as  are 
thereon  ;  and  if  they  were  to  be  divided  and  sub- 
divided, so  as  to  accommodate  tenants  of  small 
means,  say  from  50  to  one  or  200  acres,  there  would 
be  none,  except  on  the  lots  which  might  happen  to 
include  the  present  dwelling-houses  of  my  overlookers 
(called  bailiffs  with  you),  barns,  and  negro  cabins ; 
nor  would  I  choose  to  have  the  wood-land  (already 
too  much  pillaged  of  its  timber)  ransacked,  for  the 
purpose  of  building  many  more.  The  soil,  however, 
is  excellent  for  bricks,  or  for  mud  walls  ;  and  to  the 
building  of  such  houses,  there  would  be  no  limitation, 
nor  to  that  of  thatch  for  the  cover  of  them. 

The  towns  already  mentioned  (to  those  who  might 
incline  to  encounter  the  expense)  are  able  to  furnish 
scantling,  plank  and  shingles,  to  any  amount,  and  on 
reasonable  terms ;  and  they  afford  a  ready  market 
also  for  the  produce  of  the  land. 

On  what  is  called  the  Union  Farm  (containing  928 
acres  of  arable  and  meadow),  there  is  a  newly  erected 
brick  barn,  equal,  perhaps,  to  any  in  America,  and  for 
conveniences  of  all  sorts,  particularly  for  sheltering 
and  feeding  horses,  cattle,  &c.,  scarcely  to  be  ex- 
ceeded any  where.  A  new  house  is  now  building  in 
a  central  position,  not  far  from  the  barn,  for  the  over- 
lookers ;  which  will  have  two  rooms,  16  by  18  feet, 
below,  and  one  or  two  above,  nearly  of  the  same  size. 
Convenient  thereto  is  sufficient  accommodation  for 
fifty  odd  negroes,  old  and  young  ;  but  these  buildings 
might  not  be  thought  good  enough  for  the  workmen, 
or  day-laborers,  of  your  country. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  363 

Besides  these,  a  little  without  the  limits  of  the  farm 
(as  marked  in  the  plan),  are  one  or  two  other  houses, 
very  pleasantly  situated,  and  which,  in  case  this  farm 
should  be  divided  into  two  (as  it  formerly  was),  would 
answer  well  for  the  eastern  division.  The  buildings 
thus  enumerated,  are  all  that  stand  on  the  premises. 

The  Dogue  Run  Farm  (650  acres)  has  a  small,  but 
new,  building,  for  the  overlooker;  one  room  only  be- 
low, and  the  same  above,  16  by  20  each  ;  decent  and 
comfortable  for  its  size.  It  has  also  covering-  for 
forty  odd  negroes,  similar  to  what  is  mentioned  on 
Union  Farm.  It  has  a  new  circular  barn,  now  fin- 
ishing, on  a  new  construction  ;  well  calculated,  it  is 
conceived,  for  getting  grain  out  of  the  straw  more 
expeditiously  than  in  the  usual  mode  of  threshing. 
There  are  good  sheds  also  erecting,  sufficient  to 
cover  30  work-horses  and  oxen. 

Muddy-hole  Farm  (476  acres)  has  a  house  for  the 
overlooker,  in  size  and  appearance  nearly  like  that  of 
Dogue  Run,  but  older ;  the  same  kind  of  covering 
for  about  30  negroes,  and  a  tolerable  good  barn,  with 
stables  for  the  work-horses. 

River  Farm,  which  is  the  largest  of  the  four,  and 
separated  from  the  others  by  Little  Hunting  Creek, 
contains  1207  acres  of  ploughable  land,  has  an  over- 
looker's house,  of  one  large  and  two  small  rooms 
below,  and  one  or  two  above  ;  sufficient  covering  for 
50  or  60  negroes,  like  those  before-mentioned  ;  a 
large  barn,  and  stables,  gone  much  to  decay,  but  Vvill 
be  replaced  next  year  with  new  ones. 

I  have  deemed  it  necessary  to  give  this  detail   of 


364  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

the  buildings,  that  a  precise  idea  might  be  had  of  the 
conveniences  and  inconveniences  of  them  ;  and  I  be- 
lieve the  recital  is  just  in  all  its  parts.  The  inclosures 
are  precisely  and  accurately  delineated  in  the  plan  ; 
and  the  fences  now  are,  or  soon  will  be  in  respectable 
order. 

I  would  lett  these  four  farms  to  four  substantial 
farmers  of  wealth  and  strength  sufficient  to  cultivate 
them,  and  who  would  ensure  to  me  the  regular  pay- 
ment of  the  rents  ;  and  I  would  give  them  leases  for 
seven  or  ten  years,  at  the  rate  of  a  Spanish  milled 
dollar,  or  other  money  current  at  the  time  in  this 
country,  equivalent  thereto,  for  every  acre  of  plough- 
able  and  mowableofround,  within  the  inclosures  of  the 
respective  farms,  as  marked  in  the  plan  ;  and  would 
allow  the  tenants,  during  that  period,  to  take  fuel ; 
and  use  timber  from  the  woodland  to  repair  the 
buildings  and  to  keep  the  fences  in  order,  until  live 
fences  could  be  substituted  in  place  of  dead  ones; 
but,  in  this  case,  no  sub-tenants  would  be  allowed. 

Or,  if  these  farms  are  adjudged  too  large,  and  the 
rents,  of  course,  too  heavy  for  such  farmers  as  might 
incline  to  emigrate,  I  should  have  no  insuperable  ob- 
jection against  dividing  each  into  as  many  small  ones, 
as  a  society  of  them,  formed  for  the  purpose,  could 
agree  upon,  among  themselves;  even  if  it  should  be 
by  the  fields  as  they  are  now  arranged  (which  the 
plan  would  enable  them  to  do),  provided  such  build- 
ings as  they  would  be  content  with,  should  be  erected 
at  their  own  expence,  in  the  manner  already  men- 
tioned.     In  which  case,   as  in  the  former,  fuel,  and 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  365 

timber  for  repairs,  would  be  allowed  ;  but,  as  an  in- 
ducement to  parcel  out  my  grounds  into  such  small 
tenements,  and  to  compensate  me,  at  the  same  time, 
for  the  greater  consumption  of  fuel  and  timber,  and 
for  the  trouble  and  expence  of  collecting  small  rents, 
I  should  expect  a  quarter  of  a  dollar  per  acre,  in 
addition  to  what  I  have  already  mentioned.  But  in 
order  to  make  these  small  farms  more  valuable  to  the 
occupants,  and  by  way  of  reimbursing  them  for  the 
expence  of  their  establishment  thereon,  I  would  grant 
them  leases  for  15  or  18  years;  although  I  have 
weighty  objections  to  the  measure,  founded  on  my 
own  experience,  of  the  disadvantage  it  is  to  the  les- 
sor, in  a  country  where  lands  are  rising  every  year  in 
value.  As  an  instance  in  proof,  about  20  years  ago, 
I  gave  leases  for  three  lives,  in  land  I  held  above  the 
Blue  Mountains,  near  the  Shenandoah  river,  seventy 
miles  from  Alexandria,  or  any  shipping  port,  at  a  rent 
of  one  shilling  per  acre  (no  part  being  then  cleared) ; 
and  now  land  of  similar  quality,  in  the  vicinity,  with 
very  trifling  improvements  thereon,  is  renting,  cur- 
rently, at  five  and  more  shillings  per  acre,  and  even 
as  high  as  eight. 

My  motives  for  letting  this  estate  having  been 
avowed,  I  will  add  that  the  whole  (except  the  man- 
sion-house farm),  or  none,  will  be  parted  with,  and 
that  upon  unequivocal  terms  ;  because  my  object  is 
to  fix  my  income  (be  it  what  it  may)  upon  a  solid 
basis,  in  the  hands  of  ^(9^^  farmers  ;  because  I  am  not 
inclined  to  make  a  medley  of  it ;  and,  above  all,  be- 
cause I  could  not  relinquish  my  present  course,  with- 


364  -^'HE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

out  a  moral  certainty  of  the  substitute  which  is 
contemplated  ;  for  to  break  up  these  farms,  remove 
my  negroes,  and  to  dispose  of  the  property  on  them, 
upon  terms  short  of  this,  would  be  ruinous. 

Having  said  thus  much,  I  am  disposed  to  add  fur- 
ther, that  it  would  be  in  my  power,  and  certainly  it 
would  be  my  inclination  (upon  the  principle  above),  to 
accommodate  the  wealthy,  or  the  weak-handed  farmer 
(and  upon  reasonable  terms)  with  draught-horses,  and 
working  mules    and  oxen  ;    with    cattle,  sheep,  and 
hogs  ;    and  with  such  implements  of   husbandry,  if 
they  should  not  incline  to  bring  them  themselves,  as 
are  in  use  on  the  farms.      On  the  four  farms  there  are 
54  draught-horses,  12  working  mules,  and  a  sufificiency 
of  oxen,  broke  to  the  yoke  ;  the  precise  number  I  am 
unable  this  moment  to  ascertain,  as  they  are  compre- 
hended in  the  aggregate  of  the  black  cattle  ;  of  the 
latter  there  are  317;  of  sheep,  634  ;  of  hogs,  many ; 
but  as  these  run  pretty  much  at  large  in  the  wood- 
land (which  is  all  under  fence),  the  number  is  uncer- 
tain.    Many  of  the  negroes,  male  and  female,  might 
be  hired  by  the  year,  as  laborers,  if  this  should  be 
preferred  to  the  importation  of  that  class  of  people ; 
but  it  deserves  consideration,  how  far  the  mixing  of 
whites  and  blacks  together    is    advisable,  especially 
where  the  former  are  entirely  unacquainted  with  the 
latter. 

If  there  be  those  who  are  disposed  to  take  these 
farms  in  their  undivided  state,  on  the  terms  which 
have  been  mentioned,  it  is  an  object  of  sufficient  mag- 
nitude for  them,   or  one  of  them,   in  behalf   of  the 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  367 

rest,  to  come  over  and  investigate  the  premises  thor- 
oughly, that  there  may  be  nothing  to  reproach  them- 
selves or  me  with,  if  (though  unintentionally)  there 
should  be  defects  in  any  part  of  the  information 
herein  given  ;  or,  if  a  society  of  farmers  are  disposed 
to  adventure,  it  is  still  more  incumbent  on  them  to  send 
over  an  agent,  for  the  purposes  above-mentioned  ;  for 
with  me  the  measure  must  be  so  fixed,  as  to  preclude 
any  cavil  or  discussion  thereafter.  And  it  may  not 
be  mal  apropos  to  observe  in  this  place,  that  our  over- 
lookers are  generally  engaged,  and  all  the  arrange- 
ments for  the  ensuing  crops  are  made  before  the  first  of 
September  in  every  year  ;  it  will  be  readily  perceived, 
then,  that  if  this  period  is  suffered  to  pass  away,  it  is 
not  to  be  regained  until  the  next  year.  Possession 
might  be  given  to  the  new-comers  at  the  season  just 
mentioned,  to  enable  them  to  put  in  their  grain  for 
the  next  crop  ;  but  the  final  relinquishment  could  not 
take  place  until  the  crops  are  gathered,  which  of  In- 
dian corn  (maize)  seldom  happens  till  towards  Christ- 
mas, as  it  must  endure  hard  frosts  before  it  can  be 
safely  housed. 

I  have  endeavored,  as  far  as  my  recollection  of 
facts  would  enable  me,  or  the  documents  in  my 
possession  allow,  to  give  such  information  of  the 
actual  state  of  the  farms,  as  to  enable  persons  at 
a  distance  to  form  as  distinct  ideas  as  the  nature  of 
the  thing  is  susceptible,  short  of  one's  own  view  :  and 
having  communicated  the  motives  which  have  in- 
clined me  to  a  change  in  my  system,  I  will  announce 
to  you  the  origin  of  them. 


368  THE   WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

First,  Few  ships,  of  late,  have  arrived  from  any 
part  of  Great  Britain,  or  Ireland,  without  a  number 
of  emigrants,  and  some  of  them  by  report  very 
respectable  and  full-handed  farmers.  A  number  of 
others,  they  say,  are  desirous  of  following,  but  are 
unable  to  obtain  passages  ;  but  their  coming  in  that 
manner,  even  if  I  was  apprized  of  their  arrival  in 
time,  would  not  answer  my  views,  for  the  reason 
already  assigned  ;  and  which,  as  it  is  the  ultimatum 
at  present,  I  will  take  the  liberty  of  repeating,  namely, 
that  I  must  carry  my  plan  into  complete  execution,  or 
not  attempt  it ;  and  under  such  auspices,  too,  as  to 
leave  no  doubt  of  the  exact  fulfillment ;  and, 

2dly,  Because,  from  the  number  of  letters  which  I 
have  received  myself  (and,  as  it  would  seem,  from 
respectable  people),  inquiring  into  matters  of  this 
sort,  with  intimations  of  their  wishes,  and  even  in- 
tentions of  migrating  to  this  country,  I  can  have  no 
doubt  of  succeeding.  But  I  have  made  no  reply  to 
these  inquiries ;  or,  if  any,  in  very  general  terms, 
because  I  did  not  want  to  engage  in  correspondences 
of  this  sort  with  persons  of  whom  I  had  no  knowl- 
edge, nor  indeed  leisure  for  them,  if  I  had  been  so 
disposed. 

I  shall  now  conclude  as  I  began,  with  a  desire, 
that  if  you  see  any  impropriety  in  making  these 
sentiments  known  to  that  class  of  people  who  might 
wish  to  avail  themselves  of  the  occasion,  that  it  may 
not  be  mentioned.  By  a  law,  or  by  some  regulation 
of  your  government,  artisans,  I  am  well  aware,  are 
laid  under  restraints  ;    and,  for  this  reason,   I  have 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  369 

studiously  avoided  any  overtures  to  mechanics,  al- 
though my  occasions  call  for  them.  But  never  having 
heard  that  difficulties  were  thrown  in  the  way  of  hus- 
bandmen by  the  government,  is  one  reason  for  my 
bringing  this  matter  to  your  view.  A  second  is,  that 
having  yourself  expressed  sentiments  which  shewed 
that  you  had  cast  an  eye  towards  this  country,  and 
was  not  inattentive  to  the  welfare  of  it,  I  was  led  to 
make  my  intentions  known  to  you,  that  if  you  or 
your  friends,  were  disposed  to  avail  yourselves  of 
the  knowledge,  you  might  take  prompt  measures  for 
the  execution. — And  3dly,  I  was  sure,  if  you  had 
lost  sight  of  the  object  yourself,  I  could,  nevertheless, 
rely  upon  such  information  as  you  might  see  fit  to 
give  me,  and  upon  such  characters,  too,  as  you  might 
be  disposed  to  recommend. 

Lengthy  as  this  epistle  is,  I  will  crave  your  pa- 
tience while  I  add,  that  it  is  written  in  too  much  haste, 
and  under  too  great  a  pressure  of  public  business, 
at  the  commencement  of  an  important  session  of 
Congress,  to  be  correct,  or  properly  digested.  But 
the  season  of  the  year,  and  the  apprehension  of  ice, 
are  hurrying  away  the  last  vessel  bound  from  this 
port  to  London.  I  am  driven  therefore  to  the 
alternative  of  making  the  matter  known  in  this  hasty 
manner,  and  giving  a  rude  sketch  of  the  farms,  which 
is  the  subject  of  it ;  or  to  encounter  delay.  The  first 
I  preferred.  It  can  hardly  be  necessary  to  add,  that 
I  have  710  desire  that  any  formal  prolongation  of 
these  sentiments  should  be  made. 

To    accomplish    my   wishes,    in    the    manner    ex- 
24 


370                             THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

pressed,  would  be  agreeable  to  me ;    and  in  a  way 

that    cannot    be    exceptionable,   would   be  more   so. 
With  much  esteem  and  regard,  &c/ 


MESSAGE    TO    BOTH  HOUSES  OF    CONGRESS  ;    RELATIVE  TO 
TRANSACTIONS  WITH  SPAIN,   DECEMBER   i6tH,  I  793- 

The  situation  of  affairs  in  Europe,  in  the  course  of  the  year 
1790,  having  rendered  it  possible  that  a  moment  might  arrive 
favorable  for  the  arrangement  of  our  unsettled  matters  with  Spain, 
it  was  thought  proper  to  prepare  a  representative  at  that  court  to 
avail  us  of  it.  A  confidential  person  was  therefore  despatched 
to  be  the  bearer  of  instructions  to  him,  and  to  supply,  by  verbal 

'  "  Enclosed  I  give  you  the  trouble  of  receiving  the  copy  of  a  letter  which  I 
wrote  to  Mr.  Arthur  Young,  by  Mr.  Willm.  Morris,  on  the  I2th  of  December 
last.  At  the  time  that  letter  was  written,  I  had  no  knowledge  of  Mr.  Young's 
late  appointment,  as  Secretary  of  the  National  Board  of  Agriculture,  nor  of  the 
change  of  his  political  sentiments.  It  is  not  improbable  but  that  he  has  already, 
or  will  make  you  acquainted  with  the  purpoit  of  the  above  letter.  Be  this,  how- 
ever, as  it  may,  my  inducement  to  send  you  a  copy  of  it  is,  that  if  the  case  should 
be  otherwise,  if  there  appears  to  be  any  dereliction  on  his  part  to  comply  with  my 
wishes,  and  a  fair  occasion  should  occur  of  mentioning  the  matter  in  the  course 
of  your  peregrinations  through  England,  Scotland,  or  elsewhere,  and  you  see  no 
impropriety  from  circumstances,  or  your  view  of  the  subject  at  the  moment,  I 
should  be  glad  if  you  were  to  do  it.  My  wish  further  is,  to  dispose  of  the 
lands  I  have  had  restored  to  me  l^y  Mr.  de  Barth,  and  in  short  my  settled 
lands  in  the  Western  parts  of  this  State,  in  the  counties  of  Fayette  and  Wash- 
ington— I  have  raised  the  price  of  my  lands  on  the  Ohio  and  Great  Kanhawa 
to  twenty  shillings,  Virginia  Currency  per  acre  ;  the  tract  in  Fayette  (about 
1700  acres)  to  forty,  and  that  in  Washington  to  thirty  shillings  per  acre 
Pennsylvania  currency. 

"  I  have  no  scruple  to  disclose  to  you  that  my  motives  to  the  sales  (as  hath 
been  in  part  expressed  to  Mr.  Young)  are,  to  reduce  my  income,  be  it  more 
or  less,  to  specialties — that  the  remainder  of  my  days  may  thereby  be  more 
tranquil  and  freer  from  care  ;  and  that  I  may  be  enabled  (knowing  pre- 
cisely my  dependence)  to  do  as  much  good  with  it  as  the  resource  will  admit  ; 
for  though  in  the  estimation  of  the  world  I  possess  a  good  and  clear  estate,  yet 
so  unproductive  is  it,  that  I  am  often  times  ashamed  to  refuse  aids  which  I  can- 
not afford,  unless  I  was  to  sell  part  of  it  to  answer  the  purpose." — Washington 
to  Tobias  Lear,  6  May,  1794. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  371 

communications,  any  additional  information  of  which  he  might 
find  himself  in  need.  The  government  of  France  was  at  the 
same  time  applied  to  for  its  aid  and  influence  in  this  negotiation. 
Events,  however,  took  a  turn,  which  did  not  present  the  occasion 
hoped  for. 

About  the  close  of  the  ensuing  year  I  was  informed,  through 
the  representatives  of  Spain  here,  that  their  government  would 
be  willing  to  renew  at  Madrid  the  former  conferences  on  these 
subjects.  Though  the  transfer  of  scene  was  not  what  would  have 
been  desired,  yet  I  did  not  think  it  important  enough  to  reject 
the  proposition  ;  and  therefore,  with  the  advice  and  consent  of 
the  Senate,  I  appointed  commissioners  plenipotentiary  for  nego- 
tiating and  concluding  a  treaty  with  that  country  on  the  several 
subjects  of  boundary,  navigation,  and  commerce,  and  gave  them 
the  instructions  now  communicated.  Before  these  negotiations, 
however,  could  be  got  into  train,  the  new  troubles  which  had 
arisen  in  Europe  had  produced  new  combinations  among  the 
powers  there,  the  effects  of  which  are  but  too  visible  in  the  pro- 
ceedings now  laid  before  you. 

In  the  meantime,  some  other  points  of  discussion  had  arisen 
with  that  country,  to  wit,  the  restitution  of  property  escaping 
into  the  territories  of  each  other,  the  mutual  exchange  of  fugi- 
tives from  justice,  and  above  all  the  mutual  interferences  with 
the  Indians  lying  between  us.  I  had  the  best  reason  to  believe 
that  the  hostilities  threatened  and  exercised  by  the  southern 
Indians  on  our  border  were  excited  by  the  agents  of  that  govern- 
ment. Representations  were  thereon  directed  to  be  made  by  our 
commissioners  to  the  Spanish  government,  and  a  proposal  to  cul- 
tivate with  good  faith  the  peace  of  each  other  with  those  people. 
In  the  mean  time,  corresponding  suspicions  were  entertained,  or 
pretended  to  be  entertained,  on  their  part,  of  like  hostile  excite- 
ments by  our  agents  to  disturb  their  peace  with  the  same  nations. 
These  were  brought  forward  by  the  representatives  of  Spain 
here  in  a  style  which  could  not  fail  to  produce  attention.  A 
claim  of  patronage  and  protection  of  those  Indians  was  asserted  ; 
a  mediation  between  them  and  us  by  that  sovereign  assumed  ; 
their  boundaries  with  us  made  a  subject  of  interference  ;  and  at 
length,  at  the  very  moment  when  these  savages  were  committing 


372  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

daily  inroads  upon  our  frontier,  we  were  informed  by  them,  that 
*'  the  continuation  of  the  peace,  good  harmony,  and  perfect  friend- 
ship of  the  two  nations  was  very  problematical  for  the  future 
unless  the  United  States  should  take  more  convenient  measures 
and  of  greater  energy  than  those  adopted  for  a  long  time  past." 
If  their  previous  correspondence  had  worn  the  appearance  of  a 
desire  to  urge  on  a  disagreement,  this  last  declaration  left  no 
room  to  evade  it,  since  it  could  not  be  conceived  we  would  sub- 
mit to  the  scalping-knife  and  tomahawk  of  the  savage  without 
any  resistance.  I  thought  it  time,  therefore,  to  know  if  these 
were  the  views  of  their  sovereign  ;  and  despatched  a  special 
messenger  with  instructions  to  our  commissioners,  which  are 
among  the  papers  now  communicated.  Their  last  letter  gives  us 
reason  to  expect  very  shortly  to  know  the  result.  I  must  add, 
that  the  Spanish  representatives  here,  perceiving  that  their  last 
communication  had  made  considerable  impression,  endeavored 
to  abate  this  by  some  subsequent  professions,  which  being  also 
among  the  communications  to  the  legislature,  they  will  be  able  to 
form  their  own  conclusions. 


TO    EDMUND    RANDOLPH. 
[private.] 

Philadelphia,  24  December,  1793. 

My  dear  Sir, 

It  was  my  wish,  for  many  reasons  (needless  to 
enumerate)  to  have  retained  Mr.  Jefferson  in  admin- 
istration, to  the  end  of  the  present  Session  of  Con- 
gress, but  he  is  so  decidedly  opposed  to  it,  that  I  can 
no  longer  hint  this  to  him. 

I  now  wish  for  your  permission  to  nominate  you  to 
it,  the  office  of  Secretary  of  State,  and  will  add,  that 
your  compliance  would  give  me  pleasure.  Mr.  Jef- 
ferson will  quit  it  the  last  day  of  this  month  and  pro- 
poses to  set  out  for  Virginia  a  few  days  afterwards. 

I  am  always,  &c. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  373 

TO    WILLIAM    white/ 

[private.] 

Philadelphia,  31  December,  1793. 

Dear  Sir, 

It  has  been  my  intention  ever  since  my  return  to 
the  city,  to  contribute  my  mite  towards  the  relief  of 
the  most  needy  inhabitants  of  it.  The  pressure  of 
public  business  hitherto  has  suspended,  but  not 
altered  my  resolution.  I  am  at  a  loss,  however,  for 
whose  benefit  to  apply  the  Little  I  can  give,  and  in 
whose  hands  to  place  it ;  whether  for  the  use  of  the 
fatherless  children  and  widows,  made  so  by  the  late 
calamity,  who  may  find  it  difficult,  whilst  provisions, 
wood,  and  other  necessaries  are  so  dear,  to  support 
themselves  ;  or  to  other  and  better  purposes,  if  any, 
I  know  not,  and  therefore  have  taken  the  liberty  of 
asking  your  advice. 

I  persuade  myself  justice  will  be  done  to  my 
motives  for  giving  you  this  trouble.  To  obtain  in- 
formation, and  to  render  the  little  I  can  afford,  with- 
out ostentation  or  mention  of  my  name,  are  the  sole 
objects  of  these  inquiries.  With  great  and  sincere 
esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  &c. 

'  Bishop  of  Pennsylvania.  Mr.  Thomas  H.  Montgomery  kindly  sent  me 
copies  of  the  originals  of  two  other  letters  on  the  same  subject  (printed  in 
Wilson,  Memoir  of  V/illiam  White,  199,  200),  one  of  which  was  as  follows  : 

"  The  President  presents  his  respectful  regards  to  Doctor  White.  The 
benefit  to  be  derived,  and  not  the  merit  of  bestowing  it,  is  the  only  motive 
which  has  governed  in  the  case  which  has  been  the  subject  of  this  correspond- 
ence. Of  course,  to  know  from  whence  it  flowed  ought  not  to  be  an  object 
of  enquiry,  and  as  to  conjectures  they  are  very  immaterial — however,  as  Doctr. 
White  has  a  delicacy  on  the  subject,  the  P.  did  not  intend  nor  would  by  any 
means  wound  it — he  therefore  leaves  it  to  him  (knowing  the  motives)  to 
accompany  the  contribution  with  such  explanations  as  he  shall  think  fit. 
Thursday  morning,  2d  Januy  " 


374  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 


LETTERS    TO    ANTHONY    WHITING,     1 793^ 

I  never  had  it  in  contemplation  to  withdraw  the  hands  from 
the  river,  or  any  other  Plantation  to  aid  at  the  mansion  house,  if 
their  work  should  be  required  at  home  :  therefore  I  find  no  diffi- 
culty in  releasing  the  river  force  from  this  service,  if  there  is 
really  work  enough  to  employ  them  at  home  ;  which  is  indeed 
very  probable,  as  they  have  spent  all  the  fall  and  half  the  winter 
in  getting  in  their  corn  : — a  thing  hardly  ever  heard  of  before  in 
the  worst  of  weather,  much  less  in  such  as  we  have  had,  and 
which  perhaps  never  was  seen  before.  If  there  was  any  way  of 
making  such  a  rascal  as  Garner'^  pay  for  such  conduct,  no  punish- 
ment would  be  too  great  for  him.  I  suppose  he  never  turned  out 
of  morning's  until  the  sun  had  warmed  the  earth  ; — and  if  he  did 
not,  the  negr OS  \NOv\di  not : — and  if  you  do  not  watch  the  motions 
of  such  people  (now  and  then)  in  the  mornings,  it  will,  more  than 
probably  be  the  case  with  the  rest  who  are  on  standing  wages  ; 
and  who  feel  no  interest  in  the  crop,  whether  it  be  great  or  small. 
For  in  this  case  principle,  and  a  regard  for  reputation,  are  the 
only  motives  to  stimulate  industry,  and  unfortunately,  too  few  of 
that  class  of  (common)  overseers,  are  overburthened  with  either 
of  those. 

I  am  perfectly  sensible  of  the  scarcity  of  timber  at  the  River 
Plantation,  and  the  distance  it  is  to  draw  at  some  others  ;  and 
this  principally  (but  aided  by  many  others)  is  the  reason  why  for 
many  years  back,  I  have  been  laboring,  but  in  vain,  to  substitute 
live,  instead  of  dead  fences  ;  and  which  I  will  no  longer,  under 
any  pretences  whatsoever,  delay  doing.  My  frequent  and  long 
absences  from  home  prevented  my  attending  to  the  business  per- 
sonally ;  and  no  recommendation,  nor  indeed  orders,  could  draw 
the  attention  of  those  to  whom  I  entrusted  my  affairs  in  the 
manner  it  ought — for  the  seasons  were  either  suffered  to  pass 
away  before  the  measure  was  thought  of  by  them,  or  the  work 
executed  in  such  a  manner  as  to  produce  no  good  effect.  Now, 
as  I  mean  to  make  hedging  a  business  and  a  primary  one,  and 
when  I  add  that  I  cannot  be  more  disappointed,  or  disobliged  by 
anything,  than  in  neglecting  the  season,  and  the  means  to  accom- 

'  See  page  239,  ante. 

'^  William  Garner,  overseer  of  the  River  I'l.intation. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  375 

plish  the  measure,  I  shall  hope  to  be  relieved  in  a  few  years  from 
the  great  consumption  of  timber  which  such  a  quantity  of  fencing 
as  I  have,  will  occasion  ;  and  the  consequent  transportation  of 
the  rails  to  such  a  variety  of  cross-fences  as  there  are,  but  which 
in  the  first  instances  at  least,  might  be  made  of  any  sort  or 
kind  of  hedge  that  would  turn  horses,  cattle  and  sheep — hogs  not 
being  admitted.     *     *     * 

Mr.  Butler's  ideas  may  require  correction,  and  to  be  assimi- 
lated a  little  more  to  the  nature  of  our  climate  and  soil ;  but  I  by 
no  means  disapprove  of  the  idea  of  trying  the  efficacy  of  the  mud 
which  may  be  extracted  from  Hell  hole,  if  he  can  contrive  to  get  it 
up.  I  do  not  mean  on  a  large  scale  ;  this  would  be  expensive  ;  but 
if  the  attempt  w^as  made  on  a  few  square  rods  of  the  poorest  ground 
in  the  adjacent  lot,  with  different  quantities  of  each,  the  experi- 
ment might  and  unquestionably  would,  ascertain  a  fact  which  may 
be  of  great  importance  to  know  ;  and  as  experiments  of  this  sort 
can  be  made  at  a  small  expence,  it  is  wonderful  -and  inexcusable 
they  are  not  oftener  attempted.  And  though  it  may  be  impru- 
dent to  risk  a  whole  field  of  turnips  for  the  purpose  of  folding 
upon  (until  the  land  can  be  brought  into  better  order),  yet 
it  would  certainly  be  right  to  practice  this  upon  a  small  scale  at 
first :  and  advance  by  degrees  and  according  to  the  utility  and 
advantages  which  are  found  to  flow  from  it.  Mr.  Young  (of 
Suffolk  in  England)  who  unquestionably  understands  the  princi- 
ples of  farming  as  well  as  any  man  in  England,  and  who  has  had 
as  much  practical  knowledge,  has  given  it  as  his  decided  opinion 
that  the  stock  of  every  farm  ought  to  be  supported  by  the  fallows. 
By  fallows  (for  he  reprobates  the  idea  of  naked  fallows)  he  means 
turnips,  cabbage,  beans,  clover,  and  such  like,  as  are  adapted  to 
the  soil,  and  which  are  part  of  his  rotation  crops.  His  great 
desiderata  is,  that  large  crops  cannot  be  raised  without  large 
stocks  of  cattle  and  sheep.  Nor  large  stocks  of  these  without 
the  fallows  above  mentioned  ;  which  are  the  best,  if  not  the  only, 
proper  preparation  for  crops  of  grain.  To  get  fully  into  a  prac- 
tice of  this  sort,  in  this  country,  must  be  more  than  the  work  of  a 
year,  two  or  three  ;  but  if  it  is  never  begun,  it  can  never  be  exe- 
cuted. Turnips  (where  the  land  is  fit  for  it)  folded  on,  and 
clover,  seems  to  be  his  plan.     *     *     * 


376  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

Let  Mr.  Crow  know  that  I  view  with  a  very  evil  eye  the  fre- 
quent reports  made  by  him  of  sheep  dying.  When  they  are 
destroyed  by  dogs,  it  is  more  to  be  regretted  than  avoided 
perhaps — but  frequent  natural  deaths  is  a  very  strong  evidence 
to  my  mind  of  the  want  of  care,  or  something  worse,  as  the  sheep 
are  culled  every  year,  and  the  old  ones  drawn  out.  *  *  *  i-j 
January,  1793. 

It  is  a  little  extraordinary  that  Davenport  should  delay  making 
the  experiment  I  directed  so  long  as  he  did  '  ;  and  then  to  do  it 
in  so  unsatisfactory  a  manner  ;  when  he  knew  or  might  have 
known,  that  my  object  in  making  it  was  to  ascertain  whether  my 
interest  would  be  most  promoted  by  manufacturing  the  wheat,  or 
selling  it  in  the  grain.  I  fear  he  is  too  lazy  to  give  the  necessary 
attention  to  the  business  which  is  entrusted  to  him  ;  for  it  was 
my  full  expectation  that  he  would  have  mixed  the  common  and 
white  wheat  by  some  uniform  proportion  together,  through  the 
whole  manufactury  of  them  ;  as  they  do  at  Brandywine  and  other 
mills  in  this  State  ;  where,  it  is  the  opinion  of  the  millers  that 
superfine  flour,  of  the  first  quality,  cannot  be  made  without  some 
white  wheat.  To  do  this  would  have  given  him  a  little  trouble  ; 
and  trouble,  I  presume,  is  what  he  is  not  overfond  of.  The 
price,  as  well  as  quantity  of  shorts  and  bran,  ought  to  be 
inserted  in  the  account  to  give  it  accuracy  and  fairness  : — and 
this  price  ought  to  be  regulated  by  their  proportionate  value  to 
corn  and  oats,  in  feeding  the  work  horses.  After  the  danger  of 
having  the  navigation  of  the  creek  interrupted  by  ice  is  over, 
it  might  not  be  amiss  to  save  me  the  expence  of  storage  of 
this  article  flour  in  Alexandria  :— as  it  can,  when  sold,  be  sent 
from  the  mill  in  the  first  instance. 

I  am  concerned  to  find  that  the  crop  of  wheat  is  likely,  ulti- 
mately, to  fall  so  much  below  expectation  ; — and  it  is  singular 
that  all  the  stacks,  latterly,  though  equal  in  size  and  appearance, 
should  be  so  unecjual  in  their  yield,  when  compared  with  those 
which  were  first  got  out,  in  August  and  September.  Disappoint- 
ment in  the  whcaten  crop  1  did  not — I  must  own — ex])ect.  My 
apprehension  that  the  Indian  corn  cro])  would  fall  short  of  the 
calculation  was  always  great,  even  before  the  frost,  and  more  so 

'  I'age  251,  aute. 


1793]  GEORGE   WASHINGTON.  377 

afterwards.  You  will,  I  am  persuaded,  have  every  care  possible 
taken  of  it ;  and  the  bran,  which  will  be  a  valuable  aid  to  it. 

I  do  not  disapprove  your  sowing  the  new  ground  at  Dogue 
Run  with  oats  (in  such  quantity  to  the  acre  as  you  may  judge 
best)  along  with  the  clover.  It  will,  unquestionably,  add  to  the 
profit  which  is  to  be  derived  from  the  ground  ;  and  I  think  the 
clover  is  always  better  sown  with  grain  that  will  protect  it  (in  its 
infant  state)  from  the  sun,  and  preserve  it  against  weeds,  than 
when  it  is  sown  quite  alone.  When  you  speak  of  clover  for  this 
ground,  I  presume  you  mean  to  mix  timothy  with  it — this,  in  my 
opinion  ought  uniformly  to  be  the  case  ;  except  where  it  is  sown 
for  the  purpose  of  seed.  I  do  not  care  by  what  means,  or  in 
what  way.  the  grass  seeds  are  sown,  so  as  that  it  is  done  with  regu- 
larity ;  and  the  quantity  allotted,  bestowed  to  the  acre.  To  mix  it 
well  with  sand,  or  dry  earth  (sand  is  best),  and  the  quantity  of  seed 
designed  to  the  acre  given  to  a  bushel,  say  rather  a  bushel  when 
mixed  ;  and  this  sown  by  stakes  where  there  be  fto  regular  fur- 
rows, is  the  best  v.ay  I  have  ever  tried  ; — for  where  the  seedsman 
walks  by  stakes,  and  has  been  accustomed  to  sow  wheat  at  the 
rate  of  a  bushel  to  the  acre,  there  can  be  no  mistake  in  this  mode. 
But  he  must  possess  more  skill  than  falls  to  the  lot  of  our  com- 
mon overseers,  who  can  sow  the  naked  seed  regularly,  and  in 
due  proportions  :  and  without  furrows  or  stakes,  no  man  living 
can  do  it  well,  unless  it  be  by  chance. 

It  will  be  highly  pleasing  to  me  if  the  swamps  at  the  Ferry  and 
French's  could  be  so  well  prepared,  as  to  be  laid  down  this  spring 
in  oats  and  grasses.  *  *  *  Let  this  plantation  henceforward 
be  called  ''Union  Farm  or  Plantation,"  instead  of  "  Ferry  and 
French's."     *     *     "^    27  January,  1793. 

Under  cover  with  this  letter  you  will  receive  some  beans  which 
Mrs.  Washington  desires  may  be  given  to  the  gardener  ; — also 
Panicum  or  Guinea  corn,  from  the  Island  of  Jamaica,  which  may 
be  planted  merely  to  show  the  uses  it  can  be  applied  to  ;  and  the 
white  bent  grass,  with  the  description  of  it  by  Mr.  Hawkins  (one 
of  the  Senators,  who  had  it  from  Mr.  Bassett,  of  Delaware  State, 
another  of  the  Senate).  If  the  account  of  it  be  just  it  must  be  a 
valuable  grass  : — I  therefore  desire  it  may  be  sowed  in  drills,  and 
to  the  best  advantage  for  the  purpose  of  seed.    These  things  which 


378  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

are  intended  for  experiments,  or  to  raise  as  much  seed  from,  as 
can  be,  should  never  be  put  in  fields  or  meadows  ;  for  there  (if 
not  forgot)  they  are  neglected  ;  or  swallowed  up  in  the  fate  of  all 
things  within  the  inclosures  that  contain  them.  This  has  been 
the  case  of  the  choricum  (from  Mr,  Young),  and  a  grass  which 
sold  for  two  guineas  a  quart  in  England,  and  presented  to  me. 
And  the  same,  or  some  other  fate  equally  as  bad  has  attended  a 
great  many  curious  seeds  which  have  been  given  to  and  sent 
home  by  me  at  different  times — but  of  which  I  have  heard 
nothing  more  ;  either  from  the  inattention  which  was  given  to 
them  in  the  first  instance,  neglect  in  the  cultivation,  or  not  watch- 
ing the  period  of  their  seeding,  and  gathering  them  without  waste. 
The  intention  of  the  little  garden  by  the  salt  house,  &c.,  was  to 
receive  such  things  as  required  but  a  small  space  for  their  culti- 
vation ; — and  what  is  called  the  vineyard  inclosure  was  designed 
for  other  articles  of  experiment,  or  for  seed  which  required 
still  greater  space  before  they  were  adopted  upon  a  large 
scale  ;  yet  the  plants  which  are  deposited  there  are,  gener- 
ally, so  over-run  with  grass  and  weeds  as  to  be  destroyed  before 
a  judgment  can  be  formed  of  their  utility.  This,  I  know  has 
absolutely  been  the  case  with  many  things  which  have  been  given 
to  me  as  curiosities,  or  for  their  value.  From  the  fancy  grass  (of 
which  I  have  [being  told  that  both  horse  and  cattle  are  fond  of 
it]  a  high  opinion),  I  have  been  urging  for  years  (it  being  more 
than  five  since  I  sowed  it  myself)  the  saving  of  seed ;  yet, 
it  is  almost  in  statu  quo,  because  the  necessary  measures  have  not 
been  taken  to  propagate  and  save  the  seed,  and  because  it  will 
not,  I  believe,  be  overcome  by  anything  else — whilst  other  things 
not  so  hardy  have  been  eradicated  by  the  grass  and  weeds.  I 
now  desire  that  all  these  things  may  be  attended  to  by  the  gardener 
and  those  who  are  with  him,  aided,  if  necessary,  by  the  house- 
gang.     *     *     * 

I  hope  the  delivery  to  and  the  application  of  nails  by  the  carpen- 
ters, will  undergo  a  pretty  strict  comparative  scrutiny,  without 
expressing  any  suspicion,  unless  cause  shall  be  given  for  it.  I 
cannot  conceive  how  it  is  possible  that  6000  twelve  penny  nails 
could  be  used  in  the  corn  house  at  River  Plantation  ;  but  of  one 
thing  I  have  no  great  doubt,  and  that  is,  if  they  can  be  applied 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  379 

to  other  uses,  or  converted  into  cash,  rum,  or  other  things,  there 
will  be  no  scruple  in  doing  it. 

I  can  conceive  no  latch  (sufficient  to  answer  the  purpose,  and 
not  always  out  of  sorts)  more  simple  or  cheaper  than  those  to  the 
White  gates,  unomimented,  which  is  unnecessary.  A  thin  plate 
of  iron,  kept  in  place  by  an  old  iron  hoop  (of  which  I  presume 
hundred  could  be  got  in  Alexandria  for  a  mere  song)  and  staple 
for  it  to  catch  in,  is,  in  my  opinion,  as  cheap  as  anything  that 
(will  not  always  be  a  plague)  can  be  devised.  The  advantage  of 
this  latch  is,  that  let  the  gate  swag  as  it  may,  it  always  catches. 
The  top  of  the  flat  iron  ought  to  shew,  that  strangers  may  know 
how  to  open  it  on  either  side,  but  there  is  not  the  least  occasion 
for  the  round  like  that  at  the  Gumspring,  nor  of  the  curl,  like 
those  at  the  White  gates  ;  nor  is  there  any  occasion  to  make 
the  flat  part  longer  or  stiffer  than  is  necessary  for  the  spring. 
Most  other  kinds  of  latches,  after  the  gates  settle,  are  not 
only  insecure  but  exceedingly  troublesome  ; — instance  that  at 
the  ferry,  which  was  vexing  to  every  one  who  went  in.  I  was 
obliged  always  to  dismount  either  to  open  or  shut  it.  How- 
ever, if  you  know  of  any  other  kind  more  simple  than  the  above, 
equally  secure,  and  which  will  not  be  troublesome  to  open,  I  have 
no  objection  to  the  adoption.     *     *     * 

Sarah_  Flatfoot  (you  call  her  Lightfoot)  has  been  accustomed 
to  receive  a  pair  of  shoes,  stockings,  a  country  cloth  petticoat, 
and  an  oznabrig  shift,  all  ready  made,  annually,  and  it  is  not 
meant  to  discontinue  them.  You  will  therefore  furnish  them  to 
her.     *     *     *     3  February,  1793. 

The  Major  was  permitted  to  cut  cord  wood  from  the  tops  of 
the  trees  which  had  been  felled  for  rails  ;  either  for  burning 
bricks  or  other  purposes  ;  but  it  is  not  unlikely  that  his  overseer 
(Taylor)  may  cord  it  for  sale,  if  he  is  not  watched  ;  for  it  is  estab- 
lished as  a  maxim  in  my  mind,  that  a  man  who  will  do  wrong  to 
another  in  one  instance  knowingly,  will  have  no  scruple  in  doing 
it  in  every  instance  where  it  can  be  done  without  being  liable  to 
discovery.  And  with  respect  to  his  keeping  a  horse,  no  matter 
whether  (as  I  suppose  he  will  say,  at  his  own  expense)  it  is  on  his 
own  provender,  or  that  of  his  employer,  it  is  my  express  request 
that  you  will,  immediately  upon  the  receipt  of  this  letter,  inform 


38o  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

him  (unless  he  can  shew  a  written  permission  for  the  purpose, 
which  I  am  sure  he  is  not  able  to  do)  that  if  the  horse,  or  mare, 
or  any  other  animal,  he  is  not  allowed  to  keep,  is  not  instantly 
sent  away,  that  I  will,  as  soon  as  I  reach  Mount  Vernon,  not  only 
turn  him  off  the  Plantation,  but  cause  him  to  be  sued  for  a  breach 
of  covenant  ; — and  for'  his  knavery  ; — for  it  is  not  less  so,  than 
would  be  the  opening  of  the  Major's  desk,  and  taking  his  money  ; 
— nay,  in  my  estimation,  the  crime  is  greater  ;  because  a  man 
who  will  defraud  another  who  confides  in  him,  is  surely  a  greater 
villain  than  one  who  robs  boldly,  at  the  risque  of  his  life.  You 
may  assure  Mr.  Taylor  in  the  strongest  language  you  can  devise, 
— you  may  even  read  this  part  of  my  letter  to  him, — that  no  pre- 
tence of  verbal  permission  to  keep  a  horse  will  avail  him  ;  for  I 
know  from  various  conversations  with  the  Major  on  this  subject, 
that  it  is  next  to  impossible  he  ever  should  have  given  such 
leave  ; — and  I  again  add,  that  the  pretext  (if  it  should  be  offered) 
of  feeding  him  at  his  own  expense,  will  not  way  one  moment. 
*     *     *     ID  February,  1793. 

Unless  you  have  received,  or  may  receive  any  directions  from 
Mrs.  Fanny  Washington  respecting  the  building  my  deceased 
nephew  was  carrying  on,  it  is  my  opinion  that  an  entire  suspen- 
sion of  it  had  better  take  place.  And  with  respect  to  the  conduct 
of  the  overseer  there,  it  is  my  wish  and  desire  that  you  would 
attend  to  him  as  much  as  to  any  of  my  own.  And,  in  addition  to 
what  was  mentioned  in  one  of  my  last  letters  to  you  concerning 
him,  if  he  should  be  detected  in  any  knavish  pranks  I  will  make 
the  country  too  warm  for  him  to  remain  in. 

Your  accounts  of  Davenport's  sloth,  impress  me  more  strongly 
with  the  idea  of  his  laziness.  I  therefore  request  you  to  tell  him 
from  me,  that  I  expect  the  season  will  not  be  suffered  to  slip  away, 
and  my  wheat  left  unground  ;  but  on  the  contrary,  that  he  will 
work  of  nights,  as  well  as  in  the  day,  as  all  merchant  mills  do  ; 
and  which  he  himself  must  have  done  before  he  fell  into  the  idle 
habits  he  has  acc^uired  since  he  has  basked  in  the  sunshine  of  my 
mill.     *     *     * 

The  correction  you  gave  Ben,  for  his  assault  on  Sambo,  was 
just  and  ])roi)er.  It  is  my  earnest  desire  that  quarrels  may  be 
stopped,  or  ])unisliment  of  both  parties  follow,  unless  it  shall  ap- 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  381 

pear  dearly,  that  one  only  is  to  blame,  and  the  other  forced  into 
[a  quarrel]  from  self-defence.     *     *     *     24  February,  1793. 

I  am  as  apprehensive  as  you  can  be,  that  Green  never  will  over- 
come his  propensity  to  drink  ;  that  it  is  this  which  occasions  his 
frequent  sickness,  absences  from  work,  and  poverty.  And  I  am 
convinced,  moreover,  that  it  answers  no  purpose  to  admonish 
him.  But  if  the  work  in  hand  cannot  be  carried  on  without  a 
head  to  execute  it,  and  no  other  presents,  in  whom  confidence 
can  be  placed,  there  is  no  alternative  but  to  keep  him,  unless  he 
should  get  too  bad  to  be  longer  borne  ^^^th  ; — and  even  then,  a 
house  so  framed  as  the  Dogue  Run  bam  is  intended  to  be,  ought 
not  to  be  entrusted  to  my  negro  carpenters,  or  any  other  bun- 
gler.    *     *     * 

I  am  very  sorry  to  hear  that  so  likely  a  young  fellow  as  Matil- 
da's Ben  should  addict  himself  to  such  courses  as  he  is  pursuing. 
If  he  should  be  guilty  of  any  atrocious  crime,  that  would  affect 
his  life,  he  might  be  given  up  to  the  civil  authority  for  trial ;  but 
for  such  offences  as  most  of  his  color  are  guilty  of,  you  had 
better  try  further  correction,  accompanied  with  admonition  and 
advice.  The  two  latter  sometimes  succeed  where  the  first  has 
failed.  He,  his  father  and  mother  (who  I  dare  say  are  his  receiv- 
ers) may  be  told  in  explicit  language,  that  if  a  stop  is  not  put  to 
his  rogueries  and  other  villainies,  by  fair  means  and  shortly,  that 
I  will  ship  him  off  (as  I  did  Wagoner  Jack)  for  the  West  Indies, 
where  he  will  have  no  opportunity  of  playing  such  pranks  as  he 
is  at  present  engaged  in.     *     *     *     3  March,  1793.* 

I  did  not  suppose  that  this  was  the  season  for  demanding  pay- 
ment of  taxes  of  any  kind.  I  may  be  mistaken,  however  ;  but  as 
I  do  sincerely  believe  the  under  sherififs  in.  Virginia  to  be  among 
the  greatest  rascals  in  the  world  ;  it  is  my  desire  that  you  will  get 
their  demands  from  them  in  writing,  and  lay  these  before  some 
gentleman  well  acquainted  with  these  matters,  and  know  from 
him,  first,  when  they  have  a  right  to  distrain  for  the  levies  ; — for 
until  that  time  you  may  withhold  payment,  so  as  to  give  yourself 
time  to  provide  the  tobacco,  or  money.  2dly.  Whether  the 
quantity  of  tobacco  demanded  by  them  is  just.  3dly,  whether 
they  have  a  right  to  fix  3^.  or  any  other  cash  price  by  way  of 

'  From  April  ist  to  April  13th,  Washington  was  at  Mount  Vernon. 


382  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

commutation.  And  4thly,  to  know  if  you  cannot  discharge  their 
just  claims,  to  get  the  tobacco  for  less  than  3^.  per  lb.     *     *     * 

The  middlings  and  ship  stuff  may  be  sold  to  answer  the  money 
calls  which  you  will  have  upon  you  ;  but  I  entreat  that  these  may 
be  as  few  as  you  can  possibly  make  them.  For  I  acknowledge, 
although  I  have  no  doubt  of  the  justness  of  the  account  you 
handed  to  Mr.  Dandridge,  that  the  amount  was  beyond  what  I 
expected  to  see  in  so  short  a  time  ;  but  as  I  had  not  the  particu- 
lar articles  to  refer  to,  it  was  not  in  my  power  to  form  an  accurate 
judgment  of  the  necessity  for  them.  But  there  is  one  rule,  and  a 
golden  rule  it  is,  that  nothing  should  be  bought  that  can  be  made, 
or  done  without.  People  are  often  ruined  before  they  are  aware 
of  the  danger,  by  buying  everything  they  think  they  want,  with- 
out adverting  to  a  Scotch  adage — than  which  nothing  in  nature  is 
more  true — "  that  many  mickles  make  a  muckle."  I  am  more 
pointed  in  giving  this  sentiment,  because  I  perceive  many  things 
were  yet  to  be  got  at  the  instance  of  Green,  from  the  stores  in 
Alexandria.  He  will  not  care  what  cost  I  am  run  to  for  carpen- 
ter's tools.     *     *     * 

I  wish  to  know  precisely,  what  ground  you  have  sown,  or  mean 
to  sow  with  clover,  or  clover  and  timothy  this  Spring.  And  as  I 
do  not  believe  it  was  done  before  I  left  home,  I  desire  you  will  have 
the  ox-eye  window  in  the  green  house  so  secured  as  to  guard  against 
another  robbery  of  that  loft.  The  same  with  respect  to  the  corn 
loft,  for  that  I  know  (intending  several  times  to  speak  about  it, 
but  forgot  to  do  so)  is  in  the  same  situation  as  when  the  corn 
was  stolen  from  it.  I  wish  also  to  know  the  quantity  of  clover 
seed  that  has  been  given  to  each  field,  or  lot,  which  has  been 
sown  there  with  the  past  winter  or  present  spring.  And  here  I 
cannot  help  expressing,  that  I  felt  both  mortification  and  vexation, 
to  find  an  ignorant  Negro  sowing  these  seeds,  contrary  to  my 
reiterated  direction  to  have  them  mixed  with  sand  or  dry  earth. 
The  ctmsequence  of  not  doing  it  will  be,  I  expect,  that  the  fields 
will  either  be  loaded  with,  or  so  barren  of,  seed,  as  to  be  wasteful  in 
the  one  case,  or  unproductive  and  useless  in  the  other  : — whereas, 
if  the  quantity  of  seed  intended  for  half  an  acre  had  been  put 
into  half  a  bushel,  and  that  half  bushel  filled  with  sand  or  earth 
as  above,  and  well  mixed  ;  the  same  cast  that  would  have  sewed 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  383 

wheat  (which  he  was  used  to)  would  exactly  have  answered  for 
the  grass  seed  : — and  if  this  admixture  of  them  had  been  made 
by  the  overseer,  there  could  have  been  no  embezzlement  of  the 
seed  when  so  mixed.  Without  it,  is  there  any  reason  to  hope 
that  the  seeds  were  more  secure  in  the  hands  of  a  negro  seedsman, 
suspected  of  being  a  rogue,  than  it  was  under  a  good  lock  ?  I 
am  thus  explicit  on  this  occasion,  because  I  would  have  it  clearly 
understood  that  when  I  do  give  positive  directions,  in  any  case 
whatsoever,  they  are  not  to  be  dispensed  with.    *   *   *    2 1  April, 

1793- 

In  looking  over  the  last  weekly  report  that  has  been  forwarded 

to  me,  I  perceive  the  allowance  of  meal  to  Muddy  Hole  is  in- 
creased one  peck,  Union  Farm  and  River  farm  two  pecks  each, 
and  Dogue  Run  Farm,  three  pecks.  Whether  this  addition  with 
what  goes  to  their  absent  hands,  is  sufficient,  I  will  not  under- 
take to  decide  ; — but  in  most  explicit  language  I  desire  they 
may  have  plenty  ;  for  I  will  not  have  my  feelings  again  hurt 
with  complaints  of  this  sort,  nor  lye  under  the  imputation  of 
starving  my  negros,  and  thereby  driving  them  to  the  necessity  of 
thieving  to  supply  the  deficiency.  To  prevent  waste  or  embezzle- 
ment is  the  only  inducement  to  allowancing  of  them  at  all — for 
if,  instead  of  a  peck  they  could  eat  a  bushel  of  meal  a  week 
fairly,  and  required  it,  I  would  not  withhold  or  begrudge  it  them. 
28  April,  1893. 

I  did  not  entertain  the  most  distant  suspicion  of  your  having 
charged  any  thing  in  the  acct.  exhibited  to  Mr.  Dandridge  but 
what  you  had  actually  paid,  for  my  use. — For  if  I  could  suppose 
you  capable  of  such  a  violation  of  the  principles  of  honesty,  and 
so  lost  to  the  trust  reposed  in  you,  my  confidence  in  you  would 
depart,  and  I  should  think  my  concerns  very  unsafe  in  your 
hands. — I  only  meant  to  guard  you  against  an  error  which  is  but 
too  common,  and  the  ill  effects  of  which,  oftentimes  not  foreseen, 
before  they  are  severely  felt ;  I  mean  that  of  not  avoiding  the 
purchase  of  things,  that  can  be  done  without,  or  made  within 
oneself.  "  A  penny  saved,  is  a  penny  got  " — from  experience  I 
know,  that  no  under  overseer  I  have  ever  yet  had,  nor  any  of 
my  black  people  who  have  not  the  paying  for  the  articles  they 
call  for,  can  be  impressed  (as  it  respects  me)  with  these  ideas. 


384  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 


On  the  contrary,  things  are  seldom  taken  care  of  by  them,  when 
they  are  lost,  broke,  or  injured  with  impunity  ; — and  are  replaced, 
or  renewed,  by  asking  for  more. — For  these  reasons  as  far  as  it  is 
consistent  with  just  propriety,  make  the  overseers,  Green  and 
others,  who  have  the  sub  management  of  parts  of  my  business,  re- 
sponsible for  whatever  is  committed  to  their  care  ;  and  whenever 
they  apply  for  a  new  thing,  that  you  will  be  satisfied  of  the  neces- 
sity there  is  for  granting  it ; — if  to  supply  a  worn  thing,  to  see 
the  condition  of,  and  to  take  in  the  old  one. — Unless  this  care 
and  attention  is  used,  yoii  will  be  greatly  imposed  upon  yourself, 
and  /  shall  feel  the  evil  of  it. — I  am  perfectly  satisfied  that  as 
much  is  made  by  saving  (or  nearly  so)  as  there  is  by  the  Crops  ; 
that  is,  by  attention  to  the  crops  when  made,  stocks  of  all  sorts  ; 
working  cattle  ;  Plantation  utensils  ;  Tools  ;  fences  ;  and  though 
last,  not  least,  to  the  Negros  : — first  by  seeing  that  they  have 
every  thing  that  is  proper  for  them,  and  next,  that  they  be  pre- 
vented, as  far  as  vigilance  can  accomplish  it,  all  irregularities 
and  improper  conduct. — And  this  oftentimes  is  easier  to  effect 
by  watchfulness  and  admonition,  than  by  severity  ; — and  cer- 
tainly must  be  more  agreeable  to  every  feeling  mind  in  the 
practice  of  them. — Speaking  of  accts.,  and  finding  some  articles 
of  my  deceased  nephews  mixed  with  mine  ;  I  request  that, 
although  they  are,  or  may  be,  paid  with  my  money,  yet  that  they 
may  be  kept  entirely  distinct  from  my  accounts. 

I  cannot  say  that  the  Rams  were  not  seperated  (as  they  ought 
to  have  been)  from  the  ewes  at  shearing  time  last  year,  but  from 
my  own  view  I  can  (I  think  at  Union  Farm)  say  I  saw  Rams 
with  my  sheep  in  the  month  of  August  last. — Whether  my  own, 
or  belonging  to  others,  I  know  not.  The  last  would  be  worse 
than  the  first,  as  I  believe  my  sheep  are  above  mediocrity,  when 
most  others  are  below  it. — As  I  am  constantly  loosing  sheep  I 
wish  this  year,  you  would  cull  them  closer. — The  flock  would  be 
benefitted  thereby,  whilst  I  might  get  something  for  the  refuse  ; 
instead  of  the  frequent  reports  of  their  deaths. — And  I  wish  you 
would  reprehend  the  overseers  severely  for  suffering  the  sheep 
under  their  respective  care,  to  get  so  foul  as  I  saw  some  when  I 
was  at  home,  particularly  at  Dogue  run  Farm. — It  is  im))ossible 
for  a  sheep  to  be  in  a  tliriving  condition  when  he  is  carrying  six 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  385 

or  eight  pounds  at  his  tale. — And  how  a  man  who  has  them 
entrusted  to  his  care,  and  must  have  a  sight  of  this  sort  every 
day  before  his  eyes  can  avoid  being  struck  with  the  propriety 
and  necessity  of  easing  them  of  this  load,  is  what  I  have  often 
wondered  at. 

Having  sheep  at  five  different  places  it  has  often  occurred  to 
my  mind  whether  for  a  certain  part  of  the  year — say  from  shear- 
ing time  or  before  until  the  first  of  December  (or  until  the  end 
of  the  period  for  folding  them),  they  were,  except  the  Rams, 
brought  into  one  flock — distinguishing  before  hand  those  of  the 
seperate  farms  by  conspicuous  marks  made  by  tar,  or  red  lead  in 
different  parts,  and  placed  under  the  care  of  a  trusty  negro,  if 
there  be  such  an  one,  whose  sole  business  it  should  be  to  look 
after  and  fold  them  every  night  in  hurdles  made  light  and  removed 
with  the  sheep  from  farm  to  farm  ;  as  the  food  at  each  would  be 
eaten  by  them,  and  become  scant. — I  think  I  should  get  my  fields 
dunged  sooner  and  better  by  this  means  (with  other  common 
assistance)  than  by  any  other. — Shifting  their  walks  frequently 
would  certainly  be  serviceable  to  the  sheep,  if  so  great  a  number 
together  would  not  be  injurious  ; — especially  as  thefts,  and  other 
depredations  might  be  committed  without  the  knowledge  of  their 
keeper  ;  for  I  know  not  the  negro  among  all  mine,  whose  capacity, 
integrity,  and  attention  could  be  relied  on  for  such  a  trust  as  this. 
— I  do  no  more  than  suggest  the  idea  for  consideration  ;  when 
you  have  given  it  consideration  let  me  know  the  result  of  your 
thoughts  on  the  occasion. 

I  was  afraid  the  heavy  rains  and  long  easterly  winds  would 
prove  injurious  to  the  fruit,  and  probably  to  the  grain,  if  they 
should  continue  ;  but  I  did  not  expect  to  find  that  I  was  to  loose 
calves  by  it ;— four  of  wch.  I  find  by  the  River  Farm  Report  are 
dead. — This,  and  looking  over  the  other  Reports,  and  finding 
thereby  the  small  number  of  Calves  I  have,  leads  me  to  appre- 
hend that  there  is  some  defect  in  the  management  of  this  part  of 
my  Stock  ;  for  it  is  inconceivable  that  out  of  300  head  of  cattle  I 
should  have  but  about  30  calves,  as  appears  by  the  last  week's 
report.— This  must  proceed  from  the  want  of,  or  from  old  and 
debilitated  Bulls.— Let  me  know  whether  the  fruit  (of  different 
kinds)  is  injured  by  the  easterly  winds  which  have  blown  so  con- 


386  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

stantly  ; — and  whether  the  wheat,  &ca.,  appear  to  have  received 
any  hurt. — The  Oats,  Buck  wheat  and  grass  will,  I  hope,  be  bene- 
fitted by  the  Rains,  and  it  would  give  me  pleasure  to  hear  that 
your  White  thorn,  Willow,  Poplar,  and  other  Cuttings  were 
coming  on  well  ? — Does  the  last  and  present  years  planting  of 
Honey  locust  seed  come  up  well — and  is  there  any  appearance  of 
the  Cedar  berries.  Furze  seed,  Lucern,  &c.,  &c.,  coming  up  and 
answering  expectation  ? — and  is  your  corn  coming  up — or  likely 
to  rot  in  the  ground  with  the  wet  weather  we  have  had  ?     5  May, 

1793- 

I  am  satisfied  from  what  you  have  said,  that  it  would  not  be 
proper  to  bring  all  my  sheep  into  one  flock,  and  so  to  be  penned  ; 
— and  if  you  think  drawing  off  two  score  of  the  latter,  and  most 
indifferent  lambs  is  proper,  it  may  be  done,  but  not  till  they  are 
weaned,  or  actually  seperated  with  their  mothers  from  the  rest  of 
the  flock  ; — for  unless  one  of  these  is  done,  I  am  sure,  that  so  far 
from  havg.  40  of  the  worst  disposed  of,  I  shall  have  that  number 
of  the  choicest  taken,  if  from  the  flock  at  large, — so  well  am  I 
acquainted  with  the  practices  and  contrivances  of  the  Butchers  ; 
— and  the  inattention  and  carelessness  of  the  Overseers,  to  whom 
they  may  go,  if  taken  away  as  they  are  wanted. — I  had  rather  not 
part  with  one,  unless  this  apprehension  of  mine  is  fully,  and  com- 
pleatly  guarded  against. — All  the  declining  sheep  of  every  sort 
might  be  disposed  of,  after  they  can,  by  good  pasture  and  atten- 
tion, be  got  in  order  for  it.  In  a  word,  I  wish  every  possible  care 
may  be  used  to  improve  the  breed  of  my  sheep  ;  and  to  keep  them 
in  a  thriving  and  healthy  state. — The  same  with  regard  to  my 
Cattle  ;  and  there  is  no  measure  so  likely  to  effect  this  as  by  a 
judicious  choice  of  the  subjects  that  are  bred  from. — It  is  owing 
to  this  that  Bakewell  and  others,  are  indebted  for  the  remarkable 
quality  and  sales  of  their  cattle  and  sheep  ; — the  like  attention 
would  produce  the  like  effect  in  this,  as  well  as  in  other  Countries. 
— I  am  fully  persuaded,  if  some  of  my  best  cows  were  selected,  and 
put  to  (what  is  called)  the  Callico  Bull,  and  all  the  calves  which  took 
their  shape  and  appearance  from  him  set  apart  for  Breeders  (for  I 
am  told  his  make  is  exactly  that  which  Bakewell  prefers  and  aims 
at  getting,)  that  I  should,  in  a  few  years  have  a  very  valuable 
breed  of  Cattle. — Such  conduct  will  apply  equally  to  sheep. — The 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  387 

quantity  of  either  species  of  stock — that  is  Cattle  and  sheep — 
ought,  in  my  opinion,  to  depend  wholly  upon  the  support  which 
can  be  provided — and  that,  the  more  you  have  of  both  with  an  eye 
to  this  consideration,  the  more  you  may  have,  as  they  do,  in  them- 
selves, afford  the  means,  by  the  manure  they  make. 

If  for  the  sake  of  making  a  little  butter  (for  which  I  shall  get 
scarcely  anything)  my  calves  are  starved,  and  die  ;  it  may  be  com- 
pared to  stopping  the  spigot,  and  opening  the  faucit, — that  is  to 
say,  I  shall  get  two  or  three  shillings  by  butter, — and  loose  20  or 
30/  by  the  death,  or  injury  done  to  my  calves.  Milk  sufficient 
should  be  left  for  them, — or  a  substitute  provided  ;  otherwise,  I 
need  not  look  forward  either  to  the  increase  or  improvement  of 
my  Stock. 

Not  a  moment  should  be  lost,  after  the  Wool  is  taken  from  the 
Sheeps'  backs,  in  having  it  spun  and  wove,  that  it  may  be  made  up 
in  time  for  the  negros  clothing  : — and  Grey  "  should  be  told  that  if 
he  does  not  weave  it  as  fast  as  it  is  carried  to  hipi,  that  he  shall 
not  only  loose  my  custom,  but,  must  look  out  for  some  other  tene- 
ment ; — because  this,  and  not  the  Rent,  was  the  inducement  for 
placing  him  there. — However,  speaking  of  the  Rent,  let  me  enquire 
whether  he  pays  it  regularly  or  not. 

I  have  no  intention  of  Renting  any  of  my  fishing  landings  for  a 
term  of  years, — consequently,  have  no  objection  to  your  providing 
a  new,  and  repairing  the  old  sein,  against  another  season — and  ap- 
prove of  your  laying  in  a  number  of  Fish  Barrels  agreeably  to  your 
suggestion  ;  especially  if  you  can  buy  them  at  what  you  suppose, 
which  will  be  much  better  than  making  of  them  by  my  coopers. 

If  Mr.  Butler  is  the  kind  of  man  you  describe  him  to  be,  he 
certainly  can  be  of  no  use  to  me  ; — and  sure  I  am,  there  is  no 
obligation  upon  me  to  retain  him  from  charitable  motives  ;  when 
he  ought  rather  to  be  punished  as  an  impostor  :  for  he  well  knew 
the  services  he  had  to  perform,  and  which  he  promised  to  fulfil 
with  zeal,  activity,  and  intelligence. — A  stirring,  lively  and  spirited 
man,  who  will  act  steadily  and  firmly,  being  necessary  ;  I  authorise 
you  to  get  one  if  you  should  part  with  Butler "  ;  for  it  is  indispensa- 

'  William  Grey,  a  weaver. 

*  Butler  remained  on  the  plantation  till  October,  1794.  "  If  you  are  satisfied 
with  Mr.  Butler's  conduct  and  exertions,  I  shall  be  so. — He  has  always  ap- 


388  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

bly  necessary  that  a  stop  should  be  put  to  that  spirit  of  thieving 
and  house  breaking  which  has  got  to  such  a  height  among  my 
People,  or  their  associates. — As  one  step  towards  the  accomplish- 
ment of  which,  I  desire  you  will  absolutely  forbid  the  slaves  of 
others  resorting  to  the  Mansion  house  ; — such  only  excepted  as 
have  wives  or  husbands  there,  or  such  as  you  may  particularly 
license  from  a  knowledge  of  their  being  honest  and  well  disposed. 
All  others,  after  sufficient  forewarning,  punish  whensoever  you 
shall  find  them  transgressing  these  orders. —     *     *     * 

My  mind  is  impressed  with  many  things,  which  you  have  been 
required  to  give  answers  to,  which  have  never  been  received  ; — 
and  this  will  forever  be  the  case  if  you  depend  upon  the  mere 
reading  a  letter  over  when  you  set  down  to  answer  it  ;  without 
first  noting  on  a  slate  or  a  piece  of  waste  paper,  every  point  as  you 
come  to  it,  that  requires  to  be  touched  upon  ; — crossing  it  when 
complied  with  ; — or  to  stand  uncrossed  if  you  are  unable  to  give 
an  answer  at  that  moment  until  you  can  do  it  at  another  time. 
Among  these  things  is  one  of  a  very  interesting  nature  to  me — 
namely — an  exact  experiment  and  worth  of  an  hundred  bushels  of 
wheat  when  manufactured,  compared  with  the  price  of  it  in  grain 
— that  I  might  decide  therefrom  whether  it  would  have  been  best 
to  sell  my  wheat  or  manufacture  it  into  flour,  before  it  was  too  late  to 
decide. — After  frequently  writing  and  pressing  this  matter,  I  at 
length  got  an  imperfect  statement  made  from  light  wheat  ;  but 
was  promised  a  more  perfect  one,  but  which  has  never  been 
reed.;  although  it  is  months  since  it  was  promised. — I  mention 

peared  to  me  as  a  well  disposed  man, — obliging  and  sober,  one  who  has  seen 
better  days, — and  must  have  had  a  good  deal  of  practical  knowledge  in  hus- 
bandry.— If  you  can  make  him  active,  and  will  support  his  authority,  I  do  not 
see  why  he  may  not  be  more  useful  to  you  than  a  young  man,  who  might  have 
a  greater  propensity  to  be  running  about." — Washington  to  Pcarce,  g  Febru- 
ary, 1794- 

In  August,  1794,  it  was  determined  that  Butler  must  go,  and  a  "character" 
was  given  him  Ijy  Washington  :  "  If  his  activity,  spirit,  and  ability  in  the 
management  of  Negros,  were  ecpial  to  his  honesty,  sobriety  and  industry,  there 
would  not  be  the  least  occasion  for  a  change." — IVas/iini^ton  to  Pcarce,  7  Sep- 
tember, 1794.  Butler  was  paid  his  full  wages,  no  deduction  being  made  for 
lost  time,  "  as  I  can  better  alTord  to  be  without  the  money  than  he  can." — 
Washington  to  Pcarce,  28  December,  1794. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON,  389 

this  as  one  instance,  because,  if  100  bushels  had,  in  time,  have 
given  me  the  same  evidence  of  the  fact,  which  I  fear  the  whole 
quantity  of  my  crops  has  done  or  will  do,  I  should  have  sold  my 
wheat  in  grain  ;  which  would  I  presume  have  commanded  a  dol- 
lar pr.  Bushl.  at  any  time  ;  and  this  on  4009^  bushls.  wch.  I  per- 
ceive has  been  delivered  at  the  mill,  would  have  amounted  to  in 
Virg.  Curry.  ^1202.  8.  o  ;  whereas  the  quantity  of  flour  made 
from  it,  viz  283  barls.  of  superfine,  and  317  of  fine,  the  first  at  33/ 
and  the  other  at  31/,  which  I  believe,  is  the  highest  that  has  been 
given,  comes  to  no  more  than  ^988.  6 — diflference  ;^2i4.  2 — 
Now,  if  the  midlings,  ship  stuff,  shorts  and  bran  does  not  amount 
to  this  difference,  all  short  of  it  is  loss  ;  besides  l}ang  out  of  my 
money — the  hazard  of  selling  the  flour,  and  risk  of  its  souring  if 
I  cannot  dispose  of  it  to  advantage  before  the  warm  weather  sets 
in. — I  have  selected  this  as  an  important  instance  of  suffering 
things  to  escape.  I  could  enumerate  many  more  of  no  other  or 
greater  moment  than  as  they  would  have  gratified  me  ;  not  being 
able  to  see  things  myself.  But  the  reason  why  I  mention  this,  (as 
I  am  fully  satisfied  you  have  ever)'  disposition  in  the  world  to 
comply  with  my  wishes)  is  merely  to  let  you  see  that  it  is  by  trust- 
ing too  much  to  your  memory,  that  these  things  happen.  I  am 
persuaded  no  instance  has  happened  of  your  asking  me  a  question 
by  letter — or  applying  for  directions  without  receiving  an  answer. 
— The  reason  is,  that  whenever  I  set  down  to  write  you,  I  read 
your  letter,  or  letters  carefully  over,  and  as  soon  as  I  come  to  a 
part  that  requires  to  be  noticed,  I  take  a  short  note  on  the  cover 
of  a  letter,  or  piece  of  waste  paper  ; — then  read  on  to  the  next, 
noting  that  in  like  manner  ; — and  so  on  until  I  have  got  through 
the  whole  letter  and  reports. — Then  in  writing  my  letter  to  you, 
as  soon  as  I  have  finished  what  I  have  to  say  on  one  of  these 
notes,  I  draw  my  pen  through  it  and  proceed  to  another,  and  an- 
other, until  the  whole  is  done — crossing  each  as  I  go  on,  by  which 
means  if  I  am  called  off  twenty  times  whilst  I  am  writing,  I  can 
never  with  these  notes  before  me  finished,  or  unfinished,  omit 
anything  I  wanted  to  say  ;  and  they  serve  me  also,  as  I  keep  no 
copies  of  letters  I  write  to  you,  as  Memorandums  of  what  has 
been  written  if  I  should  have  occasion  at  any  time  to  refer  to 
them.     *     *     *     ig  May,  1793. 


390  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

Although  I  am  very  anxious  to  hasten  the  New  Barn  at  Dogue 
run,  yet  as  Hay  time  and  Harvest  will  not  wait,  and  is  of  the 
highest  importance  to  me,  every  thing  else  must  yield  to  them  : — 
and  if  I  thought  it  was  necessary,  I  should,  in  strong  terms,  urge 
you  to  begin  the  latter  as  soon  as  you  shall  think  it  safe,  by  lying 
a  day  or  two  in  the  swarth. — The  advantage  of  cutting  the  grain 
early  last  year  was  evident  ; — and  will  always  be  found  safest  and 
best  in  all  cases,  especially  where  there  is  a  large  harvest  : — the 
latter  part  of  which  besides  shattering  much,  is  often,  very  often 
indeed,  laid  down  and  lost  from  the  Rains  which  frequently 
happen  at  that  season,  whilst  the  straw  is  rendered  of  no  use  ; 
having  no  substance  left  in  it. — I  hope,  and  do  expect,  that  the 
overseers  will  be  pointedly  charged  this  year  to  see  that  the 
ground  is  raked  clean. — In  Garner's  fields  last  year  I  was  really 
shocked  to  see  the  waste  that  appeared  there. — It  is  not  to  close 
harvest  soon,  but  to  accomplish  it  well,  that  ought  to  be  the  aim, 
and  the  pride  of  these  people,  notwithstanding  they  receive  stand- 
ing wages  instead  of  shares.  I  told  Garner  last  year  that  if  the 
latter  had  been  the  case,  I  was  very  certain  such  waste  would  not 
have  appeared. 

Although  others  are  getting  out  of  the  practice  of  using  spirits 
at  Harvest,  yet,  as  my  people  have  always  been  accustomed  to  it, 
a  hogshead  of  Rum  must  be  purchased  ;  but  I  request  at  the  same 
time,  that  it  may  be  used  sparingly. — Spirits  are  now  too  dear  to 
be  used  otherwise. 

It  is  not  my  wish,  or  desire,  that  my  negros  should  have  an  oz. 
of  meal  more,  nor  less,  than  is  sufficient  to  feed  them  plentifully. 
This  is  what  I  have  repeated  to  you  over  and  over  again  ;  and  if 
I  am  not  mistaken,  requested  you  to  consult  the  Overseers  on  this 
head,  that  enough,  and  no  more  than  enough,  might  be  allowed. 
— Sure  I  am  I  desired  this  with  respect  to  Davy. — To  ask  me 
whether  this,  or  that,  quantity  is  enough,  who  do  not  know  the 
number  of  mouths  that  are  to  be  fed,  is  asking  a  question  that  it 
is  not  possible  for  me  to  resolve. — Formerly,  every  working  negro 
used  to  receive  a  heaping  and  squeezed  peck  at  top  of  unsifted 
meal  ;  and  all  others  (except  sucking  children)  had  half  a  peck, 
like  measure,  given  to  them  ; — with  which  I  ])resume  they  were 
satisfied,  inasmuch  as  I  never  heard  any  com])laint  of  their  want- 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  391 

ing  more. — Since  the  meal  has  been  given  to  them  sifted,  and  a 
struck  peck  only,  of  it,  there  has  been  eternal  complaints  ;  which 
I  have  suspected  arose  as  much  from  the  want  of  the  husks  to 
feed  their  fowls,  as  from  any  other  cause,  'till  Davy  assured  me 
that  what  his  people  received  was  not  sufficient,  and  that  to  his 
certain  knowledge  several  of  them  would  often  be  without  a 
mouthful  for  a  day,  and  (if  they  did  not  eke  it  out)  sometimes  two 
days  before  they  were  served  again  ;  whilst  they  (the  negros)  on 
the  other  hand  assured  me,  most  positively,  that  what  I  suspected* 
namely  feeding  their  fowls  with  it,  or  sharing  it  with  strange 
negros,  was  not  founded. — Like  complaints  were  made  by  the 
People  at  Dogue  run  and  at  Union  Farm  ;  which  altogether  hurt 
my  feelings  too  much  to  sufiFer  this  matter  to  go  on  without  a 
remedy. — Or  at  least  a  thorough  investigation  into  the  cause  and 
justice  of  their  complaints  ; — for  to  delay  justice  is  to  deny  it. — 
It  became  necessary  therefore  to  examine  into  the  foundation  of 
the  complaints,  at  once,  and  not  to  wait  until  a  pretext  should  offer 
to  increase  the  allowance. — Justice  wanted  no  pretext,  nor  would 
admit  of  delay. — If  the  application  for  more  was  unjust  no  altera- 
tion at  all,  ought  to  have  been  made  ;  for,  as  I  at  first  observed,  I 
am  no  more  disposed  to  squander,  than  to  stint  ;  but  surely  the 
case  is  not  so  difficult  but  that  the  true  and  just  quantity  may  be 
ascertained  ;  which  is  all  they  have  a  right  to  ask,  or  I  will  allow 
them. — Neither  the  people  at  River  Plantation,  nor  any  about  M. 
Hole  did,  to  the  best  of  my  recollection  make  any  complaints,  but 
only  knowing  the  quantity  of  meal  which  was  served  to  them,  and 
not  the  number  of  mouths  to  be  fed  with  it,  I  supposed,  especially 
in  the  latter  case  (the  first  having  little  opportunity  of  making 
known  their  wants,  as  I  was  not  more  than  once  or  twice  on  the 
Farm)  that  enough  was  allowed  them. — I  have  been  thus  particu- 
lar, because  I  would  wish  to  be  clearly  and  fully  understood  on 
this  head,  that  you  may  act  accordingly.' 

'  "  From  some  complaints  made  by  my  negros,  that  they  had  not  a  sufficient 
allowance  of  meal,  and  from  a  willingness  that  they  should  have  enough,  the 
quantity  was  increased  by  Mr.  Whiting  so  as  to  amount  (by  what  I  have  learnt 
from  Mr.  Stuart)  to  profusion. — This  is  an  error  again  on  the  other  side.  My 
wish  and  desire  is  that  they  should  have  as  much  as  they  can  eat  \*athout  waste 
and  no  more." — Washington  to  Pearce,  December,  1793. 


392  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

I  am  surprized  to  find  by  your  letter  that  the  Gardener  has 
thoughts  of  leaving  me  ;  For  when  I  was  last  at  home,  he  put  the 
question  himself  to  know  if  I  would  retain  him  ; — and  being 
answered  that  I  had  no  desire  to  part  with  him,  he  said  he  was 
very  glad  of  it. — I  did  not,  it  is  true,  nor  did  he  say  on  what 
terms  ;  but  I  took  it  for  granted  it  would  be  at  the  wages  of  his 
last  year,  with  a  just  and  proper  allowance  for  the  services  rendered 
by  his  wife,  which  I  always  intended,  and  am  still  willing  to  make. 
— It  becomes  necessary,  however,  to  know  immediately  and  de- 
cidedly too,  what  his  intentions  are  ;  and  when  his  term  expires  ; 
that,  if  he  is  not  disposed  to  remain  upon  such,  and  lay  as  I  like, 
I  may  take  measures  in  time  to  supply  his  place. — I  wish  you 
therefore  (after  communicating  the  unexpectedness  of  his  inten- 
tion to  go)  to  apply  in  my  name,  and  know  what  I  have  to  depend 
upon. — He,  like  many  others,  I  presume  has  golden  dreams,  which 
nothing  but  experience  can  demonstrate  to  be  the  vision  only  of 
an  uninformed,  or  indigested  imagination. — Time,  and  the  ex- 
pences  arising  from  Rent,  provisions  to  be  purchased,  liquor,  of 
which  probably  he  will  take  too  much,  Fuell,  and  a  hundred  other 
items  of  which  probably  he  has  never  estimated,  will  convince 
him,  too  late  perhaps,  that  he  has  left  a  safe  and  easy  berth  to 
embark  on  a  troubled  ocean, — where  soon  he  may  find  no  rest. 

What  color  and  sex  is  the  coach  mare's  colt  with  you  ? — Nancy 
(the  other  coach  mare)  foaled  on  Whitmonday  in  like  manner. 
Take  great  care  of  the  one  with  you.  What  is  become  of  those 
mules  set  apart  for  my  use,  and  how  do  they  look  ?  Let  them  be 
kept  well.     I  am  your  friend.     26  May,  1793. 

It  is  the  duty  of  the  Miller,  the  moment  he  has  closed  his  annual 
manufacture,  to  render  me  an  exact  acct.  thereof ; — and  this,  let 
him  know  I  expect  he  will  do  without  delay,  and  with  exactitude, 
with  his  signature  annexed  to  it. — charging  the  mill  with  every 
bushel  of  wheat  that  has  been  received  into  it,  and  from  whence  ; 
and  at  the  Alexandria  jjrice  for  large  crops  : — and  crediting  it  with 
all  the  su])erfine  and  fine  flour  that  lias  been  made  ;  the  first  at 
34/  and  tlie  other  at  32/  pr.  barl. — with  all  the  middlings,  ship 
stuff,  shorts  and  ]iran,  at  what  they  have  actually  sold — or  would 
sell  for. — Such  an  acct.  as  this  is  the  only  true  criterion  by  which 
to  decide  whether   1    have   gained   or   lost  by  manufacturing  my 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  393 

crop. — The  trial  of  100  bushels  was  only  for  an  experiment,  to 
enable  me  to  judge  before  hand,  whether  it  would  have  been  best 
to  have  sold,  or  manufactured  my  wheat. — Nor  is  cleaning  of  it  in 
the  manner  you  speak  of,  a  way  to  make  the  experiment  a  fair 
one. — A  hundd.  bushels  of  such  wheat  as  would  have  been  indis- 
putably merchantable  in  Alexandria,  without  extra  :  cleaning  to 
bring  it  to  60  lbs.  pr.  bushl.  or  any  other  given  weight,  ought  to 
have  been  the  exact  quality  for  the  experiment ;  because  every  oz 
of  this,  whether  shrivelled  or  light,  dust  or  what  not,  would  have 
gone  into  the  measure,  and  so  much  pr.  Bushl.  or  pr.  lb.  would 
have  been  allowed  for  it  at  that  place  ;  whereas  if  you  extract  all 
this  and  make  up  the  quantity  afterwards  100  bushls.,  the  profit  by 
manufacturing  will  unquestionably  appear  greater  than  it  is  in 
reallity  :  because  what  is  blown  away  by  the  different  operations 
for  cleaning  in  the  mill  is  a  deduction  from  the  wheat  if  sold 
in  grain,  and  no  addition  to  it  when  manufactured. — I  mention 
this  to  guard  you  against  deception  in  the  experiment  you  were 
about  to  make  with  500  bushls.  (cleaned  in  the  manner  you  speak 
of)  and  which  you  had  prepar'd  for  grinding. — repeating  again, 
that  to  ascertain  this  point  now,  or  at  any  time  hereafter,  the  wheat 
with  which  the  experiment  is  made,  should  receive  no  other  clean- 
ing than  such  as  to  give  it  a  good  character  with  the  merchant,  if 
sold  in  grain  ;  because  all  that  is  blown  out  of  it  at  the  mill 
is  lost ;  unless  the  miller's  Poultry  or  my  Hogs  derive  a  benefit 
from  it. 

1  never  was  more  surprized  than  to  find  only  1457  lbs.  of  wool 
from  the  shearing  of  568  sheep  (2^^  pound  pr.  Fleece  only). — From 
the  beginning  of  the  year  1784  when  I  returned  from  the  army, 
until  shearing  time  of  1788,  I  improved  the  breed  of  my  sheep  so 
much  by  buying  and  selecting  the  best  formed  and  most  promising 
Rams,  and  putting  them  to  my  best  ewes,  by  keeping  them  always 
well  culled  and  clean,  and  by  other  attentions,  that  they  averaged 
me  as  will  appear  by  Mr.  Lear's  acct.  (my  present  secretary,  and) 
who  then  lived  with  me,  rather  over  than  under  five  pounds  of 
washed  wool  each. — And  in  the  year  1789,  being  requested  by  Mr. 
Arthur  Young  to  send  him  a  fleece  of  my  Wool,  I  requested  my 
nephew  to  see  that  Mr.  Bloxham  took  one  from  a  sheep  of  average 
appearance   at  shearing  time,   and  send  it  to   Nev/  York  where 


394  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

I  then  was,  to  be  forwarded  to  that  Gentleman. — This  was  accord- 
ingly done,  and  weighed  5^. — How  astonished  must  I  be  then  at 
the  miserable  change  that  has  taken  place  since  ;  and  but  for  the 
caution  I  gave  you  to  guard  against  the  roguery  of  my  negros,  who 
formerly  have  been  detected  in  similar  practices,  I  should  have 
concluded  at  once  that  between  the  time  of  taking  the  wool  from 
the  sheep  and  the  delivery  of  it  into  your  hands,  a  very  large  toll 
indeed  had  been  taken  from  each  fleece  ;  for  I  do  not  suppose 
(for  fear  of  detection)  that  whole  fleeces  would  be  taken  ;  the 
number  from  each  Farm  being  known.  I  hope,  and  expect  they 
will  be  got  up  again  to  their  former  standard,  as  I  know  it  to  be 
practicable  with  care  and  attention  to  do  it ;  particularly  with 
respect  to  the  Rams. — It  is  painful  to  receive  no  report  unaccom- 
panied with  the  death  of  some  of  these  animals  ; — and  I  believe 
no  man  is  more  unlucky  in  the  deaths  or  in  the  accidents  to 
Horses  than  I  am  ;  for  I  am  continually  losing  them  by  one  means 
or  another.     2  June,  1793. 

In  due  course  of  Post  I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  31st  of 
May  and  5th  instant  ;  and  was  equally  surprized  and  concerned 
to  find  by  the  last,  that  your  health  was  in  the  declining  and  pre- 
carious state  you  describe  it  to  be,  because  you  had  not  given  the 
least  intimation  thereof  in  any  other  letter,  since  my  departure 
from  Mount  Vernon. — I  can  only  repeat  now,  what  I  have  often 
done  before,  that  it  is  by  no  means  my  desire  that  you  should  ex- 
pose yourself  in  the  discharge  of  my  business  ; — or  use  greater 
exertions  than  your  strength  will  bear ; — or  more  exercise  than 
is  good  for  your  health  ; — or,  in  a  word,  to  attempt  anything 
that  the  Doctr.  shall  not  think  proper  for  you  : — for  having  a 
full  view  of  the  state  of  my  Plantations  in  your  mind,  and 
knowing  the  design  for  each,  you  can,  from  the  weekly  reports 
(which  may  be  made  to  you  oftener  by  the  overseers,  if  necessary) 
give  such  directions  us  would  naturally  result  from  them, — which 
is  the  best  expedient  both  for  yourself  and  me,  that  occurs  to  me 
at  this  moment — being  unable  since  the  receipt  of  your  letter  to 
think  of  a  single  person  whose  ([ualifications  would  fit  him  for  the 
superintendence  of  my  business. — If  any  such  has  occurred  to  you, 
I  would  thank  you  for  naming  him,  hoping,  nevertheless,  that  oc- 
casion will  not  re(iuire  one  ;    but  having  a  proper  character  in 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  395 

view  may  not  be  amiss,  whether  wanting  or  not. — From  my  own 
experience  (and  the  measure  was  recommended  to  me  by  eminent 
Physicians)  wearing  flannel  next  the  skin  is  the  best  cure  for, 
and  preventative  of  the  Rheumatism  I  ever  tried, — and  for  your 
other  complaint,  which  you  suppose  to  be  in  your  lungs,  a  vegita- 
ble  and  milk  diet  I  should  suppose  would  be  proper  ;  avoiding  as 
much  as  possible  animal  food, — of  this  however  the  Doctors  must 
be  a  better  judge  ; — and  if  you  chuse  to  have  any  in  these  parts 
consulted  and  will  state,  or  get  your  case  stated,  I  will  lay  it  before 
the  person  highest  in  reputation  here  as  a  Physician,  and  send  you 
the  result. — I  shall  endeavor  to  be  at  Mount  Vernon  by  the  first  of 
next  month  ; — but  the  nature  of  public  business  is,  and  likely  to 
remain  such,  that  I  dare  not  promise  at  that,  or  any  other  time, 
to  be  there  ; — and  happen  when  it  will,  my  stay  must  be  short,  as 
I  cannot  be  long  absent  from  the  seat  of  the  Government  whilst 
matters  are  so  delicately  situated  as  they  are  at  present. — If  you 
have,  or  could  procure  a  few  oats  against  I  arrive,  -they  would  be 
acceptable  to  my  Horses. — I  shall  bring  only  4  or  at  most  five  with 
me  ; — nor  shall  I  be  able  to  stay  more  than  10  days  at  farthest. — 
You  may  tell  the  Gardener '  that  as  I  am  not  fond  of  changing — 
and  as  I  am  sure  he  would  very  soon  find  his  error  in  leaving  me — I 
will  allow  him  ;^3o  pr.  ann,  that  is  to  say  100  dollars,  provided  he 
will  engage  to  stay  two  years  at  that  rate  ; — will  allow  him  the 
same  perquisite  of  the  Garden,  when  I  am  from  home,  he  now  en- 
joys ;  and  a  horse  six  times  a  year  to  ride  to  Alexandria,  provided 
he  is  not  kept  out  of  nights. — With  respect  to  his  wife,  after  in- 
creasing his  own  wages  so  considerably,  I  must  be  well  informed 
what  serv^ices  she  is  to  render  before  I  shall  agree  to  make  any 
further  allowance  to  him,  in  addition  for  her  ;  for  I  should  think 
that  he  himself,  or  the  woman,  or  any  other  who  is  actuated  by  a 
just  and  honest  way  of  thinking,  will  readily  acknowledge  that  giv- 
ing her  Provisions  is  an  adequate  compensation  for  the  trouble  of 
weighing  out,  and  receiving  in,  the  work  of  the  spinners  once  a 
week,  if  all  the  intermediate  time  is  devoted  to  her  own  business. — 
If  she  does  more  than  this  for  me  the  case  differs  from  my  concep- 
tion of  it  ; — and  from  what  I  had  in  view  at  the  time  she  was  first 

'  John  Christian  Ehler,   who  had  been  secured  for  Washington  in  1790  at 
Bremen,  by  Henn'  Willmans,  Danish  consul  at  that  place. 


396  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

spoken  to,  for  then  it  was  my  full  expectation  that  after  the  4th  of 
March  I  should  return  to  a  permanent  residence  at  Mount  Vernon, 
and  in  that  case  to  have  made  her  the  Housekeeper  ;  which  from 
the  nature  of  the  Office  would  have  occupied  her  whole  time,  and 
of  course  would  have  entitled  her  to  a  proportionate  reward. — 
But  if  she  has  not  done,  nor  is  likely  to  do  more  than  weigh  out 
and  receive  in  work,  and  receives  her  provision  for  this,  there  is  no 
cause  that  I  am  able  to  discover,  for  enhancing  their  wages  on  that 
acct.     *     *     *     9  June,  1793/ 


LETTERS    TO    WILLIAM    PEARCE,^    1793- 

*  *  *  As  I  am  never  sparing  (with  proper  oeconomy)  in 
furnishing  my  Farms  with  any  and  every  kind  of  Tool  and  imple- 
ment that  is  calculated  to  do  good  and  neat  work,  I  not  only 
authorize  you  to  bring  the  kind  of  plows  you  were  speaking  to  me 
about,  but  any  others,  the  utility  of  which  you  have  proved  from 
your  own  experience  ; — particularly  a  kind  of  hand  rake  which 
Mr.  Stuart  tells  me  are  used  on  the  Eastern  shore  of  Maryland  in 
lieu  of  Hoes  for  corn  at  a  certain  stage  of  its  growth — and  a 
scythe  and  cradle  different  from  those  used  with  us,  and  with 
which  the  grain  is  laid  much  better. — In  short  I  shall  begrudge 
no  reasonable  expence  that  will  contribute  to  the  improvement 
and  neatness  of  my  Farms  ; — for  nothing  pleases  me  better  than 
to  see  them  in  good  order,  and  every  thing  trim,  handsome,  and 
thriving  about  them  ; — nor  nothing  hurts  me  more  than  to  fin^ 
them  otherwise,  and  the  tools  and  implements  laying  wherever 
they  were  last  used,  exposed  to  injuries  from  rain,  sun,  &c.  *  *  * 
6  October,  1793. 

The  paper  enclosed  with  this  letter  will  give  you  my  ideas,  gen- 
erally, of  the  course  of  crops  I  wish  to  pursue. — I  am  sensible 
more  might  be  made  from  the  farms  for  a  year  or  two — but 
my  ojjjcct  is  to  recover  the   fields  from   the  exhausted  state  into 

'  This  is  the  last  of   the  letters  written  to  Mr.  Whitin;^,  wlio  died  soon  after. 

■•'  I'earcc  had  served  as  overseer  for  Mr.  Ringgold,  in  Maryland  (page  306, 
ante),  and  early  in  October  agreed  to  assume  the  direction  of  Washington's 
estate,  at  an  annual  salary  of  one  hundred  guineas. 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  397 

which  they  have  fallen  by  oppressive  crops,  and  to  restore  thera 
(if  possible  by  any  means  in  my  power)  to  health  and  vigor.  But 
two  ways  will  enable  me  to  accomplish  this. — The  first  is  to  cover 
them  with  as  much  manure  as  possible  (winter  and  summer). — The 
2d.  a  judicious  succession  of  crops. 

Manure  cannot  be  had  in  the  abundance  the  fields  require  ;  for 
this  reason,  and  to  open  the  land  which  is  hard  bound  by  frequent 
cultivation  and  want  of  proper  dressings,  I  have  introduced  buck 
wheat  in  the  plentiful  manner  you  will  perceive  by  the  table,  both 
as  a  manure,  and  as  a  substitute  for  Indian  com  for  horses, 
&c.  ;  it  being  a  great  ameliorater  of  the  soil. — How  far  the 
insufferable  conduct  of  my  overseers,  or  the  difficulty  of  getting 
buck  wheat  and  oats  for  seeds,  will  enable  me  to  carry  my  plan 
into  effect,  I  am  unable  at  this  moment  to  decide.  You,  possibly, 
will  be  better  able  to  inform  me  some  time  hence.     *     *     * 

I  have  already  said  that  the  insufferable  conduct  of  my  over- 
seers may  be  one  mean  of  frustrating  my  plan  for  the  next  year. — 
I  will  now  explain  myself. — You  will  readily  perceive  by  the  rota- 
tion of  crops  I  have  adopted,  that  a  great  deal  of  Fall  plowing  is 
indispensible, — of  this  I  informed  every  one  of  them,  and  pointed 
out  the  fields  which  were  to  be  plowed  at  this  season.  So  anxious 
was  I,  that  this  work  should  be  set  about  early,  that  I  made  an 
attempt  soon  after  you  were  at  Mount  Vernon  in  September,  to 
begin  it ;  and  at  several  times  aftersvards  repeated  the  operation 
in  different  fields  at  Dogue  Run  farm  ;  but  the  ground  being 
excessively  hard  and  dry,  I  found  that  to  persevere  would  only 
destroy  my  horses  without  effecting  the  object,  in  the  manner 
it  ought  to  be,  and  therefore  I  quit  it ;  but  left  positive  directions 
that  it  should  recommence  at  every  farm  as  soon  as  there  should 
be  rain  to  moisten  the  earth — and  to  stick  constantly  at  it,  except 
when  the  horses  were  employed  in  treading  out  wheat  (which  was 
a  work  I  also  desired  might  be  accomplished  as  soon  as  possible). 
Instead  of  doing  either  of  these,  as  I  ordered,  I  find  by  the  reports 
that  McKoy '  has,  now  and  then,  plowed  a  few  days  only  as  if  it 
were  for  amusement.  That  Stuart  has  but  just  begun  to  do  it. — and 
that  neither  Crow '  nor  Davy  at  Muddy  Hole,  had  put  a  plow  into 

'  Henry  McKoy. 

*  Hiland  Crow,  overseer  of  the  Union  Farm  (Ferry  and  French's). 


398  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

the  ground  so  late  as  the  7th  of  this  month. — Can  it  be  expected 
then,  that  frosts,  snow  and  rain  will  permit  me  to  do  much  of  this 
kind  of  work  before  March  or  April  ?     *     *     * 

I  am  the  more  particular  on  this  head  for  two  reasons — first  to 
let  you  see  how  little  dependence  there  is  on  such  men  when  left 
to  themselves  (for  under  Mr.  Lewis  it  was  very  little  better) — and 
2dly,  to  show  you  the  necessity  of  keeping  these  overseers  strictly 
to  their  duty — that  is — to  keep  them  from  running  about,  and  to 
oblige  them  to  remain  constantly  with  their  people  ; — and  more- 
over, to  see  at  what  time  they  turn  out  of  a  morning — for  I  have 
strong  suspicions  that  this,  with  some  of  them,  is  at  a  late  hour, 
the  consequence  of  which  to  the  negros  is  not  difficult  to  foretell. 
— All  these  overseers  as  you  will  perceive  by  their  agreements, 
which  I  herewith  send,  are  on  standing  wages  ;  and  this  with  men 
who  are  not  actuated  by  the  principles  of  honor  or  honesty,  and 
not  very  regardful  of  their  characters,  leads  naturaljy  to  endul- 
gences — as  their  profits,  whatever  may  be  7nine,  are  the  same, 
whether  they  are  at  a  horse  race  or  on  the  farm — whether  they  are 
entertaining  company  (which  I  believe  is  too  much  the  case)  in 
their  own  houses,  or  are  in  the  field  with  the  negros. 

Having  given  you  these  ideas,  I  shall  now  add,  that  if  you  find 
any  one  of  them  inattentive  to  the  duties  which  by  the  articles  of 
agreement  they  are  bound  to  perform,  or  such  others  as  may 
reasonably  be  enjoined,  admonish  them  in  a  calm,  but  firm  man- 
ner of  the  consequences. — If  this  proves  ineffectual,  discharge 
them,  at  any  season  of  the  year  without  scruple  or  hesitation,  and 
do  not  pay  them  a  copper,  putting  the  non-compliance  with  their 
agreement  in  bar. 

To  treat  them  civilly  is  no  more  than  what  all  men  are  entitled 
to,  but,  my  advice  to  you  is,  to  keep  them  at  a  proper  distance  ; 
for  they  will  grow  upon  familiarity,  in  proportion  as  you  will  sink 
in  authority,  if  you  do  not. — Pass  by  no  faults  or  neglects  (espe- 
cially at  first)  for  overlooking  one  only  serves  to  generate  another, 
and  it  is  more  than  probable  that  some  of  them  (one  in  particular) 
will  try,  at  first,  what  lengths  he  may  go. — A  steady  and  firm  con- 
duct, with  an  intjuisitive  inspection  into,  and  a  proper  arrange- 
ment of  everything  on  your  part,  will,  though  it  may  give  more 
trouble  at  first,  save  a  great  deal  in  the  end — and  you  may  rest 


1793]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  399 

assured  that  in  everything  that  is  just  and  proper  to  be  done  on 
your  part,  [you]  shall  meet  with  the  fullest  support  on  mine. 
Nothing  will  contribute  more  to  effect  these  desirable  purposes 
than  a  good  example.  Unhappily  this  was  not  set  (from  what  I  have 
learnt  lately)  by  Mr.  AVhiting,  who,  it  is  said,  drank  freely — kept 
bad  company  at  my  house  and  in  Alexandria — and  was  a  very 
debauched  person.  Wherever  this  is  the  case,  it  is  not  easy  for  a 
man  to  throw  the  first  stone  for  fear  of  having  it  returned  to  him  ; 
— and  this  I  take  to  be  the  true  cause  why  Mr.  Whiting  did  not 
look  more  scrupulously  into  the  conduct  of  the  overseers,  and 
more  minutely  into  the  smaller  matters  belonging  to  the  Farms — 
which  though  individually  may  be  trifling,  are  not  found  so  in  the 
aggregate  ;  for  there  is  no  adage  more  true  than  an  old  Scotch 
one,  that  "  many  mickles  make  a  muckle." 

I  have  had  but  little  opportunity  of  forming  a  correct  opinion 
of  my  white  overseers,  but  such  observations  as  I  have  made  I 
will  give. 

Stuart  appears  to  me  to  understand  the  business  of  a  farm  very 
well,  and  seems  attentive  to  it.  He  is  I  believe  a  sober  man,  and 
according  to  his  own  account  a  very  honest  one.  As  I  never 
found  him  (at  the  hours  I  usually  visited  the  farm)  absent  from 
some  part  or  another  of  his  people,  I  presume  he  is  industrious, 
and  seldom  from  home.  He  is  talkative,  has  a  high  opinion  of 
his  own  skill  and  management,  and  seems  to  live  in  peace  and 
harmony  with  the  negros  who  are  confided  to  his  care.  He  speaks 
extremely  well  of  them,  and  I  have  never  heard  any  complaint  of 
him.  His  work,  however,  has  been  behind  hand  all  the  year, 
owing  he  says,  and  as  I  believe,  to  his  having  too  much  plowing  to 
do,  and  the  last  omission,  of  not  plowing  when  he  knew  my  motives 
for  wishing  it,  has  been  extremely  reprehensible.  But  upon  the 
whole,  if  he  stirs  early  and  works  late,  I  have  no  other  fault  to  find 
than  the  one  I  have  just  mentioned.  His  talkativeness  and  vanity 
may  be  humored. 

Crow  is  an  active  man,  and  not  deficient  in  judgment.  If  kept 
strictly  to  his  duty  would,  in  many  respects,  make  a  good  overseer. 
But  I  am  much  mistaken  in  his  character,  if  he  is  not  fond  of 
visiting,  and  receiving  visits.  This,  of  course,  withdraws  his 
attention  from  his  business,  and  leaves  his  people  too  much  to 


400  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1793 

themselves  ;  which  produces  idleness,  or  slight  work  on  the  one 
side,  and  flogging  on  the  other — the  last  of  which  besides  the  dis- 
satisfaction which  it  creates,  has,  in  one  or  two  instances  been 
productive  of  serious  consequences.  I  am  not  clear  either  that  he 
gives  that  due  attention  to  his  plow  horses  and  other  stock,  which 
is  necessary,  although  he  is  very  fond  of  riding  the  former — not 
only  to  Alexandria,  &c.,  but  about  the  farm,  which  I  did  not  for- 
bid, as  his  house  was  very  inconvenient  to  the  scene  of  his  business, 

McKoy  appears  to  me  to  be  a  sickly,  slothful  and  stupid  fellow. 
He  had  many  more  hands  than  were  necessary  merely  for  his 
crop,  and  though  not  70  acres  of  corn  to  cultivate,  did  nothing 
else.  In  short,  to  level  a  little  dirt  that  was  taken  out  of  the 
meadow  ditch  below  his  house  seems  to  have  composed  the  prin- 
cipal part  of  his  fall  work  ;  altho'  no  finer  season  could  have  hap- 
pened for  preparing  the  second  lot  of  the  mill  swamp  for  the 
purpose  of  laying  it  to  grass.  If  more  exertion  does  not  appear 
in  him  when  he  gets  into  better  health,  he  will  be  found  an  unfit 
person  to  overlook  so  important  a  farm,  especially  as  I  have  my 
doubts  also  of  his  care  and  attention  to  the  horses,  8z:c. 

As  to  Butler,  you  will  soon  be  a  judge  whether  he  will  be  of  use 
to  you  or  not.  He  may  mean  well,  and  for  ought  I  know  to 
the  contrary,  may  in  some  things  have  judgment  ;  but  I  am  per- 
suaded he  has  no  more  authority  over  the  negros  he  is  placed, 
than  an  old  woman  would  have  ;  and  is  as  unable  to  get  a  proper 
day's  work  done  by  them  as  she  would,  unless  led  to  it  by  their 
own  inclination,  which  I  know  is  not  the  case. 

Davy  at  Muddy  Hole  carries  on  his  business  as  well  as  the 
white  overseers,  and  with  more  quietness  than  any  of  them. 
With  proper  directions  he  will  do  very  well  ;  and  probably  give 
you  less  trouble  than  any  of  them,  except  in  attending  to  the 
care  of  his  stock,  of  which  I  fear  he  is  negligent ;  as  there  are 
deaths  too  frequent  among  them. 

Thomas  Green  (overlooker  of  the  carpenters)  will,  I  am  per- 
suaded, require  your  closest  attention,  without  which  I  believe  it 
will  be  impossible  to  get  any  work  done  by  my  negro  carpenters. 
In  the  first  place,  because  it  has  not  been  in  my  power,  when  I 
am  away  from  home,  to  keep  either  him  or  them  to  any  settled 
work  ;  but  they  will  be  flying  from  one  trifling  thing  to  another, 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  401 

with  no  other  design,  I  believe,  than  to  have  the  better  opportu- 
nity to  be  idle,  or  to  be  employed  on  their  own  business  ;  and, 
in  the  next  place,  because,  although  authority  is  given  to  him,  he 
is  too  much  upon  a  level  with  the  negros  to  exert  it  ;  from  which 
cause,  if  no  other,  every  one  works,  or  not,  as  they  please,  and 
carve  out  such  jobs  as  they  like.     18  December,  1793. 


TO    THOMAS    JEFFERSON. 

Philadelphia,  i  January,  1794. 

Dear  Sir, 

I  yesterday  received,  with  sincere  regret,  your 
resignation  of  the  office  of  Secretary  of  State.^  Since 
it  has  been  impossible  to  prevail  upon  you  to  forego 
any  longer  the  indulgence  of  your  desire  for  private 
life,  the  event,  however  anxious  I  am  to  avert  it,  must 
be  submitted  to. 

But  I  cannot  suffer  you  to  leave  your  station  with- 
out assuring  you,  that  the  opinion,  which  I  had 
formed  of  your  integrity  and  talents,  and  which  dic- 

'  Mr.  Jefferson's  Letter. — "  Dear  Sir  :  Ha\-ing  had  the  honor  of  communi- 
cating to  you  in  my  letter  of  the  last  of  July  my  purpose  of  retiring  from  the 
office  of  Secretary  of  State,  at  the  end  of  the  month  of  September,  you  were 
pleased  for  particular  reasons  to  wish  its  postponement  to  the  close  of  the  year. 
That  time  being  now  arrived,  and  my  propensities  to  retirement  daily  more 
and  more  irresistible,  I  now  take  the  liberty  of  resigning  the  office  into  your 
hands.  Be  pleased  to  accept  with  it  my  sincere  thanks  for  all  the  indulgences, 
which  you  have  been  so  good  as  to  exercise  towards  me  in  the  discharge  of  its 
duties.  Conscious  that  my  need  of  them  has  been  great,  I  have  still  ever 
found  them  greater,  without  any  other  claim  on  my  part  than  a  firm  pursuit  of 
what  has  appeared  to  me  to  be  right,  and  a  thorough  disdain  of  all  means, 
which  were  not  as  open  and  honorable  as  their  object  was  pure.  I  carry  into 
my  retirement  a  lively  sense  of  your  goodness,  and  shall  continue  gratefully 
to  remember  it. 

"  With  very  sincere  prayers  for  your  life,   health,   and  tranquillity,  I  pray 

you  to  accept  the  homage  of  the  great  and  constant  respect  and  attachment, 

with  which  I  have  the  honor  to  be,"  &c. — Philadelphia,  December  31st. 
26 


402  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

tated  your  original  nomination,  has  been  confirmed 
by  the  fullest  experience ;  and  that  both  have  been 
eminently  displayed  in  the  discharge  of  your  duty. 

Let  a  conviction  of  my  most  earnest  prayers  for 
your  happiness  accompany  you  in  your  retirement  ; 
and  while  I  accept,  with  the  warmest  thanks,  your 
solicitude  for  my  welfare,  I  beg  you  to  believe  that  I 
always  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO    JOHN    ADAMS. 
Dear    Sir,  Wednesday  8  January,  1794. 

I  would  thank  you  for  giving  the  papers  herewith 
enclosed  a  perusal — and  for  the  result  of  it. 

I  am  now  deliberating  on  the  measure  proper  and 

necessary  to  be  taken  with  respect  to  Mr.  G 1 

and  wish  for  aid  in  so  doing  ;  The  critical  State  of 
things  making  me  more  than  usually  anxious  to 
decide  right  in  the  present  case. 

None  but  the  heads  of  Departments  are  privy  to 
these  papers,  which  I  pray  may  be  returned  this 
evening,  or  in  the  morning — 

With  very  sincere  esteem  &c.^ 

'  The  President  "  made  me  a  very  friendly  visit  yesterday,  which  I  returned 
today,  and  had  two  hours'  conversation  with  him  alone  in  his  cabinet.  The 
conversation,  which  was  extremely  interesting,  and  equally  affectionate,  I  can- 
not explain  even  by  a  hint.  But  his  earnest  desire  to  do  right,  and  his  close 
application  to  discover  it,  his  deliberate  and  comprehensive  view  of  our  affairs 
with  all  the  world,  appeared  in  a  very  amiable  and  respectable  light.  The 
anti-federalists  and  the  frenchified  zealots  have  nothing  now  to  do,  that  I  can 
conceive  of,  but  to  ruin  his  character,  destroy  his  peace  and  injure  his  health. 
He  supports  all  their  attacks  with  great  firmness,  and  his  health  appears  to  be 
very  good.  The  Jacobins  would  make  a  sortie  upon  him  in  all  the  force  they 
could  muster,  if  they  dared." — John  Adarns  to  his  Wife,  9  January,  1794. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  403 

MESSAGE    TO    BOTH    HOUSES   OF    CONGRESS,    20    JANUARY 

1794. 

Havung  already  laid  before  you  a  letter  of  the  i6th  of  August, 
1793,  from  the  Secretary  of  State  to  our  Minister  at  Paris,  stating 
the  conduct,  and  urging  the  recall  of  the  Minister  Plenipoten- 
tiary of  the  Republic  of  France,  I  now  communicate  to  you, 
that  his  conduct  has  been  unequivocally  disapproved,  and  that 
the  strongest  assurances  have  been  given  that  his  recall  should 
be  expedited  without  delay.' 

'  The  newspapers  of  the  day  printed  in  February,  1794,  an  extract  from  a 
report  of  Robespierre  to  the  National  Convention  on  the  political  situation  of 
France,  in  which  he  said  of  Genet's  mission  : — 

"  By  a  ven.-  singular  fatality,  the  Representatives  of  the  Republic  in  America 
are  the  agents  of  the  traitors,  whom  she  has  punished.  The  brother-in-law  of 
Brissot  is  consul  general  with  the  United  States  from  France  ;  another  man  of 
the  name  of  Genet,  sent  by  Le  Brun  and  Brissot,  with  the  charge  of  Plenipo- 
tentiary Agent,  resides  at  Philadelphia,  and  has  faithfully  fulfilled  their 
designs  and  instructions.  He  has  made  use  of  the  most  unaccountable  means 
to  irritate  the  American  government  against  us  ;  he  affected  to  speak  without 
any  pretence,  in  a  menacing  tone  ;  and  to  make  proposals  to  that  government 
equally  contrary  to  the  interests  of  both  nations  ;  he  endeavored  to  render  our 
principles  suspected  or  formidable,  by  exceeding  them  by  the  most  ridiculous 
applications.  By  a  very  remarkable  contrast,  while  those  who  had  sent  him  to 
America,  persecuted  at  Paris,  the  popular  societies,  denounced  as  Anarchists, 
the  Jacobins  courageously  struggling  against  tyranny.  Genet  at  Philadelphia 
made  himself  chief  of  a  club,  and  never  ceased  to  make  and  excite  motions 
equally  injurious  and  perplexing  to  the  government.  Thus  the  same  faction 
which  wanted  to  subject  the  people  in  France  to  the  aristocracy  of  the  rich, 
endeavored  in  a  moment  to  set  free  and  arm  all  the  negroes  to  destroy  our 
colonies. " 

The  severest  critic  of  Genet  was  his  successor  Fauchet,  who  had  come  from 
France  in  association  with  three  other  "  commissaires "  to  disentangle  the 
meshes  of  Genet's  policy.  He  was  armed  with  power  to  arrest  Genet  and  the 
French  consuls  in  American  ports,  but  on  consulting  with  Randolph,  he  was 
told  that  the  United  States  only  demanded  the  recall  of  Genet  and  did  not 
seek  his  punishment  ;  that  the  President  could  not  acquiesce  in  such  a  meas- 
ure. The  commissioners  reported  to  the  Executive  Council  their  views  on 
Genet's  operations.  "  It  appeared  that  he  had  ^^gorously  pronounced  for  a 
party  in  opposition  to  the  government  of  the  United  States  ;  that  he  has  also 
exasperated  this  part)'.  That  he  has  ruffled  without  example  all  the  chiefs  of 
executive  power.     We  have  been  led  to  note  in  many  of  those  whom  he  saw  or 


404  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

TO    CHARLES    COTESWORTH    PINCKNEY. 

[confidential.] 

Philadelphia,  22  January,  1794. 

My  Dear  Sir, 

Although  I  am  not  encouraged  by  the  joint  letter, 
which  I  had  the  honor  to  receive  from  you  and  our 
friend  Mr.  E.  Rutledge,  (under  date  of  the  12th  of 
June,  1 791,)  yet,  in  a  measure  to  which  I  am  strongly 
prompted  both  by  judgment  and  inclination,  I  am  un- 
able to  restrain  myself  from  making  a  second  applica- 
tion to  you,  similar  to  the  former  one. 

I  have  cause  to  believe,  that  the  private  concerns 
of  the  gentleman,  who  is  now  at  the  head  of  the  de- 
partment of  war,  will  occasion  his  resignation  of  that 
office,  unless  imperious  circumstances  (which  Heaven 
avert)  should  force  us  into  a  war  with  any  of  the  bel- 
ligerent powers,  and,  under  such  circumstances,  he 
should  hold  it  dishonorable  to  retreat  from  his  post. 

with  whom  he  was  in  correspondence,  more  personal  hatred  of  Washington 
than  love  for  France.  In  others  we  have  seen  a  true  enthusiasm  for  the  cause 
of  liberty.  .  .  .  What  produced  his  exaggeration  and  that  of  his  agents  ? 
Some  dissensions  that  later  might  become  fatal  to  America  and  to  France,  the 
desertion  of  all  moderate  people  who  up  to  that  time  had  been  the  friends  of 
France,  and  who  have  again  rallied  to  our  cause  since  our  arrival.  Our  brave 
men,  our  soldiers,  our  officers,  our  sailors,  or  free  and  loyal  republicans,  hear- 
ing the  French  officials  pronounce  that  the  American  government  was  aristo- 
cratic, that  it  was  sold  to  the  English,  &c.,  went  everywhere  exaggerating  the 
proposal  of  the  minister  and  the  consuls.  .  .  .  To  justify  his  conduct. 
Genet  had  the  impudence  to  publish  a  part  of  his  instructions.  This  publica- 
tion would  have  done  us  much  harm,  if  he  had  not  had  the  vanity  to  declare 
that  he  had  accomplished  iheni  himself,  and  if  tliis  conduct  had  not  drawn 
upon  him  the  contempt  of  lionest  souls,  who  should  think  that  a  man  ought 
to  allow  himself  to  be  calumniated  rather  than  bring  his  government  into  ridi- 
cule or  disfavor,  and  if  it  was  not  generally  believed  that  he  had  made  an  oath 
of  allegiance  to  the  United  States." 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  405 

Towards  or  at  the  close  of  the  present  session  of 
Congress,  (which  is  hardly  to  be  expected  before  April, 
if  then,)  this  event,  if  it  takes  place,  is  likely  to  hap- 
pen. Will  you,  upon  this  hypothesis,  allow  me  to 
indulge  a  hope,  that  you  would  fill  his  place  ?  It  is  not 
for  the  mere  detail  duties  of  the  office  I  am  in  pur- 
suit of  a  character.  These  might  be  well  executed  by  a 
less  important  one  than  yours  ;  but,  as  the  officer, 
who  is  at  the  head  of  that  department,  is  a  branch 
of  the  executive,  and  called  to  its  councils  upon  in- 
teresting questions  of  national  importance,  he  ought 
to  be  a  man,  not  only  of  competent  skill  in  the  sci- 
ence of  war,  but  possessing  a  general  knowledge  of 
political  subjects  of  known  attachment  to  the  govern- 
ment we  have  chosen,  and  of  proved  integrity.  To 
whom,  then,  can  I  turn  my  eyes  with  more  propriety 
than  to  you  ?  I  mean  not  to  compliment,  but  to  ex- 
press the  real  sentiments  of  my  heart.^ 

The  intention  of  writing  this  letter,  and  the  pur- 
port of  it,  are  unknown  to  any  one  but  myself.  The 
result  may  be  equally  so,  since  it  is  placed  upon  an 
hypothetical  basis,  and  declared  to  be  confidential. 
No  more,  therefore,  than  you  choose,   need  be  dis- 

'  "  Of  all  the  public  offices  in  our  country,  the  one  you  mention  to  me  is  that 
which  I  should  like  best  to  fill  ;  except  in  case  of  a  general  war,  when,  if  other 
matters  should  admit,  I  should  prefer  being  in  the  field  ;  and,  though  I  am 
sensible  I  should  appear  to  great  disadvantage  in  an  office,  which  had  been  so 
ably  filled  by  General  Knox,  I  should  by  close  application  and  undeviating  in- 
tegrity endeavor  to  apologize  to  my  country  for  your  choice.  Entertaining 
these  sentiments,  judge  of  my  mortification  when  I  am  constrained  to  declare, 
that  circumstances  not  in  my  power  to  control,  will  prevent  my  accepting  the 
offer,  which  your  partiality  for  me  has  induced  you  to  make." — Pinckney  to 
Washington,  24  February,  1794. 


4o6  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

closed,  until  the  event  which  has  given  rise  to  the  ap- 
plication shall  have  taken  place,  although  it  is  essen- 
tial I  should  know,  in  the  mean  time,  on  what  ground 
I  rest ;  without  which,  inconveniences  might  result 
from  the  vacancy  of  the  office.  With  much  truth  and 
sincerity,  I  am,  &c. 


TO    THOMAS    JOHNSON. 

Philadelphia,  23  Januar)-,  1794. 

Dear  Sir, 

Your  letter  of  the  23d  ult.  came  duly  to  hand. 
With  regret  I  perceive  your  determination  to  with- 
draw from  the  Commission  under  which  you  have 
acted  for  executing  the  plan  of  the  Federal  City. — 
My  wish  was,  and  still  is,  if  it  could  be  made  to  com- 
port with  your  convenience  and  inclination,  that  it 
should  be  changed,  or  at  least  suspended  ;  for  I  should 
be  sorry  to  see  others  (coming  in  at  the  eleventh  hour 
as  it  were)  reap  the  fruits  of  your  difficult  labors  ; 
but  if  this  cannot  be,  I  would  thank  you  for  naming 
(which  may  be  in  confidence)  such  persons  as  you  shall 
think  best  qualified  to  succeed  you  in  this  interesting 
and  important  business. — My  limited  acquaintance 
with  convenient  characters  does  not  enable  me  to  do 
it  to  my  own  satisfaction  ;  and  even  among  those, 
which  might  happen  to  present  themselves  to  my 
view,  there  might  be  local  circumstances  in  the  way, 
unknown  to  me  which  would  render  them  ineligible 
in  the  opinion  of  the  public  ;  for  the  impartial  execu- 
tion of  the  trust  reposed.  Were  it  not  for  this  I 
presume  proper  characters  might  be  had  in  George- 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  407 

town,  or  among  the  Proprietors  of  the  City,  but  how 
far  their  connections  or  jarring  interests  therein, 
may  be  a  let  to  such  appointments  is  worthy  of  that 
consideration  which  you  can  so  well  appreciate  for 
my  information. 

With  respect  to  Mr.  Blodget  I  have  not  hesitated 
on  former  occasions  to  declare  and  I  think  to  the 
Commisioners  themselves  from  the  moment  his  con- 
duct began  to  unfold  itself,  that  his  appointment  did 
not  in  my  judgment  answer  the  end  which  had  been 
contemplated. — At  first  I  was  at  a  loss  how  to  ac- 
count for  a  conduct  so  distant  from  any  of  the  ideas  I 
had  entertained  of  the  duties  of  a  Superintendent, 
but  it  appears  evidently  enough  now,  that  specula- 
tion has  been  his  primary  object  from  the  beginning. 

My  letters  (if  not  to  the  Commissioners,  to  an 
individual  member  I  am  sure)  when  compared  with 
the  conduct  of  Mr.  Blodget,  will  shew  that  he  has  in  no 
wise  answered  my  expectations  as  Superintendent  for 
my  ideas  of  these  (in  the  exercise  of  a  competent 
character,  always  on  the  spot  with  sufficient  powers, 
and  fully  instructed)  were,  that  it  would  render  a 
meeting  of  the  Commissioners  oftener  than  quarterly, 
or  half  yearly,  unnecessary  in  the  ordinar}-  course 
of  the  business  ;  cases  it  is  true  might  occur  requir- 
ing occasional  ones,  but  these,  after  the  stated  meet- 
ings were  sufficiently  promulgated,  would  very  rarely 
happen.  According  to  these  ideas,  fixing  on  a  plan, 
giving  the  outlines  of  it,  receiving  the  reports,  in- 
specting the  proceedings,  examining  the  accounts, 
revising  the  instructions  or  furnishing  new  ones  at 


4o8  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

the  periodical  meetings  is  all  that  appeared  to  me 
necessary  for  the  Commissioners  to  do  ;  leaving  to 
the  Superintendent,  who  ought  to  be  competent 
thereto  and  responsible,  the  execution  in  detail. 

I  wish  you  may  have  yet  seen  the  worst  feature 
in  Mr.  Blodget's  conduct.  Finding  that  he  was 
determined  to  proceed  in  his  second  Lottery,  not- 
withstanding the  admonition  that  had  been  given  him 
by  the  Commissioners  ; — that  he  had  actually  sold 
tickets  in  it — and  for  Georgia  land;^  I  directed  the 
Secretary  of  State  to  inform  him  in  explicit  terms, 
that  if  he  did  not  instantly  suspend  all  further  pro- 
ceeding therein  until  the  sanction  of  the  Commission- 
ers should  be  unequivocally  obtained,  I  would  cause 
the  unauthorised  mode  in  which  he  was  acting  to  be 
announced  to  the  public,  to  guard  it  against  imposi- 
tion. In  consequence  he  has  set  out,  it  is  said,  to  wait 
upon  them.  If  this  be  true,  the  result  you  must  know. 
Little  confidence,  I  fear,  is  placed  in  Mr.  Blodget 
and  least  where  he  is  best  known. 

With  much  truth,  I  remain. 


TO    GEORGE    CLINTON,    GOVERNOR    OF    NEW    YORK. 

[private.] 
Dear    Sir  I'hiladklphia,  31  March,  1794. 

Your  favor  of  the  20th  instant,  with  its  enclosures, 
came  duly  to  hand,  for  which  you  have  my  particular 
thanks.      As  there  are  those,  who   affect  to  believe, 


'  The  Minerva,  23  December,  1793,  contains  a  sharp  attack  on   Hlodget  for 
his  speculations. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  409 

that  Great  Britain  has  no  hostile  intention  towards 
this  country,  it  is  not  surprising  that  there  should  be 
found  among  them  characters  who  pronounce  the 
speech  of  Lord  Dorchester  to  the  Indians  to  be 
spurious.  No  doubt,  however,  remains  in  my  mind 
of  its  authenticity.  But,  as  it  is  important  to  be 
satisfied  (so  far  as  the  nature  of  the  thing  will  admit,) 
of  the  fact,  I  would  thank  you  for  such  information 
as  you  are  enabled  to  give  of  this  matter.^ 

How  far  the  disappointments,  experienced  by  the 
combined  powers  in  Europe,  may  have  wrought  a 
change  in  the  political  conduct  of  Great  Britain 
towards  this  countr}%  I  shall  not  take  upon  me  to 
decide.  That  it  has  worn  a  very  hostile  appearance 
latterly,  if  it  has  not  been  so  uniformly,  no  one,  I 
conceive,  will  be  hardy  enough  to  deny  ;  and  that 
Lqrd  Dorchester  has  spoken  the  sentiments  of  the 
British  cabinet,  at  the  period  he  was  instructed,  I  am 
as  ready  to  believe.  But,  foiled  as  that  ministry  has 
been,  whether  it  may  not  have  changed  its  tone,  as  it 
respects  us,  is  problematical.  This,  however,  ought 
not  to  relax  such  inquiries,  on  our  part,  into  the  ex- 
isting state  of  things,  as  might  enable  us,  if  matters 
should  come  to  extremities,  to  act  promptly  and  with 
vioror. 

Among  these  inquiries  it  appears  important  to  me 
to  know  the  present  state  of  things  in  Upper  and 
Lower  Canada,  that  is,  the  composition  of   the  in- 

'  Although  Chief-Justice  Marshall  regarded  this  speech  of  Lord  Dorchester 
as  fictitious  or  a  forgery,  Mr.  Rives  has  established  its  authenticitj'.  Life  of 
Madison,  iii.,  418. 


41  o  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

habitants,  especially  in  Upper  Canada,  how  they 
stand  affected  to  their  government,  and  what  part 
they  would  be  disposed  to  act,  if  a  rupture  between 
this  country  and  Great  Britain  should  take  place  ;  the 
proximity  of  our  settlements,  from  the  northwestern 
to  the  northeastern  part  of  the  State  of  New  York, 
with  the  Lake  Ontario  and  the  River  St.  Lawrence, 
the  strength  thereof,  and  of  their  neighbors  on  the 
other  side  of  the  line,  regulars  and  militia,  especially 
about  Niao^ara  and  Oswecro. 

o  o 

As  you  have,  I  am  certain,  a  pretty  accurate  knowl- 
edge of  many  of  these  matters  yourself,  and  have  the 
means,  from  your  acquaintance  with  characters,  on 
whose  adroitness  and  integrity  you  can  rely,  border- 
ing on  the  British  settlements,  to  obtain  information 
from  others,  you  would  oblige  me  very  much  by  such 
communications  as  relate  to  the  above,  or  any  other 
points  that  you  may  conceive  worthy  of  attention. 
With  great  esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON,    SECRETARY    OF    THE 
TREASURY. 

c,p  Philadelphia,  8  April,  1794. 

I  cannot  charge  my  memory  with  all  the  particu- 
lars which  have  passed  between  us  relative  to  the 
disposition  of  the  money  borrowed.  Your  letters, 
however,  and  my  answer,  which  you  refer  to  in  the 
foregoing  statement,  and  have  lately  reminded  me  of, 
speak  for  themselves,  and  stand  in  need  of  no  ex- 
planation. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  411 

As  to  verbal  communications,  I  am  satisfied  that 
many  were  made  by  you  to  me  on  this  subject  ;  and, 
from  my  general  recollection  of  the  course  of  pro- 
ceedings, I  do  not  doubt,  that  it  was  substantially  as 
you  have  stated  it  in  the  annexed  paper,  that  I  have 
approved  of  the  measures,  which  you  from  time  to 
time  proposed  to  me  for  disposing  of  the  loans,  upon 
the  condition  that  what  was  to  be  done  by  you  should 
be  agreeable  to  the  laws.     I  am,  &c.^ 

'  Early  in  1793  the  charge  was  formally  made  on  the  floor  of  the  house  by 
Findley,  that  "  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  had  acknowledged  that  he  had 
not  applied  the  money  borrowed  in  Europe  agreeably  to  the  legal  appropria- 
tions of  the  President.  That  he  had  acknowledged  his  ha^-ing  drawn  to  this 
country,  and  applied  in  Europe  to  uses  for  which  other  moneys  were  appropri- 
ated, three  millions  of  dollars."  At  the  ensuing  session  of  Congress  Hamilton 
demanded  an  inquiry  into  his  conduct,  and  these  charges  were  among  the  mat- 
ters to  be  investigated.  The  immediate  act  in  question  applied  to  the  loans  made 
in  1790-91,  under  authority  of  Congress,  and  the  use  of  the  money  obtained 
from  these  loans  was  controlled  by  Hamilton  acting  under  sanctions  "  for  the 
most  part  verbal  "  of  the  President.  Hamilton  drew  up  a  paper  giving  the 
"  Principles  and  Course  of  Proceeding"  with  respect  to  this  matter,  but  the 
Committee  of  Congress  was  not  satisfied  with  it,  and  asked  that  it  be  submitted 
to  the  President,  who  added  the  "  certificate  "  dated  8  April,  1794.  In  a  digni- 
fied letter  in  reply,  Hamilton  directed  Washington's  attention  to  the  inadequacy 
of  the  certificate,  as  being  better  calculated  to  play  into  the  hands  of  his  ene- 
mies than  to  justify  his  official  conduct.  The  letters  that  passed  at  the  time  on 
this  subject  were  in  brief  : 

"  Finding  on  recurring  to  it,  your  instructions  to  me,  competent  to  the  dis- 
position of  the  sum  borrowed,  I  have  directed  Mr.  Short  to  apply  one  million 
and  a  half  of  the  loan,  which  was  to  commence  in  Februarj',  as  a  payment  to 
France  ...  I  thought  it  adsisable  to  dispose  of  a  principal  part  of  the 
loan  to  this  object,  not  only  from  the  general  considerations  which  operate  in 
the  case,  but  from  a  desire  to  counteract  the  success  of  some  negotiations  with 
the  French  court  for  the  purchase  of  the  debt  due  from  us,  which  are  not 
for  the  interests  of  the  United  States." — Hamilton  to  Washington,  14  April, 
1791.  Hamilton  does  not  appear  to  have  submitted  this  question  of  the  appli- 
cation of  the  loan  to  the  Vice-President  and  members  of  the  cabinet,  but  only 
asked  their  opinion  of  the  expediency  of  directing  the  opening  of  a  second 
loan. — yefferson  to  Washington,  17  April,  1791.     Jefferson,  however,  knew  of 


412  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

TO  JAMES  Mchenry, 
[private.] 

Philadelphia,  8  April,  1794. 

Dear  Sir, 

Your  private  letters  of  the  31st  of  March  and  3d 
instant  have  been  duly  received.  Although  it  is  a 
rare,  if  not  an  entire  new  thing  with  me,  to  answer 
letters  applying  for  appointments,  yet,  from  motives 
of  esteem  and  regard,  and  our  former  connexion  in 
public  life,  I  shall  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  yours 
on  this  head  ;  although  I  can  say  nothing  more  on 
the  subject,  than  to  explain  the  motives,  which 
have  imposed  silence  upon  me  on  these  occasions. 
They  are, 

First,  because  letters  of  this  sort  are  so  numerous, 
that  to  give  them  a  civil  answer  would  employ  too 
much  of  my  time. 

Secondly,  because  civil  answers  might  be  construed 
to  mean  more  than  was  intended  ;  and, 

the  negotiations  on  foot  witli  France,  and  did  not  wish  the  debt  to  "  pass  into 
the  hands  of  speculators,  and  be  subjected  ourselves  to  the  chicaneries  and 
vexations  of  private  avarice,"  and  he  would  have  the  speculators  informed 
"  without  reserve,  that  our  government  condemns  their  projects,  and  reserves  to 
itself  the  right  of  paying  nowhere  but  into  the  treasury  of  France,  according 
to  their  contract." — Jefferson  to  Short,  25  April,  1791.  This  occurred  while 
Washington  was  on  his  southern  tour,  but  he  wrote  in  reply  from  Charleston  to 
Hamilton,  "concluding  from  Mr.  Short's  statement  of  his  negotiation  in  Am- 
sterdam and  from  tlic  opinions  offered  in  your  letter  of  the  iith,  that  the  loan 
has  been  obtained  on  the  best  terms  practical)le,  and  that  its  aj^ijlication  in  the 
manner  you  propose  will  be  the  most  advantageous  to  the  United  States,  I  do 
hereby  signify  my  apjirobation  of  what  has  been  already  done,  as  communi- 
cated in  your  letters  of  the  ilth  and  14th  of  April.  Assenting  to  the  further 
progress  of  the  loans,  as  recommended  by  you  in  these  letters,  I  request  that 
instructions  may  be  given  for  com|)leting  them  agreeably  thereto." — 7  May, 
1791.  The  defence  of  Hainiltem  is  printed  in  his  Works  (Lodge),  ii.,  454-473. 
Randolpli's  view  is  printed  in  Conway,  Kamiolpli,  2i6,  217. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  413 

Thirdly,  because  coeval  with  my  inauguration  I 
resolved  firmly,  that  no  man  should  ever  charge  me 
justly  with  deception.  Abundant  reason  I  have  had 
to  rejoice  at  this  determination ;  for  I  have  expe- 
rienced the  necessity,  in  a  variety  of  instances,  of 
hardening  my  heart  against  indulgences  of  my  warm- 
est inclination  and  friendship,  and,  from  a  combina- 
tion of  causes,  as  well  as  mere  fitness  of  character,  to 
depart  from  first  impressions  and  first  intentions 
with  regard  to  nominations  ;  which  has  proved  most 
unequivocally  the  propriety  of  the  maxim  I  had 
adopted,  of  never  committing  myself,  until  the  mo- 
ment the  appointment  is  to  be  made,  when,  from  the 
best  information  I  can  obtain,  and  a  full  view  of 
circumstances,  my  judgment  is  formed. 

With  respect  to  your  second  letter  of  the  3d  of 
April,  I  have  only  to  add,  and  that  in  confidence, 
that  every  thing  which  friendship  requires,  and  which 
I  could  do  without  committing  my  public  character, 
or  involving  this  country  in  embarrassments,  is  and 
has  been  for  some  time  in  train,  though  the  result  is 
as  yet  unknown.^  I  am  very  sorry  to  hear  of  your  bad 
state  of  health,  but  hope  the  approaching  pleasant 
season  will  restore  you.  With  ver}^  great  esteem,  I 
am,  &c. 

'  In  explanation  of  this  letter  it  is  proper  to  state,  that  the  object  for  which 
Mr.  McHenry  had  applied  for  an  appointment  was  the  release  of  Lafayette, 
whose  aid-de-camp  he  had  formerly  been. 

"  I  thought,"  said  he,  in  his  letter  to  the  President,  "  that  perhaps  it  might 
come  within  your  view  at  this  juncture  to  send  a  commissioned  person  to 
Vienna  to  solicit  the  release  of  M.  de  Lafayette,  with  powers  to  proceed  to 
France  on  a  like  errand  in  favor  of  his  wife  and  children,  in  order  that  the 
whole  might  be  removed  to  this  country." — 3  April,  1794. 


414  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

TO    JAMES    MONROE/ 

Philadelphia,  9  April,  1794. 

Sir, 

In  reply  to  your  letter  of  yesterday,  I  can  assure 
you,  with  the  utmost  truth,  that  I  have  no  other 
object  in  nominating  men  to  offices,  than  to  fill  them 
with  such  characters  as,  in  my  judgment,  or,  when 
they  are  unknown  to  me,  from  such  information  as  I 
can  obtain  from  others,  are  best  qualified  to  answer 
the  purposes  of  their  appointment. 

'  On  19  December,  1793,  Jefferson's  elaborate  report  on  the  commercial 
relations  of  the  United  States  with  the  different  powers  of  Europe,  was  laid 
before  Congress,  after  more  than  two  years  had  been  expended  in  its  prepara- 
tion. In  it  he  preached  the  doctrine  of  reprisal.  "  Should  any  nation,  con- 
trary to  our  wishes,  suppose  it  may  better  find  its  advantage  by  continuing  its 
system  of  prohibitions,  duties,  and  regulations,  it  behooves  us  to  protect  our 
citizens,  their  commerce,  and  navigation  by  counter  prohibitions,  duties,  and 
regulations  also."  On  the  basis  of  this  report  Madison  prepared  a  series  of 
resolutions  which  were  offered  to  the  House  3  January,  1794,  proposing  retalia- 
tory duties  and  restrictions,  and  a  discrimination  in  duties  on  imports  from 
countries  having  no  commercial  treaties  with  the  United  States.  After  adopt- 
ing the  first  resolution  (3  February,  1794),  the  subject  was  postponed  for 
a  month,  to  await  further  information  from  England.  The  British  order 
directing  English  vessels  to  seize  and  bring  to  British  ports  "all  ships  laden 
with  goods  the  produce  of  any  colony  belonging  to  France,  or  carrying  pro- 
visions or  other  supplies  for  the  use  of  any  such  colony,"  though  dated  6  Novem- 
ber, 1793,  had  not  been  published  by  the  admiralty  till  late  in  December. 
Pinckney  at  once  sought  to  have  the  order  revoked,  or  at  least  modified  so  as 
not  to  apply  to  American  trade.  In  this  he  was  partially  successful,  and  on 
8  January,  1794,  another  instruction  was  issued  limiting  the  application  to 
ships  laden  with  French  produce  coming  direct  from  a  French  colony  to  any 
port  in  Europe  ;  ships  laden  with  French  goods,  the  jiropcrly  of  French  sub- 
jects, wherever  found  ;  all  vessels  seeking  to  enter  ports  blockaded  by  the 
British  ;  and  vessels  laden  in  whole  or  in  part  with  military  or  naval  stores, 
bound  for  the  islands. 

Intelligence  of  the  first  instruction,  togctlier  with  the  rejiorts  of  numerous 
seizures  of  American  vessels  by  British  cruisers,  reaclieil  America  while  Con- 
gress was  arresting  a  decision  on  Madison's  resolutions,  and  excited  great 
'.ndignation  in  and  out  of  Congress,  which  the  subsequent  modification  did  not 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  415 

Having  given  you  this  assurance,  I  request,  if  you 
are  possessed  of  any  facts  or  information,  which 
would  disqualify  Colonel  Hamilton  for  the  mission 
to  which  you  refer,  that  you  would  be  so  obliging  as 
to  communicate  them  to  me  in  writing,  I  pledge 
myself,  that  they  shall  meet  the  most  deliberate, 
impartial,  and  candid  consideration  I  am  able  to 
give  them. 

Colonel  Hamilton  and  others  have  been  men- 
tioned, and  have  occurred  to  me,  as  an  envoy,  for 
endeavoring  by  negotiation  to  avert  the  horrors  of 
war.      No  one,  if  the  measure  should  be  adopted,  is 

allay.  Madison  wished  to  press  his  remedy;  while  others  looked  to  more 
stringent  measures — an  embargo,  and  an  army.  Of  these  meastires  the  House 
passed  an  embargo,  but  it  was  thrown  out  in  the  Senate  by  the  vote  of  the 
Vice-President,  and  by  this  time  Washington  had  determined  to  try  negotia- 
tion. At  an  early  stage  the  name  of  Hamilton  was  suggested  {Monroe  to  Jeffer- 
son, 16  March,  1794),  but  in  replying  to  the  President's  wish  for  an  opinion  on 
the  proposed  mission,  Hamilton  begged  that  his  name  be  dropped,  and  rec- 
ommended the  appointment  of  Jay. 

Naturally  the  mention  of  Hamilton  excited  much  alarm  among  the  republi- 
cans. Monroe  appealed  to  the  President,  and  received  the  above  reply, 
while  Jefferson  wrote  to  Monroe,  24  April,  1 794  : 

"  I  learn  by  your  letters  and  Mr.  Madison,  that  a  special  mission  to  Eng- 
land is  meditated,  and  H[amilton],  the  missionary.  A  more  degrading  meas- 
ure could  not  have  been  proposed  :  and  why  is  Pinckney  to  be  recalled  ?  For 
it  is  impossible  he  should  remain  there  after  such  a  testimony  that  he  is  not 
confided  in.  I  suppose  they  think  him  not  thorough  paced  enough  ;  I  suspect 
too  the  mission,  besides  the  object  of  placing  the  aristocracy  of  this  country 
under  the  patronage  of  that  government,  has  in  view  that  of  withdrawing  H. 
from  the  disgrace  and  the  public  execrations  which  sooner  or  later  must  fall  on 
the  man  who,  partly  by  creating  fictitious  debt,  partly  by  volunteering  in  the 
payment  of  the  debts  of  others,  who  could  have  paid  them  so  much  more  con- 
veniently themselves,  has  alienated  forever  all  our  ordinary-  and  easy  resources, 
and  will  oblige  us  hereafter  to  extraordinary  ones  for  ever}-  little  contingency 
out  of  the  common  line  :  and  who  has  lately  brought  the  President  forward 
with  manifestations  that  the  business  of  the  Treasury  had  got  beyond  the 
limits  of  his  comprehension." 


4i6  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 


yet  absolutely  decided  on  in  my  mind.  But,  as  much 
will  depend,  among  other  things,  upon  the  abilities 
of  the  person  sent,  and  his  knowledge  of  the  affairs 
of  this  country,  and  as  I  alone  am  responsible  for  a 
proper  nomination,  it  certainly  behoves  me  to  name 
such  an  one,  as,  in  my  judgment,  combines  the  requi- 
sites for  a  mission  so  peculiarly  interesting  to  the 
peace  and  happiness  of  this  country.  With  great 
esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  &c. 


TO    RICHARD    HENRY    LEE. 

Dear  Sir,  Philadelphia,  15  April,  1794. 

*  -Jf  *  *  -X-  * 

The  manners  of  M.  Fauchet  and  of  M.  Genet,  the 
present  and  former  ministers  from  France,  appear  to 
have  been  cast  in  very  different  moulds.^    The  former 

'  "  I  am  very  happy  to  hear  of  Genet's  recall,  and  hope  it  may  prove  a 
lesson  to  others,  however  justified  by  instructions  or  seeming  to  be  so,  that 
they  may  not  with  impunity  trample  upon  all  the  forms  of  decency  and  respect, 
that  have  hitherto  been  practised  in  the  world. 

"  Is  it  possible  that  there  can  be  any  rational  proof  of  the  court  of  London 
intriguing  with  Algiers  and  Portugal  to  hound  out  the  former  against  our 
trade  ?  In  any  way  that  I  can  view  the  subject,  I  cannot  see  the  great  interest 
that  stimulates  a  conduct  so  unjustifiable,  so  contrary  to  neutrality,  and  at  a 
peculiar  crisis  too,  when  our  friendship,  not  our  enmity,  is  to  be  desired.  It 
is  chiefly  flour  and  grain,  that  are  sent  to  the  south  of  Europe,  in  which 
articles,  I  l)elieve,  we  have  not  the  smallest  competition  with  Great  Britain. 
At  the  same  time  that  the  profits  of  this  trade  enable  our  merchants  to  jiay  for 
the  immensity  of  British  manufactures,  that  Messrs.  Jefferson  and  Madison 
say  we  import  from  thence,  I  confess  that  I  do  not  by  any  means  approve 
the  trade  resolves  introduced  to  Congress  by  the  latter.  They  appear  to  me  to 
l)e  partial,  very  ill-timed,  and  totally  unnecessary.  Because  the  fact  (admit- 
ting it  to  be  one,  on  which  this  whole  theory  is  built,  and  when,  by  the  by, 
theories  and  the  practice  of  commerce  have  seldom  agreed  well)  of  our  commerce 
being  so  very  highly  beneficial  to  Great  Britain  as  is  stated,  this  fact,  from 
the  nature  of  things,  must  be  continually  increasing  ;  so  as  to  put  the  gainers 


I794J  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  '  417 

has  been  temperate  and  placid  in  all  his  movements 
hitherto.  The  latter  was  the  reverse  of  it  in  all 
respects.  The  declarations  made  by  the  former,  of 
the  friendly  dispositions  of  his  nation  towards  this 
country,  and  of  his  own  inclinations  to  carry  them 
into  effect,  are  strong  and  apparently  sincere.     The 

greatly  too  much  in  our  power  to  permit  them  the  idea  of  refusing  our  reason- 
able desires.  And  this  without  proceeding  at  a  time,  and  in  a  manner,  evi- 
dently to  show  a  prejudiced,  hostile  temper  of  mind.  But  what  astonishes  me 
is,  to  see  so  many  of  our  Virginia  representatives  voting  for  this  most  pernicious 
policy  !  For  certainly  Virginia  will  feel  the  ruinous  consequences  of  this 
crambo  trade  fatally  and  quicldy.  I  hope  your  goodness  will  excuse  my 
writing  so  much  on  this  subject.  The  plan  has  often  engaged  the  public 
attention,  and  been  generally  reprobated. 

"  The  newspapers  tell  us,  that  the  present  minister  from  France  condemns 
in  toto  the  conduct  of  his  predecessor,  and  in  the  same  unlimited  manner 
approves  the  proceedings  of  our  government,  especially  in  what  relates  to  our 
avoiding  war.  That  he  is  right  in  both  these  points  is  incontestable.  But, 
attending  to  all  we  have  seen,  what  consistent  judgment  can  be  formed  to 
reconcile  such  contrarieties  ?  I  here  lay  aside  the  crafty,  deep,  and  intricate 
politics,  that  have  distinguished  the  genius  of  France  through  all  the  annals 
of  history  ;  by  which  she  has  duped  so  many  nations  for  her  own  advantage, 
and  to  their  great  injury.  I  have  never  heard  it  denied  or  doubted,  that  the 
instructions  published  by  Genet  were  the  genuine  orders  of  his  masters  ;  and 
although  in  his  conduct  you  discover  the  furious  zeal  of  a  mad  precursor,  yet  it 
is  impossible  not  to  see,  through  the  whole  of  the  instructions,  the  most 
decided  determination  to  push  us  into  the  war  by  ever}'  possible  means.  The 
words  of  the  instructions  are,  '  We  ought  to  excite  by  all  possible  means  the 
zeal  of  the  Americans,'  &c.  Fortunately,  very  fortunately,  for  these  States, 
the  wisdom  and  patriotism,  firmness  and  vigilance,  of  our  government  have 
frustrated  the  destructive  design.  But  is  it  possible  that  this  minister  can 
speak  the  sentiments  of  his  masters,  when  he  approves  the  condemnation  of 
what  they  so  warmly  and  evidently  desired  ?  It  is  here  again  lucky  for  us, 
that  we  are  fairly  put  upon  our  guard  against  all  the  arts  and  detours  of  the 
subtlest  policy. 

"  The  success  and  happiness  of  the  United  States  are  our  care  ;  and  if  the 
nations  of  Europe  approve  war,  we  surely  may  be  permitted  to  cultivate 
the  arts  of  peace.  And  it  is  really  a  happiness  to  reflect,  that,  if  war  should 
befall  us,  our  government  will  not  promote  it ;  but  give  cause  to  all,  who 
venerate  humanity,  to  revere  the  rulers  here." — Richard  Henry  Lee  to  Wash 
ington,  15  April,  1794. 


4i8  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

conduct  of  the  latter  is  disapproved  in  toto  by  the 
governments  of  both.  Yet  it  is  time  only,  that  will 
enable  us  to  form  a  decisive  judgment  of  each,  and 
of  the  objects  of  their  pursuit. 

The  British  ministry  (as  you  will  have  perceived 
by  Mr.  Pinckney's  letter  to  the  Secretary  of  State, 
which  is  just  published)  disclaim  any  hostile  inten- 
tion towards  this  country,  in  the  agency  they  had  in 
bringing  about  a  truce  between  Portugal  and  Algiers  ; 
yet  the  tenor  of  their  conduct,  in  this  business,  has 
been  such,  added  to  their  manoeuvres  with  our  Indian 
neighbors,  but  more  especially  with  respect  to  the  late 
orders  of  the  King  in  council,  as  to  leave  very  un- 
favorable impressions  of  their  friendship,  and  little  to 
expect  from  their  justice,  whatever  may  result  from 
that  of  the  interest  of  their  nation. 

The  debates  on  what  are  commonly  called  Mr. 
Madison  s  Resolutions,  which  no  doubt  you  have  seen, 
(they  having  been  published  in  all  the  gazettes,)  will 
give  you  \\\^  pro  and  con  of  that  business  more  in  de- 
tail, than  I  could  do  it,  if  my  leisure  were  greater  than 
it  is.  But  these  resolutions,  like  many  other  matters, 
are  slumbering  in  Congress  ;  and  what  may  be  the 
final  result  of  them,  no  mortal  I  believe  can  tell. 

I  learn  with  regret  that  your  health  has  continued 
bad  ever  since  I  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you  at 
Shuter's  Hill.  Warm  weather,  I  hope,  will  restore 
it.  If  my  wishes  could  be  of  any  avail,  you  assuredly 
would  have  them.  With  best  respects  to  Mrs.  Lee, 
and  the  rest  of  your  family,  in  which  Mrs.  Washington 
unites,  I  am,  with  very  great  esteem  and  regard,  dear 
Sir,  &c. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  419 

TO    EDMUND    RANDOLPH,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 

Tuesday  Morning,  15  April,  1794. 

Dear  Sir, 

Let  me  know  whether  the  message  (which  in  the 
evening  of  yesterday)  I  requested  you  to  draw,  will 
be  ready  by  eleven  o'clock  this  forenoon  ?  If  you 
answer  in  the  affirmative,  I  shall  require  the  gentle- 
men, with  whom  I  usually  advise  on  these  occasions, 
to  attend  me  at  that  hour ;  for  I  consider  that  mes- 
sage, (both  as  to  matter  and  form,)  of  such  import- 
ance as  to  make  it  necessary,  that  every  word  of  it 
should  undergo  due  consideration. 

My  objects  are,  to  prevent  a  war,  if  justice  can  be 
obtained  by  fair  and  strong  representatrons  (to  be 
made  by  a  special  envoy)  of  the  injuries  which  this 
country  has  sustained  from  Great  Britain  in  various 
ways,  to  put  it  into  a  complete  state  of  military 
defence,  and  to  provide  eventually  for  such  measures, 
as  seem  to  be  now  pending  in  Congress  for  execu- 
tion, if  negotiation  in  a  reasonable  time  proves 
unsuccessful. 

Such  is  the  train  of  my  thoughts ;  but  how  far  all, 
or  any  of  them,  except  the  first,  ought  to  be  intro- 
duced into  the  message,  in  the  present  stage  of  the 
business  in  Congress,  deserves,  as  I  have  said  before, 
due  consideration.     Yours,  &c.^ 

'  This  message  was  the  one  in  which  Mr.  Jay  was  nominated  to  the  Senate 
as  envoy  extraordinary  to  England.  The  first  object  only,  mentioned  above, 
was  introduced  into  the  message,  which  was  sent  the  next  day  as  follows : 

"  Gentlemen  of  the  Senate  ;  The  communications  which  I  have  made  to  you 
during  your  present  session,  from  the  despatches  of  our  minister  in  London, 
contain  a  serious  aspect  of  our  affairs  with  Great  Britain.  But,  as  peace  ought 
to  be  pursued  with  unremitted  zeal,  before  the  last  resource,  which  has  so  often 
been  the  scourge  of  nations,  and  cannot  fail  to  check  the  advanced  prosperity 


420  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

TO    JOHN    FITZGERALD. 

Philadelphia,  27  April,  1794. 

Dear  Sir: 

Your  letter  of  the  14th  instant  came  to  hand  in  due 
course  of  post,  and  would  have  received  an  earlier 
acknowledgement  had  I  not  been  pressed  with  other 
business. 

I  have  no  hesitation  in  declaring  that  the  conduct 
of  Mr.  Thomas  Digges  towards  the  United  States 
during  the  War  (in  which  they  were  engaged  with 
Great  Britain)  and  since  as  far  as  the  same  has  come 
to  my  knowledge,  has  not  been  only  friendly,  but  I 
mi^ht  add  zealous. 

When  I  conversed  with  you  on  this  subject  in 
Alexandria,  I  thought  I  recollected  a  special  and 
pointed  instance  of  beneficial  service  he  had  rendered 
this  Country  in  sending  me  between  the  leather  and 
pasteboard  cover  of  a  book,  some  important  intelli- 
gence ;  but  upon  reflecting  more  maturely  on  the 
matter  since,  I  am  unable  to  decide /^i-zV^'z^^/y  whether 
it  was  from  him,  or  another  gentleman  this  expedient 
was  adopted  to  elude  the  consequences  of  a  search.^ 

of  the  United  States,  is  contemplated  ;  I  have  thought  proper  to  nominate,  and 
do  hereby  nominate,  John  Jay,  as  envoy  extraordinary  of  the  United  States  to 
his  Britannic  Majesty. 

"  My  confidence  in  our  minister  plenipotentiary  in  London  continues  un- 
diminished, liut  a  mission  like  this,  while  it  corresponds  with  the  solemnity 
of  the  occasion,  will  announce  to  the  world  a  solicitude  for  a  friendly  adjust- 
ment of  our  complaints,  and  a  reluctance  to  hostility.  Going  immediately 
from  the  United  States,  such  an  envoy  will  carry  with  him  a  full  knowledge  of 
the  existing  temjier  and  sensibility  of  our  country,  and  will  thus  be  taught  to 
vindicate  our  rights  with  firmness,  and  to  cultivate  peace  with  sincerity." 

Hamilton's  draft  of  instructions  for  Jay  are  printed  in  his  Works  (Lodge) 
iv.,  300. 

'  It  was  Arthur  Lee. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  421 

— Be  this  however  as  it  may,  it  is  in  my  recollection 
that  various  verbal  zovciV(\\imQ.2i\AOVi's,  came  to  me,  as  from 
him,  by  our  captives,  who  had  escaped  from  confine- 
ment in  England ;  and  I  think  I  have  reed,  written 
ones  also  :  but  the  latter  (if  at  all)  must  have  been 
rare  on  account  of  the  extreme  hazard  of  discovery, 
and  the  consequences  which  would  follow,  both  to 
the  writer  and  bearer  of  such  correspondences. 

Since  the  War,  abundant  evidence  might  be  ad- 
duced of  his  activity  and  zeal  (with  considerable 
risque)  in  sending  artizans  and  machines  of  public 
utility  to  this  Country — I  mean  by  encouraging  and 
facilitating  their  transportation,  as  also  of  useful 
information  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  to  put  him 
on  his  guard  against  nefarious  attempts  to  make 
Paper,  &c. — for  the  purpose  of  counterfeiting  our 
money.  Until  you  mentioned  the  doubts  which 
were  entertained  of  Mr.  Digges'  attachment  to  this 
country,  I  had  no  idea  of  its  being  questioned. 
With  esteem  and  regard  I  am,  &c. 

P.  S.  Since  writing  the  foregoing  letter,  I  have 
seen  and  conversed  with  Mr.  John  Trumbull  respect- 
ing Mr.  T.  Digges.  The  former,  before  he  was  com- 
mitted to  the  Tower  of  London,  was  well  acquainted 
with  the  latter  in  England,  and  much  in  his  company. 
To  him  Mr.  Digges  always  appeared  well  attached  to 
the  rights  and  interests  of  the  United  States  ;  k7iows 
that  he  was  active  in  aiding  our  citizens  to  escape 
from  their  confinement  in  England  ;  and  believes  he 
was  employed  to  do  so  by  Doctor  Franklin.  Mr. 
Trumbull  has  never  seen  Mr.  Diaores  since  he  left  the 


&& 


42  2  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

Tower,  but  has  heard  that  a  difference  arose  between 
him  and  the  Doctor  not  from  any  distrust  entertained 
by  the  latter  of  disaffection  in  the  former,  but  on  the 
settlement  of  their  accounts. 

The  preceding  statement  is  made  from  the  best 
recollection  I  have  of  the  subject. — The  expression 
might  (if  I  had  had  more  leisure)  be  more  correct, 
but  not  more  consonant  with  truth — Such  as  it  is  you 
are  welcome  to  make  what  use  you  please  of  it.^ 


TO    JOHN    JAY. 
[secret  and  confidential.] 

Philadelphia,  29  April,  1794. 

My  Dear  Sir, 

Receive,  I  pray  you,  the  suggestion  I  am  going  to 
impart,  with  the  friendship  and  caution  the  delicacy 
of  it  requires. 

You  are  already  informed,  that  I  am  under  the 
necessity  of  recalling  Mr.  Gouverneur  Morris  from 
France,  and  you  can  readily  conceive  the  difficulty 
which  occurs  in  finding  a  successor,  that  would  be 
agreeable  to  that  nation,  and  who,  at  the  same  time, 
would  meet  the  approbation  of  the  friends  of  that 
country  in  this. 

These  considerations  have  induced  me  to  ask  you, 
if  it  could  be  made  to  comport  with  your  inclination, 
after  you  shall  have  finished  your  business  as  envoy, 
and    not    before,    to    become    the    resident  minister 

'  I  j)rint  this  letter,  because  it  gives  a  view  of  Digges  quite  different  from 
that  generally  accepted.     See  I'ord,  Letters  of  William  Lee,  i.,  340. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  423 

plenipotentiary  at  London,  that  Mr.  Pinckney,  by 
that  means,  might  be  sent  to  Paris  ?  I  mean  no 
more,  than  simply  to  ask  the  question,  not  intending, 
although  the  measure  would  remove  the  above  diffi- 
culty, to  press  it  in  the  smallest  degree. 

If  you  answer  in  the  affirmative,  be  so  good  as  to 
return  the  enclosed  letter  ^  to  me,  and  correspondent 
arrangements  shall  be  made.  If  in  the  negative,  I 
pray  you  to  forward  it  through  the  penny  post,  or 
otherwise,  according  to  circumstances,  to  the  gentle- 
man to  whom  it  is  directed  without  delay ;  and,  in 
either  case,  to  let  the  transaction  be  confined  entirely 
to  ourselves.  With  much  truth  and  regard,  I  am 
sincerely  and  affectionately  yours. 


TO    EDMUND    RANDOLPH,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 

Philadelphia,  29  April,  1794. 

Sir, 

I  have  read  the  draft  of  your  letter,  intended  as  an 
answer  to  the  British  minister's  reply  to  Mr.  Pinck- 
ney's  memorial,  on  the  instructions  of  the  8th  of 
June,  1793.  Those  of  the  6th  of  November  follow- 
ing stand  unconnected  with  the  subject. 

It  is  essential,  that  all  the  cited  cases  should  be 
correct,   and   that   the  general   statement  should  be 

'  The  letter  here  alluded  to  is  one  making  an  offer  of  the  appointment  to 
France  to  Robert  R.  Livingston.  Mr.  Jay  and  Mr.  Livingston  both  declined 
the  offer,  and  Monroe  was  named.  Livingston  was  governed  by  the  fear  that 
the  council  in  New  York  would  fill  the  place  he  should  resign,  with  a  man  of 
contrary  political  principles,  and  so  alter  the  relations  of  parties  in  the  State. 
He  was  also  opposed  to  the  policy  of  Washington's  administration. 


424  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

placed  on   uncontrovertible  ground  ;    otherwise  the 
argument  will  recoil  with  redoubled  force. 

Close  attention  being  given  to  these  matters,  and 
the  ideas  expressed  without  warmth  or  asperity,  if 
upon  a  revision  such  should  be  found  to  have  inter- 
mingled, I  see  no  objection  to  the  particular  answer 
which  is  prepared.      I  am,  &c.^ 


TO    TOBIAS    LEAR. 


Philadelphia,  6  May,  1794. 

TT  Tv  7P  VT  w  7P 

To  tell  you  that  the  order  of  his  Britannic  Majesty 
in  council,  of  the  8th  of  June  last,  respecting  neutral 
vessels,  had  given  much  discontent  in  the  United 
States,  and  that  that  of  the  6th  of  November  and  its 
result  had  thrown  them  into  a  flame,  will  hardly  be 
news  to  you  when  you  shall  have  received  this  letter. 
The  subsequent  order  of  the  8th  of  January  has  in  a 
degree  allayed  the  violence  of  the  heat,  but  will  by 
no  means  satisfy  them  without  reparation  for  the 
spoliations  on  our  trade,  and  the  injuries  we  sustain 
from  the  non-performance  of  the  treaty  of  peace. 
To   effect  these  if  possible  by  temperate  means,  by 

'  Randolph  had  first  submitted  his  letter  to  Hamilton,  who  had  noticed  a 
"  tartness  of  language  "  that  was  not  advisable.  "  Before  I  began  to  write,  I 
asked  Mr.  Jay,  whether  he  would  prefer  that  the  subject  should  be  left  as  it  is, 
or  taken  uj)  by  me  in  the  way  of  refutation.  He  thought  that  it  was  better  to 
enter  ujion  a  refutation  of  Mr.  Hammond's  memorial.  Mr.  Jay  will  otherwise 
be  obliged  to  do  the  same  thing  himself.  And  I  cannot  conceive  that  a  foreign 
minister  ought  to  press  upon  the  Secretary  of  State  doctrines  of  great  prejudice 
to  the  U.  S. — and  that  tlie  Secretary  should  remain  silent,  as  if  he  were  afraid 
or  could  not  answer  them." — Randolph  to  Washington,  28  April,  1794. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  425 

fair  and  firm  negotiation,  an  envoy  extraordinary  is 
appointed,  and  will,  I  expect,  sail  in  a  few  days.  Mr. 
Jay  is  chosen  for  this  trust.  Mr.  John  Trumbull 
goes  as  his  private  secretary'. 

Many  measures  have  been  moved  in  Congress,  in 
consequence  of  the  aforementioned  orders  of  the 
British  cabinet.  Some  have  passed  into  acts,  and 
others  are  yet  pending.  Those,  which  have  become 
laws,  are,  one  for  fortifying  our  principal  seaports 
(which  is  now  in  vigorous  execution),  and  for  raising 
an  additional  corps  of  eight  hundred  artillerymen  for 
the  defence  of  them  and  for  other  purposes.  The 
bills,  which  are  pending,  are  to  complete  our  present 
military  establishment  ;  to  raise  an  army  of  twenty- 
five  thousand  in  addition  thereto  ;  and  to  organize, 
put  in  training,  and  to  hold  in  readiness  at  a  minute's 
warning  a  select  corps  of  eighty  thousand  militia. 
Of  the  passing  of  the  first  and  last  of  these,  no  doubt 
seems  to  be  entertained  on  either  side  of  the  House ; 
but  those,  who  are  fearful  of  what  they  call  a  stand- 
ing army,  will  give  all  the  opposition  they  can  to  the 
other.  The  result  therefore  none  will  predict  in  the 
present  stage  of  the  business. 

Besides  these,  a  bill  passed  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives by  a  large  majority,  founded  on  the  follow- 
ing preamble  and  resolution  : — 

"  Whereas,  the  injuries  which  have  been  suffered,  and  may  be 
suffered  by  the  United  States,  from  violations  committed  by 
Great  Britain  on  their  neutral  rights  and  commercial  interests,  as 
well  as  from  the  failure  to  execute  the  seventh  article  of  the  treaty 
of  peace,  render  it  expedient  for  the  interests  of  the  United 


426  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

States,  that  the  commercial  intercourse  between  the  two  countries 
should  not  continue  to  be  carried  on  in  the  extent  at  present 
allowed  ; 

"Resolved,  that  from  and  after  the  ist  day  of  November  next 
all  commercial  intercourse  between  the  citizens  of  the  United 
States  and  the  subjects  of  the  King  of  Great  Britain,  or  the  citizens 
or  subjects  of  any  other  nation,  as  far  as  the  same  respects  articles 
of  the  growth  or  manufacture  of  Great  Britain  or  Ireland,  shall  be 
prohibited." 

This  measure  was  arrested  in  the  Senate  at  the 
third  reading  by  the  casting  vote  of  the  Vice-Presi- 
dent ;  not,  as  it  is  said  and  generally  believed,  from 
a  disinclination  to  the  ulterior  expedience  of  the 
measure,  but  from  a  desire  to  try  the  effect  of  nego- 
tiation previous  thereto.  Sequestration  of  British 
property,  exclusive  of  that  in  the  funds,  and  other 
expedients  of  a  similar  kind,  have  been  agitated  in 
the  House  of  Representatives,  but  seem,  I  think,  to 
be  talked  off  the  stage. 

I  wish  most  sincerely,  that  some  inducement  could 
be  offered  Professor  Anderson,  which  would  bring 
him  to  this  country.  His  labors  are,  certainly,  ingen- 
ious and  worthy  of  encouragement  ;  but  I  fear  it 
will  not  be  in  my  power  to  avail  these  States  of  them. 
His  communications,  however,  are  under  considera- 
tion.    *     *     * 

Often  throucrh  the  medium  of  Mr.  Lano;don  we 
hear  of  your  son  Lincoln  and  with  pleasure  that  he 
continues  to  be  the  healthy  and  sprightly  child  he 
always  was.  He  declared  if  his  ticket  should  turn 
up  a  prize  he  would  go  and  live  in  the  Federal  City. 
He  did  not  consider,  poor  little  fellow,  that  some  of 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  4^7 

the  prizes  would  hardly  build  him  a  baby  house,  nor 
foresee  that  one  of  these  was  to  fall  to  his  lot, 
having  drawn  ten  dolls,  only.  Mr.  Bl — t's  agency  in 
this  lottery  will  it  is  feared,  be  more  productive  of 
thorns  than  roses ;  the  matter  is  not  yet  wound  up 
and  the  Commissioners  appear  to  be  uneasy.  In  all 
other  respects  matters,  as  far  as  the  accounts  of  them 
have  come  to  my  knowledge,  are  going  on  well. 

My  public  avocations  will  not  at  any  rate  admit  of 
more  than  a  flying  trip  to  Mount  Vernon  for  a  few 
days  this  summer.  This  not  suiting  Mrs.  Washington, 
I  have  taken  a  house  in  Germantown  to  avoid  the 
heat  of  this  city  in  the  month  of  July  and  August. 
She,  Nelly,  and  the  rest  of  the  family,  unite  with  me 
in  every  good  wish  for  your  health,  prosperity,  and 
safe  return,  than  whom  none  you  may  be  assured 
offers  them  with  more  sincerity.  With  affection 
and  regard,   I  am  and  always  shall  be  yours. 


TO     ALEXANDER     HAMILTON,     SECRETARY     OF     THE 
TREASURY. 

[private.] 
Dear  Sir:  6 May.  1794. 

In  answering  your  note  of  yesterday  respecting  M. 
Talleyrand-Perigord,  I  do  not  hesitate  to  declare, 
that  I  find  it  difficult  to  hit  upon  a  line  of  conduct 
towards  characters,  under  the  description  that  gentle- 
man is,  (emigrants,)  that  is  satisfactory'  to  my  own 
mind,  or,  more  properly,  that  is  free  from  exception, 
by  avoiding  what  might  seem  to  be  incivility  on  one 


428  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

hand,  or  unpleasant  political  consequences  on  the 
other.  I  can  perceive  very  clearly,  that  the  conse- 
quences of  receiving  these  characters  into  the  public 
rooms  will  be  driving  of  the  French  minister  from 
them.  His  visits  are  much  less  frequent  than  they 
were  ;  and  an  occurrence  on  Tuesday  last,  which  shall 
be  mentioned  when  you  call  here,  has  left  no  doubt 
as  to  the  cause. 

A  particular  introduction  of  these  characters  (out 
of  the  usual  course)  would  I  presume  be  more 
noticed,  than  the  reception  of  them  in  public.  It  has 
become  expedient,  therefore,  in  my  opinion,  that 
principles  should  be  adopted  in  these  cases,  (not  only 
for  the  President,  but  the  executive  officers  also,)  by 
which  evils  may  be  avoided,  and  uniformity  observed. 
What  these  had  best  be,  deserves  consideration. 

My  wish  is,  and  it  is  not  less  my  duty  as  an  officer 
of  the  republic,  to  avoid  offence  to  powers  with  which 
we  are  in  friendship,  by  conduct  towards  their  pro- 
scribed citizens,  which  would  be  disagreeable  to 
them  ;  whilst  at  the  same  time  these  emigrants,  if 
people  of  a  good  character,  ought  to  understand,  that 
they  will  be  protected  in  their  persons  and  property, 
and  will  be  entitled  to  all  the  benefits  of  our  laws. 
For  the  rest,  they  must  depend  upon  their  own 
behavior  and  the  civilities  of  the  citizens  at  large, 
who  are  less  restrained  by  political  considerations, 
than  the  officers  of  government  must  be. 

Yours  always.* 

'  Talleyrand  had  lately  arrived  in  the  United  States,  and  was  the  bearer  of 
a  letter  to  President  Washington  from  the  Marquis  of  Lansdowne.    The  French 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  429 

TO    ROBERT    LEWIS. 

Philadelphia,  18  May,  1794. 

Dear  Sir, 

Your  letter  of  the  7th  instant  came  duly  to  hand, 
with  the  Rental  enclosed. 

As  there  are  no  houses  or  anything  standing  on 
my  lots  in  the  Town  and  Common  of  Winchester,  it 
is  of  no  great  moment  what  is  done  with  them.  I 
am  not  disposed  to  sell  them,  nor  to  part  with  them 
on  lease  for  a  long  term  ;  but  if  you  could  obtain  an 
annual  rent  for  either,  or  both,  without  running  me 
to  any  expense,  it  would,  however  small,  be  clear. 
With  respect  to  my  Lots  in  Bath,  something  ought 
to  be  done  with  them.  The  buildings  thereon,  to- 
gether with  the  Lots  stand  me  in  at  least  ;^200, — but 
whether  common  interest  can  be  obtained  in  a  rent 
for  them,  you  who  know  the  state  of  things  in  that 
quarter  can  judge  better  of  than  I  am  able  to  do  ; 
and  therefore  I  leave  it  to  you  to  act  for  me  as  you 
would  for  yourself.  If  they  were  even  let  to  some 
one  who  would  keep  the  buildings  in  repair  it  would 

minister,  Fauchet,  claimed  that  he  had  prevented  any  official  recc^nition  of 
Talleyrand  and  Beaiimetz,  his  companion. 

Washington  wrote  to  the  Marquis  of  Lansdowne,  30  August,  1794  :  "  It  is 
matter  of  no  small  regret  to  me,  that  considerations  of  a  public  nature,  which 
you  will  easily  conjecture,  have  not  hitherto  permitted  me  to  manifest  towards 
that  gentleman  the  sense  I  entertain  of  his  personal  character,  and  of  your 
Lordship's  recommendation. 

"  But  I  am  informed,  that  the  reception  he  has  met  with  in  general  has  been 
such,  as  to  console  him,  as  far  as  the  state  of  society  here  will  admit  of  it,  for 
what  he  has  relinquished  in  leaving  Europe.  Time  must  naturally  be  favorable 
to  him  everywhere,  and  may  be  expected  to  raise  a  man  of  his  talents  and 
merit  above  the  temporary  disadvantages,  which  in  revolutions  result  from 
differences  of  political  opinion." 


430  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 


be  more  desirable  by  far  than  without  a  tenant,  or 
some  people  to  take  care  of  them,  to  suffer  them  to 
fall  to  ruin. 

I  do  not  know  whether  I  clearly  understand  your 
proposition  of  an  exchange  of  the  Land  on  Potomac 
for  a  Lot  in  Berkeley  County.  The  first  contains 
240  acres  instead  of  140  as  mentioned  in  your  letter  ; 
200  of  which  is  rich  river  bottom,  which  must,  as  the 
navigation  of  the  river  improves,  become  extremely 
valuable  from  the  produce  it  is  capable  of  ;  besides 
the  fine  black  walnuts  which  grow  thereon,  and 
would  fetch  a  good  sum  at  the  federal  City,  if  others 
can  be  restrained  from  pilfering  them.  On  the  other 
hand  I  know  of  no  land  I  hold  at  the  mouth  of  Bull- 
skin,  nor  any  lease  that  was  ever  given  to  a  person 
of  the  name  of  Dimmitt.  No  such  name  I  am  pretty 
sure,  is  to  be  found  in  the  original  list  of  my  tenants  ; 
and  equally  sure  I  am  no  leases  have  been  given  of 
late  years  (with  my  consent)  for  three  lives.  When 
you  explain  this  matter  more  fully,  it  will  be  more  in 
my  power  than  it  is  at  present  to  speak  to  you  on 
this  particular  point.  Speaking  of  leases  for  lives,  I 
am  led  to  observe  to  you,  that  the  lives  will  never 
decrease,  nor  the  leases  fall  in,  unless  the  occupants, 
where  they  are  not  the  lessees,  are  put  to  the  proof 
of  the  existence  of  those  who  were  originally  inserted. 
I  do  not  recollect  any  instance  of  my  changing  names 
where  the  leases  have  been  transferred,  and  but  few 
of  my  consenting  to  transfers  ;  which  makes  me  more 
desirous  of  knowing  how  a  person  of  the  name  of 
Dimmitt  (which   I   do  not  recollect  at  all)  should  be 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  431 

possessed  of  a  lease  for  three  lives.  I  hope  Muse 
has  not  abused  my  confidence  in  putting  blank  leases 
into  his  hands,  signed,  in  order  to  be  filled  up  there- 
after by  doing  it  improperly. 

Altho'  I  can  very  illy  spare  the  money  arising  from 
the  rents  you  have  collected  ;  yet  if  the  lots  are 
susceptible  of  such  augmentation  in  the  annual 
income,  by  purchasing  in  the  Leases  as  you  think  of 
I  consent  to  your  applying  the  money  in  your  hands 
to  this  purpose,  in  cases  where  there  is  a  moral  cer- 
tainty of  a  considerable  increase  of  rent  ;  and  that 
the  purchases  are  made  by  the  first  of  next  Novem- 
ber. You  will  ascertain  precisely  before  you  attempt 
these  purchases — ist,  what  lives  are  ^^r/azVz/v  existing 
in  them,  and  2dly,  whether  the  covenants  in  them 
have  been  complied  with  on  the  part  of  the  tenants, 
— for  in  the  first  case  I  may  be  purchasing  that  which 
belongs  to  me  of  right — and  in  the  second  case  that 
which  they  have  forfeited  by  a  non-compliance  with 
the  conditions  on  which  the  Leases  were  granted. 
You  will  recollect  also,  that  by  the  terms  of  all  or 
most  of  the  Leases,  the  Tenant  is  not  at  liberty  to 
sell  to  any  one  without  my  consent. 

I  am  sorry  you  should  meet  with  any  difficulty 
about  the  land  I  gave  you  about  the  Accoceek  old 
Iron  Works.  I  am  not  possessed  of  any  papers 
belonging  to  it,  nor  is  it  in  my  power  to  point  you  to 
any  office  where  they  are  to  be  found  ;  but  I  should 
conceive  that  the  tract  is  so  well  known  that  all  the 
adjoining  landholders  are  able  to  shew  you  the 
bounds  of  it.     There  was  one  John  Honey  that  knew 


432  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

it  well  ;  and  I  believe  Colo.  Charles  Carter  of 
Ludlow,  has  some  knowledge  of  it.  I  have  been  told 
that  some  person  in  Falmouth  (whose  name  I  do  not 
recollect)  had  pillaged  the  lands  of  the  most  valuable 
pines  thereon  ;  and  that  either  he,  or  some  other, 
talked  of  escheating  it  ;  but  I  never  supposed  injus- 
tice would  prompt  any  one  to  such  a  measure.  Per- 
haps this,  or  some  such  mode  might  be  adviseable 
for  you,  as  the  title  papers  are  not  to  be  found  nor 
the  manner  in  which  my  mother  came  by  it,  to  be 
traced  with  precision.  By  will  (I  have  understood) 
it  was  left  to  her  by  her  father  (Ball),  but  what  his 
Christian  name  was  I  am  not  able  to  tell  you,  nor 
the  county  he  lived  in  with  certainty,  but  presume  it 
was  Lancaster. — This  will  seems  to  me  to  be  the  only 
clue  by  which  the  title  can  be  traced  ;  the  bequest 
probably  may  as  usual  contain  some  description  of 
the  Land.^ 

Your  aunt  and  the  family  join  me  in  best  regards 
for  Mrs.  Lewis.     I  am,  &c. 


TO     ALEXANDER      HAMILTON,      SECRETARY     OF     THE 
TREASURY. 

Philadelphia,  29  May,  1794. 

Sir  : 

The  communication,  which  you  made  to  me  some 
time  ago,  of  your  intention  to  resign,  and  to  which 
you  refer  in  your  letter  of  the  27th  instant,  (received 

'  The  father  of  Mrs.  Washington  was  Joseph  Ball  (second  son  of  Colonel 
William  IJall),  who  lived  at  Epping  Forest,  in  Lancaster  County,  Virginia. 
He  died  in  June,  171 5.  For  an  account  of  the  Accokeek  lands,  see  Ford 
Wills  of  George  Washington  and  His  Immediate  Ancestors,  1891. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  433 

yesterday  afternoon,)  I  always  considered  as  depend- 
ing upon  events. 

Of  course  nothing  has  been  done  by  me  to  render 
your  continuance  in  office  inconvenient  or  ineligible. 
On  the  contrary,  I  am  pleased  that  you  have  deter- 
mined to  remain  at  your  post  until  the  clouds  over 
our  affairs,  which  have  come  on  so  fast  of  late,  shall 
be  dispersed.     I  am,  &c.' 


TO    GOUVERNEUR     MORRIS. 

[private] 

Mount  Vernon,  25  June,  1794. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

The    sole    object  of   the    enclosed    letter'  was   to 
evince  to  you,  that,  notwithstanding  your  recall,  you 

'  "  I  some  time  since  communicated  an  intention  to  withdraw  from  the  office 
I  hold,  towards  the  close  of  the  present  session.  This  I  should  now  put  in  ex- 
ecution but  for  the  events  which  have  lately  accumulated,  of  a  nature  to  render 
the  prospect  of  a  continuance  of  our  peace  in  a  considerable  degree  precarious. 
I  do  not  perceive  that  I  could  voluntarily  quit  my  post  at  such  a  juncture,  con- 
sistently with  considerations  either  of  duty  or  character  ;  and  therefore  I  tind 
myself  reluctantly  obliged  to  defer  the  offer  of  my  resignation. 

"  But  if  any  circumstances  should  have  taken  place  in  consequence  of  the 
intimation  of  an  intention  to  resign,  or  should  otherwise  exist,  which  serve  to 
render  my  continuance  in  office  in  any  degree  inconvenient  or  ineligible,  I  beg 
leave  to  assure  you.  Sir,  that  I  should  yield  to  them  with  all  the  readiness 
naturally  inspired  by  an  impatient  desire  to  relinquish  a  situation,  in  which 
even  a  momentary  stay  is  opposed  by  the  strongest  personal  and  family  reasons, 
and  could  only  be  produced  by  a  sense  of  duty  or  reputation." — From  Mr. 
Hamilton! s  Letter. 

'"  The  difficulty,  under  existing  circumstances,  of  knowing  what  to  write  to 
you,  had  determined  me  to  write  nothing,  but  to  let  the  matter  rest  altogether 
upon  the  public  communications  from  the  Secretary  of  State. 

"Coming  to  this  place,  however,  on  a  flying  visit  to  Mount  Vernon,  and 
finding  the  vessel,  which  Mr.  Monroe  is  on  board  of,  had  not  left  the  river, 
I  have  so  far  departed  from  my  determination,  as  to  be  seated  in  order  to 


434  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

held  the  same  place  in  my  estimation  that  you  did 
before  it  happened.  I  expected  to  get  the  letter  into 
Colonel  Monroe's  hands  before  the  vessel,  in  which 
he  was,  had  left  the  Petapsco  River ;  but  a  fresh  and 
fair  wind  coming  up  prevented  its  reaching  him. 

Since  my  arrival  at  this  place  I  have  been  favored 
with  your  private  latter  of  the  12th  of  March,  enclos- 
ing duplicate  of  the  5th  of  February.  For  both  I 
thank  you.  To  common  accidents,  or  to  the  inter- 
ception of  letters,  for  purposes  to  be  guessed,  are  to 
be  ascribed  those  disappointments  of  which  you  com- 
plain ;  for  I  am  almost  certain,  information  of  what 
was  going  forward  in  this  country  was  regularly  trans- 
mitted to  you  ;  possibly,  and  probably,  not  by  dupli- 
cates, which  ought  to  have  been  the  case,  for  the 
greater  certainty  of  getting  it  to  you.^ 

assure  you,  that  my  confidence  in  and  friendship  and  regard  for  you  remain 
undiminished. 

"  To  time,  and  your  own  observations,  if  you  should  return  immediately  to 
this  country,  I  commit  the  rest  ;  and  it  will  be  nothing  new  to  assure  you,  that 
I  am  always  and  very  sincerely  yours." — Washington  to  Gouverneur  Morris, 
19  June,  1794. 

It  was  on  the  27th  of  May  that  Washington  informed  the  Senate  that  he  had 
seen  fit  to  recall  Morris  at  the  request  of  the  Executive  Provisory  Council  of 
the  repul)lic  of  France. 

'  "  1  am  sorry  to  find  by  his  |  Morris]  private  letters  (two  of  which  I  send 
for  your  perusal,  and  to  be  returned),  that  he  and  our  other  ministers  abroad 
are  continually  repeating  and  complaining  of  their  want  of  information  from 
the  department  of  state.  This,  I  am  sensible,  does  not  apply  to  you,  because, 
among  otlier  reasons,  there  has  not  been  time  between  your  coming  into  office 
and  the  dates  of  their  letters  for  ground  of  such  complaints.  Nor  do  I  think 
it  applicable  to  your  predecessor,  further  than  as  it  may  have  proceeded  from 
miscarriages  and  the  want  of  duplicates.  As,  however,  the  evil  complained  of 
may  be  attcniied  with  serious  consequences  if  not  remedied,  I  am  led  to  take 
this  notice  of  it,  in  order  tliat  duplicates  always,  and  in  certain  cases  triplicates, 
may  l)e  forwarded  for  the  information  and  government  of  our  agents  in  foreign 
countries." — Washington  to  Randolph,  30  June,  1794. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  435 

The  uncertainty  (when  letters  are  not  intrusted  to 
confidential  persons,  or  sent  by  special  messengers,) 
of  their  coming  to  hand,  will  restrain  me  from  going 
into  detail  at  this  time.  I  shall  only  add,  therefore, 
to  the  acknowledgment  of  the  receipt  of  the  above 
letters,  that  I  am  entirely  ignorant  of  the  source  from 
whence,  or  the  foundation  on  which.  Major  Jackson 
has  erected  the  fabrics  of  your  recall  and  your  suc- 
cessor. Directly  nor  indirectly  could  he  have  derived 
them  from  me,  for  the  best  of  all  reasons,  namely, 
that  not  until  some  considerable  time  after  M. 
Fauchet  had  arrived  in  this  country  did  I  entertain 
an  idea  of  the  first,  or  contemplate  the  latter ;  for 
until  then  I  had  supposed  you  stood  well  with  the 
powers  that  were.^  Sure  I  am,  nothing  short  of 
evidence  to  the  contrary,  (with  the  request  that 
accompanied  it,)  would  have  induced  the  measure. 
To  Major  Jackson  I  have  never  written  a  line  since 
he  left  this  country,  nor  received  one  from  him. 

The  prospective  you  have  drawn  is  not  very- 
pleasing  ;  but  it  serves  to  make  one  more  anxious 
for  a  nearer  view. 

The  affairs  of  this  country  cannot  go  amiss.  There 
are  so  many  watchful  guardians  of  them,,  and  such 
infallible  guides,  that  one  is  at  no  loss  for  a  director 
at  every  turn.  But  of  these  matters  I  shall  say 
little  ;  if  you  are  disposed  to  return  to  it,  [I]  leave 
you   to  judge  of  them  from  your  own  observation. 

'  This  was  a  slip  of  memory,  for  both  Ternant  and  Genet  had  intimated  dis- 
satisfaction with  Morris  on  the  part  of  the  Executive  Council. — yefferson  to 
Washington,  ii  December,  1793  ;  Genet  to  Jefferson,  i8  September,  1793. 


436  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

My  primary  objects,  to  which  I  have  steadily  ad- 
hered, have  been  to  preserve  the  country  in  peace  if 
I  can,  and  to  be  prepared  for  war  if  I  cannot ;  to 
effect  the  first,  upon  terms  consistent  with  the  respect 
which  is  due  to  ourselves,  and  with  honor,  justice, 
and  good  faith  to  all  the  world. 

Mr.  Jay  (and  not  Mr.  Jefferson)  as  has  been  sug- 
gested to  you,  embarked  as  envoy  extraordinary  for 
England  about  the  middle  of  May,  If  he  succeeds, 
well ;  if  he  does  not,  why,  knowing  the  worst,  we 
must  take  measures  accordingly.  I  am  yours  affec- 
tionately. 


TO    EDMUND    RANDOLPH,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 
[private.] 

Mount  Vernon,  25  June,  1794. 

Dear  Sir, 

Monday's  post  brought  me  your  letter  of  the  i8th 
instant  with  its  enclosures.  The  minister  of  his 
Britannic  Majesty  seems  more  disposed  to  be  captious 
than  conciliatory.  Whether  it  proceeds  from  his 
ideas  of  policy,  the  advice  of  his  counsellors,  or  a 
natural  petulance  of  temper,  remains  to  be  de- 
veloped.' 

The  enclosed  letter  from  Mr.  Reuben  Harvey  is 
similar  to  one  I  received  from  him  some  time  ago, 
and  which  I  either  gave  or  intended  to  give  to  you. 
Do  as  shall  appear  to  you  right  with  them.      I  shall 

'  Congress  had  strengthened  the  hands  of  the  Executive  by  passing  a  law 
for  punishing  and  preventing  practices  contrary  to  neutrality,  only  rejecting  a 
clause  forbidding  the  sales  of  prizes. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  437 

endeavor  to  be  back  by  the  time  I  allotted  before  I 
left  Philadelpia,  if  I  am  able  ;  but  an  exertion  to  save 
myself  and  horse  from  falling  among-  the  rocks  at  the 
Lower  Falls  of  the  Potomac  (whither  I  went  on 
Sunday  morning  to  see  the  canal  and  locks),  has 
wrenched  my  back  in  such  a  manner  as  to  prevent 
my  riding  ;  and  hitherto  has  defeated  the  purposes 
for  which  I  came  home.  My  stay  here  will  only  be 
until  I  can  ride  with  ease  and  safety,  whether  I 
accomplish  my  own  business  or  not.     I  am,  &c. 


TO     ALEXANDER      HAMILTON,      SECRETARY     OF     THE 
TREASURY. 

[private.] 

Mount  Vernon,  2  July,  1794. 

Dear  Sir  : 

Your  private  letter  of  the  2 2d  of  June  came  duly 
to  hand,  and  for  the  opinion  contained  in  it  I  thank 
you.  I  always  feel  sincere  gratification  from  the 
frank  and  unreserved  advice  of  my  friends,  whether 
it  coincides  with  my  own  sentiments  or  not.^ 

As  Congress,  to  whom  the  matter  was  referred,  did 
not  (from  causes  unknown  to  me)  think  proper  to 
take  up  the  subject  of  compensation  for  British  ves- 
sels captured  by  the  proscribed  privateers  of  France, 
and  as  this  [is]  one  of  the  subjects  committed  to  Mr. 
Jay's  negotiation,  or  at  least  within  his  powers,  I  do 

'  "  The  Secretary  of  State  in  referring  to  you  the  question  of  the  answer  to 
be  given  to  Mr.  Hammond,  concerning  compensation  for  certain  captured  ves- 
sels, will,  I  presume,  transmit  to  you  the  opinions  of  the  other  gentlemen  as 


438  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

not  feel  disposed  to  make  any  further  or  more  pointed 
declaration  to  Mr.  Hammond  on  this  head  at  this 
time/ 

well  as  his  own.  Besides  the  reasons  hastily  sketched  in  the  memorandums 
given  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  there  is  one  of  a  delicate  nature,  which  I  did 
not  think  fit  to  put  on  a  paper  which  might  become  a  public  document,  but 
which  I  think  ought  to  be  submitted  to  your  consideration. 

"  Though  the  form  of  only  giving  the  opinion  of  the  President,  that  it  was 
incumbent  upon  the  United  States  to  make  compensation  in  the  case,  has  been 
used,  yet  between  nation  and  nation  this  is  equivalent  to  a  virtual  engagement 
that  compensation  will  be  made  ;  and  we  were  all  sensible,  in  advising  the 
President  to  give  that  opinion  (which  advice  was  unanimous),  that  a  non-com- 
pliance with  it  would  be  a  serious  commitment  of  the  character  of  the  nation, 
the  government,  and  the  President.  Indeed,  if  the  legislature  should  not  do  its 
part  under  such  circumstances,  it  would  necessarily  give  birth  to  considerations 
very  embarrassing  to  the  delicacy  of  the  President. 

"  In  such  a  posture  of  things,  is  it  not  advisable  to  narrow  the  obstacles  to  a 
right  issue  of  the  business  ?  If  Mr.  Jay  is  instructed  to  insert  a  formal  stipula- 
tion in  &  general  arrangement,  the  Senate  only  will  have  to  concur.  If  provi- 
sion is  to  be  made  by  law,  both  Houses  must  concur.  The  difference  is  easily 
seen.  And  it  is  a  case  where  i\i&  point  of  honor  is  too  materially  concerned  not 
to  dictate  the  expediency  of  leaving  as  little  hazard  as  possible  upon  the  issue. 
It  is  impossible  that  any  questions  can  arise  about  the  propriety  of  giving  this 
course  to  the  business.  When  we  are  demanding  compensation  for  our 
captured  vessels  and  goods,  it  is  the  simplest  thing  in  the  world  to  stipulate 
compensation  for  those  of  Great  Britain,  which  we  acknowledge  to  have  been 
unlawfully  made  within  our  territory,  or  by  the  use  of  our  means.  It  is  also 
with  me  a  material  consideration,  that  the  coupling  this  with  the  other  objects 
of  Mr.  Jay's  negotiation  may  tend  to  disembarrass  in  future.  If  the  compensa- 
tion we  seek  fails,  it  may  be  a  good  answer  to  the  claim  on  the  other  side,  that 
they  were  endeavored,  without  success,  to  be  made  a  subject  of  reciprocal 
stipulation.     I  speak  with  reference  to  the  individuals  concerned. 

"  I  may  be  perhaps  too  nice.  But  this  is  one  of  those  questions,  in  which 
ideas  of  sincerity,  good  faith,  and  honor,  in  a  relation  which  must  always  engage 
my  particular  solicitude,  press  my  judgment  to  a  course  of  proceeding  which  is 
calculated    to  dispel  all  doubts." — From   Mr.   Hamilton  s  Letter,  June  22d. 

'  "  You  know  how  Mr.  yay  is  restricted.  And  I  must  acknowledge  to  you 
that  notwithstanding  all  the  pompous  expectations  announced  in  the  gazettes 
of  compensation  to  the  merchants,  the  prospect  of  it  is,  in  my  judgment, 
illusory  ;  and  I  do  not  entertain  the  most  distant  hope  of  the  surrender  of  the 
western  posts.  Thus  the  old  exasperations  continue,  and  new  ones  are  daily 
added.  Judge  then  how  indispensable  it  is  that  you  should  keep  the  French 
republic  in  good  humor  with  us." — Randolph  to  Monroe,  25  September,  1794. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  439 

My  understanding  of  the  original  communication 
of  this  business  differs  very  widely  from  your  inter- 
pretation of  it.  It  is  well  known  to  the  late  Secretary' 
of  State,  that  more  than  once  I  pointedly  desired, 
that  the  expression  be  so  guarded,  as  to  convey  noth- 
ing more  than  an  opinion  of  the  executive.  This,  (it 
may  be  said  and  I  think,)  ought  to  have  been  con- 
firmed by  the  legislature  ;  but  the  fact  is  otherwise. 
And,  although  the  usage  of  other  nations  may  be 
opposed  to  this  practice,  this  difference  may  result 
from  the  difference  between  their  constitutions  and 
ours,  and  from  the  prerogatives  of  their  executives. 

The  powers  of  the  executive  of  this  country  are 
more  definite,  and  better  understood,  perhaps,  than 
those  of  any  other  country  ;  and  my  aim  has  been, 
and  will  continue  to  be,  neither  to  stretch  nor  relax 
from  them  in  any  instance  whatever,  unless  compelled 
to  it  by  imperious  circumstances. 

Under  this  view  of  the  subject,  unless  the  case  was 
more  pressing  than  I  think  the  matter  is  as  it  re- 
spects Mr.  Hammond,  it  had  better,  I  conceive,  remain 
on  the  footing  it  now  stands  on  ;  although  I  have  no 
objection,  as  I  had  written  to  the  Secretary-  of  State 
before  I  received  your  letter,  that  he  might  be  in- 
formed, informally  and  verbally,  that  the  negotiation 
of  this  as  well  as  other  matters  was  transmitted  to 
his  own  court.^  I  am,  with  sincere  esteem  and  re- 
gard, your  affectionate,  &c. 

•  "  I  am  not  disposed,  under  my  present  \-ie\v  of  the  case,  to  infoim  Mr. 
Hammond,  that  our  envoy  at  the  court  of  London  shall  be  specially  instructed 
on  the  point  of  compensation  for  British  vessels,  captured  by  French  privateers, 
contrary  to  the  rules  which  have  been  established  by  this  government ;  as  the 


440  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

TO    SIR   JOHN    SINCLAIR. 

Philadelphia,  20  July,  1794. 

Sir  : 

I  am  indebted  to  you  for  your  several  favours,  of 
the  15th  of  August  and  4  of  September  of  the  last, 
and  for  that  of  the  6th  of  February  in  the  present 
year ;  for  which,  and  the  pamphlets  accompanying 
them,  my  thanks  are  particularly  due. — To  say  this, 
and  to  have  suffered  them  to  remain  so  long  unac- 
knowledged needs  explanation.  The  truth  is  they 
came  to  hand,  the  first  of  them  about  the  opening, 
and  the  second  set  towards  the  close,  of  a  long  and 
interesting  session  of  Congress,  during  which  my 
time  was  very  much  occupied,  and  at  the  end  thereof 
I  had  a  pressing  call  to  my  estate  in  Virginia  from 
whence  I  have  not  been  returned  more  than  ten  or 
twelve  days. 

general  powers  of  the  said  envoy  extend  to  and  embrace  this  object.  But 
would  it  be  amiss  to  let  him  know  informally  and  verbally,  that  Mr.  Jay's 
powers  go  to  this  as  well  as  to  other  cases  ? 

"  I  well  remember  the  precaution  I  used  to  prevent  any  further  commitment 
of  the  executive  on  this  head,  than  a  mere  expression  of  his  opinion  as  to  the 
expediency  of  the  measure.  This  having  been  complied  with  in  the  com- 
munication to  Congress,  of  the  5th  of  Deeember,  the  matter  had  better  remain, 
in  my  oi)inion,  upon  the  ground  it  now  stands,  until  things  are  a  little  more 
develo])ed.  In  the  mean  time  some  such  written  official  answer  as  you  have 
suggested  (softened  as  it  can  well  bear),  might  be  given  to  Mr.  Hammond." — 
IVasliington  to  Randolph,  27  June,  1794. 

A  second  letter  of  the  same  date,  now  lost,  apjiears  to  have  been  sent.  For 
Randolph  replied,  2  July,  1794  :  "  The  expression  in  the  opinion  of  the  Secre- 
tary of  the  Treasury,  to  which  you  refer  in  your  favor  of  the  27  ulto.  appears 
to  me  to  amount  to  this  :  that  we  have  lost  ground  in  not  being  aide  to  give  as 
strong  proofs  of  our  neutrality  nc7o,  as  we  were  some  time  ago.  No  doubt  he 
alluded  principally  to  the  rejection  of  the  clause  sent  from  the  Senate  to  the 
House  of  Representatives,  for  prohibiting  the  sale  of  prizes;  and  the  general 
predilection  discovered  by  that  House  in  favor  of  the  French  nation." 


I794J  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  441 

I  have  read  with  peculiar  pleasure  and  approbation 
the  work  you  patronize,  so  much  to  your  own  honor 
and  the  utility  of  the  public.  Such  a  general  view 
of  the  Agriculture  in  the  several  counties  of  Great 
Britain,  is  extremely  interesting,  and  cannot  fail  of 
being  very  beneficial  to  the  agricultural  concerns  of 
your  country  ;  and  to  those  of  every  other  wherein 
they  are  read  ;  and  must  entitle  you  to  their  warmest 
thanks,  for  having  set  such  a  plan  on  foot  and  for 
prosecuting  it  with  the  zeal  and  intelligence  you  do. 
— I  am  so  much  pleased  with  the  plan  and  execution 
myself  as  to  pray  you  to  have  the  goodness  to  direct 
your  book-seller  to  continue  them  accompanied  with 
the  [charge],  which  shall  be  paid  to  his  order,  or 
remitted  so  soon  as  the  amount  is  made  known  to 
me.  When  the  whole  are  received  I  will  promote, 
as  far  as  in  me  lies,  the  reprinting  of  them  here. 

I  know  of  no  pursuit  in  which  more  real  and  im- 
portant services  can  be  rendered  to  any  country,  than 
by  improving  its  agriculture, — its  breed  of  useful 
animals — and  other  branches  of  a  husbandman's 
cares  : — nor  can  I  conceive  any  plan  more  conducive 
to  this  end  than  the  one  you  have  introduced  for 
bringing  to  view  the  actual  state  of  them  in  all  parts 
of  the  Kingdom — by  which  good  and  bad  habits  are 
exhibited  in  a  manner  too  plain  to  be  misconceived  ; 
for  the  accounts  oriven  to  the  British  board  of  Aeri- 
culture  appear  in  general  to  be  drawn  up  in  a  mas- 
terly manner,  so  as  fully  to  answer  the  expectations 
formed  in  the  excellent  plan  which  produced  them, 
affording  at   the   same  time   a   fund  of  information 


442  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

useful  in  political  oeconomy — serviceable  in  all  coun- 
tries. 

Commons,  Tithes,  Tenantry  (of  which  we  feel 
nothing  in  this  country)  are  in  the  list  of  impedi- 
ments, I  perceive,  to  perfection  in  English  farming, 
and  taxes  are  heavy  deductions  from  the  net  profit 
thereof.  Of  these  we  have  none,  or  so  light  as 
hardly  to  be  felt.  Your  system  of  Agriculture,  it 
must  be  confessed,  is  in  a  stile  superior  and  of  course 
much  more  expensive  than  ours ;  but  when  the 
balance  at  the  end  of  the  year  is  struck  by  deducting 
the  taxes,  poor  rates,  and  incidental  charges  of  every 
kind  from  the  produce  of  the  land,  in  the  two  coun- 
tries no  doubt  can  remain  in  which  scale  it  is  to  be 
found.  It  will  be  some  time  I  fear  before  an  Agri- 
cultural society,  with  congressional  aids,  will  be 
established  in  this  country.  We  must  walk  as  other 
countries  have  done  before  we  can  run.  Smaller 
societies  must  prepare  the  way  for  greater  ;  but  with 
the  lights  before  us  I  hope  we  shall  not  be  so  slow  in 
maturation  as  older  nations  have  been.  An  attempt, 
as  you  will  perceive  by  the  enclosed  outlines  of  a 
plan,  is  making  to  establish  a  State  society  in  Penn- 
sylvania for  agricultural  improvements.  If  it  suc- 
ceeds it  will  be  a 'step  in  the  ladder — at  present  it  is 
too  much  in  embryo  to  decide  on  the  result. 

Our  domestic  animals  (as  well  as  our  agriculture) 
are  inferior  to  yours  in  point  of  size,  but  this  does 
not  proceed  from  any  defect  in  the  stamina  of  them  ; 
but  to  deficient  care  in  providing  for  their  support  ; 
experience   having   abundantly    evinced    that  where 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  443 

our  pastures  are  as  well  improved  as  the  soil  and 
climate  will  admit, — where  a  competent  store  of 
wholesome  provender  is  laid  up  and  proper  care  used 
in  serving  it — that  our  horses,  black  cattle,  sheep,  &c. 
— are  not  inferior  to  the  best  of  their  respective 
kinds  which  have  been  imported  from  England. 
Nor  is  the  wool  of  our  sheep  inferior  to  that  of  the 
common  sort  with  you. — As  a  proof — after  the  peace 
of  Paris  in  1783,  and  my  return  to  the  occupation  of 
a  farmer,  I  paid  particular  attention  to  my  breed  of 
sheep  (of  which  I  usually  kept  about  seven  or  eight 
hundred).  By  this  attention,  at  the  shearing  of 
1 789,  the  fleeces  yielded  me  the  average  quantity  of 
5;^  of  wool — a  fleece  of  which  promiscuously  taken,  I 
sent  to  Mr.  Arthur  Young,  who  put  it  for  examina- 
tion into  the  hands  of  manufacturers.  These  pro- 
nounced it  to  be  equal  in  quality  to  the  Kentish 
wool.  In  this  same  year  {i.e.  1789)  I  was  again 
called  from  home,  and  have  not  had  it  in  my  power 
since  to  pay  any  attention  to  my  farms.  The  con- 
sequence of  which  is,  that  my  sheep  at  the  last 
shearing,  yielded  me  not  more  than  2\. 

This  is  not  a  single  instance  of  the  difl'erence 
between  care  and  neglect.  Nor  is  the  difference  be- 
tween good  and  bad  management  confined  to  that 
species  of  stock,  for  we  find  that  good  pastures  and 
proper  attention  can,  and  does  fill  our  markets  with 
beef  of  seven,  eight  and  more  hundred  weight  the 
four  quarters  ;  whereas  from  450  to  5Cmd  (especially 
in  the  States  south  of  this,  where  less  attention 
hitherto  has  been  paid  to  grass)  may  be  found  about 


444  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

the  average  weight. — In  this  market  some  bullocks 
were  killed  in  the  months  of  March  and  April  last, 
the  weights  of  which  as  taken  from  the  accounts 
which  were  published  at  the  time,  you  will  find  in  a 
paper  enclosed.  These  were  pampered  steers,  but 
from  800  to  1000,  the  four  quarters,  is  no  uncommon 
weight. 

Your  general  history  of  sheep  with  observations 
thereon,  and  the  proper  mode  of  managing  them 
will  be  an  interesting  work  when  compleated  ;  and 
with  the  information  and  accuracy  with  which  I  am 
persuaded  it  will  be  executed,  under  your  auspices, 
must  be  extremely  desirable.  The  climate  of  this 
country,  particularly  that  of  the  middle  States,  is 
congenial  to  this  species  of  animal  ;  but  want  of 
attention  to  them  in  most  farmers,  added  to  the 
obstacles  which  prevent  the  importation  of  those  of 
a  better  kind  by  men  who  would  be  at  the  expense, 
contributes  not  a  little  to  the  present  inferiority  we 
experience. 

Mr.  Edwards  would  have  it  as  much  in  his  power 
as  most  of  our  farmers,  to  solve  the  queries  you  pro- 
pounded to  him,  in  addition  to  which  a  gentleman  of 
my  acquaintance  (who  is  also  among  the  best  farmers 
of  this  country  and  to  whom  I  gave  the  perusal  of 
your  propositions)  has  favor'd  me  with  some  ideas 
on  the  subject,  as  you  will  find  on  paper  herewith 
enclosed. 

The  sample  you  were  so  obliging  as  to  put  into 
the  hands  of  Mr.  Lear  for  me,  of  a  scotch  fabric,  is 
extremely   elegant,   and   I    pray  you   to    accept   my 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  445 

thanks  for  it  as  I  entreat  you  to  do  also  for  the  civil- 
ities shewn  to  that  Gentleman,  who  has  a  grateful 
sense  of  them. 

Both  Mr.  Adams  and  Mr.  Jefferson  had  the  perusal 
of  the  papers  which  accompanied  your  note  of  the 
1 1  of  September. 

With  great  respect  &  esteem, 

I  am,  &c. 


PROCLAMATION     WARNING      THE     INSURGENTS     IN     THE 

WESTERN    PARTS    OF     PENNSYLVANIA    TO    DESIST 

FROM    THEIR   OPPOSITION    TO    THE    LAWS. 

Whereas  combinations  to  defeat  the  execution  of  .the  laws  lay- 
ing duties  upon  spirits  distilled  within  the  United  States  and 
upon  stills,  have  from  the  time  of  the  commencement  of  those 
laws  existed  in  some  of  the  western  parts  of  Pennsylvania  ; 

And  whereas  the  said  combinations,  proceeding  in  a  manner 
subversive  equally  of  the  just  authority  of  government  and  of 
the  rights  of  individuals,  have  hitherto  effected  their  danger- 
ous and  criminal  purpose,  by  the  influence  of  certain  irregular 
meetings,  whose  proceedings  have  tended  to  encourage  and  up- 
hold the  spirit  of  opposition  ;  by  misrepresentations  of  the  laws 
calculated  to  render  them  odious  ;  by  endeavors  to  deter  those, 
who  might  be  so  disposed,  from  accepting  offices  under  them, 
through  fear  of  public  resentment  and  of  injury  to  person  and 
property,  and  to  compel  those,  who  had  accepted  such  offices,  by 
actual  violence  to  surrender  or  forbear  the  execution  of  them  ; 
by  circulating  vindictive  menaces  against  all  those,  who  should 
otherwise  directly  or  indirectly  aid  in  the  execution  of  the  said 
laws,  or  who,  yielding  to  the  dictates  of  conscience  and  to  a  sense 
of  obligation,  should  themselves  comply  therewith  ;  by  actually 
injuring  and  destroying  the  property  of  persons  who  were  under- 
stood to  have  so  complied  ;  by  inflicting  cruel  and  humiliating 
punishments  upon  private  citizens  for  no  other  cause,  than  that  of 


446  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

appearing  to  be  friends  of  the  laws  ;  by  intercepting  the  public 
officers  on  the  highways,  abusing,  assaulting,  and  otherwise  ill- 
treating  them  ;  by  going  to  their  houses  in  the  night,  gaining 
admittance  by  force,  taking  away  their  papers,  and  committing 
other  outrages,  employing  for  these  unwarrantable  purposes  the 
agency  of  armed  banditti  disguised  in  such  manner,  as  for  the 
most  part  to  escape  discovery  ; 

And  whereas  the  endeavors  of  the  legislature  to  obviate  ob- 
jections to  the  said  laws  by  lowering  the  duties  and  by  other 
alterations  conducive  to  the  convenience  of  those,  whom  they 
immediately  affect  (though  they  have  given  satisfaction  in  other 
quarters),  and  the  endeavors  of  the  executive  officers  to  concili- 
ate a  compliance  with  the  laws,  by  explanations,  by  forbearance, 
and  even  by  particular  accommodations  founded  on  the  sugges- 
tion of  local  considerations,  have  been  disappointed  of  their 
effect  by  the  machinations  of  persons,  whose  industry  to  excite 
resistance  has  increased  with  every  appearance  of  a  disposition 
among  the  people  to  relax  in  their  opposition,  and  to  acquiesce 
in  the  laws  ;  insomuch  that  many  persons,  in  the  said  western 
parts  of  Pennsylvania  have  at  length  been  hardy  enough  to  per- 
petrate acts,  which  I  am  advised  amount  to  treason,  being  overt 
acts  of  levying  war  against  the  United  States,  the  said  persons 
having  on  the  i6th  and  17th  of  July  last  proceeded  in  arms  (on 
the  second  day  amounting  to  several  hundreds)  to  the  house  of 
John  Neville,  inspector  of  the  revenue  for  the  fourth  survey  o^ 
the  district  of  Pennsylvania  ;  having  repeatedly  attacked  the  said 
house  with  the  persons  therein,  wounding  some  of  them  ;  having 
seized  David  Lenox,  marshal  of  the  district  of  Pennsylvania,  who 
previous  thereto  had  been  fired  upon,  while  in  the  execution  ot 
his  duty,  by  a  party  of  armed  men,  detaining  him  for  some  time 
prisoner,  till,  for  the  preservation  of  his  life  and  the  obtaining  of 
his  liberty,  he  found  it  necessary  to  enter  into  stipulations  to 
forbear  the  execution  of  certain  official  duties  touching  processes 
issuing  out  of  a  court  of  the  United  States  ;  and  having  finally 
obliged  the  said  inspector  of  the  revenue,  and  the  said  marshal, 
from  considerations  of  personal  safety  to  fly  from  that  part  of  the 
country,  in  order  by  a  circuitous  route  to  proceed  to  the  seat  of 
government  ;  avowing  as  the  motives  of  these  outrageous  pro- 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  447 

ceedings  an  intention  to  prevent  by  force  of  arms  the  execution 
of  the  said  laws,  to  oblige  the  said  inspector  of  the  revenue  to 
renounce  his  said  office,  to  withstand  by  open  violence  the  lawful 
authority  of  the  government  of  the  United  States,  and  to  compel 
thereby  an  alteration  in  the  measures  of  the  legislature  and  a 
repeal  of  the  laws  aforesaid  ; 

And  whereas,  by  a  law  of  the  United  States,  entitled  "  An  act 
to  provide  for  calling  forth  the  militia  to  execute  the  laws  of  the 
Union,  suppress  insurrections,  and  repel  invasions,"  it  is  enacted, 
*'  that,  whenever  the  laws  of  the  United  States  shall  be  opposed, 
or  the  execution  of  them  obstructed  in  any  State  by  combinations 
too  powerful  to  be  suppressed  by  the  ordinary  course  of  judicial 
proceedings,  or  by  the  powers  vested  in  the  marshals  by  that  act, 
the  same  being  notified  by  an  associate  justice  or  the  district 
judge,  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  President  of  the  United  States  to 
call  forth  the  militia  of  such  State  to  suppress  such  combinations, 
and  to  cause  the  laws  to  be  duly  executed  ;  and,  if -the  militia  of 
a  State,  when  such  combinations  may  happen,  shall  refuse  or  be 
insufficient  to  suppress  the  same,  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  Presi- 
dent, if  the  legislature  of  the  United  States  shall  not  be  in  session, 
to  call  forth  and  employ  such  numbers  of  the  militia  of  any  other 
State,  or  States,  most  convenient  thereto,  as  may  be  necessary, 
and  the  use  of  the  militia  so  to  be  called  forth  may  be  continued, 
if  necessary,  until  the  expiration  of  thirty  days  after  the  com- 
mencement of  the  ensuing  session  ;  provided  always,  that,  when- 
ever it  may  be  necessary  in  the  judgment  of  the  President  to  use 
the  military  force  hereby  directed  to  be  called  forth,  the  Presi- 
dent shall  forthwith  and  previous  thereto,  by  proclamation, 
command  such  insurgents  to  disperse  and  retire  peaceably  to 
their  respective  abodes  within  a  limited  time  ; " 

And  whereas  James  Wilson,  an  associate  justice,  on  the  fourth 
instant,  by  writing  under  his  hand  did,  from  evidence  which  had 
been  laid  before  him,  notify  to  me,  that,  "  in  the  counties  of 
Washington  and  Allegany  in  Pennsylvania,  laws  of  the  United 
States  are  opposed,  and  the  execution  thereof  obstructed  by  com- 
binations too  powerful  to  be  suppressed  by  the  ordinary  course 
of  judicial  proceedings,  or  by  the  powers  vested  in  the  marshal 
of  the  district  ;  " 


448  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

And  whereas  it  is  in  my  judgment  necessary  under  the  circum- 
stances of  the  case  to  take  measures  for  calling  forth  the  militia 
in  order  to  suppress  the  combinations  aforesaid,  and  to  cause 
the  laws  to  be  duly  executed,  and  I  have  accordingly  determined 
so  to  do,  feeling  the  deepest  regret  for  the  occasion,  but  withal 
the  most  solemn  conviction,  that  the  essential  interests  of  the 
Union  demand  it,  that  the  very  existence  of  government  and 
the  fundamental  principles  of  social  order  are  materially  involved 
in  the  issue,  and  that  the  patriotism  and  firmness  of  all  good  citi- 
zens are  seriously  called  upon,  as  occasion  may  require,  to  aid 
in  the  effectual  suppression  of  so  fatal  a  spirit  ; 

Therefore,  and  in  pursuance  of  the  proviso  above  recited,  I, 
George  Washington,  President  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby 
command  all  persons,  being  insurgents  as  aforesaid,  and  all  others 
whom  it  may  concern,  on  or  before  the  first  day  of  September 
next  to  disperse,  and  retire  peaceably  to  their  respective  abodes. 
And  I  do  moreover  warn  all  persons  whomsoever  against  aiding, 
abetting,  or  comforting  the  perpetrators  of  the  aforesaid  treason- 
able acts  ;  and  do  require  all  ofiicers  and  other  citizens,  accord- 
ing to  their  respective  duties  and  the  law  of  the  land,  to  exert 
their  utmost  endeavors  to  prevent  and  suppress  such  dangerous 
proceedings. 

In  testimony  whereof  I  have  caused  the  seal  of  the  United 
States  of  America  to  be  affixed  to  these  presents,  and  signed  the 
same  with  my  hand.  Done  at  the  city  of  Philadelphia,  this  seventh 
day  of  August,  one  thousand  seven  hundred  and  ninety-four, 
and  of  the  independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the 
nineteenth. 


TO    BURGES    BALL. 
Dear  Sir  Germantown,  10  August,  1794. 

We  removed  to  this  place  about  twelve  days  ago  to 
avoid  the  heat  of  Philada.,  and  probably  may  remain 
at  it  until  the  middle  of  next  month.  It  was  here  I 
received  your  letter  of  the  5th  instant  which  came  to 
my  hands  yesterday. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  449 

The  business  of  establishing  arsenals,  and  pro- 
viding proper  places  for  them,  is  within  the  Depart- 
ment of  War  ;  the  Secretary  of  which  (Genl.  Knox) 
set  out  on  Friday  last  for  the  Province  of  Maine, 
and  will  not  be  returned  in  less  than  six  weeks — But 
as  I  am  persuaded  he  has  no  idea  (nor  are  there 
indeed  funds  provided  equal  thereto)  of  giving  25,000 
Dollars  for  the  site  of  one  only  I  would  not  have  you 
by  any  means  avoid  sewing  Wheat  ;  or  doing  any 
thing  else  which  you  might  have  had  in  contempla- 
tion to  do,  on  account  of  what  I  mentioned  to  you  in 
my  last  on  this  subject. 

What  (under  the  rose  I  ask  it)  is  said  or  thought, 
as  far  as  it  has  appeared  to  you,  of  the  conduct  of 
the  People  of  the  Western  Counties  of  this  State 
(Pennsylvania)  towards  the  excise  officers  ? — and 
does  there  seem  to  be  a  disposition  among  those 
with  w^hom  you  converse  to  bring  them  to  a  sense  of 
their  duty,  and  obedience  to  law,  by  coercion,  if, 
after  they  are  fully  notified  by  Proclamation  and 
other  expedients  of  the  consequences  of  such  out- 
rageous proceedings,  they  do  not  submit  to  the  Laws 
of  the  United  States,  and  suffer  the  collection  of  the 
duties  upon  spirituous  liquors  and  stills  to  be  made 
as  in  other  places?  In  a  word,  would  there  be  any 
difficulty,  as  far  as  the  matter  has  passed  under  your 
observation,  in  drawing  out  a  part  of  the  Militia  of 
Loudoun,  Berkeley  and  Frederick — to  quell  this  rebel- 
lious spirit  and  to  support  order  and  good  govern- 
ment  ?  You  will  readily  perceive  that  questions  of 
this  sort  from  me  to  you  and  your  answers,,  are  for 


450  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

my  private  information,  and  to  go  no  farther  than 
ourselves. 

I  am  sorry  to  hear  that  your  bad  state  of  health  re- 
quires the  waters  of  Bath,  and  hope  they  will  restore 
you.  My  love  (in  which  Mrs.  Washington  unites)  is 
offered  to  Mrs.  Ball  and  the  family.     I  am,  &c. 


TO    CHARLES    M.    THRUSTON. 
[private.] 
Dear  Sir  Philadelphia,  10  August,  i7q4. 

Your  favor  of  the  21st  of  June  came  duly  to  hand. 
For  the  communications  contained  in  it  I  thank  you, 
as  I  shall  do  for  any  other  that  is  interesting  to  the 
community,  and  necessary  for  me  to  be  informed  of. 
That  there  should  exist  in  this  country  such  a  spirit 
as  you  say  pervades  the  people  of  Kentucky,  (and 
which  I  have  also  learnt  through  other  channels,)  is 
to  me  matter  of  great  wonder ;  and  that  it  should 
prevail  there,  more  than  in  any  other  part  of  the 
Union,  is  not  less  surprising  to  those,  who  are 
acquainted  with  the  exertions  of  the  general  govern- 
ment in  their  favor.  But  it  will  serve  to  evince, 
whensoever  and  to  whomsoever  facts  are  developed 
(and  they  are  not  unknown  at  this  moment  to  many 
of  the  principal  characters  in  that  State),  that  there 
must  exist  a  predisposition  among  them  to  be  dis- 
satisfied, under  any  circumstances  and  under  every 
exertion  of  government  (short  of  a  war  with  Spain, 
which  must  eventually  involve  one  with  Great  Brit- 
ain,) to  promote  their  welfare. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  451 

The  protection  they  receive,  and  the  unwearied 
endeavors  of  the  general  government  to  accomplish, 
(by  repeated  and  ardent  remonstrances,)  what  they 
seem  to  have  most  at  heart,  namely,  the  navigation 
of  the  Mississippi,  obtain  no  credit  with  them,  or, 
what  is  full  as  likely,  may  be  concealed  from  them  or 
misrepresented  by  those  Societies,  who,  under  specious 
colorings,  are  spreading  mischief  far  and  wide,  either 
from  real  ignorance  of  the  measures  pursuing  by  the 
government,  or  from  a  wish  to  bring  it,  as  much  as 
they  are  able,  into  discredit ;  for  what  purposes,  every 
man  is  left  to  his  own  conjectures.  ^ 

That  similar  attempts  to  discontent  the  public 
mind  have  been  practised  with  too  much  success  in 
some  of  the  western  counties  in  this  State,  you  are, 
I  am  certain,  not  to  learn.'  Actual  rebellion  against 
the  laws  of  the  United  States  exists  at  this  moment, 
notwithstanding  every  lenient  measure,  which  could 
comport  with  the  duties  of  the  public  officers,  has 

^  In  its  last  session  Congress  had  requested  the  President  to  communicate  to 
the  people  of  Kentucky  information  on  the  negotiation  concerning  the  Missis- 
sippi, but  the  expectation  of  receiving  some  decisive  intelligence  from  Madrid, 
and  the  manifest  impropriety  of  disclosing  all  the  pending  questions  between 
Spain  and  the  United  States,  had  led  to  a  postponement  on  the  part  of  the 
Executive.  Randolph,  7  August,  1794,  advised  the  sending  a  discreet  person 
to  lay  the  matter  before  the  legislature  of  Kentucky,  and  soothe  the  ferment 
prevailing  in  that  quarter. 

"Col.  Innes  of  Richmond  has  been  sent  by  the  President  to  Kentucky,  to 
inform  the  people  of  that  country  fuUy  of  the  measures  which  have  been  taken 
by  the  general  government  to  obtain  the  navigation  of  the  Mississippi.  They 
are  become  so  impatient  on  this  subject,  that  I  much  fear  his  mission  will 
not  be  productive  of  all  the  conciliatory  effects  the  President  expects  from  it." 
— y.  Brown  to  yames  Monroe,  5  December,  1794. 

'  Hamilton  gave  evidence  of  this  connection  in  his  letter  to  Fitzsimons,  27 
November,  1794,  Works,  viii.,  328, 


452  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

been  exercised  to  reconcile  them  to  the  collection  of 
the  taxes  upon  spirituous  liquors  and  stills.  What 
may  be  the  consequences  of  such  violent  and  outra- 
geous proceedings  is  painful  in  a  high  degree  even 
in  contemplation.  But,  if  the  laws  are  to  be  so  tram 
pled  upon  with  impunity,  and  a  minority,  (a  small 
one  too,)  is  to  dictate  to  the  majority,  there  is  an  end 
put,  at  one  stroke,  to  republican  government ;  and 
nothing  but  anarchy  and  confusion  is  to  be  expected 
hereafter.  Some  other  man  or  society  may  dislike 
another  law,  and  oppose  it  with  equal  propriety,  until 
all  laws  are  prostrate,  and  every  one,  (the  strongest 
I  presume,)  will  carve  for  himself.  Yet  there  will  be 
found  persons,  I  have  no  doubt,  who,  although  they 
may  not  be  hardy  enough  to  justify  such  open  oppo- 
sition to  the  laws,  will  nevertheless  be  opposed  to 
coercion,  even  if  the  proclamation  and  the  other 
temperate  measures,  which  are  in  train  by  the  execu- 
tive to  avert  the  dire  necessity  of  a  resort  to  arms, 
should  fail.  How  far  such  people  may  extend  their 
influence,  and  what  may  be  the  consequences  thereof, 
is  not  easy  to  decide  ;  but  this  we  know,  that  it  is  not 
difficult  by  concealment  of  some  facts  and  the  exag- 
geration of  others,  (where  there  is  an  influence,)  to 
bias  a  well-meaning  mind,  although  we  allow  truth 
will  ultimately  prevail  where  there  is  pains  taken  to 
bring  it  to  light. 

I  have  a  great  regard  for  General  Morgan,  and 
respect  his  military  talents,  and  am  persuaded,  if  a  fit 
occasion  should  occur,  no  one  would  exert  them  with 
more  zeal  in  the  service  of  his  country  than  he  would. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  453 


It  is  my  ardent  wish,  however,  that  this  country 
should  remain  in  peace  as  long  as  the  interest,  honor, 
and  dignity  of  it  will  permit,  and  its  laws,  enacted  by 
the  representatives  of  the  people  freely  chosen,  shall 
obtain.     With  much  esteem,  I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


TO    HENRY    LEE,    GOVERNOR    OF    VIRGINIA. 

[private] 

Germantown.  26  August,  T794. 

Dear  Sir, 

Your  favor  of  the  i  7th  came  duly  to  hand,  and  I 
thank  you  for  its  communications.  As  the  insurgents 
in  the  western  counties  of  this  State  are  resolved,  (as 
far  as  we  have  yet  been  able  to  learn  from  the  com- 
missioners.^ who  have  been  sent  among  them,)  to 
persevere  in  their  rebellious  conduct  until  what  they 
call  the  excise  law  is  repealed,  and  acts  of  oblivion 
and  amnesty  are  passed,  it  gives  me  sincere  consola- 
tion amidst  the  regrets,  with  which  I  am  filled  by 
such  lawless  and  outrageous  conduct,  to  find  by  your 
letter  above  mentioned,  that  it  is  held  in  general 
detestation  by  the  good  people  of  Virginia,  and  that 
you  are  disposed  to  lend  yoMX  personal  2XA  to  subdue 
this  spirit,  and  to  bring  those  people  to  a  proper 
sense  of  their  duty. 

On   this   latter  point   I  shall  refer  you  to  letters 

'  Senator  Ross,  Judge  Yeates,  and  Attorney-General  Bradford.  Judge 
McKean  and  General  Irvine  represented  the  State  of  Pennsylvania,  but 
"  their  functions  were  necessarily  limited  to  the  mere  act  of  pardon,  the  great 
offences  being  against  the  United  States,  not  the  individual  State  of 
Pennsylvania." 


454  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

from  the  war  office,  and  to  a  private  one  from 
Colonel  Hamilton,  (who,  in  the  absence  of  the 
Secretary  of  War,  superintends  the  military  duties  of 
that  department,)  for  my  sentiments  on  this  occasion. 

It  is  with  equal  pride  and  satisfaction  I  add,  that, 
as  far  as  my  information  extends,  this  insurrection  is 
viewed  with  universal  indignation  and  abhorrence, 
except  by  those,  who  have  never  missed  an  oppor- 
tunity by  side  blows  or  otherwise  to  aim  their  shafts 
at  the  general  government  ;  and  even  among  these 
there  is  not  a  spirit  hardy  enough  yet  openly  to  jus- 
tify the  daring  infractions  of  law  and  order  ;  but  by 
palliatives  are  attempting  to  suspend  all  proceedings 
against  the  insurgents,  until  Congress  shall  have 
decided  on  the  case,  thereby  intending  to  gain  time, 
and  if  possible  to  make  the  evil  more  extensive, 
more  formidable,  and  of  course  more  difficult  to  coun- 
teract and  subdue. 

I  consider  this  insurrection  as  the  first  formidable 
fruit  of  the  Democratic  Societies,  brought  forth,  I 
believe,  too  prematurely  for  their  own  views,  which 
may  contribute  to  the  annihilation  of  them. 

That  these  societies  were  instituted  by  the  artftil 
and  designing  members  (many  of  their  body  I  have 
no  doubt  mean  well,  but  know  little  of  the  real  plan,) 
primarily  to  sow  the  seeds  of  jealousy  and  distrust 
among  the  people  of  the  government,  by  destroying 
all  confidence  in  the  administration  of  it,  and  that 
these  doctrines  have  been  budding  and  blowing  ever 
since,  is  not  new  to  any  one,  who  is  acquainted  with 
the  character  of  their  leaders,  and  has  been  attentive 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  455 

to  their  manoeuvres.  I  early  gave  it  as  my  opinion 
to  the  confidential  characters  around  me,  that,  if 
these  societies  were  not  counteracted,  (not  by  prose- 
cutions, the  ready  way  to  make  them  grow  stronger,) 
or  did  not  fall  into  disesteem  from  the  knowledge  of 
their  origin,  and  the  views  with  which  they  had  been 
instituted  by  their  father,  Genet,  for  purposes  well 
known  to  the  government,  that  they  would  shake  the 
government  to  its  foundation.  Time  and  circum- 
stances have  confirmed  me  in  this  opinion  ;  and  I 
deeply  regret  the  probable  consequences  ;  not  as  they 
will  affect  me  personally,  for  I  have  not  long  to  act 
on  this  theatre,  and  sure  I  am  that  not  a  man 
amongst  them  can  be  more  anxious  to  put  me  aside, 
than  I  am  to  sink  into  the  profoundest  retirement, 
but  because  I  see,  under  a  display  of  popular  and 
fascinating  guises,  the  most  diabolical  attempts  to 
destroy  the  best  fabric  of  human  government  and 
happiness,  that  has  ever  been  presented  for  the 
acceptance  of  mankind. 

A  part  of  the  plan  for  creating  discord  is,  I  per- 
ceive, to  make  me  say  things  of  others,  and  others 
of  me,  which  have  no  foundation  in  truth.  The  first, 
in  many  instances  I  know  to  be  the  case  ;  and  the 
second  I  believe  to  be  so.  But  truth  or  falsehood 
is  immaterial  to  them,  provided  the  objects  are  pro- 
moted. 

Under  this  head  may  be  classed,  I  conceive,  what 
it  is  reported  I  have  said  of  Mr.  Henry,  and  what 
Mr.  Jefferson  is  reported  to  have  said  of  me  ;  on 
both  of  which,  particularly  the  first,  I  mean  to  dilate 


45 6  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

a  little.^  With  solemn  truth  then  I  can  declare,  that 
I  never  expressed  such  sentiments  of  that  gentleman, 
as  from  your  letter  he  has  been  led  to  believe.  I 
had  heard,  it  is  true,  that  he  retained  his  enmity  to 
the  constitution  ;  but  with  very  peculiar  pleasure  I 
learnt  from  Colonel  Coles,  who  I  am  sure  will  recol- 
lect it,  that  Mr.  Henry  was  acquiescent  in  his  con- 
duct, and  that,  though  he  could  not  give  up  his 
opinion  respecting  the  constitution,  yet,  unless  he 
should  be  called  upon  by  official  duty,  he  would  ex- 
press no  sentiment  unfriendly  to  the  exercise  of  the 
powers  of  a  government,  which  had  been  chosen  by  a 
majority  of  the  people,  or  words  to  this  effect. 

Except  intimating  in  this  conversation  (which,  to 
the  best  of  my  recollection,  was  introduced  by  Colo- 
nel Coles),  that  report  had  made  Mr.  Henry  speak  a 
different  language  ;  and  afterwards  at  Prince  Edward 

'  "  I  plainly  perceive  that  he  [Henry]  has  credited  some  information  which 
he  has  received  (from  whom  I  know  not),  which  induces  him  to  believe  that 
you  consider  him  a  factious,  seditious  character.  .  .  .  He  seems  to  be 
deeply  and  sorely  affected.  It  is  very  much  to  be  regretted,  for  he  is  a  man  of 
positive  virtue  as  well  as  of  transcendent  talents  ;  and  were  it  not  for  his  feel- 
ings above  expressed,  I  verily  believe  he  would  be  found  among  the  mos* 
active  supporters  of  your  administration. 

"  A  very  respectable  gentleman  told  me  the  other  day  that  he  was  at  Mr. 
Jefferson's,  and,  among  inquiries  which  he  made  of  that  gentleman,  he  asked, 
if  it  were  possible  that  you  had  attached  yourself  to  Great  Britain,  and  if  it 
could  be  true  that  you  were  governed  by  British  influence,  as  was  reported  by 
many.  He  was  answered  in  the  following  words  :  '  That  there  was  no  danger 
of  your  being  biassed  by  considerations  of  that  sort  so  long  as  you  were  influ- 
enced by  the  wise  advisers,  or  advice,  which  you  at  present  had.'  I  requested 
him  to  reflect,  and  reconsider,  and  to  repeat  again  the  answer.  He  did  so,  and 
adhered  to  every  word.  Now,  as  the  conversation  astonished  me,  and  is  inex- 
plicable  to  my  mind  as  well  as  derogatory  to  your  character,  I  consider  it  would 
be  unworthy  in  me  to  withhold  the  communication  from  you.  To  no  other 
person  will  it  ever  be  made." — Lee  to  Washington^  17  August,  1794. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  457 

Court-House,  where  I  saw  Mr.  Venable,  and,  find- 
ing I  was  within  eight  or  ten  miles  of  Mr.  Henry's 
seat,  and  expressing  my  regret  at  not  seeing  him,  the 
conversation  might  be  similar  to  that  held  with  Colo- 
nel Coles  ;  I  say,  except  in  these  two  instances,  I  do 
not  recollect,  nor  do  I  believe,  that  in  the  course 
of  the  journey  to  and  from  the  southward  I  ever 
mentioned  Mr.  Henry's  name  in  conjunction  with 
the  constitution  or  the  government.  It  is  evident, 
therefore,  that  these  reports  are  propagated  with 
evil  intentions,  to  create  personal  differences.  On 
the  question  of  the  constitution,  Mr.  Henry  and  my- 
self, it  is  well  known,  have  been  of  different  opinions, 
but  personally  I  have  always  respected  and  esteemed 
him  ;  nay,  more,  I  have  conceived  myself  under  ob- 
ligations to  him  for  the  friendly  manner  in  which  he 
transmitted  to  me  some  insidious  anonymous  writ- 
ings that  were  sent  to  him  in  the  close  of  the  year 
1777,  with  a  view  to  embark  him  in  the  opposition 
that  was  forming  against  me  at  that  time,^ 

I  well  recollect  the  conversations  you  allude  to  in 
the  winter  preceding  the  last,  and  I  recollect  also,  that 
difficulties  occurred,  which  you,  any  more  than  my- 
self, were  not  able  to  remove.  First,  though  you 
believed,  yet  you  would  not  undertake  to  assert,  that 
Mr.  Henry  would  be  induced  to  accept  any  appoint- 
ment under  the  general  government ;  in  which  case, 
and  supposing  him  to  be  inimical  to  it,  the  wound  the 
government  would  receive  by  his  refusal,  and  the 
charge  of  attempting  to  silence  his  opposition  by  a 

'  See  Vol.  VI.,  452,  453. 


458  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

place,  would  be  great.  Secondly,  because  you  were 
of  opinion  that  710  office,  which  would  make  a  resi- 
dence at  the  seat  of  government  essential,  would 
comport  with  his  disposition  or  views.  And,  thirdly, 
because,  if  there  was  a  vacancy  in  the  supreme  judi- 
ciary at  that  time,  of  which  I  am  not  at  this  time 
certain,  it  could  not  be  filled  from  Virginia,  without 
giving  two  judges  to  that  State,  which  would  have 
excited  unpleasant  sensations  in  other  States.  Any 
thing  short  of  one  of  the  great  offices,  it  could 
not  be  presumed  he  would  have  accepted  ;  nor  would 
there,  under  any  opinion  he  might  entertain,  have 
been  propriety  in  [my  offering  such  an  office]. 
What  is  it,  then,  you  have  in  contemplation,  that 
you  conceive  would  be  relished  ?  And  ought  there 
not  to  be  a  moral  certainty  of  its  acceptance  ?  This 
being  the  case,  there  would  not  be  wanting  a  dis- 
position on  my  part,  but  strong  inducements  on  pub- 
lic and  private  grounds,  to  invite  Mr.  Henry  into  any 
employment  under  the  general  government,  to  which 
his  inclination  might  lead,  and  not  opposed  by  those 
maxims,  which  have  been  the  invariable  rule  of  my 
conduct. 

With  respect  to  the  words  said  to  have  been 
uttered  by  Mr.  Jefferson,  they  would  be  enigmatical 
to  those,  who  are  acquainted  with  the  characters 
about  me,  unless  supposed  to  be  spoken  ironically  ; 
and  in  that  case  they  are  too  injurious  to  me,  and 
have  too  little  foundation  in  truth,  to  be  ascribed  to 
him.  There  could  not  be  the  trace  of  doubt  on  his 
mind  of  predilection  in  mine  towards  Great  Britain 
or  her  politics,  unless,  (which   I   do  not  believe,)  he 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  459 

has  set  me  down  as  one  of  the  most  deceitful  and 
uncandid  men  Hving ;  because,  not  only  in  private 
conversations  between  ourselves  on  this  subject,  but 
in  my  meetings  with  the  confidential  servants  of  the 
public,  he  has  heard  me  often,  when  occasions  pre- 
sented themselves,  express  very  different  sentiments, 
with  an  energy  that  could  not  be  mistaken  by  a^iy 
one  present/ 

Having  determined,  as  far  as  lay  within  the  power 
of  the  executive,  to  keep  this  country  in  a  state  of 
neutrality,  I  have  made  my  public  conduct  accord 
with  the  system  ;  and,  whilst  so  acting  as  a  public 
character,  consistency  and  propriety  as  a  private  man 
forbid  those  intemperate  expressions  in  favor  of  one 
nation,  or  to  the  prejudice  of  another,  which  many 
have  indulged  themselves  in,  and  I  will  venture  to 
add,  to  the  embarrassment  of  government,  without 
producing  any  good  to  the  country.  With  very 
great  esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  dear  Sir,  yours,  &c. 


TO    JOHN    JAY. 

Philadelphia,  30  August,  1794. 

My  dear  Sir, 

Your  letter  of  the  23d  of  June  from  London,  and 
the  duplicate,  have  both  been  received  ;  and  your 
safe  arrival  after  so  short  a  passage  gave  sincere 
pleasure,  as  well  on  private  as  on  public  account,  to 

'  It  was  only  two  days  after  this  letter  was  written  that  Randolph  conveyed 
to  Jefferson  the  wish  of  the  President  to  appoint  him  (J.)  an  envoy  to  Madrid, 
to  conduct  the  negotiations  with  Spain.  "  Motives,  public  and  personal, 
induced  the  President  to  designate  you  for  this  distinction."  Jefferson  replied 
that  "no  circumstances  will  ever  more  tempt  me  to  engage  in  any  thing 
public." — September  7th.     The  offer  was  then  made  to  Patrick  Henry. 


46o  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

all  your  friends  in  this  country  ;  and  to  none  in  a 
greater  degree,  I  can  venture  to  assure  you,  than  it 
did  to  myself. 

As  you  will  receive  letters  from  the  Secretary  of 
State's  office,  giving  an  official  account  of  the  public 
occurrences  as  they  have  arisen  and  progressed,  it 
is  unnecessary  for  me  to  retouch  any  of  them  ;  and 
yet  I  cannot  restrain  myself  from  making  some  ob- 
servations on  the  most  recent  of  them,  the  communi- 
cation of  which  was  received  this  morning  only.  I 
mean  the  protest  of  the  governor  of  Upper  Canada, 
delivered  by  Lieutenant  Sheaffe,  against  our  occupy- 
ing lands  far  from  any  of  the  posts,  which  long  ago 
they  ought  to  have  surrendered,  and  far  within  the 
known  and  until  now  the  acknowledged  limits  of  the 
United  States. 

On  this  irregular  and  high-handed  proceeding  of 
Mr.  Simcoe,  which  is  no  longer  vtasked,  I  would 
rather  hear  what  the  ministry  of  Great  Britain  will 
say,  than  pronounce  my  own  sentiments  thereon.' 
But  can  that  government  or  will  it  attempt,  after  this 
official  act  of  one  of  their  governors,  to  hold  out  ideas 
of  friendly  intentions  towards  the  United  States,  and 
suffer  such  conduct  to  pass  with  impunity  ? 

This  may  be  considered  as  the  most  open  and 
daring  act  of  the  British  agents  in  America,  though 
it  is  not  the  most  hostile  or  cruel  ;  for  there  does 
not  remain  a  doubt  in  the  mind  of  any  well-informed 
person  in  this  country,  not  shut  against  conviction, 
that  all  the  difficulties  we  encounter  with  the  Indians, 


'  American  State  Papers,  Foreign  Relations,  i.,  461. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  461 

their  hostilities,  the  murders  of  helpless  women  and 
innocent  children  along  our  frontiers,  result  from  the 
conduct  of  the  agents  of  Great  Britain  in  this 
country.  In  vain  is  it  then  for  its  administration  in 
Britain  to  disavow  having  given  orders,  which  will 
warrant  such  conduct,  whilst  their  agents  go  un- 
punished ;  whilst  we  have  a  thousand  corroborating 
circumstances,  and  indeed  almost  as  many  evidences, 
some  of  which  cannot  be  brought  forward,  to  prove, 
that  they  are  seducing  from  our  alliance,  and  en- 
deavoring to  remove  over  the  line,  tribes  that  have 
hitherto  been  kept  in  peace  and  friendship  with 
us  at  a  heavy  expense,  and  who  have  no  causes  of 
complaint,  except  pretended  ones  of  their  creating  ; 
whilst  they  keep  in  a  state  of  irritation  the  tribes, 
who  are  hostile  to  us,  and  are  instiofatingr  those,  who 
know  little  of  us  or  we  of  them,  to  unite  in  the  war 
against  us  ;  and  whilst  it  is  an  undeniable  fact,  that 
they  are  furnishing  the  whole  with  arms,  ammuni- 
tion, clothing,  and  even  provisions,  to  carry  on  the 
war ;  I  might  go  further,  and,  if  they  are  not  much 
belied,  add  men  also  in  disguise. 

Can  it  be  expected,  I  ask,  so  long  as  these  things 
are  known  in  the  United  States,  or  at  least  firmly 
believed,  and  suffered  with  impunity  by  Great 
Britain,  that  there  ever  will  or  can  be  any  cordiality 
between  the  two  countries  ?  I  answer.  No.  And  I 
will  undertake,  without  the  gift  of  prophecy,  to  pre- 
dict, that  it  will  be  impossible  to  keep  this  country  in 
a  state  of  amity  with  Great  Britain  long,  if  the  posts 
are  not  surrendered.     A  knowledge  of  these  being 


462  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

my  sentiments  would  have  little  weight,  I  am  per- 
suaded, with  the  British  administration,  nor  perhaps 
with  the  nation,  in  effecting  the  measure  ;  but  both 
may  rest  satisfied,  that,  if  they  want  to  be  in  peace 
with  this  country,  and  to  enjoy  the  benefits  of  its 
trade,  to  give  up  the  posts  is  the  only  road  to  it. 
Withholding  them,  and  the  consequences  we  feel 
at  present  continuing,  war  will  be  inevitable. 

This  letter  is  written  to  you  in  extreme  haste, 
whilst  the  papers  respecting  this  subject  I  am  writing 
on  are  copying  at  the  Secretary  of  State's  office,  to 
go  by  express  to  New  York,  for  a  vessel  which  we 
have  just  heard  sails  to-morrow.  You  will  readily 
perceive,  therefore,  I  had  no  time  for  digesting,  and 
as  little  for  correcting  it.  I  shall  only  add,  that  you 
may  be  assured  always  of  the  sincere  friendship  and 
affection  of  yours,  &c. 


TO    DAVID    STUART. 

Philadelphia,  21  September,  1794. 

Dear  Sir, 

Your  letter  of  the  14th  inst.  has  been  duly  received. 
As  it  was,  and  is,  my  earnest  wish  to  discharge  my 
obligation  to  Mr.  Lund  Washington  and  all  other 
debts,  it  will  prove  inconvenient  to  me  to  apply  the 
money  which  you  have  lodged  in  the  Bank  of  Alex- 
andria, for  my  use,  to  the  purpose  of  paying  the 
debt  due  from  my  brother  Samuel's  estate  to  that  of 
Mr.  Custis',  yet  I  cannot,  whilst  there  are  means  at 
my  command,  see  the  estate  of  the  former  arrested 
from    his    representatives,    and    suffer   them    to    be 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  463 

involved  in  difficulty — perhaps  in  distress  and  not 
apply  them  in  prevention. 

The  estate  of  my  Brother  Samuel  being  involved, 
and  left  under  wretched  management,  has  already 
proved  a  heavy  tax  upon  me. — Land  which  I  sold 
twenty  odd  years  ago  to  Colo.  Phil.  Pendleton, 
falling  into  his  hands,  and  he  thereby  becoming  pay- 
master to  me,  has  (as  I  never  intended,  under  the 
view  I  had  of  his  affairs,  to  ask  payment)  sunk  me 
more  than  £'^00. — For  the  board,  education,  and 
other  expenses  of  his  two  sons  I  am  in  a  further 
advance  for  it,  upwards  of  ;^  1,000  more,  besides  the 
support  of  his  Daughter  Harriot,  since  she  was  given 
over  to  me  by  Mrs.  Fendall,  without  receiving  a 
single  sous  towards  it. 

For  the  past  I  expected  no  return,  but  it  will  be 
hard  (especially  as  I  thought  my  advances,  except 
for  Harriot,  was  at  an  end)  to  launch  out  a  thousand 
pounds  more  with  as  little  prospect  of  a  refund  as  for 
that  which  has  gone  before  it. — Yet,  and  for  the 
reason  I  have  mentioned,  I  shall  not  suffer  the  re- 
mains of  the  estate  to  be  sold  without  lending  my  aid 
to  prevent  jt. — I  must  therefore  leave  the  thousand 
pounds  in  the  Bank  of  Alexandria,  which  you  say  is 
appropriated  for  my  use,  to  your  own  disposal. 

But  it  is  my  wish,  and  desire  that  the  process 
against  that  estate  may  not  be  arrested  short  of  its 
coming  to  actual  sale,  at  which  point  I  would  stop  it ; 
without  the  least  intimation  of  my  intention  previous 
thereto,  to  do  so;  for  the  following  reasons — ist, 
because  George  and  Lawrence  Washington  do  not 


464  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

appear  to  me  to  be  sufficiently  impressed  with  the 
incumbrances  on  their  estate  ;  2d,  because  both  of 
them  seem  to  entertain  too  high  an  opinion  of  the 
value  of  the  property  they  are  possessed  ;  3d,  under 
this  mistaken  idea,  or  from  proneness  to  show,  they 
are  not,  nor  will  not  be  restrained  from  indulgencies 
until  they  either  feel,  or  have  a  nearer  view  of  the 
necessity,  for  imposing  those  restraints  ;  4th,  because 
they  are  not  sensible,  I  believe,  of  the  inconveniency 
to  me,  of  the  advances  I  have  made  for  their  accom- 
modation ;  and  5th,  because  the  estate  may  (unknown 
to  me)  have  made  some  provision  to  meet  this 
demand — at  least  in  part ;  and  might  slacken  its 
exertions  or  divert  its  funds,  if  another  source  is 
contemplated,  through  which  the  debt  is  to  be  dis- 
charged.— If  all,  or  any  of  these  things  can  be 
effected  by  concealing  my  intention,  until  the  period 
above  mentioned,  it  may  be  serviceable  to  all,  and 
injurious  to  none. 

You  will  have  found  that  as  Doctr.  Thornton's 
Commission  bears  equal  date  with  your  letter,  of  course 
it  was  too  late  for  the  purpose  mentioned  in  the  latter. 

With  great  esteem  &  regard,  I  am,  &c. 


TO    BURGES    BALL. 
DfAR    Sir  Philadklphia,  25  September,  1794. 

Your  letter  of  the  loth  instant  from  the  Sulphur 
Springs  has  been  received.  I  hear  with  the  greatest 
pleasure  of  the  spirit,  which  so  generally  pervades  the 
militia  of  every  State,  that  has  been  called  upon  on 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  465 

the  present  occasion  ;  and  of  the  decided  discounte- 
nance the  incendiaries  of  public  peace  and  order  have 
met  with  in  their  attempts  to  spread  their  nefarious 
doctrines,  with  a  view  to  poison  and  discontent  the 
minds  of  the  people  against  the  government ;  par- 
ticularly by  endeavoring  to  have  it  believed,  t 
their  liberties  were  assailed,  and  that  all  the  wicked 
and  abominable  measures  that  can  be  devised  under 
specious  guises  are  practised  to  sap  the  constitution, 
and  lay  the  foundation  of  future  slavery. 

The  insurrection  in  the  western  counties  of  this 
State  is  a  striking  evidence  of  this,  and  may  be  con- 
sidered as  the  first  ripe  frtiit  of  the  Democratic 
Societies.  I  did  not,  I  must  confess,  expect  it  would 
come  to  maturity  so  soon,  though  I  never  had  a 
doubt  that  such  conduct  would  produce  some  such 
issue,  if  it  did  not  meet  the  frowns  of  those,  who 
were  well  disposed  to  order  and  good  government  in 
time  ;  for  can  any  thing  be  more  absurd,  more  arro- 
gant, or  more  pernicious  to  the  peace  of  society, 
than  for  self-created  bodies,  forming  themselves  into 
permanent  censors,  and  under  the  shade  of  night  in 
a  conclave  resolving  that  acts  of  Congress,  which 
have  undergone  the  most  deliberate  and  solemn  dis- 
cussion by  the  representatives  of  the  people,  chosen 
for  the  express  purpose  and  bringing  with  them  from 
the  different  parts  of  the  Union  the  sense  of  their 
constituents,  endeavoring  as  far  as  the  nature  of  the 
thing  will  admit  to  form  their  will  into  laws  for  the 
government  of  the  whole  ;  I  say,  under  these  circum- 
stances,   for  a  self-created  permanent  body  (for   no- 


466  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

one  denies  the  right  of  the  people  to  meet  occasion- 
ally to  petition  for,  or  remonstrate  against,  any  act 
of  the  legislature)  to  declare  that  this  act  is  uncon- 
stitutional, and  that  act  is  pregnant  with  mischiefs, 
and  that  all,  who  vote  contrary  to  their  dogmas,  are 
actuated  by  selfish  motives  or  under  foreign  influence, 
nay,  are  pronounced  traitors  to  their  country  ?  Is 
such  a  stretch  of  arrogant  presumption  to  be  recon- 
ciled with  laudable  motives,  especially  when  we  see 
the  same  set  of  men  endeavoring  to  destroy  all 
confidence  in  the  administration,  by  arraigning  all  its 
acts,  without  knowing  on  what  ground  or  with  what 
information  it  proceeds  ? 

These  things  were  evidently  intended,  and  could 
not  fail  without  counteraction,  to  disquiet  the  public 
mind  ;  but  I  hope  and  trust  this  will  work  their  own 
curse ;  especially  when  it  is  known  more  generally 
than  it  is,  that  the  Democratic  Society  of  this  place, 
from  which  the  others  have  emanated,  was  instituted 
by  M.  Genet  for  the  express  purpose  of  dissension, 
and  to  draw  a  line  between  the  people  and  the  gov- 
ernment, after  he  found  the  officers  of  the  latter 
would  not  yield  to  the  hostile  measures  in  which  he 
wanted  to  embroil  this  country. 

I  hope  this  letter  will  find  you,  Mrs.  Ball,  and  the 
family  in  better  health,  than  when  you  wrote  last. 
Remember  me  to  them,  and  be  assured  that  I  remain 
your  affectionate  friend.' 

'  Shortly  after  writing  this  letter,  the  President  left  Philadelphia  to  join  the 
army,  which  was  then  marching  to  suppress  the  insurrection  in  the  western 
parts  of  Pennsylvania. 

"  The  President  will  be  governed   by   circumstances.     If  the   thing  puts  on 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  467 

PROCLAMATION    CONCERNING    THE    WESTERN    INSUR- 
RECTION. 

Whereas,  from  a  hope  that  the  combinations  against  the  consti- 
tution and  laws  of  the  United  States,  in  certain  of  the  western 
counties  of  Pennsylvania,  would  yield  to  time  and  reflection,  I 
thought  it  sufficient,  in  the  first  instance,  rather  to  take  measures 
for  calling  forth  the  militia,  than  immediately  to  embody  them  ; 
but  the  moment  is  now  come,  when  the  overtures  of  forgiveness, 
with  no  other  condition  than  a  submission  to  law,  have  been  only 
partially  accepted  ;  when  every  form  of  conciliation,  not  incon- 
sistent with  the  being  of  government,  has  been  adopted  without 
effect ;  when  the  well-disposed  in  those  counties  are  unable,  by 
their  influence  and  example,  to  reclaim  the  wicked  from  their 
fury,  and  are  compelled  to  associate  in  their  own  defence ;  when 
the  proffered  lenity  has  been  perversely  misinterpreted  into  an 
apprehension,  that  the  citizens  will  march  with  reluctance  ;  when 
the  opportunity  of  examining  the  serious  consequences  of  a 
treasonable  opposition  has  been  employed  in  propagating  prin- 
ciples of  anarchy,  endeavoring  through  emissaries  to  alienate  the 
friends  of  order  from  its  support,  and  inviting  enemies  to  per- 
petrate similar  acts  of  insurrection  ;  when  it  is  manifest,  that 
violence  would  continue  to  be  exercised  upon  every  attempt  to 
enforce  the  laws  ;  when,  therefore,  government  is  set  at  defiance, 
the  contest  being  whether  a  small  proportion  of  the  United  States 
shall  dictate  to  the  whole  Union,  and,  at  the  expense  of  those,  who 
desire  peace,  indulge  a  desperate  ambition  ; 

Now,  therefore,  I,  George  Washington,  President  of  the  United 
States,  in  obedience  to  that  high  and  irresistible  duty  consigned 
to  me  by  the  constitution,  "  to  take  care  that  the  laws  be  faithfully 
executed  ;  "  deploring  that  the  American  name  should  be  sullied 
by  the  outrages  of  citizens  on  their  own  government ;  commisera- 
ting such  as  remain  obstinate  from  delusion  ;    but  resolved,  in 

an  appearance  of  magnitude,  he  goes  ;  if  not,  he  stays.     There  is  a  pro  and  a 
con  in  the  case." — Hamilton  to  Jay,  17  September,  1794. 

"  As  the  President  will  be  going,  if  he  proceeds,  into  the  country  of 
whiskey,  he  proposes  to  make  use  of  that  liquor  for  his  drink." — Dandridge  to 
Knox,  9  October,  1794. 


468  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

perfect  reliance  on  that  gracious  Providence,  which  so  signally 
displays  its  goodness  towards  this  country,  to  reduce  the  refrac- 
tory to  a  due  subordination  to  the  laws  ;  do  hereby  declare  and 
make  known,  that,  with  a  satisfaction,  which  can  be  equalled  only 
by  the  merits  of  the  militia  summoned  into  service  from  the  States 
of  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  Maryland,  and  Virginia,  I  have 
received  intelligence  of  their  patriotic  alacrity,  in  obeying  the  call 
of  the  present,  though  painful,  yet  commanding  necessity  ;  that  a 
force,  which,  according  to  every  reasonable  expectation,  is  ade- 
quate to  the  exigency,  is  already  in  motion  to  the  scene  of  dis- 
affection ;  that  those,  who  have  confided  or  shall  confide  in  the 
protection  of  government,  shall  meet  full  succor  under  the 
standard  and  from  the  arms  of  the  United  States ;  that  those, 
who,  having  offended  against  the  laws,  have  since  entitled  them- 
selves to  indemnity,  will  be  treated  with  the  most  liberal  good 
faith,  if  they  shall  not  have  forfeited  their  claim  by  any  subse- 
quent conduct,  and  that  instructions  are  given  accordingly. 

And  I  do  moreover  exhort  all  individuals,  officers,  and  bodies 
of  men  to  contemplate  with  abhorrence  the  measures  leading 
directly  or  indirectly  to  those  crimes,  which  produce  this  resort  to 
military  coercion  ;  to  check,  in  their  respective  spheres,  the 
efforts  of  misguided  or  designing  men  to  substitute  their  misrepre- 
sentation in  the  place  of  truth,  and  their  discontents  in  the  place 
of  stable  government ;  and  to  call  to  mind,  that,  as  the  people  of 
the  United  States  have  been  permitted  under  the  Divine  favor,  in 
perfect  freedom,  after  solemn  deliberation,  in  an  enlightened  age, 
to  elect  their  own  government,  so  will  their  gratitude  for  this 
inestimable  blessing  be  best  distinguished  by  firm  exertions  to 
maintain  the  constitution  and  the  laws. 

And  lastly,  I  again  warn  all  persons  whomsoever  and  whereso- 
ever not  to  abet,  aid,  or  comfort  the  insurgents  aforesaid,  as  they 
will  answer  the  contrary  at  their  peril ;  and  I  do  also  require  all 
officers  and  other  citizens,  according  to  their  several  duties,  as  far 
as  may  be  in  their  power,  to  bring  under  the  cognizance  of  the  law 
all  offenders  in  the  premises. 

In  testimony  whereof,  I  have  caused  the  seal  of  the  United 
States  of  America  to  be  affixed  to  these  presents,  and  signed  the 
same  with   my  hand.      Done   at   the   city  of   Philadelphia,   this 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  469 

twenty-fifth  day  of  September,  one  thousand  seven  hundred  and 
ninety-four,  and  of  the  independence  of  the  United  States  of 
America  the  nineteenth. 


TO    MAJOR-GENERAL    DANIEL    MORGAN.^ 

Carlisle,  8  October,  1794. 

Dear  Sir, 

In  the  moment-  I  was  leaving  the  city  of  Philadel- 
phia for  this  place,  your  letter  of  the  24th  ultimo  was 
put  into  my  hands.  Although  I  regret  the  occasion 
which  has  called  you  into  the  field,  I  rejoice  to  hear 
you  are  there  ;  and  it  is  probable  I  may  meet  you  at 
Fort  Cumberland,  whither  I  shall  proceed,  so  soon 
as  I  see  the  troops  at  this  rendezvous  in  condition  to 
advance.  At  that  place,  or  at  Bedford,  my  ulterior 
resolution  must  be  taken,  either  to  advance  with  the 
troops  into  the  insurgent  counties  of  this  State,  or  to 
return  to  Philadelphia  for  the  purpose  of  meeting 
Congress  the  3d  of  next  month. 

Imperious  circumstances  alone  can  justify  my  ab- 
sence from  the  seat  of  government,  whilst  Congress 
are  in  session  ;  but  if  these,  from  the  disposition  of 
the  people  in  the  refractory  counties,  and  the  state  of 
the  information  I  expect  to  receive  at  the  advanced 
posts,  should  appear  to  exist,  the  lesser  must  yield  to 
the  greater  duties  of  my  office,  and  I  shall  cross  the 
mountains  with  the  troops ;  if  not,  I  shall  place  the 

'  Morgan  was  father-in-law  of  Presley  Neville,  whose  property  had  been 
destroyed  by  the  insurgents,  and  he  himself  banished  from  the  county.  At- 
torney-General Bradford  (17  August,  1794)  said  that  while  the  insurgents 
laughed  at  the  Atlantic  militia  ordered  out  against  them,  they  anticipated  with 
serious  apprehensions  General  Morgan  and  the  Virginia  woodsmen. 


470  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

command  of  the  combined  force  under  the  orders  of 
Governor  Lee  of  Virginia,  and  repair  to  the  seat  of 
government. 

I  am  perfectly  in  sentiment  with  you,  that  the  busi- 
ness we  are  drawn  out  upon  should  be  effectually 
executed,  and  that  the  daring  and  factious  spirit, 
which  has  arisen  (to  overturn  the  laws  and  to  subvert 
the  constitution,)  ought  to  be  subdued.  If  this  is 
not  done,  there  is  an  end  of,  and  we  may  bid  adieu 
to,  all  government  in  this  country,  except  mob  and 
club  government,  from  whence  nothing  but  anarchy 
and  confusion  can  ensue.  If  the  minority,  and  a  small 
one  too,  is  suffered  to  dictate  to  the  majority,  after 
measures  have  underofone  the  most  solemn  discus- 
sions  by  the  representatives  of  the  people,  and  their 
will  through  this  medium  is  enacted  into  a  law,  there 
can  be  no  security  for  life,  liberty,  or  property  ;  nor, 
if  the  laws  are  not  to  govern,  can  any  man  know  how 
to  conduct  himself  in  safety.  There  never  was  a  law 
yet  made,  I  conceive,  that  hit  the  taste  exactly  of 
every  man,  or  every  part  of  the  community  ;  of  course, 
if  this  be  a  reason  for  opposition,  no  law  can  be  exe- 
cuted at  all  without  force,  and  every  man  or  set  of 
men  will  in  that  case  cut  and  carve  for  themselves  ; 
the  consequences  of  which  must  be  deprecated  by  all 
classes  of  men,  who  are  friends  to  order,  and  to  the 
peace  and  happiness  of  the  country.  But  how  can 
things  be  otherwise  than  they  are,  when  clubs  and 
societies  have  been  instituted  for  the  express  purpose, 
though  clothed  in  another  garb,  by  their  diabolical 
leader  Genet,  whose  object  was  to  sow  sedition,  to 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  471 

poison  the  minds  of  the  people  of  this  country,  and  to 
make  them  discontented  with  the  government  of  it, 
who  have  labored  indefatigably  to  effect  these  pur- 
poses. 

As  arms  have  been  sent  on  from  Philadelphia,  in 
aid  of  those  from  New  Xondon,^  I  hope  and  trust 
your  supplies  have  been  ample.  I  shall  add  no  more 
at  present,  but  my  best  wishes  and  sincere  regard  for 
you,  and  that  I  am,  dear  Sir,  yours,  &c. 


TO    EDMUND    RANDOLPH,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE.^ 

[private.] 

Carlisle,  ii  October,  1794, 
past  3  o'clock.  P.  M. 

Dear  Sir, 

When  I  wrote  to  you  yesterday  I  did  not  expect  to 
be  in  this  village  at  this  hour.  But  finding  it  difficult 
to  get  even  part  of  the  troops  off  that  were  ordered 

'   In  Virginia. 

*  "  It  would  have  given  me  pleasure  to  have  had  you  with  me,  and  advan- 
tages might  have  resulted  from  it,  on  my  present  tour,  if  your  return  in  time 
would  have  allowed  it.  It  is  now  too  late,  as  we  shall  be  in  the  act  of  crossing 
the  mountains,  or  I  shall  be  on  my  return  to  Philadelphia,  (according  to  cir- 
cumstances and  the  information  I  shall  receive  at  the  head  of  the  line,)  before 
you  could  arrive  with  any  tolerable  ease  and  convenience  to  proceed,  and 
when  the  latter,  from  present  appearances,  is  most  likely  to  happen.     .     .     . 

"  Our  accounts  from  the  insurgent  counties  are  neither  distinct  nor  satisfac- 
tor)'.  The  only  occurrence  of  consequence  I  have  mentioned  in  a  private 
letter  to  Mr.  Randolph.  To-morrow,  if  I  can  get  the  troops  in  motion  at  this 
place,  I  shall  set  out  for  Williamsport,  thence  to  Cumberland,  and  from  thence 
to  Bedford  ;  where,  about  the  i8th  or  20lh,  my  ultimate  measures  will  be 
determined  on." — Washington  to  Knox,  g  October,  1794. 

"  A  meeting  of  the  committee  of  sixty,  at  Parkinson's  Ferry,  the  2d  instant, 
has  resolved,  that,  if  the  signature  of  submission  be  not  universal,  it  is  not  so 
much  owing  to  any  existing  disposition  to  oppose  the  laws,  as  to  a  want  of 
time  or  information  to  operate  a  corresponding  sentiment.     That  the  commit- 


472  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

to  March  yesterday,  I  resolved  to  see  the  residue  in 
motion  to-day,  before  I  left  this  place  myself.  This 
dilatoriness  does  not  proceed  from  any  disinclination 
in  the  troops  themselves  to  proceed,  but  for  want  of 
arrangement  and  system  in  some  of  the  principal 
characters  among  the  officers  of  this  State,  and  the 
disjointed  manner  in  which  the  former  have  arrived 
here.  Those,  however,  which  marched  yesterday, 
with  what  have  followed  to-day  will  make  a  respecta- 
ble corps.  An  officer  of  respectability  will  be  left  to 
organize  the  remaining  detachments  of  this  State's 
troops  as  they  shall  arrive,  and  to  forward  them  on. 
The  Jersey  troops  came  on  in  complete  corps  ;  but 
are  badly  clothed. 

I   had  scarcely  dispatched  my  letter  to  you  yester- 
day, when  the  Commissioners  or  deputies  (Findley 

tee  unanimously  resolved  to  submit  to  the  laws  of  the  United  States,  and  will 
support  them  ;  that,  in  the  four  western  counties  of  this  State,  in  their  opinion 
there  is  a  general  disposition  to  submit  to  all  laws  of  the  United  States,  and  a 
determination  to  support  the  civil  authority  in  their  execution  ;  that  William 
Findlay  of  Westmoreland  county,  and  David  Riddick  of  Washington  county, 
be  commissioners  to  wait  upon  the  President  of  the  United  States  and  the 
Governor  of  Pennsylvania  with  a  copy  of  these  resolutions,  and  to  explain  to 
government  the  present  state  of  that  country,  that  the  President  may  judge 
whether  an  armed  force  be  now  necessary  to  support  the  civil  authority  there. 
These  commissioners  have  not  made  their  appearance  yet.  The  insurgents  are 
alarmed,  but  not  yet  brought  to  their  proper  senses.  Every  means  is  devised 
by  them  and  their  friends  and  associates  elsewhere  to  induce  a  belief,  that 
there  is  no  necessity  for  troops  crossing  the  mountains  ;  although  we  have 
information,  at  the  same  time,  that  part  of  the  people  there  are  obliged  to 
embody  themselves  to  repel  the  insults  of  another  ])art.  The  troops  at  this 
rendezvous  will  commence  their  march  for  Bedford  to-morrow,  at  which  time 
I  shall  set  out  for  Williamsport,  thence  to  Fort  Cumberland,  and  thence  to 
Bedford,  where,  from  the  information  I  shall  receive  in  the  interim,  my  ulti- 
mate resolution  will  be  taken  to  proceed  or  to  turn  my  face  towards  I'hiladel- 
phia." — Washington  to  Randolph,  9  October,  1794. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  473 

and  Riddick)  from  the  insurgent  counties  arrived. 
My  public  letter  written  by  Colo.  Hamilton  will 
inform  you  of  the  result,  I  believe  they  are  scared. 

All  the  papers  which  may  be  deemed  necessary 
and  proper  to  accompany  my  address  to  Congress, 
at  the  opening  of  the  session  I  pray  you  to  have 
ready  ;  for  there  will  not  be  time  to  do  it  between 
my  arrival  in  the  City  and  the  meeting  of  that  body. 
From  present  appearances  it  is  not  likely  I  shall  pro- 
ceed beyond  Bedford.  My  return  to  Philadelphia 
even  in  that  case  can  be  but  a  day  or  two  before  the 
first  Monday  in  next  month.      I  am,  &c. 


TO    EDMUND    RANDOLPH,  SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 
[private.] 

Fort  Cumberland,  16  October,  1794. 

Dear  Sir, 

Your  letters  of  the  i  ith  instant  were  received  this 
morning  at  my  stage  fifteen  miles  short  of  this  place. 
We  arrived  here  in  the  afternoon  of  this  day,  and 
found  a  respectable  force  assembled  from  the  States 
of  Virginia  and  Maryland  ;  and  I  am  informed  that 
about  fifteen  hundred  more,  (from  the  former  State,) 
either  are  or  will  be  at  Frankfort,  ten  miles  on  our 
left,  this  evening  or  to-morrow  at  farthest.  Nothing 
more  precise,  than  you  were  informed  of  in  my  last 
from  Carlisle,  has  been  heard  from  the  insurgent 
counties.  All  accounts  agree,  however,  that  they 
are  much  alarmed  at  the  serious  appearance  of 
things  ;  the  truth  of  which  I  expect  to  be  better  in- 


474  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

formed  of  to-morrow  or  next  day,  by  persons  whom 
I  have  sent  amongst  them,  and  whose  return  may  be 
looked  for  about  that  time. 

I  do  not  expect  to  be  here  more  than  two  days  ; 
thence  to  Bedford,  where,  as  soon  as  matters  are  ar- 
ranged and  a  plan  settled,  I  shall  shape  my  course 
for  Philadelphia  ;  but  not  because  the  impertinence 
of  Mr.  Bache  or  his  correspondent  has  undertaken 
to  pronounce,  that  I  cannot  constitutionally  command 
the  army,  whilst  Congress  are  in  session. 

I  believe  the  eyes  of  all  the  z^^/Z-disposed  people 
of  this  country  will  soon  be  opened,  and  that  they 
will  clearly  [see]  the  tendency,  if  not  the  design,  of 
the  leader  of  these  self-created  societies.  As  far  as  I 
have  heard  them  spoken  of,  it  is  with  strong  repro- 
bation.     I   should  be   extremely  sorry,   therefore,   if 

Mr.  M n,  from  any  cause  whatsoever,  should  get 

entangled  with  them  or  their  politics.' 

As  the  speech  will  be  composed  of  several  distinct 


'  "  Mr.  Izard  has  returned  ;  and  his  lady  is  prepared  to  go  immediately  to 
Charleston  with  the  family.  Mr.  Izard  will  follow  in  the  spring.  I  find  him 
under  very  proper  impressions  of  our  public  affairs.  He  mentioned  to  me  that 
a  society  under  the  democratic  garb  has  arisen  in  South  Carolina  with  the  name 
of  Madisonian.  It  is  a  great  grief  to  me,  because  it  must  place  Mr.  Madison 
under  much  embarrassment,  either  to  seem  to  approve  by  silence  what  I  am 
confident  he  must  abhor,  or  to  affront  those  who  intended  to  evince  their  re- 
spect for  him.  I  hope  that  he  will  not  hesitate  to  adopt  the  latter  expedient  ; 
for  I  shall  with  the  freedom  of  friendship  bring  before  him  the  genuine  state  of 
my  mind  concerning  it.  As  I  remarked  to  you  in  conversation,  I  never  did 
see  an  opportunity  of  destroying  these  self-constituted  bodies,  until  the  fruit  of 
their  operations  was  disclosed  in  the  insurrection  of  Pittsburg.  Indeed  I  was, 
and  am  still  persuaded,  that  the  language,  which  was  understood  to  be  held  by 
the  officers  of  government  in  opposition  to  them,  contributed  to  foster  them. 
They  may  now,  I  believe,  be  crushed.  The  prospect  ought  not  to  be  lost." — 
Randolph  to  Washingtnn,  ll  October,  1794. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  475 

subjects,  my  wish  was  that  each  of  these  should  re- 
ceive its  final  dress,  subject  however  to  revision ;  that 
part,  especially,  which  relates  to  the  insurrection  and 
the  proceedings  thereupon.  The  subjects  themselves 
will  naturally  point  to  the  order  in  which  they  ought 
to  follow  each  other  ;  and  the  throwing  them  into  it 
cannot,  at  any  time,  be  more  than  the  work  of  a  few 
minutes,  after  the  materials  are  all  provided.  It  will 
appear  evident,  on  a  moment's  reflection,  that  the 
continual  interruptions  in  a  militia  camp,  where 
every  thing  is  to  be  provided  and  arranged,  will 
allow  no  time  to  clothe  the  speech  in  a  correct  or 
handsome  garb  ;  nor  will  there  be  time  to  do  it  after 
my  return. 

My  mind  is  so  perfectly  convinced,  that,  if  these 
self-created  societies  cannot  be  discountenanced,  they 
will  destroy  the  government  of  this  country,  that 
I  have  asked  myself,  whilst  I  have  been  revolv- 
ing on  the  expense  and  inconvenience  of  drawing  so 
many  men  from  their  families  and  occupations  as  I 
have  seen  on  their  march,  where  would  be  the  im- 
propriety of  glancing  at  them  in  my  speech,  by  some 
such  idea  as  the  following ;  "  That,  however  distress- 
ing this  expedition  will  have  proved  to  individuals, 
and  expensive  to  the  country,  the  pleasing  spirit, 
which  it  has  drawn  forth  in  support  of  law  and  gov- 
ernment, will  immortalize  the  American  character, 
and  is  a  happy  presage,  that  future  attempts  of  a 
certain  description  of  people  to  disturb  the  public 
tranquillity  will  prove  equally  abortive."  I  have 
formed  no  precise  ideas  of  what  is  best  to  be  done  or 


476  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

said  on  this  subject,  nor  have  I  time  to  express 
properly  what  has  occurred  to  me,  as  I  am  now 
writing  at  an  hour  when  I  ought  to  be  in  bed, 
because  all  the  day,  from  business  or  ceremonious 
introductions,  I  have  been  unable  to  do  it  sooner/  I 
am,  &c. 

TO    EDMUND    RANDOLPH,    SECRETARY    OF    STATE. 
[private.] 

Fort  Cumberland,  18  October,  1794. 

Dear  Sir, 

I  have  directed  Mr.  Dandridge  to  acknowledge  the 
receipt  of  your  public  despatches  of  the  13th  instant, 
whilst  I  enclose  those  of  our  envoy  to  you,  which 
came  under  cover  to  me  in  a  letter  from  him,  dated 
the  5th  of  August,  with  the  following  postscript  :  "  I 
shall  enclose  with  this  my  despatches  for  Mr.  Ran- 
dolph. If  the  William  Penn  should  be  stopped  by  a 
belligerent  vessel,  they  will  respect  a  letter  to  you, 
more  than  one  directed  to  him."  On  opening  it,  I 
find  duplicates  only. 

'  This  paragraph  foreshadowed  a  public  utterance  against  these  societies  that 
aroused  a  very  strong  resentment  among  republicans.  The  attack  was  charac- 
terized by  Madison  as  "  perhaps  the  greatest  error"  of  Washington's  political 
life.  Jefferson  saw  in  it  "  one  of  the  extraordinary  acts  of  boldness  of  which 
we  have  seen  so  many  from  the  faction  of  monocrats,"  and  wondered  that  the 
President  should  have  "  permitted  himself  to  be  the  organ  of  such  an  attack 
on  the  freedom  of  discussion,  the  freedom  of  writing,  printing  and  publishing." 
How  could  complaint  be  made  against  these  societies  and  not  against  the 
Cincinnati,  "  a  self-created  one,  carving  out  for  itself  hereditary  distinctions, 
lowering  over  our  Constitution  eternally,  meeting  together  in  all  parts  of  the 
union,  periodically,  with  closed  doors,  accumulating  a  capital  in  their  separate 
treasury,  corresponding  secretly  and  regularly,  and  of  which  society  the  very 
persons  denouncing  the  democrats  are  themselves  the  fathers,  founders  and 
high  oflicers." — Jeffenon  to  Madison,  28  December,  1794, 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  477 

His  private  letter  to  me  of  the  date  above,  and 
which  he  wishes  may  be  considered  as  confidential, 
(which,  and  the  possible  risk,  prevent  my  sending  it 
to  you  by  the  returning  express,)  is  a  very  pleasing 
one  ;  as  it  is  more  indicative  of  a  hope  and  expecta- 
tion of  general  good  success  in  his  mission,  than  any 
that  had  come  from  him  before.  He  conceives, 
that  there  is  no  indisposition  in  the  present  ministry' 
to  settle  the  several  matters  in  dispute  upon  what 
they  conceive  to  be  just  and  liberal  terms.  But  what 
these  may  appear  to  be,  when  they  come  to  close 
discussion,  no  one  can  prognosticate.  To  give  and 
take,  I  presume,  will  be  the  result.  I  am  led  to 
draw  more  favorable  inferences  from  this  letter, 
however,  than  from  any  of  his  preceding  ones.  I 
am,  &c.^ 

'  "  I  am  this  moment  returned  from  a  long  conference  with  Lord  Grenville. 
Our  prospects  become  more  and  more  promising  as  we  advance  in  the  busi- 
ness. The  compensation  cases  (as  described  in  the  answer),  and  the  amount 
of  damages  will,  I  have  reason  to  hope,  be  referred  to  the  decision  of  commis- 
sioners mutually  to  be  appointed  by  the  two  governments,  and  the  money  paid 
without  delay  on  their  certificates,  and  the  business  closed  as  speedily  as  may 
be  possible.  The  question  of  admitting  our  vessels  into  the  Islands,  under 
certain  limitations,  is  under  consideration,  and  will  soon  be  decided.  A  treaty 
of  commerce  is  on  the  carpet.  All  other  things  being  agreed,  the  posts  will 
be  included.  They  contend,  that  the  article  about  the  negroes  does  not  extend 
to  those,  who  came  in  on  their  proclamations,  to  whom  (being  vested  with  the 
property  in  them  by  the  right  of  war)  they  gave  freedom,  but  only  to  those, 
who  were  bond  fide  the  property  of  Americans  when  the  war  ceased.  They 
will  I  think  insist,  that  British  debts,  so  far  as  injured  hy  lawful  impediments, 
should  be  repaired  hy  the  United  States  by  decision  of  mutual  commissioners. 
These  things  have  passed  in  conversation,  but  no  commitments  on  either  side  : 
and  not  to  have  any  official  weight  or  use  whatever. 

"  The  King  observed  to  me  the  other  day  ;  '  Well,  Sir,  I  imagine  you  begin 
to  see,  that  your  mission  will  probably  be  successful.'  '  I  am  happy,  may  it 
please  your  Majesty,  to  find  that  you  entertain  that  idea.'  '  Well,  but  don't 
you  perceive,  that  it  is  like  to  be  so  ?  '     '  There  are  some  recent  circumstances  ' 


478  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

TO    HENRY    LEE,    COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF    OF    THE 
MILITIA    ARMY. 

Bedford,  20  October,  1794. 

Sir, 

Being  about  to  return  to  the  seat  of  government, 
I  cannot  take  my  departure,  without  conveying 
through  you  to  the  army  under  your  command,  the 
very  high  sense  I  entertain  of  the  enlightened  and 
patriotic  zeal  for  the  constitution  and  the  laws,  which 
has  led  them  cheerfully  to  quit  their  families,  homes, 
and  the  comforts  of  private  life,  to  undertake  and 
thus  far  to  perform  a  long  and  fatiguing  march,  and 
to  encounter  and  endure  the  hardships  and  privations 
of  a  military  life.  Their  conduct  hitherto  affords  a 
full  assurance,  that  their  perseverance  will  be  equal 
to  their  zeal,  and  that  they  will   continue  to  perform 

(the  answer  to  my  representation,  &c.),  '  which  induce  me  to  flatter  mjrself  that 
it  will  be  so.'  He  nodded  with  a  smile,  signifying  that  it  was  to  those  circum- 
stances that  he  alluded.  The  conversation  then  turned  to  indifferent  topics. 
This  was  at  the  drawing-room. 

"  I  have  never  been  more  unceasingly  employed,  than  I  have  been  for  some 
time  past  and  still  am  ;  I  hope  for  good,  but  God  only  knows.  The  William 
Penn  sails  in  the  morning.  I  write  these  few  lines  in  haste,  to  let  you  see  that 
the  business  is  going  on  as  fast  as  can  reasonably  be  expected  ;  and  that  it  is 
very  important  that  peace  and  quiet  should  be  preserved  for  the  present.  On 
hearing  last  night,  that  one  of  our  Indianmen  had  been  carried  into  Halifax,  I 
mentioned  it  to  I^ord  Grenville.  He  will  write  immediately  by  the  packet  on 
the  subject.  Indeed  I  believe  they  are  endeavoring  to  restore  a  proper  con- 
duct towards  us  everywhere  ;  but  it  will  take  some  time  before  the  effects  will 
be  visible.  I  write  all  this  to  you  in  confidence,  and  for  your  own  private  satis- 
faction. I  have  not  time  to  explain  my  reasons,  but  they  are  cogent.  I  could 
fill  some  sheets  with  interesting  communications,  if  I  had  leisure  ;  but  other 
matters  press  and  must  not  be  postponed  ;  for  '  there  is  a  tide  in  the  affairs  of 
men,'  of  which  every  moment  is  precious.  Whatever  may  be  the  issue, 
nothing  in  my  power  to  insure  success  shall  be  neglected  or  delayed." — John 
Jay  to  Washington,  5  August,  1794. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  479 

with  alacrity  whatever  the  full  accomplishment  of 
the  object  of  their  march  shall  render  necessary. 

No  citizens  of  the  United  States  can  ever  be  en- 
gaged in  a  service  more  important  to  their  country'. 
It  is  nothing  less  than  to  consolidate  and  to  preserve 
the  blessings  of  that  revolution,  which,  at  much  ex- 
pense of  blood  and  treasure,  constituted  us  a  free 
and  independent  nation.  It  is  to  give  the  world  an 
illustrious  example,  of  the  utmost  consequence  to  the 
cause  of  mankind.  I  experience  a  heart-felt  satisfac- 
tion in  the  conviction,  that  the  conduct  of  the  troops 
throughout  will  be  in  every  respect  answerable  to 
the  goodness  of  the  cause  and  the  magnitude  of  the 
stake. 

There  is  but  one  other  point  on  which  I  think  it 
proper  to  add  a  special  recommendation  ;  it  is,  that 
every  officer  and  soldier  will  constantly  bear  in  mind, 
that  he  comes  to  support  the  laws,  and  that  it  would 
be  peculiarly  unbecoming  in  him  to  be  in  any  way 
the  infractor  of  them  ;  that  the  essential  principles  of 
a  free  government  confine  the  province  of  the  mili- 
tary, when  called  forth  on  such  occasions,  to  these 
two  objects,  first,  to  combat  and  subdue  all  who  may 
be  found  in  arms  in  opposition  to  the  national  will 
and  authority,  secondly,  to  aid  and  support  the  civil 
magistrates  in  bringing  offenders  to  justice.  The 
dispensation  of  this  justice  belongs  to  the  civil 
magistrate  ;  and  let  it  ever  be  our  pride  and  our 
glory  to  leave  the  sacred  deposit  there  inviolate. 
Convey  to  my  fellow-citizens  in  arms  my  warm  ac- 
knowledgments for  the  readiness,   with  which  they 


48o  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

have  hitherto  seconded  me  in  the  most  delicate  and 
momentous  duty  the  chief  magistrate  of  a  free  people 
can  have  to  perform,  and  add  my  affectionate  wishes 
for  their  health,  comfort,  and  success.  Could  my 
further  presence  with  them  have  been  necessary,  or 
compatible  with  my  civil  duties  at  a  period  when  the 
approaching  commencement  of  a  session  of  Congress 
particularly  calls  me  to  return  to  the  seat  of  govern- 
ment, it  would  not  have  been  withheld.  In  leaving 
them  I  have  the  less  regret,  as  I  know  I  commit 
them  to  an  able  and  faithful  direction,  and  that  this 
direction  will  be  ably  and  faithfully  seconded  by  all. 
I  am,  &c. 


TO  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON,  SECRETARY  OF  THE  TREASURY. 

Susquehanna,  Wright's  Ferry, 
26  October,  1794. 

Dear  Sir, 

A  little  advanced  of  this,  yesterday  afternoon,  I 
met  an  Express  with  the  letters  herewith  enclosed 
for  you,  with  others  for  the  Army ; — with  which  I 
have  directed  him  to  proceed. — 

Thus  far  I  have  proceeded  without  accident  to  man 
horse  or  carriage,  altho'  the  latter  has  had  wherewith 
to  try  its  goodness  ;  especially  in  ascending  the  North 
Mountain  from  Skinners  by  a  wrong  road  ;  that  is, — 
by  the  old  road  which  never  was  good  and  is  rendered 
next  to  impassible  by  neglect. 

I  heard  great  complaints  of  Gurney's  Corps  (and 
some  of  the  Artillery)  along  the  road  to  Strasburgh. 
— There  I  parted  from  their  Rout. — In  some  places, 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  481 

I  was  told  they  did  not  leave  a  plate,  a  spoon,  a  glass 
or  a  knife  ;  and  this  owing,  in  a  great  measure,  as  I 
was  informed,  to  their  being  left  without  Officers. — 
At  most  if  not  all  the  encampments,  I  found  the 
fences  in  a  manner  burnt  up. — I  pray  you  to  mention 
this  to  Govr.  Mifflin,  (and  indeed  to  the  Qr.  Mr. 
General)  with  a  request  (to  the  former)  that  the 
most  pointed  orders  may  be  given,  and  every  precau- 
tion used,  to  prevent  the  like  on  the  return  of  the 
Army.  If  the  Officers  from  impatience  to  get  home, 
should  leave  their  respective  commands  ; — in  a  word, 
if  they  do  not  march  with,  and  keep  the  soldiers  in 
their  ranks,  and  from  straggling  or  loitering  behind, 
the  borderers  on  the  road  will  sustain  inconceivable 
damage  from  the  disorderly  Troops ;  whose  names 
will  be  execrated  for,  and  the  service  disgraced  by, 
such  conduct. 

There  were  some  letters  put  into  the  hands  of 
Govr.  Lee  which  it  would  be  well  for  you  to  re- 
possess yourself  of. — Among  these  were  two  to 
Messrs  :  Lynn,  Mr.  Ross'  to  you — and  Mesrs.  Find- 
ley's  and  Redick's  to  me.  Occasion  may  require 
them. 

I  rode  yesterday  afternoon  thro'  the  rain  from 
York  Town  to  this  place,  and  got  twice  in  the  height 
of  it  hung  (and  delayed  by  that  means)  on  the  rocks 
in  the  middle  of  the  Susquehanna,  but  I  did  not  feel 
half  as  much  for  my  own  situation  as  I  did  on  acct.  of 
the  Troops  on  the  Mountains — and  of  the  effect  the 
rain  might  have  on  the  Roads  through  the  glades. 

I  do  not  intend  further  than   Lancaster  to-day. — 


482  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

But  on  Tuesday,  if  no  accident  happens  I  expect  to 
be  landed  in  the  City  of  Philadelphia. — My  best 
wishes  attend  you,  and  all  with  you. 

Yours  sincerely. 

P.  S.  I  hope  you  will  be  enabled  by  Hook  or  by 
Crook  to  send  B[radford]  and  H[usband]  ^  together 
with  a  certain  Mr.  Guthrie  to  Philadelphia  for  their 
Winter  Quarters. 


TO    ALEXANDER    HAMILTON,    SECRETARY    OF    THE 
TREASURY. 

Philadelphia,  31  October,  1794. 

Dear  Sir, 

By  pushing  through  the  rain,  which  fell  more  or 
less  on  Saturday,  Sunday,  and  Monday,  I  arrived  in 
this  city  before  noon  on  Tuesday,  without  encounter- 
ing any  accident  on  the  road,  or  any  thing  more 
unpleasant  than  the  badness  of  the  ways,  after  the 
rains  had  softened  the  earth  and  made  them  suscepti- 
ble of  a  deep  impression  of  the  wheels.  How  you 
passed  through  the  glades,  after  the  various  accounts 
we  had  received  of  them,  in  such  wet  weather,  I  am  at  a 
loss  to  conjecture,  but  am  extremely  anxious  to  know  ; 
as  I  also  am  to  learn  the  operations  of  the  army,  and 
the  state  and  condition  of  it  since. 

Nothing  important  or  new  has  been  lately  received 
from  our  ministers  abroad ;  and,  although  accounts 
from  London  to  the  ist  of  September,  and  from  Ire- 


'  Taken  prisoners  for  supposed  activity  in  fomenting  the  insurrection.     Her- 
man Husband  had  been  a  leader  among  the  Regulators  in  North  Carolina. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  483 

land  of  still  later  date,  have  been  inserted  in  the 
gazettes,  they  are  not  precise  enough  to  be  detailed 
in  a  letter.  In  general,  however,  the  French  con- 
tinue to  be  successful  by  land  ;  and,  it  may  be  added, 
by  sea  also,  for  they  are  capturing  a  great  number  of 
British  merchantmen.  Nor  does  the  fate  of  Robes- 
pierre seem  to  have  given  more  than  a  momentary 
stagnation  to  their  affairs.  The  armies  rejoice  at  it, 
and  the  people  are  congratulating  one  another  on  the 
occasion. 

Mr.  Monroe  has  arrived  in  France,  and  had  his 
reception  in  the  midst  of  the  Convention  at  Paris ; 
but  no  letters  have  been  received  from  him. 

Few  members  have  yet  come  to  town.  '  To-morrow, 
I  presume,  will  bring  many.  The  papers  say,  that 
Mr.  Trumbull  is  elected  to  the  Senate,  in  the  room 
of  Mr.  Mitchell,  who  has  resigned  ;  but  who  has,  or 
will,  supply  his  place  in  the  other  House,  is  not 
mentioned. 

Husband  and  the  other  prisoners  were  safely  lodged 
in  this  city  on  Wednesday  afternoon.  Press  the 
governors  to  be  pointed  in  ordering  the  officers  under 
their  respective  commands  to  march  back  with  their 
respective  corps  ;  and  to  see  that  the  inhabitants  meet 
with  no  disgraceful  insults  or  injuries  from  them. 
The  Secretary  of  War  will,  I  expect,  say  something 
respecting  the  deposit  of  the  arms  and  public  stores 
in  proper  places.     To  him,  therefore,  I  shall  refer. 

Mrs.  Hamilton  and  your  family  were  very  well 
yesterday  afternoon.  Your  letter  of  the  23d  has 
been  received.     I  am  always  and  affectionately  yours. 


484  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

TO   JOHN    JAY. 
[private.] 

Philadelphia,  i  November,  1794. 

My  dear  Sir, 

On  Tuesday  last  I  returned  from  my  tour  to  the 
westward.  On  Monday  Congress  by  adjournment 
are  to  meet,  and  on  the  day  following  Mr.  Bayard, 
according  to  his  present  expectation,  is  to  leave  this 
city  for  London. 

Thus  circumstanced,  (having  so  little  time  between 
my  return  and  the  opening  of  the  session  to  examine 
papers  and  to  prepare  my  communications  for  the 
legislature,)  you  will  readily  perceive,  that  my  pres- 
ent address  to  you  must  be  hurried.  At  the  same 
time  my  friendship  and  regard  for  you  would  not  let 
an  opportunity  so  good  as  the  one  afforded  by  Mr. 
Bayard  pass,  without  some  testimony  of  my  remem- 
brance of  you,  and  an  acknowledgment  of  the  receipt 
of  your  private  letters  to  me,  dated  the  23d  of  June, 
2istof  July,  and  5th  and  nth  of  August.  These 
comprehend  all  the  letters  I  have  received  from  you 
since  your  arrival  in  England  to  the  present  date. 

That  of  the  5th  of  August  dawns  more  favorably 
upon  the  success  of  your  mission,  than  any  that  had 
preceded  it  ;  and  for  the  honor,  dignity,  and  interest 
of  this  country,  for  your  own  reputation  and  glory, 
and  for  the  peculiar  pleasure  and  satisfaction  I  should 
derive  from  it,  as  well  on  private  as  on  public  consid- 
erations, no  man  more  ardently  wishes  you  complete 
success  than  I  do.  But  as  you  have  observed  in 
some  of  your  letters,  that  it  is  hardly  possible  in  the 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  485 

early  stages  of  a  negotiation  to  foresee  all  the  results, 
so  much  depending  upon  fortuitous  circumstances 
and  incidents,  which  are  not  within  our  control  ;  so, 
to  deserve  success  by  employing  the  means  with 
which  we  are  possessed  to  the  best  advantage,  and 
trusting  the  rest  to  the  All-Wise  Disposer,  is  all  that 
an  enlightened  public,  and  the  virtuous  and  well-dis- 
posed part  of  the  community,  can  reasonably  expect ; 
nor  in  which  will  they,  I  am  sure,  be  disappointed. 
Against  the  malignancy  of  the  discontented,  the  tur- 
bulent, and  the  vicious,  no  abilities,  no  exertions,  nor 
the  most  unshaken  integrity  are  any  safeguard. 

As  far  as  depends  upon  the  executive,  measures 
preparatory  for  the  worst,  while  it  hopes-  for  the  best, 
will  be  pursued ;  and  I  shall  endeavor  to  keep  things 
171  statu  quo  until  your  negotiation  assumes  a  more 
decisive  form,  which  I  hope  will  soon  be  the  case,  as 
there  are  many  hot  heads  and  impetuous  spirits 
among  us,  who  with  difficulty  can  be  kept  within 
bounds.  This,  however,  ought  not  to  precipitate 
your  conduct ;  for,  as  it  has  been  observed,  "there  is 
a  tide  in  human  affairs "  that  ought  always  to  be 
watched ;  and  because  I  believe  all,  who  are  ac- 
quainted with  you,  will  readily  concede,  that  consid- 
erations both  public  and  private  combine  to  urge  you 
to  bring  your  mission  to  a  close  with  as  much  celerity 
as  the  nature  of  it  will  admit. 

As  you  have  been,  and  will  continue  to  be,  fully 
informed  by  the  Secretary  of  State  of  all  transactions 
of  a  public  nature,  which  relate  to,  or  may  have  an 
influence  on,  the  points  of  your  mission,  it  would  be 


486  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

unnecessary  for  me  to  touch  upon  any  of  them  in 
this  letter,  was  it  not  for  the  presumption  that  the 
insurrection  in  the  western  counties  of  this  State  has 
excited  much  speculation,  and  a  variety  of  opinions 
abroad,  and  will  be  represented  differently  according 
to  the  wishes  of  some  and  the  prejudices  of  others, 
who  may  exhibit  it  as  an  evidence  of  what  has  been 
predicted,  "  that  we  are  unable  to  govern  ourselves." 
Under  this  view  of  the  subject,  I  am  happy  in  giving 
it  to  you  as  the  general  opinion,  that  this  event 
having  happened  at  the  time  it  did  was  fortunate, 
although  it  will  be  attended  with  considerable 
expense. 

That  the  self-created  societies,  which  have  spread 
themselves  over  this  country,  have  been  laboring  in- 
cessantly to  sow  the  seeds  of  distrust,  jealousy,  and 
of  course  discontent,  thereby  hoping  to  effect  some 
revolution  in  the  government,  is  not  unknown  to  you. 
That  they  have  been  the  fomenters  of  the  western 
disturbances  admits  of  no  doubt  in  the  mind  of  any 
one,  who  will  examine  their  conduct;  but  fortunately 
they  have  precipitated  a  crisis  for  which  they  were 
not  prepared,  and  thereby  have  unfolded  views,  which 
will,  I  trust,  effectuate  their  annihilation  sooner  than 
it  might  otherwise  have  happened  ;  at  the  same  time 
that  it  has  afforded  an  occasion  for  the  people  of  this 
country  to  show  their  abhorrence  of  the  result,  and 
their  attachment  to  the  constitution  and  the  laws  ; 
for  I  believe  that  five  times  the  number  of  militia, 
that  was  required,  would  have  come  forward,  if  it  had 
been  necessary,  in  support  of  them. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  487 

The  spirit,  which  blazed  out  on  this  occasion,  as 
soon  as  the  object  was  fully  understood,  and  the 
lenient  measures  of  the  government  were  made 
known  to  the  people,  deserves  to  be  communicated. 
There  are  instances  of  general  officers  going  at  the 
head  of  a  single  troop,  and  of  light  companies ;  of 
field-officers,  when  they  came  to  the  places  of  rendez- 
vous, and  found  no  command  for  them  in  that  grade, 
turning  into  the  ranks  and  proceeding  as  private  sol- 
diers, under  their  own  captains  ;  and  of  numbers, 
possessing  the  first  fortunes  in  the  country,  standing 
in  the  ranks  as  private  men,  and  marching  day  by  day 
with  their  knapsacks  and  haversacks  at  their  backs, 
sleeping  on  straw  with  a  single  blanket  .in  a  soldier's 
tent,  during  the  frosty  nights,  which  we  have  had,  by 
way  of  example  to  others — nay  more,  many  young 
Quakers,  not  discouraged  by  the  elders,  of  the  first 
families,  character,  and  property,  having  turned  into 
the  ranks  and  are  marching  with  the  troops. 

These  things  have  terrified  the  insurgents,  who 
had  no  conception  that  such  a  spirit  prevailed,  but, 
while  the  thunder  only  rumbled  at  a  distance,  were 
boasting  of  their  strength,  and  wishing  for  and 
threatening  the  militia  by  turns  ;  intimating  that  the 
arms  they  should  take  from  them  would  soon  become 
a  magazine  in  their  hands.  Their  language  is  much 
changed  indeed,  but  their  principles  want  correction. 

I  shall  be  more  prolix  in  my  speech  to  Congress 
on  the  commencement  and  progress  of  this  insurrec- 
tion, than  is  usual  in  such  an  instrument,  or  than  I 
should  have  been   on   any  other  occasion  ;    but,   as 


488  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

numbers  at  home  and  abroad  will  hear  of  the  insur- 
rection, and  will  read  the  speech,  that  may  know 
nothing  of  the  documents  to  which  it  might  refer,  I 
conceived  it  would  be  better  to  encounter  the  charge 
of  prolixity  by  giving  a  cursory  detail  of  facts,  that 
would  show  the  prominent  features  of  the  thing,  than 
to  let  it  go  naked  into  the  world,  to  be  dressed  up 
according  to  the  fancy  or  inclination  of  the  readers, 
or  the  policy  of  our  enemies.^ 

I  write  nothing  in  answer  to  the  letter  of  Mr. 
Wangenheim,  enclosed  by  you  to  me.  Were  I  to 
enter  into  correspondences  of  that  sort,  admitting 
there  was  no  impropriety  in  the  measure,  I  should 
be  unable  to  attend  to  my  ordinary  duties.      I  have 

'  "  The  servile  copyist  of  Mr.  Pitt,  thought  he  too  must  have  his  alarms,  his 
insurrections  and  plots  against  the  Constitution.  Hence  the  incredible  fact  that 
the  freedom  of  association,  of  conversation  and  of  the  press,  should  in  the  5th 
year  of  our  government  have  been  attacked  under  the  form  of  a  denunciation 
of  the  democratic  societies,  a  measure  which  even  England,  as  boldly  as  she  is 
advancing  to  the  establishment  of  an  absolute  monarchy,  has  not  yet  been  bold 
enough  to  attempt.  Hence  too  the  example  of  employing  military  force  for 
civil  purposes,  when  it  has  been  impossible  to  produce  a  single  fact  of  insurrec- 
tion, unless  that  term  be  entirely  confounded  with  occasional  riots,  and  when 
the  ordinary  process  of  law  had  been  resisted  indeed  in  a  few  special  cases,  but 
by  no  means  generally,  nor  had  its  effect  been  duly  tried.  But  it  aroused  the 
favorite  purposes  of  strengthening  government  and  increasing  the  public  debt  ; 
and  therefore  an  insurrection  was  announced  and  proclaimed  and  armed 
against  and  marched  against,  but  could  never  be  found.  And  all  this  under 
the  sanction  of  a  name  which  has  done  too  much  good  not  to  be  sufficient  to 
cover  harm  also.  And  what  is  equally  astonishing  is  that  by  the  pomp  of 
reports,  proclamations,  armies,  &c,  the  mind  of  the  legislature  itself  was  so 
fascinated  as  never  to  have  asked  where,  when  and  by  whom  has  this  insurrec- 
tion been  produced  ?  The  original  of  this  scene  in  another  country  was  calcu- 
lated to  excite  the  indignation  of  those  whom  it  could  not  impose  on  :  the 
mimicry  of  it  here  is  too  humiliating  to  excite  any  feeling  but  shame.  Our 
comfort  is  that  the  public  sense  is  coming  right  on  the  general  principles  of 
repul)licanism,  and  that  its  success  in  France  puts  it  out  of  danger  here." — 
Jefferson  to  Monroe,  26  May,  1795. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  489 

established  it  as  a  maxim  neither  to  invite  nor  to 
discourage  emigrants.  My  opinion  is,  that  they  will 
come  hither  as  fast  as  the  true  interest  and  policy  of 
the  United  States  will  be  benefited  by  foreign  popu- 
lation. I  believe  many  of  these,  as  Mr.  Wangenheim 
relates,  have  been,  and  I  fear  will  continue  to  be,  im- 
posed on  by  speculators  in  land  and  other  things  ; 
but  I  know  of  no  prevention  but  caution,  nor  any 
remedy  except  the  laws.  Nor  is  military  or  other 
employment  so  easily  obtained  as  foreigners  con- 
ceive, in  a  country  where  offices  bear  no  proportion 
to  the  seekers  of  them. 

With  sincere  esteem,  &c. 
P.  S.  Nov.  5.  Your  correspondence  with  New 
York  is,  I  have  no  doubt  too  frequent  &  regular  to 
render  any  account  of  Mrs.  Jay  from  me  necessary  ; 
yet,  as  I  was  told  yesterday  by  Mr.  King  that  she  and 
all  your  family  were  well,  I  choose  to  mention  it. 
For  want  of  a  Senate,  Congress  cannot  proceed  to 
business. 


TO    JOHN    ADAMS. 

Saturday,  15  NoTcmber,  1794. 

Dear  Sir, 

I  have  not  been  able  to  give  the  papers  herewith 
enclosed  more  than  a  hasty  reading  ;  returning  them, 
without  delay,  that  you  may  offer  the  perusal  of  them 
to  whom  soever  you  shall  think  proper. 

The  picture  drawn  in  them,  of  the  Genevese,  is 
really  interesting  and  affecting.  The  proposition  of 
transplanting  the  members,  entire,  of  the  University 


490  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

of  that  place  to  America,  with  the  requisition  of 
means  to  establish  the  same,  and  to  be  accompanied 
by  a  considerable  emigration  is  important ;  requiring 
more  consideration,  than,  under  the  circumstances  of 
the  moment  I  am  able  to  bestow  on  it. 

That  a  National  University  in  this  country  is  a 
thing  to  be  desired,  has  always  been  my  decided 
opinion  ;  and  the  appropriation  of  ground  and  funds 
for  it  in  the  Federal  City,  have  long  been  contem- 
plated and  talked  of  ;  but  how  far  matured,  or  how 
far  the  transplanting  of  an  entire  Seminary  of 
Foreigners,  who  may  not  understand  our  Language, 
can  be  assimilated  therein  is  more  than  I  am  pre- 
pared to  give  an  opinion  upon — or  indeed  how  far 
funds  in  either  case  are  attainable. 

My  opinion,  with  respect  to  emigration,  is,  that 
except  of  useful  mechanics  and  some  particular 
descriptions  of  men  or  professions,  there  is  no  need 
of  encouragement,  while  the  policy  or  advantage  of 
its  taking  place  in  a  body  (I  mean  the  settling  of 
them  in  a  body)  may  be  much  questioned  ;  for,  by 
so  doing,  they  retain  the  Language,  habits  and  prin- 
ciples (good  or  bad)  which  they  bring  with  them — 
Whereas  by  an  intermixture  with  our  people,  they, 
or  their  descendants,  get  assimilated  to  our  customs, 
measures  and  laws  : — in  a  word,  soon  become  one 
people. 

I  shall  at  any  leasure  hour,  after  the  Session  is 
fairly  opened,  have  pleasure  in  a  full  and  free  con- 
versation with  you  on  this  subject — being,  with  much 
esteem  and  regard,  &c. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  491 

SPEECH    TO    BOTH    HOUSES    OF    CONGRESS,    NOVEMBER 
19,    1794. 

Fellow-Citizens  of  the  Senate 

AND  House  of  Representatives  : 

When  we  call  to  mind  the  gracious  indulgence  of  Heaven,  by 
which  the  American  people  became  a  nation  ;  when  we  survey 
the  general  prosperity  of  our  country,  and  look  forward  to  the 
riches,  power,  and  happiness  to  which  it  seems  destined  ;  with 
the  deepest  regret  do  I  announce  to  you,  that,  during  your 
recess,  some  of  the  citizens  of  the  United  States  have  been  found 
capable  of  an  insurrection.  It  is  due,  however,  to  the  character 
of  our  government,  and  to  its  stability,  which  cannot  be  shaken 
by  the  enemies  of  order,  freely  to  unfold  the  course  of  this 
event 

During  the  session  of  the  year  1790,  it  was  expedient  to  exer- 
cise the  legislative  power,  granted  by  the  constitution  of  the 
United  States,  "  to  lay  and  collect  excises."  In  a  majority  of 
the  States,  scarcely  an  objection  was  made  to  this  mode  of  taxa- 
tion. In  some,  indeed,  alarms  were  at  first  conceived,  until  they 
were  banished  by  reason  and  patriotism.  In  the  four  western 
counties  of  Pennsylvania,  a  prejudice,  fostered  and  embittered 
by  the  artifice  of  men,  who  labored  for  an  ascendency  over  the 
will  of  others  by  the  guidance  of  their  passions,  produced  symp- 
toms of  riot  and  violence.  It  is  well  known,  that  Congress  did 
not  hesitate  to  examine  the  complaints  which  were  presented, 
and  to  relieve  them,  as  far  as  justice  dictated,  or  general  con- 
venience would  permit,  But  the  impression,  which  this  modera- 
tion made  on  the  discontented,  did  not  correspond  with  what  it 
deserved  ;  the  arts  of  delusion  were  no  longer  confined  to  the 
efforts  of  designing  individuals. 

The  very  forbearance  to  press  prosecutions  was  misinterpreted 
into  a  fear  of  urging  the  execution  of  the  laws  ;  and  associations 
of  men  began  to  denounce  threats  against  the  officers  employed. 
From  a  belief,  that,  by  a  more  formal  concert,  their  operation 
might  be  defeated,  certain  self-created  societies  assumed  the  tone 
of  condemnation.  Hence,  while  the  greater  part  of  Pennsylvania 
itself  were  conforming  themselves  to  the  acts  of  excise,  a  few 


492  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

counties  were  resolved  to  frustrate  them.  It  was  now  perceived, 
that  every  expectation  from  the  tenderness,  which  had  hitherto 
been  pursued,  was  unavailing,  and  that  further  delay  could  only 
create  an  opinion  of  impotency  or  irresolution  in  the  government. 
Legal  process  was,  therefore,  delivered  to  the  marshal,  against 
the  rioters  and  delinquent  distillers. 

No  sooner  was  he  understood  to  be  engaged  in  this  duty,  than 
the  vengeance  of  armed  men  was  aimed  at  his  person,  and  the 
person  and  property  of  the  inspector  of  the  revenue.  They  fired 
upon  the  marshal,  arrested  him,  and  detained  him  for  some  time 
as  a  prisoner.  He  was  obliged,  by  the  jeopardy  of  his  life,  to 
renounce  the  service  of  other  process  on  the  west  side  of  the 
Allegany  Mountain  ;  and  a  deputation  was  afterwards  sent  to 
him  to  demand  a  surrender  of  that  which  he  had  served.  A 
numerous  body  repeatedly  attacked  the  house  of  the  inspector, 
seized  his  papers  of  office,  and  finally  destroyed,  by  fire,  his 
buildings,  and  whatsoever  they  contained.  Both  of  these  officers, 
from  a  just  regard  to  their  safety,  fled  to  the  seat  of  government ; 
it  being  avowed,  that  the  motives  to  such  outrages  were  to  com. 
pel  the  resignation  of  the  inspector,  to  withstand,  by  force  of 
arms,  the  authority  of  the  United  States,  and  thereby  to  extort  a 
repeal  of  the  laws  of  excise,  and  an  alteration  in  the  conduct  of 
government. 

Upon  the  testimony  of  these  facts,  an  associate  justice  of  the 
Supreme  Court  of  the  United  States  notified  to  me,  that  "  in  the 
counties  of  Washington  and  Allegany,  in  Pennsylvania,  laws  of 
the  United  States  were  opposed,  and  the  execution  thereof  ob- 
structed, by  combinations  too  powerful  to  be  suppressed  by  the 
ordinary  course  of  judicial  proceedings,  or  by  the  powers  vested 
in  the  marshal  of  that  district."  On  this  call,  momentous  in  the 
extreme,  I  sought  and  weighed  what  might  best  subdue  the 
crisis.  On  the  one  hand,  the  judiciary  was  pronounced  to  be 
stripped  of  its  capacity  to  enforce  the  laws  ;  crimes,  which 
reached  the  very  existence  of  social  order,  were  perpetrated  with- 
out control  ;  the  friends  of  government  were  insulted,  abused, 
and  overawed  into  silence  or  an  apparent  accjuiescence  ;  and  to 
yield  to  the  treasonable  fury  of  so  small  a  portion  of  the  United 
States  would  be  to  violate  the  fundamental  principle  of  our  con- 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  493 

stitution,  which  enjoins,  that  the  will  of  the  majority  shall 
prevail.  On  the  other,  to  array  citizen  against  citizen,  to  publish 
the  dishonor  of  such  excesses,  to  encounter  the  expense  and 
other  embarrassments  of  so  distant  an  expedition,  were  steps  too 
delicate,  too  closely  interwoven  with  many  affecting  considera- 
tions, to  be  lightly  adopted.  I  postponed,  therefore,  the  sum- 
moning of  the  militia  immediately  into  the  field  ;  but  I  required 
them  to  be  held  in  readiness,  that  if  my  anxious  endeavors  to 
reclaim  the  deluded,  and  to  convince  the  malignant  of  their 
danger,  should  be  fruitless,  military  force  might  be  prepared  to 
act,  before  the  season  should  be  too  far  advanced. 

My  proclamation  of  the  7th  of  August  last  was  accordingly 
issued,  and  accompanied  by  the  appointment  of  commissioners, 
who  were  charged  to  repair  to  the  scene  of  insurrection.  They 
were  authorized  to  confer  with  any  bodies  of  men,  or  individuals. 
They  were  instructed  to  be  candid  and  explicit,  in  stating  the 
sensations  which  had  been  excited  in  the  executive,  and  his 
earnest  wish  to  avoid  a  resort  to  coercion  ;  to  represent,  how- 
ever, that,  without  submission,  coercion  must  be  the  resort ;  but 
to  invite  them,  at  the  same  time,  to  return  to  the  demeanor  of 
faithful  citizens,  by  such  accommodations  as  lay  within  the 
sphere  of  the  executive  power.  Pardon,  too,  was  tendered  to 
them  by  the  government  of  the  United  States,  and  that  of  Penn- 
sylvania, upon  no  other  condition,  than  a  satisfactory  assurance 
of  obedience  to  the  laws. 

Although  the  report  of  the  commissioners  marks  their  firmness 
and  abilities,  and  must  unite  all  virtuous  men,  by  showing  that 
the  means  of  conciliation  have  been  exhausted  ;  all  of  those,  who 
had  committed  or  abetted  the  tumults,  did  not  subscribe  the 
mild  form,  which  was  proposed  as  the  atonement  ;  and  the  indi- 
cations of  a  peaceable  temper  were  neither  sufficiently  general 
nor  conclusive  to  recommend  or  warrant  a  further  suspension  of 
the  march  of  the  militia. 

Thus  the  painful  alternative  could  not  be  discarded.  I 
ordered  the  militia  to  march,  after  once  more  admonishing  the 
insurgents,  in  my  proclamation  of  the  25th  of  September  last. 

It  was  a  task  too  difficult  to  ascertain,  with  precision,  the 
lowest  degree  of  force  competent  to  the  quelling  of  the  insurrec- 


494  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

tion.  From  a  respect,  indeed,  to  economy  and  the  ease  of  my 
fellow-citizens  belonging  to  the  militia,  it  would  have  gratified 
me  to  accomplish  such  an  estimate.  My  very  reluctance  to  as- 
cribe too  much  importance  to  the  opposition,  had  its  extent  been 
accurately  seen,  would  have  been  a  decided  inducement  to  the 
smallest  efficient  numbers.  In  this  uncertainty,  therefore,  I  put 
in  motion  fifteen  thousand  men,  as  being  an  army,  which,  accord- 
ing to  all  human  calculation,  would  be  prompt,  and  adequate  in 
every  view,  and  might  perhaps,  by  rendering  resistance  despe- 
rate, prevent  the  effusion  of  blood.  Quotas  had  been  assigned 
to  the  States  of  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  Maryland,  and 
Virginia  ;  the  governor  of  Pennsylvania  having  declared  on 
this  occasion  an  opinion  which  justified  a  requisition  to  the 
other  States. 

As  Commander-in-chief  of  the  militia,  when  called  into  the 
actual  service  of  the  United  States,  I  have  visited  the  places  of 
general  rendezvous,  to  obtain  more  exact  information,  and  to 
direct  a  plan  for  ulterior  movements.  Had  there  been  room  for 
a  persuasion,  that  the  laws  were  secure  from  obstruction  ;  that 
the  civil  magistrate  was  able  to  bring  to  justice  such  of  the  most 
culpable,  as  have  not  embraced  the  proffered  terms  of  amnesty, 
and  may  be  deemed  fit  objects  of  example  ;  that  the  friends  of 
peace  and  good  government  were  not  in  need  of  that  aid  and 
countenance,  which  they  ought  always  to  receive,  and  I  trust 
ever  will  receive,  against  the  vicious  and  turbulent,  I  should  have 
caught  with  avidity  the  opportunity  of  restoring  the  militia  to 
their  families  and  home.  But  succeeding  intelligence  has  tended 
to  manifest  the  necessity  of  what  has  been  done  ;  it  being  now 
confessed,  by  those  who  were  not  inclined  to  exaggerate  the  ill 
conduct  of  the  insurgents,  that  their  malevolence  was  not  pointed 
merely  to  a  particular  law,  but  that  a  spirit  inimical  to  all  order 
has  actuated  many  of  the  offenders.  If  the  state  of  things  had 
afforded  reason  for  the  continuance  of  my  presence  with  the 
army,  it  would  not  have  been  withholden  ;  but,  every  appearance 
assuring  such  an  issue  as  will  redound  to  the  reputation  and 
strength  of  the  United  States,  I  have  judged  it  most  proper  to 
resume  my  duties  at  the  seat  of  government,  leaving  the  chief 
command  with  the  governor  of  Virginia. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  495 

Still,  however,  as  it  is  probable,  that,  in  a  commotion  like  the 
present,  whatsoever  may  be  the  pretence,  the  purposes  of  mis- 
chief and  revenge  may  not  be  laid  aside  ;  the  stationing  of  a 
small  force  for  a  certain  period,  in  the  four  western  counties  of 
Pennsylvania,  will  be  indispensable,  whether  we  contemplate  the 
situation  of  those  who  are  connected  with  the  execution  of  the 
laws,  or  of  others,  who  may  have  exposed  themselves  by  an 
honorable  attachment  to  them. 

Thirty  days  from  the  commencement  of  this  session  being 
the  legal  limitation  of  the  employment  of  the  militia.  Congress 
cannot  be  too  early  occupied  with  this  subject. 

Among  the  discussions,  which  may  arise  from  this  aspect  of 
our  affairs,  and  from  the  documents  which  will  be  submitted  to 
Congress,  it  will  not  escape  their  observation,  that  not  only  the 
inspector  of  the  revenue,  but  other  officers  of  the  United  States 
in  Pennsylvania,  have,  from  their  fidelity  in  the  discharge  of 
their  functions,  sustained  material  injuries  to  their  property. 
The  obligation  and  policy  of  indemnifying  them  are  strong  and 
obvious.  It  may  also  merit  attention,  whether  policy  will  not 
enlarge  this  provision  to  the  retribution  of  other  citizens,  who, 
though  not  under  the  ties  of  office,  may  have  suffered  damage  by 
their  generous  exertions  for  upholding  the  constitution  and  the 
laws.  The  amount,  even  if  all  the  injured  were  included,  would 
not  be  great  ;  and,  on  future  emergencies,  the  government 
would  be  amply  repaid  by  the  influence  of  an  example,  that 
he  who  incurs  a  loss  in  its  defence  shall  find  a  recompense  in 
its  liberality. 

While  there  is  cause  to  lament,  that  occurrences  of  this  nature 
should  have  disgraced  the  name,  or  interrupted  the  tranquillity, 
of  any  part  of  our  community,  or  should  have  diverted  to  a  new 
application  any  portion  of  the  public  resources,  there  are  not 
wanting  real  and  substantial  consolations  for  the  misfortune.  It 
has  demonstrated,  that  our  prosperity  rests  on  solid  foundations  ; 
by  furnishing  an  additional  proof,  that  my  fellow-citizens  under- 
stand the  true  principles  of  government  and  liberty  ;  that  they 
feel  their  inseparable  union  ;  that,  notwithstanding  all  the  de- 
vices, which  have  been  used  to  sway  them  from  their  interest 
and  duty,  they  are  now  as  ready  to  maintain  the  authority  of  the 


496  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

laws  against  licentious  invasions,  as  they  were  to  defend  their 
rights  against  usurpation.  It  has  been  a  spectacle,  displaying  to 
the  highest  advantage  the  value  of  republican  government,  to 
behold  the  most  and  least  wealthy  of  our  citizens  standing  in  the 
same  ranks  as  private  soldiers  ;  preeminently  distinguished  by 
being  the  army  of  the  constitution  ;  undeterred  by  a  march  of 
three  hundred  miles  over  rugged  mountains,  by  the  approach  of 
an  inclement  season,  or  by  any  other  discouragement.  Nor 
ought  I  to  omit  to  acknowledge  the  efficacious  and  patriotic  co- 
operation, which  I  have  experienced  from  the  chief  magistrates 
of  the  States  to  which  my  requisitions  have  been  addressed. 

To  every  description,  indeed,  of  citizens,  let  praise  be  given  ; 
but  let  them  persevere  in  their  affectionate  vigilance  over  that 
precious  depository  of  American  happiness,  the  constitution  of 
the  United  States.  Let  them  cherish  it,  too,  for  the  sake  of 
those,  who,  from  every  clime,  are  daily  seeking  a  dwelling  in  our 
land.  And  when,  in  the  calm  moments  of  reflection,  they  shall 
have  retraced  the  origin  and  progress  of  the  insurrection,  let 
them  determine,  whether  it  has  not  been  fomented  by  combina- 
tions of  m.en,  who,  careless  of  consequences,  and  disregarding 
the  unerring  truth,  that  those  who  rouse,  cannot  always  appease, 
a  civil  convulsion,  have  disseminated,  from  an  ignorance  or 
perversion  of  facts,  suspicions,  jealousies,  and  accusations  of  the 
whole  government. 

Having  thus  fulfilled  the  engagement,  which  I  took,  when 
I  entered  into  office,  **  to  the  best  of  my  ability  to  preserve, 
protect,  and  defend  the  constitution  of  the  United  States,"  on 
you.  Gentlemen,  and  the  people  by  whom  you  are  deputed,  I  rely 
for  support. 

In  the  arrangements,  to  which  the  possibility  of  a  similar 
contingency  will  naturally  draw  your  attention,  it  ought  not  to 
be  forgotten,  that  the  militia  laws  have  exhibited  such  striking 
defects,  as  could  not  have  been  supplied  but  by  the  zeal  of  our 
citizens.  Besides  the  extraordinary  expense  and  waste,  which 
are  not  the  least  of  the  defects,  every  appeal  to  those  laws  is 
attended  with  a  doubt  of  its  success. 

The  devising  and  establishing  of  a  well-regulated  militia  would 
be  a  genuine  source  of  legislative  honor,  and  a  perfect  title  to 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  497 

public  gratitude.  I  therefore  entertain  a  hope,  that  the  present 
session  will  not  pass,  without  carrying  to  its  full  energy  the  power 
of  organizing,  arming,  and  disciplining  the  militia,  and  thus  pro- 
viding, in  the  language  of  the  constitution,  for  calling  them  forth 
to  execute  the  laws  of  the  Union,  suppress  insurrections,  and 
repel  invasions. 

As  auxiliary  to  the  state  of  our  defence,  to  which  Congress  can 
never  too  frequently  recur,  they  will  not  omit  to  inquire  whether 
the  fortifications,  which  have  been  already  licensed  by  law,  be 
commensurate  with  our  exigences. 

The  intelligence  from  the  army,  under  the  command  of  Gen- 
eral Wayne,  is  a  happy  presage  to  our  military  operations  against 
the  hostile  Indians  north  of  the  Ohio.  From  the  advices  which 
have  been  forwarded,  the  advance  which  he  has  made  must  have 
damped  the  ardor  of  the  savages,  and  weakened  their  obstinacy 
in  waging  war  against  the  United  States  ;  and  yet,  even  at  this 
late  hour,  when  our  power  to  punish  them  cannot  be  questioned, 
we  shall  not  be  unwilling  to  cement  a  lasting  peace,  upon  terms 
of  candor,  equity,  and  good  neighborhood. 

Towards  none  of  the  Indian  tribes  have  overtures  of  friendship 
been  spared.  The  Creeks  in  particular  are  covered  from  en- 
croachment by  the  interposition  of  the  general  government,  and 
that  of  Georgia.  From  a  desire  also  to  remove  the  discontents 
of  the  Six  Nations,  a  settlement,  meditated  at  Presque  Isle,  on 
Lake  Erie,  has  been  suspended  ;  and  an  agent  is  now  endeavor- 
ing to  rectify  any  misconception  into  which  they  may  have  fallen. 
But  I  cannot  refrain  from  again  pressing  upon  your  deliberations 
the  plan,  which  I  recommended  at  the  last  session,  for  the  im- 
provement of  harmony  with  all  the  Indians  within  our  limits,  by 
the  fixing  and  conducting  of  trading-houses,  upon  the  principles 
then  expressed. 

Gentlemen  of  the  House  of  Represent.a.tives  : 

The  time,  which  has  elapsed  since  the  commencement  of  our 
fiscal  measures,  has  developed  our  pecuniary  resources,  so  as  to 
open  a  way  for  a  definitive  plan  for  the  redemption  of  the  public 
debt.  It  is  believed,  that  the  result  is  such  as  to  encourage  Con- 
gress to  consummate  this  work  without  delay.  Nothing  can  more 
32 


498  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

promote  the  permanent  welfare  of  the  nation,  and  nothing  would 
be  more  grateful  to  our  constituents.  Indeed,  whatsoever  is  un- 
finished of  our  system  of  public  credit,  cannot  be  benefited  by 
procrastination  ;  and,  as  far  as  may  be  practicable,  we  ought  to 
place  that  credit  on  grounds  which  cannot  be  disturbed,  and  to 
prevent  that '  progressive  accumulation  of  debt,  which  must 
ultimately  endanger  all  governments. 

An  estimate  of  the  necessary  appropriations,  including  the  ex- 
penditures into  which  we  have  been  driven  by  the  insurrection, 
will  be  submitted  to  Congress. 

Gentlemen  of  the  Senate 

AND  House  of  Representatives  : 

The  mint  of  the  United  States  has  entered  upon  the  coinage 
of  the  precious  metals,  and  considerable  sums  of  defective  coins 
and  bullion  have  been  lodged  with  the  director  by  individuals. 
There  is  a  pleasing  prospect,  that  the  institution  will,  at  no  re- 
mote day,  realize  the  expectation  which  was  originally  formed  of 
its  utility. 

In  subsequent  communications,  certain  circumstances  of  our 
intercourse  with  foreign  nations  will  be  transmitted  to  Congress  ; 
however,  it  may  not  be  unseasonable  to  announce,  that  my 
policy,  in  our  foreign  transactions,  has  been,  to  cultivate  peace 
with  all  the  world  ;  to  observe  treaties  with  pure  and  absolute 
faith  ;  to  check  every  deviation  from  the  line  of  impartiality  ;  to 
explain  what  may  have  been  misapprehended,  and  correct  what 
may  have  been  injurious  to  any  nation  ;  and,  having  thus  ac- 
quired the  right,  to  lose  no  time  in  acquiring  the  ability,  to  insist 
upon  justice  being  done  to  ourselves. 

Let  us  unite,  therefore,  in  imploring  the  Supreme  Ruler  of 
nations,  to  spread  his  holy  protection  over  these  United  States  ; 
to  turn  the  machinations  of  the  wicked  to  the  confirming  of  our 
constitution  ;  to  enable  us  at  all  times  to  root  out  internal  sedi- 
tion, and  put  invasion  to  flight  ;  to  perpetuate  to  our  country 
that  prosperity,  which  his  goodness  has  already  conferred  ;  and 
to  verify  the  anticipations  of  this  government  being  a  safeguard 
to  human  rights. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  499 

TO    ALEXANDER    SPOTSWOOD. 

Philadelphia,  23  November,  1794. 

Dear  Sir, 

It  has  not  been  in  my  power  to  acknowledge,  with 
convenience,  the  receipt  of  your  letter  of  the  14th 
until  now ;  first,  because  it  did  not  get  to  my  hands 
until  my  return  from  the  Westward — 2dly  because 
my  attention,  ever  since  to  the  present  moment,  has 
been  occupied  in  examining  the  various  papers  on 
which  my  communications  to  Congress  were  to  be 
founded. 

I  do  not  see  how  any  one  can  decide  so  well  on  the 
project  you  have  in  contemplation  as  yourself,  who 
has  a  view  of  all  the  circumstances  of  the  case,  be- 
fore you  ;  and  who  know  how  far  so  important  a 
change  in  the  scene  as  that  of  transplanting  yourself 
and  family  into  a  new  Country,  is  reconcilable  to 
your  own  feelings  and  dispositions — and  because 
from  the  enquiries  you  have  undoubtedly  made,  you 
must  better  know  than  any  other  who  has  not  turned 
his  thoughts  to  the  subject,  what  you  can  sell  for 
Jure,  and  buy  at  there. 

It  has  always  been  my  opinion  that  new  Countries 
(by  this  I  mean  the  interior  of  our  own)  are  the  best 
to  lay  the  foundation  of  wealth,  in  as  much  as  lands 
which,  comparatively  speaking,  are  to  be  had  there 
cheap,  rise  in  a  fourfold  ratio  to  what  they  do  in  the 
Atlantic  Sea — and  it  is  to  this  circumstance,  and 
the  opportunities  of  acquiring  them  (by  being  in 
the  scene)  that  the  advantages  consist. — As,  until 
the  navigation  of  the  Mississippi  can  be  obtained,  or 


Soo  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

the  communication  between  the  Eastern,  and  West- 
ern Waters  is  made  more  easy,  than  is  the  case  at 
present,  the  principal  demand  for  the  product  of 
the  land  is  found  in  the  emigrants  who  resort  to  it. 
— To  this  cause  also,  is  to  be  ascribed  the  rapidly 
increasing  prices  of  those  Lands. 

In  one  part  of  your  letter,  you  talk  of  removing  to 
Kentucky ;  and  in  another,  of  vesting  money  in 
Lands  West  of  the  Ohio,  which  creates  a  doubt  as  to 
your  principal  view  : — You  are  not  uninformed,  I  pre- 
sume, that  there  is  no  land  office  open  at  this  time  in 
the  last  mentioned  District,  and  that  there  is  no, 
means  by  which  land  can  be  obtained  there,  at  pres- 
ent, except  by  purchase  of  army  rights,  or  from  some 
of  those  Companies  to  whom  Congress  have  sold 
large  tracts  ; — and  in  the  present  stage  of  our  dis- 
putes with  the  Indians,  that  no  settlement  is  thought 
safe  from  the  scalping  knife,  that  is  not  under  the 
protection  of  some  fort. — The  same  indeed  may  be 
said  of  the  frontiers  of  Kentucky,  while  the  central 
lands  in  that  state  are,  as  I  am  informed,  selling  very 
high.  But  of  these  facts  you  must  be  better  in- 
formed than  I  am. 

I  should  think  it  perfectly  expedient  so  soon  as 
you  shall  have  resolved  to  sell  your  land  on  Rappa- 
hannock— to  advertize  it  in  all  \\\^  principal  Gazettes 
from  Richmond  to  New  York  inclusively ;  and  not 
to  be  too  hasty  in  disposing  of  it,  except  for  a  very 
good  price  ;  as  there  are  reasons  to  believe  that  in 
the  course  of  this  winter,  and  the  ensuing  spring 
and  summer,   many  men  of  property  from   Europe 


I794J  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  501 

will  remove  to  this  country,  or  send  over  their  prop- 
erty, with  a  view  to  invest  it,  either  in  our  funds,  or 
in  Lands. 

With  respect  to  the  other  species  of  property,  con- 
cerning which  you  ask  my  opinion,  I  shall  frankly 
declare  to  you  that  I  do  not  like  even  to  think,  much 
less  talk  of  it.  However,  as  you  have  put  the  ques- 
tion, I  shall,  in  a  few  words,  give  you  my  ideas  of  it. 
— Were  it  not  then,  that  I  am  principled  against 
selling  negroes,  as  you  would  do  cattle  at  a  market, 
I  would  not  in  twelve  months  from  this  date,  be  pos 
sessed  of  one,  as  a  slave.  I  shall  be  happily  mis- 
taken, if  they  are  not  found  to  be  very  troublesome 
species  of  property  ere  many  years  pass  over  our 
heads — (but  this  by  the  bye).  For  this  reason — 
and  because  there  is  but  little  sale  for  what  is  raised 
in  the  Western  Country,  it  remains  for  you  to  con- 
sider whether  their  value  would  not  be  more  pro- 
ductive in  lands,  reserving  enough  for  necessary 
purposes,  there.  My  love  to  Mrs.  Spotswood  and 
the  family.      I  am,  etc. 


TO    TOBIAS    LEAK.' 

Philadelphia,  14  December,  1794. 

My  dear  Sir, 

The  day  following  the  one  on  which  I  wrote  to 
you  last,  your  letter  of  the  loth  instant  came  to  hand. 

It  is  to  be  regretted,  exceedingly,  that  delegated 
powers  are,  oftentimes,  so  little  regarded  ;  and  that 
trusts  of  an  important  nature,  the  neglect  of  which 

'  Now  in  Georgetown,  having  recently  returned  from  Europe. 


S02  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

may  be  attended  with  serious  consequences,  should 
be  suffered  to  sleep  in  the  hands  of  those  who  ought 
to  carry  them  into  activity ; — such,  from  your  repre- 
sentation, appears  to  be  the  case  of  the  petition  which 
ought  in  behalf  of  the  Potomac  Company,  to  have 
been  laid  before  the  assembly  of  Virginia  in  due 
season. 

The  notice  of  the  presentment  of  such  petitions 
(which  is  required  by  law)  cannot,  I  presume,  be  dis- 
pensed with  ;  and  if  there  be  any  dereliction  to  the 
measures  prayed  for,  the  limitation  to  and  expiration 
of  the  time  for  the  reception  of  them,  will  be  urged 
as  a  plea  for  postponement. 

The  propriety  of  tny  writing  to  individual  members, 
or  even  to  the  assembly  itself  on  this  subject,  is,  in 
my  mind,  a  matter  that  may  be  questioned,  but,  sup- 
posing the  case  to  be  otherwise,  I  do  not  know  who 
the  members  are  and  such  indeed  has  been  the 
change  of  things  since  I  mixed  in  the  Politics,  or 
much  with  the  people  of  that  State  (out  of  the  neigh- 
borhood of  Alexandria)  that  an  entire  new  set,  un- 
known to  me  personally,  are  in  the  exercise  of  the 
powers  of  Government.  Tomorrow,  however,  I  will 
communicate  this  matter  to  Mr.  Randolph,  and  know 
if  he  has  any  acquaintance  in  that  assembly  to  whom 
he  could  introduce  the  subject  and  thereby  aid  your 
personal  exertions.  It  is  to  be  lamented  however, 
that  in  plain  matters — a  little  ticklishly  circumstanced 
— such  hazards  (at  least  of  delay)  should  be  unneces- 
sarily encountered.  We  are  all  well,  and  join  in  best 
wishes  for  you,  and  I  am,  &c. 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  503 


TO    JOHN    JAY. 
[private.] 

Philadelphia,  18  December,  1794. 

Dear  Sir, 

Since  writing  to  you  by  Mr.  Bayard  about  the  ist 
of  November,  I  have  been  favored  with  your  letters 
of  the  13th  of  September,^  and  2d  of  October.  As 
the  sentiments  contained  in  the  first  of  these  re- 
specting the  communications  of  Mr.  M[onroe]  to 
the  National  Convention  of  France,  were  also  trans- 
mitted in  a  private  letter  from  you  to  the  Secretary 
of  State,  and  replied  to  by  him  (both  of  which  I 
have  seen),  I  shall  dwell  no  longer  on  that  subject, 
than  just  to  observe,  ist,  that,  considering  the  place  in 
which  they  were  delivered,  and  the  neutral  policy  this 
country  had  resolved  to  pursue,  it  was  a  measure  that 
does  not  appear  to  have  been  well  devised  by  our 
Minister — 2d,  aware  of  this  himself,  and  that  his 
conduct  would  be  criticized,  he  has  assigned  reasons 
for  its  adoption,  a  summary  of  which  are,  that  the 
navy  officers  and  privateersmen  of  France,  who  had 
resorted  to  our  ports,  and  had  been  laid  under 
such  restrictions  as  neutral  policy  required  from  us, 
although  disagreeable  to  them,  had  represented  this 
country,  (and  not  without  effect,)  as  unfriendly  to  the 
French  Revolution.  To  do  away  which,  he  found 
himself  necessitated  to  counteract  them,  by  strong 
assurances  of  the  good  dispositions  we  bore  to  the 
nation.  And,  3d,  although  I  think  with  you,  that  he 
stepped  over  the  true  line  to  accomplish  it,  yet,  under 

'  See  this  letter  in  the  Life  of  John  Jay,  vol.  i.  p.  33S. 


504  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1794 

the  then  existing  circumstances,  the  expression  of 
such  reciprocal  good  will  was  susceptible  of  two  views, 
one  of  which,  even  in  the  pending  state  of  the  nego- 
tiation, by  alarming  as  well  as  offending  the  B. 
Ministry,  might  have  no  unfavorable  operation  in 
bringing  matters  to  a  happy  and  speedy  result,  than 
which  nothing  is  more  desirable,  or  can  be  more 
ardently  wished  for,  by  the  friends  of  peace  and  good 
order  in  this  country.^ 

As  the  Secretary  of  State  has  written  to  you  sev- 
eral times  since  the  receipt  of  your  statement  of  the 
negotiation  on  the  13th  of  September,  I  shall  add 
nothing  to  the  observations,  which  are  contained  in 
his  letters  on  the  subject  thereof. 

*  "  Your  public  letters  of  August  15th  and  25th,  have  enabled  me  to  place 
upon  a  proper  footing  the  delicacy  of  your  situation,  and  to  efface  any  improper 
impressions  which  may  have  been  entertained  anywhere." — Edmund  Randolph 
to  y antes  Monroe y  5  December,  1794. 

John  Brown  also  wrote  to  Monroe  under  the  same  date  : 

"  It  is  with  extreme  pleasure  I  have  received  from  you  the  interesting  intelli- 
gence of  your  safe  arrival  at  Paris,  and  of  the  friendly  and  generous  reception 
given  you  by  the  National  Convention.  Every  real  American  must  and  will 
acknowledge  v/ith  the  most  lively  sensibility  and  gratitude  the  distinguishing 
honors  and  respect  paid  by  that  generous  nation  to  you  as  the  representative  of 
the  United  States  ;  and  will  mark  the  day  of  your  recognition  as  such,  as  one 
of  the  most  auspicious  in  the  annals  of  his  country.  Your  address  to  that 
august  Ijody  has  been  read  with  enthusiasm  and  approbation,  by  every  friend 
to  the  rights  of  man,  as  breathing  the  genuine  sentiments  of  Republicanism, 
and  as  expressing  the  sense  of  nineteen  twentieths  of  the  citizens  of  this  'Jnion. 
You  are  too  well  acquainted  with  the  political  opinions  of  individuals  here,  to 
expect  tliat  it  could  be  equally  acceptable  to  all.  No  my  friend,  there  are 
some,  and  that  too  in  the  Senate,  whose  names  will  readily  occur  to  you,  who 
did  not  relish  such  unequivocal  declarations  of  friendship  and  regard  for  the 
New  Republic  ;  and  who  could  not  suppress  their  apprehensions  least  this 
transaction  should  offend  and  irritate  G.  Britain,  and  tend  to  obstruct  Mr. 
Jay's  negotiations.  But  the  smiles  and  frowns  of  this  party  ever  have  been, 
and  I  trust  ever  will  be,  equally  disregarded  by  you." 


1794]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  505 

The  business  of  the  session  hitherto  has  been 
tranquil ;  and  I  perceive  nothing  at  this  time  to 
make  it  otherwise,  unless  the  result  of  the  negotia- 
tion, (which  is  anxiously  expected  by  all,)  should 
produce  divisions.  As  yet,  no  details  have  been 
handed  to  Congress  on  this  subject.  Indeed,  no 
communication  on  that  business  has  been  made  to 
anybody  except  those  about  me  in  the  Executive 
Departments. 

A  paragraph,  of  which  the  enclosed  is  a  copy,  is 
running  through  all  our  gazettes,  accompanied  with  a 
report  that  the  United  States  are  contemplated  as 
mediator  between  France  and  England.  To  ascer- 
tain by  what  authority  the  first  was  inserted,  Bache, 
in  whose  paper  it  first  appeared,  has  been  called  upon 
by  the  Secretary  of  State  ;  but  no  satisfaction  has 
been  obtained  from  him  as  yet.^  With  respect  to 
the  other,  it  seems  to  have  origrinated  on  the  other 
side  of  the  water,  and  is  of  a  delicate  nature  ;  the 
very  idea  of  which,  under  the  present  successes  of  the 
French  arms,  (admitting  it  should  be  agreeable  to 
the  other  power,)  would,  it  is  conceived,  convey  un- 
pleasant sensations,  and  be  considered  in  an  evil  light 
by  that  nation,  unless  an  intimation  to  the  contrary 
should  first  come  from  them. 

The  Virginia  escheats  of  British  property  do  not, 
as  I  am  informed,  stand  upon  the  ground  as  related 
to  you  ;  but,  as  I  am  not  accurately  enough  read  in 
the  law  respecting  those  escheats  to  be  precise  in  my 

'  "  Since  writing  the  above  an  unsatisfactory  explanation  has  been  given." — 
Note  by  Washington. 


5o6  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

recital  of  it,  I  will  request  the  Secretary  of  State  to 
give  you  the  principles  thereof. 

As  I  expected,  and  as  you  were  informed  the  result 
would  probably  be,  so  it  has  happened  ;  that  the 
Western  insurrection  has  terminated  highly  honora- 
ble for  this  country,  which  by  the  energy  of  its  Laws, 
and  the  good  disposition  of  its  citizens,  have  brought 
the  rioters  to  a  perfect  sense  of  their  misconduct, 
without  shedding  a  drop  of  blood.  In  the  eyes  of 
foreigners  among  us,  this  affair  stands  in  a  high 
point  of  view.  With  very  great  esteem,  I  am,  dear 
Sir,  &c. 


OPINION    OF    THE    GENERAL    OFFICERS.^ 

The  following  list  contain  the  names  of  all  the 
General  officers  now  living  in  this  country,  as  low  as 
actual  Brigadiers  inclusively. — Except  those  who  it 
is  conjectured  would  not,  from  age,  want  of  health — 
&  other  circumstances,  come  forward  by  any  induce- 
ments that  could  be  offered  to  them — &  such  as 
ought  not  to  be  named  for  the  important  trust  of 
Commander  in  Chief. 


'  When  it  became  necessary  to  select  a  successor  to  Arthur  St.  Clair,  as  the 
commander  of  the  Western  army,  the  President  placed  upon  paper  the  rough 
notes  printed  above.  These  notes  were  submitted  to  his  cabinet  on  g  March, 
1792,  and  in  the  new  collection  of  JefTerson's  Writings,  edited  by  Paul  Leicester 
Ford,  a  summary  of  them  is  given  among  the  so-called  Anas.  The  original 
MS.  of  this  opinion  is  in  the  State  Library,  Albany,  New  York.  A  single 
page  was  rcjjroduced  in  fac-simile  in  the  Magazine  of  American  History,  Feb- 
ruary, 1879.  This  opinion  should  be  read  in  connection  with  the  letters  to  St. 
Clair,  printed  on  pp.  115  and  116  of  this  volume. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  507 

MAJOR    GENERAL    LINCOLN. 

Sober,  honest,  brave  and  sensible,  but  infirm,  past 
the  vigor  of  life — &  reluctantly  (if  offered  to  him) 
would  accept  the  appointment. — 

MAJR   GENERAL    BARON    DE    STEUBEN. 

Sensible,  sober  &  brave,  well  acquainted  with  Tac- 
tics &  with  the  arrangement  &  discipline  of  an  army. 
— High  in  his  ideas  of  subordination — impetuous  in 
his  temper — ambitious — and  a  foreigner. — 

MAJOR  GENERAL  MOULTRIE. 

Brave,  &  it  is  believed  accommodating  in  his 
temper — served  the  whole  of  last  war;  &  has  been 
an  officer  in  the  preceding  one,  at  least  had  been 
engaged  in  an  Expedition  against  the  Cherokees ; 
having  defeated  them  in  one  or  two  considerable 
actions. — What  the  resources,  or  powers  of  his  mind 
are — how  active  he  may  be,  and  whether  temperate 
or  not,  are  points  I  cannot  speak  to  with  decision, 
because  I  have  had  little  or  no  opportunities  to  form 
an  opinion  of  him. — 

BRIGADIER    (bUT    BY    BREVET    MAJR    GENERAL)    McINTOSH. 

Is  old  and  inactive ; — supposed  to  be  honest  and 
brave. — Not  much  known  in  the  Union,  and  there- 
fore would  not  obtain  much  confidence,  or  command 
much  respect ; — either  in  the  community  or  the  army. 

MAJR   GENERAL    (bY    BREVET)    WAYNE. 

More  active  &  enterprising  than  Judicious  & 
cautious. — No    ceconomist    it    is    feared  : — open    to 


5o8  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

flattery — vain — easily  imposed  upon  and  liable  to  be 
drawn  into  scrapes.  Too  indulgent  (the  effect  per- 
haps of  some  of  the  causes  just  mentioned)  to  his 
officers  and  men. — Whether  sober — or  a  little  addicted 
to  the  bottle,  I  know  not. 

MAJR    GENERAL    (bY    BREVET)    WEEDON. 

Not  supposed  to  be  an  Officer  of  much  resource, 
though  not  deficient  in  a  competent  share  of  under- 
standing— rather  addicted  to  ease  &  pleasure — &  no 
enemy  it  is  said  to  the  bottle — never  has  had  his 
name  brot.  forward  on  this  acct. 

MAJOR    GENERAL    (bY    BREVET)    HAND. 

A  sensible  &  judicious  man  ; — his  integrity  unim- 
peached  ; — and  was  esteemed  a  pretty  good  officer. — 
But  if  I  recollect  rightly,  not  a  very  active  one. — He 
has  never  been  charged  with  intemperance  to  my 
knowledge; — His  name  has  rarely  been  mentioned 
under  the  present  difficulty  of  chusing  an  officer  to 
comm'd,  but  this  may,  in  a  great  measure  be  owing 
to  his  being  at  a  distance. — 

MAJR   GENERAL  (bY   BREVEt)   SCOTT. 

Brave  &  means  well ;  but  is  an  ofiicer  of  inade- 
quate abilities  for  extensive  command  ; — &,  by  report, 
is  addicted  to  drinking. — 

MAJR    GENERAL    (bY  BREVEt)    HUNTINGTON. 

Sober,  sensible  and  very  discreet. — Has  never  dis- 
cover'd  much  enterprise ;  yet,  no  doubt  has  ever 
been  entertained  of  his  want  of  spirit,  or  firmness. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  509 

BRIGADIER   GENERAL   WILKENSON. 

Is,  by  brevet  Senr.  to  those  whose  names  follow — 
but  the  appointment  to  this  rank  was  merely  honor- 
ary,— and  as  he  was  but  a  short  time  in  service,  little 
can  be  said  of  his  abilities  as  an  Officer. — He  is  lively, 
sensible,  pompous  and  ambitious,  but  whether  sober 
or  not,  is  unknown  to  me. 

BRIGADIER    GENERAL    GIST. 

Little  has  been  said  of  his  qualifications  as  a  Gen- 
eral Officer — His  activity  &  attention  to  duty  is 
somewhat  doubtful,  tho'  his  spirit,  I  believe,  is  un- 
impeached. — 

BRIGADIER  GENERAL    IRVINE. 

Is  sober,  tolerably  sensible  and  prudent.  It  is 
said  he  is  an  oeconomist ;  and  supported  his  authority 
whilst  he  was  entrusted  with  a  seperate  command  ; 
but  I  have  no  recollection  of  any  circumstance  that 
marks  him  as  a  decidedly  good,  or  indifferent  officr. 

BRIGADIER    GENERAL    MORGAN. 

Has  been  fortunate,  &  has  met  with  eclat. — Yet 
there  are  different  opinions  with  respect  to  his  abilities 
as  an  officer. — He  is  accused  of  using  improper 
means  to  obtain  certificates  from  the  soldiers — It  is 
said  he  has  been  (if  the  case  is  not  so  now)  intemper- 
ate :  that  he  is  troubled  with  a  palpitation  which 
often  lays  him  up  ;  and  it  is  not  denied  that  he  is 
illiterate. 


5IO  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

BRIGADIER    GENERAL    WILLIAMS. 

Is  a  sensible  man,  but  not  without  vanity.  No 
doubt,  I  believe,  is  entertained  of  his  firmness  : — 
and  it  is  thought  he  does  not  want  activity, — but  it 
is  not  easy,  where  there  is  nothing  conspicuous  in  a 
character,  to  pronounce  decidedly  upon  a  military 
man  who  has  always  acted  under  the  immediate 
orders  of  a  superior  officer,  unless  he  had  been  seen 
frequently  in  action. — The  discipline,  interior  oecon- 
omy  and  police  of  his  Corps  is  the  best  evidence  one 
can  have  of  his  talents  in  this  line,  and  of  this,  in  the 
case  of  Genl.  Williams  I  can  say  nothing ;  as  he  was 
appointed  a  Brigadier  after  he  left  the  Northern  to 
join  the  Southern  army. — But  a  material  objection 
to  him  is  delicate  health  (if  there  has  been  no  change 
in  his  constitution), — for  he  has  gone  to  the  Sweet 
Springs  two  or  three  years  successively  in  such  bad 
health  as  to  afford  little  hope  of  his  ever  returning 
from  them. 

BRIGADIER    GENERAL    RUFUS    PUTNAM. 

Possesses  a  strong  mind — and  is  a  discreet  man. — 
No  question  ha?  ever  been  made  (that  has  come  to 
my  knowledge)  of  his  want  of  firmness.  In  short, 
there  is  nothing  conspicuous  in  his  character — and 
he  is  but  little  known  out  of  his  own  state,  and  a 
narrow  circle. 

BRIGADIER    GENL    (bY    BREVET)    PINCKNEY. 

A  Colonel  since  Septr.  i6th,  1776;  but  appointed 
a  Brigadr.  by  brevet  at  the  close  of  the  War,  only. — 
In  this  Gentleman  many  valuable  qualities  are  to  be 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  511 

found. — He  is  of  unquestionable  bravery — Is  a  man 
of  strict  honor,  erudition  &  good  sense  :  and  it  is 
said  has  made  Tactics  a  study — But  what  his  spirit 
for  enterprise  is — whether  active  or  indolent ; — or 
fitted  for  arrangement,  I  am  unable  to  say — never 
having  had  any  opportunity  to  form  a  judgment  of 
his  talents  as  a  military  character. — The  capture  of 
Charleston  put  an  end  to  his  military  services  ;  but 
his  Junr.  Rank,  and  being  little  known  in  this  part  of 
the  Union,  are  the  two  considerations  most  opposed 
to  him, — particularly  the  latter,  as  it  is  more  than 
probable  his  being  a  prisoner  prevented  his  promo- 
tion :  which  ought  not  to  be  any  bar  to  his  ranking 
as  a  Brigadier  from  the  time  that  other's  of  his  stand- 
ing as  a  colonel,  were  promoted. 

The  above  and  foregoing  closes  the  list  of  all  the 
General  Officers  who  as  has  been  observed  from  age 
— want  of  health — disinclination,  or  peculiar  circum- 
stances, can  be  brought  into  view ;  from  whom  to 
chuse  an  officer  to  command  the  Troops  of  the  U.  S. 

If  from  either  of  the  three  Major  Generals,  which 
have  been  mentioned  ; — or  from  those  made  so  by 
brevet,  the  Commander  of  the  Troops  should  be 
taken,  no  Junior  Officer  can  decline  serving  on  the 
score  of  Rank  ;  although  he  may  desire,  and  have  had 
expectations  of  being — first  in  command — himself. 

Under  this  idea,  and  upon  the  principle  of  distri- 
bution, the  arrangement  of  the  Commanding  officer, 
and  those  next  in  grade  to  him,  may  be  placed  in  the 
following  points  of  view. 


512  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

COMMANDER. 

Lincoln     *     *     *     or  Moultrie. 
Under  either  of  these  Major  Generals  might  serve 
as  Brigadiers  : 

Wayne      *     *     *     unless  by  being  a  Majr.  Genl. 

by  brevet  &  seeking  the  command  himself  he 

should  recoil  at  it. 
Morgan     *     *     *     for  one  of  the  above  reasons 

would  also  revolt  viz. — command   or  Williams 

or  Darke. 

WiLKENSON. 
*PlCKENS.^ 

*Brooks.^ 

*  If  Lincoln  commands  Brooks  cannot  be  ap- 
pointed :  and  if  Moultree  commands  the  same  will 
happen  to  Pickens. 

If  Pennsylvania  gives  the  Commanding  Officer  and 
he  is  of  the  Rank  (by  brevet)  of  Majr.  Generl.  ;  the 
above  arrangement  is  equally  applicable  on  the  prin- 
ciple of  distribution,  &  as  unexceptionable  on  the 
score  of  rank.  But  if,  in  the  first  case,  Wayne, 
Morgan  and  Williams  refuse  to  serve,  and  in  the 
second,  the  two  last  do  it,  unless  it  be  as  Com- 
mander,— then  some  others  Junr.  in  dates  of  Commis- 
sion, or  of  inferior  rank,  must  be  resorted  to. 

If  upon  a  full  view  of  characters,  and  circumstances, 
General  Pinckney  should  be  deemed  the  most  eliga- 
ble  for  the  command,  it  would  be  a  fruitless  attempt, 
&  a  waste  of  time  to  propose  to  those  officers  who 

•  Andrew  Pickens.  *  John  Brooks. 


1792]  GEORGE  WASHINGTON.  513 

have  been  his  seniors,  to  engage  again  subordinately  ; 
especially  if  they  have  been  his  seniors  in  the  line  of 
Colonels :  and  here  I  would  draw  a  line  which  I  think 
is  a  just  one — and  that  is — that  his  Colonel's,  &  not 
his  Brigad'rs  Commission,  ought  to  decide  his  Rank 
as  a  Generl,  Officer,  because  it  would  be  hard  upon 
him  to  suffer  in  it,  on  acc't  of  his  captivity  ;  when 
motives  of  policy  and  not  demerit  suspended  (as  may 
fairly  be  presumed)  his  promotion  during  that 
period  : — but  why,  when  it  did  take  place,  Rank  was 
not  (to  a  certain  antecedent  date)  restor'd,  I  am 
unable  to  conceive. 

If  this  be  fair  reasoning  (and  I  really  think  it  is), 
neither  Morgan  nor  Williams  would  have  ground  to 
object  against  serving  under  Pinckney  :  but  as  it  is 
more  than  probable  they  will  look  to  what  is,  rather 
than  to  what  ought  to  be  ;  a  difficulty  would  be  made 
on  the  subject  of  Rank — especially  if  there  is  any 
dereliction  in  them  to  the  service  in  any  other  char- 
acter than  that  of  commanding  it — and  therefore  it 
would  be  expedient  perhaps  to  look  for  officers  of 
Junr.  Rank — and  in  that  case  may  come  in  as  *    *    * 

BRIGADIERS 

WiLKENSON,  whose  rank  is  very  questionable 
Darke^ — or  Howard'' 
WiLLET  ^ — or  Smith  * 
Brooks. 


William  Darke.  ^  Marinus  Willett. 

John  Eager  Howard.  *  William  Stephens  Smith. 


514  THE  WRITINGS  OF  [1792 

If  Governor  Lee  should  be  prefered  to  the  com- 
mand, then  officers  of  lower  grades  than  any  that 
have  been  mentioned  in  the  preceding  pages  must  be 
sought  after,  as  all  of  those  are  greatly  his  seniors — 
&  their  being,  in  my  opinion  but  little  ground  to 
hope,  that  either  the  military  talents  which  he  has 
displayed  in  the  course  of  the  War,  or  his  present 
dignified  station,  would  reconcile  any  of  them  to  act 
a  subordinate  part,  except  it  be  Wilkenson,  who,  as 
has  been  observed  before,  from  having  been  but  a 
short  time  in  service,  &  quitting  it  at  an  early  period 
of  the  war,  would  have  but  little  or  no  cause  to  com- 
plain.— As  also  Pickins,  who  has  never  been  in  the 
Continental  line. — The  arrangement  w'd  then  be,  in 
this  case. — 

GovR.  Lee — Commander 
Brigadrs. 

Wilkenson 

Pickens. 


END    OF    VOL.  XII 


1 

•00 

i 
( 
1 

Qoiversity  of  Toronto 

CO  H 
3  to    • 

o 

Library 

• 

»    1 

DO  NOT          /^J 

o 

-p 

OS 

o 

REMOVE      /   m 

o            a 

O               -H 
O               X 
H                CO 
O                    GJ 

to             ^ 

o 

CI) 

< 
z 

THE             //       J 
CARD          1        1 

hi>       o 
o        r1 

FROM           ^      % 

O 

THIS              \    i 

C          fi 

^,^ 

4^          G 
bS       -H      • 

O            -M    CV2 
•r4          -H    iH 

ca       i^  r-\ 

oi        :  o 
SI       a;  > 

1 

bi 
H 

< 

POCKET.            X 

0 

J3            4> 

Acme  Library  Card  Pocket 

Aut 
Titl 

i 

LOWE-MARTIN  CO.  Limited 

