John Dickinson
State: Delaware
Signed Constitution: True
Surviving papers tier: rich
Best public-domain source note: The Writings of John Dickinson (ed. Ford, Vol 1, PD); Letters of Fabius



===== John Dickinson - The Writings of John Dickinson (ed. Ford, Vol 1, PD); Letters of Fabius =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/writingsofjohndi00dickrich/writingsofjohndi00dickrich_djvu.txt

P]ilflkaH0ns

OF THE

^tsi0rkal sanetg 0)| pennsgltanla.

LIFE AND WRITINGS

OK

JOHN DICKINSON,

vol.. II.

■\^

THE WRITINGS

OF

JOHN DICKINSON.

Vol. I.
POLITICAL WRITINGS

1 764- 1 774.

EDITED AT THE REQUEST OF THE HISTORICAL SOCIETY
OF PENNSYLVANIA,

By PAUL LEICESTER FORD.

PHIIyADELPHIA : , , , .

THE HISTORICAL SOCIETY OF PEJ®^SYI,VANIA..^
1895.

At a meeting of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania, held May 6,
1889, it was

Resolved, That the President of the Society appoint a committee to
collect the published and unpublished correspondence and writings of
John Dickinson, with a view of including them in the Memoirs of the
Society, and that Chari,es J. STiiyi,E;, Esq., LL,.D., be invited to edit the
same. Subsequently the writing of the Life of Dickinson was under-
taken by Dr. STiiyL^, and the editing of the Writings of Dickinson by
Mr. Ford.

The Trustees of The Publication Fund desire it to be understood that
they are not answerable for the opinions or observations that may be ex-
pressed in articles under the names or initials of the contributors.

MEMOIRS

OP THE

HISTORICAL SOCIETY

OF

PENNSYLVANIA.

VOL. XIV.

PHILADELPHIA:

PUBLICATION FUND OF

THE HISTORICAL SOCIETY OF PENNSYLVANIA,

No. 1300 LOCUST STREET.

1895-

^

^^Itf

,^

a^

" The Trustees of the Publication Fund of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania"
have published ten volumes of Memoirs of the Society, viz. :

Vol. V. The History of Braddock's Expedition.

Vol. VI. Contributions to American History.

Vol. VII. Record of Upland and Denny's Journal.

Vol. I. Second Edition, with Notes.

Vol. VIII. Minutes of Defence of Philadelphia, 1814-1815.

Vol. IX. Correspondence of Penn and I<ogan, Vol. i.

Vol. X. " " " Vol. 2.

Vol. XI. History of New Sweden, by Israel Acrelius.

Vol. XII. Heckewelder's History, Manners, and Customs of the Indian Nations.

Vol. XIII. I,ife aiid Writings of John Dickinson, Vol. i.

Vol. XIV. " " " " Vol. 2.

Besides the above, the Trustees have issued fourteen volumes of "The Pennsylvania
Magazine of History and Biography," a Quarterly Journal^ devoted to American His-
tory, and especially that of Pennsylvania.

The investments held by the Trustees of the Fund now amount to over thirty-two
thousand dollars, the interest of which is applied to publishing. By the payment of
twenty-five dollars, any one may become entitled to receive, during his or her life, all
the publications issued at the expense of the Fund. Libraries so subscribing are
entitled to receive the same for the term of twenty years.

The Society desire it to be understood that they are not answerable for any opinions
or observations that may appear in their publications: the Editors of the several
works being alone responsible for the same.

Brinton Coxe, -j

Aubrey H. Smith, > Trustees.

Charles Hare Hutchinson, ■'

MY BROTHER,
WORTHINGTON CHAUNCEY FORD,

WHOSE SCHOLARLY PUBLICATIONS AND ADVICS

HAVE SO OFTEN AIDED

THE EDITOR,

THIS COLLECTION IS DEDICATED.

PREFACE.

John Dickinson has been aptly termed the ''Penman
of the Revolution." In the literature of that struggle, his
position is as pre-eminent as Washington in war, Franklin
in diplomacy, and Morris in finance. From no other
leader of that movement originated a series of arguments
of half the number, importance or popularity. In 1765
his pen produced the "Declaration of Rights" of the
Stamp Act Congress, the first American state paper that
can claim the slightest element of nationality. His "Let-
ters of a Farmer" ran through the colonies like wildfire,
furnishing a common fighting ground to all and so leading
the way to union. The " Liberty Song," sung and re-
sung, with its line["By uniting we stand, by dividing we
fall," still further pointed the path that led to the first
Congress. For that body he drew the famous " Petition to
the King" and "the Address to Inhabitants of Quebec,"
being the only member to whom was assigned the framing
of two papers. In the Continental Congress he drew the
"Second Petition to the King," offering for the last time
the olive branch ; while at the same time writing the
"Declaration upon taking up Arms," so cheered by the
Continental batallions. But for his disapproval of a De-
claration of Independence at the time it was moved, he
would have been the framer of the vindication of that step.
And his pen prepared the draft of the Articles of Confeder-
ation, which welded a people into a league, if not a nation.

But more than the Revolution can be traced in these
volumes. Here is epitomized as well the story of Ameri-

Cix)

X PREFACE.

can history in the period of its greatest development.
The chief struggle for ten years was to unite a people ; for
another ten, to form a nation ; then for twenty years a long
struggle for that nation to acquire and maintain a position
with other nations. Of all this, Dickinson's writings form
an important part. Opening with a dispute which con-
cerned the local politics of a single province, they quickly
pass to the stage of the action of an individual colony on a
question of common concern. Following these come writ-
ings that received the approval of seven colonies. Then
those that tw^elve assented to. Finally are those which
were adopted by the whole thirteen, and the union of
Americans for opposition to a common enemy, was com-
pleted. Union of feeling having been obtained, the ques-
tion of the legal relation of these separate colonies, or
states, to each other became important. Here too, Dick-
inson exercised much influence. In his own state, he
wrote concerning the local government. In Congress he
drew the first band of union. At Annapolis he signed the
call for a general convention to frame a new government.
His part in the Federal Convention was prominent and
material. His writings in support of the government there
framed aided its adoption. Nationality having been ob-
tained, he turned his pen to the relations of America to
Europe. And though he did not live to see the third
stage of the epoch ended, and his country so established
both internally and externally, that forty years of peaceful
development succeeded, yet he lived long enough to have
been able to feel that he and his contemporaries had not
labored in vain, but had been instruments in the accom-
plishment of a great movement.

Though Dickinson's writings were so popular in their
day, but one collection of them has ever been made. This
consisted of a selection, edited by Dickinson himself, and
published in 1801, a re-issue of which was made in 1814.

PREFACE. xi

In this was printed his "Speech" of 1764, the "Regula-
tion of the Colonies," the Stamp Act Congress "Reso-
lutions," the "Address to Barbadoes," the "Farmer's
Letters," the "Essay" of 1774, the "Addresses" and
"Petitions" of the Congresses of 1774 and 1775, the Con-
gressional Address of 1779, and the two series of the Let-
ters of Fabius. Thus more than two-thirds of his writ-
ings were omitted, and have remained unknown.

Believing that Dickinson's position and influence have
been slighted by this suppression, the editor began the
preparation for a new edition of his writings over five
years ago. After advancing some ways in the work, he
learned of a similar labor being planned by the Historical
Society of Pennsylvania, and only too gladly merged his
individual attempt with theirs. He has endeavored to
make the present collection contain all that is extant of
Dickinson's writings, but has, unfortunately, not been able
to obtain access to or copies of some of the Dickinson
papers in the possession of a descendant. Aside from this
hiatus, other omissions probably occur. After a careful
study of over two thousand issues of the newspapers printed
in Pennsylvania between 1762 and 1777, the editor is con-
vinced, from his knowledge of Dickinson's style, that he
was a constant writer for the press, and that a number of
the broadsides of the period were also written by him.
But deeming his personal opinion on this matter insuffi-
cient evidence to warrant the inclusion of such articles
and broadsides in this collection, the editor has omitted all
that he could not in some other way verify. Fortunately
most of the pieces so omitted are of comparatively small
moment ; and the editor believes that the present edition
includes all that is essential and important of Dickinson's
works. The first two volumes will contain his political
writings, and a third will be devoted to his correspondence.

The editor is under special obligations to Dr. Charles J.

xii PREFACE.

Stille, author of the very valuable Life of John Dickinson^
which constitutes the first volume of this series ; to Miss
Frances A. Logman, a collateral descendant of Dickinson ;
to Mr. Frederick D. Stone, librarian of the Historical So-
ciety ; and to that Society, for their aid in the preparation
of this edition. He also gives thanks for assistance to Dr.
S. A. Green, Mr. A. P. C. Griffin, and Mr. Lindsay Swift,
of Boston ; Mr. E. M. Barton, of Worcester ; Mr. Wilber-
force Eames, Mr. Charles L. Woodward, Mr. William
Kelby, and Dr. Thomas Addis Emmet, of New York ;
Mr. Charles R. Hildeburn, and Mr. Bumford Samuels, of
Philadelphia ; and Mr. S. M. Hamilton, of Washington,
lyast he must record the aid given by two now passed
away, Dr. J. S. H. Fogg, and Dr. George H. Moore, to
both of whom American history owes so much.

PAUL LEICESTER FORD.
January ^p, i8g^.

preface;

The present age has been witness to as great political
phenomena, as have appeared in the history of the world.

Among other events, we have seen America^ in a digni-
fied progression, from resentment of injuries to remon-
strances, from remonstrances to arms, and from arms to
liberty — after a vicissitude of fortunes delivered from des-
potism, and establishing her freedom in a republican form
of government, on the pure and just principles of popular
representation and federal union^ delineated in these writ-
ings.

Throughout the course of these contests, the friends
of liberty in Great-Britain^ many of them peers or mem-
bers of the house of commons, of the highest characters,
were warm advocates for the justice of our cause.

In the year 1774, the earl of Chatham^ in a speech
worthy of his distinguished talents and illustrious reputa-
tion, said — "If we take a transient view of those motives,
which induced the ancestors of our fellow subjects in
America^ to leave their native country, to encounter the
innumerable difficulties of the unexplored regions of the
Western world, our astonishment at the present conduct
of their descendants will naturally subside. There was no
corner of the globe to which they would not have fled,
rather than submit to the slavish and tyrannical spirit,
which prevailed at that period in their native country ;
and viewing them in their original, forlorn, and now
flourishing state, they may be cited as illustrious in-

*To the edition of 1801. The original MS. in Dickinson's handwriting
is still in existence. — Editor.

(xiii)

xiv PREFACE.

stances to instruct the world — what great exertions man-
kind will make, when left to the free exercise of their own
powers.

"It has always been my fixed and unalterable opinion,
and I will carry it with me to the grave, that this country
had no right whatever to tax America. It is contrary to
all the principles of justice and civil policy : it is contrary
to that essential, unalterable right in nature, ingrafted into
the British constitution as a fundamental law, that what a
man has honestly acquired is absolutely his own, which he
may freely give, but which cannot be taken from him
without his own consent.

"Pass then, my lords, instead of these harsh and severe
edicts, an amnesty over their errors ; by measures of lenity
and affection, allure them to their duty ; act the part of a
generous and forgiving parent. A period rnay arrive,
when this parent may stand in need of every assistance,
she can receive from a grateful and affectionate offspring. ' '

Soon afterwards, in a confidential letter to a friend, he
writes — "Every step on the side of government in Amer-
ica, seems calculated to drive the Americans into open re-
sistance, vainly hoping to crush the spirit of liberty in that
vast continent, at one successful blow ; but millions must
perish there, before the seeds of freedom will cease to grow
and spread, in so favourable a soil ; and in the mean time,
devoted Englaiid must sink herself, under the ruins of her
own foolish and inhuman system of destruction. It is
plain, that America cannot bear chains. Would to heaven
it were equally plain, that the oppressor, Eiigland, is not
doomed one day to bind them round her own hands, and
wear them patiently.

" Luxuria incubuit, vidumque ulciscitur orbetn — scsvior armis.

"Happily, beyond the Atlantic, this poison has not
reached the heart. When then will infatuated adminis-

PREFACE. XV

tration begin to fear that freedom they cannot destroy, and
which they do not know how to love ?' '

In another letter, he says — "I have not words to express
my satisfaction, that the congress has conducted this most
arduous and delicate business with such manly wisdom
and calm resolution, as does the highest honour to their
deliberations. Very few things are contained in their re-
solves, that I could wish had been otherwise. Upon the
whole, I think it must be evident to every unprejudiced
man in England^ who feels for the rights of mankind,
that America^ under all her oppressions and provocations,
holds forth to us the most fair and just opening, for restor-
ing harmony and affectionate intercourse, as heretofore.
I trust, that the minds of men are more than beginning to
change on this great subject ; and that it will be found im-
possible for freemen in Englattd^ to wish to see three mil-
lions oi^ Englishmen^ slaves in America.''''

In the beginning of the year 1775, soon after the Amer-
tca7t papers had beed laid before the peers, he made an-
other speech becoming his splendid fame. These were
some of his expressions — "This universal opposition to
your arbitrary system of taxation, might have been fore-
seen ; it was obvious from the nature of things, and from
the nature of man, and above all., from the confirmed
habits of thinking, from the spirit of whiggism flourishing
in America. The spirit which now pervades America^ is
the same which formerly opposed loans, benevolences, and
ship-money in this country ; is the same spirit which
roused all England to action at the revolution, and which
established at a remote sera, your liberties, on the basis of
that grand fundamental maxim of the constitution, that
no subject of England shall be taxed, but by his own con-
sent.

"To maintain this principle, is the common cause of the
WHIGS, on the other side of the Atlantic, and on this. It

xvi PREFACE.

is liberty to liberty engaged. In this great cause tliey are
immoveably allied. It is the alliance of God and nature.,
immutable, eternal, fixed as the firmament of heaven.*

"As 2M Englishman., I recognize to the Americans., their
supreme unalterable right of property. As an Ainericait., I
would equally recognize to England^ her supreme right of
regulating commerce and navigation. This distinction is
involved in the abstract nature of things ; property is pri-
vate, individual, absolute : the touch of another annihi-
lates it. Trade is an extended and complicated considera-
tion ; it reaches as far as ships can sail, or winds can blow ;
it is a vast and various machine. To regulate the num-
berless movements of its several parts, and combine them
into one harmonious effect, for the good of the whole, re-
quires the superintending wisdom and energy of the su-
preme power of the empire.

* *^ Arbitrary taxation is plunder authorized by law; it is the support
and the essence of tyranny ; and has done more mischief to mankind,
than those other three scourges from heaven, famine, pestilence, and the
sword.

" I need not carry your lordships out of your own knowledge, or out
of your own dominions, to make you conceive what misery this right of
taxation is capable of producing in a provincial government.

"We need only recollect, that our countrymen in India have, in the
space of five or six years, in virtue of this right, destroyed, starved and
driven away more inhabitants from Bengal, than are to be found at pres-
ent in all our American colonies. — This is no exaggeration, my lords,
but plain matter of fact."

Shipley, bishop of St. Asaph, against the bill for altering the
charter of Massachusetts, &c.

"We seem not to be sensible of the high and important trusts, which
Providence has committed to our charge. The most precious remains of
civil liberty, that the world can now boast of, are now lodged in our
hands, and God forbid, that we should violate so sacred a deposite.

" By enslaving your colonies, you not only ruin the peace, the com-
merce, and the fortunes of both countries ; but you extinguish the fairest
hopes, shut up the last asylum of mankind.

"I think, my lords, without being weakly superstitious, that a good
man may hope, that heaven will take part against the execution of a
plan, which seems big not only with mischief, but Impiety.^* Idem.

PREFACE. xvii

"On this grand practical distinction, then, let us rest:
taxation is theirs, commericial regulation is ours. As to
the metaphysical refinements, attempting to shew, that the
Americans are equally free from legislative controul, and
commercial restraint, as from taxation, for the purpose of
revenue, I pronounce them futile, frivolous, and ground-
less.

"When your lordships have perused the papers trans-
mitted to us from America^ when you consider the dig-
nity, the firmness, and the wisdom with which the Amer-
icans have acted, you cannot but respect their cause.

"History, my lords, has been my favourite study, and
in the celebrated writings of antiquity, have I often ad-
mired the patriotism of Greece and Rome: but, my lords,
I must declare and avow, that in the master states of the
world, I know not the people or the senate, who, in such
a complication of difficult circumstances, can stand in pref-
erence to the delegates of America^ assembled in general
congress at Philadelphia. I trust, it is obvious to your
lordships, that all attempts to impose servitude upon such
men, to establish despotism over such a mighty conti-
nental nation, must be vain."

Lord Chatham was ably supported by his friend, the ex-
cellent lord Camden^ who among other things said —
"When the famous Selden was asked, 'by what statute re-
sistance to tyranny could be justified?' his reply was — 'it
is to be justified by the custom of England^ which is part
of the law of the land.^

"I will affirm, my lords, not only as a statesman, a poli-
tician, and a philosopher, but as a common lawyer, that
you have no right to tax America. No man, agreeably to
the principles of natural and civil liberty, can be divested
of any part of his property, without his consent ; and
whenever oppression begins^ resistance becomes lawful and
right.'*'*

xviii PREFACE.

In the year 1777, lord Chatham moved an amendment
to a proposed address, recommending measures of accommo-
dation, and an immediate cessation of hostilities, as neces-
sary for effectuating that purpose, which "he supported
with all the energy and eloquence, which had formerly
produced such mighty effects ; and which must now have
roused the nation from its death-like torpor, had this been
within the compass of human virtue or human ability."

After some weighty observations respecting the conduct
of ministers he proceeded thus — "You may swell every ex-
pence, and strain every effort, accumulate every assistance,
and extend your traffic to the shambles of every German
despot, your attempts will be forever vain and impotent. —
But, my lords, where is the man, that in addition to the
disgraces and mischiefs of the war, has dared to authorize
and associate to our arms the tomahawk and scaiping-knife
of the savage? To call into civilized alliance, the wild
and inhuman inhabitant of the woods? To delegate to
the merciless Indian, the defence of disputed rights, and to
wage the horrors of his barbarous warfare against our breth-
ren? These enormities cry aloud for redress and punish-
ment. *

*The American secretary, in a letter to general Carlton dated Whitehall^
March 26th, 1777, says: "As this plan cannot be advantageously exe-
cuted without the assistence of Canadians and Indians, his majesty
strongly recommends it to your care, to furnish both expeditions with
good and sufficient bodies of these men : and I am happy in knowing, that
your influence among them is so great, that there can be no room to ap-
prehend you will find it diflScult to fulfil his majesty's intentions."

In the "Thoughts for conducting the war from the side of Canada," by
general Burgoyne, that general desired "a thousand or more savages."

Colonel Butler was desired to distribute [the king's bounty-money
among such of the savages as would join the army ; and after the delivery
of the presents, he asks for ;^4oii, York currency, before he left Niagara.
He adds, in a letter that was laid on the table, in the house of commons,
" I flatter myself, that you will not think of expence, however high, to
be useless, or given with too lavish hand. I waited seven days to deliver
them the presents, and give them the hatchet, which they ac-

PREFACE. xix

"It is not, my lords, a wild and lawless banditti whom
we oppose : the resistance of America^ is the struggle of
free and virtuous patriots.''"'

It is remarkable, that this great and good man, in the
year 1775, not only lays \.h.t justice of American claims^ on
the same eternal and immutable foundations contended
for in the following ' ' Essay on the constitutional power of
Great- Britain over the colonies in America^'''' published at
Philadelphia in the preceding year, 1774, but makes the
same comparison that was made in that Essay .^ between the
opposition of America to British measures, and the opposi-
tion of Britain^ to the measures of the Stuarts^ respecting
loans, benevolences, and ship-money ; and also makes the
same distinction between taxation and regulation of com-
merce, that is asserted in that Essay and inforces that dis-
tinction by the same arguments which in the Essay are
employed on that subject. He likewise insists, as is urged
in that Essay ^ that the admission of an authority to regu-
late commerce^ does not imply the concession of an author-
ity to legislate, for the purpose of taxation. He, also,
called the public attention to the extraordinary case., which
is stated in that Essay — that a period may arrive, when the
parent will stand in need of the assistance of her offspring.

Thus has ihc^ justice of our cause been maintained by the
best and wisest men in Britain^ not only by those before-
mentioned, but by multitudes of others.

CEPTED, and PROMISED TO MAKE USE OF IT. This letter is dated On-
tario, July 28tli, 1777.

In another letter, colonel Butler says, "The Indians threw in a heavy
fire on the rebels, and made a shocking slaughter with their spears and
hatchets. The success of this day, will plainly shew the utility of your
excelleucy's constant support of my unwearied endeavours to conciliate
to his majesty so serviceable a body of allies." This letter is to sir
Guy Carlton, and dated, camp before Fort Stanwix, August 15th, 1777.
In another letter he says, " many of the prisoners were, conformably to the
Indian custom, afterwards killed." More on this subject may be
seen in general Burgoyne's proclamation, proceedings in parliament, &c.

XX PREFACE.

Of what importance our successful opposition has been,
and is now thought on the other side of the Atlantic, we
may judge from the following declaration of that honest,
benevolent, and enlightened statesman Charles Fox., in the
house of commons— "THE RESISTANCE OF THE
AMERICANS TO THE OPPRESSIONS OF THE
MOTHER COUNTRY, HAS UNDOUBTEDLY PRE-
SERVED THE LIBERTIES OF MANKIND."

What political event, in the annals of the world, can be
more worthy of being commended to the attention of na-
tions !

We now behold the sun of liberty illumining Furore ;
and we have reason to believe, that its rays will reach to
other quarters of the globe, beaming with a benign influ-
ence on the human race.

With such knowledge of facts, and with such hopes of
the future, every American who loves his country, must be
pleased to trace our momentous controversy with Great-
Britain., from its commencement in her injustice, to its
termination in our independence ; and every friend to man-
kind must rejoice, in contemplating the actual and prob-
able consequences of our revolution to other nations.

If this intelligence should be conveyed in narratives,
written in coolness and leisure, after the agitation of
events had subsided, no doubt it would be agreeable : but,
this collection offers to our fellow-citizens, in a series from
the beginning of the year 1764, writings composed and
published in the midst of the arduous contention, while
Britain with insulting pretensions, and relentless cruelties,
was practising every artifice, and straining every nerve, by
statutes and by swords, to bend or break us into bondage :
and the editors think it their right and duty, to insert
some testimonies concerning several of these writings, to
shew the sentiments that were entertained of them at the
times when they were published, or soon after.

CONTENTS.

PAOB

Speech on a Petition for a Change of Government of the
Colony of Pennsylvania, May 24, 1764 i

A Protest against a Resolution of the Assembly of Penn-
sylvania for Petitioning the King to Change the Colony
of Pennsylvania from a Proprietary to a Royal Govern-
ment, May 28, 1764 . 50

A Petition to the King from the Inhabitants of Pennsylva-
nia, July, 1764 61

A Reply to the Speech of Joseph Galloway, September 4,
1764 68

An Answer to Joseph Galloway, September 29, 1764. . . 133

A Receipt to make a Speech, October, 1764 141

A Protest against the Appointment of Benjamin Franklin
as Agent for the Colony of Pennsylvania, October 26,

1764 147

Observations on Mr. Franklin's Remarks on a late Protest,
November, 1764 155

Resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Pennsylvania rel-
ative to the Stamp Act, September 21, 1765 168

The Declaration of Rights adopted by the Stamp Act Con-
gress, October 19, 1765 178

A Petition to the King from the Stamp Act Congress, Oc-
tober 19, 1765 188

An Address to the "Friends and Countrymen" on the
Stamp Act, November, 1765 197

The Late Regulations respecting the British Colonies Con-
sidered, December 7, 1765 206

An Address to the Committee of Correspondence in Bar-
bados, 1766 246

Letters of a Farmer in Pennsylvania, 1768 277

(xxi)

XXll

CONTENTS'.

An Address read at a Meeting of Merchants to Consider

Non-Importation, April 25, 1768 407

A Song for American Freedom, July, 1768 418

Letter to the Philadelphia Merchants concerning Non-Im-

• portation, July, 1768 431

A Petition from the Assembl}'- of Pennsylvania to the

King, March 9, 1771 446

Two Letters on the Tea Tax, November, 1773 453

Letters to the Inhabitants of the British Colonies, May,
1774 464

A SPEECH

ON A

PETITION FOR A CHANGE OF GOVERNMENT

OF THE

COLONY OF PENNSYLVANIA.

BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

WITH A PREFACE BY
REV. WILLIAM SMITH.

May 24, 1764.

'^^^^m

NOTE.

The supply bill passed by the Pennsylvania Assembly in the spring
of 1764 was the immediate cause of the controversy •which occasioned
this speech ; but the real matter at issue was of long and serious stand-
ing, having been practically the main political question for many years
in Pennsylvania, and therefore needless to touch upon here. In June,
1763, Sir Jeffrey Amherst had informed the Governor of the Colony, of
the danger of the Indian outbreak, later known as Pontiac's conspiracy,
and asked an immediate calling of the Assembly to vote the troops and
supplies necessary to quell it. Among other acts voted in pursuance of
this, was one granting "his Majesty the sum of fifty-thousand Pounds,"
to which the Governor refused to assent, being bound by his instructions
from the Proprietors. (Minuses, v, 325-6.) The Assembly at once ap-
pointed a committee "to draw up and bring in certain resolves upon the
present Circumstances of this Province." A new supply bill was also
framed, to which the Governor again refused his assent, and to which
the Assembly resolved unanimously to adhere ; and a message was drawn
and sent to the Governor explaining the reasons for their action. (Mitt-
uifs, V, 329-30.) This in turn produced another message from the Gov-
ernor, and a counter message from the Assembly, leaving each side
determined to maintain its position. The committee on resolutions
therefore promptly introduced (March 24, 1764), these resolves, the first
twenty-six being a justification of the Colony and Assembly, and the
final one being :

" That this House will adjourn, in order to consult their constituents,
whether an humble address should be drawn up, and transmitted to
his Majesty, praying that he would be graciously pleased to take the
people of this province under his immediate protection and govern-
ment, by compleating the Agreement heretofore made with the first
Proprietary for the Sale of the Government to the Crown, or otherwise
as his Wisdom and Goodness shall seem meet."

4 NOTE.

The Assembly ''ordered, that the foregoing resolves be made public,"
and then adjourned till the following May. On re-assembling a number
of petitions to the King asking him to change the colony from a propri-
etary to a royal one were laid before the Assembly, with the request that
they should be transmitted to the King. The question was therefore put
"whether a committee shall now be appointed to prepare and bring in a
Draft of a Petition from this House, to accompany the afore mentioned
Petitions to his Majesty for a Change of the Government of this Pro-
vince?" This resolution was carried by " a great majority," a committee
named to prepare a petition, and a draft, drawn by Franklin (Franklin's
Writings, lii, 303), was reported on the same day (May 23). This was
debated on the next day, when Dickinson delivered the following speech,
which suflBciently details the subsequent proceedings. Galloway (note
in speech as printed) stated that :

During the Time of the Debates respecting the Change of Govern-
ment, Mr. Dickenson seldom attended, and was absent when the im-
portant one came on, which issued in the Resolve, to adjourn and
consult the People. At the next Meeting several Motions were made
to bring this Resolution to an Issue, and after great Deliberation, it
was resolved by a Majority of 27 to 3, that a Committee should be ap-
pointed to bring in the Petition to his Majesty to resume the Powers
of Government. But at none of these Debates and Resolutions was
Mr. Dickenson present, tho' he well knew, or least had great Reasons
to Expect this Business was in continual Agitation.

During this Time, and the Recess of the Assembly, Mr. Dickenson
employed himself in collecting his Sentiments in Opposition to the
Measure, and in forming his Thoughts into the best Order, and dress-
ing them in the best Language his Abilities were capable of. And
upon the first reading of the Petition, and not till then, had he in all
this Time, entered into the Debate, or publickly deliver'd his Opinion
respecting the intended Change.

After a Measure is resolved on in a House of legislature, it is well
known to be contrary to all Rule and Order, to object to the Meas-
ure ; otherwise publick Business cou'd never be brought to an Issue.
Members may speak to the Mode, but not object against the Thing re-
solved on. But this Rule, so necessary in public Transactions, was
sacrificed either to Mr. Dickenson's Indolence in not attending, or to
his Industry in forming his Speech, For he was permitted to object
to the Design itself.

In the Debate on the first reading of the Petition, he attempted to
deliver his Objections against the Measure, ore tenus; But finding

NOTE. 5

every thing he oflFer'd judiciously aud sensibly refuted by several
Members, he was obliged to retreat to his Speech, in writing, which
after a short Introductory Apology, he read in his place, in a Manner
not the most deliberate.

This unparliamentary Mode of Proceeding, and the Diflficulty of Re-
taining in the Memory so long and elaborate a Performance, obliged,
and indeed justified the Gentleman, the Author of the following
Speech, in taking short Notes, from which, after Mr. Dickenson had
concluded, he rose to answer the Objections offer'd against the Peti-
tion. But the Speaker being exceedingly indisposed, the Debate was
adjourn 'd till next Day. •

Before the Adjournment, Mr. Dickenson was requested by several
members, and informed by the Speaker, that he ought to leave his
Speech on the Table for the Perusal and Consideration of the House.
But this he several times evaded, alleging in Excuse, that it was too
incorrect and indigested ; altho' he was repeatedly informed that none
wou'd examine it with a View to make any critical observations on the
Stile or Method, but only to make themselves acquainted with the
Substance. At length he was prevail'd on to promise in the most sol-
emn Manner, that he would deliver it to Mr. Galloway that Evening.
That Gentleman called on him at the Time appointed, but Mr. Dick-
enson continuing in the same Humour, declined delivering it. Nor
did he give the Members an Opportunity of perusing it, until the De-
bate was over, and the Question called for whether the Petition shou'd
be transcribed for a third Reading. Which passed in the Affirmative
by the Votes of all the Members who rose on the former Question.
All that Mr. Dickenson had either said or read, not having the Success
of altering the Opinion of a single Member.

Nor did the Speech then remain long upon the Table, for Mr. Dick-
enson immediately after, got it into his Hands again, and carried it
out of the House. What has been done with it since, to whose Care
and Correction it has been committed, and by whom, and with what
Views it has been published, the Preface attending it sufficiently de-
monstrates.

However, since the Art and Dress in which "it now appears to the
Public, is very different from that in which it appeared in the House,
renders it little less than necessary, that the Public shou'd know the
Arguments and Reasons which prevailed on the Members to retain
their former Resolution, of prosecuting the Petition to the Crown ; the
following Speech, in Substance the- same that was offered by Mr. Gal-
loway, in Answer to Mr. Dickenson, taken from the short Notes, and
put into Order, is submitted to the Consideration of the Lovers and
Supporters of public Liberty, Order, and good Government

6 NOTE.

Dickinson's Speech was at once put in type, with the addition of a pre-
face by the Rev. William Smith, and the Pennsylvania Journal of June
28, 1764, announced that :

To Morrow will be published and to be sold by

WILLIAM BRADFORD

At his Book Store adjoining the London CoFFEE-HouSB.

A

SPEECH

Delivered in the House of Assembly of the Province

of Pennsylvania, May 24th, 1764.

By John Dickinson, Esq.

As printed, it made a pamphlet of thirty pages, the preface filling an

additional thirteen. The title was :

A / Speech, / Delivered in the House of Assembly of the Province
of / Pennsylvania, May 24th, 1764. / By John Dickinson, Esq; /One
of the Members for the County of Philadelphia. / On Occasion of a
Petition, drawn up by Order, and then / under Consideration, of the
House ; praying his Majesty for a / Change of the Government of this
Province. / With a Preface. / Certe ego libertatem, quae mihi a Pa-
rente meo tradita est, experiar ; verum / id frustra, an ob rem faciam,
in vestra manu situm est, Quirites. / Sail. Bel. Jugurth. in Orat.
Memmii. / As for me, I will assuredly contend for that glorious plan
of Liberty / handed down to us from our ancestors ; but whether my
Labours / shall prove successful, or in vain, depends wholly on you,
my dear / Countrymen ! / Philadelphia : / Printed and Sold by William
Bradford, at his / Book-Store adjourning the London Coflfee-House. /

M,DCC,I,XIV.

A second edition was printed only three weeks later (pp. xv, 30), with
the following title :

A / Speech, / Delivered in the House of Assembly of the Province
of/ Pennsylvania, May 24th, 1764. / By John Dickinson, Esq ; / One
of the Members for the County of Philadelphia. / On Occasion of a
Petition drawn up by Order, and then / under Consideration, of the
House ; praying his Majesty for a / Change of the Government of this
Province. / With a Preface. / The Second Edition. / / Phila-
delphia : / Printed and Sold by William Bradford, at his / Book-Store
adjoining the London Coflfee-House. / m,dcc,lxiv.

This edition was translated into German and printed as :

Bine / IReOe, / gcbalten / in &cm Ibause Dcr assembly &er pro*
vfns / penns^lvanlen, am 24ten /iRais, 1764. / Won / t>ernn
3obn 2)icft(n6on / elncm &er ^italicDer Des taueee tur / pbila*

NOTE. 7

Delpbla Caunt^. / aseg Oelcgenbeit einer IDlttscbrttt, die aut
JSesebl Dcs / Ibausea aus0e6ct3t, un& damals in "Qlcberlefiunfl
genom/men war, worin Bine Ikbniglicbe /fcajestat um eine/ Der-
anDerunfl Oes ©overnments Oieser provin3 er*/ aucbt wirD. / flbit
einer DorreDe. / • • • / au0 Dem Bngligcben ubersetst, nacb Oer
sweeten Butlage. / IPbilaOelpbia, (SeDrucht unD 3U tin&en bey
Ijenricb flbiller, in Oer £westen*Stra6ge. [1764.] 8vo. pp. xvi, 35.

The speech was also printed in London (pp. xv, 31), as follows :

A /Speech, / Delivered In / the House of Assembly / Of the Province
of Pennsylvania, / May 24th, 1764. / By John Dickinson, Esq ; / One
of the Members for the County of Philadelphia. / On Occasion of a
Petition drawn up by Order, and then / under Consideration of the
House ; praying his Majesty for / a Change of the Government of this
Province. / With / A Preface. / Certe ego libertatcm, qua: mihi j
Parente nteo tradita est, experiar verunt / id frustra, an ob rent faciam,
in vestra manu situm est, Quirites. / Sail. Bell. Jugurth. in Orat.
Memmii / As for me, I will assuredly contend for that glorious plan
of Liberty / handed down to us from our ancestors ; but whether my
Labours / shall prove successful, or in vain, depends wholly on you,
my dear / Countrymen ! / Philadelphia Printed : / London, / Re-Printed
for J. Whiston and B. White, in Fleet-street. / m.dcc.i,xiv. /

This edition is reviewed in the Monthly Review, xxxi, 318, and the
Critical Review ^ xvin, 316. The speech was also included in The Polit-
ical Writings of John Dickinson (i, i), where a few slight changes were
made in the text, which are noted in the present republication. The
speech called forth two replies :

The / Speech / Of / Joseph Galloway, Esq ; / One of the Members for
Philadelphia County : / In Answer / To the Speech of John Dickinson,
Esq ; / Delivered in the House of Assembly, of the / Province of Penn-
sylvania, May 24, 1764. / On Occasion of a Petition drawn up by
Order, and / then under the consideration of the House ; / praying his
Majesty for a Royal, in lieu of / a Proprietary Government. / Audi et
alteram Partem. / Philadelphia : / Printed and sold by W. Dunlap,
in Market-street. / MDCCI.XIV. Svo. pp. xxxv, , 45.

The / May Be / Or Some / Observations / Occasion 'd by reading a
Speech deliver' d in / the House of Assembly, the 24th of May / last,

by a certain eminent Patriot. / / Philadelphia : / Printed by

Anthony Armbruster, in Arch-street [1764.] Sm. Svo. pp. 7.
These in turn produce the replies of Dickinson, printed post, and the
controversy was further continued in the Pennsylvania Gazette, Feb. 28 ;

March 14 ; and April 4, 1765.

Editor.

SPEECH,

Delivered in the HoirsiTof Assembly of the Pro^nce o£
Pennfylvania^ May 24th, 1764,

By JOHN DICKINSOiSf, Efqi.

One of the Members fof the G>unt7 v^' Philadelphia^

On Occafion of a PETITION, draws up by Order, and fihen
ondcf Confideration, of the Jioufe j praying his Majefiy for a
Change of the Gdvernment cf thii Trovitice^

With aPREFACE.

«^—— " ■ ■ —————— ——I—

•Cirte ego iiiertattm, qtut mibi a Parente meo tradita eft, txpariari virvm
idfru/hat oh «b rtrnfaciam^ in vtfird manufitum eji, ^irirn,

Sall. Bel. Jugurdi. in Orat Memmii.

As for me, I will aflUredly contend for tHst glorious plan of Lihtrty
handed down to us from our anceftors; but wtlfethjCi jny Labours
fhall prove fuccefsfnl, or in vain', depends wholly on you, my dear
Countrymen t

PHILADELPHIA:

Printed arid &ld .by William, Bhadpord, at his

Book-Store adjoining the Lcndsn Coffee-Houfe.

M,DCG,LXiv.

preface;

To understand clearly the nature of that dispute which led
the Assembly to those measures, which are so justly animad-
verted on in the following excellent speech, it will be proper to
look a few years backward.

In the year 1759, Governor Dctiny, whose administration will
never be mentioned but with disgrace in the annals of this pro-
vince, was induced, by considerations to which the world is
now no stranger, to pass sundry acts, contrary to his duty, and
to every tie of honor and justice. On the 2d of September,
1760, his late Majesty in council repealed six of these acts ; and
in regard to the seventh (which was an act for granting to his
Majesty one hundred thousand pounds, by a tax on all estates,
real and personal, &c.) the Lords of his Majesty's most honora-
able privy Council declared it their opinion ' ' that the said act
was fundamentally wrong and unjust, and ought to be re-
pealed, unless six certain amendments were made therein."

Benjamin Franklin and Robert Charles, Agents for the Pro-
vince, undertook that, in case the act might be left unrepealed,
* ' the Assembly of Pennsylvania would prepare and pass an act
for making the amendments proposed by the Lords of the
Council, and to indemnify the Proprietaries from any damage
they might sustain by such act not being prepared and passed."
This stipulation was signed by the hands of the said agents,
and the Proprietors for the sake of peace accepted of it. [iv]

But, notwithstanding the solemnity of this agreement, the
Assembly in framing the late Stipply-Bill, insisted upon ex-
plaining the 2d and 3d articles of the stipulation in their own
way, and inserting them in the bill in different words from
those made use of by the Lords of Council, and signed by their

* This preface was written by Rev. William Smith.
(II)
PREFACE.

own agents. The Governor, on the contrary, thought that no
words could be so proper to convey the meaning of the Lords
of Council and prevent disputes, as those which their lordships
themselves had made use of, and that he could neither in
decency or duty depart from them.

Hereupon messages ensued, and the Assembly, among other
vehement and warm resolves, broke up with the following
most extraordinary one, viz.

* ' That this House will adjourn, in order to consult their con-
stituents, whether an humble address should be drawn up, and
transmitted to his Majesty, praying that he would be graciously
pleased to take the people of this Province, under his immediate
protection and government, &c."*

What methods were taken, during this adjournment, to lead
a number of rash, ignorant and inconsiderate people into peti-
tions, the evil tendency of which thej'^ did not understand, is an
enquiry not suitable to the present occasion. It is enough to
say that, after incredible pains, in a province containing near
THREE HUNDRED THOUSAND SOULS, not more than 3500 could
be prevailed upon to petition for a change of government ; and
those very generally of a low rank, many of whom could
neither read nor write. f

The wiser and better part of the Province had far different
notions of this measure. They considered that the moment
they put their hands to these petitions, [v] they might be surren-
dering up their birth-right, and putting it in the power of a few
men, for the sake of gratifying their own ambitious projects
and personal resentments, to barter away that glorious plan of
public liberty and charter privileges, under which this Province
has risen to the highest degree of prosperity, with a rapidity
almost unparalleled in history.

Though the ill-success of these petitions must have been
very mortifying to the projectors of them, yet the Assembly
were at all hazards to be persuaded to make them the founda-
tion of a petition to the King for a change of government. It
was in vain to urge the smallness of the numbers who signed

* See Galloway's Speech^ xix. — Ed. t Ibid, xx. — Ed.

PREFACE. 13 ^

the petitions ; the high veneration in which our present consti-
tution hath long been held by good men of every denomination,
and the multitudes of industrious people whom even the very
fame of it hath invited among us, from almost every part of the
world. These considerations were but slight bars to men
actuated by ambition and resentment; men who have long
found their own importance to consist in fomenting the divi-
sions of their country, and now hope to aggrandize themselves
by bringing about the proposed change, whatever may be its
consequences to others. They therefore found means to carry
their petition thro' the House, but not without the most spir-
ited testimony against it, from a noble Few, a Patriot
Minority, whose names will be mentioned with honor, so long
as any remembrance is left of the present boasted I^iberties of
Pennsylvania.

At the head of these Few, the worthy author of the following
Speech signalized himself. Having devoted to a severe course
of study those years which too many give to dissipation and
pleasure, he shewed himself, at his first entrance on public life,
possessed of a knowledge of the laws and constitution of his
country, which [vij seldom falls to the share even of grey hairs.
Alike independent in spirit and in fortune, removed as far as
any man can be from all connections with the Proprietors or
their immediate friends, and following only the unbiassed dic-
tates of his own heart, he could not be a silent spectator while
the most distant attempt was made upon that constitution, for
which our fathers planted a wilderness, and which is derived
to us by the Faith of Charters, and Sanctity of I,aws !

This Speech was delivered on the 24th of May, and the late
Speaker, Mr. Norris, with the four members under mentioned,
are said to have declared to Mr. Dickinson, that he had fully
spoke their sentiments, in his own. The next day in the after-
noon, Mr. Dickinson moved that the further consideration of the
matter should be adjourned to the following morning. But it
was voted by a great majority (Mr. Dickinson, Mr. Joseph
Richardson, Mr. Isaac Saunders, and Mr. John Montgomery
being for the negative) that the Petition as then drawn, should

14 PREFACE.

be transcribed, in order to be signed by the Speaker; which
was ordered accordingly.

Mr. Dickinson having then digested the heads of his speech
into the nature of a Protest,^ in which he was joined by Mr.
Saunders and Mr. Montgomery, f ofifered it to be entered in the
minutes ; but it was refused.

Mr. Norris, the Speaker, who, from the nature of his ofl5ce,
could not join in the Protest or take any part in the debate,
finding matters pushed to this extremity, informed the House,
in a very solemn and affecting manner, ' ' That for thirty years
past he had had the honour of serving as a Representative of
the people of this Province, and near half that time as Speaker.

That, in these offices, he had uniformly endeavoured,

accord- [vii]ing to the best of his judgment, to promote the pub-
lic good.— That the subject of the present debate was a

matter of the utmost importance to the Province. That

as his sentiments on the occasion were very different from those
of the majority^ and his seat in the chair prevented him from
entering into the debate, he therefore prayed the House, That
if, in consequence of their order, his duty should oblige him to
sign the Petition as Speaker, he might be permitted to offer his
sentiments on the subject before he signed, and that they might
be entered on the minutes;" which was granted accordingly.

The House then adjourned to the next morning, and when
they met, the Clerk delivered the members a letter from the
Speaker, acquainting them that his indisposition prevented his
further attendance, and praying them to choose a new Speaker.
Thus this aged member and faithful servant of the House, as
if foreseeing troubles to come, chose to retire, and leave them
to those whose temper they better suited.

Benjamin Franklin, Esq., was accordingly chosen Speaker,
and in the afternoon of the same day, signed the Petition, as

one of his first acts, an act which but posterity will best

be able to give it a name !

As these transactions could not fail of being very interesting
to the good people of this Province, it is not to be wondered

* Printed post.— Ed. -f See their letter below.

PREFACE. 15

that they expressed an earnest desire to see the following Speech^
that they might be able to form some knowledge of what was
intended ; for their own Representatives did not think proper to
let the contents of their petition for the proposed change be
known ; though upon this single stake, so far as depended upon
them, they have risked our whole constitution. On the 6th of
June, therefore, a great number of the principal Gentlemen of
Philadelphia applied to Mr. Dickinson for a copy of his speech,
by letter as follows, viz. [viii]

Philadelphia, y««^ 6/A, 1764.
Sir, We whose names are underwritten, citizens of Philadelphia, ac«
knowledge the obligations that the good people of this Province are
under to you, for your spirited defence of our charter privileges, which
we apprehend are greatly endangered by some late proceedings, particu-
larly the setting on foot a petition to his Majesty for a change of govern-
ment. We are surprised that our representatives, who ought to be
guardians of the constitution, do not check rather than encourage this
unseasonable application of a few (comparatively) of the people of this
extensive Province. We hereby testify our sincere gratitude to you, sir,
and the other patriot members that appeared on the side of our Charter
and Privileges, and request a copy of the speech you delivered on that
occasion in the House, as we are persuaded that the publication thereof
would be of great utility and give general satisfaction. We beg leave to
assure you of our regard, and are

Sir, Your most obedient humble servants.

About the same time Mr. Saunders and Mr. Montgomery,
earnestly desirous that their names might be joined with Mr.
Dickinson's through this whole affair, sent him the following
letter :

Sit, As we are informed that a number of the principal gentlemen of
the city of Philadelphia intend applying to you to have your speech,
which was delivered a few days ago in the House of Assembly, against
the measures proposed for a change of government, published, and as we
are of opinion the publication thereof, together with the reasons on
which our protest is founded, may be of considerable service, we judge
it proper (in case you are of the same opinion of making them public)
that you should signify to the public how heartily we have concurred
with you in the same sentiments, set forth in your speech, and in disap-
probation of the late resolves of the House ; this we judge a piece of
justice due to ourselves, lest we incur, from our constituents, the imputa-

i6 PREFACE.

tion of betraying or sacrificing their essential rights and privileges which
we meant to defend. We likewise authorize you hereby to affix our
names to the dissent and protest,* which the House refused entering on
their minutes. We are respectfully.

Sir, Yours, &c.,

Isaac Saunders,

John Montgomery, [ix]

Having thus given a faithful account, both of the occasion of
this Speech, and of its publication, it would be almost impossi-
ble not to quote a few passages from former Assemblies, to
shew in what high terms, even of rapture and admiration, they
continually mentioned our present constitution and plan of
government.

" We hope, say they,t the people of Pennsylvania will never
be wanting to acknowledge the great wisdom and singular
goodness of our late honourable Proprietor, from whom we
derive the privileges of our annual elections, as well as many
other immunities which have so manifestly contributed to the
prosperity of the Province, &c." Again,

" When I we commemorate the many blessings bestowed on
the inhabitants of this colony, the religious and civil liberties we
possess, and to whom these valuable blessings, under God and
the King, are owing, we should be wanting to ourselves, and
them that we represent, did we not do justice to the memory of
thy worthy ancestor. ' '

" Our§ happy constitution, secured to us by the wisdom and
goodness of our first Proprietary and founder of this province,
so happily continued to us under the government of his honour-
able descendants, justly entitle them to our affection and zeal
for their honor and interest."

But it would be endless to quote all that has been said by our
Assemblies, in favour of the constitution of this province, and
its worthy founder. The sum of the whole, when taken from
the minutes, and thrown together in their own express words,
is nothing less than what follows.

* As all the arguments in this Protest are to be found more at large
in the following Speech, it is not printed here, but will be published by
itself in the newspapers.

t Assembly 1730.

J Address to the honourable John Penn, Esq., 1764.

2 Assembly 1738.

PREFACE.
WIIvWAM PENN,

' A man of principles truely humane,

an Advocate for [x]

Religion and I,iberty,

* Possessing a noble spirit

That exerted itself

For the good of mankind,

Was

' The g^eat and worthy founder

Of

PENNSYIvVANIA.

To its inhabitants, by Charter,

* He granted and confirmed

'Many singular Privileges and Immunities,

• Civil and Religious ;

^ Which he continually studied

to preserve and defend for them.

Nobly declaring

• That they had not followed him so far

To lose a single tittle

Of the Great Charter

To which all Englishmen were bom !

For these Services,

• Great have been the acknowlegements

Deservedly paid to his Merit ;

"And his Memory

Is dear to his people,

Who have repeatedly confessed

That,

" Next to divine Providence,

" Their Happiness, Prosperity and Increase

" Are owing
To his wise conduct and singular goodness,

* Minutes 1734.
'Minutes 1740.

» Minutes 1738, 1740, 1745.

* Minutes 1755.

* Minutes 1730.

•Minutes 1734.
^ Minutes 1735.
'Minutes 1756.
•Minutes 1740.
"> Minutes 1719.

" Minutes 1725.
" Minutes 1731.
" Minutes 1734.

i8 PREFACE.

" Which deserve ever to be remembered,

With

Gratitude and Affection,

By Pennsylvanians. [xi]

Were it intended to write the highest encomium on the con-
stitution of this country, and to erect the most lasting monu-
ment to the memory of its illustrious founder, a more noble
inscription could hardly be devised than what is contained in
the foregoing minutes of Assembly; and a time may come
when impartial posterity, notwithstanding the present ingrati-
tude of a few, may perhaps adapt it for this purpose.

As to the wild measures now on foot, they will undoubtedly
destroy themselves by their own violence; and it would be
impossible to add anything that can more expose their rashness
than what is contained in the following Speech. The Proprie-
tors hold their Right by that charter under which ours is de-
rived. Can the latter in law or equity be deemed more sacred
than the former? Have the Proprietors, by any act of theirs,
forfeited the least tittle of what was granted them by his Ma-
jesty's royal ancestors? Or can they be deprived of their
charter rights without their own consent? Have they not
constantly sheltered themselves under the wing of government,
and received the approbation of his Majesty's first servants in the
law to every material Instruction sent to their governors here?

In the present dispute nothing has been insisted upon on the
part of our Governors but a strict adherence to what has been
solemnly determined by his Majesty in Council.

Indeed we have every way the worst of this whole business.
If a change were to take place, the Proprietors before they re-
sign their charter, would certainly obtain a full equivalent for
their Rights of Government, and likewise have all their Rights
of Property secured to them by laws which we could not dis-
pute. Such a change, were they inclined to it, could certainly
be of very little prejudice to them ; but with respect to us the
case is quite different. Instead of securing anything in rever-
sion or exchange, our representatives, by their present petition,

"Minutes 1732.

PREFACE. 19

seem (so far at least as depends on them) to have offered up our
whole charter rights, leaving it to the grace of others to return
us any part, or indeed no part of them, according as it may be
thought proper. But, thanks be to God, this is a power with
which our representatives were never vested by us ; and there-
fore the act they have committed is void in itself. Nor is there
any doubt but an immense majority of the good people of this
Province will still be found ready, at a proper time, to vindicate
their charter rights, and to let the world know that they hold
those men unworthy of all future trust, who could wantonly
sport with things so sacred.

Former Assemblies made it an article of impeachment against
one of the most considerable * men of this Province ' ' That he
had contrived to violate (only) a part of the constitution of this
government." But what would they have thought of an at-
tempt to violate the whole ?

We know it will be replied, that the change now proposed is
not a violation of this kind, and that our privileges might be
preserved in virtue of our Laws, even if our charter were given
up. But a sufl5cient answer is given to this in page the nth
and 12th of the following [xii] Speech; and indeed it is aston-
ishing that this argument could ever be made use of to impose
upon any person, when it is well known that the chief privi-
leges, by which the constitution of this province is distin-
guished, depend upon our charter alone, and upon no positive
law whatever.

And here, let no wrong construction be put upon this de-
fence of the particular constitution of Pennsylvania. Those
who now contend for it, have the highest veneration for the
dignity and authority of the Crown. They think themselves
as much under its immediate protection as any of his Majesty's
subjects on this continent are ; and it is well known, that they
have on all occasions been among the first of those who have
appeared in defence of the just rights of our gracious Sovereign.

They think it may be said, without giving the least offence,
that the inhabitants of this Province enjoy certain privileges

* James Logan, Esq.

20 PREFACE.

which are not to be found in the governments around them,
and which they could not have the least hopes of preserving in
case of any change of our present constitution. Multitudes of
people have chosen a settlement in this Province, preferable to
all others, on account of these privileges, and they now think
that they have a right to the perpetual enjoyment of them ; as
they are in no case inconsistent with good order or the public
good. Many private corporations in his Majesty's dominions
enjoy singular immunities upon the like foundation ; and those
bodies have never been thought undutiful for adhering tena-
ciously to their rights, from age to age. Certainly we may be
considered in a something higher light than 'Corporate Bodies
of this kind.

Having swelled this preface to a much greater length than
was at first intended, we shall only offer one remark more,
upon the terms in which the Petition of our Assembly is said
to be drawn up. We have heard that this Province is described
in it as a scene of riot, violence and confusion ; but yet one can
hardly judge it possible, that our representatives could venture
to approach the royal ear with such an unjust account of their
constituents. Nevertheless we have a right to insist on a copy
of this petition from the committee in whose hands it is, that
if we lie under any accusations in it, we may have an opportu-
nity to answer them. This is so reasonable, that we are per-
suaded it cannot be refused, especially in a matter wherein we
may be greatly affected.

We would only observe that the present is not a time for
divisions of any kind in his Majesty's colonies; but for the
closest union among ourselves, that we may be able, by de-
cent and just representation of the state of our country, to save
it from burthens which it cannot bear, and to encourage it in
those improvements whereof it is capable. Let it be remem-
bered how little we have got by bringing our party quarrels
before the Crown these many years past ; most certainly noth-
ing but shame to ourselves, and a load of expense to our coun-
try, which, however beneficial it may have been to the Agents
employed, has not been of the least service to the public.

THE SPEECH

OF

JOHN DICKINSON, ESQ., &c.

Mr. Speaker,*

When honest men apprehend their country to be in-
jured, nothing is more natural than to resent and com-
plain: but when they enter into consideration of the
means for obtaining redress, the same virtue that gave the
alarm, may sometimes, by causing too great a transport of
zeal, defeat its own purpose; it being expedient for those
who deliberate of public aflfairs, that their minds should
be free from all violent passions. . These emotions blind
the understanding: they weaken the judgment. It, there-
fore, frequently happens, that resolutions formed by men
thus agitated, appear to them very wise, very just, and
very salutary; while others, not influenced by the same
heats, condemn those determinations, as weak, unjust and
dangerous. Thus, Sir, in councils it will always be found
useful, to guard against even that indignation, which
arises from integrity.

More particularly are we bound to observe the utmost
caution in our conduct, as the experience of [2] many years
may convince us, that all our actions undergo the strictest
scrutiny. Numerous are the instances, that might be
mentioned, of rights vindicated and equitable demands
made in the province, according to the opinions enter-
tained here, that in Great Britain^ have been adjudged to
be illegal attempts, and pernicious pretensions.

* Isaac Norris, Esquire. Note in Writings.

22 THE SPEECH OF

These adjudications are the acts of persons vested with
such dignity and power, as claim some deference from us:
and hence it becomes not unnecessary to consider, in what
light the* measures now proposed may appear to those,
whose sentiments from the constitution of our govern-
ment, it will always be prudent to regard.

But on this important occasion, we ought not to aim
only at the approbation of men, whose authority may cen-
sure and control us. More affecting duties demand our
attention. The honor and welfare of Pennsylvania de-
pending on our decisions, let us endeavour so to act, that
we may enjoy our own approbation, in the cool and undis-
turbed hours of reflection: that we may deserve the appro-
bation of the impartial world; and of posterity who are so
much interested in the present debate.

No man. Sir, can be more clearly convinced than I am
of the inconveniences arising from a strict adherence to
proprietary instructions. We are prevented from demon-
strating our loyalty to our excellent Sovereign, and our
affection to our distrest fellow-subjects, unless we will in-
dulge the Proprietors, with a distinct and partial mode of
taxation, by which they will save perhaps four or five
hundred pounds a year, that ought to go in ease of our
constituents. [3]

This is granted on all sides to be unequal ; and has,
therefore, excited the resentment of this House. Let us
resent — but let our resentment bear proportion to the pro-
vocation received ; and not produce, or even expose us to
the peril of producing, effects more fatal than the injury of
which we complain. If the change of government now

*The controversy between the Province and the Proprietaries, was, —
Whether the estates of the Proprietaries should be taxed as the estates
of other persons were. The Proprietaries claimed an exemption, and
were supported in their claim by the British Ministers. The Assembly
took this opportunity to attempt a change of the Government from pro-
prietary to royal. Note in Writings.

JOHN DICKINSON. 23

meditated, can take place, with all our privileges pre-
served, let it instantly take place : but if they must be
consumed in the blaze of royal authority, we shall pay too
great a price for our approach to the throne ; too great a
price for obtaining (if we should obtain) the addition of
four or five hundred pounds to the proprietary tax ; or, in-
deed, for any emolument likely to follow from the' change. I

I hope I am not mistaken when I believe that every"
member in this House feels the same reverence that I do
for these inestimable rights. When I consider the spirit
of liberty that breathes in them, and the flourishing state
to which this province hath risen in a few years under
them, I am extremely desirous that they should be trans-
mitted to future ages ; and I cannot suppress my solicitude
while steps are taking that tend to bring them all into
danger. Being assured that this House will always think
an attempt to change this government too hazardous, un-
less these privileges can be perfectly secured^ I shall beg
leave to mention the reasons by which I have been con-
vinced that such an attempt ought not now to be made."^

It seems to me, sir, that a people who intend an innova-
tion of their government ought to chuse the most proper
time^ and the most proper method^ for accomplishing their
purposes ; and ought seriously to weigh all the probable
and possible consequences of such a measure. [4J

There are certain periods in public affairs when designs
may be executed much more easily and advantageously
than at any other. It hath been by a strict attention to
every interesting circumstance, a careful cultivation of
every fortunate occurrence, and patiently waiting till they
have ripened into a favourable conjecture, that so many
great actions have been performed in the political world.

It was through a rash neglect of this prudence, and too
much eagerness to gain his point, that the Duke of Mon-
mouth destroyed his own enterprise and brought himself

24 THE SPEECH OF

dishonourably to the block, though everything then verged
towards a revolution. The Prince of Orange, with a wise
delay ^ pursued the same views and gloriously mounted a
throne.

It was through a like neglect of this prudence that the
commons of Denmark^ smarting under the tyranny of
their nobility, in a fit of revengeful fury suddenly surren-
dered their liberties to their king; and ever since, with
unavailing grief and useless execrations, have detested the
mad moment which slipt upon them the shackles of slav-
ery, which no struggles can shake oflf. With more deliber-
ation^ the Dutch erected a stadholdership, that hath been
of signal service to their state.

That excellent historian and statesman, Tacitus^ whose
political reflections are so justly and universally admired,
makes an observation in his third annal that seems to con-
firm these rerriarks. Having mentioned a worthy man of
great abilities, whose ambitious ardour hurried him into
ruin, he uses these words, ' ' quod multos etiam bonos pessum
dedit^ qui spretis qucB tarda cum securitate^ prcematura vel
cum exitio proper ant.'''' ''Which misfortune hath hap-
pened to many good men, who despising [5] those things
which they might slowly and safely attain, seize them too
hastily, and with fatal speed rush upon their own destruc-
tion."

-, If then. Sir, the best intentions may be disappointed by
too rapid a prosecution of them, many reasons induce me
to think, that this is not the proper time to attempt the
change of our government.

It is too notorious and too melancholy a truth, that we
now labor under the disadvantage of royal and ministerial
displeasure. The conduct of this province during the late
war, has been almost continually condemned at home. We
have been covered with the reproaches of men, whose sta-
tions give us just cause to regard their reproaches. The

JOHN DICKINSON. ' 25

last letters from his majesty's secretary of state prove, that
the reputation of the province has not yet revived. We
are therein expressly charged with double dealing, disre-
spect for his Majesty's orders, and in short, accusations,
that shew us to be in the utmost discredit. Have we th(
least reason to believe, when the transactions of this yeai
and the cause of our application for a change, are made
known to the king and his ministers, that their resentment
will be waived ? Let us not flatter ourselves. Will they
not be more incensed when they find the public service
impeded, and his majesty's dominions so long exposed to
the ravages of merciless enemies, by our inactivity and
obstinacy, as it will be said? For this, I think, hath been
the constant language of the minority on the like occa-
sions. Will not their indignation rise beyond all bounds
when they understand that our hitherto denying to grant
supplies, and our application for a change, proceed from
the governor's strict adherence to the terms of the stipula-
tions, so solemnly made, and so repeatedly approved, by
the late and present King? [6]

But I may perhaps be answered, "that we have agreed
to the terms of the stipulations, according to their true
meaning, which the governor refuses to do." Surely, Sir,
it will require no slight sagacity in distinguishing, no com-
mon force of argument, to persuade his Majesty and his
Council, that the refusal to comply with the true meaning
of the stipulations proceeds from the Governor, when he
insists on inserting in our bill the very words and letters
of those stipulations.

"But these stipulations were iiever intended to be in-
serted verbatim in our bills, ana our construction is the
most just." I grant it appears so to us^ but much I doubt
whether his Majesty's Council will be of the same opinion.
That Board and this House have often differed as widely
in their sentiments. Our judgment is founded on the

26 THE SPEECH OF

knowledge we have of facts, and of the purity of our in-
tentions. The judgment of others^ is founded on the rep-
resentations made to them of those facts and intentions.
These representations may be unjust; and, therefore, the
decisions that are formed upon them may be erroneous. If
we are rightly informed, we are represented as the mortal
enemies of the proprietors, who would tear their estates to
pieces unless some limit was fixed to our fury. For this
purpose the second and third articles of the stipulations
were formed. The inequality of the mode was explained
and enlarged upon by the provincial counsel ; but in vain.
I think, I have heard a worthy member who lately re-
turned from England mention these circumstances.

If this be the case, what reasonable hope can we enter-
tain of a more favourable determination nowf The Pro-
prietors are still living. Is it not highly probable that
they have interest enough, either to prevent the change or
to make such terms as will fix upon us forever those de-
mands that appear so ex- [7] tremely just to i}i\^ present Min-
isters? One of the Proprietors appears to have great inti-
macy and influence with some very considerable members
of his Majesty's Council. Many men of the highest char-
acter, if public reports speak truth, are now endeavouring
to establish proprietary governments, and, therefore, prob-
ably may be more readily inclined to favour proprietary
measures. The very gentlemen who formed the articles
of the stipulations are now in power^ and, no doubt, will
inforce their own acts in the strictest manner. On the
other hand, every circumstance that now operates against
us, may in time turn ii^ our favour. We may, perhaps,
be fortunate enough, to see the present prejudices against
us worn off; to recommend ourselves to our Sovereign and
to procure the esteem of some of his ministers. I think I
may venture to assert that such a period will be infinitely
more proper than the present, for attempting a change of
our government.

JOHN DICKINSON. 27

With the permission of the House, I will now consider
the manner in which this attempt is carried on; and I
must acknowledge that I do not in the least degree ap-
prove of it.

The time may come when the weight of this govern-
ment may grow too heavy for the shoulder of a subject, at
least too heavy for those of a woman, or an infant The
proprietary family may be so circumstanced as to be will-
ing to accept of such an equivalent for the government
from the crown, as the crown may be willing to give.
Whenever this point is agitated, either on a proposal from
the crown or proprietors, this province may plead the
cause of her privileges with greater freedom and with
greater probability of success than at present. The royal
grant, the charter founded upon it, the public faith
pledged to the adventurers for the security of those rights
to them and their poste- [8] rity, whereby they were encour-
aged to combat the dangers, I had almost said, of another
world; to establish the British power in remotest regions,
and add inestimable dominions with the most extensive
commerce to their native country ; the high value and
veneration we have for these privileges, the afflicting loss
and misfortune we should esteem it, to be deprived of
them, and the unhappiness in which his Majesty's faithful I
subjects in this province would thereby be involved; our 1
inviolable loyalty and attachment to his Majesty's person
and illustrious family, whose sovereignty hath been sOj
singularly distinguished by its favourable influence on the/
liberties of mankind. — All these things may then be prop- /
erly insisted on. If urged with that modest heart-felt
energy, with which good men should always vindicate the
interests of their country, before the best of sovereigns, * I
should not despair of a gracious attention to our humble

* The preceding six words are struck out in Writings. — Ed.

28 THE SPEECH OF

requests. Our petition in such a case, would be simple,
respectful and perhaps affecting.

But in the present mode of proceeding, it seems to me,
that we preclude ourselves from every office of decent duty
to the most excellent of Kings, and from that right of
earnestly defending our privileges, which we should other-
wise have. The foundation of this attempt, I am appre-
hensive, will appear to others, peculiarly unfortunate. In
a sudden passion, it will be said, against the Proprietors,
we call out for a change of government. Not from rever-
ence for his Majesty, not from a sense of his paternal
goodness to his people, but because we are angry with the
Proprietors, and tired of a dispute founded on an order
approved by his Majesty and his royal grandfather. ?;

Our powerful friends on the other side of the Atlantic^
who are so apt to put the kindest constructions on [9] our
actions, will, no doubt, observe "that the conduct of the
people of Pennsylvania must be influenced by very extra-
ordinary councils, since they desire to come more imme-
diately under the King's command, because they will not
obey those royal commands which have been already sig-
nified to them."

But here it will be said, nay it has been said, and the
petition before the House is drawn accordingly, "we will
not alledge this dispute with the Governor on the stipula-
tions, but the general inconveniences of a proprietary gov-
ernment as the cause of our desiring a change." 'Tis
true we may act in this artful manner, but what advan-
tages shall we gain by it? Though we should keep the
secret, can we seal up the lips of the Proprietors? Can we
recall our message to the Governor? Can we annihilate
our own resolves? Will not all — will not any of these dis-
cover the true cause of the present attempt?

Why, then, should we unnecessarily invite fresh invec-
tives in the very beginning of a most important business,

JOHN DICKINSON. 29

that, to be happily concluded, requires all the favour we
can procure and all the dexterity we can practice?

We intend to surround the throne with petitions that
our government may be changed from proprietary to royal :
at the same time we mean to preserve our privileges : but
how are these two points to be reconciled?

If we express our desire for the preservation of our
privileges, in so general or faint a manner as may induce
the King to think they are of no great consequence to us,
it will be nothing less than to betray our country. [10]

If, on the other hand, we inform his Majesty "that
though we request him to change the government, yet we
insist on the preservation of our privileges," certainly it
will be thought an unprecedented stile of petitioning the
crown, that humbly asks a favour and boldly prescribes
the terms on which it must be granted.

How then shall we act? Shall we speak, or shall we
suppress our sentiments? The first method will render
our request incoherent : the second will render it danger-
ous. Some gentlemen are of opinion that these dijSiculties
may be solved by intrusting the management of this affair
to an Agent ; but I see no reason to expect such an effect.
I would first observe that this matter is of too prodigious
consequence to be trusted to the discretion of an Agent.
But if it shall be committed by this House, the proper
guardian of the public liberties^ to other hands, this truth
must at some time or other be disclosed: "that we will
never consent to a change unless our privileges are pre-
served." I should be glad to know with what finesse this
matter is to be conducted. Is the agent to keep our
petition to the crown in his pocket till he has whispered
to the ministry? Will this be justifiable? Will it be
decent? Whenever he applies to them^ I presume, they
will desire to know his authority for making such an ap-
plication. Then our petition must appear ; and whenever

30 THE SPEECH OF

it does appear, either at first or last, that^ and the others
transmitted with it, I apprehend, will be the foundation
of any resolutions taken in the King's Council.

Thus, in whatever view this transaction is considered,
shall we not still be involved in the dilemma already men-
tioned, "of begging a favour from his Majesty's goodness,
and yet showing a distrust that the royal hand, stretched
out at our own request for our relief, may do us an
injury?" [ii]

Let me suppose, and none can offer the least proof of
this supposition being unreasonable, that his Majesty will
not accept of the government, clogged, as it will be said,
with privileges inconsistent with the royal rights : how
shall we act then? We shall have our choice of two
things : one of them destructive, the other dishonourable.
We may either renounce the laws and liberties framed and
delivered down to us by our careful ancestors : or we may
tell his Majesty with a surly discontent, "that we will not
submit to his implored protection^ but on such conditions
as we please to impose on him." Is not this the inevi-
table and dreadful * alternative, to which we shall reduce
ourselves ?

In short. Sir, I think the farther we advance in the path
we are now in, the greater will be the confusion and
danger in which we shall engage ourselves. Any body of
men acting under a charter, must surely tread on slippery^
ground when they take a step that may be deemed a sur£
render of that charter. For my part, I think the petitions^
that have been carried about the city and country to be
signed, and are now lying on the table, can be regarded in
no other light than as a surrender of the charter, with a
short indifferent hint annexed of a desire that our privi-
leges may be spared if it shall be thought proper. Many

* "and dreadful" struck out in Writings.— Ed.

JOHN DICKINSON. 31

striking arguments may, in my opinion, be urged, to prove
that any request made by this House for a change may,
with still greater propriety be called a surrender. The
common observation "that many of our privileges do not
depend on our charter only, but are confirmed by laws ap-
proved by the Crown," I doubt will have but little weight
with those who will determine this matter. ^

It will readily be replied, "that these laws were founded
on the charter ; that they were calculated for a proprietary
government, and for no other, and ap- [12] proved by the
Crown in that view alone ; that the proprietary government
is now acknowledged by the people living under it to be a
bad government, and the Crown is intreated to accept a
surrender of it : that, therefore, by abolishing the pro-
prietary government, everything founded upon it must of -^
consequence be also abolished."

However, if there should be any doubts in the law odT^
these points, there is an easy way to solve them.

These reflections. Sir, naturally lead me to consider the
consequences that may attend a change of our government,
which is the last point I shall trouble the House upon at
this time.

It is not to be questioned, but that the Ministry are de-
sirous of vesting the immediate government of this Prov-
ince advantageously in the Crown. Tis true, they don't
chuse to act arbitrarily, and tear away the present govern-
ment from us without our consent. This is not the age
for such things. But let us only furnish them with a pre-
text, by pressing petitions for a change ; let us only relin-
quish the hold we now have, and in an instant we are
precipitated from that envied height where we now stand.
The affair is laid before the Parliament, the desires of the
Ministry are insinuated, the rights of the Crown are vin-
dicated, and an act passes to deliver us at once from the
government of Proprietors, and the privileges we claim
under them.

ik'

32 THE SPEECH OF

Then, Sir, we, who in particular have presented to the
authors of the fatal change this long-wished for oppor-
tunity of eflfecting it, shall, for our assistajtce^ be entitled
to their thanks — Thanks/ which I am persuaded every
worthy member of this House would abhor to deserve and
would scorn to receive. [13]

It seems to be taken for granted that by a change of
government we shall obtain a change of those measures
which are so displeasing to the people of this Province —
that justice will be maintained by an equal taxation of the
proprietary estates — and that our frequent dissentions will
be turned into peace and happiness.

These are effects indeed sincerely to be wished for by
every sensible, by every honest man; but reason does not
always teach us to expect the warm wishes of the heart.
Could our gracious Sovereign take into consideration the
state of every part of his extended dominions, we might
expect redress of every grievance; for with the most im-
plicit conviction, I believe he is as just, benevolent and
amiable a Prince as heaven ever granted in its mercy to
bless the people. I venerate his virtues beyond all expres-
sion. But his attention to our particular circumstances
being impossible, we must receive our fate from ministers;
and from them I do not like to receive it.

We are not the subjects of ministers; and, therefore, it
is not to be wondered at if they do not feel that tenderness
for us that a good prince will always feel for his people.
Men are not born ministers. Their ambition raises them
to authority, and when possessed of it, one established
principle with them seems to be, "never to deviate from a
precedent of power."

Did we not find in the late war, though we exerted our-
selves in the most active manner in the defence of his
Majesty's dominions, and in promoting the service of the
Crown, every point in which the Proprietors thought fit to

JOHN DICKINSON. 33

make any opposition, decided against us ? Have we not
also found, since the last disturbance of the public peace
by our savage enemies, the conduct of the late Governor
highly applauded by the ministry, for his adher- [14] ence
to those very stipulations now insisted on, and ourselves
subjected to the bitterest reproaches^ only for attempting to
avoid burthens, that were thought extremely grievous.
Other instances of the like kind I pass over to avoid a
tedious recapitulation.

Since then the gale of ministerial favour has in all sea-
sons blown propitious to proprietary interests, why do we
now fondly flatter ourselves that it will suddenly shift its
quarter? Why should we with an amazing credulity now
fly for protection to those men, trust everything to their
mercy, and ask the most distinguishing favours from their
kindness, from whom we complained a few months ago
that we could not obtain the most reasonable requests?
Surely, Sir, we must acknowledge one of these two things:
either, that our complaint was then unjust^ or, that our
confidence is now unwarranted. For my part, I look for a
rigid perseverance in former measures. With a new gov-
ernment I expect new disputes. The experience of the
royal colonies convinces me that the immediate govern
ment of the Crown is not a security for that tranquility
and happiness we promise ourselves from a change. It is
needless for me to remind the House of all the frequent
and violent controversies that have happened between the
King's Governors in several provinces and their Assem-
blies. At this time, if I am rightly informed, Virginia is
struggling against an instruction relating to their paper
currency,* that will be attended, as that colony apprehends,
with the most destructive consequences if carried into
execution.

Indeed, Sir, it seems vain to expect, where the spirit of
* "relating to their paper currency " omitted in WHtings. — Ed.
THE SPEECH OF

liberty is maintained among a people, that public contests
should not also be maintained. Those who govern^ and
those who are governed^ seldom think they can gain too
much on one another. Power is like the ocean^ not easily
admitting limits to be fixed in it. It must be [15] in
motion. Storms, indeed, are not desirable, but a long dead
calm is not to be looked for, perhaps, not to be wished for.
Let not MS then, in expectation of smooth seas and an undis-
turbed course^ too rashly venture our little vessel that hath
safely sailed round our own well known shores, upon the
midst of the untrfd deep^ without being first fully con-
vinced that her make is strong enough to bear the weather
she may meet with, and that she is well provided for so
long and so dangerous a voyage.

No man. Sir, amongst us hath denyed, or will deny,
that this Province must stake on the event of the present
attempt, liberties that ought to be immortal — Liberties/
founded on the acknowledged rights of human nature and
restrained in our mother-country, only by an unavoidable
necessity of adhering in some measure to long-established
customs. Thus hath been formed between old errors and
hasty innovations an entangled chain, that our ancestors
either had not moderation or leisure enough to untwist.

I will now briefly enumerate, as well as I can recollect,
the particular privileges of Pennsylvania.

In the first place, we here enjoy that best and greatest
of all rights, a perfect religious freedom.

Posts of honour and profit are unfettered with oaths or
tests^ and, therefore are open to men whose abilities, strict
regard to their conscientious persuasion, and unblemished
characters qualify them to discharge their duties with
credit to themselves and advantage to their countiy. Thus
justice is done to merit, and the public loses none of its
able servants.*

* This sentence is omitted in Writings. — Ed.

JOHN DICKINSON. 35

The same wisdom of our laws has guarded against the
absurdity of granting greater credit even to villains, [16] if
they will swear, than to men of virtue, who from religious
motives cannot. Therefore, those who are conscientiously
scrupulous of taking an oath, are admitted as witnesses in
criminal cases. Our legislation suffers no checks from a
council instituted * in fancied imitation of the House of
Lords. By the right of sitting on our own adjournments,
we are secure of meeting when the public good requires it:
and of not being dismist when private passions demand it.
At the same time, the strict discharge of the truth com-
mitted to Us, is inforced by the short duration of our
power, which must be renewed by our constituents every
year.

Nor are the people stript of all authority in the execu-
tion of laws. They enjoy the satisfaction of having some
share, by the appointment of provincial commissioners, in
laying out the money which they raise, and of being in
this manner assured that it is applied to the purposes for
which it was granted. They also elect sheriffs and cor-
oners, officers of so much consequence in every determin-
ation that affects honour, liberty, life or property.

Let any impartial person reflect how contradictory some
of these privileges are to the most ancient principles of the
English constitution, and how directly opposite other of
them are to the settled prerogatives of the crown, and then
consider what probability we have of retaining them on a
requested^ change: that is of continuing in fact a proprie-
tary government, though we humbly pray the King to
change this government. Not unaptly, in my opinion,
the connection between the proprietary family and this
Province may be regarded as a marriage. Our privileges

* Appointed by the Crown. Note in Writings.

^Imperium facile iis artibus retineiur, quibus initio partum est. Sail.
Bell. Catalia.

36 THE SPEECH OF

may be called the fruits of that marriage. The domestic
peace of this fa- [17] mily, it is true, has not been unvexed
with quarrels and complaints. But the pledges of their
affection ought always to be esteemed: and whenever the
parents on an imprudent request shall be divorced^ much I
fear that their issue will be declared illegitimate. This I
am well persuaded of, that surprizing must our behaviour
appear to all men, if in the instant when we apply to his
Majesty for relief from what we think oppression, we
should discover a resolute disposition to deprive him of the
uncontroverted prerogatives of his royal dignity.

At this period when the administration is regulating
new colonies, and designing, as we are told, the strictest
reformatio7is^ in the old, it is not likely that they will
grant an invidious distinction in our favour. Less likely
is it, as that distinction will be liable to so many, and
such strong constitutional objections ; and when we shall
have the weight both of the clergy and ministry, and the
universally received opinions of the people of our mother
country to contend with.

I mean not, Sir, the least reflection on the church of
England. I reverence and admire the purity of its doc-
trine and the moderation of its temper. I am convinced
that it is filled with learned and with excellent men : but
all zealous persons think their own religious tenets the
best, and would willingly see them embraced by others.
I, therefore, apprehend that the dignified and reverend
gentlemen of the church oi England wW\ be extremely de-
sirous to have that church as well secured, and as much
distinguished as possible in the American colonies : es-
pecially in those colonies where it is overborne, as it were,
by dissenters. There never can be a more critical oppor-
tunity for this purpose than the present. The cause of the

*Some late Acts of Parliament shew what strict reformations are to be
made in the Colonies.

JOHN DICKINSON. 37

church will besides be con- [18] nected with that of tht
crown, to which its principles are thought to be more
favourable than those of the other professions.

We have received certain information that the conduct
of this Province, which has been so much censured by the
ministry, is attributed to the influence of a society, that
holds warlike measures at all times to be unlawful. * We
also know that the late tumultuous and riotous proceed-
ings, which are represented in so strong a light by the
petition, now before the House, have been publicly as-
cribed to the influence of another society. Thus the
blame of everything disreputable to this province is cast
on one or the other of these dissenting sects. Circum-
stances ! that, I imagine, will neither be forgot nor ne-
glected.

We have seen the event of our disputes concerning the
Proprietary interests ; and it is not to be expected that our
success will be greater when our opponents become more
numerous, and will have more dignity, more power, and,
as they will think, more law on their side.

These are the dangers, Sir, to which we are now about
to expose those privileges in which we have hitherto so
much gloried. Wherefore? To procure two or three,
perhaps four or five hundred pounds a year (for no calcu-
lation has carried the sum higher), from the Proprietors,
for two or three or four or five years, for so long and some-
thing longer, perhaps, the taxes may continue.

But are we sure of gaining this point? We are not.
Are we sure of gaining any other advantage? We are not.
Are we sure of preserving our privileges? We are not.
Are we under a necessity of pursuing the measure proposed
at this time? We are not. [19]

* In the Writings this is altered to read : " is attributed to the influ-
ence of one religious society " and the remainder of the sentence is
omitted. — Ed.

38 THE SPEECH OF

Here, Sir, permit me to make a short pause. Permit
me to appeal to the heart of every member in this House,
and to entreat him to reflect how far he can be justifiable
in giving his voice, thus to hazard the liberties secured to
us by the wise founders of this Province; peaceably and
fully enjoyed by the present age, and to which posterity is
so justly entitled.

But, Sir, we are told there is no danger of losing our
privileges if our government should be changed, and two
arguments are used in support of this opinion. The first
is, "That the government of the Crown is exercised with
so much lenity in Carolina and the Jerseys.'''' I cannot
perceive the least degree of force in this argument. As to
Carolina^ I am not a little surprized, that it should be
mentioned on this occasion, since I never heard of one
privilege that colony enjoys more than all the royal gov-
ernments in America. The privileges of the Jerseys are
of a different nature from many of which we are possest;
and are more consistent with the royal prerogative.

Indeed I know of none they have, except that * Quakers
may be witnesses in criminal cases, and may bear offices.
Can this indulgence shewn to them for a particular reason,
and not contradictory to the rights of the crown, give us
any just cause to expect the confirmation of privileges
directly opposite to those rights, and for confirming which
no such reason exists. But, perhaps, the gentlemen who
advance this argument mean that we shall purchase a
change at a cheap price if we are only reduced to the same
state with 'Oii^ Jerseys. Surely, Sir, if this be their mean-
ing, they entirely forget those extraordinary privileges
which some time ago were mentioned. [20]

How many must we in such a case renounce? I appre-
hend it would prove an argument of little consolation to
these gentlemen if they should lose three-fourths of their

* In the Writings " the People called " is added here. — JEd.

JOHN DICKINSON. 39

estates, to be sold, that they still remain as rich as their
neighbors, and have enough to procure all the necessaries
of life.

It is somewhat remarkable that this single instance of
favour, in permitting an affirmation instead of an oath, in
a single province, should be urged as so great an encour-
agement to us, while there are so many examples of an-
other kind to deter us. In what royal government besides
the Jerseys can a Quaker be a witness in criminal cases,
and bear offices ? * /;/ no other. What can be the reason
of this distinction in i}a& Jerseys f Because in the infancy
of that colony, when it came under the government of the
crowu, there was, as appears from authentic vouchers, an
ABSOLUTE NECESSITY from the scarcity of other proper
persons, to make use of the people called Quakers in pub-
lic employments. Is there such a necessity in this Prov-
ince? Or can the ministry h^ persuaded that there is such
a necessity ? No, Sir, those from whom they will receive
information will grant no such thing; and, therefore, I
think there is the most imminent danger^ in case of a
change, that the people of this society will lose the exer-
cise of those rights, which, though they are entitled to as
men, yet such is the situation of human affairs, they with
difficulty can find a spot on the whole globe where they
are allowed to enjoy them. It will be an argument of
some force, I am afraid, that the church of England can
never expect to raise its head among us, while we are en-
couraged, as it will be said, in dissension; but if an oath
be made necessary for obtaining offices of honour and
profit, it will then be expected that any Quakers [21] who
are tempted to renounce their principles, will undoubtedly
make an addition to the established church.

If any other consideration than that which has been

*It is said that a Quaker was lately committed to gaol in New York,
because he would not swear in a criminal case.

40 THE SPEECH OF

mentioned was regarded in granting that indulgence in
\^iQ: Jerseys^ though no other is expressed, it seems not im-
probable that the nearness of this Province might have
had some weight, as from its situation it aflforded such
strong temptations to the inhabitants of the Jerseys to re-
move hither had they been treated with any severity.

Their government, in some measure, was formed in
imitation of our government ; but when this is altered, the
English constitution must be the model by which it will
be formed.

Here it will be said, "this cannot be done but by the
Parliament ; and will a British Parliament do such an act
of injustice as to deprive us of our rights?" This is the
second argument used to prove the safety of the measures
now proposed.

Certainly the British Parliament will not do what they
think an unjust act : but I cannot persuade myself that
they will think it unjust to place us on the same footing
with themselves. It will not be an easy task to convince
them that the people of Pennsylvania ought to be distin-
guished from all other subjects under his Majesty's imme-
diate government, or that such a distinction can answer
any good purpose. May it not be expected that they will
say : "No people can be freer than ourselves ; everything
"more than we enjoy is licentiousness, not liberty: any
" indulgences shown to the colonies heretofore were like
"the indulgences of parents to their infants ; they ought
"to cease with that tender age, and, as the colonies grow
"up to a more vigorous state, they ought to be carefully
"disci [22] plined, and all their actions regulated by strict
' ' laws. Above all things, it is necessary that the preroga-
"tive should be exercised with its full force in our Amer-
"ican provinces, to restrain them within due bounds and
"secure their dependance on this kingdom."*

* The subsequent conduct of Great Britain, has fully evinced her reso-
lution to adhere to such political maxims as these. Note in Writings.

JOHN DICKINSON. 41

I am afraid that this will be the opinion of the Parlia-
ment, as it has been, in every instance, the undeviatiug
practice of the ministry.

But, Sir, it may be said "these reasons are not conclu-
' ' sive, they do not demonstratively prove that our privi-
" leges will be endangered by a change." I grant the
objection : but what stronger reasons, what clearer proofs
are there that they uill 7iot be endangered by a change.

They are safe now ; and why should we engage in an
enterprise that will render them uncertain? If nothing
will content us but a revolution brought about by our-
selves, surely we ought to have made the strictest en-
quiries what terms we may expect, and to have obtained
from the ministry some kind of security for the perform-
ance of those terms.

These things might have been done. They are not
done. If a merchant will venture to travel with great
riches into a foreign country, without a proper guide, it
certainly will be adviseable for him to procure the best in-
telligence he can get of the climate, the roads, the diffi-
culties he will meet with, and the treatment he may
receive.

I pray the House to consider, if we have the slighest
security that can be mentioned, except opinion (if that is
any) either for the preservation of our present privileges,
or gaining a single advantage from a change. [23] Have we
any writing? have we a verbal promise from any Minister
of the Crown? We have not. I cannot, therefore, con-
ceal my astonishment, that gentlemen should require a less
security for the invaluable rights of Pennsylv(uiia than
they would demand for a debt of five pounds. Why
should we press forward with this unexampled hurry
when no benefit can be derived from it? Why should we
have any aversion to deliberation and delay when no
injury can attend them ?

42 THE SPEECH OF

It is scarcely possible, in the present case, that we can
spend too much time in forming resolutions, the conse-
quences of which are to \)^ perpetual. If it is true, as some
aver, that we can now obtain an advantageous change of
government, I suppose that it will be also true next week,
next month, and next year; but if they are mistaken it
will be early enough whenever it happens to be disap-
pointed and to repent. I am not willing to run risques in
a matter of such prodigious importance on the credit of
any man' s opinion^ when by a small delay, that can do no
harm, the steps we are to take may become more safe.
Gideon^ though he had conversed with an "angel of the
Lord," would not attempt to relieve his countrymen, then
sorely opprest by the Midianites^ least he should involve
them in greater miseries, until he was convinced by two
miracles that he should be successful. I do not say we
ought to wait for miracles^ but I think we ought to wait
for something which will be next kin to a miracle; I mean,
some sign of a favourable disposition in the ministry to-
wards us. I should like to see an olive leaf^X. least brought
to us, before we quit the ark.

Permit me. Sir, to make one proposal to the House. We
may apply the Crown now, as freely as if we were under
its immediate government. Let us desire his Majesty's
judgment on the point * that has occasioned this unhappy
difference between the two branches of the [24] legislature.
This may be done without anyf violence, without any
hazard of our constitution. We say the justice of our de-

* This point "was one of the stipulations approved by the Crown, in
favour of the proprietors, with respect to the taxation of their estate.
The governor, one branch of the legislature, insisted upon inserting in
the bill then under consideration, the words of the stipulation ; and thus
adhered to the stipulation. The house of assembly, the other branch
of the legislature, insisted upon taxing the proprietary estate, without
being thus bound. Note in Writings.

t Nihil vi, nihil secessione opus est. Sail. Bell. Jugurth.

JOHN DICKINSON. 43

mands is clear as light; every heart must feel the equity
of them.

If the decision be in our favour, we gain a considerable
victory; the grand obstruction of the public service is re-
moved, and we shall have more leisure to carry our inten-
tions coolly into execution. If the decision be against us,
I believe the most zealous amongst us will grant it would
be madness to expect success in any other contest. This
will be a single point, and cannot meet with such difficul-
ties as the procuring a total alteration of the government.
Therefore, by separating it from other matters we shall
soon obtain a determination, and know what chance we
have of succeeding in things of greater value. Let us try
our fortune. Let us take a cast or two of the dice for
smaller matters before we dip deeply. Few gamesters are
of so sanguine a temper as to stake their whole wealth on
one desperate throw at first. If we are to play with the
public happiness^ let us act at least with as much delibera-
tion as if we were betting out of our private purses.

Perhaps a little delay may afford us the pleasure of find-
ing our constituents more unanimous in their opinions on
this interesting occasion: and I should chuse to see a vast
majority of them join with a calm resolution in the meas-
ure before I should think myself justifiable in voting for
it, even if I approved of it.

The present question is utterly foreign from the purposes
for which we were sent into this place. There was not
the least probability at the time we were elected that this
matter could come under our consideration. We are not
debating how much money we shall [25] raise, what laws we
shall pass for the regulation of property, nor on anything
of the same kind that arises in the usual parliamentary
course of business. We are now to determine whether

A STEP SHALL BE TAKEN THAT MAY PRODUCE AN ENTIRE
CHANGE OF OUR CONSTITUTION.

44 THE SPEECH OF

111 forming this determination one striking reflection
should be preserved in our minds; I mean, "that we are
the servants of the people oi Pennsylvania^'' — of thai peo-
ple who have been induced by the excellence of the
present constitution, to settle themselves under its Pro-
tection.

The inhabitants of remote countries, impelled by that
love of liberty which allwise Providence has planted in the
human heart, deserting their native soils, committed them-
selves with their helpless families to the mercy of winds
and waves, and braved all the terrors of an unknown wil-
derness in hopes of enjoying in these woods the exercise of
those invaluable rights which some unhappy circumstance
had denied to mankind in every other part of the earth.

Thus, Sir, the people of Pennsylvania may be said to
hzx^ purchased 2in inheritance in its constitution, at a pro-
digious price; and I cannot believe, unless the strongest
evidence be offered, that they are now willing to part with
that which has cost them so much toil and expence.

They have not hitherto been disappointed in their
wishes. They have obtained the blessings they sought
for.

We have received these seats by the free choice of this
people under this constitution; and to preserve it [26] in its
utmost purity and vigour, has always been deem'd by me
a principal part of the trust committed to my care and
fidelity. The measure now proposed has a direct ten-
dency to endanger this constitution, and, therefore, in my
opinion, we have no right to engage in it without the
almost universal consent of the people exprest in the plain-
est manner.

I think I should improperly employ the attention of this
House if I should take up much time in proving that the
deputies of a people have not a right, by any law divine
or human, to change the government under which their

JOHN DICKINSON. 45

authority was delegated to thein, without such a consent
as has been mentioned. — The position is so consonant to
natural justice and common sense, that I believe it never
has been seriously controverted. All the learned authors
that I recollect to have mentioned this matter speak of it
as an indisputable maxim.

It may be* said, perhaps, in answer to this objection,
"that it is not intended to change the government, but
the governor." This, I apprehend, is a distinction only
in words. The government is certainly to be changed
from proprietary to royal, and whatever may be intended^
the question is, whether such a change will not expose our
present privileges to danger.

It may also be said "that the petitions lying on the
table are a proof of the people's consent." Can petitions
so industriously carried about, and after all the pains
taken, signed only by about thirty-five hundred persons,
be look'd on as the plainest expression of the almost uni-
versal consent of the many thousands that fill this Prov-
ince? No one can believe it. [27]

It cannot be denied. Sir, that much the greatest part of
the inhabitants of this Province, and among them men of
large fortunes, good sense, and fair characters, who value
very highly the interest they have in the present constitu-
tion, have not signed these petitions, and, as there is
reason to apprehend, are extremely averse to a change at
this time. Will they not complain of such a change?
And if it is not attended with all the advantages they now
enjoy, will they not have reason to complain? It is not
improbable that this measure may lay the foundation of
more bitter and more lasting dissentions among us than
any we have yet experienced.

Before I close this catalogue of unhappy consequences,

* Thi3 was frequently said in the House.

46 THE SPEECH OF

that I expect will follow our request of a change, I beg
leave to take notice of the terms of the petition that is now
under the consideration of the House.

They equally excite in my breast — surprise, and grief,
and terror. This poor Province is already sinking under
the weight of the discredit and reproaches that, by some
fatality^ for several years past have attended our public
measures ; and we not only seize this unfortunate season
to engage her in new difficulties, but prepare to pour on
her devoted head a load that must effectually crush her.
We inform the King by this petition that Pennsylvania is
become a scene of confusion and anarchy : that armed
mobs are marching from one place to another : that such
a spirit of violence and riot prevails as exposes his Maj-
esty's good subjects to constant alarms and danger: and
that this tumultuous disposition is so general that it can-
not be controuled by any powers of the present govern-
ment ; and that we have not any hopes of returning to a
state of peace and safety but by being taken under his
Majesty's immediate protection. [28]

I cannot think this a proper representation of the pres-
ent state of this Province. Near four months are elapsed
since the last riot, and I do not perceive the least prob-
ability of our being troubled with any more. The rioters
were not only successfully opposed, and prevented from
executing their purpose, but, we have reason to believe,
that they were convinced of their error, and have re-
nounced all thoughts of such wild attempts for the future.
To whose throat is the sword now held? What life will
be saved by this application? Imaginary danger ! Vain
remedy ! Have we not sufficiently felt the effects of royal
resentment? Is not the authority of the Crown fully
enough exerted over us? Does it become us to paint, in
the strongest colours, the folly or the crimes of our coun-
trymen? To require unnecessary protection against men

JOHN DICKINSON. 47

who intend us no injury, in such loose ox^^ general expres-
sions as may produce even the establishment of an armed
force among usf

With unremitting vigilance, with undaunted virtue,
should a free people watch against the encroachments of
power, and remove every pretext for its extension.

We are a dependant colony ; and we need not doubt
that means will be used to secure that dependance. But
that we ourselves should furnish a reason for settling a
military establishment upon us, must exceed the most ex-
travagant wishes of those who would be most pleased with
such a measure.

We may introduce the innovation, but we shall not be
able to stop its progress. The precedent will be per-
nicious. If a specious pretence is afforded for maintaining
a small body of troops among us now, equally specious
pretences will never be wanting hereafter for adding to
their numbers. The burthen that will be imposed on us
for their support is the most trifling [29] part of the evil.
The poison will soon reach our vitals. Whatever struggles
we may make to expell it,

HcBret lateri lethalis arundo —

The dart with which we are struck will still remain
fixed — too firmly fixed, for our feeble hands to draw it out.
Our fruitless efforts will but irritate the wound, and at
length we must tamely submit to — I quit a subject too
painful to be dwelt upon.

These, Sir, are my sentiments on the petition that has
occasioned this debate. I think this neither the proper
season nor \\\t. proper method for obtaining a change of our
government. It is uncertain whether the measures pro-
posed will place us in a better situation than we are now
in, with regard to the point lately controverted; with re-
spect to other particulars, it may place us in a worse. We
shall run the risque of suffering great losses. We have 710

48 THE SPEECH OF

certainty of gaining anything. In seeking a precarious^
hasty ^ violent remedy for the present partial disorder, we
are siu^e of exposing the whole body to danger. I cannot
perceive the necessity of applying such a remedy. If I
did, I would with the greatest pleasure pass over to the
opinion of some gentlemen who differ from me, whose
integrity and abilities I so much esteem, that whatever
reasons at any time influence me to agree with them, I
always receive a satisfaction from being on their side. If
I have erred now, I shall comfort myself with reflecting
that it is an innocent err-or. Should the measures pursued
in consequence of this debate be opposite to my opinion,
and should they procure a change of government with all
the benefits we desire, I shall not envy the praise of others,
who by their fortunate courage and skill have conducted
us unhurt, through the midst of such threatening dangers,
to the wished for port. I shall cheer- [30] fully submit to
the censure of having been too apprehensive oi injuring the
people of this Province. If any severer sentence shall be
passed upon me by the worthy, I shall be sorry for it; but
this truth I am convinced of, that it will be much easier
for me to bear the unmerited reflections of mistaken zeal
than the just reproaches of a guilty mind. To have con-
cealed my real sentiments, or to have counterfeited such as
I do not entertain, in a deliberation oi so much consequence
as the present, would have been the basest hypocrisy. It
may, perhaps, be thought that this, however, would have
been the most politic part for me to have acted. It might
have been so. But if policy requires, that our words or
actions should belye our hearts, I thank God that I detest
and despise all its ai^ts and all its advantages. A good man
ought to serve his country, even though she resents his
services. The great reward of honest actions is not the
fame or profit that follows them, but the consciousness
that attends them. To discharge on this important occa-

JOHN DICKINSON. 49

sion the inviolable duty I owe the public, by obeying the
unbiassed dictates of my reason and conscience^ hath been
my sole view; and my only wish now is that the resolu-
tions of this House, whatever they are, may promote the
happiness of Pennsylvania,

FINIS.

A PROTEST

AGAINST A

RESOLUTION OF THE ASSEMBLY OF PENNSYLVANIA

FOR PETITIONING THE KING

TO CHANGE THE COLONY OF PENNSYLVANIA

FROM A
PROPRIETARY TO A ROYAL GOVERNMENT.

BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

May 28, 1764.

NOTE.

In spite of Dickinson's Speech, the Pennsylvania Assembly voted, on
May 24, to petition the crown to make the colony a royal one. Four
days later " Mr. Dickinson having then digested the heads of his speech
into the natiire of a Protest, in which he was joined by Mr. Saunders
and Mr. Montgomery, ofiFer'd it to be entered in the minutes; but it was
refused." (Smith's Preface, ante, p. 14.) "It being moved by some
Members, that they should be admitted to enter their Reasons, by way
of Protestation against a late Measure resolved on by a Majority of the
House, the Question was put, and carried in the Negative — Yeas, Three,
Mr. Dickinson, Mr. Saunders, and Mr. Montgomery; — Nays, Twenty-
four." {Votes and Proceedings, V, 349). Franklin, in his preface to
Galloway's Speech, (p. xxxiv) gives the reasons of the majority for declin-
ing to allow it. Refused an entry in the Votes, it was printed in the
Pennsylvania Gazette of July 26, 1764, with a prefatory note, which is
here reprinted. Editor.

PREFACE,

PHII.ADELPHIA, July a6.
Mr. Hall,

As Mr. Dickinson's Speech, that was lately published,
has been so generally admired, you could hardly render a
more acceptable Service to your Readers, than by insert-
ing it in your News- Paper; but as it might probably be
too long to obtain a Place there entire, I herewith send
you the Substance of it, which was digested into the
Nature of a Protest by Mr. Dickinson himself, when he
found that the House could by no means be prevailed on
to lay aside their Petition for a change of Government.
This Protest Mr. Dickinson, with some other Members,
prayed the House (though in vain) to enter on their Min-
utes.

'<^^^4PPS»5

THE PROTEST.

We dissent from, and protest against, the above

mentioned Resolution, for the following Reasons :

Because we think a Change of our Government is a
Matter of such vast Importance to the good People of this
Province, and so foreign from the Purposes for which we
receive our Seats in this House, that it ought not to be at-
tempted without the almost universal Consent of the
People; of which Consent, we have not now any Evidence,
unless the Petitions lying on the Table, and signed only
by about Thirty-five Hundred Persons, though not ad-
dressed to us, nor requesting us at this Time to make such
an Attempt, can be looked on as such Evidence. On the
Petition of so inconsiderable a Number, We do not think
this House has a Right to deprive so many thousand In-
habitants of this Province of their present Government,
or to take any Step that may produce such a Consequence.

Because it appears from the Letters of the Secretaries of
State, lately laid before this House, that this Province at
present labours under the heavy and deplorable Misfortune
of having incurred, in a very high Degree, the Displeasure
of our most Excellent Sovereign, and therefore at present
may be regarded in a very unfavorable Light.

Because We apprehend, if his Majesty shall be pleased to
determine, that the Governor, in his Controversy with
this House, has discharged his Duty to the Crown, by
strictly observing Stipulations approved by his Majesty,
and his royal Grandfather, that the Conduct of this House
on the present Occasion will add to the Resentment already

58 THE PROTEST OF

entertained, and that the Controversy above mentioned
will be thought an unjustifiable Foundation for the present
Attempt.

Because We apprehend there will be a great Danger of
our not retaining the Privileges this Province now enjoys,
when the King shall take the Government immediately
into his own Hands, on the Request of the Representa-
tives of the People.

Because We apprehend, that such a Request may be re-
garded in his Majesty's Council, as a Surrender of our
present Constitution; at least it may be consider as the
Request of the whole Province (though we are not desired
to make such a Request even by the Petitions now lying
before this House) that the Proprietary Government may
be abolished, and therefore may be thought a sufficient
Reason for his Majesty and his Parliament to form a new
Government for this Province, and that thus the civil and
religious Liberty, of which the People are now possessed,
may be greatly lessened and restrained.

Because We think that the Conduct of this Province,
which hath brought upon it his Majesty's Resentiment,
being, as we are informed and believe, attributed by his
Majesty's Council to the Influence of one Sect of Dis-
senters, and the Blame of the late Tumults and Disorders
among us being cast on another Sect of Dissenters, great
Reason will therefore be afforded to his Majesty and his
Parliament, if a Change of our Government is made before
the Conduct of the People so censured can be properly vin-
dicated, to lay some uncommon Restrictions on Persons of
such particular Professions, who may, under the Misre-
presentations made of their Behaviour, for a Time, appear
criminal.

Because We apprehend that the Petition, now ordered to
be signed by the Speaker, is extremely reproachful and in-
jurious to the People of Pennsylvania, by representing the

JOHN DICKINSON. 59

Province at this Time in a State of Confusion and Anarchy,
through Multitudes of tumultuous and riotous Insurgents.

Because We think the Petition will be extremely danger-
ous, not only to the peculiar Privileges of this Province,
but to the common Liberty we are entitled to with the rest
of his Majesty's Subjects, the Petition being so worded
that, in our Opinion, it may be construed as calling on the
Crown to restore Peace and Security to us, even by the
Establishment of an armed Force.

Because We think that this important Matter has not
been considered and debated with that Deliberation that
its Consequence to our Constituents demands, and no In-
convenience, that we know of, can arise from bestowing a
little more Time on the Consideration of a Measure, the
Consequences of which are to be perpetual.

Lastly, because We think that the necessary Precautions
have not been taken by this House to procure a happy
Determination of a Measure so deeply affecting the valu-
able Rights of the People of Pennsylvania. Before any
Petition to the Crown should be agreed to by this House,
it is our firm Opinion the Sentiments of the King or the
Ministry should have been known, with respect to the Ad-
vantages we may gain, or the Disadvantages we may suffer
from the Measure proposed; and some kind of Security
should have been obtained for saving to the Inhabitants of
this Province the Blessings they now enjoy — Till these
things are done, we think no Step ought to be taken by
this House that may expose to Hazard the Continuance
of these Blessings to the present and succeeding Ages.

Influenced by these and other Reasons, we declare our
Disapprobation of the Petition now voted for. To obey
the Dictates of our Consciences and Judgment; to dis-
charge the sacred Duty we owe to our Constituents; and
to promote the Happiness of Pennsylvania, has been our
Aim and Endeavour. As our Opinion hath been over-

6o

THE PROTEST OF

fuled, and Measures pursued which we apprehend may be
injurious to our Country, We pray God that this Province
may never have too fatal Cause to think that we are right.

A PETITION

TO THE

KING

FROM THE

Inhabitants of Pennsylvania.

DRAWN BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

July, 1764.

NOTE.

Defeated by the votes of the Assembly from an oflBcial protest against
petitioning the King to change the government of the province, the op-
ponents of that measure united on the following petition, drawn by
Dickinson, which was printed as a broadside, and circulated thoughout
the colony for signatures. The head lines were:

To the/King's Most Excellent/ Majesty in Council, / the Representa-
tion and Petition of/ Your Majesty's dutiful and loyal Subjects, / Free-
holders and Inhabitants of the Province of Pennsylvania. [Fo. pp. 2.]

An edition in German was also printed, with the title of :

Seiner Koniglichen Erhabensten Majestat / im Hohen Rath,/nahe
sich/Diese demiithigste Vorstellung und Bitte/ von /Seiner Majestat
gehorsamst-getreuen Unterthanen, deu freyen / Einwohnem der Pro-
vinz Pennsylvanien. [Fo. pp 2.]

This petition was analysed and answered in Franklin's preface to
Galloway's Speech (p. xxvii.). Editor.

To the King's Most Excellent Majesty in Council, the
Representation and Petition of Your Majesty's dutiful
and loyal Subjects, Freeholders and Inhabitants of the
Province of Pennsylvania.

Most humbly sheweth^

That having received certain information that the As-
sembly of this Province, during their last sitting, had
drawn up a Petition to your Majesty, setting forth among
other things, " That mischievious disagreements subsist in
this government, which proceed, as they conceive, from
the very Nature of it; and that a Spirit of Violence, Riot
and Confusion prevails among us, which cannot be con-
trolled by the present Powers of Government and renders
a Change of the same necessary:" — Sundry Magistrates
and reputable Freeholders alarmed at the Nature of this
Petition, and considering the whole Province as deeply af-
fected by it, did (in Behalf of themselves and others) apply
to the Speaker of Assembly for a Copy of the same, and to
know whether the House intended to transmit it to Eng-
land, without communicating its Contents to their Con-
stituents, and obtaining their fullest and most explicit
Consent therein.

That they were informed by the Speaker, that the Peti-
tion had already been transmitted to be laid before your
Majesty, and no Copy of it could be given without the
Leave of the House, at their Meeting in September next;
when we apprehend it might be too late for us to submit
our Sense of this Matter to your Majesty; and therefore we
beg to L<eave in all humble Duty, to represent —

66 A PETITION.

That as there is no civil Happiness on Earth which we
should esteem equal to that of being under your Majesty's
immediate Government, if our remote Situation could per-
mit such a Blessing; yet we and all your American Sub-
jects must be governed by Persons authorized and approved
by your Majesty, on the best Recommendation that can be
obtained of them, we cannot perceive our Condition in
this Respect to be different from our Fellow Subjects
around us, or that we are thereby less under Majesty's
particular Care and Protection than they are; since there
can be no Governor of this Province, without your
Majesty's immediate Approbation and Authority.

That the particular Mode or Frame of Government
which we enjoy under your Majesty in this Province (as
derived to us by the Charter of your Royal Ancestor King
Charles the Second, and delivered to us by our wise
Founder, William Penn, Esq.;) is held in the highest
Estimation by good Men of all Denominations among us,
and hath brought Multitudes of industrious People from
various Parts of the World, who trusting in the perpetual
Enjoyment of the inestimable Privileges it gives them,
have, at their own Expence, settled this Colony, and
raised it, in a few Years, to be one of the most flourishing
in your Majesty's American Dominions; cheerfully em-
bracing every Opportunity of manifesting their Loyalty
and Affection to your Majesty's Royal Person and Family.

That such disagreements have arisen in this Province
we have beheld with Sorrow, but as others around us are
not exempted from the like Misfortunes, We can by no
Means conceive them incident to the Nature of our Gov-
ernment, which hath often been administered with re-
markable Harmony; and your Majesty, before whom our
late Disputes have been laid, can be at no Loss, in your
great Wisdom, to discover whether they proceed from the
above Cause, or should be ascribed to some other.

JOHN DICKINSON. 67

That this Province (except from the Indiaij Ravages)
enjoys the most perfect internal Tranquility; and a Spirit
of Riot and Violence is so foreign to the general Temper
of its Inhabitants, that there are as few instances of any
Disturbance of this kind to be met with among them since
the first Settlement of the Colony, as perhaps the like
number of People in any part of the World : That where
such disturbances have happened, they have been speedily
quieted; the civil Powers have been supported; and tho'
there are perhaps Cases in all Governments, where it may
not be possible speedily to discover Offenders, yet we
know of no instance among us where Persons legally ac-
cused or Convicted, have been screen' d from the Public
Justice; and if the executive Part of our Government
should seem in any case too weak, we conceive it is the
Duty of the Assembly, and in their Power, to strengthen
it, without representing us in a Light that might unde-
servedly subject us to your Majesty's Royal Displeasure,
which we deem the greatest of all Misfortunes.

We therefore most humbly pray — That your Majesty
would be graciously pleased, wholly to disregard the said
Petition of the Assembly, as exceedingly grievous in its
Nature; as by no means containing a proper Representa-
tion of the State of this Province; and as repugnant to the
general Sense of your numerous and loyal Subjects in it;
there being but few of them (comparitively speaking) who
could by any means be prevail'd on to give the least
countenance to this Measure.

A REPLY

TO THE

SPEECH

OF

JOSEPH GALLOWAY.

BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

September 4, 1764.

NOTE.

The personalities in Galloway's Speech in reply to Dickinson irritated
the latter so gneatly, that he challenged him to a duel, which Galloway
declined. Dickinson then wrote the following pamphlet, published in
the second week of September, 1764, with the title :

A / Reply / To a Piece called / The / Speech / Of Joseph Galloway,
Esquire. / By /John Dickinson. / "Yes, the last pen for freedom let me
draw, / When truth stands trembling on the edge of law ; / Here, last
of Britons ! Let your names be read ; / Are none, none living ? Let
me praise the dead, / And for that cause which made your fathers
shine, / Fall by the votes of their unhappy line. ' ' / Pope./ Philadelphia : /
Printed and Sold by William Bradford, / At his Book-Store, in Market-
street, adjoining the / London CofiFee-House, m,dcc,i,xiv. [8vo. pp.
iv, 45, xii.]

A London reprint was issued with the title of:

A / Reply / to / a piece / called the / Speech / of /Joseph Galloway,
Esq ; / By John Dickinson. / / Philadelphia Printed : / Lon-
don, / Re-Printed for J. Whiston, and B. White, in Fleet-street. /
MDCCi^xv. [8vo. pp. iv, 62, (i).]

It was noticed in the Monthly Review, xxxii. 67 ; and the Critical
Review, xvin, 197.

Editor.

A

REPLY

To a Piece called
T.H S

SPEECH

Of J O S E P H .G A L L O W_A Y, Efqulra

B y
JOHN DICKINSON,

«• Yi«» the laft pen for freedom tet me drtWp
When truth flands trembling on the edge of law^
Here, laft of Britons I Let your names oe read;
Are none, none living? Let me praife the deaj.
And roa that cause which made j«»«r /a/hm {taaCt
fall by the votei of their unhjppy line."

POPB.

PHILADELPHIA:

Printed and Sold by WILLIAM BRADFORD,
At his Book-Store, \n Market -Jireet^ adjoining thr
LoNOOM Corn E House, M.DCC.LXIV.

PREFACE.

The Pamphlet called ' ' The Speech of Joseph Galloway, Esquire'^
was published o?i Saturday the nth day ^August. — The next
day I left Town to attend the Courts in the Lower Counties, and
did not return till the 26th. — The following Reply was written in
the small intervals I could spare from the Hurry of the Courts ai
Dover and New-Castle, and these frequently interrupted. — The
Court for Chester County began the 28th, and held till the 31st
day of August ; and Philadelphia County Court began yesterday ^
so that it has been impossible for me to prepare this Piece for the
Public, in the Manner I wish'd to do.

I hope the Reader will therefore be so kind, as to excuse any In-
accuracies that may be discovered ; which I should have carefully
endeavoured to correct, if my Business had not prevented me.

Philadelphia^ September <f.th, 1764..

CONTENTS.

PAGE

Introduction i, 2

General state of the case 3, 4

The first argument for a change of government relating to the

time, considered 5, 6

Second argument relating to the time consider'd 7> 8, 9

7%?Vc? argument relating to the time, consider'd. . . 10, il, 12, 13, 14, 15

Conclusion of the arguments relating to the /m^ I5> 16

A general objection against the author's reasoning considered . . 16, 17
General observations on the manner in which the change is now

attempted 18

The first objection against the manner, &c. with the answer and

reply 19, 20

The second objection with the answer and reply . 21, 22, 23, 24

The third objection with the answer and reply . 25, 26, 27, 28, 29

Conclusion of the arguments relating to the manner, &c. .... 29, 30
The arguments concerning the powers of representatives to change

a government recapitulated 31

The arguments concerning a military establishment, recapitulated. 31, 32

Personal charges against the author considered 32

The^r^^ charge veith the answer 33. 34. 35» 36

The second charge with the answer 37. 38, 39, 40

The third charge with the answer 41. 42

th^ fourth charge with the answer 43. 44

The conclusion 45

A REPLY, &c.

Two reasons induce me to address the public at present.
The one is, to clear a few plain arguments on a matter of
the utmost consequence, from the objections lately made
against them, in a piece calPd " The Speech of Joseph Gal-
loway^ Esq.; &C.'*'* The other is, to answer the unjust
accusations contain'd in that piece.

To act honestly, and to be traduc'd, hath been the fate
of many men. To bear slanders with temper, and to en-
tertain a proper pity or contempt, for their weak or wicked
authors, has been the lot of few. I will endeavour to
imitate their example: and by proposing it to myself, I
hope I shall be able so far to suppress the resentment
naturally arising from a sense of unprovok'd injuries, that
my vindication may be presented not unacceptably, nor
uselessly, to candid minds.

Could I be convinced, that men of sense or virtue, would
be persuaded or pleased, by wild declamation or illiberal
reflections, I might perhaps be induced to defend myself,
in the same shattered style and abusive Ian- [2] guage, with
which I have been attacked: but as these must always
offend the wise and good, whose approbation only is worth
wishing for, to Mr. Galloway I resign the undisputed
glory of excelling in his favorite arts — of writing con-
fusedly^ and railing insolently.

Presumptuous indeed must I appear, should I venture
into these lists, against a person who wields the weapons

78 REPLY TO THE SPEECH

of wordy war — the only weapons he dares to wield — with
so peculiar a dexterity in his exercise, as to feel no kind
of restraint either from sense or truth; the regularity of
whose sober discipline would prove, I presume, too great
a confinement to this advocate oi freedom.

When I perceived, that Mr. Galloway was hardy enough
to obtrude on the public a pretended speech^ of which he
never spoke one sentence in the House, I was not sur-
prised to find, that a person who treated his own character
with such licence, should not be unsparing of others. But
— why he should engage in the preposterous project — why
he should so industriously endeavour to exhibit me as a
villain to my country, for speaking my sentiments in that
place where my country had commanded me to speak them
— why he has wantonly wounded a man, who never de-
signed or wished him an injury; but has always, as far as
his power extended, rendered him all the offices of civility
— for what reasons^ I say, he has thus violated the laws
of humanity and decency^ his own heart is best able to
decide — The public, with which he endeavours to estab-
lish his character, by destroying that of another^ may per-
haps be able to guess the secret causes^ by which he has
been transported into such unjustifiable excesses of rage
and raucour against me — For my part, I shall avoid
an enquiry, that would only lead me, I fear, to a painful
discovery of the depravity^ to which the human mind is
subject. [3]

Leaving then to the impartial world the judgement to be
passed on Mr. Galloway'' s conduct — Leaving to him the
enjoyment of the solid satisfaction^ that must arise from
the meritorious exploit of stabbing publicly a reputation,
which has hitherto escaped his insidious attempts^ I shall
endeavour to perform the task imposed on me by his
cruelty, and to defend myself from those darts, which with
unfriendly hands he has aim'd at my heart.

OF JOSEPH GALL O WA Y. 79

Wlien the change of our government, after the adjourn-
ment of the assembly in March last, came to be the gen-
eral subject of conversation, the importance of the measure
filled my mind with the greatest anxiety. A severe fit of
sickness had prevented my attendance when the resolves
were past: but I considered that at the next meeting of the
House, the duties of the post which my country had as-
sign'd me, would call upon me to act a part of more con-
sequence, than perhaps would ever fall to my share again,
in the whole course of my life. Mindful of the trust com-
mitted to me, I endeavour' d to understand a matter on
which so much depended.

I soon perceiv'd, that if a change took place, there were
two things to be wish'd for, which there appear'd to me no
probability of obtaining. The first Was, that the point on
which we lately differ' d with the governor, and some others
which have been earnestly urg'd by former assemblies,
should be determin'd in our favour. The second was, that
ovx privileges should be perfectly secured.

But insurmountable obstructions seem'd to present
themselves, at this time^ against these attempts. * "What
"reasonable hopes of success can we entertain, of having
"these points decided in our favour, while those [4] min-
"isters who so repeatedly and warmly have approv'd of
"the proprietors insisting on them, are still in power?"
Our danger not only is, that these points will not be de-
cided for us; but, if the proprietors, tired and incensed,
should think proper to surrender the government and
make their own terms with the crown, is it not highly
probable, that they have interest enoiigh to make the
change in such a manner as will fix upon \\s forever^ those
demands which appear so extremely just to the present
ministers? Add to this, the "deplorable misfortune under
"which we now labour, of having incurr'd the displeasure

* Speech, page 6.

8o REPLY TO THE SPEECH

"of his majesty and his ministers." These reflections in-
due'd me to think and to say — that this is not the proper
time to attempt a change of our government.

Mr. Galloway^ by way of prelude to his answer to these
observations, endeavours to shew that I have contradicted
myself: but this supposed contradiction is founded on a
s2ipposed concession, which I never made — "^ the ne-
cessity of a changed My approbation of a change, if we
can enjoy all the advantages we now do, is call'd, "a
confession that a change is necessary.^'' But certainly it
would have been more natural to construe it as it was
intended, and as the sense requires — "that, if we are to
lose nothing by the change^ I am as willing to be under
the immediate government of the crown, as of the proprie-
tors."

After this unsuccessful attempt to raise a contradiction,
Mr. Galloway takes the trouble of attacking the "inap-
posite instance," as he calls it, relating to the Duke of
Monmouth. This instance was mentioned to confirm a
preceding observation; and Mr. Galloway., in attempting
to answer it, unluckily for himself points out and enforces
the very truth for which it was adduced. He says, "the
duke failed, and no wonder; for he [5] landed at a time
"when the king was supported in the warmest manner by
"the parliament, and no one circumstance to promise
him success." Thus, I say, — "our attempt is made at
a time when the proprietors are supported in the warm-
est manner by the crown, and its ministers; and no one
circumstance to promise us success." — But, suppose the
duke had waited till the parliament did no longer sup-
port the King; but, when they and the whole nation, in
the utmost dread of popery and arbitrary power, were
looking round with impatient terror for a deliverer, and
when many circumstances promised that nobleman success;
is it evident that he would not then have succeeded, or

OF JOSEPH GALLOWA Y. 8i

that he would have been taken and put to death? Or, if
King William had made his attempt, before the nation
was properly alarmed, is it certain that the revolution
would have been accomplished with such amazing facility?
Rashness ruined the one. Caution crowned the other.
This is all I intended to prove.

Mr. Galloway then proceeds, and supposes that all the
determinations of the ministry, were mistakes occasioned
by proprietary misrepresentations. He then supposes that
these determinations were solely owing to the influence of
two friends of the proprietors, lately deceased: And lastly,
he supposes that now there will be a total alteration in
ministerial resolutions.

These suppositions^ I acknowledge, are as good securities
as any we have, that the grand points controverted between
us and the proprietors, will, in any case of a change, be
decided in our favour, or that our privileges will be pre-
served. But still they seem to be too sanguine. Let us
remember with what unanimity the ministry at different
times have expressed their resentment of our conduct; and,
that it is only guess-work to imagine, their resolutions
were dictated by two men. [6]

Of one thing we are sure — that we are in the ut-
most discredit with the king and his ministers. The late
resolves prove it. Mr. Galloway^ however, flatters himself,
"that the prejudices against us are not so ineradicably
" fixed, but they may be easily overcome, and the province
"restored to her former credit." Happy should I be, if I
could perceive the least prospect of so great a blessing.
By what means these prejudices are to be overcome, we are
not informed; nor can I conceive. Men of great abilities,
and of the most perfect acquaintance with our public
affairs, have been employed to remove the force of these
misrepresentations, as they are called. Mr. Frankliit and
Mr. Charles^ our Agents, spent several years in combating

82 REPLY TO THE SPEECH

these prejudices; and, even Mr. Galloway himself, as I
have been told, elucidated the justice of our cause with his
usual perspiaiity in realms of writing. Yet after all these
great labours, his majesty and his ministers still retained
their former sentiments. Hence, I fear, that any future
eflforts for this purpose, "*will be szvallowed up^ and
sacrificed (as Mr. Galloway most elegantly expresses it) at
the shrine of proprietary instructions^ and the measures of
power. ' ' In short, that they will be but f ' ' ideal shadows^ ' '
and chimerical notions. ' '

In confident expectation of these improbabilities, Mr.
Galloway is willing to risque the perpetuating those de-
mands, which have been constantly made by the proprie-
tors— at a time^ when we are certain that the crown and
its ministers look on these demands as highly just and
reasonable.

One of his arguments for our riding post in this affair is
**that there are many new colonies to be [7] settled now,
"and that it would discourage these settlements, if our
privileges were to be taken away. ' '

'Tis true it will convince the emigrants, they are not to
have such privileges as were granted to us; or if they have^
and shall hereafter petition for a change^ that they will be
taken from them.

But this information, I imagine, will be no discourage-
ment.—There is not the same J reason to grant, nor to
wish for privileges now, that existed in the persecuting
day of Charles the second. Grants of land on small quit-
rents— furnishing the necessaries of life for the first out-
set—bounties on labour— and immunities from taxes for

* Pretended speech,— page 30.

t Qu. What Idea can be formed of an " ideal shadow ?" and what may
be the meaning ''of the shrine of the measures of power T'

% America was then so little known, that it was thought the severest
kind of banishment to send people over to the colonies.

OF JOSEPH GALLOWA Y. 83

some years — with the common liberties of other English
subjects — will do the business, without the privileges of
Pennsylvania.

Mr. Galloway^ before he quits* "this wise policy of
settling the extensive newly acquired dominions" as he
expresses himself, takes the opportunity of making an
historical flourish — but unfortunately furnishes "f irre-
fragable demonstrations" that he is utterly unacquainted
with the subject, on which he speaks.

Mr. Franklin read in the House, a short extract from
Lord Clarendon' s life, relating to Barbados. Mr. Gallo-
way catches it as it fell from the learned member, and now
confidently asserts — "that the colony of Barbados had,
in the opinion of the ablest council, forfeited her charter
privileges. — And yet upon this policy only, her privileges
were preserved."

He refers to Lord Clarendon's life, for this curious
anecdote. What then must a man think of Mr. Gal- [8]
loway^ who looks into the book, and finds — that the
colony of Barbados did not forfeit any right, that such
an opinion was never given — and that there is not a
word relating to her charter privileges. Yet this is the
truth.

The fact was this. Charles the first granted the is-
land of Barbados by patent to the earl of Carlisle — he
died — his son leased it to lord Willoughby for twenty-one
years; appointing him governor, and reserving a moiety
of the profits to himself — the civil war broke out — ended
— Charles the second was restor'd — there being eight or
nine years of lord Willoughby'' s lease to come, he pray'd
the king to give him a commission to be governor for
that time — But the island was now much changed — it
was compleatly settled during the troubles and chiefly by
officers of the king^s army — so that now it was of another

♦Pretended Speech — ^page 21. t Id., pa. 73.

84 REPLY TO THE SPEECH

consideration and value than it had been — the king's cus-
toms yearly amounted to a very large sum — The planters
were greatly alarmed at the thought of * "depending on
' the earl of Carlisle and lord Willoughby for the enjoy-
'ment of their estates, which they had hitherto look'd
'upon as their own." They applied to the king,
t "praying that they may not be opprest by those two
'lords. They pleaded, that they were the king's subjects;
'that they had repaired thither as to a desolate place ^ and
'had by their industry obtained a livelihood there, when
''they could not with a good conscience stay in England.
'That if they should be now left to those lords to ransom
' themselves and compound for their estates^ they must leave
''the country ; and the plantations would be destroyed^
'which yielded his majesty so good a revenue."

They further |" positively insisted, that the charter
' granted to the earl of Carlisle was void in point of law ;
' [9] and prayed that his majesty would give them leave
*to prosecute in his name in the exchequer, and at their
' own charge, to repeal that grant ; by which they should
'be freed from the arbitrary power and oppression which
'would be exercised upon them under the colour of that
'charter ; and his majesty might receive a great benefit to
^himself by taking the sovereignty into his own hands, to
'which it belonged — and in that case, they offered to
'make as great an imposition of taxes as the plantation
'would bear; for the support of the king's governor, and
'such other uses, as his majesty should think fit to di-
*rect."

Upon this, the king § "referr'd the consideration of the
validity and legality of the patent, to his council at law;
who upon full deliberation, after the hearing of all parties,

♦Lord Clarendon's Life — vol. iii, pa., 933.

t Idem, 934. X Idem, 937.

2 Lord Clarendon's Life, iii. vol., pa. 938.

OF JOSEPH GALL O WA Y. 85

returned their opinion, that this patent was void^ and that
his majesty take the same into his own power /' ' not that
"the colony had forfeited their charter privileges^

On this report, the determination was formed in the
king's council. And what does this case prove — but
that the crown would not deprive the proprietors of Bar-
bados of their charter, tho' the people earnestly requested
it — tho' that people were faithful subjects, who had dis-
tinguished their loyalty by suffering in the royal cause —
tho' a very great benefit would accrue to the crown — tho'
a large salary was to be settled on the king's governor
— and lastly, tho' the patent was absolutely illegai, and

VOID.

If in such a case^ the needy and unprincipled Charles
would not seize upon the interests of the proprietors of
Barbados^ can it be conceived that his present majesty
will snatch from the proprietors of Pennsylvania^ without
[10] their consent, the charter that was granted in con-
sideration of the services performed by their brave and
loyal ancestor.

I think every man in the province, except Mr. Galloway^
will immediately discover whether the case he has quoted
will strengthen his reasoning or mine.

Another of Mr. Galloway's arguments is — that the
"proprietary estate is daily increasing, and thus their
"influence will increase; and, therefore, they will be
"more likely in future to oppose with success any meas-
"ures that may be taken against their opposition."

To finish this argument, he closes it with an imaginary
contradiction of mine, in my saying, "This is not the
"proper time for a change," and afterwards declaring,
"that we are not to expect more success, because the pro-
'''■prietaries will have more dignity, more power, and, as
"they will think, more law on their side."

Mr. Galloway certainly takes delight in mistakes, or he

86 REPLY TO THE SPEECH

would never have committed so gross an error as he has
done here. I said — it could not be expected that our
success would be greater when our "opponents become
' ' more numerous and will have more dignity, more power,
"and, as they will think, more law on theixside." This
was intended to prove, that we might find it more difficult
after a change to contend for the preservation of our
privileges with the crown and the clergy (the opponents
here meant) than with the proprietors. But Mr. Galloway^
with great address, by changing the word oppo7ients for
proprietaries^ creates a contradiction for his own diversion^
and the deception of his readers, [ii]

However — let it be supposed ' ' that the proprietary
estate and influence will greatly increase, and that they
become the richest subjects in England^ I most sin-
cerely wish they may, since the* increase of their wealth
must arise from the increase of the wealth and prosperity
of Pennsylvania. These, I presume, are not things to be
dreaded. Our power and influence must increase with
their power and influence — and, therefore, it seems we
shall always be as able to cope with them, as we are now
— especially if it be considered that o. family is more liable
to accidents than 2, people.

Mr. Galloway endeavours to shew, that the conduct of
the proprietors has not been constantly approved by the
crown and ministry, because five of the thirteen acts op-
posed by the proprietors, were confirmed.

But granting that the riches of the proprietary family
shall increase in a greater proportion than the riches of
this province — can it be imagin'd, that they will obtain
any tmdue influence over the crown and it's ministers?
can it be believed, that the king and parliament will suffer
two or three subjects to tyrannise over a dependant colony,

* Pretended Speech, pa. 14, 15, 17.

OF JOSEPH GALLO WA Y. 87

in whose welfare Great-Britain is so mucli interested? To
reduce us to the most abject state of slavery?

The supposition is too monstrous to be admitted — and
I should be surprized to hear such language from any
person, but one who thinks and writes in Mr. Galloway^ s
shambling way. He* shudders at my saying [12] ''the
"parliament may perhaps be induced to place ?^j in the
''''same state with the royal governments'''' — and yet he
supposes, they will tamely tolerate our being made slaves.

But this opposition, even by Mr. Galloway'' s acknowl-
edgment, did not proceed from any private interest of the
proprietors that was affected by these Bills. They were
opposed, says he,t "as inconsistent with the royal prerog-
ative"— And surely such an opposition could not be
much disapproved of by the crown, as the ministry have
declared t "that his majesty's royal prerogatives were not
to be trusted to the feeble hands of private individuals;
who were ever ready to sacrifice them to their private
emolument."

If our proprietors are to become such great and dreadful
men — if their influence is to grow superior to justice and
reason — I cannot conceive how the king's appointfnent
of governors can secure us from them, any more than
bis approbation.

If that influence shall ever be so exorbitant as it has
been described, will it not prevail in the nomination of
governors? Or in determining their conduct? Can even
Mr. Galloway think that the king's appointment will pro-
tect us against this influence ? If he does, I will answer
him in his own words — and if they do not convince him.^
surely he will not be so unreasonable as to expect, that
they should convince any one else.

• ' § I^et us but consider that the experience of ages fully

* Pretended Speech, pa. 7. fi^., pa. 25.

Jid., pa. 23. 2 id., pa, 10.

88 REPLY TO THE SPEECH

"demonstrates wealth to be the parent of power, and the
" nurse of influence, and that an increase of wealth will as
"naturally beget an increase of power and influence, as an
"increase of velocity in the falling stone will produce
' ' more certain death. ' '

" Let us but take a view of the proprietary estate, what
' ' it was fifty, what twenty years ago, and what it is now,
"and we must be convinced that nothing can prevent their
"being the richest subjects in the English nation; and
" therefore subjects of the greatest irifluence and power ^ and
' ' more likely in future to oppose with success any measures
"that may be taken against their oppression. Are we to
"expect the same cause will not produce the same effect,
"and that [13] wealth by some Magic Charm in future,
"will, instead of producing power and influence, bring
"forth its contraries? As vain and chimerical ^s, the ex-
"pectation of a future Messiah to the deluded Jews."

If there is any force in these arguments of Mr. Gallo-
way— if property, from natural causes, produces power,
and cannot fail of having this effect — how vain and ridicu-
lous is it to request the crown — to* " separate power from
property V* Yet this forsooth ! is all Mr. Galloway^ or
the assembly according to his explanation, desires of his
majesty.

Certainly the meaning cannot be, that the king should
take away their estates from the proprietors — this would be
too glaringly unjust. What then can Mr. Galloway mean,
when he desires "that the king may separate power and
property," which he declares — and, with prodigious la-
bour, strives to prove — *■'■ inseparable?''"' If he means any-
thing^ I imagine, I have discovered his meaning — and,
tho' Mr. Galloway has, in his performance, said many
things that have surprized me — yet this is so superlatively

* Pretended Speech, page 8 — ei alibi.

OF JOSEPH GALL O WA V. 89

extraordinary, that I would not admit the following con-
struction, unless his intention was too evident to allow
of any doubt. I did not think him capable of such de-
signs. I entertained a better opinion of his loyalty. In
short, he plainly means — as he has declared it cannot be
done any other way — that his Majesty shall turn Magician
— and contrive* "some "Magic Charm, whereby wealth
instead of producing "power and influence shall bring
forth its contraries" — their contraries I suppose it should
be.

This dread of future injuries being removed — or at
least the vanity of attempting their removal, [14] on Mr.
Galloway'' s own principles being proved — I return to the
present situation of affairs.

It is universally believed, that the present ministry are
desirous of vesting the government of this province advan-
tageously in the crown. Mr. Franklin has frequently said
it If this be the case, how fair an opportunity is pre-
sented to the proprietors of gratifying their resentment, if
they entertain any against the province, and securing their
interest at the same time by entering into a contract with
the crown, and fixing, by an act of parliament, those
points in which the ministry have constantly supported
them — upon all succeeding ages ?

Many words are unnecessary in so clear a case as this is.
Mr. Galloway allows, the proprietors have some sense, and
that they understand their own interest. The sentiments
of the ministry have been declared in their favor. From
thence I think it may be taken for granted, that the pro-
prietors either will not consent to a change — or that their
consent will be founded on a perfect security given them
for their demands, which appear so just to the king
and ministry. What may facilitate this measure is, the

•Pretended Speech, pa. 11.

90 REPLY TO THE SPEECH

proposal of the assembly — * "that 2l full equivalent "be
made to the proprietors" upon their parting with the
government. How far these words may be construed to
extend, will appear from this consideration. With the ap-
probation of the crown the proprietors now insist on certain
points which, in their opinion, tend to promote their inter-
ests. This, the authority vested in them at present, en-
ables them to do. If they are divested of this authority,
without any stipulations for securing their interests here-
after^ as well as they are at this time^ it will be said that a
full equivalent is not made for the power they resign.
This security will therefore without [15] doubt, be required
— and that requisition may not appear so unreasonable in
Great-Britain as it does here.

This full equivalent comprehends something more than
the settlement of these points. The government of itself is
very valuable — and surely we shall not desire the king
to pay the equivalent out of his own pocket. If the change
therefore is made, I don't question but it will be thought
highly reasonable — that we should pay for the blessing^
which we so earnestly request.

The situation of our affairs being such as has been de-
scribed, I could not perceive any necessity "impelling"
us to seize this unhappy period, to plunge this province
into convulsions, that might while she was thus disordered,
be attended with the worst consequences. A gentler
remedy appeared to me a properer remedy.

But here Mr. Galloway exclaims— " Shall we pati-
"ently wait until proprietary influence shall be at end?
"Shall we submit to proprietary demands?" By no
means! What I desire, is, vigorously to oppose those de-
mands; and to try the force of that influence, Without
RiSQuiNG Too Much In The Contest.

* Pretended Speech, pa. 5.

OF JOSEPH GALLO WAY. 91

I Therefore made a proposal to the House, of a very
moderate nature, wliicli I had the pleasure of finding
highly approved by a * gentleman, whose acknowledged
integrity, patriotism, abilities, and experience will al-
ways give weight to his sentiments, with every impartial
person. The proposal was — "that we should desire his
majesty's judgment, on the point that occasioned the late
unhappy difference between the two branches of the legis-
lature," By taking this step, we should have discovered
the sense of the ministry on our [16] late disputes — on
other important points which have been controverted with
our governors — and respecting our privileges.

Thus we should have known what success would attend
us in any future attempt to effect a change — and what
method would be most agreeable to his majesty. But
in the present mode of proceeding we have acted with
great zeal, I grant — but we are quite ignorant what the
event will be, and whether the censures bestowed on the
proprietors, may not be thought in Great Britain to be
aimed through them^ at the king. In short, we embark
in an enterprize of the highest importance; and then look
about us to see how it may be carried on. Instead of wan-
dring through a storm in the dark, with so sacred a charge
in our custody — I thought it would have been better to
have waited, 'till the tempest was a little abated — or, at
least, to have procured some light to guide us through the
surrounding dangers.

I shall now consider the manner in which the present
attempt to change our government is made.

Mr. Galloway makes this general objection with great
warmth to my arguments, "that they are conjectural and
"suppositious."

His resentment was to be expected. How absurd must

* The late speaker.

92 REPLY TO THE SPEECH

the language of diffidence appear to one, who never
doubted — the force of his own sagacity? To one who,
castigated, but not convinced, by a discovery of his re-
peated errors^ still dares to decide positively in things he
does not understand — and drives boldly through public
affairs^ like a magnanimous bug* through the blaze that
has so often scorcht its wings — how contemptible in his
eyes, must be the man, who modestly [17] pursues a
train of enquiry, on the unformed events of futurity — and
in his researches after truth, admits a possibility of her
escaping him?

Mr. Galloway^ with a spirit of divination, unassisted by
the common modes of reasoning — penetrates into the re-
gion of contingencies — and fixes with infallible confidence^
the uncertainties of the times to come, — Far different was
the method, which the humble subject of his wrath and
reproaches found it proper to pursue. Filled with anx-
ious fears for the welfare of his country — hesitating and ap-
prehensive^— it was his endeavour to form a f judgment of
things that may hereafter happen, from an attentive con-
sideration of present circumstances and past transactions —
the only methods to be practised by those whose disquisi-
tions are not aided by such ' ' % active blood ' ' as Mr. Gallo-
way"^ s to whom hesitation appears ridiculous, and apprehen-
sion absurd ! And no wonder — for if any mistake is com-
mitted, all the injury that follows, is — only the trifling
loss of the Privileges of Pennsylvania.

But though Mr. Galloway pierces through ^/«rzVy with

* "Yet let me flap this bug with mealy wings J''' Pope.

fit is somewhat remarkable, that Mr. Galloway should with anger
make an objection to my arguments, that must in the opinion of every
person but himself, operate with equal force against his own. Are not
his arguments "conjectural and suppositious?" What proof is there,
that any thing will be determined, according to his presumptions and
and guesses ?

X Pretended speech, page 44.

OF JOSEPH GALL O WA Y. 93

such superior intuition, yet he is subject to a mere mortal
frailty in considering /r^j-^w/ things. Hence he confounds
those arguments I used with respect to the manner of
attempting a change of our government, with the argu-
ments I offered concerning the time^ and does not seem
sensible of his mistake.

By way of explanation and introduction to what I said
on the manner of this attempt, it was premised — that
[18] some event, arising from the circumstances of the
proprietary family, or an act of the crown, might hereafter
present us with a more happy method of vindicating our
rights and privileges than the present. Upon this Mr.
Galloway very gravely runs into a calculation of the lives
of the proprietors and their families — and proves to his
own satisfaction^ that their descendants* '■^ even they ^ and
every of them'''' will always be wicked and cunning. One
virtue, however, he must allow them, to take off the
force of my observation — and that is — a most uftcommon
harmony among themselves. Yet, after spending four
pages on this curious digression, Mr. Galloway himself
must grant — that some act of the crown, or a multitude
of proprietors (as it happened in Carolina)^ or a dissention
between them, tho' few, will be such a circumstance as
will produce the conjuncture I mentioned. But I will
waive these probabilities. I will indulge Mr. Galloway so
far as to suppose they are too uncertain or remote to be ex-
pected or regarded. What will this concession prove?
That none of those occurrences will afford a favourable
mode of making the attempt. But does it prove the pres-
ent mode to be a good one? or that any necessity is so
urgent as to force us to make use of it^-tho^a bad one.
By no means ! If I should see a man about to pass a

* Pretended Speech, pa. 15, line 18. "They and every of them "a
strong and beautiful expression frequently occurring in Jacob'' s law dic-
tionary ^ and in any book oi precedents.

94 REPLY TO THE SPEECH

broad, deep* river, over which I had reason to think he
could not swim, would it be an unwise or an unkind act
in me to advise him to walk along the bank, and en-
deavour to find a bridge, or a narrower or shallower place
— tho' I had no certainty that there was such a bridge
or such a place ? Or would this be acknowledging that he
was under a necessity of passing the river? My advice
would at least have a chance of saving him, and could
do him no harm — for, after being disappointed in his
search, he might return to [19] the spot where I found
him — and would be at liberty to drown himself at last.

Mr. Galloway mixes all points so confusedly together,
that he not only leads himself into a variety of errors, but
renders it very difiicult for another, in answering, to re-
duce into any order what he has so loosely scattered about
This I shall, however, endeavour to do.

Had he attended to the objections against the manner
of the present attempt, he might have perceived that
they were three. The first was — that the circumstances
attending this proceeding might cause others to attribute
it to such passions as are always disgraceful to public
councils and destructive to the honor and welfare of a]
people. It certainly will be admitted that all reproaches(
of this kind ought to be carefully guarded against — es-
pecially by a dependent colotty^ whose conduct has been
frequently and severely reprehended. /

Mr. Galloway^ however, usurps, in his private room,
among his chairs and tables, the absurd licettse of railing
at me on this occasion for speaking my sentiments with
freedom — tho' I spoke in a public council — as the represen-
tative of a free people — on a subject in which their reputa-
tion and happiness were intimately concerned. Any man
who thinks, will instantly perceive — that it was my duty

* Pretended speech, pa. 14.

OF JOSEPH GALL O WA Y. 95

to mention everything that I apprehended would tend to
secure these blessings. When the assembly was deliberat-
ing on a step that seemed to me likely to bring discredit
and loss upon us, would it have become me to have sup-
pressed my opinion? No! But it would have pleased
Mr. Galloway and some others —

Great reward for havittg been a villain !

I SAID — "Our messages to the governor and our re-
*'solves would discover the /r?/^ r<a'?^j'<? of the present [20]
"attempt" — Mr. Galloway grants it; and appeals to
those resolves for my confusion. How is this charge
supported? Why, the resolves mention — "public houses
— commissions to judges during pleasure — and the great
danger of a military force in a proprietary government''
as grievances. In like manner they mention the point
lately controverted. Very well ! The contents of the
resolves are now proved — But there still remains one point
slipped over in silence — Why were these resolves now
made? The increase of public houses had frequently
been complained of before. — Commissions during good be-
haviour have always been wished for. — The establishment
of a military force has been often attempted in the midst
of war, when it was vastly more necessary than at this
time. — But never 'till now has there been an attempt to
change the government. More observations I think un-
necessary. Impartial persons who read the messages and
resolves — and consider some other circumstances generally
known — will be able to discover the True Cause of the
present attempt — and to judge whether it may be justly
attributed to passion of any kind. If his majesty and his
ministers, whose present opinion of us is allowed to be ex-
tremely unfavorable, should be induced by our late be-
haviour to think us a rash, turbulent people — it will be
a misfortune to be deplored by all lovers of their country.

The second objection against the manner of proceeding,

96 REPLY TO THE SPEECH

was the inconsistency in which we should be involved.
This inconsistency is twofold. In the first place, our dis-
sention with the governor, and this extraordinary attempt
in consequence of it, may be thought by the king and the
ministry to have arisen on a matter already determined by
the crown. Hence our zmwillingnessio comply with the
royalpleasure^ signifyed to uson thisTiead iiiay^be^called
a very improper foundation of a re- [21] quest "to be more
immediately subjected to the royal pleasure." But this
objection is easily obviated by supposing that the king and
ministry will exactly agree with the assembly in constru-
ing the controverted stipulation. I sincerely hope they
may; as our construction appears to me extremely reason-
able and equitable. But, of this agreement in sentiments
I desired to have some proof before we proceeded any
further. We have frequently been disappointed in our
warmest expectations. In public as well as in private life,
he that never doubts, will often be wrong.

In this second place — there appeared to me an incon-
sistency^ in requesting a change of government from the
king — and yet insisting on the preservation of privileges
^ derogatory of the royal rights.

We certainly prefer in our minds one of these things to
the other. — Either to continue as we are — or to change,
tho' we lose our privileges. If his majesty will not ac-
cept of the government in the same state in which it has
been, held by the proprietors, what shall be our choice?
I don't imagine that even Mr. Galloway^ tho' he ven-
tures to say *"We have no cause to dread a change if
all my fears should prove realities," will dare to propose
a direct renunciation of our rights. Trifling as he seems
to think them — willing as he is to expose them to haz-
ard on guesses and surmises — they are yet held in too

* Pretended speech, pa. 21.

OF JOSEPH GALL O WA Y. 97

much veneration by the good people of Pennsylvania —
for him to declare his contempt of them. If then his
majesty shall be so '''' unreasonable'' '' as to insist upon ex-
ercising his authority, in case of a change, as fully in this
province as in any other under his immediate government.
— and we insist that he shall not ; the bargain breaks
oflf — "and the worst consequence is (according to Mr.
Galloway) [22] that we must then remain (as I would have
us remain) in our present situation." A much worse con-
sequence, in my opinion, will follow. May we not again
be reproached with double dealing and deceit? — The as-
sembly's petition to the crown draws a high coloured pic-
ture of our present distresses. — But let me suppose Mr.
Galloway deputed to plead the public cause — an oflEice
which I have some reason to think would, by no means,
be disagreeable to him ! — * ' ' If the royal ear is not deaf
" — if it will hear'''' — these are the pleasing — the descrip-
tive— and convincing strains, in which "that Ear" will
be addressed.

Most gracious sovereign ! "The rights of the people of
^''Pennsylvania — \the most scandalous and corrupt of all
^' your subjects — J are fading and expiring under the bale-
"ful influence of proprietary ambition and power — §our
"liberties are daily consuming before them — Haur
"privileges are swallowed up and sacrificed at the shrine
"of proprietary instructions and the measures of power —

* A beautiful and striking repetition in the pretended speech, pa. 11.

tid., pa, 19, at the bottom. — This expression is strictly agreeable
to Mr. Galloway's argument. — For if the corruption of the people in
this province is one reason of his desiring a change, he must say we are
more corrupt than his majesty's subjects in the rest of his dominions ;
otherwise we request a government under which the people are as bad as
ourselves ; and, therefore, the change can be no service to us.

X Pretended speech, pa. 4, line 4.

I Id., pa. 41, 6 lines from the bottom. || Id., pa. 30, line 6.

98 REPLY TO THE SPEECH

*they are now but ideal shadows and chimerical no-
tions— t indeed our liberties are lost — and J we shall
soon be reduced to the servile condition of the par-
liament of Paris, or of the worst of slaves of the most
absolute monarch. — § The fever of ambition and ar-
bitrary power is raging with unremitting violence in
the foul and active bloody With Many Other Parts Of
owr political institution^ so that its conduct and beha- [23]
viour II is not animated and directed as They ought
to be. The effect thereof has nearly destroyed the
powers of life and living motion, and nature is no
longer capable of struggling for relief. We, therefore,
pray your majesty that you and the 1 virtuous minister
on whom you much rely will make ** Weapons out of
the old contract between the crown and our first pro-
prietor— out of the opinion of some very great men,
your servants — and out of the quit rents in the lower
counties, to be used for the restoration of our liberties
— under "Wwliich circumstattces it will be the highest
presumptio?i to oppose the resumptio?t of the nomina-
tion of the governor of this province, which is all the
change we intend you shall make. — Proprietary in-
structions, with which your majesty is well acquainted^
and private interest have imposed %% thraldom and bond-
age upon us. §§The stream of justice is not only be-
come turbid but thick^ so that it can no longer discharge
its duty. Security of life and estate is become an empty
name, and the spirit of liberty, distrest, and worn out by
ineflfectual efforts for her preservation, is verging fast to

* Pretended speech. fid., pa. 19, line 11, and pa. 18, line 5.

:tld., pa. 19 and 29. §Id., pa. 44, passim.

[I Id., pa. 43, line 12, from the bottom — id., pa. 29, last line.

\ Id., pa. 8. **Id., pa. 43, throughout— and two lines of pa. 44.

ttld., pa. 43, 3d line from the bottom.

\X Id., pa. 44, line 4. W Id., ib., passim.

OF JOSEPH GALL O WA Y. 99

"a dissolution. Nothing but a medicine administered to
'■^this spirit by your royal hands can possibly revive or
"restore her. This medicine we now attempt to obtain
"before the Midnight Gloom approaches and Fatal,
"Death puts an end to our struggles. " When his ma-
jesty shall be so happy as to hear this eloquent address,
how much must his pity be excited ! If he understands it,
and shall be pleased to express his willingness to take us
under his immediate care and protection, in the same
manner with the rest of his subjects — how must he be
surprised at our refusing, or even hesitating to accept [24]
that which we have so warmly requested — unless par-
ticular points are granted to us ? How must he be astott-
ished to find that we are more afraid of being placed upon
a footing with other Englishmen under his dominion, than
of the * Midnight Gloom and Fatal Death which are
hastening to overtake us? With what justice may his
gracious majesty tell us, "that we have endeavoured to
impose on him, by representing ourselves as an oppressed,
miserable people, standing on the brink of destruction ;
when, upon his hearing our cries for assistance and safety,
— mercifully stretching out his hand to relieve us, and
offering us to partake of the same happyiness enjoyed by the
rest of his subjects, we reject his implored protection —
and thereby prove the falsehood and absurdity of our
pretences?"

Thus, by requesting a change^ we lay ourselves under
the inevitable necessity, either of quietly giving up our
rights and privileges, in order to maintain a consistency in
our conduct; or of incurring the severe censure above
mentioned — unless the king will be so good natur^d^ in
consideration of the infinite pains we have taken to recom-

* Queer e — What Mr. Ca/Zoa^oy means by "midnight gloom?" "And
what is a death not fatal?" — As he makes a distinction between "fatal
death " and some other " death." —

loo REPLY TO THE SPEECH

mend ourselves to his favor — as to be contented with the
sa7ne share of power in this province; which his two sub-
jects Thomas and Richard Penn now have.

My third objection against the manner oi W\^ present at-
tempt to alter our government was — "that it might be
"deemed in Great Britain a surrender of our charter — or
"at least a sufficient foundation for the parliament's pro-
"ceeding to form a new constitution for us." — [25]

No person can surrender what he has not. This term,
therefore, when applied to the people of Pennsylvania^
means a giving up of the peculiar rights derived to them^
under their charter.

They can not surrender what belongs to others — and
therefore their act can not take away the rights of the pro-
prietors. But should the proprietors, enraged at our be-
haviour, and fatigued with disputes, make their own terms
with the crown, and give up the royal charter — then the
surrender may be said to be compleated.

Mr. Galloway says, — the petitions can not be thought in
any manner to surrender our privileges — because "they
''''request the enjoyment of those privileges." But, if it be
considered, that to procure peace and safety, is the design
of forming societies, and of establishing governments —
and that these petitions expressly declare ... * "there
"is no peace and safety among us, and that we have
"no hopes of either being restored but by the change for
"which we pray." Certainly, if we are thought to be in
our senses, it will be concluded that we intend to surrender
intirely a government, which does not answer the ends of
government— even tho' we should be deprived of some
agreeable things tacked to it — For who but a Bedlam-
ite would shiver in a thin silk coat, in the midst of winter,
only because it had a fine lace upon it ? —

♦Pretended speech, pa. 18, 36, et alibi.

OF JOSEPH GALL O WA Y. loi

It may seem therefore a reasonable construction of these
petitions* to understand them in this sense — "that the
"petitioners will be much obliged to his majesty, if he
"will be so good as to put the lace on warmer coats for them
" — but, if he will not condescend to do that, he may keep
"the lace for his trouble — provided he will furnish them
' ' coats of good Eitglisk broad cloth. ' ' [26]

Let it however be supposed — that our petitions, with a
resignation of the charter by the proprietors can not be
called a surrender of our privileges, in strictness of law
— and that the matter comes to be settled by the parlia-
ment.

Here Mr. Galloway launches out on a flood of words.
— Here he overwhelms me with his ^''irrefragable demon,'
stration " — * "Will the king, lords and commons (says he)
"be the dupes of the ministry; and, without considera-
"tion — t without the least reason, in an instant pass a law
" — to blast our liberties — to Xtake away our rights^ and
''''^deprive an affectionate people of new privilege sf^ ll Will
they act so black — so base so unjust a — part?

Inconsistency! that would be astonishing in any man,
but him who is the author of it!

How can the king and parliament be unjust^ in saving
us from midnight gloom and fatal death ? How can they
blast those liberties ''^ which are \ already lost f — Take
away our rights, when ** security of life and estate is now
become an empty name among us? "Or deprive us of
' ' our privileges, ft which are long sittce swallowed up and
' ' sacrificed at the shrine of proprietary instructions^ and the
''''measures of power ^ and so turn'd into ideal shadows ?^^

* Pretended speech — pa. 23. t Id. pa. 24.

% Id, pa. 22. 7th line from the bottom.

§ Id. pa. 21. 4th line from the bottom.

II Id. pa. 25. ^ Id. pa. 19, line 11, pa. 18, line 5.

** Id. pa. 44. tt Id. pa. 30.

I02 REPLY TO THE SPEECH

Cunning and cruel king! to strip thy subjects of that
which ^&y have not."^ "Look history through," it can-
not furnish an instance of such royal craft and unkindness,
except that recorded by Sir Richard Blackmore^ of an an-
cestor of prince Voltiger. [27]

A painted vest prince Voltiger had on.
Which from a naked Pict, his grandsire won.

I will not pursue this point any farther. I will suppose
in Mr. Galloway'' s favour, that what he calls his speech
was so long, and took so much time in making, that he
forgot in forming one part, what he had written in an-
other.

To attend him still farther in his political rambles, for
some respect is due, to be sure, to f '*one of the happy in-
struments of relieving his country," and its % "long sup-
porter," I will grant out of complaisance to him, in order
to give his argument its fullest force^ that he has told a
great many falsehoods — that we are not in the deplorable
condition he has represented us — and that our liberties,
rights and privileges which he has taken so much pains to
blast, are still fresh and flourishing.

Why then (says he) it will be unjust in the king and
parliament to deprive us of them ; and we have § "irre-
fragable proofs" of the justice of the house of commons,
because in the years 1718 and 1748, they would not pass
an act to give royal instructions the force of laws in
America.

Thus he concludes, that because the house of commons
would not make the king absolute monarch of North
America^ which would have been injurious to the rights

* A fine expression in pretended speech pa. 9, line i.
t Pretended speech, pa. 27.

J D. pa. 2. Quaere, If this term is applicable to Mr. Galloway, who is a
short man ?
§Id. pa. 26.

OF JOSEPH GALL O WA Y. 103

of Great Britain — THEREFORE, they will not allow him
to exercise in one province that authority, which he exer-
cises in every other part of his dominions. Truly ^ an

uncommon, but not a very syllogistical method, of argu-
ing! [28]

Let Mr. Galloway^ when he shall be employed in "sup-
porting the expiring liberties of his country," step into the
British senate — and endeavour to convince thein of this
injustice.

When he has made a speech for this purpose, suppose
some unconverted member should thus address him. —
"Sir, we are perfectly satisfied in what rank we are to
place your abilities — the '''' proofs are irrefragable'''' — but
as to the point you have insisted on, you do not seem to
express yourself with clearness. You speak of an im-
pelting necessity to come under the king's immediate gov-
ernment,"— and yet you say it will be "unjust to bring
you under it, on the same conditions with his other sub-
jects." I should, therefore be glad to have a short, plain
answer to this question. — Are the inhabitants of Pennsyl-
vania more or less happy than the inhabitants of the royal
governments T '

How will our deputy extricate himself from this
dilemma? If we are more happy, ivhy do we desire a
change — or why does Mr. Galloway talk of the "expir-
ing liberties of his country?" If we are less happy —
why do we dread it? Why are we unwilling to become in
every respect like those who are happier than ourselves?
Or where is the injustice of placing us in the same situa-
tion.

Before I quit this point, I must make one observation
more, to shew by Mr. Galloway'' s contradiction of him-
self (though I am almost tired with taking notice of his
contradictions) that notwithstanding the rage with which
he has asserted the contrary — he really thinks our priv-

I04 REPLY TO THE SPEECH

ileges will be indangered, if the parliament should take
the change of our government into their consideration. [29]

He employs many pages to prove there is no danger^
tho' the affair should come before the parliament. — Yet,
speaking of a change in the case of an infant proprietor, he
says — * "Is it to be by a parliamentary enquiry^ and an
act of the British legislature^ in consequence of such en-
quiry ? If it is^ the rights of tho. people may be involved in
the enquiry^ which the mode inteiided by the house is cal-
culated to avoid. Hence it appears, that this period of all
others, will be attended with most difficulty to the crown,
and danger to owr privileges.'^''

Thus he acknowledges, that the house of assembly, in
making the present attempt, have endeavoured to avoid a
parliamentary enquiry, because the rights of the people
would be involved in it, to the danger of owi privileges. —

Upon the whole that has been said with regard to a
change — and the safety or the danger of the measure I
thus conclude.

If it cannot be accomplished — the manner in which it
has been attempted will load this province with new dis-
grace. If it is accomplished, we are utterly ignorant how
it will be. The fate of our privileges, and the great
points controverted between us and the proprietors, are
now to be everlastingly determined. Many unhappy cir-
cumstances attend us in the enterprize.

Here then I fix the argument. On this point I rely.
Whatsoever may be the force of the reasonings on either
side — however probable or improbable the success may be
— yet after placing everything in the strongest light against
myself — it must be granted — that the event is undoubtedly
uncertain — and that the persons desiring a change know
no more^ what [30] will be the consequences — than they
know what will be the figure of next year's clouds.

* Pretended speech, pa. 16.

OF JOSEPH GALL O WA Y. 105

A measure in which the happiness of so many thousands
is involved, ought not therefore to have been pursued in so
hasty and unguarded a manner. PrecaiUions should have
been taken. Securities should have been obtained. This
was — this is — my firm opinion — and should a change be
happily obtained, without injuring a single privilege, or
settling a single point against us — should the conduct of
the assembly and the people in this affair be intirely ap-
proved by his majesty and his ministers — I shall always
rejoice — that I was not concerned in exposing the inestim-
able interests of my country to Hazard,

I proceed to other points. Mr. Galloway takes great
pains to prove that the * "representatives of a people have
a right to change the constitution without the [31] consent
of the people," because "almost every government in the
civilized world has been changed" — by force and injustice :

* " It can never be thought that the people intrust any representatives
with their capital privileges farther than to use their best skill to secure
and maintain them. They never so delegated or impowered any men,
that de jure they could deprive them of that qualification ; and a facto
ad jus non valet argumentum : For the question is not, what may be
done? But what ought to be done? Overseers and stewards are im-
powered, not to alienate, but preserve and improve other men's inherit-
ances. No owners deliver their ship and goods into any man's hands to
give them away, or run upon a rock ; neither do they consign their affairs
to agents or factors without limitation : All trusts suppose such a funda-
mental right in them that give them, and for whom the trusts are, as is
altogether indissolvable by the trustees. The trust is, the liberty and
property of the people ; the limitation is, that it should not be invaded,
but be inviolably preserved, according to the law of the land." — Wili^iam
PENN's works, I. vol., pa. 682, &c.

When Henry the Fourth of France and his minister, the duke oi Sully,
formed the glorious and benevolent scheme of giving peace and happi-
ness to Europe by reducing it into a kind of great commonwealth, which
was to be effected by changing the government of several states ; such
was their regard to the first principles of justice and the rights of man-
kind that it was determined, that no step should be taken without care-
fully and deliberately consulting the people of the several nations, who
would be affected by their measures.— Sully's Memoirs, V. vol

io6 REPL Y TO THE SPEECH

Because "the revolution was brought about" — with such
universal consent^ that King Williatn was established on
the British throne^ without fighting a battle: Because "the
first frame of our government was altered" — beitig found
impracticable^ and that its "^ privileges could scarcely be
exercised or enjoyed:'''' Because "six parts in seven of the
assembly, have a right to alter the charter," by a law with
the Governor'' s assent: Because he dignifies himself and
those who join with him with the title of "long supporters
and lovers of their country" — and charges with great
truth^ to be sure^ all who differ in opinion from them
" with being the friends of arbitrary power f''

In the same striking method of arguing, he attempts to
prove — that the petition for a change ought not to alarm
a free people, because^ "though it calls for a military es-
"tablishment among us," yet this is only shewing our de-
sire, that a military force may ho. fixed, which, "already
"is fixed:" Or in other words, it is only discovering our
hearty approbation of a disagreeable measure " — thaf''
fa military establishment is already established (to use
his own words) because there are some soldiers in garri-
son at our advanced forts — for these he certainly means
by "the military establishment already established," or
nothing — that a military force in a dependant colony^
lodged in the hands of the king^ is less daftgerous to liberty,
than in the hands of a subject — that it is the strongest evi-
dence of the prudence and public spirit of such a colony^ to
represent themselves as a sett of ruffians among whom
there is no safety for men of virtue, nor any respect for
government, but all things are involved in anarchy — and
therefore humbly to [32] pray, that his majesty will be
pleased to send over some regiments to instruct them in
the gentle lessons of duty and obedience — that this will not

* Pretended speech, pa, 33.

t Pretended speech, pa. 40, lines 7, 8.

OF JOSEPH GALLOWA Y. 107

furnish a pretence to send over more regiments^ than are
desired — nor to make ms pay for these blessings of swords
and bayonets^ which we have requested — or if these incon-
veniences should follow, — that they will be greatly over-
ballanced by the advantages of the civil war that would
probably ensue, if these troops should be employed, as Mr.
Galloway would wish them to be.

These are his arguments, and the tendency of them, on
these points. Arguments! — Yielding such ample room for
the entertainment of the public, that I hope some gentle-
man who has more leisure than I have, will divert the
world with the strictures upon them they deserve. I pass
on to matters, in which I am more particularly concerned
' — I mean to answer those charges, which Mr. Galloway
has made against me.

The first of these, is ' ' that my late conduct has been in-
"fluenced by a restless thirst after promotion; a fondness
' ' to serve the purposes of power from an expectation of
"being rewarded with posts of honour and profit."

In answering such a charge as this Mr. Galloway might
perhaps have some advantage over me.

'Tis true, I cannot boast of being *a "long supporter
of the rights of the people," since it is but lately that my
youth has been favoured with any public marks of their
approbation. I have not heated the minds of men with
inflamatory harangues — and while they have been
weakly wondering at my public [33] spirit, found myself
rewarded in gold for the breath I have wasted. I have not
every year since I have been a representative given myself
an office of profit — so far from it that I have not taken even
a single farthing for my wages during the whole time I
have been in the Assembly, nor in my whole life touched a
mite of public money. I have not enriched myself with a
most lucrative post^ torn from the old age of a worthy man,

* That is, in Mr. Calloway^ s sense of this expression.

io8 REPLY TO THE SPEECH

who was grey-headed long before my birth. I have not,
while the * ''''shop was open for the sale of laws, and good
substantial purchases might have been made" — wasted
the public wealth, in buying at an exorbitant price, those
that would not last a twelve month. I have not lined my
pockets, and the pockets of all my dependants, with the
spoils of my country, infamously plundered in vile j'obs^
while with unbounded confidence she trusted her stores to
my faith. I have not bought with the public money com-
missions of judges in all the courts where I practice for my
most intimate friends. I have not attempted to abolish
that sacred right of englishmen^ the right of trial by a
jury. I have not juggled in dirty cabals^ about the offices
of chief justice and attorney general — with competent sala-
ries to be antiexed to them. I have not taken raw councils
in taverns., for regulating the conduct of Pennsylvania.
In short, I have not in all my public condzict had an eye to
■my private emolument — and, therefore, I have not the con-
solation to reflect, that I found this province in credit, and
that, while I have been drtiming — merely for her good^ as
I pretended — my interests have ^ advanced as her interests
have declined., [34] and that I am now possest, by my pop-
ularity alone^ of a considerable estate, while she is sunk
into disgrace.

I cannot boast indeed of such exploits as these — and I
sincerely pray, that my mind may be never tainted with
the base ambition of rising by sordid practices. No digni-

* Preface to pretended speech, pa. 4, line 13.

tTbis was the fate of unhappy Athens; which saw her pretended
patriots thriving in proportion to her misfortunes.

"Cast your eyes, I beseech you, upon those men, to whom you owe
these rare monuments of their administration. Some of them were
raised from poverty to affluence, others from obscurity to splendor ; some
have built magnificent houses, others have acquired large tracts of valu-
able lands ; and the lower the fortune of the state has fallen, the higher
has that of much people risen." — Demosthenes in the second Olynthian.

OF JOSEPH GALL O WA Y. 109

ties can adorn his character, who has attained them by
meanness.

With equal scorn do I behold him, who endeavours to
recommend himself, either to men of power ^ or to ih^ pub-
lic^ by flattering their passions or errors, and by forfeiting
his honor and integrity.

The good man who is guided through life by his con-
science and reason, may in particular instances^ offend even
honest and wise men — but his virtue will naturally pro-
duce an unifortnity in his conduct upon the whole^ that will
discover his probity, and procure him the general appro-
bation of the worthy.

These sentiments perhaps may prove destructive to one,
who designs to establish his reputation and felicity on the
basis of a party — * since it is highly improb- [35] able, that

* This sentiment is so strongly confirm'd by a beautiful passage in
Sully's memoirs, that is is hoped the inserting it will aflFord pleasure to
every one who reads it.

The duke of Sully being a Protestant, was appointed by his master,
Henry the fourth oi France, to preside in a general assembly of the Pro-
testants, which was called to meet at Chatcllerant. . . . The duke was
tkeir faithful friend through his whole life, and strictly attached to
them by principle; but the warmth of their temper led them in to many
things, in this assembly, in which he could not join with them . . .
without offering violence to his own sentiments . . . and integrity . . .

The following is the account he gives of his conduct. "A common
^^ prejudice prevails among all sorts of religion ; a man is never supposed
" to be a sincere professor of the one he has embraced, unless he supports
"it obstinately, even in such points where it is most visibly wrongs

The same remark may perhaps be found true in all parties. "Upon
"this footing, I confess, the method I was determined to pursue, might
" from some persons, draw upon me the epithets oi false brother, deserter,
"and if they please, traytor: However, it was not the approbation of
^' stich as those, that I proposed to obtain, but of persons, who of what-
" ever party or religion they ivere, would in their judgment of my con-
"duct, preserve the ballance o^ equity and disinterestedness. If ever re-
"ligion admits of the assistance oi policy, it ought to be of a ^oXxzy pure,
'^simple, and upright as itself; any other may indeed appear to serve it,
"but does not in reality, and sooner or later never fails to ruin it.'^

" Having determin'd to be guided by no other principle in my transac-

no REPLY TO THE SPEECH

any man will be long esteemed by a party ^ unless he is
bound to it by PREJUDICES, as well as by Principi.ES.

To support the attrocious charge he has made against
me, Mr. Galloway produces no kind of proof — except my
differing in opinion from him, be proof. But if this be ad-
mitted, then Mr. Norris^ Mr. Richardson and the two
other gentlemen who difiered from him, are villains also,
influenced by the same views, attributed to me.

This would be too daring a charge, and more difficult
perhaps for Mr. Galloway to support, than to crush by
calumnies and conspiracies^ a young man, who has excited
more than one passion in more than one man's breast.

Had I intended to recommend myself to the govern-
ment, I certainly might have given the sentiments I [36]
delivered in the House a more courtier-like air than they
now bear. Had I intended this, I should not have been
one of W\^ first and warmest to declare my fixed resolution^
not to admit of the governor's construction of the stipula-
tion he disputed with us ; nor should I have steadily per-
sisted in this opposition to the last.

Had I intended this, I should not have been the only
man in the House who constantly refused to assent to the
supply bill, because the money emitted by it, was made a
legal tender in payment of all demands "except proprie-

"tions with the assembly, I thought I could not too carefully avoid all
"appearances of affectation or disguise in my conduct ; that those who
"were influenced by an imprudent zeal, or actuated by a spirit of cabal
"might have no hopes of gaining or seducing me : Therefore from the
"beginning, I shewed myself solicitous to support on this occasion, TliAT
" Character by which the public was to know how I would act on every
"other; that is, of a man sincerely attached to the true principles and in-
"terest of the protestant religion, yet incapable of drawing \}i\^ false conse-
" quences which many of the protestants did, or of approving their ir-
" regular proceedings : The speech I made at the opening of the assembly,
"which lasted half an hour, was wholly calculated to produce this effect,
" without troubling myself to consider, whether it would give pleasure or
" oflfence to the greatest number." — Sdi,i,y's Memoirs, 4 Vol.

OF JOSEPH GALL OWAY. 1 1 1

tary rents," — when that exception might have been safely-
extended (as was granted by the most distinguished mem-
bers) to the rents of all other persons — who would then
have been as well secured as the proprietors, and a dis-
tinction in their favour alone avoided.

One thing more I beg leave to mention, since Mr.
Galloway compels me to speak of myself. I was appointed
to carry the bill to the governor the second time for his
assent, after he had once refused it. This was long before
the change of government was talked of. On my deliver-
ing it, some conversation arose between us on the subject,
Mr. Shippen^ the secretary, being present. As the passage
of the bill was of the utmost importance to his majesty's
service and the good of the public, I took the liberty,
though my acquaintance with the governor was very
slight, of mentioning several reasons to prove that the
assembly's construction of the disputed stipulation was ex-
tremely equitable ; consistent with the established rules
of explaining a sentence capable of two meanings ; and,
therefore, ought to be admitted — and that his honour's
conduct in passing the bill, as it then was framed, would
not be disapproved of in England. I further added, that
I was persuaded his refusal would throw everything into
the greatest confusion [37].

Being soon after taken ill and confined to my room, so
anxious was I to prevent any difference at that time be-
tween the governor and assembly that I sent for a gentle-
man, whom I knew to be intimately acquainted with the
governor; and urging everything I could think of to con-
vince him that our bill ought to be passed as we had
formed it, I entreated him to go to the governor, and en-
deavour to prevail on him to give his assent.

I hope this cannot be called the conduct of a man influ-
enced by ''mischievous passions destructive of public
liberty."

112 REPLY TO THE SPEECH

Another charge brought against me by Mr. Galloway
is, that I neglected my duty of attending in the House, and
never spoke my sentiments till it was too late.

Mr. Galloway'' s behaviour in making this charge, is a
plain proof to what lengths he will proceed, in hopes of
injuring me. The first time, since I have been a represen-
tative of this province, that a change of government was
mentioned and debated in the assembly, was on Saturday
the 24th day of March last, on the governor sending down
to them his message absolutely refusing to pass the supply
bill, unless the stipulation was literally complied with.
That day^ the assembly's answer was composed and sent —
the frequent motions, with the "solemn debate" Mr. Gallo-
way talks of, made — the resolves past — and the House ad-
journed to the 14th of May.

Mr. Galloway must be co7tsc2ous that this day, and the
day before, I was confined to my chamber, and mostly to
my bed, by a sincere attack of the fever and ague. He
knows, that on the Thursday before, I was so ill, that
there not being a sufficient number of members [38] with-
out me^ those who were met, intended to come and sit at
my house; and that to save the gentlemen this trouble, I
determined to wait on them^ and was carried up in the
late speaker's chariot, which he was so kind as to send for
me, it being a rainy day.

This state of my health at that time, being a fact well
known to many persons, and particularly to Mr. Galloway^
how cricel and unjust is it to blame me for not attending,
when it was impossible — and when, if it had been possible,
/ had not the least suspicion that anything of such vast im-
portance would come into consideration.

On the meeting of the House, the 14th day of last May^
according to their adjournment, I constantly attended
every day, untill this important matter was determined,
except on Monday, the 21st — on which day there was no

OF JOSEPH GALLO WA K 1 13

House, only eighteen members meeting, Mr. Galloway oxiA
many others being absent. The following days the petition
for a change came in — were read — as other petitions were
— lay on the table — and not a word spoken on the subject.

Thus business went on till Wednesday^ the 23d, when I
was prevented for the first time from attending the House
by a fever — which, as it was very injurious to my health,
would also, if Mr. Galloway'' s charitable and humane
wishes could prevail, prove destructive to my reputation.
This day the matter was started. In vain did the speaker
recommend the deferring to take any resolution till the
House was more full — and the absent members, then in
town^ could attend. — He desired that the affair might be
put off to the next day — in vain — the debate was begun —
quickly determined — a committee appointed to prepare a
draught of the petition — that draught made — brought in —
presented — read — [39J

The next day, tho' still extremely indisposed, I attended
— and was surprised to find so much business of the utmost
consequence had been done in so short a time — and though
I could have wished that such a step had not been taken,
without allowing me, and every other member, of whose
attendance there was any probability^ an opportunity of of-
fering our sentiments; yet I comforted myself with reflect-
ing, that though it had been resolved, "that a petition
"should be drawn," yet it was not resolved "that any peti-
" tion should be presented," and that I should be at liberty
to offer my opinion hereafter. I was determined therefore
to attend diligently; and to take the first opportunity^
which would be on the second reading of the petition, to
oppose it. This I was induced to do, by considering, that
if I did not say any thing, till the question was put for
transcribing^ or signing in order to be presented, it would
look very odd for me to be silent so long, and that it would
answer no purpose.

114 REPLY TO THE SPEECH

Accordingly, on the second reading of the petition, which
was \^Q. first opportunity I ever had^ since the change of
government was attempted, I spoke against it.

The only objection then made by Mr. Galloway and
every other member who spoke on the occasion, was — that
I had offered my sentiments too soon to the House — and
that I should have staid for the question to transcribe or
sign the petition.

That I did not act with any stupid and useless reserve in
lying by till this time, was never dreampt of by any mem-
ber who knew, why I had been detained at home, when-
ever I was detained.

How vain is his attempt who strives to please all men ?
Or indeed to please one man at all times ? Mr. Galloway
[40] and others said, that I spoke too soon. He and some
more now say, I spoke too late. Why too late ? Were not
my arguments as well understood then^ and had they not
the same force^ as if they had been used before ? And if
they proved the measure to be dangerous and improper^
ought they not in a matter of such importance to the public^
to have been as much regarded, as if they were one day
older?

If this affair had not been so quickly decided^ I never
should have been charged with omitting to speak in time.
But I must not quit Mr. Galloway. What must the public
think of a man who dares to abuse them by the grossest
deceptions, with the pious intention of injuring another?
He says "that during the time of the several debates re-
specting the change of government, I seldom attended, and
was absent when the important one came on, which issued
in the resolve, to adjourn and consult the people."

Yet the candid Mr. Galloway knows — that there never
was any debate in the assembly, since I have been a mem-
ber, respecting the change of government — until that
which issued in the resolve to adjourn — and that I was

OF JOSEPH GALL OWAY. 115

then ill. Again he says, "at tlie next meeting, (mean-
ing that in May) several motio7ts were made to bring
this resolution to an issue, and 2.i\.<ti great deliberation^ it
was resolved by a majority of 27 to 3, that a committee
should be appointed to bring in the petition to his majesty
to resume the powers of government. — But at none of
these debates and resolutions was I present, tho' I well
knew^ or at least had great reason to expect this business
was in continual agitation, ' '

Yet the correct Mr. Galloway knows, that there never
was a motion — or debate — or resolution, concern-[4i]ing
this matter, upon the meeting of the house in May — un-
till Wednesday the 23d day of the month, when I was
taken sick, as has been mentioned — and that / atte^tded
as diligently as himself till that day.

This account of the time when every transaction passed
in the house — and of my attendance, is taken from the
minutes of assembly, and the book for entring the attend-
ance of the members — both which I have carefully looked
over, in the presence of Dr. Moore^ the clerk, who there-
fore is perfectly acquainted with the truth of every thing I
have averred.

Another charge against me is, that *'I formed my
thoughts into order, and reduced what I had to say into
writing, in an unparliamentary way."

I acknowledge myself guilty of taking some pains to
put my thoughts into order, and that my notes were long
and exact, that I might thereby be enabled to deliver my
sentiments with clearness. I regarded this as a duty,
upon an occasion where such an interesting subject was to
be discussed — and I was encouraged to use this mode
— ^because I once before had used it, and received such
public praises from the present speaker, for introducing a
method, highly commended, and the next day, imitated by
him, as afforded me the sincerest pleasure — and I hope,

ii6 REPLY TO THE SPEECH

will* serve to cousole [42] me, ballancing the calumny
with which I am loaded, becatise I would not go Through
with measures^'^'' which my conscience and reason com-,
manded me to oppose. — A conduct! I am Determined,
whatever " W(9^« " shines on me or '''' withdraws'''' her
beams, upon all occasions. Steadily To Pursue. — And
as its own reward is sufficient for me^ I beg leave to
restore to the gentleman's '''' brows ^''^ from which '\X.\ once
fell^ the '''' laureV d'''' wreath, that unenvied^ tinsought and
unwished for by me, he has been pleased — wiih what de-
sign I will not presume to guess — to place upon mine.

Mr. Galloway also accuses me of having promised him a
copy of my speech, and of not performing my promise.
Here he is egregiously mistaken. I told him he should
have the copy that night it was delivered, if I could get it
ready. The house broke up late in the evening. He
soon after called upon me. It was not ready. He told me
it would be too late^ if he had it not soon. I did not then
understand his meanings as I did not in the least appre-
hend, the most important matter that ever came before the
house of assembly, was to be decided with less deliberation
than is generally bestowed on things of much slighter
moment. Next morning I took the copy to the House in

* Preface to pretended speech . . . pa. 25. "I would only advise him
" carefully to preserve the panegyricks with which the proprietary fac-
" tion have adorned him: In time, they may serve to console him, by bat-
"ancittg the calumny they shall load him with, when he does not go
''through ivith them in all their measures: He will not probably do the
"one, and they will then assuredly do the other . . . There are mouths
*' that can blow hot as well as cold, and blast on your brows the bays
' ' their hands have placed there . . . Experto crede Roberto. Let but
"the moon of proprietary favour withdraw its shine for a moment, and
"that great number of the principal gentlemen oi Philadelphia who ap-
" plied to you for a copy of your speech, shall immediately despise and
"desert you" ....

t Experto Crete Roberto. Preface to pretended speech . . . pa. 25.

OF JOSEPH GALL OWAY. 117

my pocket. No one called for it. I did the same in the
afternoon. The like silence was observed. I did not
chuse to shew any forwardness in forcing it on those who
seemed willing to forget it. Had I acted otherwise, I
should have been called impudent and conceited, by those
who are fond of bestowing epithets.

Mr. Galloway says, "that I attempted to deliver my ob-
jections against the measure ore tenus; but finding every
thing I offered judiciously and sensibly refuted by several
members, I was obliged to retreat [43] to my speech in
writing, which after a short introductory apology, I read
in a manner, not the most deliberate."

As to the last part of this whimsical charge, I shall not
pretend to give any answer; because that would be in some
measure allowing Mr. Galloway capable of judging, what
is a "deliberate manner" of speaking.

As to the first part — any man but Mr. Galloway would
have discovered why I began to speak, without recurring
to my notes. The resolves were past — and the petition
ordered to be drawn in my absence. I never had heard
the change spoke of in the house — and did not know but
by information of others, the reasons by which the mem-
bers had been influenced. Before I offered my sentiments,
it was therefore necessary for me to discover the arguments
that would be used against me. On the information I had
received, I had prepared my answer; but to make this
answer appear with propriety, I thought it requisite to have
the arguments of those who desired a change, repeated be-
fore the house. I threw out general objections; and de-
sired to know what reasons could be tho't sufficient to en-
gage the house in so hazardous a measure? Then the
"judicious and sensible members" Mr. Galloway men-
tions, and he among them — for that phrase, I suppose, is his
way of complimenting himself— discovered all the argu-
ments on which they relied. — They proved to be the same

ii8 REPLY TO THE SPEECH

I expected; and I "retreated to my speech," which was
prepared to answer them.

The last objection made by Mr. Galloway^ of which I
shall take notice, is, " that the speech, as printed, is differ-
ent from that delivered — and that the preface sufiBciently
demonstrates^ by whose hands it has been drest up, and
with what views it has been published." [44]

Here he is again mistaken. The printed speech is ex-
actly the same with that I pronounced, except the correc-
tions and additions I made to compleat the sense, the
evening before it was to be delivered to the Members, as is
above mentioned — and except some slight alterations in a
few places. I father declare^ that I have not received the
least assistance from any person in composing and correct-
ing it; not even so much as the addition of a single word;
and that no man ever saw it, or knew that I had written
it, except my clerk, who transcribed it — untill it was de-
livered in the House.

As to the preface, it makes no ''''demonstration'''* that
can affect me. Finding that Mr. Galloway and his emis-
saries were traducing me in every company, and misrepre-
senting every thing I had said — I thought these asper-
sions might be removed, by laying before the public, the
reasons by which I had been induced to act as I did. This
consideration had the more weight with me, on receiving
a letter from some gentlemen in this city, desiring a copy
of the speech.

They being my constituents — and men of the clearest
characters, I thought it my duty to comply with their re-
quest. I sent a copy to them — and they had it printed
with such a title, and in such a manner, as they thought
proper, without even consulting me; which could not con-
veniently be done as I was out of town. — For immediately
after delivering the copy, I was obliged to go into the
country for my health. I went to 'Cci^ Jerseys. While I

OF JOSEPH GALL OWAY. 119

was there, the preface was written, and printed. I never
was made acquainted with its contents, till it was published.
I do not even know at this time who wrote it, but by com-
mon report. [45]

Every thing I have said on these last heads, is known
to be true, by my friends; whose virtue and good opinion
I too much revere, to appeal to them as witnesses, if I was
not conscious of the sincerity with which I speak.

Thus have I faithfully laid before the public, my whole
conduct relating to the change of our government, and the
reasons on which it was founded. If sensible and good
men approve of my behaviour, I quit without regret the
applauses of others, and all the attendant advantages, to
those, who think proper to court them.

John Dickinson.

APPENDIX.

What sin of mine could merit such a fate?
That all the shot of dullness now must be
From this the Bi,underbuss discharg'd on me I

—Pope,

Weakness and ignorance when attended by modesty,
are naturally entitled to pardon and to pity. But when
they impudently pretend to the characters of wisdom and
knowledge — when they aim at power, which they under-
stand not how to exercise — ^and to honours, which they
understand not how to deserve — when they make use of
their good fortune in life to wound their country — inso-
lently to abuse those, who know and despise them — and
when with proud and solemn formality, they demand a
respect by no means due to them — then they become the
proper objects of contempt and ridicule^ if not of hatred.

It is not my intention to trouble myself with observa-
tions, on Mr. Galloway* s continual * breaches of the rules
of grammar; his utter ignorance of the English [ii]
language; the pompous obscurity and sputtering prolixity
reigning through every part of his piece; and his innum-

* "But, Sir, let me ask, what public good, what service to our coun-
try can we do, when proprietary instructions, and proprietary private
interest is to enslave our judgment, and to rule in our councils."

Pretended Speech, pa. 29, at the bottom.
"Besides, Sir, I have seen the opinions of some very great men, his
majesty's servants, and often near his person, that the powers of govern-
ment is an interest that cannot be transferred or aliened."

Pretended SpEBCH, pa. 43.

122 APPENDIX.

erable and feeble * tautologies. This labour would be too
great. I only intend to present to the public, stript of
that bundle of words in which he has rolled them up, a
small collection of his rhetorical flowers and figures.
Sorry am I to say \i— flowers without fragrance — and
figures without force. Yet perhaps their novelty may
recommend them.

Some authors have industriously endeavoured in their
writings, to surprize their readers — and some readers have
thought this a great merit in authors. With gentlemen
of this taste, Mr. Galloway must be a darling writer — for
no man ever possest so surprizing a way of surprizing his
readers. A few instances will discover his excellence in
this kind.

t ' ' Let us but consider, says he, that the experience of
ages, fully demonstrates wealth to be the parent of power,
the nurse of influence : and that an increase of wealth, will
as naturally beget an increase of power and influence, as an
increase of velocity in iho. falling stone will produce more
certain death."

In the third line of this simile, wealth is the nurse of in-
fluence— but in the fourth, this nurse is the begetter of in-
fluence— a transition somewhat sudden and odd — but it
does not stop here — for % three pages further, this begetting
nurse is turned into a weapon., and put into the hands of
its own child. Influence. What now, [iii] could a
reader expect, that this wicked child, %'''■ improbus ille

*" Pretended speech — passim — greatest wealth and most invaluable
jewels — "bondage and thraldom" — "spending and wasting" — "fruit-
less and ineffectual" — "conduct and behaviour" — "such horrid guilt,
such heinous oflfences " — " groundless fears and frightful apprehensions "
— &c, &c, &c, &c.

t Pretended speech, pa. lo.

X Id., pa. 13, line 5 from the bottom.

I Ovid.

APPENDIX.
puer^''^ would do with the nurse that begat him, changed
into a weapon.

Will he cut and destroy ? No ! With that weapon^ he
will — what will he do? * " En — crease our discredit, and
the ministerial displeasure. ' ' What vivacity of invention ?
What uncommonness in the figure? What strength in the
expression ?

But this is not the only beauty of this curious simile.
^\\2X precision is there in the expression of 'V//<? fallijig
stone .^" For what would an increase of velocity signify to
any thing else but a '''' stone f"* Or to any other stone but
''Uhe fall — ing stone f"* Besides, how exactly has Mr.
Galloway provided some unlucky head for this stone to
fall upon, in order to produce "more certain death?"

Mr. Gallo2vay^ s ingenuity, in forming the extraordinary
weapon above-mentioned, out of the nurse ^ is nothing,
when compared with his following feats. Ovid with his
Metamorphosis was but a type of him.

In the forty-third and forty-fourth pages of his piece, he
makes Weapons^ (as has been hinted) out of the '''' old con-
tract'''' between the crown, and the first proprietor; "out
of an opinion of the king's servants;" and out of the "quit-
rents in the lower counties." For having copiously men-
tioned these several matters, he concludes, f^'I^HESE are
the Weapons, which I am confident will be used for the
restoration of our liberties."

If he can make weapons out of such slight stuffs it seems
a probable opinion, that he can form them — in his way I
mean — out of an "ideal shadow," or "a chimerical
notion " — or what is still more extraordinary — even out of
his own courage, [iv]

Mr. Galloway^ &\er fruitful in useless inventions, has

* Pretended speech, page 13, line 4 from the bottom,
t Pretended speech, page 44, line i.

124 APPENDIX.

found another way of giving surprise — and that is, by
useing the same word in different senses in the same page
or sentence. Thus, speaking of our first impracticable
frame of government, and its change, he says — * "if it
(meaning the change) is valid^ then the resolution of this
House for a change, assented to by nine tenths of the
members met, must be valid also.''''

But the resolution of the assembly alone cannot make a
change of the government; and therefore he cannot mean,
that it is valid^ in the same manner with the first change,
which was made with the consent of every branch of the
legislature. So that by these words, ''''valid also'''' must
be intended some other kind of validity^ of which no man
but Mr. Galloway can form an idea — unless it be, that
this valid resolution binds those who made it, and no body
else.

Mr. Galloway seems to be very fond of these abstruse
meanings^ which has inclined some people to think him
addicted to the study of the f ^''occult sciences.'''' What
else could induce him to talk of the king's naming our
governors with his hands — or of people's reading with
their mouths^ and hearing with their eyes.

" We ask the king " says he, J " to take the nomination
of the governor who is to rule his people into his [v] royal
hands^^ — and afterwards — " § can we stop the Mouths,

* Pretended speech pa. 34.

t This supposition will not appear unreasonable, if it be considered,
that Mr. Galloway speaks in direct terms of "The Royai. Medicine,"
an expression used only by adepts in the occult sciences, with whom it
signifies some wonderful secret, by which dead persons may be restored
to life ; and what renders the supposition more just, or indeed reduces
the matter to a certainty, is— that Mr. Galloway uses the expression, in
the very same sense. Pretended Speech, pa. 44.

t Pretended speech, pa. 8 and 18.

\ Pretended speech, pa. 37. "But, Sir, should we waive these things,
and draw our petition in a different dress, can we aimihilate the messages

APPENDIX. 125

and close the Eyes of all England and America^ or pre-
vail on his majesty, or the ministers, to bury in oblivion
what they have, e'er now, so often Read and Heard?"

What a charming confusion, what a motley mixture is
here — of "stopt mouths" — "closed eyes" — "reading and
hearing " — "All England and America " — " majesty. ' '

Who that meets with such expressions as these, and has
read Ecclesiasticus^ can forbear admiring the truth of that
verse, which says — * "The heart of the: foolish is like a
" cart-wheel; and his thoughts are like a rolling axle-tree.^"*

Nothing less than a love of the '"''occult sciences^'''' can
give one a true relish of these mystical lucubrations^ with
which Mr. Gallowaf s piece abounds. Any person may
observe, that his meaning always appears like an [vi] ob-
ject in a mist^ that renders it confused and indistinct;
which kind of deception may cause persons of weak sight
sometimes to a mistake a la7nb for a lion^ or Mr. Galloway
for a gentleman,

between the governor and assembly? Can we withdraw the governor's
proclamations? Can we hold the hands of his majesty's general, whose
aid we were obliged to accept, from giving the intelligence? Can we
stop the mouths and close the eyes of All England and America, or
prevail on his majesty, or the ministry, to bury in oblivion what they
have, e'er now, so often read and heard.'^

N. B. ''All England'' does not include the king and ministry.

Mr. Galloway may indeed say, that the expression of " reading with.
the mouth,'' is proper when a man reads aloud. I grant it nnAer that
restriction — and therefore let it be supposed, that All England And
America, And his majesty And the ministry read aloud, like boys in a
country school.

Perhaps some persons may think me more obliged to Mr. Galloway, in
this part of what he calls his speech, than I have yet acknowledged mj'-
self to be, since he seems to have aimed at an imitation of these my ex-
pressions.—Though we should keep the secret, can we seal up the lips of
the proprietors? Can we recall our messages to the governor? Can we
annihilate our own resolves? Will not a//— will not any oi these dis-
cover the true cause of the present attempt?"

* Ecclesiasticus xxxiii. 5.

126 APPENDIX.

How remote from the plain, common mode of speaking,
is this sentence, * "We have often attempted to obtain re-
lief from oppression from the proprietaries, but in vain."

The reader may guess at the meaning — but the writer
leaves it doubtful whether application was made to oppres-
sion against the proprietors, — or to the proprietors against
oppression.

What a beautiful obscurity is there in this sentence?
"If, fSir, a true representation of the uncommon mis-
chiefs which attend the liberties of a free people,;]; arising
from the very nature of proprietary government — If a true
state of our present confusion, both in and out of our pub-
lic councils — If 2. just account of our present insecurity of
life and estate, given to the crown, be 2. just cause of ter-
ror, then the gentleman's pannick is just. But, Sir, these
things^ I conceive, are rather causes oijoy^ than fear. 'Tis
from hence, we must hope to be relieved from our present
unhappy circumstances."

Now what ''''things'''' can a reader find in this descrip-
tion, if he is a good man, that are "causes oijoyf [vii]
Not the public misfortunes to be sure. — What then? Not
the "representation" "state" and "account" of calami-
ties, because it is said "they are true.'''' What then can
be a "cause of joy ?" Eureka! Eureka! This "repre-
sentation" "state" and "account" may "relieve us from
our present unhappy circumstances." May they so? But
until we are so delivered, if we are the miserable people

* Pretended speech, pa. 5, line 2. t Pretended speech, pa. 35.

J Quaere— "Whether the mischiefs or liberties arise "from the very na-
ture of proprietary government ?" The reader will no doubt take notice of
the pretty repetition of that little word "if" which Mr. Calloway seems
to have introduced with no other intention, but to rescue the poor mono-
syllable from the obscurity, in which hard hearted authors have suffered
it to languish. — He has done the same justice in several places to the
merit of that other diminitive word " Of " 7« est sua gratia parvis.

Virgil.

APPENDIX. 127

we have been described, a patriot in the midst of preseftt
misfortunes, would from an uncertain prospect of relief,
hardly find "cause of joy" tho' he might entertain some
hope. A man on the rack would scarcely {&e\joy^ tho' he
might have expectations that he would some time or other
be released.

This may be called the true " twilight way of writing,"
which like the bat in the fable, keeps in the middle be-
tween sense and nonsense, to the exceeding edification and
entertainment of those readers, who like paragraphs that
are mysterious and wordy, because they show depth and
language.

Another sentence in which Mr. Galloway gives the
reader a very pretty surprize, is that, where he says — *
'*this colony has so remarkably flourished, and now takes
off such vast quantities of English manufactures, from no
other cause but her extensive privileges.''''

How new and striking is this observation ? Any other
person would have said, that "the people took off such
vast quantities by reason of their necessities or luxuries. ' '
But Mr. Galloway scorns such trite notions — He estab-
lishes a new dogma — "our extensive privileges take them
off." t Broad-Shouldered Privileges! indeed, [viii]

Perhaps if he should write a comment on his own text,
he would say — that he meant, that the extensive privileges
occasioned the settlement of this province — and the settle-
ment occasioned the demand for the manufactures— and
so the privileges were % Causa sine qua non. But this ar-
gument will not extricate him— since, if he travels so far
backwards, the same way of argument will oblige him to
go still farther. — For those privileges would not have been
granted by William /5?««— unless Charles the second had

* Pretended speech, pa. 6. f Pretended speech, page 15.

JThat is "the cause without which the manufactures would not have
been taken ofiF."

128 APPENDIX.

first made a grant to him — ^whicli would not have been, but
for his father^ s services — and so, these services oi o\^ ad-
miral Penn^ who died in the last century, "Now take off
such vast quantities oi English manufactures."

In this extraordinary maimer does Mr. Galloway in-
dulge himself in his political reveries. Even the most
simple and common observations in life, utterly lose their
force in his language.

The mystical hictcbrators^ among whom he may with
justice claim the president's seat, seem to h^ Jirst-cousins
to the authors of the Profund style. Certain it is, that
they are governed by the same laws, and that there is a
wonderful resemblance in their productions. In order to
prove this, I shall beg leave to mention the rules to be
observ'd by that numerous and venerable society, as they
are described by Mr. Pope^ in his learned treatise nEPiBAeoYS.-

* " I Will venture to lay it down, as the first maxim and
corner-stone of this our art; that whoever would excell
therein, must studiously avoid, detest, and turn his head
from all the ideas, ways, and workings of that pestilent
foe to wit, and destroyer of fine [ix] figures, which is
known by the name of common sense. His business must
be to contract the true gout de travers\ and to acquire a
most happy, uncommon., unaccountable way of thinking.
His design ought to be like a labyrinth^ out of which no
body can get clear but himself."

Again — " f our authors of this style, should lay it down
as a principle, to say nothing in the usual way., but (if
possible) in the direct contrary; therefore the figures must
be so turned, as to manifest that intricate and wonderful
castofhead^ which distinguishes all authors of this kind;
or (as I may say) to represent exactly the mold in which

* Pope's works, vol. vi., page 172.
t Pope's works, vol. vi., pa. 190.

APPENDIX. 129

they were formed, in all its inequalities^ cavities^ obliqui-
ties^ odd crannies and distortions.

"It may be observed, that the world has been long
weary of natural things. How much the contrary are
formed to please, is evident from the universal applause
daily given to the admiral entertainments of Harlequins
and Magicians on our stage. When an audience behold a
coach turned into a wheel-barrow, a conjurer into an old
woman, or a man's head where his heels should be; how
are they struck with transport and delight ?' '

Yet what are all these^ when compared with Mr. Gallo-
way s changing in an instant a nurse into a weapon^ and
putting that weapon into the hand of its own child? Or
what are they to his forging weapons out of an old parch-
ment^ an opinion^ and arrears 0/ quit-rents ? What author
of the pro/und can vie with this our Pennsylvanian
patriot ?

" Ye little stars^ hide your diminished heads."^"^ [x]

Not to dwell upon other instances, how exquisitely
* ' uncommon^ " " unaccountable ' ' and ' ' unnatui'al ' ' is his
making our privileges take off all the English beer and
cloth imported into this province? And also his making
the kino- strip us of liberties, of which we were stript
before ?

The great poet I have mentioned further observes,
* "that the manner of these authors forming their thoughts
is aided by familiarizing their minds to the lowest objects;
and exercising them on the dregs of nature."

Numberless instances in our author's piece prove how
much his thoughts have been formed on this plan. I will
only mention one, where to revive and regale his reader's
imagination he kindly puts him in mind of a certain sweet-
smelling place.

These, "With Many Other Parts" of this our

* Mr. Pope's works, vi. vol., pa. 180, 181.

I30 APPENDIX.

"political insti tutor" which must be remarked by any
careful peruser, are "irrefragable proofs" with what dili-
gence and success, he hath studied the aforesaid treatise.

I now proceed to that renowned page, where the whole
powers of Mr. Galloway s genius are collected into one
dreadful simile.

With great propriety, (says he,) 2, political body has often
been compared to a human constitution. Let us suppose
then, that a human constitution is attacked by a violent
disease, the Effect whereof has nearly destroyed the
powers of life., and livitig motion., * and nature is f [xi] no
longer capable of struggling for relief." — Surely this
human constitution., whose vital motion as well as its
powers of life are nearly destroyed, ' ' is now sick enough
for any simile in the world.

"Is not this the time to apply the remedy? No ! For
it should have been applied before — and now nature is so
much exhausted, may "entirely destroy" her — which
frequently happens, when people will venture to take
physick from ''''quacks-^'' who are a sort of gentry, never
remarkable, before Mr. Galloway made the discovery, ' ' for
waiting in hopes of some lucky crisis" — Now Never, is
a motto, that suits all empirics.

"The powers of legislature truly resemble the soul.,
which animates and directs" not only " the conduct '''' but
"the behaviour of the political institution.'''' Yet these
"powers of legislature truly resembling the soul.,'''' nine
lines afterwards, are so checked and controlled that they
are "almost Annihilated " — poor soul !

* This is a mistake - for it is " vital " in the original— however it is to
be hoped this error will be excused, as the words "vital" and " living"
have nearly the same meaning.

fit is to be remarked by the reader, that tho' nature is "«o longer
capable of struggling " at the beginning of this simile, yet this is only to
heighten the description — a licence frequently taken by Mr. Gallozvay —
for before the simile is finished, she "can and does struggle" — and the
only danger is, that " death will put an end to them."

APPENDIX, 131

An upright administration of justice resembles " the ac-
tive bloody which by its pure and uninterrupted course, pre-
serves and supports ITS health and vigour." But we have
no upright administration of justice in this province, ac-
cording to our author, and therefore by his own simile, no
active blood in omx political institution. Yet immediately
after, he says, " In these two vital parts^'^'' to wit, the * pas-
sive soul and f active blood, "the fever of ambition and
J arbitrary power is, and has been raging with unremitting
violence. ' '

Perhaps the author of this famous simile may say, that
by the "vital parts" he means the power of legislature,
and the administration of justice — But this will be a con-
tradiction of himself, for he only allows "an upright ad-
ministration of justice" to be a vital part; and as among
us, "the stream of justice is become so turbid 2.n^ thick^
that it can no longer discharge its duty^^'' this "vital
part" composed of "an upright administration " is want-
ing.

However, if both these vital parts should be annihilated^
Mr. Galloway has allowed the fever room enough to exert
itself. "It rages, says he, in these two vital parts, with
many others.'''' — §"Well chosen, that expression^ and pru-
dently guarded." It rages not only in the soul oi the leg-
islature ^ and the active blood of the administration — but in
Many Other Vital Parts. Unexampled energy of
diction!

* This word " passive " is inserted here — it being suppos'd that it was
omitted by a mistake in the original, as Mr. Galloway has given the epi-
thet of " active " to the blood, in order to distinguish it from some oppo-
site quality in the soul.

t Quaere, if physicians, surgeons or anatomists reckon the "active blood "
among the "vital parts?"

X Quaere, what is the fever of arbitrary power?

2 Preface to pretended speech, page 24.

132 APPENDIX.

*Wlien "active blood" shall flow in lifeless veins,
The wondring world shall praise thy " turbid" strains.

Perhaps some curious critics may be disgusted at the
preference Mr. Galloway gives the legislative powers over
an upright administratian of justice^ in comparing the
first to t "that particle of divine air" the soul\ and the
latter to mere matter — the blood. But this seems to be too
hasty a censure, by no means to be adopted — for it is to be
observed^ that soon after, in saying "these two vital parts "
he places the soul and blood exactly on a level^ making
them both "vital parts" without the least distinction.
Besides Mr. Galloway., when he uses the word "soul" or
"spirit" does not annex the same idea to the term, that
is always annex'd by others— for ^<? talks of a '''' spirif"*
that may be ''''worn out.,^'' and '''' dissolved,^ "* and to which
' ' reviving medicines may be admi7iistered. " " And if
such a medicine can be obtained, shall we not even at-
tempt to obtain it, before the Midnight Gi,OOM ap-
proaches, and Fatal Death puts an end to our struggles ?"
Undoubtedly! Doctor — and if it proves a preventive
against these dreadful disorders — midnight gloom B.ndi fatal
death — I shall hereafter entertain a better opinion than I
do at present, of those bold pretenders, who undertake to
cure all diseases "past, present and to come," by a Royal
Medicine, or some other nostrum^ with the like pompous
title.

*Blaiisted. ^ ^^ Divines particulam aurce.^^ Horace.

Finis.

AN ANSWER

TO

JOSEPH GALLOWAY.

BY

JOHN DICKINSON

September 29, 1764.

NOTE.

Dickinson's charge, that Galloway had not delivered the speech he
printed, led to Galloway's preparing a reply, which he first (if we accept
Dickinson's statement) offered to a newspaper, and on its refusal to print
the reply, unless first shown to Dickinson, he printed it as a broadside,
with the headlines :

To the / Public. / Philadelphia, September 29, 1764.
Before the printing, Dickinson heard of the piece, and prepared the
following reply, which was published the same day as Galloway's squib,
and before Dickinson had seen the latter. This evident foreknowledge
caused criticism, and induced Dickinson to publish an explanation in
the Pennsylvania Gazette of October 4, 1764 :

Having heard that some Persons, on seeing a Paper that came out
Yesterday in my Name, have supposed the Printer therein mentioned
acted too busily, in giving me Intelligence of the Piece Mr. Galloway
carried to him, in order to be published in his News-Paper ; I think
myself obliged, in Justice to the Printer, to declare. That having been
informed by several Persons, without receiving the least Intelligence
from the Printer, that Mr Galloway intended to publish something
against me in the next Paper, I went to the Printer Yesterday was a
Week, and, telling him what I had heard, desired that, if there was
any Truth in the Report, he would be so just and impartial, as to print
nothing that might affect my Reputation, without allowing me to see
and answer it in the same News- Paper.

He said, that no such Writing was sent to him. — I called upon
him again next morning, and made the same Request ; but nothing
was then come to his Hands. — I told him, that if he was desired to
conceal the Paper from me, when sent, it could be with no other Inten-
tion than to injure me, by taking an unfair Advantage of me ; and I
entreated him to act in such a Manner on this Occasion, as he would
wish me to do, was I the Printer, and he the Person attacked.
The Paper was soon after carried to him. — He desired to know

136 NOTE.

whether it might be shewn to me. — To this Mr. Galloway would uct
consent ; — and the Printer then acted as he thought right.

John Dickinson.
October 2, 1764.
The Answer was originally printed as a four paged, octavo pamphlet,
without title or heading, the lining of the first three lines being :

Last Tuesday morning Mr. Galloway j carried a writing containing
some reflec- / tions on me, to a printer in this city / and desired he
would insert it in his / next News-Paper —

It was afterwards reprinted in the Pennsylvania Journal of May 2,
1765, with the following prefatory note :

Mr. Bradford. By reprinting the following piece which was pub-
lished by Mr. Dickinson, on the day of the last election, you will oblige
many of your readers , and particularly your humble servant. J. W.

—Editor.

Last Tuesday morning Mr. Galloway carried a writing
containing some reflections on me, to a printer in this city,
and desired that he would insert it in his next News Paper.
The printer told him he would print it, but that he
thought it \&ry just and reasonable^ if his paper published
anything against me, that I should see it first, and have an
opportunity of defending myself in the same News Paper,
and at the same moment that I was attacked. This Mr.
Galloway utterly refused to consent to, and declared that
he would not have it printed, unless it was kept a secret
from me. The printer would not agree to this most unjust
and unchristian proposal, and Mr. Galloway took away
the writing, and said '"''he would have it done somewhere
else.^''

Thus am I exposed to the shafts which my ungenerous
enemy shall please to shoot at me in the dark. I know
not on which side the blow is to come — nor with what
weapon it is to be given. Of this however I am assured,
that it is to be 3i poisoned weapon.

I have been informed that Mr. Galloway has procured
from some members of the assembly a certificate, ' 'that he
spoke the substance of his pretended speech in the House "
— And thus he endeavours to shew, that I have told a fals-
hood to the public by saying in my Reply, " that he never
spoke a sentence of it in the House."

As I have not seen this certificate, I cannot speak of it
with any certainty; and therefore if it is different from
what I have heard it is, I hope every candid person will
pardon any error I may commit in answering it.

I understand the certificate does not mention the day
when Mr. Galloway delivered the substance of his pre-

138 ' AN ANSWER

tended speech — Nor what the members mean by the '"''sub-
stance of it."

The public will please to take notice that there were de-
bates (as Mr. Galloway says) on Saturday the twenty-
fourth day of March last, when the resolves were past. —
There were debates also on Wednesday the twenty-third
day of May when the committee was appointed to draw up
the petition to his Majesty — at both which times I was
sick and absent from the House.

I have also informed the public in my Reply ^ that before
I made my vSpeech to the House, "I threw out general ob-
jections, in order to discover the arguments which induced
the House to take so dangerous a step. — And that there-
upon several members, among whom Mr. Galloway was
one, assigned their reasons for the measure."

These reasons were — the injustice of the proprietors — the
misery of this province — the danger from the rioters — the
great advantage of our having a military force established
among us — that able council, to wit, our agent had said we
could have a change and preserve our privileges — that the
proprietors had not so much interest as they used to have
— and that if their interest was ever so great, our privileges
would never be taken from us without an act, which the
parliament would never pass.

All these things having been mentioned by several per-
sons at different times, and part of them by Mr. Galloway^
I cannot forbear thinking that the members who signed
the certificate, having heard these things, and not care-
fully attending to the times when they were spoken, have
confounded them all together, and bestowed them upon
their friend, Mr. Galloway — as if spoken in answer to
what I said.

But even these Members do not pretend (as I am in-
formed) to say, that Mr. Galloway ever spoke in the
House, one Page^ or even one Sentence^ as I said, of his
pretended speech.

TO JOSEPH GALL OWAY. 1 39

They say "he spoke the substance^ — A loose expres-
sion ! to which every one of them perhaps annexes a dif-
ferent idea. It is not improbable that these gentlemen
might think themselves justifiable in giving such a certifi-
cate to half the members in the House.

One observation will sufficiently shew how greatly these
certifying gentlemen must be mistaken. I delivered my
sentiments to the House on Wednesday^ the 24th of May.
— The Petition to the King was signed by the Speaker on
Saturday^ the 27th of the same month. How incredible
is it, that Mr. Galloway should immediately have delivered
the ''''substance'''' of his pretended speech to the House —
and yet should spend eight weeks in putting it into form.
— If he could make the body in so short a time, it is most
extraordinary, that he could not make the cloaths or dress
for that body in eight weeks.

One thing more I beg leave to mention — it is this — that
these certifying members must have the best memories in
the world, to be able to say with certainty what was the
''''substance " of a Discourse they heard above three months
before, of which they did not take a single note.

Having said thus much of this Certificate, I will now
relate plainly what past in the House on my delivering
my sentiments, and I appeal to every member of the
House as witnesses of the truth with which I speak.

After I had spoken, Mr. Galloway rose up, and having
spoke about four minutes, it was observed that the speaker
was so ill, that it was proper to adjourn — The House
agreed to an adjournment, and I was desired to leave my
notes on the table. I excused myself from doing that, as
they were imperfect; but I said I would get them ready
for the members' perusal as soon as I could; and would let
Mr. Galloway have them that evening, if I could get them
ready.

Mr. John Ross declared, that I had thrown many new

HO AN ANSWER.

lights on the affair, and he should be glad to have it more
thoroughly considered.

The House adjourned — Mr. Galloway called on me for
the notes — they were not ready. Next morning,! took
them to the House — no person asked for them. I did the
same in the afternoon — no person asked for them.

The next time the Petition was mentioned, Mr. Gallo-
way spoke — and said "it was impossible to answer my
speech, because I had not given him my notes — and that
it was quite UNNECESSARY to do it, BECAUSE the members
who were for a change, intended to take those very pre-
cautions I had recommended.

Mr. Ross then rose and said, "that what I had said, had
at first given him a great deal of uneasiness, as I had men-
tioned several difficulties and dangers that had not before
occurred to him; but that upon considering the matter
since, he was satisfied that my apprehensions were not so
well grounded as he had thought them, because the House
intended to act in the cautious manner I had recom-
mended."

Thus IMPOSSIBLE and unnecessary was it at that time to
answer what I had said, or to take any more notice of it.

It was unworthy any further attention, till Mr. Galloway
took it into his head to set up for the author of a speech.

Then his good friends furnished him with the best
vouchers they could, to support his title as an author — and
thus the certificate was produced. The contents of it have
been basely concealed from me, to render the stab mortal
— and why am I alone attacked with this malice and vio-
lence? Because I have endeavoured according to the
best of my understanding, in obedience to the dictates of
my conscience, and in discharge of my duty to my coun-
try, to preserve the rights and privileges of the good peo-
ple of Pennsylvania. John Dickinson.

September 2g.

A RECEIPT

TO MAKE A

SPEECH.

BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

October, 1764.

NOTE.

This is a satire on the Speech of Joseph Galloway, Esquire, and shows
what hot anger the whole controversy had occasioned. It was printed as
a small quarto broadside, the headlines being.

A / Receipt / to make a / Speech. / By J G

Esquire.

Hildebum (Issues of the Press in Pennsylvania, ii, No. 2250) states
that it was printed by William Bradford. A copy in the New York His-
torical Society has a manuscript poem, in Dickinson's handwriting, on
the back.

Editor.

A RECEIPT TO MAKE A SPEECH.

BY J G , ESQUIRE.

Take of the Leaves of Law drfd in Jacob'' s'^ Hortus
Siccus, as much as will lie on the Point of a Penknive; of
History {Bauers if it can be got) a Scruple, bruised to a
Pap; of the words " Liberty, Property, Proprietary, private
Interest and Power, Injustice, Misery, Slavery, Thraldom,
Bondage, Captivity, Magic Charm," &c., &c., &c., &c.^
<2fc., two double handfuls ; add to these "Midnight
gloom," "Fatal Death" "Powers of Life" and "Vital
Motion," strengthen the Composition with Independence,
Malice, Envy, Hatred, Ill-Manners, and all kind of Un-
charitableness, well moistened with two Bottles of old
Madeira, that has been at Havana; put all these ingredi-
ents into an Empty Head, keep them covered warm (with
a large wig, well powdered, forf eight weeks, shaking
them together and stirring them about with an electrified
Rod Q.vQ.xy twenty four Hours: — The Fermentation will at
length grow very violent, and when it is highest, pour out
the Mixture, which will by that time, become very " Tur-
bid and Thick,'''' on clean t Pro Patria Paper, that has been
long kept in a damp foggy place.

This preparation has the greatest Success in giving a
flow of spirits to those who take it, of anything that was

* Hortus Siccus, is a term applied to a new Invented Method of drying
Herbs in Sand, which preserves their Colour, but destroys their Virtue.

t So long a pretended Speech was breeding.

Jin English a Term " for our own Country" from which Expression
a particular kind of Paper takes its Name.

C145)
A RECEIPT TO MAKE A SPEECH.

ever invented. A few pages will be a suflBcient Doze for
exhilerating a well grown School Boy; and such its Effi-
cacy, that if it is only opened in a Room full of Company,
it will immediately set them all a laughing. Probatum
est.

A PROTEST

AGAINST THE APPOINTMENT

OF

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

AS AGENT FOR THE

COLONY OF PENNSYLVANIA.

DRAFTED BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

October 26, 1764.

NOTE.

In order to carry out the policy begun by the petition to the king to
assume the government of Pennsylvania, the Assembly, on October 26,
1764, by a vote of 19 to 11, appointed Franklin an additional agent to act
for the colony in London, The Vo^es and Proceedings record that :

It being moved by the Members on the Negative of the foregoing
Question, that they be allowed to enter the Reasons of their Dissent on
the Minutes of the House, a Debate arose, in which some Opposition
being given to their Motion, the said members did not insist on the vote.
Eight of the protesting members, however, united in signing this pro-
test, and it was printed in the Pennsylvania Journal for November i,
1764, with a prefatory note as follows :
Mr. Bradford,

The Subscribers, at the Close of the late Debate in Assembly, con-
cerning the sending Mr. Franklin to England as an Assistant to our
Agent there, having offered a ProTEvST against that Measure ; which
was refused to be entered on the Minutes, it is now thought proper to
take this Method, of laying before the Publick the Reasons on which
their Dissent was founded.

The Protest was translated into German and printed as a pamphlet,
with the title of:

^roteflation /gegen ble S3efleffung / ^errn 53eniomlit gronltin'S 3U ctncnt STgen.
ten jflr / btefe ^JroDinj, / [Followed by] Slnmerhingcn / iicber eine neulid^e / ^ro»
tefiation/ gegen bie aSeftcIIung / §erm SJeniomtn granIUn'8 ju ctnem ?lgenten fiir
/ biefc ^rotting / [Germantown : Christoph Saur. 1764.] Fol, pp. (4.)
It was also reprinted in Horace Smith's Life and Correspondence of
William Smith (Philadelphia, 1878), from the types of which a small
edition was separately printed with the title of :

The Reasons / on which were founded, / The Protest / offered by cer-
tain members of the / Assembly to that Body / Concerning the Sending
of Mr. Franklin to England as Assistant / to our Agent there. / (From
the Pennsylvania Journal of November ist, 1764.) / Reprinted / Phila-
delphia, 1878. 8vo, pp. 4.

The authorship of the Protest was no secret at the time, and was re-

( 149)

I50 NOTE.

ferred to by Isaac Hunt, in his Humble Attempt at Scurrility (Philadel-
phia, 1765), in these terms :

Is not the famous or rather infamous. Protest, considered as the Pro-
test of Mr. A . . . n and the other Subscribers, tho' tis well known to

be drawn up by the pitiful Mr. D n, revised, corrected and

amended by the Rev. Sentiment-dresser-Ceneral [William Smith] of
thePr. . . .ry Party?"

See note to Dickinson's Observations, post, for more concerning this
Protest. Editor.

A PROTEST.

We whose Names are hereunto subscribed, do object and
protest against the Appointment of the Person proposed as
an Agent of this Province, for the following Reasons.

Firsts Because we believe him to be the Chief Author of
the Measures pursued by the late Assembly, which have
occasioned such Uneasiness and Distraction among the
good People of this Province.

Secondly^ Because we believe his fixed enmity to the
Proprietors will preclude all Accommodation of our Dis-
putes with them, even on just and reasonable Terms, — So
that for these two Reasons, we are filled with the most af-
fecting Apprehensions, that the Petitions lately trans-
mitted to England, will be made use of to produce a
Change of our Government, contrary to the Intention of
the Petitioners; the greatest part of whom, we are per-
suaded, only designed thereby to obtain a Compliance
with some equitable Demands — And thus, by such an Ap-
pointment, we, and a vast Number of our most worthy
Constituents, are deprived of all hopes of ever seeing an
End put to the fatal Dissensions of our Country; it being
our firm Opinion, that any further Prosecution of the
Measures for a Change of our Government at this Time,
will lay the Foundations of unceasing Feuds, and all
the Miseries of Confusion, among the People we repre-
sent, and their Posterity. This step gives us the more
lively Affliction, as it is taken at the very Moment, when
we are informed by a Member of this House, that the
Governor has assured him of his having received Instruc-
tions from the Proprietors, on their hearing of our late

152 A PROTEST.

Dispute, to give his Asseut to the Taxation of their Estates
in the same manner that the Estates of other Persons are
to be taxed, and also to confirm, for the Publick use, the
several Squares^ formerly claimed by the City; — On which
Subjects, we make no doubt, the Governor would have
sent a Message to the House, if this had been the usual
Time of doing Business, and he had not been necessarily
absent to meet the Assembly of the Lower Counties. — And
therefore we cannot but anxiously regret that, at a Time
when the Proprietors have shewn such a Disposition, this
House should not endeavour to cultivate the same, and ob-
tain from them every reasonable Demand that can be made
on the part of the People; in vigorously insisting on which,
we would most earnestly unite with the rest of this House.

Thirdly^ Because the Gentleman proposed, as we are in-
formed, is very unfavorably thought of by several of his
Majesty's Ministers ; and we are humbly of Opinion, that
it will be disrespectful to our most Gracious Sovereign,
and disadvantageous to ourselves and our constituents, to
employ such a person as our Agent.

Fourthly^ Because the Proposal of the Person mentioned,
is so extremely disagreeable to a very great Number of the
most serious and reputable Inhabitants of this Province of
all Denominations and Societies (one Proof of which is,
his having been rejected, both by this City and County at
the last Election, though he had represented the former in
Assembly for 14 Years) that we are convinced no Measure
this House can adopt, will tend so much to inflame the
Resentments and imbitter the Divisions of the good People
of this province, as his Appointment to be our Agent —
And we cannot but sincerely lament, that the Peace and
Happiness of Pennsylvania should be sacrificed for the
Promotion of a Man, who cannot be advanced but by the
Convulsions of his Country.

Fifthly^ Because tlie unnecessary haste with which this

A PROTEST. 153

House lias acted in proceeding to this Appointment (with-
out making a small Adjournment, tho' requested by many
Members, to consult our Constituents on the Matters to be
decided, and) even before their Speaker has been presented
to the King's Representative, tho' we are informed that
the Governor will be in Town the Beginning of next
Week; — may subject us to the Censures and very heavy
Displeasure of our most gracious Sovereign and his Minis-
ters.

Sixthly^ Because the Gentleman propos'd, has heretofore
ventured, contrary to an Act of Assembly, to place the*
public Money in the Stocks, whereby this Province suf-
fered a loss of ;^6ooo; and that sum added to ;^5C)00 granted
for his Expences, makes the whole Cost of his former voy-
age to England, amount to Eleven Thousand Pounds ;
which expensive kind of Agency we do not chuse to imi-
tate, and burden the Public with unnecessary loads of
Debt. For these and other Reasons we should think our-
selves guilty of betraying the Rights of Pennsylvania, if
we should presumptuously commit them to the Discretion
of a Man, against whom so many and just obligations pre-
sent themselves.

Lastly^ We being extremely desirous to avert the Mis-
chiefs apprehended from the intended Appointment, and
as much as in us lies to promote Peace and Unanimity
among us and our Constituents, do humbly propose to the
House, that if they will agree regularly to appoint any f
Gentleman of Integrity, Abilities, and Knowledge in
England, to assist Mr. Jackson as our Agent, under a Re-
striction not to present the Petitions for a Change of our
Government, or any of them, to the King or his Ministers,

*The Money here meant was a Sum granted by Parliament as an In-
demnification for part of our Expences in the late War, which by Act of
Assembly was ordered for its better Security to be placed in the Bank.

t Dr. Fothergill was mentioned by the Subscribers as a proper Person.
A PROTEST.

unless an express Order for that Purpose be hereafter given
by the Assembly of this Province; we will not give it any
Opposition; But if such an Appointment should be made,
we must insist (as we cannot think it a necessary one) that
our Constituents, already laboring under heavy Debts, be
not burthened with fresh Impositions on that Account;
and therefore, in Condescention to the Members, who
think another Agent necessary, we will concur with them
if they approve of this Proposal, in paying such Agent at
our own Expence.

John Dickinson,

David McCanaughy,

John Montgomery,

Isaac Sanders,

George Taylor,
October 26, 1764.

William Allen,
Thomas Willing,
George Bryan,
Amos Strettell,
Henry Keppele.

OBSERVATIONS

ON

MR. FRANKLIN'S REMARKS

ON A LATE

PROTEST.

BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

November, 1764.

NOTE.

On the publication of the Protest {ante, page 149) Franklin, then on the
point of sailing for England, wrote :

Remarks / on a late / Protest / Against the Appointment of / Mr.

Franklin an Agent / for this Province / [Philadelphia : Printed by B.

Franklin and D. Hall. 1764.] 8vo, pp. 7.
Which is also reprinted in Bigelow's edition of Franklin's Writings (lii,
356). This was in turn replied to by the Rev. William Smith in :

An / Answer / to / Mr. Franklin's / Remarks / on a late / Protest. /
Philadelphia : / Printed and Sold by William Bradford at his Book- /
Store, in Market-street, adjoining the London Coffee-house. / M.DCC-
LXIV. 8vo, pp. 22.

Dickinson also wrote a reply to Franklin, which apparently was never
published, and is now printed from the manuscript copy preserved in the
Historical Society of Pennsylvania.

Editor.

OBSERVATIONS ON M^ FRANKLIN'S REMARKS.

A? Mr Franklin's Remarks on tlie Protest against his
Appointment as an additional Agent For this Province,
were not publickly dispers'd till he had sett off from Phila-
delphia on his Voyage to England, I considered them as
a parting Blow, and that the Publication of any observa-
tions thereon in his absence, might seem ungenerous; for
which Reason, I took little Notice of the insulting Air
wherewith some persons attributed the Neglect of his Re-
marks, to their being unanswerable: But on a Republica-
tion of them in the Pensilvania Journal a fortnight after
the Author's Embarkation, all Considerations due to his ab-
sence appear' d at an End, and it became allowable if not
necessary, at a Leisure Hour, to refute such vain opinions
so industriously propagated; For which purpose, nothing
may perhaps be more effectual, than to strip said Remarks
of their artful Disguise, and consider them as consisting
chiefly.

Of Misrepresentations.

Of Curious Anecdotes.

& Of Matters Foreign to the Protest.

These last shall be slightly pass'd over, the second
briefly pointed out, and my Animadversions of course
principally confin'd to the first Head.

Its observable that in the very Introduction, the Protest
is contemptuously rank'd amongst such abusive pieces as
Mr F. would insinuate he had generally treated with silent
disregard; and in the next paragraph the bare mention of
said Protest being offered for, and refused an Entry on the
Minutes of the House, is called a Complaint^ merely to

i6o OBSERVATIONS ON

charge the Protestors with an Absurdity. But as no com-
plaint was made, no such Absurdity can be consequently
chargeable on them, and thus the Force of that — Pompous
Paragraph falls to the Ground,

When the Remarker is obliged to own his Share in (or
his being the Chief Author of) the Measures pursued by
last Assembly, which the Protest justly represents product-
ive of Uneasiness and Distraction amongst the good Peo-
ple of this Province, he attempts to evade the consequence,
by confounding the order of Time, and misleading his
Readers — into an opinion that the Publick Uneasiness and
Distraction pointed out in the protest, had preceded, not
follow'd said Measures; for which he gives what some may
esteem unanswerable proof, Viz., his own assertion, in-
tirely unsupported, and unexplain'd:

he can as I conceive only mean the Confusion and Dis-
orders produced by the Paxton Rioters, — which had sub-
sided long before the extroadinary Resolves of last As-
sembly, and the subsequent measures, which (as set forth
in the Protest) confessedly occasioned a more serious Un-
easiness, a more lasting Distraction, and finally rous'd a
Majority of the Electors of this Capital County, (who had
generally suffered the first of October to pass unregarded
by them for many preceding Years,) to chuse new Mem-
bers in the place of M^ F. and some others, who had sig-
naliz'd themselves as the chief Authors and Supporters of
said Measures.

Ono: favourite Step further back, falling under the third
General Head, there I leave it, being equally incapable of
understanding that the late Indian Ravages have been no
cause of uneasiness^ or that any Act of the Proprietors oc-
casiofied those Ravages. Whether the Protesters Informa-
tion that Mr F. is now very unfavourably thought of by
several of his Majestys Ministers, is essentially weakened by
his own sole unsupported apprehension that their Informer

MR. FRANKLIN'S REMARKS. i6i

is mistaken, can only be left to the impartial Judgment of
Well inform'd Readers: — I am too little acquainted with
the Black History of private Scandal to follow Mr F. fur-
ther in that Paragraph, its falling under my third General
Head will likewise excuse me; I shall therefore only point
out an Anecdote or two which must carry weight, having
the Remarker himself for their Author, altho' his friends
might perhaps have clamour' d loudly, had any other per-
son said, that "The great Patriot M^ F. ever since he had
"any Influence in the Province of Pensilvania, has con-
"stantly and uniformly promoted the Measures of the
"Crown." And that the same Patriot openly avows
"promoting the Change from a Proprietary to a Royal
"Government." What would have been thought of such
Principles two years ago ? Could the Freemen of Pensil-
vania have swallow' d them contentedly? How happens it
now, that any Lovers of their Country can fondly wish to
risque their invaluable Charter Priviledges in this Man's
Hands ? Are not such infatuated ?

If sufficient objections against his appointment had not
been offered in the Protest, he has now himself given such
as are unanswerable; his Abilitys are notwithstanding con-
fessedly great, and the Publick already experiences small
Specimen of the curious Schemes which may in time be
expected from so projecting an Head, to which we are not
a little indebted for that excellent Clause in the ;^55000
Act pass'd during the Session of last Assembly in May,
1764, obliging every Freeholder to make his or her Return
of Property, in Columns &c: should any one imagine that
inconvenient exposures of Private Property, hazard of in-
curring thro' inadvertence or neglect a double or fourfold
taxation, great disgust, and abundance of unnecessary
charge and trouble, may be occasioned by said Clause
throughout the whole Province — Is all this to be plac'd in
Competition with the Gratification of a few Patriots Re-

i62 OBSERVATIONS ON

sentment against Mr T. P. & their Curiosity to pry into
the Proprietary Income? when such disinterested Patriot-
ick Ends were to be answered, did they attend to this
trifling Consideration, that the utmost possible addition
from Messrs Penn's Estate to the publick Tax, cannot
amount to one eighth part of the extra expence incurr'd
by pursuing this curious Plan ?

In the protest it was alleg'd ^^y^y " Because the Proposal
"of the Person mentioned, is so extremely disagreable to
"a very great Number of the most serious and reputable
"Inhabitants of this Province of all Denominations and
"Societies, (one proof of which is, his having been re-
"jected, both by this City and County at the last Election,
"though he had represented the former in Assembly for
"14 years) that we are convinced no Measure this House
"can adopt, will tend so much to inflame the Resent-
"ments and imbitter the Divisions of the good People of
"this Province, as his Appointment to be our Agent" —
which Mr F. quotes thus, "Another of your Reasons is,
"that the Proposal of me for an Agent, is extremely dis-
" agreeable to a very great Number of the most serious
"and reputable Inhabitants of the Province; and the
"Proof is, my having been rejected at the last Election,
"tho' I had represented the City in Assembly for 14
Years. ' '

By this artful variation what the Protesters call'd one
proofs and by including it in a Parenthesis evidently laid
small Stress thereon, Mr F. represents as the Sole proof ai
their assertion — For what purpose — his triumphant in-
sults and shocking Abuse in the two next Paragraphs
plainly shew. — It is sufficient however, that by a fair quo-
tation from the Protest, and his remarks, I have remov'd
this fictitious Foundation, the whole Superstructure must
at once fall, and the protest be clear'd from that Ideal
Victory. — But the Rancour unguardedly thrown out by the

MR. FRANKLIN'S REMARKS. 163

Remark er on that occasion — will remain on Record. —
Could a Majority of the Freemen of Philadelphia County
a few Years ago have expected that so great a Patriot
would in resentment for their only taking upon them to
reject him once in 14 years, have insulted them by the
opprobrious appellation of wretched Rabble brought to
swear themselves intituled to a Vote, and charg'd them
with the Guilt of numberless Falshoods and Perjuries?
Could it have been imagined that a Gentleman who had
long sat in the Honourable House of Assembly should be
so far lost to Decency as publickly to charge a Number of
the present Members of Assembly, with Artifices at the
Election, with double Tickets, and whole Boxes of Forged
Votes — when they are perfectly innocent of every part of
said Charge — if not, let those who republish' d Mr F's re-
marks, prove them guilty, and shew the World how
strictly their Patron related the whole Truth concerning
said Artifices, double Tickets, and whole Boxes of forged
Votes — a Transition might here be made from the pre-
tended Triumph wherewith M^ F. affects to ridicule the
Protesters, to that vainglorious Triumph actually puff 'd
off at his Embarkation, for which silly Pageantry, ship
Guns were borrow'd in Philadelphia, and sent down to
Chester — the use there made of them, with other vain
Exultations are unworthy repetition.

Mr F, proceeds to censure the Protestors for reciting the
Governor's own expressions in Conversation with a Mem-
ber of the House, and not making use of other words
which Mr F. thinks would have been more proper — and
on this also he exults immoderately. Let the impartial
Reader judge with how much reason, and determine
whether a Member of the House in repeating assurances
from the Governor, was at Liberty to change his words,
and put in others better suited either to his own Inclina-
tion, or that of the House: — if not, then all M^ F's. affected

1 64 OBSERVATIONS ON

Ridicule is without foundation, and must have been only
calculated to amuse, or irritate. — Something further seems
attempted in the Query & Insinuations which follow, and
the introduction of an Extract from Messrs D. B. & Sons
private Letter to Messrs J. & D.,* but with what Propriety
all these are discharg'd upon the Protestors, Let me now
examine: The Governor just before his setting out to meet
the Assembly of the lower Countys, & at a time when he
expected the Assembly of Pensilvania were on the point
of adjourning to the usual Season of doing Business, had
some conversation with a particular Member, which that
Gentleman on finding such Measures likely to be pursued
by the House as he concluded they would wave if appriz'd
of the Substance of said Conversation, thereupon thought
himself in Duty obliged to communicate it to the House,
from a View to the Publick Good; the little regard shew
to so seasonable and well design' d an Intimation, affected
the Protesters in the manner they set forth. This is truly
all their Concern in the matter, yet behold! how are they
interrogated, censured, and abused! This I believe is the
first time Members of Assembly were ever traduced for
supposed Faults of a Governor, and I should have thought
Mr F. the last Man upon Earth to have done so: — as to
Messrs B's, their sincere regard and friendship for the
Proprietors & people of this Province in general, and M^
A. in particular, is well known; common charity would
therefore lead every humane candid person to conclude
they must either have misunderstood the Proprietors con-
cerning Mr A., or inadvertently express'd themselves in
said Letter; — and in case such orders or Instructions as
M^ F. supposes, were really sent by M^ A. to the Gover-
nor; as I have not discours'd his Honour on ye Subject, I
can assign no sufficient reason why they were not laid be-

*From David Barclay & Sons to James & Drinker, Cf. Franklin's
Remarks on a late Protest. — Ed.

MR. FRANKLIN'S REMARKS. 165

fore the last Assembly in September, or the present im-
mediately after the Speakers Presentment: — If there are
any Faults either in Governor, or Assembly, let them fall
were they ought, but I conceive nothing can justify M^
F's. Treatment of the Protesters in this and his next Para-
graph when considered as Members of the present As-
sembly:— perhaps the aflfected Eminence from whence as
the Guard with assum'd Grandeur as a powerful Guar-
dian of the Rights of Pensilvania he would seem to look
down, may not be found more proper or decent, than the
freedom he takes with the Proprietors and the Protester's
Characters.

Their 6^^ Objection against his Appointment, he calls
an high Charge, and would insinuate being unfairly laid
before the Publick, by a concealment 'of some part of the
Truth which ought to have been told; whereto I answer, a
Concise Style is requisite in Protests, a Note however was
inserted to explain the Fact alluded to, and was sufficient
to direct any person to more Light in the matter than he
has thought proper to impart; the use made of it by the
Protesters, was only to shew that M^ F. when formerly in
a publick Station in England, had shewn himself a very
venturesome and expensive Gentleman, which discourag'd
the Protesters from entrusting the invaluable priviledges
of the Freemen of Pensilvania into his Hands, and in-
duced them rather to think of employing some Gentleman
residing in England, who might transact the Business as
well, and afford to do it much cheaper. M^ F. has estab-
lished the Protesters account of his expence, amounting to
;^50oo but would fain exculpate himself from the Loss of
/'6000 to the Province, by throwing the Odium on the
Assembly of 175 — who he says, not only adopted the
measure of placing that money in the Stocks, but even
passed a Bill directing the subsequent Sums granted
by Parliament to be plac'd with the former — whereupon

1 66 OBSERVATIONS ON

the Reader has probably absolv'd him from the high
Charge of being a venturesome Man. — But I must now
discover a part of the Truth, which directly after his for-
mal Harrangue concerning the Truth, the whole Truths
and nothing but the Truth, it suited his purpose to con-
ceal, viz: The Bill pass'd as above mentioned by the
House only^ was refus'd by the Governor, consequently
never became a Law, but the former directing the Money
to be lodg'd in the Bank continued an unrepealed Act of
General Assembly notwithstanding which, a Majority of
the Representatives in Assembly for the Year 175 — who
were M^ F's Friends, took upon them to give him di-
rections to act contrary to said Law, and he was venture-
some enough so to do; I therefore now repeat in the words
of the Protest, "That M^ F. has heretofore ventured con-
"trary to an Act of Assembly to place the Publick money
*'in the Stocks, whereby this Province suffered a loss of
";^6ooo," and I say further, that in a Man of his Under-
standing, who well knew the Assembly had no Authority
to dispense with Law, it was a very venturesome and un-
warrantable act, and appears to many beside the Protesters,
a sufficient Reason against entrusting to his Discretion
the Rights of this Province.

The Remarker proceeds to triumph over and ridicule
Mr A, because he joyns with the Protesters, altho' he had
formerly been on the Committee who examin'd Mr F's
acct. and reported it just, and afterwards propos'd for the
Honour and Justice of the House, that the Compensation
of ;^5000 should be made him : — these Instances would
on the contrary reflect high Honour on Mr A if notwith-
standing his dislike to Mr F. (and as the Remarker says
being his Enemy of 7 years standing,) he did not suffer
his Resentment to prevail against Justice, but of all
others was the very Member that propos'd an handsome
recompense to an Agent employ' d by the House, altho' by

MR. FRANKLIN'S REMARKS. 167

himself particularly dislik'd, and cheerfully joyn'd with
the rest of the Comittee, in certifying his account of £']^\
10" ']' expended in the Service of the Province to be just,
when upon examination it was found so: — but all this
neither demonstrates good Policy in sending Mr F. to
England, nor removes the Plea that a Resident there, may
aflford to serve the Province cheaper, and in many respects
transact Publick Business to better advantage.

I shall conclude with pointing out an Anecdote on Mr
F's own Authority concerning the judicious TrafiSck in
Stocks at the risque of this Province: — The Protesters
have said, that by his venturing contrary to an Act of As-
sembly to place the Publick money in the Stocks, ;^6ooo.
was lost to the Province. —

But it's really pieasaftt to observe, how M^ F. in his
great zeal for once to discover the whole Truth., has not
only attempted to shift this Game from himself upon the
Assembly of 175 , but loaded a succeeding Assembly with
a further Loss of £(yooo. by declaring i^t "that the Loss
' ' arose not from placing the Money in the Stocks, but
"from the imprudent and unnecessary Drawing it out at
'*the very time when they were lowest, on some slight un-
" certain Rumours of a Peace concluded."
& 2^ "That if the Assembly had let it remain another
"Year, instead of losing they would have gained Six
" Thousand Pounds^ Thus Mr F. by ingeniously accu-
mulating neglected Gain with actual Loss., exaggerates
what the Protesters modestly computed only ;^6ooo. to the
prodigious Sum of ;^i2,ooo. and fixes that whole Loss upon
his good friends of the Assembly, at same time charging
them with the Pursuit of imprudent unnecessary Meas-
ures., founded on slight uncertain Rumours. What may his
Enemies expect, if he continues to use his Friends thus!

Finis.

RESOLUTIONS

ADOPTED BY THE

ASSEMBLY OF PENNSYLVANIA

RELATIVE TO THE

STAMP ACT.

DRAFTED BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

September 21, 176^.

NOTE.

On September 20, 1765, the Pennsylvania Assembly took action on the
Stamp Act, reported in their Vbies and Proceedings (v, 425), in these
words :

The House taking into Consideration the Condition to which the
Colonies are, and must be, reduced, in case the Stamp Act, with other
late Acts of Parliament for restricting their Trade, should be carried
into Execution, and continued upon them ; and being of Opinion, that
it is incumbent on this Assembly, before they separate, to leave some
Memorial on their Minutes, by which their Successors may be ac-
quainted with the Sentiments they entertain of those unconstitutional
Impositions ;

Ordered, That Mr. Strettell, Mr. Willing, Mr. Knight, Mr Pearson,
Mr. Wright, Mr. Allen and Mr. Ross be a Committee to prepare and
bring in a Draught of such Resolves as may become the House to draw
up, and enter in their Journals, upon this Occasion. . .

The Committee appointed to bring in Resolves upon the Stamp Act,
and other late Acts of Parliament concerning the Colonies, reported
they had essayed a Draught for that Purpose, which they presented to
the Chair, where the same being read, and unanimously agreed to by
the House, were ordered to be entered in the Journals, and follow in
these words, viz. . .

Although Dickinson was not a member of this Committee, he prepared
a draft, the similarity of which with the resolutions as adopted indicates
that he was practically the scribe of the committee. This draft is printed
from the original preserved among his own papers. The text as adopted
is from the Votes and Proceedings, v, 426.

Editor.

STAMP ACT RESOLUTIONS.

DICKINSON'S DRAFT.

Resolved, ist. That the
Constitution of Government
in this Province, is founded
on the natural Rights of
Mankind, and the noble
Principles of English Lib-
erty, and is therefore per-
fectly free.

Resolved, 2ly. That in the
opinion of this House, it is
inseparably essential to a
free Constitution of Govern-
ment, that all internal Taxes

RESOLUTIONS AS ADOPTED.

The House taking into
Consideration, that an Act
of Parliament has lately
passed in England, for im-
posing certain Stamp Duties
on his Majesty's subjects in
America, whereby they con-
ceive some of their most es-
sential and valuable Rights,
as British Subjects, to be
deeply affected, think it a
Duty they owe to them-
selves and their Posterity, to
come to the following Reso-
lutions, viz.

Resolved, N. C. D. i.
That the Assemblies of this
Province have, from Time
to Time, whenever requi-
sitions have been made by
his Majesty, for carrying on
military Operations, for the
Defence of America, most
cheerfully and liberally con-
tributed their full Propor-
tion of Men and Money for
those services.

Resolved, N. C. D. 3.
174

STAMP ACT RESOLUTIONS.

be levied upon the People
with their consent.

Resolved, 3ly. That the
sole Power and authority to
levy Taxes upon the Inhab-
itants of this Province, is
vested in the Crown or its
Representative, and in the
Assembly for the Time be-
ing, elected according to
law.

Resolved, 4ly. That the
People of this Province have
constantly from its first set-
tlement exercised and en-
joyed, and ought to the latest
Posterity to exercise & en-
joy, this exclusive Right of
levying Taxes upon them-
selves.

Resolved, 5ly. That the
levying Taxes upon the In-
habitants of this Province
in any other Manner^ being
manifestly subversive of
public Liberty, must of ne-
cessary Consequence be ut-
terly destructive of public
Happiness.

Resolved, 61y. That a
Trial by Jury on every ac-
cusation in a Court of Jus-
tice, is the inherent and
estimable Privilege of every
Freeman of this Province,

That whenever his Ma-
jesty's Service shall, for the
future, require the Aids of
the Inhabitants of this Prov-
ince, and they shall be called
upon for that Purpose in a
constitutional Way, it will
be their indispensable Duty
most chearfully and liberally
to grant to his Majesty their
Proportion of Men and
Money for the Defence, Se-
curity, and other Public
Services of the British
American Colonies.

Resolved, N. C. D. 3.
That the Inhabitants of this
Province are entitled to all
the Liberties, Rights and
Privileges of his Majesty's
Subjects in Great Britain,
or elsewhere, and that the
Constitution of Government
in this Province is founded
on the Natural Rights of
Mankind, and the noble
Principles of English Lib-
erty, and therefore is, or
ought to be, perfectly free.

Resolved, N. C. D. 4.
That it is the inherent birth-
right and indubitable Privi-
lege, of every British Sub-
ject, to be taxed only by his
Consent, or that of his legal

STAMP ACT RESOLUTIONS.
which cannot be violated
without breaking down the
sacred Bulwark erected by
the Virtue and Wisdom of
our ancestors, for the Pro-
tection of Life, and of every
Blessing that renders it val-
uable.

Resolved, 7ly. That it is
the opinion of this House
that the Restraints imposed
by several late acts of Par-
liament on the Trade of this
Province, at a Time when
the People labour under an
enormous Load of Debt,
must of necessity be at-
tended with the most fatal
Consequences.

Resolved, Sly. That it is
the opinion of this House,
that the Prosperity of this
Province depends on the
Preservation of its Rights,
and the Continuance of an
aflfectionate and advantage-
ous Intercourse with Great
Britain which must prove
equally beneficial to that
Kingdom.

Resolved, gly. That there-
fore it is the indispensable
Duty of this House to the
best of Sovereigns, whose
truly paternal Tenderness

Representatives, in Conjunc-
tion with His Majesty, or
his Substitutes.

Resolved, N. C. D. 5.
That the only legal Repre-
sentatives of the Inhabitants
of this Province are the per-
sons they annually elect to
serve as Members of the As-
sembly.

Resolved therefore, N. C.
D. 6. That the Taxation of
the People of this Province
by any other Persons what-
soever than such their Rep-
resentatives in Assembly, is
unconstitutional, and is sub-
versive to their most valua-
ble Rights.

Resolved, N. C. D. 7.
That the laying Taxes upon
the Inhabitants of this Prov-
ince in any other Manner,
being manifestly subversive
of public Liberty, must of
necessary' Consequence, be
utterly destructive of public
Happiness.

Resolved, N. C. D. 8.
That the vesting an Author-
ity in the Courts of Admir-
alty to decide in Suits relat-
ing to the Stamp Duty, and
other Matters, foreign to
their proper Jurisdiction, is
STAMP ACT RESOLUTIONS.

ever interests itself in the
Welfare of his snbjects, to
the Mother Country and to
this Province, with all Loy-
alty, Respect & Zeal, by
every prudent Measure firm-
ly to endeavor to procure a
Repeal of the Stamp Act, &
of the late Acts for the Re-
striction of American Com-
merce.

highly dangerous to the Lib-
erties of his Majesty's Amer-
ican Subjects, contrary to
Magna Charta, the great
Charter and Fountain of
English Liberty, and de-
structive of one of their most
darling and acknowledged
Rights, that of Trials by
Juries.

Resolved, N. C. D. 9.
That it is the Opinion of
this House, that the Re-
straints imposed by several
late Acts of Parliament on
the Trade of this Province,
at a Time when the People
labour under an enormous
Load of Debt, must of Ne-
cessity be attended with the
most fatal Consequences, not
only to this Province, but to
the Trade of our Mother
Country.

Resolved, N. C. D. 10.
That this House think it
their duty thus firmly to as-
sert, with Modesty and De-
cency, their inherent Rights,
that their Posterity may
learn and know, that it was
not with their Consent and
and Acquiescence, that any
Taxes should be levied on
them by any persons but

STAMP A CT RESOL UTIONS. 177

their own Representatives ;
and are desirous that these
their Resolves should Re-
main on their Minutes, as a
Testimony of their Zeal and
ardent Desire of the present
House of Assembly to pre-
serve their inestimable
Rights, which, as English-
men, they have possessed
ever since this Province was
settled, and to transmit them
to their latest Posterity.

THE

DECLARATION OF RIGHTS

ADOPTED

BY THE

STAMP ACT CONGRESS.

DRAFTED BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

October 19, 176^.

NOTE.

The action of Pennsylvania in regard to the Stamp Act Congress is best
told in the Votes and Proceedings of the House of Representatives of
Pennsylvania^ (V, 419-421), where it is recorded :

Mr. Speaker laid before the House a Letter received in their Recess
from the Honourable Samuel White, Esq ; Speaker of the Massachu-
setts Assembly . . .

The House resumed the Consideration of the Letter from the Speaker
of the Massachusetts Assembly, which was again read by Order ; and
after some Time spent in Debate thereon, the same was issued by the
following Questions, viz. :

Whether it is the opinion of this House that, in Duty to their Con-
stituents, they ought to remonstrate to the Crown against the Stamp
Act, and other late Acts of Parliament, by which heavy Burdens have
been laid on the Colonies ? Resolved in the Affirmative, N. C. D,

Whether this House will appoint a Committee of three, or more, of
their Members, to attend the Congress, proposed in the foregoing Letter
to be held at New York on the first of next Month, for the Purposes
mentioned in the said Letter ? Resolved in the Affirmative.

Ordered, That Mr. Dickinson, Mr. Bryan, Mr. Morton, Mr. Knight,
Mr. Sanders, Mr. M'Connaughy, Mr. Allen and Mr. Taylor be a Com-
mittee to prepare and bring in a Draught of Instructions for the Depu-
ties to be sent from this House to the said Congress . . .

The House resumed the Consideration of their Resolution of Yester-
day, to appoint a Committee of three, or more, of their Members to at-
tend the general Congress of Committees from the several Assemblies
on this Continent, to be held at New York on the first of October next,
and, after some time spent therein.

Resolved, That Mr. Speaker, Mr. Dickinson, Mr. Bryan, and Mr,
Morton, be, and they are, hereby nominated and appointed to attend
that Service.

The Committee appointed to prepare the Instructions for the Dele-
gates from this House to the proposed Congress at New York, on the
first of next Month, reported they had made an Essay for that Pur-
pose, which they presented to the Chair, and the same being read, and
agreed to by the House, follows in these Words, viz.

1 82 NOTE.

Instructions to the Committee appointed to meet the Committees of the
other British Continental Colonies at New York.
It is directed by the House that you shall, v?ith the Committees that
have been, or shall be, appointed by the several British Colonies on
this Continent, to meet at Kew York, consult together on the present
Circumstances of the Colonies, and the DiflBculties they are and must
be reduced to by the late Acts of Parliament for levying Duties and
Taxes upon them, and join with the said Committees in loyal and
dutiful Addresses to the King, and the two Houses of Parliament,
humbly presenting the condition of these Colonies, and imploring Re-
lief by the Repeal of the said Acts. And you are strictly required to
take Care that such Addresses, in which you join, are drawn up in the
most decent and respectful Terms, so as to avoid every Expression that
can give the least occasion of Offence to his Majesty, or to either House
of Parliament.

You are also directed to make a Report of your Proceedings herein
to the succeeding Assembly.

The Speaker, Fox, did not go to the Congress, but the remaining three
attended, and though Dickinson left before the Congress had completed
its work, he was most prominent in its work, drafting for it the " Declara-
tion of Rights" and the "Petition to the King," (see post). In the
Journal of the First Congress (New York, 1845) the former, it is true, was
claimed to have been drawn by John Cruger ; but no authority is given,
while a MS. in the Dickinson Papers distinctly states that "he [Dickin-
son] drew the resolves," and his rough draft was included In his Polit-
ical Writings, i, 93. This draft, and the Declaration as finally adopted,
are printed in parallel columns.

This " Declaration of Rights," or rather what was "said to be a copy,"
was first made public in the Providence Gazette in March, 1766, and from
that was quickly republished in all the papers in the Colonies. It was
first given with pseudo-authority in the Authentic Account of the Pro-
ceedings of the Congress held at New York. \_London .•] MDCCLXVII.

Editor.

RESOLUTIONS OF STAMP ACT CONGRESS.

DICKINSON'S DRAFT.

We, the Deputies from the
colonies of Massachusetts
Bay, Rhode Island, Connec-
ticut, New York, New Jer-
sey, Pennsylvania, the lower
Counties on Delaware, Mary-
land, and South Carolina,
in general congress assem-
bled, Declare,

1. That his majesty's sub-
jects in these colonies, owe

RESOLUTIONS AS ADOPTED.

The members of this con-
gress, sincerely devoted,
with the warmest sentiments
of affection and duty to his
majesty's person and gov-
ernment, inviolably attached
to the present happy estab-
lishment of the protestant
succession, and with minds
deeply impressed by a sense
of the present and impend-
ing misfortunes of the Brit-
ish colonies on this conti-
nent, having considered as
maturely as time would per-
mit, the circumstances of
said colonies, esteem it our
indispensable duty to make
the following declarations,
of our humble opinions, re-
specting the most essential
rights and liberties of the
colonists, and of the griev-
ances under which they
labor, by reason of several
late acts of parliament.

I. Resolved, That his Ma-
jesty's Subjects in these col-

C183)

1 84

RESOLUTIONS OF

the same allegiance to the
crown of Great Britain^ that
is due from his subjects born
within the realm.

2. That all acts of parlia-
ment, not inconsistent with
the principles of freedom,
are obligatory on the colon-
ists.

3. That his Majesty's
liege subjects in these col-

V onies, are as free as his sub-
jects in Great Britain.

4. That it is inseparably
essential to the freedom of
a people, that no taxes be
laid upon them, but with
their own consent given per-
sonally, or by their repre-
sentatives.

5. That the people of
these colonies are not, and
from local circumstances
cannot be represented in the
house of commons in Great
Britain.

6. That the only repre-
sentatives of the people of
these colonies, are the per-
sonS chosen therein by them-
selves for that purpose.

7. That no taxes can be
constitutionally imposed on
the people of these colonies,
but by their grants made in

onies owe the same Alle-
giance to the Crown of Great
Britain, that is owing from
his Subjects born within the
Realm, and all due Subor-
dination to that august Body
the Parliament of Great
Britain.

II. That his Majesty's
liege Subjects in these Colo-
nies, are intitled to all the
inherent Rights and Liber-
ties of his natural born sub-
jects within the Kingdom
of Great Britain.

III. That it is inseparably
essential to the Freedom of
a People, and the undoubted
Right of Englishmen, that
no Tax be imposed upon
them, but with their own
Consent, given personally,
or by their Representatives.

IV. That the People of
these Colonies are not, and
from their local Circum-
stances, cannot be repre-
sented in the House of Com-
mons in Great Britain.

V. That the only Repre-
sentatives of the People of
these Colonies, are the Per-
sons chosen therein by them-
selves ; and that no Taxes
ever have been, or can be,

STAMP ACT CONGRESS.
person or by their represen-
tatives.

8. That the power of
granting supplies to the
crown in Great Britain be-
longing solely to the com-
mons, and consequently all
such grants being only gifts
of the people to the crown,
it therefore involves an in-
consistency with the princi-
ple and spirit of the British
constitution, and with rea-
son, for the commons of
Great Britain to undertake
to give to his majesty, ac-
cording to the terms of the
late act of parliament, enti-
tuled, " An act for granting
certain duties in the British
colonies and plantations in
America," &c., the property
of the colonists.

9. That trial by jury is
the inherent and invaluable
right of every freeman in
these colonies.

10. That the late act of
parliament passed in the
fifth year of his majesty's
reign, entituled, "An act
for granting and applying
certain stamp duties and
other duties, in the British
colonies and plantations in

constitutionally imposed on
them but by their respective
L^egislatures.

VI. That all Supplies to
the Crown being free Gifts
of the People, it is unreason-
able, and inconsistent with
the Principles and Spirit of
the British Constitution, for
the People of Great Britain
to grant to his Majesty the
Property of the Colonies.

VII. That trials by jury
are the inherent and invalu-
able right of every British
Subject in these Colonies.

VIII. That the late Act
of Parliament, intitled, "An
Act for granting certain
Stamp Duties, and other
Duties, in the British Col-
onies and Plantations in
America," &c., by imposing
Taxes on the Inhabitants of
these Colonies, and the said
Act, and several other Acts,
by extending the Jurisdic-
tion of the Courts of Ad-
miralty beyond its ancient
Limits, have a Tendency to
subvert the Rights and Lib-
erties of the Colonists.

IX. That the Duties im-
posed by several Acts of
Parliament, from the pecu-

1 86

RESOLUTIONS OF

America," and by imposing
taxes on the inhabitants of
these colonies, and by ex-
tending the jurisdiction of
the courts of admiralty, is
subversive of their most
sacred rights and liberties.

11. That the duties im-
posed by the said first men-
tioned act, will be, from the
peculiar circumstances of
these colonies, extremely
grievous and burthensome.

12. That the restrictions
imposed by several late acts
of parliament on the trade
of these colonies, must of
necessity be attended by con-
sequences very detrimental
to the interests of Great
Britain and America.

13. That the prosperity of
these colonies depends on
the reservation of their
rights and liberties, and an
intercourse with Great Brit-
ain mutually affectionate
and advantageous.

14. That it is the indis-
pensable duty of the colonies
to the best of sovereigns, to
the mother country, and to
themselves, to endeavour by
legal and dutiful addresses
to his majesty, and both

liar Circumstances of these
Colonies, will be extremely
burthensome and grievous,
and, from the Scarcity of
Specie, the Payment of them
absolutely impracticable.

X. That the Profits of the
Trade of these Colonies, ul-
timately center in Great
Britain, to pay for the Man-
ufactures which they are
obliged to take from thence,
they eventually contribute
very largely to all Supplies
granted there to the Crown.

XI. That the Restrictions
imposed by several late Acts
of Parliament, on the Trade
of these Colonies, will render
them unable to purchase the
Manufactures of Great Brit-
ain.

XII. That the Increase,
Prosperity and Happiness
of these Colonies depend on
the full and free Enjoyment
of their Rights and Liber-
ties, and an Intercourse with
Great Britain, mutually af-
fectionate and advantageous.

XIII. That it is the Right
of the British Subjects in
these Colonies, to petition
the King, or either House
of Parliament.

STAMP ACT CONGRESS.
houses of parliament, to pro-
cure the repeal of the "act
for granting and applying
certain stamp duties," of all
clauses whereby the juris-
diction of the admiralty is
extended as aforesaid, and
of the other late acts for the
restriction of American com-
merce.

15. That it is the right of
the British subjects on this
continent to petition the
king, and lords and com-
mons in parliament assem-
bled, whenever they judge
their liberties and interests
to be so far affected, as to
render such applications
necessary.

Lastly. That it is the in-
despensable Duty of these
Colonies to the best of Sov-
ereigns, to the Mother-coun-
try and themselves, to en-
deavor, by a loyal and dutiful
Address to his Majesty and
humble Applications to both
Houses of Parliament, to
procure the Repeal of the
Act for granting certain
Stamp Duties, of all Clauses
of any other Act of Parlia-
ment, whereby the Jurisdic-
tion of the Admiralty is ex-
tended, as aforesaid, and of
other Acts for the Restric-
tion of American Commerce.

A PETITION

TO THE

KING

FROM THE

STAMP ACT CONGRESS

DRAFTED BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

October 19, 176^.

NOTE.

On October 19, the Stamp Act Congress "Upon motion, voted, That
Robert R. Livingston, William Samuel Johnson, and William Murdock,
Esqs., be a committee to prepare an address to his majesty and lay the
same before the congress on Monday next." On that day a draft was
reported, and "after sundry amendments, the same was approved by
the congress, and ordered to be engrossed." According to the report of
his fellow members {Votes and Proceedings, v, 437) ''before the Ad-
dresses were finished, Mr. Dickinson was called Home on urgent Busi-
ness," yet in spite of that and his not being on the Committee, he seems
to have drafted this Petition to the King. Among the Dickinson MSS.
is a printed copy of this petition, clipped from the Pennsytvania Gazette,
with a MS. Note, which states that Dickinson "drew the resolves, and
the petition to the Crown, which was altered, particularly in the title
and middle of it, after he left the congress." And the petition so printed
is corrected in Dickinson's handwriting, presumably to make it conform
to his draft, and indicate the alterations made in it by the congress. As
printed here, the text follows Dickinson's changes, the amendments of
the congress being given in the fobt notes.

Editor.

«lS»^ «<?!(* ?^

^ ? ^^a^

^^s^gi^^^^^^^

7(7 />^^ KING^S Most Excellent Majesty^ The Petition of
the Freeholders^ and other Inhabitants of the MassachU'
setts Bay^ Rhode Island^ and Providence Plantations^ New
fersey^ Pennsylvania^ the Government of the Counties
New Castle^ Kent and Sussex^ upon Delaware^ Province
of Maryland^ &c.

Most Humbly Sheweth,

That the Inhabitants of these Colonies, unanimously de-
voted with the warmest Sentiments of Duty and Aflfectioii
to your Majesty's sacred Person and Government, inviol-
ably attached to the present happy Establishment of the
Protestant Succession in your illustrious House, and deeply
sensible of your Royal Attention to their Prosperity and
Happiness, humbly beg Leave to approach the Throne,
and represent * to your Majesty, that these Colonies were
originally planted by Subjects of the British Crown, who,
animated with the Spirit of Liberty, encouraged by your
Majesty's Royal Predecessors, and confiding in the public
Faith for the Enjoyment of all the Rights and Liberties
essential to Freedom, emigrated from their native Country
to this Continent, and by their successful Perseverance in
the Midst of innumerable Dangers and Difficulties,! with
a Profusion of their Blood and Treasure, have happily
added these vast and valuable Dominions to the Empire of
Great Britain.

That for the Enjoyment of these Rights and Liberties,
several Governments were early formed in the said Col-
onies, with full power of legislation, agreeable to the Prin-
ciples of the English Constitution.

* Altered by the Congress to read "Throne, by representing." — Ed.
fThe word " together" inserted by the Congress. — Ed.

194 PETITION FROM

That under those Governments these Rights and Liber-
ties, * thus vested in their Ancestors, and transmitted to their
Posterity, have been exercised and enjoyed, and by the in-
estimable Blessings thereof, under the Favour of Almighty
God, the inhospitable Deserts of America have been con-
verted into flourishing Countries; Science, Humanity, and
the Knowledge of divine Truths, diffused through remote
Regions of Ignorance, Infidelity and Barbarism; the Num-
ber of British Subjects wonderfully increased, and the
Wealth and Power of Great-Britain proportionably aug-
mented.

That by Means of these Settlements, and the unparal-
lelled Success of your Majesty's Arms, a foundation is now
laid for rendering the British Empire the most extensive
and powerful of any recorded in History; our Connection
with this Empire, we esteem our greatest Happiness and
Security, and humbly conceive it may now be so estab-
lished by your Royal Wisdom, as to endure to the latest
Period of Time. This, with most humble Submission to
your "Majesty, we apprehend will be most effectually ac-
complished, by fixing the Pillars thereof on lyiberty and
Justice, and securing the inherent Rights and Liberties of
your Subjects here, upon the principles of the English
Constitution. To this Constitution these two Principles
are essential, the Right of your faithful Subjects freely to
grant to your Majesty such Aids as are required for the
Support of your Government over them, and other public
Exigencies, and Trials by their Peers. By the one, they
are secured from unreasonable Impositions, and by the
other, from arbitrary decisions of the executive Power.
The Continuation of these Liberties to the Inhabitants of
America, we ardently implore, as absolutely necessary to
unite the several Parts of your widely extended Dominions

* "Rights and " struck out by the Congress.— £"</.

THE STAMP ACT CONGRESS. 195

in that Harmony, so essential to the Preservation and
Happiness of the whole. Protected in these I^iberties, the
Emoluments Great Britain receives from us, however great
at present, are inconsiderable, compared with those she
has the fairest Prospect of acquiring. By this Protec-
tion, she will forever secure to herself the Advantage of
conveying to all Europe the Merchandizes which America
furnishes, and of supplying thro' the same Channel what-
ever is wanted from thence. Here opens a boundless
Source of Wealth, and Naval Strength; yet these immense
Advantages, by the Abridgment of those invaluable Rights
and Liberties, by which our Growth has been nourished, are
in Danger of being forever lost, and our subordinate Legis-
latures in Effect rendered useless, by the late Acts of Par-
liament, imposing duties and taxes on these Colonies, and
extending the jurisdiction of the Courts of Admiralty here,
beyond its ancient Limits; Statutes by which your Majesty's
Commons in Britain undertake absolutely to dispose of the
Property of their Fellow Subjects in America, without
their Consent, and for the Enforcing whereof, they are
subjected to the Determination of a single Judge, in a
Court unrestrained by the wise Rules of the Common Law,
the Birthright of Englishmen, and the Safeguard of their
Persons and Properties.

The invaluable Rights of taxing ourselves, and of Trial
by our Peers, of which we implore your Majesty's Pro-
tection, are not, we most humbly conceive, unconstitu-
tional, but confirmed by the great Charter of English
Liberty. On the first of these Rights the Honourable the
House of Commons found their Practice of originating
Money Bills, a Right enjoyed by the Kingdom of Ireland,
by the Clergy of England, until relinquished by them-
selves; a Right in fine, which all other your Majesty's
Subjects, both within and without the Realm, have
hitherto enjoyed.

196 PETITION.

With Hearts therefore impressed with the most indelible
Characters of Gratitude to your Majesty, and to the
Memory of the Kings of your illustrious House, whose
Reigns have been signally distinguished by their aus-
picious Influence on the Prosperity of the British Domin-
ions, and convinced by the most affecting proofs of your
Majesty's Parental Love to all your People, however dis-
tant, and your incessant* and benevolent Desires to pro-
mote their Happiness; we most humbly beseech your
Majesty, that you will be graciously pleased to take into
your Royal Consideration, the Distresses of your faithful
Subjects, on this Continent, f and to afford them such Re-
lief as, in your Royal Wisdom, their unhappy Circum-
stances shall be judged to require.

* Changed to "unceasing " by the Congress. — Ed.
t The Congress here inserted: " and lay the same before your Majesty's
Parliament. ' ' — Ed.

AN ADDRESS

TO

"Friends and Countrymen"

ON THE

STAMP ACT.

BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

November, 176^.

NOTE.

Original issued as a broadside, beginning :
Friends and Countrymen, / The Critical time is now come, ■when

you are reduced to the necessity of forming / a Resolution . • • / Fo.

pp. '2.
The exact date of publication is in doubt. Mr. Hildeburn {Issues of
the Pennsylvania Press, ii, 35) relying on Du Simitiere, gives it Dec. 5,
and concludes it to be from the press of Bradford. But a bill of Frank-
lin and Hall to Dickinson, contains the item : " 1765. Deer. 10. To
printing 200 Copies of an Address to the Inhabitants of Pennsylvania
• . • . /".^.S,", which, unless we refer the charge to an absolutely un-
known piece, must be this broadside. As it was reprinted in the New
York Gazette on Dec. 5, it must clearly have been issued in November.
These two bits of evidence are confirmed by the following statement
from the Pennsylvania Gazette (Feb. 6, 1766), the printers of which (pre-
suming them to have been the printers of the broadside as well) would
have the most accurate knowledge as to the authorship and date of pub-
lication.

A number of the SONS OF LIBERTY, in particular those of a
neighboring Province, having expressed their Desire of knowing who
is the Author of the Piece published and dispersed in this City in No-
vember last, and re-published in the New York Gazette of the 5th of
December, in the New London Gazette of the 20th of the same Month,
and so warmly recommended in the Connecticut Resolves, which are
inserted in our Paper of the 23d of January ; in Compliance with their
Desire, we inform them, that it is said, and believed, to be wrote by
J— N D— CK— S— N, Esq., of this city.
The '' Connecticut Resolves " referred to in this extract, were as follows:

Resolutions of a great number of the respectable Inhabitants of the
County of Windham and Parts adjacent, held at Pom fret, in the said
County, on the 25th Day of December, 1765 We recommend a

200 NOTE.

Piece wrote by a Master of Reason, and a tme Friend to Liberty, in
Pennsylvania, and inserted in the New IrOndon Gazette of the 20th
instant.

Editor.

ADDRESS ON STAMP ACT.

Friends and Countrymen.

The critical Time has now come, when you are reduced
to the Necessity of forming a Resolution, upon a Point of
the most alarming Importance that can engage the Atten-
tion of Men. Your Conduct at this Period must decide
^^ future Fortunes of yourselves, and of your Posterity —
must decide, whether Pennsylvanians^ from henceforward,
shall be Freemen or Slaves. So vast is the Consequence,
so extensive is the Influence of the Measure you shall at pres-
ent pursue. May God grant that every one of you may
consider your Situation with a Seriousness and Sensibility
becoming the solemn Occasion; and that you may receive
this Address with the same candid and tender Aflfection
for the public Good by which it is dictated.

We have seen the Day on which an Act of Parliament,
imposing Stamp Duties on the British Colonies in
America^ was appointed to take Effect ; and we have seen
the Inhabitants of these Colonies, with an unexampled
Unanimity, compelling the Stamp-Officers throughout the
Provinces to resign their Employments. The virtuous In-
dignation with which they have thus acted, was inspired
by the generous Love of Liberty, and guided by a perfect
sense of Loyalty to the best of Kings, and of duty to the
Mother Country. The Resignation of the Officers was
judged the most effectual and the most decent Method of
preventing the Execution of a Statute, that strikes the
Axe into the Root of the Tree, and lays the hitherto
flourishing Branches of American Freedom, with all its
precious Fruits, low in the Dust. —

202 ADDRESS ON STAMP ACT.

That this is the fatal Tendency of that Statute, appears
from Propositions so evident, that he who runs may read
and understand. To mention them is to convince. Men
cannot be happy, without Freedom; nor free, without Se-
curity of Property; nor so secure, unless the sole Power to
dispose of it be lodged in themselves; therefore no People
can be free^ but where Taxes are imposed on them with
their own Consent^ given personally, or by their Represen-
tatives. If then the Colonies are equally intitled to Hap-
piness with the Inhabitants of Great-Britain^ and Free-
dom is essential to Happiness, they are equally intitled to
Freedom. If they are equally intitled to Freedom, and an
exclusive Right of Taxation is essential to Freedom, they
are equally intitled to such Taxation.

What further Steps you can now take, without Injury
to this sacred Right, demands your maturest Deliberation.

If you comply with the Act, by using Stamped Papers,
you fix, you rivet perpetual Chains upon your unhappy
Country. You unnecessarily, voluntarily establish the
detestable Precedent, which those who have forged your
Fetters ardently wish for, to varnish the future Exercise
of this new claimed Authority. You may judge of the
Use that will be made of it, by the Eagerness with which
the Pack of Ministerial Tools have hunted for Precedents
to palliate the Horrors of this Attack upon American
Freedom. After all their infamous Labour, they could find
nothing that even their unlimited Audacity could dare to
call Precedents in this Case, but the Statute for establish-
ing a Post-Office in America^ and the Laws for regulating
the Force here, during the late War.

These Instances were greedily seized upon, and the
Press groaned with Pamphlets to prove, that they would
justify the Taxation of America by Great-Britain. — But
no sooner were these boasted Examples produced to public
View, and examined, than the Absurdity of applying them

ADDRESS ON STAMP act: 203

to the present Occasion, appeared so glaring, that they be-
came more the Subject of Ridicule, than of Argument. —

Your Compliance with this Act, will save future Minis-
ters the Trouble of reasoning on this Head, and your
Tameness will free them from any Kind of Moderation,
when they shall hereafter meditate any other Taxation
upon you.

They will have a Precedent furnished by yourselves, and
a Demonstration that the Spirit of Americans^ after great
Clamour and Bluster, is a 7nost submissive servile Spirit —
Ministers will rejoice in the Discovery, and as no Measure
can be more popular at Home, than to lessen the Burthens
of the People there^ by laying Part of the Weight on you,
they will of Course be tempted by that Motive, and embold-
ened by your Conduct, to make you '"''Hewers of Wood^
and Drawers of Water. ^''

The Stamp Act, therefore, is to be regarded only as an
Experiment of your Disposition. If you quietly bend
your Necks to that Yoke, you prove yourselves ready to
receive any Bondage to which your Lords and Masters
shall please to subject you. Some Persons perhaps may
fondly hope, it will be as easy to obtain a Repeal of the
Stamp Act after it is put in Execution, as if the Execution
of it is avoided. But be not deceived. The late Ministry
publickly declared, "that it was intended to establish the
Power of Great-Britain to tax the Colonies." Can we
imagine then, that when so great a Point is carried, and
we have tamely submitted^ that any other Ministry will
venture to propose, or that the Parliament will consent to
pass, an Act to renounce this Advantage? No ! Power is
of a tenacious Nature: What it seizes it will retain.

Rouse yourselves therefore, my dear Countrymen.
Think, oh! think of the endless Miseries you wwj/ entail
upon yourselves, and your Country, by touching the pes-
tilential Cargoes that have been sent to you. Destruction

204 ADDRESS ON STAMP ACT.

lurks within them. To receive them is Death — is worse

than Death— it is SLAVERY! If you do not, and I

trust in Heaven you will not use the Stamped Papers, it
will be necessary to consider how you are to act. Some
Persons are of Opinion, that it is proper to stop all Busi-
ness that requires written Instruments, subject to Duties.

Against this Proposal there are many weighty Objec-
tions. In the first Place, it will be nearly the same Ac-
knowledgment of the Validity of the Stamp Act, and of its
legal Obligation upon you, as if you use the Papers. It
will also be extremely injurious to Individuals, and I ap-
prehend the Inconveniences arising from the Stoppage of
Business will be so great, that many People, whose imme-
diate Interest may have too much Influence on their Judg-
ment, may be induced to believe, that this Obstruction
will be more pernicious than the Execution of the Stamp
Act; and thus I am afraid, that a mistaken Zeal to avoid
the Execution, may really produce it. How long can this
Stoppage be endured ? Or how long must it be continued ?
Until we can obtain Relief, by a Repeal of the Law, per-
haps some may say. If this should happen, ^ou cannot ex-
pect to hear of the Repeal in less than three or four
Months. But if you act in this Manner, in my Opinion,
you will never hear of it. For as soon as the News of your
stopping all Business arrives in Great- Britain, the Parlia-
ment, Ministry and People will be convinced of two
Things; first, that you are intimidated to the utmost De-
gree; and secondly, that your Method of eluding the Act

will at length compel you to comply with it. They will

therefore give themselves no further Trouble about you, un-
less it be to send over a few Regiments, to quicken the
Execution.

For these Reasons, and many more, it appears to me
the wisest and the safest Course for you to proceed in all
Business as usual, without taking the least Notice of the

ADDRESS ON STAMP ACT. 205

Stamp Act. If you behave in this spirited Manner, you
may be assured, that every Colony on the Continent will
follow the Example of a Province so justly celebrated for
its Liberty. Your Conduct will convince Great-Britain^
that the Stamp Act will never be carried into Execution,
but by Force of Arms; and this one Moment's Reflection
must demonstrate, that she will never attempt.

As to any Penalties that may be incurred, it will be vain
to think of extorting them from the whole Continent, or
from a whole Province. It may be objected, perhaps, that
our Ships will be liable to Seizure, if their Clearances be
not upon Stamped Papers; but I believe no Lawyer will
say, that this would be a legal Reason for such Seizures.
However, we need be under no Apprehension of this Kind;
for proceeding in that Way, would be in Fact a Declara-
tion of War against the Colonies, that at this Time would
by no Means suit the Mother Country. —

Thus, my Friends and Countrymen, have I plainly laid
before you my sentiments on your present affecting Situa-
tion; and may Divine Providence inspire you with Wisdom
to act in such a Manner, as will most advance that Happi-
ness I ardently wish you may enjoy.

THE

LATE REGULATIONS

RESPECTING THE

BRITISH COLONIES

CONSIDERED.

BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

December 7, 176^.

NOTE.

The Pennsylvania Journal of December 5, 1765, announced that :
Next Saturday will be published, and to be sold by
w. BRADFORD, a piece intituled

THB

LATE REGULATIONS

RESPECTING THE

BRITISH COLONIES

ON THE CONTINENT OP

AMERICA

CONSIDERED,

lu a letter from a gentleman in Fhii,adei<phia to his
friend in London.

The pamphlet was issued with the title of:

The / Late Regulations / respecting the / British Colonies / on the
continent of/ America / considered, / In a Letter from a Gentleman in
Philadelphia / to his Friend in London / Prosunt minus rede excogita ;
cum alios incitent saltern / ad veritatis invesligationem. Pulb. a.
Bartol. / Philadelphia : / Printed and Sold by William Bradford, at the
Corner of/ Market and Front Streets. M.DCCLXV. 8vo, pp. 38.
Two English editions, with some slight corrections, were also printed :
The / Late Regulations, / respecting the / British Colonies / on the
continent of / America / considered : / In a Letter from a Gentleman
in Philadel- / phia to his Friend in London. / . . . / . . . / Philadel-
phia Printed : / London Re-printed, for J. Almon, opposite Bur- / ling-
ton-House, in Piccadilly. M.DCCLXV. Svo, pp. 62, (i).
This edition was clearly not issued till February, 1766, (when the pam-
phlet was first advertised and noticed in the English press,) for the date
of printing in Philadelphia, with the time necessary for transmission
and reprinting, precludes the date given on the title from being correct.
The title of the second English edition was :

The late / Regulations / respecting the / British Colonies / on the
continent of / America / considered, / In a Letter from a Gentleman in

210 NOTE.

Philadelphia / to his Friend in London. } ... I ... j Philadelphia

Printed : / Ivoudou ; Re-printed for J. Almon, opposite / Burlington

House, Piccadilly. / MDCCLXVI. 8vo, pp. , 39.

The pamphlet was briefly noticed in the Monthly Review, xxxiv,
238 ; and an " Extract from a Letter from a Gentleman in London, to
his Friend in Philadelphia," dated Feb. 8, 1766, printed in the Pennsyl-
vania Gazette for May 22, 1766, states :

I have the Pleasure of your last with the Pamphlet, entituled,
"The Late Regulations, respecting the British Colonies on the Conti-
nent of America, Considered." It is an excellent Performance, and
its Author merits the Thanks of his Country, — mine he has most un-
feignedly. — Its arrival, before the final Decision of the Cause, will, I
flatter myself, have a happy Effect. It has been reprinted here, and
the Bookseller advertised in the Papers, that it was written by Mr.
Dickinson. — Though the Town has been, in a Manner, glutted with
Pamphlets on American Affairs, yet its Sale has been very rapid. It is
highly esteemed ; has gained the Author much Reputation, and most
surely does him great Honour.

The present reprint is from the first edition, which is absolutely fol-
lowed, except that the short "Errata" at the end is omitted, and the
corrections embodied in the text. The numerals inserted in brackets in-
dicate the paging of the original. The changes made by the author, in
the text as printed in the Political Writings of John Dickinson (i, 47)
are shown in foot notes.

Editor.

T H B

LATE REGULATIONS

RESPECTING THE

BRITISH COLONIES

ON THE CONTINENT OP

AMERICA

CONSIp£E£D»

In a Letter from a Gcntlcirtan in PHILADELPHIA
u> his Friend in LONDON.

ProJunT minus rettt excogitata -, atm alios indtcnt faltm
ad veritatis mveftigationcm. Fulb. a Bartol.

■■ ■ ' ■■ !■ I I III III II It 1

PHILADELPHIA:

fnaXM^ and Sold by WILLIAM BRADFORD, « tht ComCf of
Mvkct wd f ront-Strcctt. UJKXJSCi.

THE LATE REGULATIONS

When I last wrote to you and said, ** that the late meas-
ures respecting America^ would not only be extremely in-
jurious to the Colonies^ but also to Great- Britain^'*'' I little
thought I was entring into an engagement, which would
oblige me to exceed the usual limits of a letter : but since
you desire to have at large the reasons in support of this
opinion, and I always think it my duty to comply with
your requests, I will endeavour in the clearest manner I
can, to lay my sentiments before you.

The American continental colonies are inhabited by per-
sons of small fortunes, who are so closely employed in sub-
duing a wild country, for their subsistence, and who would
labour under such difficulties in contending with old and
populous countries, which must exceed them in workman-
ship and cheapness, that they have not [4] time nor any
temptation to apply themselves to manufactures.

Hence arises the *importance of the colonies to Great-

* It has been said in the House of Commons, when complaints have
been made of the decay of trade to any part of Europe, "That such things
■were not worth regard, as Great-Britain was possest of colonies that
could consume more of her manufactures than she was able to supply
them with."

" As the case now stands, we shall shew that the plantations are a
spring of wealth to this nation, that they work for us, that their treasure
centers all here, and that the laws have tied them fast enough to us ; so
that it must be through our own fault and mismanagement, if they be-
come independent oi England."

DavenanT on the Plantation trade.

"It is better that the islands should be supplied from the Northern
Colonies than from England, for this reason ; the provisions we might

2 14 THE LA TE REG ULA TIONS.

Britain. Her prosperity depends on lier commerce; her
commerce on her manufactures ; her [5] manufactures on
the markets for them ; and the most constant and advan-

send to Barbados, Jamaica, &c., would be unimproved product of the
earth, as grain of all kinds, or such product where there is little got by
the improvement, as malt, salt, beef and pork ; indeed, the exportation
of salt fish thither would be more advantageous, but the goods which we
send to the Northern Colotiies are such, whose improvement may be
justly said one with another to be near four-fifths of the value of the
whole commodity, as apparel, household-furniture, and many other things.

Idem.

" New-England is the most prejudicial plantation to the kingdom of
England ; and yet, to do right to that most industrious English colony, I
must confess, that though we lose by their unlimited trade with other
foreign plantations, yet we are very great gainers by their direct trade to
and from Old England. Our yearly exportations of English manufact-
ures, malt and other goods, from hence thither, amounting, in my opin-
ion, to ten times the value of what is imported from thence ; which calcu-
lation I do not make at random, but upon mature consideratiofi, and,
peradventure, upon as much experience in this veiy trade, as any other
person will pretend to ; and therefore, whenever reformation of our cor-
respondency in trade with that people shall be thought on, it will, in my
poor judgment, require GREAT TENDERNESS, and VERY SERIOUS CIRCUM-
SPECTION."

Sir JosiAH Child's discourse on trade.

" Our plantations spend mostly our English manufactures, and those
of all sorts almost imaginable, in egregious quantities, and employ near
two-thirds of our English shipping ; so that we have more people in
England, by reason of our plantations in America.^'' Idem.

Sir JosiAH Child says, in another part of his work, " That not more
than fifty families are maintained in England by the refining of sugar."
From whence, and from what Davenant says, it is plain, that the advan-
tages here said to be derived from the plantations by England, must be
meant chiefly of the continental colonies. See notes to pages 12 & 13.

" I shall sum up my whole remarks on our American colonies, with
this observation, that as they are a certain annual revenue of several
millions sterling to their Mother Country, they ought carefully to be pro-
tected, duly encouraged, and every opportunity that presents, improved
for their increment and advantage, as every one they can possibly reap,
must at last return to us with interest."

Brawes's Lex mere. red.

"We may safely advance, that our trade and navigation are greatly en-

THE LA TE REGULA TIONS. 215

tageous markets are afforded by the colonies, as in all
others the *rest oi Europe interferes with her, and various
accidents may interrupt them. The benefit from hence is
at present immense ; but in future times when America
shall be more fully peopled, must exceed with prudent
management the warmest wishes of a British Patriot.

Our chief productions are provisions, naval stores, furs,
iron and lumber. A few colonies yield tobacco and indigo.
Some of these commodities are necessary to Great-Britain;
but all that she requires are [6] vastly insufficient to pay
for her manufactures which we want. The productions of
some of the Southern Colonies may perhaps be equal to
their demands, but the case is widely different with the
Northern ; for in these, the importations from Great-Brit-"^
ain are computed to be generally more than double the >
value of their immediate exportations to that kingdom.

The only expedient left us for making our remittances,
is to carry on some other trade, whereby we can obtain
silver and gold, which our own country does not afford.
Hence it is evident, that if our taking off and paying for

creased by our colonies, and that they really are a source of treasure and
naval power to this kingdom, since they work for us, and i/ieir treasure
centers here. Before their settlement, our manufactures were few, and
those but indifferent ; the number oi English merchants very small, and
the whole shipping of the nation much inferior to what now belongs to
the Northern Colonies only. These are certain facts. But since their es-
tablishment, our condition has altered for the better, almost to a degree
beyond credibility. — Our manufactures are prodigiously encreased,
chiefly by the demand for them in the plantations, where they AT least
TAKE OFF ONE HALF, and supply us with many valuable commodities for
exportation, which is as great an emolument to the Mother Kingdom, as
to the plantations themselves."

PosTLETHWAYT's univ. diet, ot trade and commerce.

* ' ' Most of the nations of Europe have interfered with us, more or less,
in divers of our staple manufactures, within half a century, not only in
our woolen, but in our lead and tin manufactures, as well as our fisheries."

POSTLBTHWAYT, ibid.

2i6 THE LA TE REGULA TIONS.

her manufactures, is beneficial to Great-Britain^ the chan-
nels by which we acquire money for that purpose, ought
to be industriously kept open and uninterrupted.

Our trade with Spain^ Portugal and the foreign planta-
tions in the West-Indies have chiefly answered this end,
though with much difiiculty, the mother country having
long since drawn the * commercial cords with which the
colonies are bound, extremely tight upon them. Every
thing produced here^ that Great-Britain chuses to take
to herself, must be carried to that king- [7] dom f only —

*As far as regulations are requisite to confine the commerce of the
colonies to British subjects and to British ships ; to give Great Britain
the preference in being supplied with naval stores, so essential to her
strength at sea ; with commodities necessary for carrying on her woollen
manufactures, or such articles as can bear high duties upon them, and
thereby make a considerable addition to the revenue ; or as far as they
are requisite to prevent the colonies from being supplied with any thing
in the place of British manufactures, they may be reasonable. These
regulations, it is apprehended, establish the basis of the British power ;
and form such a firm connection between the Mother Country and her
Colonies, as will produce all the advantages she ought to wish for, or
that they can afford her. Any further attempt to shackle some of the
colonies in favour of others, or to advance the revenue in America by
restraining her trade, is but regulating by a severe exercise of power,
what wants no regulation, and losing by too much haste to gain. {See
Notes to page 15.) Unnecessary and irritating restrictions, will at last
cast contempt and hatred on those substantial ones, that length of time,
and the natural reverence of Colonies for their Mother Country, would
have consecrated ; for discontented minds are not apt to distinguish.
" Narrow-limited notions in trade and planting, are only advanced by,
and can only be of use to particular persons, but are always injurious to
the public interests, in preventing the full employment of our own peo-
ple, and giving our rivals and competitors in trade, the opportunity of
employing greater numbers of theirs, producing greater quantities of
merchandizes, and underselling us at foreign markets."

POSTLETHWAYT'S univ. diet, of trade and commerce.

t Montesquieu, speaking of the contract made hy Poland for selling all
her corn to Dantzick only ; and another of the like nature between
some Indian princes and the Dutch for spices, says : "These agreements
are proper for a poor nation, whose inhabitants are satisfied to forego the
hopes of enriching themselves provided they can be seatre of a certain

THE LA TE REGULA TIONS. 217

Every thing we chuse to import from Europe^ must be
shipped in * Great-Britain — Heavy duties have been laid
on our importations from the foreign plantations.

However under all these restraints and some others that
have been imposed on us, we have not till lately been un-
happy. Our spirits were not depressed. We apprehended
no design formed against our liberty. We for a long time
enjoyed peace, and were quite free from any heavy debt,
either internal or external. We had a paper currency
which served as a medium of domestic commerce, and per-
mitted us to employ all the gold and silver we could ac-
quire, in trade abroad. We had a multitude of markets
for our provisions, lumber and iron. These allowed liber-
ties, with some others we assumed, enabled us to collect
considerable sums of money for the joint benefit of our-
selves and our mother country. [8]

But the modern regulations are in every circumstance
afflicting. The remittances we have been able to make to
Great-Britain^ with all the licence hitherto granted or
taken, and all the money brought among us in the course
of the late war, have not been sufficient to pay her what
we owe ; but there still remains due, according to a late
calculation made by the English merchants, the sum of
four millions sterling. Besides this, we are and have been
for many years heavily taxed, for the payment of the debts
contracted by our efforts against the common enemy.
These seem to be difficulties severe enough for young col-
onies to contend with. The last f sinks our paper cur-

subsistence ; or for nations, whose slavery consists either in renouncing
the use of those things which nature has g iven them ; or in being obliged

TO SUBMIT TO A DISADVANTAGEOUS COMMERCE."

* Except Salt from any part of Europe for the fisheries of Newfound-
land, New England, New York and Pennsylvania ; and a few things
from Ireland.

t While the quantity of paper currency is proportioned to the uses for
it, it must be beneficial ; and therefore to sink it below that quantity,
must be prejudicial.

2 1 8 THE LA TE REG ULA TIONS.

rency very fast. The former sweeps off our silver and
gold in a torrent to Great-Britain^ and leaves us continu-
ally toiling to supply from a number of distant springs the
continually wasting stream.

Thus drained, we are prohibited by new and stricter re-
straints being laid on our trade, from procuring these coins
as we used to do ; and from instituting among ourselves
bills of credit in the place of such portions of them as are
required in our internal traffic ; and in this exhausted con-
dition, our languishing country is to strive to take up and
to totter under the additional burthen of the Stamp Act.

In defence of the prohibition to institute bills of credit^
it may be said, "that some few colonies, by injurious
emissions of paper currency, did great injury to indi- [9]
viduals. It is true: But it is as true, that others* always
supported the credit of their bills in such a manner, that
their emissions were of vast benefit both to the provinces
and to Great- Britai7t. The inconveniences under which
the colonies laboured before these emissions are well re-
membered, and were produced by the same cause that dis^
tresses us at this time; that is, by Great-Britain'' s taking
off all our gold and silver. There was then so little money
among several of them, that a stop was put in a manner to
buying and selling, and then shop-keepers were obliged to
barter their goods for food. The effect produced by these
emissions was surprizing — Trade revived; and the remark-
able and immediate t increase of our importations shewed

* No attempt was ever made in this province and some others, to pay
English debts any otherwise than according to the rate of exchange ; and
no complaint was ever made of injustice from the depreciation of the
currency.

t Value of the exports from England to Pennsylvania at different
periods.

In 1723 they were ;^i5,992 19 4

1730 48,592 7 5

1737 56,690 6 7

1742 75,295 3 4

THE LA TE REG ULA TIONS. 219

how advantageous they were to Great-Britain. If any
[10] inconveniences were feared from this kind of cur-

In the year 1723 the first bills of credit were emitted in Pennsylvania^
to the value of ;^450oo. In 1728, part of the first emission being then
sunk, ;^30ooo more were emitted. It appears from the account above,
that in seven years from 1723 to 1730, the exports increased ^^32 599 8 i
sterling.— In 1738, great part of the preceding emissions beingthen sunk,
there was an emission and re-emission amounting in the whole to ^80000.
In five years afterwards it appears by the account above, the exports in-
creased over ;^2oooo sterling.

In later times when larger emissions have been made, the exports have
proportionately increased. In 1755 /55000 were emitted; and in 1756
£2pooo. — In 1757, the exports amounted to ^^268,426 6 6. — Afterwards
our emissions were still greater, and in one year of the war, the exports
rose to more than ^^700,000 sterling.

It is not pretended, that the increase of our importations is solely owing
to the emissions of paper money ; but it is thought to be a very great
cause of that increase. It is undoubtedly owing in part to the increase
of people by propagation, and the influx of foreigners. But such ^r^a^
and sud4en increases as have been mentioned in the short space of seven
or five years, from 1723 to 1730, and from 1737 to 1742, could not in any
great degree proceed from the increase by propagation ; and at that time
I think foreigners did not flow in upon us in such numbers as they since
have done. In the war large sums were brought among us for the main-
tenance of the fleets and armies, it is true : but that our currency was
then of great utility is evident, because when the greatest quantity of it
was passing, bills of exchange were lower than they were for a long time
before, or have been since.

It may be objected, that the complaint of the scarcity of money in
America, particularly in this province, cannot be well founded, as we
have lately had such large emissions. I am very sensible how liable per-
sons are to errors in questions of this nature, and therefore I think
myself obliged to speak with diffidence on the subject. Perhaps the fol-
lowing observations may in some measure answer the objection, ist.
About one half of the emissions is sunk. 2dly. A very great part of the
bills now circulating, are passing in the neighbouring provinces. 3dly.
Our gold and silver are sent to Great Britain, so that but small quantities
thereof are now current among us — and therefore we must almost en-
tirely rely on our paper for the medium of domestic commerce. Lastly,
it docs not seem probable, that we should have heard such great com-
plaints of the scarcity of money, if the extreme restrictions of our com-
merce had not so generally prevented our usual methods of acquiring it.

220 THE LA TE REG ULA TIONS.

rency, means might have been found to prevent them,
without utterly abolishing it: But now the apprehension
of mischiefs that might have been more easily obviated,
has deprived us of real benefits.

Perhaps no mode could be devis'd more advantageous to
the public, or to individuals, than our method of emitting
bills in this province for our own use. They are lent out
upon good security, chiefly real, at the interest of five per
cent. The borrowers are allowed a long term for payment,
and the sums borrowed being divided into equal portions,
they are obliged to pay one of these, with the interest of the
whole, every year during the term. This renders the pay-
ments very easy; and as no person [ii] is permitted to
borrow a large sum, a great number are accommodated.
The consequences of such regulations are obvious. These
bills represent money in the same manner that money re-
presents other things. As long therefore as the quantity is
proportioned to the uses, these emissions have the same
effects, that the gradual introduction of additional sums of
money would have. People of very small fortunes are en-
abled to purchase and cultivate land, which is of so much
consequence in settling new countries, or to carry on some
business, that without such assistance they would be in-
capable of managing: For no private person would lend
money on such favourable terms. From the borrowers the
currency passes into other hands, encreases consumption,
raises the prices of commodities, quickens circulation, and
communicating a vigour to all kinds of industry, returns
in its course into the possession of the borrowers, to repay
them for that labour which it may properly be said to
have produced. They deliver it, according to the original
contracts, into the treasury, where the interest raises a
fund without the imposition of taxes, for the public use.

While emissions are thus conducted with prudence, they
may be compared to springs, whose water an industrious

THE LA TE REG ULA TIONS. 22 1

and knowing farmer spreads in many meandering rivulets
through his gardens and meadows, and after it has re-
freshed all the vegetable tribes it meets with, and has set
them a growing, leads it into a reservoir, where it answers
some new purpose.

If it could be possible to establish a currency through-
out the colonies, on some foundation of this kind, perhaps
greater benefits might be derived from it, than would be
generally believed without the trial. [12]

With respect to the restrictions laid on our trade in
foreign plantations y it has been alleg'd, as a reason for
them, "that our islands ought to be encouraged." They
ought to be: But should the interest of one colony be pre-
ferred to that of another? Should the welfare of millions
be sacrificed to the magnificence of a few ? If the exorbit-
ant profits of one colony must arise from the depression of
another, should not such injustice be redressed ?

There is a vast difference to be made in calculating the
gains of any particular branch of business to ihe public and
to individuals. The advantages to the last may be small,
and yet great to the first, or the reverse. The statutes
made to restrain the trade of the continent in *favour of

* " The agents for New York, in their contest with the sugar colonies,
affirmed, That their winters being severe, obliged them to take off more
of the woollen manufactures of this kingdom (/or which they remitted
gold and silver) than all the islands {Jamaica excepted) put together;
and which I believe has remained uncontradicted."

Beawes's Lex mere. red.

If one province then exceeded all our West Indies, except Jamaica,
in this particular, what proportion would that single island bear now, to
all the rest 0/ the continental colonies ?

The following account of the exports from England to the Northern
Colonies, and to the West India Islands, will shew they were nearly
equal some time ago ; that those to the Northern Colonies now vastly ex-
ceed, and are prodigiously increasing, while those to the Islands have
continued nearly the same.
THE LATE REGULATIONS.

the islands, seem to tend rather towards [13] promoting
'^partial than general interests, and it appears to me no

From 1744 to 1748, inclusive.

Northern Colonies.

1744 . . ^^640 114 12

1745 . . 534 316 2

1746 . . 754 945 4

1747 . . 726 648 5
1748 . . 830 243 16

West India Islands.

4 ;^796 112 17 9

5 503 669 19 9

3 472 994 19 7

5 856 463 18 6

9 734 095 15 3

Total ;^3,486 268 i 2

Total ;^3,563 337 10 10
Difference 122 930 10 4

^3,486 268

1754.
1755-
1756.
1757.
1758.

From 1754 to 1758, inclusive.
Northern Colonies. West India Islands.

£\,2A^ 615 I II ;^685 675 3 o

1,177 848 6 10 694 667 13 3

1,428 720 18 10 733 458 16 3

1,727 924 2 10 776 488 o 6

1,832 948 13 10 877 571 19 II

Total ;^7,4i4 057 4 3

Total £2),^(>^ 841 12 n
Difference 3,646 215 11 4

.^7,414 057 4 3

Total for the Northern Colonies, in the first Term
Ditto, in the second Term

;^3,486,268 I
7,414.057 4

Total for the West India Islands, in the first Term
Ditto, in the second Term

Increase, ;^3,927,789 3 i

;^3,363.337 10 10
3,767,841 12 II

Increase, only ^0,404,504 2 i

The difference between the employment afforded to the manufacturers
oi England, by the Northern Colonies and by the West India Islands, is
still greater than it may appear to be from the first view of the preceding
account : For a much greater quantity of East India goods is exported to
the last than to the first ; and the English manufactures consumed by
them generally derive their value from the richness of the materials,
many of which are brought from foreign countries, but those we con-
sume, chiefly derive their value from the work bestowed upon them.
(Vide note to pages 4 and 5.)

* Vide Note to page 6.

THE LA TE REGULA TIONS. 223

paradox to say, that the public would be a great gaiuer, if
estates there were so *moderate that not a tenth part of
the West-India gentlemen that now sit in the House of
Commons, could obtain that frequently expensive honor.
It is allowed by those well acquainted with the islands,
that they cannot supply Great-Britain and these colonies
[14] with sugar and other articles, and that they can by no
means consume the productions of these colonies ; yet in
t favour to them, we are almost entirely prevented from
sending these productions to any other markets. Hence
it follows, that we are frequently obliged to sell our com-
modities to them at so low a price, as not to pay the first
cost and freight ; while we, being in a manner prohibited
from getting the West-India productions, for which we

* " A great advantage which the French have over the English in their
sugar colonies, is their agrarian law, whereby monopolists are prevented
from engrossing too much land ; so that the number of whiles is greatly
increased, the land improved, more commodities raised, the planters
obliged to a more frugal way of living, and all things rendered cheaper.
By these means Martinico can muster 16,000 fighting men ; hvX Jamaica,
which is near three times as large, only 4,000."

Tucker on trade.

tit is recited in the 6th of Geo. 2d. ch. 13, now made perpetual,
"that the Sugar colonies could not carry on their trade on an EQUAI,
FOOTING with the foreign Sugar Colonies, without some advantage and
relief given to them by Great Britain." That advantage given by
Great Britain — was to compel the continental Colonies to take their pro-
ductions at any price they please to ask. — In short, to grant them a
MONOPOLY for Sugars. This was taking from one indeed to give to
another ; but goes not to the root of the evil ; as the next preceding note
evidently shews. For if Great Britain should sacrifice her own interests
and those of her continental colonies still more, if it be possible, to the
interest of these islanders, they never will " carry on their trade on an
EQUAi, FOOTING with the foreign sugar colonies," until there is the same
moderation in their estates, and the same frugality in their living. By a
very singular disposition of affairs, the colonies of an absolute monarchy
are settled on a republican principle ; while those of a kingdom in many
respects resembling a commonwealth, are cantoned out among a few
lords, vested with despotic power over myriads of vassals, and supported
in the promp of Bassa's by their slavery.

224 THE LA TE REG ULA TIONS.

have occasion, any where else but from them, must pay-
extravagantly for them.

Nor is this management attended, as it is presumed,
with any benefit to the Mother Country, but with a disad-
vantage ; either where the productions of the foreign plan-
tations are consumed among us, or re-exported to Europe.
By the compulsion on us to take from our islands, the
price of their productions is raised on the people of Great-
Britain. The Revenue would be eucreased by this restric-
tion being taken oif, as we should willingly pay a moderate
duty upon importations from the French and Spaniards^
without attempting to run them ; while a very considerable
duty would be paid [15] on the * sugars of our islands,
which, instead of coming to us, would then go to Great-
Britain. Besides, whatever extraordinary price we pay
for the productions of our own islands, must lessen our de-
mand for British manufactures ; since it is an t undeniable

*The restriction on the trade of the colonies to foreign plantations for
Molasses, is particularly grievous and impolitic, as the Molasses brought
from thence was distilled for ih& fisheries, the Indian and Guinea trades,
the profit of which centered in Great-Britain. It is said, our vessels now
buy spirituous liquors on the coast of Guinea from the Dutch. {In Dick-
inson's Political Writings this note is altered to read : "The restriction
on the trade 0/ the colonies to foreign plantations for molasses, is partic-
ularly hurtful and impolitic, as the molasses brought fro^n thence was dis-
tilled for the fisheries, the Indian and other trades, the profit of which
centered in Great Britain." — Ed.'\

t This cannot be disputed by any one who is acquainted with America.
This increase of a man's wealth there shews itself in a great consumption
of British manufactures of all kinds.— This reasoning in favour of the
continental colonies trade with foreign plantations, is confirmed by what
Sir Josiah Child mentions of New- England.— He says, — " England loses
by the unlimited trade of this colony to other foreign plantations, but
gains by her direct trade to Old England, from whence she exports man-
ufactures to ten times the value of her imports." (See the note to page
4.) What was it then that enabled New-England to pay ten times the
value of her imports to England, but the profits of her trade to foreign
plantations f This appears to be a direct authority in support of the ar-

THE LA TE REG ULA TIONS. 225

truth, that what we [16] should save in that way, would
be chiefly spent in this. It may also justly be added, that
our commerce with the foreign plantations, carries to them
very considerable quantities of British manufactures, for
their consumption.*

If our importations from them should be re-exported to
Europe^ the profits would center in Great-Britain^ accord-
ing to the usual course of our trade. The statute passed
in the twenty-fifth year of Charles the second, indeed men-
tions this practice as injurious. It might be so, if regarded
without its attendant circumstances; but if they are taken

guments hereafter used. It seems therefore that Great-Britain of late,
through too great eagerness to gather golden fruits, has shaken the tree
before they were full grown. With a little patience they would ripen
and then of themselves drop into her lap.

"The inhabitants of our colonies, by carrying on a trade with their
foreign neighbours, do not only occasion a greater quantity of the goods
and merchandizes of Europe being sent from hence to them, and a greater
quantity of the product oi America to be sent from them hither, which
would otherwise be carried from, and brought to Europe by foreigners,
but an increase of the seamen and navigation in those parts, which is of
great strength and security, as well as of great advantage to our planta-
tions in general. And though some of our colonies are not only for pre-
venting the importation of all goods of the same species they produce, but
suffer particular planters to keep great runs of land in their possession
uncultivated, with design to prevent new settlements, whereby they
imagine the prices of their commodities may be affected ; yet if it be con-
sidered, that the Markets of Great-Britain depend on the markets of AI.1,
Europe in general, and that the European markets in general depend on
the proportion between the annual consumption and the whole quantity
of each species annually produced by all nations; it must follow, that
whether we or foreigners are the producers, carriers, importers and ex-
porters of American produce yet their respective prices in each colony (the
difference of freight, customs and importations considered) will always
bear proportion to the general consumption of the whole quantity of each
sort, produced in all colonies, and in all parts, allowin.'? only for the usual
contingencies that trade and commerce, agriculture and manufactures are
liable to in all countries."

PosTLETHWAYT's Univ. Diet, of Trade and Commerce.

* See the preceding note.

226 THE LA TE REGULA TIONS.

into view, and it be considered, that if we do not carry
these productions to Europe^ foreigners will, no mischief
seems likely to ensue from our becoming the carriers.*

The restriction also with regard to our iron, is thought
particularly severe. Whenever we can get a better price
in Great-Britain than elsewhere, it is unnecessary; when-
ever we can get a better price in other places, it is fpreju-
dicial. Cargoes composed of this metal, [17] provisions
and lumber, have been found to answer very well at the
Portuguese and some other markets; and as the last arti-
cles are frequently very low, and our foreign trade is re-
duced to so few commodities, the taking away any one of
them must be hurtful to us. Indeed, to require us to send
all our iron to Great- Britain^ is, in the opinion of some of
our most judicious merchants, to require an impossibility:
For as this article is so heavy, and such small quantities
can be sent in one vessel, they assert, that we cannot find
freight directly home for one half of it.

Besides the circumstances already mentioned to prove
the injurious consequences of the late restrictions, there is

* See the preceding note.

tif Great Britain really takes off from Sweden iron to the value of
;^200,ooo, according to the calculation that has been made, yet she does
not lose all that sum. Not to insist on the merely political advantage
of having a commerce with that protestant kingdom, which by being
beneficial to her, may more firmly attach her to our interest, it may be
observed, that the trade of Great-Britain to Sweden, it is for iron in the
gross, which is afterwards worked up, and large quantities of it re-ex-
ported : so that money may thereby be brought into the kingdom, and a
great number of hands is employed. There is a vast difference between
this trade, and that to France, from whence the importations into Great-
Britain are merely for consumption, without affording any employment
to her people, or any profit by re-exportation. Besides, if the colonies
can get more by carrying their iron to foreign ports, than to Great-
Britain, (and if they cannot, there is no occasion of a law to compel
them to carry it to Great-Britain') they will be more able to make larger
demands for British manufactures ; so that Great-Britain will gain the
profits of our iron, to make up her loss by what she takes from Sweden.

THE LA TE REGULA TIONS. 227

another, which has great force in persuading me that our
trade ought by all means to be more encouraged and ex-
tended at this time, than was formerly necessary. Our
settlements then only comprehended a narrow strip along
the shore of the ocean; they were less populous; and their
distance from the sea ports being [18] small, they were
supplied with every thing they wanted from thence, with-
out any length of inland carriage. But now we have pen-
etrated boundless forests, have passed over immense moun-
tains, and are daily pushing further and further into the
wilderness; the inhabitants of these remote regions, must
of necessity hold very little intercourse with those which
are near the sea, unless a very extensive commerce shall
enable these to supply them with such quantities of *for-
eign commodities as they want, and at such prices as they
can aflford to pay. Every restriction on our trade, seems
to be a restriction on this intercourse, and must gradually
cut off the connection of the interior parts with the mari-
time and the mother country.

But it is unnecessary to endeavour to prove by reason-
ing on these things, that we shall suffer^ for we already
suffer. Trade is decaying,; and all credit is expiring.
fMoney is become so extremely scarce, that reputable free-
holders find it impossible to pay debts which are trifling in
comparison to their estates. If creditors sue, and take out
executions, the lands and personal estate, as the sale must

*It is apprehended, that if the greatest part of the commodities de-
manded by the back country should not be British but West-Indian, yet
it must be beneficial to Great-Britain to promote this trade by all means.
For if the country nearer the sea grows rich by supplying them with the
productions of the West-Indies, these will certainly consume greater
quantities of British manufactures.

t It is said that in Virginia, the sheriffs, instead of raising the annual
levies, have been obliged to make returns into the treasury, of effects
which they have taken in execution, but could not sell, as there were no
bidders for ready money. [ This noteis struck out in Dickinson's Political
Writings. — Ed.'\

228 THE LA TE REGULA TIONS.

be for ready money, are sold for a small part of what tliey
were worth when the debts were contracted. The debtors
are ruined. The creditors get but part of their debts, and
that ruins them. Thus the consumers break the shop-
keepers; they break the merchants; and the shock must be
felt as far as London. Fortunate, indeed, is the man who
can get satisfaction in Money for any part of his debt, in
some countries; for in many instances, after lands and goods
have been repeatedly advertised in the public gazettes, and
exposed to sale, not a buyer appears.

By these means multitudes are already ruined, and the
estates of others are melting away in the same manner.
It must strike any one with great surprize and concern, to
hear of the number of debtors discharged every court by
our insolvent act. Though our courts are held every
quarter, yet at the last term for the county of Philadelphia
alone, no less than thirty-five persons applied for the bene-
fit of that act. If it be considered, that this law extends
only to those who do not owe any single debt above ;^.i50,
that many are daily released by the lenity of their cred-
itors, and that many more remove, without their know-
ledge, it will not be difficult to form a judgment of the con-
dition to which the people are reduced.

If these effects are produced already, what can we ex-
pect, when the same cause shall have operated longer?
What can we expect, when the exhaused colonies shall
feel the Stamp Act drawing off, as it were, the last drops
of their blood ? From whence is the silver to come, with
which the taxes imposed by this act, and the duties im-
posed by other late acts, are to be paid ? Or how will our
merchants and the lower ranks of people^ on whom the
force of these regulations will fall first, and with the
greatest violence, bear this additional load ? [20]

These last are to be considered in a very different
light from those of the same classes in Great Britain.

THE LA TE REG ULA TIONS. 229

There the nature of their employments, and the plenty of
money, gives them very little occasion to make contracts
in writing; but here they are continually making them,
and are obliged to do so. The Stamp Act, therefore, will
be severely felt by these^ in whose welfare the prosperity
of a state is always so much interested ; and* transfers of
property, that ought, in new countries particularly, to be
made as easy as possible, will be much discouraged. From
the necessity they are under of making contracts to be ex-
ecuted afterwards^ the lower ranks of people here are fre-
quently engaged in law suits; and as the law is already a
very heavy tax on the subject in all parts of the British
dominions, this act will render it destructive here; for the
necessaries, the follies and the passions of mankind, will
not suffer them to cease from harassing one another in
that way.

Neither are the merchants here by any means able to
bear taxes, as they do at home. A very great number of
them there put such stocks into trade, as would be thought
large fortunes among us; and our merchants would think
themselves very happy to leave oflf business with such es-
tates as the others begin with. I speak of the merchants
in general ; for we have on the continent individuals who
are rich, but their number [21] is too inconsiderable to de-
serve any notice on this occasion. Besides, the interest of
money being lower at home than it is here, those who
trade on borrowed stocks, can do it to much greater advan-

*In the present scarcity of money, the sellers of lands, negroes, &c.,
&c., always insist on having part of the purchase-money in hand.— The
buyers, unless they happen to be rich men, find it impossible to comply
■with this term, unless they borrow money, which cannot now be done
but in very small parcels from different persons.— Each of these must
have a bond ; and each of those bonds must pay a stamp-duty of one
shilling sterling, if the sum be above ten pounds and under twenty— and
if above twenty pounds and under forty, one shilling and six pence ster-
ling— besides a duty on the original contract.

230 THE LA TE REG ULA TIONS.

tage there than we can. Indeed, among iis it is almost
impossible to get money to trade upon at any rate. How
unequal, under the present disadvantages, a merchant's
commerce will be to the payment of all the taxes imposed
by the Stamp Act on his policies, fees with clerks, char-
ter parties, protests, his other notarial acts, his letters, and
even his advertisements, experience, I am afraid will un-
happily prove.

Thus, I apprehend, that this Act will be extremely
heavy on those who are least able to bear it ; and if our
merchants and people of little substance languish under it,
all others must be aflfected. Our mode of taxation, hath
always been by making as exact an estimate as could be
formed of each man's estate ; by which means, our taxes
have been proportioned to the abilities of those who were
to pay them. Few persons are employed in the collection of
them ; their allowance is very moderate ; and therefore the
expence is small. No excessive penalties, no tribes of in-
formers, no dreadful and detestable courts are necessary.
This I imagine, is the mode of taxation, which in young
colonies, will be found to be least oppressive and destruc-
tive, and certainly the most equal : But by the Stamp
Act, the * wealthy who have money to let out at interest,
or to make purchases, and undoubtedly ought to pay the
most towards the public charges, will escape these taxes,
while the whole [22] weight of them will fall on the ne-
cessitous and industrious, who most of all require relief and
encouragement.

But it may be said, "That the merchants will not be
affected by these taxes, because they will raise the prices
of their goods in proportion, and that at length. M taxes
must arise from lands. ' '

* If a rich man buys land, it is generally from the distressed, and there-
fore the seller's situation will oblige him to pay for the deed, when the
other insists on it ; and when a man borrows money, everybody knows
who pays for the bonds and mortgages.

THE LA TE REGULA TIONS. 231

This rule seems more applicable to very populous and
rich countries, where the manufacturers and land-holders
through necessity or the force of fashions, have pressing
demands upon the merchants, than to such a country as
this, where a great majority of the people live on their
lands in a very plain way. For by practising a strict fru-
gality and industry, we may render ourselves more inde-
pendent of the merchants, than the circumstances of more
populous and wealthy states will permit the other classes
of their people to be. The high prices therefore which
our merchants impose upon their goods, will discourage
the sale of them, and consequently they must "be affected
by the taxes," which oblige them to raise the prices in
this manner.

However, granting that all taxes must arise from lands;
it follows, that where the profits of the lands are small,
they can bear but small taxes. The more labour is be-
stowed on them, the greater the profits will be, and the
taxes may be. In old populous countries there is an op-
portunity of bestowing this labour, and the manner of do-
ing it is well understood. Thus in England^ the profits
of land are so great, as to support a very large number of
nobility and gentry in splendor, and to afford means of
raising taxes to an amazing amount. Nor are the workers
of the land unrewarded ; for the farmers have such long
leases, and other encouragements, that they thrive and live
comfortably, and many of them are very wealthy. [23]

How different is the case in America? The inhab-
itants being scattered thin through the country, and
labourers being very scarce, they think themselves fortu-
nate, if they can clear their land, fence it, and any how
put their grain into the ground in season. Manuring or*

* " Further, it may be observed, that our lands are not sufficiently cul-
tivated, even -where they are capable of great improvement. Hence large
tracts serve only to maintain a small number of people. If we ask, why

232 THE LA TE REGULA TIONS.

improving soils is not known, except in some small closes
near cities ; but every one must be content with what his
land will yield of itself. With this it must be considered,
that at least four fifths of the people in America^ live upon
farms either of their own, or rented, and spend their small
profits in maintaining their families ; and it frequently
happens from the length and severity of our winters, that
the whole produce of a man's farm is not sufficient to
maintain his family and stock. *

We are informed, that an opinion has been industriously
propagated in Great-Britain^ that the colonies aref wal-

our lands (meaning in Scotland) are so ill cultivated, besides the obvious
CAUSES arising from the poverty and unskhlfulness of many of our
farmers, the SHORTNESS OP THEIR LEASES, and other things which will
occur upon the least reflection, it is not a little owing to a want of incli-
nation for agriculture, etc."

Dissertation on the numbers of mankind.

* Small as the value of our land is, it is still daily decreasing, by the
number of markets for their produce being lessened; which must in
time give the people an inclination to try what they can make by manu-
factures.

The riches of a people are always in proportion to the number of hands
employed in works of skill and labour. Where these are few, there
can be but little wealth ; and where there is little wealth, but very small
taxes can be borne. [ This note is struck out in Dickinson's Political
Writings.— Ed.]

t "It is certain, that from the very time Sir Walter Raleigh, the father
of our English colonies, and his associates, first projected these estab-
lishments, there have been persons who have found an interest in miS'
representing, or lessening the value of them. — The attempts were called
chimerical, and dangerous. Afterwards many malignant suggestions
•were made about sacrificing so many Englishmen to the obstinate desire
of settling colonies in countries which then produced very little advan-
tage. But as these difficulties were gradually surmounted, those com-
plaints vanished. No sooner were these lamentations over but others
arose in their stead ; when it could no longer be said, that the colonies
were useless, it was alleged that they were not useful enough to their
mother country ; that while we were loaded with taxes, they were abso-
lutely free; that the planters lived \\ke princes, while the inhabitants of
England laboured hard for a tolerable subsistence. This produced cus-

THE LA TE REG ULA TIONS. 233

lowing ill wealth and luxury, while she is la- [24] bouring
under an enormous load of debt. Never was there a
greater mistake. This opinion has arisen from slight ob-
servations made in our cities during the late war, when
large sums of money were spent here in support of fleets
and armies. Our productions were then in great demand,
and trade flourished. Having a number of strangers
among us, the people naturally not ungenerous or inhos-
pitable, indulged themselves in many uncommon expenses.
But the cause of this gaiety has ceased, and all the effect
remaining, is, that we are to be treated as a rich people,
when we are really poor. Tully mentions a man who lost
an honorable oflice, by the homely entertainment he gave
the people of Rome^ when he could have afforded a better ;
but we have lost vastly more by the imprudent excess of
kindness, with which we have [25] treated the people of
Great-Britain who have come among us, at an expence
that did not suit our fortunes.

To all the disadvantages that have been mentioned, it
must be added, that our markets are much more precarious
than those at home. It is computed, that one half of the
people there live in cities, and consequently there must be
a perpetual domestic demand for the productions of the

toms and impositions, which, if grievous to the plantations, must turn to
our disadvantage, as well as theirs, and consequently become detrimental
to both."

PoSTLETHWAYT'S univ. diet, of trade and commerce.
In pursuance of this design to bring down the pride of these Princely
Planters, such heavy impositions were laid in Great-Britain on to-
bacco, that the inhabitants of Maryland and Virginia were discouraged
from raising it. Then the mother country eet.T her error, and these
Princes were found to be very poor people. The same unhappy spirit
is now producing the same mistake There wants but a very little more
weight upon Maryland and Virginia, to prevent their raising tobacco,
and to make them and all their sister colonies sink under their multiplied
burthens. \This note is struck out in Dickinson's Political Writings.
—Ed.}

234 THE LA TE REGULA TIONS.

earth ; and foreign markets are not far distant for the over-
plus. Here the quantity sold for consumption among us
is small, and most of the foreign markets are very remote.

These reasons induce me to think, that the colonies, un-
less some fortunate event, not to be expected, should
happen, cannot bear the restrictions and taxations laid
upon them by the mother country, without suffering very
severely. What then can we do? Which way shall we
turn ourselves? How may we mitigate the miseries of
our country ? Great-Britain gives us an example to guide
us. She teaches us to make a distinction between
HER INTERESTS AND OUR OWN. Teaclies ! She requires —
commands — insists upon it — threatens — compels — and even
distresses us into it.

We have our choice of these two things — to continue
our present limited and disadvantageous commerce — or to
promote manufactures among ourselves, with a habit of
ceconomy, and thereby remove the necessity we are now
under of being supplied by Great- Britain.

It is not difficult to determine which of these things is
most eligible. Could the last of them be only so far [26]
executed, as to bring our demand for British manufactures
below the profits of our foreign trade, and the amount of
our commodities immediately remitted home, these
colonies might revive and flourish. States and families
are enriched by the same means ; that is, by being so in-
dustrious and frugal, as to spend less than what they raise
can pay for.

We have examples in this province, which if imitated
by others, must unavoidably produce the most happy ef-
fects for us : I mean the examples of the industrious, frugal,
honest Germans. Their lands are as well cultivated as
they can be in this new country, and they have the good
sense to require very little provisions and cloaths more
than they can get from their own farms, and make with

THE LA TE REG ULA TIONS. 235

their own hands. If we only consider for a moment the
consequences of such a conduct, should it be general, we
must be convinced it must produce commerce, since all
superfluities would be exported, and the Owners having
few demands in return, that commerce would of course pro-
duce wealth.

Indeed we shall be compelled, I apprehend, generally to
imitate these examples. The late regulations, and our
constant remittances to Great-Britain^ have extremely les-
sened the quantity of money among us, and yet these re-
mittances are not sufficient to pay for those things we want
from home. Necessity will teach us two ways to relieve
ourselves. The one is, to keep the British manufactures we
purchase longer in use for wear than we have been accus-
tomed to do. The other is, to supply their place by man-
ufactures of our own. I don't suppose our difficulties will
immediately produce expert artists among us; but as the
inhabitants here generally [27] reside on their lands, and
live in a plain rustic way, they will be able to supply
themselves with many articles. Some author, and I think
Keysler^ says, that in Switzerland^ every family has all
the trades in it that are necessary for its use. Their work
is not, it may be presumed, at all in the taste oi London or
Paris^ but it serves their purpose; and their coarse cl oaths
and simple furniture enable them to live in plenty, and to
defend their liberty. Something of this kind will be, nay,
already is, practiced by us. It is surprising to see the
linen and cloth that have been lately made among us.
Many gentlemen in this city dress now in suits produced,
manufactured, and made up in this province. The cloth
is not equal in fineness to the best broad-cloth, but it is
warm, strong, and not very homely; and when the British
workmen understand that they may meet with better en-
couragement here than they do at home, I believe in a few
years we shall have very different kinds of cloth among us

236 THE LA TE REG ULA TIONS.

from these we now make. Instances are not wanting to
justify the most sanguine expectations on this head.
Spain used formerly to be entirely supplied with cloths
from England ; but in the reigns only of their two last
kings, Philip the Vth, and Ferdinand the Vth, their
manufactures have been improved to such a degree, even
by that proud and indolent people, that this commerce has
entirely ceased in most parts of that kingdom. The same
thing has happened in France^ notwithstanding the de-
structive wars in which she has been continually involved.
Switzerland some time ago spent large sums of money in
foreign commodities; but now they make excellent cloths,
and good silks, though the scheme at first laboured under
very great difficulties. That country used also to be sup-
plied by Savoy with [28] wine; but the Duke laying a
duty upon it, the Switzers remonstrated; but in vain. At
last some of the principal men promoted the cultivation
of vines, though the"ir precedessors had never planted any.
The result exceeded their hopes. * "The demand for the
Savoyard wine daily decreased, and instead of the precar-
ious advantage arising from this impolitic duty^ the certain
revenue was irretrieveably lost^ and the industrious subject
deprived of the benefit of his labour."

*' Before the settlement of these colonies," says Postleth-
wayt^ "our manufactures were few, and those but indif-
ferent. In those days we had not only our naval stores,
but our ships from our neighbours. Germany furnished
us with all things made of metal, even to nails. Wine,
paper, linens, and a thousand other things, came from
France. Portugal supplied us with sugar ; all the pro-
ducts of America were poured into us from Spain ; and the
Venetians and Genoese retailed to us the commodities of
the East-Indies^ at their own price. ' '

*Keysler.

THE LA TE REGULA TIONS. 237

The astonishing alterations in all these particulars, are
too well known to need enumeration.

These instances, and many others that might be men-
tioned, may convince us, that nothing is too difficult for
men to effect, whose hearts are filled with a generous love
of their country ; and they may convince the world of the
dangers that attend provoking innovations in commerce.
A branch of trade once lost, is lost for ever. In short, so
strong a spirit is raised in these colonies by late measures,
and such success- [29] ful efforts are already made among
us, that it cannot be doubted, that before the end of this
century, the modern regulations will teach America^ that
she has resources within herself, of which she never other-
wise would have thought. Individuals, perhaps, may
find their benefit in opposing her use of these resources ;
but I hope very, very few, will wish to receive benefits by
such means. The man who would promote his own inter-
ests by injuring his country, is unworthy of the blessings
of society.

It has hitherto been thought, by the people of Great-
Britain^ and I hope it will still be thought, that suflScient
advantages are derived by her from the colonies, without
laying taxes upon them. To represent them as an "ex-
pensive appendage of the British empire, that can no other
way repay the trouble and treasure they cost her," is cer-
tainly one of the greatest errors ; and to spend much time
in refuting this notion, would be unnecessary. Every ad-
vantage accruing to the colonies by their connection with
the mother country, is amply — dearly — paid for, by the
benefits derived to her from them, and by the restrictions
of their commerce. These benefits have been allowed by
the best writers to be immense, and * consist in the var-
ious employment and the support they afford her people.

* Chiefly ; even the supplying her with naval stores, &c., being incon-
siderable, when compared with the other advantages.

238 THE LA TE REG ULA TIONS.

If the colonies enable her to pay taxes, is it not as useful
to her, as if they paid them ? Or, indeed, may not the col-
onies with the strictest propriety be said to pay a great
part of those taxes, when they consume the British manu-
factures * loaded with the advanced prices occasioned by
such taxes? Or, further, as the colonies are compelled to
take those manufactures thus [30] loaded, when they might
furnish themselves so much cheaper from other countries,
may not the difference between these prices be called an
enormous tax paid by them to Great-Britain ? May they
not also be said to pay an enormous tax to her, by being
compelled to carry their most valuable productions to her
alone^ and to receive what she pleases to give for them,
when they might sell them at other markets to much
greater advantage ? Lastly, may they not be said to pay
a heavy tax to her, in being prohibited from carrying on
such manufactures as they could have employed themselves
in with advantage, and thus being obliged to resort to her
for those things with which they might supply themselves?
If these things are true, and can they be denied ! may not

* " If it be asked, whether foreigners, for what goods they take of us,
do not pay on that consumption a great portion of our taxes ? It is ad-
mitted they do."

PosTi^ETHWAYT's Great Britain's true sj^stem.

By the consumption of British manufactures in America, we pay a
heavier tax to Great Britain, than if they were consumed at home. For
in the bringing them here, a vast number of merchants, factors, brokers
and seamen are employed, every one of which must have such a profit,
as will enable him to support himself and his family, if he has any, in a
country where everything is dear by reason of the high taxes.

So far was the parliament from thinking in the last war, that any fur-
ther taxes should be laid on the colonies, so convinced indeed were they
that we had exceeded our abilities in the supplies we gave to the crown,
that several sums of money were granted to us as indemnifications for
the too heavy expences in which we had involved ourselves.

The sums thus given, paid part of our debts, but we are still labour-
ing under the remainder.

THE LA TE REG ULA TIONS. 239

the mother country more justly be called expensive to her
colonies, than they can be called expensive to her ?

What would France give for such extensive dominions ?
Would she refuse the empire of North America^ unless the
inhabitants would submit to any taxes she should please
to impose ? Or would she not rather afford them her ut-
most protection, if ever they should [31] be wretched
enough to require it, for one half of the emoluments Great-
Britain receives from them? In short, the amazing in-
crease of the wealth and strength of this kingdom, since
the reign of queen Elizabeth^ in whose time the colonies
began to be settled, appears to be a sufficient proof of their
importance : And therefore I think it may justly be said,

that THE FOUNDATIONS OF THE POWER AND GLORY OP

Great Britain are laid in America.

When the advantages derived by the mother country
from her colonies are so * important and evident^ it is
amazing, that any persons should venture to assert, " that
she poured out her wealth and blood in the late war, only
for their defence and benefit ; and that she cannot be re-
compensed for this expence and loss, but by taxing them^

If any man who does not chuse to spend much time in
considering this subject, would only read the speeches from
the throne during that period, with the addresses in an-
swer to them, he will soon be convinced for whose benefit
Great-Britain thought she was exerting herself For my
part, I should not now be surprized, if those who maintain
the abovementioned assertions, should contend, that
Great-Britain ought to tax Portugal. For was not that
kingdom "defended by the troops and treasure of Great-
Britain f^ And how can she be ''otherwise recompensed
for this expence and loss ?" If the protection of Portugal^
though no taxes are received from thence, was beneficial

* Vide notes to page 4.

240 THE LA TE REGULA TIONS.

to Great- Britain^ infinitely more so was the protection of
the colonies.

So far I must beg leave to dissent from these gentlemen,
that if the colonies, by an increase of industry [32] and
frugality, should become able to bear this taxation, it will,
in my apprehension, notwithstanding be injurious to Gr-eat-
Britain. If the sum be trifling, it cannot be worth the
discontent and unhappiness the taking it will produce
among so many faithful subjects of his Majesty. If it be
considerable, it must also be hurtful in another respect.

It must be granted, that it is not merely the bringing
money into a nation that makes it wealthy, but the bring-
ing money into it by the general industry of its inhabi-
tants. A country may perpetually receive vast sums, and-
yet be perpetually poor. It must also be granted, that al-
most all the money acquired by the colonies in their other
branches of trade, is spent by them in Great- Britain^ and
finds employment for her people. Whatever then lessens
the sum so spent, must lessen that employment. This I
think will be one consequence of the Stamp Act : For our
demand will be as much less for British manufactures, as
the amount of the sums raised by the taxes. So much the
fewer British merchants, artists, seamen and ships will be
employed by us, and so much the more distressed at first,
and afterwards so much the more frugal, * ingenious, la-
borious and independent will the colonists become.

It is evident from the concurrent testimony of her own
most noted authors on this subject, that Great-Britaift is
sure of having our money at f last ; and it appears no diffi-
cult matter to determine, whether it is better to take it in

* Great Britain •will not only lose in such case, the annual amount of
the taxes, but the people of America establishing manufactures through
discontent, will in time entirely withdraw their intercourse with her. —
And therefore her loss of the whole American trade, may be justly at-
tributed to this inauspicious beginning.

t See notes to page 4.

THE LA TE REGULA TIONS. 241

taxes or trade. — Suppose the [33] Stamp Act, enforced
by uucommon penalties and unheard of jurisdictions,
should pick up every piece of gold and silver that shall
wander into the plantations, what would Great-Britain
gain by this measure ? Or rather what would she not lose,
by attempting to advance her revenue by means so distress-
ing to commerce?

But if the late restrictions shall not prove profitable;
perhaps they may by some be called prudent for another
reason. We are informed that many persons at home af-
fect to speak of the colonists^ as of a people designing and
endeavoring to render themselves independent, and there-
fore it may be said to be proper as much as possible to de-
press them. This method for securing obedience, has
been tried by many powerful nations, and seen to be the
constant policy of commonwealths: But the attempt in al-
most every instance from Athens down to Genoa^ has been
unsuccessful. Many states and kingdoms have lost their
dominions by severity and an unjust jealousy. I remem-
ber none that have been lost by kindness and a generous
confidence. Evils are frequently precipitated, by impru-
dent attempts to prevent them. In short, we never can be
made an independent people, except it be by * Great-Brit-

* " If we are afraid that one day or other the colonies will revolt, and
set up for themselves, as some seem to apprehend, let us not drive them
to a necessity to feel themselves independent of us ; as they will do, the
moment they perceive that they can be supplied rvith all things from
■within themselves, and do not need our assistance. If we would keep
them still dependent upon their mother country, and in some respects
subservient to their views and welfare ; let us make it their INTEREST
always to be so."

Tucker on trade,

" Our colonies, while they have English blood in their veins, and
have relations in England, and whii,e THEY can GET by Trading with
us, the stronger and greater they grow, the more this crown and king-
dom will get by them ; and nothing but such an arbitrary power as shall
make them desperate can bring them to rebel."

Davenant on the plantation trade.

242 THE LA TE REGULA TIONS.

ain herself ; [34] and the only way for her to do it, is to
make us frugal, ingenious,* united and discontented.

"The Northern colonies are not upon the same footing as those of the
South ; and having a worse soil to improve, they must find the recom-
pence some other way, which only can be in property and dominion.
Upon which score, any innovations in the form of government there,
should be cautiously examined, for fear of entering upon measures, by
which the industry of the inhabitants be quite discouraged. 'Tis ai^w^ays
UNFORTUNATE for a people, either by consent or upon COMPUI.SION, to
depart from their primitive institutions, and those fundamentai^,
by which they were FIRST united together." Idem.

* The most effectual way of uniting the colonies, is to make it their
common interest to oppose the designs and attempts of Great Britain.

"All wise states will well consider how to preserve the advantages
arising from colonies, and avoid the evils. And I conceive that there
can be but Two ways in nature to hinder them from throwing oif their
dependence ; one, to keep it out of their power, and the other, out of
their will. The first must be by force ; and the latter, by using them
well, and keeping them employed in such productions, and making such
manufactures, as will support themselves and families comfortably, and
procure them wealth too, and at least not prejudice their mother country.

Force can never be used effectually to answer the end, without destroy-
ing the colonies themselves. Liberty and encouragement are necessary to
carry people thither, and to keep them together when they are there ;
and violence will hinder both. Any body of troops considerable enough
to awe them, and keep them in subjection under the direction too of a
needy governor, often sent thither to make his fortune, and at such a
distance from any application for redress, will soon put an end to all
planting, and leave the country to the soldiers alone, and if it did not,
would eat up all the profit of the colony. For this reason, arbitrary
countries have not been equally successful in planting colonies with free
ones ; and what they have done in that kin J, has either been by force at
a vast expence, or by departing from the nature of their government, and
giving such privileges to planters as were denied to their other subjects.
And I dare say, that a few prudent laws, and a little prudent conduct,
would soon give us far the greatest share of the riches of all America,
perhaps drive many of other nations out of it, or into our colonies for
shelter.

There are so many exigencies in all states, so many foreign wars, and
domestic disturbances, that these colonies can never want opportuni-
ties, if they watch for them, to do what they shall find their ititerest to
do ; and therefore we ought to take all the precautions in our power,

THE LATE REGULATIONS. 243

But if this event shall ever happen, which Providence I
hope will never permit, it must when the present genera-
tion and the present set of sentiments are extinct. Late
measures have indeed excited an universal and unexampled
grief and indignation throughout the colonies. What
man who wishes the welfare of America^ can view with-
out pity, without passion, her restricted and almost stag-"-
nated trade, with its numerous train of evils — taxes [35J
torn from her without her consent — Her legislative assem-
bties, the principal pillars of her liberty, crushed into in-
significance— A formidable force established in the midst of
peace, to bleed her into obedience — The sacred right of
trial by jury, violated by the erection of arbitrary and un-
constitutional jurisdictions — and general poverty, discon- /
tent and despondence stretching themselves over his unof-
fending country ? -

The reflections of the colonists on these melancholy sub-
jects are not a little embittered by a firm persuasion, that
they never would have been treated as they are, i^ Canada
still continued in the hands of the French. Thus, their
hearts glowing with every sentiment of duty and affection
towards their mother country, and expecting, not unrea-
sonably perhaps, some mark of tenderness in return, are
pierced by a fatal discovery, that the vigo-[36] rous assist-
ance which they faithfully afforded her in extending her
domains, has only proved the glorious but destructive
cause of the calamities they now deplore and resent.

that it shall never be their interest to act against that of their native
country ; an evil which can no otherwise be averted, than by keeping
them fully employed in such trades as will ificrease their own, as well as
our wealth ; for it is much to be feared, if we do not find employment for
them, they might find it for us. The interest of the mother country, is
always to keep them dependent, and so employed ; and it requires all her
address to do it ; and it is certainly more easily and effectually done by
gentle and insensible methods, than hy power alone."

Cato's letters.

244 THE LATE REG ULA TIONS.

Yet still their resentment is but the resentment of duti-
ful children, who have received unmerited blows from, a
beloved parent. Their obedience to Great-Britain is se-
cured by the best and strongest ties, those of affection;
which alone cait, and I hope will form an everlasting
union between her and her colonies. May no successes or
suspicions ever tempt her, to deviate from the natural
generosity of her spirit — And may no dreadful revolution
of sentiments, ever teach them, to fear her victories or to

repine at her glories. [37]

I a?n, <2fc.

POSTSCRIPT.

I have omitted mentioning one thing that seems to be
connected with the foregoing subject.

With a vast expence of blood and wealth, we fought our
way in the late war up the doors of the Spanish treasuries,
and by the possession of Florida, might obtain some re-
compence for that expence. Pensacola and the other ports
in that country, are convenient places, where the Span-
iards might meet us, and exchange their silver for the
manufactures of Great- Britain, and the provisions of these
colonies. By this means, a commerce inconceivably ben-
eficial to the British subjects, might be carried on. This
commerce the Spaniards wish and have endeavoured to
carry on. Many hundred thousand dollars have been
brought by them to Pensacola to lay out there; but the
men of war at that station have compelled them to take
back their cargoes, the receipt of which, it may from thence
be presumed, would be destructive to the interests of Great
Britain. — Thus we receive less advantage from Florida,
now it belongs to us, than we did when in was possessed
by our enemies ; for then by permission from the Spanish
governors, to trade there, we deprived considerable emolu-
ments from our intercourse with them.

THE LA TE REGULA TIONS. 245

. Upon what reasons this conduct is founded, is not easy
to determine. Sure no one considers Florida in the same
light with these colonies, and thinks that no vessels should
be permitted to trade there, but British shipping. This
would be to apply the acts of navi- [38] gation to purposes
directly opposite to the spirit of them. They were in-
tended to preserve an intercourse between the mother coun-
try and her colonies, and thus to cultivate a mutual affec-
tion; to promote the interests of both, by an exchange of
their most valuable productions for her manufactures;
thereby to increase the shipping of both ; and thus render
them capable of affording aid to each other. Which of
these purposes is answered by prohibiting a commerce,
that can be no other way carried on ? That is, by forbid-
ding the Spaniards to bring their wealth y^r us to Florida,
which is an unhealthy sandbank, held by a garrison, at a
great expence of money, and a greater of lives, that can-
not for ages, if ever it will, yield a single advantage to
Great- Britain, but that she refuses to enjoy.

FINIS.

AN ADDRESS

TO THE

COMMITTEE OF CORRESPONDENCE

IN

BARBADOS.

BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

1766.

NOTE.

The letter of the Committee of Correspondence, appointed by the As-
sembly of Barbados, to the agent of the colony in London, in relation to
the Stamp Act, was printed "by authority" in the Barbados Mercury of
April 19, 1766. In its republication from that or some other source, it
•was altered, so as to charge the American provinces with "rebellious
opposition," the true text merely having styled it "present opposition."
After careful search, I have not been able to trace this garbling to its
origin, but it was the version generally printed in the American news-
papers, and was the one on which Dickinson based the attack contained
in the following pamphlet, which was printed with the title of :

An / Address / to / The Committee of Correspondence / in / Barbados, /

Occasioned by a late letter from them / to / Their Agent in London. /

By a North-American. / This word Rebellion hath froze them up / Like

Fish in a pond. Shakespeare. / Philadelphia. / Printed and Sold by

William Bradford, at / his Book-Store in Market-Street, adjoining the

/ London Coffee-House. M,DCC,LXVI. 8vo, pp. 18.

The fact that the text printed and answered by Dickinson was not the

correct one, stirred up the writers in Barbados, and three replies were

published as follows :

A / Letter / to the / North -American, / On Occasion of his / Address /
to the / Committee of Correspondence / in / Barbados. / By a Native of
the Island. / All your attempts / Shall fall on me, like brittle Shafts on
Armour / That break themselves ; or like Waves against a Rock, / That
leave no Sign of their o'erboiling Fury / But Foam and Splinters : My
Innocence, like these, / Shall stand triumphant— Massinger. / Bar-
bados : / Printed by George Esmand and Comp. / M.DCCLXVL /
Sm. Svo, pp. 47.

An / Essay / Towards the Vindication / of the / Committee of Corres-
pondence / in / Barbados, / from the Aspersions and Calumnies thrown
upon / them in an anonymous Piece, printed in Phi- / ladelphia, under
the Title of an Address to / them, occasioned by their Letter to their

250 NOTE.

Agent / in London. / In a letter to a Friend. / By a Barbadian. / Though
Loyalty, well held, to Fools does make / Our Faith mere Folly ; —
Shakespear. / Barbados : / Printed by George Esmand and Comp. /
M,DCC/LXVL / Sm. 8vo, pp. 24+.

Candid / Observations / on / Two Pamphlets lately published, / viz. /
"^« Address to the Committee of Correspondence / in Barbados." By
a North-American. / and / "An Essay towards the Vindication of the
Com- 1 mittee of Correspondence .^^ By a Barbadian. / By a Native of
Barbados. / Amicus Plato, Amicus Socrates, sed magis Amica Veritas.
/ Barbadoes : / Printed by George Esmand and Comp. / M.DCCLXVI. /
8vo, pp. 37.

A series of extracts from the second of these replies, was republished
in The Pennsylvania Chronicle of August i and 8, 1768 ; and the former
issue also contains a reply to Dickinson's Address^ by "a Countryman."

Editor.

A N

ADDRESS

T O

The Committee of Correspondence

IN
BARBADOS.

Occafioned by a late kcter from them

T O

Their Agent in London.
By A NORTH-AMERICAN.

This word REBELLION hath froze them up
Like Fijb in a pond, Shakespeare.

PHILADELPHIA.

Printed and Sold by WILLIAM BRADFORD, at
his Book-Store in Market-Stheet, adjoining the
London CoFPEt-HousE. M,DCC,LXVI.

PREFACE.

Had the charge of rebellion been made by a private person
against the colonies on this continent, for their opposition to the
Stamp Act, I should not have thought it worth answering. — But
when it was made by men vested with a public character, by a com-
mittee of correspondence, representing two branches of legislature
in a considerable government, and the charge was not only ap-
proved, as it is said, by those branches, but was actually published
to the world in newspapers, it seemed to me to deserve notice. I
waited some time, in hopes of seeing the cause espoused by an abler
advocate ; but being disappointed, I resolved, 'favente Deo,'^ to
snatch a little time from the hurry of business, and to place, if I
could, the letter of those gentlemen to their agent in a proper light.

It is very evident from the generality ^M«r accusation against
their ''fellow subjects on the northern continent''; of the expres-
sions they use in the latter part of their letter, when they speak of
the ''violent spirit raised in the North American colonies,'" and
from what follows, that they do not apply the opprobrious term
they use, only to those few of the lower rank, who disturbed us
with two or three mobs in some of the provinces, nor to any other
particular class of people ; but that the censure is designed for ALL
the inhabitants of these colonies who were any way concerned in
the opposition that has been given, and consequently that the
modes of that opposition are thereby condemned. Two consider-
ations therefore have induced me to undertake their [ii] defence.
First, to vindicate the honour of my country, which I think grossly
and wantonly insulted. Secondly, to refute opinions, that in un-
fortunate times, may, if adopted, be injurious to liberty.

Many good pieces have been published in these colonies to shew
their title to the rights claimed by them ; the invasion of those
rights by the Stamp Act ; the other hardships imposed on them,
and the bad consequences that probably would follow these meas-

254 PREFACE.

ures ; but nothing has appeared, at least I have seen nothing that
I recollect, in defence of the principle on which the opposition has
been made, and of the manner in which it has been conducted.
These are points entirely new ; and the consideration of them is
now rendered necessary, by the public reproach that has been thrown
on the people of this continent.

A LETTER from the COMMITTEES/CORRESPONDENCE

i7i BARBADOS, to their Agent in London.

Sir,

' In compliance with the united resolution of the two branches
' of our legislature, of which we have severally the honor to be
' members, and to compose their committee of correspondence,

* We are now to desire you to lay our complaints before his
' Majesty and the Parliament, on the hardships which this com-
' munity labours under by the imposition of the Stamp Duties,
'lately put in force amongst us. We have, indeed, submitted,
' with all obedience, to the act of Parliament ; yet our submis-

* sion has, by no means, arisen from any consciousness of our
'ability to bear the burden of these taxes, or from the want of
' a due sense of the oppressive weight of them in all its parts, but
[iii] ' from a principle of loyalty to our King and Mother Coun-

* try, which has carried us above every consideration of our
' own distresses : yet, if we have suffered without resistance, we
' have leanit by it to complain with reason ; and, since we have
' raised no clamours from our own fears, we must surely have
' the better title to remonstrate from our feelings. But, with re-
*spect to the manner in which our grievances in this case,
' along with so good a proof of our obedience to the laws of out
' mother country, are to be reported to his Majesty and the par-
'liament, we must refer ourselves to your good judgment and dis-
' cretion ; so much better circumstanced as you are on that side
'of the water to judge for us, than we can do at this distance
' for ourselves ; and so perfectly assured as we are also of your
' ability and zeal, in the conduct of every matter of importance
' that can be intrusted to your agency for this country's service.
' To you. Sir, therefore we give the power, in the name of our
' council and assembly, to present such a memorial, or memor-

PREFACE.
^ials, to his Majesty, and the two houses of parliament (if to
'all be necessary) as to yourself shall seem most proper and
' adviseable ; setting forth the anxiety and distresses of our
'country, under this new and extraordinary burden of taxation,
' by which we not only find ourselves loaded with a charge more
' than is proportioned to our circumstances, but deprived also of a

* privilege, which renders the oppression beyond measure grievous.
' We see two of the most important objects to such a colony as
'ours, ira^ and justice crouching under the load of these new
^duties ; and bylKT manner in which the duties have been im-

* posed, we find too the most valuable of all otir civil rights and
' liberties sinking alotig with them. The design of this new and
'extraordinary charge upon our country is, towards defraying
' the expences of defending, protecting and securing, the col-
*onies of America. But what new and extraordinar)' ex- [iv]
'pence has this colony put the nation to, for the expence of
' maintaining of troops quartered in the several provinces of
'North America, for the protection and security of those
'parts of the British dominions? This is just as reasonable,
'and just as merciful too, as it would be to impose a heavy
' mulct on the inhabitants of this place, by way of a punishment
'for the present REBELLIOUS opposition given to authority ^
' by our fellow subjects on the Northern continent. But if we are
'to be subject to the power of the parliament of Great Britain in
^ our internal taxes, we must be always liable to impositions, that

* have nothing but the will of the imposers to direct them in the
^measure, since we have there no representatives to inform them
' of the true state of our circumstances, and of the degree of our
'strength to bear the burdens that are imposed. How far,
'indeed, we are intitled, by the constitution of England, or
' our own peculiar charter, to an exemption from every other in-
' ternal tax, than such as may be laid upon us by the represen-
'tatives of our own people, in conjunction with the two other
'branches of our legislative body, we cannot positively say ; but
'this is certain, that we have enjoyed that privilege, that seem-
*ing birthright of every Briton, ever since the first establish-
'ment of a civil government in this island to the present time.
' And why we should at this period be condemned to the loss

256 PREFACE.

' of so inestimable a blessing of society^ we can see no cause ; since
' the present period has aflforded some instances of loyalty and
' affection to our King and mother country, which might rather
'have intitled us to new favours from the crown and nation,
* than have left us exposed to any deprivation of our old and
' valuable rights. Yet, how far it may be prudent and necessary
' to press this last consideration in your memorial to our super-
' iors, must be referred to your good judgment ; for as we mean to
' obtain a redress of our grievances by a dutiful representation
[v] ' only of our case, so would we have any thing avoided in the
' stile and substance of that representation as might give offence
' to those from whom only our redress can come, our appeal
' being to the very powers by whom we think ourselves op-
' pressed ; tho' we may remonstrate to them with j ustice, we
^ cannot reproach them, without dajiger ; and the most effectual
'means of giving ourselves all the merit we hope for, and
'intend, both with our sovereign and the parliament, will
'be, we think, by giving our complaint on this matter the
' complexion of our conduct, shewing an humble submission to
' authority, even under the most painful heartburnings of our
' community, at its severe decrees. But, great as our distresses
' are, upon account of this new Taxation in its general course,
'we are yet fortunate enough not to have suffered so much
' greater, as by the particular calamity you seem to have appre-
' hended for us, on the supposed seizure of the North American
' traders ; for the masters of those vessels, producing certificates
' at our custom-house, that no stamp papers were to be had at
'the ports they came from, have been admitted to an entry of
' their several ships and cargoes, being supposed only liable to
' the penalties inflicted by the Stamp Act, and of these no notice
' have been taken ; so that our danger from the circumstances
' you suggested to the ministers is over. But we see another
' arising from the violent spirit raised in the North American
' colonies against this act, which threatens us with the same ill
'consequences ; we mean, from their avowed resentment at the
' people of this island, for having so tamely submitted to the
'act, which they had been pleased so resolutely to oppose.
' This having led them to some extraordinary attempts (as we

PREFACE. 257

'have been informed) to prevent any vessels coming hither
' with provisions for our support, how far a combination of this
' kind, which has to struggle with the private interests of so

* many indivi-[vi] duals, can be formed amongst them, we may at
' first be led to doubt ; yet, on a second review of things, how

* far the excesses of popular fury, which has no bounds, may
' hurry away all those individuals, to their own, as well as our
' immediate prejudice, we may reasonably fear ; and we think

* it, at least, necessary to make mention of it to you, that you

* may take this, amongst all the other unhappy consequences
*we may feel from that injurious act, into your proper consid-
'eration.'

N. B. The words in italics, are those animadverted upon in
the following address ; and are printed in that manner, to be
more easily distinguished and referred to by the reader.

AN ADDRESS, &c.

Gejitlemen^

I am a North-Amencan^ and my intention is, in address-
ing you at present, to answer so much of a late letter from
you to your agent in London^ as casts unmerited censure
on my countrymen. After this declaration, as you enter-
tain such unfavorable sentiments of the "popular fury"
on this continent, I presume you expect to be treated with
all the excess of passion natural to a rude people. You
are mistaken. I am of their opinion, who think it almost
as infamous to disgrace a good cause by illiberal lan-
guage, as to betray it by unmanly ti7mdity. Complaints
may be made with dignity, insults retorted with decency;
aud violated rights vindicated without violence of words.

You have nothing therefore to apprehend from me, gen-
tlemen^ but such reflections on your conduct, as may tend
to rouse that remorse in you, which always arises in the
minds of ingenuous persons, when they find that they have
wounded by their rash calumnies the honor of those, who
merit their highest esteem, — their warmest praises. [2]

I know there are in the island of Barbados^ many men
of sense, spirit, and virtue; and therefore I chuse to
consider you rather in the character of such, whose under-
standing, resolution, and integrity, have been drugg'd by
some pernicious draught into a slumber, than of those who
with irretrievable depravity, want all the qualities requi-
site to make them serviceable to their countrymen, or just
to others.

Had I ovXy h^siT^^ gentlemen, that you had called the

26o AN ADDRESS

behavior of these colonies, a "rebellious opposition
given to authority," I should have thought it a vain at-
tempt, to aim at convincing you, how unjustifiable an as-
sertion that expression contained; because I should imme-
diately have concluded, that you were so ignorant of the
rights of British subjects, and so insensible of all concern
on the invasion of those rights, that any man who should
endeavour to shew you your error, would engage in as
unpromising a project, as if he should think to communi-
cate an idea of sound to the deaf, or of colour to the blind.

When I read your letter, however, with an agreeable
surprise I observed that you^ at the same time you have
made the attack, have laid the foundation of a defence for
my countrymen. Permit me to erect the superstructure,
though I had much rather see it built by more skilful
hands.

You acknowledge, the "burthen of the taxes imposed
by the stamp act, to be oppressive in all its parts;"
that you are thereby not only ' ' loaded with a charge more
than is proportioned to your circumstances, but deprived
also of a privilege, which renders the oppression be-
yond measure grievous:" that you "see two of the
most important objects. Trade and justice crouching
uuder the load of the [3] new duties; and by the manner
in which these duties have been imposed, find too the
MOST VALUABLE OF ALL YOUR CIVIL RIGHTS AND LIBER-
TIES SINKING ALONG WITH THEM."

You say that if you "are to be subject to the power of the
parliament of Great- Britain^ in your internal taxes, you
must always be liable to impositions, that have nothing
but the WILL OF THE IMPOSERS to direct them in the
measure." With what consistency you afterwards hesi-
tate, and "cannot say," whether the privilege of taxing
yourselves, exclusively belongs to you, or talk of a "seem-
ing birthright^^^ I will leave to be determined by your-

TO BARBADOS. 261

selves, or the agent to whose "good judgment and discre-
tion," you with such strange, I had ahnost said "humble
submission" "refer" your most important affairs. How-
ever, your sentiments soon veer about again, and you
cpeak of "an inestimable blessing of society;" of
"old and valuable rights;" and even hazard the
hardy appellation of "SEVERE decrees."

When it is so evident, that all these assertions are
equally true with regard to yourselves, and "your fellow-
subjects on the northern continent," it affords no slight
cause of amazement, to see in the same letter that contains
these assertions, the opposition of those confessedly de-
structive measures, branded as "rebellious." Where-
fore this needless stroke against your "fellow-subjects?"
Could not your "principle of loyalty" sink you to a satis-
factory depth of humiliation, unless you flung yourselves
down with such a rage of prostration as to spatter all
around you? Was not your surrender of "M<? most valu-
able of all rights and liberties'''^ sufficiently completed by
your declaration, that you "could not positively say
you were intitled to them,^'' without reproaching those who
have the mis- [4] fortune of differing so widely from you in
their sentiments, that they had rather die than make such
a declaration?

To talk of your " charter " ^<?«//^w?.?«, on this occasion,
is but weakening the cause by relying on false aids. Your
opinion on this head seems to be borrowed from the doc-
trine of the unhappy Stuarts. They thought, or pretended
to think, all the liberties of the subject were mere favours
granted by charters from the crown. Of consequence, all
claims of liberties not expressly mentioned in those char-
ters, were regarded as invasions of the prerogative, which
according to them, was a power vested in the prince, they
could not tell how^ for no better purpose than to do as he
pleased. But what said the nation? They asserted, that

262 AN ADDRESS

the royal charters were declarations but not gifts of liber-
ties, made as occasions required, on those points in which
they were most necessary, without enumerating the rest;
and that the prerogative was a power vested in 07ie for the
benefit of all.

Kings or parliaments could not give the rights essential
to happiness^ as you confess those invaded by the Stamp
TAct to be. We claim them from a higher source — from
/ the King of kings, and Lord of all the earth. They are
\ not annexed to us by parchments and seals. They are
created in us by the decrees of Providence, which establish
the laws of our nature. They are born with us ; exist with
us; and cannot be taken from us by any human power,
without taking our lives. In short, they are founded on
the immutable maxims of reason and justice. It would be
an insult on the divine Majesty to say, that he has given
or allowed any man or body of men a right to make me
miserable. If no man or body of men has such a right^ I
have a right to be happy. If there can be no hap- [5] piness
without freedom, I have a right to be free. If I cannot
•enjoy freedom without security of property, I have a right
to be thus secured. If my property cannot be secure, in
case others over whom I have no kind of influence may
take it from me by taxes, under pretence of the public
good, and for enforcing their demands, may subject me to
arbitrary, expensive, and remote jurisdictions, I have an
exclusive right to lay taxes on my own property, either by
myself or those I can trust; of necessity to judge in such
instances of the public good ; and to be exempt from such
jurisdictions. — But no man can be secure in his property,
who is ''liable to impositions^ that have nothing BUT THE
wiLiv OF THE IMPOSERS to direct them in the measure;"
and that make "JUSTICE TO CROUCH UNDER THEIR

I^OAD. ' '

Thus you prove, gentlemeft, that the fatal act you allude

TO BARBADOS. 263

to in these expressions, is destructive of our property, our
freedom, our happiness: that it is inconsistent with reason
and justice; and subversive of those sacred rights which
God himself from the infinity of his benevolence has be-
stowed upon mankind.

Yet after these expressed or implied concessions, you
term the opposition made by my countrymen to the exe-
cution of this — imagination cannot supply me with an
epithet equal to my meaning — act, "rebellious."

Pray, gentlemen^ let me not mistake your notion of
"humble submission to authority." Do you maintain,
that because the parliament may legally make some laws
to bind us, it therefore may legally make any laws to bind
us? Do you assert, that where power is constitutionally
vested in particular persons for certain purposes, the same
obedience is due to the commands [6] of those persons,
when they exceed the limits of that power, as when they
are restrained within them? Do you say, that all acts of
authority are sanctified by the mere pleasure of their au-
thors, and that "humble submission" is due to them,
however injurious they may be to those over whom they
are exercised — or that the oppressed ought to content
themselves with "giving the complexion of your con-
duct" to PALE petitions — and that all other opposition is
"rebellious?"

Greatly I am afraid, that you have published to the
world too convincing proofs, that you hold these senti-
ments: sentiments, which I solemnly profess are so hor-
rible to me, that I cannot wish the infection of them even
to the bitterest enemies of my country.

Have you considered, gentlemen^ the importance of the
points to which your political creed may be applied?
What is your opinion of the revolution^ that made the
British liberty and British glory blaze out with their
brightest lustre ? Had you lived in those days of ignor-

264 AN ADDRESS

ance, with what lucky assistance might you have propp'd
up the tottering tyrant, by maxims of law to prove, that
kings can do no wrong ; and texts of scripture to shew,
that submission is due to the poivers that be I

It is as manifest, that the great and good men who then
placed the throne in the temple of liberty, disdained your
sentiments, as it is, that if they had approved them, you
would not at present enjoy the satisfaction of being ruled
by a prince whose virtues do honour to his rank. All the
happiness you possess, you owe to the force of the prin-
ciple, which you now reproach; and your professing your
resolution to persist in an ''humble submission" to acts
that you expressly say, "make your oppression beyond
measure grievous," and destroy "the most valuable of
your [7] civil rights and liberties," is deserting and be-
traying as much as you can, that principle, on which the
constitution of Great-Britain is established — A principle,
that has operated differently among these colonies, as be-
came them, from what it did in that kingdom at the mem-
orable period above mentioned — not in action^ but nega-
tively, in a refusal to act^ in a manner destructive to them.

Let me speak plainly. In such a cause to prevaricate or
fear, is worse, if possible, than falsehood or cowardice.
Good breeding in private life, or good behavior in public
life, can never require a deviation from truth or virtue.
Our obligation to these, is co-existent with us, and un-
changeable. No other relation therefore can dissolve or
diminish the primary, unalterable duty.

Do you believe, gentlemen^ that parliaments never did,
or never will do wrong? Do you profess an infallibility
in politics, which you ridicule in religion? If any man
should tell the present parliament, they are all-wise and
all-perfect, I am persuaded, it would be esteemed a
wretched insult both on their understanding and piety. Say
they are the wisest and justest assembly on earth ; and you

TO BARBADOS. 265

say right. But human wisdom and human justice partake
of human frailties. Such is the lot of our nature — and to
bestow the attributes of heaven on mortals, who to day are,
and to-morrow are not, is the wildness of adulation.

Surely, you cannot persevere in your error. If the
stamp act., DETESTABLE as you have described it., cannot
wake you from dreams of submission, yet is there no idea
of danger or distress which your fancy can represent to
you, that you think would justify you in something else
than petitioning? Have you no "feelings" by which 3'ou
might be tortured a little beyond [8] "remonstrating?"
/ do not know what is dreadful to you, nor can I form the
least guess what would be so: but suppose to yourselves an
act of" parliament commanding you to do or suffer some-
thing the most dreadful in the world — to you: something
ten thousand times more dreadful — to you I mean — than
"oppression beyond measure grievous;" "crushing jus-
tice under insupportable burthens;" or "sinking the most
valuable of all civil rights and liberties." Whatever that
would be to you., the stamp act is to my countrymen.

Here permit me, gentlemen., to ask, whether in such a
case you would "humbly submit," tho it should be in
your power effectually to refuse? To make your conduct
consistent with the sentiments avowed in your letter, you
must. Would you? Then, if what we are told of the
antient Cappadocians be true, you would exhibit the sec-
ond instance since the creation of mankind, of a people
chusing to be slaves. Would you refuse? What then be-
comes of your "principle of loyalty," and your "obedi-
ence to the laws of your mother country?" If so, they
are only fine words, with which you intend to purchase
some sort of reputation with some sort of people ; you are
then /<7y«/and obedient., as you call yourselves, because you
apprehend you can' t safely be otherwise ; and the pretended
virtues you claim, like forced fruits, partake too strongly

266 AN ADDRESS

of the manure that gave them growth, to afford any agree-
able relish. Thus you reduce yourselves to the miserable
dilemma of making a choice between two of the meanest
characters — of those who would be slaves from inclination^
tho they pretend to love liberty — and of those who are
dutiful from fear, tho they pretend to love submission.

Pardon me, gentlemen^ if I attribute to you the virtue,
which your excessive modesty disclaims. Since [9] you
were deterred from reproaching, by the cautious consider-
ation, that you could not ''''reproach WITHOUT danger ;"
I am almost persuaded, that you would prefer refusal to
slavery, if you were assured, that you could ' ' refuse with-
out DANGER."

You greatly injure me, gentlemen^ if you imagine from
what I have said, that I am not a hearty friend to my
king, his illustrious family, to Great-Britain^ or to the
connexion between her and these colonies. In what I am
now to say, I shall speak not only my own, but the uni-
versal sentiments of my countrymen. I am devoted to my
gracious sovereign, and his truly royal house, by principle
and affection. They appear to me to have been called by
providence to the throne ; not to have gained it by the
least share of the guilt, or even of the art, that has so often
exalted the most unworthy to the most splendid stations.
They have risen with brightness upon the world, in due
course, to shed blessings over mankind ; and all history
cannot furnish an instance of a family, whose virtues have
had a more auspicious influence on the happiness of men,
particularly of their subjects. Their government does not
afford only gleams of joy, but cheers with a flowing uni-
formity, except when some evil spirit interrupts our feli-
city— But these interruptions have never lasted : can never
last, while princes of the line of Brunswick

" chara deo soboles "*
* Struck out in Dickinson's Political Wtitings. — Ed.

TO BARBADOS. 267

preside over us. Their amiable qualities are hereditary ;
these render, if I may be allowed the expression, our hap-
piness hereditary ; and I might therefore be justly deemed
very deficient in sense or integrity, if it was not among
my most ardent prayers, that the scepter of his dominions
may be held by our present monarch and his family, till
time shall be no more. [10]

As to Great-Britain^ I glory in my relation to hen
Every drop of blood in my heart is British; and that heart
is animated with as warm wishes for her prosperity, as her
truest sons can form. As long as this globe continues
moving, may she reign over its navigable part ; and may
she resemble the ocean she commands, which recruits
without wasting, and receives without exhausting, its
kindred streams in every climate. Are these the senti-
ments of disloyalty or disaffection ? Do these sentiments
point at independency? Can you believe it? Will you
assert it? I detest the thought with inexpressible abhor-
rence, for these reasons ; first, because it would be unduti-
ful to our sovereign ; secondly, because it would be unjust
to our mother-country ; and thirdly, because it would be
destructive both to her and to us.

The British nation is wise and generous. They can dis-
tinguish between a disgust to government and to the ad-
ministration of it ; a distinction, which bad ministers are
continually striving to confound. They set up their pas-
sions for the interests of their king and country ; and then,
whoever is offended with their conduct, is convicted by a
very plain deduction of ministerial logic, of being an
enemy to his king and country. No farmer dislikes the
sun ; but if it collects such thick clouds as too much inter-
cept its beams, surely the poor man who sees all his hopes
sickening and withering, may very innocently dislike the
gloom, and wish the reviving rays may be felt again. The
British nation aims not at empire over vassals. And must,

268 AN ADDRESS

I am convinced, be better pleased to hear their children
speaking the plain language of freemen, than muttering
the timid murmurs of slaves. Can you believe, genilemeUy
that they will be better pleased with the "stile and sub-
stance" of "your representation," than with the honest
transports of North-American breasts, so exactly like what
they [ii] feel, when they think themselves injured? If
there is any people whose character it is, to submit to
wrongs, basely pretending to prefer the pleasure of those
who olTer them, to their own welfare or honor, while cow-
ardly hatred and malice lurk rankling and "heart-burn-
ing" in their bosoms, watching, wishing opportunities of
dire revenge, it belongs not to Britons^ or their true sons.
They can neither dissemble injuries, nor unreasonably re-
sent them. These are vices of little, cruel minds. Much
better, much safer is it for all parties, particularly when
we contend with noble spirits, manfully to speak what we
think, and thereby put it in their power — such will always
have it in their inclination — to give us ample satisfaction.
They know that those who are most sensible of injuries,
are most sensible of benefits. There can be no friendship
between freemen and slaves ; and I have the strongest
hopes that our mutual affection will henceforward be more
cemented than it hitherto has been— on their part, because
we have proved ourselves worthy of their esteem ; and on
our part, because their generosity will excuse the manner
in which we have proved it.

Suppose all this continent had imitated your example,
and had repeated your doleful, doubtful notes, from one
end of it to the other: had acknowledged upon their knees,
"that they COULD NOT positively say whether they were
intitled to the exemption" they required, was there the
least probability of their obtaining it? I do not object to
the probability, for want of justice or of affection towards
us in our mother country; but for want of proper attention.

TO BARBADOS. 269

which the artifices of our enemies in support of their own
darling measures, would always have prevented.

Every man must remember, how immediately after the
tempest of the late war was laid, another storm began to
gather over North- America. Every wind [12] that blew
across the Atlantic^ brought with it additional darkness.
Every act of the administration seemed calculated to pro-
duce distress, and to excite terror. We were alarmed — we
were afilicted. Many of our colonies sent home petitions;
others ordered their agents to make proper applications on
their behalf. What was the effect? They were rejected
without reading. They could not be presented, "without
breaking through a rule of the house." They insisted
upon a right, that, it "was previously determined, should
not be admitted." The language of the ministry was,
"that they-^QvX^ teach the insolent North- Americans^ the
respect due to the laws of their mother country." They
moved for a resolution "that the parliament could legally
tax us." 'Twas made. For a bill — 'Twas framed. For
a dispatch — 'Twas past. The badges of our shame were
prepared — too gross — too odious — even in the opinion of
that administration, to be fastened upon us by any but
Americans. Strange delusion ! to imagine that treachery
could reconcile us to slavery. They looked around : they
found Americans — O Virtue ! they found Americans^ to
whom the confidence of their country had committed the
guardianship of her rights, on whom her bounty had be-
stowed all — the wreck of her fortunes could afford, ready
to rivet on their native land, the nurse of their infancy,
the protectrix of their youth, the honorer of their man-
hood, the fatal fetters which their information had helped
to forge. They were to be gratifyed with part of the
plunder in oppressive offices for themselves and their crea-
tures. By these., that they might reap the rewards of their
corruption, were we advised — by these^ that they might

270 AN ADDRESS

return masters who went out servants^ were we desired —
to put on the chains^ and then with shackled hands to
drudge in the dark^ as well as we could, forgetting the
light vi& had lost. "If I forget thee, let my right

HAND FORGET HER CUNNING — IF I DO NOT REMEMBER
THEE, MAY MY TONGUE CLEAVE TO THE ROOF OF MY
MOUTH." [13]

When the intelligence of these astonishing things reached
America^

"then flara'd her spirit high."

What could she do? send home petitions again? The
.first had been treated with contempt. What could be ex-
pected from a second trial? We knew, that the humble
petition of meek, pious, venerable bishops, supplicating
for the laws and religion of their country, had been called
a false and seditious libel by a daring administration, who
were resolved to have no law but their own pleasure. We
knew, that the liberty of our fellow subjects had been
lately so boldly invaded even in our mother country, in
that spot where the dignity of the empire may be said
more peculiarly to reside, that their oppressors were hardly
stopp'd in their career, by the united voice of an injured
and offended people. We knew, that the men who de-
signed to oppress us, held up to those whose assistance
they were obliged to use, specious pretences of immediate
advantage, while every remoter mischief, every disagree-
able truth, was artfully concealed from them. They were
persuaded, that they were to promote their own interests,
the public interests, by adopting the new-invented policy
proposed to them. In short we knew, in what line every
thought and act relating to us, ran. All was arbitrary,
rigid, threatening, dreadful. What resource had we? We
wondered and wept — At last, imploring the divine protec-
tion, and appealing to the British goodness, we were
driven by apprehension and affliction into a conduct, that

TO BARBADOS. 271

might justly have rendered us to the humane rather ob-
jects of pity, than resentment; but which you gentlemen^
are pleased to call a " rebell,ious opposition to authority."

How much farther these colonies might have gone ; how
much farther it would have been proper for them to go, I
will not pretend to say. I confine myself en- [14] tirely to
your state of the case, and to their behavior in that case.
My soul sickens at the scenes that obtrude themselves on
my imagination, while I reflect on what might have hap-
pened. My attention turns with unspeakable pleasure to
those brighter prospects now * opening on my country,
and the approaching times, when thro the mercy of ai,-
MiGHTY GOD, to whom be ascribed everlasting glory, the
inhabitants of these colonies, animated with sentiments of
the most perfect gratitude, confidence, affection, and ven-
eration, justly heightened by the engaging clemency of
our amiable sovereign, and the endearing tenderness of
our mother country, f shall be diligently and delight-
fully employed in demonstrating, that they are not un-
worthy of the blessings bestowed upon them. Great-
Britain has long been distinguished — she must be now
perpetually celebrated, for her moderation. This is her
peculiar praise. Other states have been as great in arms;
as learned in arts; but none ever equalled her in modera-
tion— a virtue, and the parent of virtues.

I am very sorry that these colonies had any reason given ^
them to think they were right in going so far as they /
lately did: yet tho many ttiings'have been done, that I y
sincerely wish had not been done, I should be glad to
know what particular part of their conduct has provoked
you to issue, if I may use one of your expressions, so "se-
vere a decree" against them.

* The news of the Stamp Act being repealed, arrived while this piece
was in the press.

t Changed to "excellent mother country "in Dickinson's Political
Writings. —Ed.

272 AN ADDRESS

Did the resolutions made by their several assemblies in
vindication of their rights, deserve such a censure? You
grant they were founded on truth and justice. Can it be
criminal to maintain these ? Perhaps you think they were
guilty, in forming and persisting in their universal deter-
mination not to use stamped papers, as they were com-
manded to do. No man can be blamed for doing any
thing, which if he had not done, he [15] must have com-
mitted a worse action. Remember -the opinion you have
expressed of the liberties for which these colonies were
struggling. Had they accepted the stamped papers, they
would not only have betrayed themselves, and you, whose
prosperity they wish from a generosity of temper, of which
they hope you will hereafter give them more agreeable
proofs than you have yet done, but they would also have
basely betrayed ages yet unborn, to a condition that would
have rendered their birth a curse. You think *'a memor-
ial or memorials" would have relieved them, "if they had
humbly submitted;" that is, that injuries thatZQvi\6. not be
prevented by a regard to justice, liberty, and the happiness
of millions, might be redressed by well-penned petitions.
No ! The right would have been surrendered by our act
— a precedent would have been established by our acqui-
escence, for perpetual servility. Where would the de-
mands of ministers, where would the miseries oi America
have stopped?

I believe your island and its neighbours have been more
fortunate in "memorialising" than this continent. Had
we any reason to expect relief from the conduct proposed ?
Has anything happened since, to shew that we should
have succeeded by it? Let any person consider the
speeches lately made in parliament, and the resolutions
said to be made there, notwithstanding the convulsions
occasioned through the British empire by the opposition of
these colonies to the stamp-act, and he may easily judge

TO BARBADOS. 273

what would have been their situation, in case they had
bent down and humbly taken up the burden prepared for
them. What would have been their fate, since they have
opposed, if one man the victor of his country's foreign and
domestic foes, had not by his wisdom and virtue checked
the rage that deception might artfully have kindled in the
most honest and humane people upon earth, heaven alone
can tell. [16]

When the exclusion bill was depending in the house
of commons, Col. Titus made this short speech — "Mr.
speaker, I hear a lion roaring in the lobby. Shall we
secure the door, and keep him there: or shall we let him
in, to try if we can turn him out again."

Can it be possible, gentlemen, that our stopping on this
continent the importation of goods from Great- Britain^
has brought your resentment upon us? If it has, it is the
first time that industry and frugality have met with such
hard judges.

The only thing I can think of besides, which might in-
duce you to treat my countrymen as you have done, is the
behavior of the mobs composed of the lower ranks of peo-
ple in soxvi^fezv of the colonies, to those who were favorers
of the stamp-act — But surely that could not produce so
general in accusation of "your fellow-subjects on the
northern continent." It was indeed a very improper way
of acting; but may not these agonies of minds not quite so
polished as your own., be in some measure excused ? if as
the absolute monarch o^ Judea said "oppression maketh a
wise man mad;" and if as the loyal committee of corres-
pondence \n Barbados says, "the subversion of justice"
and "the most valuable of all civil rights and liberties" is
"oppression beyond measure grievous." It is needless to
dwell longer on this head; but if you chuse to enquire into
the circumstances of every mob that has happened here,
taking for granted that the stamp-act is constitutional, I

274 AN ADDRESS

believe even you, on cool consideration, would not term
any of them a rebellion.

Upon the whole, I acknowledge, that a regard to them-
selves^ has influenced the inhabitants of these colonies;
but it was not a regard void of the truest loyalty to their
king, the warmest affection, the profoundest [17] venera-
tion, for their parent country. If my father, deceived and
urged on by bad or weak men, should offer me a draught
of poison, and tell me it would be of service to me, should
I be undutiful, if, knowing what it is I refuse to drink it?
or if inflamed by passion, he should aim a dagger at my
heart, should I be undutiful, if I refuse to bare my breast
for the blow? Should he complain, would it not be the
complaint of Catiline^ that the senator he attempted to
assassinate, was so disrespectful to him^ he would not re-
ceive the sword in his body? * Or should I act like a man in
his senses, if I swallow the dose or receive the stroke, in
expectation that those who prompted or provoked my
father to the action, would afterwards give me a certain
antidote or balsam — especially, if they would probably get
a large part of my estate? I will beg leave to trouble you,
gentlemeti^ with one more comparison. If a fortune of
immense value comes into my possession by being settled
on me, as the lawful son of my father, which till then had
been held solely by him, and my enemies should persuade
my excellent parent to attempt to bastardize me, and take
the whole into his hands again, I not having the least
prospect of happiness without it, and he not having the
least occasion for it — should I be undutiful, if after en-
deavoring by intreaties to prevent his proceedings, I care-

*This sentence is struck out in Dickinson's Political Writings. In a
copy of the original pamphlet, Dickinson has written in MS: "It was
Nimbria, the Rival of Catiline in wickedness, who made this audacious
complaint," but has run his pen through it, as well as through the
original passage. — Ed.

TO BARBADOS. 275

fully record all the proofs of my being legitimate, stop the
circulation of all false vouchers to the contrary, decline
the correspondence of those who join with him, and even
break the head of a man, who slanders my honour and my
title, by spreading an opinion that I am basely born?
With how much less reason will the charge of undutiful-
ness be made against me, if I have regularly advanced for
my father all such sums as he has from time to time re-
quired, and have assured him by my possessions and be-
havior, that he shall have all the profits of the estate, al-
lowing me a comfortable [18] maintenance, if he will
suffer it to continue in my possession — and all the world
knows, that by a condition annexed to this estate, I cannot
part with it, without acknowledging myself to be a bas-
tard.

To conclude — gentlemen — I know none of you ; not even
one of your names. I mean no personal reflections in this
address. I detest them. If you should take anything I
have said, so much in that way, as to feel uneasiness from
it, I shall be very sorry. Neither do I intend any reflec-
tions on your country, tho you represented her when you
attacked mine. I always detested these loose aspersions,
that ever give most pain to bosoms that honour and deli-
cacy have rendered most sensible; and this detestation has
been greatly encreased, since, within these few years, we
have seen such loads of obloquy thrown upon a * nation,
whose magnanimity in bearing them will be sufficient I
hope, to procure them the esteem of those, who have been
so much blinded by passion, as to deny it to their other
numerous virtues and accomplishments. Your island is
respectable. Your private characters may be amiable; but
in a public capacity, you have cast a most high and un-
provoked censure on a gallant, generous, loyal people.
You have propagated a set of sentiments, and have pro-

* The Scots.
AN ADDRESS

inoted a tenor of conduct, that may be hurtful to the cause
of freedom. I have engaged with too unequal arms per-
haps, to oppose you; but to fail in such a contest, will
afford me some kind of pleasure. I wish you every bless-
ing that men can enjoy; and as a foundation and security
of all the rest, I wish you a true love of liberty.

A NORTH-AMERICAN.

FINIS,

LETTERS

OF

A FARMER

IN

PENNSYLVANIA.

BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

1768.

NOTE.

No American political argument, at the date of the appearance of the
" Farmer's Letters," had achieved such a marvelous popularity and suc-
cess, and few writings of the same character have since then equalled- it.
It ran through the Colonies like wild fire, causing an enthusiasm which
led Town Meetings, Societies, and Grand Juries to vote thanks to the
author ; which made him a toast at public dinners, and the subject of
laudatory articles and poems in the press. In the earlier arguments
against the taxation of the colonies, the plea of the injustice of "taxation
without representation," if a popular cry, was only too easily answered
by the frequent acquiescence of the colonies in such taxation, before
the Stamp Act. All claims based on "natural rights" therefore were
discredited by precedent, and the grounds taken by each writer varied
according to the influences these opposing forces had with him person-
ally. In this confusion of ideas, the Pennsylvania Farmer advanced his
distinction, between taxation for the regulation of trade, and taxation for
the purpose of revenue, and supplied common ground for all the Whigs
to fight upon. At this day the distinction seems inadequate and fine
spun, but to the men of the time, determined not to be taxed by any but
themselves, yet loyal to England to a degree now almost incomprehensi-
ble, it was hailed with acclamation, as the one escape between taxation
without representation, and independence.

The American Whig view of the " Letters" is practically presented in
the preface of the Virginia edition, and the English Whig view is well
given in the notice in the Monthly Review, (lix, p. i8), which says :
'*We have, in the Letters now before us. a calm yet full inquiry into
the right of the British parliament, lately assumed, to tax the Ameri-
can colonies ; the unconstitutional nature of which attempt is main-

28o NOTE.

tained in a well-connected chain of close and manly reasoning. . . .
When we review a performance well written, and founded upon laud-
able principles, if we do not restrain ourselves to a general approba-
tion, which may be given in few words, the article will unavoidably
contain more from the author of it, than from ourselves ; this, if any
excuse is needful for enabling our Readers, in some measure, to judge
for themselves, is pleaded as an apology for our copious extracts from
these excellent letters. — To conclude ; if reason is to decide between
us and our colonies, in the affairs here controverted, our Author, whose
name the Advertisements inform us is Dickinson, will not perhaps
easily meet with a satisfactory refutation."

There was, however, another side to the question, and the " Farmer's
Letters " was not without its critics. A single answer by "A Citizen,"
was published in the Pennsylvania Journal for December 17, 1767, and
a number of scurrilous little paragraphs dealt more with the Fanner than
with his arguments. A series in rebuttal did appear in the Boston Ga-
zette. Private criticism was able to speak plainer, and Samuel Rhoads,
one of the leading Quakers of Pennsylvania, alluded in a letter to his
regret at the letters, "as calculated to excite the passions of the un-
thinking, and produce again the unfortunate heats that can do nought
but render a just and friendly union with the parent state more diflScult,"
The attitude of the conservatives in Pennsylvania is indicated by William
Goddard, who wrote in The Partnership (Philadelphia, 1770) :

"The Farmer's Letters appeared in the Chronicle, supposed to be
written by the ingenious Mr. Dickinson, a gentleman, whom, at that
time, I had never seen. Here the ignorance of Mr. Wharton, and the
envy of Mr. Calloway, and the wickedness of both united were clearly
manifested. They were angry, they fretted, they swore and affirmed,
that they were too inflammatory for this latitude. While Mr. Calloway
exclaimed, with a countenance expressive of the deepest envy, that
they were ' damtied ridiculous ! mere stuff ! fustian ! altogether stupid,
inconsistent! only a compilation by Dickinson and Thomson ! ' the very
sagacious and deep-read Mr. Wharton, with a great deal of solemn
dump and grimace in his look, signified that ' Friend Coddard was very
imprudent in introducing such pieces into our Chronicie at such a
time — that he had observed, with no small concern, that I published
pieces that were inconsistent with their views in establishing a press,
and that I should not go on headlong against the interest of my bene-
factors.' I presumed to reason with them, and assured them that the
letters were extremely agreeable to the people, and for my part I
thought they deserved the serious attention of all North America. Mr.

NOTE. 281

Galloway ridiculed my notions about liberty and the rights of man-
kind, and he observed that 'the people va. America vi^x& mad— they
knew not what they wanted — and indeed were incapable of judging on
such matters — that such factious pieces would answer for the selectmen
of Boston, and the mob meetings of Rhode-Island, but he was sure they
would soon be despised- here, Pennsyivanians (a few hot-headed people
excepted) being of a different make, of more solidity, none oi yout
damned republican breed — but loyal to the king, and friends to mon-
archy— that they had great expectations from the favour of the minis-
try, and that such performances would injure the province at the Brit-
ish court, and shew that they were as refractory as the other colonies,
and that they might thereby destroy their best hopes centered in their
agent J' I formed my own opinions of the men, waved conversing
upon such subjects, and still continued, with my usual 'obstinacy,'' as
they express themselves, to publish the letters, and every other patriotic
piece which I judged had the least tendency to promote the common
cause of this much injured country. The Farmer's Letters grew more
and more admired, and these gentlemen then judged it dangerous
openly to declaim against them, or vilify their supposed author. They
therefore would call together a select number of malcontents, to whom
they would disgorge their malignity of heart, and who would, without
remorse, circulate their calumnies abroad. I could here call forth a
series of letters dated Virginia, but wrote in Philadelphia, now depos-
ited in a certain desk, designed for a competent answer to the Farmer's
letters ; but I suppress them at present."

Franklin too, though causing the letters to be reprinted, spoke of them
most cautiously in his preface, and in private seemed neither to under-
stand nor approve of the doctrines advanced. He wrote his son :

" My Lord Hillsborough mentioned the " Farmer's Letters " to me,
said he had read them, that they were well written, and he believed he
could guess who was the author, looking in my face at the same time
as if he thought it was me. He censured the doctrines as extremely
•wild. I have read them as far as No. 8. I know not if anymore have
been published. ... I am not yet master of the idea these and the
New England writers have of the relation between Britain and her
colonies. I know not what the Boston people mean by the 'subordi-
nation ' they acknowledge in their Assembly to Parliament, while they
deny its powers to make laws for them, nor what bounds the Farmer
sets to the power he acknowledges in Parliament to ' regulate the trade
of the colonies,' it being difficult to draw lines between duties for reg-
ulation and those for revenue ; and if the Parliament is to be the
judge, it seems to me that establishing such principles of distinction
will amount to little."

282 NOTE.

The English Tory view is indicated by the notice in the Critical Re-

view (xxvi, 62) :

" The author of these Letters, -which are generally ascribed to one
Mr. Dickinson, tells us, that he has had a liberal education, and has
been engaged in the busy scenes of life ; that his affairs are easy ; that
he has money at interest ; that he has a library, with some friends who
are gentlemen of abilities and learning ; and that he believes he has
acquired a greater knowledge in history, the laws and constitutions of
his country than is generally obtained by men of his class.

"Thus much Mr. Dickinson says for himself; but without impeach-
ing his veracity, we cannot help thinking that he would have proved
a much better member of society had he never learned either to read
or write. The work before us is seditious in its principles, superficial
in its execution, and tending to the perdition of the country for which
the author is so furious an advocate. , . . The remaining letters of the
publication tend to prove the wisdom and necessity of the Americans
taking arms, rather than subject themselves to the operation of any
British act of parliament. We shall not be at all surprized, if this
author and his fellow labourers m the vineyard of sedition, should
insist upon the repeal of the navigation act ; for if any one of Mr.
Dickinson's arguments are valid, it will hold perhaps more strongly
against that act than any which has been made since : for when
analyzed, it will be found to lay the severest tax that ever was imposed
upon the produce and commerce of our American colonies. But tho'
the inhabitants of that continent refuse to be good subjects, we hope
they do not disdain being honest men. Let the mother-country draw
out her account since their first settlement in America, and let us see
whether the fee simple of all their possessions in America can repay
her.
The first letter appeared in The Pennsylvania Chronicle and Universal

Advertiser, Volume I, Number 46, December 2, 1767, with the following

notice :

"Having received a Series of Papers entitled, 'Letters from a
Farmer,' dec, with several other pieces from our Correspondents, all
which we are importuned to publish as speedily as possible ; and as we
find there will not be Room in our Monday's Chronicle, to insert the
Whole — from a Desire to oblige, we are induced to give this Half-
Sheet, containing such of the Pieces as we could get ready, beginning
with the Farmer's first Letter, being as he observes, on a Subject of
the utmost Importance to the Welfare of our common Country."
These famous letters were therefore begun in a special issue. They

appeared in The Pennsylvania Chronicle in the following dates :

Letter I.

<(

II.

<(

III.

<<

IV.

((

V.

<i

VI.

NOTE. 283

Dec. 2, 1767. Letter VII. Jan. 11, 1768.

" 7, " " vin. " 18, "■

" 14, '* " IX. " 25, "

" 21, " " X. Feb. I, "

"28, " " XL '« 8, "

Jan. 4, 1768. " XIL " 15, "

Theywere headed "For the Pennsylvania Chronicle," but each was
reprinted in the issues of the Pennsylvania Journal and Pennsylvania
Gazette^ immediately following their appearance in the Chronicle. Such
was their instant success, that they were republished in every newspaper
then printed in the thirteen colonies, with but four known excep- £7
tions. Nor did this begin to satisfy the public demand. Less than a
month after the appearance of the last letter, they were published in
pamphlet form, the advertisement of it appearing in the Pennsylvania
Gazette of March 10. The title page of this edition was :

Letters / From a / Farmer / In / Pennsylvania, / To the / Inhabitants
/ of the / British Colonies. / Philadelphia : / Printed by David Hall, and
William Sellers, / MDCCLXVIII. / 8vo, pp. 71.

The reason for Goddard's not printing this edition are given by him in
The Partnership, as follows :

"The Fanner's Letters having been published with universal ap-
plause, throughout the continent, the worthy author began to receive
the generous acknowledgments of his grateful countrymen. These
were very oflFensive to my partners, who were apprehensive that the in-
habitants of this city and county would, at the next election, give him
their suflFrages as a representative, and make him a guardian of those
rights, which he had so ably and so zealously defended, in which case
they imagined he would, as he had done before, 'marrall their plans. ^
A signal from them was sufficient to raise up a host of angry scribblers,
who were ever ready to draw their servile pens, in the most of causes,
against the best. It became at length a very serious matter with a cer-
tain cabal, and the word went forth — 'No Farmer in the assembly.''
There then was crouded upon me a number of libels against the Farmer,
&c. under the signatures of A Counttyman, A MiVer, Frank Mean-
well, Jack White-Oak, A Barbadian, A Country Farmer, Son of Lib-
erty, &c. &c. I found myself obliged to publish them, tho' I was very
averse to it, and was confident it would terminate in the loss of many
good customers, which was really the case. These publications gave
my partners much pleasure ; they complimented me, declared that I
was 'now in the right way,' that they would make my fortune, if I
would but attend to the advice of my real friends, meaning themselves,

284 NOTE.

and gave out everywhere that I printed the best paper in the King's
dominions. But all this could not compensate for the uneasiness I
gave my friends, and the concern I felt in being reduced to such a cruel
alternative — either to abuse a man I highly esteem, or to fall an imme-
diate sacrifice to party fury and resentment. My friends in New-Eng-
land, and a number of gentlemen in this province, on the first appear-
ance of the Partner's Letters, engaged to take several hundred of them
in a handsome pamphlet. I mentioned this to my partners ; but they
objected to my doing it in such a manner as discouraged me ; so that
their ill-will to the author, and their enmity to the liberties and good
of mankind, deprived me of a job that would have produced a hand-
some sum, which fell into other hands."
A second edition was issued in June :

Letters / From a / Farmer / in / Pennsylvania, / To the / Inhabitants
/ of the / British Colonies. / The second Edition / Philadelphia : / Printed
by David Hall, and William Sellers. / MDCCLXVIII. / 8vo, pp. 71.
Another Philadelphia edition, with a diflFerent printer, was issued with
the title page of :

Letters / From a / Farmer / in / Pennsylvania, / To the / Inhabitants
/ of the/ British Colonies. / The Third Edition. / Philadelphia : / Printed
by William and Thomas Bradford, at the / London Coffee-House.
M,DCC,LXIX. / 8vo. , 104.

Besides these Philadelphia issues, other editions were printed in the
colonies, as follows :

Letters / from a / Farmer / in / Pennsylvania / to the / Inhabitants /
/ of the / British Colonies. / New-York : re-printed by John / Holt,
near the Exchange, 1768. / lamo, pp. 118.

Letters / from / a Farmer in Pennsylvania, / To the Inhabitants / of
the / British Colonies. / Boston : / Printed by Mein and Fleeming, and
to / be sold by John Mein, at the / lA>ndon Book-store, North- / side of
King-street. / MDCCLXVIII. / i2mo., pp. 146.

Letters / from A / Farmer / in / Pennsylvania, / to the / Inhabitants
/ of the / British Colonies. / Boston : / Printed and Sold by Edes & Gill,
in Queen-Street. / MDCCLXVIII. / lamo, pp. 146.
Both these Boston editions reprint the resolutions of the Boston Town
Meeting to "The Farmer" and Dickinson's reply, which is also given
in the reprint of the " Farmer's Letters" in Dickinson's Political Writ-
ings (i, 138). The following edition has added to it a preface, written
by Richard Henry Lee : —

The / Fanner's and Monitor's / Letters, / to the / Inhabitants / of

NOTE. 285

the / British Colonies. / "Williamsburg : / Printed by William Rind,

M DCC LXIX. / Sm. 4to, pp. iii, 97, (i).

They were reprinted in London, at the instance of Franklin, who

wrote a brief preface to the edition : —

Letters / from a / Farmer in Pennsylvania, / to the / Inhabitants /
of the / British Colonies. / London. / Printed for J. Almon, opposite
Burlington-house, Piccadilly. / M DCC LXVIII. / 8vo, pp. , iii, 118.
Franklin's preface was again reprinted in the following edition, as well

as an additional preface by the " Dublin Editor" :

Letters / From a / Fanner in Pennsylvania, / To the Inhabitants of
the / British Colonies ; / Regarding, / The Right of Taxation, and sev-
eral / other Important Points. / To which are Added, as an / Appendix,
/ The Speeches of/ Lord Chatham, and Lord Camden, / The one upon
the Stanip Act, the other / on the Declaratory Bill, / with a / Preface
by the Dublin Editor. / Printed for J. Sheppard in Skinner-Row. /
M,DCC,LXVIII. /Svo, pp. viii, 9-119, (i), 29.
Franklin was also probably instrumental in getting it translated, and

republished in France, for the translator and editor, Jean Barbeu Dubourg,

was his personal friend, and he included two pieces by Franklin, as well

as Franklin's preface.

Lettres / d'un / Fermier de Pensylvanie, / aux Habitans. / de I'Am^r-
ique Septentrionale, / Traduites de I'Anglois. / A Amsterdam, / Aux
d^pens de la Conipagnie. / M.DCC.LXIX. / iznio, pp. xxviij, 258.
This edition was really printed in France. The last to be issued,
which is a mere reprint of the letters, is the following edition :

Letters / from a / Farmer, / in / Pennsylvania, / To the Inhabitants /
of the / British Colonies. / Philadelphia / Printed ; and London re-
printed for J. Almon / opposite Burlington-House in Piccadilly. /
M DCCLXXIV. / Svo, pp. 136.

The present reprint is made from the first pamphlet edition. The text
of this differs in quite a degree from that of the original newspaper text,
but as the larger part of the changes are merely verbal, only those which
seemed worth indicating are noted. The same rule has also been applied
to the revised text of the "Letters" given in Dickinson's Political
Writings, only essential changes being given here. The prefaces, writ-
ten by Richard Henry Lee, Benjamin Franklin, the "Dublin Editor"
and Jean Barbeu Dubourg, precede the reprint as necessary and intA-est-

ing additions.

Editor.

PREFACE TO ENGLISH EDITION.

THE BRITISH EDITOR TO THE READER.*

When I consider our fellow subjects in America as rational
creatures^ I cannot but wonder, that during the present wide
diflference of sentiments in the two countries, concerning the
power of parliament in laying taxes and duties on America ^
no application has been made to their understandings, no able
and learned pen among us has been employed in cotivincing
them that they are in the wrong ; proving clearly, that by the
established law of nations, or by the terms of their original
constitution, they are taxable by our parliament, though they
have no representative in it.

On the contrary, whenever there is any news of discontent
in America, the cry is, "Send over an army or a fleet, and re-
duce the dogs to reason y

It is said of choleric people, that with them there is but a
word, and a blow.

I hope Britain is not so choleric, and will never be so angry
with her colonies as to strike them ; but that if she should ever
think it may be necessary, she will at least let the word go be-
fore the blow, and reason with them.

To do this clearly, and with the most probability of success,
by removing \h€[x prejudices, and rectifying their misapprehen-
sions (if they are such) it will be necessary to learn what those
prejudices and misapprehensions are ; and before we can either
refute or admit their reasons or arguments, we should certainly
know them.

It is to that end I have handed the following letters (lately
published in America) to the press here. They were occasioned

* Written by Benjamin Franklin.

288 PREFACE TO ENGLISH EDITION.

by the act made (since the repeal of the Stamp-act) for raising
a revenue in Amejica by duties on glass, paper, &c.

The Author is a gentleman of repute in that country for his
knowledge of its affairs, and, it is said, speaks i\iQ ^enei:al_jen-
t^ji£nfs of the4ahabitants. How far those sentiments are right
or wrong, I do not pretend at present to judge. I wish to see
first, what can be said on the other side of the question, I
hope this publication will produce a full answer, if we can
make one. If it does, this publication will have had its use.
No offence to government is intended by it ; and it is hoped
none will be taken.

London^ May 8, i'^68.

PREFACE TO WILLIAMSBURG EDITION.

THE PREFACE.*

It may perhaps seem strange to slight consideration, that
these IvETTERS which have already passed through all America^
should now a second time be produced before the Public in
their present form. But a little further reflection will shew the
UTILITY of this WORK. The sacred cause of liberty is of
too great consequence, and the necessity of freedom for the
security of human happiness too obvious, not to render every
precaution wise, that tends to prevent the introduction of
slavery. Notwithstanding therefore, these letters have been
already published, yet here, they have been seen only in the
Gazettes, which, from the uncertainty of their dispersion, and
the length of time passing between the reception of news-
papers in the country, may probably have prevented much
benefit to be derived from a collective, uninterrupted view of
the manly reasoning, the timely information, and the true con-
stitutional principles of liberty with which these letters every
where abound. Whoever considers again that the nature of
men in authority is inclined rather to commit two errors than
retract one,t will not be surprised to see the Stamp- Act followed
by a Bill of Rights, declaring the power of^arliament to bind
us inj^r^ases whatsoever; and this act again followed by
another, imposing a duty on papeTj^paint, glass, &c., imported
into these colonies. But however unbounded may be the wish
of power to extend itself, however unwilling it may be to ac-
knowledge mistakes, tis surely the duty of every wise and
worthy American, who at once wishes the prosperity of the
mother country and the colonies, to point out all invasions of

* By Richard Henry Lee. — Ed.
t Clarendon's History of the Rebellion.

290 PREFACE TO WILLIAMSBURG EDITION,

the public liberty, and to shew the proper methods of obtaining
redress. This has been done by the Authors of the following
Letters with a force and spirit becoming freemen, English
freemen, contending for our just and legal possession of prop-
erty and freedom. A possession that has its foundation on the
clearest principle of the law of nature, the most evident declara-
tions of the English constitution, the plainest contract made
between Crown and our forefathers, and all these sealed and
sanctified by the usage of near two hundred years. American
rights thus resting on the best and strongest ground, it be-
hooves all her inhabitants with united heads, hearts, and hands,
to guard the sacred deposit committed by their fathers to their
care, as well to bless posterity as to secure the happiness of the
present generation. In vain 'tis for some few (and very few I
hope they are) who, governed either by base principles of fear,
or led by vile hopes of gain, the reward of prostituted virtue,
to say, "your rights are indeed invaded, but Great-Britain is
too strong. What can we do against superior strength ? ' ' I^et
these evil designing men remember what the highest authority
has told us, /'that the race is not always to the swift, nor the
battle to the strong." And if inspiration needed to receive
assistance from genius, Shakespeare says, "thrice is he armed
that has his quarrel just, and he but naked, tho' locked up in
steel, whose conscience with injustice is oppressed." History
also informs us, that Xerxes with his armed millions could not
accomplish his purpose of reducing to slavery the much weaker
but free States of Greece. Three hundred brave men at Ther-
mophylse, contending for liberty, destroyed twenty thousand
who attempted its ruin. In later times we see the States of
Holland free, and the generous Corsicans likely to be so, al-
though the far greater powers of Spain, Germany, and France,
have at different periods combined to enslave these noble
nations.

The truth is, that the great Author of nature has created

nothing in vain, and having with the life of man joined liberty,

IV the virtuous enjoyment and free possession of property honestly

n gained, has undoubtedly furnished all nations with the means

of defending their natural rights, if they have the wisdom and

PREFACE TO WILLIAMSBURG EDITION. 291

fortitude to make the proper use of such means. In this in-
stance we find ourselves three thousand miles removed from
g-rea^-Britain, we possess a country abounding with woods in
all parts, and in many with mountains of difficult and danger-
ous access. The ease with which the staple colonies could put
an entire stop to the exportation of their commodities, and the
peaceable but vital injury that this would convey to those who
might insist on oppressing them, are truths so plain as to re-
quire no further animadversion. Verbum sapieniisat est. The
nature of the climate, the soil, and its various produce, point
out the ease and extent with which manufactories may be con-
ducted here. These things are mentioned as proof of what is
above asserted, that the bountiful Author of nature has fur-
nished his creatures with the means of securing their proper
rights, and that the event depends on their own wise and brave
determinations. A benevolent mind, indeed, cannot but lament
that either ambition, avarice, or ill-placed resentment, should
ever be so exercised as to force men into the investigation of
those methods by which they may be secure from the operation
of those bad passions. For certain it is, that there is nothing
more becoming to human nature than well-ordered government,
or more valuable than liberty. How ignominious then must
his conduct be who turns the first into confusion, and the latter
into slavery ! But whatever may be the opinion, or the design
of a rapacious ill-advised Minister, the Americans have in their
view this happy prospect ; that the people of Great-'Bx\i2\r\ are
generous and brave, they know the value of liberty, because
they have purchased that knowledge with much of their blood,
and therefore they cannot but esteem us their children for ven-
erating the good old cause which they themselves have con-
tended for in many a well-fought field. It is really wonderful
that this unhappy dispute between Great-Britam and her colo-
nies should ever have existed, when a moment's retrospection
shews the Mother country for near two centuries exercising
legislative authority here without complaint, while she ab-
stained from that single destructive clause of taking our money
from us without consent of our representatives. The exercise
of which claim, would indeed reduce Atnerica, to a state of

292 PREFACE TO WILLIAMSBURG EDITION.

slavery more deplorable and more iguominious than has ever
yet been known in the world. But to what purpose this should
be desired is still more amazing, when Britain from her exclu-
sive trade to these colonies, and from the manner in which she
tied up our manufacturing hands, not only received the entire
produce of the lands and labour of these colonies, but has be-
sides involved the people here in a heavy debt, which agricul-
ture, without arts, and a trade so confined, will probably never
pay. Mr. Grenville it seems had the honor of devising this
new system of American policy.

PREFACE TO DUBLIN EDITION.

THE EDITOR'S PREFACE.

The Fanner of Pennsylvania has (in our Opinion) treated his
Subject with that Loyalty and becoming Spirit, which distin-
guishes the Cause of Liberty from that of Licentiousness, In
our happy Constitution, no man can be properly said to be just
to his prince, without being just to the Rights of his Fellow-
subjects ; as on the other hand, he cannot be true to his Coun-
try, without being true to his King.

A very unfavorable Opinion of the People of America has, I
know not how, crept abroad: And there are those in these
Kingdoms, who rashly brand their Cause with the name of
Rebellion ; but methinks we, who are united under the same
Head should be very cautious how we entertain illiberal Pre-
judices against our Fellow-subjects; and ought, before we pass
our Censure upon them, to examine what their Rights are, and
with what justice they can complain that these Rights are in-
vaded. This End will be best answered by a careful Perusal of
the following Sheets ; where the Irish Reader cannot fail to find
many useful and very interesting Reflections. In short, if we
are generally tender of the Reputation of an Individual, let us
now be tender of the Reputation of a People : By neglecting
the former, we may injure the Happiness of one, by neglecting
the latter, we may heedlessly conspire with an artful Minister to
destroy the Hopes of* Millions.

The Right of Great-Britain to tax America, is thoroughly
examined in the following Letters. It has been already gene-
rously and, I might perhaps say, unanswerably opposed in the
grand Council of that Nation. Two noble Lords, the one dis-
tinguished for his Abilities as a Statesman, the other for his

*The Inhabitants of the British Colonies are estimated at 3,000,000.

294 PREFACE TO DUBLIN EDITION.

Knowledge in the Laws, and both for their powerful Elo-
quence, have bravely contended for the Liberty of America.
Such exalted Characters, who possess so much feeling for the
Rights of others, are a Blessing to a Nation : They preserve
her from committing Injustice. He who supports the Rights of
his own Country is an useful Citizen ; but he who will go fur-
ther and generously defend the Rights of others, is a virtuous
one. By the Counsel and Conduct of Themistocles, Athens
flourished. He raised her to a greater Height of Glory and Re-
putation than any of his Predecessors : But his Ambition to
augment her Power, drove him to Designs of the blackest
Treachery against her Friends and Fellow-conquerors. The
Probity and Prudence oi Aristides were a necessary Check upon
him.

But Justice, indeed, has ever been the peculiar Attribute of
Great-Britain. Always watchful and jealous of her own Lib-
erty, she regards, as sacred, the Liberty of others. That Free-
dom which she enjoys, in the most reasonable Extent, she has
imparted to the remotest Corners of her Empire : Wisely judg-
ing, that nothing will render her Children so attentive to her
Interest, and so affectionate to her Person, as the free Enjoy-
ment of their Liberty and Property ; which Rights, once con-
founded and destroyed, it might be pretty equal to them who
exercised the Despotism.

" It is," says an ^Author on trade, "the Interest, and ought to
' be the Care, of such as are entrusted with the Administration
' of Government, to see that every Part of the British Empire
'amply enjoys the Advantages derived from the Laws, and
' that glorious Freedom, which is the Result of maintaining
'them in full Vigour. — "And as Obedience," says he a little
farther, "is expected from the remotest Quarters as well as
' from those bordering upon the Center of Government, so they
'are intitled to the same Protection and Encouragement ; which,
' while they receive, there is no Doubt but Affairs will continue
'in a flourishing Condition, and the Fears which ma}^ have
' entertained, that some of the distant Colonies may throw off

* Rolt, in his Dictionary of Trade and Commerce, under the Head of
Great-Britain.

PREFACE TO DUBLIN EDITION. . 295

"their Obedience to their Mother Country, will disappear as
' ' visionary Shadows : For it is in the Body Politic as in the
* ' Natural Body ; while the vital Parts are strong and sound,
"the Constitution will be every where brisk and lively, and the
' ' Effects of it perfectly felt to its very Extremities. ' ' These
Words are remarkably strong and pertinent to the present Pos-
ture of Affairs ; and I protest, when I add them to what has
been said by other Authors on the same Subject, I am much
startled at the present adopted Policy.

"*We have hitherto," says Postlethwayt speaking of the
Americans, "supplied them with a great Quantity of their Ma-
"terials for wearing Apparel, Household Furniture, &c, but if
' ' they should establish these Manufactures among themselves,
"and encourage every Species of Artificers to settle among
"them, our Plantations may at length prove detrimental, in-
" stead of beneficial to these Kingdoms."

Whether a more ingenious Way than has lately been taken,
could possibly be devised, to bring about all that this Author
so justly apprehends, I will leave to every body to determine.

We have already seen the spirited Colonists unanimously re-
solve to put a stop to British Importations. An armed Force,
perhaps, may awe them to compl}'' with strange Taxes ; but we
can hardly be persuaded that it will ever be able to dictate to
them how they shall dispose of that Fund, which Great Britain
may think proper to leave them for their private Necessities.

In fine, it were much to be wished by every true Lover of his
King and Country, that if any rash Measures have been pro-
jected, that they may be wisely and seasonably relinquished :
That America, on her Part, may ever adhere to that dutiful
Dependence, which, to do her Justice, she continues respect-
fully to acknowledge ; and that Great Britain, on her's, may
re-assume her wonted Generosity and Good-nature, that, being
united firmly with her own Kindred, she may have none to op-
pose, but Foreign Enemies.

* Postlethwayt's Dissertations on Commerce, Volume the ist. Page
the io4tli.

PREFACE TO FRENCH EDITION.

pr:&face du traducteur*

L'Amerique Septentrionale est aujourd'hui dans un dtat fort
different de ce qu'elle 6toit il y a deux cens ans; ce n'est plus
cette Terre sauvage & presque d^serte, dont on seroit tente de
dire que les Habitans les plus distingues, tant par leur nombre
que par leur industrie, ^toient des Castors. Peu-^-peu les
Cotes maritimes & les Provinces adjacentes se sont couvertes
d'horames, & les progres de la population y ont et6 si rapides,
que Ton compte dej^ dans les seules Colonies Angloises du
Continent, trois millions d'ames, qui connoissent pen de super-
fluit^s, mais ^ qui il ne manque rien, ni pour les besoins, ni
m^me pour les commodites de la vie.

Comment ces Colonies agricoles sont-elles devenues en si peu
de tems si considerables, tandis que les Colonies, tant Militaires
que Mercantiles, des autres Nations de 1' Europe, k peu-pres
dans les mdmes climats, n'ont pas fait k beaucoup pr^s les
m^mes progres? Cette question, quoique de I'Histoire le plus
moderne, est aussi int^ressante qu'aucune de I'Histoire Ro-
maine, Greque ou Egyptienne.

II n'en faut, k mon avis, cher cher la solution que dans la
simplicite de leurs moeurs & de leurs loix, Toit doit constam-
ment prosperer 1^ ou 1' Agriculture est en honneur, ou 1' indus-
trie se developpe sans contrainte, ou 1' Emulation anime tout, &
ou I'intrigue ne pent rien ; en un mot, je regarde comme un
th^or^me fondamental de toute saine politique, que la prosper-
ite d'un peuple est en proportion de son exactitude k se con-
former k I'ordre que la Nature nous a elle-meme present.

L' intolerance Europ6enne a fait les principaux frais de la
population de 1' Amerique Angloise. La haute Commission des

* Jacques Barbeu Dubourg. — JSd.

298 PREFACE TO FRENCH EDITION.

Episcopaux, sous Charles Premier, donna la chasse a une mul-
titude de non-Conformistes Anglois & Ecossois de differentes
Sectes, qui allerent fonder la Nouvelle-Angleterre vers I'an
1628.

La m^me espece d' inquisition Protestante occasionna peu
apres une semblable emigration de Catholiques, qui, sous la
conduite du Lord Baltimore, fonderent le Maryland en 163 1.

La Pensylvanie, aujourd'hui si florissante, ne fut fondle
qu'en 1681, par Guillaume Pen, ^ la tete de cinq cens Quakers
persecutes dans leur Patrie, & qui furent bient6t suivis d'en-
viron deux mille autres.

Vers le meme terns, un grand nombre de Protestans r^fugi^s
d'Allemagne, & sur-tout du Palatinat, trouverent un asyle ^ la
Nouvelle-Yorck. Et la Virginie, la plus ancienne de toutes
ces Colonies, fut pareillement recrut^e de quantity de Francois
r6fugi6s, apr^s la revocation de I'Edit de Nantes, en 1685.

La Caroline, la G6orgie, &c. ont tour-^ tour puis4 plus ou
moins dans les m^mes sources. Toutes, enfin, ont tendu les
bras ^ ces malheureux Herrenhutters, ou Freres Moraves, ^
qui, depuis trois cens ans, la Boh^me, la Hongrie, la Pologne,
la Russie, la Prusse, & le Dannemarck avoient successivement
interdit le feu & I'eau.

II est ^ remarquer que les non-Conformistes qui ont fond^ la
Nouvelle Angleterre, porterent dans les forets du nouveau
Monde cet esprit d' intolerance, dont ils avoient eu tant ^
souifrir dans leur pays natal ; que le Lord Baltimore, avec ses
Catholiques, donna ^ rAm^rique le premier exemple de cette
tolerance chretienne, qui a fait la base de sa f61icite ; mais que
c'est sur-tout aux Quakers que Ton doit I'^tablissement de la
pleine liberte de conscience & de la paix fraternelle, son incom-
parable compagne, qui de leur Colonic de Pensylvanie, s'est
repandue successivement dans toutes les autres Colonies An-
gloises.

Est-il surprenant que son example ait fait impression ?
Quoique sa fondation ne remonte pas encore ^ un siecle, on
I'estime deja quatre fois plus riche elle seule, que ces trois
fameuses conqu^tes des Anglois, le Canada, I'Acadie & la
Floride, toutes ensemble.

PREFACE TO FRENCH EDITION. 299

I^es premiers Quakers etoient des enthousiastes, des convul-
sionaires, des trembleurs, comme leur nom le porte ; mais leur
nom est tout ce qui leur en reste, & ne doit pas nous en im-
poser. Ce qu'ils ont de plus singulier aujourd'hui, c'est plus
de modestie, plus de frugalile, plus de moderation en toutes
choses, & consequemment plus d'union entr'eux, qu'on n'en
trouveroit peut-^tre cbez aucun autre Peuple de I'Univers.
S'ils ont dementi le nom de leur Secte, il paroit qu'ils soutien-
nent a merveille celui de leur Ville capitale (Philadelphia, c'est-
^-dire, amour fraternel). Eh! qui ne seroit touche de cette
franchise honnete avec laquelle on va voir qu'ils defendent leur
Liberie ; de ces sentimens inalterables de respect & de bien-
veillance qu'ils ne cessent de temoigner envers ceux qui les
maltraitent ; enfin, de cette heureuse ser^nite avec laquelle ils
attendent, sans armes, une armee destin^e a les subjuguer?

Independamment de I'afiBluence des nouveaux Colons, que la
douceur du Gouvernement de la Pensylvanie y attire de jour
en jour, ses plus grandes ressources sont & seront toujours en
elle-meme. Comme le Pays est grand, le sol fertile. Fair sain,
la Libert^ assur^e, tous les hommes s'y marient & tous se mar-
ient jeunes, n'ayant aucune inquietude sur I'^tablissement de
leur famille, si nombreuse qu'elle puisse ^tre ; de forte que que
chaque mariage produisant aisement 4^5 nouveaux sujets, le
nombre des hommes y double au moins de vingt ans en vingt
ans.

La plilpart des autres Colonies Angloises, soit pour ^tre moins
heureusement, situ^es ou moins sagement regies, ne prosperent
pas autant ; mais il passe pour constant que, le fort compensant
le foible, le somme totale des habitans de ces Colonies double
tous les vingt-cinq ans.

Le Continent de I'Amerique Septentrionale est si vaste,
qu'avant que la terre & manque a ses habitans, il faudra qu'elle
soit beaucoup plus peuplee que n'est aujourd'hui 1' Europe.
Mais quand verra-t-on cela ? Si I'instablite des choses humaines
pouvoit ^tre soumise au calcul, des Politiques speculatifs ont
suppute que cet evenement ne se feroit attendre gueres plus
d'un siecle.

On pourra crier au paradoxe ; mais daignons faire attention

300 PREFACE TO FRENCH EDITION.

au cours que les choses ont pris. Deux causes sensibles con-
courent a peupler tres promptement ces Regions ; I'une ex-
terne, dependante de la deraison & de la mauvaise politique de
notre Europe ; 1' autre interne, dependante de la saggesse & de
la bonne conduite de ces Colonistes. Quant ^ la premiere, il
est vrai que nous avons commerce a reconnoitre nos torts, mais
nous ne paroissons pas encore tellement disposes ^ nous corri-
ger, que I'Amerique ne puisse encore se promettre de nos vexa-
tions politiques, ou religieuses, un assez non nombre d'emigrans.
Quant ^ la cause interne, pour savoir ce que Ton en pent atten-
dre, suivons un peu la progression cidessus 6tablie. On ne
compte encore que trois millions d'habitants dans ces Colonies,
tandis qu'on evalue constamment ceux de I'Europe ^ cent mil-
lions ; mais si le nombre de ceux-la continue a doubler tons les
25 ans, ils auront au bout d'un siecle seize hommes pour un, &
16 fois 16 ^ la sin du siecle suivant. Multipliez done trois mil-
lions par 16, & le produit encore par 16, vous verrez ce qui en
r6sultera, & de combien I'Amerique I'emporteroit sur I'Europe
avant deux siecles, si ces Peuples pouvoient conserver leur
regime autant de tems.

La progression r^guliere d'une population si peu commune,
aura sans doute des bornes; mais d'ou viendront-elles? peut-
^tre d'ou on les attend le moins. Tout ce que je puis entrevoir
au travers des t^nebres d'un futur contingent, c'est que 1° le
Paj'S, tout immense qu'il paroit, ne fournira certainement pas
toujours de nouvelles terres a defricher. 2° N'est-il pas a pr6-
sumer que le luxe &'y introduisant t6t ou tard, amollira & aba-
tardira ce Peuple simple & genereux. 3° II est tres probable
qu'au defaut de voisins ^ redouter pour eux, la jalousie de
I'Angleterre m^me leur suscitera des embarras, qui ralentiront
au moins leurs progres, s'ils ne les arretent pas tout-^-fait : cette
jalousie a meme deja delate, & de petites menaces paroissent
avoir de grandes suites.

II ne faut pas confondre les Colonies en question, avec quel-
ques autres Etablissemens formes aussi par les Anglois, sur le
meme Continent de I'Amerique Septentrionale. Des Comptoirs
dtablis pour le seul interet des Marchands de I'ancienne Angle-
terre, & des Forts construits pour la siirete de ces Comptoirs,

PREFACE TO FRENCH EDITION. 301

n'ont rien de commun avec les Colonies purement agricoles,
dont ils bordent la frontiere.

Cependant le Parlement de la Grande-Bretagne, sur lequel
les Marcbands Pelletiers de Londres ont plus d' influence que
tout les Colons & Planteurs de I'Am^rique, a enterpris depuis
quelques anuses de faire supporter aux Colonies la d^pense qu'
exige I'entretien de ces Forts, & de leur imposer ^ cet eflet des
taxes, non-seulement inusitees, mais encore sous une forme qui
leur paroit illegale. Les Assemblies de toutes les Colonies se
montrent fermement r^solues a soutenir leurs droits; on les
soupfonne d'aspirer ^ I'independance. I,a Prosp^rite les a t-elle
enivrees ? ou le Parlement en a-t-il pris ombrage mal-^-propos ?
c'est sur quoi je n'oserois prononcer.

Quoi qu'il en soit, quiconque aime ^ voir une grande cause
bien discutee aura de quoi se satisfaire en cette occasion ; ces
Lettres d'un Fermier de 'Pensylvanie suffisent au moins pour
remontrer qu'en ce Pays-1^ (& il en pourroit ^tre ainsi de tout
autre) la culture des terres n'a point nui ^ celle des esprits.

M. Dickinson, de Philadelphie, est I'Auteur de ces Lettres,
dont la premiere est datee avec affectation du 5 Novembre, jour
anniversaire du d^barquement du Prince d' Orange en Angle-
terre. D'ailleurs, elles, sont dcrites avec autant de sagesse que
de vigueur. Aussi ont-elles fait un effet prodigieux, en excitant
le Peuple de toutes les Colonies ^ s'opposer aux nouvelles im-
positions avec la plus grande unanimity. Si 1' Eloquence, dont
on n'a communement qu'une tr^s tausse ou tres frivole id^e,
n'est autre chose (comme je le crois fermement) que ce grand
art de gouvemer les hommes par la parole, I'Orateur Remain
fut moins Eloquent que ce bon Fermier.

II y a eu trente Editions de ses Lettres en Amdrique dans
I'espace de six mois ; & elles ont 6t6 rdimprimdes ^ Londres par
les soins de M. Franklin. Quel honneur pour I'Ouvrage, d'avoir
mdtitd in tel Editeur !

J'aurois dti sentir qu'il ne m'appartenoit point de traduire un
tel Ouvrage, & moins encore de le traduire ^ la hdte ; mais je
m'dtois passionn6 ^ le lecture, & la passion ne refldchit gueres.
Heureux done si le peu de terns que j'ai eu ^ donner ^ cette
Traduction ne m' attire d'autres reproches que celui d'y laisser

302 PREFACE TO FRENCH EDITION.

trop sentir un certain gout de terroir, que je n'aurois pu lui
enlever, qu'en la remaniant beaucoup & long-tems !

Pour moi, ce que je regrette le plus, c'est de n'^tre pas assez
instruit des affaires de TAmerique, pour mettre le Lectuer par-
faitement au fait de la raatiere de ces L,ettres ; cependant comme
bieu des gens sont peut-etre encore moins avances que moi ^ cet
egard, j'ai cru devoir exposer succinctement ici le peu que j'en
sais.

Tout Anglois tient pour principe qu'il doit contribuer a pro-
portion de ses moyens aux charges de I'Etat, dont la protection
fait sa surete ; mais que cette contribution ne doit etre levee que
de son consentment, accorde par lui-meme, ou par ses repre-
seutans; que c'est un droit essentiel a sa condition de sujet
libre, n'y ayant point de liberte, le ou il n'y a point de pro-
priete assuree.

L,es Anglois ^tablis dans les Colonies ont ^t6 formellement
assures, par les Chartes memes de leurs fondations respectives,
qu'ils seroient toujours traites comme vrais Anglois, & jouiroi-
ent de tous les droits inherens a ce titre. II ont ete maintenus
en cette possession depuis peur premier dtablissement. lis de-
mandent ce qu'ils ont fait pour meriter d'en etre depouilles? en
quoi ont-ils manque a leur Mere-Patrie ?

Pendant 150 ans, le Couronne (c'est-^-dire le Roi, ou le Min-
istre en son nom) leur a fait de tems-en-tems des demandes pour
contribuer aux besoins de I'Etat & leur Assemblees respectives
lui ont octroye de bonne grace cequ'elles ont cru que les besoins
publics requeroient, & que leur propre situation comportoit.
Leur zele les avout m^me tellement aiguillonnes, qu'aj-ant con-
tribue pendant quelques annees de la dernier guerre, non-seule-
ment en raison de leurs moyens, mais meme beaucoup audel^,
le Parlement de la Grande-Bretagne, qui tient par sa constitu-
tion la balance generale des devoirs & des droits respectifs de
toutes les parties integrantes de 1' Empire Britannique, jugea a
propos de leur faire remettre des sommes considerables par forme
de restitutions ou d'indemnites.

II paroit singulier que ce foit a-peu pres dans ce meme tems
qu'un Acte eman6 de ce m^me Parlement a exig6 de ces monies
Colonies une chose qui n'^toit pas d' usage, & quelles ne croyoient

PREFACE TO FRENCH EDITION. 303

pas qu'il fut en droit d'exiger: c'etoitde foumir difFerentes pro-
visions pour 4a subsistance des troupes reparties sur leur terri-
toire, ou dans leur voisinage. Les Assemblees de ces diverses
Colonies ne voulant ni lutter contre le Parlement, ni abandonner
leurs privileges, prirent presque universellenient le parti d'ac-
corder, comme de leur propre mouvement, ces provisions aux
troupes, sans faiie aucune mention de 1' Acte par lequel on avoit
pretendu leur en faire un devoir. La seule Assemblee de la
Nouvelle-Yorck, pour marquer un peu mieuxson independance,
accorda toutes les monies provisions, a 1' exception de trois arti-
cles : du sel, du poivre & du viniagre.

La majeste du Peuple Anglois* se trouvant bless^e par cette
restriction, on resolut d'en faire repentir les Colonistes de la
Nouvelle-Yorck, & d'en imposer aux autres par leur exemple.
Pour cet eflfet, le Parlement suspendit, par un Acte exprds,
I'Autorite legislative de I'Assemblee de cette Colonic.

M. Dickinson s'attache dans sa premiere Lettre, a faire sentir
les consequences de cette entreprise Parlementaire, & la n^ces-
site de la concorde entre toutes les Colonies de I'Am^rique, qui
ressentiroient t6t ou tard le contre-coup d'une telle innovation,
mais dont I'attention avoit kXk. d^toum^e de cet objet par un
autre, auquel elles ^toient toutes plus directement interessees.

Cet autre objet 6toit le fameux Acte du Timbre par lequel le
Parlement ^tablissoit des droits sur le papier marqu^, & d^fendoit
d'en employer d'autre dans toutes les ecritures publiques, tant
judiciaires, qu'extra judiciaires: cet Acte est de I'ann^e 1764.

L' opposition des Colonies ^ son execution fut si universelle,
si vive & si constante, & parut si legitime ^ quelques personnes
du premier ordre, meme en Angleterre, que le Parlement I'a
enfin rdvoqu^ au bout de deux ans.

Rien n'a tant contribu^ ^ le faire revenirainsi surses pas, que
le conspiration patriotique des Colonies a se priver absolument
de toutes marchandises des Fabriques de la Grande-Bretagne,
jusqu'^ ce qu'on leur e<it donne satisfaction sur tons les objets
de leurs Remontrances. Cette g^nereuse resolution, enlevant

*Voyez par rapport a cette expression les Lettres Philosophiques de M.
Voltaire.— A^(?/^ of French Editor.

304 PREFACE TO FRENCH EDITION.

tres pacifiquement ^ I'Angleterre un benefice annuel de 50 mil-
lions de notre monnoie, fit jetter les plus hauts cri§ ^ tout les
Marchands de la Nation, & forga, en quelque sorte, la main au
Gouvemement : circonstance qui merite la plus grande attention
de notre part, & qui, en supposant m^me qu'elle n'afFectdt le
reste de 1' Europe que par simple curiosite, pent interesser la
France d'une maniere tres particuliere.

Le Parlement n' ay ant pu se dispenser de revoquer I'Acte du
Timbre, a bientdt cherche une autre teumure pour y supplier ;
il a passe un nouvel Acte, par lequel il octroie quelques petits
droits sur le Verre, le Papier, &c. export6s de la Grande-Bretagne
pour les Colonies, qui ne sont pas express^ment obligees d'en
acheter, maisqui ne sauroients'en passer, &^ qui il est defendu
d'en tirer d'ailleurs.

C'est contre cet Acte, dont il est aise de pressentir les conse-
quences, que M. Dickinsons' ^leve dans le reste de ces Lettres
(c'est-a-dire, depuis la deuxieme jusqu'a le douzieme) ; mais il
me tarde de le faire entendre lui m^me, & que Ton voie avee
quelle douceur la persuasion coule de ses levres.

P. S. Cette Traduction 6toit presque achevee d'imprimer,
lorsqu'un Jeune Pensylvain (le Dr. Benjamin Rush) m'a appris
que M. Dikinson, Auteur de ces Lettres, est ^ peine dge de 32
^ 33 ans, qu'il est Avocat a Philadelphie, qu'on I'a surnomm6
le de la Virginie lui a fait present de dix mille livres sterlings ;
que ce g^n^reux Virginien est un Ecclesiastique ; qu'il ne s'en
rappelle pas le nom, mais qu'il mele manderade's qu' ilsera de
retour dans sa chere Patrie.

LETTERS

F RO M A

FARMER

1 N

PE N N S r LVA N lA,

T O T H E

INHABITANTS

OF THE

British Colonies.

pniLABELP HIAi

Printed by David Hall, and William SzticRj.
MDCCt XVIII.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

LETTER I.
My dear Countrymen^ *

I am a Farmer^ settled, after a variety of fortunes, near
the banks of the river Delaware^ in the province of Penn-
sylvania. I received a liberal education, and have been
engaged in the busy scenes of life ; but am now convinced,
that a man may be as happy without bustle, as with it.
My farm is small ; my servants are few, and good ; I have
a little money at interest ; I wish for no more ; my employ-
ment in my own affairs is easy ; and with a contented grate-
ful mind, (undisturbed by worldly hopes or fears, relating
to myself,) I am completing the number of days allotted to
me by divine goodness.

Being generally master of my time, I spend a good deal
of it in a library, which I think the most valuable part of
my small estate ; and being acquainted with two or three
gentlemen of abilities and learning, who honour me with
their friendship, I have acquired, I believe, a greater
knowledge in history, and the laws and constitution of my
country, than is generally attained by men of my class,
many of them not being so fortunate as I have been in the
opportunities of getting information.

From my infancy I was taught to love humanity and
liberty. Enquiry and experience have since confirmed my
reverence for the lessons then given me, by convincing me
more fully of their truth and excellence. Benevolence

*In the newspaper text the first letters began "My beloved Country-
men."— Ed.

3o8 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

towards mankind, excites wishes for their welfare, and
such wishes endear the means of fulfilling them. These
can be found in liberty only, and therefore her sacred cause
ought to be espoused by every man, on every occasion, to
the utmost of his power. As a charitable, but poor person
does not withhold his mite^ because he cannot relieve all
the distresses of the miserable, [4] so should not any hon-
est man suppress his sentiments concerning freedom, how-
ever small their influence is likely to be. Perhaps he
"may touch some wheel,*" that will have an effect
greater than he could reasonably expect.

These being my sentiments, I am encouraged to offer to
you, my countrymen, my thoughts on some late transac-
tions, that appear to me to be of the utmost importance to
you. Conscious of my own defects, I have waited some
time, in expectation of seeing the subject treated by per-
sons much better qualified for the task; but being therein
disappointed, and apprehensive that longer delays will be
injurious, I venture at length to request the attention of
the public, praying, that these lines may be read with the
same zeal for the happiness of British America^ with which
they were wrote.

With a good deal of surprize I have observed, that little
notice has been taken of an act of parliament, as injurious
in its principle to the liberties of these colonies, as the
Stamp- Act was: I mean the act for suspending the legisla-
tion of New- York.

The assembly of that government complied with a
former act of parliament, requiring certain provisions to
be made for the troops in America^ in every particular,
I think, except the articles of salt, pepper and vinegar. In
my opinion they acted imprudently, considering all cir-
cumstances, in not complying so far as would have given
satisfaction, as several colonies did: But my dislike of their

* Pope.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 309

conduct in that instance, has not blinded me so much, that
I cannot plainly perceive, that they have been punished
in a manner pernicious to American freedom, and justly
alarming to all the colonies.

If the British parliament has a legal authority to issue
an order, that we shall furnish a single article for the
troops here, and to compel obedience to that order, they
have the same right to issue an order for us to supply those
troops with arms, cloths, and every necessary ; and to com-
pel obedience to that order also; in short, to lay any bur-
thens they please upon us. What is this but taxing us at
a certain sum^ and leaving to us only the manner oi raising
it? How is this mode more tolerable than the Stamp Act f
Would that act have appeared more pleasing to Americans^
if being ordered thereby to raise the sum total of the taxes,
the mighty privilege had been left to them, of saying how
much should be paid for an instrument of writing on
paper, and how much for another on parchment?

An act of parliament, commanding us to do a certain
thing, if it has any validity, is a tax upon us for the ex-
pence that accrues in complying with it ; and for this rea-
son, I believe, every colony on the continent, that chose to
give a mark of their respect for Great- Britain^ in comply-
ing with the act relating to the troops, cautiously [5]
avoided the mention of that act, lest their conduct should
be attributed to its supposed obligation.

The matter being thus stated, the assembly of New
York either had, or had not, a right to refuse submission
to that act. If they had, and I imagine no American will
say they had not, then the parliament had no right to com-
pel them to execute it. If they had not that right^ they
had no right to punish them for not executing it ; and
therefore no right to suspend their legislation, which is a
punishment. In fact, if the people of New- York cannot be
legally taxed but by their own representatives, they cannot

3IO LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

be legally deprived of the privilege of legislation, only for
insisting on that exclusive privilege of taxation. If they
may be legally deprived in such a case, of the privilege of
legislation, why may they not, with equal reason, be de-
prived of every other privilege ? Or why may not every
colony be treated in the same manner, when any of them
shall dare to deny their assent to any impositions, that
shall be directed? Or what signifies the repeal of the
Stamp-Act^ if these colonies are to lose their other privi-
leges, by not tamely surrendering that of taxation?

There is one consideration arising from this suspension,
which is not generally attended to, but shews its impor-
tance very clearly. It was not necessary that this suspen-
sion should be caused by an act of parliament. The crown
might have restrained the governor of New- York^ even
from calling the assembly together, by its prerogative in
the royal governments. This step, I suppose, would have
been taken, if the conduct, of the assembly of New- York
had been regarded as an act of disobedience to the crown
cilone ; hvX \t is regarded as an act of * "disobedience to
the authority "of the British Legislature." This
gives the suspension a consequence vastly more affecting.
It is a parliamentary assertion of the supreme authority of
the British legislature over these colonies, in the point of
taxation^ and is intended to COMPEL New-York into a
submission to that authority. It seems therefore to me as
much a violation of the liberty of the people of that pro-
vince, and consequently of all these colonies, as if the par-
liament had sent a number of regiments to be quartered
upon them till they should comply. For it is evident,
that the suspension is meant as a compulsion; and the
method of compelling is totally indifferent. It is indeed
probable, that the sight of red coats, and the hearing of
drums, would have been most alarming ; because people

* See the act of suspension.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 311

are generally more influenced by their eyes and ears, than
by their reason. But whoever seriously considers the mat-
ter, must perceive that a dreadful stroke is aimed at the
liberty of these colonies. I say, of these colonies; for the
cause of one is the cause of all. If the parliament may
lawfully deprive New- York of any of her rights, it may de-
prive any, or all the other colonies of their rights; and
nothing can [6] possibly so much encourage such attempts,
as a mutual inattention to the interests of each other. To
divide^ and thus to destroy^ is the first political maxim in
attacking those, who are powerful by their union. He
certainly is not a wise man, who folds his arms, and re-
poses himself at home, viewing, with unconcern, the
flames that have invaded his neighbour's house, without
using any endeavours to extinguish them. When Mr.
Hampden' s ship money cause, for Three Shillings and
Four-pence^ was tried, all the people of England^ with
anxious expectations, interested themselves in the import-
ant decision ; and when the slightest point, touching the
freedom of one colony, is agitated, I earnestly wish, that
all the rest may, with equal ardour, support their sister.
Very much may be said on this subject; but I hope, more
at present is unnecessary.

With concern I have observed, that two assemblies of
this province have sat and adjourned, without taking
any notice of this act. It may perhaps be asked, what
would have been proper for them to do? I am by no
means fond of inflammatory measures; I detest them. I
should be sorry that any thing should be done, which
might justly displease our sovereign, or our mother coun-
try : But a firm, modest exertion of a free spirit, should
never be wanting on public occasions. It appears to me,
that it would have been sufficient for the assembly, to have
ordered our agents to represent to the King's ministers,
their sense of the suspending act, and to pray for its repeal.

312 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

Thus we should have borne our testimony against it; and
might therefore reasonably expect that, on a like occasion,
we might receive the same assistance from the other colo-
nies.

Concordia res parvtz crescunt.

Small things grow great by concord.

A FARMER.

'^Nov. 5. [7]

IvETTER 11.
My dear Countrymen^

There is another late act of parliament, which appears
to me to be unconstitutional, and as destructive to the lib-
erty of these colonies, as that mentioned in my last letter;
that is, the act for granting the duties on paper, glass, etc.

The parliament unquestionably possesses a legal author-
ity to regulate the trade of Great-Britain^ and all her col-
onies. Such an authority is essential to the relation be-
tween a mother country and her colonies; and necessary
for the common good of all. He, who considers these pro-
vinces as states distinct from the British Empire^ has very
slender notions oi justice ^ or of their interests. We are
but parts of a whole; and therefore there must exist a
power somewhere to preside, and preserve the connection
in due order. This power is lodged in the parliament; and
we are as much dependent on Great-Britain^ as a perfectly
free people can be on another,

I have looked over every statute relating to these colo-
nies, from their first settlement to this time; and I find
every one of them founded on this principle, till the Stamp-
Act administration, t All before^ [8] are calculated to reg-

* The day of King Wilwam the Third's landing.

t For the satisfaction of the reader, recitals from the former acts of par-
liament relating to these colonies are added. By comparing these with

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 313

ulate trade, and preserve or promote a mutually beneficial
intercourse between the several constituent parts of the
empire; and though many of them imposed duties on trade,
yet those duties were always imposed with design to re-
strain the commerce of one part, that was injurious to
another, and thus to promote [9] the general welfare. The
raising a revenue thereby was never intended. Thus the
King, by his judges in his courts of justice, imposes fines
which all together amount to a very considerable sum, and
contribute to the support of government : But this is merely

the modem acts, he will perceive their great diflference in expression and
intention.

The I2th Cha., Chap. 18, which forms the foundation of the laws re-
lating to our trade, by enacting that certain productions of the colonies
should be carried to England only, and that no goods shall be imported
from the plantations but in ships belonging to England, Ireland, Wales,
Berwick, or the Plantations, etc., begins thus : For the increase of ship-
ping, and encouragement of the navigation of this nation, wherein, un-
der the good providence and protection of GOD, the wealth, safety, and
strength of this kingdom is so much concerned," &c.

The 15th Cha. II., Chap. 7, enforcing the same regulation, assigns these
reasons for it. " In regard his Majesty's plantations, beyond the seas,
are inhabited and peopled by his subjects of this his kingdom of England,
for the maintaining a greater correspondence and kindness between them,
and keeping them in a firmer dependence upon it, and rendering them
yet more beneficial and advantageous unto it, in the further employment
and increase of English shipping and seamen, vent of English woollen,
and other manufactures and commodities, rendering the navigation to
and from the same more safe and cheap, and making this kingdom a
staple, not only of the commodities of those plantations, but also of the
commodities of other countries and places y<?r the supplying of them; and
it being the usage of other nations to keep their plantations trade to them-
selves," &c.

The 25th Cha. II., Chap. 7, made expressly "for the better securing the
plantation trade,^'' which imposes duties on certain commodities exported
from one colony to another, mentions this cause for imposing them :
" Whereas by one act, passed in the 12th year of your Majesty's reign,
intituled. An act for encouragement of shipping and navigation, and by
several other laws, passed since that time, it is permitted to ship, &c.
sugars, tobacco, &c. of the growth, &c. of any of your Majesty's planta-
tions in America, &c. from the places of their growth, &c. to any other

314 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

a consequence arising from restrictions, that only meant
to keep peace, and prevent confusion ; and surely a man
would argue very loosely, who should conclude from hence,
that the King has a right to levy money in general
upon his subjects. Never did the British parliament, till
the period above mentioned, think of imposing duties in
America^ FOR THE PURPOSE OF raising a revenue.
Mr. Gtenville first introduced this language, in the pre-
amble to the 4th of Geo. III., Chap. 15, which has these
words "And whereas it is just and necessary that A reve-

of your Majesty's plantations in those parts, &€. and that without paying
custom for the same, either at the lading or unlading the said commodi-
ties, by means whereof the trade and navigation in those commodities,
from one plantation to another, is greatly increased, and the inhabitants
of divers of those colonies, not contenting themselves with being supplied
with those commodities for their own use, free from all customs (.while
the subjects of this your kingdom of England have paid great customs
and impositions for what of them hath been spent here) but, contrary to
the express letter of the aforesaid laws, have brought into divers parts of
Europe great quantities thereof, and do also vend great quantities thereof
to the shipping of other nations, who bring them into divers parts of
Europe, to the great hurt and diminution of your Majesty's customs, and
of the trade and navigation of this your kingdom ; For the Preven-
tion THEREOF, &C.

The 7th and 8th Will. III., Chap. 22, intituled, "An act for preventing
frauds, and regulating abuses in the plantation trade," recites that, "not-
withstanding divers acts, &c. great abuses are daily committed to the
prejudice of the English navigation, and the loss of a great part of the
plantation trade to this kingdom, by the artifice and cunning of ill dis-
posed persons ; For remedy whereof, &c. And whereas in some of
his Majesty's American plantations, a doubt or misconstruction has
arisen upon the before mentioned act, made in the 25th year of the reign
of King Charles II. whereby certain duties are laid upon the commodi-
ties therein enumerated (which by law may be transported from one
plantation to another, for the supply of each others wants) as //"the same
•were, by the payment of those duties in one plantation, discharged from
giving the securities intended by the aforesaid acts, made in the 12th,
22d and 23d years of the reign of King Charles the II. and consequently
be at liberty to go to any foreign market in Europe,''^ &c.

The 6th Anne, Chap. 37, reciting the advancement of trade, and en-
couragement of ships of war, &c. grants to the captors the property of

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 315

KUE BE RAISED IN YOUR MAJESTY'S SAID DOAIINIONS IN

America, for defraying the expences ofdefcndzjig^ protect-
ingy and securing the same: We your Majesty's most duti-
ful and loyal subjects, THE commons of Great-Britain,
in parliament assembled, being desirous to make some
provision in this present session of parliament, towards
raising the said revenue in America, have resolved
to GIVE and grant unto your Majesty the several rates
and duties herein after mentioned," &c.

A few months after came the Stamp-Act, which reciting

all prizes carried into America, subject to such customs and duties, as if
the same had been first imported into any part of Great-Britain, and
from thence exported, &c.

This was a gift to persons acting under commissions from the crown,
and therefore it was reasonable that the terms prescribed in that gift,
should be complied with — more especially as the payment of such duties
was intended to give a preference to the productions of British colonies,
over those of other colonies. However, being found inconvenient to the
colonies, about four years afterwards, this act was, for that reason, so far
repealed, that by another act " all prize goods, imported into any part of
Great-Britain, from any of the plantations, were made liable to such
duties only in Great- Britain, as in case they had been of the growth and
produce of the plantations."

The 6th Geo. II. Chap. 13, which imposes duties on foreign rum, sugar
and molasses, imported into the colonies, shews the reasons thus —
"Whereas, the welfare and prosperity of your Mcjesty's sugar colonies
in America, are of the greatest consequence and importance to the trade,
navigation and strength of this kingdom ; and whereas the planters of
the said sugar colonies, have of late years fatten into such great discour-
agements, that they are unable to improve or carry on the sugar trade,
upon an equal footing with the foreign sugar colonies, without some ad-
vantage and relief be given to them from Great-Britain : For remedy

WHEREOF, AND FOR THE GOOD AND WELFARE OF YOUR MAJESTY'S SUB-
JECTS," &C.

The 29th Geo. II. Chap. 26, and the ist Geo. III. Chap. 9, which con-
tinue the 6th Geo. II. Chap. 13, declare, that the said act hath, by exper-
ience, been found useful and beneficial, &c. These are all the most con-
siderable statutes relating to the commerce of the colonies ; and it is
thought to be utterly unnecessary to add any observations to these ex-
tracts, to prove that they were all intended solely as tegulations of trade.

3i6 LETTERS FROM A FARMER,

this, proceeds in the same strange mode of expression,
thus — "And whereas it is just and necessary, that provi-
sion be made FOR raising a further revenue within
YOUR Majesty's dominions in America, towards defray-
ing the said expences^ we your Majesty's most dutiful and
loyal subjects, the commons of Great-Britain, &c.
GIVE and grant, &c. as before.

The last act, granting duties upon paper, &c. carefully
pursues these modern precedents. The- preamble is,
"Whereas it is expedient that a revenue should be

RAISED IN YOUR MaJESTY'S DOMINIONS IN AMERICA, for

making a more certain and adequate provision for defray-
ing the charge of the administration of justice^ and the sup-
port of civil government in siich provinces^ where it shall be
found necessary; and towards the further defraying the ex-
pences of defending^ protecthig and securing the said domin-
ions^ we your Majesty's most dutiful and loyal subjects,
the COMMONS OF Great-Britain, &c. give and grant,"
&c. as before.

Here we may observe an authority expressly claimed and
exerted to impose duties on these colonies ; not for the
regulation of trade; not [lo] for the preservation or promo-
tion of a mutually beneficial intercourse between the sev-
eral constituent parts of the empire, heretofore the sole ob-
jects of parliamentary institutions; but for the single pur-
pose of levying money upon us.

This I call an * innovation; and a most dangerous inno-
vation. It may perhaps be objected, that Great-Britaht
has a right to lay what duties she pleases upon her f ex-

* " It is worthy observation how quietly subsidies, granted in forms
usual and accustomable (though heavy) are borne ; such a power hath use
and custom. On the other side, what discontentments and disturbances
subsidies framed in a new mould do raise (such an inbred hatred
NOVELTY DOTH HATCH) is evident by examples of former times."

Lord Coke's 2d Institute, p. 33.

fSome people ["whose minds seem incapable of uniting two ideas,"

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 317

ports, and it makes no difiference to us, whether they are
paid here or there.

To this I answer. These colonies require many things
for their use, which the laws of Great-Britain prohibit
them from getting any where but from her. Such are
paper and glass.

That we may legally be bound to pay any general duties
on these commodities relative to the regulation of trade,
is granted ; but we being obliged by the laws to take from
Great-Britain^ any special duties imposed on their expor-^
tation to us only^ with intention to raise a revenue from us
only^ are as much taxes^ upon us, as those imposed by the
Stamp-Act.

What is the difference in substance and right whether
the same sum is raised upon us by the rates mentioned in
the Stamp-Act^ on the use of paper, or by these duties, on
the importation of it. It is only the edition of a former
book, shifting a sentence from the end to the beginning. *

Suppose the duties were made payable in Great-Britain.

It signifies nothing to us, whether they are to be paid
here or there. Had the Stamp- Act directed, that all the
paper should be landed at Florida^ and the duties paid
there, before it was brought to the British colonies, would
the act have raised less money upon us, or have been less

follows in newspaper text. — Ed.'\ think that Great-Britain has the same
right to impose duties on the exports to these colonies, as on the exports
to Spain and Portugal, &c. Such persons attend so much to the idea
of exportation, that they entirely drop that of the connection between the
mother country and her colonies. If Great-Britain had always claimed,
and exercised an authority to compel Spain and Portugal to import man-
ufactures from her only, the cases would be parallel : But as she never
pretended to such a right, they are at liberty to get them where they
please ; and if they chuse to take them from her, rather than from other
nations, they voluntarily consent to pay the duties imposed on them.

*The original newspaper text reads: "It is nothing but the edition of
a former book, with a new title page." — Ed.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

destructive of our rights? By no means : For as we were
under a necessity of using the paper, we should have been
under the necessity of paying the duties. Thus, in the
present case, a like 7tecessity will subject us, if this act con-
tinues in force, to the payment of the duties now imposed.

Why was the Stamp- Act then so pernicious to freedom ?
It did not enact, that every man in the colonies should buy
a certain quantity [ii] of paper — No: It only directed, that
no instrument of writing should be valid in law, if not
made on stamped paper, &c.

The makers of that act knew full well,* that the confu-
sions that would arise from the disuse of writings, would
COMPEL the colonies to use the stamped paper, and there-
fore to pay the taxes imposed. For this reason the Stamp-
Act was said to be a law THAT would execute itself.
For the very same reason, the last act of parliament, if it
is granted to have any force here, will execute itself,
and will be attended with the very same consequences to
American liberty.

Some persons perhaps may say, that this act lays us un-
der no necessity to pay the duties imposed, because we may
ourselves manufacture the articles on which they are laid;
whereas by the Stamp- Act no instrument of writing could be
good, unless made on British paper, and that too stamped.

Such an objection amounts to no more than this, that
the injury resulting to these colonies, from the total disuse
of British paper and glass, will not be so afflicting as that
which would have resulted from the total disuse of writing
among them ; for by that means even the Stamp- Act might
have been eluded. Why then was it universally detested
by them as slavery itself? Because it presented to these
devoted provinces nothing but a f choice of calamities,

* Changed to "expected" in Political Writings. — Ed.
t Either the disuse of writing, or the payment of taxes imposed by
others without our consent.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 319

imbittered by indignities, each of which it was unworthy
of freemen to bear. But is no injury a violation of right
but the greatest injury? If the eluding the payment of
the taxes imposed by the Stamp-Act^ would have subjected
us to a more dreadful inconvenience, than the eluding the
payment of those imposed by the late act; does it therefore
follow, that the last is no violation of our rights, tho' it is
calculated for the same purpose the other was, that is, to
raise money upon us, WITHOUT OUR CONSENT.

This would be making right to consist, not in an exemp-
tion from injury, but from a certain degree of injury.

But the objectors may further say, that we shall suffer
no injury at all by the disuse of British paper and glass.
We might not, if we could make as much as we want.
But can any man, acquainted with America, believe this
possible? I am told there are but two or three Glass-
Houses on this continent, and but very few Paper-Mills ;
and suppose more should be erected, a long course of
years must elapse, before they can be brought to perfec-
tion. This continent is a country of planters, farmers,
and fishermen; not of manufacturers. The difficulty of
establishing particular manufactures in such a country, is
almost insuperable. For one manufacture is connected
with others in such a manner, that it may be said to be
impossible to establish one or two, without establishing
several [12] others. The experience of many nations may
convince us of this truth.

Inexpressible therefore must be our distresses in evading
the late acts, by the disuse of British paper and glass.
Nor will this be the extent of our misfortune, if we admit
the legality of that act.

Great-Britain has prohibited the manufacturing iron
and steel in these colonies, without any objection being
made to her right of doing it. The like right she must
have to prohibit any other manufacture among us. Thus

320 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

she is possessed of an undisputed precedent on that point.
This authority, she will say, is foimded on the original in-
tetition of settling these colonies; that is, that we should
manufacture for them, and that they should supply her
with materials. The equity of this policy, she will also
say, has been universally acknowledged by the colonies,
who never have made the least objections to statutes for
that purpose; and will further appear by the mutual bene->
Jits flowing from this usage ever since the settlement of
these colonies.

Our great advocate, Mr. Pitt^ in his speeches on the de-
bate concerning the repeal of the Stamp-Act^ acknowledged,
that Great-Britain could restrain our manufactures. His
words are these — " This kingdom, as the supreme govern-
ing and legislative power, has always bound the colonies
by her regulations and restrictions in trade, in naviga-
tion, in MANUFACTURES — in every thing, except that
of taking their money out of their pockets^ without their
CONSENT." Again he says, "We may bind their trade,
CONFINE Theiel' MANUFACTURES, and exercise every power
whatever, except that of taking their money out of their
pockets^ WITHOUT their consent.

Here then, my dear countrymen, rouse yourselves, and
behold the ruin hanging over your heads. If you ONCE
admit, that Great-Britain may lay duties upon her expor-
tations to us, for the purpose of levying money on us only^
she then will have nothing to do, but to lay those duties
on the articles which she prohibits us to manufacture —
and the tragedy of American liberty is finished. We have
been prohibited from procuring manufactures, in all cases,
any where but from Great-Britain (excepting linens,
which we are permitted to import directly from Ireland).
We have been prohibited, in some cases, from manufactur-
ing for ourselves; and may be prohibited in others. We
are therefore exactly in the situation of a city besieged,

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 321

which is surrounded by the works of the besiegers in every
part but one. If that is closed up, no step can be taken,
but to surrender at discretion. If Great-Britain can order
us to come to her for necessaries we want, and can order us
to pay what taxes she pleases before we take them away,
or when we land them here, we are as abject slaves as
France and Poland can shew in wooden shoes, and with
uncombed hair*. [13]

Perhaps the nature of the necessities of dependent states,
caused by the policy of a governing one, for her own bene-
fit, may be elucidated by a fact mentioned in history.
When the Carthaginians were possessed of the island of
Sardinia^ they made a decree, that the Sardinians should
not raise corn^ nor get it any other way than from the
Carthaginians. Then, by imposing any duties they would
upon it, they drained from the miserable Sardinians any
sums they pleased; and whenever that oppressed peo-
ple made the least movement to assert their liberty, their
tyrants starved them to death or submission. This may
be called the most perfect kind of political necessity.

From what has been said, I think this uncontrovertible
conclusion may be deduced, that when a ruling state ob-
liges a dependent state to take certain commodities from
her alone, it is implied in the nature of that obligation; is
essentially requisite to give it the least degree of justice ;
and is in^parably united with it, in order to preserve any
share of freedom to the dependent state; that those commo-
dities should never be loaded with duties^ FOR THE SOLE
PURPOSE OF LEVYING MONEY ON THE DEPENDENT STATE.

Upon the whole, f the single question is, whether the par-

* The peasants of France wear wooden shoes ; and the vassals of Poland
are remarkable for matted hair, which never can be combed. [The
words "France and Poland" in the text, and this footnote, are struck
out in the Political Writings. — Ed.'\

t" The plan of paying the duties, imposed by the late act, appears to me
therefore to be totally immaterial," takes the place of these three words
in the newspaper text, the remaining words forming a new sentence.— £'rf.

322 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

liament can legally impose duties to be paid by the people
of these colonies only^ FOR THE SOLE purpose OF raising
A REVENUE, on commodities which she obliges us to take
from her alone^ or, in other words, whether the parliament
can legally take money out of our pockets, without our
consent. If they can, our boasted liberty is but

Vox et prceterea nihil.
A sound and nothing else.

A FARMER. [14]

LETTER III.
My dear Countrymen^

I rejoice to find that my two former letters to you, have
been generally received with so much favour by such of
you, whose sentiments I have had an opportunity of know-
ing. Could you look into my heart, you would instantly
perceive a zealous attachment to your interests, and a
lively resentment of every insult and injury offered to you,
to be the motives that have engaged me to address you.

I am no further concerned in any thing affecting Amer-
ica^ than any one of you; and when liberty leaves it, I can
quit it much more conveniently than most of you : But
while Divine Providence, that gave me existence in a land
of freedom, permits my head to think, my lips to speak,
and my hand to move, I shall so highly and gratefully
value the blessing received, as to take care, that my silence
and inactivity shall not give my implied assent to any act,
degrading my brethren and myself from the birthright,
wherewith heaven itself '''^ hath made us free.'''' *

Sorry I am to learn, that there are some few persons,
who shake their heads with solemn motion, and pretend to
wonder, what can be the meaning of these letters. "G^r^^Z-
Britain^'''' they say, " is too powerful to contend with; she

*Gai,. v. I.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 323

is determined to oppress us; it is in vain to speak of right
on one side, when there is power on the other; when we
are strong enough to resist, we shall attempt it; but now
we are not strong enough, and therefore we had better be
quiet; it signifies nothing to convince us that our rights
are invaded, when we cannot defend them; and if we should
get into riots and tumults about the late act, it will
only draw down heavier displeasure upon us."

What can such men design ? What do their grave ob-
servations amount to, but this — "that these colonies,
totally regardless of their liberties, should commit them,
with humble resignation, to chance^ time^ and the tender
mercies of ministers. ' '

Are these men ignorant, that usurpations, which might
have been successfully opposed at first, acquire strength by
continuance, and thus become irresistable ? Do they con-
demn the conduct of these colonies, concerning the Stamp-
Act f Or have they forgot its successful issue? Ought
the colonies at that time, instead of acting as they did, to
have trusted for relief to the fortuituous events of futurity?
If it is needless " to speak of rights " now, it was as need-
less then. If the behavior of the colonies was prudent and
glorious then, and successful too; it will be equally pru-
dent and glorious [15] to act in the same manner now, if
our rights are equally invaded, and may be as successful.
Therefore it becomes necessary to enquire, whether "our
rights ^?r^ invaded." To talk of "defending" them, as if
they could be no otherwise "defended" than by arms, is
as much out of the way, as if a man having a choice of
several roads to reach his journey's end, should prefer the
worst, for no other reason, but because it is the worst.

As to "riots and tumults," the gentlemen who are so
apprehensive of them, are much mistaken, if they think
that grievances cannot be redressed without such assist-
ance.

324 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

I will now tell the gentlemen, what is, "the meaning
of these letters." The meaning of them is, to convince
the people of these colonies, that they are at this moment
exposed to the most imminent dangers; and to persuade
them immediately, vigorously, and unanimously, to exert
themselves, in the most firm, but most peaceable manner,
for obtaining relief.

The cause of liberty is a cause of too much dignity to be
sullied by turbulence and tumult. It ought to be main-
tained in a manner suitable to her nature. Those who en-
gage in it, should breathe a sedate, yet fervent spirit, ani-
mating them to actions of prudence, justice, modesty,
bravery, humanity and magnanimity.

To such a wonderful degree were the ancient Spartans^
as brave and free a people as ever existed, inspired by this
happy temperature of soul, that rejecting even in their bat-
tles the use of trumpets, and other instruments for excit-
ing heat and rage, they marched up to scenes of havoc, and
horror,* with the sound of flutes, to the tunes of which
their steps kept pace — "exhibiting," as Plutarch says, "at
once a terrible and delightful sight, and proceeding with a
deliberate valor, full of hope and good assurance, as if
some divinity had sensibly assisted them."

I hope, my dear countrymen, that you will, in every col-
ony, be upon your guard against those, who may at any
time endeavour to stir you up, under pretences of patriot-
ism, to any measures disrespectful to our Sovereign and
our mother country. Hot, rash, disorderly proceedings,
injure the reputation of a people, as to wisdom, valor and
virtue, without procuring them the least benefit. I pray
GOD, that he may be pleased to inspire you and your pos-
terity, to the latest ages, with a spirit of which I have an
idea, that I find a difficulty to express. To express it in

* Plutarch in the life of Lycutgus. Archbishop Potter's Archaeologia
Grseca.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 325

the best manner I can, I mean a spirit, that shall so guide
you, that it will be impossible to determine whether
an American'' s character is most distinguishable, for his
loyalty to his Sovereign, his duty to his mother country,
his love of freedom, or his affection for his native soil.

Every government at some time or other falls into wrong
measures. [16] These may proceed from mistake or pas-
sion. But every such measure does not dissolve the obli-
gation between the governors and the governed. The mis-
take may be corrected ; the passion may subside. It is the
duty of the governed to endeavour to rectify the mistake,
and to appease the passion. They have not at first any
other right, than to represent their grievances, and to pray
for redress, unless an emergence is so pressing, as not to
allow time for receiving an answer to their applications,
which rarely happens. If their applications are disre-
garded, then that kind of opposilion becomes justifiable,!
which can be made without breaking the laws, or disturb-!
ing the public peace.

This consists in the prevention of the oppressors reaping
advantage from their oppressions^ and not in their punish-
ment. For experience may teach them, what reason did
not; and harsh methods cannot be proper, till milder ones
have failed.

If at length it become undoubted, that an inveterate
resolution is formed to annihilate the liberties of the gov-
erned, the English history affords frequent examples of re-
sistance by force. What particular circumstances will in
any future case justify such resistance, can never be ascer-
tained, till they happen. Perhaps it may be allowable to
say generally, that it never can be justifiable, until the
people are fully convinced, that any further submission
will be destructive to their happiness.

When the appeal is made to the sword, highly probable
is it, that the punishment will exceed the offence; and the

326 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

calamities attending on war out-weigh those preceding it.
These considerations of justice and prudence, will always
have great influence with good and wise men.

To these reflections on this subject, it remains to be
added, and ought for ever to be remembered, that resist-
ance, in the case of colonies against their mother country,
is extremely different from the resistance of a people
against their prince. A nation may change their king, or
race of kings, and, retaining their antient form of govern-
ment, be gainers by changing. Thus Great-Britain^ un-
der the illustrious house of Brunswick.^ a house that seems
to flourish for the happiness of mankind, has found a
felicity, unknown in the reigns of the Stewarts. But if
once we are separated from our mother country, what new
form of government shall we adopt, * or where shall we find
another Britain^ to supply our loss ? Torn from the body,
to which we are united by religion, liberty, laws, affec-
tions, relation, language and commerce, we must bleed at
every vein.

In truth — the prosperity of these provinces is founded in
their dependence on Great-Britain; and when she returns
to her "old good humour, and her old good nature," as
Lord Clarendon expresses it, I hope they will always think
it their duty and interest, as [17] it most certainly will be,
to promote her welfare by all the means in their power.

We cannot act with too much caution in our disputes.
Anger produces anger ; and differences, that might be ac-
commodated by kind and respectful behavior, may, by im-
prudence, be enlarged to an incurable rage. In quarrels
between countries, as well as in those between indi-
viduals, when they have risen to a certain height, the
first cause of dissension is no longer remembered, the
minds of the parties being wholly engaged in recollecting
and resenting the mutual expressions of their dislike.
, * In the newspaper text this is "accept."— £'rf.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 327

When feuds have reached that fatal point, all considera-
tions of reason and equity vanish; and a blind fury gov-
erns, or rather confounds all things. A people no longer
regards their interest, but the gratification of their wrath.
The sway of the * Cleans and Clodius' s^ the designing and
detestable flatterers of the prevailing passion^ becomes
confirmed. Wise and good men in vain oppose the storm,
and may think themselves fortunate, if, in attempting to
preserve their ungrateful fellow citizens, they do not ruin
themselves. ^h.&\r prudence will be called baseness; their
moderation will be called guilt; and if their virtue does not
lead them to destruction, as that of many other great and
excellent persons has done, they may survive to receive
from their expiring country the mournful glory of her ac-
knowledgment, that their counsels, if regarded, would
have saved her.

The constitutional modes of obtaining relief, are those
which I wish to see pursued on the present -occasion; that
is, by petitions of our assemblies, or where they are not
permitted to meet, of the people, to the powers that can
afford us relief.

We have an excellent prince, in whose good dispositions
towards us we may confide. We have a generous, vSensi-
ble and humane nation, to whom we may apply. They
may be deceived. They may, by artful men, be provoked
to anger against us. I cannot believe they will be cruel
or unjust; or that their anger will be implacable. Let us
behave like dutiful children, who have received unmerited
blows from a beloved parent. Let us complain to our
parent; but let our complaints speak at the same time the
language of affliction and veneration.

If, however, it shall happen, by an unfortunate course
of affairs, that our applications to his Majesty and the par-

* Cleon was a popular firebrand of Athens, and Clodius of Rome ;
each of whom plunged his country into the deepest calamities.

328 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

liament for redress, prove ineffectual, let us then take
another step^ by withholding from Great-Britain all the
advantages she has been used to receive from us. Then
let us try, if our ingenuity, industry, and frugality, will
not give weight to our remonstrances. Let us all be
united with one spirit, in one cause. Let us invent — let
us work [i8] — let us save — let us, continually, keep up our
claim, and incessantly repeat our complaints — But, above
all, let us implore the protection of that infinitely good
and gracious being, * ''by whom kings reign, and princes
decree justice."

Nil desperandutn.

Nothing is to be despaired of.

A FARMER.

LETTER IV.
My dear Countrymen^

An objection, I hear, has been made against my second
letter, which I would willingly clear up before I proceed.
"There is," say these objectors, "a material difference
between the Stamp-Act and the late Act for laying a duty
on paper, &c. that justifies the conduct of those who op-
posed the former, and yet are willing to submit to the lat-
ter. The duties imposed by the Stamp- Act vj^r^ internal
taxes; but the present sltq external, and therefore the par-
liament may have a right to impose them."

To this I answer, with a total denial of the power of
parliament to lay upon these colonies any "tax" what-
ever.

This point, being so important to this, and to succeed-
ing generations, I wish to be clearly understood.

To the word "/(ar;i;," I annex that meaning which the
constitution and history of England require to be annexed

*Pro. viii. 15.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 329

to it; that is — that it is an imposition on the subject^ for the
sole purpose of levying money.

Ill the early ages of our monarchy, certain * services were
rendered to the qxo\^\\ for the general good. These were
personal:! But in [19] process of time, such institutions
being found inconvenient, gifts and grants of their own
property were made by the people, under the several
names of aids, tallages, tasks, taxes and subsidies, &c.
These were made, as may be collected even from the
names, for public service upon "need and necessity."!
All these sums were levied upon the people by virtue of
their voluntary gift.§ Their design was to support the

* In the newspaper text in place of ' ' certain ' ' the word ' ' the ' ' is used.
—Ed.

t It is very worthy of remark, how watchful our wise ancestors were,
lest their services should be encreased beyond what the law allowed.
No man was bound to go out of the realm to serve the King. There-
fore, even in the conquering reign of Henry the Fifth, when the martial
spirit of the nation was highly enflamed by the heroic courage of their
Prince, and by his great success, they still carefully guarded against the
establishment of illegal services. "When this point (says Lord Chief
Justice Coke') concerning maintenance of wars out of England, came in
question, the commons did make their continual claim of their ancient
freedom, and birthright, as in the first of Henry the Fifth, and in the
seventh of Henry the Fifth, &c. the commons made a PROTEST, that
they were not bound to the maintenance of war in Scotland, Ireland,
Calice, France, Normandy, or other foreign parts, and caused their
PROTESTS to be entered into the parliament rolls, where they yet re-
main ; which, in effect, agreeth with that which, upon like occasion, was
made in the parliament of 25th Edward I." 2d Inst. p. 528.

1 4th Inst. p. 28.

? Reges Angliae, nihil tale, nisi convocaiis primis ordinibus, etassenti-
ente populo suscipiunt. Phil. Comines, 2d Inst.

These gifts entirely depending on the pleasure of the donors, were
proportioned to the abilities of the several ranks of people who gave,
and were regulated by their opinion of the public necessities. Thus
Edrvard I. had in his nth year a thirtieth from the laity, a. twentieth
from the cletgy ; in his 22d year, a tenth from \.h.e laity, a. sixth from
London, and other corporate towns, half of their benefices from the

330 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

national honor and interest. Some of those grants com-
prehended duties arising from trade; being imposts on mer-
chandizes. These Lord Chief Justice Coke classes under
"subsidies," and "parliamentary aids." They are also
called "customs." But whatever the 7iame was, they
were always considered as gifts of the people to the crown^
to be employed for public uses.

Commerce was at a low ebb, and surprizing instances
might be produced how little it was attended to for a suc-
cession of ages. The terms that have been mentioned,
and, among the rest, that of "/^;f," had obtained a na-
tional, parliamentary meaning, drawn from the principles
of the constitution, long before any Englishman thought
of i^nposition of duties^ for the regulation of trade.

Whenever we speak of "taxes" among Englishmen^ let
us therefore speak of them with reference to Xh.^ principles
on which, and the intentions with which they have been
established. This will [20] give certainty to our expres-

clergy ; in bis 23d year an eleventh from the barons and others, a tenth
from the clergy, a seventh from the burgesses, &c. Hume's Hist, of
England.

The same difference in the grants of the several ranks is observable in
other reigns.

In the famous statute de tallagio non concedendo, the king enumerates
the several classes, without whose consent, he and his heirs never should
set or levy any tax . . . " nullum tallagium, vel auxilium per nos, vet
hceredes nostras in regno nostro ponatur scu levetur, sine voluntate et
assensu archiepiscoporum, episcoporum, ccmitum, baronum, milituvt,
burgensium, et alienum liberorum com. de regno nostra.'' 34th Ed-
ward I.

Lord Chief Justice Coke, in his comment on these words, says . . . " for
the quieting of the commons, and for a perpetual and constant law fat
ever after, both in this and other like cases, this act was made.
These words are plain, without any scruple, absolute, without any
SAVING." 2d Coke's Inst. p. 532, 533- Little did the venerable judge
imagine, that " other -Li^iS. cases" would happen, in which the spirit of
this law would be despised by Englishmen, the posterity of those who
made it

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 331

sioii, and safety to our conduct: But if, when we have in
view the liberty of these colonies, we proceed in any other
course, we pursue a Juno * indeed, but shall only catch a
cloud.

In the national, parliamentary sense insisted <fn, the
word "tax" fwas certainly understood by the congress at
New- York^ whose resolves may be said to form the Amer-
ican "bill of rights." t

The third, fourth, fifth, and sixth resolves, are thus ex-
pressed.

III. " That it is inseparably essential to the freedom of a
people^ and the undoubted right of Englishmen^ that § NO
TAX be imposed on them, but with their own consent^
given personally, or by their representatives."

IV. "That the people of the colonies are not, and from
their local circumstances, cannot be represented in the
house of commons in Great-Britain.V

V. "That the only representatives of the people of the
colonies, are the persons chosen therein by themselves;
and that NO TAXES ever have been, or can be constitu-
tionally imposed on them, but by their respective legisla-
tures. ' '

VI. "That all supplies to the crown^ being free gifts of
the people, it is unreasonable^ and inconsistent with the

* The Goddess of Empire, in the Heathen Mythology ; according to
an antient fable, Ixion pursued her, but she escaped in a cloud.

t In this sense Montisquieu uses the word "tax," in his [3th book of
Spirit of Laws.

t In the newspaper text this reads: "I am satisfied that the congress
was of opinion, that no impositions could be legally laid on the people of
these colonies, for the purpose of levying money, but by themselves or
their representatives." — Ed

\ The rough draught of the resolves of the congress at New- York are
now in my hands, and from some notes on that draught, and other par-
ticular reasons, I am satisfied that the congress understood the word
"tax " in the sense here contended for. [This note is not in the news-
paper publication. — Ed.'\

332 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

principles and spirit of the British constitution^ for the peo-
ple of Great-Britain to grant to his Majesty the property
of the colonies. ''^

Here is no distinction made between internal and extern
nal taxes. It is evident from the short reasoning thrown
into these resolves, that every imposition *'to grant to his
lAa^&siy the property of the colonies ^^^ was thought a "tax;"
and that every such imposition, if laid any other way than
"with their consent, given personally, or by their repre-
sentatives," was not only "unreasonable, and inconsistent
with the principles and spirit of the British constitution,"
but destructive " to the freedom of a people."

This language is clear and important. A "tax" means
an imposition to raise money. Such persons therefore as
speak of internal and external ' ' TAXES, ' ' I pray may par-
don me, if I object to that expression, as applied to the
privileges and interests of these colonies. There may be
internal and exter- [21] nal impositions, founded on dif-
ferent principles^ and having different tendencies^ every
"tax" being an imposition, tho' every imposition is not a
"tax." But all taxes are founded on the same principles;
and have the same tendency.

External impositions, for the regulation of our trade, do
not "grant to his Majesty the property of the colonies.''''
They only prevent the colonies acquiring property^ in
things not necessary, in a manner judged to be injurious
to the welfare of the whole empire. But the last statute
respecting us, "grants to his Majesty the property of the
colonies^'''' by laying duties on the manufactures of Great-
Britain which they MUST take, and which she settled on
them, on purpose that they should take.

What "^ tax can be more internal than this? Here is

* It seems to be evident, that Mr. Pitt in his defence of America, diir-
ng the debate concerning the repeal of the Stamp Act, by *^ interval
ixes," meant any duties "for the purpose of raising a revenue ; " and

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 333

money drawn, without their consent^ from a society, who
have constantly enjoyed [22] a constitutional mode of
raising all money among themselves. The payment of
their tax they have no possible method of avoiding; as they
cannot do without the commodities on which it is laid,
and they cannot manufacture these commodities them-
selves. Besides, if this unhappy country should be so
lucky as to elude this act, by getting parchment enough,
in the place of paper, or by reviving the antient method
of writing on wax and bark, and by inventing something
to serve instead of glass, her ingenuity would stand her in

by "external taxes," meant duties imposed "for the regulation of
trade." His expressions are these . . . " If the gentleman does not un-
derstand the difference between internal and external taxes, I cannot
help it ; but there is a plain distinction between taxes levied for the

PURPOSES OF RAISING A REVENUE, and duties imposed FOR THE REGU-
LATION OF TRADE, for the accommodation of the subject ; although, in
the consequences, some revenue might incidentally arise from the latter."

These words were in Mr. Pitt's reply to Mr. Crenville, who said he
could not understand the difference between external and internal taxes.

In every other part of his speeches on that occasion, his words confirm
this construction of his expressions. The following extracts will shew
how positive and general were his assertions of our right.

"It is my opinion that this kingdom has no right to lay A Tax upon
the colonies." . . . "The Americans are the sons, not the bastards of
England. Taxation is no part of the governing and legislative
power." . . . "The taxes are a voluntary j?-//"/ and grant of the com-
mons ALONE. In legislation the THREE estates of the realm are
ALIKE concerned, but the concurrence of the PEERS and the crown to a
TAX, is only necessary to close with the form of a law. The GIFT and
GRANT is of the commons alone." . . ."The distinction between leg-
islation and taxation is essentially necessary to liberty.'^ . . . "The
commons of America, represented in their several assemblies, have ever
been in possession of the exercise of this their constitutional right, of
' GrviNG and granting their own money. TAey would have been
SLA VES, if they had not enjoyed it.'' "The idea of a virtual repre-
sentation of America in this house, is the most contemptible idea that
ever entered into the head of man ... It does not deserve a serious
refutation."

He afterwards shews the unreasonableness of Great Biitain taxing

334 LETTERS FROM A FARMER

little stead; for then the parliament would have nothing to
do but to prohibit such manufactures, or to lay a tax on
hats and woollen cloths^ which they have already prohibited
the colonies from supplying each other with; or on instru-
ments, and tools of steel and iron^ which they have pro-
hibited the provincials from manufacturing at all: * And
then, what little gold and silver they have, must be torn
from their hands, or they will not be able, in a short
time, to get an ax,t for cutting their firewood, nor a
plough, for raising their food. In what respect, therefore,
I beg leave to ask, is the late act preferable to the Stamp-
America, thus . . . "When I had the honor of serving his Majesty, I
availed myself of the means of information, which I derived from my
office. I SPEAK THEREFORE FROM KNOWLEDGE. My materials were
good. I was at pains to collect, to digest, to consider them : and / will
be bold to affirm, that the profit to Great-Britain from the trade of the
colonies, through all its branches, is Two millions a year. This is
the fund that carried you triumphantly through the last war. The es-
tates that were rented at two thousand pounds a year, threescore years
ago, are three thousand pounds at present. Those estates sold then from
fifteen to eighteen years purchase ; the same may now be sold for thirty.
You OWE THIS TO AMERICA. ThIS IS THE PRICE THAT AMERICA PAYS
YOU FOR HER PROTECTION." . . "I dare not say how much higher
these profits may be augmented." . . . "Upon the whole, I will beg
leave to tell the house what is really my opinion : it is, that the Stamp
Act be repealed absolutely, totally, and immediately. That the reason
for the repeal be assigned, because it was founded on an erroneous
PRINCIPLE."

*"And that pig and bar iron, made in his Majesty's colonies in
America, may be further manufactured in this kingdom, be it
further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that from and after the
twenty -fourth ^Ay oi June, 1750, no mill, ox other engine, {or fitting ox
rollifig of iron, or dLuy plating forge, to work with a tilt hammer, or any
furnace for making steel, shall be erected ; or, after such erection, con-
tinued IN ANY OF HIS MAJESTY'S COLONIES IN AMERICA." 23d George
II., Chap. 29, Sect. 9.

t Tho' these particulars are mentioned as being absolutely necessarj',
yet perhaps they are not more so than glass in our severe winters, to
keep out the cold from our houses ; or than paper, without which such
inexpressible confusions must ensue.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 335

Act^ or more consistent with the liberties of the colonies ?
For my own part, I regard them both with equal appre-
hensions; and think they ought to be in the same manner
opposed.

Habetnus quidem senatus consuUum, — tanquam gladium in vagina
repositum.

"We have a statute, laid up for future use, like a sword in the scab-
bard.

A FARMER. [23]

LETTER V.

My dear Countrymen^

Perhaps the objection to the late act, imposing duties
upon paper, &c. might have been safely rested on the ar-
gument drawn from the universal conduct of parliaments
and ministers, from the first existence of these colonies, to
the administration of Mr. Greenville.

What but the indisputable, the acknowledged exclusive
right of the colonies to tax themselves, could be the rea-
son, that in this long period of more than one hundred and
fifty years, no statute was ever passed for the sole purpose
of raising a revenue on the colonies? And how clear, how
cogent must that reason be, to which ev^ery parliament,
and every minister, for so long a time submitted, without
a single attempt to innovate?

England, in part of that course of years, and Great- Bri-
tain^ in other parts, was engaged in several fierce expen-
sive wars; troubled with some tumultuous and bold parlia-
ments; governed by many daring and wicked ministers;
yet none of them ever ventured to touch the Palladium of
American liberty. Ambition, avarice, faction, tyranny,
all revered it. Whenever it was necessary to raise money
on the colonies, the requisitions of the crown were made,
and dutifully complied with. The parliament, from time

336 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

to time, regulated their trade, and that of the rest of the
empire, to preserve their dependence, and the connection
of the whole in good order.

The people of Great- Britain., in support of their privi-
leges, boast much of their antiquity. It is true they are
antient ; yet it may well be questioned, if there is a sin-
gle privilege of a British subject, supported by longer,
more solemn, or more uninterrupted testimony, than the
exclusive right of taxation in these colonies. The people
of Great-Britain consider that kingdom as the sovereign
of these colonies, and would now annex to that sovereignty
a prerogative never heard of before. How w^ould they
bear this, was the case their own? What would they
think of a new prerogative claimed by the crown ? We
may guess what their conduct would be from the trans-
ports of passion into which they fell about the late em-
bargo, tho' laid to relieve the most emergent necessities of
state, admitting of no delay; and for which there were
numerous precedents. Let our liberties be treated with
the same tenderness, and it is all we desire.

Explicit as the conduct of parliaments, for so many
ages, is, to proye that no money can be levied on these
colonies by parliament, for the purpose of raising a reve-
nue, yet it is not the only evidence in our favour. [24]

Every one of the most material arguments against the
legality of the Stamp-Act., operates with equal force against
the act now objected to; but as they are well known, it
seems unnecessary to repeat them here.

This general one only shall be considered at present :
That tho' these colonies are dependent on Gre at- Britain ;
and tho' she has a legal power* to make laws for preserving
that dependence; yet it is not necessary for this purpose,
nor essential to the relation between a mother country and
her colonies, as was eagerly contended by the advocates
*In the newspaper text this is "right." — Ed.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 337

for the Stamp-Act^ that she should raise money on them
without their consent

Colonies were formerly planted by warlike nations to
keep their enemies in awe; to relieve their country, over-
burthened with inhabitants ; or to discharge a number
of discontented and troublesome citizens. But in more
modern ages, the spirit of violence being in some measure,
if the expression may be allowed, sheathed in commerce,
colonies have been settled by the nations of Europe for the
purposes of trade. These purposes were to be attained, by
the colonies raising for their mother country those things
which she did not produce herself; and by supplying them-
selves from her with things they wanted. These were the
national objects^ in the commencement of our colonies, and
have been uniformly so in their promotion.

To answer these grand purposes, perfect liberty was
known to be necessary; all history proving, that trade and
freedom are nearly related to each other. By a due regard
to this wise and just plan, the infant colonies, exposed in
the unknown climates and unexplored wildernesses of this
new world, lived, grew and flourished.

The parent country, with undeviating pnidence and vir-
tue, attentive to the first principles of colonization, drew
to herself the benefits she might reasonably expect, and
preserved to her children the blessings, on which those
benefits were founded. She made laws, obliging her col-
onies to carry to her all those products which she wanted
for her own use ; and all those raw materials which she
chose herself to work up. Besides this restriction, she for-
bad them to procure manufactures from any other part of
the globe, or even the products of European countries,
which alone could rival her, without being first brought
to her. In short, by a variety of laws, she regulated their
trade in such a manner as she thought most conducive to
their mutual advantage, and her own welfare. A power

338 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

was reserved to the crown of repealing any laws that
should be enacted: The executive authority of government
was also lodged in the crown, and its representatives; and
an appeal was secured to the crown from all judgments
in the administration of justice.

For all these powers, established by the mother country
over the colonies; for all these immense emoluments de-
rived by her from [25] them; for all their diflSculties and
distresses in fixing themselves, what was the recompence
made them ? A communication of her rights in general,
and particularly of that great one, the foundation of all the
rest — that their property, acquired with so much pain and
hazard, should be disposed of by none but * themselves —
or to use the beautiful and emphatic language of the sacred
scriptures, t "that they should sit every man under his
vine, and under his fig-tree, and none should make

THEM AFRAID."

Can any man of candor and knowledge deny, that these
institutions form an affinity between Great-Britain and
her colonies, that sufficiently secures their dependence
upon her? Or that for her to levy taxes upon them, is to
reverse the nature of things ? Or that she can pursue such
a measure, without reducing them to a state of vassallage ?

If any person cannot conceive the supremacy of Great-
Britain to exist, without the power of laying taxes to levy
money upon us, the history of the colonies, and of Great-
Britain^ since their settlement, will prove the contrary.
He will there find the amazing advantages arising to her
from them — the constant exercise of her supremacy — and
their filial submission to it, without a single rebellion, or
even the thought of one, from their first emigration to this

*"The power of taxing theniselve!;, was the privilepre of which the
English were, with -rukso's, particularly jealous.^^ Hume'' s Hist. 0/
England.

t Mic. iv. 4.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 339

moment — And all these things have happened, without
one instance of Great- B ritaitC s laying taxes to levy money
upon them.

How many* British authors have demonstrated, that

* It has been said in the House of Commons, when complaints have
been made of the decay of trade to any part of Europe, "That such
things were not worth regard, as Great-Britain was possessed of colonies
that could consume more of her manufactures than she was able to sup-
ply them with."

"As the case now stands, we shall shew that the plantations are a
spring of weatth to this nation, that they worli for us, that their TREAS-
URE CENTERS ALL HERE, and that the laws have tied them fast enough
to us ; so that it must be through our own fault and mismanagement, if
they become independent of England.^''

Davenant on the Plantation Trade.

" It is better that the islands should be supplied from the Northern
Colonies than from England ; for this reason, the provisions we might
send to Barbados, Jamaica, &c. would be unimproved product of the
earth, as grain of all kinds, or such product where there is little got by the
improvement, as malt, salt beef and pork ; indeed the exportation of salt
fish thither would be more advantageous; but the goods whichwe send to
the Northern Colonies, are such whose improvement may be justly laid,
one with another, to be near four-fifths of the value of the whole commo-
dity, as apparel, houshold furniture, and many other things." Idem,.

'^ New- England is the most prejudicial plantation to the kingdom of
England ; and yet to do right to that most industrious English colony,
I must confess, that though we lose by their unlimited trade with other
foreign plantations, yet we are very great gainers by their direct trade
from Old England. Our yearly exportation of English manufactures,
malt and other goods, from hence thither, amounting in my opinion,
to ten times the value of what is imported from thence ; which calcula-
tion I do not make at random, but upon mature consideration, and, per-
adventure, upon as much experience in this very trade, as any other per-
son will pretend to ; and therefore, whenever reformation of our corres-
pondency in trade with that people shall be thought on, it will, in my
poor judgment, require great tenderness, and very serious cir-
cumspection." ^/rJosiAH QmiuD's Discourse on Trade.

"Our plantations spend mostly our English manufactures, and those
of all sorts almost imaginable, in egregious quantities, and employ near
two thirds of all our English shipping ,- so that we have more people in
England, by reason of our plantations in America." Idem.

Sir JosiAH Child says, in another part of his work, "That not more

340 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

the present wealth, power and glory of their country, are
founded upon these [26] colonies? As constantly as streams
tend to the ocean, have they been pouring the fruits of all
their labors into their mother's lap. Good heaven ! and
shall a total oblivion of former tenderness and blessings,
be spread over the minds of a good and wise nation, by

than fifty families are maintained in England by the refining of sugar."
From whence, and from what Davenant says, it is plain, that the ad-
vantages here said to be derived from the plantations by England must
be meant chiefly of the continental colonies.

"I shall sum up my whole remarks on owe American colonies, with
this observation, that as they are a certain annual revenue of several
MILLIONS STERLING to their mother country, they ought carefully to
be protected, duly encouraged, and every opportunity that presents,
improved for their increment and advantage, as every one they can pos-
sibly reap, must at last return to us with interest."

Beawes's Lex Merc. Red.

"We may safely advance, that our trade and navigation are greatly
increased by our colonies, and that they really are a source of treasure
and naval power to this kingdom, since they work for US, & their
TREASURE CENTERS HERE. Before their settlement, our manufactures
were few, and those but indifierent ; the number of English merchants
very small, and the whole shipping of the nation much inferior to what
now belongs to the Northern Colonies only. These are certain facts.
But since their establishment, our condition has altered for the better,
almost of a degree beyond credibility. . . Our manufactures are pro-
digiously increased, chiefly by the demand for them in the plantations,
where they AT least take off one half, and supply us with many
valuable commodities for exportation, which is as great an emolument
to the mother kingdom, as to the plantations themselves."

PosTLETHWAYT'5 Univ. Dict. of Trade and Commerce.

"Most of the nations of Europe have interfered with us, more or less,
in divers of our staple manufactures, within half a century, not only in
our woollen, but in our lead and tin manufactures, as well as our fish-
eries." POSTLETHWAYT, ibid.

"The inhabitants of our colonies, by carrying on a trade with their
foreign neighbours, do not only occasion a greater quantity of the goods
and merchandize of Europe being sent from, hence to them, and a greater
quantity of the product of America to be sent from them hither, which
would otherwise be carried from and brought to Europe by foreigners, but
an increase of the seamen and navigation in those parts, which is of
great strength and security, as well as of great advantage to our plan-

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 341

the sordid arts of intriguing men, who, covering their
selfish projects under pretences of public good, first enrage
their countrymen into a frenzy of passion, and then ad-
vance their own influence and interest, by gratifying the
passion, which they themselves have basely excited. [27]
Hitherto Great-Britain has been contented with her

tations in general. And though some of our colonies are not only for pre-
venting the importation of alt goods of the same species they produce , but
suflfer particular planters to keep great runs of land in their possession
uncultivated, with design to prevent new settlements, whereby they im-
agine the prices of their commodities may be affected ; yet if it be con-
sidered, that the markets of Great-Britain depend on the markets of
ALi« Europe in general, and that the European markets in general de-
pend on the proportion between the annual consumption and the whole
quantity of each species annually produced by klx, nations ; it must fol-
low, that whether we or foreigners are the producers, carriers, importers
and exporters of American produce, yet their respective prices in each
colony (the difference of freight, customs and importations considered)
will always bear proportion to the general consumption of the whole
quantity of each sort, produced in all colonies, and in all parts, allowing
only for the usual contingencies that trade and commerce, agriculture
and manufactures, are liable to in all countries."

POSTLETHWAYT, ibid.

" It is certain, that from the very time Sir William Raleigh, the father
of our English colonies, and his associates, first projected these estab-
lishments, there have been persons who have found an interest, in mis-
repiesenting, or lessening the value of them. . . . The attempts were
called chimerical and dangerous. Afterwards many malignant sugges-
tions were made about sacrificing so many Englishmen to the obstinate
desire of settling colonies in countries which then produced very little
advantage. But as these difiiculties were gradually surmounted, those
complaints vanished. No sooner were these lamentations over, but others
arose in their stead ; when it could be no longer said, that the colonies
were useless, it was alledged that they were not useful enough to their
mother country ; that while we were loaded with taxes, they were abso-
lutely free ; that the planters lived like pf inces, while the inhabitants of
England laboured hard for a tolerable subsistence."

POSTLETHWAYT, ibid.

"Before the settlement of these colonies," says Postlethwayt, "cur
manufactures were few, and those but indifferent. In those days we had
not only our naval stores, but our ships from our neighbours. Germany
furnished us with all things made of metal, even to nails. Wine, paper,

342 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

prosperity. Moderation has been the rule of her con-
duct. But now, a generous humane people, that so often
has protected the liberty of strangers^ is enflamed into an
attempt to tear a privilege from her own children, which,
if executed, must, in their opinion, sink them into slaves:
And for what ? For a pernicious power, not necessary

linens, and a thousand other things, came from France. Portugal sup-
plied us with sugar ; all the products of America were poured into us
from Spain ; and the Venetians and Genoese retailed to us the commodi-
ties of the East-Indies, at their own price. ' '

"If it be asked, whether foreigners, for what goods they take of us,
do not pay on that consumption a great portion of our taxes ? It is ad-
mitted they do." Postlethwayt's Great-Britain' s True System.

"If we are afraid that one day or other the colonies will revolt, and
set up for themselves, as some seem to apprehend, let us not drive them
to a necessity to/eel themselves independent of us ; as they will do, the
moment they perceive that THEY CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
ALL THINGS FROM WITHIN THEMSEL VES, and do not need
our assistance. If we would keep them still dependent upon their
mother country, and in some respects, subservient to her views and
welfare ; let us make it their INTEREST always to be so."

Tucker on Trade.

" Our colonies, while they have English blood in their veins, and have
relations in England, and whiIvE they can get by trading with us,
the stronger and greater they grow, the viore this crown and kingdom
will get by them : and nothing but such an arbitrary power as shall
make them desperate, can bring them to rebel."

ViKVU^K^t on the Plantation Trade.

" The Northern colonies are not upon the same footing as those oi the
South ; and having a worse soil to improve, they must find the recom-
pence some other way, which only can be in property and dominion :
Upon which score, any innovations in the form of government there,
should be cautiously examined, for fear of entering upon measures, by
which the industry of the inhabitants be quite discouraged. 'Tis always
UNFORTUNATE for a people, either by CONSENT, or upon compui<SION,
to depart from their primitive institutions, and THOSE fundamentals,
by which they were first united together." Idem.

' ' The most effectual way of uniting the colonies, is to make it their com-
mon interest to oppose the designs and attempts of Great-Britain. [ This
paragraph is not in newspaper text. — Ed.'\

"All wise states will well consider how to preserve the advantages
arising from colonies, and avoid the evils. And I conceive tliat there can

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 343

to her, as her own experience may convince her ; but hor-
ribly dreadful and detestable to them. [28]

It seems extremely probable, that when cool, dispas-
sionate posterity, shall consider the affectionate inter-
course, the reciprocal benefits, and the unsuspecting con-
fidence, that have subsisted between these colonies and

be but TWO ways in nature to hinder them from throwing off their de-
pendence ; one to keep it out of their power, and the other, out of their
will. The first must be hy force, and the latter by usiiig them well, and
keeping them employed in such productions, and making such manu-
factures, as will support themselves and families comfortably, and pro-
cute them wealth too, and at least not prejudice their mother country.

' '■Force can never be used effectually to answer the end, without destroy-
ing the colonies themselves. Liberty and encouragement are necessary to
carry people thither, and to keep them together when they are there ;
and violence will hinder both. Any body of troops, considerable enough
to awe them, and keep them in subjection, under the direction too of a
needy governor, often sent thither to make his fortune, and at such a
distance from any application for redress, will soon put an end to all
planting, and leave the country to the soldiers alone, and if it did not,
would eat up all the profit of the colony. For this reason, arbitrary coun-
tries have not been equally successful in planting colonies with free ones ;
and what they have done in that kind, has either been by force, or at a
vast expence, or by departing from the nature of their government, and
giving such privileges to planters as were denied to their other subjects.
And I dare say, that a few prudent laws, and a little prudent conduct,
would soon give us far the greatest share of the riches of all America,
perhaps drive many of other nations out of it, or into other colonies iot
shelter.

"T'here are so many exigencies in &\\ states, 50 many foreign wars, anA
domestic disturbances, that these colonies can never want opporTuni- ■
TIES, if they watch for them, to do what they shall find their interest to do ;
and therefore we ought to take all the precautions in our power, that it shall
never be their interests to act against that of their native country; an evil
which can no otherwise be averted, than by keeping them fully employed
in such trades as will increase their own, as well as our wealth ; for it is
much to be feared, if we do not find employmentfor them, they may find it
for us ; the interest of the mother country, is always to keep them depend-
ent, and so employed ; and it requires all her address to do it ; and it is
certainly more ^-flw'/y and effectually done hy gentle and insensible meth-
ods, than by power alone." Cato's Letters.

344 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

their parent country, for such a length of time, [29] they
will execrate, with the bitterest curses the infamous mem-
ory of those men, whose pestilential ambition unneces-
sarily, wantonly, cruelly, first opened the sources of civil
discord between them ; first turned their love into jeal-
ousy ; and first taught these provinces, filled with grief
and anxiety, to enquire —

Mens ubi matema est ?
Where is maternal affection ?

A FARMER.

LETTER VI.
My dear Countrymen,

It may perhaps be objected against the arguments that
have been offered to the public, concerning the legal power
of the parliament, "that it has always exercised the power
of imposing duties, for the purposes of raising a revenue
on the productions of these colonies carried to Great-
Britain^ which may be called a tax on them." To this
objection I answer, that this is no violation of the rights
of the colonies, it being implied in the relation between
them and Great-Britain^ that they should not carry such
commodities to other nations, as should enable them to
interfere with the mother country. The imposition of
duties on these commodities, when brought to her, is only
a consequence of her parental right ; and if the point is
thoroughly examined, the duties will be found to be laid
on the people of the mother country. Whatever they are,
they must proportionably raise the price of the goods, and
consequently must be paid by the consumers. In this
light they were considered by the parliament in the 25th
Charles II. Chap. 7, Sect. 2, which says, that the produc-
tions of the plantations were carried from one to another
free from all customs, "while the subjects of this your

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 345

kingdom of England have paid great customs and imposi-
tions for what of them have been SPENT HERE," &c.

Besides, if Great- Britain exports these commodities
again, the duties will injure her own trade, so that she
cannot hurt us, without plainly and immediately hurting
herself; and this is our check against her acting arbi-
trarily in this respect.

* It may be perhaps further objected, "that it being
granted that statutes made for regulating trade, are bind-
ing upon us, it will [30] be diflScult for any person, but

* If any one should observe that no opposition has been made to the
legality of the 4th Geo. III. Chap. 15, which is the First act of parlia-
ment that ever imposed duties on the importations into America, for the
expressed purpose of raising a revenue there ; I answer, First, That tho'
the act expressly mentions the raising a revenue in America, yet it
seems that it had as much in view the "improving and securing the
trade between the same and Great- Britain,'''' which words are part of its
title: And the preamble says, "Whereas it is expedient that new pro-
visions and regulations should be established for improving the revenue
of this kingdom, &xidi for extending and securing the navigation and com-
merce between Great-Britain, and your Majesty'' s dominions in America,
which by the peace have been so happily extended and enlarged," &c.
Secondly, All the duties mentioned in that act are imposed solely on the
productions and manufactures of foreign countries, and not a single
duty laid on any production or manufacture of our mother country.
Thirdly, the authority of the provincial assemblies is not therein so
plainly attacked as by the last act, which makes provision for defraying
the charges of the "administration of justice," and "the support of
civil government." Fourthly, That it being doubtful, whether the in-
tention of the 4th Geo. III. Chap. 15, was not as much to regulate trade,
as to raise a revenue, the minds of the people here were wholly engrossed
by the terror of the Stamp-Act, then impending over them, about the
intention of which there could be no doubt.

These reasons so far distinguish the 4th Geo. III. Chap. 15, from the
last act, that it is not to be wondered at, that the first should have been
submitted to, tho' the last should excite the most universal and spirited
opposition. For this will be found, on the strictest examination, to be,
in the principle on which it is founded, and in the consequences that
must attend it, if possible, more destructive than the Stamp-Act. It is,
to speak plainly, a prodigy in our laws ; not having one British feature.

346 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

the makers of the laws, to determine, which of them are
made for the regulating of trade, and which for raising a
revenue; and that from hence may arise confusion."

To this I answer, that the objection is of no force in the
present case, or such as resemble it ; because the act now
in question, is formed expressly FOR THE SOLE purpose

OF RAISING A REVENUE.

However, supposing the design of parliament had not
been expressed., the objection seems to me of no weight,
with regard to the influence which those who may make
it, might expect it ought to have on the conduct of these
colonies.

It is true, that impositions for raising a revenue., may
be hereafter called regulatioits of trade : But names will
not change the nature of things. Indeed we ought firmly
to believe, what is an undoubted truth, confirmed by the
unhappy experience of many states heretofore free, that
UNLESS THE MOST WATCHFUL ATTENTION BE EXERTED, A
NEW SERVITUDE MAY BE SLIPPED UPON US, UNDER THE
SANCTION OF USUAL AND RESPECTABLE TERMS.

Thus the CcBsars ruined the Roman liberty, under the
titles of tribunical and dictatorial authorities, old and ven-
erable dignities, known in the most flourishing times of
freedom. In imitation of the same policy, James II. when
he meant to establish popery, talked of liberty of con-
science, the most sacred of all liberties ; and had thereby
almost deceived the Dissenters into destruction.

All artful rulers, who strive to extend their power be-
yond its just limits, endeavor to give to their attempts as
much semblance of [31] legality as possible. Those who
succeed them may venture to go a little further ; for each
new encroachment will be strengthened by a former.
" * That which is now supported by examples, growing
old, will become an example itself," and thus support

fresh usurpations.

* Tacitus.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 347

A free people therefore can never be too quick in ob-
serving, nor too firm in opposing the beginnings oi altera-
tion either mforni or reality^ respecting institutions formed
for their security. The first kind otf alteration leads to
the last : Yet, on the other hand, nothing is more certain,
than that the forms of liberty may be retained, when the
substance is gone. In government, as well as in religion,
"The letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life." *

I will beg leave to enforce this remark by a few in-
stances. The crown, by the constitution, has the pre-
rogative of creating peers. The existence of that order,
in due number and dignity, is essential to the constitution;
and if the crown did not exercise that prerogative, the
peerage must have long since decreased so much as to have
lost its proper influence. Suppose a prince, for some
unjust purposes, should, from time to time, advance so
many needy, profligate wretches to that rank, that all the
independence of the house of lords should be destroyed ;
there would then be a manifest violation of the constitu-
tion, under the appearance of using legal prerogative.

The house of commons claim the privilege of forming
all money bills, and will not suffer either of the other
branches of the legislature to add to, or alter them ; con-
tending that their power simply extends to an acceptance
or rejection of them. This privilege appears to be just :
but under pretence of this just privilege, the house of
commons has claimed a licence of tacking to money bills,
clauses relating to things of a totally different kind, and
thus forcing them in a manner on the king and lords.
This seems to be an abuse of that privilege, and it may be
vastly more abused. Suppose a future house, influenced
by some displaced, discontented demagogues — in a time
of danger, should tack to a money bill, something so
injurious to the king and peers, that they would not assent

* 2 Cor. iii. 6.

348 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

to it, and yet the commons should obstinately insist on it;
the whole kingdom would be exposed to ruin by them,
under the appearance of mamtaimng a valuable privilege.

In these cases it might be difficult for a while to deter-
mine, whether the king intended to exercise his preroga-
tive in a constitutional manner or not ; or whether the
commons insisted on their demand factiously, or for the
public good : But surely the conduct of the crown or of
the house, would in time sufficiently explain itself.

Ought not the people therefore to watch? to observe
facts? to search into causes? to investigate designs? And
have they not a right [32] of judging from the evidence
before them, on no slighter points than their liberty and
happiness? It would be less than trifling, wherever a
British government is established, to make use of any
arguments to prove such a right. It is sufficient to re-
mind the reader of the day, on the anniversary of which
the first of these letters is dated.*

I will now apply what has been said to the present
question.

The nature of any impositions laid by parliament on
these colonies, must determine the design in laying them.
It may not be easy in every instance to discover that de-
sign. Wherever it is doubtful, I think submission cannot
be dangerous ; nay, it must be right ; for, in my opinion,
there is no privilege these colonies claim, which they
ought in duty and prudence more earnestly to maintain
and defend, than the authority of the British parliament
to regulate the trade of all her dominions. Without this
authority, the benefits she enjoys from our commerce,
must be lost to her: The blessings we enjoy from our
dependence upon her, must be lost to us. Her strength
must decay ; her glory vanish ; and she cannot sufier

*In the newspaper text this read "It is sufficient to remind the reader
of the day on which King William landed at Torbay.'^—Ed.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 349

without our partaking in her misfortune. Let us there-
fore cherish her interests as our own^ aiid give her every
things that it becomes freemen to give or to receive.

The nature of any impositions she may lay upon us
may, in general, be known, by considering how far they
relate to the preserving, in due order, the connection
between the several parts of the British empire. One
thing we may be assured of, which is this — Whenever she
imposes duties on commodities, to be paid only upon their
exportation from Great-Britain to these colonies, it is not
a regulation of trade, but a design to raise a revenue upon
us. Other instances may happen, which it may not be
necessary at present to dwell on. I hope these colonies
will never, to their latest existence, want understanding
sufficient to discover the intentions of those who rule over
them, nor the resolution necessary for asserting their in-
terests. They will always have the same rights, that all
free states have, of judging when their privileges are
invaded, and of using all prudent measures for preserving
them.

Quocirca vivite fortes,
Fortiaqiie adversis opponite pedora rebus.
Wherefore keep up your spirits, and gallantly oppose this
adverse course of aflfairs.

A FARMER. [33]

LETTER VII.
My dear Countrymen,

This letter is intended more particularly for such of you,
whose employments in life may have prevented your
attending to the consideration of some points that are of
great and public importance : For many such persons
there must be even in these colonies, where the inhabi-
tants in general are more intelligent than any other
people whatever, as has been remarked by strangers, and
it seems with reason.

350 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

Some of you, perhaps, filled, as I know your breasts
are, with loyalty to our most excellent Prince, and with
love to our dear mother country, may feel yourselves
inclined, by the affections of your hearts, to approve
every action of those whom you so much venerate and
esteem. A prejudice thus flowing from goodness of dis-
position, is amiable indeed. I wish it could be indulged
without danger. Did I think this possible, the error
should have been adopted, and not opposed by me. But
in truth, all men are subject to the frailties of nature ; and
therefore whatever regard we entertain for the persons of
those who govern us, we should always remember that
their conduct, as rulers^ may be influenced by human
infirmities.

When any laws, injurious to these colonies, are passed,
we cannot suppose, that any injury was intended us by
his Majesty, or the Lords. For the assent of the crown
and peers to laws, seems, as far as I am able to judge, to
have been vested in them, more for their own security,
than for any other purpose. On the other hand, it is the
particular business of the people, to enquire and discover
what regulations are useful for themselves, and to digest
and present them in the form of bills, to the other orders,
to have them enacted into laws. Where these laws are to
bind themselves^ it may be expected, that the house of
commons will very carefully consider them : But when
they are making laws that are not designed to bind them-
selves^ we cannot imagine that their deliberations will be
as * cautious and scruprlous, as in their own case. [34]

* Many remarkable instances might be produced of the extraordinary
inattention -with which bills of great importance, concerning these colo-
nies, have passed in parliament; which is owing, as it is supposed, to
the bills being brought in by the persons who have points to carry, so
artfully framed, that it is not easy for the members in general, in the
haste of business, to discover their tendency.

The following instances shew the truth of this remark. When Mr.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 351

I am told, that there is a wonderful address frequently
used in carrying points in the house of commons, by per-
sons experienced in these affairs. — That opportunities
are watched — and sometimes votes are passed, that if
all the members had been present, would have been
rejected by a great majority. Certain it is, that when a

Greenville, in the violence of reformation, formed the 4th Geo. III.
Chap. 15th, for regulating the American trade, the word ''Ireland'''' was
dropt in the clause relating to our iron and lumber, so that we could
send these articles to no part of Europe, but to Great-Britain. This
was so unreasonable a restriction, and so contrary to the sentiments of
the legislature for many years before, that it is surprizing it should not
have been taken notice of in the house. However the bill passed into a
law. But when the matter was explained, this restriction was taken off
by a subsequent act. I cannot positively say how long p.fter the taking
ofiF this restriction, as I have not the act, but I think, in less than 18
months, another act of parliament passed, in which the word ''Ireland''''
was left out, just as it had been before. The matter being a second time
explained, was a second time regulated.

Now if it be considered, that the omission mentioned struck off with
ONE word so VERY GREAT A PART OF OUR TRADE, it must appear re-
markable; and equally so is the method by which ^/f^ became an enum-
erated commodity.

"The enumeration was obtained (says Mr. [a] Gee") by one Cole, a
Captain of a ship, employed by a company then trading to Carolina,
for several ships going from England thither, and purchasing rice for
Portugal prevented the aforesaid Captain of a loading. Upon his com-
ing home, he possessed one Mr. Lowiides, a member of parliament {who
was very frequently employed to prepare bills) with an opinion, that car-
rying rice directly to Portugal, was a prejudice to the trade of England,
and PRIVATELY got a clause into an act, to make it an enumerated com-
modity ; by which means he secured a freight to himself. But The con-
sequence PROVED A VAST LOSS TO THE NATION."

I find that this clause, "privately got into an act," FOR THE BENE-
FIT OF Captain Cole, to the "vast loss of the nation," is foisted
into the 3d and 4th Ann, Chap. 5th, intituled, "An act for granting to
her Majesty a further subsidy on wines and merchandizes imported,"
with which it has no more connection, than with 34th Edward I. the
34th and 35th of Henry VIII. and the 25th of Charles II. v/hich pro
VIDE, THAT NO PERSON SHALL BE TAXED BUT BY HIMSELF OR HIS
REPRESENTATIVE.

[a] Gee on Trade, page 32.

352 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

powerful and artful man has determined on any measure
against these colonies, he has always succeeded in his
attempt. Perhaps therefore it will be proper for us, when-
ever any oppressive act affecting us is passed, to attribute
it to the inattention of the members of the house of
commons, and to the malevolence or ambition of some
factious great man, rather than to any other cause.

Now I do verily believe, that the late act of parliament,
imposing duties on paper, &c. was formed by Mr. Green-
ville^ and his party, because it is evidently a part of that
plan, by which he endeavoured to render himself popular
at home ; and I do also believe, that not one half of the
members of the house of commons, even of those who
heard it read, did perceive how destructive it was to
American freedom. For this reason, as it is usual in
Great- Britain.^ to consider the King's speech as the
speech of the ministry, it may be right here to consider
this act as the act of a party — perhaps I should speak
more properly, if I was to use another term. [35]

There are two ways of laying taxes. One is, by im-
posing a certain sum on particular kinds of property, to
be paid by the user or consumer^ or by rating the person
at a certain sum. The other is, by imposing a certain
sum on particular kinds of property, to be paid by the
seller.

When a man pays the first sort of tax, he knows with
certainty that he pays so much money for a tax. The
consideration for which he pays it, is remote, and, it may
be, does not occur to him. He is sensible too, that he is
commanded and obliged to pay it as a tax ; and therefore
people are apt to be displeased with this sort of tax.

The other sort of tax is submitted to in a very different
manner. The purchaser of an article, very seldom reflects
that the seller raises his price, so as to indemnify himself
for the tax he has paid. He knows that the prices of

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 353

things are continually fluctuating, and if he thinks about
the tax, he thinks at the same time, in all probability,
that he might have paid as much, if the article he buys
had not been taxed. He gets something visible and agree-
able for his money ; and tax and price are so confounded
together, that he cannot separate, or does not chuse to take
the trouble of separating them.

This mode of taxation therefore is the mode suited to
arbitrary and oppressive governments. The love of lib-
erty is so natural to the human heart, that unfeeling
tyrants think themselves obliged to accommodate their
schemes as much as they can to the appearance of justice
and reason, and to deceive those whom they resolve to de-
stroy, or oppress, by presenting to them a miserable pic-
ture of freedom, when the inestimable original is lost.

This policy did not escape the cruel and rapacious
NERO. That monster, apprehensive that his crimes
might endanger his authority and life, thought proper to
do some popular acts, to secure the obedience of his sub-
jects. Among other things, says Tacitus, "he remitted
the twenty-fifth part of the price on the sale of slaves, but
rather in shew than reality ; for the seller being ordered to
pay it, it became part of the price to the buyer.'''' *

This is the reflection of the ]\\6.\c\o\xs Historian ; but
the deluded /^^//(^ gave their infamous Emperor full credit
for his false generosity. Other nations have been treated
in the same manner the Romans were. The honest, in-
dustrious Germans, who are settled in different parts of
this continent, can inform us, that it was this sort of tax
that drove them from their native land to our woods, at
that time the seats of perfect and undisturbed freedom.

Their Princes, enflamed by the lust of power, and the
lust of avarice, two furies that the more they are gorged,
the more hungry they grow, transgressed the bounds they

* Tacitus' s Ann., Book 13, I 31.

354 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

ought, in regard to themselves, to have observed. To
keep up the deception in the minds of [36] subjects, "there
must be," says* a very learned author, "some proportion
between the impost and the value of the commodity ;
wherefore there ought not to be an excessive duty upon
merchandizes of little value. There are countries in which
the duty exceeds seventeen or eighteen times the value of
the commodity. In this case the Prince removes the illu-
sion. His subjects plainly see they are dealt with in an
unreasonable manner, which renders them most exquisitely
sensible of their slavish situation." From hence it ap-
pears, that subjects may be ground down into misery by
this sort of taxation, as well as by the former. They will
be as much impoverished, if their money is taken from
them in this way as in the other ; and that it will be taken,
may be more evident, by attending to a few more consid-
erations.

The merchant or importer, who pays the duty at first,
will not consent to be so much money out of pocket.
He therefore proportionably raises the price of his goods.
It may then be said to be a contest between him and
the person offering to buy, who shall lose the duty. This
must be decided by the nature of the commodities, and
the purchaser's demand for them. If they are mere lux-
uries, he is at liberty to do as he pleases, and if he buys,
he does it voluntarily: But if they are absolute necessaries
or conveniences^ which use and custom have made requisite
for the comfort of life, and which he is not permitted, by
the power imposing the duty, to get elsewhere^ there the
seller has a plain advantage, and the buyer must pay the
duty. In fact, the seller is nothing less than a collector
of the tax for the power that imposed it. If these duties
then are extended to the necessaries and conveniences of
life in general, and enormously encreased, the people must

* Montesquieu'' s Spirit of Laws, Book 13, Chap. 8.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 355

at length become indeed "most exquisitely sensible of
their slavish situation." Their happiness therefore en-
tirely depends on the moderation of those who have au-
thority to impose the duties.

I shall now apply these observations to the late act of
parliament. Certain duties are thereby imposed on paper
and glass,* imported into these colonies. By the laws of
Great-Britain we are prohibited to get these articles from
any other part of the world. We cannot at present, nor
for many years to come, tho' we should apply ourselves to
these manufactures with the utmost industry, make
enough ourselves for our own use. That paper and glass
are not only convenient, but absolutely necessary for us,
I imagine very few will contend. Some perhaps, who
think mankind grew wicked and luxurious, as soon as
they found out another way of communicating their senti-
ments than by speech, and another way of dwelling than
in caves, may advance so whimsical an opinion. But
I presume no body will take the unnecessary trouble of
refuting them. \_y]\

From these remarks I think it evident, that we must
use paper and glass; that what we use must be British;
and that we must pay the duties imposed, unless those
who sell these articles, are so generous as to make us
presents of the duties they pay.

Some persons may think this act of no consequence,
because the duties are so small. A fatal error. That is
the very circumstance most alarming to me. For I am
convinced, that the authors of this law would never have
obtained an act to raise so trifling a sum as it must do,
had they not intended by // to establish a precedent for
future use. To console ourselves with the smallness of
the duties, is to walk deliberately into the snare that is set
for us, praising the neatness of the workmanship. Sup-

*In the newspaper text "etc" is here added. — Ed.

-,s6 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

^50

pose the duties imposed by the late act could be paid by
these distressed colouies with the utmost ease, and that
the ptfrposes to which they are to be applied, were the
most reasonable and equitable that can be conceived, the
contrary of which I hope to demonstrate before these
letters are concluded; yet even in such a supposed case,
these colonies ought to regard the act with abhorrence.
For WHO ARE A FREE PEOPLE? Not those^ over whom
government is reasonably and equitably exercised, but
those^ who live under a government so constitutionally
checked and controuled^ that proper provision is made
against its being otherwise exercised.

The late act is founded on the destruction of this con-
stitutional security. If the parliament have a right to lay
a duty of Four Shillings and Eight-pence on a hundred
weight of glass, or a ream of paper, they have a right to
lay a duty of any other sum on either. They may raise
the duty, as the author before quoted says has been done
in some countries, till it "exceeds seventeen or eighteen
times the value of the commodity." In short, if they
have a right to levy a tax of one penny upon us, they have
a right to levy a million upon us: For where does their
right stop? At any given number of Pence, Shillings or
Pounds? To attempt to limit their right, after granting
it to exist at all, is as contrary to reason — as granting it to
exist at all, is contrary to justice. If they have any right
to tax us — then, whether our own money shall continue in
our own pockets or not, depends no longer on «j, but on
them. * " There is nothing which " we can call our own;
or, to use the words of Mr. Locke — "what property

HAVE WE IN that, WHICH ANOTHER MAY, BY RIGHT,
TAKE, WHEN HE PLEASES, TO HIMSELF?"

These duties, which will inevitably be levied upon us —

* Lord Cambden's speech. [/« the newspaper text this note is'\ : "The
speech of a noble Lord lately published."— ^</.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 357

. which are now levying upon us — are expressly laid for
THE SOLE PURPOSES OF TAKING MONEY. This is the true
definition of '"''taxes.'''' They are therefore taxes. This
money is to be taken from ms. We [38] are therefore
taxed. Those who are taxed without their own consent,
expressed * by themselves or their representatives, are
slaves. We are taxed without our own consent, expressed
by ourselves or our representatives. We are thereforef —
t SLAVES.

Miserable valgus
A miserable tribe.

A FARMER. [39]

*In the newspaper text "given" is used instead of "expressed." — Ed.

t In the newspaper text this is: "We are therefore — I speak it with
grief^I speak it with indignation — We are SLAVES." — Ed.

X "It is my opinion, that this kingdom has no right to lay a Tax upon
the colonies." — "The Americans are the sons, not the bastards of
England.''' — "The distinction between legislation and taxation is
essentially necessary to liberty." — "The commons of America, repre-
sented in their several assemblies, have ever been in possession of this
their constitutional right, of giving and granting their own money.
They would have been SLAVES, if they had not enjoyed it." "The
idea of a virtual representation of America in this house, is the most
contemptible idea, that ever entered into the head of man. — It does not
deserve a serious refutation." Mr. Pitt'j speech on the Stamp-Act.

That great and excellent man Lord Cambden, maintains the same
opinion. His speech in the house of peers, on the declaratory bill of the
sovereignty of Great-Britain over the colonies, has lately appeared in
our papers. The following extracts so perfectly agree with, and confirm
the sentiments avowed in these letters, that it is hoped the inserting
them in this note will be excused.

"As the Affair is of the utmost importance, and in its consequences
may involve the fate of kingdoms, I took the strictest review of my
arguments; I re-examined all my authorities; fully determined if I
found myself mistaken, publickly to own my mistake, and give up my
opinion ; But my searches have more and more convinced me, that the
BHtish parliament have NO RIGHT TO TAX the Americans:'—
"Nor is the doctrine new ; it is as old as the the constitution ; it grew up
with it; indeed it is its support."— "Taxation and representation

358 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

LETTER VIII.
My dear Countrymen,

In my opinion, a dangerous example is set in the last
act relating to these colonies. The power of parliament
to levy money upon us for raising a revenue, is therein
avowed and exerled. Regarding the act on this single

are inseparably united. GOD hath joined them : No British parlia-
ment can separate them : To endeavour to do it, is to stab our vitals."

"My position is this — I repeat it— I will maintain it to my last hour —
TAXATION and REPRESENTATION are inseperable — this position is
founded on the laws of nature ; it is more, it is itself an eternal, i,aw
OF nature ; for whatever is a man's own, is absolutely his own ; no
man hath a right to take it from him without his consent,
either expressed by himself or representative ; whoever aitetupts to do it,
attempts an ittjury; whoever does it, COMMITS A ROBBERY;
HE throws down the distinction between liberty and slavery."
— "There is not a blade of grass, in the most obscure corner of the king-
dom, which is not, which was not ever represented, since the constitu-
tion began : There is not a blade of grass, which, when taxed, was not
taxed by the consent of the proprietor. " " The forefathers of the Ameri-
cans did not leave their native country, and subject themselves to every
danger and distress, TO be reduced to a state of slavery. They did
not give up their rights: They looked for protection, and not for
Chains, from their mother country. By her they expected to be de-
fended in the possession of their property, and not to be deprived of it :
For should the present power continue, THERE is nothing which
they can call their own; or, to use the words of Mr. Locke,
''WHAT PROPERTY HAVE THEY IN THAT, WHICH
ANOTHER MAY, BY RIGHT, TAKE, WHEN HE PLEASES,
TO HIMSELF?"

It is impossible to read this speech, and Mr. PitP&, and not be charmed
with the generous zeal for the rights of mankind tliat glows in every
sentence. These great and good men, animated by the subject they
speak upon, seem to rise above all the former glorious exertions of their
abilities. A foreigner might be tempted to think they are Americans,
asserting with all the ardor of patriotism, and all the anxiety of appre-
hension, the cause of their native land— and not Britons, striving to stop
their mistaken countrymen from oppressing others. Their reasoning is
not only just — it is, as Mr. Hume says of the eloquence oi Demosthenes,
"vehement." It is disdain, anger, boldness, freedom, involved in a
continual stream of argument.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 359

principle, I must again repeat, and I think it my duty to
repeat, that to me it appears to be unconstitutional.

No man, who considers the conduct of the parliament
since the repeal of the Stamp-Act., and the disposition of
many people at home, can doubt, that the chief object of
attention there, is, to use Mr. Greenville's expression,
"providing that the dependence and obedience of the
colonies be asserted and maintained."

Under the influence of this notion, instantly on repeal-
ing the Stamp-Act., an act passed, declaring the power of
parliament to bind these colonies in all cases whatever.
This however was only planting a barren tree, that cast
a shade indeed over the colonies, but yield no fruit. It
being determined to enforce the authority on which the
Stamp- Act was founded, the parliament having never re-
nounced the right, as Mr. Pitt advised them to do; and it
being thought proper to disguise that authority in such a
manner, as not again to alarm the colonies: some little
time was required to find a method, by which both these
points should be united. At last the ingenuity of Mr.
Greenville and his party accomplished the matter, as it
was thought, in "an act for granting certain duties in the
British colonies and plantations in America., for allowing
drawbacks," ^c. which is the title of the act laying
duties on paper, &c.

The parliament having several times before imposed
duties to be paid in America., IT was EXPECTED, no
DOUBT, THAT THE REPETITION OF SUCH A MEASURE
WOULD BE PASSED OVER, AS AN USUAL THING. But tO

have done this, without expressly " asserting and maintain-
ing" the power of parliament to take our money without
our consent, and to apply it as they please, would not [40]
have been, in Mr. GreenvilW s opinion,* sufficiently declar-

*Iu the newspaper text the words "in Mr. Greenville's opinion" are
not printed. — Ed.

36o LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

ative of its supremacy, nor sufficiently depressive of -.4 w^r-
ican freedom.

Therefore it is, that in this memorable act we find it ex-
pressly "provided," that money shall be levied upon us
without our consent, for purposes, that render it if possible^
more dreadful than the Stamp-Act.

That act, alarming as it was, declared, the money
thereby to be raised, should be applied "towards defray-
ing the expences of defending, protecting and securing the
British colonies and plantations in Afnerica."^^ And it is
evident from the whole act, that by the word '''' British^^''
were intended colonies and plantations settled by British
people,, and not generally, those subject to the British crown.
That act therefore seemed to have something gentle and
kind in its intention, and to aim only at our own welfare:
But the act now objected to, impose duties upon British
colonies, "to defray the expences of defending, protecting
and securing his Majesty s dominions in America."

What a change of words! What an incomputable addi-
tion to the expences intended by the Stamp- Act! ''''His
Majesty^ s dominions" comprehended not only the British
colonies^ but also the conquered provinces of Canada and
Florida, and the British garrisons <?/"Novia Scotia; for these
do not deserve the name of colonies.

What justice is there in making us pay for "defending,
protecting and securing" THESE places? What benefit
can WE, or have WE ever derived from them ? None of
them was conquered for US; nor will "be defended, pro-
tected or secured " y^r us.

In fact, however advantageous the subduing or keeping
any of these countries may be to Great Britian,, the ac-
quisition is greatly injurious to these colonies. Our chief
property consists in latids. These would have been of
much greater value, if such prodigious additions had not
been made to the British territories on this continent.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 361

The natural increase of our own people, if confined within
the colonies, would have raised the value still higher and
higher every fifteen or twenty years : Besides we should
have lived more compactly together, and have been there-
fore more able to resist any enemy. But now the in-
habitants will be thinly scattered over an immense region,
as those who want settlements, will chuse to make new
ones, rather than pay great prices for old ones.

These are the consequences to the colonies, of the
hearty assistance they gave to Great-Britain in the late
war — a war undertaken solely for her own benefit. The
objects of it were, the securing to herself the rich tracts
of land on the back of these colonies, with the Indian
trade ; and Nova-Scotia., with the fishery. These and
much more., has that kingdom gained \ but the inferior
animals., that hunted with the Hon., have been amply re-
warded for all the sweat and blood their loyalty cost them,
by the honor of having sweated and bled in such com-
pany.

I will [41] not go so far as to say, that Canada and
Nova-Scotia are curbs on New-England \ the chain of
forts through the back woods, on the Middle Provinces ;
and Florida., on the rest: But I will venture to say, that
if the products of Canada., Nova-Scotia., and Florida.,
deserve any consideration, the two first of them are only
rivals of our Northern Colonies, and the other of our
Southern.

It has been said, that without the conquest of these
countries, the colonies could not have been "protected,
defended, and secured." If that is true, it may with as
much propriety be said, that Great-Britain could not
have been "defended, protected, and secured," without
that conquest : For the colonies are parts of her empire,
which it as much concerns her as them to keep out of the
hands of any other power.

J

562 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

But these colonies, when they were much weaker,
defended themselves, before this Conquest was made ; and
could again do it, against any that might properly be
called their Enemies. If France and Spain indeed should
attack them, as members of the British empire^ perhaps
they might be distressed ; but it would be in a British
quarrel.

The largest account I have seen of the number of peo-
ple in Canada^ does not make them exceed 90,000.
Florida can hardly be said to have any inhabitants. It
is computed that there are in our colonies 3,000,000.
Our force therefore must increase with a disproportion to
the growth of their strength, that would render us very safe.

This being the state of the case, I cannot think it just
that these colonies, labouring under so many misfortunes,
should be loaded with taxes^ to maintain countries, not
only not useful, but hurtful to them. The support of Can-
ada and Florida cost yearly, it is said, half a million sterl-
ing. From hence, we may make some guess of the load
that is to be laid upon us; for we are not only to "defend,
protect and secure" them^ but also to make "an adequate
provision for defraying the charge of the administration of
justice, and the support of civil government, in such prov-
inces where it shall be found necessary."

Not one of the provinces of Canada^ Nova-Scotia^ or
Florida^ has ever defrayed these expences within itself:
And if the duties imposed by the last statute are collected,
all of them together^ according to the best information I can
get, will not pay otie quarter as much as Pennsylvania
alone. So that the British colonies are to be drained of the
rewards of their labor, to cherish the scorching sands* of
Florida^ and the icy rocks of Canada and Nova-Scotia^
which never will return to us one farthing that we send to
them.

♦"Lands" in newspaper text.— ^c?.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 363

Great-Britain — I mean the ministry in Great-BritatJt^
has cantoned Canada and Florida out iniojive or six gov-
ernments, and may form as many more. There now are
fourteen ox fifteen regiments on this continent; and there
soon may be as matiy more. To make [42] "an adequate
provision' ' FOR ALL THESE EXPENCES, is, no doubt, to be
the inheritance of the colonies.

Can any man believe that the duties upon paper, &c..^
are the last that will be laid for these purposes? It is in
vain to hope, that because it is imprudent to lay duties on
the exportation of manufactures from a mother country to
colonies, as it may promote manufactures among them,
that this consideration will prevent such a measure.

Ambitious, artful men have made it popular, and what-
ever injustice or destruction will attend it in the opinion of
the colonists, at home it will be thought just and salutary. *

The people of Great-Britain will be told, and have been
told, that they are sinking under an immense debt — that
great part of this debt has been contracted in defending
the colonies — that these are so ungrateful and undutiful,
that they will not contribute one mite to its payment —
nor even to the support of the army now kept up for their
"defence and security," — that they are rolling in wealth,
and are of so bold and republican a spirit, that they are
aiming at independence — that the only way to retain them
in "obedience," is to keep a strict watch over them, and
to draw off part of their riches in taxes — and that every
burden laid upon theni.^ is taking off so much from Great-
Britain — These assertions will be generally believed, and .
the people will be persuaded that they cannot be too angry
with their colonies, as that anger will be profitable to
themselves.

*So credulous, as well as obstinate, are the people in believing every
thing, which flatters \h&\r prevailing passion.

Hume^s Hist. 0/ England.

364 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

In truth, Great-Britain alone receives any benefit from
Canada^ Nova-Scotia and Florida; and therefore she alone
ought to maintain them. The old maxim of the law is
drawn from reason and justice, and never could be more
properly applied, than in this case.*

Qui sentit commodum, sentire debet et onus.

They who feel the benefit, ought to feel the burden.

A FARMER.
[43].

LETTER IX.
My dear Countrymen,

I have made some observations on the PURPOSES for
which money is to be levied upon us by the late act of par-
liament. I shall now offer to your consideration some
further reflections on that subject: And, unless I am
greatly mistaken, if these purposes are accomplished ac-
cording to the expressed intention of the act, they will be
found effectually to supersede that authority in our respec-
tive assemblies, which is essential to liberty. The ques-
tion is not, whether some branches shall be lopt off — The
ax is laid to the root of the tree; and the whole body must
infallibly perish, if we remain idle spectators of the work.

No free people ever existed, or can ever exist, without
keeping, to use a common, but strong expression, ''the purse
strings," in their own hands. Where this is the case, they
have a constitutional check upon the administration, which
may thereby be brought into order without violence: But
where such a power is not lodged in i\\t people^ oppression
proceeds uncontrouled in its career, till the governed,
transported into rage, seek redress in the midst of blood
and confusion.

The elegant and ingenious Mr. Hume^ speaking of the
Anglo Norman government, says — " Princes and Ministers

*This concluding paragraph is not in the newspaper text — Ed.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 365

were too ignorant, to be themselves sensible of the advan-
tage attending an equitable administration, and there was
no established council or assembly., which could protect
THE PEOPLE, and BY WITHDRAWING SUPPLIES, regularly and
peaceably admonish the king of his duty, and ensure

THE EXECUTION OF THE LAWS."

Thus this great man, whose political reflections are so
much admired, makes this power one of the foundations of
liberty.

The English history abounds with instances, proving that
this is the proper and successful way to obtain redress of
grievances. How often have kings and ministers endeav-
oured to throw off this legal curb upon them, by attempt-
ing to raise money by a variety of inventions, under pre-
tence of law, without having recourse to parliament ? And
how often have they been brought to reason, and peace-
ably obliged to do justice, by the exertion of this constitu-
tional authority of the people, vested in their representa-
tives?

The inhabitants of these colonies have, on numberless
occasions, reaped the benefit of this authority lodged in
their assemblies.

It has been for a long time, and now is, a constant in-
struction to all governors, to obtain a permanent support
for the offices of government. But as the author of "the
administration of the colonies" says, "this order of the
crown is generally, if not universally, rejected by the leg-
islatures of the colonies."

They [44] perfectly know how much their grievances
would be regarded, if they had no other method of engag-
ing attention, than by complaining. Those who rule, are
extremely apt to think well of the constructions made by
themselves in support of their own power. These are fre-
quently erroneous, and pernicious to those they govern.
Dry remonstrances, to shew that such constructions are

366 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

wrong and oppressive, carry very little weight with them,
in the opinions of persons who gratify their own inclina-
tions in making these constructions. They cannot un-
derstand the reasoning that opposes their power and desires.
But let it be made their interest to understand such reason-
ing— and a wonderful light is instantly thrown upon the
matter; and then, rejected remonstrances become as clear
as* "proofs of holy writ."

The three most important articles that our assemblies,
or any legislatures can provide for, are, First — the defence
of the society: Secondly — the administration of justice:
And Thirdly — the support of civil government.

Nothing can properly regulate the expence of making
provision for these occasions, but the necessities of the so-
ciety; its abilities ; the conveniency of the modes of levying
money in it; the manner in which the laws have been exe-
cuted : and the conduct of the officers of governments. All
which are circumstances, that cannot possibly be properly
known^ but by the society itself ; or if they should be
known, will not probably be properly considered but by that
society.

If money be raised upon us by others^ without our con-
sent, for our "defence," those who are the judges in levy-
ing it, must also be the judges in applying it. Of conse-
quence the money said to be taken from us for our defence,
may be employed to our injury. We may be chained in by a
line of fortifications — obliged to pay for the building and
maintaining them — and be told, that they are for our de-
fence. With what face can we dispute the fact, after having
granted that those who apply the money, had a right to
levy it? For surely, it is much easier for their wisdom to
understand how to apply it in the best manner, than how
to levy it in the best manner. Besides, the right of levy-
ing is of infinitely more consequence, that that of applying.

* Shakespeare.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 367

The people of England., who would burst out into fury, if
the crown should attempt to levy money by its own au-
thority, have always assigned to the crown the application
of money.

As to "the administration of justice" — the judges ought,
in a well regulated state, to be equally independent of the
executive and* legislative powers. Thus in England^
judges hold their commissions from the crown '''' diiring
good behaviour^'''' and have salaries, suitable to their dig-
nity, settled on them by parliament. The purity [45] of
the courts of law since this establishment, is a proof of the
wisdom with which it was made.

But in these colonies, how fruitless has been every at-
tempt to have judges appointed " during good behaviour ?^^
Yet whoever considers the matter will soon perceive, that
such commissions are beyond all comparison more necessary
in these colonies, than they were in England.

The chief danger to the subject there., arose from the ar-
bitrary designs of the crown ; but here., the time may come,
when we may have to contend with the designs of the
crown., and of a mighty kingdom. What then must be our
chance, when the laws of life and death are to be spoken
by judges totally dependent on that crown., and that king-
dom— sent over perhaps from thence — filled with British
prejudices — and backed by a standing army — supported
out of OUR OWN pockets, to "assert and maintain" our
OWN "dependence and obedience."

But supposing that through the extreme lenity that will
prevail in the government through all future ages., these
colonies will never behold any thing like the campaign of
chief justice y<?^r<?)/ J, yet what innumerable acts of injus-
tice may be committed, and how fatally may the principles
of liberty be sapped, by a succession of judges utterly inde-
pendent of the people? Before such judges the supple
* "Executive and" not in newspaper text. — Ed.

368 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

wretches, who cheerfully join in avowing sentiments in-
consistent with freedom, will always meet with smiles;
while the honest and brave men, who disdain to sacrifice
their native land to their own advantage, but on every oc-
casion boldly vindicate her cause, will constantly be re-
garded with frowns.

There are two other considerations relating to this head,
that deserve the most serious attention.

By the late act, the officers of the customs are "impow-
ered to enter into any house, warehouse, shop, cellar, or
other place, in the British colonies or plantations in Amer'
ica^ to search for or seize prohibited or unaccustomed
goods," &c.^ on "writs granted by the superior* or su-
preme court of justice, having jurisdiction within such
colony or plantation respectively."

If we only reflect that the judges of these courts are to
be during pleasure — that they are to have ''''adequate pro-
vision^'' made for them, which is to continue during their
complaisant behaviour — that they may be stra7igers to these
colonies — what an engine of oppression may this authority
be in such hands?

I am well aware, that writs of this kind may be granted
at home, under the seal of the court of exchequer: But I
know also, that the greatest asserters of the rights of En-
glishmen have always strenuously contended, that siich a
power was dangerous to freedom, and expressly contrary
to the common law, which ever regarded a man's house as
his castle, or a place of perfect security.

If [46] such power was in the least degree dangerous
there^ it must be utterly destructive to liberty here. For
the people there have two securities against the undue ex-
ercise of this power by the crown, which are wanting with
us, if the late act takes place. In the first place, if any in-
justice is done there., the person injured may bring his ac-

* " Inferior" in newspaper text. — Ed.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 369

tion against the offender, and have it tried before inde-
pendent Judges, who are * no parties in committing
THE injury. Here he must have it tried before depend-
ent Judges, being the men who granted the writ.

To say, that the cause is to be tried by a jury, can never
reconcile men who have any idea of freedom, to such a
power. For we know that sheriffs in ahnost every colony
on this continent, are totally dependent on the crown; and
packing of the juries has been frequently practised even in
the capital of the British empire. Even if juries are well
inclined, we have too many instances of the influence of
over-bearing unjust judges upon them. The brave and
wise men who accomplished the revolution, thought the
independency of judges essential to freedom.

The other security which the people have at home, but
which we shall want here, is this.

If this power is abused there^ the parliament, the grand
resource of the oppressed people, is ready to afford relief.
Redress of grievances must precede grants of money. But
what regard can we expect to have paid to our assemblies,
when they will not hold even the puny privilege of French
parliaments — that of registering, before they are put in ex-
ecution, edicts that take away our money.

The second consideration above hinted at, is this.
There is a confusion in our laws, that is quite unknown in
Great- Britain. As this cannot be described in a more
clear or exact manner, than has been done by the in-
genious author of the history of New-York^ I beg leave to
use his words. "The state of our laws opens a door to
much controversy. The uncertaittty^ with respect to them,
renders property precarious, and greatly exposes

*The writs for searching houses in England, are to be granted " under
the seal of the court of exchequer," according to the statute — and that
seal is kept by the chancellor of the exchequer.

4/A Inst., p. 104.

370 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

US TO THE ARBITRARY DECISION OF BAD JUDGES. The COm-

tiion law of England is generally received, together with
such statutes as were enacted before we had a legislature
of our own, but our courts EXERCISE a sovereign au-
thority, in determining what parts of the common and
statute law ought to be extended : For it must be admitted
that the difference of circnmsta^ices necessarily requires us,
in some cases to reject the determination of both. In
many instances, they have also extended even acts of par-
liament, passed since we had a distinct legislature, which
is greatly addiftg [47] to our confusion. The practice of our
courts is no less uncertain than the law. Some of the
English rules are adopted, others rejected. Two things
therefore seem to be ABSOLUTELY necessary for the pub-
lic security. First, the passing an act for settling the
extent of the English laws. Secondly, that the courts or-
dain a general sett of rules for the regulation of the prac-
tice."

How easy it will be, under this " state of our laws," for
an artful judge, to act in the most arbitrary manner, and
yet cover his conduct under specious pretences ; and how
difficult it will be for the injured people to obtain relief,
may be readily perceived. We may take a voyage of 3000
miles to complain ; and after the trouble and hazard we
have undergone, we may be told, that the collection of the
revenue, and maintenance of the prerogative, must not be
discouraged — and if the misbehavior is so gross as to ad-
mit of no justification, it may be said, that it was an error
in judgment only, arising from the confusion of our laws,
and the zeal of the King's servants to do their duty.

If the commissions of judges are during the pleasure of
the crown^ yet if their salaries are during the pleasure of
the people., there will be some check upon their conduct.
Few men will consent to draw on themselves the hatred
and contempt of those among whom they live, for the

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 371

empty honor of being judges. It is sordid love of gain,
that tempts men to turn their backs on virtue, and pay
their homage where they ought not.

As to the third particular, " the support of civil govern-
ment,"— few words will be suflScient. Every man of the
least understanding must know, that the executive power
may be exercised in a manner so disagreeable and harass-
ing to the people, that it is absolutely requisite, that they
should be enabled by the gentlest method which human
policy has yet been ingenious enough to invent, that is, by
shutting their hands^ to "admonish " (as Mr. Hume says)
certain persons "of their duty."

What shall we now think when, upon looking into the
late act, we find the assemblies of these provinces thereby
stript of their authority on these several heads ? The de-
clared \x\\.t.'a\AOXi of the act is, "that a revenue should be
raised in his Majesty's DOMINIONS in America, for
making a more certain and adequate provision for defray-
ing the charge of iin^ administration of justice, and
the support ofciYih GOVERNMENT in such provinces where
it shall be found necessary, and towards further defraying
the expences of defending, PROTECTING and securing
THE SAID DOMINIONS."

Let the reader pause here one moment — and reflect —
whether the colony in which he lives, has not made such
"certain and adequate provision " y2?r these purposes., as is
by the colony judged suitable to its abilities., and all other
circumstances. Then let him reflect — whether if this act
takes place, money is not to be raised on that colony [48]
without its consent., to make "provision" for these pur-
poses., which it does not judge to be suitable to its abilities.,
and all other circumstances. Lastly, let him reflect —
whether the people of that country are not in a state of the
most abject slavery, whose property may be taken from
them under the notion of right, when they have refused to
give it.

372 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

For my part, I think I have good reason for vindicating
the honor of the assemblies on this continent, by publicly
asserting, that they have made as " certain and adequate
provision ''^ for the purposes abovementioned^ as they ought
to have made^ and that it should not be presumed, that
they will not do it hereafter. Why then should these most
important trusts be wrested out of their hands? Why
should they not now be permitted to enjoy that authority,
which they have exercised from the first settlement of
these colonies ? Why should they be scandalized by this
innovation, when their respective provinces are now, and
will be, for several years, labouring under loads of debt,
imposed on them for the very purpose now spoken of?
Why should all the inhabitants of these colonies be, with
the utmost indignity, treated as a herd of despicable stupid
wretches, so utterly void of common sense, that they will
not even make "adequate provision" for "the adminis-
tration of justice, and the support of civil government"
among them, or for tlieir own " defence " — though with-
out such "provision" every people must inevitably be
overwhelmed with anarchy and destruction? Is it possible
to form an idea of a slavery more conipleat., more miserable^
more disgraceful.^ than that of a people, where justice is
administered.^ government exercised., and a standing army
maintained, AT THE EXPENCE OF THE PEOPLE, and yet
WITHOUT THE LEAST DEPENDENCE UPON THEM ? If we
can find no relief from this infamous situation,* it will be
fortunate for us, if Mr. Greenville., setting his fertile fancy
again at work, can, as by one exertion of it he has stript
us of owr property and libe?'ty, by another deprive us of so
much of our understanding ; that, unconscious of what we
have been or are, and ungraded by tormenting reflections,

*From this point the newspaper text reads: "let Mr. Grenville sot
his fertile fancy again at work, and as by one exertion of it, he has stript
us oi oviX property and liberty, let him by another," etc. — Ed.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 373

we may bow down our necks, with all the stupid serenity
of servitude, to any drudgery, which our lords and masters
shall please to command.

When the charges of the *' administration of justice,"
the " support of civil government," and the expences of
"defending, protecting and securing" us, are provided
for, I should be glad to know, upon what occasions the
crown will ever call our assemblies together. Some few
of them may meet of their own accord, by virtue of their
charters. But what will they have to do, when they are
met ? To what shadows will they be reduced? The men,
whose deliberations heretofore had an influence on every
matter relating to the liberty and happiness of themselves
and their constituents, and whose authority in domestic
affairs at least, might well [49] be compared to that of
Roman senators, will now find their deliberations of no
more consequence, than those of constables. They may
perhaps be allowed to make lawsy^r the yoking of hogs^ or
the pounding of stray cattle. Their influence will hardly
be permitted to extend so high^ as the keeping roads in re-
pair^ as that business may more properly be executed by
those who receive the public cash.

One most memorable example in history is so applicable
to the point now insisted on, that it will form a just con-
clusion of the observations that have been made.

Spain was onceyr^<?. Their Cortes resembled our parlia-
ments. No money could be raised on the subject, without
their cotisent. One of their Kings having received a grant
from them, to maintain a war against the Moors^ desired,
that if the sum which they had given, should not be suf-
ficient, he might be allowed, for that emergency only^ to
raise more money without assembling the Cortes. The re-
quest was violently opposed by the best and wisest men in
the assembly. It was, however, complied with by the
votes of a majority ; and this single concession was a pre-

374 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

CEDENT for other concessions of the like kind, until at last
the crown obtained a general power of raising money, in
cases of necessity. From that period the Cortes ceased to
be useful^ — th^ people ceased to h&/ree.

Venienti occurite morbo.

Oppose a disease at its beginning.

A FARMER.

LETTER X.
My dear Countrymen,

The consequences, mentioned in the last letter, will not
be the utmost limits of our misery and infamy.,'^ if the late
act is acknowledged to be binding upon us. We feel too
sensibly, that any ministerial measures^ relating to these
colonies, are soon carried successfully through the parlia-
ment. Certain prejudices [50] operate there so strong
against us, that it may be justly questioned, whether all
the provinces united, will ever be able effectually to call
to an account before the parliament, any minister who
shall abuse the power by the late act given to the crown in
America. He may divide the spoils torn from us in what
manner he pleases, and we shall have no way of making
him responsible. If he should order, that every governor
shall have a yearly salary of 5000 1. sterling ; every chief
justice of 3000 1. ; every inferior officer in proportion ; and
should then reward the most profligate, ignorant, or needy

*From this point, to the end of the sentence, is not in the newspaper
text.— ^f/.

t "The gentleman must not wonder he was not contradicted, when, as
minister, he asserted the right of parliament to tax America, I know
not how it is, but there is a modesty in this house, which does not chuse
to contradict a minister. I wish gentlemen would get the better of this
modesty. If they do not, perhaps the collective body may be-
gin TO ABATE OF ITS RESPECT FOR THE REPRESENTATIVE."

Mr. Pitt'5 speech.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 375

dependents on himself or his friends, with places of the
greatest trust, because they were of the greatest profit, this
would be called an arrangement in consequence of the
"adequate provision for defraying the charge of the ad-
ministration of justice, and the support of the civil govern-
ment :" And if the taxes should prove at any time
insufficient to answer all the expences of the numberless
offices, which ministers may please to create, surely the
members of the house of commons will be so ^'' modest^''''
as not to "contradict a minister" who shall tell them, it
is become necessary to lay a new tax upon the colonies,
for the laudable purposes of defraying the charges of the
"administration of justice, and support of civil govern-
ment," among them. Thus, in fact, we shall be* taxed
by ministers. In short, it will be in their power to settle
upon us any civil, ECCLESIASTICAL, or military estab-
lishment, which they choose, f

We may perceive, by the example of Ireland^ how eager
ministers are to seize upon any settled revenue, and apply
it in supporting their own power. Happy are the men,
and happy the people^ who grow wise by the misfortunes of
others. Earnestly, my dear countrymen, do I beseech the
author of all good gifts, that you may grow wise in this
manner; and if I may be allowed to take such a liberty, I
beg leave to recommend to you in general, as the best
method of attaining this wisdom, diligently to study the

* "Within this act {statute de tallagio non concedendo) are all nezv of-
fices erected, with new fees, or old offices, with new fees, for that is a
tallage put upon the subject, which cannot be done without common
assent by act of parliament. And this doth notably appear by a petition
to parliament in anno 13 H. IV. where the commons complain, that an
office was erected for measurage of cloths and canvas, with a new fee for
the same, by colour of the king's letter patents, and pray that these
letters patents may be revoked, for that the king could erect no offices
with new fees to be taken of the people, who may not so be charged but
by parliament." 2d. hist. p. 533.

t This sentence is not in the newspaper text. — Ed.

376 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

histories of other countries. You will there find all the arts,
that can possibly be practiced by cunning rulers, or false
patriots among yourselves, so fully delineated, that, chang-
ing names, the account would serve for your own times.

It is pretty well known on this continent, that Ireland
has, with a regular consistency of injustice, been cruelly
treated by ministers in the article of pensions; but there
are some alarming circumstances [51] relating to that sub-
ject, which I wish to have better known among us.

* The revenue of the crown there arises principally from

* An enquiry into the legality of pensions on the Irish establishment,
by Alexander M^ Aulay , Esq; one of the King's council, &c.

Mr. M^Aulay concludes his piece in the following beautiful manner.
^'li any pensions have been obtained on that establishment, to serve
THE CORRUPT PURPOSES OF AMBITIOUS MEN. — If his Majesty's revenues
of Ireland have been employed in pensions, To debauch his Majesty's
SUBJECTS of both kingdoms. — If the treasure of Ireland has been ex-
pended in pensions, for corrupting men of that kingdom to be-
tray THEIR COUNTRY ; and men of the neighboring kingdom to betray
both. — If Irish pensions have been procured. To support gamesters
and gaming-houses ; promoting a vice which threatens national ruin.
— If pensions have been purloined out of the national treasure of Ireland,
under the mask of salaries annexed to public offices, useless to
THE NATION ; newly invented, for the purposes of corruption. — If
Ireland, just beginning to recover from the devastations of massacre and
rebellion, be obstructed in the progress of her cure, by swarms of pen-
sionary VULTURES preying ON HER VITALS. — If, by squandering the
national substance of Ireland, in a licentious, unbounded profusion
OF pensions, instead of employing it in nourishing and improving her
infant agriculture, trade and manufactures, or in enlightening and re-
forming her poor, ignorant, deluded, miserable natives (by nature most
amiable, most valuable, most worthy of public attention) — If by such
abuse of the national substance, sloth and nastiness, cold and hunger,
nakedness and wretchedness, popery, depopulation and barbarism, still
maintain their ground ; still deform a country abounding with all the
tiches of nature, yet hitherto destined to beggary. — If such pensions be
found on the Irish establishment ; let such be cut off: And let the per-
fidious advisers be branded with indelible characters of public infamy ;
adequate, if possible, to the dishonor of their crime."*

* This extract is not in the newspaper text. — Ed.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 377

the Excise granted ^'' for pay of the army and defraying
other PUBLIC charges^ in defence and preservation of the
kingdotn'''' — from the tonnage and additional poundage
granted ^'' for protecting the trade of the kingdom at sea^ and
augmenting the public revetiue " — from the hearth money
granted — as a " public revenue^ for a public charge and
expences. ' ' There are some other branches of the revenue,
concerning which there is not any express appropriation
of them for public service^ but which were plainly so in^
tended.

Of these branches of the revenue the crown is only trus-
tee for the public. They are unalienable. They are inap-
plicable to any other purposes, but those for which they
were established ; and therefore are not legally chargeable
with pensions.

There is another kind of revenue, which is a private
revenue. This is not limited to any public uses ; but the
crown has the same property in it, that any person has in
his estate. This does not amount, at the most, to Fifteen
Thousand Pounds a year, probably not to Seven^ and is the
only revenue, that can be legally charged with pensions.

If ministers were accustomed to regard the rights or
happiness of the people, the pensions in Ireland would not
exceed the sum just mentioned : But long since have they
exceeded that limit; and in December 1765, a motion was
made in the house of commons in [52] that kingdom, to
address his Majesty on the great increase of pensions on
the Irish establishment, amounting to the sum of 158,685 1.
— in the last two years.

Attempts have been made made to gloss over these gross
encroachments, by this specious argument — "That ex-
pending a competent part of the public revenue in pen-
sions, from a principle of charity or generosity, adds to
the dignity of the crown ; and is therefore useful to the
public." To give this argument any weight, it must

378 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

appear, that the pensions proceed from charity or gener-
osity only" — and that it "adds to the dignity of the
crown," to act directly contrary to law. —

From this conduct towards Ireland in open violation of
law, we may easily foresee what we may expect, when a
minister will have the whole revenue of America in his
own hands, to be disposed of at his own pleasure : For all
the monies raised by the late act are to be ''''applied by
virtue of warrants under the sign manual, countersigned
by the high treasurer, or any three of the commissioners
of the treasury." The "residue" indeed is to be "paid
into the receipt of the exchequer, and to be disposed of by
parliament." So that a minister will have nothing to do,
but to take care, that there shall be no "residue," and he
is superior to all controul.

Besides the burden of pensions in Ireland^ which have
enormously encreased within these few years, almost all
the offices in that poor kingdom, have been, since the
commencement of the present century, and now are be-
stowed upon strangers. For tho' the merit of persons
born there, justly raises them to places of high trust when
they go abroad, as all Europe can witness, yet he is an
uncommonly lucky Irishtnan^ who can get a good post in
his NATIVE country.

When I consider the* manner in which that island

*In Charles the Second's time, the house of commons, influenced by
some factious demagogues, were resolved to prohibit the importation of
Irish cattle into England. Among other arguments in favour of Ireland
it was insisted . . . "That by cutting off almost entirely the trade be-
tween the kingdoms, ALL THE natural bands of union were dis-
solved, and nothing remained to keep the Irish in their duty, \)M\. force
and violence.''''

" The king (says Mr. Hume, in his history of England) was so con-
vinced of the justness of these reasons, that he used all his interest to
oppose the bill, and he openly declared, that he could not give his assent
to it with a safe conscience. But the commons were resolute in their
purpose." . . . "And the spirit of TYRANNY, of which nations are

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 379

has been unifoqnly depressed for so many years past, with
this pernicious particularity [53] of their \ parliament con-
as susceptible as individuals, had animated the English extremely To
EXERT THEIR SUPERIORITY Over their dependent state. No affair could
be conducted with greater violence, than this by the commons. They
even went so far in the preamble of the bill, as to declare the importation
of h ish cattle to be a nuisance. By this expression they gave scope to
their passion, and at the same time barred the king's prerogative, by
which he might think himself intituled to dispense with a law, so fulIv
OF INJUSTICE AND BAD poucY. The lords expunged the word, but as
the king was sensible that no supply would be given by the commons,
unless they were gratified in all their prejudices, he was obliged both
to employ his interest with the peers, to make the bill pass, and to give
the royal assent to it. He could not however, forbear expressing his dis-
pleasure, at the jealousy entertained against him, and at the intention
which the commons discovered, of retrenching his prerogative.

This law brought great distress for some time upon Ireland,
but it has occasioned their applying with greater industry to
manufactures, and has proved in the issue beneficial to that

KINGDOM."

Perhaps the same reason occasioned the "barring the king's preroga-
tive " in the late act suspending the legislation oi New York.

This we may be assured of, that we are as dear to his Majesty, as the
people of Great-Britain are. We are his subjects as well as they, and as
faithful subjects ; and his Majesty has given too many, too constant
proofs of his piety and virtue, for any man to think it possible, that such
a pi ince can make any unjust distinction between such subjects. It makes
no difference to his Majesty, whether supplies are raised in Great-Bri-
tain, or America ; but it makes some difference to the commons of that
kingdom.

To speak plainly as becomes an honest man on such important occa-v
sions, all our misfortunes are owing to a lust OF_EaWEB-i« men of 1
abilities and influence. This prompts them to seek popularity by ex- r
pedients profitable to themselves, though ever so destructive to their )
country.

Such is the accursed nature of lawless ambition, and yet . . . What
heart but melts at the thought! . . . Such false, detestable patriots, in
every state, have led their blind, confiding country, shouting their ap-
plauses, into the jaws of shame and ruin. May the wisdom and good,
ness of the people of Great-Britain, save them from the usual fate of
nations.

" MENTUM MORTALTA TANGUNT."

t The last Irish parliament continued 33 years, during all the late King's

38o LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

tinuing as long as the crown pleases^ I am astonished to
observe snch a love of liberty still animating that loyal
and GENEROUS nation ; and nothing can rise higher my
idea of the integrity and * public spirit of a people,
[54] who have preserved the sacred fire of freedom from
being extinguished, tho' the altar on which it burnt, has
been overturned.

In the same manner shall we unquestionably be treated,
as soon as the late taxes laid upon us, shall make posts in
the "government," and the "administration of justice'*
here^ worth the attention of persons of influence in Great'
Britain. We know enough already to satisfy us of this
truth. But this will not be the worst part of our case.

The principals^ in all great offices, will reside in Eng'
land^ making some paltry allowance to deputies for doing
the business here. Let any man consider what an ex-
reign. The present parliament there has continued from the beginning
of this reign ; and probably will continue till this reign ends.

* I am informed, that within these few years, a petition was presented
to the house of commons, setting forth, " that herrings were imported
into Ireland from some foreign parts of the north so cheap, as to dis-
courage the British herring fishery, and therefore praying that some
remedy might be applied in that behalf by parliament."

That upon this petition, the house came to a resolution, to impose a
duty of Two Shillings sterling on every barrel of foreign herrings im-
ported into Ireland ; but afterwards dropt the affair, for fear of en-
gaging IN A DISPUTE WITH IrEI,AND ABOUT THE RIGHT OF TAXING
HER.

So much higher was the opinion, which the house entertained of the
spirit oi It eland ; than of that of these colonies.

I find, in the last English papers, that the resolution and firmness with
which the people of Ireland have lately asserted their freedom, have
been so alarming in Great-Britain, that^he Lord Lieutenant, in his
speech on the 20th of last October, "recommended to that parliament,
that such provision may be made for securing the judges in the enjoy-
ment of their offices and appointments, during their good behavior,
as shall be thought most expedient."

What an important concession is thus obtained, by making demands
becoming freemen, with a courage and perseverance becoming Freemen f

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 381

hausting drain this must be upon us, when ministers are
possessed of the power of creating what posts they please,
and of afiSxing to such posts what salaries they please, and
he must be convinced how destructive the late act will be.
The injured kingdom lately mentioned, can tell us the
mischiefs of absentees ; and we may perceive already the
same disposition taking place with us. The government
of New- York has been exercised by a deputy. That of
Virginia is now held so ; and we know of a number of sec-
retary-ships, collector-ships, and other offices, held in the
same manner.

True it is, that if the people of Great-Britain were not
too much blinded by the passions, that have been artfully
excited in their breasts, against their dutiful children the
colonists, these considerations would be nearly as alarming
to them as to us. The influence of the crown was thought
by wise men, many years ago, too great by reason of the
multitude of pensions and places bestowed by it. These
have been vastly encreased since,* and perhaps [55] it

*One of the reasons urged by that great and honest statesman, Sir
William Temple to Charles the Second, in his famous remonstrance, to
dissuade him from aiming at arbitary power, was, that the King '-had
few offices to bestow."

Hume's Hist, of England.

"Tho' the wings of perogative have been dipt, the influence of the
crown is greater than ever it was in any period of our history. For when
we consider in how many boroughs the government has the votes at com-
mand ; when we consider the vast body of persons employed in the col-
lection of the revenue, in every part of the kingdom, the inconceivable
number of placemen, and candidates for places in the customs, in the ex-
cise, in the post-office, in the dock-yards, in the ordinance, in the salt-
office, in the stamps, in the navy and victualling offices, and in a variety
of other departments; when we consider again the extensive influence of
the money corporations, subscription jobbers and contractors, the end-
less dependencies created by the obligations conferred on the bulk of the
gentlemen's families throughout the kingdom, who have relations pre-
ferred in our navy and numerous standing army ; when I say, we con-
sider how wide, how binding a dependence on the crown is created by

382 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

would be no difficult matter to prove that the people have
decreased.

Surely therefore, those who wish the welfare of their
country, ought seriously to reflect, what may be the con-
sequence of such a new creation of offices, in the disposal
of the crown. The arniy^ the admintslratioii of justice^
and the civil government here, with such salaries as the
crown shall please to annex, will extend niiitistci'ial in-
fiiience as much beyond its former bounds, as the late war
did the British dominions.

But whatever the people of Great-Britain may think on
this occasion, I hope the people of these colonies will
unanimously join in this sentiment, that the late act of
parliament is injurious to their liberty, and that this senti-
ment will unite them in a firm opposition to it, in the
same manner as the dread of the Stamp- Act did.

Some persons may imagine the sums to be raised by it,
are but small, and therefore may be inclined to acquiesce
under it. A conduct more dangerous to freedom, as before
has been observed, can never be adopted. Nothing is
wanted at home but a* precedent, the force of which
shall be established, by the tacit submission of the colo-
nies. With what zeal was the statute erecting the post-

the above enumerated particulars, and the great, the enormous weight
and influence which the crown derives from this extensive dependence
upon its favor and power, any lord in waiting, any lord of the bed-cham-
ber, any man may be appointed minister."

A doctrine to this effect is said to have been the device of L H .

Late News Paper.

* " Here may be observed, that when any ancient law or custom of par-
liament is broken, and the croyin possessed oi a precedent, how difficult a
thing it is to restore the subject again to his former freedom and
SAFETY." id. Coke's Inst. p. 529.

"It is not almost credible to foresee, when any maxim or funda-
mental law oi this realm is altered (as elsewhere hath been observed)
what dangerous inconvenience do follow." /[th Co/ce's Inst. p. 41.

These two footnotes are not in the newspaper text. — Ed.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 383

office, and another relating to the recovery of debts in
America., urged and tortured, as precedents in support of
the Stamp-Act., tho' wholly inapplicable. If the parlia-
ment succeeds in this attempt, other statutes will impose
other duties. Instead of taxing ourselves, as we have
been accustomed to do, from the first settlement of these
provinces, all our usual taxes will be converted into par-
liamentry taxes on our importations ; and thus the parlia-
ment will levy upon us such sums of money as they chuse
to take, without atiy other LIMITATION, than their PLEA-
SURE.

We know how much labor and care have been bestowed
by these colonies, in laying taxes in such a manner, that
they should be most easy to the people, by being laid on
the proper articles ; most equal., by being proportioned to
every man's circumstances ; and cheapest., by the method
directed for collecting them.

But parliatnefttary taxes will be laid on us, without any
consideration, whether there is any easier mode. The
only point regarded will be, the certainty of levying the
taxes., and not the convenience of the people on whom they
are to be levied ; and therefore all statutes on this head
will be such as will be most likely, according to the favor-
ite phrase, "/<? execute themselves^

Taxes [56] in every free state have been, and ought to
be, as exactly proportioned as is possible to the abilities of
those who are to pay them. They cannot otherwise h^jtist.
Bven a Hottentot would comprehend the unreasonableness
of making a poor man pay as much for "defending" the
property of a rich man, as the rich man pays himself.

Let any person look into the late act of parliament, and
he will immediately perceive, that the immense estates of
Lord Fairfax., Lord * Baltimore., and our Proprietaries.,

* Maryland and Pennsylvania have been engaged in the warmest dis-
putes, in order to obtain an equal and just taxation of their Proprietors'

384 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

which are amongst his Majesty's other "Dominions" to
be "defended, protected and secured" by the act, will not
pay a single farthing for the duties thereby imposed, ex-
cept Lord Fairfax wants some of his windows glazed; Lord
Baltimore and our Proprietaries are quite secure, as they
live in England.

I mention these particular cases, as striking instances
how far the late act is a deviation from that principle of
justice^ which has so constantly distinguished our own
laws on this continent, and ought to be regarded in all
laws. *

The third consideration with our continental assemblies
in laying taxes, has been the method oi collecting them.
This has been done by a few officers, with moderate al-
lowances, under the inspection of the respective assem-
blies. No more was raised from the subject^ than was used
for the intended purposes. But by the late act, a minister
may appoint as many officers as he pleases for collecting
the taxes ; may assign them what salaries he thinks "ade-
quate ;" and they are subject to no inspection but his own.

In short, if the late act of parliament takes effect these
colonies must dwindle down into "common corpora-
tions," as their enemies, in the debates concerning the re-
peal of the Stamp-Act^ strenuously insisted they were ; and
it seems not improbable that some future historian may
thus record our fall.

"The eighth year of this reign was distinguished by a
very memorable event., the American colonies then submit-
ting, for the FIRST time^ to be taxed by the British par-
estates : But this late act of parliament does more for those Proprietors,
than they themselves would venture to demand. It totally exempts them
from taxation— tho' their vast estates are to be "secured " by the taxes
of other people.

In this note, all after the dash was not included in the newspaper text.
—Ed.

* "And ought to be regarded in all laws" not in newspaper text. — Ed.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 385

liament An attempt of this kind had been made about
two years before, but was defeated by the vigorous exer-
tions of the several provinces, in defence of their liberty.
Their behavior on that occasion rendered their name very
celebrated for a short time all over Europe ; all states
being extremely attentive to a dispute between Great-Brit-
ain^ and so considerable a part of her dominions. For as
she was thought to be grown too powerful, by the success-
ful conclusion of the late war she had been engaged in, it
was hoped by many, that as it had happened before to
other kingdoms, civil discords would afford [57] oppor-
tunities of revenging all the injuries supposed to be re-
ceived from her. However, the cause of dissention was re-
moved, by a repeal of the statute that had given offence.
This affair rendered the SUBMISSIVE CONDUCT of the col-
onies so soon after, the more extraordinary ; there being no
difference between the mode of taxation which they op-
posed, and that to which they submitted, but this, that by
the first, they were to be continually reminded that they
were taxed^ by certain marks stamped on every piece of
paper or parchment they used. The authors of that statute
triumphed greatly on this conduct of the colonies, and in-
sisted, that if the people of Great-Britain had persisted in
enforcing it, the Americans would have been, in a few
months, so fatigued with the efforts of patriotism^ that they
would have yielded obedience.

"Certain it is, that tho' they had before their eyes so
many illustrious examples in their mother country, of the
constant success attending firmness and perseverance^ in
opposition to dangerous encroachments on liberty, yet
they quietly gave up a point of the LAST importance.
From thence the decline of their freedom began, and its
decay was extremely rapid ; for as money was always raised
upon them by the parliament, their assemblies grew im-
mediately useless^ and in a short time contemptible : And

386 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

in less than one hundred years, the people sunk down into
that lameness and supineness of spirit, by which they still
continue to be distinguished."

Et majores vestros & posteros cogitate.
Remember your ancestors and your posterity.

A FARMER.

LETTER XL
My dear Countrymen,

I have several times, in the course of these letters, men-
tioned the late act of parliament, as being the foundation
of future measures injurious to these colonies ; and the be-
lief of this truth I wish to prevail, because I think it
necessary to our safety.

A perpetual 7>«/c»z^jr)/, respecting liberty, is absolutely re-
quisite in all free-states. The very texture of their consti-
tution, in mtxt governments, demands it. For the cautions
with which power is distributed SiVnong the several orders,
imply, that each has that share which is proper for the
general welfare, and therefore that any further [58] ac-
quisition must be pernicious. * Machiavel employs a
whole chapter in his discourses, to prove that a state, to
be long lived, must be frequently corrected, and reduced
to its first principles. But of all states that have existed,
there never was any, in which this jealousy could be more
proper than in these colonies. For the government here
is not only mixt, but dependent, which circumstance
occasions a peculiarity in its form, of a very delicate
nature.

Two reasons induce me to desire, that this spirit of
apprehension may be always kept up among us, in its ut-
most vigilance. The first is this — that as the happiness
of these provinces indubitably consists in their connection

* MachiaveV s Discources—Book 3. Cap. i.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 387

with Great-Britain., any separation between them is less
likely to be occasioned by civil discords, if every disgust-
ing measure is opposed singly ., and while it is new : For
in this manner of proceeding, every such measure is most
likely to be rectified. On the other hand, oppressions and
dissatisfactions being permitted to accumulate — if ever the
governed throw off the load, they will do more. A peo-
ple does not reform with moderation. The rights of the
subject therefore cannot be too often considered, explained
or asserted : And whoever attempts to do this, shews
himself, whatever may be the rash and peevish reflections
of pretended wisdom, and pretended duty, a friend to those
who injudiciously exercise their power, as well as them
over whom it is so exercised.

Had all the points of prerogative claimed by Charles the
First, been separately contested and settled in preceding
reigns, his fate would in all probability have been very
different ; and the people would have been content with
that liberty which is compatible with regal authority.
But * he thought, it would be as dangerous for him to give
up the powers which at any time had been by usurpation
exercised by the crown, as those that were legally vested
in it. This produced an equal excess on the part of the
people. For when their passions were excited by mnlti-
piied grievances, they thought it would be as dangerous
for them to allow the powers that were legally vested in
the crown, as those which at any time had been by usur-
pation exercised by it. Acts, that might by themselves

*The author is sensible, that this is putting the gentlest construction
on Charles's conduct ; and that is one reason why he chooses it. Allow-
ances ought to be made for the errors of those men, who are acknowl-
edged to have been possessed of many virtues. The education of this
unhappy prince, and his confidence in men not so good or wise as him-
self had probably _/?//^^ him with mistaken notions of his own authority,
and of the consequences that would attend concessions of any kind to
a people, who were represented to him, as aiming at too much power.

388 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

have been upon many considerations excused or extenu-
ated, derived a contagious malignancy and odium from
other acts, with which they were connected. They were
not regarded according to [59] the simple force of each,
but as parts of a system of oppression. Every one there-
fore, however small in itself, became alarming, as an
additional evidence of tyrannical designs. It was in vain
for prudent and moderate men to insist, that there was no
necessity to abolish royalty.* Nothing less than the utter
destruction of monarchy, could satisfy those who had suf-
fered, and thought they had reason to believe, they always
should suffer under it.

The consequences of these mutual distrusts are well
known : But there is no other people mentioned in
history, that I recollect, who have been so constantly
watchful of their liberty, and so successful in their strug-
gles for it, as the English. This consideration leads me
to the second reason, why I "desire that the spirit of ap-
prehension may be always kept up among us in its utmost
vigilance."

The first principles of government are to be looked for
in human nature. Some of the best writers have asserted,
and it seems with good reason, that "government is
founded on* opinioft.'''*

* "Opinion is of two kinds, viz. opinion of interest, and opinion of
RIGHT. By opinion oi interest, I chiefly understand, the sense of the
public advantage which is reaped finm government ; together with the
persuasion, that the particular government which is established, is
equally advantageotis with any other, that could be easily settled. ^^

^' Right is of two kinds, right to power, and right to property. What
prevalence opinion of the first kind has over mankind, may easily be
understood, by observing the attachment which all nations have to their
ancient government, and even to those names which have had the sanc-
tion of antiquity. Antiquity ahvays begets the opinion of right." . . .
"It is suflBciently understood, that the opinion oi right to property, is of
the greatest moment in all matters of government." Hume^s Essays. ■

This footnote is not printed in the newspaper text. — Ed.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 389

Custom undoubtedly lias a mighty force in producing
opinion.^ and reigns in nothing more arbitrarily than in
public affairs. It gradually reconciles us to objects even
of dread and detestation ; and I cannot but think these
lines of Mr. Pope as applicable to vice \w politics^ as to vice
in ethics —

" vice is a monster of so horrid mien,
" As to be hated, needs but to be seen ;
" Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face,
" We first endure, then pity, then embrace.'''*

When an act injurious to freedom has been once done, and
the people bear it, the repetition of it is most likely to
meet with submission. For as the mischief oi the one was
found to be tolerable, they will hope that of the second
will prove so too ; and they will not regard the infamy of
the last, because they are stained with that of the first.

Indeed nations, in general, are not apt to think until
theyy^^/*/ and therefore nations in general have lost their
liberty : For as violations of the rights of ih& governed^ are
commonly not only t specious^ [60] but small at the begin-
ning, they spread over the multitude in such a manner, as
to touch individuals but slightly. % Thus they are disre-

*la the newspaper text this reads: "are more apt to feel than to
think;"— ^fif.

t Omnia mala exampla ex bonis initiis orta sunt.

SALI.UST. Belt. Cat. S. 50.

X * ' The republic is always attacked with greater vigor, than it is defended f
For the audacious and profligate, prompted by their natural enmity to it,
are easily impelled to act by the least nod of their leaders : Whereas the
honest, I know not why, are generally slow and wiwilling to stir; and
'neglecting always the BEGINNINGS of things, are never roused to
exert themselves, but by the last necessity : So that through irresolu-
tion and DEI.AY, when they would be glad to compound at last for their
QUIET, at the expence even of their honor, they commonly lose them.
BOTH." Cicero's <9ra/. /o/- Sextius.

Such were the sentiments of this great and excellent man, whose vast
abilities, and calamities of his country during his time, enabled him, by

390 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

regarded. The power or profit that arises from these vio-
lations, centering in few persons^ is to them considerable.
For this reason the governors having in view their par-
ticular purposes, successively preserve an uniformity of
conduct for attaining them. They regularly encrease the
first injuries, till at length the inattentive people are com-
pelled to perceive the heaviness of their burthens. — They
begin to complain and enquire — but too late. They find
their oppressors so strengthened by success, and themselves
so entangled in examples of express authority on the part
of their rulers, and tacit recognition on their own part, that
they are quite confounded: For millions entertain no other
idea of the legality of power, than that it is founded on the
exercise of power. They voluntarily fasten their chains,
by adopting a pusillanimous opinion., "that there will be
too much danger in attempting a remedy," — or another
opinion no less fatal, — " that the government has a right to
treat them as it does." They then seek a wretched relief
for their minds, by persuading themselves, that to yield
their obedience.^ is to discharge their duty. The deplorable
poverty of spirit., that prostrates all the dignity bestowed
by Divine Providence on our nature — of course succeeds.

From these reflections I conclude, that every free state
should incessantly watch, and instantly take alarm on any
addition being made to the power exercised over them.
Innumerable instances might be produced to shew, from
what slight beginnings the most extensive consequences
have flowed : But I shall select two only from the history
of England.

Henry the Seventh was the first monarch of that king- ■
dom, who established A standing body of armed men.
This was a band of fifty archers, called yeomen of the

mournful experience, to form a just judgment on the conduct of the
friends and enemies of liberty.
This footnote is not in the newspaper text. — Ed.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 391

guard : And this institution, notwithstanding the small-
ness of the number, was, to * prevent discontent, f "dis-
guised under pretence of majesty and grandeur." In 1684
the standing forces were so much augmented, that [61]
Rapin says — "The king, in order to make his peopley^^/Zj/
sensible of their new slavery^ affected to muster his troops,
which amounted to 4000 well armed and disciplined men."
I think our army, at this time, consists of more than
seventy regiments.

The method of taxing by excise was first introduced
amidst the convulsions of civil wars. Extreme neces-
sity was pretended for it, and its short continuance prom-
ised. After the restoration, an excise upon beer^ ale and
other liquors^ was granted to the % king, one half in fee,
the other for life, as an equivalent for the court of wards.
Upon fatnes the Second's accession, the parliament § gave
him the first excise, with an additional duty on wine,
tobacco, and some other things. Since the revolution it
has been extended to salt, candles, leather, hides, hops,
soap, paper, paste- boards, mill-boards, scale-boards, vel-
lum, parchment, starch, silks, calicoes, linens, stufTs,
printed, stained, &c. wire, wrought plate, coffee, tea, cho-
colate, &c.

Thus a standing army and excise have, from their first
slender origins, tho' always hated, aXv^sys, feared, always
opposed, at length swelled up to their vast present bulk.

These facts are sufficient to support what I have said.
'Tis true, that all the mischiefs apprehended by our ances-
tors from a standing army and excise, have not yet hap-
pened: But it does not follow from thence, that they will

*In the newspaper text, "occasional discontent" is used in place of
"was to prevent discontent," and the rest of the sentence is omitted. — Ed.
■\ Rapin' s History oi England.
% 12 Char. II, Chap. 23 and 24.
§ I James II. Chap, i and 4.

392 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

not happen. The inside of a house may catch fire, and the
most valuable apartments be ruined, before the flames burst
out. The question in these cases is not, what evil has ac-
tually attended particular measures — but, what evil, in the
nature of things, is likely to attend them. Certain circum-
stances may for some time delay effects, that were reason-
ably expected., and that must ensue. There was a long
period, after the Romans had prorogued his command to
* Q Publilius Philo^ before that example destroyed their
liberty. All our kings, from the revolution to the present
reign, have been foreigners. Their ministers generally
continued but a short time in authority ;t and they them-
selves were mild and virtuous princes.

A bold, [62] ambitious prince, possessed of great abil-
ities.^ Himly fxed in his throne by descent, served by min-
isters like himself and rendered either venerable or terrible
by the glory of his successes., may execute what his prede-
cessors did not dare to attempt. Henry the Fourth tottered
in his seat during his whole reign. Henry the Fifth drew
the strength of that kingdom into France., to carry on his
wars there, and left the commons at home, protesting.,
"that the people were not bound to serve out of the
realm."

* In the year of the city 428, "Duo singularia hasc ei viro primum con-
tigere ; prorogatio imperii non ante in ullo facta et acto honore tri-
umphus." Liv. B. 8. Chap. 23. 26.

"Had the rest of the Roman citizens imitated the example of L. Quin-
iius, who refused to have his consulship continued to him, they had
never admitted that custom of proroguing of magistrates, and then the
prolongation of their commands in the army had never been introduced,
which very thing was at length the ruin of that commonwealth.'^ Mach-
iaveVs Discourses, B. j. Chap. 24.

1 1 dont know but it may be said, with a good deal of reason, that a
quick rotation of ministers is very desirable in Great Britain. A min-
ister there has a vast store of materials to work with. Long Adtninis-
trations are rather favorable to the reputation of a people abroad, than to
their liberty.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 393

It is true,* that a strong spirit of liberty subsists at pres-
ent in Great-Britain^ but what reliance is to be placed in
the temper of a people, when the prince is possessed of
an unconstitutional power, our own history can sufficiently
inform us. When CJiarles the Second had strengthened
himself by the return of the garrison of Tangier^ ''''Eng-
land (says Rapin) saw on a sudden an amazing revolution ;
saw herself stripped of all her rights and priveleges^ except-
ing such as the king should vouchsafe to grant her : And
what is more astonishing^ the English themselves delivered
tip these very rights and privileges to Charles the Second,
which they had so passionately^ and if I may say it, fur-
iously defended against the designs of Charles the First."
This happened only thirty-six years after this last prince
had been beheaded.

Some persons are of opinion, that liberty is not violated,
but by such open acts of force ; but they seem to be greatly
mistaken. I could mention a period within these forty
years, when almost as great a change of disposition was
produced by the secret measures of a long administration,
as by Charleses violence. Liberty, perhaps, is never ex-
posed to so much danger, as when the people believe there
is the least; for it may be subverted, and yet they not think
so.

Public disgusting acts are seldom practiced by the am-
bitious, at the beginning of their designs. Such conduct
silences and discourages the weak, and the wicked, who
would otherwise have been their advocates or accomplices.
It is of great consequence, to allow those who, upon any
account, are inclined to favor them, something specious to
say in their defence. Their power may be fully estab-
lished, tho' it would not be safe for them to do zvhatever
they please. For there are things, which, at some times,
even slaves vf\\\ not bear. Julius Ccesar and Oliver Crom-

* " Granted" in newspaper text. — Ed.

394 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

well^ did not dare to assume the title oi king. The Grand
Seignor dares not lay a new tax. The king of France
dares not be a Protestant. Certain popular points may be
left untouched, and yet freedom be extinguished. The
commonalty of Venice imagine themselves free, because
they are permitted to do what they ought not. But I quit
a subject, that would lead me too far from my purpose.

By the late act of parliament, taxes are to be levied upon
us, for "defraying the charge of the administratiojt of Jus-
tice— the support of civil government — and the expences of
defending his Majesty's dominions in America.'^''

If [63] any man doubts what ought to be the conduct of
these colonies on this occasion, I would ask him these
questions.

Has not the parliament expressly AVOWED their inten-
tion of raising money from us for certain purposes?
Is not this scheme popular in Great- Britain? Will the
taxes, imposed by the late act, answer those purposes? If
it will, must it not take an im?nense sum from us? If it
will not, is it to be expected^ that the parliament will not
fully execute their intention when it \s pleasing at kome^
and not opposed here? Must not this be done by imposing
NEW taxes ? Will not every addition thus made to the
power of the British legislature, by increasing the number of
officers employed in the collection ?* Will not every addi-
tional tax therefore render it more difficult to abrogate any
of them ? When a branch of revenue is once established,
does it not appear to many people invidious and undutiful^
to attempt to abolish it? If taxes, sufficient to accomplish
the intention of the parliament, are imposed by the par-
liament, what taxes will remain to be imposed by our as-
semblies ? If no material tax remains to be .imposed by
them, what must become oi them^ and the people they rep-
resent ?

*This section is not in the newspaper text. — Ed.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 395

-' • • -■ ■-

* "If any person considers these things, and yet thinks
our liberties are in no danger, I wonder at that person's
security."

One other argument is to be added, which, by itself, I
hope, will be sufficient to convince the most incredulous
man on this continent, that the late act of parliament is
only designed to be a precedent, whereon the future vas-
salage of these colonies may be established.

Every duty thereby laid on articles of British manufac-
ture, is laid on some commodity, upon the exportation of
which from Great- Britain^ a drawback is payable. Those
drawbacks^ in most of the articles, are exactly double to the
duties given by the late act. The parliament therefore
might, in half a dozen lines^ have raised much more
MONEY, only by stopping the drawbacks in the hands of
the officers at home, on exportation to these colonies, than
by this solemn imposition of taxes upon us, to be collected
here. Probably, the artful contrivers of this act formed it
in this manner, in order to reserve to themselves, in case
of any objections being made to it, this specious pretence
— "that the drawbacks are gifts to the colonies, and that
the late act only lessens those gifts." But the truth is,
that the drawbacks are intended for the encouragement
and promotion of British manufactures and commerce, and
are allowed on exportation to any Joreign parts^ as well as
on exportation to these provinces. Besides, care has been
taken to slide into the act, some articles on which there
are no drawbacks, f However, the whole duties laid by the
late act on all the articles therein specified are so small^

* Demosthenes' s 2d Philippic.

t ''Though duties by the late act are laid on some articles, on which no
drawbacks are allowed, yet the duties imposed by the act are so small, in
comparison with the drawbacks that are allowed, that all the duties to-
gether will not amount to so much as the drawbacks. ' ' Footnote in news-
paper text. — £d.

396 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

that they will not amount to as much as the drawbacks
which are allowed on pari of them only. If therefore, [64]
ihe sum to be obtained by the late act^ had been the sole ob-
ject in forming it, there would not have been any occasion
for "the COMMONS of Great-Britain.^ to GIVE and granT^
to his Majesty rates and duties for raising a revefiue in
his Majesty s dominions in Kvci^xxQ-z.., for making a more cer-
tain and adequate provision for defraying the charges of
the administration of justice, the support of civil govern-
ment, and the expence of defending the said dominions;" —
nor would there have been any occasion for an * expensive
board of commissioners, and all the other new charges to
which we are made liable.

Upon the whole, for my part, I regard the late act as an
experimefit made of our disposition. It is a bird sent out
over the waters, to discover, whether the waves, that lately
agitated this part of the world with such violence, are yet
subsided. If this adventurer f gets footing here, we shall

*The expence of this board, I am informed, is between Four and Five
Thousand Pounds Sterling a year. The establishment of officers, for col-
lecting the revenue in America, amounted before to Seven Thousand Six
Hundred Pounds /»^r annum ; and yet, says the author of " The regula-
tion of the colonies," "the whole remittance from all the taxes in the
colonies, at an average oi thirty years, has not amounted to One Thous-
and Nine Hundred Pounds a year, and in that sum Seven or Eight Hun-
dred Pounds per annum only, have been remitted from North America.^*

The smallness of the revenue arising from the duties in America, de-
monstrates that they were intended only as regulations OF trade:
And can any person be so blind to truth, so dull of apprehension in a
matter of unspeakable importance to his country, as to imagine, that the
board of commissioners lately established at such a charge, is instituted
to assist in collecting One Thousand Nine Hundred Pounds a year, or
the trifling duties imposed by the late act? Surely every man on this
continent must perceive, that they are established for the care of a new
SYSTEM OE REVENUE, which is but now begun.

fin the newspaper text this letter concludes : " If this adventurer gets
footing here, we shall quickly be convinced, that it is not a Phoenix ; for
we shall soon see it followed by others 0/ the same kind. We shall find it
rather to be of the breed described by the poet — ' ' — Ed.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 2>91

quickly find it to be of the * kind described by the poet —

calamities.

A FARMER. [65]

' ' Infelix vates. ' '

A direful foreteller of future calamities.

LETTER XII.
My Dear Countrymen,

Some states have lost their liberty by particular acci-
dents: But this calamity is generally owing to the decay of
virtue. A people is travelling fast to destruction, when in-
dividuals consider their interests as distinct from those of
the public. Such notions are fatal to their country, and to
themselves. Yet how many are there, so weak and sordid
as to tlmik they perform all the offices of life,, if they earn-
estly endeavor to encrease their own wealth,, power., and
credit,, without the least regard for the society, under the
protection of which they live ; who, if they can make an
immediate profit to themselves,, by lending their assistance
to those, whose projects plainly tend to the injury of their
country, rejoice in their dexterity,, and believe themselves
entitled to the character of able politicians. Miserable
men ! Of whom it is hard to say, whether they ought to
be most the objects of pity or contempt: But whose
opinions are certainly as detestable., as their practices are
destructive.

Tho' I always reflect, with a high pleasure, on the in-
tegrity and understanding of my countrymen, which,
joined with a pure and humble devotion to the great and
gracious author of every blessing they enjoy, will, I hope,
ensure to them, and their posterity, all temporal and
eternal happiness ; yet when I consider, that in every age
and country there have been bad men, my heart, at this
threatening period, is so full of apprehension, as not toper-
* "Dira cselaeno," &c. ^neid 3.

398 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

mit me to believe, but that there may be some on this con-
tinent, against whom you ought to be upon your guard —
Men, who either * hold, [66] or expect to hold certain ad-

* It is not intended by these words, to throw any reflection upon gen-
tlemen, because they are possessed of offices : For many of them are
certainly men of virtue, and lovers of their country. But supposed obli-
gations oi gratitude, and honor, may induce them to be silent. Whether
these obligations ought to be regarded or not, is not so much to be con-
sidered by others, in the judgment they form of these gentlemen, as
whether they think they ought to be regarded. Perhaps, therefore, we
shall act in the properest manner towards them, if we neither reproach
nor imitate them. The persons meant in this letter, are the base-spirited
wretches, who may endeavour to distinguish themselves, by their sordid
zeal in defending and promoting measures, which they know beyond all
question, to be destructive to the just rights and true interests of their
country. It is scarcely possible to speak of these men with any degree
oi patience — It is scarcely possible to speak of them with any degree of
propriety — For no words can truly describe their ^«z7/ and meanness —
But every honest bosom, on their being mentioned, y/iW feel what cannot
be expressed .

If their wickedness did not blind them, they might perceive along the
coast of these colonies, many men,t remarkable instances of wrecked am-
bition, who after distinguishing them^selves in the support of the Stamp-
Act, by a courageous contempt of their country, and of justice, have been
left to linger out their miserable existence, without a government, col-
lectorship, secretaryship, or any other commission, to console them as
well as it could, for loss of virtue and reputation — while numberless
offices have been bestowed in these colonies on people from Great-Brit-
ain, and new ones are continually invented, to be thus bestowed. As a
few great prizes are put into a lottery to TEMPT multitudes to lose, so
here and there an American has been raised to a good post. —

'^Apparent rari nantes in gurgite vasto."
Mr. Greenville, indeed, in order to recommend the Stamp-Act, had the
unequalled generosity, to pour down a golden shower of offices upon
Americans ; and yet these ungrateful colonies did not thank Mr. Green-
ville for shewing his kindness to their countrymen, nor them for accept-
ing it. How must that great statesman have been surprised, to find, that
the unpolished colonies could not be reconciled to iiifamy by treachery?
Such a bountiful disposition toward us never appeared in any minister
before him, and probably never will appear again : For it is evident,
that such a system of policy is to be established on this continent, as, in a

t In the newspaper text this reads, " many skeletons of wretched ambition."— £rf.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 399

vantages, by setting examples of servility to their country-
men. Men, who trained to the employment, or self taught
by a natural versatility of genius, serve as decoys for draw-
ing the innocent and unaware into snares. It is not to be
doubted but that such men will diligently bestir them-
selves on this and every like occasion, to spread the in-
fection of their meanness as far as they can. On the plans
they have adopted, this is their course. This is the method
to recommend themselves to \\\€v[ patrons.*

From them we shall learn, hovf pleasant and profitable a
thing it is, to be for our submissive behavior well spoken
of2X St. James or St. Stephen'' s ; at Guildhall^ or the Royal
Exchange. Specious fallacies will be drest up with all the
arts of delusion, to persuade one colony to distinguish her-
self from another^ by unbecoming condescensions, which
will serve the ambitious purposes of great t7ien at home,
and therefore will be thought by them to entitle their as-
sistants in obtaining them to considerable rewards.

Our fears will be excited. Our hopes will be awakened.
It will be insinuated to us, with a plausible affection of
wisdom and concern^ hovi prudent it is to please \.\\q power-
ful— how dangerous to provoke them — and then comes in
the perpetual incantation that freezes up every generous

short time, is to render it utterly unnecessary to use the least art in order
to conciliate our approbation of any measures. Some of our countrymen
may be employed to^.r chains upon us, but they will never be permitted
to hold them afterwards. So that the utmost, that any of them can ex-
pect, is only a temporary provision, that may expire in their own time ;
but which they may be assured, will preclude their children from having
any consideration paid to them. Natives of America must sink into
total NEGLECT and CONTEMPT, the moment that THEIR COUNTRY loses
the constitutional power she now possesses. [/« the newspaper text this
note continues • ''Most sincerely do I wish and pray, that every one 0/ us
may be convinced of this great truth — that industry and integrity are the
'paths of pleasantness ' which lead to happiness.'" — Ed.

*In the newspaper text this paragraph continues : "They act consist-
ently, in a bad cause. They run well, in a mean race."— -fi"^.

400 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

purpose of the soul in cold, inactive expectation — " that if
there is any request to be made, compliance will obtain a
favorable attention."

Our vigilance and our union are success and safety. Our
negligence and our division are distress and death. They
are worse — they are shame and slavery. Let us equally
shun the benumbing stillness [67] of overweening sloath^'
and the feverish activity of that ill informed zeal., which
busies itself in maintaining little., 7nean., and narrow opin-
ions. Let us, with a truly wise generosity and charity.,
banish and discourage all illiberal distinctions., which may
arise from differences in situation., forms oi governments or
modes of religion. Let us consider ourselves as men —
FREEMEN — CHRISTIAN FREEMEN — separate from the rest
of the world., diW^ firmly bound together by the same rights.^
interests and dangers. Let these keep our attention in-
flexibly fixed on the GREAT OBJECTS, which we mnst con-
tinually REGARD, in order to preserve those rights., to
promote those interests., and to avert those dangers.

Let these truths be indelibly impressed on our minds —
that we cannot be happy, without being FREE — that we
cannot be free, without being secure in our property — that
we cannot be secure in our property, if without our con-
sent., others may., as by right., take it away — that taxes im-
posed on us by parliament., do thus take it away — that
duties laid for the sole purpose of raising money., are taxes
— that atte7ttpts to lay such duties should be instantly and
firinly opposed — that this opposition can never be effectual,
unless it is the united effort of these provinces — that there-
fore BENEVOLENCE of temper towards each other., and
unanimity of councils., are essential to the welfare of the
whole — and lastly, that for this reason, every man amongst
us, who in any manner would encourage either dissension.,
diffidence., or indifference., between these colonies, is an
enemy to himself and to his country.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 401

The belief of these truths, I verily think, my country-
men, is indispensably necessary to your happiness. I be-
seech you, therefore, * "teach them diligently unto your
children, and talk of them when you sit in your houses,
and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down,
and when you rise up." What have these colonies to ask^
while they continue free ? Or what have they to dread.,
but insidious attempts to subvert their freedom? Their
prosperity does not depend on ministerial favors doled out
\.o particular provinces. They form one political body, of
which each colony is a member. Their happiness is founded
on their constitution; and is to be promoted, by preserving
that constitution in unabated vigor, throughout every part.
A spot, a speck of decay, however small the limb on which,
it appears, and however remote it may seem from the
vitals, should be alarming. We have all the rights requi-
site for our prosperity. The legal authority of Great-
Britain may indeed lay hard restrictions upon us; but, like
the spear of Telephus^ it will cure as well as wound. Her
unkindness will instruct and compel us, after some time,
to discover, in our industry or frugality., surprising rem-
edies— if our rights continue unviolated : For as long as
i\\t. products of our labor., and the [68] rewards of our care^
can properly be called our oivn., so long it will be worth
our while to be industrious and frugal. But if when we
plow — sow — reap — gather — and thresh — we find that we
plow — sow — reap — gather — and thresh for others., whose
PLEASURE is to be the SOLE LIMITATION how much
they shall take., and hoiv much they shall leave., why
should we repeat the unprofitable toil ? Horses and oxen
are content with that portion of the fruits of their work.,
which their owners assign them, in order to keep them
strong enough to raise successive crops ; but even these
beasts will not submit to draw for their masters., until they
are subdued by whips and goads.

*Deuteron, vi. 7.

402 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

Let us take care of our rights^ and we therein take care of
our prosperity . * t " SLAVERY IS EVER PRECEDED
BY SLEEP." Individuals may be dependent on min-
isters, if they please. STATES should scorn it ;— and if
you are not wanting to yourselves^ you will have 2. proper
regard paid you by those ^ to whom if you are not respect-
able^ you will be contemptible. But — if we have already
forgot the reasons that urged us, with unexampled un-
animity, to exert ourselves two years ago — if our zeal for
the public good is worn out before the homespun cloaths^
which it has caused us to have made — if our resolutio7is
are sofaint^ as by our present conduct to condemn our own
late successful example — if we are not affected by any rev-
erence for the memory of our ancestors, who transmitted
to us that freedom in which they had been blest — if we
are not animated by any regard for posterity, to whom, by
the most sacred obligations, we are bound to deliver down
the invaluable inheritance — then, indeed, any miiiister —
or any tool of a minister — or any creature of a tool of a
minister — or any lower % instrument of% adininistration^ if

* In the newspaper text this is "property." — Ed.

t Montesquieu' s Spirits of Laws, Book 14, Chap. 13.

X "Instrumenta regni." Tacitus' s Ann. Book 12, § 66.

\ If any person shall imagine that he discovers, in these letters, [/«
the newspaper text is here inserted: *' in these letters the least disaffection
towards our most excellent sovereign, and the parliament of Great- Brit-
ain;"—Ed. ] the least dislike of the dependence of these colonies on Great-
Britain, I beg that such persons will not form any judgment on particular
expressions, but will consider the tenor of all the letters taken together.
In that case, I flatter myself, that every unprejudiced reader will be con-
vinced, that the true interests of Great-Britain are as dear to me, as they
ought to be to every good subject.

If I am an Enthusiast in any thing, it is in my zeal for the perpetual
dependence of these colonies on their mother country. — A dependence
founded on mutual benefits, the continuance of which can be secured
only by mutual affections. Therefore it is, that with extreme apprehen-
sion I view the smallest seeds of discontent, which are unwarily scattered
abroad. Fifty or Sixty years will make astonishing alterations in these

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 403

lower there be, is 2, personage whom it may be dangerous
to ofifend.

I shall [69] be extremely sorry, if any man mistakes my

colonies ; and this consideration should render it the business of Great-
Bi itain moro. and more to cultivate our good dispositions toward her:
But the misfortune is, that those great men, who are wrestling for power
at home, tliink themselves very slightly interested in the prosperity of
their country Fifty or Sixty years hence, but are deeply concerned in
blowing up a popular clamour for supposed immediate advantage.

For my part, I regard Great-Britain as a Bulwark, happily fixed be-
tween these colonies and the powerful nations of Europe. That kingdom
remaining safe, [In the newspaper text this passage reads: " That king-
dom is our advanced post or fortification, which remaining safe," — Ed.'\
we, under its protection, enjoying peace, may diffuse the blessings of re-
ligion, science, and libertj-, thro' remote wildernesses. It is therefore in-
contestably our duty, and our interest, to support the strength of Great-
Britain. When confiding in that strength, she begins to forget from
whence it arose, it will be an easy thing to shew the source. She may
readily be reminded of the loud alarm spread among her merchants and
tradesmen, by the universal associations of these colonies, at the time of
the Stamp-Act, not to import any of her manufactures.

In the year 17 18, the Russians and Swedes entered into an agreement,
not to suffer Great-Britain to export any naval stores from their do-
minions but in Russian or Swedish ships, and at their own prices. Great-
Britain was distressed. Pitch and tar rose to Three pounds a barrel. At
length she thought of getting these articles from the colonies ; and the
attempt succeeding, they fell do'wn to Fifteen shillings. In the year
1756, Great-Britain was threatened with an invasion. An easterly wind
blowing for six weeks, she could not man her fleet, and the whole nation
was thrown into the utmost consternation. The wind changed. The
American ships arrived. The fleet sailed in ten or fifteen days. There
are some other reflections on this subject, worthy of the most deliberate
attention of the British parliament ; but they are of such a nature, that I
do not chuse to mention them publicly. I thought it my duty, in the
year 1765, while the Stamp-Act was in suspence, to write my sentiments
to a gentleman of great influence at home, who afterwards distinguished
himself, by espousing our cause, in the debates concerning the repeal of
that act.

[/« the newspaper text this last sentence reads : " I thought I discharged
my duty to my country, by taking the liberty, in the year 1765, while the
Stamp-Act was in suspence, of writing my sentiments to a man of the
greatest influence at home, who afterwards distinguished himself bj' es-
pousing our cause, in the debates concerning the repeal of that act. ' ' — Ed."]

404 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

meaning in anything I have said. Officers employed by
the crown, are, while according to the laws they conduct
themselves, entitled to legal obedience, and sincere re-
spect. These it is a duty to render them ; and these no
good or prudent person will withhold. But when these
officers, thro' rashness or design, desire to enlarge their
authority beyond its due limits, and expect improper con-
cessions to be made to them, from regard for the employ-
ments they bear, their attempts should be considered as
equal injuries to the crown and people, and should be cou-
rageously and constantly opposed. To suffer our ideas to
be confounded by names on such occasions, would certainly
be an inexcusable weakness^ and probably an irremediable
error.

We have reason to believe, that several of his Majesty's
present ministers are good men, and friends to our country;
and it seems not unlikely, that by a particular concurrence
of events, we have been treated a little more severely than
they wished we should be. They might not think it pru-
dent to stem a torrent. But what is the difference to ?/^,
whether arbitrary acts take their rise from ministers, or
are permitted by them? Ought any point to be allowed to*
a good minister, that should be denied to a bad one? The

mortality of ministers, is a very frail mortality. A

may succeed a Shelburne — A may succeed a Corn-
way.

We find a new kind of minister lately spoken of at home
— "The minister of the house of commons." The
term seems to have peculiar propriety when referred to
these colonies, zvith a different meaning annexed to it^
from that in which it is taken there. By the word "min-
ister" we may understand not only a servant of the crown^

*Ubi imperinm ad ignaros ant minus bonos pervenit; novum illud ex-
emplum, ad dignis, & idoneis, ad indignos & non idoneos transfertur.

Sail. Bell. Cat. g 50.

LETTERS FROM A FARMER. 405

but a man of infiuence among the commons, who regard
themselves as having a share in the sovereignty over us.
The "minister of the house" may, in a point respecting
the colonies, be so strong, that the minister of the crown
in the house, if he is a distinct person, may not choose,
even where his sentiments are favorable to us, to come to
a pitched battle upon our account. For tho' I have the
highest opinion of the deference of the house for the
King's minister, yet he may be so good natured, as not to
put it to the test, except it be for the mere and immediate
profit of his master or himself.

But whatever kind of minister he is, that attempts to in-
novate a single iota in the privileges of these colonies, him
I hope you will undauntedly oppose; and that you will
never suffer yourselves to be either cheated or frighteried
into any iimuorthy obsequiousness. On such emergencies
you may surely, without presumption, believe, that AL-
MIGHTY GOD himself will look down upon your right-
eous contest with gracious approbation. You will be a
''"' band of brothers^'*'' cemented by the dearest ties, — and
strengthened with inconceivable supplies of force and con-
stancy, by that sympathetc ardor, which animates good men,
confederated in a good cause. Your honor and welfare will
be, as they now are, most intimately concerned ; and be-
sides— you are assigned by divine providence^ in the ap-
pointed order of things, the protectors of unborn ages^
whose y^/^ depends upon your virtue. Whether they shall
arise the generous and indisputable heirs of the noblest
patrimonies, or the dastardly and hereditary drudges of
imperious task-masters, you must determine.

To discharge this double duty to yourselves., and to your
posterity., you have nothing to do, but to call forth into
use the good sense and spirit of which you are possessed.
You have nothing to do, but to conduct your affairs
peaceably — prudently— frtnly— jointly. By these means

4o6 LETTERS FROM A FARMER.

you will support the character oi freemen., without losing
that oi faithful subjects — a good character in any govern-
ment— one of the best under a British government — You
will prove., that Americans have that true magnanimity of
soul, that can resent injuries, without falling into rage ;
and that tho' your devotion to Great-Britain is the most
affectionate, yet you can make proper distinctions, and
know what you owe to yourselves., as well as to her — You
will, at the same time that you advance your interests., ad-
vance your reputation — You will convince the world of the
justice of your demands., and ^^\Q. purity of your intentions.
— While all mankind must, with unceasing applauses,
confess, [71] that Youlndeed deserve liberty, who so well
understand xt., so passionately love it, so temperately enjoy
it, and so wisely., bravely., and virtuously assert., maintain.,
and defend it.

^"^ Certe ego libertatem., qucB mihi a parente meo tradita
est., experiar : Verum id frustra an ob rem faciam., in
vestra manu situm est., quirites^

For my part I am resolved to contend for the liberty de-
livered down to me by my ancestors ; but whether I shall
do it effectually or not, depends on you, my countrymen.

*'How little soever one is able to write, yet when the
liberties of one's country are threatened, it is still more
difl&cult to be silent"

A FARMER.

Is there not the strongest probability, that if the uni-
versal sense of these colonies is immediately expressed by
RESOivVES of the assemblies, in support of their rights, by
INSTRUCTIONS to their agents on the subject, and by peti-
tions to the crown and parliament for redress, these meas-
ures will have the same success now, that they had in the
time of the Stamp- Act. D.

FINIS.

AN ADDRESS

READ

AT A

MEETING OF MERCHANTS

TO CONSIDER

NON-IMPORTATION.

BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

April 25, 1768.

NOTE.

In the third "Letter of a Farmer," in commenting upon the act " for
raising a further revenue," better known as the act granting duties on
paper, glass, etc., Dickinson recommended petitions to the colonial as-
semblies asking them to protest against that act; and that failing to
obtain its repeal, then an opposition which should consist in "the pre-
vention of the oppressors reaping advantage from their oppression," by
" withholding from Great-Britain all the advantages she has been used to
receive from them. ' ' The effect of this iernmmfp(\atinn followed quickly.
February ii, 1768, the Massachusetts Assembly, taking "into their ser-
ious Consideration the great Difficulties that must accrue to themselves
and their Constituents by the Operation of the several acts of Parliament,
imposing Duties and Taxes," by their famous circular letter to the var-
ious assemblies, which is, in truth, a paraphrase of the Farmer's letters
stated that they had so petitioned the home government and "shall take
it kind in your House to point out to them any Thing further which may
be thought necessary." This letter was laid before the Pennsylvania
Assembly, May loth. That body had already instructed their Agent to
protest against the acts, but controlled by Galloway, it paid no attention
to the circular letter beyond entering it upon its minutes.

Nor was this the only discouragement to the Massachusetts extremists.
At a meeting on October 28, 1767, the Boston freeholders had voted to
discontinue the use of British manufactures, as well as encourage the use
of American products in every possible way, and directed that these reso-
tions should be forwarded to the different towns in the colonies. Frank-
lin wrote that the "resolutions about manufactures have hurt us much,
and one of the Ministry in Parliament stated that but for them the ob-
noxious tax act would have been at once repealed." The popular party
in Philadelphia, however, agreed with the Bostonians, and upon receiving
the letter, called a meeting to consider what action should be taken upon

4IO NOTE.

it. The result, however, was disappointing to the callers of the meeting,
for it was voted merely to return an expression of sympathy. Upon the
receipt of this answer the Boston merchants once more wrote to Philadel-
phia pleading for a non-importation agreement, and stating that they
would suspend all importations of goods from Great Britain during
twelve months from December 31st, 1768, provided the " colonies of New-
York, Pennsylvania, &c.," would do the same.

This was considered at a meeting of the Philadelphia merchants, March
26, 1768, but the proposition was unsatisfactory to the Philadelphia mer-
chants and after a heated debate the meeting ended in no definite action.
The merchants urged, that the non-importation should only extend to
the articles actually taxed in the obnoxious act, and that the non-impor-
tation should be made immediate and not at so late a date as to allow the
merchants to lay in a large stock of goods. Indeed, the Philadelphia mer-
chants looked upon the proposition partly in the light of a trick, for they
well knew that the New-England ports were notorious for smuggling,
and that therefore a non-importation agreement would little aflfect New-
England, while practically destroying the trade of their city, and they
therefore considered such a proposition unfair.

Despairing of any united compulsory action from the merchants, the
popular party then brought forward a voluntary association, not to im-
port any goods after October ist, 1768. To induce the merchants to sign
it a meeting was called for April 28, 1868, which the popular party suc-
ceeded in having addressed by Dickinson, who, though in sympathy with
Thomson, Reed, Mifflin, and the other extremists, was nevertheless re-
spected by the leading men of the city, and therefore likely to exert more
influence. Under these circumstances the following address was read.
The subsequent proceedings will be !bund post in the note to a "Letter
to a Merchant in Philadelphia," post.

This address of Dickinson's was printed without his name in the Penn-
sylvania Journal of April 28, 1768, and also as a broadside, with the
head-lines:

The following / Address / was read at a Meeting of the Merchants, at
the Lodge, in Philadelphia, on Monday, / the 25th of April, 1768. /

It was later printed in the Prior Documents, with the statement that
it was "written by Mr. Dickinson, author of the Farmer's Letters."

Editor.

AN ADDRESS.

Gentlemen, Friends, and Fellow-citizens:

You are called together to give your Advice and Opin-
ion, what Answer shall be returned to our Brethren of
Boston & New York^ who desire to know, whether we
will unite with them, in stopping the Importation of
Goods from Great-Britain ; until certain Acts of Parlia-
ment are repealed, which are thought to be injurious to
our Rights, as Freemen and British subjects.

Before you come to any Resolution it may be necessary
to explain the Matter more fully.

When our Forefathers came to this Country, they con-
sidered themselves as Freemen, and that their coming and
settling these Colonies did not divest them of any of the
Rights inherent in Freemen ; that, therefore, what they
possessed, and what they or their Posterity should ac-
quire, was and would be so much their own, that no
Power on Earth could lawfully, or of Right, deprive them
of it without their Consent. The Governments, which
they, with the consent of the Crown, established in the
respective Colonies, they considered as political Govern-
ments, "where (as Mr. Locke expresses it) Men have
''Property in their own Disposal." And therefore (ac-
cording to the Conclusion drawn by the same Author in
another Place) "No Taxes ought or could be raised on
"their Property without their Consent given by them-
" selves or their Deputies," or chosen Representatives.

As they were Members of one great Empire, united
under one Head or Crown, they tacitly acquiesced in the
superintending Authority of the Parliament of Great-

412 AN ADDRESS

Britain and admitted a Power in it, to make Regulations
to preserve the Connection of the whole entire. Though
under Colour of this, sundry Regulations were made that
bore hard on the Colonies; yet, with filial Respect and
Regard for Great-Britain their Mother Country, the Col-
onies submitted to them.

It will be sufficient here just to enumerate some of the
most grievous.

1. The Law against making Steel or erecting Steel
Furnaces, though there are not above 5 or 6 Persons in
England engaged in that Branch of Business, who are so
far from being able to supply what is wanted, that great
Quantities of Steel are yearly imported from Germany.

2. Against Plating and Sliting Mills and Tilt Hammers;
though Iron is the Produce of our Country, and from our
Manner of building, planting, and living, we are under a
Necessity of using vast Quantities of Nails and Plated
Iron, as Hoes, Stove-Pipes, Plates, &c.^ all which are
loaded with double Freight, Commissions, (2fc.

3. The Restraint laid on Hatters, and the Prohibition
of exporting Hats.

4. The Prohibition of carrying Wool or any Kind of
Woollen Goods manufactured here, from one Colony to
another. A single Fleece of Wool or a Dozen of home-
made Hose carried from one Colony to another is not only
forfeited, but subjects the Vessel, if conveyed by Water,
or the Waggon and Horses, if carried by Land, to a Seiz-
ure, and the Owner to a heavy Fine.

5. Though the Spaniards may cut and carry Logwood
directly to what Market they please, yet the Americans
cannot send to any foreign Market, even what the De-
mand in Engla7id cannot take off, without first carrying it
to some British Port, and there landing and re-shipping it
at a great Expence and loss of Time.

6. Obliging us to carry Portugal and Spanish Wines,

TO THE MERCHANTS. 413

Fruit, (St'^:., to England., there to unload, pay a heavy
Duty and re-ship them, thus subjecting us to a great Ex-
pence, and our Vessels to an unnecessary Voyage of 1000
Miles in a dangerous Sea.

7. Imposing a Duty on Madeira Wines, which, if re-
shipped to England.^ are subject to the Payment of the full
Duties there without any Drawback for what was paid here.

8. The emptying their Jails upon us and making the
Colonies a Receptacle for their Rogues and Villains ; an
Insult and Indignity not to be thought of, much less borne
without Indignation and Resentment.

Not to mention the Restrictions attempted in the Fish-
eries, the Duties laid on foreign Sugar, Molasses, &c. I
will just mention the Necessity they have laid us under of
supplying ourselves wholly from Great-Britain with
European and East-India Goods, at an Advance of 20,
and as to some Articles even of 40 per Cent, higher than
we might be supplied with them from other places.

But as if all these were not enough, a ^arty has lately
arisen in England^ who, under Colour of the superintend-
ing Authority of Parliament are labouring to erect a new
Sovereignty over the Colonies with Power inconsistent
with Liberty or Freedom.

The first Exertion of this Power was displayed in the
odious Stamp- Act. As the Authors and Promoters of this
Act were sensible of the Opposition it must necessarily
meet with, from Men, who had the least Spark of Liberty
remaining, they accompanied it with a Bill still more
odious, wherein they attempted to empower Officers to
quarter Soldiers on private Houses, with a view, no Doubt,
to dragoon us into a Compliance with the former Act.

By the Interposition of the American Agents and of
some London Merchants who traded to the Colonies, this
Clause'was dropt; but the Act was carried, wherein the
Assemblies of the respective Colonies were ordered at the

414 AN ADDRESS

Expence of the several Provinces, to furnish the Troops
with a Number of Articles, some of them never allowed in
Britain. Besides, a Power is therein granted to every
Officer, upon obtaining a Warrant from any Justice, (which
Warrant the Justice is thereby empowered and ordered to
grant, without any previous Oath) to break into any House
by Day or by Night, under Pretence (these are the Words'
of the Act) of searching for Deserters.

By the spirited Opposition of the Colonies, the first Act
was repealed ; but the latter continued, which, in its Spirit
differs nothing from the other. For thereby the Liberty
of the Colonies is invaded and their property disposed of
without their Consent, no less than by the Stamp-Act.
It was rather the more dangerous of the two, as the Ap-
pearance of the Constitution was preserved, while the
Spirit of it was destroyed, and thus a Tyranny introduced
under the Forms of Liberty. The Assemblies were not at
Liberty to refuse their Assent, but were to be forced to a
litteral Compliance with the Act. Thus, because the As-
sembly of New- York hesitated to comply, their Legisla-
tive Power was immediately suspended by another Act of
Parliament.

That the Repeal of the Stamp-Act might not invalidate
the Claims of Sovereignty now set up, an Act was passed,
asserting the Power of Parliament to bind us with their
Laws in every respect whatever. And to ascertain the
Extent of this Power, in the very next Session they pro-
ceeded to a direct Taxation; and in the very Words in
which they dispose of their own Property, they gave and
granted that of the Colonies, imposing Duties on Paper,
Glass, dr"^., imported into America^ to be paid by the Col-
onists, for the Purpose of raising a Revenue.

This Revenue when raised, they ordered to be disposed
of in such a Manner as to render our Assemblies or Legis-
lative Bodies altogether useless, and to make Governors,

TO THE MERCHANTS. 415

& Judges, who hold their Commission during Pleasure,
and the whole executive Powers of Government ; nay, the
Defence of the Country, independant of the People, as has
been fully explained in the Farmer'' s Letters.

Thus with a Consistency of Conduct, having divested us
of Property, they are proceeding to erect over us a des-
potic Government, and to rule us as Slaves. For "a
"despotical Power, says Mr. Locke.^ is over such as have
"no Property at all." If, indeed, to be subject in our
Lives and Property to the arbitrary Will of others, whom
we have never chosen, nor ever entrusted with such a
Power, be not Slavery, I wish, any Person would tell me
what Slavery is.

Such then being the State of the Case, you are now, my
Fellow-Citizens, to deliberate, not, whether you will tamely
submit to this System of Government — That I am sure
your Love of Freedom and Regard for yourselves and your
Posterity will never suffer you to think of — But by what
Means you may defend your Rights and Liberties, and
obtain a Repeal of these Acts.

In England^ when the Prerogative has been strained
too high, or the People oppressed by the executive Power,
the Parliament, who are the Guardians and Protectors of
the People's Liberties, always petition for Redress of
Grievances, and enforce their Petitions, by withholding
Supplies until they are granted.

Our Assembly, who are the Guardians and Protectors
of our Liberties, I am told, has applied for Relief from
their Acts of Parliament. But having nothing left to give,
they could not enforce their Application by withholding
any Thing.

It is, however, in our Power, in a peaceable and consti-
tutional Way, to add Weight, to the Remonstrance and
Petition of our Representatives, by stopping the Importa-
tion of Goods from Britain^ until we obtain Relief and
Redress by a Repeal of these unconstitutional Acts.

4i6 AN ADDRESS

But this, it may be said, is subjecting ourselves to pres-
ent Loss and Inconvenience.

I would beg Leave to ask, whether any People in any
Age or Country ever defended and preserved their Liberty
from the Encroachment of Power, without suffering pres-
ent Inconveniences. The Roman People suffered them-
selves to be defeated by their Enemies, rather than submit
to the Tyranny of the Nobles. And even in the Midst of
War, the Parliament of England has denied to grant Sup-
plies, until their Grievances were redressed; well knowing
that lio present Loss, Suffering, or Inconvenience, could
equal that of Tyranny or the Loss of Public Liberty. To
cite an Example, which our own Country furnishes ; you
all remember that in the very Heighth of the late terrible
Indian War, our Assembly and that of Maryland chose
rather to let the Country suffer great Inconvenience, than
immediately grant Supplies on Terms injurious to the
public Privileges and to Justice.

As then we cannot enjoy Liberty without Property, both
in our Lives and Estates; as we can have no Property in
that which another may of Right take and dispose of as
he pleases, without our Consent ; and as the late Acts of
Parliament assert this Right to be in them, we cannot en-
joy Freedom imtil this Claim is given up, and until the
Acts made in Consequence of it be repealed. For so long
as these Acts continue and the Claim is kept up, our
Property is at their Disposal, and our Lives at their Mercy.

To conclude, as Liberty is the great and only Security
of Property; as the Security of Property is the chief Spur
to Industry, (it being Vain to acquire what we have not a
Prospect to enjoy); and as the Stopping the Importation
of Goods is the only probable Means of preserving to us
and our Posterity this Liberty and Security, I hope, my
Brethren, there is not a Man among us, who will not
chearfully join in the Measure proposed, and with our

TO THE MERCHANTS.
Brethren of Boston and New- York freely forego a Present
Advantage; nay, even submit to a present Inconvenience
for the Sake of Liberty, on which our Happiness, Lives,
and Properties depend. Let us never forget that our
Strength depends on our Union, and our Liberty on our
Strength.

" United we conquer^ divided we die.''''

A SONG

FOR

AMERICAN FREEDOM.

BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

July, 1768.

NOTE.

The greatest problem in American politics for over one hundred years,
was to obtain united action, and to this, nearly every American states-
man gave his chief thought and labor. As early as May, 1754, Franklin
printed his divided serpent, with the legend "Join or die," and from
that time on, its constant republication in various forms and versions
proved how pressing every American felt the question of union to be.
This feeling produced the Massachusetts circular letter of February 11,
1768, pleading for united opposition to England, and when the Philadel-
phia Merchants quickly met to consider what action should be taken,
Dickinson ended his address to them with the words : "United we con-
quer, divided we die." But a few weeks later, he wrote and published a
song, enforcing the same idea, in which he struck the phrase :

" By uniting we stand, by dividing we fall" —
a line so epigrammatic of our crying need, that it has lived to this day,
and grafted upon another song, is still sung, as our ancestors sang it, in
now forgotten words and tune, one hundred and twenty-five years ago.

Dickinson sent a copy of the song to Otis, with the following letter :

Phii<adei,phia, y«/)/ 4th, 1768,
Dear Sir : I inclose you a song for American freedom. I have long
since renounced poetry. But as indifferent songs are frequently very
powerful on certain occasions, I venture to invoke the deserted muses.
I hope that my good intentions will procure pardon with those I wish
to please, for the boldness of my numbers.

My worthy friend. Dr. Arthur Lee, a gentleman of distinguished
family, abilities and patriotism, in Virginia, composed eight lines of it.
Cardinal de Retz always inforced his political operations by songs.
I wish our attempt may be useful. I shall be glad to hear from you,
if you have a moment's leisure to scribble a line to, dear sir, your most
affectionate, most obedient servant, John Dickinson.

Only two days later, Dickinson again wrote Otis :

Dear Sir : I inclosed to you the other day the copy of a song com-

422 NOTE.

posed in great haste, I think it was rather too bold, I now send a cor-
rected copy, which I like better. If you think the bagatelle worth
publishing, I beg it may be this copy, If the first is published before
this comes to hand, I shall be much obliged to you if you will be so
good as to publish this with some little note " that this is a true copy
of the original."

In this copy I think it may be well enough to add between the foiulh
and fifth stanzas, these lines :

How sweet are the labours that freemen endure,
That they shall enjoy all the profits secure.
No more such sweet labours Americans know,
If Britons shall reap what Americans sow.
In freedom we're born, &c.
I am dear sir, with the utmost sincerity, your most aflFectionate and
most humble servant, John Dickinson.

This song achieved a really marvelous success. Set to the tune of the
old English "Hearts of Oak," it was sung throughout the colonies.
The Massachusetts Gazette of August i8, 1768, states that at a great meet-
ing of "persons of credit at Liberty Hall, the much admired American song
was melodiously sung" whereupon "the gentlemen set out in their char-
iots and chaises for the Greyhound Tavern in Roxbury, where an elegant
entertainment was provided. After dinner the new song was again sung
and forty-five toasts drunk. After consecrating a tree to Liberty in Rox-
bury, they made an agreeable excursion round Jamaica Pond; and it is
allowed that this cavalcade surpassed all that has ever been seen in Amer-
ica." The Evening-Post of August 22, 1768, further noticed this as fol-
lows : "On Monday the 15th instant, the anniversary of the ever memora-
ble 14th of August, was celebrated by the sons of liberty in this town, with
extraordinary festivity. At the dawn, the British flag was displayed on
the Tree of Liberty, and a discharge of fourteen cannon, ranged under the
venerable elm, saluted the joyous day. At eleven o'clock a very large
company of the principal gentlemen and respectable inhabitants of the
town, met at the hall under the tree, while the streets were crowded with
a concourse of people of all ranks, public notice have been given of the
intended celebration. The music began at high noon, performed on var-
ious instruments, joined with voices ; and concluding with the universal
admired American song of liberty. The grandeur of its sentiment, and
the easy flow of its numbers, together with an exquisite harmony of

NOTE. 423

sound, afforded sublime entertainment to a numerous audience, fraught
with a noble ardour in the cause of freedom : the song was closed with a
discharge of cannon and a shout of joy ; at the same time the windows of
the neighbouring houses, were adorned with a brilliant appearance of
the fair daughters of Liberty, who testified their approbation. Which
being finished, the French horns sounded ; and after another discharge
of the cannon, completing the number ninety-two, the gentlemen in
their carriages repaired to the Greyhound tavern iu Roxbury, where a
frugal and elegant entertainment was provided. The music played dur-
ing the repast : after which several partinent toasts were given out, and
the repeated discharge of cannon spoke the general assent. Upon this
happy occasion, the whole company, with the approbation of their breth-
ren in Roxbury, consecrated a tree in the vicinity ; under the shade of
which, on some future anniversary, they may commemorate the day,
which shall liberate America from her present oppression ! Then mak-
ing an agreeable excursion round Jamaica pond, in which excursion they
received the salutation of a friend to the cause by the discharge of can-
non, at six o'clock they returned to town ; and passing in slow and or-
derly procession through the principal streets, and round the statehouse,
they retired to their respective dwellings. It is allowed that this caval-
cade surpassed all that has ever been seen in America. The joy of the
day was manly, and an uninterrupted regularity presided thro' the whole."
Again, a year later, on August 14, 1769, John Adams records ( Works, 11,
218), that he "dined with three hundred and fifty sons of Liberty, at Rob-
inson's, the sign of the Liberty tree in Dorchester . . . After dinner was
over and the toasts drunk, we were diverted with Mr. Balch's mimicry
... We had also the Liberty Song— that by the farmer, and that by
Dr. Church, and the whole company joined in the chorus. This is cul-
tivating the sensations of freedom."

• No copy of the first version, which Dickinson thought " too bold " hac
been preserved. That here printed is from the original Philadelphia
broadside edition, and is what I term the second text. The headlines
■were as follows :

"A New Song /To the Tune of Hearts of Oak," &c., / [Philadelphia:
Hall and Sellers. 1768.] /Fol. Broadside.

It was at once reprinted from this in the Pennsylvania Gazette and

424 NOTE.

in the Pennsylvania Journal, for July 7th, 1768. From one of tbese
sources it was republished in the New York Gazette, for July 11, i',68,
the Boston Gazette, for July 18, 1768) and in the Boston Chronicle, for
September 5, 1768. Dickinson added to it his new stanza (which I te-m
the third text), and sent it to the Pennsylvania Chronicle, where it vas
printed in the issue for July 11, 1768, in this revised form, with the fol-
lowing note :

"Mr. Goddard. Please to insert the following Song in your next

Chronicle, and you will oblige yours, &c., D."

In addition to this newspaper publication, it was printed in Boston by
Mein and Fleming, as a broadside, of which I have been able to find no
copy. This edition was advertised in the Boston Chronicle for Sept. 12,
1768, as follows :

The New and Favorite

LIBERTY SONG

Neatly engraved on Copper-pIvATE the

size of a half sheet of Paper,

Set to MUSIC for the VOICE

And to which is added,

A Set of NOTES adapted to the

German flute and Violin

Is just published and to be SOLD at the

London Book-store King-Street, Boston,

Price Sixpence Lawfui. single, and

Four Shili^ings Lawful, the dozen.

The words and music were also reproduced in :

" Bickerstaffs / Boston Almanack / For the year of our Lord 1769 ;
Being the first year after Leap Year / [Portrait of Wilkes] / Boston :
Printed by Mein and Fleming, and to be sold by John / Mein, at the
London Book-store, North-side of King street. / [Price seven Coppers
single, and 25s Old Tenor, or 3s, 4d Lawful the Dozen.]
These words and music are here reproduced. In the preface to the al-
manac the compiler stated :

"Courteous Reader * * *

I have been careful to insert whatever I thought would best conduce
to the Entertainment and Instruction of the Reader: — I shall only
mention two Articles as Instances. —

ist. The Plate of the Favorite Liberty Song, In Freedom We're Bom
and in Freedom We'll Live, single Copies of which have been sold in
great Numbers at Six Pence Lawful Money each."

— 5

2 o. 2 15 -

u *«

0 U «

.aw

2i 1
iJf.

c "» > .

w u * ••J'

<« 'E

5 •• ^

«» E c 2 2

<- rf"* r - 6
» 5-5 XiSo

> y — .* o «

£ > je r S o > » c - • •*

2 w •> V * c ».

2 "ST

i.|«.9j

I?

.2 a »» o

NOTE. 427

The song was also reprinted in Edes' and Gills' Almanac for 1770,
under the title of: "A New Song, now much in vogue in North Amer-
ica, to the tune of the Hearts of Oak," and again, in the Virginia edition
of the lyctters of a Farmer.

The song was at once parodied in one entitled "The Parody," printed
in The Boston Gazette of Sept. 26, 1768, where it was stated that, "last
Tuesday the following song made an appearance from a garrett at Castle
William :"

THE PARODY,

Come shake your dull noddles, ye pumpkins, and bawl,
And own that you're mad at fair Liberty's call ;
No scandalous conduct can add to your shame,
Condemn'd to dishonor, inherit the fame.
In folly you're bom, and in folly you'll live.
To madness still ready,
And stupidly steady.
Not as men, but as monkeys, the tokens you give.

Your grandsire, old Satan, now give him a cheer.
Would act like yourselves, and as wildly would steer :
So great an example in prospect still keep.
Whilst you are alive, Old Belza may sleep.

Such villains, such rascals, all dangers despise.
And stick not at mobbing when mischiefs the prize ;
They burst thro' all barriers, and piously keep
Such chattels and goods the vile rascals can sweep.

The Tree, which the wisdom of justice hath rear'd.
Should be stout for their use, and by no means be spar'd :
When fuddled with rum the mad sots to restrain.
Sure Tyburn will sober the wretches again.

Your brats and your hunters by no means forget.
But feather your nests, for they're bare enough yet ;
From the insolent rich sure the poor knave may steal,
Who ne'er in his life knew the scent of a meal.

When in your own cellars you've quaffed a regale,

Then drive, tug and , the next house to assail ;

For short is your harvest, nor long shall you know
The pleasure of reaping what other men sow.

428 NOTE.

Then plunder, my lads, for when red coats appear
You'll melt like the locust when winter is near ;
Gold vainly will glow, silver vainly will shine,
But, faith, you must skulk, you no more shall purloin.

Then nod your poor numskulls, ye pumpkins, and bawl,
The de'il take such rascals, fools, whoresons and all ;
Your cursed old trade of purloining must cease,
The dread and the curse of all order and peace.

All ages shall speak with contempt and amaze.
Of the vilest banditti that swarm'd in these days ;
In defiance of halters, of whips and of chains,
The rogues would run riot, — fools for their pains.

Gulp down your last dram, for the gallows now groans.
And, over depress'd, her lost empire bemoans
While we quite transported and happy shall be,
From mobs, knaves and villains, protected and free.

This was in turn parodied by a song entitled '* The Parody parodized*
printed, with music, in Edes' and Gills' Almanac for 1770. This latter;
according to Lossing and "Winsor, was by Mercy Warren. But they evi
dently are in error, for in the quotation from Adams' diary, already quoted
in this note, it is spoken of as written by Dr. Benjamin Church. It wat^
as follows :

THE PARODY PARODISED.
Come swallow your bumpers, ye tories, and roar,
That the sons of fair Freedom are hamper'd once more;
But know that no cut-throats our spirit can tame,
Nor a host of oppressors shall smother the flame.
In freedom we're born, and, like sous of the brave,
We'll never surrender,
But swear to defend her.
And scorn to survive, if unable to save.

Our grandsires, blest heroes! we'll give them a tear,
Nor sully their honors, by stooping to fear ;
Thro' deaths and thro' dangers their trophies they won,
We dare be their rivals, nor will be outdone.

Let tyrants and minions presume to despise.
Encroach on our rights, and make freedom their prize:
The fruits of their rapine they never shall keep ;
Tho' vengeance may nod, yet how short is her sleep !

NOTE. 429

The tree, which proud Haman for Mordecai rear'd,
Stands recorded, that virtue endanger'd is spar'd,
That rogues whom no bounds and no laws can restrain,
Must be stript of their honors, and humbled again.

Our wives and our babes, still protected, shall know,
Those who dare to be free, shall forever be so ;
On these arms and these hearts they may safely rely.
For in freedom we'll live, or like heroes we'll die.

Ye insolent tyrants ! who wish to enthrall
Ye minions, ye placemen, pimps, pensioners, all.
How short IS your triumph ! how feeble your trust !
Your honor must witber and nod to the dust.

"When oppress'd and reproached, our king we implore.
Still firmly persuaded our rights he'll restore 1
When our hearts beat to arms, to defend a just right.
Our monarch rules there, and ibrbids us to fight.

Not the glitter of arms, nor the dread of a fray.
Could make us submit to their chains for a day •
Withheld by aflfection, on Britons we call,
Prevent the fierce conflict which threatens your fall !

AU ages shall speak, with amaze and applause,
Of the prudence we i'how in support of our cause !
Assur'd of our safety, a Brunswick still reigns.
Whose free loyal subjects are strangers to chains.

Then ]oin tiand in nand, brave Americans all !
To be free is to live, to be slaves is to fall :
Has the land such a dastard, as scorns not a lord.
Who dreads not a fetter much more than a sword.
In freedom we're bom, and, like sons of the brave,

We'll never surrender.

But swear to defend her,
And scorn to survive, if unable to save.

Editor.

A NEW SONG.

To the Tune of " Hearts of Oak, eic,"

COME join Hand in Hand, brave AMERICANS all,
And rouse your bold Hearts at fair LIBERTY' Call ;
No tyrannous Acts shall suppress your just Claim
Or stain with Dishonor AMERICA'S Name —

In FREEDOM we're born, and in FREEDOM we'll I,IVB,
Our Purses are ready.
Steady, Friends, Steady,
Not as SLAVES, but as FREEMEN our Money we'll give.

Our worthy Forefathers — ^let's give them a Cheer —
To Climates unknown did courageously steer ;
Thro' Oceans to Deserts for Freeaom they came,
And dying bequeath'd us their Freedom, and Fatne.-^
In FREEDOM we're born, etc.

Their generous Bosoms all Dangers despis'd,
So highly^ so wisely, their Birth-Rights they priz'd ,
We'll keep what they gave, we will piously keep,
Nor frusQ-ate their Toils on the Land and the Deep.
In FREEDOM we're born, etc.

The Tree their own Hands had to LIBERTY rear'd,
They liv'd to behold growing strong and rever'd ;
With Transport then cry'd, " Now oxir Wishes we gain,
For our Children shall gather the Fruits of our Pain."
In FREEDOM we're born, etc:^

* In the text given in the Pennsylvania Chronicle, the following stanza is here in-
ert ed:

" How sweet are the labors that Freemen endure,
That they shall enjoy all the Profit, secure —
No more such sweet Labors Americans know
If Britons shall >-<a/ what Americans sow."— JErf.

432 A NEW SONG.

Swarms of Pi^acemen and Pensioners * soon will appear
I/ike Locusts deforming the Charms of the Year ;
Suns vainly will rise, Showers vainly descend,
If we are to drudge /or what others shall spend.
In FREEDOM we're born, etc.

Then join Hand in Hand brave AMERICANS all,
By uniting We stand, by dividing We fall ;
IN SO RIGHTEOUS A CAUSE let us hope to succeed,
For Heaven approves of each generous Deed —
In FREEDOM we're born, etc.

All Ages shall speak with Amaze and Applause,
Of the Courage we'll shew IN SUPPORT OF OUR LAWS ;
To DIE we can bear, — but, to SERVE we disdain —
For SHAME is to Freemen more dreadful than Pain —
In FREEDOM we're born, etc.

This Bumper I crown for our Sovereign's Health.
And this for Britannia's Glory and Wealth ;
That Wealth and that Glory immortal may be,
If She is buty«^/ — and if We are but Free —
In FREEDOM we're born, etc.

* The Ministry have already begun to give away in PENSIONS the Money THEY have
lately taken out of our Pockets WITHOUT OUR CONSENT.

LETTER

TO THE

PHILADELPHIA MERCHANTS

CONCERNING

NON-IMPORTATION.

BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

July, 1768.

NOTE.

In spite of Dickinson's arguments in his Address to The Merchants
{ante) the Philadelphia voluntary association for non-importation proved
inaflFective by the few signatures that were given to it. Indeed the point
of view of the popular party, as expressed by Arthur Lee, in the Pennsyl-
vania Chionide of May 30, 1768, was that "the spirit of liberty is
lukewarm in this powerful and im'portant city." The failure at once be-
came a subject of newspaper controversy. Charles Thomson, over the
signature of "A Freeborn American," in the Pennsylvania Gazette of
May 12, 1768, attacked the merchants bitterly, and this was echoed by an
anonymous letter in the Gazette for June 2nd. These were answered by
Galloway, over the signature of "A Chester County Farmer," in the
Gazette of June 24th, stating that the Philadelphia merchants had "dis-
covered the secret intention in the New-England_schf me, ] that it would
be very disadvantageous to the Trade of this Province, aud when we
compare the flourishing and great increase in our Trade with the various
accounts we have of their [the Boston] long declining state . . . they
[Philadelphia and Boston] cannot be thought on any equal footing."

This was in turn replied to, probably by Thomson, in the Gazette for
July 2 r, over the signature of ' 'Martinus Scriblerius. ' ' Galloway continued
the subject, by a set of "queries" to the Philadelphia merchants in the
Pennsylvania Chronicle for July 25, signed "A. B.," which were replied
to by " C." in the Gazette of Aug. 4, 1768. Nor was the controversy lim-
ited in print to the newspapers. Dickinson published a piece entitled :
A copy of a letter from a Gentleman of Virginia, / To a Merchant in

Philadelphia. / Folio. Broadside.
This was answered in another sheet, signed " Pacificus," probably written
by Galloway, entitled :

To the Public / Philadelphia : Printed by William Goddard, / 4to,

Broadside.

A copy of Dickinson's broadside, in the Arthur Lee papers, is endorsed,

436 NOTE.

" Wrote by Mr. Dickinson, and copied by me for the printer ;" making it
evident that Dickinson did not wish the merchants to know that he was
joining in the abuse of them.

The attempt to obtain a non-importation agreement did not end with
this apparent failure. On Ayg. 15, 1768, the freeholders of Boston
adopted such an agreement, which was imitated by the New York mer-
chants Aug. 25. Under the pressure of this action, the Philadelphia
merchants appointed a committee to endeavor to obtain a like agree-
ment ; but though the committee met several times, they were com-
pelled to report the measure impracticable, though the leading mer^
chants were willing to agree not to import the articles specially taxed.
Finally a public meeting was called, for Sept. 22, by the committee, but
not a fourth of the merchants attended it, and nothing was accomplished,
This renewed the newspaper warfare, a bitter article appearing in the
New York Journal for Oct. 6, attacking the Philadelphia merchants, and
claiming that the measure had been defeated by the refusal of only eight
or ten firms. This was answered in a "narrative" in the Pennsylvania
Gazette, which is apparently official, and is a most valuable paper. To
this a reply was printed in the New York Journal for Nov. 3, 1768. Here
the matter rested some time, the extremists having failed to force their
measures, so that Galloway wrote Franklin, "Great pains have been taken
in this city by some hotheaded, indiscreet men, to raise a spirit of vio--
lence against the late act of parliament, but the design was crushed in
its beginnings by our friends so effectually, that I think we shall not
have it renewed." In this Galloway erred, for finally, in March, 1769,
the Philadelphia merchants, induced by a boycott, threats of mob vio-
lence, and other stress, united in a non-importation agreement. Under
such circumstances it could hardly have been expected that it would be
successfully enforced, and as early as April there were charges of viola-
tion bandying between Boston, New York, and Philadelphia, which
hardly furthered "united action." How Boston cheated at the triangu-
lar game was published at the time in Mein's State of Importations from
Great Britain into the Port of Boston ; and just how far each colony lived
up to its promises is shown by comparison of the actual figures of im-
ports for fomr years, under unrestricted trade, and under the agree-
ments :

NOTE.
7/(57-5. 1768-g,

1769-70.

1770-1.

New England,

/419.375 ;^207,993

/394.451

^"1,420,119

New York,

482,930 74,918

475,991

653,621

Pennsylvania,

432,107 199.909

134,881

728,744

Maryland and Virginia,

475.954 488,362

717,782

920,326

Carolina,

289,868 306,600

146,273

409,169

— bearing out Lord North's statement in Parliament that "New York has
kept strictly to its agreements, but infractions of them by the people of
Boston show they will come to nothing." As these facts became known,
the difficulties of enforcing the agreements became greater and greater,
and finally on May 15, 1770, the Philadelphia merchants partly sus-
pended the one they had made. Two months later New York entirely
receded from hers, and this marked the entire collapse of the attempt, to
the relief of the whole mercantile interest, and of consumers. The popular
party, especially in Boston, were greatly enraged at its failure, and were
extremely bitter against New York for its " unprincipled action ;' ' and the
charges and counter charges of various gatherings and town meetings
flooded the papers till the repeal of the acts was announced, when the
mutual recriminations ceased.

Editor.

A COPY OF A LETTER FROM A GENTLEMAN

IN VIRGINIA, TO A MERCHANT IN

PHILADELPHIA.

Sir:

"I Have read, with much Attention, your Apology for
the Merchants of Philadelphia ; and think you have great
Merit, in attempting to vindicate a Conduct, which is
deemed inexplicably spiritless by the Inhabitants of every
other Colony.

"One would imagine there has been something very
mysterious in the Behaviour of the Merchants of Boston,
to have induced you to treat them with so much Con-
tempt ; if their Conduct, since the first Dispute with our
Mother-Country, had not been manly, candid and in-
genuous.

"You confess, that many of you opposed the Suspension^
in Consequence of Advice received from your particular
Friends in London^ that prudent and pacific Measures
would be most agreeable to the Ministry and Parliament;
and that it was dangerous to provoke them. This, no
doubt, influenced some among you — But, in my Opinion,
we must look somewhere else for the real Cause of your
Opposition : perhaps an Examination into the Nature and
Design of the Stamp-Act, and the grevious one, to which
you still bend the Knee, may discover the lurking Prin-
ciple, upon which you acted.

"The Stamp- Act was intended to raise a Revenue in
America : and the Produce of the several Duties were or-
dered to be paid into the Receipt of his Majesty's Ex-
[ chequer, and there reserved, to be, from Time to Time,

440 LETTER TO THE MERCHANTS

disposed of by Parliament, towards defending, protecting,
and securing the American Colonies and Plantations. —
This Act, in your Resolutions for Suspending the Impor-
tation of Goods from Great-Britain, you, without Cere-
mony, declared to be unconstitutional ; you likewise
entered into spirited Measures for obtaining a Repeal of it,
which had an immediate and a desired Effect. — You ob-
served, justly, that the Stamp- Act was unconstitutional —
altho your Reasons, for believing it to be so, were not then
explained. Your Opinion must have been founded upon
this obvious Truth, That no Power on Earth had a Right
to take Money out of your Pockets without your Consent,
expressly declared by yourselves or your chosen Represen-
tatives.— Not content with barely remonstrating against
the Stamp-Act — You also insisted 'That the many DiiS-
culties you then laboured under, as a trading People, were
owing to the Restrictions, Prohibitions, and ill-advised
Regulations made in the several other Acts of the Parlia-
ment of Great-Britain, lately passed to regulate the Colo-
nies ; which had encreased the Cost and Expence of many
Articles of your Importation, and cut off from you all
Means of supplying yourselves with Specie enough to pay
the Duties imposed on you, much less, to serve as a
Medium of your Trade.'

"The Acts, against which, you spoke thus freely — still
remain in full Force and Virtue ; and when you obtained
a Repeal of the Stamp-Act, glorious as it was — you ob-
tained but a Part of your Demand. — The Repeal of it was
well worth the Pains and Trouble it cost you. — It was in-
deed so replete with ministerial Venom, and proved such
a general and oppressive Burthen, that Judges, Lawyers,
Physicians, Parf>ons, Merchants, Farmers, nay School-
Boys and Orphans, were alike subject to its baneful influ-
ence.

"The Sufferings of all Ranks of People induced the7n to

CONCERNING NON-IMPOR TA TION 441

oppose it — Business was consequently at a Stand. — The
civil Courts were shut, and you could sue no Man for the
Recovery of a Debt — You were therefore obliged to sacri-
fice a very considerable Interest ; and you determined to
import no Goods from Great- Britain, until it was repealed.
— This was your Virtue ! — This your Resolution ! — Your
Patriotism and private Interests were so intimately con-
nected, that you could not prostitute the one, without en-
dangering the other : And you would have been partic-
ularly fortunate, if Great-Britain, when she repealed the
Stamp-Act, had redressed all your Grievances ; and had
never thought of imposing new ones — You would, then^
have been distinguished, in the Annals of America, among
her best and most virtuous Sons, for a timely and resolute
Defence of her Liberties ; and the Virtues, which under
the present Tax you have despised and slighted, would
have been, tho' unmerited, your greatest Glory — But
Charles Townshend, with an artful and penetrating Eye,
saw clearly to the Bottom of your Hearts — He knew, that,
the private Interests of the Merchants were the Rocks
against which Greenville's favorite Argo had unfortunately
split ; and that no Act of Parliament, for raising a Revenue
in America, could be executed without their Consent and
Approbation.

"To this Gentleman, you must attribute the Loss of
your Reputation : and it was, certainly, your Misfortune,
and the Misfortune of all America^ that you did not know
him^ as well as he knew you^ — He imposed Duties upon
Paper, Glass, and Painter's Colours; Articles of Commerce,
which will prove most grevious Taxes upon the Country
in general ; but cannot affect you, as Merchants : For it is
notorious, that a Merchant must have his Profit on every
Article of his Trade, let the Original Cost be what it may :
'The Purchaser of any Article, very seldom reflects that
'the Seller raises his Price, so as to indemnify himself for

442 LETTER TO THE MERCHANTS

' the Tax he has paid. He knows that the Prices of things
'are continually fluctuating, and if he thinks about the
'Tax, he thinks at the same Time, in all probability, that
'he might have paid as much, if the Articles he buys had
'not been taxed. He gets something visible and agree-
'able for his Money ; the Tax and Price are so confounded
'together, that he cannot separate, or does not chuse to
'take the Trouble of separating them.' — Thus have the
People of your Province been deceived into a Pacific Com-
pliance with this particular Act, the Preamble of which
declares it is intended to raise a Revenue in America.
You did not esteem it your Duty, as Merchants nor as
American Freemen, to oppose it ; because it did not
DiRECTi^Y AFFECT YOUR PRIVATE INTERESTS. The Par-
liamentary Right, of Taxing America, you thought of
little Consequence, when compared with your own Ease
and Safety. — You concluded, that although it was uncon-
stitutional^ it could not do much Harm in your Time, and,
that, if your Posterity did not like it, or found it insup-
portable,— they might endeavour to remove it. — By such
deceitful Reasoning, you persuaded yourselves you were
discharging your Duty; when you were industriously
riveting Chains upon your Descendants, who will have no
great Cause of Obligation to you for such distinguished
Favours. — The Merchants in the Northern Colonies, de-
spised these inglorious Motives : They were willing to lose
their whole Trade^ rather than suffer their Country to be
enslaved — and for this Reason determined to suspend the
Importation of Goods from Great-Britain, until the several
Acts of P 1 imposing Duties on America, were re-
pealed.— This was their Virtue ! This their Resolution ! —
Your Opposition to this Measure, prevented it from taking
Effect, and you may thank yourselves for the blessed Con-
sequences which are like to follow. —

"These Reflections may appear harsh and uncharitable ;

CONCERNING NON-IMPORTATION. 443

but they are the Reflections of every man, who is not tinc-
tured with the local Prejudices of your Province — Believe
me, your Opposition to the Proposal of the Merchants of
New- York and Boston, although it might have been
founded upon specious Arguments, has done infinite Preju-
dice to the American Cause ; and created great Jealousies
in your Neighbours Breasts ; which, nothing, but j^our
determined Resolution to assist in removing those heavy
Burthens, with which they and you are equally oppressed,
will effectually heal. — An Union, between the several
Colonies in Sentiment and Action, is essentially necessary

to their Preservation ; and had not my Lord H h been

informed, that we were dis-united in both — he would
never have treated the Inhabitants of the Massachusetts-
Bay with so much severity ; nor the other Colonies with
such indignity. His Lordship imagined, from the Dis-
union of these Provinces, of which no Doubt he has had
faithful Intelligence, that Dragooning of One would in-
timidate and silence the Rest; and his Judgment was
founded upon a plausible Principle. — However, 'there are
things which at some-times even Slaves will not bear ;'
and I apprehend his Lordship's Letter will prove too hard
even for you to bear. This Letter is an express Declara-
tion, that the Ministry intend to direct and influence our
Assemblies, by threatening them with a Dissolution,
whenever they may have the Confidence, contrary to min-
isterial Mandates, to consult or promote the Safety, Honor
and Interest of their Constituents. I hope your Assembly
will take the first Opportunity to resent the grossest Indig-
nity ever offered to the Representatives of a free and loyal
People, and shew no Symptoms of that Modesty of which
Mr. Pitt so justly complained in the House of Commons. —
If a B M r imagines he can intimidate an Amer-
ican Assembly, Threats, nay Punishments, will be made
use of to execute the most slavish Maxims ; and the very

444 LETTER TO THE MERCHANTS

Men, whom we may invest with Power to promote and
secure our Interests, will under such Infiiience^ effectually
ruin us. For what Faith can we repose in our Assemblies,
when they do not esteem themselves answerable to us for
their Conduct ; but to arbitrary Ministers^ who will always
make it their Interests to oppress and enslave us? We
had better have no Representatives, if we cannot, when
we think proper, instruct and direct them ; and, at the
same time, have a reasonable Assurance of their obeying
our Orders. The People are to all Litents and^gurposes.
Masters. — Their Representatives are their dignified Ser-
vants.— And we shall be justly chargeable with /^/zVzV«/
Suicide^ if we are stupidly fond of an Establishment,
which, on the Principle of ministerial Supremacy^ will de-
stroy our Civil Existence.

"It is, certainly, a most cruel Dilemma, to be obliged to
sacrifice every Thing that is most dear and valuable
among Men, or to contend with our Mother Country. — But
let us not, in this Case, distinguish Great-Britain from
any other Power — To Freemen it must be indifferent, who
their Oppressors are— If Britons oppress us, and strive
might and main to enslave us — all pretended Ties of an-
cient Favours, Friendship, Duty, are destroyed: G

B , France, or any Power on Earth, pursuing the same

Measures, ought indiscriminately to be opposed. — I shall
conclude this Letter with an historical Fact very appli-
cable to the present Subject.

"The Privernates had been several Times subdued by
the Romans, and had as often revolted; but their City was
at last retaken by the Consul Plautius— In these distressed
Circumstances they sent Ambassadors to Rome, to sue for
Peace — Upon a Senator's asking them what Punishment
they thought they deserved; one of them answered, 'That
which is due to Men who think themselves worthy of Lib-
erty.' Then the Consul asked them, whether there was

CONCERNING NON-IMPORTATION. 445

any Room to hope, that they would observe the Peace, if
their Fault was pardoned? 'The peace shall be perpetual
between us,' replied the Ambassador, 'and we shall faith-
fully observe it, if the Conditions you lay tipon us are just
and reasonable ; but if they are hard and dishonorable^ the
peace will not be of long Continuance, and we shall very
soon break it.'

"Though some of the Senators were offended at this
Answer, yet most of them approved of it, and said that 'it
was worthy of a Man and of a Man that was born free ;'
acknowledging therefore the Force of the Rights of human
Nature, they cried out, that 'those alone deserved to be
Citizens of Rome, who esteemed nothing in comparison of
Liberty.'^ Thus the very Persons, who were at first threat-
ened with Punishment, were admitted to the Rights of
Citizens, and obtained the Conditions they wanted; the
generous Refusal of the Privernates to comply with the
Terms of a dishonourable Treaty, gained them the Privi-
lege of being incorporated into a State, which at that Time
could boast of the bravest, and most virtuous Subjects in
the Universe."

A PETITION

FROM THE

ASSEMBLY OF PENNSYLVANIA

TO THE

KING

DRAWN BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

March 9, 1771.

NOTE.

Dickinson's course in opposing the petition to the King in 1764, to make
Pennsylvania a royal colony, was so unpopular that it resulted in his de-
feat as a candidate to the Assembly in the October election of 1766 ; and
from that time, till the election of 1770, the influence of Galloway was
strong enough to secure his exclusion from that body. But the questions
over the colonial charter became less important, while the greater ques-
tions of the relation of the colonies to the parent state became more and
more vital. This change brought Dickinson once more into popular
favor, and despite Galloway's opposition, he was elected to the Assembly
from the City of Philadelphia, in October, 1770.

Led by Galloway, that body had hitherto taken what the extremists
had deemed a very lukewarm attitude. It had paid no heed to the Mas-
sachusetts circular letter, or the Virginia resolutions of May, 1768. In-
deed, Lord North, in Parliament, praised Pennsylvania for having "be-
haved with more moderation than the other colonies." The Assembly
had indeed in 1768 voted a petition to parliament, denying to that body
the right of taxation, (which was drawn by Allen with the aid Dickin-
son, according to StilU,) but it had otherwise taken no action since the
passage of the Stamp Act resolutions of 1765. Dickinson's election,
however, marked a momentary change of party power, and this was
quickly shown by the Assembly's transmitting, on his motion, another
petition, though that sent three years before remained still unnoticed.
How far the petition conformed to the draft Dickinson prepared, cannot
be ascertained, as the draft was recommitted for amendment.

The history of this petition is recorded in the Votes and Proceedings,
(VI) as follows :

Upon Motion by a Member, [Feb. 4, 1771].

That Part of the Duties imposed by a late Act of Parliament on cer-
tain Articles imported into the Colonies, remains unrepealed, and that
great Danger to the rights of the Americans is justly apprehended

450 NOTE.

from the Continuance of such a precedent for taxing them without
their Consent.

Ordered, That Mr. Fox, Mr. Dickinson, Mr. Browne, Mr. Morton,
Mr. Carpenter, Mr. Swope, Mr. Montgomery and Mr. Edmonds be a
Committee to prepare and bring in a Draught of a Petition to his Ma-
jesty in Council, humbly praying Relief, by his gracious Interposition
with the Parliament for obtaining a Repeal of the Duty remaining on
Tea &c. imported into the American colonies. . . .

The House resumed the Consideration of the Draught of their Peti-
tion to his Majesty, and after some Time spent therein, Objections
arising to particular Paragraphs thereof, the said Draught was recom-
mitted to the Committee that brought it in, for Alteration. . . .

The Committee to whom the Petition to his Majesty was recommitted
for Amendment, reported the same with some Alterations, which
were read by Order, and referred to further Consideration. . . .

The House resumed the Consideration of their intended Petition to
his Majesty, and after some Time spent therein, adjourned to Three
o'clock, P, M. . . .

The House proceeded in the Consideration of their Petition to the
King, which being again read, and debated by Paragraphs, was ordered
to be transcribed. . . .

The Petition to his Majesty being transcribed according to Order, was
compared at the Table, [and] signed by the Speaker. . . .
This Petition was adopted March 9, 1771, under which date it is printed
in the Votes and Proceedings, (VI, 299).

Editor.

A PETITION.

To THE King's Most Excellent Majesty.

The Petition of the Representatives of the Freemen of
the Province of Pennsylvania. Most humbly sheweth,

That we your Majesty's faithful Subjects, the Represen- ^
tatives of the Freemen of Pennsylvania, in General A5>- /
sembly met, humbly ask Permission to offer to your Royal ^
Wisdom our dutiful Supplication.

In our last Petition to your Majesty, we prayed Relief,
of a Grievance, which the good People of this Province .
suflfered, by Duties being imposed upon them by Act of
Parliament, for the sole Purpose of raising a Revenue ; and
though that Act has been repealed as to Part of these
Taxes, yet the Duties on Tea, and other enumerated Goods,
not made in Great-Britain, but from thence exported to ,
these Colonies, are still retained with Intent, as we have
great Reason to fear, of establishing thereby a Precedent
for repeating such Taxations upon us hereafter.

Thus we lose Possession of Part of our Property, and the
Title to the Remainder becomes extremely precarious: -
For as we cannot, from our Situation, be in any Manner
represented in Parliament, your Royal Wisdom will per-
ceive that we can call nothing our own, which others as-
sume a Right to take from us, without our Consent.

The Aggrievance still continuing notwithstanding the
late Repeal, our Confidence in your Majesty's transcendent ^•
Goodness, induce us to hope, that through your gracious
Interposition we may yet obtain Redress. — If we attempted •
to promote Innovations, we might deserve Censure. We
only endeavour to avoid them. — We presume not to re-
quest the Grant of any new Right in our favour, nor auj

^"'^

452 A PETITION TO THE KING.

Diminution of the Royal Prerogative ; but only to be re-
stored to that which we constantly till of late enjoyed,—^
the invaluable exclusive Privilege of demonstrating our
Affection for our Sovereign, and our Duty to his Gover-
ment, as heretofore, by voluntary Gifts of our Property to
him. ""^

This Privilege, repeatedly recognized by your Majesty
and former Kings and Parliaments, our Ancestors trans-
mitted inviolate to us, we possessed it without Abuse, and
have lost it without Offence : For we beg lycave to assure
your Majesty, that none of your Subjects are or can be
more affectionately and firmly attached to your Majesty's
Person, Family and Government, than your faithful
People, the Inhabitants of Pennsylvania.

Most gracious Sovereign,

Fully confiding, that your Majesty will always make the
Preservation of the Constitutional Rights of y-our Subjects
a principal Object of your Attention, and that your Royal
Disposition delights in the Freedom and Happiness of your
People, We most humbly and earnestly implore your Ma-
jesty, by your Royal Authority, Influence, and Recom-
mendation, to procure us Relief from the Grievance now
most respectfully represented.

Signed by Order of the House,

JOSEPH GALIyOWAY, Speaker.

Philadelphia, March 5, 1771.

TWO LETTERS

ON THE

TEA TAX.

BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

November, 1773.

NOTE.

The first of these letters was printed in the Pennsylvania Journal for
We<Jnesday, Nov. 3, 1773, with the following introduction :

Messrs. BRADFORDS

Please to insert the following Extract of a Letter to a Gentleman
of this City, in your paper, and you 2vill oblige your humble servant,

Y.Z.

The second letter was printed as a broadside, the lining of the head-
lines being :

A Letter from the Country, / To a Gentleman in Philadelphia. /
[signed] Rusticus. [Folio. Broadside.]

This was reprinted in New York, backed, by the "Association of the
Sons of Liberty," the committee of which supplied a prefatory note, as
follows :

The celebrated I'ennsylvania Farmer, having been frequently called
upon in public, to give his Sentiments relative to the Measures that
should be adopted to Baffle the present Design of the Ministry, and the
India Company to enslave America, He is, from the stile, and other
Considerations, supposed to be the Author of the following Letter, pub-
lished in Philadelphia, which is re-published for your information.
And its material to observe, that he recommends to the Inhabitants of
that City, to pursue the same -'^t2|^g_w^^^p|^ bay? b?f>n tgV^ here, by
the Association of the Sons ol Liberty, of this City ; a copy of which
you have on the other side. Many^of the respectable Inhabitants have
already signed it, and those who are disposed to give a decent and firm
opposition, to the Design of enslaving the Colonies, are hereby invited
to accede to it. The Committee of the Asssociation.

New York, December 4, 1773.

This broadside was headed :

A Letter from the Country, to a Gentleman in Philadelphia : / My Dear
Friend [signed] Rusticus. [Folio. Broadside.]

Editor.

A LETTER.

SIR.

"I RECEIVED your favor, inclosing the Act of Par-
liament, passed this year, to allow a drawback of the
duties of customs on the exportation of Tea to any of his
Majesty's colonies or plantations in America, &c.

" Can it be possible that any person of common under-
standing, upon reading this Act, should take up an opin-
ion that the Tea sent to America by the East-India Com-
pany was discharged from the duty of three pence per
pound, which the Act passed in the year 1767, for the
purpose of raising a revenue in America, ordered to be
paid on its being landed here. To my view, and I think
I have read the Act with some attention, there is not the
least foundation, on which, to ground such an opinion.
This Act relates altogether to the duties of customs paya-
ble in England, and for the payment of which, the East-
India Company are obliged, by sundry Acts of Parliament,
to give security, under the common seal; but it has not
the least reference to the duty payable here, which was

laid for the purpose of taxing the Ampripgn^;

" From the recitals in this Act it appears, that by former
Acts of Parliament certain duties were imposed upon all
Teas imported by the East-India Company, — that the
Company were obliged to give security for the payment
of those duties, so soon as their Teas are sold, and were
obliged to sell their goods, openly and fairly, by way of
auction, or by inch of candle, within the space of three
years from the importation, — that the persons, who pur-
chased at these sales, were obliged within three days after
the sale, to deposit with the Company 40s. for every tub

458 LETTERS ON THE TEA TAX.

8l chest, under certain terms and conditions, — and that
upon exporting it to Ireland and America, there was
granted, for a certain limited time, a drawback of three-
fifth parts of the several duties of customs, which were
paid upon the importation.

"Let us now review this Act, which is made expressly
for the benefit and advantage of the East-India Company.
In the first paragraph, instead of three-fifths, the whole
of the duties payable upon the importation is to be drawn
back from all Teas bought at the Company's Sales and
exported to America. But lest this encouragement should
increase the number of purchasers and exporters, and
thereby prevent the Company from reaping the advan-
tages of the monoply intended for them by this Act. It
is provided in the next paragraph, that every buyer, in-
stead of 40s. shall deposit /our pounds. The third para-
graph points out a way, whereby the Company, instead
of exposing their Teas to sale, may be enabled to export
them to any ports beyond the seas; and the paragraph
following relieves them from the security given for the
payment 01 duties, and provides, that they may export
their Tea without paying any duty, or as the Act expres-
ses it, 'discharged from the payment of any customs or
[duties whatsoever.' But no provision is made to dis-
charge these Teas from the duty ordered to be paid upon
heir being i7nported into America. This is an objection
never bro't into view by this Act, that the custom or
duties from which the Teas are here discharg'd, are no
other than those, for the payment of which, the Company
were obliged to give security, appears plainly by the pro-
viso, which immediately follows, whereby the Collector
and Comptroller are authorized, upon certain conditions,
to write off and discharge the quantity of Tea so exported,
from the warrent of the respective ship in which such
Tea was imported."

Fair-view, October 30, 1773.

^^

LETTERS ON THE TEA TAX. 459

My Dear Friend,

I AM very sorry for the Piece of Intelligence you were
pleased to communicate to me in your last. Five Ships^
loaded with TEA, on their Way to America^ and this with
a View not only to enforce the Revenue Act^ but to estab-
lish a Monopoly for ths^^East- India Company^ who have
espoused the Cause of the Ministry; and hope to repair
their broken Fortunes by the Ruin of American freedom
and Liberty! No Wonder the Minds of the People are
exasperated, as you say, to a degree of Madness. The
Scripture tells us: ''''Oppression will make a wise Man ^
mad.'''' And when Insolence is joined with Oppression,
I should deem him not far from a Fool or Idiot, who did
not feel a degree of Madness. Pray have you heard,
whether they and the Minister have not made a Property
^US, and whether We, our Wives and Children, to-
gether, with the HARD earned Fruits of our Labour,
are not made over to this almost bankrupt Company^ to aug-
ment their Stock, and to repair their ruined Fortunes?
Justice seems to have forsaken the old World. Three
public Robbers in Europe have taken Possession of a
neighbouring Kingdom, and divided among themselves as
lawful Booty. The Rights of free States and Cities are
swallowed up in Power. Subjects are considered as Prop-
erty. If I am well informed, not longer ago than last
Year, a Company of Merchants in Spain purchased from
the King the exclusive Right of the Trade of one of the
most considerable Islands in the West Indies^ and to in-
demnify themselves for the Purchase Money, are now
carrying on that Trade in a Manner that must ruin every
Inhabitant of that Island. Are we in like Manner to be
given up to the Disposal of the East^ridia_Company ^ who
have now the Assurance to step forth in Aid of the Minis-
ter, to execute his Plan of enslaving America? Their
conduct in Asia^ for some Years past, has given ample

46o LETTERS ON THE TEA TAX.

Proof, how little they regard the Laws of Nations, the
Riglits, Liberties, ~or Live! of Men. They have levied
War, excitecl Rebellious, dethroned lawful Princes, and
sacrificed Millions for the Sake of Gain. The Revenues
of mighty Kingdoms have centered in their Coffers. And
these not being sufficient to glut their Avarice, they have,
by the most unparalleled Barbarities, Extortions and Mo-
nopolies, stripped the miserable Inhabitants of their Prop-
erty, and reduced whole Provinces to Indigence and Ruin.
Fifteen hundred Thousand, it is said, perished by Famine
in one Year, not because the Earth denied its Fruits, but
this Company and its Servants engrossed all the Necessa-
ries of Life, and set them at so high a Rate, that the Poor
could not purchase them. Thus having drained the
Sources of that immense Wealth, which they have for
several Years past been accustomed to amass, and squan-
der away on their Lusts, and in corrupting their Country,
they now, it seems, cast their Eyes on America^ as a new
Theatre, whereon to exercise their Talents of Rapine,
Oppression and Cruelty. The Monopoly of Tea, is, I dare
say, but a small Part of the Plan they have formed to strip
us of our Property. But thank GOD, we are not Sea Poys,
/ nor Marattas, but British Subjects^ who are born to Lib-
erty, who know its Worth, and who prize it high. We
are engaged in a mighty Struggle. The Cause is of the
utmost Importance, and the Determination of it will fix
our Condition as Slaves or Freemen. It is not the paltry
Sum of Three-Pence which is now demanded, but the
Principle upon which it is demanded, that we are contend-
ing against. Before we pay any Things let us see whether
we have any Thing we can call our own to pay.
^.j-y Hitherto the dispute has been carried on with a Spirit,
Temper, and Moderation, that must prove us worthy to
enjoy that Liberty, for which we contend. And I hope
and earnestly wish, that the Prudence we have hitherto

LETTERS ON THE TEA TAX. 461

exercised, may not be borne down by the Indignation
which you say is so justly and universally kindled at these
insolent Intruders. I am very sensible how the Spirit of
a Man rises, when unworthy Agents are used to destroy
him. It is something of Consolation to be overcome by a
Lion, but to be devoured by Rats is intolerable. y

But, my dear Friend, it is not only the cause, but our
Manner of conducting it, that will establish our Character.
The Happiness and Prosperity both of the Colonies and
of Great-Britain depend upon an intimate Union & Con-
nexiofl. This Union, it is true, depends upon Freedom.
For without Freedom there can be no Confidence. With-
out Confidence no Affection; and without Affection, con-,
sidering our Situation and Distance from Britain^ the
Union between this Country and that cannot long subsist
To preserve, therefore, that Union, and promote the Hap-
piness and Prosperity of both Countries, let us resolve to
maintain our^iberty. But in doing this, when any Dif-
ference arises, as on the present unhappy Occasion, let us
act so as to leave Room for a Return of the old good Hu-
mour, Confidence and Affection, which has subsisted be-
tween Great-Britain and this Country, since the first
settlement of the Colonies. —

I HEAR a Buz among my Neighbours, that the East-
India Company 5 Tea is to be guarded by Men of War,
and landed by a Military Force; that the Reason, why the
General did not come to review the Troops in your City,
was, lest in his Absence the Tea should arrive in New
York^ and his Presence might be necessary to land and
protect it. Though I have no Doubt but this Company,
hackneyed as they are in Murders, Rapine and Cruelty,
would sacrifice the Lives of Thousands to preserve their
Trash, and enforce their measures; yet I can hardly per-
suade myself that the Ministry are so mad, as to give
Orders, at the Hazard of losing the Affection of the Amer-

\

462 LETTERS ON THE TEA TAX.

icajts^ to preserve that, which, considering the Time it has
already lain in the East-India Companf s Ware-houses,
must already be in a perishing State.

But should that be the Case, let us disappoint their
Malice. We have yet a command of our Persons. Our
Houses, Stores and Wharves are at our own Disposal.
Resolve, therefore, nobly resolve and publish to the World
your Resolutions, that no Man wnll receive the Tea, no
Man will let his Stores, nor suflfer tjie Vessel, that brings
it, to moor at his Wharf, and that if any Person assists
in unlading, landing or storing it, he shall ever after
be deemed an Enemy to his Country, and never be em-
ployed by his Fellow Citizens. I am sure, from what I
have formerly known of our PORTERS, there is not a
Man among them, that will lend a Hand; and I question,
whether among the whole Class ot Labourers that ply about
the Wharves, there will be found One, who would not rather
go without his Dinner than, for double Wages, touch the
accursed Trash. Believe me, my Friend, there is a Spirit
-^f Liberty and a love of_their C"^^"try among every Class
of Men amongjgs, which Experience will evince, and
which shew them worthy the Character of free-born A7ner-

icans. It is a Question with me, from what I liave seen

among the Troops.^ whether any Thing less than the last
Exertion of military Discipline will prevail on one Soldier,
who has been but one Year in this Country to lend a Hand
to unload or store the Tea. I am sure there is not a Re-
cruit enlisted here, who would not rather desert, than be
compelled to do an Act, which will render him odious to
his Countrymen. Besides, it is not to be supposed, that a
GENTI.EMAN Soldier, will submit to the indignity of be-
coming a Porter to the East-India Company. And as to
the Commissioners^ appointed to receive this Tea, notwith-
standing you tell me the Answer of one House was not
satisfactory; yet from the Knowledge I have of the Gentle-

LETTERS ON THE TEA TAX. 463

men, that compose that House, I would venture my Life,
they prefer the Esteem of their Fellow- Citizens above the
Honour or Emolument of being Servants to that infamous
Company. But should they undervalue your Esteem, be
assured they will not hazard your Resentment.

Confide, therefore, in each other. Be firm, be prudent.
And may GOD prosper your Endeavours, and enable you
to transmit to your Posterity that Freedom derived from
your Ancestors. —

I DID not think Politics would have reached this Retreat
I have chosen; but you have called on me for my Senti-
ments, and when our Country is in Danger, no Man ought
to excuse himself. I have trepassed too long on your Pa-
tience. I shall therefore conclude with a Proposal that
your Watchmen be instructed as they go their Rounds, to
call out every night, past Twelve d' Clock ^ bewai'e of the
East-India Company.

I am, with sincere Affection, Your's,

RUSTICUS.

Fairview^ Nov. ^7, ///j.

LETTERS

TO THE

INHABITANTS

OF THE

BRITISH COLONIES.

BY

JOHN DICKINSON.

May, 1774.

NOTE.

In Charles Thomson's letter to W. H. Drayton (Stille's Dickinson,

341), he stated :

"When the controversy was again renewed between Great-Britain
and America in the year 1772, the merchants of Philadelphia, who first
took the alarm at the attempt of introducing tea to America through
the medium of the East India Company, were anxious to engage [Dick-
inson] in the dispute. But from this he was dissuaded by one of his
most intimate friends, \Vho seemed to be persuaded that this new at-
tempt of the Ministry would lead to most serious consequences, and
terminate in blood, and who theretore wished him to reserve himself
for till matters became more serious. For this reason he was not pub-
licly concerned in the measures taken for sending back the tea. But
in the spring of 1774, as soon as the Boston Port Bill, &c., his friend,
who had taken an active part in the measures for sending back the
tea, immediately communicated to him the intelligence, and gave his
opinion that now was the time to step forward. The measures proper
to be pursued on this occasion were secretly concerted between them,
and to prepare the minds of the people Mr. D. undertook to address
the public in a series of letters."
Thomson also wrote to David Ramsay {New York Historical Society

Collections for 1878, 221) :

"In order to awaken the attention of the people, a series of letters
were published, well calculated to raise them to a sense of their danger
and point out the fatal effort and consequences of the late acts of Par-
liament and the plans of the British Ministry."
Even before finding these two references to this series of letters, I had

been led by their style and argument to ascribe them to Dickinson's pen.

They were printed in the Pennsylvania Journal under date of:

Letter I.
Letter II.
Letter III.
Letter IV.

Vol. XVI. No. 1642.

" " " 1643.

" " " 1644.

" " 1645.

May 25, 1774.
June I, 1774.
June 8, 1774.
June 15, 1774.

Editor.

LETTERS.

LETTER I.

To the Inhabitants of the British Colonies in America:

Brethren, Divine Providence has been pleased to
place us in this age and country under such circumstances,
as to be reduced to the necessity of chusing one of these
conditions — either to submit to the dominion of others,
holding our lives, liberties, and properties, by the precar-
iotcs tenure of their Will — or, to exert that understanding,
resolution and power, with which Heaven has favoured us,
in striving to maintain our rank in the class of Freemen.

The importance of these objects is so immensely great,
and the treatment of one of these Colonies so extremely
alarming, as to call for your most earnest and immediate
consideration.

The subject of the present dispute between Great Britain
and us, is so generally understood, that to enlarge upon it
is needless. We know the extent of her claims. We be-
gin to feel the enforcemejit of those claims. We may fore-
see the consequences of them ; for, reason teaching us to
infer actions from principles, and events from examples,
should convince us, what a perfection of servitude is to be
fixed on us, and our posterity. I call it perfection — be-
cause the wit of man, it is apprehended, cannot devise a
plan of domination more compleatly tending to bear down
the governed into the lowest and meanest state of society,
than that now meditated, avowed, and in part executed,
on this Continent.

If this system becomes established, it may, with truth,

470 LETTERS

be said, of the inhabitants of these Colonies, "that they
hold their lives, liberties, and properties, by the precarious
tenure of the Will of others."*

Allowing the danger to be real — At the prospect of so
abject and so lasting a subjection, — What must be the sen-
timents of judicious & virtuous Americans? They will
quickly determine whether the first part of the alternative
should be adopted.

Here arguments would be absurd. Not more ridiculous
would be an attempt to prove, vice preferable to virtue —
The climate of St. Vincent more pleasant than that of
Pennsylvania — The WdXw^soi Indostan^ under the govern-
ment of the East-India Company^ as happy as English
Freeholders — Or the inhabitants of Great Britain more
loyal subjects, than those of the Colonies.

That Liberty is inestimable — and should, if possible,
be preserved — you know. To pretend to convince you of
the truth of the former proposition, or of the duty of the
latter, would be to insult you.

You must be, you are resolved, to observe the properest
conduct, for securing your best and dearest interests.
What that may be, deserves — demands — your closest at-
tention— your calmest deliberation.

On this head I venture to submit some observations to
your consideration. I am, by every tie of interest and
duty, an American ; and, unless my heart deceives me, I
am an American in affection. My fortunes, hopes, and
wishes are bound up in your prosperity. With my coun-
trymen I must mourn or rejoice; and therefore, though I
am perfectly sensible I cannot present to them reflections
arising from great abilities, or extensive learning, and

* " Non nobis nati snmus. It is for our posterity we desire to provide
— that they may not be in worse case than villians. For a Freeman to be
a Tenant at ^i\x,for his Liberty / / will not agree to it. It is a ten-
ure not to be found in all Littleton. Speech of Sir Edward Coke, Lord
Chief Justice. Parliamentary Hist. Vol. 8. Page 6i.

TO THE INHABITANTS. 471

adorned by elegance of composition, yet I trust they will
lend a careful and candid attention to plain thoughts, dic-
tated by honest intentions, and a participation of afflic-
tions. Aiming solely at your welfare, and not at the
trifling reputation of a writer ; far be from me the over-
weening presumption, that my opinions are free from
error. Conscious of my frailties, I desire those opinions
to be severely examined. The correction of them will
confer a real obligation upon me, if it serves my country;
and happy shall I esteem myself, if the detection of my
mistakes shall open to you a clear view of the m.ost ex-
pedient measures to be pursued.

There are some men who say, that the late act of Par-
liament, abolishing the privileges of the port of Boston,
was occasioned by the particular imprudence of the in-
habitants, and in no manner concerns the other colonies.

To form a true judgement on this point, it will be
proper to take a short review of some other transactions.

Great Britain triumphant by your assistance in the late
war, found at the conclusion of it, by a peace hastily be-
stowed on her haughty and hereditary foes, her dominions
enlarged, — her fleets formidable, — her armies disciplined,
— her trade flourishing — her enemies intimidated and ex-
hausted— ^lier colonies thriving, affectionate and dutiful.

The cup of prosperity, large and full, courted her lips.
Deep she drank of the enchanted beverage, as if the ves-
sel like the cruise of Sarepta' s widow, could not fail.
After a short, but feverish repose, she roused herself, may
I say — as one of Homer's Giants — A race —

"By whom no statutes and no rights were known,"
to injure those who never injured her.

She had conquered her enemies. That other kingdoms
had done. Should no exploits of a more transcendent
energy illustrate the annals of George the Third? No at-
chievements, so shockingly great and advantageous, that

472 LETTERS

even the pensioned Historians of the animated era must
weep in tracing them, and blush in reciting them? Luck-
ily for her ia.n\&— perhaps for her profit — the near-sighted
policy, and low-spirited humanity of every state, in every
period, had left untouched, for her, the novel glory of con-
quer! ng/rz'^«^^ — Children — Flesh of her fiesh^ and bone of
her bone^ unstained by any former reproach, — resting in
perfect tranquility, acknowledged loyal and actual obedi-
ent to every kind of authority hitherto by her exercised
over them, — perpetually pouring into her lap those fruits
of her industry, which she would permit them to collect
from the different parts of the world. — Proud of their con-
nection with her, — confiding in her — loving — revering —
almost adoring her — and ready and willing, as they ever
had been, to spend their treasure and their blood at her re-
quest— in her cause.

*"Parcere superbus^ and debellare subjectos^'' was a
thought that had escaped the sagacity of Statesmen, and
even the fancy of Poets. The subtlety of MachiaveV s Ital-
ian brain had missed it — and no Boeotian had blundered
upon it.

The temptation was too great to be resisted. The par-
ent resolved to seize that treasure^ and if not tamely re-
signed, to spill that bloody herself, "f O sapiens et beata
regina."

The greatest J Ministers, who had heretofore conducted

* " 7l> spare the proud ; and to subdue the subjects

■f " O wise and happy Queen.^'

X " Sir Robert Walpole and any other Minister to whom the project of
taxing the Colonies was tnentioned, rejected it.

" When I had the honor of serving his Majesty I availed myself of the
means of information, which I derived from my office. I speak, there-
fore, from knowledge. My materials were good, I was at pains to col-
lect, to digest, to consider them ; and I will be bound 'to affirm, that the
ptofit of Great Britain from the trade of the Colonies, through all its
branches, is two millions a year. This is the fund that carried you trium-
phantly through the last war. The estates that were rented at two thous-

TO THE INHABITANTS. 473

her affairs, had discovered and declared, that we were con-
tinually toiling for her benefit — that she w^as sure of re-
ceiving, in the course of commerce, all those emoluments
of our labor, which reason could require — and therefore,
tenderly cherished and supported us. Notions too dull !
And advantages too just ! to merit the slightest regard from
his Majesty's enlightened and magnanimous Councellors.

''They lavish gold out of the bag, and weigh silver in
"the balance — they fall down, yea, they worship (them) —
"remember this and show yourselves men." Isaiah ch.

46.

P. P.

LETTER 11.

To the INHABITANTS of the British Colonies in

America.

Brethren, It is not my design to travel through all the
ministerial manoeuvers respecting us, since the commence-
ment of this Reign. It is not necessary. Sufficient, I trust,
it will prove, to lay before you such a series of correspond-
ent facts, as will thoroughly convince you, — that a plan
has been deliberately framed, and pertinaciously adhered
to, unchanged even by frequent changes of Ministers, un-
checked by any intervening gleam of humanity, to sacri-
fice to a passion for arbitary dominion the universal pro-

and pounds a year three score years ago, are three thousand potinds at
present. Those estates sold then from fifteen to eighteen years purchase ;
the same may now be sold for thitty. You owe this to America. This is
the price that America pays you for her protection. / dare not say how
much higher these profits may be augmented— upon the whole I will beg
leave to tell the House, what is really my opinion ; it is that the Stamp-
Act be repealed absolutely, totally, and immediately. That the reason f 01
the repeal be assigned, because it was founded on an erroneous principle."
Mr. Pitt's Speech.

All the most distinguished writers on the trade of Great Britain, pre-
vious to the present Reign, held a language entirely agreeing with Mr.
PitVs sentiments. See Davenant, Child, Tucker, Beawes, Fostlewaite,

474 LETTERS

perty, liberty, safety, honor, happiness and prosperity of us
unoffending, yet devoted Americans — And that every maa
of us is deeply interested in the fate of our brethren of
Bostoji.

If such a series is not laid before you, the combined
force of which shall tear up by the roots, and throw out
of your bosoms, every lurking doubt, centure me as an
enthusiast too violently warmed by a sence of the injustice
practised against my beloved country.

The danger of a father's life once racked words from a
dumb son. Worse than death, in my view, threatens our
common mother. Pardon, therefore, a brother's imper-
fections.

Amidst a volume of institutions called Regulations —
wrong at first — corrected into other errors — again corrected
— still requiring Regulation — and remaining after all their
editions, if not like Draco^s^ codes of blood, yet codes of
plunder — confounding by the intricacy and multiplicity
of their inventions — and confiscating for having con-
founded*— appears the fourth of George the Third,
Chap. 15th, stiled "An Act for granting certain duties in
"the British Colonies and Plantations in ^;;/^r/m, &c."
This was the first comet of this kind, that glared over
these Colonies since their existence. Here first we find
the Commons oi Great Britain "giving and granting"

* ^^ Omitting the immense increase of people, by natural population, in
^' the more northern Colonies, and the migration from every part of Eu-
"rope, I am convinced the whole commercial system of America may be
" altered to advantage. You have prohibited where you ought to have
'^encouraged; and you have encouraged, where you ought to have pro-
" hibited. Improper restraints have been laid on the continent in favor
"of the islands. You have but two nations to trade with in America.
"Would you have twenty! Let Acts of Parliament in consequence of
"treaties remain, but let not an English Minister become a Ciistom-
" House Officer y<7y Spain or for any foreign pozver. Much is wrong,
" much may be amended or for the general good of the whole. Mr.
"Pitts' Speech.

TO THE INHABITANTS. 475

our money, for the express purpose of "raising a Revenue
in America.''''

We, busy in guiding our ploughs, felling our timber, or
sailing in the circuits of traffic prescribed us, and still
veering like Bees to their hive, with millions of our gains,
to Great Britain^ the center of our toils by land and sea,
poor harmless Husbandmen and Traders! scarce observed
the blow given us. Our hearts filled with confidence by
contemplating the pleasing images of her generous distin-
guished virtues, from the splendor of which in our judg-
ment, those of ancient Greece and Rome hid their dimin-
ished heads — suspicion could find no entrance. We saw,
in the preamble, something of the usual forms "for ex-
tending and securing navigation and commerce," were
lulled into security, nor could suppose the stroke was
aimed at our vitals. An infant that had trotted along a
directed walk in a garden, and loaded with flowers had
presented them to a mother, would as soon have expected
to be knocked down by her. —

Not long were we suffered to enjoy our tranquility.
The 5th of George the Third, Chapter the 12th, the ever
memorable Stamp-Act, quickly followed. By this, recit-
ing the former act, the Commons of Great Britain "gave
and granted" duties, so called, of our money on almost
every piece of parchment, vellum or paper to be used in
these Colonies, and declared every instrument of writing
without a stamp to be void. Tax gatherers of a new kind
were appointed to collect these duties. The petitions of
our Assemblies previous to its passing, on notice received
of the design, asserting our rights, and supplicating a re-
spect for them, were treated with contempt. You remem-
ber the time and its distress. You behaved as you ought. *

*" I rejoice that America has resisted. Three millious of people, so
"dead to alt the feelinf^s of Liberty, as voluntarily to consent to be
"Slaves, would have been fit instruments to make Slaves of the rest.
"Mr. Vvtr's Speech.

476 LETTERS

Convinced that a people who wish to be free, must resolve
to be free, you abolished the "abominable thing" — and
proceeded in your usual business without any regard to
the illegal edict obtruded upon you.

Permit me to add two observations, relating to remark-
able attendants on the Taxation comprised in that Act, the
memory of which is perhaps grown faint, from length of
time, in some minds.

By the Statutes granting stamp duties in England or
Great-Britain^ especial caution has been taken, that noth-
ing more should be levied upon the subject, under any
pretence whatsoever, than the duties themselves. These
words run through those Acts — "That the Officers shall
receive the several duties — and stamp and mark the vel-
lum, parchment, and paper, &c., without any other fee
or reward — which stamp or mark shall be a sufficient
discharge for the respective duties, &c." And "the
Commissioners shall take care that the several parts of
the kingdom shall, from time to time, be sufficiently fur-
nished with vellum, parchment and paper, stamped and
marked as is directed, to the end, that the subjects,
&c. MAY HAVE IT IN THEIR ELECTION, either to buy the
same of the Officers and persons to be employed, &c. at
the usual and most common rates above the said duties,
or to bring THEIR OWN vellum, parchment, or paper to
be stamped or marked as aforesaid."*
Was the Stamp-Act for America like those Statutes?
Judge. By this it is enacted "that the High Treasurer,
"or any three or more of the Commissioners of the Treas-
"ury shall once in every year SET THE PRICES, at which
"all sorts of stamped vellum, parchment, and paper, shall
"be sold, &c."

The stamps were kept in j£'?/^/<a;«(^. Ship loads of "all
sorts of stamped vellum, parchment, and paper" were

*j and 6. Will, and Mar. ch. 21. 30th G 3d. ch. ig. and other statutes.

TO THE INHABITANTS. 477

sent over to us. We had no choice either to take these or
to carry other vellum, parchment or paper to be stamped.
We must not only have paid the certain duties imposed,
but the uncertain "prices," which the Commissioners
should please to "set" for the value of their "vellum,
parchment, and paper;" and "penalties and forfeitures"
fell upon us, every step we took, without paying these im-
positions. This surely was not only to be taxed by the
Parliament, but over again for the same articles and by
the Commissioners.

Here some men whose minds are strongly impressed
with ideas of equity, may ask, if it is possible that even a
British Parliament should so wantonly degrade us. It is
as true, as that the Port of Boston is this day shut up.

The "forfeitures and penalties thereby imposed were to
be sued for and recovered in any Court of Record, or in any
Court of Admiralty or Vice Admiralty, appointed or
to be appointed, and having jurisdiction in the respective
colony where the offence should be committed, &c."

This was no regulation of trade. The facts, to be tried
in any dispute, must have arisen on land — within the
body of a county — as remote from admiralty jurisdiction, on
every constitutional principle, as a suit on a bond, or an
ejectment for a freeholder. Yet thus by a few lines, was
the inestimable priviledge of trial by jury, to be torn from
you and your posterity. Thus the decision of the rights
of property, not in controversies between man and man,
on the question of " meum vel tuum," were though wrung
by oppression, the wretched loser might draw a degree of
consolation by reflecting that he had received some con-
sideration for the substance taken away, or at least that a
countryman gained his spoils — but in litigations found on
rigid forfeitures and arbitrary penalties — was to be re-
ferred to the incorrupt tribunals of single judges — ap-
pointed from another country — filled with its prejudices —

478 LETTERS

holding their commissions during pleasure — totally inde-
pendent on you — claiming fees and salaries to be paid out
of your money condemned by themselves.*

* " When the jury have delivered in their verdict, and it is recorded in
^^ court, they are then discharged. And so ends the ttial by jury : a trial,
^' which besides the other vast advantages which we have occasionally ob-
' ' served in its progress, is also as expeditious and cheap, as it is con-
" venient, equitable, and certain ; for a commission out of chancery, or
'^ the civil law courts, for examining iviinesses in one cause will fre-
"quently last as long, and of course be full as expensive, as the trial of a
^^ hundred issues at nisi prius : and yet the fact cannot be determi7ted by
^^ such commissioners at all; no, not till the depositions are published
" and read at the hearing of the cause in court.

"Upon these accounts the trial by jury ever has been, and I trust ever
" will be, looked upon as the glory of the English law. And, if it has so
^^ great an advantage over others in regulating civil property, how much
"must that advantage be heightened, when it is applied to criminal cases!
" But this we must refer to the ensuing book of these commentaries : only
"observing for the present, that it is the most transcendent privilege
"which any subject can enjoy, or wish for, that he cannot be affected
"either in his property, his liberty, or his person, but by the unanimous
"consent of twelve of his neighbors and equals. A constittition, that I
"may venture to affirm has, under providence, secured the just liberties
" of this nation for a long succession of ages. And therefore a celebrated
"French writer,* who concludes, that because Rotne, Sparta, and Car-
" thage have lost their liberties, therefore those of England in time must
"perish, should have recollected that Rome, Spafta, and Carthage, at the
" time when their liberties were lost, were strangers to the trial by jury.

"Great as this eulogium may seem, it is no more than this admirable
" constitution, when traced to its principles, will be found in sober reason
" to deserve. The impartial administration of justice which secures both
" our persons and our properties, is the great end of civil society. But if
" that be entirely entrusted to the magistracy , a select body of men, and
" those generally selected by the prince or such as enjoy the highest offices
" in the state, their decisions, in spite of theif Own natural integrity, will
"have frequently an involuntary biass towards those of their own rank
" and dignity : it is not to be expected from human nature, than the few,
"should be always attentive to the interests and good of the many. On
" the other hand, if the power of judicature were placed at random in the
" ha?tds of the multitude, their decisions would be wild and capricious,
" and a new rule of action would be every day established in our courts.

* Montesq. Sp. I/, xi. 6.

TO THE INHABITANTS. 479

If this be "wisdom" it is not of that kind, the "ways
whereof are past Jindiiig out. ' '

The act, thus revoked by you, received soon after a for-
mal repeal in Parliament. This was done by the 6th of
George the Third, Chapter the nth. Because it was un-
constitutional, as we were not and could not be repre-
sented there? No. Because it deprived " three millions"
of loyal subjects of their darling privilege of trial by jury,
"the best preservative of English liberty?" No. Be-
cause "the continuance of the said act would be attended
with many inconveniences, and might be productive of

' It is zvisety therefore ordered, that the principles and axioms of law,
^ which are generally propositions flowing from abstracted reason, and
' not accommodated to times or to men, should be deposited in the breasts
' of the judges, to be occasionally applied to such facts as come properly
' ascertained before them. For here partiality can have little scope : the
' taw is well known, and is the same for all ranks and degrees : it fol-
lows as a regular conclusion from the premises of fact pre-established.
'But in setting and adjusting a question of fact, when intrusted to any
' single magistrate, partiality and injustice have an ample field to range
' in ; either by boldly asserting that to be proved which is not so, or more
' atifully by suppressing some circumstances, stretching a^id warping
' others, and distinguishing away the remainder. Here therefore a com-
' petent number of sensible and upright jurymen, chosen by lot front among
' those of the middle rank, will be found the best investigators of truth,
' and the surest guardians of public justice. For the most powerful indi-
' vidual in the state will be cautious of committing any flagrant invasion
' of another's right, when he knows that the fact of his oppression must be
' examined and decided by twelve indifferent men ; and that, when once
' the fact is ascertained, the law must of course redress it. This therefore
'preserves in the hands of the people that share, which they ought to have
' in the administration of public justice, and prevents the encroachments of
' the more powerful and wealthy citizens. Every new tribunal, erected
'for the decision of facts, without the intervention of a jury, {whether
'composed of justices of the peace, commissioners of the revenue, judges
' of a court of conscience, or any other standing magistrates) is a step
' towards establishing aristocracy, the most oppressive of absolute govern-
' ments. Thefeodel system, which, for the sake of military subordination,
'pursued an atistocratical plan in all its arrangements of property, had
'been intolerable in times of peace, had it not been wisely connterpoised
' by that privilege, so universally diffused through every part of it, the

<r

48o LETTERS

consequences greatly detrimental to the commercial inter-
ests of" Great Britain.

Cool, guarded expressions ! Breathing the true spirit of
the modern philosophy, so prevailing among the higher
ranks in that polished kingdom. How much care to avoid
incotiveniences and detriment to their own commercial in-
terests ! How sovereign a contempt for all agonies, that
bowed us down to the earth, while indignation, shame,
grief, affection, veneration, and gratitude combated within
our hearts ! They were advised to speak peace to otlr
souls, by nobly assigning an '''• erroneous principle^'''' for
the repeal.* No. The freedom of ^w^^-zV^a; is the Carth-

" trial by the feodal peers. And in every country on the contitient, as the
" trial by the peers has been gradually disused, so the nobles have increased
"in power, tilt the state has been tor7i to pieces by rival factions, and oli-
*'garchy in effect has been established, though under the shadow 0/ regal
^^ government ; unless where the miserable commons have lateen shelter
" under absolute monarchy, as the lighter evil of the two. And, particu-
" tarty, it is a circumstance welt worthy an Englisliman' s observation, that
" in Sweden the trial by jury, that bulwark of northern liberty, which con-
" tinued in its full vigour so lately as the middle of the last centufy,^ is
'■^ now fallen into disuse :% and there, though the regal power is in no
"country so closely limited, yet the liberties of the commons are extin-
^'guished, and the government is degenerated into a mere aristocracy.^ It
"is therefore, upon the whole, a duty which every man owes to his country',
" his friends, his posterity, and himself , to maintain, to the utmost of his
"power this valuable constitution in all its rights ; to restore it to its an-
'' cieiit dignity, if at all impaired by the different value of property^ or
''^ otherwise deviated from its first institution ; to amend it, wherever it is
"defective ; and, above alt, to guard with the m,ost jealous circumspection
"against the introduction of new and arbitrary methods of trial, which,
" under a variety of plausible pretences, may in time imperceptibly under-
"mine this best preservative of English liberty.^'' Blackstone's Com., 3d
Vol., Page 378-381.

* "Upon the whole, I wilt beg leave to tell the Houses what is realy my
"opinion; it is, that the Stamp-Act be repeated, absolutely, totally, and
"immediately ; that the reason for the repeat be assigned, because it was
" founded on an erroneous principi^e." Mr. PiTX's Speech.

t Mod. Un. Hist., XXXIII., 22.

X Whitelocke of pari., 427.
g Ibid., 17.

TO THE INHABITANTS. 481

age of Great Britain — delenda est. Let us repeal the act,
but never resign the principle, on which it was founded.

One generous step however they did take,' becoming
Britons. It demands our acknowledgments : Nor should
we withhold them. Why will they not suffer us to thank
them for other favours?

The repealing act spoke an indecisive language, subject
to comments, that might differ on different sides of the At-
lantic. We might have been too much agitated between
hopes and apprehensions. It would have been unkind to
leave us in such a state of anxiety. It would have been
unworthy of a free people, who were determined to subju-
gate another free people. Parmenius may steal victories.
Alexander scorns it.

Therefore the same day, I think, in which they repealed
the Stamp-Act, in the next Chapter, however, they can-
didly explained to us their sentiments and resolutions be-
yond possibility of a mistake, by the "Act for the better
securing the dependency of his Majesty's dominions in
America upon the Crown and Parliament of Great Brit-
ain. ' '

"Lift up thine eyes round about: And behold, all
"these gather themselves together, and come TO thee :
"Thou shall surely clothe thee with them all, as with
"an ornament, and bind them on thee, as a Bride doth."
Isaiah, Chapter 49.

LETTER IIL

To the inhabitants of the BRITISH COLONIES

IN AMERICA.

Brethren, These are the words of the declaratory act
mentioned in the last letter. "Whereas several of the
Houses of Representatives in his Majesty's Colonies and
Plantations in America have of late, against Law,

482 LETTERS

claimed to themselves, or to the general Assemblies of the
same, the SOLE and exclusive right of imposing Duties
and Taxes upon his Majesty's Subjects in the said
Colonies and Plantations ; and have in pursuance of
such claim, passed certain votes, resolutions, and orders,

DEROGATORY TO THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF PAR-
LIAMENT, and inconsistent with the dependency of the
said Colonies and Plantations, &c. therefore be it declared,
&c. that the said Colonies and Plantations in America
have been, are, and of right ought to be subordinate unto,
and dependent upon the imperial Crown and Parliament
of Gt-eat Britain^ and that the King's Majesty by and
with the advise and consent of the Lord's spiritual and
temporal and Commons of Great Britain^ in Parliament
assembled, had, hath and of Right ought to have,
full power and authority to make laws and statutes, of
sufficient force and validity to bind the Colonies and
People of America, Subjects of the Crown of Great Britain^
IN ALL CASES WHATSOEVER."

From the croud of objects, each pressing for attention,
that present themselves to the mind of a British Amer-
ican^ on reading this act, I beg leave to select and partic-
ularly mention only two.

The resolutions, &c. mentioned in this act, were those
caused by the Stamp-Act. These principal points are
firmly asserted in them — the exclusive right of taxation
and the right of trial by jury. The Parliament well
knowing how harsh and jarring it would sound in English
ears, to say, the right of trial by jury, was ''^derogatory to
the Legislative authority of Parliament^ and inconsistent
with the dependency of the Colonies^'''' planted their most
direct battery against the right of taxation — common
sense and the experience of all nations, as not a single
instance occurs to the contrary, convincing them,
if that gave way, a general ruin would soon ensue, and all

TO THE INHABITANTS. 483

the rest would follow in the train of the chief, like captive
Nobles attending their conquered Prince.

However, not quite satisfyed with the slow work of ex-
terminating them in detail, but improving upon an impar-
tial hint, it was judged fittest upon the whole so to
consolidate them, that, as if the British Americans had
but "one neck" a SINGLE stroke might dispatch millions
— by subjecting us at once to the decrees of Parliament, in
ALL CASES WHATSOEVER.

Widely different was the act of the 6th of George the
First, Chap. 5,th, "for the better securing the dependency
of the kingdom of Ireland, &c." By that act Ireland was
declared "to be subordinate unto, and dependent upon the
imperial Crown* of Great BritaitiV These words "and
Parliament" are not it. It is said, indeed, that "the
King with advise and consent of the Lords and Commons
of Great Britain, in Parliament assembled, had, and of
right ought to have power and authority to make laws and
statutes, of sufficient force and validity, to bind the king-
dom and people oi Ireland^

Compare the Act, and you will find the Act for America
copied from that of Ireland. But in the last mentioned,
the annihilating words — "in all cases whatsoever" are
not to be found. The people of Ireland have been for sev-
eral centuries bound by English statutes for regulating
their trade and for other purposes, and this statute, there-
fore, only asserted the usual authority over them. Their
vitals, the exclusive right of taxation, and the right of

* 'M tax granted by the Parliament of England shall not bind those
"of Ireland, because they are not summoned to our Parliament,'' and
^' again, "Ireland hath a Parliament of its own and malteth and altereth
" laws ; and our statutes do not bind them, because they do not send Knights
" to our Parliament : but their persons, are the, King's subjects, like as
"the inhabitants of, Calais, Gascoigny and Guienne, while they continued
''under the King's subjection'' Blackstone, Vol. I., p. loi, from the
year books.

484 LETTERS

trial by jury, have been preserved. If it was the intention
of the British Parliament to exercise a "power and au-
thority" over that kingdom, destructive of these rights,
it is not expressed — it is not implied. Why were the un-
limited words omitted in that Act? Or, why when the
Lords and Commons were copying a pattern, which their
fathers sent them, did they deform the transcript by such
eastern flourishes ?

The truth is — the fathers too much revered the English
principles, for which they had been upon the point of
shedding their blood, in placing their Sovereign on his
Throne, so flagrantly to violate them — or, if their conduct
was not directed by justice, they dared not thus to provoke
the brave, generous inhabitants of that antient kingdom.

''''Are there yet the treasures of wickedness in the house ^
^'and the scant measure^ that is abominable. The rich
'''' men thereof are full 0/ violence.'''' Micah. ch. VI. —

To P. P. Author of the " LETTERS to the Inhabitants
^^ of the British Colonies in America." —
SIR,

The declaratory Act, passed by the Parliament, at the
time they repealed the Stamp-Act, was such a violation of
the constitution, such an assumption of new powers, so
subversive of Liberty, and so destructive of property, that
it deserves particular observation. That it has hitherto
passed unnoticed, is owing to the gratitude and joy with
which America received the Repeal of the Stamp-Act.
For the same reason, the principle, on which the Repeal
was founded, was suffered to pass without animadversion ;
and the people, who claimed the Repeal, as a point of
equity and right ^ received it with gratitude as 2, free gift.

The English Constitution, whose object is Liberty,
has, for the preserving that Liberty, and for the security
of Property, vested peculiar powers in the diflferent

TO THE INHABITANTS. 485

branches of the legislature, which are to be exercised for
the good and safety of the subject. Salus Populi suprema
Lex est. The abuse of these powers, or the attempt of one
branch of the legislature to extend its peculiar powers, so
as to abridge those of the others, has been the foundation
of many civil wars and struggles in Britain.

From the earliest period of the English Constitution, it
has been the prerogative of the Crown to grant Charters to
the Subjects and terms of Capitulation to conquered coun-
tries, who were taken under the dominion of the crown.
And the statute of quo warranto i8tli of Edw. I. expressly
declares, that "illi qui habent Charatas regales, secundum
Chartas istas et earundem plenitudinem judicetur." On
which statute Lord Coke observes, "in the first place, that
as it was enacted, ex speciali gratia domini Regis, it
binds the King.,'''' and consequently in binding the King.,
must also bind his Parliament ; in the second place, from
the words earundem plenitudinem, that this statute is to
be construed "as fully and beneficially for the Charters, as
the law was taken at the time when the Charters were
granted." In the third place, says he, "certainly this
ancient statute was a direction to the sages of the law, for
their construction of the King's Charter, as it appeareth
in our books." — ,

On this foundation rests the declaratory act respecting
Ireland, When Henry the 2d. conquered Ireland, he
granted the Irish peace and annexed them to his Crown on
this condition, "That the kingdom and people of Ireland
should for ever be governed by the same mild laws as
England was governed." And the statute passed in the
31 Edward 3d. confirms and renews this charter by declar-
ing that his Majesty's subjects in Ireland, being either
natives of that kingdom, or English born subjects only
resident there, "sint veri Anglici, et sub eisdem degant
domino et regimine et eisdem legibus utantur." And

486 LETTERS

hence the act of the 6th G. i. chap. 6, assumes no new
power, lays no new restrictions upon his Majesty's good
subjects of Ireland, nor claims any new right, but simply
declares "that the King's Majesty by and with the advice
and consent of the Lords spiritual and temporal and Com-
mons of Great Britain in Parliament assembled hath full
power and authority to make law of sufficient force and
validity to bind the kingdom and people of Ireland."

Here is no charter violated, no claim of power to deprive
them of property or levy taxes on them without their con-
sent. Their Parliament, their right of trial by jury, and
of granting supplies to their King in their own way for
the support of government, administration of justice, and
defence of the kingdom, remain untouched. But the de-
claratory act passed against America 5 of G. 3, in viola-
tion of their charters, declares, that the Claim of the
House of Reperesentatives in his Majesty's Colonies and
Plantations in America^ to the SOLE and exclusive
Right of imposing duties and taxes upon his Majesty's
subjects in the said Colonies and Plantations is against
Law ; that the votes, resolutions and orders passed in pur-
suance of such claim are derogatory to the legisla-
tive Authority of Parliament ; that the said Colonies
& Plantations in America have been, are and OF right
OUGHT TO BE subordinate unto and dependent upon the
imperial Crown and Parliament of Great-Britain^ and
that the King's Majesty by and with the advise, &c. hath
and OF Right ought to have full power and autliority
to make laws and statutes of sufficient force and validity to
bind the Colonies and People of America^ Subjects of the
Crown of Great-Britain in ALL CASES WHATSOEVER.
What is this but with the high hand of power to break
down the barriers of the constitution and make us tenants
at will of our lives, liberty and property. —

There was a time when the Crown held lands in Eng-

TO THE INHABITANTS. 487

land, "sacra patrimonia coronae," the annual rent of
which, if now resumed, would amount to near four mil-
lions sterling. These have been conveyed to subjects and
are now held by virtue of Charters from the Crown. If
the Chartae regales or Chartered rights of the colonies can
be violated and annuled by Parliament, what security can
the possessors of those lands have for the estates they
enjoy? Let the Parliament try the experiment on their
fellow subjects in Great Britain, and judge of the temper
and disposition of the colonies, by the effect such a step
will produce among themselves.

I am Sir,

A LrOYAL American,

A. B.
Errata in 2d Letter. For this kind read "the kind ;"
for Alexander scorns it, r. "Alexanders scorn ;" for pros-
perity of us, r. "posterity of us ;" for fees and salaries, r.
"salaries."

LETTER IV.

To THE INHABITANTS of the BRITISH COLONIES
IN AMERICA.

Brethren, The intelligence received, since the pre-
ceding letter was written, seems to render needless every
attempt to prove from former transactions., — my first in-
tention, if health had permitted — that a regular plan has
been invaribly persued to inslave these Colonies, and that
the Act of Parliament for blocking up the port of Boston
is a part of the plan. However unprecedented and cruel
that measure is, yet some persons among us might have
flattered themselves, that the resentment of the Parliament
is directed sorely against that town. The last advices
mention two bills to be passing in Parliament ; one chang-
ing the chartered constitution of the province of Massa-
chusetts Bay into a military government ; and another,

LETTERS

empowering administration to send for and try persons in
England for actions committed in that colony. *

By these instances we perceive, that administration has
not only renounced all respect, and all appearance of re-
spect, for the rights of these colonies, but even the plainest
principles of the justice and humanity. Were the repre-
sentatives of the people of Massachusetts Bay called upon to
make satisfaction for the damage done to private property
in any late tumult there ? No. Yet it was known, that
those representatives had made ample reparation for the
injuries committed on occasion of the Stamp Act. It was
known, that the like reparation had been made by the As-
sembly of New- York and Rhode-Island. In short, it was
known, that notwithstanding the incessant pains taken by
many Ministers to teaze the colonists by oppressions and
insults into madness, yet they have with difficulty excited
only a few tumults, for which the popular branch of the
legislature in the several colonies has ever been ready to
atone, upon requisitions from the crown.

*By the first of these bills, the Governor is to be invested with the power
of a Justice of the Peace, to call out the military effect, though the Min-
ister says in his speech — "/ shall always consider, that a military power
acting under the authority and controul of a civil magistrate is a Part
OF THE Constitution." By the second, Americans are to be seized, con-
fined and carried to England, to be tried— that is hanged, on charges for
acts done in a colony. This is not all. Soldiers and others, who shall
commit any offence, such as murdering the Colonists, under the pretence
of supporting the authority of Parliament, shall be carried to England
to be tried— that is— acquitted. Of the Habeas Corpus and Trial by Peers
^^ slat nominus umbra,'''

That the absolute power claimed and exercised in a neighboring na-
tion, is more tolerable than that of the eastern empires is in a great meas-
ure owing to their having united the judicial power in their Parliaments,
a body separate and distinct fiom both the legislative and executive, and
if ever that nation recovers its former liberty, it will owe it to the efforts
to those assemblies. In Turkey, where every Thing is centered in the
Sultan or his Minister, despotic Power is in its meridian and wears a
MOST dreadful Aspect." i. Blackstone 260, 270.

TO THE INHABITANTS. 489

Great clamour has been raised at home against Massa-
chusetts Bay, on account of resolutions at some of their
town meetings, and other writings published in that Col-
ony ; And better it were, that many of them had been sup-
pressed. The truth is — that people animated by an ardent
and generous love of liberty saw and peculiarly felt the
projects against the freedom and happiness of America. I
know them well : and if ever a people deserved the char-
acter, they are moral, religious, quiet and loyal, affection-
ately attached to the welfare and honor of Great Britain^
and dearly valuing their dependence on her. Sensible
and observant, as they were, of the present and approach-
ing evils, some of them adopted a very peaceable and justi-
fiable method of discouraging Administration from pro-
ceeding in such alarming and dangerous measures, — that
of speaking in a high tone. Words were opposed to injur-
ies, and menaces, never designed for execution, to insults
intolerable. What could they do ? Their petitions were
haughtily and contemptuously rejected. The more they
supplicated^ the more they were abused. By their tears, \/
and Heaven knows many they have shed, their persecu-
tions flourished, as trees by water poured on their roots.
Their very virtue and passionate fondness for concord with
their Mother-Country, occasioned this objected error.
"Surely," says Solomon, "oppression maketh a wise man
mad." A silly man may disregard it. Their folly shewed
their wisdom. This is the true history of those futile
pieces, that produced so much furious eloquence in Great-
Britain.

Riots and weak publications, by some individuals, are
sufficient reasons with Parliament to ruin many thousand
inhabitants of a truly respectable town, to dissolve char-
ters, to abolish the benefits of the writ of habeas corpus., *

* Both Houses of Parliament resolved two or three years ago, that per-
sons might be sent for from any of the Colonies for acts done there, and

490 LETTERS

and extirpate American liberty — For the principle readies
all. But in England the press groans with publications,
seditions, treasonable and even blasphemous. The discon-
tented swarm over the kingdom, proclaiming their resent-
ments. Many enormous riots have disturbed the public
peace. The sovereign has been insulted in passing from
his Palace to the Parliament-house, on the business of the
nation. Is it to be concluded from these facts, that the
Body of the People is seditious and traitorous? Can
his Majesty believe, that he is thought by his English sub-
jects in gcjteral to be such a Prince, as some of them have
represented him? Will the two Houses of Parliament ac-
knowledge what has been spoken and written and acted
against them in England^ expresses the sentiments of the
khigdom f Or will they say, that the People of England
have forfeited their liberty, because some of thein have run

tried in England under the old statute of Henry the 8th — made be/ore the
Colonies existed.- The late Court at Rhode Island was established on
that principle. The intention of Parliament in passing the bill above
mentioned is chiefly to screefi persons acting in support of their unconsti-
tutional claims. They have declared, they have no doubt but that the 35th
of Henry has established a just and legal mode of cutting American
throats.

"/ can live, altho' another who has no right, be put to live with me ;
nay, I can live altho' I pay Excises atid Impositions more than I do ; but
to have any Liberty, which is the Soul of my Life, taken from me by
Power, and to have my body pent up in a gaol, {then thrown into a ship
of war, transported three thousand miles across the ocean, to a land of bit-
ter, selfish, furious and revengefull Enemies, there thrust in the jaws of
Dungeons,') without remedy by law, and to be so adjudged ; O improvi-
dent Ancestors ! O unwise Forefathers ! to be so curious in providing for
the quiet possession of our Laws and liberties of Parliament, and to neg-
lect our persons and bodies, and to let them lie in prison, and that durante
bene placito, remediless! If this be law, why do we talk of Liberties?
Why do ive Trouble ourselves with a dispute about law, franchises, pro-
perty of goods, and the like ? What may any man call his own, if not the
liberty, of his person? I am weary of treading these Ways."

Speach of Sir Robert Philips, a member of the wise and moderate Par.
liament that met in the year 1627.

rO THE INHABITANTS. 491

into licentiousness? Let a judgment be formed in both
cases by the same rule. Let them condemn those^ or ac-
quit us.

Pretences and reasons are totally different. The provo-
cations, said to be given by our sister colony, are but the
PRETENCES for the exorbitant severity exercised against
her. The Reasons, are these — the policy, despicable and
detestable as it is, of suppressing the freedom of America
by a military force, to be supported by money taken out
of our own pockets, and the supposed convenience of op-
portunity for attaining this end. These Reasons are evi-
dent from the Minister's speech. The system is formed
with art, but the art is discoverable. Indeed, I do not be-
lieve it was expected, we should have such early and exact
intelligence of the schemes agitated against us, as we have
received. Any person, who examines the multitude of
invectives published in pamphlets and newspapers in Great-
Britain.^ or the speeches made in either House of Parlia-
ment, will find them directed against the Colonies in gen-
eral. The people in that kingdom have been with great
cunning and labor,* inflamed against the Colonies in gen-
eral. They are deluded into a belief, that we are in ITj
state of rebellion and aiming directly at a state of inde-y
pendency; though the first is a noxious-weed that never grew (
in our climates ; and the latter is universally regarded with )
the deepest execration by us — a poison we never can be
compelled to touch, but as an antidote to a worse, if a
worse can be — a tree of forbidden and accursed fruit,
which, if any Colony on this continent should be so mad
as to attempt reaching, the rest would have virtue and
wisdom enough to draw their swords and hew the traitors
into submission, if not into loyalty. It would be their in-
terest and their duty, thus to guaranty the public peace.

The Minister addressing the House of Commons, uses

* Private Letters give a further Proof of this Fact.

492 LETTERS

several expressions relating to all the Colonies^ and calls
the stoppage of the port of Boston "a punishment inflicted
on those, who have disobeyed your Authority.'''' Is it not
extremely remarkable, after such a variety of charges af-
fecting all the Colonies, that the statutes of vengence should
be levelled against a single Colony? New-York^ Philadel-
phia and Charlestown have denied freedom of Trade to
ships sailing under the protection of Acts of Parliament.
Will not the House of Commons think that the inhabit-
ants of these places "have disobeyed their authority," and
that "a punishment should be inflicted on them?" Why
do we not hear of some measure pursued against those
Cities? Are ///^j immaculate in the eyes of Administra-
tion and Parliament ? Have not each of these places done
real damage to the East-India Company? Has there been
even a requisition of compensation for that damage from
any of them ? Why is there such a profomid silence ob-
served with respect to them? Because they are judged by
Administration and Parliament, more innocent than the
Colony of Massachusetts Bay? No. Because Adminis-
tration and Parliament do us Americans the honor to
think, we are such very ideots, that we shall not believe
ourselves interested in the fate oi Boston^ but that one Col-
/ony may be attacked and humbled after another, without
shewing the sence or spirit of beasts themselves, many of
which unite against a common danger.

Why were the states of Greece broken down into the
tamest submission by Philip of Macedon^ and afterwards
by the Romans ? Because they contended for freedom
separately. Why were the states of Spaijt subdued by the
Carthaginians and afterwards by the Romans? Because
they contended for freedom separately. Why were the
antient inhabitant of the kingdom, that now harasses us,
conquered by their invaders? Tacitus will inform us,
"Nee aliud adversus validissimas gentes pro nobis utilius.

TO THE INHABITANTS. 493

quam quod in Commune Nonconsuluut. Rarus ad pro-
pulsandum cotnmune periciihim conventus. Ita dum sin-
guli pugnant, om?tes vincuntur. *

Why did the little Swiss cantons, and seven small prov-
inces of the Low Cotmtries., so successfully oppose the
tyrants, that not contented with an empire founded in hu-
manity and mutual advantages, unnecessarily and arro-
gantly strove to "lay" the faithful and affectionate
wretches "at Their FEET?" Because, they wisely re-
garded the interest of each as the interest of all.

Our own experience furnishes a mournful additional
proof of an observation made by a great and good man,
Lord President Forbes. "It is a certain truth," says he,
"that all states and kingdoms, in proportion as they grow
great, wealthy and powerful, grow wanton, wicked, and
oppressive, and the history of all ages gives evidence of
the fatal catastrophe of all such states and kingdoms, when
the cup of their iniquity is full." Another "truth" as
"certain" is — that "such states and kingdoms" never have
been, and never will be checked in the career of their "wan-
tonness, wickedness and oppression" by a people in any
degree, dependent upon them, but by the prudent, virtuous
and steady unanimity of that people. To employ more
words to elucidate a point so manifest, would be the idle at-
tempt of gilding gold. Surely you cannot doubt at this
time, my countrymen, but that the i^^o^X^oi Massachusetts-
Bay are suffering in a cause f common to us all ; and there-

* "Nor was any thing more advantageous to us against very powerful
nations, than their imprudence in not consulting together for the interest
of the whole. Conventions for repelling a common danger were rare.
Thus, while each state resisted singly, all were subdued.'^

Tacitus in vit. Agric.

t The act for shutting up the port of Boston, orders, that it shall not be
opened until ''peace and obedience to the laws shall be so far restored in
the said town 0/ Boston, that the trade of Great-Britain may safely be car-
ried on there, and his Majestfs duties duly collected, c2ff." Thus it
appears, if the inhabitants renounce the common cause of the Colonies, the
port may be oy^n&di— if they adhere to that cause, it will remain shut. ^

494 LETTERS

fore, that we ought immediately to concert the most
prudent measures for their relief and our own safety.

Our interest depending on the present controversy is un-
speakably valuable. We have not the least prospect of
human assistance. The passion of despotism raging like
a plague, for about seven years past, has spread with un-
usual malignity through Europe. Corsica^ Poland^ and
Sweden^ have sunk beneath it. The remaining spirit of
freedom, that lingered and languished in the Parliaments
oi France., has lately expired, by the new moddelling their
Parliaments. What kingdom or state interposed for the
relief of their distressed fellow creatures? The contagion
has at length reached Great-Britain. Her Statesmen
^emulate the Nimrods of the earth and wish to become
"mighty hunters" in the woods oi Amej-ica. What king-
dom or state will interpose for our relief? The preserva-
tion of our freedom and every attendant blessing must be
wrought out, under providence, by ourselves. Let not this
consideration discourage us. We cannot be false to each
other, without being false to ourselves. We have firmest
foundation of Union and Fidelity — that we wish to attain
the same things — to avoid the same things. The friend-
ship of others might be precarious, suspected, deceitful.

The infinitely great, wise, and good Being, who gave
us our existence, certainly formed us for a state of society.
He certainly designed us for such a state of society, as
would be productive of happiness. Liberty is essential to
the happiness of a society, and therefore is our right. The
father of mercies never intended men to hold unlimited
authority over men. * Craft and cruelty have indeed tri-

* "To live by one Man's Will became the cause of all Men's misery."
Hooker's Eccles. Pol.

" Is not universal misery and ruin the same, whether it comes from
the hands of many or of o«(?."

Bishop Hoadly's dis. on Govt.

"Of so contrary an opinion was this good man (^Hooker) to that of

TO THE INHABITANTS. 495

umphed over simplicity and innocence, in disobedience
to his holy laws. The father of mercies never intended us
for the slaves of Britons. Craft and cruelty indeed are
striving to brand us with marks infamously denoting us to
be their property, as absolutely as their cattle. Their pre-

some others, who can never oppose one extreme, without running to an-
other, as bad, if not worse ; and think they cannot enough condemn Re-
bellion, without giving the devine sanction to tyranny and oppression.
This judgment ought likewise to be of the more weight, with such as
profess the most profound veneration for the memory of Charles the first,
and the honour of the old Church of England : Because this treatise, in
which it is to be found, was chosen out of many others by that Prince, to
be recommended to his children, as the best instructor they could con-
verse with ; and was had in such estimation by all churchmen, from the
time of its appearance, that it may well pass not only for his own judg-
ment in particular, but for \.h.& judgment of the whole church of England
at that time."

Bishop Hoadly, ibid.

"Would not the unhappiness of this nation in particular have been the
same, whether a late King alone, or by a formai. Law had subjected it
to the religion of Rome and the Maxims OF France? And upon sup-
position of such an attempt, would not our late deliverance have been as
glorious as great Sindi justifiable ; as much wanted and as truly beneficial ;
as it was upon the attempt of the ki}7g alone ; would not the invitation
of the Prince of Orange ; jthe election and meeting of the persons, who
made the convention ; and the consequent establishment in the prolesiant
line have been as requisite and as useful ? Nay would not the Ends OF
Government have been more effectually answered this way, than by
Submission to a totai. Dissolution of all Happiness at present and
ALL Hopes for the future ? How can it be said that the ends of Gov-
ernment require that degree of submission upon the one supposition,
which they were allowed not to do upon the other ; when the same Mis-
ery and Destruction m.ust follow a Submission in both cases ; and the
same universal Happiness must in both be the Consequence of a just
and well MANAGED DEFENCE? Or would the ends of Government be
destroyed, should the miserable condition of the whole people of France,
which hath proceeded from the Kings being absolute, awaken the
thoughts of the wisest heads among them, and move them all to exert
themselves, so as that those ends should be better answered for the time
to come.^*

Bishop Hoadly, ibid.

It was resolved by the House of Commons that this Bishop, then Mr.

[

496 LETTERS

tensions to a right of such power, not only oppose consti-
tutional principles, but even partake of impiety. The
sentence of bondage against us is only issued by the frail
OMNIPOTENCE* of Parliament.

" Non sic iuflectere sensus
, " Humauos edicta valent." t

We cannot question the justice of our cause. This con-
sideration will aflford comfort and encouragement to our
minds.

— Let us therefore, in the first place, humbling ourselves
before our gracious Creator, devoutly beseech his divine
Protection on us his afflicted servants, most unreasonably
and cruely oppressed. Let us seriously reflect on our
manifold transgressions, and by a sincere repentance, and

\ an entire amendment of our lives, strive to recommend

yourselves to divine favour.

In the next place, let us cherish and cultivate senti-

Hoadly and Rector of St. Peter's poor, London , "for having often stren-
nously justified the Principles, on which her Majesty and the nation
proceeded in the late happy revolution, had justly merited the favour
and recommendation of that House." And accordingly addressed Queen
Anne, "that she would be graciously pleased to bestow some dignity in
the church on the said Mr. Hoadly for his eminent services both to the
church and state.

"Whatsoever dishonours human nature, dishonours the policy of a
government, which permits it; and a free state, which does not com-
municate the natural right of liberty to all its subjects, who have not de-
served by their crimes to lose it, hardly seems to be worthy of that hon-
ourable name."

Lord Littleton's history of Hen. 2d.

" Without ^<?c»fl?'«^55, power would be tyranny and oppression, and wis-
dom would degenerate into craft, and mischievous contrivance."

Archbishop Tillotson's sermons "Etiam si non sit molestus dominus;
tanien est miserrimum posse, si velit." — Cicero. Even if a Sovereign
does not oppress, yet it is a most miserable condition for the subjects,
that he has poiver, if he has the will.

* I. Blackstone 161.

t Edicts cannot so bend the common Sense of human Creatures.

TO THE INHABITANTS. 497

ments of brotherly love and tenderness among u«. To
whom under the cope of Heaven, can we look for help in
these days of "darkness and trouble," but one to another.

0 my Countrymen ! have pity one on another — Have
pity on yourselves, and your children. Let us — by every
tender tie, I implore you — let us, mutually excuse and
forgive each other our weaknesses and prejudices, (for who
is free from weakness and prejudices?) — and utterly abol-
ishing all former dissentious distinctions, wisely and
kindly unite in one firm bond, in one common cause.

If there are any men or any bodies of men on this con-
tinent, who think that an accomidation between us and
Great- Britain^ or that their own particular interest, may
be advanced by withdrawing themselves from the councils
of their countrymen, I would wish them most deliberately
to consider the consequences, that may attend such a con-
duct. What step can possibly be taken more directly tend-
ing to prevent an accomidation between us and Great- Brit-
ain^ than supplying administration \i\\h. proofs of our mtes-
tine divisions f What do our enemies so ardently wish for,
as for these divisions ? Has not the expectation of these
events encouraged the ministry to treat us with such unex-
ampled contempt and barbarity ? . Will not the certainty of
these events excite resolutions in them to press us — to take
every advantage of a people so industriously studying and
labouring to weaken and destroy themselves? Then a min-
ister may with reason call upon the House of Commons —
"now is our time to stand out — to defy them — to proceed
'^\\X\ firmness and without fear — to produce a conviction to
ALL America^ that we are now in earnest., and that we will
proceed with firmness and rigor — until She shall be

LAID AT OUR FEET. ' ' *

1 appeal to every man of common sense, whether any
measure will be so likely to induce administration to

* Lord North's speech.

498 LETTERS

think of an accommodation with us, as our unanimity.
Must not, therefore, every measure impeaching tlie credit
and weight of this unanimity in the same degree obstruct
all accommodation ? Will not every such measure natur-
ally produce haughtiness^ perseverance Siwd. fresh rigour in
our oppressors ? Will not these still more enrage us, and
place us farther from an accommodation ? If the Protec-
tion and Peace, we wish to derive from our unanimity be
taken from us, by the imprudence of our brethren, who
break that unanimity or destroy all respect for it in Great-
Britain^ and thereby encourage her to seize, what she will
certainly think, the lucky opportunity for pursuing her
blows, what must be the consequence? We held up a
shield for our defence. If our brethren have pierced it
through and rendered it useless — their indiscretion will,
according to the usual course of human affairs, compel us
to change the mode of defence, and drive us into all the
evils of civil discords.

What advantages can they gain, that can compensate to
men of any understanding or virtue, for the miseries oc-
casioned by their bad policy? Their numbers will be too
small, in any manner whatever to controul the sentiments
or measures of the people of Afnerica. Their conduct
never can prevent the exertions of these Colonies in vindica-
tion of their liberty. It may, by provocations, render those
exertions more rash and imprudent. But their numbers
will be so extravigantly exaggerated, as all facts have been
against us, on the other side of the Atlantic that Great-
Britain may be deceived and emboldened into measures de-
structive to herself and to us. We are now strenuously
endeavouring, in a peaceable manner, by this single
power the force of Unanimity — to preserve our freedom.
Those, who lessen that unanimity, detract from its force —
will prevent its effect — and must be, therefore, justly
chargeable with all the dreadful consequences to the Colo-
nies.

TO THE INHABITANTS. 499

The third important consideration, I beg leave to recom-
mend to my countrymen, is to draw such reflections from
their situation as will confirm their minds in that manly
noble fortitude, so absolutely necessary, for the mainten-
ance of those inestimable privileges, for which they are
now contending. The man, who fears difficulties arising
in the defence of freedom, is unworthy of freedom. God
has given the right and means of asserting it. We may
reasonably ask and expect his gracious assistance in the
reasonable employment of those means. To look for mir-
acles, while we abusively neglect the powers afforded us
by divine goodness, is not only stupid, but criminal. We
are yet free — Let us think like freemen.

In the last place I beg leave to offer some observations
concerning the measures that may be most expedient in
the present emergenc)^, Other nations have contended
in blood for their liberty, and have judged the jewel worth
the price that was paid for it. These colonies are not re-
duced to the dreadful necessity. So dependent is Great'Y=:r
Britam on us for supplies, that Heaven seems to have\
placed in our hands means of an effectual, yet peaceable'
resistance, if we have sense and integrity to make a proper
use of them. A general agreement between these colonies
of non-importation and non-exportation faithfully observed
would certainly be attended with success. But is it now
proper to enter into such an agreement? Let us considejr
that we are contending with our ancient venerable and ber
loved parent-country. Let us treat her with all possible
respect and reverence : * Though the Rulers there have

* By justice {saith the Scripture^ " the throne is established,'' and ^' by
justice a nation shall be exalted.'' I resemble justice to Nebuchadnezar's
tree, shading not only the palace of the King and the house of Nobles, but
sheltering also the cottage of the poorest beggar. Therefore if now the
blast of indignation hath so bruised any of the branches of this tree, that
either our persons or goods or possessions have not the same shelter as be-
fore, let us not therefore neglect the root of this great tree ; but rathet

500 LETTERS

had no compassion upon us, let us have compassion on the
people of that kingdom : And if to give weight to our
supplications and to obtain relief for our suffering breth-
ren, it shall be judged necessary to lay ourselves under re-
strictions with regard to our imports and exports, let it be
done with tenderness, so as to convince our brethren in
Great-Britain of the importance of a connexion and har-
mony between them and us, and of the danger of driving
us into despair. Their true interests and our own are the
same ; nor should we admit any notion of a distinction,
> till we know their resolutions to be unalterably hos-
tile.—

In the mean time, let us pursue the most proper meth-
ods for collecting the sentiments of all the British colonies
iu North America^ on the present situation of affairs — the
first point, it is apprehended, to which attention should
be paid. This may be affected in various ways. The as-
semblies that may have opportunities of meeting, may
appoint deputies to attend a general congress at such time
and place as shall be agreed on. Where assemblies cannot
meet, such of the people as are qualified by law to vote in
election of representative may meet and appoint — or may
request their representatives to meet and appoint.

When the inhabitants of this extended continent observe
that regular measures are prosecuted for re-establishing
harmony between Great-Britain and these Colonies, their
minds will grow more calm. Prospects of accommodation,
it is hoped, will engage them patiently and peaceably to
attend the results of the public councils and such applica-
tions as by the joint sense of America may be judged

with all our possible means, endeavours and unfeigned duties^ both apply
fresh and fertile mold unto it and also water it even with our tears, that
so those bruised branches may be recovered aud the whole tree again pros-
per and flourish^" Mr. Creskeld's speech in the Parliament that met in
1727.

TO THE INHABITANTS. 501

proper to be made to his Majesty and both Houses of Par-
liament.

"Better is a little with righteousness, than great rev-
nues without right." Proverbs 16. —

END OF vol.. I. OF THE WRITINGS OF JOHN DICKINSON.

r

I

RETURN TO the circulation desk of any
University of California Library
or to the
NORTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY
Bldg. 400, Richmond Field Station
University of California
Richmond, CA 94804-4698

ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS
2-month loans may be renewed by calling

642-6753 .

1-year loans may be recharged by bringing books

toNRLF ^ ^ .

Renewals and recharges may be made 4 days

prior to due date

DUE AS STAMPED BELOW

NOV 2 9 1994

HbCEIVED

NOV 1 9 mk

CIHUULATIOfM

LftPl.

RE

FORM NO. DD6, 40m, 3/78 BERKELEY, CA 94720

1-.

GENERAL LIBRARY -U.C. BERKELEY

B0007i400ba

«>:'■■•
