Illustrations Map of Pennsylvania endpapers Lancaster and York, Pennsylvania, where Congress convened when the British moved into Philadephia in September 1777 and continued to meet through June 1778, are visible on the southeast quarter of a map of Pennsylvania by Robert Sayer and John Bennett, “exhibiting not only the improved parts of that Province, but also its extensive frontiers: Laid down from actual surveys and chiefly from the late map of W. Scull published in 1770; and humbly inscribed to the Honourable Thomas Penn and Richard Penn, Esquires, true and absolute proprietaries & Governors of the Province of Pennsylvania and the territories thereunto belonging.” (London, 1775). Geography and Map Division, Library of Congress. Lancaster, Pennsylvania 23 Threatened by the advance of Gen. William Howe’s army against Philadelphia, Congress adjourned on September 18, 1777, to Lan caster, Pa., where it convened on Saturday, September 27. Here the delegates deliberated but a single day, however, adjourning the same afternoon to the comparatively greater safety of York about a dozen miles west of the Susquehannah. As a town consisting of about 550 “taxables,” Lancaster in 1777 had a population estimated at approx imately 2,200 inhabitants. During the British occupation of Phila delphia, it was swollen nearly beyond its capacity to house all who sought safety within its boundaries, for in addition to the many Philadelphians who attempted to find refuge there, Pennsylvania officials had selected Lancaster as the temporary site of the state’s government. This drawing of the town by Edouard C. V. Colbert, comte de Maulevrier, made during the Frenchman’s trip through the state twenty years later, is one of the few surviving late eighteenth century sketches of Lancaster. From Voyage dans I’interieur des Etats-Unis et au Canada (Balti more: Johns Hopkins Press, 1935). The Old Court House of York County, Pennsylvania 40 As the nation’s capital from September 30, 1777, to June 27, 1778, York occupies a unique place in American history. It was here that Congress was meeting when work was completed on the Articles of Confederation and here that the delegates wrestled with problems xxiii
