Illustrations xxvii Thomas Conway’s December 29, 1777, Letter to Washington 328 Thomas Conway, though born in Ireland, was taken to France as a boy and entered the royal army while still a youth, rising to the rank of colonel in 1772. On the strength of an introduction from Silas Deane and the very favorable first impression he made on Washington and his staff at Morristown in May 1777, Conway was elected to the rank of brigadier general and assigned to John Sullivan’s division, which saw action in the battles of Brandywine and Germantown. His conduct during that period of the campaign for possession of Philadelphia won him many admirers, but by November he had become the center of controversy and offered his resignation to Congress. General Washington early saw him as a troublemaker, who stimulated dissension in the army and agitated to have General Gates named commander in chief. On the other hand, a small group of delegates and officers rallied to Conway in an effort to undermine Washington, whose lackluster performance during the 1776 and 1777 campaigns they contrasted with Gates’ heroics at Saratoga. For a time Conway’s star was ascendant; his resignation was not only rejected, but on December 13, 1777, he was promoted to major general over the heads of 23 senior brigadiers and named to the newly created post of inspector general of the Continental Army. Almost immediately, however, his support began to disintegrate. His continued intriguing against Washington played into the hands of officers such as Lafayette and Stirling who thought him untrustworthy and dangerous, and many delegates who voted for his promotion turned against him when they learned of his intrigues. Although historians have dramatized discontent with Washington during the winter of 1777-78 by labeling such expressions of dis satisfaction the “Conway Cabal,” documents in volumes eight and nine of these Letters confirm that few leaders held Washington responsible for the ills of the Continental Army or voiced dis enchantment with his performance. Indeed, except for a notable letter by Gen. Thomas Mifflin and several by James Lovell, these volumes testify to the solidity of Washington’s support and suggest that Conway’s career in America has been misunderstood. George Washington Papers, Manuscript Division, Library of Congress. Jonathan Bayard Smith 443 Smith, a prominent Philadelphia merchant who graduated from the College of New Jersey in 1760, played a prominent role in Pennsylvania’s opposition to imperial control during the prerevolu tionary decade. As a member or as secretary, he served on several
