Illustrations xxix that he planned to renounce the convention as soon as his army was released, and they passed a resolution on January 8, 1778, suspending the agreement until the British government formally notified Con gress that it accepted the convention’s terms. Since the ministry could not do so without implicitly recognizing the legitimacy of Congress, plans for returning the army to Britain were suspended. Although Burgoyne himself was permitted to return to England in April 1778, his troops remained in the hands of their captors and most of them were subsequently marched southward to spend the remainder of the war at various locations in Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania. Engraving by Robert I. Pollard, from James Murray, An Impartial History of the Present War in America (London, 1778). Francis Lightfoot Lee 500 Lee, a scion of a distinguished Virginia family that contributed several leaders who played important roles on the Continental stage during the American Revolution, was a well-to-do planter who had been in the forefront of his colony’s opposition to British imperial policy since 1763. Entering Congress in 1775, Lee was convinced that Great Britain was pursuing a deliberate “design of establishing arbitrary government in America” and consequently became one of the earliest congressional advocates of independence. In order to make independence a reality, Lee devoted much of his attention in Congress to military affairs, becoming a key member of the Board of War and several committees dealing with matters of concern to the Continental Army. His efforts to obtain provisions for Wash ington’s troops as chairman of the Committee on Emergency Pro visions in December 1777 typify his work in this vital area. Although Lee lacked the forensic skill of his more celebrated brother Richard Henry, he won the respect of the delegates for his diligent committee work and was briefly considered as a possible successor to John Han cock as president of Congress in 1777. After serving in Congress to 1779 and subsequently in the Virginia Senate to 1782, Lee retired from public life to spend the remainder of his days at his Richmond County “Menokin” plantation. Etching courtesy of the Virginia Historical Society. John Witherspoon 552 John Witherspoon, a distinguished Scottish clergyman and presi dent of the College of New Jersey, was elected to Congress seven times from 1776 to 1782 and compiled one of the most enviable of all records for diligent service to the Continental cause. Having arrived at the conclusion that British rule was incompatible with
