XXX Illustrations American liberties, Witherspoon entered Congress just in time to witness the end of the debate on independence and affix his signa ture to the Declaration. An able penman, a shrewd debater, and an indefatigable committeeman, Witherspoon was deeply involved in many areas of congressional affairs, working on more than a hun dred committees during his career as a delegate, including the Board of War and Committee for Foreign Affairs. Although he was greatly concerned about issues ranging from confederation and Continental finance to the organization of executive departments, Witherspoon focused on Congress’ conduct of foreign affairs. In addition to serving as a translator for French officers in their dealings with Congress, he also followed closely the activities of America’s diplomats abroad and helped to formulate instructions for the commissioners appointed to negotiate peace with Britain. Witherspoon is also of special interest to students of Congress because the texts of some of his congressional speeches have survived, often providing insights into proceedings of Congress available in no other source. Of particular interest in this volume is his lengthy January 8, 1778, address advo cating suspension of the Saratoga Convention. Painting by Charles Willson Peale, ca. 1783. Independence Na tional Historical Park Collection. Resolves on Prisoners, December 1777 and January 1778 626 Congress had long been concerned about the harsh treatment of American prisoners of war, and General Washington had conducted an extensive correspondence with the British commander in chief Sir William Howe to bring about improvements in their condition. Although legally the British considered captured Americans as rebels guilty of treason, in practice they treated them as ordinary prisoners of war. Despite this concession to necessity, the lot of the prisoners was generally deplorable, characterized as it was by primitive prison facilities, inadequate diet and medical care, and insufficient clothing. As reports of particularly abusive treatment of American prisoners began to filter out of Philadelphia in November 1777, Congress asked Washington to investigate and report back to it. Washington, Commissary of Prisoners Elias Boudinot, and Col. Moses Rawlings a Maryland officer who made an unusual personal appearance before Congress on December 17, 1777, to testify about the treatment our prisoners in the hands of the enemy receive”—subsequently con firmed the truth of these allegations, and at the same time the Board of War conducted an extensive inquiry, all of which provided grist for Congress’ December 19 and January 21 resolves on prisoners. Washington transmitted a handbill containing a text of these resolves with his January 30, 1778, letter to General Howe. The note at the bottom of the first page of the illustration shown here, taken
