Illustrations xxxi from a retained copy of the handbill which Washington sent to Congress the following April, is in the hand of Washington’s secre tary, Col. Robert H. Harrison. Numbers in the margin on the second page of the document (not shown) indicate points on which Wash ington demanded “a speedy and explicit answer” from Howe. Un fortunately, the British commander never responded to these points in his correspondence with Washington, and there is no evidence the resolves led to significant improvements in the treatment of American prisoners. From the Papers of the Continental Congress, National Archives and Records Service. Francis Dana 674 Francis Dana, a Massachusetts lawyer who graduated from Harvard College in 1762, had a long career of public service which included election to the Massachusetts Council in 1776 and to the Continental Congress in December of the same year. During his first term in Congress—which he actually attended in 1777-78 and 1784—Dana had the good fortune to serve with both his college roommate, James Lovell of Massachusetts, and his father-in-law, William Ellery of Rhode Island. He worked on many committees, including the Marine Committee and the influential Board of War, but Dana probably made his most important contribution to the American cause as chairman of the Committee at Camp, which met for several months with Washington and his officers at Valley Forge and played a key role in reorganizing the Continental Army during the critical early months of 1778. Between terms in Congress Dana also served the United States abroad, appointed first as secretary to peace com missioner John Adams in France in 1779 and then as the first American minister to Russia in 1780, both of which appointments proved to be frustrating experiences for the young diplomat. He was subsequently appointed a delegate to the Annapolis and Philadelphia Conventions but attended neither, although he was instrumental in securing ratification of the federal Constitution by the Massachusetts Convention. His public career was capped with his appointment in 1785 to the Massachusetts Supreme Court, where he presided as chief justice from 1792 to 1806, but his tenure on the court was some times noteworthy for decidedly unjudicial behavior. He was not above taking advantage of his position to propagate High Federalist views, and he has been quoted as once admonishing a grand jury: “Democracy has two Excesses to avoid, the Spirit of Inequality, which leads to Aristocracy, and the Spirit of Extreme Equality which leads to Despotic power.” Painting by James Sharples. Photograph courtesy of Mr. and Mrs. Victor Notarangelo.
