6 September 20, 1777 of a very Important action which happened on the eleventh Instant on the Heights near Brandywine Creek. 1 Ever since we have been in Constant Expectation of another General Engagement, and not free from apprehensions from the Consequences. I for my own part would be at ease could I confide in the Abilities of our Superior General officers, for I had Occular proof that our Troops are very good. The Question for adjournment from Philadelphia was dayly agitated in Congress, but always overruled. On the Night before last it received a compleat decision. Intelligence was received from the General Officer Commanding on Schuylkill that the Enemy were then attempting to cross and that they could not be prevented, and avising the Congress immediately to remove from the City. The movement was made not by a vote but by universal Consent, for every Member Consulted his own particular safety. I was wakened by a Servant about two oClock and tho’ I lost no time in preparing to depart, yet I did not chuse to retreat with precipitation. I was not indeed fully persuaded of the Necessity of the measure, and not very Apprehensive for my personal Safety. About sunrise I crossed the Delaware and made my retreat hither where I shall wait the Issue of a Battle. It is now well known that the Alarm was groundless. No Enemy has yet passed, nor do’s it appear that they will be able to pass. I have the Honor to be, Sir your very obdt Servt, Tho Burke RC (NN). i See Burke to Caswell, September 17, 1777. James Lovell to William Whipple? Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia 20 Sept. 1777. My evil genius tempted me back into this Sodom after I had break fasted yesterday morning with the other night fugitives at Bristol, I was sure the alarm was not sufficient, though given by the General’s aid de camp Hamilton, who said his horse was shot, and one of his oarsmen, and that the enemy could throw a body of troops into the city before morning. I had left some linen in this place and expected some things by a waggon which left Boston the 25th ult, and I had a prospect of serving several gentlemen besides Col R. H. Lee whom I much esteem; therefore to this vile place I returned, and in the last evening had my pocket book stolen with 260 dollars and your tickets, with sundry other papers. I have gained a hint of the book and almanac which were found on a wharf below the Coffee House. It is in possession of a light horse man at Mount Holley in the Jersies, who picked it up in company with a man now in this place. I know not the number of your tickets nor any description, as they
