September 24, 1777 15 of Patapsco River at 1 o Clock the 18th, twenty or thirty ships having passed down several days before. He judged Baltimore to be rendered so safe hereby that he intended to send a few additional companies of militia to join Gen. Washington. He also acquainted Govr. Henry to the movement of the ships that the Virginia militia then collected might march so as to be useful in case Howe should move but slowly or we should be unfortunate. Are you not astonished in New England at hearing that the enemy have marched 70 miles, that their ships are rounding the Cape of Cheseapeak to come the Delaware and that day after day passes without even a skirmish? I dare not be more minute as to the causes than only to tell you that the Philadelphians them selves say “it would not be so in New England, every stone wall would rattle about their ears.” I hope, however, you will not give the least entertainment to despair of precious cause. Consider that Galloway, the Allens &c are conducting the enemy thro the most torified tracts assisted by Sherrifs of counties who know all the paths accurately, while our worthy Chief is intirely among foes, who will not or friends who dare not act the part of spies for him. Should the enemy be coming down on this side of Schuylkill from Sweed’s ford or higher up the case will be altered, the roads known and the people some what faithful to him. Commodore Hazlewood expected to have had a chance of burning some of the Enemy’s Ships last Saturday morning. He fell down the River over night, but his object slipped away, perhaps with intend [intent] to draw him into broad water further down than Chester, but his orders are contrary. There seems to be no want either of fireworks or Manly spirit on the Delaware. Unless there should be a fatal de ficiency of the latter on the country part Philadelphia will not go to ruin in this tryal of Sr William & My lord conjunctly. I am chagrined at not hearing from Genl. Gates 13 days. In his last, he said that “perhaps few hours will discover whether Mr. Bourgoine will risque a Battle or slip back to Tyconderoga.” That letter reached us in 3 days. You will be affected by not receiving News papers from hence. The failure of them makes a general melancholy impression. We took early care to remove types as a valuable article. I can scarcely read yr eastern papers now, the types are so blount with use. Let the people know that the Papers are not stopped by Congress to “conceal bad news” as Tories used to propagate last winter. Upon enquirey I find from Coll Hamilton that a small party of Hessians & Light Horse crossed about 18 miles up the River and there remain! Scandalous! The militia here seem to turn out only for the pay, without Intention to fight at all. Genl. Washington is at Monotamy watching the main body of the Enemy which lays at Pots- grove on the opposite bank of Schuylkill 35 miles from this. He will not expose his baggage & stores, laying in the neighbourhood of Read-
