16 September 24, 1777 ing, to save this City from a Fright or even Destruction, finding the Inhabitants of the State do not think it worth strugling for. The city post master slipped away last evening to Bristol, and I am suddenly called on by the postmaster of the army. Peletiah Webster who intends to remain here urged me to take from him 200 Dollars, money belonging to our State. I did it without Authority, having been bro’t to want it by a villainous Pickpocket last Friday evening, who took my Book wth. 260 Dollars and a Number of Lottery Tickets I think 15 belonging to Col. Whipple. My Family was in want before. This Blow will oblidge me to quit, here, and return speedily to seek some mode of aiding them nearer home. The Evening Post has nothing new; nor was there any thing in teresting in a packet which I reed. 3 days ago from the Hague of June 11th. 2 Both French & Dutch seem to be waiting till we are free 8c independent by our exertions, and then they will dare to feel so them selves. I am, with much Regard, Sir, Your Friend 8c humb Servt. James Lovell [P.S.] I believe the Chester Letter writer of Sepr. 12th has aggrivated the Enemy’s loss of General officers, otherwise his account is tollerable. RC (MHi). i Lovell also wrote the following brief note to William Whipple this morning. “The City was almost evacuated last night upon an alarm that the enemy were at Chestnut Hill. I was warned off, but I trust to the Delaware in my rear. I have wrote largely to Boston. You will get their papers.” Peter Force Collection, DLC. 2 Perhaps a reference to Charles W. F. Dumas’ letter of June 14, 1777, in which he reported: “Let us hear of a successful campaign, and your friends will show themselves, your partisans will multiply.” Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:340-41. John Adams’ Diary 1777. Thursday. Septr. 25. Rode from Bethlehem through Allan Town, Yesterday, to a German Tavern, about 18 Miles from Reading. Rode this Morning to Reading, where We breakfasted, and heard for certain that Mr. Howes Army had crossed the Schuylkill. Coll. Hartley gave me an Account of the late Battle, between the Enemy and General Wayne. 1 Hartley thinks that the Place was improper for Battle, and that there ought to have been a Retreat. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:267. 1 Adams is referring to the surprise night attack and defeat of Gen. Anthony Wayne’s force at Paoli on September 20.
