September 25, 1777 17 Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dr. Father Lancaster 25th Septr. 1777. I arrived here yesterday. I believe we shall make up a Congress tomorrow. I expect the Enemy took possession of Pha. yesterday evening or this morning. If the garrison at the fort will hold out a few day perhaps Mr. Howe may repent his going into Pha. General Washington is assembling & collecting troops from all sides. His army is much broken down with their late marches but a few days rest I hope will revive their strength & spirits. Gen. Washington crossed the Schuylkill with a full intention of attacking the enemy but the great rain which fell last Wednesday prevented the battle. Our amunition got so much damaged that our army was obliged to retire to strong grounds to get fresh ammunition. I am your affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton [P.S.] A Post soon will be established between this & Baltimore town when our correspondence will be more regular & frequent. RC (MdHi). Samuel Chase to Thomas Johnson My Dear Sir, Lancaster Septr. 25. 1777. I dropt You a Line from Reading the Day before yesterday, 1 I there received your Letter of the 16th. I write this by an Express Carrying orders to the Virginia Militia. I expect We shall make up a Congress before Sunday, & then I expect a regular Conveyance will be established weekly to Baltimore. 23rd Septr. 1777 “The Enemy, by a variety of perplexing Manouvres, thro a Country from which I cod. not derive the least Intelligence, being to a Man disaffected, contrived to pass the Schuylkill last Night, at the flatland &: other fords in the Neighbourhood of it. They marched immediately towards Philada & I imagine their advanced parties will be near that City to Night. They had so far got the Start before I reced certain Intelligence that any considerable Number had crossed, that I found it in vain to think of overtaking their Rear with Troops harrassed as ours had been with constant Marching since the Battle of Brandewyne, & therefore concluded by the advice of all the General officers to march from this place (near Potts Grove) tomorrow Morn ing towards Philadelphia, & on the Way endeavor to form a Junction with the Continental Troops under General McDougal from Peeks kill & the Jersey Militia under Genl. Dickinson, both of whom are,
