22 September 27, 1777 French. Mr. Peters moreover informs me that to his certain knowl edge several of these cartridges boxes were converted by the soldiers into cantenes & by some officers into shaving boxes. Commissary Flowers also acquainted me that there are now at Carlile upwards of 2000 tin cartridges boxes: if these are wanted in the army they may be immediately sent for. I am sorry to observe that two officers in high command in our army are said to be much addicted to liquor: what trust, what con fidence can be reposed in such men? They may disconcert the wisest & best laid plans: such men ought to be removed from their command 8c the army, for their example, besides the mischief which may be occasioned by a clouded & muddled brain, will have a pernicious in fluence on others: but how are they to be removed from their command? 1 1 could wish to know your Excellencys Sentiments on this Subject. The interest of the best 8c most glorious cause ought not to be sacrificed to a false delicacy: these are not times to put into competition the interests of a few with those of a great community. Nothing but severe punishments will, in my opinion, make the Commissaries 8c quartermasters attentive to their duty: your Excel lency has the power, and I hope will not want the will to punish such as deserve punishment. I hope your Excellency will excuse the freedom of this Letter; my Zeal for our country or my wishes for your Success have impelled me to write thus freely on a subject which claims all your attention, the reformation of the army 8c of the abuses prevalent in the two important departments of the Quarter Master 8c Commissary General. I am with much esteem, Yr. Excel lencys most obedt. hum. Servt. Ch. Carroll Carrollton RC (DLC). i Carroll probably had in mind Maj. Gens. William Alexander and Adam Stephen. Stephen was dismissed from the service, for drunkenness and un officerlike conduct at the battle of Germantown, on November 20, 1777. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:89. Cornelius Harnett to Richard Caswell Sir Lancaster Sepr. 27. 1777 I did myself the Honor of writing Your Excellency a few days ago from Philadelphia, since which Congress have been obliged to De camp, Genl. How having by many different Maneouvers got between Our Army 8c the City, 8c can when he pleases take possession of it. But it seems his intention is to Come to another Battle with Our Army first. Genl. Washington will in a day or two be reinforced with 1500 Regulars under Genl. McDugal from Peekskiin 8c 2000 Virginians 8c we hope will be able to Circumvent Howes schemes. Should he meet with a severe Check now, his Scituation will be rendered uneasy to
