28 September 80, 1777 Continue to write me by the Post, and I shall pay my Debts. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:849-50. i The packet of letters brought by Maj. Robert Troup included Gen. Horatio Gates’ September 22 letter containing news of the battle at Freeman’s Farm. See JCC, 8:756-57. Samuel Chase to Thomas Johnson Dr Sir, York. Septr. 30 1777, Tuesday Noon Since Writing to You this Morning 1 Congress have received Letters from Genl. Gates, the same in Substance 8c almost in the words of Wilkinsons Letter. Inclosed is the List of our Loss. Gates has above 7000 effective Rank 8c file, above 2,000 Militia are marching to rein force him. Adieu, Y[our]s, S Chase RC (MdHi). 1 Not found. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, York Town in Pennsylvania Sepr. 30th. 1777. Since my departure from Philadelphia, I have to acknowledge the receipt of your favrs. to 23d Inst. I met the Congress on Saturday last at Lancaster, 8c upon consultation it was judged most prudent to adjourn to this place, where we now are 8c where we can deliberate 8c prosecute business without interruption, 8c where your dispatches will meet us. I have just now reciev’d by general Gates’s Aid de Camp (Major Troup) sundry Letters, Copies of which I have the honour to inclose you, by which it appears that our affairs in the northern department wear a favourable aspect, and I hope soon to transmit you an Account of an issue to the contest in that quarter. I wish soon to receive the most pleasing accounts from you, we are in daily expectation of agreeable tidings, 8c that Genl. Howe is totally reduced. I beg leave to refer you to the inclosed papers, and am with the utmost respect 8c esteem, Sir, your most Obedt. 8c very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt [P.S.] Inclos’d I send you a South Carolina Paper, by which you will See the Success Capt Biddle in the Frigate Randolph has met, which when you have perus’d, I ask the favr. you will please to order to be Deliver’d to Coll. Pinkney of South Carolina, who is at Camp, 8c
