September 30, 1777 31 as I am satisfied in many instances it must yours but where I was satisfied the public good wod. result from the measure, I shod, en deavour to stifle those emotions of Humanity and Tenderness for individual distress, which in different circumstances wod. claim my attention and benevolence. In times like the present and in situations like ours, Rigour to internal Foes is absolutely necessary, and I think has been too long delayed. To Friends I wod afford every possible support and protection, to Tories and equivocal Characters I wod. yield the measure meeted by the Enemey to our Friends. I think this is the general Sentiment of our Body, and of almost every Whig I converse with. How far you can prevail on yourself to carry them into execution your own feelings must determine. The right of retaliation cannot be disputed, and it is equally just and wise to benefit ourselves of those necessaries wch. it is probable shod, we neglect to do so, may advantage the Enemy. In pursuing this line individuals may suffer hardship, but it is a sacrifice our friend shod, willingly make in the general good. Pray excuse these loose thoughts, I offer them with freedom. You are equally free to disregard them. Success and happi ness attend you. Yr. affect Servt. Jos. Jones [P.S.] Gibsons Battalion came in today. They are but thin. RC (DLC). i Washington’s September 17 letter, in which he declined Jones’ offer to buy his carriage but urged his fellow Virginian to use it, is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:232-33. See also Jones to Washington, September 14, 1777. 2 In a September 27 letter to the commanding officer of Virginia militia at Lancaster, Washington ordered one thousand of those “best Armed and equipped for the Season” to join his army immediately and suggested that those without arms might return home. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:273-74. In an attempt to help a Virginia militia battalion secure needed arms, Richard Henry Lee sent this brief request from “Susquehannah” on the 28th to William Henry, deputy commissary and treasurer of Lancaster County, Pa.: "This will be delivered you by Major Picket of the Virginia Militia, many of whose men are unarmed and must be supplied out of the 500 stand that you proposed to collect. As these are good men, they ought to have good arms, and I entreat you Sir to furnish them, if in your power, to the satisfaction of Major Picket.’’ PMHB 11 (1887): 502. Some arms must have been supplied because by Washington’s gen eral orders of October 8 William Pickett’s battalion was attached to Gen. William Woodford’s brigade. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:341. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear Son 1 York Town, 30 Septm 1777 I thank you for your late favors under the 24th 8c 26th & wait for one in return to a Letter which I sent from Reading 2 by the hand of Colonel Hartley at whose House I have apartments & am now writing. Perfectly satisfied that you will be guardian of the better parts,
