34 September 30, 1777 Henry Marchant to Nicholas Cooke Honored Sir, York, State of Pensylvania, Sepr. 30th. 1777 Fryday Morning Congress left the City of Philadelphia, in Con sequence of the British Armys gaining the Banks of Schuylkill at a fording Place about 17 miles from the City, They have since possessed themselves of the City. Genl. Washington from the Enemys move ments expected they were determined to cross over at a considerable Distance further up, and indeed that they meant an Attack upon Redding where we had Considerable Stores. In short the number of fording Places it seems rendered it impracticable to hinder their pass ing. How entered the City last Thursday. Genl. Washington is ap proaching the City. His army are daily reinforcing. Genl. McDougall joind him with 1500 New Engd. Continentals & six hundred Jersey millitia. The Virginians are marching down thro’ this Town daily with great Spirit. We have still the Possession of the River & have reinforced strongly Fort Island which defends the Cheveau de Frize. This with the Floating Batteries, Fire Ships and Gallies we are in Hopes will be a Defence against Hows Fleet should they attempt to come up. And Our army in the Rear must cutt off all Resources from the Enemys army, till it shall be thought expedient to make a general Attack. I think they are well disposed of, till they are better disposed of. I congratulate you Sir upon Our Successes at the Northward, and the general Prospect we have of completing a glorious Campaign. This is my Hope and this by the Blessing of Heaven I think we have the most rational Expectations of. I am Honored Sir, Yr. most obedt., humble Servt. Hy. Marchant P.S. The enclosed Letter handed to me by one of the Delegates from So. Carolina, I beg yr. particular Care of. RC (R-Ar). William Williams to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Hond Sir York 30 Sepr 1777 Having in a joint Letter of this Date given you an Acco. of our present Situation & the Circumstances of public Affairs in these parts, have not much to add. 1 It is long since I have heard from you or my dear Friends in Lebanon & Connecticut, which gives me much Pain. I wod gladly have come home to see 8c find how They were 8cc instead of the tedious circum round about Journey of 160 or 70 miles to this Place, had I not been sensible the Tongue of slander wod have been busie; I intended when I came from home to have returned in Octo.
