September 30, 1777 35 but the Events which have taken place, oblige me to postpone it a little longer, but hope to return soon, if it please God, the road may be safe, & have great hope the Affairs at the Northward will be happy which will also contribute greatly to alter their situation in this quar ter for the better. Majr. Troup, G Gates’s Aid De Camp, came in this day with Let ters from him 8cc which seem to exhillerate the Spirits of Congress, quite enow & indeed they were not too much depresd before, strongly hoping & expecting a reverse. I wish our Confidence was more placed 8c founded on the infinite Mercy 8c Goodness of God, 8c less on vain self Confidence 8c Sufficiency, but I hope God has great 8c merciful Designs for Us, notwithstandg. our infinite unworthiness. I intended at Philadelpa. to have wrote a Letter of Resignation to our Assembly, lest They shod reelect me for a Delegate (tho probably there wod have been no danger) but being driven to this Distance it may be impossible for me to get home in season especially if We shod be worsted at the Northwd 8c to be here without business wod be painful enow 8c believe I shall neglect it. They will do as they please but I have no Wish nor Design to attend again, sometime, if ever I shod be desired. 2 The People of this State appear to be very many of them, weary of the Stagnation of Business, by the shutting up the Ports whereby They have so much lost their Gain, which seems to be all the God they know 8c are disaffected to the Cause for that 8c governmental 8c other Causes. They despise Continental Money, 8c take it only thro fear, 8c most extravagant quantitys for Trifles. It is worse at Lancaster than at Phila. 8c not better here, tho I think the People are of a better Disposition in some respects. The Town complain that they suffer in the midst of great Plenty, 8c there never was greater of the precious Fruits of the Earth; but the farmers refuse to bring in or to sell, unless for Salt 8c other necessaries. They say they get a Load of wood here for one Silver Dollar, 8c must give four continental 8c so in proportion. Fine broad Cloths are £12 per yard 8cc here. I hope a heavy Tax will tend to reduce things to order which Congress will certainly recom mend very soon. A Comte had been appointed to prepare, apportion 8cc at P. but we were obliged to decamp before it was brot in. 3 Tho nothing but Success against our Enemys will effectually extricate us from the Distresses respecting our Currency 8cc into which we are plunged. May God grant us Salvation for his own great Mercy 8c Name Sake 8c enable Us to Say not unto Us 8cc for I am sure we dont deserve it. I had but a faint Idea of the wickedness of the Country till I had traveled to this Country, seen 8c heard so much of 8c from the middle 8c southern parts. Well may we admire 8c adore the infinite Patience 8c long suffering of our God. 4 RC (NN).
