October 1, 1777 37 larger Proportions than the Rest. We are also informed that recruit ing goes on well in Virginia 8c that a considerable Number of con tinental Troops (Recruits) are on their Way. One hundred & ten arrived this Day, but naked & unarmed & how they 8c the Rest are to be armed 8c equipped is yet a Mystery. Could not the Arms be taken from the sick 8c given to those who are well. Chester County would afford a great supply of Blanketts if they were taken from the dis affected; 8c it is to be wished Mr Mease would appoint some Place for delivering out Cloathing. Shoes are engrossed all over the Country 8c can be obtained upon no Terms but such as are extravagant except they are siezed 8c paid for at a reasonable Price. I enclose a Letter from Major Nicholas who was sent for the Arms at Springfield 8c Brookfield 8c altho it appeared from the Returns now in the Office that there were at least 6,000, your Excellency will see how difficult it has been to obtain the Number mentioned in the Letter. 2 How this can happen is difficult to determine. The Board request you will be pleased to send off Orders to Major Nicholas what he shall do with the Arms 8c any Stores he may bring. It is rather Malapropos to bring Stores into this State at this Time. General Heath should be ordered to send all the Arms he keeps for the Regts to be raised 8c let them be delivered to those which are raised. The Arms kept in Connecticut In Case of an Invasion should be ordered where there is actually an Invasion as I concieve. But no Doubt some Order will be taken in this Matter. Will your Excellency be pleased to direct what shall be done with the Recruits who cannot from all Appearances be armed 8c clothed here? As the Board meet but irregularly owing to Matters not being in a proper Train here yet, I have suggested much of this Letter to Your Excellency 8c if there be too much Haste 8c Egotism you will be pleased to excuse it 8c believe me to be with the greatest Respect Your Excellency’s very obed. 8c most hble Servt, Richard Peters P.S. By a Letter from Major Nicholas since writing the above it seems that Col. Cheevers is on his Way with 2,000 Stands of Arms beside those intended to be brought by the Major. As I have no Assistant my Deputy not being here it will prevent my Attention to the forwarding the Troops in the Manner I could wish as I am 8c shall be much en gaged in the Arrangement of the Office for a few Days when I shall be ready to execute with the greatest Industry 8c readiness any Com mands your Excellency may be pleased to honour me with. I shall forward the Troops as they arrive here to Lancaster 8c if I hear of any Difficulties there shall go thither to surmount them as far as I can. 3 RC (DLC). i Washington’s September 28 letter requesting the board to expedite the progress o£ the southern militia detachments coming to reinforce the army is in Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:277.
