38 October 1, 1777 2 In his September 24 letter from Lebanon, Conn., Samuel Nicholas reported that he had been able to collect only 2,600 stand of arms because General Heath was keeping 600 for regiments that “are raising” and the Connecticut governor and council were retaining most of the arms lent them “in case of invasion.” Wash ington Papers, DLC. In reaction to an earlier report from Nicholas, Richard Peters had written the following note to Washington’s military secretary Tench Tilghman on September 29: “I cannot help informing you that I have just had the Mortification to receive by Express from Springfield an Account that there are but about fifteen hundred Arms at that Place instead of Six thousand which by the Returns in the Office signed by the Commissary of Stores at that Place & at Boston appeared to be at Springfield & Brookfield. Major Nicholas who was dispatched about the Business has sent off to Boston to know what has become of the Arms. Has any been ordered by the General? or can any Account be given why Returns should be made which are not founded in Truth unless Orders have been given since the Returns. I heard Genl Knox had ordered 2,000 but know not how this Matter is. Unless the whole Conduct of the Arms & Stores are in one Body or Person we shall have a confused & flemish Account of our military Stores.” Ibid. 3 The next day Peters sent Washington the following report on this subject. “One hundred & eighteen Recruits belonging to the 2d & 4th Virginia & 2d Maryland Regiments were sent off to Day. The Returns I have the Honour to enclose you. Shoes have been furnished them but they want everything else. As I did not know where the Clothier or Commissary General’s Stores were deposited they are ordered to Reading on a Presumption that the Articles they want have been sent thither. They were so very destitute that it was thought best not to send them to the Army immediately lest they should be more an Incumbrance than otherwise. They are under the Command of a Capt Caimis of Col. Spots wood’s Regt who is ordered to send to your Excellency to know where they can be equipped. When the Clothier or Commisary Genl become Stationary it would be well for them to inform the Board, & perhaps your Excellency will be pleased to appoint some Place for all Recruits passing thro’ York or Lancaster to be sent.” Ibid. John Hancock to Dorothy Hancock York Town in Pennsylvania My Dear, Dear Dolly, 90 miles from Philada. 1st Octor. 1777 You would not wonder at my not having wrote you oftner since your Departure from Philada. if you knew my Scituation since that time. I have been in a constant hurry, & very soon after you left me our Alarms began & continued Day & night untill the morng. of the 19th Sepr. when about one oClock (& I was not in bed, nor had my Cloaths off for three Nights before) I Rec’d an Express from the General’s aid De Camp recommending the immediate Removal of Congress, as the Enemy had it in their power to throw a party that Night into the City. I instantly gave the alarm, Rous’d the Members, collected my Waggons, Horses, Carriage See and after having fix’d my Packages, Papers &c in the Waggons and Sent them off, about 3 oClock in the morning I Set off myself for Bristol, from thence by a round about course of several Days I reach’d this place, where Congress is
