October 1, 1777 39 now sitting. I could not come the direct Road, being prevented by the Enemy. I am very well Accommodated in point of lodging, 8c the place is pleasant enough, & if I had you with me I should be happy. After what I have mention’d of the Scenes I have pass’d thro’ since your Departure, I know you will hold me excus’d that I have not oftner wrote. 1 confess I have wrote you but once, & that by the Post under cover to Mr. Bant, which hope you Rec’d, tho’ a short one. 1 I Rec’d a Letter from Mr Burr, & was glad to find you had got safe thus far. I have Rec’d two Letters from Capt Newell, the last from New Haven where you was well which gave me much pleasure. The Day before yesterday Dodd Return’d here, and brought me your Letter from Worcester, which Rejoic’d me exceedingly, & I could wish to have been with you. I have wrote to Mr Bant 2 to Tell Mr Sprigs to have the light Chariott well look’d to & made strong, I would not have it painted, I want it well repair’d, that it may be ready if I should want it to meet me on the Road on my Return, or if I should hereafter find myself obliged to Spend the winter here, the Carriage will be ready to bring you to me, for most assuredly in that case I shall Send for you; tho’ I hope the Campaign will soon be over, & give me an Oppory of Returning home, at least for a time, but of this more hereafter. I am exceedingly well Scituated with respect to a House & Lodgings, the Lady with whom I am is a most agreeable, pleasant woman. Mr. Chace lodges in the same house 8c no others. I find my Carpets very convenient. I got all my things safe here. I have had since your Departure a Touch of the Cholick, which worried me much, I Rode in the Rain & was much wet, which beleive brought it on; and I have been sadly Afflicted with my old disorder, it has not yet left me, I am still unwell, but hope soon to be better. General Howe is beyond a Doubt in possession of Philada. tho’ I have Rec’d no particulars. If you Ask me how he came to pass our Army without a Battle, 8c get into the City, my Answer must be suspended till I receive a full Accott. of the Transactions, 8c then you shall know. It is impossible for me fully to determine as to my Stay here, but hope in my next to be able to be more certain. I wish you may have thought by the return waggon George to Send me a little Keg of pickled peppers. I want some much, but if not sent, it is no matter. I wish you to go to Bridgwater 8c pay a Visit to my Mother, 8c pray Remember me to her in the most affectionate terms, 8c to the whole Family. I will write you again in a few days, I must beg that you will improve every oppory. of writing to me, I am sure if you knew the pleasure 8c Satisfaction it gives me to hear from you, you would Seek oppors. of Gratifying me by frequent Letters. I intreat you to write, 8c desire Mr Bant to write me. Pray let the things at Mr Woodburn’s
