October 1, 1777 41 be Taken care of, let the Case of plate be in your lodging Chamber. I will order down the Trunk of things at Stratford, & then you can take the Stuff you want, some Waggons are going down. Remember me to all Friends as if nam’d, I have not time to be par ticular. I am surrounded with persons applying about Business, some French as usual, that I must close, and Defer untill the next Letter what I have further to Say. I long to See you, 8c hope for that pleasure soon. Adieu, My Dear Dolly. May a kind providence ever Guard you, 8c with my best wishes for every Good, Am, Yours most affectionately, John Hancock [P.S.] Pray Take good Care of Vilet, 8c let her spend a few days in Boston among her friends. Remember me to Mrs Homes, 8c to Mr Woodburn’s Family. To morrow I Expect Mr. 8c Mrs. Hillegas 8c the whole Family here, they are to Reside here, I Sup’d with them at Reading on my way here, and Lodg’d at Mrs. Graydon’s, they all beg’d to be Remembred to you most affectionately. If you See Doer Cooper pray Remember me to him 8c Lady, 8c to Mr W. Cooper 8c Lady, 8c to all Friends, let them know how my time is engross’d by the publick, which must be my Apology for not writing them. Do Send me all the Newspapers, 8c everything stirring. RG (RPB-JH). Addressed: “To Mrs. Hancock, To the Care of Mr. William Bant, who is requested to forward it by a special Messenger to whatever place Mrs. Hancock may be.” 1 Probably Hancock’s September 17 letter to Dorothy. 2 Not found. Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton Sir, York Town Octr. 1 1777 General Gates’s Letters with enclosures to Congress Per express this day are refered to the Committee of Intelligence for publication and will be sent this Afternoon to Lancaster for that purpose, 1 therefore transcripts are less necessary, but I would furnish them for the satis faction of Council if I was not very unwell, as thereby they might be furnished with the news a few hours sooner. The Express give a verbal account that two Spys were decoied by some Continental Troops round our Genl. Clinton’s Quarters habited like unto the Brittish Soldiers for the very purpose. The Spy’s asked when they landed, they were told the day before—where Gen. Clinton was, for they had some thing to communicate, they were told they should be counducted to him—when they came into his presence,
