44 October 2, 1777 William Williams to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. W Williams Obedt, 2d Oct [1777] Thursday Since the above Mr Brown is arrived by whom I have the Pleasure & Honor of your kind Favour, 8c rejoyce to hear of Your, & the Welfare of my dear Friends. Have had nothing directly from Genl Washington these 2 or 3 Days, but hear he has approached nearer to Howe probably a most important Action will soon insue. Also that the Enemy have taken the Delaware Frigate in the River, not by their Ships which had not been able to get up but that the Master who commanded her (dont know his Name) came up to the Wharf, 8c tis supposed gave or sold her. With her help I expect they will demolish the other Ships 8c Fire Craft 8cc 8cc which were confident of defending the river, near the Cheavaux de Frize 8c soon have their Fleet in possession of it. If true, language cant express my Feelings towd the accursed Villain. 1 Capt Biddle of the Randolph, has just carrd in to Charlestown S. Cara 4 important Prizes, one of 20 Gun, with 700 puncheons of rum, 8c 300 Hds Sugar 8cc, the rest very valuable. Please to acknowledge for me, to Genl Huntington, Mr Sherman 8c Mr Hosmer the receipt of their very agreable Favors. I regret that I cod not answer Them, but my Colleagues obliged me to write so much 8cc it was impossible, in the Intervals of Congress, meeting now twice a day. 2 Mr Law writes Mr. Hosmer, my respectful Compliments attend them, 8c the other Gentlemen 8c very kindly accept Mr Wales’s Compliments, in Col Dyers Letter. May the God of all Mercy appear for our help &: Salvation, 8c the Glory be his only 8c forever. I have not room to add, but that I am now 8c ever, with the greatest Respect 8c affection, your dutiful 8c most [P.S.] My most Friendly 8c sincere Compliments to Col. Jos. T., Bror Davd. 8c Jona. if at home. Tho I dont often mention, tis not because I ever forget my hond 8c dear Mother Trumbull. RC (NN). A continuation of Williams to Trumbull, September 30, 1777. i The Delaware had been captured after running aground. See Marine Com mittee to Charles Alexander, September 26, 1777, note. 2 It was resolved on October 1 “That, until further order, Congress shall meet precisely at ten o’clock a.m. sit to one, then adjourn to four, p.m.: then to meet and proceed on business.’’ JCC, 8:756.
