October 5, 1777 49 James Lovell to Robert Treat Paine Dear Sir, York Octr. 3d 1777 Removed thus far more distant from you than the Head Quarters of our Army, you cannot expect so early Intelligence of military movements from me as from Persons near the General. Indeed I can acquaint you with nothing at this Time only that Congress is thrown within the Department of the Commissary of the Army for Support of itself, its Officers in various Boards, its Servants 8c Horses. 1 Mr. Howe will want Burgoine’s Assistance this Winter as a Writer of Comedies in Philadelphia, for, in Philadelphia I fear he will remain from the best Judgements I could form of Things as I passed into the Neighbourhood of our Army in my Rout from Philadelphia hither. If you have more pleasing Expectations excited by Letters from Head Quarters I wish not to deprive you of the Satisfaction of them by my Forebodings. I hope yr. Privateers will pick up some Transport with Shoes 8c other Necessaries for the Army which by the late Marches 8c Counter marches thro Brook, Creeks, Rivers, Bushes, Swamps and the whole Variety of rocky Ground is much tattered I assure you. I think more so than they would have been in 3 or 4 pitched Battles. Our main Hope is the northern Army. By their Valour New England may enjoy a comfortable Winter. I wish it most sincerely, and am, Dear Sir, yr. Friend 8c humb Servt. James Lovell RC (MHi). 1 The delegates’ inability to obtain adequate personal supplies in York led them on October 2 to resolve that commissary and quartermaster officials should provide “such articles ... as may be required by the several members [o£ Con gress], for the use of themselves, their servants and horses, the said members paying the cost of the said articles; and that this resolution extend to the secretaries, treasurer and the officers of the several boards and committees of Congress.’’ JCC, 8:760. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dr. Papa, York 5th Oct. 1777. My last gave you an account of the fight between Gates 8c Burgoyne; we have not reed, since any news from that quarter from whence I presume Burgoyne did not renew his attack between the 19th 8c 20th for had another battle been fought in that interval the news would have reached Congress before this time; and I also con clude from this inaction of Burgoyne that his army must have suffered considerably in the conflict of the 19th, 8c perhaps he himself may
