52 October 5, 1777 Enemy lost in killed and wounded 1970; besides Desertions & those who fell in skirmishes before & since. General Washington’s Army is movd down near German Town. When his Reinforcements are arrived he will endeavour to repair his past misfortunes & I sincerely hope I maybe able to send you some more agreable Intelligence than At present in my power. General St Clair is neither tried nor Arraigned. How can it be ex pected in the critical situation of our Affairs: & when his Hearing is to be preceeded by the Report of a Committee who are to collect materials from A Variety of distant Sources for the purpose? With respect to yourself I think you have determined wisely: I advise you however to write a civil Letter to Congress requesting them to give you a Copy of your Charge and assign a day for the Hearing, hinting that a delay in your painful Situation is a Severity which you neither merit from your Country, nor have any Reason to expect from Congress. 1 Give my Compls to Maj. H.B. Livingston & tell him he is promoted to the Rank of Lieut Colonel as is Col. Troup for the news from the northern Army. 2 I shoud first have said that a Monument is ordered to be erected in Honour of the Memory of Genl Herkimer—Genl Stark advancd to the Rank of Brig. Genl, in the Continental service. Gansevoort has the Thanks of Congress; & is appointed Col. Com- modant of Fort Schuyler—Willet the Thanks of Congress & a Sword. Present my Compls to Mrs. Schuyler, the young Ladies & all our Friends, and believe me to be, Dear Sir, with great Regard, Your most Obed & very huml Servant, Jas Duane P.S. What became of my Crop? Were the Barrack’s or Barn finished? Where is J Ellice? I have not a word about my Farm; & am banished (contrary to the promises of them who prevaild on me to come to this State) already six tedious months. Am I never to be relievd? RC (NN). i For a discussion of the congressional investigation of Generals St. Clair and Schuyler, see John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5, 1777, note. 2 See JCC, 9:769-70. President Hancock informed Henry Brockhoist Livings ton and Robert Troup of their promotions in brief letters that he wrote to them on October 5 and 6 respectively. PCC, item 12A, fols. 285, 294. James Duane to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr. Dear Sir York Town 5h Octobr. 1777 Your Letter to Congress has been read 8c refered to the Board of Treasury. 1 I coud not however lose a moment in assuring you that you have reced a very wrong Impression from the Report to which you refer: There is no Officer in the Continental Service who stands
