October 5, 1777 53 higher than yourself in the Esteem of the Board of Treasury & of Congress in general: & the Board will at all times be pleasd to give you every honourable testimonial in Justification of your Conduct. To me be assurd it will be a singular pleasure. You will have some thing more formal on this Subject soon. In the mean believe that I am, with very great Respect, Dear Sir, Your most Obedt, huml Sert, Jas. Duane RC (CtHi). 1 On October 2 Congress read a September 20 letter from Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., deputy paymaster general in the northern department, complaining about a September 6 resolve which expressed disapproval of "the stoppages made by [Trumbull], out of the pay of the troops in that department on account of clothing.” Congress referred this letter to the Board of Treasury, of which Duane was chairman, but otherwise took no action on it. See JCC, 8:716, 758; and PCC, item 78, 22:529-30. John Hancock to Peter Gansevoort Sir, York Town: Pennsylvania. Octr. 5th. 1777. It is with Pleasure I comply with the Order of Congress in trans mitting the enclosed Resolve, in which you will percieve they have voted Thanks to you, and to the officers & Troops under your Command for the Bravery & Perseverance which were displayed in the Defence of Fort Schuyler. In Consideration of your gallant Behaviour the Congress have been pleased to appoint you Colonel Commandant of the Fort. 1 I must beg you will please to communicate to the Officers & Troops under your Command this distinguished Mark of the Approbation of their Country. I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Sir, your most obed. 8c very hble Servt. J.H. Presidt LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Colonel Gansevoort, Colo. Commandt. of Fort Schuyler.” 1 See JCC, 9:771. This day Hancock also wrote a letter to Col. Marinus Willet of New York, informing him that Congress had decided to present him with “an elegant Sword” in recognition of “the Successful Sally you made on the Enemy while they invested Fort Schuyler.” Berg Collection, NN; PCC, item 12A, fol. 287; and JCC, 9:771-72. John Hancock to Horatio Gates Sir, York Town: Pennsylvania, Octr. 5th. 1777. I have been duely honored with your Favours of the 22d ulto. by Major Troup (accompanied with sundry Inclosures) and immediately
