54 October 5, 1777 communicated to Congress the very agreeable Intelligence it con tained. The Success of our Arms in the late Repulse of Genl. Burgoyne, and the favourable aspect of Affairs in your Quarter, gave the highest Pleasure to Congress. They have particularly, as you will find by the enclosed Resolves, expressed their warmest approbation of the Bravery and Conduct of the Troops under your Command in the late Engage ment with the British Army under Genl. Burgoyne, and I must beg you will communicate to them the Sense of their Country with Regard to their Behaviour on that Occasion. 1 I entertain the most pleasing Expectation that from your Vigilance, Spirit, & Activity, the Army of the United States, will be ere long crowned with full & complete Victory over the Enemies of America, & the Rights of Mankind, in the Department committed to your Care. I beg Leave to refer your Attention to the enclosed Resolves, and, wishing you every private and public Prosperity, I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Sir, your most obed. &: very hble Serv. J.H. Presid P.S. Octr. 7th. Since writing the foregoing Congress have passed sevl. other Resolves which I enclose. They have also received a Letter from Genl. Putnam, a Copy of which with the Resolve in Consequence thereof I forward to you. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See JCC, 9:770. 2 On October 6 Congress read a September 29 letter from Gen. Israel Putnam reporting that 3,000 British and German troops had recently arrived in New York City, that the British were apparently preparing to attack Peekskill, and that he needed reinforcements to defend this post. PCC, item 159, fols. 99-100. Con sequently, on the same day Congress approved resolves asking Generals Gates and Washington to adopt the measures they deemed necessary to cope with these developments. Congress also adopted a resolve on the 6th concerning Gates’ objections to certain financial claims in the northern department. JCC, 9:773-74, 776. John Hancock to Robert Morris Dear Sir, York, 5th Octr, 1777. The Business allotted me by Congress after sitting till 9 o’clock last evening prevents me the honour and pleasure of waiting on you agreeable to your kind invitation and my wish. I have expresses going to Genl Gates, Genl Putnam and to Head Quarters: which makes me very busy. The Inclos’d Letters for you and Coll Harrison I have just rec’d & judging it would be agreeable to you both to have them soon, I therefore dispatch one of my Expresses with them. I have not a word
