October 6, 1777 63 Delaware below, and have hopes of keeping it, so as to prevent the British fleet from getting up to the City. Should this be the case Genl. Howe’s visit cannot be of long duration. You say that “the vessels of the United States will be received at the Havannah as those of France, the most favored nation.’’ 2 We wish to be exactly informed whether north American products may be car ried thither, or Prizes taken to, & disposed of in that port, or any other port of his catholic Majesty in America. You likewise mention a late Draught of the Mississippi taken for the Government of Gr. Britain. We are desirous of being furnished with a copy. It is with pleasure we read your assurance of sending the soldiers cloathing and other materials for the army, in time to meet the approaching cold season. They will be greatly wanted. As the degree of success the enemy have met with this year will probably support the hopes of a vindictive court, and occasion the straining of every Nerve for the accomplish ment of its tyrannic views, we doubt not your most strenuous exer tions to prevent Gr. Britain from obtaining Russian or German Aux iliaries for the next campaign; And we think with you that it is an object of great importance to cultivate & secure the friendship of his Prussian Majesty, as well for the preventing this evil, as for obtaining his public recognition of our Independence, and leave of his ports for the purposes of commerce & disposal of Prizes. The original Papers which you mention in a triplicate to have sent, never came to hand; so that we can only make conjectures as to the disposition of that Monarch. 3 The marine force of the enemy is so considerable, in these seas, & so overproportionate to our infant navy, that it seems quite necessary and wise to send our ships to distress the commerce of our enemies in other parts of the world. For this purpose, the marine committee have already ordered some vessels to France under your directions as to their future operation, and we expect more will be sent. 4 But our Frigates are not capable of carrying much bulky commodity for com mercial purposes, without unfitting them for war, besides the con sideration of our being obliged to get them away how & when we can or endanger their being taken, which prevents our sending them to those Staple Colonies where the commodities wanted are to be ob tained. The reciprocal benefits of Commerce cannot flow from or to N. America until some maritime power in Europe will aid our cause with marine strength; and this circumstance gives us pain, least it should be considered on our part as unwillingness to pay our debts, when the truth is that we have the greatest desire of doing so, have materials in abundance, but not the power of conveying them. This leads us to reflect on the great advantages that must unavoidably accrue to all parties if France &: Spain were to afford effectual aid on the Sea, by loan or sale of Ships of war, according to the former pro positions of Congress; or, if the Farmers General could be prevailed
