October 6, 1777 65 tract from coming to America; because the suspension of the question concerning vacant lands will not obstruct his views of getting the quantity he may want, either by original entry, or by purchase on the most reasonable terms upon the frontiers of those states where vacant lands are in abundance to be met with. We are warranted to say that such rank, as that Nobleman may have when he leaves service in Europe will be granted to him here. Congress clearly discern with you the all important concern of sup porting the credit of our continental money, and, with this view, have proposed, as you will see by the inclosed resolve to pay the interest of twenty millions of dollars by bills drawn on you. This we hope will in time replenish the Loan Offices so effectually, as, with the aid of taxation now generally taking place, to prevent the necessity of future emissions. 3 By your letter of the 25th of May we have no doubt but that those bills will be paid with all due punctuality. 4 About 5 millions only of the twenty voted are yet borrowed, and the interest on these 5 will not to be drawn for in bills of exchange till near a twelve month. We are, Gentlemen, Your humble Servants. Benja Harrison Richard Henry Lee Robt Morris James Lovell Jno Witherspoon Thos. Heyward Junr. RC (PPAmP). Written by Lovell and signed by Lovell, Harrison, Heyward, Lee, Morris, and Witherspoon. t The commissioners’ letter of May 26 dealing with the appropriation of vacant land has not been found. 2 The question of the ownership and control of western lands had been de bated many times. Efforts to give Congress exclusive control over the western boundaries of the states in the Articles of Confederation were conclusively de feated on October 15, 1777. JCC, 9:806-9. s The committee undoubtedly enclosed the September 10 resolve authorizing the payment of interest on loan office certificates in bills of exchange drawn on the American commissioners at Paris. JCC, 8:730-31. 4 The commissioners’ May 25 letter to the Committee of Secret Correspondence is in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:322-25. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren My dear sir, York Town in Pennsylva. 6th Octr 1777 I am favoured with yours of Sepr. 15th 1 & suppose that eer this will reach You the Orders of the Commercial Committee, 2 for the Disposal of the several Cargoes consigned to You by Messers Gardoquis, will be received. The Anchors &: Cordage will of Course be delivered to your navy Board; & with respect to the Duck, Medicines, & Salt, I
