66 October 6, 1777 think it will be the surest Way, to deliver to the Board what is im mediately wanted of each, & inform Congress thereof, together with the Necessity that led to this Measure. My Reason for this proposal is that the Disposition already made of these Cargoes, will require a Reconsideration, wch Committees as well as Congress are generally averse to: whereas, there will be no Difficulty in approving your Con duct, when evidently founded on the Necessity of the Case. The Blankets, I fear, cannot be spared from the army. A timely application to the marine Board for such other Articles as may be wanted, which should be particularly enumerated, will produce the Order which You desire. Since my last, some of the Important Events that have taken place, prove, that those of war are very uncertain. From Circumstances whether favourable or unfortunate, We are apt to expect similar Consequences; & the reverse frequently happens; from whence We may learn, in Times of prosperity, Caution, & of Adversity, persever ance & a firm Resolution not to despond. The Loss of Philadelphia, which In the End I think will be a salutary Event, is owing under providence to several Causes. The Misbehaviour of the Militia of Pennsylvania is one, & is attributed to the Militia Act, which invests the people with the power of appointing the regimental officers. Be the Cause what it may, nothing could equal their Timidity; As I am informed by some of the principal Inhabitants of the State that twenty five Hessians put to Flight two Regiments at the Battle of the Brandywine, & that when the General ordered them to supply the place of a Brigade, which he had ordered from Chads Ford to rein force General Sullivan at Jones Ford, they refused to comply with his orders from apprehensions of Danger, & by those means put the Enemy in Possession of our Lines, wch they would not have at tempted to attack, had they been properly manned. Another Cause is said to have been the Circumstance of the Country thro which the Enemy marched to the City, it being inhabited by Tories, who gave the best of Intelligence to the Enemy, 8c deceived General Washing ton. These are undoubted Facts, 8c by the best Information that I can get, there is not such a Collection of disaffected people on the Con tinent, as of the quakers inhabiting that part of Pennsylvania. The Disputes about the Constitution of this State, have produced such a Division & Torpor thro out the same, as renders it at present an inac tive, lifeless, unwieldy, Mass. Thus much for this State; 8c the Militia of Maryland 8c Delaware are but little better, but the principal Cause of their obtaining the City without a second Battle, which at the Time of my writing my last Letter was hourly expected, was a heavy rain that happened on the Day of the Meeting of the Armies, 8c after their advanced parties were engaged; this obliged them to retire, 8c the Baggage of our Army was so far distant, that the Tents could not be procured; by which Means all the Ammunition of the Soldiers was
