October 6, 1777 67 destroyed, their Arms hurt, & the Army so injured, that they were under the Necessity of marching the next Day twenty Miles into the Country to avoid a Battle; which must have been fought on our Side by Bayonets & Artillery only. But I am apprehensive, that the Vanity of the southern States, which has produced such Instances of Invec tive against the eastern officers & Troops whenever they have misbe haved, stimulated them to oppose General Howe with as little Assistance as possible from the eastern States, that they might have had the Opportunity of boasting how much the united States owed their Liberties to the southern, who opposed themselves to the main Army of the Enemy. This I am led to beleive, from the Declarations that were made previous to the Battle of the Brandywine, & likewise from the Neglect to draw off more Troops from Peeks Kill when the Enemy landed at Elk; but since the late Occurrences, Reason seems to have taken place, the eastern officers Sc Troops are highly spoken of, the others indifferently by their own People, 8c I hope that each will be convinced, that a party Spirit is not Only unprofitable but destruc tive to both. Generals Washington 8c Mifflin are however ever averse to such a Spirit. We have heard from the northern Army 8c I congratulate You on the Success of Colo Brown, 8c the good Conduct of our Troops in the Action of the 19th Sepr; We are in daily Expectation of some decisive Action in that Quarter, which may be very important. By a Letter from General Putnam of the 29th Sepr. he supposed that a Reinforcement of three thousand Men had arrived at New York 8c that more were expected; if so, we must increase our Exertions to meet the most vigorous Efforts 8c perhaps the last that our Enemies can make. He reed his Information from one of our field officers which he has lately exchanged, but I strongly suspect 8c hope that it will turn out to be a Feint, 8c that the Transports were sent from the Enemy’s Fleet, when they arrived at the Capes of Virginia, for this purpose. A Fleet consisting of sixty Sail was seen the 25th of August in the Latitude of the Capes, standing with the Wind at S S E to the Eastward, 8c is probably the same that arrived at New York, but You will undoubtedly be able to ascertain the Fact, by the Time this reaches You. General Washington on the Morning of the 4th Instant about 1/2 past 5 surprized the Enemy’s Camp at German Town; the particulars We have not yet reed or a Line from the General; but a Mr McClure who is a reputable Citizen of Baltimore, 8c as a Volunteer was in both the Actions of Prince Town 8c the Brandywine, 8c also in this, declares that it by far exceeds the others. By his Account our army advanced in three Divisions, the left of which did not come up for Reasons unknown, the other two attacked the Enemy, drove them thro German Town to their Lines, 8c attacked them therein for a con siderable Time, untill the General ordered them to retreat. The
