68 October 6, 1777 Carnage he says was great, 8c particularly on the side of the Enemy; General Nash is wounded, 8c General Sullivans Brigade Majors are said to be mortally wounded. I suppose his aid de Camps are in tended, the wounded were brot off, 8c a Field peice of the Enemy’s. Our Troops behaved with great Bravery. This is confirmed by a Letter wch General Mifflin, who is sick at Redding reed from an officer in his Department 8c forwarded to Congress. You will soon have more authentic accounts 8c I hope they will be agreable from this as well as other quarters. General Howe has issued a proclamation confirming his promises of protection 8c pardon to such of the Inhabitants of the middle States as remained in their Homes 8c returned to their Allegiance in Conse quence of his proclamation when he landed at Elk, 8c as shall continue to merit it by their future Behavior 8c excluded all other persons whatever from the Benefit thereof; this shews what the Consequences of a Conquest Would be, more than Volumes could do on the Sub ject. 3 With the heartiest Wishes for your Health 8c Happiness I remain sir yours very sincerely, E Gerry [P.S.] One of the Continental Ships in the Delaware was brot against the City, 8c by some Means unknown to us at present, has fallen into the Hands of the Enemy. A 20 Gun Ship, [10?] Gun Brig 8c 700 hhds Rum with abt 200 of Sugar was taken by Capt Biddle in the Randolph at So Carolina. 8th. Inclosed is a Copy of a Letter from General Washington containg an authentic Account of the action of the 4th. 4 I must beg the Favour of your requesting the Hona Assembly to send a Member to supply my place in Congress abt the 1st of December, as my Health requires some relaxation from Business. RC (MHi). i Warren’s September 15 letter to Gerry is in Gardiner, Warren-Gerry Cor respondence, pp. 81-82. 2 Not found. a For Gen. William Howe’s September 28 proclamation, see Evans, Am. Bibliography, No. 15324. 4 Washington’s October 5 letter to President Hancock containing an account of the battle of Germantown was read in Congress on October 8. See JCC, 9:782; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:308-11. John Hancock to John Nixon Sir, York Town: Pennsylvania, October 6th. 1777. I have received your Favour wherein you request Leave to resign on Account of Indisposition, and immediately laid it before Congress. In Consequence of which I have it in Charge to inform you that they
