78 October 8, 1777 never have occasion to Censure me for not keeping up to it. Pray have you paid a Visit to my Mother, I wish to hear how she enjoys her health, & how the Family is. Remember me to your Father, & the Family, and to all Friends as if nam’d. A Letter for you reach’d me yesterday. I found it inclos’d Letters for Genl St Clair with a few Lines from Mrs. Bayard. Do Take care of Violet, let her go 8c spend a little time in Boston among her Friends. I shall very soon come to a final Determination as to my future proceedings and you shall immediately be made Acquainted. My Respects to all Friends, I wish to See them. I am call’d upon 8c must Close, 8c must Defer what I have further to Say to that happy time when I shall have the Satisfaction of Seeing you, which I hope will not be long first, either at this place or at Worcester. I beg you will bear upon your mind constantly, that it gives me the highest pleasure 8c Satisfaction when I hear from you by Letter, 8c I hope that impression will produce a frequent attention to the object of it. My best wishes attend you for every Felicity 8c I am with the utmost Affection, My Dear Girl, Yours for ever, John Hancock RC (MdBJ-G). 1 Not found. John Hancock to the Massachusetts General Court Congress Chamber York Town in Pennsylva. Honble Gentlemen, October 8th. 1777 Before this reaches you, the particular Circumstances and reasons of the Departure of Congress from the City of Philadelphia must have come to your Knowledge, I shall therefore wave the Subject, and only Say that the Congress is tolerably well Accommodated in this place, and are now Conducting the Publick Business here. On Saturday last, after General Washington had made the proper Dispositions for an Attack upon General Howe’s Army, he with his Army proceeded to carry into Effect his Determination; all the par ticulars and Circumstances attending the Attack that have come to our knowledge, are contain’d in a Letter which I have this moment Rec’d by Express from General Washington, a Copy of which I have the Honour to Inclose you, 8c to which I Beg leave to Refer you. I have avail’d my self of the Orders given out by the General previous to the Attack; as also of a Proclamation lately Issued by General Howe, Copies of both I inclose you. As soon as any Material Occurrencies Take place, you shall be made Acquainted.
