October 8, 1777 79 Our Troops are in high Spirits & wishing for another Attack, I hope soon to be able to give you the pleasing Accott, of our Regain ing Philadelphia. I have the Honour to be with every Sentiment of Esteem & Respect, Honble Gentlemen, Your most Obedt Servt. John Hancock Presidt. [PA.] I have it in Charge from Congress to Request, that you will be pleas’d to Enlarge Lieut Colonel Campbell on giving the same Parole that you have laid other officers under. 1 RC (M-Ar). Addressed: “Hone Council of Massachuss. Bay, & Assembly.” 1 Congress had passed a resolution to this effect on August 19, 1777. JCC, 8:653. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Council Gentlemen York Town 8 Octr. 1777 4 oClock P.M. Since I wrote you in the morng. A Gentleman of Veracity is Arriv’d, who has been at Camp, 8c informs that Genl Howe’s Army has met with a most severe Blow, Genl. Agnew Kill’d, Coll. Walcott also Kill’d, & a Number of officers, Genl. Kniphausen Wounded, his Son Kill’d, 300 Waggons with wounded Soldiers went from the Field; that the whole City was Alarm’d, Quakers 8c Tories decamp’d; & that Genl Howe had sent a large detachmt. to Chester which must be to Secure a Retreat; The Enemy’s Loss very great. Our Loss by the best Accotts in Kill’d, Wounded 8c missing does not Exceed 700; I momently Expect the particr. from the Genl. As soon as I Receive it, it shall be transmitted. I flatter myself I shall soon Send you further more Agreeable Accotts. I cannot Add, as I Keep Congress waiting 8c must Attend. I have the Honr. to be, Gentn. in haste, Your very hum set. John Hancock Prest. RC (M-Ar). Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais Dear Sir York 8th October 1777. Two days ago I dispatched a few lines to you by the hand of Sir Patrick Houston, probably this which is intended by Muckinfuss may reach you first, by him I also send an old packet to Govr. Rutledge in which I beleive is one of the 18th September inclosed for you. I found it at this place in possession of certain very tardy Travellers. I mean now to trouble you with a rather long epistle but from an
