October 8, 1777 85 James Lovell to William Whipple My Dear Sir, York 8th Oct. [1777] It is impossible for me to write lengthily to you as I am doing all the writing which is to be sent to our Commissioners, Mr Payne not having yet got here. I have not had the pen out of my hands two days. The Boston papers will give you the sum of the accounts of last Saturday’s fight. We were near giving a total overthrow to the enemy, and yet we finally have no advantage. I fear we shall not get so good a chance again. Every thing was well planned and no body seems blameable for the failure, Fog and Fortune of War, excepted. Your affecty, J.L. Tr (DLC). William Williams to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. York Town Octo. 8. 1777, In Congress. By the inclosed Copy of a Letter just receivd from Genii Washing ton, You will learn, that there has been another important action between his & the Army of our Enemies, & which has ended not to our advantage, tho it seems to be thot we are not the worse on any Acco save the Loss of Men, which is supposed to be at least ballanced by that of our Enemies. The Prospect was a good while very promising, but it pleased God to blast it by the intervention of a Fog. With what infinite Ease in the random Course of Providence are the grandest Events influenced & determined, a striking Instance of which is this, & so also the very heavy rain which parted the Armys at the moment of Action, abt the 17th ulto. How strange, that so many disbelieve, or at least totally disregard it. We were not prepared for so great a Salvation as seemd to be opening Sc almost in possession. We have reason to think that many of our brave Men are fallen, 8c a number of principal officers killed 8c wounded, Among the latter Brigr. Gen. Nash of Maryland, 1 a brave officer, mortally. A Gent, in the Action, says it was much warmer than that of Prince Town or Brandywine in both which he was also present. We cannot say much more for want of Information. The Enemy have got the Delawar Frigate, 8c the Forts on the River, 8c probably are in full possession of the River. Tho these things look against Us, We yet hope in the divine Mercy. I suspect I cannot obtain the Copy in season. The Action was on the 4th near 8c at German Town, We drove Them a mile or two, with much slaughter, but the Fog was so thick They cod not distinguish each Other, 8c the Smoke stood over them without Motion 8c darkend
