96 October 10, 1777 Among a number of Persons who accompanied Monsr. du Coudray from France (a Gentleman, to whom this Continent is in a great de gree indebted for the very large Supplies of Artillery and Military Stores which have arrived in it) is a Person perfectly well acquainted with the Process of extracting and refining Salt Petre, making Pow der, constructing Powder Mills on the best Principles, and in short with every thing which relates to the Manufactory of Powder. 1 Since Mr. Coudray has been unfortunately drown’d, this Person with sev eral other valuable Officers and Artificers who came with him propose returning to France, unless Proposals should be made to them in order to induce them to stay in America. Mr. Duane and myself are extremely anxious that this Powder Maker, in particular, and two or three other Valuable officers should be retain’d for the service of our State: and we therefore wish that the Legislature would be pleas’d to vest us with discretionary Powers to offer such Terms to them as we shall think adequate to their particular Merits. You may depend on it that we will not abuse a trust, which we only wish to exercise for the Interest of our State. We have ample Testimonials that this Powder Maker is without Exception the first Artist in France, and had he not been Smuggled out under the Character of an Officer of Bombadiers, great Opposition would have been made to his coming over. I beg a speedy Answer on this Subject. I am, dear Sir, very Sin cerely, Your Obedt. Hble Servt. Wm. Duer. [P.S.] I must refer you to Mr. Duane for Intelligence. RC (PHi). i Duer is referring to Nicholas Fouquet, who with his son Mark was employed by the Board of War in 1778 to serve as a powder maker and inspector of powder magazines. See JCC, 9:877, 10:57, 109, 122; and Andr^ Lasseray, Les Francois sous les treize etoiles, 1775—1783, 2 vols. (Macon and Paris: Imprimerie Protat Freres, 1935), 1:82, 218-19. Elbridge Gerry and John Penn to Elias Boudinot Dr. Sir York Town Octr 10th 1777 Mr. Wilson a British officer of the 55th Regiment, being destitute of such Articles as are essentially necessary for his Convenience whilst a prisoner, is desirous of being exchanged, or, if this cannot be pro cured, of being permitted to go into New York on Parole, to furnish himself with Necessaries as aforesd. General Mifflin has strongly rec ommended him, as a Gentleman whose good Conduct intitles him to particular Notice. I should with pleasure have moved for an Order
