October 10, 1777 103 [P.S.] Since writing this letter I am told that Genl. Washington is Marching towards Philada. to give Genl. How another attack. His men are in high Spirits, we are still in possession of the River. Miss Lucy Leonard a Young Lady lately out of the City says the British Officers have long Faces & declare that they have not such a Drubing since Bunker Hill, that the City Appears to be in Mourning, the Cry of the Tories was that they must leave the Town with Genl. Howe, that all the Hospitals with several empty Houses could not Contain their wounded, that Genls. Agnew, Grant, Kniphausin & Sir William Erskin had died of their Wounds. Your Son is well. I am told that Genl. Nash was wounded in the begining a great way off by Accident as he could not be seen. A Gentn. informs me he was so ill as to make any assistance unnecessary & that he left him on Mon day at the Last Gasp. I am, Yours &c, J P RC (PU). 1 A letter from William Buchanan to Caswell on this subject, dated October 17, 1777, is in N.C. Stale Records, 11:656. If this was the letter Penn enclosed, it was obviously misdated when printed. 2 Not found. Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton.Dear Sir, York Town Octr. 10th. 1777 I am honored with your favor of this date, and with concern I find the alarm taken by the State, at the hint thrown out respecting the calling of a Convention in a few hasty lines the production of a very few minutes while the Express waited. As my time is too much engross’d to take Copies of my Letters I cannot recur to what I wrote, but I meant only to convey this Idea that some real Friends of our State Members of Congress were of Opinion that the Salvation of the State depended on calling of a Convention, which was construed by Council and Assembly as appears from a Letter I am honoured with from the Speaker, confirmed by the Attorney General, into a serious Intention in Congress of interfering in the internal Police of our State so far at least as to influence into the measures in Question, whereas it arose in a tete a tete betwixt some, as I have already said, real Friends and myself, nor will you be be surprised with the sentiment when you are acquainted with the motives. It was pub- lickly and confidently said in and out of Congress that a Quorum of the Legislature could not be got together. 1 And as the necessity of the Times required the most vigorous measures, and the season for taking the sense of the people for or against a Convention was at hand, their voice in Convention to lay down a system to be executed by Committees of that Body, dispersed thro’ the State was thought
