104 October 10, 1777 the best succedaneum for the want of an established Legislature, and such Laws compitent to the emergency of the times, which were not provided. That these Exertions were necessary to the Situation of the State, and it’s safety and liberty would be provided for better than by the interference of Congress, until such Convention had appointed a Legislative Body. This was thought the best Expedient, for these Reasons, and might prove a healing measure to our unhappy Divi sions. A mistake of the day of Election and that the Constitution had appointed the first Tuesday of this present month, which I could not contradict (as in the hurry of removing, my Copy containing the Constitution was mislaid) influenced to the hint offered you as above, for in this place there was not the least appearance of an Election, from whence it was judged that the people were in such a maze that the day of Election had throughout the State elapsed [. . .] (nor could I satisfy Enquirers on this head) or at best that a partial Election would obtain and our Country continue to suffer through want of exertion. Thus was I distracted until Dr. Ewing informed me that the Assembly and Council were preparing the most salutary Laws, 2 of which I am more fully convinced by the specimen of one put into my hands by Mr. Sergeant, which rejoiced my heart, and is a full proof that under my apprehensions there was no other way of supply ing the very powers given but by a Convention. I heartily congratu late you on the concurring Providences which enliven the prospect of publick Affairs. I am very respectfully, Dr Sir, Yr. most obt. and very huml. Serv, Daniel Roberdeau RC (MeHi). iThe Pennsylvania Assembly, which had adjourned from Phdadelphia on September 18, was scheduled to reconvene in Lancaster on September 25, but not until October 6 did it finally secure a quorum. After a brief flurry of legislative activity it adjourned on October 13 with the intention of reconvening on the 27th, but in fact was unable to attain a quorum until November 20, 1777. Minutes of the General Assembly of Pennsylvania, DLC(ESR). 2 For one of the "salutary Laws’’ that the assembly had in preparation at this very time—providing for the creation of a council of safety to cope with the crisis resulting from the recent penetration of the state by British troops—see Roberdeau to Wharton, October 14, 1777, note 1. Eliphalet Dyer to John Sullivan Si r York town Octobr 11th 1777 I had the pleasure of hearing your letter read in Congress yester day. I was pleased with your manly Justification and Appeal but as I had often rise in Congress for your Vindication against the Unjust & Malign Calumny of your Enemies (which every good, brave, spirited & Virtuous man will have) I could not bare after you had often braved & defyed every danger from the Enemies of your Country,
