October 12, 1777 113 any of his subjects vessels having a regular clearance should be seized on that pretence, he woud demand restitution 8c in case of refusal make reprisals. Baron de Kalb who a few days ago was made a major General this day set off from hence to join General Washington. He is said to be a very good officer. We stand much in need of such. We hear that several officers in General Steven’s division have lodged complaints agt. him. I believe them to be well founded for Stevens (entre nous) drinks. I hope this campaign will yet end successfully for us. If Gen. Clin ton has no greater force than what we have reason to think he has (about 3000) altho’ he should gain the forts in the high lands, if the cheveaux de frize can not be weighed up, I flatter myself he will not be able to form a junction with Burgoyne, or make so powerful a diversion in his favor as to give him the ascendancy over Gates. Wash ington will act on the offensive; and consequently must be stronger than Howe. The event of battles however depends on so many inci dents, that it is difficult to decide for whom victory will declare. Our cause is just, our men are becoming more warlike, the blood already spilt will raise a spirit of obstinacy 8c revenge which will supply the place in some measure of discipline. We have many resources, if we have sense enough to [use] them; then let us hope we shall make use of them, and that we shall conquer in the end. My love to Molly, Mrs. Darnall 8c the little ones. I sincerely wish you a continuance, of health and am, yr. affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton P.S. I had almost forgot to mention that the Enemy who had taken possession of Billingsport on the Jersey side of the Delaware below Fort Mifflin have evacuated in it—I suppose to reinforce Howe. The intercepted letter from England mentioned above complains much of the decay of trade, 8c intimated that unless something decisive is done this campaign great disturbances will arise in England. The let ter is from a custom house officer to his friend or relation at New York. RC (MdHi). 1A brief letter Carroll wrote to his father on October 11, in which he had discussed some of this same information, is also in the Carroll Papers, MdHi. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler My dear Sir, York Town Pennsylva. October 12th. 1777. I was duely honoured with your Favour of the 27th ulto. and im-. mediately laid it before Congress; in Consequence of which they have
