120 October 14, 1777 your Assembly. He has been treated in such a manner as to make it his highest interest to be quite particular to his connexions. It may not be amiss, however, in me to give you the clue to our ill success in that part of Pennsylvania which borders upon the Brandywine where I hoped Mr Howe would be long detained, or I should have been less encouraging in some of my past letters to my friends. It was the opinion of General Greene constantly and also of Genl Washington himself that Howe’s first object was worsting our army before he could attempt Philadelphia; but such was the wonder and discontent of most classes of people at having Philadelphia left open, by our army keeping always the right of Howe’s left wing, with a determination to study a defeat of him in that part, that our General was obliged to post himself too long at Newark and gave Howe op portunity to cross high up the Brandywine. After the battle of the 12th it was a severe long continued rain that put our army into a condition unfit for battle and made a retreat necessary. For the enemy were without their tents as well as we, yet they had good blankets, were better clothed and had had tin cases for their car tridges while our men lost 700,000 as I have been well informed. It is inconceivable almost how they suffered by passing breast high through water sometimes, and by marches in some very hard country. The General now writes as if he had good hope of finishing the campaign well. God grant it. As to the Northern army, there is as usual a growing discontent among the leaders. I fear Arnold has taken for his motto, aut Caesar aut nullus, and yet is only an instru ment in the operations of S r. 1 It will be hard to prevent factions against General Gates with a known enemy and a very aspiring half friend at best in his department watching and writing at him. I have information that not less success in prizes appears in your ports at the Eastward than what I told you of at Carolina; yet, it is said, every thing is extravagant. There is a very great want of shoes, stockings &c. in this Middle Army. I hope you will not be backward to supply them with your overplus, but I equally hope you will not suffer yourselves to be imposed upon as heretofore. You have thanklessly neglected your own soldiers through New England— let it be so no more. Indeed you have prevented exertions in the Middle States by your over-care for them. Your friend and servant, J-L. Tr (DLC). i That is, Gen. Philip Schuyler.
