October 16, 1777 123 John Adams to Abigail Adams My dearest Friend York Town Octr. 15. 1777 I have not been able of late to keep up tny Correspondence with you, so constantly, as my Heart inclined me to do. But I hope now to write you oftener—but I dont incline to write, very particularly, least my Letters should be intercepted. I am in tolerable Health, but oppressed, with a Load of public Cares. I have long foreseen, that We should be brought down to a great Degree of Depression before the People of America would be con vinced of their real Danger, of the true Causes of it, and be stimu lated to take the necessary Steps for a Reformation. Government and Law in the states, large Taxation, and Strict Discipline in our Armies, are the only Things Wanting, as human Means. These with the Blessing of Heaven, will certainly produce Glory, Tryumph, Liberty and Safety and Peace, and nothing but these will do. I long with the Utmost Impatience to come home—dont send a servant for me. The Expence is so enormous that I cannot bear the Thought of it. I will crawl home, upon my little Pony, and wait upon myself as well as I can. I think you had better sell my Horse. The People are universally calling for Fighting and for Blood. Washington is getting into the Humour of fighting and How begins to dread it—and well he may. Fighting will certainly answer the End altho We may be beaten every Time for a great While. We have been heretofore greatly deceived conc[ern]ing the Num bers of Militia. But there are Numbers enough if they knew how to fight, which as soon as their Generals will let them, they will learn. I am, with every tender Sentiment, yours forevermore. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:353-54. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais Dear Sir, York, 16 October 1777. Yesterday by the hand of Mr. Lawrence a Brother of my Neighbor at the distillery I sent you all the Intelligence of the day, 1 this Morn ing has produced me the enclosed Letter from my Son & Copy of Eastern Intelligence on which I congratulate with the freinds of America. 2 Colo. Pinckney is not come in yet, I wish I had J.L. s Letter by him, tis probable it contains minutia. A long Letter this Morning from General Washington, 3 it does not appear that he has in contemplation an immediate attack upon the
