124 October 16, 1777 Enemy, on the contrary he complains of the want of many essential articles. He is the most to be pitied of any Man I know. These essentials are to be had 8c now I suppose will be. Had they been pro vided sometime ago with those articles we should have prevented hundreds perhaps Thousands of desertions 8c there would have been no Howe in Philadelphia. O what my Pen could truly tell you would I indulge it. But I must not at present. A Letter from Camp General Smallwood of the 14th maintains notwithstanding Mr. Humphry’s New Lying Paper that the loss of the Enemy in killed 8c wounded 8c prisoners the 4th Inst, was not less than 1600—indeed the glaring, the impudent Lies published under Gen. Howe’s permission in Philadel phia which you will see in J.L.’s Letter invalidates every thing they say. 4 Our President gave notice yesterday of his purpose to quit the Chair 8c Congress next week. I moved the House to intreat 8c solicit his continuance, to my surprise I was seconded 8c no more. 5 Several other Members are about leaving us, I regret the apparent defection. Our House will be reduced in a few days to barely twenty or twenty one Members. Mr Hall now waits for me. I will only desire my Compliments to His Excellency, to Mr 8c Mrs Manigault, to Mrs. Gervais 8c to each other friend Scca. P.S. Dont let the good News from Eastward lull you. The struggle here will be arduous but tis far from impossible 8c we ought to beleive it probable Ships 8c Troops will attempt a Winter expedition to the Southward. Let us be prepared—it will be Wise if there should be no attack—to be prepared may discourage an attack. LB (ScHi). i Laurens’ brief and uninformative October 15 letter to Gervais is in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. 2 Col. John Laurens’ October 15 letter to his father, transmitting news of Gates’ victory over Burgoyne at the battle of Bemis Heights on October 7, is in Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 60-61. On the verso of this letter Henry Laurens made the following notations sometime after learning about Burgoyne’s surrender to Gates: "1 Lt Gen. 2 Major Generals. 7 Brig. 2 Eng, 1 Irish Noblem. A qty of Clothing. 5000 Privats. 1500 Stand Arms. 40 Brass Cann[o]n.” Ibid., p. 61. 3 Washington’s October 13 letter to President Hancock is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:364-68. 4 Brig. Gen. William Smallwood’s letter is not mentioned in the journals. 5 There is no mention in the journals for October 15 of John Hancock’s intended resignation as president. Eventually Hancock took his leave of Congress and de livered a florid farewell speech to the delegates on October 29. At that time either James Duane or William Duer of New York caused a minor furor by moving that Congress formally thank Hancock for his faithful service as president. Con gress considered this motion on October 31, at which time opponents offered a counter motion that “it is improper to thank any president for the discharge of the duties of that office.’’ The substitute motion was defeated by a tie vote of five states to five, and Congress then passed the original motion of thanks by a vote of six states to four. Much to Laurens’ chagrin, Congress elected him
