October 16, 1777 125 as Hancock’s successor on November 1. See JCC, 9:846, 852—54; Hancock to Washington, October 17, and to Dorothy Hancock, October 18; and Samuel Adams to James Warren, October 30, 1777. There is a humorous, loyalist burlesque of Hancock’s farewell speech in Frank Moore, ed.. Diary of the American Revolu tion from Newspapers and Original Documents, 2 vols. (New York: Charles Scribner, 1860), 1:517-18. William Fowler, “John Hancock: The Parodoxical President,’’ New England Historical and Genealogical Register 130 (July 1976): 164-77, surveys Hancock’s presidency of Congress. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear son, York Town 16 October 1777 Your favours first by express & next by Colo. Pinckney are both come to hand & are now both on their Journey to Charles Town where they will be very acceptable as they have been here to several, & both merit my particular thanks. Yesterday a Letter of yours of the 26th of Septr. came to hand, I fancy one of mine about the 8th or 9th Inst, is also lagging by the way. The enclosed is from Major Butler relative to two Horses which he hopes are in Colo. Moylan’s hand & if found to be sent to mine, if you learn anything of them be so polite as to inform me. Poor Berry! I am sorry for him, James is absent today endeavour ing to get Fish, when he returns I will enquire & if the Truss is in bur possession send it on, otherwise get another when you let me know the side of the weak part. I am writing in Congress & in the midst of much talk (not regular Congress) buz! says one “I would if I had been Commander of that Army with such powers have procured all the necessities which are said to be wanted without such whining Complaints.” “I would says 2d have prevented the amazing desertions which have happened, it only wants proper attention at fountain head.” 3d “It is very easy too to prevent intercourse between the Army 8c the Enemy 8c as easy to gain Intelligence but we never mind who comes in 8c who goes out of our Camp.” “In short 4th our Army is under no regulation nor discipline” 8cc 8c 8cc 8c See. 1 You know I abhor tell tales but these sounds hurt me exceedingly. I know the effects of loose Tongues, I know the cruelty of tongues speaking the fulness of designing hearts. Nevertheless I am afraid there may be some ground for some of these remarks, a good Heart may be too diffident, too apprehensive of doing right righteous proper Acts, lest such should be interpreted arbitrary. But good God, shall we [save?] five hundred 8c destroy five Million. The subject is too delicate to dwell upon I wish I was well acquainted with the Man
