October 17, 1777 133 Henry Laurens to William Brisbane Dear Sir York 17th October 1777 Since I wrote to you on the 14th August last, your favour of the 29th July has honoured me & requires my thanks for your kind attention to my distressed affairs at Wrights Savanna. The circum stance of March’s temerity had been transmitted & my answer Sent to Coll Gervais Some time before the receipt of your Letter. It is impossible for me to give with precision & therefore I will not at tempt any directions relative to the plantation above mentioned. I know you & my other friends will act for me as you would for yourselves, I shall therefore only remark that it will be necessary if Doctor Cuffee Should again come to that Plantation to exercise great Severity upon him 8c also upon Montezuma. Cuffee has been tr[e]ad- ing in the Steps of his Mother who had long been the bane of my Negro families before She had corrupted 8c ruined March who before his connexion with her had been an honest orderly fellow. Severity or Seperation is therefore necessary, the former may reduce 8c reform, but I prefer the latter, if he shall make another elopement 8c come within your reach I intreat you to cause him to be Sent in Irons to Mr. Gervais whom I will authorize to Sell him. The removal of Such leaven may stop a contagion 8c when he is seperated from his Mother 8c other corrupters he may make, as he is very able, an excellent Ser vant. The Same also with respect to Zuma. I beg you will charge Casper not to let them slip through his fingers. I have already re quested Mr. Gervais to attempt the Sale of Mary but I would by no means have either of these great transgressors be sold in the neigh borhood of any of my Plantations. I have regularly transmitted to Colonel Gervais the Intelligence from the Scene of War 8c Chamber of politics which you must have soon been informed of, indeed my time has been generally so fully engaged as not to admit of regularity or exactness in my advices but what I have omitted has been better Supplied by other hands 8c I have no doubt but you have learned every circumstance of impor tance which has happened antecedent to the present time. We have our attention now, to three grand points. General Clinton of the Enemys Army with many Ships of War 8c about 5000 Men had penetrated Hudsons River so high as to take Fort Mont gomery in which we had a Garrison of about 600 Men. Govr. Clinton of New York commanded 8c had the aid of his Brother Brigadier James Clinton, the latter was wounded badly in the thigh but with his Brother the Governor 8c about 350 of the Garrison after having bravely three times repulsed 8c killed many of the Enemy found means to make their escape. Our loss of that important pass arose from the desperate Situation of Burgoyne which had induced the British General Clinton to make as desperate an attempt to distract
