134 October 17, 1777 our Arms in the Northern department & to form a junction or secure the retreat of that eminent manufacturer of Proclamations, & in order to effect this, tis highly probable New York has been Stripped of Troops & might have been taken by a very small body of spirited Troops if we had had such to Spare for the purpose. However I trust all will end to our advantage. We learn that Burgoyne was totally defeated about the 7th Inst, the day after Clinton had conquered Fort Montgomery, that General Gates’s Army was in full pursuit of such as he had not been killed 1 or Captured 8c we expect every hour an Account of particulars from the General, in consequence of this happy event it will be easy not only to reinforce General Putnam at the passes about Peeks Kill but to bring the Enemy Clinton between two fires 8c to leave him no alternative but to fight under the great est disadvantages or to get on board his Ships again 8c return to New York, content with having destroyed our Forts 8c two Frigates; losses which altho’ very heavy to us are more easily repaired than the loss of Burgoyne’s whole Army—to say nothing of the loss of his pompous Character for Generalship. Should events in the two circumstances above mentioned prove as favourable as I modestly expect, we shall then for our Winter’s amusement have little to do but with General Howe whose Situation in 8c about Philadelphia I can assure you from good authority is already very uneasy to him. The purchase even if he should succeed 8c keep footing would be counted very dear. De pend upon it in the Actions of Brandywine 8c German Town their Loss does not amount to less than 3000 Men to which may be added at least another Thousand by Sickness, desertion 8c Capture. Many considerable, 8c to them valuable Officers, are included in the Loss. The British fleet have pushed hard to get up the Deleware. As hardly has the brave Commodore Hazelwood under amazing discourage ments by desertions from his fleet, pushed them back again. What will be the issue God knows but unless the British fleet can come up to the City General Howe’s Situation must be extremely hazardous as well as uneasy. If that fleet Succeeds 8c gets to the City our loss in shipping will be amazingly great, but their Army must nevertheless soon quit the Shore 8c March down by Water, the fleet will be so far beneficial to them but they dare not trust them in the River above a Month longer. The present moment is big with events. When these come forth you shall be farther informed as fully as time will permit. 8cca. LB (ScHi). i Thus in LB.
