136 October 18, 1777 three Tons of Lead have arrived from Maryland & large Supplies it is hoped are coming on from the Southward.” Washington Papers, DLC. 2 Thus in manuscript. 3 This plan has not been found, but for the steps taken by the Pennsylvania Council of Safety to seize the supplies needed for the army, see Pa. Council Minutes, 11:328-30. 4 For Washington’s October 22 reply, in which he explained why returns had not been made regularly, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:414-16. Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris Honourable Gentlemen York Town Octr 18th. 1777 We have the pleasure of inclosing to you the copy of a letter from General Gates containing the circumstances of a Victory gained over General Burgoyne on the 7th. 1 This event must defeat the main view of General Clinton in proceeding up Hudsons River. He has, it is true, got possession of Fort Montgomery, but with much Loss, as we hear. Though the enemy may boast at this acquisition yet we are persuaded the consequences will be little profitable to them, as Governour Clinton of New York & his Brother Genl. James Clinton are acting vigorously in concert with Genl. Putnam who commands in that Quarter. Our army under General Washington is numerous & in good Spirits, while General Howe is busied in forming obstructions in the roads leading to the City of Philadelphia by which he supports his hopes of keeping our troops from routing him out of his stolen Quarters. The enclosed Resolves 2 need no comment from us, being sufficient of themselves to determine your conduct in the points to which they relate. It is with concern we find that British property has lately been covered in French bottoms; which practice pursued, and American Search disliked by France, it is obvious that the most vulnerable part of Great Britain—her Commerce—will be secured against us, and that by the intervention of our professed friends. We desire therefore, Gentlemen, that you will confer with the Ministers of France on this subject, and satisfy them of the propriety and even necessity which there is that either this commerce should be prohibited, or that the United States be [at] liberty to search into & make distinc tion between the bottom and the enemy’s property conveyed in that bottom. To prevent ill impressions being made by a number of Officers who are returning to France we think it proper to observe that, with out totally deranging & endangering even the annihilation of the American Armies, it was not possible to provide for many of those
