138 October 18, 1777 Desir’d Mr Bant to Accompany you in the Carriage, & when we meet he can take my Sulkey, & I return with you in the Carriage to Town. Mr Bant must hire or borrow a Servant to attend you on Horseback, as Harry & Ned are both with me, & Joe is not Suitable. My Dear, I hope your health will admit of your coming with Mr. Bant, I long to See you; I shall Close all my Business in three Days, & indeed have already nearly finish’d, & when once I set out shall travel with great Speed, nothing will prevent my Seeing you Soon, with the leave of providence, but a prevention of passing the North River, I shall push hard to get over, even if I go so far as Albany. I need not Tell you there will be no occasion of your writing me after the Receipt of this. My best wishes attend you for every Good. I have much to Say, which I leave to a Chearful Evening with you in person. God Bless you, my Dear Dolly, I am, Yours most Affectionately, John Hancock MS not found; reprinted from New England Historical and Genealogical Register 12 (April 1858): 106. 1 Only Hancock’s September 17 and October 1 and 8 letters to Dorothy have been found. 2 Secretary Thomson’s journals do not indicate that Hancock notified Congress of his “Intentions,” but for the president’s resignation, see Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais, October 16, 1777, note 5. John Harvie to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir York Septr. [i.e., October] 18th. 1777 1 This Morning the Inclosed Interesting Intelligence was received by Congress from General Gates. As I am sure you will receive pleasure in reviewing even the Minutia of this great and Glorious Victory I shall make no Apology for sending you a Copy of the sev eral Letters in the Rough dress you see them haveing made it off in a Hurry at the Clerks Table. 2 Gates’s Rapid Successes to the Northward does him honour as a Great and deserving Oficer. The British General Clinton some short time since reduced Fort Mont gomery on the North River and placed a Strong Garrison in it. However Sanguine Spirits here prophecy his Speedy Evacuation of that post. I wish the Event may Evince the truth of their pre diction but as I know nothing of the place I have no Opinion about it. We yet Command the Delaware above Fort Island and the Enemy have been repuls’d with some Damage in every Attempt that they have made on our Batterys and little Navy. The Commodore is a Gallant Oficer of whose conduct Congress have expressed their high approbation. The president inform’d me to day that there are a Body of troops in Motion for Wilmington. Probably a few days will bring
