142 October 18, 1777 Colonel Tarlon lately took the trouble of a pair of Flax Hackles to be delivered in his way to Charles Town at Mepkin, he intended going that way & to call at Cumingtee. The Chief Justice’s reply to the Georgia Proclamation will please himself as little upon a review as it has pleased his readers in this part of America at first Sight. 5 Your Assembly made a Short Session but surely long enough to have nominated two or more Delegates in the room of the Gentlemen now retiring. This my Dear freind is an important concern, let me intreat you bring it upon the tapis the very first day of your next meeting, & if possible obtain leave for my return & come yourself. But for God’s sake for our Country’s sake send men of diligence as well as understanding. You will send none whose Integrity is doubt ful. The Prizes which have been carried into your port have® 20th October [1777] I have been an hundred times taken off, I can say no more at present but to congratulate with you & all the friends of America on the amazing events which have lately happened & which you will read in papers here inclosed. Illuminate your Houses—illuminate your Hearts with gratitude to God 8c do good to your fellow Creatures— illuminate your Heads 8c prepare your Selves to meet the Enemy at your own doors 8c to repel them. By a Note which you will see I had put at the foot of one of the inclosed papers I did expect Burgoyne in his Strong Camp had nothing to eat. Hunger is as powerful as Lead. Adieu my dear friend. P.S. I wrote to Mr. Brisbane 8c to Casper before I left Chas. Town to give Mr. a Barrel of Rice which was what he requested for his S[t]aying at Wright Savanna. My Copy Book of Plantation Letters will shew by whom the Letter was sent. LB (ScHi). 1 For a discussion of the case of George McIntosh, who had been accused of illegally trading with the British in East Florida, see John Hancock to Archibald Bulloch, January 8, 1777. 2 See the August 6 and October 6 resolves on the Continental lottery in JCC, 8:619, 9:775. 3 Gervais had explained his opposition to the use of Continental loan office certificates as a medium of exchange in an August 2 letter to Laurens that is printed in South Carolina Historical Magazine 66 (January 1965): 19-21. 4 On September 12 Congress had referred the case of Weyman v. Arthur—an appeal by Capt. George Arthur of a decree of the South Carolina admiralty court—to the Committee on Appeals, but the committee, which reversed the state court’s decree, did not render its decision until August 7, 1778. See ibid., p. 21; and JCC, 8:738. The legal records pertaining to this case are in Records of the Supreme Court of the United States, Record Group 267, case no. 24. For a study of the subject of prize courts and law during the revolutionary era, see Henry J. Bourguignon, The First Federal Court: The Federal Appellate Prize Court of the
