144 October 19, 1777 John Hancock to William Palfrey Dear Palfrey York 19 Octor. 1777 I have only Time to bid you Farewell; immediately on Return of this Express I shall set out for Boston, I have notified Congress in form; Sc have by this Express Taken my Leave of the General for two or three months. 1 1 am wore down, however I have a Consciousness of not having been Negligent, but as far as my small Abilities enabled me, have Executed the Business of Congress with Dispatch 8c Fidelity, thus much I may Say, & Add that the prospect of Gain did not in fluence me; I have Expended my own Money 8c in that Case had a Right to drink wine if I pleas’d. I have order’d my Carriage 8c four horses to meet me at Hartford, 8c have desir’d Mrs Hancock to Take a Seat in it. Will you not Send me a Line for Mrs. Palfrey, I shall See her. Give me a Line by Return of this Express. God Bless you 8c believe me, your Real Friend, John Hancock RC (MH-H). i For further information on Hancock’s resignation, see Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais, October 16, 1777, note 5. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge Dear Sir York 19th October 1777 I had the honour of writing to Your Excellency the 16th by the hands of Mr. G.A. Hall an abstract of which shall be Subjoined 8c inclosed a duplicate of the Resolve therein referred to thus doubled from an opinion that the bearer hereof will reach Charles Town 2 or 3 days earlier than Mr. Hall 8c in order that not an hour may be lost in a matter which Congress is pleased to declare to be of great Im portance. Besides the Resolve above mentioned Your Excellency will receive with this Seven more 1 which the President has desired me to forward upon my application to him for blank Commissions for Privateers, of these the President intimates he can at present Supply only fifteen, when they come the exact number shall be mentioned. The Board of War have entered into Resolves by which ’tis in tended to take General Howe out of the Brigadiers List 8c to call him to General Washington’s head Quarters. This arrangement will prob ably afford Satisfaction to the General 8c at the Same time remove from our State a bone of contention, every body here as far as I have been able to learn are Surprized his Command in South Carolina has given offence to any one. 2 In the Same paper Your Excellency will See that Mr. Massey is recommended for Dep. Muster Master General for South Carolina 8: Georgia. The Resolves are to be reported to
