October 20, 1777 149 Henry Laurens to Robert Howe Dear General York 20th October 1777. Your favour of the 28th August reached me the very Evening of the peoples’s flight from Philadelphia. I fled not. Having foreseen from amazing remissness where there ought to have been the utmost attention & vigilance I had sent forward my Baggage, followed it that Evening & next Morning after many thousands had passed by me I made my breakfast, filled my Pipe & soberly entered my Carriage, drove gently on to Bristol, took in the wounded Marquis delafayette & proceeded to Bethleham, thence to Reading & Lancaster. Here Congress were soon convened but hearts were still fluttering in some bosoms 8c a motion made for adjourning to this Town. We have been here about twenty days. Within this time frequent opportunities have offered but I chose to defer paying my respects to you till I could say something to the purpose & fortune has now thrown much in my way. I refer you to the papers which will accompany this. As I have no doubt the report of the Board of War will be this Morning confirmed I will take it for granted, & with great pleasure congratulate with you on your promotion. The removal I hope will rather afford you Satisfaction, it will place you in a more honourable Sphere & withdraw a Subject for contention by a people some of whom of both parties I am persuaded you Love & esteem 8c I perceive those good people were dividing fast. The motion the Notice I mean for an intended Motion in the Assembly at their next meeting is now barred 8c a great deal of ill grounded debate Strangled. I will say nothing further on the Subject but to tell you that I am happy in this event in which my endeavours 8c wishes are crowned with Success. Let not my happiness be abated by learning that you are not perfectly Satisfied. Rank has been hitherto Strangely conducted 8c occasion for complaint given to Some brave Officers. These however have in gen eral Submitted to the Resolves of Congress 8c there have been but few instances of Resignation; hereafter we may expect more accuracy 8c regularity in Army arrangements from an establishment of a new Board of War. 1 I congratulate with you also on the News from Saratoga. This Intelligence will make your generous Soldierly heart bound with joy surpassing every feeling from circumstances confined to your Self. While General Howe keeps near his Canoes we can entertain no well grounded hopes of adding a Knight of the Bath to our list of prisoners but upon my honour if Hazlewood perseveres in his manly opposition to the fleet 8c that our Fort Mifflin 8c Cheveau de frise are sustained a few days longer such an event will begin to be possible. Already his Situation is rendered very painful to him 8c as General Washington has again approached within ten Miles of his Camp we may expect every hour to hear of another action. His vicinity however keeps the
