154 October 20, 1777 War suggests both considerable approval of his forthrightness and the per suasiveness of his letter. See JCC, 9:958, 1023-26; and, for Conway’s September 25 letter requesting promotion and November 14 letter to Carroll, PCC, item 159, fols, 453-55, 461-67. 2 See Henry Laurens to Robert Howe, this date, note 1. North Carolina Delegates to Richard Caswell Sir Pennsylvania York Octr. 20th 1777 General Washington attacked General Howe’s Army the 4th Inst near German Town, the enemy were surprized and gave way in every quarter, we drove them for three hours, and should undoubtedly have obtained a Compleat victory had not two Divisions of our Troops mistaken each other for enemies and retreated, disorder soon took place and it was impossible to rally the men again. General Howe was so alarmed that it is confidantly aserted he had given directions to retreat to Chester, had we not saved him the trouble. This misfortune was owing to a great Fogg and no air, to carry off the smoke, which prevented a man’s seeing fifty yards, our Soldiers behaved with great resolution (& some pushed Bayonets) untill the mistake happened. General Nash was wounded by a Cannonball early in the engage ment & died two days after, his death is greatly to be lamented, he was highly esteemed by all that knew him. Colos Buncomb and Irwin were taken prisoners. We have the pleasure to inform you that those of our Countrymen that were engaged behaved well. The enemy’s loss must have been very considerable, as there were it is said near 300 waggon loads of wounded carried to the Hospitals in Philada. General Howe refused to suffer any of the Inhabitants to walk on the field, untill the dead were taken care of. General Agnew was killed in the action, General Grant we are told died soon after, Kniphauson, & Sir William Erskine were wounded, the reports differ whether they are dead or not. General Washington has been busie in preparing every necessary for another attack, which by letters from some of the officers in his Army we expect will be every hour, and as the spirits of our Soldiers are great, in Consequence of there having discovered that they can make their enemies run, we hope for great things. Should General Howe meet with a defeat he will be ruined as we are still in possession of the river Delaware. We Congratulate Your Excellency on the great & important success of the Army under the Command of General Gates. The account we had from Colo. Trumble several days ago differed little from Gen Gates’s letter, that with others from him & Genl. Burgoyne we inclose for your amusement.
