October 21, 1777 155 Yesterday we were informed by a letter from the Chairman of the Committee at Albany directed to a Friend of his in New York, that Burgoyne & his whole Army had surrendered themselves prisoners of war, it is generally beleived here, indeed it is nothing more than what we expected as that army had very little provision & were few in number compared to ours. The Revd. Mr. Duche has acted such a part as will for ever disgrace him, in short he may be said to be the first of Villains, we can not help suspecting that the letter he wrote to our Worthy Genl, must have been dictated by a Howe, the design of the letter was to prevail on the Genl, to negotiate Terms for himself &: Army. You know, administration have tried Bribary & Corruption, nothing is too dirty or mean for the British Court & those that are employed against us, however we Trust that the day is not far off when we shall all be free & happy. The confusion the different Clerks have been in for some time with regard to their books &c has prevented our getting a Copy of the account of such sums of money as has been received by direc tion of our State, we will inclose it as soon as we can possibly get it, to your Excelly. Doctor Burke left us last week, when he set out for North Carolina. We are with due Respect, Sir, Your obt. Servts. J Penn Cornl Harnett P.S. Mr. Duche remained in Phila. & of course fell into the enemy’s hands. 21st. Burgoyne & his whole Army are prisoners. I have seen Govr. Clinton’s letter this morning giving an account of the matter. General Howe has run away & recrossed Schuylkill, our Army is in pursuit of the runaways. Our little Fleet has kept the river agt. Lord Howe & all he could do, the Roebuck & another large Ship are rendered unfit for service. The day is ours. John Penn RC (NN). Written by Penn and signed by Penn and Harnett. Elbridge Gerry to Thomas Gerry Dear Brother York Town Octr 21. 1777 My Absence from Philadelphia in July last, upon a Committee to the Camp, prevented an earlier Answer than that wch You received to the Letters mentioned in your Favour of Sepr. 22, containing Matters of Importance; altho I am often under the Necessity of so far yeilding to the pressure of publick Business, as to omit answering the Letters of my most intimate Friends.
