156 October 21, 1777 The Prices of the Ticklenburg, Twine, 8c Needles, which You took for the Inhabitants of the Town, cannot be ascertained untill I see Colo Chase; as to him is referred the Settlement of the prices of the other parcells, first intended to have been payed for here. The Russia Duck which You want for your own Use, I will lend, 8c You will also be pleased to take what is wanted for the True Blue, if she should be again fitted out on our joint Account. I think it adviseable to pur chase, rather than sell, notwithstanding her Cruises have not been remarkably successful. The Risque which You unavoidably took of the other Privateer, without Doubt intitles You to the Share of all her prizes, which You had Advices of, previous to the Receipt of my Letter; after that Time, the Bargain was compleated, 8c had the Vessel been taken the Loss would have been justly mine, notwithstanding such Capture might have happened some Time before You received my Letter, therefore the share of all prizes, of whose Capture, Advices shall have arrived after you received my letter, will by the same principle be mine. I cannot advise You at present to send your Vessel to Virginia, but am in Hopes that the Bay will be much less infested about the latter End of next Month, before which Time You may think it adviseable to pursue the other plan mentioned in your Letter. The Money wch I mentioned before to have been overpayed by Messers Purviances shall be repayed to Mr Cary, whenever he shall have an Oppertunity to adjust the Matter. I have minuted the 50 Dollars wch You reed from Mr Saunders and am sorry to hear that he is no more. With respect to publick Affairs, I think Providence has of late remarkably favoured our Cause, 8c to him alone be all the Glory. The News of the Captivity of General Burgoyne with his whole Army, which We have reed from Governor Clinton, is great, 8c has had such an Effect on General Howe as to induce him to leave German Town, so that my next will I hope be dated at Philadelphia. If the States are vigorous, they may destroy the Residue of the British Army in Amer ica before Reinforcements can be sent from Britain, 8c thus put an End to a most unnatural 8c inhuman War. I had forgot to mention, that the Enemy suffered greatly (as was imagined from the Accounts collected by Major Clarke from Philadelphia) in the last Action at Germantown; their Loss is supposed to have been at least 1500. 1 My Love to Mrs Gerry, Brothers, Sisters 8c Little Friends 8: believe me to be yours very sincerely, E Gerry [P.S.] Their General Agnew is killed 8c their [. . .] supposed to be mortally wounded. 2 RC (MHi). i Some of the information collected by Maj. John Clark is contained in an other document in Gerry’s hand located in the Gerry-Knight Collection, MHi. The MS bears the heading: “Intelligence just reed from Major Clark, Aid de Camp to General Green, 4 o’C P.M. Octr 8th 1777.”
