October 21, 1777 157 “The Enemy in the Action of the 4th Instant lost the following officers— General Agnew killed, Colonels Ambercombie, Bird, Waterly, & General D Heisters Son killed. General Knyphausen wounded in the Hand, between two & three hundred Waggons loaded with wounded Soldiers came into the City before (a quaker who left the City after the Action, & is well known to Major Clark as a Man of Veracity, but desires to have his Name secreted) M left it, Several Quakers who were at Yearly (held in the City) Meeting confirms the Above & further say that 2000 Hessians were sent over Schuykill towards Chester since, probably to secure a retreat. Our loss about 700 chiefly wounded & taken. General Nash dead of his Wounds; Doctor (Member of Congress) Witherspoon’s Son killed, two Aids de Camp mortally wounded—White & Sherburns (of Portsmouth) of General Sullivans Family—Colo Hendricks, Stone, & Lewis. Colo. Parker of Virginia wounded, included in the above.” 2 After he sealed this letter, Gerry added the following note to the cover. “Octr 26, 7 oClock P.M. The within Intelligence relative to the Attacks on Fort Mifflin, & the Fort at Red Bank is confirm’d by Letters from General Wash ington; except that 78 only of the Enemy were killed at the latter, & 72 of the wounded taken prisoner amongst whom were Count Donop & his Brigade Major. 300 Arms were also taken from the Enemy. The two ships that were burnt mounted 60 & 20 Guns. “According to the Number killed abt 150 of the Enemy’s wounded have escaped.” For a longer account of the attacks mentioned here, see Gerry to Thomas Gerry, October 26, 1777. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais Dear Sir York 21 Octobr. 1777. - If I should add any thing to the much good News Sent you this Morning by Dorst an Express it would be that General Putnam the 16th confirms the Account of Burgoyne’s absolute surrendering as prisoner of War 1 —that our Army are in pursuit of General Howe 8c that part of our Troops are in actual possession of Philadelphia but this I believe is premature—however it will be so. Inclosed is Capt Salter’s Note for Sixty five Dollars. Receive the money 8c place to the Credit of yours 8cca. LB (ScHi). i This day Congress read Gen. Israel Putnam’s October 16 letter to President Hancock and an enclosed October 15 letter from Gov. George Clinton of New York, “giving intelligence that at 8 o’clock on the evening of the 14th, a capitulation was signed, whereby General Burgoyne and [his] whole army sur rendered themselves prisoners of war.” JCC, 9:824—25; and PCC, item 159, fol. 107. James Lovell to William Whipple Dear sir, York Town Oct 21st 1777 I am to acknowledge the receipt of your two favors of the 22d and 30th of last month delivered two days ago, together, so that you will perceive we have had an interrupted post conveyance—very mortify-
