October 22, 1777 161 als, 7 Brigadiers, 5000 men, 15,000 Stand of Arms, 40 pieces of Can non and a considerable quantity of Cloathing. 1 FC (ViU). 1 Lee drafted this letter on the verso of a copy of his October 18 letter to Shippen in which he enclosed 100 dollars for 25 gallons of wine. “I feel too sensibly,” Lee had explained, “the number and weight of the obligations under which your goodness has laid me not to entreat earnestly that you will excuse me from this last effort of your friendship, and that you will suffer me to pay for the wine I had of you. The friendship that bears alltogether on one side may be opressive, and the excellence if not the existence of this virtue, depends on reciprocal communication of benefits.” John Penn to James Wilson Dear Sir York Town Octobr. 22 1777 As I really wish not to be forgotten by a Gentleman I esteem as much as I do you, Have Inclosed you some extracts out of a very long letter written by Mr Duche to General Washington. Could you have thought it possible that he could have been such a . I leave it to you to [fill] up the blank. I congratulate you on our success to the Northward. General Burgoyne and his whole Army are prisoners & sent to Massachusetts Bay. General Gates is moving towards New York to attack Genl. -Clinton. We are informed that Genl. Howe is retreating over Schuylkill towards Chester & that Genl W[ashin]gton is in pursuit. I hope great things. Indeed my good Sir, their Army must exert themselves now or be altogether eclipsed by the militia of the Eastern States. Too much praise cannot be given to Commadore Hazlewood, he has been superior to Lord Howe, who commanded in the late action in the Roebuck, that ship & another were rendered useless in the last action we hear. Several days ago the enemy sent a Flag to the Commadore 1 advis ing him to submit, that it would be in vain to Contend agt. their great Force, promising him pardon 8cc, his answer was that he be lieved them Brave 8c was determined to merit their esteem by a Gal lant defence, 8c that he would oppose them while he had one man left, that if any more Flags were sent he would fire on them. My Complts. to your Lady 8c am with great regard, Dear Sir, Your obt. Servt. John Penn [P.S.] Let me hear from you. RC (OCIWHi). ijohn Hazelwood.
