October 23, 1777 169 Indignation an astonishing Letter, 2 of 4 sheets from our late Chap lain, the great Patriot, Whig & reputedly very pious Mr Duche who stayd in town wherein He [...]& regrets his own Conduct in taking [. . .] paints Congress in a most con[temptible . . .]ted Light, un worthy Wretch [. . .] by all the respectable Characters [. . .] composed it & a pack of Attornys, Bankrupts 8c Men of desperate Fortunes, the Officers of the army no better, & the whole as a ragged Banditti, our Finances desperate, the Army beaten 8c driven, the navy despicable, taken, burnt 8c blocked up 8cc, 8c every misfortune exagerated, 8c magnifies the mighty power of How, the vast Ease with which he has possesd the Capital of America, the impossibility of resisting him, ridiculing the Idea of French asistance 8cc, the prospect of being now restored to Grace 8c Favor 8c constitutional Liberty, 8c professing the greatest affection for him 3 8c conjuring him to recommend a Cessa tion of Hostilities 8cc 8cc, that all rests upon him solely 8c intirely as there is not a Man in America to second him, or keep his Men to gether 8cc 8c if every thing else fails, to Negotiate for America at the Head of his Army. A temptation 8c a tfryal of such?] Magnitude 8c Design, second to no[ne since the?] Prince of Devils, practiced upon our first Parents, but blessed be God, it did not find an Eve. If I had Time it wod be needless to descant upon the more than infernal Turpitude, Baseness 8c Folly of the Wretch. If I can obtain will eer long send you a Copy. There has been a debate, whether Copys shod be sufferd, is not for bidden, tho there were many minds. You are kind enow to mention the affair of my Kinsman, if he shod settle on the Terms, in the wretched State of our money he must starve without question, all the Hope is in the restitution of its Credit, if it please God to prosper Us, that must be the case, 8c with out the former [. . .]tter for the latter nor any other [. . .] affair but I find my Bror. d[. . .] 4 or can stay. The M[. . .] is drinking the Cup, if it please [God to?] restore Us the City, among other Things the taking it, will be the most happy means to distinguish 8c seperate the Chaff from the Wheat. I used every effort to persuade our Mr Webster to go out but in vain. He is by many thot a vile Tory also. The heart of man is deceitful 8c above all things desperately wicked. There have been striking In stances enow, without a Duche. We know not the present State of the North River, I hope in kind Providence, that Harry Clinton may catch a Tartar, as well as his Spy. Anxiously wish to hear a happy Issue to the Rhode Island Ex pedition. Our News from France looks still like a War but sure I am their own Interest will now 8c forever govern their Conduct. I trust Mr. Brown will be sent back very soon as He is established a Continental Express, shod be much obliged if you will please to
