170 October 23, 1777 [. . .] by Him with an Account of all our Emi[tted . . .] bills, their Periods, & the Taxes that [have been levied?] since this unhappy War took place. We have abundant Reason to bless &: praise the God of Armys, for the Success He has granted our nothern Forces. 5 RC (NHi). This damaged, incomplete letter is in the hand of William Williams. i This action was taken on October 21 after Trumbull’s October 14 letter recommending Jesse Brown was read in Congress. JCC, 9:825. 2 See Henry Laurens to Robert Howe, October 20, 1777, note 2. s A reference to Washington. 4 Three or four words missing. 5 For the continuation of this letter, see Williams to Trumbull, October 26, 1777. John Adams to Abigail Adams My dearest Friend York Town Octr. 24, 1777 It is with shame that I recollect that I have not written you more than two or three Letters these 5 Weeks, and those very short. News I am afraid to write, because I never know untill it is too late what is true. From last Sunday to this Moment Fryday afternoon 4 o Clock, We have been in a state of tormenting Uncertainty concerning our Affairs at the Northward. On Sunday, We had News, from the Committee of Albany, through Governor Clinton and G. Washington, of a Capitulation of Burgoine and his whole Army. To this Moment We have no Express from Gates, nor any Authentic Confirmation. Howe has drawn his Army into the City and Washington is at Germantown. Supplies will be cutt off, from the British Army, in a great Measure. I am &c. yours forever, John Adams [P.S.] We shall finish a Plan of Confederation in a few days. 1 RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:357. 1A final draft of the Articles of Confederation was not approved for sub mission to the states until November 15. JCC, 9:907-28. John Adams to James Warren My Dear Sir, York Town, Octr. 24, 1777 We have got to a Part of the World, where We are scarcely able to procure any Intelligence. We have as yet no certain Information, concerning the events at
