October 24, 1777 171 the Northward, on the 14 and 15th of this Month, the whole of which I dare say before this Time are familiar to you. We have had Rumours, which lifted us up to the Stars. We are now upon Confederation, and have nearly compleated it. I really expect it will be finished by the Middle of next Week. We dispatched some Affairs, last Evening for your Board which Dr. Linn I suppose will convey to you. 1 We shall consider immediately a Plan of Taxes for all the States. This is our Resource. I rejoice with Joy unspeakable that your As sembly, have adopted a Plan of such consummate Wisdom. I am, John Adams MS not found; reprinted from Warren-Adams Letters, 1:373-74. 1 See JCC, 9:836-37; and Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, October 26, 1777. Committee of Commerce to Oliver Pollock Sir, York October 24th 1777 The Secret Committee of Congress being dissolved we have been appointed under the Stile & Title of the Commercial Committee to take up and continue the Business. We find they wrote you a long Letter on 12th June by Capt. LeMere to which we refer you. The present serving to acknowledge the Receipt of your Letters by Capt Pickles addressed to a former Committee of Congress which we have laid before Congress and by some inattention of the Secretary are now mislaid. 1 The chief purport being to advise us of the arrival of some Stores from Spain intended for the Service of this Continent and of the very favourable Disposition of the Governor Don Bernardo DeGalvez, we shall proceed to say what is necessary on these Subjects. Herein you will find inclosed a Letter for the Governor 2 which please to deliver and procure it to be well translated into Spanish for him, in this Letter we have requested him if Money be wanting in New Orleans for the due Execution of our Business to furnish what may be needful under Assurance that it will be repaid by our Ambassador at the Court of Spain and we doubt not he will comply. This precaution we have now taken in consequence of Mr. Morris informing us that he finds you have made some Remittances on his Houses Account that will reduce the Balance he expected in your hands. With respect to the Stores sent out from Spain to New Orleans for our Service we are anxious to get them soon & safe to this part of America where they are much wanted & would be very useful. We have had it in Contemplation to order them up the Mississippi to Fort Pitt, but the length of time that would require, the heavy Ex pence & the Danger of Robbery by Indians has deterred us; therefore
