October 24, 1777 173 Committee of Congress to Edward Hand Sir, York Town Octr. 24th. 1777 We enclose you herewith a resolve of Congress appointing us a Committee for the purpose described in the resolution, and we apply to you Sir as a Friend to the cause of America, and as an Officer high in rank in the United States, to give us the most full and particular assistance in your power, for the better accomplishing the end of our appointment. 1 We understand that Coll. Morgan has lately been confined on suspicion of disaffection to the interest of the United States. We wish to know the truth of this, and if true, the cause of it. Whether any and what inquiry was made into the affair, and on what principles an acquittal was founded. We rely upon your best aid in all things, that may contribute to the right discharge of our duty in this business, as it must be obvious of how great consiquence it is, that the Agents for Indian Affairs should be of unquestioned attachment to the United States, and your residence for some time in that part of the Country, which has been Colonel Morgan’s Scene of action, may furnish you with knowledge on this Subject, that dis tance denies to us. 2 We have the pleasure to inform you that the friendship & alliance of the Northern and Southern Indians comes well authenticated to Congress. It will be very hard and unaccount able that those in the middle district should alone be our Enemies. We are, Sir, Yr. most obt 8c most huml. Servts. Richard Henry Lee Richd. Law Daniel Roberdeau RC (NN). Written by Roberdeau and signed by Roberdeau, Law, and Lee. i This committee had been appointed on October 22 to investigate charges that George Morgan, agent for Indian affairs in the middle department, was conspiring against the American cause. On the 30th the committee sent Morgan a copy of the resolve authorizing their investigation and requested that he “take due Notice thereof and give your Attendance agreable to the Requissition con tained therein that a proper Enquiery may be made in the Premisses.” This letter—which was written by Law, signed by Law, Lee, and Roberdeau, and directed to Morgan “att Lancaster”—and Morgan’s November 11 reply are in the Dreer Collection, PHi. On the basis of the committee’s November 20 report, Morgan was restored to his position as Indian agent and appointed deputy commissary general of pur chases in the western district pending further investigation by three commissioners ordered to Fort Pitt; and on March 27, 1778, the commissioners cleared Morgan of all charges and praised his “uncommon degree of diligence in discharging the duties of his employment.” See JCC, 9:881, 943; 10:313-14; and Max Savelle, George Morgan: Colony Builder (New York: Columbia University Press, 1932), pp. 145-54. 2 Hand’s December 21 response, in which he explained that he had released Morgan after confirming that the allegations against him were unfounded, is in PMHB 40 (October 1916): 467-69. For additional information on the general
