174 October 24, 1777 conditions that Hand confronted on the western frontier during the autumn of 1777, see Edward G. Williams, Fort Pitt and the Revolution on the Western Frontier (Pittsburgh: Historical Society of Western Pennsylvania, 1978), pp. 71-78. Committee of Congress to Unknown Sir, 1 York Town in Pena. 24th Octr. 1777 The inclosed resolve will explain to you the design of our ap pointment, and the reason of our present application. As a friend to the cause of America, and as a Gentleman living on the spot which has been Colo. Morgans scene of action since his appointment under the United States, we are to request of you Sir your candid senti ments on the subject of charge against Colo. Morgan and you will further oblige us by obtaining the fair and uninfluenced testimony of disinterested persons on the same point. We wish to be well in formed touching the political character of Mr. McGee, 2 whether he is considered as an Agent, or Friend, of G.B. and whether he does not profess himself a Subject of the British King. Whether Colo. Morgan has much intimacy with Mr. McGee & whether the latter was not carried by the former along with him on a visit to some of the Indian nations, and whether it was by Colo. Morgans influence that the Indians were induced to insist on Mr. McGees continuing to reside where he now does. Whether any letter has been seen from Mr. Hamilton the Governor of Detroit to Colo. Morgan, & what were the Contents of such letter. 3 We are satisfied that you will ex cuse the trouble we have here given you, when you reflect how im portant a thing it is that the department of Agent for Indian Affairs should be filled by a person of clear and unquestioned attachments to the United States, and the impossibility from our remoteness, of rightly answering the end of our [appointment] unless by the mediation of American friends in [that part] of the Country. We are Sir your most obedient servants, R.H. Lee for the Committee of Congress FC (PPAmP). In the hand of Richard Henry Lee; and endorsed: “Copy of letter to Fort Pitt concerning accusations agst Colo George Morgan.” i The recipient may have been the “Mr. Irvine” mentioned in Daniel Rober- deau’s October 30 letter to Edward Hand. 2 Alexander McKee—formerly a British deputy Indian agent at Ft. Pitt and recently an agent employed by Morgan—who had also been arrested by General Hand. See PMHB 40 (October 1916): 468; 58 (January 1934): 26-36. 2 This alleged Henry Hamilton letter was the focus of the brief note of in quiry sent by the committee to Jasper Yeates this date. "Having acted in quality of Commissioner for Indian affairs in that quarter where Colonel Morgan’s scene of action has been as Agent under the United States, we have reason to think you may illucidate the subject of our inquiry. We desire particularly to be informed by you, concerning a letter written to Colo. Morgan by Mr. Hamilton
