October 24, 1777 175 Governor of Detroit.” Written by Daniel Roberdeau, signed by Roberdeau, Richard Law, and Lee, and addressed to Yeates at Lancaster, this letter is in the Special Collections, MWalB. The commissioners investigating the allegations against Morgan apparently did not find any letters from Hamilton to discredit Morgan. However, it should be noted that Morgan had written to Hamilton in 1776 to gain his cooperation in maintaining the neutrality of the Indians. Max Savelle, George Morgan: Colony Builder (New York: Columbia University Press, 1932), p. 152. Henry Laurens to Pierce Butler Dear sir. 1 York Town Pennsylvania 24thOctober 1777 Captain Allen from our Charles Town called on me last Evening & seeing the inclosed Letter in his hands I judged it best from the authorities with which you had vested me in this Parlour to return it. I hope I am doing right. You will also receive inclosed Papers which will shew you the trifling News of the day, the Authority of that which recites Mr. Burgoyne’s surrender is not yet established by a formal Letter from General Gates, nevertheless that event has been announced by such heralds & so often repeated by different persons through different Channels as puts the fact, in general, beyond all doubt in my mind^ The Action of the 7th when the Proclamation General 2 quitted with the field of Battle, his Tents, Camp Equippage 8c much Baggage 8c also bequeathed his Hospital of wounded Officers to the Victor had been whispered here three or four days before we received an authentic Account. General Gates did not write till the 12th. His Letter concluded “I am so pressed by business on all hands it is im possible to be minute, but my next shall be so.” The Capitulation at Saratoga is said to have been Signed the 14th, the formality of grounding Arms 8c surrendering reserved for the 15th. You know too much of Military affairs to admit the whole business to have been completed in a day—then allow our General five days as in the former Case for receiving returns arranging the March of the Great, Noble, 8c Inferior Captives 8c a little moment for reflection. If he did not write till the 21st upon this ground of computation his Messenger to Congress may be expected to morrow or the 26th, but there are people here who talk as if they beleived that a proper receipt 8c disposition of ten Generals 8c a whole Conquered Army were to be accomplished in as few seconds as they require to repeat the words in Congress. If the Intelligence should prove to have been mere report I shall enjoy in the mean time the pleasure of beleiv- ing it true 8c that what is said to have happened will infallibly come to pass. I am with great respect, Dr Sir, y. M. H. Serv. [P.S.] The Account from Delaware gives a dawn of hope that Your
