180 October 25, 1777 My best wishes attend you for every Good, & believe me, with Sentiments of Real Esteem & Regard, Dear Sir Your most Obed Huml Servt., John Hancock RC (NNPM). i Hancock wrote two letters of a personal nature to fellow delegates before he left Congress a few days later. He penned the following brief note this day to Robert Morris: “Mr Hancock presents his most sincere Regards to his friend Mr Morris, sends him the Ballance of his Acco. & must beg his excuse that he has neglected it so long. “Mr H. observing that Mr Morris frequently walks with a cane takes the freedom to send him a gold Head for a cane of which he Requests Mr Morris’s acceptance as a small token of his real regard and friendship for him.” NYHS Collections 11 (1879): 431-32. And on October 30 he wrote an even briefer note to Richard Henry Lee assuring the Virginia delegate that he would “take the greatest Care to have the Letter Colo. Lee mentioned safely delivered; and . . . will give the French Gentlemen all the assistance in his Power, and in the Way Colo. Lee requests, if it should be necessary.” Lee Family Papers, ViU. John Hancock to William Phillips, Isaac Smith, Sr., and Ebenezer Storer Gentlemen York Town 25th Octor. 1777 Inclos’d you have a Warrant on Mr. Appleton the Loan officer at Boston for Three thousand one hundred & eighty Dollars & 45/90, being to Discharge the Balla, which you represent to be due to Winthrop Sargent Esqr. which you will please to apply accordingly. 1 As I shall hope nearly as soon as this reaches you, to have a personal Interview with you, designing to Set out for Boston to mor row morning, I waite adding but that I am with Sentiments of Esteem, Gentlemen, Your most Obedt Servt. J H Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). t Congress approved the payment of this money to Phillips, Smith, and Storer in connection with their work as “agents appointed by the Marine Committee, for settling the accounts of the prizes taken by vessels fitted out by order of General Washington.” JCC, 9:836. For further information on this subject, see the Marine Committee’s letter to these three men of March 21, as well as John Adams to Isaac Smith, Sr., March 20, 1777. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, York Town, Pennsylvania October 25th. 1777 I have been duely honoured with your Favours of the 18th. and 21st 1 and immediately laid them before Congress; from whom I have it in Charge to forward the enclosed Resolves, with a Request that you will pay that Attention to them which they require. 2
