October 25, 1777 181 You will receive herewith two Bundles of Commissions, which I should have forwarded sooner, had I not been prevented from sign ing them, by a severe Fit of the Gout. I have not as yet heard a word from Genl. Gates with Respect to the important Intelligence of the Surrender of Genl. Burgoyne and his Army. Should the agreeable News reach York Town before my Departure I will instantly forward it to you; or should it not arrive till afterwards my Successor will undoubtedly do himself that Pleasure. I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Esteem, Sir, Your most obed &: very hble Servt. John Hancock Presid RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. i See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:392, 406-8. The October 21 letter is in PCC, item 152, 5:143-44. 2 The enclosed resolves, which were passed on October 20 and 22, dealt with Maryland artillery regiments, Gen. John Sullivan, certain military appointments and promotions, John Moore, the commissary of purchases, and army rations. JCC, 9:822-23, 828-31. John Hancock to George Washington Dear Sir, York Town Pennsylvania October 25th. 1777. I was duely honoured with your Favour of the 22d and am much obliged by the Expressions of Politeness & Friendship which it con tains. 1 A few Months Relaxation, will, I hope, restore my Health and Constitution, and enable me still to contribute my feeble Efforts, in some Mode or other, to the Advancement of the Cause of Freedom in America. If I should not return to Congress, 2 it will be the Height of my Inclination, as it will also be in my Power, to render some Service to the general Interest, in my own native Country. As I propose setting out on Monday and shall go thro’ Bethlehem, I must request that the Escort of Horse you so politely offered to at tend me, may meet me there. 3 Should I reach Bethlehem before them, I shall wait their Arrival. In the present critical State of our Affairs, I believe I should decline setting out for a few Days; but having wrote to Mrs. Hancock to meet me at some distance from Boston, I am under a Necessity of beginning my Journey on Monday Morning. I am, dear Sir, with great Esteem and Regard, your most obed & most hble Servt. John Hancock RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. i See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:413-14. 2 This day Congress approved a report of the committee of the treasury, which had audited Hancock’s presidential account, recommending that he be paid $1,392 32/90 “for expenditures by him for the use of Congress.” JCC, 9:839. 2 For a description of the escort Hancock received, see Hancock’s second letter to Washington, October 17, 1777, note.
