182 October 25, 1777 John Harvie to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir [25 October 1777] 1 I wrote you about ten days ago that General Gates had obtain’d a Signal Victory over General Burgoyne on the 7th. Inst. & now have the pleasure of informing you that a few days after this defeat Burgoyne with his whole Army Surrend’d themselves prisoners of War to the American General. It is said the prisoners Stores &c. taken are as followeth Viz 1 Lt. General, 2 Major Generals, 7 Brigadier Do. 5000 privates, 2 English noblemen, 1 Irish Do. 15,000 Stand of Arms 40 Brass Cannon and a Considerable Quantity of Cloathing. This great and Important News I transmit to you on the Authority of the Committee of Albany, Governor Clinton, and General Washington’s Letters to Congress (except the Enumeration of Officers &c. which we have from another Quarter). No one doubts the truth of this happy Event Yet many feel the greatest Anxiety for a Confirmation of it under General Gates’s own hand. Almost every day brings us News of some Advantage or other over the Enemy. Yesterday We received an account that General Howe had Abandon’d German Town & collected his whole force in Phila delphia & its Subberbs & that General Washingtons head Quarters was between German Town & the City. To day Major Clark Aid de Camp to General Green writes General Roberdeau that on the 22nd at 4 in the afternoon the Enemy made Several Attacks on Fort Miff lin, but were as often repuls’d. The Cannonade was very Severe & Continued till eight in the Evening. The next Morning it was renew’d with Redoubled Vigour. Two large Ships endeavour’d to pass the Chevaux de Freze while a Brisk fire was kept up from Pro vince Island. At the same time a party of 3000 Attack’d Red Bank so that a Continual Fire was kept on all sides which lasted from 6 in the Morning till 4 in the afternoon without the least Intermission at which time the Enemy Quitted the Ships, haveing first set them on fire, & they soon after blew up. The explosion was dreadful. Thus ended the Day. Every thing seems quiet this Morning (the 24 being the Date of his Letter). He believes this will be their last effort & that they will certainly quit Philadelphia. He was inform’d one of the Ships was call’d the Augusta & that 300 Hessians were drown’d. Could you have thought these Forts and Batteries were so formid able? As this is Saturday evening and of course Holliday with Con gress 2 haveing heard you several times mention Mr. Dechsay with Approbation I will give you the Conclusion of a Severe Libel against Congress & the Army Address’d by him to General Washington. After Attempting to refute the Idea of foreign Assistance or a Euro pean War, Magnifying the power 8c Clemency of Great Britain, Re- probateing his own Conduct for the part he took Early in the Dis pute—he very Modestly Advises the General to demand of Congress
