October 25, 1777 183 an Immediate Negotiation with Lord & General Howe and if they re fuse a ready Compliance to disavow their Authority, give up the Seditious Members as proper Sacrifices to Government and treat for America in his own person at the Head of his Army. What think you of this Invidious Hyprocrite now? On viewing what I have wrote You may infer this was a publick Address. No such thing, it was Couched in a Letter to the General in which he makes the warmest professions of Esteem 8c friendship 8c sent by a secret Emissary. I should have been more Minute if I was not certain you would see a Copy of the whole Letter in Virginia as the names of one or two of our Countrymen are mention’d with high Encomiums— 3 & you know they have friends here who would not wish to See Mr. Dechsay’s panygerick on them Conceal’d from the Eyes of the publick. I hope we shall get through Confederation time enough for our Assembly to take it up this Session as the Attention of Congress is principally Confin’d to this Object. I fear the Length of my Letters will exhaust your patience but as you know my Motive is to give you the fullest 8c Earliest Intelligence of Matters highly Interesting you’l require no Apolegy for prolixity. What am I to do with your Money for Colo. Spotswood as I understand he has return’d to Virginia? Be Kind enough to inform Mr. Wythe that Doctr. Redman is in Philadelphia 8c that it is a Rule with Congress for no Seal’d Letter to go into the City. I have his to that Gentleman still in my poss[essio]n 8c should be glad of his directions about it. I am Dr. Sir Yr. most Obt. servt., Jno. Harvie RC (DLC). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:37-39. 1 This letter has been dated on the basis of internal evidence. Harvie states that he was writing on a Saturday and most of the news reported had reached York during the week preceding Saturday, October 25, 1777. 2 Congress did not hold an afternoon session on October 25. 3 At this point Harvie inserted above the line “B & H,” a reference to Carter Braxton and Benjamin Harrison. Henry Laurens to Robert Howe Dear General, York 25th October 1777 Permit me to refer to my late Letter of the 20th by Durst an Ex press. I have notified Mr. Hancock of the present Safe conveyance 8c again requested the honour of transmitting his Letter with your Commission. 1 Depend upon it I will Send them to you in time if possible, was his reply—granting the possibility 8c you will find his packet in Company with this, but the embarrassment which no doubt he feels from a variety of business in the moment of his leaving Con gress, will probably prove an impediment. By a New hand from the Northern department we have a Scrap
