186 October 25, 1777 William Williams to Mary Williams [ante October 25, 1777] 1... it seems to me, a Spirit of Slumber is fallen upon the Children of God, & the rest of the World are asleep in Death. A want of Patriot ism, Virtue, Love of our Country seems to have pervaded all Orders. A Selfish, oppressive Spirit, a thirst after money & preferment, pleasure & Vanity, amazingly prevails & God is not in all our Thoughts. This is black & dark, but Gods Mercy is boundless & infinite, & endures forever, 8c tho we deserve & can expect nothing for our own Sakes, yet our God remembers Mercy for thousands of Generations of them that Love & fear Him, doubtless our forefathers were of that happy number, 8c I hope & trust He will not forsake Us, their degenerate Children, but will work for his own Name Sake. Octo 25 Notwithstanding our unworthiness We have had great Success at the northward, blessed be God, & there is reason to hope How will not hold his Possession. The last news is, contrary to reasonable Expectation, that our Forts & Ships yet hold the river, 8c have de stroyed, or caused to be destroyed two Ships of about 60 Gun each, as I have wrote my Bror Doer, 2 8c that How is distressed for Wood, Houses 8cc, pays 20 pounds a Cord 8cc 8c indeed it is not much better here as to things in general. Tea is abt. £9 the pound, Coffee 12/ or more, bad brown Sugar 10 8c 11/ a pound, salt without bounds 5 or 6/ a pint, butter 8c Cheese 5 8c 6/ a pound 8cc. I cod write another Sheet, but it is high Time to stop, 8c more so as I hope to hear from you again soon. Mr Brown is by Congress estab lished a Continental Express, 8c will come back I trust very soon. By him I propose to send home some thin Cloaths, as I did before which He tells me he delivered, tho you dont mention it. Pray send by him my mittens 8c woollen Gloves, none are to be bo’t here 8c also my flannel under Waistcoat, tho a poor thing, I shall want them to ride home in. I hope to come by the End of November, but cannot determine. Whenever Providence permits, the Time will be most welcome. May God in mercy preserve Us both, 8c give us to rejoyce in his great Goodness, 8c to see one another in peace 8c Safety. Remember me to the dear little ones, I fear I can bring them nothing, as I am in quite another place than Philaa. I forget not your kind 8c dear Mother 8c other Connections: nor Sally. Hope She will stay with You. My dear Love, I am tenderly 8c affectionately 8c intirely Yours, Wm Williams RC (NN). 1 Only the last two pages of this letter, which Williams resumed writing on October 25, have been found.
