October 26, 1777 187 2 Not found; but a copy of Maj. John Clark’s October 24 letter containing news from the Delaware River forts, in Williams’ hand and endorsed by him “reed. 25 & is Confirmed since,” is in the Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., Papers, Ct. The two British men-of-war that were burned on October 23 were the Augusta, 64 guns, and the Merlin, 18 guns. Jackson, Pennsylvania Navy, pp. 195-99, 446. John Adams to Abigail Adams My dearest Friend York Town Octr. 26. 1777 Mr. Colman goes off for Boston Tomorrow. I have seized a Moment, to congratulate you on the great and glorious Success of our Arms at the Northward, and in Delaware River. The Forts at Province Island and Red Bank have been de fended, with a Magnanimity, which will give our Country a Reputa tion in Europe. Coll. Green repulsed the Enemy from Red bank and took Count Donop and his Aid Prisoners. Coll. Smith repulsed a bold Attack upon Fort Mifflin, and our Gallies disabled two Men of War a 64 and 20 Gun ship in such a Manner, that the Enemy blew them up. This comes confirmed this Evening, in Letters from Gen. Washington in closing Original Letters from Officers in the Forts. 1 Congress will appoint a Thanksgiving, and one Cause of it ought to be that the Glory of turning the Tide of Arms, is not immediately.due to the Commander in Chief, nor to southern Troops. If it had been, Idolatry, and Adulation would have been unbounded, so exces sive as to endanger our Liberties for what I know. Now We can allow a certain Citizen to be wise, virtuous, and good, without thinking him a Deity or a saviour. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:360-61. i Washington had sent the October 23 letters of Maj. Samuel Ward and Com modore John Hazelwood reporting on the repulse of the British forces at Forts Mercer and Mifflin. They were read in Congress on October 27. See JCC, 9:841; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:422-24. Samuel Adams to Arthur Lee My Dear Sir Philadelphia, Oct. 26th, 1777. Your several letters, with their enclosures, came to my hand. And although I have not hitherto acknowledged to you the receipt of them, I assure you I have been and am still improving the intelligence you have given me to the best of my powers, for the advantage of this country. 1 From our former correspondence you have known my senti-
