October 26, 1777 189 Samuel Adams to James Warren My Dear Sir, York Town in Pennsylva., Oct. 26, 1777 We have just now receivd a satisfactory Account of the great Suc cess of our Arms on the 14th Inst, under General Gates. The Express is expected every Hour. I have Time only to congratulate you on this and also on a successful Engagement on the Delaware, an account of which is containd in a Letter, Copy of which I inclose. 1 I hope our Countrymen will render the just Tribute of Praise to the Supreme Ruler for these signal Instances of his Interposition in favor of a People struggling for their Liberties. Congress will, I sup pose recommend the setting apart one Day of publick Thanksgiving to be observd throughout the united States. 2 If Burgoin is allowd to reside in Boston, will he not by his Arts, confound if not seduce the Minds of inconsiderate Persons? Sat. Verbum Sapienti. Adieu my Friend. S. A. [P.S.] Howe it is said has published a Hand bill in Philadelphia set ting forth that Burgoyne has gaind a complete Victory having taken Gates and all his Army Prisoners, and that he is in full March with a victorious Army for Albany and New York. It needs no comment. RC (MHi). i At the bottom of the body of this letter Adams copied Col. Jonathan Mifflin’s October 24 letter to Gen. Thomas Mifflin reporting the repulse of the British forces at Forts Mifflin and Mercer, to which Adams appended the following explanation. “Colo. Green [Christopher Greene] is one of the Rhode Island Batallions. Genl. Washington upon his Arrival at Camp honord him with the Command of the Fort at Red Bank.” Warren-Adams Letters, 1:374-75. 2 Upon receiving Gen. Horatio Gates’ October 18 letter enclosing a copy of the convention with Gen. John Burgoyne, on October 31, 1777, Congress ap pointed a committee to set aside a day of thanksgiving. See JCC, 9:851, 854-55. Elbridge Gerry to Thomas Gerry Dear Brother York Town in Pennsylvania Octr 26. 1777 By a Letter from Colo Jonathan Mifflin D.Q.M.G. (dated Head Quarters J Morris’s Octo 24th 1777 5 oClock P.M.) to General Mifflin, who is indisposed at Redden, which the General has sent to Congress, We have the following Intelligence. “The Day before Yesterday at 4 o Clock P.M. Count Donop with 1200 Hessian Granadiers made their Appearance before the Garrison at Red Bank, 1 & by Flag demanded a Surrender; which being refused they made an immediate Attack, forced the Abbatis, crossed the Ditch 8c some few had mounted the pickets. They were so warmly received
