190 October 26, 1777 that they returned with great precipitation, leaving behind the Count, & his Brigade Major who are wounded & in the Fort. The killed & wounded agreable to the Letter are 500. “Leut. Colo 2 Green who commanded, played upon them a very good Deception. When the Flag came in he concealed all his Men but 50 saying ‘with these brave Fellows the Fort shall be my Tomb.’ He had 5 killed & 15 wounded. “Yesterday an attack was made upon Fort Mifflin® by 6 Ships which were warped thro the Cheaveux de Frizes at Billingsport in the Night. They began the Cannonade at Day Break, which continued very hot till 10 oClock, when the Gallies forced them to give Way. In retiring, a 64 Gun Ship (said to be the Augusta) & a Frigate (the Liverpool) 4 ran ashore & were soon set on Fire by their own People. Two Men were wounded.” The above News is confirmed so far as it relates to the Loss of the Ships, by a Letter from Major Clark A D C to General Green, who being wounded is employed to obtain Intelligence; he says the explo sion of the Ships exceeded all Description & that Red Bank had been attacked, so that We have no Doubt of the Fact. I am in Haste, yours &c, E Gerry P.S. We have not yet the particulars of General Gates Success. RC (MHi). 1 Gerry inserted an asterisk at this point and wrote in the margin: “one of our Fortifications on the Jersey side of the Delaware.” 2 Gerry inserted an asterisk at this point and wrote at the foot of Mifflin’s letter: “It should have been wrote ‘Colo Green’ [Christopher Greene] of one of the Rhode Island Batalions to whom General Washington gave the Command of the Fort.” 3 Gerry inserted an asterisk at this point and wrote in the margin: “Another of our Fortifications [on] an Island in Delaware.” 4 During this engagement the British lost the Augusta and the Merlin, not the Augusta and the Liverpool. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge Dear Sir York 26th October 1777 I had the honour of addressing your Excellency the 19th Inst, by Durst an Express. My Duty to the State calls upon me to employ the present bearer for conveying this dispatch relative to the Case of the Brigt Success which is represented by Mr. Attorney General of So. Carolina to be of great importance & which your Excellency has rec ommended to the attention of the Delegates. 1 About the 20th or 21st Inst. I informed my Colleague Mr. Heyward, that an application had been made by Capt Arthur for a hearing & determination of his
