October 26, 1777 191 Appeal, that I had therefore obtained leave to withdraw from the Bench of Appeals as well to avoid a suspicion of being an Interested judge as to act in support of the Decree, that a Court was to be held the next Morning, requested his advice & assistance & obtained a promise of both. Mr. Heyward then informed me he had received a Letter on the Subject from the Attorney General which he soon after put into my hand. The Court met at the time appointed, I attended & to my great Surprize the Advocate employed by me, Mr. Rush, ad mitted without hesitation the authenticity of the Records 8c Appeal as produced in Court under Notarial Seal. As Mr. Heyward did not attend & I much disliked the tameness of my Advocate I moved the Court to adjorn in order that I might further confer with Counsel before we Should enter upon pleadings. I considered the Attorney General’s Letter as deserving notice & had therefore put it into the hands of Mr. Rush who perused & re turned it. Saying, what appeared to me very extraordinary that he had been Speaking to Captain Arthur & his Proctor & they were exceed ingly anxious to put an end to the business & he requested I would not oppose it. Mr. Rush’s general good Character 8c good disposition forbid a remark which his conduct would have warranted tho’ I don’t mean even to insinuate that it would seem as if those Gentlemen had been Speaking to him. He asked if I would permit him to apply to Mr. Heyward—which I not only consented to but urged in hopes of obtaining the aid of my Colleague 8c also from an assurance he would be of my opinion that a determination ought to be postponed until we should receive the necessary papers promised by Mr. Moultrie. The Bench were again convened the Morning of the 25th 8c as Advocate Rush did not appear but Mr. Lewis his opponent attended. In the absence of Mr. Rush I moved the Court upon the ground of Mr. Moultries letter for a further day in order to obtain Evidence 8c was very warmly 8c earnestly opposed by Mr. Lewis. The Subject was plain 8c easy, I found my Self in no embarrassment for want of a proper reply until I was questioned upon the receipt of the Letter, nor was I then distressed on my own Account, truth dictated that Mr Heyward had received it Some time Since 8c that the president of the Court had been informed the day it came to my hands. Mr. Heyward was Sent for 8c asked when he had received the Letter. He answered about Six weeks ago, that he thought it of no consequence, that Mr. Moultrie had been very careless, that he had not spoke to Captain Arthur upon the occasion but that Mr. Rush had spoke to him 8c he had told Mr. Rush he had no objection to bringing on the Trial, he did not see why Captain Arthur should suffer for Mr. Moultries care lessness. This reply as it came without previous intimation 8c as there had ever been a good understanding between my Colleague 8c my Self 8c no deficiency of respect or attention on my part in the present Instance affected me 8c accounted for Mr. Rush’s absence who had
