192 October 26, 1777 been so extremely averse from my prayer for Time, It had likewise a visible effect upon the Bench. I however derived Some consolation from hearing my Colleague in one Short answer Censure the Attorney General for negligence & acknowledge he himself had been in possession of a Letter from Authority near Six Weeks without disclosing the Contents to those persons to whom he was particularly instructed to make them known. I will not be second to any Man in point of Candor but there ap peared to be no necessity for a display upon this occasion. I beg your Excellency will be assured I do not mean by any thing I have Said to Censure my Colleague, I am persuaded he Spoke the genuine Senti ments of his mind & whatever impressions these might have made I do not beleive he meant to lessen me in the Esteem of the Court, nevertheless I flatter my Self Your Excellency will agree that if he had communicated his opinion in private every good purpose would have been answered, & I am sure much trouble saved in which I am now unavoidably involved, by an abrupt declaration directly contrary to the tenor of my petition founded upon Instructions which he had put into my hands & in which I had intreated him to join. Your Excel lency will also from hence receive information why you are addressed upon public business by a Single Delegate, which is the chief end I have in view. Thus left to Struggle without a Friend I proceeded to expostulate with the Judges—the Cause before them was not mine— it was the Cause of the State of So. Carolina, was of a new impression & of the highest importance in its consequences to the 13 United States. Admitting the charge of remissness on the part of the Attorney General which I might have expected to hear without foundation from the Appellant the Interest of the State of South Carolina de served some consideration—the enforcing obedience to the Resolves of Congress, more, that I had no doubt in my own mind of Sufficient ground for Supporting the Decree, & that in such assurance were the Cause my own I would wish for no other Evidence than those already produced, but that I considered the Attorney General’s Letter as an Instruction on behalf of the State to the Delegates which barred me from acting until I should receive further power from the [Appelles?], upon the whole I prayed for forty days adding that Should the expected papers in the mean time arrive I would immediately give notice to Capt. Arthurs Proctor & hasten a final determination for I had no wish or desire to injure Captain Arthur. I was Strongly induced to pray for time from another motive, to gain the assistance of a Second Advocate. Mr. Rush was not only desirous of bringing on a hearing but had told me he feared we should lose the Cause which I could not beleive & therefore intimated to him my design to call in assistance. The refusal by the Judge & by the Register in obedience to the Judge’s order to grant Copies of the proceedings to the Appel lant underwent, from possibly the weaker Side of the Bench, severe &
