198 October 27, 1777 Nathaniel Folsom to Meshech Weare Dear Sir York Town 27th Octob. 1777 We are yet in possession of the River Delaware, Fort Mifflin 8c the Fort oposite to it at Red Bank. The Enemy have made repeated attacks upon the Forts in the course of the last week but were always repulsed with great loss particularly the general attack which they made on the 22 8c 23d Instant when they lost two Ships the Augusta of 64 Guns 8c the Liverpool of 28 both which they had warped through the lower row of Chevaux de frize but not being able to sus tain the heavy fire from our Forts were forced to abandon them 8c blow them up. A Copy of a letter giving an account of this affair I inclose you. Mr. Howe with his Army are in Philada. in great want of provision. Genl. Washington’s main Army is at Germantown increasing in Number every day 8c we hourly expect to hear of another engage ment. We have lately received Accounts from the northward of the Surrender of General Burgoyne 8c all his Army to our victorious General Gates the particulars of which have not yet come to hand. Inclosed I send you a Copy of the Articles of Confederation as far as agreed to by Congress. The 9th Article is “that the proportion of the public expence incurred by the United States for their Common defense 8c general welfare to be paid by each State into the Treasury be ascertained by the value of all land within each State granted to, or Surveyed for, any person as such land 8c the buildings and Improve ments thereon shall be estimated according to such mode as Congress shall from time to time direct.” This Article was opposed by all the New England Delegates 8c we are yet in hopes of having it recon sidered. 1 I have also inclosed you a letter from Major Ward giving an Ac count of an attack on Fort Red Bank 8c the defeat of the Enemy there. I am with respect, Your most obedient 8c very Hble servant, Nathl. Folsom RC (Nh-Ar). i No substantial changes were made in this article, which ultimately became number eight of the articles finally approved on November 15 for submission to the states. The issue had been decided on October 14, five states in favor, four opposed, two divided, Delaware and Georgia not represented. See JCC, 9:801, 913-14. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais 27th October [1777] I had taken time by the forelock 8c intended this to have been a long 8c Sober Serious Letter but it must tho’ Serious be Short 8c joyful.
