October 27, 1777 201 RC (MeHi). i Not found. 2 Morris had written the following letter to John Langdon on October 6 from his country seat at Manheim. “You will have heard before this reaches you of the unhappy fate of poor Philadelphia; it is a subject I can hardly bear to think of and I must avoid writing on it. I find my friend John Bradford Esq will be under a considerable advance of money for me and as I cannot do the business I wished in your port must now request you will send to Mr Bradford the Loan Office certificates for 4000 dollars which I sent you in March last. He will convert them into cash for his reimbursement and will credit me for the in terest due thereon. I have some thoughts of sending waggons for the sugars &c.; shall send you some bar iron and flour by them. I shall also want shipping this winter and beg you will keep me advised. My family are here but I shall be mostly at York 20 miles distant attending Congress. My compliments to Col Whipple. I will write to him by and by and more at large to you when I have more time.” Alfred L. Elwyn Papers, DLC. The same collection also contains the following letter to Langdon, which bears the place and dateline “Manheim in Pennsylvania, October 27th 1777.” “I have your favor of the 22d Sept with the copy of Messrs Hunter’s draft and the receipt of those you paid the money to; the amount is at your credit. “I want to see Mr Nesbitt before I despatch waggons for the sugars &c. He is now at Trenton waiting to return into Philadelphia and the news I have this moment rec’d from thence gives me the strongest hopes that he will not have to wait long, for our defences on the Delaware turn out beyond all expectation. The enemy have been repeatedly repulsed and have now lost some of their capital ships. In short I have hopes to send you from thence a fast sailing schooner instead of waggons respecting which, I will write you again very soon and in the mean time you must hold the sugars subject to my future orders.” 2 As Morris explained in a brief letter to “Mr. William Patterson, Mercht. in St. Eustatia,” which he wrote from his home at Manheim on October 31: “I am in hopes of soon returning to Philadelphia & renewing with Fresh Vigour all Mercantile operations.” Patterson Papers, MdHi. Robert Morris to John Rowe Sir, Manheim Octobr. 27th. 1777 It is now a Week since I received your favour of the 29th Septr. 1 continued to the first Inst on the road from York Town to this place where my Family now reside. I then desired Mr. Coleman to continue his Journey to York & gave him back the Letters request ing he would deliver them to Mr. Hancock with my Compts. & that I desired he would read them to Congress in order that they might be prepared against my return when I should bring this Matter before them in form as a piece of business, Accordingly I returned to York last Week but found Congress so closely pursuing business of Im portance that I did not think it right to interrupt it & as Mr. Coleman seems impatient at the Delay I have concluded to dispatch him with my own Sentiments relative to the Portugueeze Snow & trust to some other conveyance to hand you any determinations of Congress relative to that affair. I can not help thinking that Captn. Cunninghame’s conduct in seizing this Snow if she is really & truly Portugueeze property is extemely reprehensible for I do not believe that Mr.
