October 27, 1777 203 have their property restored in a Way that will amply recompence any disappointments they have experienced by the seizure of it & if the Court of Portugal procure Passports from Britain they will do this with perfect security. This idea I have communicated to some of my Colleagues in Congress & it meets the Approbation of all I have mentioned it to, under [this] Idea then I give you my opinion that the Vessell & Cargo shou’d be tryed by the Admiralty Court if she is there condemned I have nothing further to say (only to judge for myself here after whether she is a prize that I can with a safe conscience benefit from or not) but if she is Acquitted & ordered to be restored to the former Owners, that you shoud then cause her to be taken good care of, either by authority of the State, of the Court, or of your own authority as Agent for the Owners which ever may be judged most proper &: no Plunder or Embezzlement take place but inform me instantly by Express or otherways of the Acquittal I will instantly bring the Matter to a determination & transmit you back their resolutions with full Orders for what is then to be done. I have no opportunity of consulting Mr. Braxton or any other Owners of the Phcenix respecting this business therefore I do not presume to give any Directions for your proceedings in case of Condemnation my whole care is to guard them from any Ill Consequences that might arise to them from Injustice or Ill Management in case of Acquittal & to preserve to the former Owners their property with a Secure Mode of recovering it in all which I presume I shall have the Approbation of all good Men. I am expecting from you a Translation of the Papers found onboard the Snow 8c remain, Sir, Your Obedt. hble Servt. Robt Morris Tr (DNA: PCC, item 44). 1 Rowe’s September 29 letter to Morris is in PCC, item 44, fols. 23-26. 2 The illegal seizure of the Portuguese snow Our Lady of Mount Carmel and St. Anthony by the schooner Phoenix, Capt. Joseph Cunningham, precipitated a celebrated maritime case that had important international implications and involved Congress intermittently for nearly three years. Acting in behalf of the owners of the Phoenix, Morris (who had a 1/24 investment in the vessel) formally laid the case before Congress the following March when he presented a memorial arguing that the nation’s honor was at stake and attempting to have the authority of Congress interposed between the Phoenix’s owners and those of the Portuguese snow. Morris’ perception of the issues latent in the case and the difficulties that were likely to arise from Cunningham’s seizure is clearly reflected in this letter. Rowe, as agent for the Phoenix, had solicited Morris’ advice on the case that he was preparing for the prize court in Massachusetts where the seized vessel had been condemned. For a discussion of the case of the Phoenix in the context of Congress’ experi ence with prize appeals, see Henry J. Bourguignon, The First Federal Court: The Federal Appellate Prize Court of the American Revolution, 1775-1787, Memoirs of the American Philosophical Society 122 (1977), pp. 96-97. The basic documents pertaining to the case are in PCC, item 44, fols. 1-185. For con gressional comment when Morris’ memorial came before Congress the following March, see Henry Laurens to Samuel Adams, March 7, 1778.
