206 October 28, 1777 on some happy events of the South which ’tho small when compared with those from the other Quarters will serve to increase the Reputa tion of the Arms of the United States. I am in Hopes that You will receive the plan of Confederacy before the first of December, as Congress are very industrious in com- pleating it. A Report is now before Congress for a large continental Tax, confiscating & making Sale of tory Estates 8c appropriating the same to support the War, but for the Benefit of the respective States, Sc for sinking all the Currency of the several States. 1 Nothing new from abroad. Congress have lately made a Major General of the Baron de Kalb, who is said to be an exceeding good officer. I hope that the Assembly will vigorously carry into Execution the Plan lately recom mended for recruiting the Army Sc apprehending Deserters; Sc that the Shoes, Hose Sc Blankets required will be sent with the utmost Expedi tion to General Washington’s army, which is in great Want thereof. Not a Line from General Gates relative to the Captivity of General Burgoyne Sc his Army, wch gives Reason to conclude that the Express is intercepted. I remain sir in great Haste Yours Sincerely, E Gerry P.S. Pray order a sufficient Number of Charged Bombs, Sc battering Cannon to be in Readiness for attacking New York; as I presume this cannot be omitted, Sc these Articles may be wanted. Octr 29th. I have just reed your Favour of Octr 5th, 2 the Letter wch. You wrote relative to the Wants of the Navy came to Hand but a few Days since, altho dated the 8th Sepr.; but I hope that You will soon have fresh Supplies of Cloathing See for the United States, 8c be able to obtain what is wanted for the Navy. The Army nevertheless must be first supplyed. The paragraph relative to the “remarkable Success” which I mentioned in the Beginning of the Letter, was grounded on Information reed from Governor Clinton that General Burgoyne 8c his whole army had surrendered to General Gates. He reed it from the Chairman or President of the N York Convention 8c sent to Congress a Copy of a Letter from the Chairman of the Committee of Albany to the president aforesaid; wch put the Matter so far beyond Doubt, that it was universally beleived to be true, but it is now 10 Days since the Advices first came, 8c no Confirmation of it from General Gates, which induces us to beleive, that it was a Deception in order to pre vent Genl Clinton from attempting to Joyn G. Burgoyne, in Conse quence of this Intelligence, the proposition was made for providing Bombs Cannonade, which had it been true might have been wanted soon. The Loss of the Enemy at German Town has not been yet ascer tained. General Agnew was killed 8c a Number of other officers of Distinction 8c all the Hospitals in the City taken up for the Wounded. This We have from a Lady who left the City after the Battle who is
