October 28, 1777 207 to be depended on, & by the best information to be had the Number of their killed & wounded is abt 1500. We daily expect to hear impor tant advices from the northern & eastern Departmts., & hope they will be favourable. RC (ICarbS; Elsie O. and Philip D. Sang deposit, 1971). 1 Gerry is referring to the report of the committee appointed to consider the proceedings of the August 1777 New England convention, which was read in Congress on October 27. Congress did not begin acting on the report until November 22. See JCC, 8:650, 731, 9:841, 899, 953-58, 968-71. See also Henry Marchant to Nicholas Cooke, August 18, note 2; and Gerry to Robert Treat Paine, October 29, 1777. 2 Warren’s October 5 letter to Gerry is in Gardiner, Warren-Gerry Corres pondence, pp. 83-85. Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry Dear Sir, York in Pennsylva. Octr. 28. 1777 The anxiety at Williamsburg cannot be greater than it is here to have a particular account of our late glorious success in the North. For nine days past, we have hourly expected the arrival of a Messenger with Gates’s Magnificent Inventory, and in order to a quick trans mission of it, we have detained, and still keep Colo. Masons Express. We now learn that Colo. Wilkinson D. Adjutant Gen. is on his way with this long wisht for Capitulation by which Gen. Burgoyne and his Army have surrendered themselves prisoners of war. Until I can furnish you the authentic detail, I will entertain you with the relation of our late success on the Delaware below Philadelphia. It must be obvious to you how important to the enemy it is, that they shd. get their fleet up to the City, for this purpose they have made many efforts which have been repulsed with considerable injury to their Ships, and loss of Men. The last attempt was the most powerful and was as follows—With 1200 Hessian Grenadiers led by Colo. Count Donop they attack’d Red Bank, a post held by a party of Troops under Colo. Green of Rhode Island, nearly opposite to Fort Island on the Jersey Shore. The attack was made by Storm, and they had passed the Abbatis, gained the Ditch, and some of them, with Donop & his Aid Major at their head, had passed the Pickets, when they met so warm a reception as to be driven back and forced to retire with great precipitation, leaving the Count and his Aid with 70 wounded in our hands, and upwards of 70 dead on the spot. 300 muskets with swords &c. &c. are taken, one Lieut. Colo. & some inferior Officers of the enemy are among the slain. The routed party returned to Phila delphia, crossing Delaware opposite the City. An attack was likewise made on Fort Mifflin by several Ships of War and by the Batteries on Province Island, which was continued long and with great violence. At length the Ships retired and two of them getting a ground (a 64 &
