October 30, 1777 213 Nathaniel Folsom to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir. York town Octr. the 30th. 1777 Yesterday I inclosed and diracted to your President all the news I Could Pick up In this Quarter, Which you will have the Redeing off as soone as it Comes to hand. 1 I inclose you a Coppey of a letter from the Revt. Mr. Ducha to General Washington that you may see what a Judas wase a Chaplin to Congress. 2 Wood not have you make it Publick unless it be by advice of Councile, as Congress have not thought fit to Publish it here—tho it is Publick anough in every- bodeys mouth In the Streets. My Duty is Very hard, and if you have any Comepashon left for me hope you will Joyne Congress Soone, as the buisness is too much for me to live [with]. Our President leves Congress this morning and I beleve Coll. Larance of South Carolinah will be appinted in his Place. I am Sr with grate Respect your most obedent., Humle. Sert. Nathel. Folsom P.S. My Complements to the Honle. Board. RC (NhD). 1 Apparently a reference to Folsom’s October 27 letter to Meshech Weare. 2 The enclosed copy of Rev. Jacob Duchy’s October 8, 1777, letter to General Washington is in the Josiah Bartlett Papers, NhD (microfilm). Joseph Jones to Thomas Burke Dr. Sr. York 30th Oct. 1777. Attacks were made the 22d inst. on Forts Mifflin and Redbank in both of which the Enemy were repulsed. A Batterie on Province Island and two upon the Bank opposite to Fort Mifflin thrown up to reclaim the great marsh below Province Island opened upon the Fort, and were supported by six Ships warped through the Cheveaux defriez at Billingsport. Our Gallies and armed Vessells in the River assisted the Fort, and in conjunction they kept up so effectual a Cannonade upon the Ships as to disable a 64 Gun Ship and Sloop of War, or Small Frigate, & the Enemy set them on fire before they quitted. One of the four that retired was the Roebuck greatly dam aged. Baron Dunop with 1200 men Attacked Red Bank and after a short Cannonade marched up with fixed Bayonets in two Columns. They passed the cavelte, entered the ditch & some passed the picket, but were so warmly received, they fell back & fled, leaving Baron Donop, his Brigade Maj., a Capt. Lieut. & upwards 70 men wounded & prisoners—1 Lieut. Colonel, 3 Capts., 4 Lieut. & neer 70 killed, neer 300 musketts and a considerable number cartridge Boxes &c
