November 2, 1777 221 Board of War to Elias Boudinot Dr Sir War Office Novr 2d 1777 I am to inform you that Congress have desired Govr Clinton of N York to procure Workmen to work the Lead Mines in that State for Continental Use &: if Workmen cannot otherwise be procured you are to furnish him on request with such Numbers of Prisoners of War as he shall require. 1 The Tory Prisoners would be suitably em ployed in this Business if there would not be too great Risque of their Escape. But the Sort of Prisoners are left to your Discretion un less Govr Clinton should particularize them. 2 I am your very obed Servt. Richard Peters Secy RC (DLC). i See JCC, 9:847. 2 Peters wrote again to Boudinot on November 7, requesting him to send the board an account of "all Tradesmen particularly Shoemakers among the Prisoners of War & where & with whom they are employed” as well as an ac count of “all American Prisoners in the Enemy’s Hands,” and ordering him to York to meet with the board as soon as possible. Elias Boudinot Papers, DLC. Board of War to Horatio Gates Dr Sir War Office Nov 2d 1777 I am directed to inform you that an Idea has been suggested to the Board of raising a Battailion of the Canadian Prisoners lately fallen into our Hands many of those Persons having been represented as Friends to the United States altho’ they have by Compulsion borne Arms against us. As this Battailion will in all Probability be officered by French Officers you will be pleased to give your Opinion on the Measure & mention such Officers as you think worthy Ap pointments in Such a Corps should it be determined by Congress to raise it. 1 I have the Honour to be, with great Regard, your very obed Servt, Richard Peters Secy RC (NHi). i Raising a regiment composed of Canadian prisoners was proposed in a committee report submitted to Congress on December 2, but no such unit was established. See JCC, 9:986-87, 1037, 1049. On November 7 Peters wrote another note to Gates, requesting that he make exact returns of “all Arms, Amunition & Military Stores taken from the Enemy during your having the Command of the Northern Army & where the same are or have been deposited.” Gates Papers, NHi.
