222 November 2, 1777 Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dr Sir York Pensylvania Novr. 2. 1777 Inclosed is a Letter for Mrs. Harnett & Mr. Hooper, 1 to the Latter I have sent the Convention signed by Genl. Burgoyne where by he delivered himself up with his whole army on the 16 Ultimo, this great event will I trust in the end prove fatal to Our Enemys. Genl Howe is still in Philadelphia but we have every hope he will not long continue there. Our Little Fort &: Fleet have still the Com mand of the river & it is hoped after the Loss of the Princess Augusta of 64 and the Liverpool of 28 Guns in their Attack of the 23 Ultimo they will fail in their next attempt of taking Fort Mifflin. The Success of Genl. Gates will enable him to reinforce Genl. Washingtons Army near Germantown & Mr. Howes Scituation will be a little precarious. I can send you no papers, we have no press as yet here. I am fatigued to death attending Congress Night & day & can hardly find time to write to any of my friends. Make my best respects to Mr Quince, I expect you to Communicate every intelli gence I send you, to him & all my friends. Dr Sir, Your friend & ob Sert, Cornl. Harnett RC (NN). i Not found. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Mifflin My dear General. York, Novr. 2. 1777 I thank you for your obliging favor of the 28th past, and for the inclosures accompanying it. I assure you Sir that having received such original impressions of your firm attachment to the cause of America, I have ever placed you among her first and most valuable friends. (You may judge then how unhappy I am made by your resignation.) Trusting therefore to your patriotism, and my hopes of your return ing health, I had ventured to mention your name for one of the three Commissioners of the new board of war—A most important department, on which our righteous warfare eminently depends. 1 Some Gentlemen supposed yr. health would hinder, others observed that the Continental policy forbid the union of two offices in the same person, supposing that you might be prevailed on to retain your commission of M. General could your health permitted action. The spirit of the Continental policy does forbid double Salaries, but the Generalship might be continued with the Board of war Salary. In deed the nature of the latter business renders rank and knowledge in War necessary. I love America and venerate its faithful friends, which
