November 2, 1777 223 must render it painful to be deprived, from whatever cause, of the assistance of its surest Supports in this crisis of its fate. I still hope however that returning health will enable you yet to continue your Aid for establishing the glory of North America on the most lasting foundations. I am yours dear Sir with sincere affection. R.H. Lee FC (ViU). 1 Mifflin’s resignation as quartermaster general for health reasons was ac cepted on November 7, but he was appointed immediately to the new Board of War. See JCC, 9:874; and Henry Laurens to Mifflin, November 8, 1777 (1st letter), note. Mifflin’s November 12 reply, in which he indicated that he would accept the board position, is in Richard H. Lee, Memoir of the Life of Richard Henry Lee . . ., 2 vols. (Philadelphia: H.C. Carey and I. Lea, 1825), 2:174. North Carolina Delegates to Richard Caswell Sir York Town Novr. 2nd. 1777 By an express who was going to Williamsburg last week we in formed you of the report that General Burgoyne and his whole army had surrendered themselves prisoners of War to General Gates. 1 Yes terday Colo. Wilkinson arrived here, which enables us to inclose you a copy of the Articles of Convention, which circumstance we hope will be followed by others of equal Importance soon. General Clinton with 4 or 5000 from the City of York had got possession of Fort Montgomery and had passed so far up the No. River as to burn the little Town of Kingston. They were within a few days of Albany. General Burgoyne had twelve days Provision, and in Strong Ground well fortified, in such a situation the above was a most fortunate event for us. General Gates is exerting himself against the rest of the British Soldiers in that Quarter. Our Troops are in High spirits having been successful in every engagement since the evacuation of Ticonderoga. We have received no accounts from Gen’l. Washington since our last letter to you, which we expect will be delivered to you before This, as we wrote to George Wythe Esq in Williamsburg requesting that he would Immediately send off our letter by an express &: that your Excellency would take care to have the expence paid. 2 Inclosed is a Resolve of Congress appointing the eighteenth day of December for a General Thanksgiving throughout the United States. In our last we sent a copy of all the money that has been paid for the use of North Carolina, also several other resolves relating to the recruiting business. We shall take care to give you the earliest account of what ever change may happen in our affairs. We have no newspapers to inclose
