November 4, 1777 227 most dangerous tendency, and to remedy it has long been the object of my thoughts and endeavours. Indeed I saw very little prospect of success until very lately, but just before I left Congress I had the pleasure to find that every Gentleman was equally sensible of the necessity of applying a proper remedy. The great difficulty will be to get over particular Connections, and personal regards, but it must be effectually remedied or all our Efforts are in vain. The miscarriages in Pennsylvania have made it necessary it seems, to order the Troops which defended the passes of the High Lands on the Hudson’s River to be withdrawn to reinforce General Wash ington. General Clinton taking advantage of this has attacked and carried fort Montgomery, burned our Frigates in that River, and opened the communication between New York and Albany, except only some little ineffectual bits that remain. The Army under Genl Gates, as well as that under Genl Washington were situated so near the Enemy that little seemed to be done but to attack them. A Battle of considerable importance was every day expected to be fought by each army, and our force was so much Superior to that of the Enemy that we have every reason to hope for signal success. Nothing indeed can prevent it, but some of those unfortunate blunders which have lately been so frequent in our Army. Upon the whole Sir, I am in daily expectation of an account of signal victories gained over both armies of our Enemies, but I dare not promise it, having been of late so cruelly disappointed of my most sanguine and well founded expectations. Very little of any consequence has been lately determined in Congress. The Confederation was the subject of daily consideration when I came away, but as I consider the plan now in embryo, as what can never be suited to the States, I think nothing decided on it, is of consequence. I fear I differ very widely on this subject with a majority in Congress. I deem a time of peace and tranquility, the proper time for agitating so important a concern, but some, and not a few, are of opinion that advantage should be taken of the present circumstances of the States which are supposed favorable for press ing them, to a very close Connexion, but more Sir of this when we meet. 2 My long absence from home has very much deranged my rustic affairs, and they require much of my own particular attention to restore them. This makes it exceedingly inconvenient to me to go to Newbern immediately. I will therefore beg to be excused for a week or two, but if my presence be required there I will set off im mediately on your signifying your Commands, an opportunity for which will immediately offer by the messenger who will bring up a writ for an Election of a Commoner for this County to fill an oc casional vacancy which has happened. I saw Capt Caswell at Brandywine on the field of Battle. I saw him next day at Chester, and since I have enquired for him, and heard he was well.
