228 November 4, 1777 I have the honor to be Dr Sir, yr mo obt servt, Thos. Burke Tr (Nc-Ar). i This is clearly a transcribing error because Burke wrote a letter to Gen. John Sullivan from York on October 12 and according to the journals he voted in Congress on October 14. JCC, 9:801, 804. Another text of this letter, in N.C. State Records, 22:973-75, states that Burke “left York town ... on the 13th ulto.,” but this too cannot be reconciled with his vote in Congress on the 14th. Furthermore, this text contains other misreadings of Burke's letter as well. 2 See also Burke’s Remarks on the Articles of Confederation, December 16, and Notes on the Articles of Confederation, December 18, 1777. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir York Town Novr 4th 1777 Your favour of the 20th Ultmo. came safe to hand by an Express sent by Govr Trumbull. Am very glad to hear my family & friends are well. I wrote you and Sundry other letters to my family by Brown a few days Agoe now on his way with Mr Hancock, since which Nothing New has turned up this way. I think our Army here seem rather Inactive since the Battle at German Town. Real true Spirit & Bravery this way seems much Confined to our two forts at Red Bank 8c fort Mifflin down the river and to our Gallies and Water Craft. They have Nobly defended that pass hitherto but unless Genii Washington should Act Vigorously Against How the Other way they must soon fall a Sacrifice to perservering Supr. force. We never had full and Official Accounts of the Interesting Event at the North ward till the Arrival of Coll Wilkinson on Fryday last. We had al most began to despair, but at length our joy was full on recieving a Confirmation of the whole. I hope the most sincere Gratitude may arise to Heaven from every Quarter on this most Signal Interposi tion of Providence in our favour. I find our Assembly are alarmed at the Neglect in the Commissy Department. The plan you know I reprobate as do more than half of Congress 8c many more now see their Error. They have mended 8c mended in several Instances, but it cannot wholly relieve. 1 As I before wrote you such alterations were made, as were the principal Objections pointed out by Mr Colt to Congress, of which they advised him long agoe 8c supposed he was in full action 8c exertion in the business, but now fear the Express has fallen into the hands of the Enemy. We have had a rumour that was the case with one, we Imagine it was Yours, the Stores you sent for your Order 8c by whom I wrote you 8c sent my Summer Gown 8c some other Useless thing. Especially after Browns arrival having heard Nothing of him before he came away I wish you would let me know in your Next Wheither he is returned. Congress Cannot concieve how
