November 4, 1777 229 you & Mr Gray should be of Opinion that you had no Authority to Deliver or he or his Assistants to recieve the Provisions & Stores in your hands when it is expressly provided in the 6th Article for you or your Deputies to Deliver over to the Commissy Genii, or his Deputies or Assists all & every kind of Provision &c in the Commissy department &c. Gray is much blamed for not recieving them as he has Authority Independt of the Commissy Genii & has a right to appoint what Subs or Assistants he pleases. But that there be no further delay Govr Trumbull & his Council of Safety are Impowerd to appoint Commisys of purchases or Issues as they find Necessary. 2 It will be a Jumble when all is done but we must make the best of it. We are about appointing a board over the Commissy & QuartrMaster Department to super Intend & regulate from time Sec. You are in Nomination for one of the three. 3 I suppose they will have good Salaries perhaps 2000 dolls per Annum. My regards to Coll Wyllys. Tell him I will let him hear from me the Moment Congress arrive at my favorite Wyoming but at present we think we are tolerably safe while we are beyond that Capital River. Respects to all friends. Affectionate regards to family & dear Amelia and am as Usual Yours, Elipht Dyer [P.S.] Congress calls, cannot review my letter, you must take it as it comes, have heard Nothing from Coll Thos for some time. E D RC (CtHi). i For the October 4 resolves concerning the commissary department, see JCC, 9:766-68. 2 See Henry Laurens to Israel Putnam, this date, note. 3 Although Trumbull was not one of the three members named to the new Board of War on November 7, he was appointed on the 27th. See JCC, 9:818- 20, 874, 959-60, 971. Henry Laurens to the Carlisle Committee Gentlemen, York 4th November 1777 Your Letter of the 22d Ulto. was duly received & taken under Consideration by Congress. The delay of a reply is imputable to the bad State of health of the late president The Honorable John Han cock Esqr. who having Suffered under the Gout Several days before he retired from this place could not have discharged every branch in his department with his wonted facility &: precision. You will receive under this Cover a Certified minute of Congress of the 25 October injoining the president to request you will take proper measures for making the Gaol in Carlisle as comfortable as circumstances will admit of for the accomodation of the prisoners. 1 I likewise inclose a minute Shewing the Authority under which I
