November 5, 1777 233 William Williams to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir York Town. 4 Nov. 1777 I have not time to say any thing of Politics or News, if We had any. Congress seem’d surprized that you shod be at a Loss about delivering over Stores, as it is most explicitly mentioned in the new (confounding) Comissa Plan, that all Stores shall be delivered over to the Comis. of Issues, his Deputy, or Assistants 8cc 8c there seems no doubt by any thing you or any Body writes, but that there is such Officer in the eastern Department. 8c a Gent, whisper’d me in Congress (not knowing I suppose of my Connections) that He wishd some body wod write Mr Trumbull, that it was the opinion of all unprejudiced Persons, that He was so angry 8c chaafed, at being out of the Office, tho voluntary, that He was contriving by every way 8c mean in his power to thawrt 8c hinder the Success 8c progress of the Business 8c disconcert their Affairs 8cc. x It will make you mad, as it did me while I utterly disbelieve it, 8c think you incapable of such baseness. Congress some time since made some alteration in the plan, to ease Colts objections 8cc. which will be sent by the Presidt. They have also impowered the Gov 8c Council to appoint a D. Corny. Genl of Issues, lest there shod not be any to receive &c. We last night heard a Rumuor that our Forces had Succeeded on Rhode Island, 8c taken 1500 Prisoners. God grant it might prove true. Great 8c marvelous has been our Success at the northward, by the infinite Mercy of the God of Armys 8c to his Name be all the Glory. Our little Strength all the Delaware has prospered beyond all Expectation. I cant add but that I am, yr Affece sincere Friend 8c Bror, W Williams RC (CtHi). 1 For Jeremiah Wadsworth’s November 26, 1777, letter to Williams, vigorously countering these allegations against Trumbull, see Burnett, Letters, 2:543n. For Eliphalet Dyer’s comments on Williams’ letter, see Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, December 15, 1777. Eliphalet Dyer to Horatio Gates Sir York-Town Novembr 5th 1777 I most sincerely Congratulate you on the glorious Success with which the Almighty has Crowned your most faithfull Indeavours in the cause of your Country, Against a late triumphant Enemy; and that He hath made you the happy Instrument in bringing down the lofty pride and haughty Insolence of a Vain glorious Burgoyne, who had spread terror and Consternation through our Northern Country, Untill Providence over ruled (against a Violent opposition) to replace
