234 November 5, 1777 you in the cheif Command over our Northern Department, and thereby to give New life & Vigor to our desponding Citizens, to rouse them with Chearfullness & Alacrity to Step forth in the Sinking cause of their Country & to place themselves under the Command of a General whose Skill, prudence, & Bravery they had before experi enced, And in whom, Under Heaven they could place their greatest Confidence. It is this, with the love of their Country, which has Animated your Troops to endure every hardship with patience, to Encounter every danger to which they were called with Bravery, Untill Victory Crownd their labour & Conquest satisfied their Wishes and desire. Have no doubt but all the true & Virtuous Friends of their Country are Impressed with a grateful sense of the goodness & favour of Almighty God, for this singular and most Interesting Event, at the same time your friends sincerely rejoice that you have more than Answered their Sanguine expectations, yet you will not be surprised if it should raise the Envie of your Enemies &: those who had with Violence opposed your Command in that Quarter. But the success which has attended your Conduct, and followed your plan of operation, now forces some acknowledgement even from those, of the Prudence of the measure in restoring you to your proper Command. I have the pleasure to Inform you that Congress are not only happy in the Event, but entirely satisfied in your Closing the Convention, at the time, & in the time, & in the manner you did and dare say the Impartial World will not only Justifye but Applaud you therein. The Chance of Warr was too {great to hazzard) dubious to admit of a Delay, the Advantages proposed by Your Enemy, in their terms of surrendry too great, to leave to Chance. The preserving your Army Undiminished, & in spirit & Vigor for future operations, was wise & prudent. The preventing a further Effusion of the blood & especially of your own Troops was Humane and discreet. They were both objects justly weighed and Considered by you, &: will ever in the Opinion of wise & good men fully Justifye your Wisdome, and com mend your Prudence, in foregoing some formalities, and restrictions which have at times been Obtained of our Enemy. Capitulating when circumstances & appearances were very different from what they were when you was so happy as to Close the Convention. Congress have Ordered their Thanks to you & the Army And a gold Medal to be presented you in their Name & in the Name of the United States they represent in Testimony of the high Sense they Entertain of your Merits &: Services the memory of which I trust will ever be gratefully retained by them, & Especially the New England States. 1 Am with the greatest Esteem and Regard, Your Obedt. Hie Servt, Elipht Dyer RC (NHi). 1 See JCC, 9:861-62.
