November 5, 1777 235 Henry Laurens to Richard Caswell Sir, York Town 5th November 1777. I had the honour of writing to Your Excellency the 1st Inst, by the hand of Jacob Upp who in his way to South Carolina is to leave a Packet directed to you at Hallifax. Congress having taken under their consideration the Merits of many brave Officers in the Armies of the United States were pleased to distinguish the Name of the late Brigadier General Nash who fell by a Mortal Wound received in the battle of German Town & to Vote the Sum of five hundred Dollars for erecting a Monument to his Memory. I am directed to transmit the inclosed Certified Resolve of the 4th Inst. 1 & to request Your Excellency to give the necessary Orders for accomplishing in the most effectual manner the views of Congress upon this occasion. I have the honour to be, sir, Your Excellencys, Most Obedient servant, Henry Laurens, Presidt. in Cong. RC (Nc-Ar). i See JCC, 9:861. Henry Laurens to Horatio Gates Sir. York Town Pennsylvania 5th Novem. 1777 On the 1st Inst. Colonel Wilkinson delivered your several des patches to Congress & at their request briefly added a recital of cir cumstances attending the Convention of Saratoga, he has since laid before the House all the Papers relative to that Contract & the returns of both Armies. These have afforded satisfaction not only to the Representative body, but universally to the good people here, the glorious Intelligence is now extending from City to City diffusing Joy in the heart of every Loyal American to the remotest State in the Union. I feel my self particularly happy in the honour of transmitting the inclosed Vote of Thanks by Congress in their own Name & on behalf of their Constituents to Your-Self, to Major General Lincoln, Major General Arnold & the rest of the Officers & Troops under your Com mand, with an additional Vote for perpetuating the remembrance of this great event by a Medal. 1 Your Name Sir will be written in the breasts of the grateful Amer icans of the present Age & sent down to Posterity in Characters which will remain indelible when the Gold shall have changed its appear ance. Permit me Sir to add that I participate not only in the general rejoicing but in that also which is visible among your very best freinds.
