236 November 5, 1777 Congress have this day confirmed several Resolutions for the dis position of the Troops in the Eastern & Northern departments, for the recovery & secure possession of Hudson’s River, for reinforcing the Main Army near Philadelphia & for other purposes, which ex tended & Certified you will find under Cover with this. I likewise inclose a Certified Minute shewing the Authority under which I have the honour of addressing you and to these Papers severally I beg leave to refer. I am with the most perfect Esteem Sc Regard, Sir, Your Most Obedient & humble servant, Henry Laurens, Presidt. in Cong. RC (NHi). i See JCC, 9:861-62. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir. York Town 5th Novem. Yin I had the honour of addressing you yesterday in a Letter which from unavoidable delay will accompany this. I now forward two Extracts from the Minutes of Congress both dated the 4th Inst.—One containing an Order founded upon a Re port from the Marine Committee relative to the Continental Frigates & other Navigation at & near Borden Town submitted to your Excel lency for approbation & in that event requiring necessary assistance for the construction & management of Batteries to be erected. The other minute testifying the attention of Congress to the Merits of such of the Officers & Troops of the United States as are specially recited in the Resolves in order that the several Votes upon this occasion may be made Public in the Army under Your Excellency’s Command. I beg the liberty of passing under Your Excellency’s protection Letters to Commodore Hazelwood, Colonel Green & Lieutt. Colo. Smith containing severally the Vote of Congress respecting each of those brave Officers. 1 Permit me also Sir, to trouble you with a Packet for the Honorable Mr. Speaker of Assembly in Delaware & to request you will order it to be forwarded by the first conveyance. I have the honour to be, with great Respect & Regard, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedt. humble Servant, Henry Laurens, Presidt. in Cong. P.S. P.M. The 5th. November. Since writing as above Congress have confirmed several Resolutions for the disposition of the Troops in the Eastern & Northern depart ments, for the Recovery & protection of North River, the reinforcing the Main Army near Philadelphia & other matters, which extended
