November 7, 1777 241 Elbridge Gerry to Timothy Pickering My dear sir, York in Pennsylvania Novr 7. 1777 I should have communicated to Congress the Contents of your Favour of the 2d, 1 had any Mention been made by the Members of the Delay which the Circumstances of the Army necessarily oc casioned in making the returns of your office. It is of great Impor tance that a particular Attention should be paid by each officer of the Army to this Business, as a Neglect hereof has been attended with manifest Inconveniences; but I am too well acquainted with your Industry & Care to suppose that any Delay has happened in your De- partmt. that could be avoided. You will receive by this Conveyance an Evidence of the Confidence of Congress in your Integrity & Abil ities, by their appointing You to the Office of a Member of the Board of War. 2 General Mifflin & Colo Harrison (the General’s Secretary) are Commissioners with You. Expecting soon to see You here I re main sir with much Esteem yours sincerely, E Gerry RC (MHi). 1 Adjutant General Pickering’s November 2 letter to Gerry explaining why he had been delayed in sending the returns of the army to Congress is in the Records of the Supreme Executive Council, PHarH. 2 Pickering readily accepted his appointment to the Board of War and recom mended Alexander Hamilton as his replacement as adjutant general. Pickering to Gerry, November 25, 1777, ibid. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York Town 7th Novem. 1777 I had the honour of writing to you the 4th 8c 5th by the conveyance of the Express Wm. Jones since which Your Excellency’s dispatch under the 1st 8c 3d Current with several inclosed Papers reached me, were immediately Reported to Congress 8c Committed to the Board of War. 1 My present duty is to forward the following recited Minutes 8c Resolves. Of the 1st Inst, for observing the 18th December next as a day of general Thanksgiving to Almighty God. 6th Inst, directing Your Excellency to settle the Ranks of Officers of Cavalry 8c to issue their Commissions. Of the 24th 8c 31st July—25 November—12th 8c 27th December 1776—1st 8c 14 January 1777 relative to the Horse. 2 To these I beg leave to refer 8c remain, with great regard 8c Esteem, sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient Servant. Henry Laurens, Presidt. in Cong.
