244 November 8, 1777 2 This day Laurens also wrote a brief letter to John Eustace, transmitting a commission as brevet major that Congress had awarded him on November 7 in recognition of his service “as aide-de-camp to General Lee and General Sullivan.” Ibid.; and ]CC, 9:875. Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir, York Town Pennsylvania 8th Novm. 1777 Your Letter of the 20th Ulto. directed to the late President reached me the 6th Inst, was immediately Reported to Congress & committed. Congress have confirmed several Resolutions relative to the Con vention of Saratoga, one of which under this date, directing you to take the Name, Rank & Parol of every Commissioned Officer Sc the most ample Cognizance of the persons of every Non Commissioned Officer, private Soldier &: other person in Massachusetts, compre hended in that agreement I have the honour of conveying to you under this Cover, to which I beg leave to refer. 1 I am with great regard, Sir, Your most obedient humble servant, Henry Laurens, President in Cong. RC (MHi). i Congress passed this resolve in response to Gen. William Heath’s October 25 letter, which described the difficulties he anticipated in handling the British prisoners who, according to the convention between Generals Burgoyne and Gates, were supposed to be marched to Boston and shipped back to England. See PCC, item 157, fols. 77-79; and ]CC, 9:871, 881-82. Laurens erred in writing the date of Heath’s letter as "the 20th Ulto.” Henry Laurens to Thomas Mifflin Sir, York Town 8th November 1777 You will find under cover of this, a Minute of Congress of yester day, containing Resolves on your application to resign the Com missions of Major General and Quarter Master General in the Army & upon the appointment of a Board of War, in which you are in cluded, ’tis the request of Congress that you be pleased to Signify your acceptance of a Commission in that Department, and enter upon the execution as Speedily as you conveniently can. 1 I have the honour to be with very great regard, Sir, your most Obt. Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i Citing reasons of health, Mifflin had submitted his resignation as quarter master general and major general in an October 8 letter that Congress read on October 10. Congress decided on November 7 to accept Mifflin’s resignation of
