November 9, 1777 247 himself or the British nation, since he was surrounded by an Army of 16000 men. He adds, that rather than have submitted to the Terms General Gates first imposed he & his whole army were deter- mind to have perished. I am sorry to add that at a time when, with the Blessing of Heaven, one Vigorous and well conducted Enterprize woud compel General Howe to follow the Example of General Burgoine, and this State alone has competent Resources to augment, strengthen and supply our Army to the utmost of our wishes; a fatal Langour prevails in all her Councils, and her military Exertions are so feeble, the Body of her Inhabitants so dissatisfied, or so intent upon Gain, that she in effect contributes next to nothing to the Common Cause. Permit me now, Sir, to claim a moment’s attention to the Request I have repeatedly made to be permitted to return to my native State. I have too high a sense of Duty to take this Liberty without the Con sent of those who have honoured me with their Esteem and confi dence. But the Reasons with which I have formerly troubled your Excellency, the advanced Season of the year, and my long and faith ful Services, entitle me I hope to this Indulgence, independent of the assurances that were made me in Convention that I shoud be relievd in three or four months. Mr Duer is equally solicitous to attend his private Affairs as well as his publick Accounts which suffer much by his long Absence. And we both wait impatiently for a Representation from our State. Every thing which might be expected from the little advantages of my Experience has been obtaind, the Confederation which was the last Object being finished except in a few points, and these not very material, & capable of being dispatched in a few days. Wishing anxiously for the favour of a Line from your Excellency in answer to this 8c three former Dispatches which have not been noticed, I have the Honour to be, Sir, your Excellency’s most obed ient 8c most humble servt, Jas. Duane P.S. I beg your Excellency to excuse my Incorrectness. Believe me I have no time to transcribe my Letters being obligd to attend the Treasury board every morning 8c Congress twice every day, often till 9 oCl in the Evening. RC (CSmH). 1 See the November 5 resolves on this subject in JCC, 9:865-67. 2 See JCC, 9:865. 3 A text of Burgoyne’s October 20 letter to Howe is in Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 63-65.
