248 November 9, 1777 William Duer to George Clinton Sir, York Town Pensa. Novr. 9th. 1777 Notwithstanding I have had for some time Leave of Absence to return to New York, I have forbore availing myself of it, till such time as I was relived by one of the other Delegates not chusing at a very important Crisis to leave the State unrepresented. By my long Absence in Convention, and in Congress my private Affairs have got into the utmost Anarchy and Confusion, and my Health, though somewhat mended from what it was a month since, much Impaird. I therefore flatter myself that you will be kind enough to inform the Council of Safety, that I shall not be able, consistent with the Duty I owe to myself to stay at this Place longer than the 25th Inst, and to urge them to send proper Persons to represent the State. Before that Time I am certain that the Articles of Confedera tion will be completed in Congress, as at this Day, there is only one or two clauses remaining for Decision. I trust that you, Sir, and the honorable Council will do me the Justice to think that nothing but the most urgent Necessity could induce me to leave the State unrepresented in Congress. I trust how ever that Mr. Gouvr. Morris will be here before I quit this Place. I am, Sir, with very great Respect, Your Excellency’s and the Council’s most Obedt. Hble. Servt. Wm Duer RC (PHi). James Duane to George Clinton Sir, York Toun Pensyl. 10th Nov. 1777 I wrote to your Excellency yesterday & have nothing to add but that a Report prevails here that the Enemy made another attack on the Forts in the Delaware last Wednesday and were again repulsed with Loss. I hope to be able soon to send you the particulars of what you be assurd, if true, is a truly favourable & critical Event, & be yond my Expectation. I am with very great Respect Sir your Excellency’s most Obedient & very hum’e Servant. Jas. Duane P.S. Be pleased to forward the enclos’d to General Schuyler by a safe opportunity. MS not found; reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 2:511-12.
