November 12, 1777 251 Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen November 12 th 1777 We have received Mr Warrens favour of the 4th &: 7th ultimo informing us of the loss of the Brigantine Hampden, and we have no doubt but care has been taken to save as much of that Vessels ma terials as possible. Should you think what has been saved of those materials worthy of another Hull we would have you purchase One, provided it can be done on reasonable Terms, and that you get one every way well calculated for a Cruizer; particularly in point of sailing as that is a most material object with us. Mr. Bradford the agent at Boston hath lately advised us of the arrival of a Prize Brigantine called the Industrious Bee which he thinks would be suitable for a Cruizer. You will please to order a Court of enquiry on Captain Burroughs and his Pilot and if the Captain is acquitted and you purchase the Hull as above advised we would have the command given to him and when ready for Sea you will dispatch him on a Cruize the most likely for Success. 1 Enclosed are some Resolves of Congress which you will please to have published in all the Eastern Papers. Mr Cushing informs the 36 Gun Ship will soon be launched, but that he knows of no provision of Guns for her. That matter is under your direction and you will use every possible means to Obtain them, and inform us as soon as may be what probability you have of succeeding therein and upon what terms; and you will see that all materials are provided for intire equippment for Sea and that all possible dispatch be given. The Expence of the Navy is very great, but every delay adds to the charge and deprives the States of that advantage over our enemies, and of those supplies which are the great ends of their destination. We sent you by Docter Lynn warrants upon the Loan Offices of Massachusets and Rhode Island to the amount of 100,000 Dollars which we hope considering the present applications for Monies from every quarter will for a time answer the demands on your Department. We are extreamly sorry to find such heavy com plaints against Captain McNeill and we hope that Gentleman will be able to justify his conduct but as a Court Martial must be here after appointed for that purpose as well as for doing justice to the publick, we cannot consent in the mean time that the public Service should suffer, in addition therefore to what we have already in our formed Letter said to you on that subject we must add, that if you apprehend the services will be injured by Captain McNeills remaining in the command of the Boston, you will suspend him till his conduct respecting his last Cruize is properly enquired into. 2 Should this be done, you will put a person in command of her, the best qualified and most deserving you can procure being already in Commission perhaps you’ll find none more deserving than Captain Olney; 8 and
