November 13, 1777 253 Elbridge Gerry to James Warren My dear sir York in Pennsylvania, Novr. 13. 1777 I am favoured with yours of Octr 23d, 1 8c find that in the Enjoy ment of the News of General Burgoyne’s Surrender, You somewhat regretted General Gates’s “suffering himself to be drawn into a Con vention.” I must confess that when the News first reached this Place, I had similar Feelings, but was somewhat reconciled upon hearing the particulars as delivered by his D. Adjutant General to Congress. It seems that General Clinton with his intended Reinforcement to Burgoyne, at the Time of the Treaty, was within a Day’s Sail of Albany, where were the Magazines, Hospitals, & Laboratory of the northern army. This Gates knew, 8c not being able to detach Troops in Time to defend them, hazarded the Loss of the Whole. His D. A. General further says, that he had but 3 Days Provisions at Saratoga 8c had Albany been taken, must have retreated without Delay or have starved his Army. But what made the Matter still more critical. Sir Harry Clinton had conveyed Intelligence to Burgoyne, which the latter reed the Day before the Ratification of the Convention, inform ing him of Clinton’s Expectations of relieving him in a few Days, 8c thereupon General Burgoyne made some cavils 8c finally informed Colo Wilkinson (the Adjutant mentioned) that Hostilities must again commence; but the latter informing as he left him that General Gates could not be responsible for the Consequences, as his Men considering their General deceived (the Treaty had been several Days upon the Tapis) were highly enraged 8c zealous for Action, was recalled by G. Burgoyne 8c desired to favour him with a little further Time to consider of the Matter, which being granted soon ended in his agreeing to the Convention. However was I to judge of the Matter under Circumstances as they respect Gates alone, without recurring to the primary Cause of our Successes, It appears to me that such a powerful Army as he had were intitled to the Terms first demanded “a Surrender of the other Army Prisoners of War.” But we have ever had the greatest Reason to acquiesce in the Determinations of providence relative to our publick as well as private Concerns, 8c therefore I find myself very happy on the Occasion. We have this Evening finished the Confederacy, 8c it will be shortly sent to the several States for their Consideration. 2 My Expectations from Rhode Island were never great for Reasons too obvious to mention; but I am concerned that the Honor of so many brave Men as composed the eastern Army, should suffer from a Circumstance which they could not foresee or avoid. A thorough Enquiry must be made into this Matter; if We mean to correct such Misconduct, 8c prevent the like in future. 3 Our Friends the Mr. Adams left this two Days since, 4 8c inclosed are two Letters for Mr. J. Adams, which I must request You to
