254 November 13, 1777 deliver him. Agreeable to his Desire, that I would open such Letters as should be directed to him here, I opened these, & finding the largest written by what appears to me a female Hand; if so, I presume it is from his Lady, & must ask her pardon for the Error into which her Friend betrayed me. The Absence of these Gentlemen occasions a Chasm in Congress, who employed the microscopic Eye of the One to penetrate the obscure Designs of intrigueing Adversaries & the deep Erudition of the other to raise Barriers against them. My com pliments to them & other Friends & beleive me to be, yours sincerely, E Gerry P.S. The Enemy appear to be making great preparations to attack Fort Mifflin. I hope the brave Fellows there will not fall a sacrifice to superior Numbers. Quere, ought not Attention to be diverted by occasional Visits from our Army? RC (Justin G. Turner, Los Angeles, Calif., 1971). 1 Warren’s October 23 letter to Gerry is in Gardiner, Warren-Gerry Cor respondence, pp. 91-92. 2 This day Congress appointed a committee “to revise and arrange the articles of confederation agreed to, and to prepare a circular letter to the respective states to accompany the said articles.” JCC, 9:900. 3 See Henry Laurens to the Rhode Island Expedition Commissioners, Decem ber 15, 1777. 4 John and Samuel Adams had been granted leave of absence on November 7. Their return trip to Massachusetts can be traced in the former’s diary entries. See JCC, 9:880; and Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:267-69. Cornelius Harnett to Thomas Burke Dear Sir York Pennsylvania Novr. 13. 1777 The Child Congress has been big with these two Years past, is at last brought forth (Confederation). I fear it will by several Legisla tures be thought a little deformed, you will think it a Monster. I wish however some kind of Confederation might take place, many Carry their Ideas of this Matter so far as to believe Our Affairs must be ruined without it; Be this as it may it will in a few days be sent to the Legislatures of the Several States. Nothing more has been done worth your notice. Our time has been chiefly employed in Army matters and God knows we have had perplexity enough. Genl. Washingtons head Quarters are at White Marsh a few miles from German Town & the Picketts of each army are very near to gether. We are informed of a large Reinforcement detached from G. Gates Army on their way to join the main Army, &: every body hopes a Good account will still be given of Sir William. You left us dissatisfied but when you hear that we still have the Command of the River—Burgoyns whole Army Surrendered—the Noble defence made
