November 13, 1777 255 at Red-bank, Fort Mifflin, 8cc you will I hope entertain an opinion that Our Armies must conquer wherever they appear notwithstanding the few Checks (perhaps necessary ones) they have lately met with. We have an Account of 30 Transports sailing from New York supposed to bring a reinforcement of troops to Genl. Howe. They are not as yet arrived in the Delaware. I think as soon as Our main Army receives the reinforcements ex pected, I should expect to hear of a Vigorous Attack on the Enemy, but I am no General. At the Battle of German Town I am informed Coll Martin has again been so unfortunate as to meet with Censure. He has been tryed by a Court Martial Sc Acquitted as I hear; 1 Since the death of our worthy & brave Nash, I have received a Letter from Coll Sumner shewing the Necessity of having a Brigadier appointed. What can your Delegates do in this Case? For Gods sake endeavour to get our Assembly to nominate the Gentlm they would Choose. I am told by several Officers that should Coll Martin be appointed, many resigna tions would take place as several of the Collonels 8cc are much dis- satisfield with his Conduct. Coll Sumner is I believe next in Rank, a worthy Man. Our Brigade will as soon as Coll Shephard arrives at Camp be a very Respectable One Consisting of 2000 Rank & file. I wish to see Some one or more of my Countrymen at the head of them & hope they may be esteemed in Camp, 8c out of it, as our worthy Deceased friend was. The sooner one or more Genl. Officers is appointed the better. Indeed we have a right to the Appointment of a Major Genl for our State should it be thought necessary. 2 Pray let me have your opinion freely 8c dispassionately on the Articles of Confederation. The Mode of Settling the Quota of each State towards defraying the Genl. Expence has taken up much time. Some States were for the Valuation of all the property in each State; Others for fixing it by the Number of inhabitants; Others, on the Value of lands. This Last seemed to come as near the mark as any except a Valuation of all property, however the Value of Lands has taken place, much against the desire of the delegates from the Eastern States. 3 As I expect you will be directed to return immediately after the rising of Our Assembly, I hope you will take Care to be properly instructed in every Measure they may wish to Accomplish. You ought to be here, no State should have a less number of Delegates than three present in Congress 8c I hope Our State will Attend Constantly to that rule. I have a great inclination to return home 8c wish to be in future excused from this kind of Service. Between you and I we shall be ruined in it, 8c I wish to make way for some Gentm who values his honor in this way, at a much higher rate than I do. I have not time to say one word more than to desire you’ll make my Compliments to All my friends in Assembly. I wrote Mr. Hooper 8c Maclain a few days
