262 November 13, 1777 Pennsylvania Delegates to Thomas Wharton Sir York Town Novr. 13th. 1777 Congress have refered the enclosed Petition to the Council of this State, together with which we were desired to furnish a more par ticular account of the Petitioner, Parson Batwell’s state of health &c, accordingly we have just visited him, and found him a Prisoner in a private house much emaciated, and afflicted with Rhumatic pains in his Knees, which incapacitates him for walking, but con fessed he was much better than while he was in prison. 1 He offers his parole as well as Bail if he is allowed to go to his former place of aboad in this County, twenty one miles distant from hence, or permitted to take the fresh Air, and exercise here, for the recovery of his health, which we are of opinion may effect it. He requests a speedy result of your Honble Board that he may sell or remove his Effects and three Children now at the above place, a Glebe belong ing to the Church, as he cannot afford to keep two families. The Papers belonging to Mr. Batwell taken with his person were de posited in the hands of Mr. McClane in this Town, 2 who applied to one of us to know how they should be disposed of, which was moved to Congress, but they would give no orders concerning them, there fore they wait your Commands, and are as yet undisclosed, except two letters of no great importance communicated to one of us. We have the happiness to inform the State that Confederation has this Evening passed Congress, but have it not in our power as yet to communicate it, as the several articles tho agreed to are not arranged in the order they are to appear, which we hope will be effected tomorrow, as they are committed for that purpose, and to have it in our power very soon to lay them before the State, there fore we ardently wish a full representation of the State may be con vened to receive them, and that a Determination upon them may be speedy, as the ratification in our opinion is of infinite importance to the Independance of America. We are respectfully, Sir, Yr. most obt & very humi Servts. Wm Clingan Daniel Roberdeau RC (PHi). 1 Rev. Daniel Batwell’s November 7 petition to Congress is in Pa. Archives, 2d ser. 3:141. For other documents pertaining to the imprisonment and parole of Batwell, a former missionary of the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel assigned to Cumberland and York Counties, Pa., whose case had been before Congress since early October, see ibid., pp. 126-30, 133-34; and JCC, 8:759. See also Daniel Roberdeau to George Bryan, December 29, 1777, note 1. 2 Archibald McClean, whose activities against the “disaffected” residents of York County can be traced in Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 5:514-20, 536-38, 575-77, 661-63, 682-83, 704-5.
