November 14, 1777 265 November 17, when he dispatched a duplicate copy of this letter to Heath with the following message appended. "I beg leave to refer you to the above Copy of what I had the honour of writing to you the 14th & of confirming now, by Order of Congress, to avoid the evils which might attend in case of miscarriage or delay of the Original. The distress of the Army in this State through a want of Clothing, Blankets & Shoes is every day increasing to a most dangerous pitch & calls aloud for all the relief that can possibly be afforded & the most speedy. Congress flatter themselves with great hopes from your exertions in the present Instance.” Heath Papers, MHi. Henry Laurens to Thomas McKean Sir York 14th November 1777 I had the honour of addressing you under the Inst. 1 My present duty is to transmit a Resolve of Congress leading to an en quiry into the State of Delaware 2 & requiring the Delegates from the State to attend Congress. The Resolve being Sufficiently explicit it remains only for me to refer to it &: request you will give the needful answer at your convenience. I am with great regard, Sir, your most obedt. Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “The Honorable Thos. McKean Esquire, Speaker of Assembly, Delaware.” r See Laurens to the States, November 1, 1777. 2 The enclosed resolve of this date specifically asked Speaker McKean “to prevent the disaffected inhabitants of [Delaware] from furnishing the enemy’s fleet or army with provisions or supplies of any kind.’’ JCC, 9:905-6. Henry Laurens to William Palfrey Sir York 14th November 1777 Your favor of the 11th reached me this Morning & was immediately laid before Congress. The Treasury board are exerting themselves in the provision of money for both Armies, their Chairman has assured me you Shall Speedily be Supplied with such part of your requisition as will keep you employed until the remainder Shall be transmitted. Also that 150000 Dollars are Sent to Mr. Bedlow at Fish Kill Sc that a further Sum Shall Soon follow. I have written on this head to the General to whom I beg leave to refer. 1 I am with great regard, Sir, Your most Obedt. Servant LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “William Palfrey Esquire, Pay Master General, Head Quarters White Marsh.” iSee JCC, 9:901; and the next entry.
