268 November 14, YTT1 Henry Marchant to Nicholas Cooke Honored Sir, York Town Pensylva. Novr. 14th. 1777 Mr. Ellery informed me a long Time since that he expected to set out in a few Days, but as yet I hear nothing of Him. I hope Sir, if any Accident detains him, The General Assembly will appoint an other Delegate immediately, as I must very soon be upon my Return, and I earnestly wish the State may not be unrepresented. You are sensible Sir, that I expressly declared I could not consent to be absent more than six Months at a Time, and proper Provision was intended to be made to keep up a Representation. I observed to you before that under this full Expectation, I neither prepaired myself for stay ing the Winter here, nor my Family and private affairs for so long an absence. I shall however stay till I can bring forward the Confedera tion, an Object of great Moment which is now brought to a very near Conclusion. We are very much disappointed in the Expedition agt. Rhode Island. The Cause of its Failure we are not yet made ac quainted with. 1 Reinforcements are advancing from our Northward Army to join General Washington, and it is said a considerable Fleet have sailed from New-York, with Reinforcements to join Genl. How. Nothing material has happened at Philadelphia 8c the Delaware since my last Intelligence to you, save that a floating Battery which the Enemy had constructed, sunk in a few Days after She was on Float—And that a 64 gun Ship got aground near the Jersey Shore, where Genl. Varnum got down two 12 Pounders upon the Shore & huled her many Times which caused her to give several Signals of Distress, but at the Tide rising two others came to her Releif & got her off. I have not Time to add, but that I am Honored Sir, most respect fully your very humble Servt. Hy. Marchant RC (R-Ar). i See Henry Laurens to the Rhode Island Expedition Commissioners, Decem ber 15, 1777. Daniel Roberdeau to Timothy Matlack Dr Sir, York Town, Novr 14th, 1777. I thank you for your punctuality and care and acknowledge the receipt of the Books five in number, of which care shall be taken. 1 You mention nothing of any agreement with the express, or whether paid or not, he charges 2 days at six Dollars per day, it may be right, although very high, for these reasons I take the liberty to refer the matter to you and beg you will pay the Bearer, which shall be reimbursed on the first notice, for besides the above at this instant,
