November 15, 1777 269 business is so pressing and important I cant attend to it, which is also my apology for breaking off so abruptly. I am respectfully, Dr Sir, yr very obt friend & Servt, Dan’l Roberdeau. P.S. I have two Books in the hands of Mr. James Reed, one of which Ovid I have not the same occasion of as when I wrote for it, and as these books were spared as a favour perhaps it will suit Mr. Reed to keep Ovid, otherwise I beg to rely on your punctuality for sending it forward to me per first good private hand with the Virgil, if my negligent friend Col. Bayard has not done it, prey forward me the regulation of prices. MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 5:772. 1 Probably the works of Grotius, Pufendorf, and Vattel that had been re quested by Elbridge Gerry and Roberdeau from Thomas Wharton a few days previously, plus the two books Roberdeau mentioned in his postscript. See Elbridge Gerry to Thomas Wharton, November 8, 1777. Henry Laurens to Benjamin Huger Dear Sir, 1 York 15th November 1777. If it had been in my power you could not have wished a person more ready to Serve you than I Should have been in the affair re ferred to in your favour of the 2d. September which was delivered to me as it happened two days too late for a particular interposition on behalf of the Appellee in the Case of the Schooner Rosanna & the Cause had been matured for judgement before I had been named to the Bench for hearing & deciding upon Appeals in prize Cases. Therefore I purposely refrained from Sitting when the final opinion was to be pronounced. 2 I had indeed perused Copies of the proceedings 8c from them had formed a judgement of my own without knowing particularly who was Interested. Immediately upon receipt of your Letter I deter mined if needful to employ an Advocate, but upon application to Colo. Harnet with offers of my assistance he informed me the Bench had by their Sentence reversed the Decree given in Admiralty & or dered restitution of property or value to be made to the Appellants. Hence I ought in modesty to think my own opinion erroneous, but although I am far from being an obstinate fellow & pay great def erence to Some of the Gentlemen of the Bench I cannot honestly Say I acquiesce 3 —the pursuit of that phantom is however at an end. All the great News of Burgoyne John Esqr. &ca. will have been familiar before this can reach you. Our Eyes are now fixed upon Delaware. Forts Mifflin 8c Mercer together with Some of our Armed Vessels have performed such Acts of Defence against the attempts
