November 17, 1777 275 Henry Laurens to James Mease Sir York 17th November 1777. Inclosed you will receive three Certified Copies of Resolves of Congress of the 15th Inst, directing you to appoint a Deputy in each State where you have not already appointed, 1 & relative to Clothing in the port of Bedford to which I beg leave to refer you. Two of these are to be Sent Severally to Mr. Bradford & to your Deputy at Rhode Island or to the Governor & Council if an appoint ment through their interposition Shall be necessary. Congress having received advice from Majr. General Heath of a large quantity of Cloth Sufficient for covering 10000 Soldiers 8c also a considerable Number of Shoes in the Towns of Newberry Port 8c Salem the preference of which he had Secured to the Public have given orders to the Agent for the Clothier General at Boston to purchase both articles. I have writ to the Assembly of Massachusetts every needful assistance on the occasion to Mr. Otis. General Heath will likewise if necessary interpose his good offices. You know whether you have Sufficient funds in Boston for paying the Amount of so large a purchase 8c will guard betimes. The Resolve which I now inclose does not extend to the intended purchases at Newberry 8c Salem al though I am sure it was so intended 8c you will give directions ac- ordingly. If Mr. Otis Succeeds I think we have a fair prospect of Clothing the Army in a Short time. Nothing but vigilance will be necessary in which your department will not be deficient. If you will depute Mr. John Raven Merchant in Charles Town to be your Aid for So. Carolina you will find him accurate, diligent, perfectly well acquainted with business. Sensible 8c of tried integrity, no Man there can Serve the public better nor make your business in that part more easy 8c reputable to you. I am LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Mease was clothier general of the Continental Army. Henry Laurens to Certain States. Sir. York Town 17th Novem 1777. The extreme want of Blankets 8c Clothing in General Washing ton’s Line, induced Congress on the 15th Inst, to confirm a Resolu tion for calling on those States to whom by a former Resolve it had been recommended to collect such essential articles 8c to request that without delay all that shall have been collected may be forwarded to Camp. 1
