November 17, 1777 276 A Copy of the first mentioned Resolve together with a subjoin’d extract from the General’s Letter dated the 11th Inst, will accompany this. 2 Your Excellency will be pleased to take the necessary measures on your part in order to insure the great end in view—enabling our distressed Soldiers to keep the Field, indeed to save many of them from perishing. I have the honour to be, with very great respect, sir, Your Excel lency’s Most obedt. humble servt. Henry Laurens, President Cong RC (Vi). Addressed: “His Excellency Governor Henry.” Laurens also wrote the same letter this day to the speaker of the Massachusetts Assembly (PCC, item 13), the governors of Connecticut (Ct), and New Jersey (MHi), and the presi dent of Pennsylvania (IHi). According to the journals, he was supposed to write a similar letter to Maryland, but no text has been found. JCC, 9:906. 1 In Laurens’ letter to Massachusetts, this paragraph is preceded by another paragraph that is not in any of the other letters listed above. "I confirm & beg leave to refer to the above Copy of what I had the honour of writing to you under the 14th Currt., duplicate of the Resolution & Letter there mentioned will be found with this.” See also Laurens to William Heath, November 14, 1777, note 2. 2 The enclosed November 15 resolve confirmed an October 16 resolve “relative to cloathing wanted for the army.” JCC, 9:809, 906-7. Washington’s November 11 letter on this subject is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:36-39. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Purviance, Jr. Dear Sir, York the 17th Novr. 1777 I had heared of my loss before yours of the 15th came to hand, and I regret it the more as Cards, and good ones especially, are not easy to be got. Those that you speak of, I had interested myself with the Workman at Wilmington to have of the best kind. I was in hopes that by a strict enquiry after them, they might yet be found, and spoke to your brother about having such enquiry made. At all events, Cards are so much wanted in my family, that I must beg the favor of you to procure for me a good pair of Cotton and one of Wool against I pass thro Baltimore in my way to Virginia, which will be in about 8 or 10 days; as my ill state of health will not admit of my staying long here. You will oblige me Sir by sending my Cask, that was left with you for me in June last, to Potomack river by the first good opportunity, and direct it to be landed at the house of George Turberville esquire, about 20 miles from the mouth of Potomac on the South side, and about 3 miles above the mouth of Yeocomico. I would prefer Mr. Crump to any other person for carry ing the Cask, but I would not loose a good opportunity that might offer sooner. The affair of the Spanish fleet that you mention, we had
