November 17, 1777 277 heared of some time ago, and at the same time, that since the death of the King of Portugal, all differences were made up between the two Courts, and orders sent to South America to restore all things there to quiet. We hear nothing from Philadelphia, except that the Inhabitants are in great distress for provisions. Both Armies are still, and both have lately received reenforcements. A considerable part of Gen. Gate’s army will shortly join Gen. Washington. I am dear Sir your most obedient and very humble servant, Richard Henry Lee RC (ViU). Marine Committee to Daniel Tillinghast Sir November 17 th 1777 Since our last 1 inclosing an Order in your favour on the Honble Stephen Hopkins Esqr. we have discovered that the charge of 20,000 dollars against that Gentleman as moneys received by him the 10th of Feby. 1776 as being received towards the building the Fri gates at Providence is a mistake, of which we have particularly ad vised Mr. Hopkins. 2 That order drawn on him in your favour you will return to us to be destroyed. We have now enclosed you a Warrant upon the Loan office of Rhode Island for 20,950 Dollars to enable you to discharge the Balance of 5023 1/9 Dollars due to the Gentlemen employed by Mr. Hopkins to build the Continental Fri gates at Providence (their Commissions &c hereafter to be consid ered) and to supply you the sum for which our Order in your favour on Mr. Hopkins was drawn being 15.926 8/9ths Dollars and for which you are to be accountable. You will please to take Duplicate receipts of those Gentlemen to whom you pay the above mentioned balance of 5023 1 /9 Dollars and transmit one of them to us. How the above mistake arose you will see by our Letter to Mr. Hopkins. We are sorry it should lead us to trouble him and to delay you and the Gentlemen employed in building said Frigates. We have endeav oured to rectify it as soon as possible. There still however appears to be a balance in Mr. Hopkins hands on Account of those Ships of 950 Dollars which he also Suggests is a mistake. If he should not be able to point it out to us we have desired him to pay that sum to you, we desire you to receive it to be accountable therefor. We have not lessened the Warrant on the Loan office on that Account. A further sum of 119 36/90ths Dollars appears also to be due from Mr. Hopkins to the Naval Committee of which he was Chairman and which sum we have also requested him to pay you, and we desire you to receive it and place it to our Account. We are Sir Your most hble servants
