November 19, 1777 283 and every Accommodation for the Troops destroyed; and that only two Cannon remaind servicable. The Battery alone was in a Condi tion to annoy the Enemy. The brave Garrison still retaind their Spirits. 1 In other Respects the Condition of the two Armies is the same as mentiond in my last: except that General Howe has found means in a high wind & strong Tide to get a Supply of Provisions to his Army in three Vessels which passed the Fort thro’ a heavy Can nonade in the Channel between that & Province Island. I thought it advisable to obtain the enclosd Resolution to enable you If you shoud think fit to repair your misfortunes at Saraghtoga, and to prevent a Long & disagreeable Attendance at Head Quarters where you cou’d not live but in manner the most uncomfortable and expensive. 2 With usual Compliments, I remain, Dear Sir, most re spectfully, Your most obedt & hume servt, Jas. Duane P.S. I have at length after most Anxious & disagreeable service of 8 months obtaind my Leave of absence from the State & shall set out soon to visit my Family. What became of my Barn, Barracks or Crops? I have not heard; & I feel with pleasure the spirit of a Farmer. 3 RC (NN). 1 For a detailed discussion of the British reduction of Fort Mifflin on Novem ber 10-15, see Jackson, Pennsylvania Navy, pp. 225-67. 2 The enclosed November 14 resolve stated that "General Schuyler be at liberty to attend to his private affairs” until the conclusion of the inquiry into the evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence. See JCC, 9:901; and John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5, 1777, note. 3 For the continuation of this letter, see Duane to Schuyler, November 22, 1777. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dear Sir York Pensylvania Novr. 19. 1777 I yesterday received your favour of the 18th Ultimo. You accuse me of not writing to you, I can only Say that I wrote while Congress remained in Philadelphia to my friends (almost) by every Post ex clusive of Other Oppertunities by private hands. I have answered your several Queres by informing you that no Distiller is either to be hired, or purchased on such terms as you, or the Concerned would think reasonable but really extravagant. I have told you in five or Six of mine that Jackey was well and at School at Burlington &c. If you choose me to send for him here, I will endeavour to accom plish it, as there is a good School here where he might remain until my return, & I would then bring him with me if it should be your desire. Genl. Washingtons Army still remains near Philadelphia, & a Large reinforcement is hourly expected from Genl. Gates. A report
