284 November 19, 1777 Prevails that the Enemy have at last taken possession of Fort Mifflin (Mud Island) this is not yet Confirmed but is thought probable. Whether Genl. Howe will be able to hold his ground in Philadelphia this Winter is still matter of doubt. Our Little fleet & forts on the Delaware have behaved nobly. Mr. Gillon the bearer of this I beg leave to Introduce to your particular Notice—8c that you will introduce him to my Other friends in Wilmington. See that his horses are taken Care of &c. He is a very deserving man. Send the Inclosed to Mrs. Harnett. I refer you to Mr. Gillon for every Other Intelligence you may wish to hear. He is this moment setting off. I am Dr Sir, Your sincr friend 8cc, Cornl. Harnett [P.S.] We have neither Post, or Press here therefore can send you no Printed Account, I am obliged to Catch at an Opportunity to with [i.e. write] to my friends. Remember me to Mr. Quince 8cc 8cc. RC (NcU). Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir York 19th November 1777 Since I had the honour of writing to you the 13th to 15th Inst. I have received no other Commands from Congress your Excellency except the two Inclosed Resolves. The 15th Inst, relative to Clothing 8c Blankets for the Army. The 17 Inst, for appointments to Rank in the Army the Chevalier Duportail, Messrs. Du Lemoy, dela Radierre & Govion. Commissions in obedience to the Resolve are granted & the Several dates Noted on the Resolve. A person from Philadelphia well known by the Name of John Brown was Reported to Congress yesterday by Mr. Morris as having come to him with a Message from General Sir Wm. Howe through the medium of Mr. Willing to Congress, importing generally that Sir William & Lord Howe were desirous of treating for terms of Peace with Congress that every thing that ever had been expected by America (Independency as he understood excepted) would be granted & Congress Money ratified. This Man pretends to have come through General Potters Camp 8c to have dined with the General. He had been Some eight or ten days from Philadelphia at Manheim, Lancaster 8c other places. At Lancaster the Executive Council of this State had ordered him into Custody. He was released from confinement upon Mr. Morris’s ap plication and promise to bring him before Congress. The House Refused to see him 8c Resolved to remand him under Guard to the power of the State Council. 1
