November 19, 1777 285 I have the honour to be, Sir, your Excellencys most Obt. humi Servt. P.S. Congress in this Morning Session Resolved to make a Strict enquiry into the treatment of American Soldiers 8c other Inhabitants of America now or late prisoners in Philadelphia, a copy of the Resolution will be added to those above mentioned. I have been instructed by Congress to add a request to your Excellency to demand access by a proper Officer to Such prisoners as remain alive in order an effectual enquiry may be made 8c a Satisfactory answer as to facts returned. 2 Congress are of opinion that the demand may be justly founded on the precedent of Agents from the Enemy ap pointed on their part 8c permitted by Congress to visit Hessian pris oners on this Side. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i For further information about John Brown’s abortive attempt to convey peace terms from Gen. William Howe to Congress, see JCC, 9:937—38; Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:25, 36-38; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:98-99; and Robert Morris to Thomas Wharton, November 30, 1777. Brown, a former servant of Robert Morris, claimed, in a statement made to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety on November 21, that Morris and William Duer had done their best to facilitate his efforts to bring General Howe’s message to Congress. On the same day the council of safety had Brown imprisoned ‘‘for aiding & assisting the Enemies of the Commonwealth, and forming Combinations with them for betraying the United States into their hands.” Pa. Council Minutes, 11:345^6. 2 Washington reported in his November 23 letter to Congress that he had already proposed to General Howe that a proper person be permitted to in vestigate conditions in the Philadelphia prisons and he enclosed his corres pondence with Howe on the subject. The Board of War’s consideration of this correspondence resulted in several proposed resolutions which were considered on December 6 and 8 and postponed. But after conferring with Commissary of Prisoners Elias Boudinot, who was not permitted to visit American prisoners in Philadelphia, the board on January 21, 1778, submitted an extensive report on British mismanagement in caring for American prisoners in Philadelphia and New York. Congress responded by adopting a series of resolutions directed toward improving the treatment of American prisoners. See JCC, 9:1006-9, 10:74-82; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:99. For a comprehensive analysis of British treatment of American prisoners of war, see Larry G. Bowman, Captive Americans: Prisoners during the American Revolution (Athens: Ohio University Press, 1976). John Penn to William Woodford Dear Sir York Novr. 19th. 1777 Inclosed I send you a letter from Colo. Pendleton. I have waited a few days in hopes to be able to mention something to you about your Rank. Mr. Jones has been unwell for some days, he has deter mined as soon as he can, either to make or second a motion that Justice should be done.
