286 November 19, 1777 The Congress have settled the precident in recalling all the Com missions from the Continental officers of Pennsylva. in order to grant new ones, that the proper rank of each officer may be preserved, several extraordinary promotions having taken place to the prejudice of some officers. 1 I am under no doubt but we shall do what is right with regard to you and Genl. Scott tho’ I can’t help being vexed that it has been delayed so long. I have had some {warm) words with (You can guess). 2 He will be agt. you (I suspect) tho’ not your State, we have rubbed very hard and in publick—more than once. I suspect the affair will be done this week, as soon as it is I will write you. You know my opinion of your ability and Integrity, also of General Scot, I shall therefore use every Thing in my power to have Justice done & as soon as possible not from Friendship but duty. 3 Pray converse with Major John Taylor on the Subject of his dis pute with Genl. Sullivan. Your Character as a Soldier and a Gentle man will be sufficient to Justifie him, in any part he may act, upon that occasion. 4 Pray remembr. me to Genl. Scot & am with great re gard, Dear Sir, Your obt. Servt. J. Penn RC (RPJCB). Addressed: “General Woodford, Near Head Quarters, Pennsylva.’’ i Congress took this action on November 12. JCC, 9:896. a Penn is probably referring to Francis Lightfoot Lee, who was unsympathetic to Woodford’s claim to precedence over another Virginia officer, Gen. George Weedon. See Lee to Weedon, March 31, 1778. 3 Not until March 19, 1778, did Congress resolve the dispute about rank among Virginia Generals Woodford, Weedon, Charles Scott, and Peter Muhlen berg. JCC, 10:269. Mrs. Catesby Willis Stewart, The Life of General William Woodford of the American Revolution, 2 vols. (Richmond: Whittel & Shepperson, 1973), chaps. 26-31, prints what appears to be virtually every surviving primary source relating to this controversy. See also Committee at Camp Statement, March 2, 1778. 4 Maj. John Taylor of Maryland, a subordinate of Gen. John Sullivan, had written a letter on August 24 to Col. Moses Hazen criticizing Sullivan’s handling of a recent raid on Staten Island. For Taylor’s critical letter, which he had asked Hazen to show to Penn, and other documents bearing on this episode, see Sullivan, Papers (Hammond), 1:460, 482-83, 485-90, 528—30, 537. Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton Sir York Town Novr. 19th 1777 I am honoured with your several favours of the 15th, 16th Sc 17th Instant 1 to which I will reply at length if time and the extream coldness of the weather will permit, but I no sooner express my desire than I find myself limited to a few minutes. The regulation of the prices of necessaries for the army and the Quota’s for each State un til better ascertained I expect will be both reported this day by Committee’s. 2 I acknowledge Shelly’s affidavit come to hand which I
