November 20, 1777 291 For Gods sake get the Assembly to recommend Genl. Officers for Our Brigade. As soon as Coll Sheppard joins them, they will Con sist of at least 2000 rank & file. They are exceedingly uneasy. They are at present Commanded by the brave McDugal, yet they imagine they appear Contemptible in the eyes of the Army, not having One Genl. Officer from Our State. They insist they have according to the Pro portion of men, a right to a Major General & two Brigadiers. I am Dr Sir, Your Affectionate & Ob Servt, Cornl. Harnett [P.S.]For Gods sake endeavour to get some Gent, appointed in my stead. I cannot stay here any longer with any pleasure. RC (NcU). 1 That is, Robert H. Harrison. a The November 17 circular letter that Congress sent to the states with the Articles of Confederation is in JCC, 9:932-34. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dear Sir York Pensylvania 20 Novemr. 1777 I this day received your Scolding Letter of the 30th ulto. which is the 5th I have reed since I left Cape Fear; I can say with truth that I have written to you more than twice in a Month since I left home. I sent you, Mrs. Harnett, Mr. Hooper & Mr. Maclain particular Accounts of the Battles of Brandywine & German Town, together with every transaction Since at Saratoga, North River 8cc. If you do not receive them I can not help it. I am convinced Letters are Opened in Our Post Office 8c not Suffered to pass to the Place in tended. Since Congress have been in this Town it has been impossible to write by Post, as it passes through at no certain day only Comes in late at night 8c Setts of[f] very early in the Morning. All the Members Complain of this 8c we shall in a few days have an Office in the Town, I assure you I have been obliged to Catch at transient Oppertunities and many times wrote in such hurry that I could only write a few lines to let My friends 8c family know I was well, Mr. Pen has more Leisure than I have, I never in my life went through so much fatigue, being Obliged to Sit all day in Congress 8c often very Often in the Treasury board till 11 at night. I have told you in several of my Letters that Nothing can be pur chased here but at a most exhorbitant Price, no Distiller either White or Black to be got at any rate or indeed Victuals to eat, in this once plentiful Country. I tell you again the 9th or 10th time that Jackey was very well about a Month ago. Mr. Gillon has been de tained much Longer than he expected which gives me an Oppertunity of answering your Letter. We have indeed been very unlucky in the
