292 November 20, 1777 fighting way in this Quarter but the Success of Genl Gates has made some amends for our Misfortunes here. Fort Mifflin is Certainly taken by the Enemy & it is supposed they will at last get their Ships up the river, some immagine by this means Genl Howe will be enabled to keep possession of Philadelphia this winter. A large rein forcement from Genl Gates’ Army will in a day or two Join Genl Washington. Perhaps we shall soon see a reverse of fortune, Genl Howe also expects from N York a Strong reinforcement. The Public have been much Abused in regard to the Numbers of Genl Washing tons army. It never exceeded 16,000 Including Militia which did him little service in either Battle. We have Supposed Howe could not consist of more than 10,000, but it is immagined by the best Judges to exceed that number now, after the great Losses they met with in the two last Actions. We are generally too apt to lessen the Number of Our Enemys Army, & Exaggerate that of our own, which is bad Policy. We have no Press here, I can therefore send you no papers. I wrote Mr Hooper & Mr Maclain 1 by way of New Bern a few days ago & beg you’ll forward the inclosed immediately. The Indians have been of late very Troublesom about the Neighbourhood of Fort Pitt, have murdered several of the inhabitants, burnt their houses & de stroyed their Grain 8cc. We hope a Speedy Stop will be put to their Devastations & that they will be reduced to the necessity of defending their own Towns, as the war will no doubt be carried Speedily into their own country. Congress have finished the Confederation. It will be sent by express to the Assemblies of the several States for their Considera tion. I heartily desire to be at home, & whenever I get there I shall with pleasure give up this very disagreeable & troublesom Office. I have wrote my friends to beg they would send some person to relieve me. Tell Mr. Purviance I sent his Letter to his brother Jno. I hear he is in New Jersey. Make my Compliments to Mr. Quince 8c all my friends. Mr. Hills father died a few weeks ago in Boston. Coll Buncomb we are told is a Prisoner in Philadelphia taken at German Town, we hear nothing of Lieut Coll Erwin, it is supposed he was killed in the field. They have been making rum to the Eastward out of the juice of Corn Stalks. 2 I shall soon send you the whole Process 8c am, Dr Sir, Your most Obed Servt. Cornl Harnett [P.S.] I hope this letter is long enough. RC (NcU). i Not found. 2 Congress had appointed a committee on November 15 "to collect and digest the late useful discoveries for making molasses and spirits from the juice of corn stalks, and report a plan for communicating the said discoveries to the inhabitants of the several states,” but no report by it appears in the journals. JCC, 9:929.
