November 21, 1777 299 Nathaniel Folsom to Meshech Weare Dear Sir York Town Nov’mber 211. 1777 Inclosed I send you a Copy of the Confederation the Eighth Article of which Respects Taxation and has given me great uneasi ness as I cannot see any Justice in the Rule therein laid down, for proportioning the Several States with the Charges of the Present War. In the first place it appears to me that one third part of the welth of the Southern States which consists in negroes, is entirely left out and no Notice taken of them, in determining their ability to pay taxes, notwithstanding it is by them that they procure their wealth. 1 Neither are we to have any advantage of them in proportion ing the Number of men to be drawn from the Several States to Carry on the war, that being fixed on the Number of white Inhabitants in each state, so that by their negroes being left at home, they Can till their lands and git Bread & Riches, while some other States may be greatly distressed. In the next place the wealth that is in Some States more than there is in others by no means fixes a Proportionable Value on the Lands in Such States, which if this be true Seems to Prove that the plan laid down by Congress is not just. These are my own thoughts on this head, but refer you to your own better Judg ment on them. It seems to be the Sence of Congress, that if any of the articles of Confederation Should be thought hard of, or unequal to any of the States, that they will make a Representation of the Same to Congress, with the reasons of their disapprobation to Such articles, in order if Possible to give satisfaction and ease to each and every of the States. The time fixed on for the Several legislatures, to deter mine on these great Points is by some members thought too short but I make no doubt but they will take as much time to deliberate there on as may be thought just and necessary. General Washingtons head Quarters is at the Sixteen mile Stone from Philadelphia, where it has been for a month Past. Several strong detachments are further advanced some at Germantown & a Strong Picquit at the Rising Sun abought 4 miles from Philadelphia. A Considerable reinforcement from the northern army are on their march and in a few days it is expected they will join general Wash ington. Whether any thing will be attempted or no is very uncertain. Yesterday we had an account that Fort Mifflin was evacuated. To day it is Contradicted. Be it as it will our People have maintaind that Post with much gallantry, and have harrased the Enemy greatly. November 22d. The news to Day is that the enemy have marcht fif teen hunderd men in order to attack our People at Read banck and that general Washingtons whole army are in motion and that general
