300 November 21, 1777 Greens division had marcht to Reinforce that Post but this Wants Confirmation. I am Sir with much Respect, your very humble Servent. Nathel. Folsom P.S. I hope I shall not be left alone here this winter. 2 RC (Nh-Ar). i The New Hampshire Council and House of Representatives met on February 24, 1778, in a joint committee of the whole to discuss the Articles of Confederation. For the proceedings pertaining to their consideration of the articles, which involved a brief dispute over the merits of the eighth article, see N.H. State Papers, 8:774. a On December 25, 1777, Josiah Bartlett and William Whipple were re appointed delegates to Congress by the New Hampshire Assembly. Ibid., pp. 746, 756. Henry Laurens to William Nichols Sir, 21st November 1777. Immediately upon hearing of your Captivity, I wrote to Colonel John Laurens requesting him to make to you a tender of my Services in Money or by other means as far as duty to my Country would permit. 1 I then beleived you have been in General Washington’s Camp & that my Letter would have found you there. Your favour of the 18th which came to hand this Evening Shews me you are at Reading. I beg you will now accept of such offers as are intimated above & inform me in what respect I can make your confinement tolerable. I speak to you as to a Gentleman & know you are too much a Man of honour to ask any thing which my own honour would oblige me to refuse. I perceive your first application is that I may Interest my Self with General Washington in order to procure your Release by Ex change, of this I Shall think maturely 8c take the opinions of my friends 8c if proper will apply to Congress upon the occasion. In the mean time I apprehend a Letter from your Self directed to Lord Howe or the Commanding Officer of the British fleet Sent open under cover to His Excellency General Washington, requesting of Lord Howe to propose an equivalent for your dismission would be a proper first Step 8c I am very sure General Washington’s humanity will do every act in the Case which he can think himself authorized to do. You cannot be unacquainted with a demur to the Exchange of prisoners which took place some Months since 8c which we think is chargeable upon General Sir William Howe, that unlucky circum stance has hitherto been attended with more evils to the unfortunate
