November 21, 1777 301 Americans, than to the other party, these, such of them I mean as by the fortune of War have been made prisoners, have experienced not only humanity but very great Indulgence, while our people, Officers & Men, who have been made Captives, have in general been treated with such Cruelty as you are not answerable for 8c therefore I will not insult you with a detail or complaint of particulars. The ground on which I have given you this Slight intimation I may inform you of at a future opportunity. The Stoppage of the Cartel which was formerly in motion did not Seem to have extended to Sea Officers 8c Men, an Officer of a Carolina private Vessel of War & one of his Servants who had been exchanged between New York 8c Boston long Since the Subsisting dispute which I have alluded to, lately passed through this Town on their way home. This may afford Some ground for your address to Lord Howe 8c possibly the Name of Capt Manly in return for your Self may be very acceptable to us. But this is merely my own opinion 8: the effects of my good wishes to you, that you may upon adequate considerations obtain enlargement 8c be restored to your family. I know you are as little of an Enemy to the public in America as your honour 8c function will allow you to be. If you want money or other aid please to inform me 8c depend upon me for every thing that I can with propriety grant 8cca. LB (ScHi). Addressed: "Captain William Nichols, Reading.” i “This evening,” John Laurens had reported to his father on November 9, “Capt Nichols of the Eagle packet with the Capt of an armed sloop, were brought to Head Quarters—they were made prisoners by a detachment from Capt Lee’s troops, and as Nichols mentioned his being acquainted with some gentlemen of Carolina, Capt Lee gave him a recommendatory letter to me. The honest seaman . . . seems to be affected by his misfortune and expresses as hearty rejoicing at the welfare of President Laurens as if he were a loyal subject to his master.” Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 73-74. See also Laurens to John Laurens, November 15, 1777. Henry Laurens to Thomas Wharton Sir York 21st November 1777 The Representations lately made to Congress by this State as well as by General Hand of Inroads, Ravages 8c barbarous Murders on the Western frontier by Indian Savages, were duly taken under Consideration, 8c Resolutions have been formed for appointing Com missioners to repair immediately to Fort Pitt for enquiring into the Causes of the present disaffection of the hostile Indians, for punish ing delinquent Officers, for Suppressing the threatened War 8c cutting off if possible the Source of these Evils. A Copy of these Resolutions extended 8c Certified I have the honour of transmitting under this
