302 November 21, 1777 Cover, you will be pleased to lay it before the Legislature of this State, to whom it is earnestly recommended to vest the Commis sioners with such powers as will enable them effectually to accom plish the Salutary purpposes intended by Congress. 1 I should ap prehend it will be necessary to extend the powers beyond the present appointment, to such Commissioners as may hereafter be authorized for carrying the Resolve into execution in order to guard against disappointment which would otherwise follow, in case of the death or refusal to Serve, of the three Gentlemen now elected. I have the honour to be with very great regard &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i See ]CC, 9:941-45; and Daniel Roberdeau to Wharton, November 19, 1777. James Lovell to Joseph Whipple Dear Sir York Town Novr. 21st. 1777. I have to acknowledge yr. favour of Octr. 12th in which was in closed the list of Numbers of the Tickets lost by me the 19th of Sepr. I have sent it to Baltimore to be published; and, as Messrs. Adams were going to Boston I have given a copy to them to be published in the Boston Papers. If you can persuade yr. Printer to republish the Advertizemt. in his Paper pro bono publico, I wish it may be done. But as I have an almost absolute certainty that a Pick pocket is the possessor of the Articles lost I hardly think it worth while to go on to spend money about notifications at such a Distance from the Scene of Theft. The utmost I expect is to pre vent the Public being cheated by purchasing the Tickets. I have nothing agreeable to tell you from this Quarter of the Con tinent. The Spirit of Enterprize is a Stranger in the main Army. You may expect so long as the War continues that 3 times more men will be lost in the main army by marching and countermarching over hills and thro’ rivers than in battles. I should deceive you greatly if I lead you to look for any Thing favourable from the main army. Fort Mifflin is lost after the bravest defence. The naval part of our Forces behaves well. They tell us from the grand army that our Gallies still maintain their Places of Command over the Cheveaux de Frize. The naval Force has not been seconded by proper Exertions on Shore. I am vexed, not without Reason; you will be so too 20 Times during this coming winter from the Accounts which you will have from the neighbourhood of Philadelphia. Great Part of our northern army is coming this way to be kept idle; except so much action may be allowed as will serve to wear out Shoes and Stockings. I have reason to think the Battle of Germantown was the day of
