November 23, 1777 309 until the terms of the convention had been carried out. After considering the council’s request Congress resolved on November 22 to instruct Gates to in vestigate whether the required equipment and supplies had been surrendered but not to delay the embarkation of Burgoyne and his troops because of the inquiry. See JCC, 9:936-37, 939, 949-52; PCC, item 67, 2:87-91; and Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:1075-76. See also Laurens to William Heath, December 27, 1777, and January 8, 1778. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear son, York Town 23 November 1777. Waiting for the Clerks of Secretary’s has detained an Express which would otherwise have been dispatched last Night. The blame ful delay afforded me however, a prospect of leisure for writing a little deliberately to you. This was soon closed by a General Fermoy who engrossed two hours of the Evening in order to present me with business which properly conducted could not have occupied those minutes—the remainder was stole from me I declare to you very honestly by a parcel of clever Scots in this House who would not allow me at so late an hour to go to the writing Table, & forced me to stay & hear their pretty songs—the Jades. This cost me an hour of Candle before day Light in order to dispatch a Messenger with a pointed enquiry whether the Convention of Saratoga has been kept perfectly whole on the part of Lt. General Burgoyne—an affair which I would not have talked of as from me although ’tis as common as any other topic. I hope there will be a pair of Boots prepared for you some day this Week & if I can get no other sort I’ll send you woolen Gloves—I intend a few Camp-Shirts for you from a peice of Linen which I brought from Carolina—I must write to that Country for a supply of many articles & send a Waggon to bring them. I have in sight your last Letter of the 18th, 1 you will one of these days give me as many anecdotes as well as the best general Account you can, of the whole River proceedings from to the evacuating Fort Mifflin. We are anxious to know the measures pursued by the Enemy after that event—with some difficulty to the Marquis’s freind Monsr St. Colomba is gratified with Commission to be Captain. 2 Baron Frey will return to Camp & probably offer himself as a Volunteer. 3 Congress refuses to employ him or any more of the adventurers from France. I should think Commissions as high as Captain to such as had seen service 8e good Company & whose English is tolerable might be granted—& work some reform in that Line. The Baron has emptied his Purse & plainly intimates a reliance on me to replenish it. These unfortunate folks have hitherto been only consumers of my time—there’s now an appearance of consumpt
