316 November 24, 1777 I think it possible that one or more of the number elected may decline the service. I therefore submit to Your Excellency’s consider ation the propriety of recommending to the General Assembly to vest the intended Powers in these or any other Commissioners who may be appointed by Congress, in order to prevent the pernicious delay which may otherwise happen. H.L. RC (NjMoHP). Addressed: "His Excellency, Governor Henry, Virginia.” Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry My dear Sir, York the 24th Novr. 1777 I am just favored with yours of the 14th and thank you for it. 1 Every attempt to clothe the army is commendable, upon principles both of humanity and policy. As there is great Trade at Charles Town you have some chance for the woolens you want, altho this is the worst season for application on account of the many negroes they have to clothe in that Country. Either the Havannah or New Orleans are places where you may surely get Woolens and military Stores. Doctor Lee’s letters have repeatedly assured us that at these places would be lodged the above articles for N America in general, and Virginia in particular. Small swift sailing Vessels sent to the former of these places from Virginia or North Carolina freighted with fine flour or Tobacco would not fail to return loaded with necessaries, and by pushing into some of the inlets on the Sea Cost of North Carolina might avoid the British Cruisers that infest our Bay and the goods be safely brot overland. This appears to me the most expeditious and the most certain way. By this method, the blankets 8c cloaths might yet be in Season to help the Soldiers before the winter is over. With respect to the loan of money at the Ha vannah or N. Orleans, I am not able to form a judgement whether it can be effected or not, the latter most probably, because Dr. Lee was able to get but a small sum immediately from Spain for Congress, altho he expected a larger credit from Holland thro the mediation and security of Spain. Add to this the great probability of immediate war in Europe, from which Spain will not be detached. I remember Dr. Lee in many of his letters to me previous to his visit to Spain said he should endeavor to negotiate a loan from that Court for Virginia 8c (Maryland) South Carolina to support (as he said) the credit of our paper money. Since his return from Spain he only mentions Cloaths 8c military Stores that wd. be lodged at Havannah 8c Orleans for our use. For the purpose of securing the credit of our money on a great emergence it were to be wished a credit could be obtained as you propose, and therefore I think it will not be amiss
