November 24, 1777 317 to make the experiment. As for goods they may be had in the way of Barter. Indeed, I understood Dr. Lee, that the military Stores and Cloathing would be delivered without immediate pay of any kind. We formerly sent you the [extract] of a letter on this subject to Congress, which is all that [has] been received, unless it be a Spanish letter from the Governor of N. Orleans which Mr. Morris took away to get translated, and it has not yet been returned. 2 You shall have it when we get it. Monsr. Loyeaute declines the Director ship of the Academy. He is a young Gentleman of high family, of fortune, and ardent in pursuit of military glory. His father, who is a general in the Artillery of France has taken pains to instruct this his Son from his earliest youth, and he is, you may be assured, a Proficient. He is sober, temperate as a Soldier should be, and seems to have none of the fashionable vices. He says he came not here for Money, but to search for military honor, to assist America in estab lishing her freedom, but since he cannot be employed on that way, he shall return to his own Country, the business of an Academecian better suiting Age & infirmity with views of distant good, than youth, strength, and prospect of present action and immediate benefit to the public. I am concerned we [have] lost this Gentleman in many accounts. I am sure my Country will suffer for want of the knowl edge he possesses and the rejection of him happened at an unlucky Crisis. All the rest of his Corps had just set out on their return to France because Congress would not comply with the Contact Mr Deane had firmly made with them in France and which had dis gusted them greatly. This Gentleman remained at our request, and altho our engagement was not absolute, it was very strong, kept him from returning with his companions, and will I fear impress on all their minds bad ideas of the Americans and do us no service in France. This is well known here & the Delegates look rather small in the eyes of their brethren. I am sure we acted for the best, well knowing the utter deficiency of knowledge in this branch with us, its necessity, and having the best grounds for believing this Gentle man an Adept. It is certain we went rather too far, I am sorry for it, but we shall be less forward in future. Since I last wrote, the enemy have taken Fort Island, after a most gallant defence on the part of the Garrison, which retreated from the Island in the Night after all but two of their Guns were dismounted, and not [more than] a rod & an half of the works left. The enemy brought [up] their Cutdown Indiaman between Province Island & the [fort] from which they poured a most dreadful Cannonade from 24 & 32 pounders, and from their Tops the fire of Cohorns & Musketry drove the Men from their guns in the Fort. The better opinion yet is, that the Enemy cannot get ther Fleet up to the City until they first remove the Gallies, the Chevaux de Frize, and reduce Red Bank. To effect this latter pur pose, we hear that Cornwallis with [3000] Men has crossed into the
