November 25, 1777 323 trial, and has been acquitted with much honor. The latter being old, passionate and fractious, was so disturbed that he, without know ing the consequences, hastily resigned. His enemies were satisfied, since all that they wanted was to remove him from the army. It is true that he afterwards desired the rank of Major General, but this is rather a fashion of his country than vice in the man. Eager after military honors, nothing stops their pursuit. I am of opinion that there is no person who can now produce any fact against the reputa tion of this gentleman. And therefore I might well say that he was rather unfortunate. Wishing him to return to his own country as little hurt with our treatment as possible, and knowing that he was to pass thro Williamsburg, I gave him the letter which has fortu nately produced your civil notice of him. You do not mention Mon sieur Balford [Valfort], to whom I gave a letter also, as he thought of visiting you on his way to Charles Town. This gentleman is of singular worth, and far above the action of our little paltry American Wits, who think it so clever to insult foreigners with their silly at tempts at ridicule. It is certainly wise, dear sir, to be guarded against impositions from foreign Adventurers, but it is equally unwise to cast into one undistinguished group all of other countries, without dis tinguishing the good from the bad. This is a remnant of English un sociability and self sufficiency, which it becomes us now to get rid of as quickly as possible. In a former letter you desire to know my rea sons for contending against Maj. Butler that Ticonderoga was an important post, and you concluded it was for the sake of argument. 3 I am not fond of such practice, and consider it the product of vanity or idle amusement. The truth is that Ticonderoga in its modern sense, being the place where the French fortified on the West side of Lake Champlain, is not a place of consequence, altho Mount Independence, opposite it on the East side, is a very important Post. It was seen that the former might fall, as it was not a very good situation, and required a great number of men to hold it, while Independence was very tenable by a much inferior force, and really of more consequence. It was judged proper to guard the public mind against false conclusions in case of advancements, and therefore it was that I more than once in public contended for the same thing that I then did with Maj. Butler. Ticonderoga in the Indian language signifies the congregation of many waters, and comprehends the whole district, but the modern meaning of the word is the old French fort. I will not trouble you here with a minute recital of the foreign intelligence we have received. Suffice it to say that a war between France and G.B. seems inevitable immediate. Its certain that all home ward bound French West Indiamen are stopt Embargo to prevent their falling into the enemies hands. The French General has been ordered to put his hands into immediate state of defence, and is assured that 5000 additional troops shall directly be sent over.
