324 November 25, 1777 Portugal has acceded to the family compact. Prussia has opened his ports to the Americans. M[adras] it is reported has been taken from the English by the natives. No foreigners would meddle with the last Parliament loan, altho the inducements were greater than usual. These are all favorable circumstances, yet we stand on precarious ground without immediate and extensive taxation, great economy, and wise attention to our military defences. How does it happen, my dear Sir, that the Barges of the men of war,take our vessels at the mouths of our rivers, when we incur so great an expense in Gallies? These vessels, instead of being constantly at the mouths of the respec tive rivers, and the best of them in the Bay, looking the men of war in the face, are generally far distant in some snug creek or harbor, living at ease and diverting themselves on shore. This will not do. Our marines must be better managed, I am glad to hear we have got an able Engineer, and hope no time will be lost in strengthening and securing our harbors and rivers. Accessible as we are by water, this is of great consequence. Mons. Loyeaute declines the command of the Academy. He says that military honors and a desire to help secure the liberties of America by immediate action, not the desire of money, brot him to America. If he can’t be in the War, he will return to his own country. His father is a General of estimation in the Artillery of France, and has taken pains with the education of his son, who is sensible, well bred, and an able officer in the Artillery branch; but we have lost him, and I hope the person prefered to him in the com mand of our Regiment will be able to serve the public. I am sure we want such knowledge extremely, and unless skillful men are ap pointed to the principal commands in that Regiment, how shall the great expense it will create be compensated by real utility? Bad water, bad air, and bad every thing else, joined to excessive business, have injured my health and compels me to go home for the winter season. When I am at Chantilly I shall be glad to hear from you when you are most at leisure, or when any important news shall reach you. I am, dear Sir, most affectionately yours, Richard Henry Lee MS not found; reprinted from Magazine of American History 2 (October 1878); 614-16. i Although the recipient of this letter was not identified, Lee was writing in response to questions raised in Page’s September 11 and November 14 letters to Lee, which are in the Lee Family Papers, ViU. a In his November 14 letter Page had asked Lee to give him information about General de Borr^’s character and his conduct at Brandywine. See also John Hancock to Washington, September 13, 1777, note 1. 3 In his September 11 letter Page had asked Lee to explain the statement that Ticonderoga was “a Place of little consequence,” which Lee had made during a “Conversation with Majr. Butler of Chas. Town in the coffee House Porch at Williamsburg.”
