November 27, 1777 329 James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear General York 27 Novr. 1777. I fear you will have condemned for wilful neglect of the last op portunity of writing to you by Express, but the accuracy of our new President, after the remissness which had been too often evident since my joining Congress, took me by surprise. This present Carryer will perhaps throw you into a dilemma. We want you in different places, but most of all in a third which you are not called to ballance about. We want you most near Germantown. 1 Good God! what a Situation are we in! how different from what might- have been justly expected! You will be astonished when you come to know accurately what numbers have at one time and another been collected near Philada. to wear out stockings, shoes and breeches. Depend upon it for every ten Soldiers placed under the Command of our Fabius 5 Recruits will be wanted annually during the war. The brave fellows at Fort Mifflin & Red Bank have des paired of Succour, and been obliged to quit. The naval departments have fallen into Circumstances of seeming disgrace. Come to the Board of War, if only for a short Season. 2 I hope the last Express did not cause any Uneasiness to you, as the drift of the Proceedings of Congress was by no means intended to throw any slur on your acceptance of the Convention; But to come at a true idea of Burgoyne’s Conduct. We hear his men have behaved so as to oblige the Guards to fire upon them. This information however is not well authenticated. Upon a motion made some time ago Genl. Schuyler is permitted to tarry & look after his private affairs, and St. Clair is permitted to do the same upon seing his name in a council of war at what is generally, by the inconsiderate, called the grand army. Since our Resolve was forwarded, I see Kalb, Knox and St. Clair are a council reporting for the Evacuation of Red Bank as incapable of bearing a Seige. Such kind of Counsel seems to be the relish of this Quarter. I expect you will judge me to be in a very sour humour. I am so. For if it was not for the defeat of Burgoyne and the strong Appear ances of an European war, our Affairs are fabiused into a very dis agreeable posture. Poor McDougal lays at the point of death. Conway has resigned and many spirited Officers are discouraged by an over balance of languid Counsellors. There has indeed appear’d a little stroke of Discipline in the Dismission of Stevens and a number of inferior Culprits from the Service of the States. I wish this may have a suitable Effect upon Cowards, Thieves & Drunkards, for such are the Crimes which have caused the Dismissions above mentioned. With affectionate Esteem, Yr. humble Servt, James Lovell
