330 November 27, 1777 RC (NHi). i Lovell was probably the most outspoken of the delegates who became openly critical of Washington and his military tactics during the fall of 1777. While General Gates and the northern army had forced the surrender of the army under Gen. John Burgoyne, Washington had generally remained on the de fensive and suffered two serious defeats. It was not surprising, therefore, that when Washington refused to mount an offensive to drive the British from Philadelphia after receiving large reinforcements from the northern army, Congress appointed a committee on November 28 “to repair to the army . . . to consider of the best and most practicable means for carrying on a winter’s campaign with vigour and success.’’ Despite mounting criticism of Washington in and out of Congress, the re organization of the Board of War with Gates as president, and the appointment of a committee to confer with Washington on a winter campaign, there does not appear to have been any serious effort to replace Washington as commander in chief. But it is also evident that men such as Lovell, Thomas Mifflin, Benjamin Rush, and Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant would have welcomed an opportunity to replace him with Gates. Still Washington’s critics were put off when the committee sent to camp endorsed, albeit reluctantly, Washington’s defensive posture. And much of their remaining fire was deflected by an emotional con troversy that almost simultaneously blazed up around Thomas Conway, a French colonel of Irish ancestry who had been diligently serving as a Continental brigadier general since May 13, 1777. While commanding the Third Pennsylvania Brigade, Conway had proven his professional abilities in the battles of Brandywine and Germantown and had even received commendations from Washington himself. Nevertheless, there was growing animosity between Washington and Conway because of Conway’s occasional refusal to obey orders and his contradictory behavior in declining to offer advice in councils of war while being openly critical if plans went awry. Conway had also been angered by the September promotion of Johann de Kalb to major general, because Conway had outranked Kalb in the French army and his contract with Silas Deane specified that he would not be junior in the American army to any man who had been his junior in France. Conway thus managed to embroil himself in the Deane recall movement while giving comfort to Washington’s critics and found himself at the center of a new episode early in November when Washington received information from Gen. William Alexander that Conway had openly disparaged the commander in chief in a letter to General Gates. Smarting from censure emanating from both the Congress and his officers, and sensitive to the recent contrasting success of Gates and himself, Washing ton attempted to strike at his critics through the highly vulnerable Conway. He wrote sharply to Conway, and later to Gates, voicing his strong displeasure and all but demanding apologies. But he received no satisfaction from Conway and Gates, and despite the open break between Washington and Conway, Congress on December 13 promoted Conway to major general and appointed him inspector general of the army, a decision that naturally convinced Wash ington and his supporters that a “faction” in Congress meant to embarrass him and force his resignation as commander in chief. Throughout December and January Washington continued to feel himself in an embattled position, but the spring of 1778 brought the optimism of a new campaign and the renewal of hope that French military and naval aid would be openly offered. Washington ultimately emerged a figure almost beyond re proach, and his critics became quietly subdued. Gates, as president of the Board of War, carefully avoided confrontation with Washington, and when Conway offered to resign in April 1778 he was surprised that the offer was quickly accepted.
