336 November 28, 1777 wise given me in charge to intimate that your attendance upon Congress in order to enter upon business at the Board of War as early as you can with convenience, is earnestly desired. 1 Permit me Sir, the honour of wishing you a good Journey & of repeating that I am with very great respect & Esteem, Your obedient & most humble servt. 2 Henry Laurens, Presidt. of Congress RC (NHi). i See JCC, 9:971-72. 2 Laurens also wrote a brief letter this day to Gen. William Heath, “Com mander in Chief of American Troops in the Eastern District,’’ transmitting a resolve that requested him “to take effectual care that fresh provisions be issued to the prisoners in the eastern district, and that the salt provisions be reserved for the army of the United States for the next campaign.” Heath Papers, MHi; and JCC, 9:977. Henry Laurens to the States Sir Circular York 28th November 77. I had the honour of writing to you the 1st Inst, to which I beg leave to refer. In obedience to the order of Congress I now forward the under mentioned papers. Three Copies of Articles for Confederation 8c perpetual Union between the United States of America. 1 Copy of Address from Congress to the States respectively, rec ommending the immediate consideration of that important plan for Compact. 2 Copy of Minutes 8c Resolves, urging the necessity for Taxation in each State in order to raise five Million Dollars in the Year 1778 for the Service of the United States 8c as one means for establishing pub lic Credit, recommending also confiscation 8c Sale of the Estates of persons who have forfeited the right of protection—8c for other pur poses. 3 These papers so expressive of the meaning 8c good veiws of Con gress require no attempt to a more minute detail of their Several contents. I have therefore only to repeat the request of Congress that you will take the earliest opportunity of laying them before the Legislature in your State. 4 I have the honour to be with very great regard, Sir, your Excel lency’s most obedient Servant B LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 For bibliographical information about this printing of the Articles, see JCC, 9:1087. 2 This address, dated November 17, is in JCC, 9:932-34.
