338 November 28, 1777 Language to weigh any thing, when you surmount others of a differ ent nature. Doctor Franklin’s Age alarms us. We want one man of inflexible Integrity on that Embassy. We have made Carmichael Secretary who is master of the Language and well acquainted with the politics of several Courts. Mercantile matters will be quite in regular channels and so not a burthen to the Commissioners. Aider man Lee, Morris and Williams will have got our commerce into good order by the time of your arrival. If you make the Language any Argument to deter you, consider that you may perfectly master the Grammer on your voyage and gain much of the Speech too by having a genteel French man for a fellow Passenger. You see I am ripe in hope about your acceptance, however your dear amiable Partner may be tempted to condemn my Persuasions of you to distance yourself from her farther than Baltimore or York Town. Great as Brother Geary’s hurry is he threatens to take his pen in hand because I am not enough urgent with you; he feels all the Callosity of a Bachelor. I am but too ready to pardon his hard heartedness on this occasion where the eminent Interest of my Country is pleaded in excuse for him. Tyconderoga & Independence evacuated give room for a revenge ful exertion against our Enemies in this Quarter with fresh force from the northward. But this and every other favourable circum stances encreases our necessity of having a strict politician in France, as the probability of Treaties grows with our good Luck and lessens with our bad. I will add no more than my Love and Respects to you 8c yours sincerely, 4 James Lovell RC (MHi). i This date was supplied because of Lovell’s explanation in the letter that Adams was "this day” elected commissioner to France, an action Congress took on November 28, 1777. JCC, 9:975. a Not found. 3 In the margin opposite this and a portion of the preceding sentence Lovell wrote “for yourself, and your discretion.” For further information on the activities of this congressional committee at General Washington’s headquarters, see Committee at Headquarters to Henry Laurens, December 6, and to Washington, December 10, 1777. i Lovell may have enclosed in this letter Congress’ November 27 resolve recommending the confiscation of loyalist estates to the states. A copy of this resolve, in Lovell’s hand and to which he added the following queries, is in the Adams Papers, MHi. "Query. How the Persons thus forfeiting shall be described? "2. In what manner the Confiscation shall be Conducted? “3. And whether any Law can be framed to oblige a Person who is Sus pected to be indebted to any of those Estates and no obligation to be found, or even known to be indebted yet Cannot ascertain the particular sum &c. ?”
