November 28, 1777 339 James Lovell to Joseph Trumbull Dear sir 28th Novr. [1777] I have reed, your favour of the 6th but not what you mention to have written the 2d from Providence, nor a Line from Spencer about his secret Expedition. The business you mention about Purchasers and Issuers has been patched up sometime ago. There is now full conviction of what some of us, here, together with you, prophesied months ago; and agreable to a report of a committee appointed to consider of the Propriety of constituting a commissarial Board, Con gress have determined to add a Gentleman to the new Board of War who might have a particular Superintendance of the Commissariate. Genl. Gates is chosen President, Mifflin, Pickering, yourself 8c Peters make up the Board. 1 The manner in which you have been chosen, both as to the assigned Grounds and the unanimity, is so honorary as not to leave you the chance of refusal, to say nothing of the deter mined and general Preference which has been openly given in Con gress to you, by omitting one of the first named candidates; 2 who was also mentioned now again upon the proposed addition of two to the original number of 3, which had been intended to be a Board. I assure you that the Safety of our army is thought in a very great measure to depend upon your immediate acceptance. You will con sider it as the first Board upon the continent; and, the Honor out of the Question, as a Place in which you can serve essentially your suffering Country, and I think serve it with less plague 8c anxiety than in yr. former condition. If you should happen to be in Boston when this reaches you Mr. S.A. will communicate all I write to him. Our affairs are Fabiused into a confused situation, but yet by no means into a ruined one. Genl. Stevens is dismissed with several inferior Officers by sen tence of Court martial approved by Genl. Washington, which looks a little like firmness and rising Discipline. Cowardice, Theft 8c Drunkeness must take warning. I will only repeat that I expect very speedily to see you, even if you do not tarry, which I pray earnestly you may, if only 6 Months, or as long as Gates does. I shall not have time to copy the resolves about this matter. The Salary voted is 2000 Dolls, a yr. Yr. Friend 8c humb svt. James Lovell RC (CtHi). 1 For further information on the appointment of Trumbull to the Board of War, see the letters of Elbridge Gerry and of Henry Laurens to Joseph Trum bull, November 27, 1777. 2 In the margin at this point, Lovell added in a miniscule hand "Jos. Read.”
