340 November 28, 1777 Daniel Roberdeau to John Adams My dear Friend York Town Novr. 28th. 1777 I would not take pen in hand until I could reasonably suppose you safe arrived to your long wished for home, on which I now presume to congratulate you and sincerely hope you have met with Mrs. Adams and your Children well and every domestick concern to your entire satisfaction for all which I feel myself much interested from the sincere regard contracted for you in our short intimacy, which I shall be ever ready to cultivate whenever Opportunity offers. I congratulate you or rather my Country in the choice of you this day as a Commissioner to France for the united States, in lieu of Mr. Dean who is recalled. Your domestick views of happiness was not consulted on this occasion, but the necessity of your Country for your Talents, which being devoted to her service, I expect a chearful acquiescence with a call so honorable, which I doubt not will prove a lasting honor to you and your Connections as well as a blessing to these States. I should be sorry for the least hisitation. I will not admit the thought of your refusal of the Office which would occasion a publick chagrine. I wish you had improved the oppy. when here of studying the French language, which our friend Mr. Gerry is now doing. I would advise your taking French books with you 8c a French Com panion; and if an Oppy. does not immediately present from Boston a trip to the West Indies and a passage in a French vessel to Paris would be of considerable advantage. Our deligent friend Mr. Lovel makes every thing unnecessary in the way of news, besides I am on an appointment to Lancaster which forbids lengthening out this Epistle further than to present my respects to Mrs. Adams and to assure you that I am with sincere regard, Dr. Sir, Yr. very obt. friend 8c Servt. Daniel Roberdeau P.S. My sisters 8c my Children desire to be remembered to you and yours. RC (MHi). William Williams to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Hond 8c dear Sir York 28 Nov 1777 I wrote you somtime since that the Plan of Confederation was finished, after revising, correcting 8cc it was sent to Lancaster to be printed 8c is just returnd. 8c after a long delay 8c Consideration a Report has been made by the Comte, to Consider the result of the N England States &c 8c a number of important resolutions relating to
