November 28, 1777 341 taxation 8cc 8cc are come into, 8c will be also transmitted, it is not my Fault, it was not done long ago, but it cant be helpd & tis difficult to explain, the reasons of delay in many Cases. But I hope it is not utterly too late. I mentioned in my last my apprehentions of the impossibility of maintaining the Forts 8cc on the river, which are most unhappily justifid, on the 15th Fort Miflin being torn all to peices 8c every Gun dismounted, & a most violent attack 8cc was abandoned, after as brave a defence as was ever made, the men &c saved. The Fall of Red Bank was then inevitable, Cornwallis pasd below with abt 2000 8c met abt 2 or 3000 more lately from N York 8c preparing to storm, & it being vain 8c impossible to support it, the Garison retired the 20th, saved what they cod, spiked the Cannon 8cc 8c all our Shipping, Fire Craft 8cc 8cc save the Gallys, were burnt by their officers orders, some gaily tis said as have run by the City. Maj Genl Baron De Kalb, sund[ry] other General Officers, beside Gen. Huntington with considerable Numbers, I guess not equal to the Enemy, were over 8c advancg to the relief of the Fort. There has been a very heavy Firing heard from that quarter since, probably an Engagement between them, the Event not known, probably of great import. God grant us good Tidings. Our Army are in great want of Cloathing 8cc. Congress have established a new board of War, consisting of 5 Members, not of Congress. It is deemd of vast importance for the Regulation 8c supply 8cc of the army, 8c highly honorable 8cc 8c by the Influence of his Friends Col Jos. Trumbull is chosen a member. The plan was to have one versed in every Department, the Members are Genl Gates Presid, Gen. Miflin, Adj. Genl Pickering, Col Jos Trumbull, 8c R Peters Esq late Secrety. It is deemd of very great importance, as You will readily perceive by the Members appointed. The Sallery is 2000 Dols per An. 8c a struggle to get higher. 8c I have no doubt it will yet be raised 8c such fresh sums allowed as to satisfie the Members, if this dont. Bro Jos. has shewn so much inflexibility 8:c that I am not certain he will accept, I hope he will not rashly conclude against it, if he does I think he will injure his Country, 8c his own Character irremediably with Congress. It will also certainly be a disadvantage to your Self, 8c a Reflection on his Friends here 8cc 8c I think will be acting agst his duty to the Call of Providence. It is a Circumstance worthy of Note, that he had every Vote, 8c that Col Read was also in Nomination 8c was highly esteamed, but for the Quarrel between Them, obtaind but one Vote, so much did They prefer Mr Trumbull, to one who otherwise wod certainly have been chosen. I have the sweet Satisfaction of knowing I have served my Country here with great Fidelity, 8c I hope to some good Purpose, 8c now the pleasing prospect of returning to my dear native Colony, who have employed better Servants.
