November 30, 1777 345 We have agreed that you shall purchase and lay in a sufficient quantity of Provisions for the use of your yards &: for that purpose and to enable you so to do, we now enclose you a draft of Congress on the Loan office of Virginia for Ten Thousand Dollars which pass to our Credit. We expect you will be able to procure further sums for your drafts upon us, and are, Gentlemen, Your very hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). i Loyall and Maxwell were superintending the building of two Continental frigates at Gosport, Va. Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1065. 2 See the resolves of November 25, which included a request that the governor provide a guard for the frigates. JCC, 9:964. William Duer to James Wilson Dear Wilson, Novr. 30th 1777 I wish it was in my Power to send you more agreable Intelligence concerning your Capital than I can at this Time. Fort Mifflin after a gallant Defence has been evacuated; and Red Bank has shard the same Fate. To what Causes the last is to be imputed I cannot at present Inform you, but I am afraid that Timely measures were not persued to send over a Detachment to oppose a Body of about Four thousand with which Cornwallis had crossed over into Jersey. Since this Event the Enemy have got up several of their Vessells to the City. This is the black side of the Picture. The Reverse I relate with more Satisfaction. We have received certain Advice that the Enemy have Evacuated Fort Independence and Ticonderoga after having destroyd all the buildings and thrown the Cannon into the Lake (except the Eighteen), and have retired to the Isle au Noix and St. Johns. They have also dismantled Fort Independance near Kingsbridge in the State of New York, and withdrawn all their out Posts to York Island. This shews their weakness in that Quarter; and their Deter mination to apply their Force to hold Philadelphia. However it will enable us to bend our Attention to one Object; and I still flatter myself that we shall be able during the Winter to strike a bold Stroke agt Mr. Howe, though he is certainly well fortified in his Front and has lately received from New York a Reinforcement of about 2500 Men. A Committee of Congress has gone down to Head Quarters the Members of which are Mr. Robt. Morris, Mr. Jones, and Mr. Gerry. The Motive of their Embassy you will be at no Loss I imagine to determine. 1 On Monday the Marquis de la Fayette with about four or five Hundred Men attack’d a Picquet of the Enemy in Jersey of about 300, drove them, killed Several, and took twenty or thirty Prisoners. It is said he behaved with great Intrepedity; and I beleive with some Experience will make a good officer.
