November 30, 1777 351 age to come. I won’t say measures have been taken to disband that Army, but if that event had been in veiw better measures than those we have pursued could scarcely have been devised. Confine not your attention to a small Circle; look round 8c through your Army—but I have not time to say more—when shall we meet? I send you a Copy of our Articles for confederation. I know you will Criticise as a Scholar 8c a Legislator 8c I shall be glad to receive your Ideas. The dispatch of 3 Copies of these accompanied by proper Addresses 8c Letters to each State has engaged me so very deeply for 2 or 3 days past, as spoken of above. Without these Extra jobbs my hands 8c my mind are for their strength generally sufficiently employed. I am now to thank you for your Intelligence under the 26th. The Marquis’s first fruits from Command will be encouraging to his confidence in our Men, I rejoice at his success 8c if he is returned to Camp I beg you will present my Congratulations. 2 I would if it were possible write by this opportunity, I trust his indulgence to Credit me to the next. Several Members of Congress who have called here this Morning to read General Washington’s Letter of the 26th have expressed their wishes that the Marquis may be appointed to the Command of a division. Therefore I have no doubt when the Letter is Read 8c the subject considered tomorrow in Congress I shall be charged with a Resolve equal to the Marquis’s wishes. 3 I cannot learn from all you have written nor from any Account the number of our little [fleet] that escaped—what Naval Strength if any we now keep in Delaware —8c how they are or are not exposed to the Enemy’s power. If you can tell me these things do—but I will endeavor to get information from the Navy Board at Bordentown. I send by this bearer a hunting Shirt 8c a Check’d Shirt for Berry 8c hope this Week to get a Warm Jacket 8c Breeches for the poor old fellow but these are articles beyond conception dear, however the price shall be no Bar to my intentions. Mrs. Hartley is just returned home. A new scene opens, my power 8c possessions will be reduced to former Limits rather scanty for a President however ample for Mr L. I was put in the Chair the day the Lady left home. I shall be a little puzzled either to get a better or to make this place as convenient as a place for my vocation ought to be. My Dear son, I pray God protect you. H L RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). i On November 27 Laurens had written a now badly damaged letter to John in which he discussed the defense of the Delaware, Washington’s prospective withdrawal to winter quarters, the Continental Army’s supply problems, and the Saratoga Convention. Simms Collection deposit, MHi. a Lafayette had distinguished himself during a skirmish with a party of Lord
