352 November 30, 1777 Cornwallis’ troops at Gloucester, N.J., on November 25. Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:156-58. s Washington advised Laurens in a November 26-27 letter that if Congress did not give Lafayette a separate command the marquis might return to France “in disgust.” Accordingly, Congress resolved on December 1 that Lafayette "be appointed to the command of a division in the continental army,” and on December 4 Washington made him commander of the division recently com manded by Gen. Adam Stephen of Virginia. See JCC, 9:982-83; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:109-10, 138. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York 30th November 77 On the 26th Currt. by the Messenger Barry I paid my respects to your Excellency & conveyed Such Orders as I had then received from Congress. Pretty late last Night Jones brought in your Excellency’s favors of the 26th & 27th which Shall be presented to Morrow, in the mean time I dispatch Francis Seall with the undermentioned Re solves of Congress, a packet containing one hundred Commissions, two Copies of articles proposed to the States for Confederation & Taxation, Copy of a Letter by Major General Gates to Congress dated 16 th. of the 27th on the appointment of three additional Members to the Board of War 8c Major General Gates President. of the 28th appointing a Committee of three Members of Congress to confer with your Excellency for enquiries into the Causes of Losses & failures 8c for divers other matters. of the 29th Submitting to your Excellency the regulating Rank in the Causes of Majr General Arnold, Brigadiers Woodford & Scott referring to a Subjoined Resolve of the 12th. 29th Ordering Copy of Majr. Gates’s Letter to be transmitted. I take the liberty of Sending a packet directed for Govr. Livingston which I request your Excellency will order to be forwarded by the earliest opportunity. I remain with very great regard. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Robert Morris to Thomas Wharton Sir, Manheim, Nov’r 30th, 1777. Being desirous of rendering the public every service in my power, I have continued my attendance on Congress, 8c the Committees of Congress, at York, untill yesterday (notwithstanding my leave of absence), 8c on Friday I was appointed on a Committee with orders to repair immediately to General Washington on business of Im portance. I am thus far in my way, 8c shall depart in the morning for
