December 1, 1777 353 Camp, where I shall be glad to execute any of your commands. This expedition puts it out of my power to wait on the Council as I intended, in hopes of obtaining John Brown’s discharge from close Confinement, for as I firmly believe him innocent in his Intentions, I cannot feel myself easy whilst he is confined in Goal. I beg leave, therefore, again to solicit your Excellency & the Honorable Council, to suffer him to depart from Goal on parole, & I here pledge myself for his faithfull observance of any engagements he enters into, or of such injunctions as the Council may think proper to lay him under. 1 As a Prisoner, he is intitled to great lenity, because he has been bountifull & attentive to the sufferings of our prisoners, whilst he was in Philada; this I had from himself & others, & enclosed, I beg leave to hand you Genl Washington’s unsolicited testimony thereof, in an abstract of his letter to Congress, dated 23d Inst. 2 I call it unsolicited, because I declare to you Sir, that I never wrote a line to Genl Washington or any other person on this subject, nor do I know of any other person that did, but I judge the information has been given the Genl by some of the Prisoners that shared the benefits arising from a subscription which Mr. Brown & some few others procured and distributed in the New Goal. My connections in business with Mr. Brown are well known; he was many years a faithfull servant in my employ, & is justly entitled to my Friendship. I hope, therefore, to stand excused by your Excellency & the Council for thus troubling you with my applications on his behalf, & if you will suffer Mr. Brown to come out on his parole 8c assign this place (with the liberty of one or two miles for exercise) for his abode untill your further pleasure; it is a retired part of the country, he can live at little expence, 8c I am certain his conduct 8c conversation will be such as cannot produce any evil consequences to the public; you will oblige me by laying this 8c Genl Washington’s letter before the Council, & they by a complyance with my request, will lay a lasting obligation on their 8c your Excellency’s, obedt hble servt, Rob’t Morris MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:45. 1 See Henry Laurens to George Washington, November 19, 1777, note 1. a See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:98-99. Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris (In Committee on Foreign Affairs) Gentlemen (Copy) York in Pensylvania Deer. 1st. 1777. As we wish the subject of this letter to be well attended to 8c under stood, we shall confine ourselves intirely to the business of such
