356 December 1, 1777 Mr John Adams, who is now at Boston, was appointed one of our Commissioners at Paris, & is immediately to proceed there. I am told he will wait on Congress for his Instructions before his departure, if this should be the Case, I shall immediately do this business for you. If not, the first time Mr Morris attends here, I shall communi cate the matter to him &c. By Letters from our Agents abroad, there is great reason to expect a French War in the [Spring], The Congress at present is very thin of Members, however I hope during this Winter they will make a spirited Exertion for the Salvation of the Continent. You may expect to hear some thing soon from Washington. Do write me every Opportunity. Respectful compliments to Mrs OBrien, & believe me, Your sincere Friend & very humble servant, Edward Langworthy RC (PHi). Addressed: "To William O’Brien Esqr. at Savannah, in Georgia.” 1 The recipient of this letter was probably William O’Bryen, who was treasurer of Georgia in 1778 and a nonattending delegate to Congress in 1789. Bio. Dir. Cong. 2 Langworthy and his colleague Joseph Wood first attended Congress on November 17. JCC, 9:931. Henry Laurens to Horatio Gates Sir, York Town 1st December 1777. I had the honour of writing to you the 20th & 29th Ulto. by the Messenger Adam Cookas, the former notified your appointment to be President of the Board of War by the unanimous Voice of Congress & requested your attendance as early as you could give it with convenience. This I repeat in order to guard against delay or miscarriage of the Letter refered to. Congress having learned that an application is intended by Gen Howe or Gen Burgoyne for leave to embark the Troops which were surrendred to you by the Convention of Saratoga, at Rhode Island or some part of the Sound have directed me to acquaint you, that the embarkation must be made at the port stipulated in the Convention & no other. 1 The Resolve of Congress to this effect will be found inclosed in this, I beg leave to refer to it, and having received no other Com mands, I conclude repeating that I am with very great Esteem, sir, Your obedient & most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (NHi). 1 In a November 26-27 letter to Laurens that Congress read this day, Wash ington revealed that General Howe wanted to change the embarkation point
