December 1, 1777 357 for General Burgoyne’s troops from Boston to Rhode Island or some place on Long Island Sound and warned that this would enable these men to reach England sooner and be replaced in America by other British units. Congress, sharing Washington’s apprehension, therefore decided that in accordance with the terms of the Saratoga Convention Burgoyne’s army could only embark from Boston. JCC, 9:982; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick) , 10:110-11. Laurens also enclosed copies of Congress’ resolve on this issue with brief letters he wrote this day to Gen. William Heath, the American commander in Boston, and to the speaker of the Massachusetts House of Representatives. PCC, item 13, fols. 50-51; and Revolutionary Letters, M-Ar. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge Dear Sir, York 1st December 1777. I had the honour of addressing Your Excellency in an official Let ter under the 28th past which lies before me Sealed in a packet with Confederation &c. These are to be conveyed by Capt Gillon to which I shall add three packets each containing five Copies of Articles of Confederation directed Severally for the General As sembly & the two Councils of South Carolina. Twelve Copies more I have directed to Colo. Gervais to be distributed among Gentlemen whose names are written on each—particularly one to Mr. Wells. If your Excellency should be of opinion that these papers, before they are taken under consideration by the Legislative powers ought to be made as public as I wish, you will encourage him to print 2 or 3 hundred Copies & to add Copies of the Addresses on Confederation & Taxation. I will not presume to comment on the Model which is now Submitted to the Wisdom of thirteen United States & intended to pass a revision under the Same abilities collected. I beg leave however to remark to my late Colleagues, that Congress before printing judged it proper to make Several essential alterations particularly in Article 9th parag. 2d, that I have therefore no cause to blush at the appearance of my name among the few Nays on the Original Vote, I should be Still better pleased to see that article undergo a little further amendment. 1 That, for taking Yeas & Nay’s is another Item to which I am marked in the Journal with a disgraceful No! & almost without a Companion. 2 I have never heard that question demanded, with that Calmness of mind which ought ever to accompany the debates of Senators, it has always been the product of heat & menace. Besides, however proper it might be to incorporate in the Rules of a House, it does not Strike me as a necessary ingredient for Confederation. It appears to be totally Irrelative to the grand Subject. I do not mean to comment by exposing this baggatelle. There are Articles of deeper Impression. I have taken the Liberty to commit four packets directed for
