360 December 1, 1777 if Congress Shall judge it necessary to give us only one, Seniority will probably have preference. Mr. Deane by a Vote is recalled from the Court of France, Mr. John Adams elected to Succeed him. Gentlemen here in whom I place the most confidence encourage me to hope that we shall infallibly be in possession of New York or Philadelphia or both before the expiration of January. The former is preferred by some from a prospect of valuable acquisitions of Merchandize. When I consider these may be removed, that the place cannot be held while the Enemy is triumphant in a Navy, and that we have lately received the Strongest confirmation of the great Franklin’s opinion that Delaware may be rendered inaccessible & Philadelphia too, if admitting we have a Sufficient army, I am of other Sentiments, agreeing however with those who choose both. Had Some folks who love to hear themselves talk, acted the part of good Guardians the whole British Fleet would have been Set at defiance & General Howe must have Stolen a disgraceful March out of Philadelphia before this day or have shared the fate of the North ern Hero. ‘Tis probable both Lord & General has been taught to believe a passage might be obtained with less than an hundredth part of the difficulty &: Loss which they have already experienced, otherwise the General would have proceeded by Steps more cautious than those he was treading from July to September. General Gates informs Congress few Ships he beleived will be wanted for transporting the fragment of Genl. Burgoyne’s Army—on the March towards Boston a Majority of the Foreign Troops & many of the British had deserted. We have Since been told of a Mutiny by the British in which their Escort had been obliged to reduce them by Musketry but we have received no particulars. I send by this con veyance Some papers of Intelligence to Mr. Gervais which he will if your Excellency pleases communicate. Permit me Sir towards the Close of this long Letter to request most earnestly of your Excellency to apply for leave that I may return to Carolina in February or March or sooner if a Representation shall have arrived in Congress. I humbly think I have a right to demand a respite & therefore I canot feel the least disposition to Sue. My successors should be told that Candles are abt 5/ per pound, Shoes 50/ a pair & dollars still at 7/6, these are heavy but are very small considerations in comparison with my true motives for desir ing to return home. I am with very great respect &ca LB (ScHi). i The section of Article 9 referred to by Laurens dealt with Congress’ appellate jurisdiction “in all disputes and differences now subsisting, or that hereafter may arise between two or more states concerning boundary, jurisdiction or any other cause whatever.’’ JCC, 9:916-18. His October 25 vote against the success ful motion to amend this section of Article 14, which became Article 9, is recorded in JCC, 9:843.
