362 December 1, 1777 eral Burgoyne which were Surrendred in terms of the Convention of Saratoga Should be embarked at the port Stipulated by that agree ment & at no other. I am also ordered to Signify to your Excellency it is highly agree able to Congress that the Marquis de Lafayette be appointed to the Command of a division in the American Army. 1 Your Excellency will find a minute from the Journal of Congress on these points here inclosed. I hasten this forward in order to transmit at the Same time the following intelligence deliverd to me by the Board of War. This I am persuaded will afford your Excellency a particular degree of pleasure & the account may have some good influence in the ap proaching conference between your Excellency & the Committee deputed by Congress. Extract of a Letter from Wm. Finnie D.Q.M.G. at Williamsburg 22d November 1777. “I wrote you yesterday by Post inclosing a General return of the Continental Stores in this State. I also mentioned the Report of the arrival of the Congress Sloop with a valuable Cargo of Blankets, Cloth & other necessaries for the Army from France, which News was confirmed last Night. Such of these articles as are intended for Head Quarters I shall dispatch as soon as possible.” God forbid any disappointment beween the Cup Sc the Lip. I have the honour to be with the utmost respect &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i See JCC, 9:982-83; and Laurens to John Laurens, November 30, 1777, note 8. James Lovell to John Adams Dear Sir Deer. 1st. [1777] As I was at the Secretaries yesterday I took off a few Resolutions from the Journals for your view, supposing as to the above, that you might have forgotten them, and as to the following, wishing to have your Sentiments. 1 I doubt not you will think it may or may not be proper to take from the minds of foreign Courts the Idea that we are absolutely determined about our conduct towards Gr. Br. in re gard to Treaties; therefore the Guard which you see in the Resolves about the time of communicating the different Resolves, which the Commissioners only ought to determine. Being one of the Committee with F L Lee & Duer to conduct the Resolve of Novr. 29th respecting Canada, 2 I wish yr. Sentiments, promising to you that I am altogether averse from strong sollicita tions to that People to become immediately active. They will fall to us of Course. I wish to have them acquainted wth. the nature of our union. But I would not wish to be bound to carry an Expedition into their Country till their Friendship was certain and quite
