December 2, 1777 367 fit us & distress the enemy. We are informed that 2 or 3 well manned Frigates dispatched early in February so as to arrive at the Island of Mauritius in June (being provided with letters of credence for such refreshments & aid of Stores 8cc. as may be necessary from the Minis ter to the French Governor of that Island) may go from thence to cruise on the coast of Coromandel 20 days sail from the Island of Mauritius, where they will be in the way to intercept the China ships, besides distressing the internal Trade of India. The prizes may be sold at Mauritius and Bills of Exchange remitted to you at Paris. We would observe that in passing to Mauritius our Ships had better call at Goree that at the Cape, to avoid allarming the vigilance & appre hensions of the British Cruisers. Another beneficial attempt may be conducted along the coast of Africa. The French and Dutch settlements 8c perhaps the Portugaize will purchase the prizes and give bills on Europe. We think your plan of getting one of the new constructed Ships of war equal to one of 64 Guns built for the use of these states in Europe is a very good one; and it may be employed to very beneficial purposes. The heavy iron Cannon which you propose to send will be very Wellcome for Fortifications & for Vessels, and they cost abundantly more, here, than you can furnish them for from Europe; besides there is a delay in getting them which frequently distresses us greatly. And surely your determination to supply us with materials wanted here for Ship-building is very wise, since it is by marine force that the most destructive wound may be given to our Enemies. We are directed to point out proper ports into which the stores mention’d in the Re solve of Congress of Novr. 10th may be imported. 2 We are obliged to own that the port of Charlestown in Sth. Carolina & those east ward of Rh. Island are the only safe ones. We wish the number of Manufacturers in Lead & Sulphur had been limited in that same resolve, but we place full confidence in your discretion. We shall be glad to receive from you by the first opportunity a plan of the militia of Switzerland. You will be pleased to attend to the several matters contained in our former letters, copies of which do not happen to be at hand. We are with much Esteem, Gentlemen, Your Friends 8c huml. Servts. Richd. Henry Lee James Lovell RC (PPAmP). In a clerical hand. Endorsed by John Adams: “Letter from the Comtee of foreign Affairs Deer. 2. 1777.” 1 For further information on the receipt of William Carmichael’s letter, see James Lovell to John Adams, November 22, 1777, note 2. 2 On November 10 Congress had directed the Committee for Foreign Affairs to have the commissioners in France and Spain purchase “five hundred tons of lead, four hundred tons of powder, one million gun-flints, tents for fifty thou sand men, and ten thousand yards of flannel for cartridges.” JCC, 9:883.
