368 December 2, 1777 James Duane to George Clinton Sir, York Toun, Pens. 2d Decem’r 1777. Since I had the Honour of writing to you last week: Fort Mercer at Redbank has shard the Fate of Fort Mifflin. The attempts to re lieve both were a day too late. Lord Cornwallis crossed the Dela ware at Copper’s Ferry at the Head of 2500 or 3000 men where he Joind a Detachment that had preceeded him and with a Train of artil lery pushed forward to besiege the Fort. General Green was ordered to relieve the Fort but coming too late, it was evacuated. And our own People set fire to several of our Vessells of war which were em- ployd in the Defence of the River. The way is now clear for the Introduction of the British Fleet, 8c our Gallies [are] in no small Danger. In the mean time, Green and Cornwallis are too near each other to part without Blows. Indeed a Report prevails that they have had an Engagement, that Cornwallis is taken Prisoner 8c his Di vision broken: but it wants confirmation. Congress have agreed to a Confederacy 8c recommended it in strong Terms to the respective Legislatures. It pleases here after the most mature Investigation, 8: I am well persuaded that it is the only Plan that can be reconciled to the Majority of the States. This with other Important Resolutions for supporting our publick will be announced to your Excellency thro’ the President. I am not yet reliev’d by Mr. Morris or Mr. Lewis. The weather is severe already. With every wish for your Happiness, I have the Hon our to be Sir Your Excellency’s most Obed’ hum’e Se’t, Jas. Duane. [P.S.] Be pleased to forward the enclosd to G. Arnold. 1 MS not found; reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 2:559-60. 1 Presumably Henry Laurens’ November 29 letter to Arnold. James Duane to John Jay Dear Sir York Town Pens. 2d Deer. 1777 I have had so much Publick Business on my hands that I have been unavoidably deprivd of paying that attention to my Friends which always gives me Pleasure. As one of the Number I have the Honour of considering yourself; 8c of you I have not been entirely unmindful. At the same time that I cannot boast of much Encouragement or any great merit. To the Governor and Council of Safety I have communicated every Occurence of moment 8c doubt not from your publick station that you have had an Opportunity of Information.
