December 3, 1777 374 determined on, will not be reserve in exercising them so far as shall appear necessary to accomplish something decisive. If calling in a powerful Reinforcement of the Militia, or remaining with the Army untill they shall by one vigorous Effort nobly endeavour to subdue the Enemy, will have a good Effect on the Minds of our Friends in the Army, I think the Committee will most heartily propose the Measures, but will promise nothing from their Inclinations, untill the Issue of a Consultation which is to be held with the General can be known. 2 You will be informed e’er this can reach You, of Your Appoint ment to represent the States at the Court of France; I hope to have the Concurrence of your Lady when I urge the Necessity of your ac cepting hereof; it is the earnest Wish of Congress & every Friend to America that You determine in the Affirmative, 8c of Consequence, Chagrin 8c Disapointment will result from a refusal. Genteel pro- vission will be made for the Support of these important Officers, but pecuniary Considerations I know will have no Weight in your valu able Mind, 8c only mention it as my opinion of the generous Disposi tion of Congress towards these important Officers. I remain Sir in great Haste yours most Sincerely, E Gerry [P-S.] My best respects to your Lady, General Warren, Mr Adams 8cc. RC (MHi). i Adams had written to Gerry on November 19 from Fishkill, N.Y., en route to Massachusetts. “The inclosed Letter,” Adams explained, "I this Moment rec’d and can think of no other way to answer the Expectations of Mr Smith, than to request you to take the Trouble of doing what, by the inclosed Letter, I am requested to do. “I am Sorry to take off your Attention from things of more Importance, or Amusements of greater Pleasure, But having often experienced your obliging Disposition, I presume upon it once more. “We have nothing New, excepting that a whole Pickett Guard came off to gether from Kingsbridge two-days ago—which they say is the second Instance of late. The new Levies are very discontented and earnestly wishing to escape & throw themselves upon Mercy. “G. Gates’s Army are passing fast to Head Qrs. I have had vast Pleasure in this Journey in remarking the Difference between the State of the Country and the Temper of Men’s Minds now, and last Winter. "Our Frd Lovell must remember the general Complaints of Danger from the Tories and of the Discredit of Cont. Money, as well as the great Anxiety upon the Minds of the People concerning the Issue of the Cause. All this is now done away. The Tories are universally discouraged and there Appears not in the Minds of the People the least Doubt of the final Success of our great and holy Cause. “Remember me with every Sentiment of Respect and Affection to the Gen. & Brothers Lovell & Dane, to the Ladies, and the Children of the Family.” Brevoort Collection, NBLiHi. 2 Gerry, Joseph Jones, and Robert Morris had been sent by Congress to head quarters to encourage Washington to conduct a winter offensive. See Com mittee at Headquarters to Henry Laurens, December 6, and to Washington, December 10, 1777.
