December 3, 1777 375 Henry Laurens to John Adams Sir, York Town 3d December 1777 The 28th Ulto. I had the honour of writing to you by the Messen ger Frederick Weare & of transmitting a Vote of Congress by which you are appointed a Commissioner at the Court of France. Inclosed under this Cover you will find a Commission executed agreeable to the Order of Congress. You have no doubt heard or will hear before this can reach you of the little affair which happened last Week in Jersey, the attack by the Marquis de Lafayette at the head of about 400 Militia & a detachment from Morgan’s Rifles on a Picket of 300 Hessians twice reinforced by British, in which our Troops were successful, killed about 20, wounded more, took 14 Prisoners & chased the Enemy about half a Mile. We learned that General Greene under whom the Marquis had acted had been recalled from Jersey but tis probable from an account received this Morning in a private Letter from Major Clarke something more must have been done before he re crossed Delaware. The Major writes that from different & corroborating accounts Lord Cornwallis was killed or wounded, that in an attack made at Gloster the Enemy was beat, left 30 dead on the field & crossed the Water after having set fire to that pretty little Town by which the whole was consumed—that the English Officers greatly enraged against the French Nation openly declare they would gladly forgive America for the exchange of drubbing the French—that General Howe had billeted his Soldiers on the Inhabitants of Philadelphia two in each House & taken many of their Blankets for the use of his light Horse which had occasioned universal discontent & murmuring among the Citizens—that A Ship & Brig, richly laden attempting to come up the River had been lost among Cheveaux de frize. I beg Sir you will do me the favour to present my respectful Com pliments to Mr. S. Adams & to accept the repeated good wishes of, Sir, Your most obedt. & Most humble servt, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MHi). Henry Laurens to the States Sir, 3d December 1777. (Introduced by recital of my last date &c, as each Case required.) Congress ever watchful over the Interests of the United States of America & diligent to defeat the numerous & various practices of our grand Enemy equally Cruel & Subtle have taken under consider-
