376 December 3, 1777 ation, a device calculated for depreciating the value of the paper Money issued by authority of Congress & of the Several States, after the good people had found it necessary to assert their Rights & to take government into their own hands. The pernicious Stratagem now in view, although the discovery of it, is not quite new, appears more glaring from a late publication in Philadelphia Subscribed by a very great number of those misguided persons who chose to re main in the City & welcome the Enemy to rivet their fetters. 1 It is also notorious that many timid 8c Lukewarm friends in Sev eral of the States have, from motives probably more avaricious than directly Inimical, long given a great preference to what is called the old Money, which evidently tends to lessen the Estimation & Cur rency of the New & does in the Same Instance demonstrate, if not an inclination to overturn our Independency, apprehensions or hopes which ought to be banished from the mind of every Inhabitant in the Union. From an earnest desire therefore to counteract the wicked projects of our Enemies 8c to rectify such errors of our almost-friends, Con gress have confirmed a Resolution of this date recommending to the States respectively to enact Laws Sufficient for accomplishing these good ends. 2 I have the honour of forwarding a Copy of the Resolve under this Cover, which your Honour/Excellency will be pleased to lay before the Legislature of 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i The “publication” Laurens probably had in mind was a document signed by several hundred Philadelphians which appeared in the Pennsylvania Eve ning Post on November 6 asserting that because of the British occupation of Philadelphia the subscribers would use paper money issued by the old proprietary government and approved by the king instead of Continental currency. 2 The enclosed resolve asked the states to require persons holding bills of credit issued with the approval of the king “on or before the 19th of April 1775” to exchange them for Continental or state bills. See JCC, 9:990. 2 Laurens added the following December 4 postscript to the text of the letter that he sent to Massachusetts: “While this lay open Congress took before them a Representation of the necessity for preserving from wast Pine Timber fir for Masts and other purposes of Navigation and framed a Resolution thereupon which you will receive with the one above mentioned.” Revolutionary Letters, M-Ar; and JCC, 9:1004. Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir York 3d December. 1777. In the Name of Congress I request your Excellency’s protection to three Letters for Boston which will be inclosed with this, to be Sent forward with all dispatch either by the present Messenger or by another as your Excellency shall judge best 8c also of one to
