December 4, 1777 377 General Gates at Albany. 1 Those Letters all direct the Embarkation of the Troops surrendered by Lt. General Burgoyne to be made at the port Stipulated in the Convention of Saratoga & no other. Con gress have received an intimation that attempts were to be made by General Howe or by Mr. Burgoyne under his Commander to obtain permission to march to & embark those Troops at Rhode Island or Some where in the Sound. I was going to add Several pieces of intelligence received this Morning from Major Clarke relative to the Enemy’s Army which had flattered us but a Letter from General Washington of the 1st Inst. 2 which I this Instant received being Silent in those articles I forbear— except that General Howe had billeted his Soldiers in Couples on the householders of Philadelphia which had occasioned universal discontents 8c murmurs among the Citizens, for this account the Major Seems to have authority 8c the tidings are not bad. I have the honour to be with every Sentiment of respect 8cca, Sir, your Excellency’s most obedient Servant LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i See Laurens to Horatio Gates, December 1, 1777. 2 This letter is in PCC, item 152, 5:229-30, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 10:126-27. Robert Morris’ Committee Notes [ca. December 4, 1777] 1 Objections to a Winters Campaigne 1st. The Number of the Enemy, equal to the Continental Troops under Genl. Washington. The Redoubts, lines 8c abbetties impreg nable to any but a Superiour Number of Veteran Troops. Militia will not answer this purpose, therefore an Attack in the lines inelligible. 2d. An attack on the City over Schuylkill by Ice liable to all the above objections because the Enemy will Contract their North lines 8c run them round the City with redoubts as soon as they know such an attack is Meditated and it is not possible to keep it a Secret. 3d. The Season is so far spent that large Bodies of Militia cannot be Collected from the distant States in time (say all the month of January) 8c the adjacent States cannot furnish of themselves sufficient Numbers. 4th. If militia in tolerable numbers cou’d be Collected, the Commissaries and Quarter Masters cou’d not supply them with Pro visions 8c Forage. 5. The officers of the Continental Army badly Cloathed 8c generally discontented, mostly averse to a Winter Campaigne 8c the Soldiers not sufficiently Cloathed to keep the Field.
