378 December 4, 1777 The object of a Winters Campain, an attack on the City of Philada, or the Enemies Army. The first not practicable for the reasons given & the 2d of course not practicable unless they will come out & fight. The best thing to be done—to take such a position with the army as will most effectually awe the Enemy, Cover the Country, and enable the Genl, to take advantage of any favourable Circumstances that may turn up during the winter, by drawing the army into action suddenly if any. 2 1000 Bell Tents Camp Auditor Regulation of Rations Camp Press Genl Wilkinson for Secy of War Lieutt Generals Forage for Regimental Pay Masters Inspector Genl of Infantry Increase the price for Horses Committee of Board of War to Confer with a Committee of Genl officers for reforming the Army MS (NN). In the hand of Robert Morris. i On November 28 Robert Morris was appointed, with Elbridge Gerry and Joseph Jones, to a committee directed “to repair to the army’’ and consult privately with General Washington on “the best and most practicable means for carrying on a winter’s campaign.” Because the committee “conferred with the General on the Expediency of a Winter’s Campaign” on Thursday Decem ber 4, it seems likely that Morris wrote these notes soon after their meeting with Washington that day. They appear on the verso of a brief letter Cornelius Harnett had written to Morris on November 30. See JCC, 9:972; and Committee at Headquarters to Henry Laurens, December 6, 1777. 2 The remainder of Morris’ notes, which he crowded in perpendicularly on another surface of the folded sheet he was using, apparently pertain to various additional topics that arose in the course of the committee’s conference with Washington. Committee at Lancaster to George Clinton Dear General Lancaster Deer. 4th. 1777 Among other inconveniences brought on us by our Enemies, fetching of salt from the Massachusetts Bay to cure provisions in the middle Department for the next Campaign, is not the least. However Congress are more alarmed at the apprehension of being disappointed and not getting the salt in season, than from any inconvenience attending the removal, therefore have appointed a Committee to forward that and other business of the Commissarys department, 1 on information a few days ago from the Commissary General of purchases that among other disappointments he was at
