December 5, 1777 379 that late hour uncertain what steps, if any had been taken, to remove a quantity of salt from Boston to the North River as ordered by Congress, for he was not even assured that his Deputy, to whom he had applied, would accept his appointment. Congress foreseeing their interposi[ti]on necessary lately gave authority to the Governor and Council of Safety of Connecticut to appoint to office or to displace any incompitant person in the Commissary Department, to hire Waggons and with the utmost exertion to forward the salt to the North River to be kept in safety by some person he should appoint, until Waggons arrived from hence for it. But not having heard from that Honorable body, being probably too early, and the Committee anxious to know how, and when to direct the movements of the Waggons procured from the Legislature of this State, have directed me to address you by Express earnestly to request immediate infor mation, what train the business is in? or to what part of the North river the salt is sent? whether the whole or what quantity is arrived and to whose care? as not one step further can be taken with prudence until we have intelligence. 2 The Committee have such relyance on Governor Trumbull’s punctuallity, that I have no orders to repeat any request to him, but to guard against any unavoidable delay which may possibly arise from the miscarriage of a Letter I must beg the favor of you if on enquiry you do not find this Business in a proper train at the North River, that after dispatching this messenger you’ll be pleased in such case to send Governor Trumbul a Copy of this Letter by Express at the publick Expence. I am in behalf of the Committee, Dr. Sir, Yr. most obt. & very huml. Serv, Daniel Roberdeau [P.S.] Please to direct to York Town Pennsilvania. RC (NN). i For the committee appointed on November 28 "to repair forthwith to Lancaster’’ to confer with the Pennsylvania assembly on supplying the Con tinental Army in the middle department, see JCC, 9:976-78; and Daniel Roberdeau to Elbridge Gerry, December 6, 1777, note 3. 2 The draft of Clinton’s December 10 response to Roberdeau, in which he reported that “not one Gram of the Salt you mention has yet arrived at the North River,” is in the Emmet Collection, NN. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Webb Dear Sir, 1 York Town Dec. 5th. 1777. I have some Time ago delivered your Request to the Board of War, and I have strongly urged the Propriety of permitting you to go to N. York, and to England, if you choose it. 2 The Multiplicity of Business has prevented the Consideration of your Affair, but I am promised that it shall soon be taken up, and you will know the
