384 December 6, 1777 Interestedness & the gross partiality & inattention of those whose duty it was to superintend & to correct betimes, has already appeared in the loss of some lives, cruel Sickness, boundless desertion & what is to follow, God only knows. I presume the conference now on the Tapis or possibly just finished between His Excellency the General & the Committee from Congress will determine the question relative to Winter Quarters. We are morally certain of Sending you a pretty large Supply of Blankets & Cloths before Christmas. I hope these will reach the Army time enough to give new cause for thanksgiving on the 18th. The Committee for foreign Correspondence will dispatch to Boston, tomorrow or next day, Letters for France to go by the hands of the Honble John Adams Esquire appointed one of our Com missioners at the Court of Versailles. A Vessel will be purposely equipped for his accomodation & Safe passage. I am sure that Gentle man will be happy in being the bearer of your Commands or in disposing of them in the best manner, if he Should decline the duty to which he is elected by Congress. & I beleive you will find Safe & expeditious conveyances from Camp to Boston. In time of War with France there will be no tolerable assurance of reaching our friends on t’other Side the Water oftener than one out of Six Letters. I always practiced in former Warr Sending at least a Sixth Copy of every Letter of any importance & found great ad vantages result from my care, while my Neighbors, less attentive often suffered Losses. I cannot inform you Sir, any particulars concerning the intended embarkation of Lt. General Burgoyne’s conquered Troops. I have dispatched to Boston several Official Letters on that Subject to which I every day expect answers, in the mean time ’tis probable, necessity will oblige Sir William Howe to Support the remains of them where they are, during the present Winter. I have the honour to be, with the highest Respect & Esteem, &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 These letters are in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:152-55, 160-61. The second letter was written on November 20 and received by Laurens on November 28. 2 Lafayette’s skirmish with a British foraging party at Gloucester, N.J., on November 25. Ibid., pp. 156-58. 3 Lafayette had asked Laurens’ assistance in behalf of Michel Capitaine du Chesnoy, a French engineer who had accompanied the marquis to America and was being delayed by illness in North Carolina. Ibid., pp. 152-53. 4 Congress eventually granted a lieutenant colonel’s commission to Martial-Jean Antoine Crozat de Crdnis—the “Monsr. Craignie” referred to by Laurens—on November 7, 1778. JCC, 12:1109. Having already accepted Col. Augustin Mottin de La Balme’s resignation as inspector general of cavalry and agreed to pay his expenses back to France, Congress finally informed him on February 13, 1778, that it had no further use for his service. La Balme had resigned rather than serve under Count Pulaski. See JCC, 9:797, 864, 878, 10:157; and PCC, item 41, 1:142-45.
