December 6, 1777 385 5 Thomas Conway’s "Scheme” was apparently a plan for an expedition against the British East Indies. See Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:185. 6 General Conway, who had recently threatened to resign because of his failure to obtain a promotion to major general, was promoted to this rank and ap pointed inspector general of the army by Congress on December 13. JCC, 9:1026; and DAB. 7 Congress agreed to grant an appointment as brevet lieutenant colonel to the chevalier de Mauduit du Plessis on January 19, 1778, but ordered his com mission backdated to November 26, 1777, the day Francois-Louis Teissfedre de Fleury was appointed lieutenant colonel. JCC, 9:967, 10:64. Daniel Roberdeau to Elbridge Gerry Dear Sir Lancaster Deer. 6th. 1777 Yesterday I dispatched a Continental Officer Lieut Keller with a Letter to Governor Clinton, 1 desiring him, if the salt was not arrived at the North River, to send a Copy of my Letter to Govr. Trumbull, and to forward the Express to him, immediately to Congress, as the movement of the Waggons from hence, for my Brethren of the Committee would not consent to any Waggons being sent before advice of the salt, depended on his answer. Therefore if you have reed, intelligence from the C G P 2 at headquarters to make an earlier stop necessary, you must send Waggons, from thence, which likewise would be a great relief, as the Council here express their apprehen sions of much difficulty in obtaining them in these parts, owing to the abuse of imploying numbers of Waggons in the army which were impressed for other and shorter Services. I expect an answer from Governor Clinton next Wednesday, therefore the presence of the C G P will be necessary here or a Deputy to forward the Waggons. Notwithstanding the Exercions of the Legislature of this State, the Vice President hinted his opinion that military aid would be necessary. I thirst I pant to hear of decisive measures, these only under the auspices of Heaven will succeed. I am about to mount to return to Congress and shall lay a Copy of the Resolves of this Assembly before them. 3 I am very anxious to hear of Gen. McDougal, who I am happy to hear is a little better, the Lord perfect begins mercy. I am, Dear Sir, Yr. most obt. friend & Servt, Daniel Roberdeau [P.S.] My love to Genl. McDougal. Please to enquire of Genl. Kalb whether the Letters committed to him were delivered? whether he has or there are at Head Quarters any Letters for me? which please to forward. RC (PHarH). Addressed: "The Honorable E. Garry Esqr. member of Congress at HeadQuarters. Favored by Mr. John Jones.” 1 See Committee at Lancaster to George Clinton, December 4, 1777. a Commissary General of Purchases, Col. William Buchanan. 3 A committee of Congress composed of Roberdeau, Eliphalet Dyer, and John
