388 December 8, 1777 American advance parties engaged in several skirmishes as Howe’s forces maneuvered in front of the American lines at Whitemarsh. Although a general action was anticipated, Howe unexpectedly returned to Philadelphia on De cember 8 and set up winter quarters. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:142-45. 4 Williams and Richard Law were granted leave by Congress on December 3 and probably left soon thereafter. JCC, 9:994. Laws’ accounts with the state of Connecticut, claiming compensation from June 14 to December 16, 1777, in cluding travel to and from Congress, are in the Revolutionary War Collection, Ct. Elbridge Gerry to John Adams My dear sir Camp at Whitemarsh Monday Deer. 8. 1777 Since my last the Situation of the Camp has prevented the Com mittee of Congress from transacting the Business of their Appoint ment. The Enemy, the Evening after the Date of my letter, marched out with their whole Force, Which is said to consist of twelve thousand five hundred Effectives. We received information of their preparations a Day or two before, by persons who left the City; & the Camp was alarmed on Fryday Morning abt two oClock. At five the Enemy were about two Miles from the right Wing of our Army, in Sight of our quarters, where they continued untill Saturday Night, during which Time an Engagement was hourly expected. About four oClock on Sunday Morning, the General sent one of his Aids to inform Us that the Enemy had marched to the left, where were the Generals quarters, & had drawn up 2000 Men about two Miles from his place, advancing with another part of their Army, up the York Road. This Morning We are informed, that the Enemy are returning to the Right, from whence I think there is a probab[il]ity of their intending to puzzle our Officers by their Manoeuvres, & send their whole Force against some Point. I sincerely wish that our officers would prevent it by beginning the Attack, And untill such an enter prizing Spirit prevails, think that the Enemy will manoeuvre to Advantage. There have been several Skirmishes, & many Deserters & prisoners have passed thro the Camp; but these are Affairs of no great Consequence. The American Army are in a better Situation for an Engagement, in Point of Numbers, than they have been this Campaign; may God grant them Fortitude, & crown their Endeavours with Success. You will probably ’eer long, hear of some important Event; & in the Interim give me Leave to assure You, that I remain with much Esteem yours sincerely, E. Gerry [P.S.] The Bill on Mr. Mease is accepted 8c inclosed to Mr. Richard Taylor. 9th Deer. Last Evening the Enemy retired to Philadelphia. RC (MHi). i See Gerry to John Adams, December 3, 1777.
