December 8, 1777 389 Cornelius Harnett to Thomas Burke Dear Sir York Pensylvania 8 Deer 1777 I have not received one line from you since I had the pleasure of seeing you here, as much as I dislike Letter-writing, this is the fourth of mine, in One of which I inclosed One from Mrs. Trist. She is now at Lancaster & “begs (in her Letter to me of the 2d) to know what has become of our friend Burk.” She and Mrs. Ross were to have come to this Town on a Visit to Mrs. Swoops, 8c my Carriage was to have been sent for them, but the Capricious Vixens have put it off to a future day. Mrs. Trist desires when I write to you, that I will “Tender you her best Services.” Inclosed is a hand Bill Printed by order of Congress the Particulars of which you have perhaps seen. 1 As To Our Army it is still near Philadelphia & we hourly expect very interesting News, as Genl. Howe on the 6 Instant with his whole force was in sight of Our Lines 8c a General action hourly expected. The flower and force of the contending parties are now ready to engage. The Enemy have drawn a Strong reinforcement from N York, & Genl. Washington a much Stronger from Genl. Gates’s Victorious Northern Army. I fear how ever we shall suffer ourselves to be Attacked instead of attacking. This Conduct I believe has often proved disadvantageous. A Committee of Congress now at head Quarters Informs us, that Our Soldiers are exceeding Anxious to Come to a General Engagment, and are in high Spirits. 2 Who knows but this Battle may put a glorious end to the Land War in America. The Virginians in Assembly have set a glorious Example to the Southern States, & indeed to every State in the Union by not only Ordering a reinforcement of 5000 Militia to joyn Genl. Washington immediately, but also to fill up their Continental Battalions with great dispatch. The recruiting Service ought to be attended to in Our State in case of Accidents, as nothing is to be expected from Pensylvania. Should Our Army be defeated, Our utmost exertions will be requisite. The several resolutions of Congress sent to the Governors of the States will require particular Attention. That of Taxation is essential above all, the Credit of our Continental Currency depends upon it. The Opening the Courts of Law for the recovery of Debts surely ought to be attended to. The Calling in your paper Currency, especially that Issued under the Authority of the British Government, (as a distinction is made by the Tories 8c Sordid Whigs already, of at least 100 per Centum which in it’s Consequences must ruin Our public Credit) ought to command the Attention of our Legislature. Coll Martin has been tryed and Acquitted; 8c has since resigned. Mr. Penn 8c myself have desired the Governor to apply to the Genl. Assembly to recommend some one or more of Our Colonels as
