December 8, 1777 395 Mrs. Clymar’s Comments upon your Gazette’s is highly diverting. But I must say bon Soire. Your Friend and very humbl Servt. James Lovell [P.S.] This day I find by a Letter from our Friend General Whipple that 20 Tickets were lost from 14327 to 14,346 inclusive. The best Compliments of this Family are presented to you; I pray mine may be to Mrs. Adams. RC (NN). i Elbridge Gerry wrote the December 6 letter of the committee at head quarters to Henry Laurens, which was read in Congress this day. He also wrote a letter of the same date to Daniel Roberdeau—which Lovell explained in the following letter to Richard Henry Lee was written “at i/ 2 past one in the afternoon”—but it has not been found. 2 Almost certainly a reference to the publication of William Bingham’s October 13, 1777, letter which reported military preparations in the French West Indies. See Lovell to John Adams, November 22, note 1; and Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Adams, November 23, 1777. An extract of Bingham’s letter appeared in The Maryland Journal and Baltimore Advertiser, December 2, 1777. 3 The vicomte de Mauroy’s sharply critical letter was read in Congress this day. Among the charges made by Mauroy was that “all the world will know that the marquis de Fayette whom no Body can reproach (unless with his being a Frenchman, and the sacrifices he has made to your interest) was retained in your service from political reasons only, and your liking to my Country has made you reject me in a manner not to be mistaken." See JCC, 9:1011; and PCC, item 78, 15:279-82. For further information on Mauroy’s difficulties, see Lovell to Vicomte de Mauroy, September 8, 1777. 4 That is, John and Samuel Adams, whose departure from Congress was con trasted with that of John Hancock’s about two weeks earlier. By coincidence, Samuel Adams was almost simultaneously writing a letter to Lovell containing comments on the pomp associated with Hancock’s return to Massachusetts. “I heartily thank you,” Adams wrote, “for your two favors of the 12th & 18th of Novemr, the former of which gave me a piece of Intelligence which I thought proper to give the Publick through the News paper. “Unluckily for me, on my Arrival here I found the General Assembly sitting; and consequently I am plungd in publick Business sooner than I could wish to have been. Among other things I have the Satisfaction of informing you of your Reelection as a Member of Congress. Your old Colleagues are all again chosen. I honestly told some of our Countrymen that I thought it incumbent on them thorowly to acquaint themselves with the Character and Conduct of those who represent them at the Distance of four hundred Miles; but I fear they are too unsuspecting. What do frequent Elections avail, without that Spirit of Jealousy & Strict Inquiry which alone can render such Elections any Security to the People? But surely the more implicit the Confidence of the Publick is, the more circumspect ought those to be, who are entrusted with publick Affairs. “Mr. [Hancock] came to this Town with great Pomp, and was receivd by the military and naval Gentlemen, as I am informd, with equal Ceremony. His Colleagues arrivd in the Dusk of the Evening and without Observation. He is the most happy who has the greatest Share of the Affections of his Fellow Citizens, without which, the Ears of a sincere Patriot are ever deaf to the Roaring of Cannon and the Charms of Musick. I have not seen or heard of any Dangers on the Road that should require Guards to protect one. It is pretty enough in the Eyes of some Men, to see the honest Country Folks gapeing & Staring at a Troop of Light Horse. But it is well if it is sometimes not
