December 10, 1777 399 Committee at Headquarters to George Washington Sir White Marsh Deer. 10th 1777 In Consequence of the conferences we have had with your Ex cellency, and knowing yours and your General officers opinions on the Subject of our Mission, we have come to the resolutions contained in the enclosed paper, finding them as far as we can judge most con sistent with the Public good. 1 Among the many reasons offered against a Winters Campaigne we were sorry to observe one of the most prevalent was a general dis content in the Army and especially among the Officers. These dis contents are ascribed to various causes and we doubt not many of them are well founded and deserve particular attention, and in the course of the present Winter, will be taken into consideration by Congress, and we hope effectually remedied. That a reform may take place in the army, and proper discipline be introduced, we wish to see the Military placed on such a foot ing as may make a Commission a desirable object to the Officer, and his Rank preserved from degradation & contempt; for these pur poses we intend to recommend to Congress That an half pay establishment be formed and adopted in the American Service. That a pensionary establishment take place in favour of Officers Widows. That a New regulation of Rank confining it as far as possible to the line of the Army be adopted. That an equitable mode of paying for back rations be ordered. Should these several regulations be approved and established by Congress (and we have reason to suppose they will) We trust the prevailing discontents will subside and a Spirit of emulation take place among the Gentlemen of the Army to promote the public service and introduce that order and discipline amongst the Troops so essential to the Military character. As a further inducement the Committee have it also in Contempla tion to propose in Congress that the Officers be permitted to dis pose of their Commissions under such regulations as may render the measure eligible. We are, Your Excellencys Most Obedt hble serv ants, Robt Morris Elbridge Gerry Jos. Jones
