December 12, 1777 403 Abraham Clark to William Livingston Sir, York Town Deer. 11. 1777. I Arrived here last evening & find Congress had just sent to New Jersey requesting a Representation. 1 I am just now applied too to know in what light the Prisoners from Jersey Confined in Carlile are to be Considered, whether Prisoners of War, or Traitors to the State of New Jersey. I mean those taken in Arms with Ried. Stockton. 2 If they should be Considered by Jersey as offenders Agst. that State they should be sent for &: tried, a determina tion in this affair will be Acceptable to Congress. I may be permitted to say I wish those Prisoners may be treated as offenders Against the Treason Act, I mean such of them as Joined the Enemy after passing such Act. As I but just arrived here, I have no News to send your Excellency, Remaining Sir, Your Obedt. Humble Servt. Abra. Clark RC (MHi). i Congress had instructed President Laurens on December 9 to “write in pressing terms to the states of New Jersey and Delaware, who are unrepre sented, to send delegates immediately to Congress,” but Laurens did not send a copy of this resolve to Governor Livingston because of the arrival in Congress of Abraham Clark on December 11 and John Witherspoon on December 17. See JCC, 9:1013, 1017, 1032; and Henry Laurens to William Livingston, December 29, 1777. a Richard W. Stockton was a major in the loyalist New Jersey Volunteers who had been captured in February 1777 and imprisoned at Philadelphia and Carlisle. Edward A. Jones, “The Loyalists of New Jersey,” Collections of the New Jersey Historical Society 10 (1927): 211-12. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren My dear sir Potsgrove Deer 12th 1777 I am favoured with yours of Novr 24th 1 on my Way from the Camp to Congress; & find that You have formed pleasing Expectations of Intelligence from this Quarter, which the Events that have hitherto taken Place will no Ways justifie. The brave officer Colo Smith who defended Fort Mifflin informs me, that Commodore Hazelwood who commanded the Gallies & was honored wth. a Sword; has since be haved like a Poltroon, & by not opposing his Gallies to the Indiaman that was warpt thro’ a Channel, wch being shoal was unguarded by the Chiveaux de Frize, the Fort was attack’d on every quarter, the Works beat down, Guns dismounted, & the Garrison after suffering greatly, were reduced to the Necessity of retiring. Had they been sup ported by the Army, who after several Days Deliberation determined to send a Body of Men to Province Island, to attack the Enemy in the
