406 December 12, 1777 Service, are unfit for Duty from the Want of Cloathing, & that Suffi cient Supply would enable them to take the Field immediately. The Articles therefore must be taken wherever found, 8c at reasonable prices, since the Neglect hereof may weaken our Army & infer the most ruinous Consequences. I wish to have your Sentiments on the Expediency of preventing all persons whatever (excepting publick officers) from purchasing the produce or Manufactures of these States or any Commodities therein imported, more than is necessary for the annual Consumption of themselves & Families, without Licence there for, 8c giving Bonds not to exceed the retail prices stipulated by the States. Few Retailers are sufficient for each County, 8c an unbounded Licence to Speculators has not a Tendancy to increase Trade, but promotes Extortion. This should not be continued longer than the War, or than is necessary to execute the regulating Acts, 8c if any per son wants to export (altho it answers few other purposes than to supply our Enemies) they may easily obtain a permit. My Compliments to Mr. Adams’s 8c all Friends, being sir with much Esteem yours sincerely, E Gerry P.S. The politicks of France wear an extraordinary Appearance, but G Howe must have reed, alarming Intelligence relating thereto, as he has ordered the Heights of Staten Island near the Narrows to be forti fied, 8c the Inhabitants are obliged to work every third day. RC (ICarbS: Elsie O. and Philip D. Sang deposit, 1974). i Warren’s letter is in Gardiner, Warren-Gerry Correspondence, pp. 96-98. 2 In his January 22, 1778, response to Gerry, Warren wrote at length in op position to price and trade regulations. Gardiner, Warren-Gerry Correspond ence, pp. 107-10. 3 Not found. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dear Sir York Pensylvania Deer. 12. 1777 I wrote you a few days ago by Post since which I reed, your favour of the 11th ultimo. Genl. Howe Marched out of Philadelphia on Friday last with his whole force with intention as was immagined to attack Genl. Washington in his lines at White Marsh, the Two Armies remained in sight of each Other until Sunday the 7th, Our militia under the Command of Genl. Potter Schyrmished with them, 8c in the Evening Coll Morgan with his Rifle men had a severe Action with the Enemys right wing, or rather a part of it, the report is that they lost a great many men killed, upwards of an hundred. Our loss but trifling. We drove the Enemy 8c kept the ground. Genl. Howe filed off his Army in three Columns, 8c is returned to Philadelphia, 8c
