408 December 12, 1777 Henry Laurens to Congress Gentlemen York Town 12 December 1777 In the Character of a Delegate in Congress give me leave to address you. Your President has been confined to his Chamber & his Bed for three days & Nights past during which time he has not had three hours Sleep. The Malady under which he labours has made such progress as to convince him by reflecting upon former attacks that he will not be able to move out of the House nor to attend his duty in Congress for some Weeks to come. When he accepted the Honour which you were pleased to confer on him it was with a single Eye to your service in the most comprehensive meaning. Now he finds him self incapable of performing his duty he is anxious to Resign that Honor, which he accepted only on obedience to your Vote. These, you may depend upon it Gentlemen, are the genuine senti ments of his mind. There already lies upon his Table much business which with pain he thinks of, because it is not in his power to give proper dispatch to it. Every day unless you are pleased to prevent it, will accumulate the heap, public business will be impeded and some branches run into Confusion. I therefore humbly move you Gentlemen to proceed to the choice of a President as an act of propriety & necessity. Be assured I should have continued to serve you with diligence & fidelity if my health had permitted, I trust I shall not only be seconded in this Motion but that there will not be a dissenting voice in Congress. 1 I am, Gentle men, Your faithful Coadjutor & humble servant, Henry Laurens RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). i The journals do not record Congress’ response to Laurens, but as he explained to John Lewis Gervais, Congress was "not disposed to grant my request but would in preference to appointing a new President, address the Chair & Secretary during my unavoidable absence.” Pleased by this "Compli ment,’’ Laurens agreed to remain in office. See JCC, 9:1022; and Laurens to John Lewis Gervais, December 30, 1777. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York 12th December 1777. I had the honour of writing to you the 8th Inst, by Messenger Barry. Your Excellency will find under this cover an important act of Congress calculated for availing your Excellency’s Troops & for de priving those of the Enemy, of the benefit of provisions adjacent to Philadelphia. 1
