December 12, 1777 409 I beg leave to refer your Excellency to the paper and that you will be pleased to excuse brevity as I am confined in Bed by the Gout. I am, Sir, yours &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See the resolves Congress adopted on December 10 pursuant to the report of the committee appointed on December 8 to study "the most effectual and vigorous measures for subsisting the army under General Washington, and dis tressing that of the enemy.” JCC, 9:1010-11, 1013-15. Marine Committee to the Middle Department Navy Board Gentlemen Decemr. 12 th 1777 Lieutenant Barney of the Frigate Virginia will hand you this—he came from Baltimore with a representation from Captain Nicholson that he was deficient in his Complement of men—we have therefore thought proper to despatch him down to your Board in order that you may procure for him 50 or 60 of the seamen belonging to the service now unemployed at Bordenton which we request you will do. The Virginia is under sailing orders and waits for those men to proceed. As we are very anxious to get her to sea we hope you will give all possible dispatch to this business. There will be occasion for Two or three Waggons to carry down the baggage &c and perhaps you may think best to send provisions along. Those Waggons will be furnished by the Quarter Masters Deputy nearest to you and we will just suggest that the men can go from the head of Elk by Water—you will give Lieutenant Barney suitable instructions which he will obey. There are now at Baltimore lying loaded with Tobacco on the public account a ship and a Snow which the Commercial Committee intend sailing to France, and would wish them to proceed down the Bay under Convoy of the Virginia. But as they are in want of Masters and Crews to navigate them (which it is impossible to procure where they are) we wish you to engage some proper persons for Masters and Mates and send down with Lieutenant Barney ten Seamen for each of the said Vessels. It is probable some of the Officers belonging to the Vessels that were destroyed will be willing to make this voyage. We shall write you again very soon and are, Gentn, Your hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book).
