December 15, 1777 413 wrote him or directed Mr Buchanan to Inform him of the dificulties which lie in his department, where he is and what is become of him we know not, we have heard that he had set out for the Eastern world sometime agoe but to prevent every dificulty for the future they have Impowered Govr Trumbull 8cc to supply every defect in both the purchasing and Issuing Department in that part of the world. Orders have been long Given to Mr Buchanan for 2 hund thousand dollars on the loan office in Boston for the Eastern Depart ment to be paid in preference to any other (as by the returns made from the Office they were good for more than that sum) & to be Immediately sent to Mr Colt, & to save & Indemnifye you the Treasury Board have rendered Valid, and to pass to your Account all the Stores Any Genii Officer shall either take or that you may deliver to their Order. I hope before this you are in a great measure relieved of your dificulties. You Inform me that you were about to set out for Boston & Salem to purchase Cloathing for the Colony & had it not been for Coll Williams’ letter 1 Informing you of the jealousies & Suspicions Congress had entertained of your Integrity 8cc you was about to undertake to supply with provisions from Connecticut but on his Information you declined having any thing to do with it & was so advised by the Govr & his Council. I should have thot that both the Govr & you had been long enough acquainted with Coll Williams, I mean the suddenness of his Temper, the warmth of his Imagination, the strong Impression sometimes a little matter makes on his mind (tho of an honest good heart), to lay so great a Stress upon his painting. I found he had wrote & feard as for some other of his letters they were unguarded & would have no good effect but the Contrary. He Informed me the ground of his letter was when some affairs touching the Commissy department were Agitated in Congress a Certain Member he would not tell me who not knowing as he supposes of his Connection with you Whispered him that he feard you was so put out and Chagrined at the New Regulations that you had in some measure embarrassed and discouraged Others in undertaking. I have no doubt but some body might throw out such a hint to him, and possibly some might have such fears or suspicion; but is that enough to lay so great a stress upon, when you have been repeatedly Assured that Congress in general & believe may say now Universally entertain a high opinion of your Abilities 8c Integrity in your whole Conduct in that Department. They have given you the Strongest Evidence of it by a Unanimous unsollicited Vote even of every Individual in Appointing you one of a Board the most honourable As well as Interesting to your Country. We had formerly 2 or 3 heady mischief making Gentn. in Congress, they are gone 8c believe will be here no more, the party is broke up, all is harmony 8c Union. Schuyler is no more. I was rather sorry to hear your long defence & Exculpation in your letter to Congress against Charges
