414 December 15, 1777 they had never heard nor believe Suspected and was equally sorry to hear the Governors letter 2 Complaining of the Treatment his sons had received especially at this time, when I can assure him & you that both you & your brother the Paymaster Stand in a fairer point of light with Congress than any two Gentn. ever employ’d by them, yet I am Sensible that at a time, to serve some friend or particular purpose your brother was superseded, & you have had now & then a Squib thrown at you but without making an impression prejudicial to your Carracter. Your brother John was ill treated I believe but all would have been put right had he been a little more soft in his letter. Old Doctr Witherspoon of high Scotch feeling was Netled 8c without any prejudice against the family principally opposed its being recti fied. You say it is a little wonderd at my & Coll Williams Recommen dation of a Certain Gentn. I did it from political Motives, which can explain to you when I may have the pleasure of seeing you again, which hope will be soon. Congress have great hopes 8c expec tations from this New Constituted Board of Warr. The Army in every Department wants a total reform & regulation both Internal & External, we are determined by the blessing of Heaven to have it Effected, our appointment meets with Universal Applause, great Expectations are from it. We have also Appointed Inspectors Genii of the Army in every department, who will be Executors 8c Assistants to the board of Warr, will Inspect, make their returns 8c reports to you. They are Gentn. of great knowledge, Abilities 8c Integrity and believe will be Intent to reform abuses, regulate disorders, Establish discipline in the Army. 3 Since the above receivd yours from Boston of the 7th, what is past cannot be helpd, we must make the best of what is to come. It is unaccountable what is become of Mr Colts order for 2 hund thousand dollars, a duplicate is now sent 8c a large sum in Cash, the order on New York reversed 8c an order to Govr and Council of Safety on Connecticut Loan office in Lieu of it, which we find now to be good for a Considerable sum. Congress have had every department to attend to, hope it is in a good way at last. The Govr 8c Councill may Employe Coll Champion 8c whom they please, Assist Mr Colt Cooperate one with another as much as possible. I know they dont want the trouble, but the mistakes in past Will require greater Exertions in the future. Our Army have done so much fighting this Summer they seem much Inclined to goe into Winter quarters and prepare for spring. If so How will have free plunder 8c possibly disturb them in their proposed quiet. My affectionate regard to family 8c am sincerely, Your. E Dyer RC (Ct). i See William Williams to Joseph Trumbull, November 4, 1777. 2 President Laurens responded to this letter from Governor Trumbull on January 5, 1778.
