December 15, 1777 415 a Dyer probably added the rest of this letter a few days later, as the com mittee report recommending that the army go into winter quarters was read on the 16th and the treasury report ordering funds for the governor and council from the Connecticut loan office was approved on the 20th. See JCC, 9:1029-31, 1041. Henry Laurens to the Rhode Island Expedition Commissioners York 15th December 1777 For the satisfaction of the good people of these United States & for the honour of the American Arms, Congress have judged it necessary that a proper & full enquiry be made into the cause of the failure of the late intended expedition against Rhode Island under the Com mand of General Spencer & into the conduct of the General Officers employed upon that occasion. For effecting this necessary Examen, Congress have appointed five Commissioners &: marked particular directions for their proceeding & from a confidence in your continued Zeal in the public Service have included your name in the Commission. For your further information please to be referred to a Certified Copy of the Act of Congress dated the 12th [i.e. 11th] Inst, which in company with this, I have the honour of transmitting. 1 I am with great Regard, Sir, your Obedient & most humble Servant LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “General Whipple, New Hampshire—per Mr. Storer. R. T. Paine Esqr. Massachusett, by the same. Egbert Benson Esqr. New York—by the same. Oliver Elsworth Esqr. Connecticut, by Browne. Henry Marchant Esqr. Rhode Island. By the same.” i Owing in part to repeated solicitations from Congress and some northern state conventions, the governments of Connecticut, Rhode Island, and Massa chusetts agreed in the fall of 1777 to launch a joint expedition against the British troops occupying Rhode Island. Joseph Spencer, a Continental major general from Connecticut, was placed in command of the expeditionary force, which began to gather in Rhode Island early in October. For various reasons, however, including manpower and supply shortages, tactical disagreements, and loss of the element of surprise, the attack was canceled in mid-October and the troops withdrawn. Congress, increasingly impatient with unsuccessful commanders in the field, therefore decided on December 11 to appoint five commissioners to go to Rhode Island to ascertain the causes of the expedition’s collapse. Those chosen were Egbert Benson, the attorney general of New York; Oliver Ellsworth, a member of the Connecticut Committee of the Pay Table and a nonattending delegate; Henry Marchant, a Rhode Island delegate on leave from Congress; Robert Treat Paine, the speaker pro tempore of the Massachusetts Assembly; and William Whipple, a New Hampshire delegate and militia officer. Al though Benson and Whipple were unable to serve, the other three commissioners met in Providence in February and March 1778, taking testimony and examining evidence already gathered by various state authorities, which they dispatched to Congress and which was referred to committee on April 8. This committee
