December 16, 1777 419 wish to see both parties well beaten.” This I judge to be the true and only Character of France. I am impatient at not hearing from our Commissioners. A Vessel is expected daily at Baltimore the Swallow, Capt. Martin, in whom Mr. McCreary sailed from B & reached F Sepr. 2d. Colo. F.L. Lee begs you would excuse his silence as he has large packets to answer to Virginia, by the Return of the post Tomorrow. He sends the kindest Regards to you. I beg you would accept those of your humb. Servt. J L RC (NN). i William Finnie’s December 5 letter to the Board of War was read in Con gress this day. See JCC, 9:1026. 2 Probably Benjamin Harrison’s December 5 letter to the Board of War, which was read in Congress this day. Ibid. 3 That is, William Lee. Thomas Burke’s Remarks on the Articles of Confederation [ante December 16, 1777] 1 I consider the Congress at present as a General Council of America, instituted for the purpose of opposing the usurpations of Britain, Conducting the war against her, and forming foreign alliances as necessary thereto. Incident to this must be the General direction of the Army and Navy, because they are the instruments of the war. Also for the providing necessary funds for the disbursements, because without them neither Army or Navy can subsist. Also the making Treaties with Foreign Powers, to be binding on all the states alike and equally to affect them, because this is the essence of foreign Alliance. This Idea of the Powers, use and authority of Congress, excludes all coersive Interpositions within the States respectively, except with respect to the Army and Navy, because the States are competent to every exertion of power within themselves. Also the appointment of ways and means for supplying the Contingents of Men, Money or other things otherwise than by recommendation which always im plies a power in the State to reject. Also the power of imprisoning or otherwise punishing any Citizen, because that is not necessary for the end of their Institution, and every individual is to be tried and punished only by those Laws to which he consents. The Congress for this reason can give no authority to any Man or set of Men to arrest or punish a Citizen, nor can it lawfully be done but by the Authority of the particular states. Also all pretence for continuance of a Congress after the war is concluded, or of assuming a power to any other purposes than what
