420 December 16, 1777 are above expressed. The Congress now determines by a majority which need not be more than five, and which seven is always con clusive. If the last mentioned exclusion be not right, the Congress might engage the states in Confederacies, injurious to all but the continued majority. Tis my Opinion that every State has a right to control the Cantonement of Soldiers within their Territories, but as all the Governments are not yet settled, it might be inconvenient to say any thing of it, and it is not necessary. Whenever a State finds occasion to exercise this right, I think none will be hardy enough to dispute it. But I believe it will be necessary for every established State to provide a mode whereby the Civil Authority can interpose to prevent Courts Martial from exceeding their Jurisdiction. ’Tis true a Soldier ex pressly consents to be bound by the articles of War, and to submit to the Martial Jurisdiction, but in all Trials, the first Question is the Iden[ti]ty which must in this case be the same as Soldier or Citizen? If the Court Martial can determine this question, it is in their power to call any Citizen a Soldier, and to subject him to military Law. This evidently points out the necessity of the check of the civil authority. The Confederation is a subject of the highest importance, but not having yet passed the House, except when in Committee, it seems it must not be laid before the assemblies. I shall deem it my duty to examine every Article of it with the most critical scrutiny, and submit my thoughts to the Assembly, and receive their Instructions. But I am told by the President that it will violate my obligation of secrecy, to do this before it has passed the House. If the Assembly agree with me in the foregoing Ideas, of the Power, use and Authority of Congress I beg leave to recommend that they instruct their Delegates not to depart from them, nor to consent to any act or resolve which shall tend to exempt the Courts Martial from the Control of the civil power in the States. I am not desirous of these Instructions in order to restrain the Delegates. I believe none of them even without Instructions would vote contrary to those Ideas, but as all questions are carried by a majority in Congress, the state may perhaps be bound tho’ her Delegates should dissent, especially where the Instructions are so general and Powers so indefinite as ours. I wish the State therefore to instruct, and by some public act to disclaim being bound by any resolves contrary to her Instructions. Without something of this kind, according to the present Constitution of Congress it may be impossible for the Delegates to preserve the Independence of the State, from Encroachments for by that Constitution they are not allowed to protest or enter their Dissent. These thoughts are humbly submitted to the Honorable the General Assembly of North Carolina by their most respectful humble Servant, Thos. Burke
