December 16, 1777 421 Tr (Nc—Ar). i Burke prepared these remarks for the North Carolina Assembly before he learned of the approval of the Articles of Confederation by Congress on Novem ber 15. As he took his seat in the lower house of the assembly on December 1 but did not learn of congressional approval of the Articles until December 16, it seems likely that he composed these remarks sometime during these two weeks. There is no evidence in the assembly journal of when Burke submitted them to the legislature; and the text of the document comes from Gov. Richard Caswell’s Executive Letter Book. James Duane to Horatio Gates Sir Manour Livingston 16th Decemr 1777 Congress have been pleased to appoint Brigr. General Stark to the Command of an Enterprize which they have much at Heart—It’s success under Providence depending entirely upon Secrecy. For fear of a miscarriage of the Dispatches, I am directed in a personal Conference at Albany to explain their Views and deliver to him his Commission and Instructions. Where that General is employd at present Congress is uninformed and have therefore directed me to trouble you with forwarding the enclosed Letter. 1 One from you might quicken his Journey to Albany, and as no Time should be lost I must request that Favour, as well as that you will be so obliging as to employ in this Business an Express on whose Diligence you can rely, and to order him to proceed to this place with General Stark’s Answer as soon as possible. If you can form any probable Conjecture when it may be expected your Opinion will regulate my Conduct. Be pleasd, Sir, to accept my sincere Congratulations on the glorious Success of the American Arms under your immediate Command. A Series of Victories so critical and decisive cannot fail of producing, with the Blessing of Heaven, The most important and permanent advantages to the United States; while they have rescued this devoted Government, already almost ruined, from total Destruction. I hope to have the Pleasure of an Interview with you before you proceed to Congress. From what I learn it would ease your mind on a Subject which, without any Reason, has given you Pain. You may be assurd that you hold a high Place in the Esteem and Confidence of Congress. We may hourly expect important news from the Army under General Washington. As I passed thro’ Reading I collected the following Circumstances, on the Truth of which you may rely. General Howe marched out of Philadelphia the Evning of the 4th Instant with all the troops he coud collect leaving only 1500 men to garrison Philadelphia. In his march he was harrassed by Morgan’s Light Infantry and the militia. He however on the 5th took possession of Chestnut Hill within two miles of our army which was strongly
