December 16, 1777 425 Suffered exceedingly from the fire of those Excellent Marksmen. Genl. Washington was informed by some deserters that their loss in killed & wounded was 500, but this acct, he thinks Exaggerated. I fear it was. Genl. Howes Intention in this Maneouvre was to have attacked Our Army Expecting to find them off their guard, in this he was dissap- pointed, & then by keeping up a Shew in frount with his light Troops, he marched off his Artillery & heavy armed Troops towards the City; soon after those in front filed off on the right and Left, & by a pre cipitate March Out general’d us, as usual, a Large body of Our light Infantry were ordered to pursue but could not come up with them until they had got within the Lines. Thus ended this affair. They have since sent a Large body over the Schuylkiln to forage. The Militia under Genl. Potter were Surprised, but maintained a Smart Action with them for a Short time, took several of them Prisoners, but lost an equal Number at least of his men taken by the Enemy; this Account comes not from Authority but is believed. We have as yet no News Paper Published in this Town otherwise I should send you some of them. Since the Confederation has been finished, several Reccommendations to the Legislatures of the States have been sent by Expresses. I need not mention them, they will Speak for them selves. I beg you will inform me of the Temper you find Our Assembly in. Are they inclined to pursue Spirited Measures? For Gods sake fill up your Batalions, Lay Taxes, put a Stop to the Sordid & avaritious Spirit which has Infected all ranks & Conditions of Men. Regulate the Prices of all Comodities, at least such as are immediately useful to Our Army; The united States will not much longer be able to procure them at the very exorbitant prices they are now sold at. We have already received an Account from Connecticut that their State is much dissatisfied with the mode in the Confederation of fix ing the Quota of Each State by the value of Lands. Numbers of Inhabitants including Slaves is their favourite Plan. A Valuation of all Property throughout the Continent was allowed to be the most equitable mode for fixing the Quotas, but this was said to be impracticable. All our foreign Intelligence indicates that Europe will soon be in a flame. Let us not depend upon this. If we have virtue, we certainly have power, to work out our own Salvation. I hope without fear or trembling. I wish I could inform you of a Victory Obtained over G1 Howe. I fancy we must wait until Stern Winter builds a Bridge over the Schuilkiln. Small parties of our Army have been Successful however in taking several of the Enemy Prisoners. 95 arrived in this Town the night before the last 8c three officers of Low rank. They go on to Virginia Tomorrow. As to the prospect you wish for, of accommodating Mrs. Burke here, I beg you will not think of it. Be assured it is Impossible, you will
