426 December 16, 1777 hardly be able to get a bed to Sleep in. I should be sorry to see my Country woman in distress which be assured must be the Case if you bring her here. No my friend, let her remain at your own peaceful Mansion in expectation of better times. Be assured that my expenses since I arrived in this Town, a very little more than two Months has been upwards of £200 Currency, and I never Lived in so wretched a manner in my life. I shall be under the Necessity of procuring an advance from the Treasury of at least 1000 Dollars over and above my Allowance from the State, which is very handsom. I shall be con tent if this will bring me home with a Single dollar in my pocket. Mention not this; If you do, I am sure you will not be believed, but it is as true as the Gospel. God only knows what this Country will Come to at last. Mrs. Trist is well at Lancaster. I have had great pleasure in Cor responding with her. 1 She is a sweet sensible Creature. I shall forward your Letter tomorrow. I wish you health, Happiness 8c a good Session. With unfeigned esteem I am, Dear Sir, Your affect 8c Obed Servt. Cornl. Harnett [P.S.] I am so harrassed by Attending Congress, The Treasury board, the Commercial Committee 8cc that I can hardly find time to write to my friends. Tell Messs. Hooper 8c Maclain I shall write them by next Post. It is now 11 o’Clock at night. Hence not time to Copy or Correct. RC (NcU). i Harnett’s letters to Mrs. Trist have not been found. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dear Sir York Pensylvania Deer. 16. 1777 I wrote you a few days ago in Answer to your favour of the 11th ulto. You are Constantly Plaguing me for News, 8c I can hardly ever meet with any thing Interesting to Communicate. The Campaign has been very inactive, ever since Genl. Howe took possession of Phil adelphia. However he made a Movement on the 6th Before day, with almost his whole force, leaving only a few men behind 8c appeared in Battle Array before Our Army at about a Miles Distance, Expecting to find them unprepared, in this he was mistaken. Some small Schyrmishing ensued in which the British Troops suffered more than Ours, Genl. Irwin Attacked their light Troops with some of Our Militia, we took some prisoners about 20 8c lost about 10 or 12 killed 8c wounded, the General was among the Latter 8c taken Prisoner by the Enemy. Coll Morgan had a very severe Conflict with another party, this Gentn commands the Virginia 8c Pensylvania Rifle men. He lost about 26 also killed 8c wounded. The Enemys loss must have
