430 December 17, 1777 any Information they had of our Motions; but was designed to secure the pass while they were foraging in the neighbouring Country. They were met in their advances by Genl. Potter with part of the Pennsylvania Militia who behaved with bravery and gave them every opposition ’till they were obliged to retreat from their superior num bers. He collected a good deal of forage and retired to the City the night we passed the River. No Discrimination marked his proceed ings. All property whether friends or foes that came in their way was seized and carried off. G. Washington it seems means to go into Winter Quarters at Wil mington, which I am afraid will be attended with pernicious Con sequences. Wm Ellery P.S. Deer. 19. Lt. Col. Barton who arrived this day from the Army tells me that our Army will hut this Winter at Valley forge near the Schuylkill & about 20 miles from Philadelphia. RC (R-Ar). A continuation of Ellery to Cooke, December 14, 1777. 1 Congress finally decided on August 7, 1778, that the expense of Gen. Joseph Spencer’s abortive Rhode Island expedition would “be borne by the continent.” JCC, 11:761. Gen. William Heath had raised this issue in a Novem ber 24 letter to the Board of Treasury that Congress had read on December 15 and referred to the committee “to enquire into the rise of the expedition against Rhode Island.” JCC, 9:1027; and PCC, item 157, fol. 29. 2 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:155-60. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York 17th December 1777. I had this Morning the honour of receiving Your Excellency’s dispatch dated 14th & 15th Currt. inclosing Copy of a Letter from Lt. General Burgoyne, which, without reading them through, I sent directly to Congress, from whence I am this moment charged with a Resolve, formed, I presume, as the present necessary direction for a reply to the British General’s application to your Excellency. 1 The business appearing to me to demand all decent respect & dispatch I shall put it immediately in motion. I have the honour to be with sincere Esteem & regard &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 After reading General Burgoyne’s request to Washington for “leave to embark his Troops at Rhode Island or at some place in the sound,” Con gress resolved that Washington inform Burgoyne “the Congress will not receive nor consider any proposition for indulgence or altering the terms of the con vention of Saratoga, unless immediately directed to their own body.” JCC, 9:1032; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:157-58.
