432 December 17, 1777 as from the Commercial Committee and have signed them. 3 If they are approved you & the other members had best sign ’em also and have them Copied in the Letter Book 8c dispatched by the first Con veyance. With respect to Mr. T.M. it was never my Wish or desire that he should be employed one Moment longer than he rendered Service, therefore I have wrote a Letter of Dismission to him also en closed herewith which I desire may be signed by the Committee if approved 8c forwarded immediately. It is needless to [say] how much my Feelings are wounded on this occasion. Let it suffice [that] I do my Duty to my Country by taking these measures the Moment I knew them to be necessary 8c the Letters that convince me of it are but this day arrived. Perhaps it may be necessary that this 8c the Let ters enclosed with it be laid before Congress 8c if you think so I can have no objection. Indeed I woud chuse Congress should be made acquainted with my readiness to dismiss Mr. T M. from their Serv ice the Moment I thought he merited such dismission. The Bills mentioned in the Letter to Mr. Lee Mr. Ceronio was authorized to draw 8c they must be paid as he sent Arms, Powder, Blankets 8cc. for the amot. last Winter. I am, Sir, Your Obedt. humble Servt. (Copy) Robt Morris Tr (MH-H). Addressed: “To The Honorable Wm Smith Esqr, for the Com mercial Committee, York.” In the hand of John Swanwick and signed and addressed by Morris. 1 After his service with the committee at headquarters during the week fol lowing December 3, 1777, Morris began a six-month leave of absence from Congress which he spent primarily at his home in Manheim, approximately 25 miles northeast of York. Although he had requested leave to put his personal affairs in order, and “to adjust some of the Publick accounts that cannot be done whilst my attention is engaged” in Congress, his private and public activities were so inextricably intertwined that congressional affairs were never far from his attention. He intermittently worked on the accounts of the old Secret Committee (as the Committee of Commerce had been known before its reorganization in July 1777), and a considerable quantity of correspondence pertaining to the Committee for Foreign Affairs and the Marine Committee continued to be delivered at his home almost the entire period of his leave. Furthermore, delegates and other officials visited him periodically, and on at least four occasions he made brief trips to York (in his personal correspondence he stated on March 10, 1778, that he was setting off for York and on January 5, March 29, and April 21 that he had just returned). Therefore, although Morris did not actually attend Congress from the beginning of December until about May 13, 1778, his correspondence from Manheim during this period holds considerable interest for the study of Congress. a See Morris to Silas Deane, June 29, 1777, notes 2 and 4. For his troubles with his brother, see also Morris’ letters to Deane, Thomas Morris, and James Ross of January 31, 1777. 3 See the letters of this date of the Committee of Commerce to Thomas Morris and to Pliarne, Penet & Co.
