436 December 18, 1777 and receive Embassadors, but not that this Power should be sole ahd exclusive. I should like an Amendment to this purpose “shall have the sole and exclusive Power of declaring War and Concluding Peace, and of Sending, and receiving ambasadors in the name of the united States of Entering into Treaties and alliances equally binding upon, and affecting the whole.” Here the Exceptions to those general rules should come by way of provision. The remaining powers in the first Section of this article are Incident to the power of declaring War. They are only an Execution of the Law of Nations quoad hoc. The second Section is [b]adly worded, “the united States shall be the last resort on appeal in all disputes between the states.” I have no Idea of an appeal, or last resort unless their be some prior Juris diction and prior resort, and I know of no such thing between the States. But my Objection to this Section is more Substantial. If the Congress are to Nominate the persons who Constitute the Judicatory I can easily foresee it will not always if ever be impartial. The Con gress cannot know any persons to appoint, but such as are Suggested by the parties and that State which has the prevailing Interest in Congress will thus Nominate all the Judges. Their being drawn from each State, and afterwards drawn by Lot is no Security, because three persons in each State are easily corrupted. If this article were amended by giving the Nomination by ballot to the States not Interested it would answer better to my Idea of an Impartial arbiter between the States, and the Congress should have this Power only as the Official Instrument for erecting the Occasional Tribunal, and for carrying its degrees into Execution. As it now stands they have it too much in their power to Influence the decisions which they themselves are to execute which in my Opinion is dangerous in any political Com munity. The third section might be easily fitted to the Amendment I pro pose. The four[th] Section includes many powers which I cannot per ceive either to be necessary or proper for Congress. Regulating the al loy of Coin struck by authority of any of the States, fixing the Standard of weights and measures, regulating the Trade and affairs with Indians, and all that appertains to the Naval force which ought never in my opinion to be under any restraint or authority of Con gress except in time of public war. The first of these is dangerous, because it gives to a Council which is Composed of but very few members from each State and which is without Control an unlimitted power over the property of Individuals. The power to increase the alloy is a power to pay off any Debt with less than the sum Con tracted for, and involves an extensive power over property. In the fifth Section the power to borrow money and emit Bills, is an unlimitted power over all property. It is a power to Tax at pleas ure, and ought never to be in Congress but when given by the
