438 December 18, 1777 James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir 18 Deer. [1777] A Packet arriving this Week directed to the Committee of Corres pondence, and containing only a Letter from Berlin for Congress, 1 I took the freedom of opening one directed to our worthy Friend S Adams in yr. Brother A’s handwriting, of which I send you a copy so far as was material to the Public. Paris July 31st “Journeys to the Courts of Spain & Berlin have satisfied me that the determined system of Europe is to let us struggle through this War as we can with the warmest Professions of Friendship, with the strongest declarations of their being interested in our success and therefore ardently wishing it. Nothing can move them from their quietism & caution which are carried to a perfectly ridiculous ex treme. Spain is totally occupied with its little Portuguize War; France is governed by Timidity in the excess; and the 3 great northern Powers are immersed in schemes of plundering the Turk 8c the Pole, and dividing the spoil. In this situation of Europe, notwithstanding the justice of our cause has rendered all men in our favour, it is not wonderful that you are left, like Hercules in his cradle, to strangle the Serpent that is the terrour of Europe. “In this Situation it is happy for us that the extravagance of the enterprise has already so exhausted the means of our Enemies that, it is certain, this is the last campaign of vigour they can make against us. “When our point is secured by the energy of our own exertions, we shall think it happy that the fears 8c occupations of the powers of Europe have prevented them from forming treaties with us, when our situation would have given them infinite advantages. “When our distresses are past 8c our fears subsided, we shall be enabled to see 8c to follow our interests in the alliances we form; which I do not think would be intirely the case at present.” Besides this public matter of your Brother’s letter he adds a Note. “A Mr. Carmichael obtained from me a letter to you under a pre tence of his going immediately to America. I have since found him to be a very unworthy person, whom I can by no means recommend to your patronage.” You will see more sentiments of this kind written to Coll. Francis. I wish these hints had come before our late Action of Mr. C . 2 One of Monticu’s Vessels has arrived at Portsmouth with the fol lowing articles for the Continental Account. 48 Brass 4 Pounders with Carriages compleat 19 9 Inch mortars
