440 December 19, 1777 William Ellery to Ezra Stiles Dear Sir, York Town Pennsylvania Deer. 19th. 1777. I most sincerely wish it were in my power to advise you to such a Conduct as would most advance your happiness and the happiness of your family; but here I am at a Loss. If I could determin this point you should have my most hearty consent to embrace what should appear eligible. It would assist me much in forming a Judg ment if I should know what Salary your present parish would give you to settle with them, and how you like the place and people. If the place & people should be as agreeable as at New Haven; and the Salary is not considerably less I think I should advise to your settling in Portsmouth. An hundred Dollars, in my mind, would weigh more than the Honour of Presidentship, and the Trouble I imagin of the Presidt of a College much exceeds that of a Minister, not to say any thing about the superior Expence in Living of the former to the latter. I wish there were a Prospect of your Newport Flock ever re turning, but alass! they are scatter’d up and down the Land like Sheep without a Shepherd, and it is probable that many of them will never return again to Newport. If I could foresee that in the course of a few years there would be enough of them collected to give you a comfortable support I should not hesitate to desire you not to ac cept the Presidency of Yale College, and to refuse settling at Ports mouth, or any where else, for I don’t know any place where if you were family, could be comfortably subsisted, you would be so happy as at Newport; and I am perswaded that the Second Congregation in Newport will never find a Minister whom they will so universally love and respect as Dr. Stiles; but this is so improbable that in con sidering the subject of your Election it ought not to weigh much. 1 I dont remember that I ever receivd the Letter you wrote to me from Mr Marchants respecting this Matter. If I had ever received it I think I should have answered it. I wrote you a Letter sometime since 2 in which I said something humorously regarding your future return to Newport; but tho’ humorously said it had, as sometimes my funny speeches have, a very serious meaning. I think, may it please your reverence, that if you could take a rich Wife at Portsmouth and could make it in your Bargain that She should go with you to Newport, when Peace and Independency shall be established, it might settle this knotty business. Most ardently wishing you in this and in all your Ways infinitely better direction than the wisest of Mortals can give, or even your own uninspired Wisdom can suggest I continue to be with the sincerest Regard for you and your family, Dr Sir, yrs most affectionately, Wm Ellery [P.S.] The Enemy’s Army have been out twice from the City lately, the first time with a determination to attack our Army it was said;
