444 December 19, 1777 he has proposed.” See JCC, 9:1033-36; Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:104-5; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:386. As Washington had already moved his headquarters to Valley Forge before President Laurens’ December 20 letter enclosing this resolve reached him, he merely responded with an explanation of the choices he believed had been open to him, although he could not in a subsequent letter resist contrasting the distress troops experienced sleeping “under frost and Snow without Cloaths or Blankets” with the condition of gentlemen drawing “remonstrances in a com fortable room by a good fire.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:186-88, 196. Jonathan Bayard Smith to George Bryan Dr Sir, York Town, Deer. 19th, 1777. This day the memorial from our State concerning the cantonment of the regular army was taken into consideration. Congress had some time ago, by a Committee, recommended to Genl. Washington, if he determined to take winter quarters, to dispose of his army in such manner as would most effectually cover the Country, 8cc. They have now ordered the memorial of our State to be transmitted to the Genl, & have desired him to inform Congress whether he is about to canton his troops, & where, & what provision he has made for securing the East side of Schuylkill 8c the State of N. Jersey. This you will be pleased to communicate to the Gentlemen of both houses for their present satisfaction. A copy of the resolution I have not time by this opportunity to forward, but suppose it will be sent more formally by our delegates by the next opportunity that may offer. We hear that the army are about putting in the Gulph valley. This is the wish of Congress as far as I can judge. I am, Dr Sir, Yr afft 8c v. h. st, J. B. Smith. MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 6:109. Addressed: "To Honble George Bryan, Esq., Vice President of the State of Pennsylvania, Lancaster.” Abraham Clark to William Alexander My Lord, York Town Deer. 20. 1777. We have been much alarmed by a report that the Army was going into Winter quarters on and about Wilmington, thereby leaving New Jersey and a great part of Pennsa. entirely open to the Enemy. This Supposed measure produced several Resolutions of Congress, which, with a Remonstrance on that Subject from the Legislature of Pennsa. are forwarded to the Commander in Chief requesting his particular Attention to the Security of New Jersey 8cc. We had before Congress the Opinions of the General officers respecting proper places for Cantoning the Army, and with great pleasure find you in favour of the Valley near Schuylkill, which in the judgement of all
