December 21, 1777 453 William Ellery to William Whipple Dear Sir [December 21, 1777] 1 Your letter was so agreeable that when I read it I should have ceased to think that you ought to have answered mine sooner if you had not apologized for omitting it so long. When I read the Conven tion I was so disappointed that I was disposed to criticize every part of it and to ask many questions which at another time perhaps I should not have done. At that time I did not know so well the situa tion of affairs on the North River nor that of our army. I am better reconciled to it now than I was, and was I sure the enemy would preserve their public faith should be satisfied. 2 The reason I asked you why Ticonderoga and Mount Independence were not included in the Convention of Saratoga was because I thought those places were garrisoned by soldiers under the command of Burgoyne. The question on the word contest is wittily answered. The question on the word post was occasioned by a misprint in the newspaper I read. Instead of British post it was port. General Gates hath returned the number of the enemy at the time of the Convention, but not an ac count of their losses since the time they crossed the Lakes; nor our loss from time to time and the number of our troops Continental and Militia at the surrendry. I am sorry to find the Commissary’s and Quarter Master’s departments in such disorder. I expected Con fusion in the former from the plan; the latter would have been less confused if Genl Mifflin had not by an ill state of health, been obliged to resign the office of Quarter Master General. He is greatly recovered and is now appointed a Member of a new constituted Board of War, of which General Gates is appointed President; the other members are Cols Trumbull (the late Commissary General) Pickering and Mr Richard Peters. Genl Gates still retains his rank of Major General and may be ordered into the field when Congress shall think necessary. When this Board meets it is expected that they will rectify the errors & disorders in those departments, and put every thing in the Army within their sphere on a better foot than they at present stand. General Conway is appointed an Inspector General of the Army with the rank and pay of Major General. The duties of this office it would be impertinent to point out to General Whipple. I am in hopes that the measures adopted and adopting will enable our army to take the field early in the Spring under great advantages. Genl Howe with his whole force moved out of Philadel phia the fourth instant with an intent as he had given out, to at tack our army and drive it beyond the mountains; but after march ing, counter-marching & manoeuvering several days with a view of drawing General Washington from his strongholds they returned in again. On the eleventh our Army marched from their old encamp ment, and intended to pass the Schuylkill at Madison’s ford, about
