454 December 21, 1777 12, or 13 miles from Philadelphia where a bridge had been laid across the river. When the first & part of the 2d division had passed, they found a body of 4000 under the command of Lord Cornwallis possessed of the heights. Our troops were obliged to repass and were prevented getting over until the succeeding night. This manoeuvre on the part of the enemy was not in consequence of any informa tion they had of our motions, but was designed to secure the pass while they were foraging in the neighboring country. They were met in their advances by General Potter with part of the Pennsyl vania militia who behaved with bravery and gave them every pos sible opposition, until they were obliged to retreat from their superior numbers. Cornwallis collected a good deal of forage and returned to the City the night our army passed the river. No dis crimination marked his proceedings. All property whether friend’s or foes that came in their way was seized and carried off. Our Army by the last accounts was near the Gulph Mill, about as I am told, 12 or 13 miles West of Schuylkill on the Lancaster Road—where they intend to winter I know not. I wish there was the same spirit in the main army as displayed itself to the Northward and that the militia in this state were animated with that ardor which blazed forth in the Sons of Hampshire, Massachusetts and Connecticut on the banks of Hudson; then our harrassed troops might winter gloriously in Philadelphia; but alas! Our soldiers in the hands of the enemy at Philadelphia and New York, especially in the former, are treated in a most barbarous man ner and a number of them have perished with famine. Some of them have died in the State house yard with grass in their mouths as I have been informed different ways. How long shall we forbear to retaliate on those worse than savages! On application from General Washington, Sir Wm Howe consented that he should send in an officer to see how our soldiers were treated whereupon one was sent to the City, but Sir Wm denied him admission saying that he need not give himself any concern about the prisoners, that he would take care of them, I believe we shall take care how Sir Wm’s com missaries of prisoners are allowed to go about the States providing for and taking care of the prisoners in our hands. Congress have passed a resolve that all their supplies shall be paid for in gold and silver in solid coin. About 100 of the enemy from New York under the cover of a dark night not long since set fire to several houses in Philip’s Manor within about four miles of General Parson’s encampment, seized their inhabitants, stripped them naked both men & women and led them with halters round their necks in hellish triumph to New York. Genl Parsons remonstrated in a firm manly tone to Govr General Tryon on this occasion and was answered by him in an insolent haughty letter vindicating his barbarity and threatening destruction
