464 December 23, 1777 inclosed resolve of the 20th directing you to transmit an Authentic Account of the Maltreatment which John 8c William 2 Vantassel & their families Suffered from the Enemy. The Original Letter also from Govr. Tryon of the 23 November you are desired to forward. Your proceeding to retort the injuries received from the Enemy, by the destruction of Mr. Delancey’s House within five Miles of the City of New York although not recognized in Congress, affords as far as I can learn, general Satisfaction. I am with very great Regard LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Samuel H. Parsons Esquire, Brigadier General, at Maroneck Connecticut.” i General Parson’s December 2 letter to Laurens, which described a recent raid by Gen. William Tryon in the vicinity of Mamaroneck, N.Y., is in PCC, item 161, fols. 327-29. 2 Philip is the forename given in JCC, 9:1040. Henry Laurens to the States Sir York Town 23d December 1777. I am directed by Congress to transmit to your honorable body, the enclosed resolutions, which the pressing wants of the army, & the arts & avarice of engrossers & extortioners have rendered indispensibly necessary to the general welfare. 1 It is with deep concern that Congress after having for some time contemplated in painful silence the mischiefs which threaten this extended continent from the growing avarice of the times, feel them selves constrained to recommend measures, which the virtue of all classes of men rendered not long since, unnecessary, 8c which a scrupulous regard for the security of property to every citizen of these States has hitherto restrained them from adopting; but (un happy the case of America) Laws unworthy the character of infant republics are become necessary to supply the defect of public virtue, Sc to correct the vices of some of her sons; Sc she is called upon by the grand principle of self preservation to guard against the parricide of those, whom she has fostered in her own bosom. To minds, whose reflections are employed on the importance of the cause in which we are engaged, 8c which feel for every circumstance which may affect the honor and safety of these States, it must give the most painful sensations to consider, that at a time when the late signal successes we have been blest with, the reduced numbers of the enemy, the difficulties they meet with in procuring foreign levies, 8c the political complexion of affairs in Europe, have deprived Britain of many of those resources, on which she has so much depended; when the numbers 8c improving discipline of our army, the prodigious augmentation of our military stores, the quantity of
