December 23, 1777 465 provisions, with which this country abounds, & the large supplies of cloathing, which have of late been imported by private persons afford not only the opportunity but the means, under divine providence, of establishing our liberties by a few exertions, this bright prospect should be clouded over, & this great & glorious event endangered, by the languor of too many, & by the arts & avarice of designing individuals, who like the British Nabobs of the East, are corrupting the manners of a whole nation, 8c building vast fortunes on the destruction of the liberties of the Western World. It is to be hoped however, that the wise 8c spirited laws of the different States, aided by the influence 8c exertions of the real patriots, will apply effectual remedies to these alarming evils; that the old 8c hardened offenders will be punished, that those in whose bosoms the sparks of public virtue are not yet extinguished, will be re claimed; the languid roused from their present apathy; 8c that all classes of men will unite with their former spirit 8c virtue against an enemy, whose progress is marked with every vestige of barbarity, 8c whose determined object is to establish a tyranny of the most dangerous 8c debasing nature over the inhabitants of a vast continent. Congress flatter themselves that the resolutions herewith trans mitted will tend to accomplish some of these valuable purposes, 8c they therefore esteem it their duty to recommend them to the serious consideration of your honourable house, 2 8c hope they will be carried into execution, as expeditiously 8c secretly as possible. By order of Congress, Henry Laurens, President RC (R-Ar). In a clerical hand and signed by Laurens. This circular letter to the legislatures of the states was prepared by the committee appointed on December 12 to consider letters from Deputy Clothier General Samuel A. Otis. JCC, 9:1022, 1031, 1033, 1042, 1040-47. 1 For the December 20 resolves referred to here, see JCC, 9:1043-45. Laurens also transmitted copies of these resolves with brief letters that he wrote on this day to Gov. Nicholas Cooke of Rhode Island and President Meshech Weare of New Hampshire, on December 26 to Govs. Thomas Johnson of Mary land, Patrick Henry of Virginia, and Richard Caswell of North Carolina, and on December 29 to President John Rutledge of South Carolina and Gov. John Treutlan of Georgia. PCC, item 13, fols. 68-70, 85-87. 2 Laurens inadvertently offended Gov. Jonathan Trumbull by addressing an RC of this letter to the speaker of the Connecticut Assembly rather than to the governor himself. For the minor tempest stirred up by this oversight, see James Lovell to Joseph Trumbull, January 27; Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, February 8; and Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., February 9, 1778. Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, York 23d December 1777 The last which I had the honour of writing to your Excellency was dated the 3d Inst, since which your Excellency’s favor of the 3d found
