466 December 23, 1777 me where I am still confined in Bed by a Severe attack of the Gout. This however has not exempted me from Duty. Congress were not pleased to appoint another member to act as President which I intreated them to do, as soon as I discovered that the visit was like to be formidable. I have therefore been drudging on not much regarding the little addition of pain occasioned by the exercise of body in such awkward positions as the Case requires. I regret that tis not in my power to reply so particularly as I would do if I were able to your Excellency’s favour above mentioned as well as to one or two dispatches which I sent immediately upon Receipt of them to Congress & have not seen them Since. Probably the needful answer to these may be contained in some of the papers which I am to forward under Cover with this Vizt. Resolve of the 9th Inst, intimating the necessity for a more ample Representation in Congress than the present & calling upon certain States, among others Connecticut to send forward an additional number of Members without delay. Resolve of the 17 th requesting & authorising your Excellency & the Council to lay up Salt provisions for the use of the Army & to Co operate with Mr. Colt. An Act of the 19th restricting the payment for all supplies to Brit ish Prisoners to be made by equivalents of provisions & other nec essaries or in Gold & Silver to which is subjoined a Resolve of the 22d directing that all Gold & Silver which shall be received in conse quence of this Regulation be paid into the Continental Treasury. A Warrant dated the 20th upon the Loan Office Connecticut for 200,000 Dollars for enabling the payment for provisions. In a packet under a flying Seal which will accompany this your Excellency will receive a Letter framed by, & Signed by order of, Congress addressed to the Speaker of the General Assembly together with an Act of Resolves particularly referred to in the Letter. 1 In the mode of Address I have followed the order I received, but your Excellency will be pleased to understand that it is intended for the Legislative powers of the State & will dispose of it accordingly. In another packet your Excellency will receive twenty four Blank Commissions for private Ships of War with an equal number of Bonds & Instructions. It is now much passed Midnight. I hope I have executed without error the several charges laid on me, if not I am sure your goodness Sir upon this extraordinary occasion will readily pardon me. I shall have the honour of addressing your Excellency again in a very few days. Mean time I remain with very great esteem & regard &ca LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i See Laurens to the States, this date, note 2.
