December 23, 1777 467 Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York 23d December 1777 I had the honour of writing to your Excellency the 20th by Messenger Macklosky Since which I have not received any of your Excellency’s favours nor any Commands from Congress to be trans mitted to you. General Conway is so polite as to afford me an opportunity of conveying a Packet to your Excellency which I received last Evening from Majr. General Gates. At the same time I send the correspond ence alluded to in my last between Brigadier Parsons & General Tryon, I believe I was premature in giving this Gentleman the title of Sir William—& I also add Copy of a Letter from the Brigadier to a Member of Congress which shews that he had retorted the injuries he complained of by an Act which he would not have the Enemy believe he meditated. If your Excellency shall not have seen other Copies these will give some information. For the first Instance, a British Crew of a vessel bound from Granada to New York with 70 Puncheons of Rum & Six Hogsheads Sugar for the use of the Enemy’s Troops, some time last Month dispossessed the Master of Command 8c carried the Vessel into Charles Town So. Carolina, where, accord ing to a Resolve of Congress the Value of Vessel 8c Cargo were adjudged prize to the Captors. 1 This Resolve was founded on the practice of the British Court for encouraging infidelity 8c treachery among our Seamen. I hope all their infamous examples 8c I have no doubt this particular one will be retaliated an hundred fold. I remain with very great regard 8c Esteem. 8cca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 This resolve had been passed on October 14. JCC, 9:802. James Lovell to William Whipple Dear Sir, Dec 23d 1777. I have rec’d your favor by Mr Storer and was exceedingly pleased with the invoice of a newly arrived cargo, but I would not have you think that the live stock mentioned in your letter created any part of my pleasure—quite the reverse, I assure you. You will have officers on furlough from the grand army to give an history of their own feats so that I need not dwell upon that topic. I will only say that it is determined to hut at and near Sweed’s Ford. You seem most to expect from me foreign news. It is strange that we have had no letters from the Commissioners since the 26th of May last. It is true we have a small epistle from A.L.—Dated Berlin June
