468 December 23, 1777 and some letters from him and his brother Wm 1 dated July 31st and Sept 3d, all discouraging as to the temper of the European Courts, they being full of professions of friendship and declarations of being interested in our success, and therefore ardently wishing it while nothing can move them from their qualms and caution which are carried to a very ridiculous length. Spain is said to be engaged only about her little Portuguese War. France is governed by timidity and the three great Northern powers are immersed in schemes of plundering the Turk and the Pole and dividing the spoils; while Europe is in this temper, though the justice of our cause has made all men unanimous in our favor, it is not wonderful (says our friend) that we are left like Hercules in his cradle to strangle the serpent that is the terror of Europe. “You Sir with Mr Lee will think it happy for us that the fears and occupations of the powers of Europe have prevented them from forming treaties with us when our situation would have given them infinite advantages. “When our distresses are past and our fears subsided, we shall be enabled to see and to follow our interests in the alliances we form, which I do not think would be entirely the case at present.” 2 I have written this to you in confidence for really Bingham’s letter of Octr 13th may have good ministerial intelligence which merchants at Nantes might not know on Sept 5th which is the date of a letter to Mr Geary from a young man who says the French Court “is still acting a cowardly part.” Please to present my love to your brother and lady acknowledging the receipt of his kind letter of the 3d. Present also my best compli ments to your Miss Whipple and believe me, your affectionate friend, J.L. Tr (DLC). i That is, Arthur and William Lee. 2 This quotation is from Arthur Lee’s July 81 letter to Samuel Adams, which is extracted in Lovell’s December 18, 1777, letter to Richard Henry Lee. James Lovell to William Whipple Dear Sir Dec 23d 1777 After Sealing the enclosed I rec’d a letter from a friend at Nantes dated Oct 18th which goes near to destroy my argumentation about Bingham’s letter. 1 1 say near because the intelligence from Newfound land accords with the last part of my friend’s letter. The Randolph and Alfred arrived at L’Orient the 6th of Octr. having taken two Jamaicamen which they sold privately for 9700
