474 December 26, 1777 Edward Langworthy to Benjamin Rush Sir, York Town, Deer 26 th 1777. When what is proposed has for its object the Comfort and ad vantage of the sick & wounded in the American Hospitals, I can need no Apology for the Liberty I have taken in writing to you. By favour of Mr Duer I have sent you a Pound of Sago, 1 the produce of the State of Georgia, which I would recommend to your Examination; as you will perceive by the Pamphlet herewith transmitted, it has met with the Approbation of several eminent 8c learned Physicians in Europe. Mr Samuel Bowen the Patentee of this Sago has for some years past resided in Georgia, where he made his experiments 8c brought the Sago Powder to perfection, equal to that from the East Indies. In the Year 1773 he left Georgia, 8c took with him several kinds of Seeds, Plants 8cc in order to lay them before the royal Society; by a Letter received from him soon after his arrival in London, it appeared, that he had received a Gold Medal, as a premium for extracting Oil from Benniseed. Since this Time his family have received no Letters from him, occasioned by the unhappy disputes that have subsisted between Great Britain and America, 8c the Georgia Letters have been intercepted by the Governor of East Florida, at St. Augustine. Mrs Bowen, his wife has continued the manufacture of the Sago 8cc on his Plantation 8c makes about 150 Barrels per Annum, which She has sold to the French Vessels 8c others that have brought in their Cargoes to the Port of Savannah. Having been very intimate with the Family for several Years 8c being appointed one of the Delegates for the State of Georgia, I proposed to Mrs Bowen to make known her manufacture to the Continental Congress, that if it met with their Approbation, the American Army and Navy might be supplied therewith. I have however previous to any Application to Congress thought proper to communicate this to you 8c should be extremely happy to have your Opinion on this matter, whether you think it would not be proper to adopt the use of this powder into the American Hospitals; its Price is very reasonable, and as it is the produce of the Continent, it is certainly an Object worthy of encouragement 8c protection. I was in London in the Year 1768 8c to my certain knowledge at that time Bowen’s Sago Powder was used by many eminent Physicians 8c I have been informed from good Authority, that the East India Company had made proposals to Mr. Bowen, in order to prevent him from carrying on this manufacture. I should be glad to hear from you thro’ Mr Duer 8c am sir, with great respect, Your most obedient Servant, Edward Langworthy RC (PPL). 1A nutritious starch extracted from the sago palm.
