476 December 26, 1777 Body a dispute that I thought they ought not to be troubled with, yet as his letters insinuate many charges against me, I concluded to comply with his request and Vindicate myself against insinuations & reflections not founded in Justice or reality. 2 I find however by a letter received yesterday, that Copies of these letters from Mr. Deane to me have already been read in Congress, consequently that it is un necessary for me to bring the Original; & my design in giving you Sir, the trouble of Reading & Congress of hearing this letter, is not to recriminate on Mr. Deane, but to justify myself & this I propose to do by a plain Narrative of the Facts that have led me into the present embarrasments 8c I must beg a patient 8c candid hearing from you and them. Mr. Thos. Morris & myself are descended from a Father whose Virtue 8c whose Memory I have ever revered with the most Filial Piety. Our Mothers were not the same 8c this youth was born after our Father’s decease, without any sufficient provision made for his maintenance. The tender regard I bore to the Parent, I determined when very young to extend to his Offspring, 8c no sooner had I fixed myself in the World than I took charge of this Brother. I gave him the best Education that cou’d be obtained in Philadelphia, 8c took as much care of his Morals as my time 8c capacity enabled. When he was arrived at a proper Age I took him into my Counting House to instruct him in the profession from which he was to draw his future support. In this situation he remained about three years, during which time he discovered on all occasions a good Understanding, sound judgment 8c clear Head, with remarkable facility in dispatching business. His behaviour was then Modest 8c Innocent, his Heart pure, 8c he possessed a Mind strongly Actuated by principals of Honor, at least these were the opinions I had formed, 8c such was the Character he bore amongst his own acquaintance, from hence I formed the most pleasing expectation, 8c saw but one source from whence any reverse cou’d spring. This was a fondness he early discovered of being the head of his Company, a disposition more dangerous to youth than any other 8c which in fact has been his ruin. This it was that first led him to seek improper Company, who readily granting him the pre eminence he delighted in, soon carried him into the practice of their Follies 8c Vices. When I discovered this to be the case 8c found that advice had not its proper weight, and thinking frequent exercise of Authority might be dangerous, I fell on the expedient of sending him to Spain (in order to break off his connection with Worthless Com panions) 8c there placed him in an eminent Counting House where he gained much knowledge 8c experience 8c where he acquired the French 8c Spanish Languages so as to write 8c Speak both with great fluency. At a proper season I recalled him to America 8c took him a Partner in our House, promising myself assistance 8c relief from his abilities 8c expected assiduity; 8c for some time had great satisfaction
