December 26, 1777 477 in him, but unfortunately his former associates found him out & again led him astray. At this period the Commercial business of America was interrupted by certain resolutions of Congress, & fearing that Idle time & these associates wou’d bring him to ruin, I determined on sending him to Europe well recommended with Money in his Pocket, in hopes to open his mind, extend his Ideas & give him a habit of keeping 8c seeking good Company. He travelled through Spain, Italy 8c into France with reputation kept by means of introductions. I procured for him the best Company at every place he went to, 8c I had the pleasure to receive many letters from my Friends as well as from himself in the most satisfactory Stile. These letters, his assurances, 8c those from some Friends on his behalf, regained my confidence 8c I judged he had now arrived at the period of proper reflection, for such usually happens to young People who have been too Volatile in the first Stages of Manhood. At this Period it happened that a Commercial Agent became necessary to have a general superintendancy of the Public business in Europe. My Brother was then in France (as I thought) possessed of my good opinion, 8c reflecting that he was qualified for that Agency by his Education in two Counting Houses where he had seen 8c executed much business, by his perfect knowledge of the Languages, 8c by his being connected with some of the best Mercantile Houses in Europe 8c known to many more, I was prompted to offer his services to the Committee, firmly believing he wou’d be extreamly usefull 8c do honor to himself 8c me. Here I must observe that no part of his conduct had ever given me the least cause to suspect any want of integrity or breach of Honor, therefore, the only doubts I did or cou’d entertain, was wether he wou’d bestow that attention that he ought to this business; 8c for this I depended on the assurances he had given in his letters of a faithfull execution of any commands I might lay on him. The Committee, of which Doctr. Franklin was then a Member, was pleased to accept the offer, 8c on the Doctrs. going to France, he promised me to become a Friend 8c adviser to my Brother if he found it necessary. Mr. Deane had promised this before his departure 8c to make me acquainted with his conduct. I reposed myself in confidence that he cou’d not do any harm (as I shou’d soon hear how he managed 8c cou’d Act accordingly) 8c he might do much good. At the same time that I recommended him to the Agency I intrusted him to collect the debts due to our House in Europe 8c pay the ballances we might owe there, 8c since then have continued to employ him in the management of our own business. This must convince every person that I had full confidence in him, as I wou’d not have intrusted my own property & affairs in what I cou’d think doubtfull hands. I have given this long detail to shew the Foundation on which I recommended my Brother to his employment 8c I think any other
