478 December 26, 1777 person in my situation wou’d have done the same thing, however if I am any ways culpable in having done so, it is the event & not the intention that makes me so, for cou’d I have had the least Idea of what has happened, I wou’d sooner have perished than he shou’d have been trusted. The next thing I am blamed for is granting greater faith to my Brothers representations than to the Commissioners letters. This was only the case in part, for I had other evidence than his letters, however I must also account for my conduct in this respect by a detail of circumstances. It happened very unfortunately that about the time Thos. Morris was appointed in America to this Agency, he had gone from France to London where totally unable to withstand the tempting scenes of pleasure that sink of Iniquity affords, he gave in to the pursuit with an eagerness (as I am now informed) that debauched his mind & laid the foundation for all that has since happened. He was in London at the time his letters of appointment arrived at Paris. Mr. Deane sent for him. He came & promised a faithful attention to business, he repaired to Nantes & finding Mr. Penet had been intrusted with a Contract for Public business, part of which had been executed, he readily fell into the proposals made by that House & became a party in it (but on what terms I do not know). Consequently he put the Public business into their hands (which was not inconsistant with the instructions under which he Acted). Whilst things were in this train in France, I reed, a letter from the Gentn. in Cadiz with whom my Brother had lived, a worthy Man who had great regard for him & wished to promote his welfare. He gave me reason to suppose his conduct in London had been out of Character & this gave the first alarm to my fears. In consequence of which I wrote letters on the 31st Jany last to Mr. Deane, to Mr. Ross & to T. Morris, informing them of this intelli gence & pressing their immediate care of & attention to the Public business shou’d he neglect it; I requested my Friend Ross to visit France on purpose to watch & inform me truely what was his conduct & insisted to my Brother that if he had been guilty of any neglect of duty or misconduct in discharge of his Public Trust, that he shou’d resign it into the hands of Mr. Deane or Mr. Ross, empower ing them regularly to Act for him untill new arrangements were made. This done, I waited impatiently for the event. In the mean time, some disputes & mutual Complaints had arisen between Mr. Deane and my Brother, & on the arrival of the above letters the latter went to Paris, where they so far settled matters that he returned to Nantes with Mr. Deanes sanction (Mr. Ross being at Hamburg did not arrive untill long after). Some Ships arrived from Philada. at Nantes about this time with Cargoes on Public Account Consigned to the order of Thos. Morris, particularly the Success, Capt. Anderson, and Elizabeth & Mary, Capt. Young. By the return of one or both of these (I think) came letters from the Commissioners, saying to the
