December 26, 1777 479 best of my remembrance “that Mr. Thos. Morris must be immediately displaced from his Agency” 8c another quoting the Paragraph of Doctr. Lee’s letter from Bordeaux. Having no private letter then from Mr. Deane on this Subject, I was astonished at the Stile of these to Congress, for supposing my Brother guilty of some inattention, which was the most I did suppose, I could not think it right to blast entirely a young Mans reputation that was just setting out in the World, meerly because he was fond of pleasure; & as the letters he had written respecting the business under his care were full & clear they were produced to Congress in his justification & to prevent any hasty measures. I then related to Congress the substance of what I have now written but not so fully, & many Members as well as myself were surprized at the affair as it then stood. In consequence of what the Commissioners had wrote, I referred myself to Mr. Thos. Morris’s private letters more particularly, & found there was no good under standing between Mr. Deane & him (but of Doctor Franklin he wrote respectfully) Sc he intimated that Mr. Deane was privately his Enemy. Not trusting however to his letters, I applyed to several persons that came from Nantes, who assured me there was nothing amiss in his conduct that they knew or heard of, but more particularly one person who had transacted business with him. This Gentn. assured me over & over that he lived two Months in the House with my Brother, that he saw him assiduous, attentive, 8c industrious, that if it had not been for him, the business of those Ships wou’d not have been done in any reasonable time 8c that I might depend my Brother wou’d give entire satisfaction, at least he was fully perswaded of this. He said he knew well there was persons in France that envied his appointment 8c wou’d leave nothing undone to have him displaced 8c particularly mentioned Mr. Williams who he heard was Nephew to one 8c concerned in Trade with another of the Commissioners as the person intended to supply his place. The relator of this Account is now in America, a man of Character, sensible, 8c Capable for his sphere of Life, 8c when Mr. Deane arrives he shall have the satisfaction of seeing 8c examining him; ‘till then I think it best to keep his Name for my own sake. This relation 8c others less full, my Brother’s 8c other letters 8c Mr. Deane’s silence, led me to give some Credit to the Story, 8c altho’ I was ever willing to displace my Brother on the least just cause appearing, yet I confess I did not like that he shou’d be sacrificed to make room for another person, 8c when Mr. Deane’s first letters on the subject of my Brother did arrive, they did not remove the impressions I had received. Still I had not full confidence that some cause for what was written had not been given on his part, 8c I supposed his neglect or misconduct to have been magnifyed in the Account given thereof to the Commissioners, who cou’d not have been Eye Witnesses. In this situation, I wrote the letter of the 29th June that has so irritated them, telling very fully what I heard 8c censuring freely
