December 27, 1777 485 It is the express desire 8c injunction of Congress that you do not communicate the contents of these Letters to any person until it shall become absolutely necessary, that is to say, until you shall have received the intended Acts & Resolves or until you shall have at tempted 8c if possible completed, certain essential Acts, admitting the Vessels for transporting Lt. General Burgoyne 8c his Troops to be arrived at the port of Boston. By essential Acts, Congress mean, that the Tonnage of the Trans port Vessels 8c also that the Stores of provisions 8c Fuel should be particularly enquired into 8c ascertained to be in your judgement Sufficient for transportation 8c sustenance of the number of persons intended to be embarked for a Voyage from Boston to Great Britain 8c more particularly that all accounts be liquidated & the Amount due by Lieutt. General Burgoyne or as great a part of it as you can obtain actually paid in Gold or Silver according to the rate specified in the Resolve of Congress of the 19th Inst. 2 transmitted in my last Letter in order to reduce within the Smallest compass articles which may hereafter be made subjects for cavil 8c disputation by the Court of Great Britain, on whose honour 8c justice these States cannot at present with any degree of safety rely. These Acts which Congress judge indispensibly necessary to be performed before an embarkation can take place, will employ some days 8c gain so much time without subjecting the honour of the House or of its Constituents to any unfavorable imputation from the World. You will also from what has been said perceive good grounds for renewing your demand of the Names 8c particular de scription of the Non-Commissioned Officers, privates 8cca but it may be prudent not to press this unless by appeal to expected directions from Congress 8c to the conduct of Sir Guy Carleton in the Instance adduced by Mr. Burgoyne 8c permit him if he pleases to decoy him self. 3 If When you shall have Sufficiently attempted or completed these necessary Acts you shall not have received the intended Resolves of Congress it will then be necessary for you to disclose the Contents of the Inclosed Letter to General Burgoyne 8c peremptorily to prohibit his embarkation until you shall have received further directions on that point. You will understand the motive for dating that Letter January 1778 8c leaving a Blank for the day to be properly 8c carefully filled by yourself. 4 I have in conclusion to assure you Sir that Congress repose the highest confidence in your address 8: abilities for conducting with propriety this very important business, in which on one side the faith 8c honour of these Infant States are to be preserved 8c on the other the magnanimity 8c Resolution of Congress to be examplified in guarding against frauds 8c deceptions of an Enemy who has hitherto
