486 December 27, 1777 practiced without remorse every Act of violence, injustice & Cruelty in the prosecution of the present War. I have the honour to be, &c &c, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MHi). i Congress’ elation over General Gates’ victory at Saratoga had been tempered from the beginning by misgivings about the surrender agreement he concluded with General Burgoyne. Fearing the approach of British reinforcements, Gates had agreed to accept extremely generous terms to secure Burgoyne’s surrender before help arrived. Under the terms of a “convention” signed by both com manders on October 17, Gates agreed, among other things, to permit Burgoyne’s troops to lay down their arms by command of their own officers, to march out of camp with the honors of war, and to proceed under guard to Boston so that from thence they could be shipped back to England “upon Condition of not serving again in North America during the present Contest.” Although Gates believed that under the circumstances he could not demand stricter terms, there was no denying the fact that prompt compliance with the Saratoga Con vention would have enabled Burgoyne’s army to return to England to free other troops for service in America for the 1778 campaign, nullifying much of the impact of the victory at Saratoga. Unwilling to repudiate the convention lest this give offense to Gates and impugn the honor of the new nation. Congress from the outset was nevertheless determined at the very least to delay the embarkation of Burgoyne and his men. Accordingly, on November 8, little more than a week after first learning the terms of the convention, Congress ordered General Heath, the American commander at Boston, to take a census of Burgoyne’s officers and men, thereby prolonging their stay in Boston. Then on November 22 Congress ordered Gates to investigate allegations that Burgoyne’s army had failed to surrender all the arms, accoutrements, and colors required by the convention. Still, although these actions might detain the captured troops in Boston longer than had been originally expected, they were not enough in themselves to prevent their eventual return to England. Congress was able to move from simply obstructing to effectively nullifying the Saratoga Convention as a result of an indiscretion by Burgoyne himself. Writing to Gates on November 14, Burgoyne complained that Massachusetts authorities had violated this agreement by failing to provide suitable housing for himself and his officers and charged, in a phrase he was soon to have reason to regret, that because of this “the public faith is broke and we are the im mediate sufferers.” This letter was read in Congress on December 18 and im mediately referred to a committee of five. Eight days later the committee submitted a report to Congress, which then decided on December 27, in a committee of the whole, that it would be necessary to suspend the embarkation of Burgoyne and his men until the British court had ratified the convention. In justification of this decision an accompanying report cited several minor infractions of the convention but laid greatest stress on the argument that Burgoyne’s charge that the public faith had been broken indicated a settled design on his part to renounce the convention once he and his men had left Boston. After further debate on the issue in committee of the whole on January 2 and 3, Congress officially resolved on January 8, 1778, that “the em barkation of Lieutenant General Burgoyne, and the troops under his command, be suspended till a distinct and explicit ratification of the convention of Saratoga shall be properly notified by the court of Great Britain to Congress,” and approved a lengthy prefatory report justifying this action. Congress’ January 8 resolution was cunningly contrived. British ratification
