December 28, 1777 491 James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir 28th Deer. 1777 I shall leave you to get news at large respecting our army, and the transactions of Congress, from your worthy brother, only saying as to the first, that the extremity of those injuries which were proph esied some months ago are now realized in the Commissariate; and that we also now find most of our high expectations from the expensive establishment of the Quarter-master had not a thorough foundation; Genl. W n has made this evident, and shown it fairly to be the clue to unravel our many seemingly misterious past miscarriages in the Field. As to the second I will remark that few in number we have vaste business, and tho’ we have had particular reason to regret your ab sence &: that of other antient members, we must & will go thro with what times and circumstances demand to be immediately done. From me, you will chiefly look for foreign affairs. What I have before written did not fully destroy Bingham’s narrative; what I now communicate goes near to do it; but it leaves our Intelligence from St. Pierre’s Miquilon in good force. Private persons at Nantes Sepr. 5th might easily be ignorant of what Bingham might know thro a public chanel at Martinique Octr. 13th. But, Mr. Williams gives me the following in a private correspondence of Octr. 18th. 1 “The poli tics of this country seem still to be as from the beginning of the war. They rejoyce at every event in favor of America, because they wish to see their old enemy crushed, but that enemy is still so formidable to them that they do not seem inclined to lend an helping hand to us openly; and every peice of bad news from America, as it raises the tone of the English ambassador, increases their fears, and the effect is felt throughout all the seaports of the kingdom. We have lately had two Jamaicamen seized by the Admiralty, and I suppose they will be returned to the English. It is true prizes are still brought in &: pri vately sold; but the purchasers, on account of the risque of having them given up, do not allow above 1/3 of the value. Thus, do the French merchants make great sums of money; and the policy of the nation goes hand in hand with the interest of individuals. It is indeed pretended that matters will take a turn soon. The rea son, they say, that war is not more thought of at present, is, 2 that their Fishermen & Baltic ships are still out: by the first they expect an additional No. of Seamen & by the last a full supply of naval stores which would be intercepted should a rupture take place now, but, that when these shall be safely arrived, they will hold a very different Language to the English. Two or three months will con vince us whether these professions are sincere or not; but, I appre hend some singular success on the part of America would do more in our favor than any other Circumstance.”
