December 29, 1777 495 I have not received his Answer but have but little expectations from his Enquirys, as a Tradesmans prospects here is not a Moderate Compensation for his Labour. Nothing less than a small Fortune made without Merrit or trouble will Content him. I am told there is amongst the British prisoners in Maryland or Virginia some expert Workmen of the Trades you want. I have written to the Commissary of prisoners to Acquaint me with their Names and the Places of their confinement. 2 My design after Obtaining proper Information is to Get a permission from the Board of War for you to Employ such of them as you think proper, which I shall in due time Inclose you. This I think will be the Cheapest and probably the most Con venient way for you to Carry on your Buildings but of this you are the only proper Judge. Drums for our Militia has been an Object of my Enquirys since I first came here. They are not to be had on any Terms whatever. Our State is at present unrepresented, Mr. Jones haveing left us a few days ago. 3 Our Assembly was kind to him. I wish they would Confer the same favour on another of their Servants. Indeed my Situation is disagreable here besides you knowing my very Narrow Fortune may Immagine that sometimes the Cares of a Husband and parent tell me there is a duty oweing to them as well as to my Country. I beseech you not to Consider this Sentiment as ariseing from a littleness of Soul or a Sordid Spirit, but I could not be just to the Woman who from much higher Expectations devoted herself to me if I now altogether Neglected the Interests of her and the little pledges she has presented me with. The Complication of this Letter will Convince you of the respect I must have for the man to whom I open my whole Soul without Ceremony, Punctilio or Reserve. Jno. Harvie RC (DLC). 1 Washington’s letters of December 22 and 23, expressing the army’s dire need for immediate provisioning, were read in Congress on the 26th and Harvie was one of a committee appointed to consider the matter. However, this com mittee was discharged on the 29th and another, composed of the Board of War and three additional members, was given authority to respond to Wash ington’s plea. See JCC, 9:1054, 1065; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:183-88, 192-98. See also Committee on Emergency Provisions to Thomas Wharton, December 30, 1777. 2 The letters Harvie wrote in an effort to secure workmen for Monticello have not been found. 3 Joseph Jones had learned upon his return from Washington’s headquarters that his request to resign his seat because of poor health had been accepted by the Virginia Assembly. He attended the Board of War meeting on December 20 but did not participate in the congressional roll call on December 27, and he apparently left Congress sometime during the interim. Harvie’s comment that Virginia was unrepresented suggests that he wrote this letter before re ceiving the Virginia Assembly’s temporary authorization for a quorum of two, which the Virginia delegates Harvie and Francis Lightfoot Lee laid before Congress later this day. JCC, 9:1047, 1056, 1064; and Joseph Jones to George Washington, January 22, 1778.
