December 30, 1777 501 Although the source of many complaints since its creation in 1775, the com missary system had functioned reasonably well until Commissary General Joseph Trumbull had resigned and returned home in August 1777. His successor, William Buchanan, deprived of many of Trumbull’s most capable and experi enced assistants, who had resigned over Congress’ refusal to base their com pensation on a commission basis, struggled on with the system he had inherited, but it was clear by early autumn that sweeping changes were needed. The inherent difficulties in provisioning large numbers of troops were compounded by General Howe’s capture of Philadelphia, Congress’ flight to York, and the British army’s competition for provisions from the region. Commissary reform and the general reorganization of army administration were delayed by Congress’ slowness in installing new members of the reorganized Board of War. Expectations that the new board would play a large role in the solution of supply problems— visible in Congress’ appointment of both former Quartermaster General Thomas Mifflin and Commissary General Trumbull to the new board in November— were ultimately disappointed because Trumbull’s health prevented him from filling his post and Mifflin refused to respond to a call to join the congressional committee sent to Valley Forge in January to study the most pressing issues threatening army morale. Therefore, it was the old Board of War, which had been authorized on November 22 to continue the work of the War Office until the new commissioners arrived, that continued the struggle against the army’s problems, acting either in its traditional capacity or as the nucleus of ad hoc committees like the Committee on Emergency Provisions. Although Gates and the new commissioners finally assumed leadership of the new board in late January 1778, clashes between Continental officials and Pennsylvania authorities further delayed new measures for effective provisioning of the army. See JCC, 9:953, 963, 10:47; Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton, February 17, note 2; and William Duer to Francis Lightfoot Lee, February 19, 1778. For the general breakdown of the commissary and quartermaster systems and background material on Congress’ struggles to bring relief to Washington’s beleaguered troops during their difficult winter at Valley Forge, see Victor L. Johnson, The Administration of the American Commissariat during the Revolutionary War (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania, 1941), pp. 85-109; and Erna Risch, Quartermaster Support of the Army: A History of the Corps, 1335-1939 (Wash ington: Government Printing Office, 1962), pp. 29-37. 2 In a letter to New York Governor George Clinton written at about this time, Lee, on behalf of the committee, requested that "all the cattle which can pos sibly be collected within your State forthwith [be] . . . sent forward under proper conductors to General Washington’s Army without Delay, paying to the persons from whom the cattle are so taken as yourself and the Council of Safety shall deem reasonable, and drawing upon Congress for the necessary sums or giving them certificates expressing the quality, age and weight so taken as nearly as possible, which certificates will be hereafter paid at such prices as shall be fixed on by the Convention of the Committees of the States to be held agreeably to the Recommendation of Congress of the 22" Nov' last. "The Committee have likewise to request that you will give your utmost assist ance to Mr. J. Cuyler, Commissary of Northern Department in laying up plentiful magazines of Flour and Pork in such parts of the State as shall be thought best adapted for that purpose, and that you will likewise be pleased to co-operate for the same purposes with the Govenor and Council of Connecticut who are de sired to superintend the Commissary Department on the East side of Hudson’s River. “The Middle Department is exhausted of Cattle fit for the use of the Army, & the obstruction which have been met with in removing a timely and sufficient supply of Salt from the Eastern States have baffled all Prospects of laying in any large Quantities of Pork in the States of Pennsylvania & Maryland. Without
