502 December 30, 1777 therefore the most Speedy Exertions are made use of immediately to throw in a supply of cattle to General Washington’s Army and to lay up Magazines im mediately the most fatal consequences cannot but ensue. “The vigorous Exertions made by the State of New York at a period when the affairs of America wore the most alarming aspect, afford us the most pleasing assurances that at this Crisis their Exertions in the Great Cause will not be exceeded by any State in the Union which has been wrote to on this occasion by the Committee.’’ Calendar of Historical Manuscripts relating to the War of the Revolution, in the Office of the Secretary of State, Albany, N.Y., 2 vols. (Albany: Weed, Parsons, and Co., 1868), 2:308-9. See also the committee’s Decem ber 31 letter to Thomas Johnson. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais My Dear Friend, 30th December 1777. I am now sitting both feet & Legs bound up in a Basket in the room where Congress meets—between the adjournment at 1/2 p. one oClock & meeting hour at 3—& where a scrap of somewhat will be sent for my repast to serve till tomorrow’s breakfast. Perhaps two, it may be three, hours after dark I may be permitted to hobble on my Crutches over Ice & frozen Snow or to be carried to such a homely home as I have, where I must set in Bed one or two or three hours longer at the writing Table, pass the remainder of a tedious night in pain & some anxiety. I hear you reply—why faith if I was you I would resign the presidentship. Believe me my dear Sir that was my solid determination on the 2d or 3d day after my present troublesome companion had taken possession of me, when by reflective com parison with former attacks & making a proper allowance for the rigor of this Climate I foresaw a continuance of pain & Crippleism for many Weeks. I then dictated a Letter to be written to Congress expressing my apprehensions & earnestly intreating an acceptance of my resignation, an answer was returned by a Member, that Congress were not disposed to grant my request but would in preference to ap pointing a new President, address the Chair & Secretary during my unavoidable absence, this seemed & indeed was very kind & a little flattering—a Compliment which laid claim to my gratitude. I sum moned patience & fortitude to my Aid, I adopted every measure I could think of in order to restore me to strength & abstained from every thing, except hard work, that could have the smallest tendency to impede my recovery—writing in Bed, & especially one particular Nights discipline when I kept the Pen in hand till one in the Morn ing & resumed it again before five, shook me. However on Christmas day I found myself so far releived from severe paine as to encourage hopes that three or four days indulgence would produce a little Strength in my Ankles, but late that Evening & again very early next Morning I received visits from a Zealous Member of Congress
