December 30, 1777 503 pressing me if possible by any means to attend the House the 26th adding the request was made by desire of many Members not so im mediately to the President as to a Member who solely represented a State, intimating that the business which I had set or encouraged to set in motion of the highest importance was to be agitated that it ought to be treated with the greatest solemnity in a full Representa tion. This address to a State, made an impression which would not have been felt, if it had been directed to the president. I knew the business, it had been the subject of my meditation & contemplation through Several painful & sleepless nights & Days. 1 Beleive me my dear friend I have been obliged to pause here a minute to wipe away a falling tear which in my present low 8c weak state of bodily health, rose irresistibly with my reflections upon the great affair which I al lude to, 8c to which my duty has already required me to affix my signature, a signature which will probably be brought before the Tribunal of the whole Civilized World. Possibly I may find my self at liberty to be more explicit to His Excellency the President—but to return—the Summons animated my Soul, which is more vigorous in my present condition than the Body. “South Carolina shall not be quite unrepresented, I will be carried into Congress.” I was carried, two whole days trenching deep upon each Night were passed in a Committee of the whole, late last Saturday Night the business was so far matured as to enable me to dispatch a special Messenger immedi ately to Major General Heath at Boston. 2 These exertions have thrown me back I cannot tell how far, but I am in a condition which would meet more compassion were you present from you than it seems to do from myself. I attend Congress from the motive promised 8c while I can bear to be carried 8c to sit here, my State shall not be totally Absent. The great business is not yet completed on our part, God only knows what will be the final end of it. I have laboured hard very hard to advance it to its present State, conscious that I am doing eminent service to my Country. If my Country Men shall be of opinion with a few in this House, who ap pear to me to be timorous dunces, I shall be very unhappy, but I shall ever enjoy that satisfaction which attends good designs, whether it shall be determined by the World to be good or bad, the Act is great 8c great good or Evil will follow as its consequences. There are other matters of very momentous concern on the tapis which duty requires me to attend to, without regarding my own Ease 8c being here since ’tis the desire of Congress, I may as well sit presi dent as any other Character. A good Seat near a warm fire must com pensate for additional labour!—But there is my morsel—however before I lay down the Pen or suffer the dirty Towel to be Spread let me again recommend to you as an Assembly Man one moments reflection upon the Subject of Representation. O Carolina! O My Country, shame to you!—that in this great, this momentous Cause,
