December 31, 1777 507 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i Governor Livingston’s December 22 and 25 letters to Laurens, the latter o£ which described in great detail “Abuses” in military hospitals, are in PCC, item 68, fols. 305-16. Congress approved a plan for “better regulating the hospitals of the United States’’ on February 6, 1778. JCC, 10:128-31. James Lovell to John Adams Dear Sir 30th Deer. [1777] Mr. Geary otherways engaged has given me the pleasure of for warding this Intelligence from your friend Jefferson respecting the ready concurrence of the Dominion with the Articles sent lately to the States in a hope of cementing them together in a firm League. 1 I am particularly rejoyced at this dispatch at this critical time when things appear almost despoiled in this neighbourhood. As a secret I tell you that there is the greatest risque that the army will be disbanded in a short season, for the Commissary’s & Qr Master’s departments are ruined. I hope Robt. Morris will take up the first himself immediately or as a Director; Buchannan is as incapable as a child and knows not how he can feed the army 3 Weeks from any parts, or how to feed them from day to day with what he has on hand. Mutiny is at present suppressed. The Clothier is little better & the Director Genl, of Hospitals is at his wits end. Trumbull would be deified if he was on the spot, send him from Boston if there. The Board of War with military drivers are Quarter masters owing to the Imbecility of the Govt, of this State which must be changed after the present glaring conviction of its Impotence. If at any day it musters courage to legislate it finds itself without any executive. Yr. frozen fingered Servt, J L RC (MHi). i Lovell was forwarding Thomas Jefferson’s December 17, 1777, letter to John Adams notifying him of Virginia’s approval of the Articles of Confederation. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:120-21. Committee on Emergency Provisions to Thomas Johnson Sir, War Office Deer. 31st 1777 Congress have received the most alarming Accounts from General Washington of the Distress of the Army for Want of Provisions. He expresses the strongest Apprehensions that unless an immediate
