508 December 31, 1777 Supply is sent the Troops must either “starve, dissolve or disperse." This Disaster is likely to befall us by much Distraction having pre vailed in the Commissary’s Department to the Eastward which has prevented a Supply of Salt expected from thence from getting for ward in Time. The laying up Provisions has been hereby prevented & few or no Supplies of Cattle have been drawn from that Quarter. The Avarice of the People too has had no small Share in reducing us to our present Distress. A Comittee is appointed by Congress to take effectual Means for preventing so fatal a Blow as the Dispersion or Dissolution of our Army would be to our Liberties. They have been obliged from the Necessity of the Case to give Orders for siezing all the Provisions in the Vicinity of the Camp in this State which will afford a small but temporary Supply. They have written to the adjacent States 8c earnestly besought their immediate Assistance. Much Dependance is placed on your Exertions at this important Crisis 8c the Comittee need but state the Facts to induce you immedi ately to take Measures for the remedying the Evil. I beg Leave to suggest to you whether an immediate Seisure of all Cattle, Hogs, Pork 8c Salt in the State of Maryland is not indispensibly necessary 8c Certificates given payable by Congress to the Possessors. 1 You are the best Judge of proper Measures to be taken within your State 8c therefore the Comittee will not trouble you with their Ideas of the Plan to be executed for procuring the Articles wanted. They are confident you will be as speedy as the Nature of the Case will admitt convinced that immediate Supplies can only be had from the nearest States 8c the Comittee have taken Steps for obtaining Relief in future from those more remote. The issuing Commissary at Camp will receive any Cattle 8cc you may please to forward 8c the Commissary General of Purchases will take into his Charge on being informed thereof, all Magazines of Pork 8c Salt you may think proper to have laid up. All Drafts or Certificates (Duplicates whereof you will no Doubt be of Opinion should be lodged with you as Vouchers) given or drawn by your order will be duly honoured by the Treasury Board. I would beg Leave to suggest to you the great Difficulty 8c Danger in the Transportation of Provisions up the Bay in the common Mode 8c entreat the Use of the State armed Vessells for the Purpose as a similar Request is made to the Governor of Virginia. 2 It is impracti cable to procure Provisions from the Southward without the Use of these Vessells. The Comittee rely strongly on the Exertions of Mary land 8c Virginia in laying up Magazines for future Supply as well as obtaining present Relief. They have the most flattering Ideas of receiving that Assistance from these of which they have been un happily dissappointed from other States, 8c must depend on them for their principal Supply. I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, your very obedt Servt, Francis Lightfoot Lee, for the Committee
