December 31, 1777 509 RC (MdAA). In the hand of Richard Peters and signed by Francis Lightfoot Lee. i On January 7 the Maryland Council appointed cattle purchasers in Somer set and Worcester Counties and authorized them to seize cattle easily accessible to the enemy and to forward them to the commissary of purchases. Md. Archives, 16:456-57. See also the committee’s January 17, 1778, letter to Johnson. 2 The committee’s letter to Gov. Patrick Henry has not been found, but Henry’s January 20, 1778, response, reporting the purchase of 10,000 pounds of beef and pork and the seizure of 2,000 bushels of salt for the army, is in PCC, item 71, fols. 131-34. Furthermore, Henry stressed the abundance of pro visions in northern Virginia, criticized the delinquency and inefficiency of the commissariat, and urged immediate reformation in that department. James Lovell to George Washington Sir, Deer. 31st. 1777. A Course of Disappointments has attended the Printing of the Journals of Congress. Good Progress was indeed making in Sepr. last when Mr. Aitkin had nearly finished a second Volume with December 1776. This Work has been sent out of the city of Philadelphia, and buried. By all the Scrutiny I can make, I gain no other Knowledge about the Spot where the Books are deposited than a high Probability that Frederic Bicking a Paper-maker has the Care of them. 1 Having tarried myself in Philada. after the other Delegates left it, I procured of Col. Hamilton a Security of some Waggons from Im pressment for the use of Mr. Aitkin which he did not appear to me afterwards to have been spirited to make use of; and in Fact he remained in the City. Bicking is an honest timorous Man and lives in the Neighbourhood of John Roberts a Miller 10 Miles from Philada. which Roberts is a Tory, 2 and yet tis probable his Team brought the Journals out for Mr. Aitkin. I beg your Excellency to communicate these Circumstances to some active Pennsylvanian Officer, who, being acquainted with the Spot of Ground mentioned, will take a proper speedy Method of gaining the Journals & forwarding them to Lancaster or York. I imagine the Types are also buried at the same Place with the Journals. They would be a valuable Acquisition at this Time, tho’ they are not absolutely necessary to carry on the Journals. I am not insensible to the great Affairs which press your Excellency on every side; but, I really thought this Business of recovering the Journals was important enough to warrant the Freedom I now take of applying to you for Orders respecting the Pursuit of it. I had intended to do it in Person, but the Absence of three of my Colleagues and other Gentlemen has thrown such additional Committee-Business
