510 December- 31, 1777 upon me as to make it impossible to assure you, otherways than by a Letter, that I am, Your Excellency’s Obliged Friend & Humble Servant, James Lovell RC (DLC). i On January 9 Washington reported to Lovell that the journals had been recovered and were being sent to York. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:288. 2 Roberts was later convicted of high treason for attempting to enlist men for the British and was executed on November 4, 1778. See Gail S. Rowe, Thomas McKean, the Shaping of an American Republicanism (Boulder: Colorado Asso ciated University Press, 1978), pp. 117-19. Henry Laurens to Baron de Kalb Dear General, York 1st Jany. 1778. This Morning the Baron Holzendorff brought me the honour of a Letter from you dated 20th November probably intended to have been 20th December accompanied by a packet directed to Monsr. Le Compte De Broglie at Paris. 1 In my present circumstance pained & fatigued by the Gout & very fully exercised by the Duties of my Office in Congress I am persuaded Dear General you will excuse the brevity of my present respects. If the Packet, which is no doubt of great importance, had not made a part of your charge, ’tis possible I might have taken the liberty to delay writing to you until I should find my self at a little more ease. The Packet I shall recommend to the Special care of Mr. John Adams at Boston who is going in the Character of Commissioner from Congress to the Court of France. Should his departure be intended to take place at any distant period, he will send it by some early safe conveyance. That part of your Letter relative to Baron Holzendorff I have Communicated to Congress, which, with a memorial from the Baron, is committed to the Consideration of the Board of War. The Board will probably make a Report in three or four days to Congress, the result of which I will do my self the honour of communicating in due time. 2 I am &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i In PCC, item 41, 4:30, there is an extract made by Charles Thomson of Kalb’s December 20 letter to Laurens recommending Louis-Casimir, baron de Holtzendorf, to Congress’ favor. Kalb wrote a lengthy report about the state of the American army to the comte de Broglie between December 12 and 25, which is in Friedrich Kapp, The Life of John Kalb, Major-General in the Revolutuonary Army (New York: Henry Holt and Co., 1884), pp. 132-43. 2 In his December 30 memorial to Congress, Holtzendorf, who had been serving as lieutenant colonel in the Continental Army, complained that his merits were
