516 January 1, 1778 2 On the dismissal of Thomas Morris, see Committee of Commerce to Thomas Morris, December 17, 1777. 3 Lovell was referring to the return to Massachusetts of John Adams, Samuel Adams, and John Hancock, for which see Lovell to Samuel Adams, December 8, 1777, note 4. * The Independent Chronicle (Boston). 3 For the continuation of this letter, see Lovell to Samuel Adams, January 3, 1778. Charles Thomson to Robert Morris Dear Sir, Jany 1, 1778 I am astonished Mr Brown 1 could have so far mistaken me as to inform you that the letters from Mr Dean to you were read in Congress. As the president was absent, the comee on foreign affairs delivered me a letter in the Evening directed to Mr Hancock which I opened & found under the cover a letter to him & one to you un sealed. Next Morning I carried it to Congress & consulted Mr Lovel & he concurring in opinion with me that the letter was of a private nature I sealed that for you without shewing it to any person & sent it down to Mr Brown, who I was told was forwarding dispatches to you. I think on the same day in the evening before Congress rose other dispatches were brought and among them a duplicate of that I had sent you; upon opening the packet I informed congress it contained a private letter to Mr Hancock & one to you. Some of the members however required that the letter to Mr H should be read which was done. The circumstance of yr letter being open was not attended & an objection was made to opening that for you, upon which I put it in my pocket & upon calling at Mr B lodging’s after Congress rose I found your servant was in town upon which I sealed the letter in the cover & desired Mr Brown to inform you, As I had not time to write, that the letter directed to Mr H only was read but that to you was not Opened nor read. 2 But as some intimations were thrown out of T.M.’s ill conduct, I desired Mr Brown to mention to you it was my opinion you should come to town. I believe the C. are perfectly satisfied with yr. conduct, but I could have wished you had known these circumstances before you wrote, that if there are any circumstances in letters you reed, as from your letter to C. I think there must be which wd. give you pain to expose to public view, you might, if consistent with honor, have kept them back. I am, Sr, Yr humble servt. FC (DLC). 1 John Brown, the Marine Committee’s secretary, not the John Brown who in November had conveyed the Howes’ peace feeler from Philadelphia to York as Burnett suggested. See Henry Laurens to George Washington, November 19, 1777, note 1; and Burnett, Letters, 3:1. 2 For Morris’ response once he learned of his misunderstanding on this point, see his January 5 letter to Henry Laurens.
