January 2, 1778 517 Nathaniel Folsom to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir York Town Jeneuery 2d. 1778 Yesterday I Reed, your Feavour of Decmber the 12th. As to the Resolution of Congress you first mentioned, so far as it Relates to Newhampshier or general Stark, it wase Strenously apposed by your Delegates in Congress, and Six Days did not Pass before they were Convinced of the good Effect of the orders of your Court given to general Stark and every mouth wase Stopt, which gave your Delegates no Small triumph, to be told we ware true Prophets, and ever Since the State of Newhampshier has been in grate Repute, on account of the Spirited Exertions of the officers &: Soldiers in the northern Department. 1 As to the Promotion of Coll. Willkinson, who at the Request of general Gates Reed, a Brevet as a Brigadier general which you Say has given you Pain I most Sincerly Simpothise with you, and Can Say it has given me Senceble Pain ever Since it was Done. I was glad he asked no more at that time, for assured I am that if he had it would have been granted. Whilst they ware Rejoicing for the goodness of God in Delivering our enemies into our hands: a Plan is laid by Sundrey members of Congress which I belive will be Carried to Remove him out of the way by appointing him Secretary to the Board of War or by Sending him to Gorgia. 2 You ask me how I Could be Induced to Disgrace all the field officers in the northern army to which I answer if when you Say you if you mean Congress I will not answer for them, haveing Constantly opposed the makeing allmost all the general officers that have been made since I have been here, it appearing to me they were made more upon the Principle of Intrest or frindship, then Justice & ecquity, and the Consequencies that have followed has Confirmed me in that opinion. Grate uneasiness in the army has been the Sure and sertaine Consequence of the appointment of allmost Every general officer Since I have been here. If you meen me Personally Considerd, and think you Could Do better hope you will in twenty four hours after Reciveing this mount your horse & Come and Relieve me. And if you think you Cant Do so well would not have that Stop you as I have worne allmost all the flesh off my Bones being Exercised in my mind night & Day, and no time to Relax. My Predecessors in Congress made some alterations in the Commissary generals Department in the midle of a campaign which has given us an infinite Deal of trouble and the most fatel Consequences were not only to be feared but in Some measure have taken Place. The army Severel times were with out Bread for thirty Six hours at a time. This together with the Quarter master general being Sick and his Department thrown into Confusion, and the inhabitents of this State in general being unfriendly to the Cause in which the United States are Ingaged, has given us more trouble and
