522 January 3, 1778 Henry Laurens to James Mease Sir, 3d Jany 1778 Inclosed you will receive a Warrant on the Loan Office Massachu- sett Bay of 31st December for two hundred Thousand Dollars for the use of Samuel Allen Otis Esqr. which should have been Sent to you in my late Letter of 1st Inst, but it had not then been returned to me from the Treasury Board. I shall direct the Messenger to call on you with this & to wait a reasonable time for your dispatches. From Mr. Otis’s representation the Loan Office Massachusett is not always a certain fund, therefore in order to enable him to make purchases upon the best terms, I am directed to give him permission to draw on you on public Account when he cannot raise Cash by other means. You are desired to direct him to transmit regular advices & to specify the value received for each draught or the immediate prospect of purchase which shall have induced him to draw. I am with great respect feca. 1 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i Laurens also wrote a brief letter to Clothier General Mease on January 7, transmitting a January 7 resolve “directing Supplies of necessary Clothing to the Sick & recovering Soldiers in the Hospitals.” PCC, item 13, fols. 114—15; and JCC, 10:23. Henry Laurens to Samuel A. Otis Sir, 3d Jany 1778 Your Several Letters of the 26th & 29th November & 8th Ulto. have been duly reported to Congress & as far as I can judge, the House is well satisfied with your endeavors to serve the public. 1 The permission which you will receive to draw for sums when necessary, will shew the confidence which is reposed as well in your integrity as in your diligence. Inclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of the 31st Ulto. directing you to pay & upon what terms for such Clothing as you have actually received, earnestly recommending to the Legislature of Massachusett to seize the residue which you had agreed for but could not get possession of without complying with such demands as appear to Congress exhorbitant 8c intollerable—for Issuing a Warrant on the Loan Office in your State for 200,000 Dollars to be deposited in your hands 8c lastly directing the Clothier General to authorize you to draw Bills on him in failure of proper supplies from the Loan Office. The two first branches of this Act you are enjoined to keep secret until the expected operations of the Council or Assembly of Massa-
