January 3, 1778 523 chuset shall be carried into effect which it is hoped will immediately follow the receipt of the Copy which will be transmitted with this. I have forwarded the Warrant for 200,000 Dollars to Mr. Mease & ordered this Messenger to wait a reasonable time at Lancaster for his dispatches to you. Should any delay happen from his absence or other cause you may nevertheless proceed upon the ground of this authority to purchase 8c to draw Bills for raising Cash when Money cannot be procured from the Loan Office which you will always make your first resort. You will also always give advice of your draughts 8c specify the Value or consideration received or expected for each. I am with great regard. P.S. You will with the paper above mentioned receive inclosed a Letter from Mr. Cumberland Dugan to the Commercial Committee to which you are referred. You will endeavor to get the Six Bales of Linens 8c Woolens therein mentioned into your Custody for public use, agree for such price as you can, or leave that to the Committee after you shall have transmitted a clear account of the quantities 8c qualities of each sort. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i These letters from Otis, Clothier General James Mease’s deputy in Massa chusetts, are in PCC, item 78, 17:33-36, 270-75. See also JCC, 9:1022, 1031, 1033, 1042—47. Henry Laurens to Robert Treat Paine Sir, 3d Jany 1778. The last Letter which I had the honour of writing to you was dated the 23d Ulto. 8c sent by Messenger Storer. Inclosed with this you will receive an Address from Congress of the 31st Ulto. to the Legislature of Massachuset 8c also an Act of the same date particularly referred to in the Address. I likewise inclose a Letter directed to Samuel A. Otis treating principally of the subjects con tained in the above mentioned Address 8c therefore I judge it proper to pass the Letter through your hands. I have further in charge to transmit to you, to be as early as possible laid before the proper branch of Government, another Act of Congress of the 31st December for promoting a speedy reformation in the Army, which with the papers before recited you will receive in the present Cover. I have the honour 8cc. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13).
