524 January 3, 1778 Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr. Sir 3d Jany 1778. I was last Night honour’d with your favor of the 15 December & this Morning the Contents were taken under consideration in Con gress by reference to the Board of Treasury, the result is, to return again the duplicate Warrant of the 16th Octobr. which you will find here inclosed & are desired to hold it in your custody until there shall be Cash in the Massachuset Loan Office for supplying the Amount which the Treasury are assured will by partial payments be computed at no very distant period. In the mean time a like Sum of two hundred Thousand Dollars will be conveyed to you under direction of the Board of War in the most expeditious manner. Upon this foundation you will probably be enabled to raise Money for Current demands & to avert those Evils which had justly alarm’d you. 1 I recommended some Steps in Philadelphia for securing a return of our Emissions of paper into the Treasury by quicker progress than we have experienced, time & circumstances have confirmed my senti ments yet, tis the judgement of a Majority to proceed in the old way & even to prefer new Emissions, in private I lament this determina tion as a pernicious error, but I ought modestly to suppose my Self in error. We are approaching to a Crisis, in this moment it becomes every freind of the great cause in which we are engaged to improve to the best purpose such measures as are adopted & giving up his private systems with the most absolute disinterestedness to exert himself for supporting the public Credit. I am with great Regard &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i In his December 15 letter to Laurens, Trumbull, the deputy paymaster gen eral in the northern department, explained that the Massachusetts loan office had been unable to honor a warrant from Congress for $200,000. See PCC, item 78, 2:542; and JCC, 9:809, 10:14-16. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Janry. 3d [1778] Hopkins has never made any application for tryal since he was furnished with the charges causing his suspension; and as we have no service for him, CEconomy called for his dismission which was the work of yesterday. 1 How comes it that we have not to this day any account of the R Island sham Expedition? Seven Delegates are chosen in our State; which intelligence
