January 5, 1778 531 these States. 1 You will be pleased either to take it under your immediate care if you intend within a few Weeks to embark for France or, if you do not, to commit it to the charge of some person in whom you can confide, with direction in case of Capture to use his utmost endeavour to conceal & save it & attempt a conveyance from England if he should be carried into that Kingdom. The Baron will be much obliged to you for information how you intend to dispose of this Letter. 2 We have advice from General Smallwood stationed at Wilmington, of a Capture made by him of Brigantine which had got aground about 5 Miles above that place—a British Captain & 67 Soldiers—the Master & Mate 8c 12 or 15 Seamen 8c 40 Women some of them Officers Wives made Prisoners—The Brigantine was armed 6, 4 pounders 8c some Swivels. The British Captain was sulky 8c refused to disclose the particular Contents of the Cargo. The Master of the Vessel said she was laden with Bales 8c Boxes the Contents not known to him but he understood there were Clothing for four Regiments with Camp Equipage, 1000 or 1500 stand of Arms, some ammunition, 5 Hogs heads Rum, Butter 8c other Provisions, some Sugar, Tea 8cc. proper the Clothing 8c Arms were intended for new Levies expected to be raised. General Smalwood intimates that he had 300 Men at work unloading the Vessel 8c hoped soon to give a more special Account. A Sloop laden with flour 8c Pork is also taken, the Cargo would be secured 8c the Vessel burned. ’Tis reported also that the Jersey Militia had taken a Scots Vessel aground supposed to be fully Loaden with Merchandize 8c the Master’s name, Speers, is mentioned—but this wants confirmation. I beg you will do me the favor to present my Compliments to Mr. S. Adams 8c believe me to be with great Respect 8c Esteem, Sir, Your Obedient 8c most humble servant, Henry Laurens RC (MHi). 1 See Laurens to Baron de Kalb, January 1, 1778. 2 The LB of this letter in the Laurens Papers, ScHi, ends here and is dated January 3. Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir, York Town 5 Jany 1778 I flatter myself with hopes that the very important Letter which I had the honour of writing to you the 27th Ulto. by Messenger Mackloskey together with one enclosed in it calculated for Barring the departure of General Burgoyne will be put into your hand this day. It may appear to Gentlemen who are not informed of the Circum-
