532 January 5, 1778 stances of Congress, the intervening time has been sufficient for maturing their intended Declaration & Resolves upon that subject, but you Sir, will not wonder at the delay, when I tell you that from unaccountable deficiencies in the several departments, Congress have found it absolutely necessary for saving the Army from general dispersion to interfere personally in the businesses of Quarter Master general, Clothier General, Commissary general, Director general of the Hospitals 8cc 8cc. These extraordinary & unreasonable burthens have fallen extremely heavy upon a few Members who faithfully devote their time to Public service. However the other great work although not completed has not been neglected. Congress have proceeded so far as the inclosed Copy of two Resolves intimate—these I transmit in confirmation of what I had the honour of writing as above mentioned 8c under the same injunctions of prudent & necessary secrecy. 1 Tis highly probable that in the Course of the present Week I shall be authorized to transmit the Act complete 8c Certified. I remain with very great Regard, Sir, Your Most humble Servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress P.S. To guard against accidents I have ordered duplicates of my Letter of the 27th Ulto. & the other to be made out 8c will Inclose them under the present Cover. RC (MHi). Addressed: “The Honorable Major General Heath, Commander in Chief of the Troops of the United States of America in the Eastern depart ment &c &c, Boston.” i These resolves, which were passed on January 2 and 3, charged that General Burgoyne was planning to repudiate the Saratoga Convention and declared that in consequence he and his men could not return to England until the British government had ratified this agreement. JCC, 10:13, 16-17. Henry Laurens to Philip Schuyler Sir, 5th Jany 1778 The preceeding which I had the honour of writing to you the 20th past would have on this day been much nearer to you, if I had not confided in a French Officer who was desirous of the charge & who assured me he intended to travel much quicker than our common Messengers. Upon sending to enquire for him I learn he is Sick 8c his journey to Albany deferred. This affords me however an oppor tunity to inform you Sir, that Congress have appointed three ad ditional Members on the Committee within mentioned. 1 I shall urge these Gentlemen to proceed without delay 8c I hope in a few days to be authorized, to inform you the result of their deliberations. I have the honour to be 8cca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13).
