January 5, 1778 535 April 1777 resignation of his son John as deputy adjutant general in the northern department—a February 22, 1777, letter from John Trumbull to John Hancock; March 3 and 31, 1777, letters from John Trumbull to James Lovell; and March 16 and 22, 1777, letters from Lovell to John Trumbull. Lovell’s letters are printed in volume six of this series, and John’s resignation is dis cussed in an editorial note to that of March 16. 2 This day Congress read Washington’s January 1 letter to Laurens and the enclosed December 30 letter from General Smallwood to Washington. See JCC, 10:18; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:243-46; and Washington Papers, DLC. s John Laurens had reported the capture of this sloop in a January 1 letter to his father. Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, p. 100. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, 5 Jany 1778. Last Night I was honoured with your Excellency’s Letter of the 1st Inst. I presented it this Morning to Congress but have received no other Commands except to acquaint Your Excellency that Colonel Scammel by an Unanimous ballot is elected Adjutant General in the Army which will further appear by the inclosed Certified Act of the present date. 1 I shall likewise inclose a Resolve of Congress of the 3d authoriz ing your Excellency to appoint such number of Aids de Camp as you may judge necessary &ca. Eight or nine days being elapsed since by possitive Order from Congress I directed Major General Heath, to detain Lt. General Burgoyne &: his Troops, enjoining him at the same time to Secrecy until it shall become absolutely necessary to disclose the Order, I intimated to Congress this Morning the propriety of acquainting your Excellency for obvious reasons with a measure of such impor tance &: received directions to forward the two Resolves which will accompany the papers above mentioned. 2 Congress mean to intro duce these Resolutions by a Suitable declaratory preface. The work has indeed been a long time on the Anvil. I hope the whole will soon be perfected for the view of the World. The burthen of business in Congress lies extremely heavy upon a few Members who now faith fully attend & these meet with greater difficulties from being driven out of their regular Sphere & necessitated in many Instances to Act in person Commissary general, Quarter Master general, Clothier general, Director general of Hospitals &c &c in order to save the Army from dispersion. I am &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i Laurens informed Col. Alexander Scammell of his appointment in a brief letter he wrote to him this day. PCC, item 13, fol. 111. Scammell took the place of Timothy Pickering, who had become a member of the reorganized Board of War. 2 See JCC, 10:13, 16-17.
