536 January 5, 1778 Francis Lewis to the New York Convention Sir, 1 Yorktown, 5th Jany. 1778. I had the honour to write you lately by the messenger who was sent from hence with money for the expenditures of our State. In that letter 2 I advised you that with the advice and concurrence of my col league, Mr. Duer, I had purchased woollens for the use of your troops, amounting to £2,223 5s. which remains in Mr. Duer’s quarters, waiting for your orders. By a letter from His Excellency Governor Clinton read this day in Congress, I learn that he had convened the Assembly to meet on the same day. I hope they will advert to the appointment of one or more Delegates to represent them in Congress. Mr. G. Morris does not appear, and Mr. Duer is gone for a few days into the country, his ill state of health requiring a recess from business; so that our State is without representation in Congress, which at this critical time is to be much regretted, as there is not a sufficient number of members to expedite the business now before the House, and that business hourly accumulating. The Legislature of the State of Virginia has ratified the Articles of Confederation: Congress hopes the other States will speedily follow the example. With profound respect, I am, sir, Your most obedt. hum. servt. Fra. Lewis. Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 2:1116-17. i Lewis addressed this letter to Pierre Van Cortlandt, the president of the New York Convention. 2 Not found. Francis Lewis to the New York Convention Sir, 1 Yorktown, 5th Jany. 1778. The express going off gives me but just time to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 17th ulto. with the enclosed papers, which I shall immediately lay before Congress, and urge the expediency of those measures therein proposed being carried into execution, and shall advise you with the result. 2 Congress has been of late sensible of many abuses crept into the commissary’s and quarter-master’s departments, and which will be soon taken under consideration of Congress. 3 I wrote the Honble. President Van Cortlandt this day, to which beg to refer you. And am, sir, Your obedient humble servant Fra. Lewis. Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:1117. i Lewis addressed this letter to Evert Bancker, the president pro tempore of the New York Convention.
