538 January 5, 1778 Fulsom. The articles of arms & provisions will probably be a weight. Can meat be procured? We are informed this day that eno’ for 6 weeks for the army cannot be had of flour 8cc. I can have no doubt. Indeed I this day assured congress that all the difficulties arose from the mismanagement of the Commissaries only. It is probable a copy of the letter will be sent forward immediately to the General. Pos sibly the army may not now be in a situation to support the measure, as upon a late formal discussion on the subject, when a Committee from congress was at camp on the purpose, it was deemed imprac ticable; 8c many officers are away, 8c perhaps as great a proportion of the men. I think you may rely on Congress having it much at heart. [I will] be glad to know particularly from time to time what [re sponse the?] inclinations of the people make. I shall feel myself [happy in?] having an opportunity of gaining to this state a reputa tion [with Congress?] on this head; 8c shall not fail of availing myself of informations you may give. The Papers respecting waggons 8cc are now with a Committee. Congress appear averse to raising the pay. We have a letter from Genl. Smallwood informing of his having taken a Brig of 6 Guns bound from N York to Philada. one Capt. 8c 70 Privates on board, a master 8c 12 mariners, 8c 40 women, officers wives 8cc. The Sulkiness of the Capt 8c the ignorance of the Master who says the loading was concealed from him prevented the Genl, from giving an account of what was on board. 1500 stand of arms, some ammunition, cloathing for 4000 men, or for 4 regiments which uncertain, some cash, rum, wine 8cc. he heard of. My best Compliments to the President 8c Gentlemen of the Council particularly to Mr. Bryan. With Compliments of the Season I am Dr. Sir with much respect Yr fd. 8c v. h. st. J B Smith [P.S.] Mr Sami Lyon will take your bags tomorrow morning. When I shall have the pleasure of seeing you I will tell you how much yo[u] obliged, J B S Compts to our good frd. Mr. Marshal. RC (PHarH). Addressed: “Timothy Matlack Esqr. Secy to Honble. Council of Pennsylvania at Lancaster.” i See JCC, 10:18. President Thomas Wharton’s and Speaker James McLene’s January 2 letter to President Laurens, which enclosed a petition urging an attack on Philadelphia while the Schuykill and Delaware Rivers were frozen, is in PCC, item 69, fols. 449-50, item 33, fols. 83-86, and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:153-54. The committee to which the letter was referred, consisting of Smith, Nathaniel Folsom, and John Witherspoon, delivered a report to Congress on January 9 but it was not brought to a vote until the 16th. At that time Congress ap plauded “the rising spirit of the inhabitants of Pensylvania to regain the capital of their State” and directed the committee appointed to go to camp to confer with Washington and the Pennsylvania Council on the proposal’s feasibility. See JCC, 10:36-37, 58. That Congress urged Washington to take the
