January 8, 1778 545 8c other persons & to suspend their intended embarkation until you shall be further Instructed. I have the honour to be, With great Esteem & Respect, Sir Your most obedient & Most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (MHi). i Laurens wrote this letter on December 27, 1777, but dated it “January 1778” in anticipation of Congress’ action in suspending the Saratoga Convention. It is printed here because on this date Congress officially suspended the convention. For further information on the provenance of this letter as well as the controversy over the convention, see Laurens to Heath, December 27, 1777. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear Son, 8th Jany 1778 The day before yesterday I sent you a few hasty lines 1 by Mes senger Gray—last Night pretty late in Congress your very affecting Letter of the 3d was brought to me 2 —it accompanied a packet from Your General dispatched the 2d. 3 The Contents of this, as duty re quired, I reported immediately, but your writing, as discretion bids, I have concealed in my own breast. You speak in the warmth 8c affec tion of a Man under strong attachments, therefore I do not wonder at certain expressions which you would not have dropped to any but a friend in whose attachment you confide. If my memory does not de ceive me, I hinted some time ago my discovery of party in our Councils. The events which I dreaded 8c in many instances predicted, are now coming to maturity. Some of our friends in Charles Town to whom I had communicated my sentiments freely when they learn our present circumstances will look back to my Letters of August & September. I lament the particular unhappiness which you write of, but I do not confine my view to so narrow a Circle, our whole frame is shattered. We are tottering, & without the immediate exertions of wisdom & fortitude we must fall flat down. Among the Causes of this melancholy state are to be found some Men in whom your friend 4 reposed an implicit confidence. I do not mean in the Army—did not I intimate to you some distress I was under in answering a Letter soon after I was called to the Presidency, because I could not flatter? 5 The Man I alluded to, against whom I can have no prejudice, for we always in our short acquaintance sat 8c drank together in great cordiality has contributed largely to the promotion of party. His fawning mild address 8c obsequiousness procured him toleration from great Men on both sides, a sort of favoritism from some. His Idleness, duplicity 8c criminal partialities in a certain Circle laid the foundation of our present deplorable state. If your friend knew these
