554 January 8, 1778 entered into by the late duke of Cumberland, was by no means strictly observed by the court of London. 4 When I consider this, Sir, I confess I look upon the expression in General Burgoyne’s letter to General Gates, of November 14, as of the most alarming nature. For no other or better reason, even so much as pretended, than his quarters were not so commodious as he expected, he declares the public faith is broke, and we are the im mediate sufferers. In this he expressly declares and subscribes his opi nion, that the convention is broken on our part; and in the last ex pression, we are the immediate sufferers, every person must perceive a menacing intimation of who shall be the sufferers when he shall have it in his power. Being sufficiently settled as to the principle on which I shall found my opinion, it is unnecessary for me to give an account of the law of nature and nations, or to heap up citations from the numerous writers on that subject. But that what I shall say may have the greater force, I beg it may be observed, that the law of nature and nations is nothing else but the law of general reason, or those obli gations of duty from reason and conscience, on one individual to an other, antecedent to any particular law derived from the social com pact, or even actual consent. On this account, it is called the law of nature; and because there are very rarely to be found any parties in such a free state with regard to each other, except independent na tions, therefore it is also called the law of nations. One nation to another is just as man to man in a state of nature. Keeping this in view, a person of integrity will pass as sound a judgment on subjects of this kind, by consulting his own heart, as by turning over books and systems. The chief use of books and systems is, to apply the principle to particular cases and suppositions differently classed, and to point out the practice of nations in several minute and special par ticulars, which unless ascertained by practice, would be very uncer tain and ambiguous. But, Sir, I must beg your attention, and that of the house, to the nature of the case before us—at least as I think it ought to be stated. I am afraid that some members may be misled, by considering this declaration of General Burgoyne as an irregularity of the same species, if I may speak so, with the other indiscretions or even frauds, if you please to call them so, of withholding the cartouch boxes, or hiding or stealing the bayonets. The question is not, whether this or the other thing done by the army is a breach of the convention. I have for my part given up all these particulars, and declared my willingness to ratify the convention, after I have heard them and believe them to be true. But we have here the declared opinion of one of the parties, that the public faith is broken by the other. Now, the simplest man in the world knows, that a mutual onerous con tract is always conditional; and that if the condition fails on one
