560 January 11, 1778 but the Consideration rests at present wholly with the Board of War. Your applications therefore directed to the Gentlemen of that Com mission will be most likely to forward your wishes in promoting a measure which I think promises real benefit to these States. I am 8cca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Colonel dela Balme, York.’’ i In his undated letter to Laurens, Colonel de La Balme, the former inspector general of Continental cavalry, offered to present to Congress a plan for exciting a "Revolution” in Canada. PCC, item 78, 7:149-50. On January 13 his letter was referred to the Board of War, which shortly recommended “an irruption . . . into Canada” that Congress approved on January 22. JCC, 10:43- 44, 84-85. Committee Examination of John Folger 12 Jan. 1778. The examination of Capt. John Folgier 1 of Nantucket taken before Mr. Lee, Mr. Harvey, Mr. Duer, Mr. Dana, Mr. Lovel. The examinant left Nantucket, Septr. 4. 1775—went from thence to England, as mate of a vessel, of which Cpt. Shubal Worth was commander—arrived in London, in about five weeks. The vessel was sold in London to Mr. Dennis DeBert from whence she sailed December 6 following with the same captain, & the examinant still mate, on a whaling voyage to the Brazils, but was taken at the Cape De Verd Islands by the Portuguese; & this examinant remained at the Cape De Verd Isles, the vessel being sent to Lisbon, where she was acquitted. From the said isles, this examinant sailed, in the ship Nancy, captain Js. Scott, belonging to Francis Roach, on a voyage to Falkland Islands; was upon monthly wages on board said vessel— left Falkland islands Feby. 1777; arrived in England the beginning of May. From England he went to Holland, 1st June 1777, arrived there 3 days after. His intention in going to Holland was, to go to France; whither he did not choose to go directly; he went immediately to Havre de Grace from Holland. His view in going to France was, to get into American employ—called on Mr. Deane at Paris—had no letter to him. Dr. Franklin a distant relation of his. Dr. Franklin asked him, whether he inclined to take a privateer. He told the Doctor, he had never been concerned in the working of cannon, 8c therefore could not take the command of a privateer. Saw a Mr. Lee, but not Dr. Lee, at Paris. Dr. Lee was gone to Prussia. They desired he would be still, until they could determine what part of the French coast he should go to—was in Paris 18 days, leaving it July 15. It was concluded that he should go to Havre to view the Pacifique, which the Commissioners intended to buy; he reported her very deficient, 8c she was not purchased. About the 20 of July, Capt. Hinson came
