January 12, 1778 561 to Havre, & he was jointly to view the Pacifique—remained at Havre for two months, in the employ of the Commissioners. After the vessel was given up, he sent word by Mr. Silas Deane’s Brother to the commissioners, that he should tarry for further instructions. About the 9 of October, he received a letter from Mr. Deane, desiring him to take the command of a swift sailing vessel, intended to go with dispatches to Congress. He received with the letter a packet for Congress. He found at Havre a sloop, in which he arrived in America. He did not know the person who brought the letter from Mr. Deane with the packet. He lodged at Madame Moreaw’s, in which one Haley her son in law also lodged. The house was near the water upon the pier. He eat with Haley & his family. Captain Hinson lodged in the same house. The person, who brought him the packet, told him where the vessel lay. Hinson, Haley 8c Examinant always eat together in a common room, but had each a chamber to themselves to sleep in. The chambers were not locked. On the arrival of the person from Paris, examinant was abroad, so the person was told to call in an hour. The person when he came again, desired the examinant to write his name which he did; on which the person gave him the letter 8c packet, & gave Capt Hinson another, about the size of the letter directed for him. The messenger could talk little English. The examinant read his letter to Hinson, who after reading his own letter, asked the examinant what he determined upon. The examinant told him he intended to come, upon which no more passed upon the subject. After receiving the packet, he directly locked it up in his trunk, in the chamber where he lay, 8c believes his trunk was not opened by any person but himself. He gave a receipt to the Messenger for five packets—one was marked “dispatches,” wrapped in brown paper—sealed in two or three places—tied with a string—no wax over the string—no impression on the seals. A packet sealed with no directions, was also delivered: He thought it further instructions to him, broke it open; found it contained two letters, one for Mr. Hancock, 8c the other for Richard Henry Lee Esqr. Another packet directed to Barnabas Deane of Connecticut—another to the same which was only a plan of Paris—gave a receipt mentioning only the number without describing the packetts. The 5th packet was news paper, covered in the same manner with the rest, but had no direc tion: he broke it open before he knew what it was. The papers in the cover marked A, were enclosed between the newspapers directed to Richard H. Lee. He opened the packets on the road from Wilmington to New Bern about 28 miles. The Wrapper contained two packetts, both of which he delivered to col. F. Lee last night. This packett got wet by a bottle of spirits in his saddle bags. No packet directed to R. Morris Esqr.—moved his trunk 8c the papers in it from his lodgings at Havre, on board the vessel. Capt. Errico was the commander of the sloop in which he sailed from Havre. She was cleared out for St.
