562 January 12, 1778 Domingo, & manned with Frenchmen. Two Passengers; a Frenchman, Boileau; a German, Pittnier. The examinant lay in a separate cabbin & took great care of the chest, in which the papers were. He informed the captain & mate, that he had dispatches for Congress; the pas sengers knew it. He never mentioned at Havre his having these papers to any one but Hinson. He took a boat at a town three leagues below Wilmington (North Carolina) & brought his trunk to Wilmington on the 21 of December. He landed at the first town on the 20 of Deer.—was ashore three or four hours—had his keys in his pocket—left his trunk in the vessel. The whole of the papers were put in a canvas bag, & tied up at Havre de Grace; where he put weights in it, in order to sink it—the bag was not disturbed from the time of his leaving Havre, until his arrival at the town below Wilmington, except once, on the passage, when he opened it, & took out the plan of Paris, which was under cover, directed for B. Deane. He lodged at Wilmington at one capt. Hinson’s who kept a tavern, where he remained four days. Had a room to himself where the trunk & his chest lay—no key to the room. He sold all the things he could not bring in his saddle bags at public auction, having no more than 5 crowns which he brought from France. The next day after his arrival at Wilmington, he took out the iron weights. He left Wilmington the 24 Dec. last. He did not examine his bags, until he got 28 miles from Wilmington. He there examined them, & found Mr. Lee’s packet wet as above. The main packet not in the same end of the saddle bags. He broke open none, but that one only which was wet. Within eight miles of Newbern, he met with govr. Casswell on the 26 Deer., & two other gentlemen, one a col. Alcott. They interrogated him so closely, that after some time, he told them he came from France in a French vessel, the captain of which was a stage behind, on his way to see His Excellency, upon which, one of the gentlemen told him, that was his Excellency, pointing to govr. Casswell, whom he did not at first know. They all lodged at the same house that night. He shewed govr. Casswell the letter he had from Mr. Deane, which he shewed to the President. He desired the Governor’s passport which he procured—marked B & C. He asked his Excellency, not knowing whether he might not suspect him, as Mr. Dean’s letter was unsigned, whether he had a mind to see his papers —took out the main packet directed Dispatches & did not think of his breaking it open—were in a private room together. The Govr. broke it open—the examinant informed him it never had been broken open before. After he had broken open the 3 seals, with which the wrapper was sealed, he run over the superscriptions of the letters, & saw to whom they were directed. He resealed the packet marked dispatches, putting into it, the same letters. When the governor saw the blank paper he said, he was surprized & did not know the service of sending clean paper so far. The examinant answered he was surprized & did not know he had clean paper
