January 12, 1778 563 under his care. They both assisted in repacking the letters, & the next morning the governor gave him the passes. The passengers he left at Wilmington selling some goods they had brought. Boileau talked of coming into Virginia. On the road he found the covering of the large packet wet by rain, & then he wrapped it up in a piece of brown paper unsealed, having torn off the original wrapper, but put on no direction at all—arrived in York Town, about 3 O’clock yesterday afternoon—put up at Steak’s—shifted himself, & then went to deliver his letters. He mentioned to some persons at Steak’s that he had letters for Congress, but did not stay to sit down before his going out to deliver them. Had no verbal or other message, to whom to deliver the packet marked “dispatches”—never saw Mr. Deane after he left Paris, or ever received any letter or message from him, but the letter sent with the packets, delivered to the President of Congress. He came passenger in the sloop from Havre. On his arrival at Wilmington in capt. Hinson’s house, where there were several in company, he enquired for a continental agent, for he had goods for Congress; he was told, if You have goods for Congress, that is your man: the person, who told him, pointing to a gentleman then in the room. He informed the person he wanted his assistance. He shewed him the letter from Mr. Deane, & as it was not signed & interlined in one place, he would not give him any money or assistance, upon which the examinant told him, he should inform Congress, unless he would supply him. Shewed him also the joint letter from Mr. Deane & Dr. Franklin. Question. How did You know, to whom You were to deliver the letters or packetts given You at Havre, without directions. Answer. I was governed only by my own judgment, which was that they were to be delivered to Congress. He opened no paper in France; of this he is sure. Did You open the paper marked A? I did not. Had the seal any impression, when delivered to You? It had not. The wax run by holding it to the fire to dry. Had You any particular orders respecting the cargo of the vessel? I had not. How came You to apply to the continental agent at Wilmington, & inform him You had goods for Congress? I wanted assistance to get on my journey. Did You receive any money in France, from the Commissioners? Ans. I did, by their order, 42 Louis, 8c 12 Livres. For what purpose was this advanced You? To bear my expenses in France. I received it at Havre. Did You receive any money or credit from the Commissioners to bear your expences on the passage, or from the port of arrival to Congress. A. Neither. The paper marked A I knew to belong to Mr. Lee, because it was in the packet with the newspapers directed to him which I had opened. Are you sure there was not a packet or parcel of papers nearly the Size of that directed dispatches, delivered to You, directed to Robert Morris? There was not. Was the wrapper which You put upon the main packet in place of its original wrapper, which You threw away because it was wet, directed in any manner whatever,
