January 12, 1778 567 on Lake Champlain by Gen. John Stark. See Duane to Stark, December 16, 1777. 6 Duane described his dealings with the Indian commissioners and General Stark at greater length in a March 13, 1778, letter to George Clinton which will appear in the next volume of these Letters. Henry Laurens to Richard Bache Sir, 1 12th Jany 1778 I received the Inclosed by a Messenger last Night from France. I judge from the Seals that both are from Doctor Franklin, if yours should contain intelligence Interesting to the public, communicating such to Congress will be very acceptable. We have not a line from our Commissioners, the Messenger delivered me a large packet which when opened disclosed a quantity of blank paper whence we conclude some artful tool of the British Ministry has tricked him of the genuine dispatch & palmed this Counterfeit. I am with great respect &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i Richard Bache was Benjamin Franklin’s son-in-law and successor as post master general, 1776-82. DAB. Henry Laurens to Richard Caswell Sir, 12th Jany 1778 I had the honour of your Excellency’s Letter of the 27th December last Evening, brought to me by Mr. John Folger, who delivered me a packet which he said contained dispatches from the Commissioners of these States at Paris—& in the Same instant, inti mated that the packet had been opened by your Excellency & found to cover nothing more than a number of pieces of blank paper. To my great grief & mortification I presently discovered the latter part of his information to be true, & accordingly Reported to Congress this Morning. The House was exceedingly chagrined by the dis appointment & suspicions were so Strong against the Man, as to occasion an immediate examination into particulars which ended in an order to confine his person until some further enquiry shall be made into this mysterious circumstance. Congress request your Excellency will be pleased to transmit as early as possible all the information you can collect from the Master & passengers of the Vessel in which Mr. Folger came from France, concerning dispatches which they may have Seen, or heard from him were, in his possession, & also such as Your Excellency can give from your own knowledge. 1
