568 January 12, 1778 Upon this Examination he declared—“Within eight Miles of Newbern I met Govr. Caswell on the 26th December & two other Gentlemen one a Colo. Alcot, they questioned me so closely that after some time I told them I came from France in a French Vessel, the Captain of which was a Stage behind on his way to see His Excellency—one of the Gentlemen told me that was His Excellency pointing to Govr. Caswell. We all lodged at the same House that Night. I shewed Govr. Caswell the Letter I had from Mr. Deane, I desired the Governors passport which he gave me. I asked His Excellency not knowing whether he might not suspect me as Mr. Deanes Letter was unsigned whether he had a mind to see my papers & took out the Main packet directed ‘dispatches’ &: did not think of his breaking it open. We were in a private Room together. The Governor broke it open. I informed him it never had been broke open before, after he had broke open the three Seals with which the wrapper was sealed he run over the directions on the Letters—he resealed the Packet marked ‘Dispatches’ (A) putting into it the same Letters—when the Governor saw the Blank paper he said he was surprized & did not know the service of sending clean paper so far, I answered I was surprized & did not know I had clean paper under my care, we both assisted in repacking the Letters & the next Morning the Governor gave me the passes.” The line marked (A) & the next following contains information which implies that Letters were put into the packet of clean paper, but when that packet came to my hand it certainly contained nothing but 35 peices of blank French paper—there was another packet about the size of, or a little larger than, the first which contained foreign news papers & Letters as Congress have been informed, but that was directed to Robt. Morris Esqr. & I sent it to his Clerk with eight other Letters & packets which Folger had laid on my Table. By the Main Packet he means this, & that, & intimates that Your Excellency opened both—but the Mans behaviour is such as induces most of the Members of Congress to believe him an Arch Knave affecting the Fool. My private opinion is that he is a very confused stupid Creature altogether unfit for the charge which Mr. Deane committed to him & that some Emissary of the British Court played him a trick before he left France by robbing him of the original Packet & palming this Counterfeit on him. If he is a Knave, he has pressed & prevailed on Your Excellency to look into the packets in order to gloss his Roguery. I will trouble you no further sir with conjectures—but conclude by subscribing with great Respect Esteem &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i See Caswell’s January 31, 1778, letter to Laurens in N.C. State Records, 13:22-24.
