570 January 12, 1778 2 Writing to the Board of War from Fort Pitt on December 24 and 28, Gen. Edward Hand had given an alarming description of relations with the Indians on the western frontier. PCC, item 159, fols. 423-27. Henry Laurens to Thomas Johnson Sir York Town 12th Jany. 1778 I had the honour of writing to Your Excellency the 1st Inst, by Post. I remain without any of Your Excellency’s favours. Inclosed is an Act of Congress of this date calculated for securing a quantity of Salt lately arrived at Baltimore for Public use, as that article is 8c from all appearance will be most extremely wanted for the Army service, Congress are anxiously desirous of securing every Cargo that is or shall be imported. The term, “secure” in the Resolve, Your Excellency may be assured comprehends the Idea of purchasing if this shall be judged to be a mean preferable to an Act of power. 1 I have the honour to be, With great regard, Sir, Your Excellency’s, Most obedt. servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MdAA). i This cargo of salt arrived in Baltimore from Curasao aboard a sloop owned by Gerardus Beekman, “a citizen of the State of New York, but now with the enemy in the city of Philadelphia.” JCC, 10:42-43. Johnson wrote to Laurens on January 19 informing him that he had arranged for Congress to purchase the salt “at the common selling Price, which is now 15£ a Bushel.” Md. Archives, 16:469-70. The governor’s action annoyed at least one delegate, who wished that the salt had been seized and sold at a lower price. See James Lovell to Samuel Adams, January 22, 1778. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, 12 Jany 1778 I am grieved by reflecting upon the length of time I have been indebted for the several Letters which you have lately honoured me with under the 14th 8c 18th of the past, 2d 8c 5th of the present Month, 1 8c more because it is not in my power even now to return such answers as these demand 8c as I wish to give. That condescension however which is apparent in your kind 8c indulgent expressions on this head, afford me encouragement 8c forbid a laboured apology either for past or present unavoidable remissness. I say present, because I confess I am urged to this address by the inclosed Letter which I received from France last Night 8c which I am anxious to forward without delay, perhaps if this circumstance had not happened I might from a desire of answering all your favours have deferred some days longer—now I shall confine my self to that of the 5th. 2 I say I shall, in obedience to an hundred other calls which say I must.
