January 12, 1778 571 Very early after my arrival at the State House Philadelphia I discovered the spirit of party triumphant. I lamented the prospect exhibited to my view & predicted certain evil consequences which have naturally followed. I was a Stranger, a by Stander, I was careful to take no decided part except that of Speaking 8c voting according to the dictates of conscience. I will not boast of having been instrumental in promoting beneficial measures which from all appearance would otherwise have failed, nor of defeating attempts which if they had succeeded would greatly have injured our Cause—you would smile Sir to hear me say that America is a little indebted to me for her successes against the threatning flood of the invincible Burgoyne. If I were to attempt to prove this, it would be with no other view but this of shewing my steady opposition to party—you will conclude therefore that upon questions I have not been found always on one side. I mean only to say, Yes Sir, I have long known there were divisions among those whose duty required from them as honest Men, Strict Union. I have observed such to be so carefully supplied as never to fail of keeping up a Spark of discord—hence I have often been induced to beleive there were Agents from our Enemies if not within Doors, yet too closely connected with some who sat there. You will however be pleased to observe Sir, or I should rather say, you very well know Sir, there is no subject more abstruse than this of party, it is said to be the sinews of Liberty, I have neither Leisure nor abilities for going deeply into the enquiry, nor is it necessary. I will only say that party animosity between the Eastern States & the Inhabitants of New York is almost coexistent with the Inhabitants. These are the grand divisions—each has its atmosphere, they are Sometimes very troublesome in their disputes which are carried to such extremes as seem to threaten a dissolution of all friendship, nevertheless, danger from a common Enemy will reduce them to good order 8c as it were by a Charm, instantly establish a coalition. I have said so much on this Subject in order to remove in Some degree the Strong apprehensions which you seem to be under from reports of prevailing parties in Congress—they make the Road rough but not impassable—so much upon party in general. Concerning the par ticular influences which you Speak of, I must acknowledge your conjectures are not ill founded. But I think the friends of our brave 8c virtuous General, may rest assured that he is out of the reach of his Enemies, if he has an Enemy, a fact which I am in doubt of. I beleive I hear most that is said 8c know the outlines of almost all that has been attempted, but the whole amounts to little more than tittle tattle, which would be too much honoured by repeating it. All Men acknowledge General Washington’s virtue, his personal Bravery, nor do I ever hear his Military abilities questioned but comparatively, with the fortunate event which you allude to, why
