572 January 12, 1778 cannot General Washington grasp General Howe abounding with every advantage of situation & every necessary article for defence or attack—as General Gates conquered General Burgoyne, under every disadvantage of situation & reduced to the last extremity? Answers are easily given to such silly remarks, when one is disposed to reply. In a word Sir, be not alarmed, I think it is not in the power of any junto to lessen our friend without his own consent, I trust his good sense & his knowledge of the World, will guard against so fatal an error. If you desire it Sir, Mr. John Laurens will communicate what I have written in confidence to him, I say in confidence, not because I am afraid of having my sentiments known. I speak them honestly & unreservedly upon every proper occasion but I very much dislike correspondencies which may be misunderstood & charged with design to foment dissentions—it is my constant endeavor to reconcile Sc make peace. I am not insensible that General Washington has been in several Instances extremely Ill used by the neglect of those who ought to be his grand support & to prevent every cause of complaint on his part, but if I were with him half an hour & could persuade myself he wanted information, it would be very easy to convince him there has not any thing been designedly done or omitted to affront him. I speak of so large a majority as 9 in 10. The General very well knows what we are, & will continue to make suitable allowances for all defects seeming or real—we are in a State of infancy, yet thank God, we are not quite so foolish nor so wicked as our Parent. Men whisper 8c very harmless things too of General Washington—loud bellowing Scandal appears in every Newspaper upon the name of his Antagonist Sir William. But I will dwell no longer upon these matters. A large Committee appointed by Congress of four of its own Members 8c three from the New Board of War will shortly be in Camp in order to concert measures with the Commander in Chief for the reformation of the Army. God grant every good purpose may be answered by their consultations—to these Gentlemen Sir you are particularly referred for an answer to your last favor without date relative to Monsr. du Pin de Montauban, 8c also for the desired promotion of Monsr. Gemaut. 3 The powers of this deputation are very ample, I will not say unlimmitted. The Clothing which you had been informed of, Colo. Lee assures me is little more than a collection of old wearing apparel of all shapes 8c sizes 8c that the whole is appropriated. You will learn by the dispatches now sent to General Washington, that Mr. Burgoyne is destined to pass the present Winter in Massa chusetts Bay 8c the reasons which urged Congress to a determination which must undergo the Criticism of all the politicians in the Civilized World. I shall be happy to have the approbation of those in our own Country. If I had not honestly thought the measure justi-
