January 13, 1778 581 an amendment of manners, as to draw reproof to myself from old veterans, as Clark calls one of my Friends, and from any others who have not forgotten that this was in its beginning a patriotic war. Are we not in a young country where a living is easily gotten by labour and where it is not a disgrace to work? so that Officers after the War may with ease and without shame maintain themselves upon land which is to be given to them as well as to soldiers. Are not our soldiers, many of them, married Men as well as their Commanders? In Europe they are single, or if married, they have wives like themselves without any home. Let this equallity in Amer ica be considered, and say whether the soldier’s Widow shall not have a Pension, and the soldier surviving the War be put on Half pay. Are not Militia Officers almost as much in the Field as our Conti nental Gentlemen? Must we not enlarge the half pay Scheme or dis gust the Militia? a Case of the Kind not happening in Europe. There, this mode of introducing into Society a set of haughty, idle, imper ious Scandalizers of Industrious Citizens &: Farmers may be practiced. I have no reason to look for a Half pay majority in Congress; As there is really no argument for it but a fear of all our best officers leaving the army. Here my spirit catches fire; but, the consequence shall not be the filling of a whole sheet of paper with Remarks & Anathemas. I will not foreclose my expectations from you. I must go back to my first Subject as an apology for not writing the history of York Town at large. Folsom, Dana, Reed, Harvey go to Camp. Pen to the Hospitals. Therefore the 13 States have their Business managed by a snug set indeed. N. Hampshire 1 Massachusetts 2 no vote Rh. Island 1 Connecticutt 1 N York 2 N Jersey 2 Pensylvania 4 Delaware Maryland Virginia 1 no vote North Carolina 1 Sth Carolina 1 Georgia 2 18 Delegates—9 States In writing to your Namesake, I write to you and vice versa. Mr. Hancock will also probably communicate to you some part of my letter to him, 4 I mean what respects Folgier.
