582 January 13, 1778 With frozen fingers but much warmth of friendly attachment to you at heart I am, Dear Sir, your Servant, J L RC (NN). i Lovell noted in the margin: “Gates, Mifflin, Pickering.” 2 That is, John and Samuel Adams. a A reference to Francis Dana’s differences with Elbridge Gerry and Lovell. 4 Not found. Marine Committee to Thomas Read gj r i January 13th 1778. The present situation of the Frigate Washington of which you are Commander rendering it very uncertain at what time she may be brought into service, and the desire you have to be active in the service of your Country having induced you to take the Command of the Continental Brig Baltimore we now direct that you repair immediately to Baltimore where the said Brigt. lies and as we intend that she shall be fitted out as a packet and under your direction you will without loss of time proceed upon the business and we trust your good judgment will direct the most frugal & beneficial way of manning that vessel. We have wrote to Mr. Jonathan Hudson to assist you in the execution of this business, 2 and as the Agents at Baltimore were formerly directed to supply him with any articles in their possession belonging to the public which might be suitable for fitting this Vessel, you will apply to him to know what has been done and what may be had from the Public Stores. We now author ize you to purchase any materials, Canon or Stores which may be wanted for fitting this Vessel and to engage on the best terms in your power a proper complement of men for manning her, but we recom mend to you to observe the greatest frugality in all cases. Mr. Hudson will assist you, and we would have you advise with him in every matter—he will pay off Accounts which may arise in the course of the business. We would have you get your officers from those already engaged in the service but at this time unemployed. When the Brig is ready. to take on board a Cargo you will advise the Commercial Committee who will order her a lading and direct your voyage which you are to obey. The Public dispatches which it is intended you shall carry will also be sent down in due Time, and before you sail you must furnish this Committee with a Compleat inventory of every thing on board your vessel signed by yourself and officers together with a re turn of the men on board and the terms on which they are engaged. We are Sir, Your hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book).
