January 14, 1778 587 Henry Laurens to Archibald Campbell Sir, 14th Jany 1778 Two days ago I had the honour of receiving your Letter of the 18th Ulto. which I presented immediately to Congress where it was committed to the Board of War. I have called upon the Board twice for a Report & it gives me concern to find they are not prepared— nevertheless I will not let the present opportunity pass without in forming you of the receipt of your application, even this I can con ceive will afford some satisfaction to a Gentleman in your unhappy circumstances & you may depend upon me for the earliest notice when Congress shall have come to a determination upon your Case. 1 At present I beleive we wait to see proper returns made for many British Officers who have been permitted to go into New York & Philadelphia 8c particularly for Major General Prescot who is gone into the former City as a tender in Exchange for Major General Lee. I have the honour to be with every Sentiment of respt. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Lieutt. Colo. Campbell of the 71st Regimt British, Boston.” i In his letter Lieutenant Colonel Campbell, a prisoner of war being held in Massachusetts, asked Congress’ permission to go on parole to New York to arrange his exchange for Ethan Allen. PCC, item 78, 5:128. After Campbell’s letter had first been referred to the Board of War and then to the committee at camp, Congress approved his proposal on March 30, 1778. See JCC, 10:43-44, 58, 295; and Committee of Camp Minutes of Proceedings, February 2-7, 1778, note 4. a Laurens also wrote a brief letter this day to Commissary of Prisoners Elias Boudinot to inform him of a January 14 resolve “ordaining your order to be a sufficient Voucher for the delivery of provisions for the use of prisoners of War.” PCC, item 13, fol. 126; and JCC, 10:48. Henry Laurens to George Clinton Sir, York Town 14 Jany 1778 The last I troubled you with was under the 2d Inst, by Messenger Weir, since which I have been honoured by the receipt of Your Ex cellency’s favour of the 20th Ulto. 1 This I immediately Reported to Congress but have received no commands which authorize me to make a particular reply. Business for some time past has not been dis patched in Congress with that degree of Celerity, nor, possibly in some Instances, accuracy, which the peculiar exigency of these Infant States demands, not owing to negligence 8c inattention of the few Members who now faithfully devote their time 8c drudge in the serv ice of their Country but to a deficiency of numbers necessary for the discharge of the very important matters which every new day brings forth. There are at present no more than 21 Members on the floor. Of
