590 January 14, 1778 Henry Laurens to Horatio Gates Sir, 14th Jany 1778. Inclosed under the present cover you will receive an Act of Con gress of the 12th Inst, appointing you one of a Committee from the Board of War to join a Committee of three Members of Congress & proceed to Camp. The Members from Congress are Mr. Dana, Mr. Folsom & Mr. Harvie, these Gentlemen intend to call on you at Read ing & I hope will enter upon their journey today. 1 With the last dispatches which I had the honour of receiving from you came a packet directed to Brig. Wilkinson who being now called upon to attend as Secretary to the Board of War will probably see you before he arrives at York. I judge it best therefore to pass the Packet through your hands & it will accordingly accompany this, as will another from General Washington directed to your Self. I have the honour to be with great respect. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Major General Gates, Reading.” 1 Laurens also wrote similar letters this day to two other members of the Board of War, Maj. Gen. Thomas Mifflin at Reading and Col. Timothy Pickering at Valley Forge, informing them of their appointment to this com mittee. PCC, item 13, fols. 122-23. Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir, York Town 14 January 1778. My last to you was dated the 5th Inst. & sent by Messenger Weir— since which I have been honoured by yours of the 17th 8c 25th De cember—both of which having been committed to the Board of War 8c Board of Treasury are by one or other so far mislaid as to deprive me by the present opportunity of means for giving any reply except such as may be found in the Act of Congress of this date directing the Issuing of Salted provision 8c restricting you in making advances of Money to the Officers in the Commissary, Quarter Master 8c Clothier generals departments, to Cases of absolute necessity only— which Act you will find under this Cover—as you will an Act of the 6th directing that One Thousand good Bell Tents be sent to the Army under General Washington’s Command. 1 You will likewise receive two Copies of an Act of Congress dated the 8th Inst, for suspending the embarkation of Lieutt. General Burgoyne 8c his Troops until the Convention of Saratoga shall be ex plicitly ratified by the Court of Great Britain 8c notified to Congress. One Copy of which you are directed by another Act dated the 12th which will accompany the abovementioned to deliver to Lieutt. General Burgoyne; by the same Act you are enjoined to order such
