January 14, 1778 591 Transports if arrived, or when they shall arrive, to quit the Port of Boston immediately. Congress have directed General Washington to renew his demand on General Sir Wm. Howe for Passports for Vessels to transport Pro vision 8c Fuel for General Burgoyne’s Army, 2 but as good Policy dictates that we should keep the Court of Great Britain from a knowledge founded upon authentic accounts of the Act of Congress of the 8th Inst, as long as we can fairly do so, that demand will not be made until Congress shall be informed that you have delivered a Copy of the Act to General Burgoyne. The transporting Provision under such expected Passports, admitting such will be granted, may therefore be long delayed; from these considerations you will judge Sir, of the expediency or necessity for applying to General Burgoyne to order Provision for the use of his Troops from on board the British Transport Vessels which probably from motives of ceconomy he will interpose, for it is not intended he shall ever depart until he shall have paid up all his Accounts in terms of a Resolve of Congress lately transmitted you. I have the honour to be, With very great regard, Sir, Your obedient & most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress P.S. Under your Cover I take the liberty of putting two Packets directed to the Baron Stuben & one to Lieutt. Colo. Campbell rec ommended to your protection. The Baron has not applied to Con gress for any assistance to bring him forward on his Journey—pos sibly he might have expected the offer on our part as a thing of course, therefore I request you Sir to make him a tender of Money 8c to afford him such aids as shall be suitable to his Rank 8c occasions. This I think consistent with the honour of Congress 8c have no doubt of their approbation but ’tis now past Midnight, the Messenger will take his dispatches by the dawn of tomorrow, therefore I shall not have time to apply for a formal Resolution for the purpose, but I will be answerable for such disbursements as you shall judge nec essary 8c proper 8c repay them with thanks in such manner as you shall direct. RC (MHi). i General Heath’s letters are in PCC, item 157, fols. 57-64. 2 See JCC, 10:45. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear son York Town 14th Jany. 1778 This will be delivered to you by Monsr. Ie Chevalier Lanuville a Gentleman who at a very great expence is come to offer his service
