January 14, 1778 595 Henry Laurens to Baron von Steuben Sir, York Town 14th January 1778 I beg leave to refer Your Excellency to an Official Letter which I had the honour of addressing to you under the present date. Permit me to add Sir, that you may command my best services upon every occasion. I have written to Major General Heath to make Your Excellency a tender of Money for travelling charges & requested him to afford you every assistance for your journey to General Washington’s Camp. No doubt, you have discerned before this time that such Gold & Silver as you may have remaining, will be better kept in the Purse than disposed of in Current expences, for which our Paper Money is a proper substitute. Believe me to be with very great Regard & Esteem, Sir, Your Ex cellency’s Most obedient & most humble servant, Henry Laurens RC (MnHi). Addressed: “His Excellency Lieutt. General Baron Stuben, Boston.” Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, 14th Jany 1778. My last was under the 5th Inst, by the hand of Messenger Weire. I shall inclose with this a very solemn & important Act of Congress of the 8th Inst for suspending the embarkation of Lt. General Bur goyne & his Troops until the Convention of Saratoga shall be dis tinctly 8c explicitly ratified by the Court of Great Britain 8c properly notified to Congress, a measure which Congress judged to be equally justifiable 8c necessary, and are therefore confident their Resolutions will be confirmed by the approbation of all their Constituents in these United States 8c that the justice 8c good Policy of the Act will be acknowledged by every disinterested Court in Europe. Your Excellency will likewise find inclosed an Act of Congress of yesterdays date for keeping up the Army for the defence of the State of Rhode Island 8c Providence Plantations 8c for divers other purposes. 1 I have the honour to be 8cca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Laurens also wrote brief letters this day to Governor Trumbull’s son Jonathan, the deputy paymaster general in the northern department, and to William Palfrey, the paymaster general, notifying them of some January 13 resolves pertaining to their department. PCC, item 13, fol. 123; and JCC, 10:45-46.
