January 15, 1778 601 some plan for procuring a suitable employment for him, but I found that by the Interest of other friends he had been introduced into the Secretary’s Office. You may depend upon it Sir, if it shall hereafter be in my power I will not fail to join those friends in order to give him a lift in proportion to his merit. For my own part long experience has convinced me that inaccuracy & confusion attend supernumerary Clerks in any Office. The Duties of mine demand the Eye & hand of the principal & afford sufficient, oftentimes heavy, employment for every moment between adjournments &: meetings of Congress, bor rowing deeply of the Night & stirring very early every Morning but there is not half work enough for a Clerk who would have the whole day for the easy business of Copying which is all he ought to be entrusted with, I have a Young Man who serves me tolerably well in that branch & at intervals he finds other necessary work to do. You will learn Sir, that by the present conveyance I have dis patched an Act of Congress of the 8th Inst, to Your Council & two Copies to General Heath, for suspending the embarkation of Gen eral Burgoyne, it would have given me great pleasure if a copy could have been obtained for you in time for the present conveyance but to this hour I have not been able to procure one for any State southward of this. This is one of the benefits arising from super abundant assistance, I could have Copied the whole with my own hand in twice 24 hours. I feel myself exceedingly anxious lest Great Britain should get the start of us in publishing in her own terms & Glossings an account of this great event at the several Courts in Europe. I believe the Com mittee of foreign Correspondence have yet only one Copy which I delivered no sooner than yesterday to Mr. Lovel & if I understood him he did not intend to transmit that by the present conveyance, I beg leave therefore to submit to your consideration the propriety of procuring immediately accurate Copies from the originals above mentioned & dispatch one by every Vessel that shall Sail for any part of France within a Month or Six Weeks from Boston directed to our Commissioners at Paris. I would wish in order to guard against ac cidents to send at least six repeated Copies, the expence of Copying compared with the benefits which may arise from such early intelli gence is not equal to a drop compared with the Ocean. Certified Copies under your hand will enable the Commissioners to represent our conduct in a true light at all the foreign Courts &: to defeat wicked attempts to calumniate Congress which will be made by British Agents. I think our Act stands upon a firm bottom. It will appear when truly Reported to be as justifiable as it was necessary. Let us if possible for once take the lead of those who trust in lies & misrepresentation for success. Mr. Lovel will no doubt inform you of the trick played upon us by palming a bundle of blank Papers for a Packet of Letters & dis-
