602 January 15, 1778 patches from our said Commissioners 8c according to the account which the bearer of the above mentioned Counterfeit gives, this is the third instance within a few Months past of Interception on the other side of the Water; in the present Case there is too much the appearance of unpardonable remissness in those friends of ours, who ought to be incessantly watchful. It appears to me, our circumstances there are deplorable 8c require immediate aid to keep us in any tolerable Credit with out self Inter ested friends 8c from being despised 8c hissed by our Enemies. Concerning the Captivity of Mr. Howe I wish for it as anxiously as you do, but I will not Insure it this Winter, Providence has favoured us in the discovery of his designs with the Troops of the Northern Hero 8c I trust enabled us to frustrate them, otherwise strings of Captivity might have appeared even about York Town. I flatter my self with hopes of your determination to accept the Commission which I lately transmitted you 8c of your proceeding very soon to attend the duties of it. I pray God to give you a speedy 8c pleasant passage 8c to protect you against the hands of our Enemies. My Compliments to Mr. S. Adams whom I long to see in Congress again 8c believe me to be with great Esteem 8c regard, Dear sir, Your most humble servant, Henry Laurens RC (MHi). Endorsed by Adams: “President Lawrence Jany 15th 1778. Reed & answered Feby. 4, 1778.” Henry Marchant to Henry Laurens South Kingstown State of Rhode Island 8cc Honored Sir, January 15th. 1778 I have had the honor of Yours of the 15th of December inclosing the Resolution of Congress of the 12th of the same Month appoint ing me one of the Commissioners for inquiring into the Causes of the Failure of the late intended Expedition against Rhode Island under the Command of General Spencer and into the conduct of the General Officers employed upon that Occasion. The Commands of Congress must be honorable—And the Politeness with which You so happily communicate them must be powerful Inducements to a ready Complyance with Them. Nothing but those Considerations, and the great Propriety I conceive of the Measure could have per suaded me to a Task, I felt myself very incompetent to, and which will be rather invidious, as the ground has already been travelled over by a Committee of the States more immediately concerned in the Expedition. I am much releived however under my Difficulties when I consider the Light I shall receive from the other Gentlemen under Appointment. The Zeal I have for the Honor of the American
