604 January 16, 1778 Cornelius Harnett to Jethro Sumner Dear Sir York Jany 16. 1778 I take the Liberty of writing to you by my worthy friend Mr. Harvey, he tells me he is acquainted with you. I could wish Our No. Carolina Officers would shew him, Mr. Dana from Massachusetts, & Genl Fulsom from New Hampshire, every mark of respect in their Power; Mr. Harvey will Introduce these two last Gentl. to you, Coll Clark & the Other Officers. I understand you have lately got plenty of Tea & Lo Sugar, for gods sake send me a Little, if you can conveni ently procure it for me I will send the money as soon as I hear from you. I wait with Impatience to hear from Our State. Since Coll Mar tin has resigned I am sorry an Application was made to the State, as the Line of Preferment was easily marked out had not that Gent, stood in the way. I shall be glad to hear from you & am with regard, Dr Sir, Your most Obed Servt, Cornl Harnett RC (NN). Addressed: “Coll Jethro Sumner, Camp Valley Forge." Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen January 16th 1778 We have before us your Letters of the 18th November and the 16th and 19th of December last. We Should have sent an answer to the first before this Time, but have waited for the resolutions of Congress on the report of this Committee respecting the principal parts of that letter. We now inclose you the resolutions of Congress on all points about which you requested information, excepting that of Pay and Rations for officers not in actual service, which is postponed for fur ther consideration. 1 When Congress shall have determined thereon we will transmit to you their Resolution. We inclose you likewise a Resolution of Con gress of the 9th of Decemr. and the opinion of the Marine Committee of the 25th of March from their Books which hath long since been transmitted to the Continental Agents; and also twelve blank Com missions and fifty Warrants. You will inquire for such Continental officers as are out of employ and commissionate them, and not others, unless such cannot be found. A Bill drawn by the Honorable Thomas Cushing Esqr. superin tendant of the building of the 74 Gun Ship and frigate in Massachu- sets Bay hath been presented to Congress and paid, and is charged by the Marine Committee to your Board, for which he must be accountable to you. The amount is 13359 Dollars. You will please
