January 16, 1778 605 to inform him that applications for Money and any thing respecting these Ships ought regularly to be made to you. In answer to yours of the 16 December we observe what you have said respecting the equipment of a Number of Brigts to employ our officers not in actual service and to Cruize on the Trade of the enemy is a measure that cannot be gone into at this time. 2 The Dispatch must pursue her in tended Voyage—The Necessity of fulfilling our Contracts requires it. A voyage is planned for the Mellish and we shall have employment for the Schooner and every other Vessel we can procure. We have wrote to the Navy Board in this District and to Maryland about the purchasing flour and Iron for the use of the Navy in your depart ment 3 and so soon as we shall have got things in a proper train shall give you notice of it. We are at a loss to determine precisely what you mean by the dis tribution of Prize Money among supernumerary officers as to each Vessel a Certain Number of Officers is assigned among whom and the seamen the prizes are to be distributed, all above that number are useless and cannot be entitled to a share of Prizes otherwise than Privates. We are sorry to find that you were under the necessity of aug menting the wages of the Carpenters in Connecticut. As Committees are met at New Haven to regulate the Prices of Provisions and other Articles we hope you will be able soon to reduce the wages to sums proportionate to such regulations. In answer to your last of the 19th of December, The account of the arrival of Captain Chews valuable prize gave us great pleasure. We hope the Boston will be soon at sea; and don’t doubt but you will take proper Steps for the preservation of the Warren, Providence and Columbus. How many of the Continental Agents could have paid Commodore Hopkins the one twentieth part of all prizes taken be fore his suspension and since his arrival from the Bahamas we can not conceive when the inclosed determination of the Marine Com mittee of the 25th of March was immediately transmitted to them for their Government. 4 As to a Supply of Cash we presume before this Time you have re ceived the Warrants granted the 3d of December for 100,000 Dollars which we think you could not have received when you wrote the 19th December. We send you a Copy of the New Signals for the Navy of which you will order your Clerk to make out Copies and see that they are delivered to the Commanding officers of the Ships in your district as soon as may be. We are Gentlemen, yr hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). i For the resolves of January 8, which were intended to encourage naval recruitment in general and the manning of the frigate Providence in particular, see JCC, 10:28-29. On January 19-21 Congress considered the issue of pay and
