January 17, 1778 611 the summer of 1777. DAB. For a general discussion of this investigation, see John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5, 1777, note. 2 This letter from Poor and John Paterson, which explained their reasons for having favored the evacuation of Ticonderoga, was read in Congress on De cember 27 and referred to committee. PCC, item 163, fols. 514—15; and JCC, 9:1055. 3 Francis Dana, John Witherspoon, and William Ellery had been added to this committee on December 26. See JCC, 9:1053. 4 Congress made this appointment shortly after reading a December 22 letter from Poor recommending Rev. Israel Evans for the office. PCC, item 78, 18:159; and JCC, 9:1055, 10:18. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge Sir, 17th Jany 1778. The last which I had the honour of writing to your Excellency is dated the 2d Inst. & still lies on the Table. This delay has been owing to several Causes, a continued expectation of receiving dispatches from your Excellency by Messenger Zimmerman, who does not yet appear—waiting for the papers which will go under the present Cover—& lately for a proper Man to Send as a Messenger, such an one is not at this Instant to be found. I have, from the Multiplicity of business which has occured for a Month past exhausted the Stock of regular Messengers & have been obliged upon several occasions to employ Light Horse Man. Under this Cover Your Excellency will receive for the State of South Carolina, a very solemn & important Act of Congress of the 8th Inst, for suspending the embarkation of Lieutt. General Burgoyne & his Troops until the Convention of Saratoga shall be explicitly Ratified by the Court of Great Britain & properly notified to Congress —A measure, which after the most circumspect deliberation, Congress were compelled to adopt as their indispensable Duty, equally justifi able & necessary. The House therefore rest satisfied that their Resolves will be confirmed by the approbation of all their Constituents throughout these United States who are most nearly concerned; & are as Strongly persuaded that the Justice & good policy of the Act will be acknowledged by every disinterested Court in Europe. Your Excellency will also find inclosed an Act of the 29 [30th] December for bringing to punishment when practicable, such of the Inhabitants of these States as have joined or shall join the Enemy. I am &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13).
