612 January 17, 1778 Henry Laurens to William Shippen, Jr. Dear Sir, 17th Jany 1778 This afternoon Your favour of the 18th wrong dated came to hand, I will offer it to Congress on Monday Morning. 1 In the mean time permit me to refer you to my Letters of the 7th & 12th Inst, which will be delivered you with this. Those Letters were down at the Ferry three days ago & returned under a Report that the River was im passable. I have not the least doubt Sir but that you will acquit your Self before Congress to the Satisfaction of the House & to your own Honour. Be assured I am with great respect. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i In this letter—which is endorsed “Received 17 Jany 1778. Misdated 18th. Read 19th”—Dr. Shippen promised that he would soon provide Congress with documentary evidence refuting the allegations of mismanagement in the medical department made by Dr. Benjamin Rush and Gov. William Livingston. PCC, item 78, 20:171-74; and JCC, 10:60. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin Jany. 17th. 1778 Your favor of Octr has come to my hand this week.. 1 I am well persuaded that all your blottings woud not only do you the credit hinted at by the Poet whom you quote, but be quite sufficient to embellish the performances of some who take to themselves vast merit for their Writings. And I sincerely lament that you did not arrive early enough at Paris to blot & correct the first MS works referrd to in my criticisms of July last. They were vile Catch-pennies. I have wrote to you by this opportunity officially in Committee concerning the robbery of the Dispatches sent by John Folgier; 2 but I must here take up that subject again as I am Individually of opinion that the man is honest tho’ I can by no means celebrate his discretion. I beleive the theft was committed by some one intimately connected with your affairs, who knew the nature of all the Papers intended to be sent. Had only the main Dispatches been stolen, I shoud not be so sanguine as I am in my belief of a bosom traitor being concerned. But some valuable paper was taken from the midst of a parcel of Gazettes wch. were under seal to R.H. Lee & directed probably by the same person who superscribed the other parcel of Gazettes for him, but did not I believe seal them, as the impression is not the same made use of upon a Letter which came safe for him. Now why was not the large handsome Packet for Robt. Morris unseald, why was
