January 19, 1778 613 not that for President Hancock wch. containd the several Copies of Anecdotes respecting T. Morris. Why was not the one for B. Deane which had on its outside a pressing recommendation to forward it by Express at the first convenient stage after landing? Why was not yours to me who am a Delegate as well as R.H. Lee, mine containing many pieces of Baron Steuben’s writing. All those Seals were sound & original, as well as all Mr. Izards. The reason is evident. The theif knew the only two Enclosures of public concern, For I take R.H. Lee’s to have been such as well as the main packet. This you can know by enquiring of his worthy Brothers. The hand writing & Seals of the Covers of the two parcels robbd might have afforded some clue but you see by the minutes of examination that both those Covers were thrown away. 3 Tr (MH-H). In the hand of Arthur Lee and endorsed by him: "Copy [of] a Letter Signed James Lovell.’’ i Undoubtedly Franklin’s October 7, 1777, letter to Lovell, which discussed the preparation of contracts with French officers and enclosed papers from Baron von Steuben. Franklin, Writings (Smyth), 7:65-67. 2 A reference to the Committee for Foreign Affairs’ letter to the American Commissioners at Paris of January 12, 1778. 3 Lee’s Tr ends abruptly at mid-page. Henry Laurens to Thomas Conway Sir, 19th Jany 1778 Your favor of the 5 th Currt. reached me in due course & I immediately reported it to Congress, but no order was made respect ing the Contents. Probably the powers which the Committee of Members from Congress & from the new board of War who are now proceeding to Camp, are vested with may have rendred a special order unnecessary. I return you my hearty thanks Sir for your kind wishes respecting my self, I would even chearfully undergo another Months Gout, to remove the misunderstandings & heal those divisions in Camp which you allude to. 1 I trust however that other & more effectual means will be found for accomplishing an end so desirable & important at least for repressing the Rage of party. Monsr. Le Chevalier Lanuville has much dependance upon your knowledge & recommendation of him to the Committee, with whom I believe it will rest to gratify his wishes for Military promotion—a Subject which for various & obvious reasons I cannot descant upon. Nevertheless I think he has Strong pretensions to the Consideration of Congress & I make no doubt but that the House will do every thing for him that he can reasonably desire. I have the honour to be &ca.
