618 January 20, 1778 this subject when you have conversed with them, if not before; that is if any services of mine are necessary; not otherwise. RC (MHi). In Lovell’s hand, though not signed. i Adams’ December 24, 1777, letter to Lovell indicating that he would accept appointment as commissioner to France is in Adams, Works (Adams), 9:471. 2 See Lovell to Benjamin Franklin, January 17, 1778, note 1. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Dear Sir 20th Janry. [1778] Yesterday I received yr. favour of Deer. 28th 1 and was pleased to find that, after your tedious length of journey from hence to Boston, you had courage to go to Plymouth to celebrate the anniversary of the 22d of Deer. 1620. An Epicure would have said something about the clams but you turn me to the prophesies of Isaiah. Child Man is no word in use among us or perhaps I should tell you it would suit as well as the one chosen by Father West, suit, I mean, now the Veterans are absent, I would not have you think, however, that the Gentry you hint at are allowed to look after their private affairs to hide them from the public; a Committee is ordered to examine what papers are now at hand; but it was expected that Mr. J. Adams & Coll. R.H. Lee would collect some materials, tho’ absent. You cannot have been more surprized than some here have been chagrined at the notice taken of St. C . 2 You could not expect more smartness in a Resolve which was meant to rap a Demi G over the Knuckles, than what you found in the one hinted at. What a fatality attends some men in the choice of their favorites! It seems as if honest men are not to be found in the 13 United States sufficient to make aids de Camp, Secretaries and privy Councellors to one great Man, whom no Citizen shall dare even to talk about say the Gentlemen of the Blade. 3 Genl. Gates is arrived here; I suspect he will not consent to go to camp on the Committee mentioned. 4 In short I begin to think our Army will not be properly reformed, thro’ the winter, which is half gone already. Mr. Dana is gone on with Genl. Fulsom. I ought to have told you that both my Colleagues have altered their minds about Establish ment of Half-pay. They see the aspiring temper of a set of men who are always talking about wounded feelings, spirit of a Soldier, honor dearer than life, &c &c when degrees of rank are in question, tho on other occasions those feelings, that Spirit and that honor have been quite problematical. I send a packet for J.A. to your care. If he should have left America,
