624 January 21, 1778 That notwithstanding this, cartouch boxes were carried away. That at the capitulation of St. Johns on 2d Nov. 1775, whereby the officers & men were to retain their baggage & effects, & to deliver up their arms, the cartouch boxes & other military accoutrements were delivered up. That these things being known, Congress issued an order to take descriptive lists of the non commissioned officers 8c privates compre hended in the convention of Saratoga, as a security, that what yet remained of the convention to be fulfilled by them might be com plied with. That on the 20th Novr. gen. Burgoyne refused those lists, 8c on the 23d of the same month justified his refusal 8c asserts that Sir Guy Carlton 8c himself released from Canada many hundred prisoners troops upon their bare parole of not serving against the King ’till exchanged; 8c that they have since had no other dependance than that of public faith that those men have not been indiscrimi nately employed in arms. That notwithstanding this assertion, it appears from the original list of the prisoners released from Canada, now lodged with Congress, that the provinces, counties, 8c towns to which the prisoners released belonged, were annexed to their respective names; which for the greater security of the conquering party, were in the hand writing of the respective prisoners. That the fifth preliminary article of lieut. gen. Burgoyne viz “upon the march the officers are not to be separated from their men, 8c in quarters the officers are to be lodged according to rank & are not to be hindered from roll calling 8c other necessary purposes of regularity was “agreed to” by major gen. Gates “as far as circumstances will admit.” That in his letter of the 14th Novr. to Major gen. Gates, lieut. gen. Burgoyne complains that “the officers are crouded into barracks, six 8c seven in a room of about ten feet square 8c without distinction of rank” 8c that “he 8c gen. Philips after being amused with promises of quarters for 8 days together, are still in a dirty miserable tavern ’ 8cc. 8c concludes with this paragraph 8c charge “while I state to You Sir this very unexpected treatment, I intirely acquit M. Gen. Heath, 8c every gentleman of the military department, of any inattention to the public faith engaged in the convention. They do what they can; but while the supreme powers of the State are unable or unwilling to enforce their authority, 8c the inhabitants want the hospitality or indeed the common civilisation to assist Us without it, the public faith is broke, 8c we are the immediate sufferers.” That application has been made by lieut. gen. Burgoyne to gen. Washington for leave to embark with the troops at Rhode-Island, or some port in the Sound. That gen. Howe has sent transports to Rhode-Island to take them in there.
