January 21, 1778 625 That gen. Pigot in a letter of the 5 Deer, informs gen. Burgoyne, that the Reasonable, man of war, with 26 transports from the Dela ware, were arrived off the harbour mouth. RC (MHi). i Although this letter is endorsed by Adams “Letter from Mr. Lovell to me. 21 Deer. 1777,” other evidence indicates that it was in fact written in January 1778. The "State of Facts” Lovell enclosed with it was undoubtedly the docu ment President Laurens was referring to when he told Adams on January 22 that Lovell had “fully advised” him “by the present opportunity” of the suspension of General Burgoyne’s embarkation. See Henry Laurens to John Adams, January 22, 1778. 2 The subject of Lovell’s proposed resolves has not been determined. Daniel Roberdeau to John Adams Dear Sir York Town Jany. 21st. 1778 I acknowledge your favors of the 19th & 24th Ultimo, and with great pleasure find you obey the call of yr. Country. 1 May it prove her advantage and your honor, of which I have not the least doubt, notwithstanding the deficiency you mention. I shall highly esteem a constant correspondence with you, which I shall endeavour to en courage and improve a friendship I so greatly value. A lex talionis has this day unanimously passed Congress so matured by the repeated barbarities of our Enemies that a very long report from the board of war on the subject had an uncommon quick passage thro the House, 2 a fate you know unusual even on trivial occasions, but it would exceed the bounds of Letter to transcribe it and unnecessary as your State and most probably yourself, will be furnished with a Copy by this Opportunity. The treatment of Canadian Prisoners on parole on their return home, being con strained by cruel usage and whippings to inlist with the British Troops coroborates the reasons for suspending the Convention at Saratoga. But I forbear a work of supererogation for our communica tive friend Lovel is writing at the same table. May the Lord bless and preserve you. I am with real regard, Dear Sir, Yr. very affectionate friend & hume Servt. Daniel Roberdeau P.S. A Committee is this day appointed to prepare a Manifesto which will exhibit species of Cruelty in our Enemies unheard of among Nations called civilized, except from the same Tyranical hand in the East Indies. 3 “Vengeance is mine I will repay saith the Lord.” RC (MHi). i Adams’ decision to obey Congress’ call to replace Silas Deane as com missioner to France also stimulated the writing of two other letters at about this time. For Roberdeau’s January 19 letter to Abigail Adams offering sympathy in anticipation of her distress over John’s impending departure for Europe, see
