626 January 21, 1778 rv-’ ' - w *?wy"yris In CONGRESS, December 19, 1777. 1 I: 2 W HEREAS sir WlUlam Howe, Commander in Chief of his Britannic Majefty’s forces, has required, that provifions ihould be lent in for the fubfittence of the American prifoners io his pofleffion, and tor the pur- ehafe of fuch neceffaries, as thev may Sand in need of, and has prohibited the circuiatum of the money truk by the authority of thefe Stares, within fiich parts of the country, as are. at prefent, iubjetted to his power, whereby - preat difficulties have occurred in relieving the diftreffes of the American mKimn: And whereas large fems of K> nr inetiral Bills oi Credit have been counterfeited and iffoed by the Agents, Lmittuics and Abettors of -bur William That the accounts of al! provident and other neceffaries, whseh already have been, ot which hereafter mav befu polled by the public to nnfoners in the power of thefe States, Bull be difcbarged, either by receiving, from the Britifo Commifary of prifoners or any of bis Agents, provifiow or other neceffanea equri in quality and kind ro what have been Applied, or the amount thereof, in gold and fiber at the rate of four Ihilhngt «»- ~nceGerling for every dollar of the currency of thefe States ; and that all thefe accounts be liquidated^ ^arged, previoui to the rcleafe of any prifoners, to whom provifions or otter neceffaries flull hate been Applied. In CONGRESS, January 21, 1778. T HE Board of War reported, that, having conferred with Mr. Elias Boudinot Co*miffary of prifo-’ers on the uft cd December and carefully examined the evidences produced by him, they efteem st tHcir duty to Bate to Consrdi theTbllowinr fafts relating to the American prifoners, in the power of the enemy. V 'St as far as can be collected from the teftimony of pnioners and inhabitants. who have left rhe enemy,there / arc about nine hundred privates and three hundred officer* <>*7 cf York > and • bu0 ’ fve hund 7 d F nvaur ’ ! “tEm’ Xe'privatw^ New-York have^een erouded all fummer in fegaa-houfes, and the officers boarded on Lpng- \ Ifland, except about thirty, who hare been confined in the provoft-guardAnd in the moll loathfopse goals. _.^11^ fince the beginning of Utlober, all thefe prifoners, both officers and privates, have been confined m pn- *152*the city of Philadelphia have been kepi in the two public goals and the officers in the State- ^°That from the beft evidence, which the nature of the fubjefl will admit of, it appears, ’ l ‘« of provifions, at the mofi, does not exceed four ounce, of meat and the fame qu«t»«y ° bre * d ' *s to be eatable) per man per day. and often much left, although the profefled allowance >. from eight to ren wnesi j and that the pnfoaen have been treated in general (oScm not excepted) with a cruelty fcarre to be paral > f Iwi. »nd wh the mod ftudied and illiberal icfnlt. , , 1 hat it Ws been a common praflice with the enemy, on a pnfoner being firft expturtd.ro keep him three, four and even five days without a moriel of provifions of any End, and then to tempt him to inlift with the new levies in "^Thw d^re numerous infiances of prifoners of war perifhmg in all the agonies of hunger, from their fevere * ■ senwaHy Svir - A of what cfnaths they have when taken, they have differed greatly for want thereof ^That^in the begmmng of laft fummer, lulla of exchange to the amount of £ 6oe fterling, purchafed of David Frwks hnufh Commiffary of prifoners, refilling within thejurifdiftionof thelc States, were lent uno *«*-*« k for the relief of the prifonen s that every obftacle was thrown in the way to prevent the negociation of thefe brils, and after a delay of two months, they were returned to Mr. Boudinot, the American Comnuffary of pnfoners. That the American Comnuffary of prifoners had perm.ffinn to fend in provifions from Hudlbn. and Ranto. rivers into New-Ymk, and to purchafe cloathing there for about two months pall; but on this condition, that the floon carrvine the provifions flop at the man of war Rationed in the mouth of Hndfon s river, where the hands are 5?n m of X fhips. and the Agent for American prifoners in New-York is obliged to fend hands from thence Coop over to the city, and return her again to the man of war; which not only renders it very tedmus Md expenfive, bit prevent! getting Coops for the purpofe, as very few owners ejioofe to trail their veffeU m the ene my's hands, and to remain prifoners on board of the man of war till the Coop returns. ... - f Th« provifions, which lave been font into the city of New-York for the fobfirtence of the American pnfoners, have ^^rtvenred by a public ordinance from being fold at a higher rate tnan.to^-five Cullings per cwt. for flour although the current price of that article was fix pounds per cwt. and it actually fold current at that price between indinduris, while the flour belonging to thefe State, was fold at the ordinance price. . Tht the American officers in the power of the enemy, have not had any allowance made to them for their fob- filUace, although the Britilh officers, in the power of thefe Stares, have been allowed, by a reiolution of Congrefs, dollars a week for their fubfiftence. . , ,, < . ■ Tu t. of repo.i«l remO»Hr»«C« from G.wr.l W^hregwo <o Gooml Howe .k m,.-.iJ. mxmS of pnfen«n io ki. po«r. G«<rel How. in hi. »•«”■.»« ■■ U« pw- iSla TUi . CommilTaQ ftoaU be pemi.red W mrj in a Gpply «f doaihing, money and nwolT»m. for she orifoners in Philadelphia, and to vifit the places where they were miaed. iCt on a conference; which paffed between Mr. Fergufon the Bnuih Commtffary of pnfoner*. and Mr. Boudmot suSmmiduy of prifoners forthefe State., who was ordered bv General aih-ngton to uft the prifoners agreea- hie roGeueraT HowK promtfe. Mr. Fergufon faid, that he was de&red by. General Howe to let Mr. Boud.oot know.< th^t there could be no neceffity for his coming into the city as bt would fee that the prifoners were properly dealt 1/’ and Mr. Boudinot was not foftred to go in. . . . •, Th* on this conference. Mr. Fergufon the Briuft Commiflary of prifoners complaining of the inattention p..id to the fopplying of prifoners in their hands with cloaths, find ” that there was plenty ppurpriten,d»< Goicral How. dra w» Si w ..lire >1 Resolves on Prisoners, December 19, 1777, and January 21, 1778
