632 January 22, 1778 Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir, York Town 22d January 1778 After I had closed my Letter which will accompany this, under yesterday’s date, Messenger Jones brought in your favours of the 6th 8c 8th Inst, which together with the Correspondence with General Burgoyne I presented to Congress this Morning. 1 The House ap peared to be pleased with your conduct in every respect relative to that Officer. I detained the bearer hereof one day in order to know the deter mination of Congress on your very alarming Calls for Money & I have received direction to refer you to a Letter which I writ the 14th Inst, to Mr. Hancock D.P.g. in the Eastern department advising of 350,000 Dollars ordered to be transmitted to him by the Board of War from which Sum you may draw for present releif, I am indeed extremely sorry to find that Money is not yet gone forward, but it will go tomorrow—and you may expect a further considerable Sum will follow in a few days. At present the demand of the Pay Master general for arrears of the Army at Valley forge has gleaned the Treasury, but from Loans Sc other means it will speedily be replen ished 8c you may depend upon me Sir to remind the Board of your pressing necessities. I have the honour to be, With very great Respect, Sir, Your most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MHi). i General Heath’s January 6 and 8 letters to President Laurens, which dealt with problems arising from the Saratoga Convention, are in PCC, item 53, fols. 113-14, item 157, fols. 65-68. Henry Laurens to Baron de Kalb Dear Sir, 22 Jany 1778 The 19th Inst. I was honoured by the receipt of your favor of the 7 th which is now in view. 1 It must be exceedingly mortifying to be so long a time as you have described without intelligence from our nearest freinds 8c the more so when there is reason to beleive the failure owing to vilainous interception, but mortifying as it is, we know it to be no uncommon thing in time of War, we must by every prudent means endeavour to guard against miscarriages, when they happen we must submit. I have had Some experience in disappointments of this kind. You are exceedingly welcome my Dear General to make use of me either for the purpose of conveying or receiving your Letters. You may depend upon my attention 8c fidelity.
