634 January 22, 1778 Troops—and the Report of the Committee upon which those Resolves are founded. If I do not ask too much let me intreat your sentiments —will the Courts in Europe acknowledge our Act to be founded in Justice 8c good policy? Dear Baron, I am with the utmost Regard [P.S.] I make no apology for a Letter hastily performed at 10 oClock at Night after a fatiguing days attendance in Congress 8cca 8cca. LB (ScHi). i There is an extract of this letter in Friedrich Kapp, The Life of John Kalb, Major-General in the Revolutionary Army (New York: Henry Holt and Co., 1884), pp. 144-45. 2 Perhaps a reference to the December 31 resolution asking the states "to suspend filling up any vacancies in their respective regiments, until they shall hear further from Congress on the subject.” See JCC, 9:1073. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, 22d Jany 1778 The 19th Inst. I was honoured by the Receipt of your favor of the 16th 1 by the hands of a French Gentleman whose name you have omitted 8c I have not seen him since he brought me the Letter. Be assured Sir, it will afford me the highest satisfaction to serve you effectually in all your Commands 8c yet I almost despair of Succeed ing in the present trifle, for it seems by Mr. Duplessis report the Gentleman would be content with a Lieutenancy but you Sir are now a better judge of the State of our Army than I am. I learn however from all quarters, there are very many supernumerary Subalterns, a certain number of these I apprehend will be reduced. There could never be a more improper juncture for applying for new Commis sions. In this view I feel my self unhappy because I cannot do all that I wish. Nevertheless my endeavours shall not be wanting to give a lift to this Young Soldier, I have just sent to seek him in order to offer at least, my countenance, 8c in a word Sir, I will make him a wit ness of my gratitude to Marquis delafayette for his friendship to my Country. The Committee appointed to confer with His Excellency the Commander in Chief in Camp, are now Stripped of all their intended Military Coadjutors 8c will consist of Members of Congress. Perhaps I ought to except Colonel Reed who is at the same time a Member of Congress 8c a Military Man. General Gates, General Mifflin 8c Colo nel Pickering are called to attend the duties of the appointment at the Board of War. An application to that Committee will be as likely a measure for obtaining employment for the Young Gentleman as
