January 22, 1778 635 any I can think of, but it is much against him that he speaks not a word of English. P.M. Just returned from Congress, where a Report was made from the Board of War making out a Seperate Command for Major Gen eral Marquis delafayette. This will undergo debate this Evening & probably you will very soon receive minute information from the Board of War or from the President of Congress. If the plan is Re solved upon the Young Gentleman in view will be provided for. 2 I continue in the the most sincere Esteem & Respt. 3 LB (ScHi). i Laurens is probably referring to Lafayette’s January 15 letter to him. See Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:237-38. 2 This day Congress resolved that "an irruption be made into Canada” and the next day appointed Lafayette commander of the projected expedition, with Gens. Thomas Conway and John Stark as his second and third in command. This project was largely the work of Gen. Horatio Gates, the president of the new Board of War, who had been meditating an assault on Canada since November. As for the specific objects of the expedition. Gates instructed Lafayette on January 31 that he was "to destroy, or possess the Enemys Vessels and Stores of every kind upon Lake Champlain and in the City of Montreal, and all Clothing and Stores of every kind, in the possession of private Persons, which may be necessary for the Service of the States, or Serviceable to the Enemy,” to encourage the enlistment of Canadians in the Continental Army, and, if conditions seemed propitious, to secure the adhesion of Canada to the Confederation. Unfortunately for the American cause, Lafayette discovered almost as soon as he arrived in Albany to take up his command that, contrary to the assurances of the Board of War, there were not enough men, money, or supplies on hand to carry out a significant attack against Canada. At the same time the Committee at Camp let Congress know that it considered a Canadian expedition a foolish diversion of resources from the main military task at hand— the defeat of Howe’s army in Philadelphia. After taking these factors into consideration, Congress decided on March 2 “to suspend for the present the intended irruption” into Canada, thus bringing this ill-fated enterprise to a con clusion. See JCC, 10:84-85, 87, 107, 172, 190-91, 216-17; Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:249-50, 263-67, 295-311; Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 11, 1778; and Justin H. Smith, Our Struggle for the Fourteenth Colony: Canada and the American Revolution, 2 vols. (New York: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1907), 2:471-514. The abortive Canadian expedition was almost as productive of political mis understandings as military failure. Washington and his supporters in the army were offended by the failure of Congress and the Board of War to consult him about the enterprise beforehand. Lafayette refused to accept Conway, Wash ington’s known adversary, as his second in command and successfully maneu vered to have him replaced by Baron de Kalb. Nevertheless, there is no con vincing evidence in the letters of the delegates to suggest, as some scholars have done, that the Canadian expedition was a subtle plot by an anti Washington clique in Congress and the Board of War to detach Lafayette from Washington and thereby undermine the commander in chief. All previous Canadian expeditions had been commanded by officers independent of Wash ington; Lafayette’s and Conway’s French nationality was naturally expected to impress the Canadians; and Conway’s appointment can be construed as an honest effort by Congress to rid Washington of an officer he obviously disliked. More-
