636 January 22, 1778 over, it does not follow that had Lafayette been successful a Canadian victory would have worked to the disadvantage of his cherished friend Washington. See, in addition to the work by Smith cited above, Louis Gottschalk, Lafayette Joins the American Army (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1937), pp. 110-27; and Paul D. Nelson, General Horatio Gates (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State Uni versity Press, 1976), pp. 171-77. 3 Laurens also wrote a brief letter to Lafayette this day “transmitting an Act of Congress of this date for payment of your Aids de Camp in the usual mode of the Army.” PCC, item 13, fol. 149; and JCC, 10:84. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear Son, York Town 22d Jany. 1778 Your friend 8c fellow Soldier Duplessis leaves York Town with a heart full of happiness as yours 8c mine used to be when Mr. Staytape had brought home the New Coat—he will tell you every thing. More time will be required for me to consider the propriety of your scheme for raising a black Regiment, than you seem to have taken for concerting the project. There is nothing reasonable, which you can ask 8c I refuse. I will not refuse this, if after mature delibera tion you will say it is reasonable. But before you can mature such a Plan many considerations are to be had which I am persuaded have not yet taken place in your mind. A Work of this importance must be entered upon with Caution 8c great circumspection, otherwise a Man will be reduced to the ridiculous state of the Fox who had lost his Tail. 1 This is a very serious 8c important affair which shall have every proper degree of respect paid to it in my future contemplations 8c we will determine when we meet. I will close the subject at present by a frank declaration that I am more inclined to give than to leave you an Estate. It cuts me deep when I allow my self to think the chance for the later is rather against me. Congress last Night confirmed an Act consisting of much recital 8c many Resolutions, calculated for retaliating the Injuries 8c Insults offered by the Enemy to the Inhabitants of these States when made prisoners. 2 This when the Secretary’s Clerks are pleased to Copy will be transmitted 8c published in your Camp. My dear Son I pray God to keep you. Henry Laurens RC (ScHi). i John Laurens’ proposal for raising a regiment of black slaves is contained in his January 14 letter to his father. Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 108-9. The history of this plan is the primary subject of Pete Maslowski, “Na tional Policy toward the Use of Black Troops in the Revolution,” South Carolina Historical Magazine, 73 (January 1972): 1-17. 2 See JCC, 10:74-82.
