640 January 23, 1778 Pay & Rations of Officers who have been or may be Captured by the Enemy. And another Act of the 22d directing to Pay the Aids de Camp of the Marquis delafayette according to their Rank &ca. I am with great Regard, Sir, Your most obedient servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (MHi). 1 Congress read Paymaster General Palfrey’s January 9 letter on the 10th, referred it to the Board of Treasury, and agreed on the 14th to provide him with $500,000. See JCC, 10:38-39, 52. Palfrey’s letter is not in PCC. John Harvie and Gouverneur Morris to the Pennsylvania Council Lancaster 24th January 1778. 1 The State of Pennsylvania having determined by a Law of that State to regulate the Charges of their Publicans, and General Wash ington having by his Passport directed that every thing should be furnished to the Gentlemen mentioned therein at the most reason able Rates, they paying therefor in Specie, and to adjust such Rates, having referred them to the Law of this State, it appears to us that Disputes upon this Subject are to be determined by Congress only, seeing that no single State ought of Right to interfere in Compacts which affect the public Faith and honor of the Confederacy; altho the Laws of Pennsylvania may direct that no Person shall sell any thing at a less Price for Gold or Silver than in Continental Money; yet if this Law is to be supposed binding in Matters which regard the United States and Foreign Powers, the equitable Interpretation seems to be, that the Price in Paper Money should be reduced, and not the Price in Specie encreased. Upon the whole it is requested that one of the Gentlemen mentioned in the Passport may be permitted to wait upon Congress under a proper Escort to obtain their Deter mination. John Harvie Gouv. Morris Tr (DLC). This letter forms part of a larger document prepared for Gen. William Howe, who sent it to General Washington with a February 21, 1778, letter complaining of the treatment that a relief party of his officers had re ceived in Pennsylvania as they sought to attend British and Hessian prisoners of war. PCC, item 152, 5:327-40. The document in question is endorsed: “Extract of a Report from Mr. Thomas Sandford Quarter Master of the Brigade of Guards.’’ Sandford was a member of the British party. Another copy of the letter, in the hand of Henry Laurens and endorsed “Copy of a paper without any direction handed to me by Capt. Wilson & Lieutt. Patterson—24th Jany
