January 24, 1778 641 1778—T[imoth]y Matlack, Secry.,” is in the Laurens Papers, ScIIi. Gouverneur Morris stated that he was the author of the letter when he wrote to Pres. Joseph Reed of Pennsylvania on April 9, 1779, explaining his role in the con troversy that it touched off. 1 On January 21 a British and Hessian party, carrying passports from Gen eral Washington permitting them to deliver clothing, supplies, and medical assistance to British prisoners in Reading and Hessian prisoners in Virginia, stayed at the house of “Mr. Herbert, Inn keeper,’’ in Lancaster and paid £2.0.9 in specie for food and drink. Because they paid their bill in hard money, Herbert charged his guests less than the rates specified in a recent Pennsylvania law establishing prices for articles bought with paper money. News of this trans gression was almost immediately brought to the attention of the Pennsylvania Council, which was sitting at Lancaster, and on January 23 the council ordered Herbert to charge the rates required by law. The innkeeper complied with this order and submitted a bill for £4.14.0 to the British and Hessians, which caused them to complain of unfair treatment. At this point Harvie and Morris, who were passing through Lancaster on their way to join the committee at camp at Valley Forge, were approached by Dr. Hammond Beaumont, a British surgeon of the Twenty-sixth Regiment, who sought their help. As a result, Harvie and Morris, fearful of “the Advantage which our Enemies wduld take of such Circumstances, and how much our national Character for Probity might be injured by their artful Representations,’’ produced the opinion printed here suggesting that the matter “be determined by Congress.” The two American officers in charge of the British and Hessian party, Capt. William Wilson and Lt. William Patterson, delivered the opinion to the Pennsylvania Council, which indignantly rejected it and reaffirmed the original order to Herbert. The council also sent the opinion to Congress, but although a number of delegates were disquieted by what they deemed unwarranted interference in Pennsylvania’s internal affairs by Harvie and Morris, Congress took no formal action. Never theless, Harvie’s and Morris’ intervention was greatly resented in Pennsylvania, and as late as April 1779 Morris found it necessary to defend his behavior in the face of fresh criticism by state authorities. See Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:201-2; “Extract of a Report from Mr. Thomas Sandford,” [January 1778], Washington Papers, DLC; Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton, January 26 and 30, 1778; and Gouverneur Morris to Joseph Reed, April 9, 1779. The same British and Hessian relief party also occasioned a second alterca tion involving Washington, Congress, and the Bo'ard of War. After leaving Lancaster on January 24 and traveling but a few miles, the party was inter cepted and sent back to Lancaster by the commanding officer there, Col. William Stephens Smith, acting under orders from the Board of War, which had been mistakenly told that Gen. William Howe had recently forbidden provisions to be sent by water to American prisoners in Philadelphia. Washington informed the board on January 26 that this intelligence was false and ordered Smith to allow the British and Hessians to proceed on their mission of mercy. Smith was unable to carry out Washington’s order, however, because of the opposition of some military officers in Lancaster, who argued that only Congress or the Board of War could release the party. Foremost among this opposition was Gen. Thomas Conway, who exchanged sharp words on the issue with Lafayette when the latter defended the sanctity of Washington’s passport. For its part. Congress read Washington’s January 26 letter to the board on January 30 and ordered that body to conduct a full investigation. But before this inquiry could be completed the British and Hessians left Lancaster in disgust and returned to Philadelphia. See JCC, 10:101; Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:216, 233, 268-69; Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:351-52, 355-57; and "Extract of a Report from Mr. Thomas Stanford,” [January 1778], Washington Papers, DLC. Although it may be that Conway and the Board of War were predisposed to
