January 25, 1778 645 restrained by Laws, would in the one Case as well as the other, have the Inhabitants in their Power, & by their exorbitant Demands would oblige the Farmers & Manufacturers to rise in the same Proportion, in order to support themselves 8c Families, & thus accomplish a Depreciation. A very good Reason may be assigned for the present Difference of prices, when Articles are paid for in Gold 8c Silver. These have a more extensive Circulation, & the present high prices of produce renders it necessary to obtain Species for Exportation; but by reducing the quantity of paper, 8c curbing Extortion, the prices of produce will naturally fall 8c Gold 8c Silver will not be often wanted to send abroad, 8c never by Traders at Home, unless, as I said before the State is in Danger. Has not every Legislature frequently interposed 8c provided restraining Acts, when by some unhappy Catastrophe or other Accident, many of the necessary Articles of Life have become scarce? 8c if this had not been done is it not evident, that during such Scarcity, some of their Inhabitants must have been a prey to others? I am sensible, after so lengthy an Epistle that the Subject is copious, 8c much may be said on both Sides, but it is evi dent from three Years Experience of most of the States, that Trade will not so regulate itself as to reduce the excessive prices of Articles therein, but that unrestrained in every Respect, it has been attended with a great Depreciation: And we have not had any Experience to determine the Effect of a general Regulation of prices, because the partial Attempt of a few States to restrain their Inhabitants, whilst those of the other States were permitted to make enormous Fortunes, must necessarily have produced the greatest Uneasiness, 8c created an Opposition that was not to be withstood. Mr Thaxter is in the Secretary’s Office & is much liked, he might have had the other place which You proposed, but was fearful of residing with a Gentleman troubled with a Disorder which often discomposes the calmest Minds. 1 His Merit will probably soon en title him to promotion. The Cloathing of the Army is a Matter of great Concern, 8c I sincerely hope that the Commissioners will consider it as meriting their immediate Attention. When Cloth arrives, It is almost impos sible in many States to find Tradesmen to make it up, 8c when this is accomplished, the Work is so slighted that the Cloaths are not durable. You may remember, that when the Cloathing was ordered twelve Months past, some ceconomical Gentlemen urged that part of it should be sent in Cloth, 8c to gratify them We have probably lost a thousand or two of our bravest Men. I hope that proper persons will be appointed in France to superintend the Business of making up Cloaths for the Army, 8c that Cloth will not in future be sent in the peice. I have this Day inclosed in a Letter to Mr Sproaut 2 the £4 which You owe him, 8c shall consult him on the best Method of sending
