646 January 25, 1778 your Chest to the North River. He is at a great Distance from hence, being as I am informed at a place 30 Miles below Philadelphia on the Jersey Shore. The other Chest shall be sent by the earliest Op portunity. Have you seen his Majesty’s Speech at the opening of the present Session? He appears to be in great Tribulation, & I hope to see him in greater, before the End of the next Campaign. By the Smiles of divine providence &: one noble Exertion, I think We may give the coup de Grace to his project for enslaving America. Mr Lovell has shewn me a Letter from a Lady of your Acquaint ance, who appears to be much displeased with Batchelors; I cannot think she is in earnest, because they are generally devoted to the Service of a Sex, Who are not to be exceeded in Kindness. But I suspect a particular friend of her’s of originating the opinion that “Batchelors are Stoics,” & conclude, that is is the practice of Hus bands to hide their Failings by imputing them to others. Certain it is that a Stoical Batchelor is an Inconsistency in Terms; & if our Friend supposes that her Opinion is founded in Experience, the In ference is, that she was never acquainted with a Batchelor. Pray give my best Respects to her, & believe me to be with the sincerest Esteem Sir, your Friend & hum serv, E Gerry RC (MHi). 1 John Thaxter, Jr., former law clerk of John Adams, had just arrived in York with recommendations from Adams for a secretary’s position with Congress. Thaxter first applied to President Laurens, but after being turned down by him Thaxter found a post in Secretary Thomson’s office. See Henry Laurens to John Adams, January 15, 1778; and Adams, Family Correspondence (Butter field), 2:382-84. 2 Not found. 3 Gerry is referring to Abigail Adams’ December 19, 1777, letter to James Lovell, which is discussed in Lovell to John Adams, January 13, 1778, note 1. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, 25th Jany. 1778. I had the honour of writing to you yesterday by the hand of Monsr. SigougnA I omitted to inform you that by a Vote of Congress, Gen eral Conway is appointed second & General Stark third in command for the intended Northern expedition. 1 On the 6th December I made to you Noble Marquis very sincere promises of attention to your affairs at Salisbury, the day or the second day after that event, I was arrested by the Gout &: confined to Bed, the consequence of which has been a total neglect of all my own private businesses & a mortifying delay in the execution of the abovementioned engagement. I have been able in the mean time
