January 25, 1778 647 barely to discharge the duties of my public character, indeed I had spoken to Mr. Lovel again & relied upon him. Yesterday that Gentle man called on me & delivered a Memorandum of Monsr. Capitaine’s Name & Rank & informed me he had done nothing. I will therefore Instantly set about the business Sc send this very day to Salisbury 8c will pursue such measures as I hope will prove effectual for the pur poses intended. Inclosed you will find a Letter which you sent some time ago for Mr. Pliarne. It has lain on my Table because I had expected him again in this Town 8c knew not precisely how to direct to him, but having learned of his death I judge it proper to return the Letter to you. I have the honour to be 8cca. LB (ScHi). i See JCC, 10:87. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear son, York Town 25 January 1778 Mr. Duplessis who went from York I beleive on Friday did me the honour to bear a Letter to you. I did not tell you then that the Marquis delafayette is offered a Command upon an intended expedi tion into Canada, which will seperate him from the General. There can be nothing else intended but honour to the Marquis 8c benefit to the Public. General Conway is voted second in Command 8c Gen eral Stark third. General Conway called on me 8c sat an hour, he introduced the un happy dispute subsisting with the General, 8c assured me there were no such words in his Letter to General Gates as those quoted by the General. This he had learned from G. Gates, he had not kept a Copy of his Letter. Pray can you explain this Mystery, but you know tis not my wish or desire to pry improperly into the affairs of other Men. This indeed may be called a Public affair 8c I am afraid will become very Public, but as one party has appealed to me 8c the freinds of the other delivered their sentiments, I have some Claim upon each to inform me truly. By the continual passing of Officers from your Camp one would think you had all broke up for the holy days. What condition are you in? do you ever exercise your thoughts on that question, or do you go on like an honest, fearless, uninquisitive, unsuspecting Lad? My Dear Son, I pray God give You Wisdom 8c protect you from Snares. Henry Laurens RC (ScHi).
