658 January 26, 1778 to President Laurens that was received on December 21, Gen. Robert Howe, commander of the southern military department, explained that the resignation of Brig. Gen. Christopher Gadsden of South Carolina and the transfer of Brig. Gen. Lachlan McIntosh of Georgia necessitated the appointment of another brigadier general for each state and recommended Cols. Isaac Huger of South Carolina and Samuel Elbert of Georgia. PCC, item 160, fols. 414, 416. Gouverneur Morris to Henry Laurens Sir, Camp 26th Jany 1777 [i.e. 1778] I have taken Occasion to speak to the Marquis de la Fayette upon the Appointment you know of. The Sentiments of his Heart which are fully expressed in a Letter to you do him so much Honor that any Expressions of mine would be impertinent. 1 I am deeply surprized at the mature Judgment & solid Understanding of this Young Man for such he certainly is. 2 The Impropriety of having the first and second in Command from a foreign Country is strongly stated by him and his Apprehensions that it would be disagreable to the Subjects of America are certainly not ill founded for great Liberality in vulgar Minds is not common even in America. It deserves the Con sideration of Congress whether in Case an Accident should happen to the Commander in Chief it would be prudent to trust a Person whose object it is to push his Fortunes in France with an Oppor tunity to imbue the Minds of the Canadians with a Love of the Grand Monarque who may as probably like Canada as any of his Predecessors. This Consideration has not the less Weight from being mentioned by the Marquis. His having pitched upon McDougall who you may remember I wished to have with him may have prepossessed me in Favor of what some Gentlemen may call his Prejudices and this Prepossession is as you may well suppose not weakened by his Declaration that he would willingly act under him as second in Com mand if deemed necessary for the Service. I write standing in the midst of Company. You will therefore be so kind as to excuse the Stile of this Letter which upon Perusal I find to be very defective. I have the Honor to be, with very great Respect, Sir, Your most obedient & very humble Servant, Gouvr Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Endorsed: "Refd. Board War.” i In a private letter that he apparently wrote this day, Lafayette explained to Laurens that he strongly opposed the appointment of Gen. Thomas Conway as his second in command for the projected Canadian expedition because of Conway’s efforts to stir up disaffection with Washington in the army and in Congress. ‘‘How can I support the society of a man,” asked the marquis, “who has spocken of my friend [Washington] in the most insolent and abusive terms, who has done, and does every day all in his power to ruin him, who tries to spend the fire in every part of the army and the country.” Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:254. During a brief stay in York to obtain formal instructions for
