January 26, 1778 659 the expedition from the Board of War, Lafayette officially wrote to Congress on January 31 and asked that it appoint Gen. Alexander McDougall or Gen. Johann de Kalb, both of whom had seniority over Conway, to serve with him in Canada. Congress agreed to this request on February 2. Although McDougall was not well enough to accept the post, Kalb did join Lafayette and displace Conway as the marquis’ second in command. See ibid., pp. 267—71, 281, 291-92; and JCC, 10:107. a Morris, who was nearing his twenty-sixth birthday when he wrote this letter, was only five years older than Lafayette. Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton Sir, York Town Jany. 26th. 1778 The Delligates of this State are honored with your Letter in Coun cil with it’s enclosures respecting the extraordinary interference of Mr. Harvey & Mr. Morris in the affair of the Brittish Convoy and the Innholder at Lancaster which were laid before Congress this afternoon, and defered for consideration ’till tomorrow, when I doubt not your spirited Conduct will be highly approved and the treatment you met with impunged. 1 The subject was introduced un der the idea of the Trojan Horse travelling through our land not filled with men but most probably with the more dangerous Enemy counterfeited continental money, which may be part of the contents of the Bails in the Waggons, agreeable to the Specimen obtained of the Waggoners, whose imprisonment was applauded by every member who spoke on the subject, as the searching every person of the Escort and of all the packages would have been; but most of all the bringing every traiterous Conspirator against the Liberties of these States by so diabolical a scheme would redound to the honor of our State, and would be seasonable Victims, in terrorem, to our much injured Country. You will have opportunity of special inquiry into any further hidden machination, as the Board of War have stopped the progress of the Waggons, and I hope it will be improved, and that you will not hold the sword of Justice in vain. Congress has no right to interfere in our civil policy, nor will it be presumed, however their result on the Subject of the papers above mentioned will be com municated as soon as I have it in my power. The copy of the Letter forwarded to Gen. Washington found on the Serjeant would have [been] very satisfactory, pray favor me with it without delay, with a particular account of the Escort, and the ostensible rank they bear, for I very much suspect ficticious Characters. I also request to know something more particular of the conduct of the Capt. &: Lieut, bearers of the indecent paper deliverd to the Secretary of Council, and whether they are not Continental Officers. The astonishing Con duct of the two Members of Congress who were to have consulted with the State on the Subject of Supplies, is a presage of the unfortu nate issue of that measure, concerning which you are entirely silent.
