January 27, 1778 663 bringing to punishment when practicable, such of the inhabitants of these States as have joined or shall join the Enemy. 3 Also an Act of the 21st Inst, relative to the treatment of prisoners prefaced by a recital of an Act of the 19th December formerly transmitted & 5 Copies. 4 I am with very sincere Esteem &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i Governor Livingston’s letters—the first to the Board of War and the second to Laurens—are in PCC, item 68, fols. 317—22. 2 Congress issued this money to New Jersey on January 24 “for the purpose of recruiting the continental batallions of the said state.” JCC, 10:89. See also Laurens to Livingston, December 29, 1777, note 1. 3 This “Act” was actually passed on December 30. JCC, 9:1069. 4 See JCC, 10:74-81. Laurens also informed Commissary of Prisoners Elias Boudinot of this “Act” in a brief letter that he wrote to him this day. PCC, item 13, fol. 157. Henry Laurens to William Livingston Dear Sir, 27 Jany. 1778. I have but a moment at present for acknowledging, & returning thanks for the Honour received in your Excellencys favour of the 8 th. I shall always reflect upon the tender of Gov. Livingston’s freindship as one of the very happy events in my Life. I will also sedulously endeavor to retain an acquisition which feels the more valuable as it came unexpected. But alas Sir, what have I, who am neither a Scholar nor a Wit, to return in Exchange for your polite correspondence, call me one Step beyond the composition of a plain Letter of business, & I am gravelled. If after this frank & laconic declaration your Excellency shall be pleased to take me as I am, & to confirm the late proposition, you will find me faithful, ready to embrace occasions for evidencing an Esteem which I had entertained for your Character, long before the adventitious circumstance of Official addresses had drawn me into Your Excellency’s veiw. Set me down therefore, if you please Sir, upon the premised Conditions, as one of your humble Servants, one who rejoices in the opportunity afforded him of signifying his desire to be sincerely attached to you, & in nothing within the Sphere of my capacity will Your Excellency be deceived, or wilfully disappointed by me. If I were to indulge a querulous vein I should detain your Ex cellency by a long detail of disorders & distractions in all our public affairs, Superadded to the baneful effects of avarice & peculation, among them & not the least, the appearance, it would be warrantable to Say, raging, of a dangerous party Spirit, but I forbear, & will still
