664 January 27, 1778 trust, that the States will be awakened from their present Lethargy & again think it necessary to be Represented in Congress by Men of ability & in Sufficient Numbers. A most shameful deficiency in this branch is the greatest Evil & is indeed the source of almost all our Evils. Admitting that we, who are present, were all, what truth knows we are not, it would not be possible for 21, often 15, & some times barely 9 States represented by Units, to discharge with accuracy & expedition which is due to all business, the business which is daily presented to Congress, much less, if that can be, to look into that which has long been in Arrears. Hence Thousands I may say Millions have been wasted & are wasting every day—hence our American Foxes holding unaccounted Millions have gained time enough to learn 8c impudence enough to Say, the powers of Congress fall Short of compulsive means for bringing them to a reckoning. Besides, we want genius for Striking out new matter, for correcting errors 8c repressing dangerous appearances, by measures Wise, silent & effectual. Your Excellency is too well acquainted with the disorders of our domestic concerns, I am sorry to assure you, all our foreign wear the aspect of mere chance-medley. Hence Naked Soldiers, Deaths, replete Hospitals, desertions 8c evacuated Regiments, hence too in my judgment, we are very lightly esteemed abroad 8c probably are held up this very Instant at Auction—part of the conduct of the faithful Court of Versailles will justify the suggestion. Is it not from these considerations incumbent upon every Man of Influence throughout our Union to exert his powers at this Crisis, to exhort each State to fill up its Representation in Congress with the best, that is the most sensible, vigilant 8c faithful Citizens? At present it seems as if every such Man had bought his yoke of Oxen 8c prayed to be excused. A little longer trifling will fix a galling yoke upon them selves, there is but one thing I think can prevent it. Our Antagonist is as Idle, as profligate as ourselves 8c keeps pace with us in profusion, mismanagement 8c family discord. Some of us however should remember the fate of the quarreling Curs 8c guard against a Similar decision, disgraceful 8c fatal. Methinks I can perceive a design in our artful, Specious half-freinds to come in for at least part of the Bone. Perseverance in our present track will oblige us to run in debt more 8c more abroad, 8c there are among us some who discover an amazing avidity to do so. Let us be dipped a few Millions deeper in foreign debt, means will be easily found for protracting the War 8c our flimsy Independency will become abjectly dependent upon those who may either Send their Ships to collect accumulated Interest 8c dictate the mode of payment, or may obtain payment if they prefer it in Thread Needle Street. Will sober Men rely upon the faith or upon the Benevolence of Kings? Has France done one act of kindness towards us but what has been plumply for the promotion of her own Interest? Has she
