666 January 27, 1778 tion of his favorite Warrior. Forgive me Sir I have been deceived in the time & did not mean to have been so troublesome. I am with very Sincere Regard 8cca. LB (ScHi). i At this point in the LB Laurens inserted an asterisk to the following re marks he wrote just below the complimentary close of the letter: “It is morally impossible this can be true, & I believe they have already proved it by lending us a larger sum. I am afraid they have—but extending a kindness under a plea of Poverty heightens the obligation on one side & strengthens the claim to grateful & suitable acknowledgments on the other.” Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York Town 27th Jany 1778 While I was sitting in Congress yesterday a Member came in & delivered me the inclosed Paper 1 just in its present State except the broken Seals, the Gentleman’s declaration as he was putting the thing into my hand, that he had picked it up on the Stairs, was a sufficient alarm. I passed my Eye cursorily over the Pages, put them into my Pocket 8c intimated to the House, that it was an anonymous produc tion containing stuff which I must be content with, as perquisites of Office—that the hearth was the proper depository for such Records. I have shown it to no body 8c have long hesitated upon the propriety of troubling Your Excellency with the knowledge of an attempt for which I want a proper stigma. If I have erred in my present deter mination I beg Your Excellency will beleive that my motives are pure, 8c that as I wish to avoid the very appearance of being party Man or an Informer Your Excellency will be pleased to receive this in confidence 8c in the favorable light of an innocent intrusion. 2 I am with the most sincere Esteem 8c Regard, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient servant, Henry Laurens RC (DLC photostat). i The “Paper” Laurens sent to Washington was entitled “The Thoughts of a Freeman,” dated January 17, 1778, and addressed “To the President of Con gress & every member thereof.” It consisted of a scathing indictment of Wash ington’s performance as commander in chief and concluded with a ringing call for his dismissal: “no good may be expected from the standing army, until Baal [Washington] and his worshippers are banished from the camp.” The author of this anonymously written document remains unknown. See Washington Papers, DLC; and George Washington, The Writings of George Washington, ed. Jared Sparks, 12 vols. (New York: Harper and Row, 1847), 5:497-99. For Washington’s response to this paper, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:410-11. 2 Laurens also wrote a brief letter to Washington this day transmitting January 19 and 21 resolves relating to prisoners of war. PCC, item 13, fol. 156; and JCC, 10:61-62, 74-82.
