January 27, 1778 667 Francis Lewis to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir, Baltimore 27th Janry. 1778 Being indulged by Congress with a few days absence in order to Visit my family at this place, As a member of the Marine Committee, I have been charged by that Board, to inspect the fitting out some Continental Vessells now in this harbour; of which one is a new Vessell built for a Packet Boat 1 destined to carry the Congress’s dispatches to their Commissioners in Europe; This Vessell is ordered to be fitted for the sea with the utmost expedition, and Commanded by Thomas Read Esqr. of the Effingham 2 Frigate now laid up at Borden Town. As this Packet Boat is directed to be armed for defence, being pierced for Twelve Carriage Guns, four pounders and as no such cannon can be procured here, induces me to apply to your Excellency for Ten pieces of Cannon for that purpose, being informed that there is now at Annapolis several such belonging to this state under your direction. If the Cannon can be spared, please to let me know the terms on behalf of the State, and upon the receipt of your answer I shall return to Congress and report the same. 3 I have the honor to be, your Excellencys most Obedient Humbl Servant, Fra. Lewis RC (PHi). i The Baltimore. 2 Read actually commanded the Washington. 3 The Maryland Council of Safety informed Lewis on February 11, 1778, that it was willing to allow Congress to purchase “six four Pounders . . . and their Carriages compleat ... for the Price such would sell for at Baltimore.” Md. Archives, 16:488-89. James Lovell to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir Janry. 27th. 1778. Your Letter of the 10th from Windham has come to hand, and, I assure you, gives me all the pain which a stranger to you would conjecture you wished it might give me at the time you wrote it. But, be equally assured that ninety nine hundreths of that pain arrises from the consideration of your ill state of health. Personally I deserve not any of your railing. And, if I was the main instrument in bringing about all you complain of, yet the present sufferings of the public Cause would, as they well may, so fully occupy my mind and occasion so much regret & pain that there would be no room left for your complaints of a personal nature to make impression. To be very honest with you, I think you have more than bodily Jaundice. The
