668 January 27, 1778 Gentleman who now presides here has a great regard for your hond. Father, and perhaps from an aim to show it has put you into a rage. A circular letter was written by a Committee to go to the Legislature of each of the 13 States. It begins Sir; and the President was ordered to transmit it. This he ought perhaps to have done variously as the Legislatures are variously constituted. He ought to have sent to the Govr. or the Presidt. or the Speaker; for Sir is meant for the Head of the Legislature. But you have taken it for granted that yr. good Father was treated differently from the Head of the other Legisla tures, and this designedly by Congress. The President being sick at Home thought Sir was intended for the Speaker of the lower house; here is the mystery. 1 I feel a little vexed with myself for having wrote so many lines upon this subject when I ought to have spent the same Ink in persuading you to come and help other honest men to mend bad plans or make some new ones. I must remark that you are as much wrong about P ’s being preferred before you as you were about yr. Father’s being ill treated. 2 A Board of War was chosen while a Committee was planning a Victualling board. This last Committee reported that the addition of yr. honor alone to the board of war would compleatly answer all the end proposed, thus you was elected. And the addition of one more was made as Genl. Gates may be occasionally called away in a mili tary line ergo Mr. P . I have no arguments to use with you to come here but merely that of serving your country, for be assured that your accommodations will be bad and your Salary little adequate to the avaricious griping Spirit of these anglo-german People. I recon, dear Justice, you will call this Letter a new Insult; but be prepared, for I will continue to ask you from time to time to help us through the dangers of Shipwreck tho’ I should be scolded by you ten times more than I have been. My best Regards to your Amelia who I suppose could hang me for persuading you to forget your Injuries & consequently to leave her and wear yourself out for the public. Yr. obliged Friend, J L RC (CtHi). 1 See Henry Laurens to the States, December 23, 1777, note 2. 2 Lovell may have been referring to either Timothy Pickering or Richard Peters, but the reference is probably to the latter. Pickering was elected to the Board of War on November 7, and Peters and Trumbull were appointed to it on November 27, 1777. JCC, 9:874, 971. If Trumbull was objecting to Peters' ap pointment, the protest was ironic because, according to Eliphalet Dyer, Peters was appointed instead of Joseph Reed, who was believed to be objectionable to Trumbull. See Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, November 28, 1777, and Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull, November 27, 1777, note 1.
