676 January 28, 1778 Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens Sir Camp at the Valley Forge Jany 28. 1778. Upon Conference with the General on the Business recommended to us, it appears clearly that the Appointment of a Qr. Master Genl, is a Matter of great Importance & immediate Necessity. When we consider the State of the Department, &: how much depends on filling it up in a proper Manner, we cannot help mentioning General Schuyler, & for the Benefit of the Service we could wish he would undertake it. 1 At the same Time we must observe it is by no Means clear, that he will accept of it; besides this, the Charge or Accusation he now lies under may demand some Attention. And the Rank he holds in the Army may be a strong Objection to place him in a Situation where Fortune may throw in his Hands the supreme Command. What Weight these Objections will have in Congress we cannot presume to say. They are great in the Minds of the Comm. But we are convinced that unless the Quarter Master Genls. Depart ment be administered by very superiour Abilities, very little can be expected from our Exertions during the next Campaign. The Committee are of Opinion that if Congress judge it inex pedient to make the Appointment we have suggested, no Time should be lost in acquainting the Committee of it, as they have some other Persons under Consideration, but cannot at present determine to whom they shall give the Preference on their Recommendation to Congress. I am with all possible Respect by the Desire of the Committee, Sir, Your Obed. Hbbl Servt. Fra Dana Chairman at Camp RC (DNA: PCC, item 33). In the hand of Joseph Reed and signed by Francis Dana. 1 This letter recommending Philip Schuyler as Thomas Mifflin’s replacement as quartermaster general reached Congress on January 31, when it was read just before Congress resumed consideration of a Board of War report on the quartermaster department. The board’s report was adopted on February 5 and forwarded by President Laurens on February 7, but no mention was made of Schuyler. See JCC, 10:103, 126-27; and Henry Laurens to Francis Dana, February 7, 1778. As late as February 12 the committee had received no word on Congress’ decision regarding Schuyler and on that day it wrote to Laurens urging that a decision be made. Unofficial notice that Congress did not approve Schuyler’s appointment arrived at camp by the next day in a letter from Jonathan Bayard Smith to Joseph Reed, which has not been found. But in his reply Reed reported: “I have since that Time received your Favour & find we are not to expect Schuyler for our Qr. Master. I feared it & am really sorry for it as it is a Matter of great Importance & we are now much at a Loss whom to propose.” On February 25 Smith explained to Reed that Congress vetoed Schuyler’s nomination because they did not trust his “intriguing mind,” “unfriendly” temper, or ability to “conduct the great business.” See Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 12; Joseph Reed to Jonathan Bayard Smith, February 13; and Jonathan Bayard Smith to Joseph Reed, February 25, 1778.
