January 29, 1778 683 [P.S.] Vessels under 50 Tons to be Commanded by Lieutenants & penalty of the Bond 5000 Dollars; above 50 Tons Captains & 10000 Dollars. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i In this letter Laurens merely acknowledged receipt of a January 26 letter from the Pennsylvania Council and transmitted congressional resolves of December 30 on disaffected Americans and of January 21 on prisoners of war. PCC, item 13, fol. 157. See also JCC, 9:1069, 10:74-82; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:208. Marine Committee to John Barry Sir January 29th 1778 We having agreed to employ the Pinnace and Barges belonging to the Frigates and the Barge taken up by Captain Josiah in the River Delaware on a Cruize in Said River under your command We hereby empower you to receive such war-like Stores, Provisions & other Stores from the Navy Board, and to employ such Continental Navy Officers not in Actual Service and to collect such a number of Men as you shall think necessary for officering, manning, victualling and eqquipping said Boats. 1 As you will have frequent occasion to land on each Side of the Delaware during your Cruize you will take effectual care to restrain your officers & men from plundering, insult ing or in any way treating ill the Inhabitants of the Country. Humanity, good Policy and your reputation demand that they should be treated with kindness—you may want supplies from them and their assistance in moving to a place of safety such effects as you may capture. You will therefore attend particularly to this Instruction. We have directed the Navy Board to furnish you with every thing necessary for equiping your little fleet and with money to procure supplies for your Crews as occasion may require. You will take account of all goods of every kind which you may Capture and prevent their being pilfered. As it will be necessary that you should take with you or appoint on Shore some honest faithful persons who are well acquainted with the Country and will undertake to procure waggons for the speedy removal to a place of safety and take care of such goods as you may Capture—you will attend particularly to this necessary point and employ such persons. You will give immediate notice to General Washington of such stores as you may Capture which are necessary for the use of the Army. We would have you Sink or otherwise destroy the Hulls of all such Vessels as you may take which cannot be removed to some place of Safety. The Vessels which you take and preserve and the goods which you Capture must be libelled in the Court of Admiralty in the State into which they
