686 January 30, 1778 purposes afsd. This we Authorize you to do, and as Mr. Ross has transacted his business in A Satisfactory Manner, you will please to write and Sign a Suitable Letter to him (which we will also sign) directing him to dispose of those Cargoes &c and should any balance remain in his hands to invest the same in Goods suitable for the army, and Ship them for the Continent, observing to him also that the Vessels which carry the Tobacco and are chartered to return to the States should bring back salt. 5 By Express yesterday we had account of the arrival at Edenton in North Carolina of Two Vessels with 129 Bales of Cloths, Blankets, Hose, Shoes 8cc shipped by Monsr. Currabasse at Cape Francois; and Captain Morrison from Martinico touched at Edenton and landed 9 Bales of goods shipped by Mr Bingham. The Brigantine Success which we ordered round from Boston is also arrived at that port. We can see no better way than to order the purchase of Cargoes of Tobacco for those Vessels even at the high price it now bears, as waiting on that to be transported from Virginia would occasion great delay. We are Sir, with much respect, Your Most Obedt servts, William Ellery James Forbes P.S. Inclosed are the Coppies of A Letter from General Hand, of an Estimate of Provisions of Colo. Morgan and of A Letter from Mr Willing. The originals have been laid before Congress who were Startled at the Expence, which is like to arise on this Voyage or expedition and have postponed the Consideration thereof. As we were not in Congress when this Adventure was undertaken and know nothing about it excepting what appears by the Letters to the Governor of New Orleans & Louisiana to our Agent there and the Instructions given to Mr Willing and are no Judges respecting Colo. Morgans estimate of the Provisions we should be glad to have your Sentiments on this Matter as soon as possible.® Y We hope you will be able to compleat the Books of the Secret Committee in A Short Time so that they and the papers may be laid before Congress, and a Commercial Committee appointed upon the Plan proposed by you or one Similar to it, for we are fully convinced from the little we have seen that such A plan is necessary and that we are unequal to the Important business Committed to our charge. 7 William Ellery James Forbes RC (PYHi). In the hand of John Brown and signed by Ellery and Forbes, r None of these Morris letters to the committee has been found. 2 The committee’s letter to Stephen Steward has not been found. 3 See Marine Committee to Thomas Read, January 13, 1778.
