688 January 30, 1778 Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais 30th January 1778 A whole Month has rolled over Since I threw my thoughts upon the preceeding pages. I have just passed my Eye over them again & determined imperfect as they are to submit them to your candor. I could add a long & affecting paragraph on the Subject of Non Representation, I could tell you truly the House has been reduced to nine States represented in Units—that we have Sometimes been Stagnant from a want of Members & oftner running whole days into weeds of unmatured conversations from a want of able Members. I could tell you that thousands & Millions have been wasted & are wasting, from a want of proper Men & sufficient members to attend the affairs of the Treasury, most amazingly in Arrears. Hence, peculators in all the Classes have gained time to learn & have now the audacity to boast, that Congress fall short of coercive powers for compelling them to fair reckonings. I could tell you of consequences infinitely worse than the loss of Money, aye, than the loss of as many millions as we have Issued. We have lost the opportunity of driving the Enemy from Philadelphia this Winter, but if what I have already said will not awaken you, you will not be persuaded by all the tellings & all the exhortations I am capable of. Go on, slumber in golden dreams till calamity shall overwhelm you & till your faces shall be covered with shame & disgrace. For many articles of Intelligence I refer you to papers & Letters which will accompany this & to Notes on them to which I specially refer. With respect to my private affairs under your Eye I refer to your friendship. ‘Tis utterly impossible for me to think fully of them without neglecting the Duties of my Office, which I will not do for any private consideration, but I will try to acknowledge & briefly answer all your late Letters, next opportunity, if possible in another sheet by this. I wrote you a very long & as I think Interesting Letter the 10th September which you have not acknowledged, I am desirous of knowing whether you received it. My Love & Compliments to Mrs. Gervais & the Children, to Mr. and Mrs. Manigault 8c to each 8c all my friends. I remain with sincere Respect 8c affection 8cca. LB (ScHi). A continuation of Laurens to Gervais, December 30, 1777.
