690 January 30, 1778 send Men only in quantity. Have the Strictest attention to quality— search for Men of vigilance, diligence, integrity, fortitude, knowledge (& address—and you search long in So Carolina for such—I think not—but you may be long searching for persuasives to induce them chearfully & heartily to leave their plans & schemes & pursuits for adding House to House & feild to feild. I lament in the present moment for my Country’s sake my own deficiency in those necessary qualifications for an able Delegate, but while you Command me to stay here, such powers as nature & Industry have vested me with shall be exerted in the Characters of Delegate & President for the benefit of our great Cause & I will particularly attend to your Concerns & give them motion & bring them to effect with all possible dispatch of which I shall have the honor of writing again in a few days—nor will I be inattentive to the article of Rank. I have scattered in different hands in Charles Town all the News of the time good & Bad, from whence & probably from better authority you will learn it—fast as pen in my hand could slide have the preceeding Lines been written—conscious of well meaning, 8c confident your candour forbids anxiety for the fate of what is not so well arranged or expressed. I am with great Respect &ca. LB (ScHi). Addressed: “Majr. General Robert Howe, Charles Town.” i On December 29 Congress had read and referred to the Board of War one November 3 and two November 4 letters from Gen. Robert Howe, the com mander of the southern military department. JCC, 9:1064. The November 3 letter and one of the November 4 letters are in PCC, item 160, fols. 400-406. Both pointed out serious weaknesses in the defenses of Georgia, prompting Congress on January 15 to appoint a committee “to take into consideration the State of Georgia” which submitted a report to the delegates on February 15. See JCC, 10:53, 120, 159-65. Transcripts of Howe’s other November 4 letter to Laurens as well as the one of November 28 are in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. 2 Although these last four letters are not in PCC, a November 29 letter from Howe to Laurens which the president received on December 21 is in item 160, fol. 414, of the collection. Henry Laurens to George Read Sir, York Town Jany 1778 Upon receipt of your favour of the 18th I transmitted by Capt. Lewis twenty blank Commissions for private Ships of War together with Instructions & Bonds, the latter when duly Executed you will be pleased to return to Congress. I have received no particular Command in reply to the Letter abovementioned nor to a former of the 25th November. 1 Your Honour will find under cover with this Nine Acts of Congress
