January 31, 1778 697 of Calling in all our paper money Issued under the Sanction of the Crown, great distinction has been made by the dissaffected in this and many Other States, an evil universally complained of, & has been remedied in Several very Effectually, by Calling it all in, at a Certain day, after which it is not redeemable by any future tax, neither is it to be taken as a Tendre. In some States, Treasurers notes bearing Interest are given in lieu of this kind of money, redeemable in One Year. Congress have a high Sense of the Offer made by Our Country, of marching 5000 militia to the Assistance of the Grand Army, and greatly applaud their Spirit, whether they will be called for, is not yet known. I suppose they will not (having so great a distance to march) unless in case of Immergency. But this is no more than my Private Opinion & not to be mentioned. I take the Liberty to inclose a Memorandum which Mr. R. Henry Lee put into my hands a few weeks ago, which has been mislaid. 1 I shall be happy in receiving a Line from Yr. Excellency when you can find Leisure and am with Great Respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obed 8c very hul Servt. 2 Cornl. Harnett RC (PHi). i Lee’s memorandum has not been found. 2 For the continuation of this letter, see Harnett to Caswell, February 3, 1778. Robert Morris to John Brown Dear Sir Manheim Jany 31st. 1778 I received your favour by Capt Barry with its inclosures for which I thank you 8c herewith send a Packet for Mess Hewes 8c Smith which I beg you will forward by their express and inform me per first Conveyance whether the Committee send them any money. I shou’d also if agreable to the Committee be glad to see H 8c S’s letter to them which shall be returned again if you send it to me. Congress last Fall gave 100 Blank Commissions for Privateers or Letters of Marque to the Commercial Committee to be sent abroad to their agents. I beg you will put six of them under a Cover to Mr. John Ross to the care of Messrs Sami 8c J.H. Delap in Bourdeaux 8c put that letter under a Cover to Capt Patrick Barry 8c send it to him at Mess Hewes 8c Smith by their express. Mr Ross will have oppor tunity to make use of these Commissions agreable to the designs of Congress and I have promised him they shou’d be sent. Your complyance will oblige, Dr sir, your obedt hble servt. Robt Morris RC (PHi).
