AW 


Hi 


THE   LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE 


OF 


RUFUS  KING 


VOLUME  V. 


1807-1816 


Of  this  Letter-press  Edition 
750  Copies  ha  ve  been  Printed  for  Sale 


No. 


July,  1898 


UCiAfxA*  f^Wy* 


Riifus  King 

From  a  painting  by  Charles  Wilson  Peale,  1S19,  in 
Independence  Hall,  Philadelphia 


THE   LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE 

OF 

RUFUS  KING 

COMPRISING  HIS   LETTERS,  PRIVATE  AND  OFFICIAL 

HIS  PUBLIC   DOCUMENTS   AND 

HIS    SPEECHES 


EDITED  BY  HIS  GRANDSON 


CHARLES  R.  KING,  M.D.,  LL.D.  (Trim.) 

FELLOW   OF  THE   COLLEGE   OF   PHYSICIANS,    PHILADELPHIA,    AND 

MEMBER    OF   THE   NEW    YORK    AND    PENNSYLVANIA 

HISTORICAL    SOCIETIES 


VOLUME   V. 
1807-1816 


NEW  YORK 
G.  P.  PUTNAM'S   SONS 

&ljr  |jnicherbocher  |)ttss 
1898 


THE  NEW  YORK 

PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

A8TOR,  LENOX  AND 
TILDEN  FOUNDATIONS. 

R  1911  L 


COPYRIGHT,    1898 
BY 

CHARLES   R.    KING 


Xlbe  "fentcftcrbocfcer  preea,  Hew  l?orh 


PREFACE. 

Though  many  of  the  letters  of  Mr.  King's  correspondents 
are  long,  it  has  been  thought  best  to  give  them  as  they  were 
written,  without  leaving  out  any  portions  which  might  be 
necessary  clearly  to  express  the  opinions  of  the  writers  ;  the 
object  has  been  to  prevent  any  suggestion  of  omissions  with 
a  view  of  modifying  these  opinions.  The  Editor,  therefore, 
desires  to  say  that  in  all  cases  where  the  marks  indicate  that 
something  has  been  left  out,  the  matter  excluded  is  either 
repetition  of  thoughts  elsewhere  expressed,  or  entirely  irrel- 
evant, and  perhaps  of  personal  interest  only. 

In  the  first  portion  of  the  present  volume  Mr.  King, 
though  enjoying  the  pleasures  of  a  quiet  life  in  the  coun- 
try, is  shown  to  be  warmly  alive  to,  and  interested  in,  the 
questions  which  deeply  agitated  the  whole  country ;  later 
on,  during  the  war,  when  sent  by  his  State  to  the  United 
States  Senate,  he  sought  to  bring  about  an  early  peace,  but 
deemed  it  his  duty  to  support  the  Government  in  all  meas- 
ures which  might  strengthen  it  financially  and  place  its 
army  and  navy  in  such  condition  as  to  make  the  terms  of 
peace  honorable  to  the  country  ;  and  when  the  war  was  over, 
to  provide  for  the  future  welfare  of  the  land,  which  had  been 
so  sadly  marred  by  the  wounds  given  to  its  commerce  and 
by  the  general  mismanagement  of  public  affairs.  These 
evils  he  could  not  and  did  not  fail  to  see,  but,  opposed  as 
he  was  to  the  ruling  powers,  he  was  most  earnest  in  his 
endeavors  to  so  modify  proposed  measures  of  relief  as  to 
bring  from  them  the  greatest  benefits. 

The  name  of  Dr.  Samuel  L.  Mitchill,  who  was  appointed 
Senator  from  New  York  to  the  United  States  Senate  in 
1804,  serving  until  1809,  *s  incorrectly  given  in  this  volume 
as  Mitchell.  This  was  overlooked  until  too  late  to  make 
the  correction. 


in 


) 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  V. 


CHAPTER  I. 

PAGE 

Condition  of  the  Country  and  its  Relations  with  other  Countries — New 
York  Politics — Troup  to  King — What  Course  the  Federalists  should 
pursue  in  Election  of  Governor— Rely  on  King's  Judgment — Troup 
to  King — Lewis  had  a  Majority — Assembly  opposed  to  Clinton — 
King  to  Gore — His  Son  James — Treaty  with  England  not  yet  made 
— Federalists  to  help  Lewis's  Party  without  Pledge — Troup  to  King 
— Tompkins  and  Lewis  nominated  for  Governor — Federalists  divided 
— Pickering  to  King — President  says  Treaty  nearly  ready — Arm- 
strong's Correspondence — Troup  to  King — Federalists  to  support 
Lewis — N.  Webster  to  King — His  English  Dictionary — King  to  G. 
Morris — Possibly  Jefferson  obliged  for  national  Honor  to  send  the 
Treaty  back — Troup  to  King — Democrat  Wings  bitterly  hostile — 
Election  in  New  York — King  Candidate  for  Assembly — Emmet  to 
King — Bitter  Attack  on  Account  of  his  preventing  the  Irish  political 
Prisoners  emigrating  to  the  U.  S. — Cheetham's  Slanders — King's 
Answer     ............         I 

CHAPTER  II. 

Troup  to  King — Federalists  stimulated  by  Attack  on  King  and  by  Lan- 
sing's Declaration — Political  Aspect — Troup  to  King — Lansing's 
Declaration  causes  Disaffection  among  the  Democrats — Gore  to  King 
— Of  the  Abuse  of  King — Troup  to  King — Attack  on  Van  Rensselaer 
— N.  Webster  to  King — Pronunciation  of  u,  or  t  preceding  u,  as  ch 
— King  to  Webster — That  customary  among  higher  Classes — Cannot 
encourage  him  in  his  Work — Ingersoll  to  King — Loss  of  his  Election 
— Troup  to  King — Trinity  Church  should  rather  make  Provision  for 
the  Support  of  Clergy — Webster  to  King — Regrets  his  Despondence 
on  the  political  State — Hopes  it  is  not  remediless — King  to  G. 
Morris — Wishes  to  discuss  with  him  respecting  Impressment — King 
to  Gore — Impressment  and  Affair  of  the  Chesapeake — W.  King  to 
King — When  will  Question  with  England  be  settled  ? — Gore  to  King 
— Will  not  support  Sullivan — King  to  Gore — Embargo  causes  Alarm.       29 


Vlll  CONTENTS. 


PAGE 


B. — Duane's  Appointment — King  to  Pickering — Negotiations  against 
Impressment  of  his  own  Motion — Felt  confident  he  could  have 
made  a  good  Treaty — Administration  did  not  second  him — Gore  to 
King — Affairs  in  Massachusetts — Pickering  to  King — Embargo  to 
be  removed  4th  of  March — Armstrong's  Correspondence  with  Madi- 
son— King — Berlin  and  Milan  Decrees  and  English  Orders  incorrect 
— Retaliation  a  Law  of  Peace  .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .122 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

Trumbull  to  King — French  Victories  in  Spain — Rumors  of  Overtures 
from  U.  S. — King  to  Gore — Measures  of  Non-Intercourse  with  Eng- 
land and  France — Will  they  change  the  Decision  of  England  ? — Gore 
to  King — Remonstrance  of  Massachusetts  against  Acts  of  the  Govern- 
ment— Troup  to  King — Charge  of  Toryism  likely  to  affect  the  Elec- 
tion— Should  not  exclude  from  Candidacy — Trumbull  to  King — 
Spain  and  Portugal — Farmers  prosperous  in  England — King  to  Gore 
— Spain — Independence  of  Spanish  Colonies — England  may  make 
Overtures  to  U.  S. — New  Congress  will  probably  do  Nothing  to  settle 
Questions — King  to  Gore — Losses  by  State  Treasurers  should  be  pre- 
vented— How  this  may  be  done — Election  in  New  York  yet  unsettled 
— Probably  influenced  by  Arrangements  with  England — Erskine's 
Letters — Trumbull  to  King — Repeal  of  Orders  in  Council — Baring 
to  King — Hopeful  of  Peace — State  of  Politics  in  England — N.  Pink- 
ney  to  King — Maryland  Bank  Stock — Gore  to  King — Massachusetts' 
Affairs — Trumbull  to  King — Erskine's  Recall — Austria's  Successes — 
Effect  on  Bonaparte's  Career    ........     143 

CHAPTER  IX. 

Mason  to  King — Columbia  College — Trumbull  to  King — Expedition  to 
Spain,  from  England — His  Eyes  give  him  Trouble — Hobart  to  King 
— Trinity  Church's  Gratuities — Wilberforce  to  King — African  Insti- 
tution— Slave  Trade  must  be  abolished — Proposition  to  effect  this — 
Asks  King's  Assistance — Gore  to  King — People  will  object  to  British 
Instructions — Will  act  prudently — King  to  Gore — Family  Matters — 
Jackson's  Mission — Erskine's  last  Instruction  inadmissible — King  to 
Gore — Possible  Treaty  with  France — Sir  W.  Scott  to  King — Depress- 
ing Views  of  Affairs  in  England,  single-handed  as  she  is — Trumbull 
to  King — Battle  of  Talavera — Trumbull  to  King— Change  of  Ad- 
ministration— Ingersoll  to  King — Believes  Madison's  Policy  will  be 
more  manly — Pennsylvania's  Affairs — Snyder  and  Leib — Baring  to 
King — Struggle  for  individual  Existence — Change  of  Ministry — Gore 
to  King — Dissatisfaction  with  Acts  of  Government  serious — Trum- 
bull to  King — No  Treaty  with  France — Austria  &  France  have  made 
a  Treaty — Pickering  to  King — Jackson's  Mission — King's  Objections 
to  him — King  to  Pickering — Reasons  for  objecting  to  him — W.  India 
Trade — Gore  to  King — Critical  Condition  of  Affairs         .         .         .       162 


CONTENTS.  IX 


CHAPTER  X. 


PAGE 


King  to  Gore — Rulers  seek  to  gain  Time — France  will  not  change — 
Question  with  England  will  remain  open — France  may  force  us  to 
War  with  her — Trumbull  to  King — Reports  of  E.  India  Co.  Difficul- 
ties— American  Affairs — Troup  to  King — Clinton  and  the  New  York 
Mayoralty — Misconduct  in  it — Gore  to  King — People  fear  War,  es- 
pecially in  Maine — Troup  to  Pendleton — Erskine's  Arrangement  and 
Jackson's  Negotiation,  in  both  Government  wrong — Deprecates  pos- 
sible War  with  England — King  to  Pickering — Fears  Government 
wishes  to  keep  open  Misunderstanding  with  England — To  establish 
Continental  Maritime  Law  under  Influence  of  France — Pickering 
to  King — Mischievous  Regulations  to  coerce  Great  Britain — Agrees 
with  King's  Views  relative  to  the  Government — Foreign  Missions — 
Pickering  to  King — Will  Great  Britain  retaliate  against  us  if  Measures 
proposed  pass  ? — Van  Ness  to  King — Varick  for  Mayor  of  New  York 
— King — Presidency  of  Columbia  College — Mason  to  King — Presi- 
dency of  Columbia  College         .         .         .         .         .         .         •         .180 

CHAPTER  XI. 

King  to  Gore — Hopes  the  best  if  England  moderate — King  to  Wilber- 
force — Thinks  no  incompatible  Claims  or  Pursuits  exist  between 
the  Countries — Hopes  final  Rupture  will  be  avoided — Murray  to 
King — Slave  Trade — Troup  to  King— New  York  Mayoralty— King 
to  Pickering — Jackson  says  temperate  Conduct  likely  to  prevail — 
King  to  Gore — Jackson  likely  to  be  withdrawn — England's  Desire  to 
live  in  Peace  with  the  United  States — Bonaparte's  Views  prevent 
Continental  Peace — Pickering  to  King — England  will  show  her  Will- 
ingness to  discuss  Propositions  from  this  Country — King  to  G.  Morris 
— Presidency  of  Columbia  College — Conditions  on  which  the  College 
holds  its  Property — Ingersoll  to  King — Fete  by  Daschkoff  in  Phila- 
delphia— Mob  caused  by  Crown  in  a  Transparency — Trumbull  to 
King — Mail  opened  in  London — Denounces  the  Administration — 
Trumbull  to  King — European  News — Siege  of  Cadiz — Sale  of  Ameri- 
can Property  in  France — Berlin  and  Milan  Decrees  revoked — Prob- 
ably English  Orders  in  Council  will  be  modified — Mason  to  King — 
Proposition  to  lease  Lots  in  Rear  of  Columbia  College — Duties  of  the 
President  .  209 

CHAPTER  XII. 

Gore  to  King — Despondent — People  must  submit  to  the  System  of  the 
Rulers — Trumbull  to  King — Folly  and  Punishment  in  following  Gui- 
dance of  Jefferson — King  to  Gore — Jackson's  Dismissal — Relations 
with  England  embarrassing — King — President's  Proclamation — King 
— President's  Charge  against  England  of  Breach  of  Faith — King — 
French  Decrees  and  English  Orders— King— Message  of  the  Presi- 
dent— King — Analysis  of  Randolph's  Speech  on  Erskine  Resolutions.     225 


CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 


PAGE 


Pickering  to  King — Main's  Thorn  Hedges — Trumbull  to  King — Foster, 
Minister  from  England — King  to  Pickering — Thorn  Hedges — Danger 
to  Judiciary  in  New  York — Pickering  to  King — Hedges — Demo- 
cratic Senators  see  no  Subserviency  to  France  in  President's  Proc- 
lamation— Trumbull  to  King — French  Retreat  in  the  Peninsula — 
Bonaparte  wants  Money  and  Men — Foster's  Mission — Pinkney  and 
the  Prince  Regent — Gore  to  King — Complaint  that  King  does  not 
take  more  active  Part  in  New  York — Trumbull  to  King — French 
steadily  retreating  —  War  between  France  and  Russia — Madison 
Scored — Temple  to  King — Hopes  for  conciliatory  Measures — Hobart 
to  King — His  Statement  about  Jones — King  to  Hobart — Case  of 
Jones — Competency  of  the  Bishop's  Court — T.  L.  Ogden  to  King — 
Jones's  Case — Sperry  to  King — Glebe  Lands  in  Vermont — King  to 
Porter — On  present  State  of  public  Affairs — Does  not  consider  the 
French  Decrees  revoked — Impressment — Is  our  Honor  more  assailed 
by  England  than  by  France — Would  oppose  War  with  England       .     239 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

Gore  to  King — Massachusetts  Politics — King — Henry  Plot — Nothing 
hostile  to  the  United  States — Morris  to  King — French  in  Spain — 
Affairs  at  Home  depend  on  Madison's  Re-election — King — Statement 
— Affairs  in  New  York — Clinton's  Aspirations — Conferences  with 
his  Friends  and  himself — King  finally  satisfied  that  Support  of  him 
by  Federalists  would  be  unwise — Not  willing  to  be  a  Candidate  for 
Vice-Presidency — King  to  Gore — War  one  of  Party,  not  of  Country 
— Cannot  be  carried  on  by  Militia — If  England  wise,  Peace  will  soon 
come — D'lvernois  to  King — Heard  he  was  on  a  pacific  Mission — 
Trumbull  to  King — America  at  War  with  England — Northern  Europe 
with  France — King  to  Gore — Attended  Meeting  in  New  York  re- 
specting the  Presidential  Election — Opposed  to  its  Resolutions — 
Opposed  to  Clinton — Would  prefer  a  federal  Candidate  to  Madison 
— King  to  Gore — Elections  uncertain — War  has  dissatisfied  many 
Democrats  in  New  York — Gore  to  King — Leading  Federalists  want 
Change — Opposition  to  Madison — Most  prefer  Clinton     .         .         .     256 

CHAPTER  XV. 

W.  King  to  R.  King — Contradicts  Miller's  Statement  of  Latter's  favoring 
Clinton — S.  Van  Rensselaer  to  King — Approves  his  Views  on  the 
Presidential  Election — Engagement  at  Queenstown — King  to  W. 
King — Miller's  Statement  untrue — King  to  Morris — Congress  should 
declare  War  with  France — C.  King  to  King — Election  to  Congress 
from  Maine — People  want  a  Change — King  to  Huntington — Paper 
in   Suffolk  County — Van  Rensselaer  to  King— Candidate  for  Gover- 


CONTENTS.  xi 


PAGE 


nor — King — Election  as  U.  S.  Senator — King  to  Gore — Election  to 
Senate — Henderson  to  King — Opposition  to  Van  Rensselaer  un- 
founded— King's  Election — Morris's  Paper  favorable  to  Peace — King 
to  Gore — Urging  his  Appointment  as  Senator — Strong  to  King — 
Favorable  to  Gore's  Appointment — King  to  Gore — Hopes  he  may  get 
it — King  to  Troup — Trinity  Church  and  Chapels      ....     285 

CHAPTER  XVI. 

Defences  of  the  Harbor  of  New  York — The  Corporation  of  the  City 
could  not  act — Memorial  to  the  Legislature  to  interfere — It  failed 
to  do  so — Patriotic  Citizens  made  the  Defences — King  to  Lord  Sid- 
mouth — Introducing  his  Son —  King  to  Vansittart — Relative  to  his  Son 
and  deploring  the  War — Adjournment  of  12th  Congress — Inefficient 
Conduct  of  the  War — Assembling  of  the  13th  Congress — President's 
Message  —  Russian  Mediation — Nomination  of  Gallatin,  Adams,  and 
Bayard  as  Envoys  under  the  Russian  Offer — Rejection  of  Gallatin 
— King's  Notes  of  Speech  on  his  Nomination — Dashkoff  on  the 
Russian  Mission — Estimates  of  King         ......     301 

CHAPTER  XVII. 

Attacks  of  the  National  Intelligencer  on  the  Senate — Rejection  of  the 
Nominations  of  Gallatin  and  Russell — King's  Defence  of  the  Senate 
— Justification  of  Refusal  to  advise  sending  an  Embassy  to  Sweden — 
President's  Refusal  to  meet  a  Committee  of  Conference  from  the 
Senate — His  Course  reviewed — Gallatin's  Rejection  reviewed  .         .     323 

CHAPTER  XVIII. 

King  to  Gore — The  Russian  Offer  of  Mediation  examined — Gore  to 
King — Talk  in  Boston  of  aiding  Commerce  by  a  Peace  or  Armistice 
— King  to  Gore — Continuance  of  War  will  endanger  the  Union — 
Doubts  relative  to  the  Russian  Mediation — Sir  Wr.  Scott  to  King — 
Regard  for  him — Though  Condition  of  Europe  more  favorable,  still 
Anxiety  in  England — It  is  united  upon  Questions  between  her  and 
United  States — And  has  grown  in  Wealth — Sidmouth  to  King — Time 
for  his  Son's  Visit  unfavorable  for  Settlement — King  to  Gore — Noth- 
ing heard  of  Mediation — I  lis  Son  finds  England's  Opinion  very  hostile 
towards  United  States — King  to  Gore — Adams  and  Bayard  to  treat 
directly  with  England  —  Continental  Affairs — Moreau's  Death  — 
Hamilton's  Opinion  of  DeWitt  Clinton — Lee  to  King — Baltimore 
Riot — English  in  West  Indies  do  not  applaud  the  War — Danger 
to  the  United  States,  should  War  cease  on  the  Continent — Hopes 
for,  and  urges  King  to  strive  for  Peace      ......      342 


Xll  CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER  XIX. 


PAGE 


King  to  Morris — Matters  that  may  be  considered  by  Congress — Asks  his 
Opinion  relative  to  Retaliation  for  Condemnation  and  Execution  of 
British  Subjects  taken  in  Arms  against  England — Morris  to  King — 
President's  Remedies  will  not  prevent  illegal  Importations — England 
and  the  People  of  the  U.  S.  will  get  what  they  want — Increase  of 
Manufactures  will  interfere  with  Recruiting — Cannot  shorten  the 
War  by  making  the  Enemy  feel  its  Pressure — Retaliation  wrong — 
No  Nation  has  a  Right  to  interfere  with  the  interior  Police  of 
another — Conscription  will  fail  in  Results — King  to  Morris — The 
President  prepared  to  receive  the  Law  from  England — If  Peace 
made,  Effect  of  its  Terms  on  the  divided  Democracy — Morris  to 
King — The  President's  Views  relative  to  the  State  of  France  er- 
roneous— Russia  not  so  powerful  as  he  thinks — Would  not  sanction 
Expatriation — President's  Acceptance  of  English  Proposition — Divi- 
sion in  the  Cabinet — Government's  Defense — C.  King  to  King — 
England  favorable  to  Peace,  but  not  by  giving  up  her  Maritime  Rights 
— Morris  to  King — Gives  Reason  why  a  Minority  should  not  move 
Resolutions  asking  for  Information — Morris  to  King — Opinion  on 
England's  probable  Conduct — Agrees  as  to  Character  of  our  Rulers  .     356 

CHAPTER  XX. 

King — Memorandum  relative  to  Armstrong — Armstong  on  Terms  of 
Peace — Jefferson's  Views  as  to  the  Power  of  Virginia — King,  Ex- 
amination of  Plan  of  Finance  relative  to  the  twenty-five  million  Loan 
— Debate  in  the  Senate — King's  Objection — Absence  of  a  special 
funding  Provision  to  pay  Interest  and  Principal         .         .         .         .370 

CHAPTER  XXI. 

Morris  to  King — Where  in  God's  Name  is  this  to  end  ? — King — Con- 
versation with  the  Secy,  of  War — About  Conquest  of  Canada — With 
Col.  Monroe — Relative  to  the  Bank-Bill — Is  an  Armistice  probable 
— Has  the  Admiral  Power  to  make  it  ? — King  to  Morris — Wishes  he 
could  console  him  in  the  present  State  of  Affairs — National  Bank — 
Is  Armistice  probable  ? — King  to  Gore — No  Peace  in  Europe  till 
Bonaparte  receives  Coup  de  Grace — The  Impressment  said  not  to 
be  of  pressing  Importance  now — Peace  on  any  Terms — Jay  to  King 
— Morris's  Address  on  Overthrow  of  Napoleon,  King  to  — Believes 
Peace  will  be  made,  England  and  the  maritime  Powers  want  it — 
Drain  of  Specie — Proposed  Coalition  of  N.  Y.  and  Southern  Banks — 
Remarks  on  it — King  to  Gore — Advises  no  Association  with  South- 
ern Banks — Further  Remarks  on  the  financial  Condition — Gore  to 
King — Boston  Bank — Specie  going  to  Canada — Do  not  consider  the 
new  Loan  satisfactory  Security  for  Loans — King — Memorandum  of 
State  of  Negotiations         .........     389 


CONTENTS.  xill 


CHAPTER  XXII. 

PAGE 

King,  Home  Life — Battle  of  Lundy's  Lane — King  to  Gore — Destruction 
of  Washington — Advises  the  Governor  of  New  York  to  call  out  the 
Militia  and  the  Corporation  to  pledge  Assistance  to  defend  the  City 
— Where  will  Congress  meet  ? — Armstrong  to  King — Condition  at 
Washington — King  to  Gore — Preparations  against  Attack  in  New 
York — Condition  and  Acts  of  the  Banks — Specie  Payments  stopped 
— King  to  J.  Mason — Cannot  tell  where  Congress  will  meet — Public 
Credit  has  failed — Banks  agree  to  be  careful — Will  go  to  Washing- 
ton as  soon  as  Congress  meets — Effect  of  Changes  in  Europe  upon 
Negotiations  with  Great  Britain — King  to  Morris — Negotiation  prob- 
ably failed — Lord  Hill's  Expedition — King  to  Morris — Treasury 
Empty — Army  could  not  defend  the  Cities — England's  Conditions  for 
Peace — Rulers  cannot  make  War  nor  conclude  Peace — King — In- 
structions to  Commissioners  at  Ghent  examined — English  Demands 
ought  not  to  be  acceded  to — King  to  Morris — Question  of  Removal 
from  Washington — King — Course  agreed  to  be  pursued  by  the  Fed- 
eralists in  Congress,  1814,  1S15         .         .         .         .         .         .         .     407 

CHAPTER  XXIII. 

C.  King  to  R.  King — Proposed  Changes  in  military  Arrangement  in 
New  York — J.  Taylor  to  R.  King — In  Favor  of  National  Banks — 
Morris  to  King — Recommends  a  Refusal  of  Supplies  of  all  Sorts — 
Does  not  believe  the  Enemy  will  attack  New  York — Believes  the 
Chesapeake  will  be  Centre  of  Operations — King  to  Morris — Commis- 
sioners authorized  to  make  Peace  upon  Status  ante  Bellum — Govr. 
Tompkins  to  relieve  Gen.  Lewis — King  to  Morris — Monroe  proposes 
to  fill  the  Army  by  Conscription — Van  Rensselaer  to  King — Charac- 
ter of  the  War  changed — Distrusts  the  proposed  Hartford  Convention 
— C.  King  to  King — Proposes  entering  a  new  Regiment  of  U.  S. 
Army — Morris  to  King — Probable  Basis  of  Negotiation — Plan  of 
Finance — Jay  advises  Support  to  the  Government  when  right — King 
— Speech  on  3-million  Loan — Administration's  Treatment  of  Eastern 
Men — C.  Wilkes  to  King — Objections  to  a  National  Bank — Wilkes 
to  King — Resumes  the  Subject         .......     425 

CHAPTER  XXIV. 

C.  King  to  King — New  York  Banks  will  send  Memorial  against  the 
National  Bank — New  York  Troops — Wilkes  to  King — Sends  Memo- 
rial— Some  Banks  object  to  it — Has  read  the  Bill — Gives  his  Objec- 
tions— Prefers  Treasury  Notes  to  Bank  Notes — King  to  J.  Adams — 
Announces  Gerry's  Death — Mason  on  Gerry's  Death — Choice  of 
President  pro  tern. — Adams  to  King — On  Death  of  Gerry — C.  King 
to  King — Regrets  he  must  go  to  Europe  on  Business — The  Governor 
gave  him  a  Lieut. -Colonel's  Commission — Mason  on  Speech  of  King 


xiv  CONTENTS. 


— King  to  Sir  William  Scott — Former  cordial  Relations — Regrets 
the  War  with  England — Hopes  for  speedy  Peace — King  on  the  Hart- 
ford Convention — Advises  Prudence  in  its  Acts — King's  Speech  on 
the  Land-Tax  Bill 438 

CHAPTER  XXV. 

Action  of  Maryland's  House  of  Delegates,  thanking  King,  by  Name,  and 
other  Members  of  Congress,  for  their  Agency  in  stopping  the  Militia 
Bill — King's  Answer — Morris  to  King — National  Bank — Failure  of 
Conscription  Law — Fears  Hartford  Convention  will  not  take  strong 
Ground — King's  Remarks  on  Bill  to  lay  a  direct  Tax — Approves — 
Morris  to  King — Strictures  on  the  Support  of  the  Government — King 
to  C.  King — On  current  Actions  of  Congress — King  to  C.  King — 
Battle  of  New  Orleans — King  to  Morris — Answers  his  Strictures — 
Union  in  Defence  of  the  Country  only  Way  to  Peace — King  to 
Morris — Treaty  of  Peace  arrived — Morris  to  King — Conjectures  rela- 
tive to  the  Treaty — Democrats  will  probably  go  for  Abolition  of  the 
direct  Tax         ...........     454 

CHAPTER  XXVI. 

Emott  to  King — Rejoices  at  the  Peace — Troubles  in  New  York  Legisla- 
ture— King  to  Gore — Inability  to  do  Good  suggests  Wisdom  of  retir- 
ing from  public  Life — Gore  to  King — Wishes  to  leave  the  Senate — 
Conversation  with  Cabot  on  the  Hartford  Convention — Peace  in 
Boston — Gore  to  King — No  Plan  by  Parties  in  Massachusetts — King 
to  Trumbull — Affairs  at  Home  and  Abroad — King  to  Gore — Hanson's 
Paper  and  Affairs — Accommodations  for  Winter  at  Washington — 
Opinion  relative  to  Dartmoor — What  the  Fate  of  Bonaparte — Hari- 
son  to  King — Compares  Case  of  Mettus  Tuffetius  with  that  of  Na- 
poleon— C.  King  to  King — Account  of  the  Dartmoor  Investigation 
— Gore  to  King — Dartmoor  Report — Gratified  by  the  manly  Charac- 
ter and  Decision  of  the  Statement — Changes  of  Men  at  Washington 
— Lafayette  to  King — Introducing  St.  Jean  d'Angely         .  .  .     472 

CHAPTER  XXVII. 

King  to  Gore — Commercial  Treaty  with  England — C.  King  to  King — Con- 
dition of  France — England  said  to  be  about  taking  Florida — W. 
King  to  King — Treaty  unfavorable  to  the  W.  India  Trade — King 
to  J.  Mason — Condition  and  Course  of  Banks — Excessive  Issue  of 
Notes  destructive  to  them — King  to  Gore — Count  Survilliers'  pro- 
posed Residence  in  America — King  to  his  Son  Edward — To  practise 
Law  in  Ohio — Advice  as  to  his  Life  and  Studies — King  to  E.  King 
— Commercial  Treaty  with  England — King  to  E.  King — New  Year's 
Letter  with  Advice — King  to  E.  King — Branch  of  National  Bank 
better  at  Chillicothe — Henderson  to  King — Harbor  on  Lake  Ontario 


CONTENTS.  xv 


PAGE 


— Dallas's  Plan  of  a  Bank  not  approved — C.  King  to  King — Com- 
mercial Treaty  liked  in  England — Van  Ness  to  King — Affairs  in 
Albany — Irregularity  in  Election  Returns  gives  Majority  to  Demo- 
crats in  the  Assembly — Dwight  to  King — Federalists  must  secure 
New  York — Coleman's  Sketch  of  King     ......     488 

CHAPTER  XXVIII. 

H.  Bleecker  and  Others  to  King — Announcement  of  his  Nomination  as 
Governor  of  New  York — J.  R.  Van  Rensselaer  to  King — Urging  his 
Acceptance  of  the  Nomination — Kent  to  King — Acceptance  abso- 
lutely necessary — J.  Morris  to  King — Choice  without  consulting  him 
— Duer  to  King — Dwight  to  King — Oakley  to  King — All  urging  his 
Acceptance — Ogden  to  King — Van  Ness  not  being  Candidate  wishes 
King  to  be — S.  Van  Rensselaer  to  King — W.  Henderson  to  King — 
Duer  lo  Henderson — Z.  R.  Shepherd  to  King — Van  Ness  to  King 
— All  pressing  him  to  accept  the  Nomination — J.  A.  King  to  King — 
State  of  Opinion — Tompkins  democratic  Nominee — S.  Van  Rensse- 
laer to  King — Division  among  the  Democrats — Hopes  for  King's  Suc- 
cess— King  to  Bleecker  Committee — Accepts  the  Nomination — Mrs. 
King  to  E.  King — His  Father's  Nomination — Affectionate  Messages.     506 

CHAPTER  XXIX. 

King  to  E.  King — Nomination — King  to  Morris — Accepted  the  Nomina- 
tion—  Morris  to  King — Pleased  with  Candidacy — Oakley  to  King — 
Tompkins  nominated — State  Politics — J.  A.  King  to  King — Abuse 
in  Papers  of  C.  King  for  Dartmoor  Business — Letter  to  H.  Clay — 
Satisfactory  Answer — King's  Vindication  of  his  Course  towards 
Irish  State  Prisoners — Irish  Emigrant  Association  to  King — Asking 
his  Support  in  certain  Measures  for  the  Relief  of  Irish  Emigrants  to 
the  U.  S. — King  to  Gore — Defeat  of  Federalists  in  New  York — 
King  to  Gore — Personally  satisfied  with  the  Result  of  the  Elections 
Gore  to  King — Satisfied  he  was  a  Candidate — Life  at  Warm  Springs, 
Va. — King  to  E.  King — Return  Home — E.  King's  Engagement — 
King  to  E.  King — Federalists  must  Adhere  to  their  Integrity — Gore 
to  King — Sent  to  the  Legislature  his  Resignation  of  Senatorship 


Appendix  I. — Essay  on  State  of  the  Foreign  Relations,  1S10  . 

Appendix  II. — The  President's  Message,  Nov.  4,  1812  . 

Appendix  III. — On  Impressment  as  a  Cause  of  War 

Appendix  IV. — R.   King's  Course  in  Sustaining  the  Vigorous  Prosecu 
tion  of  the  War         ......... 


Appendix  V. — Status  of  the  Indians  after  the  War  of  1S12-15 
Appendix  VI. — National  Bank  of  the  United  States  of  America 
Appendix  VII. — Commercial  Convention  with  England  . 


525 
539 
542 
544 

547 
549 

553 
56i 


THE    LIFE    AND    CORRESPONDENCE    OF 

RUFUS    KING. 


CHAPTER   I. 

Condition  of  the  Country  and  its  Relations  with  other  Countries — New  York 
Politics — Troup  to  King — What  Course  the  Federalists  should  pursue 
in  Election  of  Governor — Rely  on  King's  Judgment — Troup  to  King — 
Lewis  had  a  Majority — Assembly  opposed  to  Clinton — King  to  Gore — 
His  Son  James — Treaty  with  England  not  yet  made — Federalists  to  help 
Lewis'  Party  without  Pledge — Troup  to  King — Tompkins  and  Lewis 
nominated  for  Governor — Federalists  divided — Pickering  to  King — Presi- 
dent says  Treaty  nearly  ready — Armstrong's  Correspondence — Troup  to 
King — Federalists  to  support  Lewis — N.  Webster  to  King — His  English 
Dictionary — King  to  G.  Morris — Possibly  Jefferson  obliged  for  national 
Honor  to  send  the  Treaty  back — Troup  to  King — Democrat  Wings  bitterly 
hostile — Election  in  New  York — King  Candidate  for  Assembly — Emmet 
to  King — Bitter  Attack  on  Account  of  his  preventing  the  Irish  political 
Prisoners  emigrating  to  the  U.  S. — Cheetham's  Slanders — King's  Answer. 

The  close  of  the  year  1806  and  the  beginning  of  1807  were 
periods  full  of  events  that  engaged  the  serious  attention  of 
the  country.  The  Emperor  of  France,  flushed  with  his  vic- 
torious career  in  Prussia,  had  issued  his  famous  Berlin  De- 
cree against  neutral  trade  with  Great  Britain  ;  that  country 
continued  to  make  outrageous  depredations  upon  the  com- 
merce of  the  United  States,  and  Spain,  under  the  influence 
of  France,  refused  to  satisfy  the  demands  of  the  Govern- 
ment at  Washington,  for  the  seizure  and  confiscation  of 
American  ships  engaged  in  legitimate  commerce.  As  a 
consequence  of  these  various  insults,  the  President  and  his 

VOL.    V — I  T 


RUFUS  KING.  [1807 


followers  had  suggested  and  carried  out  a  non-importation 
act  against  Great  Britain,  which  country  he  cordially  hated 
and  sought  to  compel  to  yield  to  our  demands  for  redress, 
by  crippling  her  commerce,  her  most  vulnerable  as  well  as 
most  important  interest.  The  remonstrances  of  the  mer- 
chants in  the  large  cities  of  the  United  States  were  unavail- 
ing to  put  an  end  to  such  measures,  which  were  soon  to  be 
made  more  disastrous  by  an  Embargo,  which  tied  up  all 
the  vessels  in  their  harbors  and  brought  all  commerce  to  a 
stand-still,  while  it  really  threw  the  country  into  the  position 
of  an  ally  to  France. 

This  policy  was  earnestly  opposed  by  what  was  left  of 
the  Federal  party,  which  had  always  protested  against  the 
insults  and  outrageous  conduct  of  France,  who  sought  to 
make  us  break  with  Great  Britain  and  thus  join  her  in  her 
efforts  to  destroy  the  latter's  power.  The  leaders  of  the 
Federal  party  looked  upon  Great  Britain  as  the  bulwark  of 
freedom  against  the  pretensions  of  France  to  draw  all  na- 
tions under  her  rule,  and  therefore,  though  they  could  not 
but  deplore,  and  seek  to  put  an  end  to,  the  unwarranted 
and  injurious  acts  permitted  by  the  British  Government, 
they  had  no  hesitation  in  opposing  French  alliance,  and  in 
seeking  by  fair  and  honorable  negotiations  to  remove  all 
irritating  questions  between  the  United  States  and  her 
natural  and  most  valuable  commercial  ally. 

These  questions  had  been  most  thoroughly  studied  by 
Mr.  King,  as  the  correspondence  already  presented  will 
show.  He  had,  during  his  residence  abroad,  not  only  be- 
come familiar  with  the  genius  of  the  English  people,  but, 
in  his  intercourse  with  the  leaders  of  public  opinion,  and 
with  those  who  had  at  different  times  administered  the 
government,  had  become  convinced  that  a  prudent  firmness 
and  open  appeal  to  the  justice  of  that  country  were  certain 
to  win  not  only  confidence  and  respect,  but  to  gain  points 
which  at  times  appeared  insurmountable.  So  impressed 
had  he  been  with  these  views,  that  he  had  urged  upon  his 
own  Government  to  renew  during  the  last  year  of  his  mis- 


[807]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE. 


sion  in  England,  the  treaty  of  amity  and  commerce,  which 
would  soon  by  its  limitation  expire  ;  because  he  believed 
that  a  new  treaty  more  favorable  could  be  made.  His  over- 
ture was  not  even  answered  by  Mr.  Jefferson  and  the  oppor- 
tunity was  lost. 

It  may  seem  strange,  and  indeed  it  can  hardly  be  ac- 
counted for,  that  there  is  so  little  in  his  correspondence  at 
this  time  to  show  what  views  he  took  upon  the  various 
questions  as  they  presented  themselves  to  public  attention. 
Allusions  are  made  in  some  of  the  letters  to  him,  to  opinions 
he  had  expressed  or  was  known  to  hold.  It  is  certain  that, 
through  the  newspapers,  he  attempted  to  enlighten  and 
direct  public  opinion  ;  for  many  scraps  among  his  papers 
contain  what  were  evidently  suggestions  for  articles  in  the 
papers ;  but  they  are  not  so  connected  as  to  authorize  publi- 
cation here.  They  show,  however,  that  being  in  private 
life,  he  took  the  only  means  in  his  power  to  influence  public 
opinion  ;  and  they  confirm  the  views  put  forth  in  such  let- 
ters as  are  found ;  which  were  an  entire  disapproval  of  the 
course  of  the  administration  in  the  conduct  of  the  foreign 
relations  of  the  country,  as  wrong  in  principle  and  disastrous 
in  probable  results. 

While  the  country  in  general  was  agitated  with  the  con- 
sideration of  the  measures  of  the  General  Government, 
the  State  of  New  York  became  the  scene  of  a  contention 
which  threatened  to  divide  the  Republican  party  in  such  a 
way,  that  there  seemed  to  be  a  possibility  that,  through 
these  dissensions,  the  federalists  might  be  able  to  recover 
the  State  and  erect  a  federal  administration.  The  letters 
of  Col.  Troup  give  a  graphic  account  of  the  political  aspect, 
as  viewed  by  an  intelligent  and  shrewd  observer. 

R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  6  Jany.,  1807. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  a  few  days  I  shall  set  off  on  a  journey  to  Chenango  Point, 
to  attend  a  meeting  of  Turnpike  Directors.  I  shall  be  gone  at 
least  a  fortnight  and  perhaps   three  weeks.     Upon    my   return 


RUFUS  KING.  [1807 


there  may  not  be  time  to  make  the  communication  which  is  the 
subject  of  this  letter  :  and  I  now  regret  that  my  late  absence  from 
home  and  the  preparations  for  my  next  journey,  have  so  increased 
the  pressure  of  my  business  as  to  prevent  my  going  into  details,, 
and  to  oblige  me  to  state  what  is  merely  the  result  of  them. 

I  take  it  for  granted  that  when  our  professional  brethren  come 
up  to  attend  the  ensuing  February  term,  they  will  bring  with  them 
the  definitive  opinions  of  our  New  York  friends  as  to  the  course 
proper  for  the  Federalists  to  pursue  at  the  approaching  election 
for  Governor.  As  these  opinions  will  be  likely  to  have  a  ma- 
terial, if  not  a  decisive  influence  on  the  conduct  of  the  Federal- 
ists in  every  other  part  of  the  State,  it  is  very  desirable  that  they 
should   be   formed  on  a  clear  view. 

1  of  the  situation  of  the  Federal  party  in  the  State. 

2  of   Governor  Lewis's  situation. 

As  to  the  situation  of  the  Federalists,  although  it  is  better  than 
it  was,  yet  it  is  by  no  means  such  as  to  enable  us  to  elect  a  Gov- 
ernor from  our  own  party.  For  the  present  we  must  be  content 
to  rest  our  hopes  of  a  future  Federal  State  administration  on  the 
fall  of  the  Democratic  party  by  the  weight  of  its  own  vices  and 
divisions.  To  let  the  former  take  their  natural  course  and  to  give 
root  and  vigor  to  the  latter  seem  to  be  the  melancholy  course 
which  genuine  patriotism  presents. 

As  to  the  situation  of  Governor  Lewis,  it  is  beset  with  diffi- 
culties on  every  side.  The  Clintonians  have  excommunicated 
him  from  the  democratic  church  ;  and  he  must  be  very  short- 
sighted not  to  see  that  the  support  he  may  receive  from  the 
Federalists  will  not  proceed  from  any  personal  respect  for  him, 
but  from  a  hope  that  he  may  be  made  instrumental  to  re-estab- 
lish the  reign  of  Federalism.  In  a  situation  so  embarrassing,  I 
think  that  he  ought  not  to  be  hardly  pressed,  and  that  we  should 
be  reasonable  and  moderate  in  our  expectations  of  offices  from 
him. 

I  have  good  grounds  for  believing  that  the  difficulties  which 
lie  in  the  path  of  Governor  Lewis  will  force  him,  at  least  for  a 
time,  to  be  as  sparing  as  possible  of  appointments  from  the 
Federal  party,  in  case  he  should  have  a  Council  friendly  to  his 
wishes.  There  is  some  probability  that  he  may  be  prevailed  upon 
to  appoint  a  Federalist  to  supply  Judge  Livingston's  place  on  the 


1807]  LIFE   AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  5 

Bench.  Such  an  appointment  would  be  a  great  point  gained  to 
Federalism  ;  as  it  cannot  be  questioned  that  our  Judiciary  is  the 
life-boat  of  our  Constitution.  With  this  appointment  we  must 
rest  satisfied  until  after  the  election.  I  am  convinced  that  the 
Governor's  Cabinet  is  at  this  moment  fixed  in  its  purpose  to  make 
no  other  important  appointment  from  the  Federal  party  before 
the  election  takes  place,  from  an  apprehension  that  Federal 
appointments  would  stamp  the  Governor's  administration  with  so 
strong  a  character  of  Federalism,  as  to  shake  the  confidence,  and 
endanger  the  support  of  his  democratic  friends.  It  is  said  that 
the  union  in  the  5th  ward  at  the  last  election  in  New  York,  and  the 
subsequent  voting  of  the  alderman  and  assistant  of  that  ward 
with  the  Federalists,  have  much  injured  the  Governor's  cause  in 
the  country. 

You  will  readily  perceive  that  if  Governor  Lewis  should  adhere 
to  the  policy  above  suggested,  the  Federalists  will  be  excluded 
from  participating  in  the  Charter  and  other  offices  in  the  City  of 
New  York.  They  will  so  ;  but  how  can  our  friends  render  their 
condition  more  eligible  ?  Will  not  its  vigor  in  some  degree  be 
mitigated  by  removing  the  Clintonians,  &  filling  their  places  with 
Lewisites  ? 

How  will  our  friends  in  New  York  like  this  policy  ?  If  it  were 
abruptly  made  known  to  them,  would  they  not  with  one  voice 
determine  to  abandon  Governor  Lewis  to  his  fate  ?  I  suppose 
they  would  ;  and  yet  I  confess  that,  notwithstanding  the  apparent 
narrowness  of  Governor  Lewis's  policy  in  my  opinion,  we  should 
support  his  re-election  for  the  following  reasons. 

1.  It  is  highly  interesting  that  the  Clintonian  faction  should  be 
arrested  and  to  attain  this  end,  the  re-election  of  Governor  Lewis 
is  a  necessary  mean. 

2.  Although  the  Clintonian  faction  may  not  be  crushed  by  the 
re-election  of  Governor  Lewis,  yet  it  would  serve  to  plant  the 
seeds  of  lasting  and  probably  irreconcilable  animosity  between 
the  leader  of  that  faction  and  the  Lewisites. 

By  either  of  these  events  the  public  good  would  certainly  be 
promoted. 

When  I  left  New  York  I  felt,  as  our  friends  in  general  did,  with 
respect  to  the  City  offices,  and  my  feelings  led  me  to  agree  with 
them  as  to  the  necessity  of  putting  some  of  the  most  important 


RUFUS  KING.  [1807 


offices  into  the  hands  of  Federalists.  But  since  my  return  home 
I  have  endeavoured  to  separate  the  subject  from  my  feelings  and 
to  bestow  upon  it  a  more  dispassionate  &  mature  consideration, 
and  the  result  is  that  I  have  changed  my  opinion. 

Well  knowing  the  ardor  &  zeal  of  our  few  New  York  friends 
for  the  revival  of  Federalism,  I  dare  not  broach  to  any  of  them, 
except  yourself,  Governor  Lewis's,  very  probable,  not  to  call  it 
settled,  policy.  Their  disappointment,  inflamed  by  honorable 
pride  and  more  especially  by  the  galling  oppression  they  have 
long  experienced,  would  probably  excite  them  to  measures  which 
might  be  attended  with  the  most  unfortunate  effects.  As  I  know 
you  have  firmness  enough  to  divest  yourself  of  passion  and  to  take 
a  calm  and  accurate  view  of  our  political  state,  I  have  ventured 
to  write  you  this  letter  in  order  to  afford  you  an  opportunity  to 
consider  the  subject  of  it  and  prepare  our  warm  friends  in  New 
York  to  meet  their  disappointment,  if  it  should  take  place,  with 
temper,  with  forbearance  &  with  fortitude  ;  provided  you  agree 
with  me  in  opinion,  that  whether  Governor  Lewis  should  or  should 
not  appoint,  before  the  next  election,  Federalists  to  charter  or 
other  offices  in  New  York,  it  will  nevertheless  be  our  true  policy 
to  support  his  re-election. 

The  task  I  thus  commit  to  you,  if  undertaken,  will  not  be 
among  the  most  easy  you  have  ever  performed  ;  and  therefore  I 
suggest  to  you  the  expediency  of  beginning  the  execution  of  it 
without  delay.  The  Legislature  will  meet  on  the  4th  Tuesday  of 
this  month,  and  the  following  Monday  our  professional  brethren 
must  attend  the  Supreme  Court.  The  honor  of  the  Federalists 
&  the  ultimate  success  of  their  cause  may  be  compromitted  unless 
they  are  guided  by  the  same  motives,  and  act  with  concert  at  the 
next  election. 

It  is  our  intention  here  to  advise  our  friends  in  the  Assembly, 
at  all  events,  to  vote  for  a  Council  favorable  to  Governor  Lewis's 
views. 

This  letter  is  designed  solely  for  your  own  eye.     It  is  agreeable 

to  the  sentiments  of  two  of  our  influential  friends  to  whom  I  have 

shewn  it.     With  most  perfect  regard 

Robt.  Troup. 

P.  S.  Mr.  Van  Vechten  has  lately  written  a  letter  to  Mr.  Riggs  in 
answer  to  one  Riggs  wrote  him  on  politics  which  I  wish  you  could 


1807]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  7 

read.  It  will  be  important  when  our  friends  come  up  the  latter 
end  of  this  month,  that  we  should  know  your  opinion.  Can  you 
not  desire  our  friend  Judge  Benson  to  deliver  it  ?  *  I  suspect  it 
will  be  different  from  his — as  the  persecution  of  his  family  by  the 
Clintonians  gives  a  keen  edge  to  his  feelings. 

R.  T. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  26  Jany.,  1807. 
6  o'clock  p.  M. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Tomorrow  is  the  day  appointed  for  the  meeting  of  the 
Legislature.  The  members  are  said  to  be  here  with  a  very  few 
exceptions.  Both  parties  are  hard  at  work  for  the  majority  in  the 
House  of  Assembly.  No  doubt  is  entertained  that  Lewis  will 
have  it,  and  that  there  will  be  a  Speaker  &  a  Council  decidedly 
hostile  to  Clinton.  The  Federalists  will  vote  on  both  of  these 
questions  with  the  Lewisites  ;  some  pains  have  been  taken  to  in- 
duce the  Federalists  to  make  a  bargain  in  relation  to  Federal  ap- 
pointments but  without  success.  The  general  opinion  of  our 
friends  here  is,  that  we  should  act  virtuously  and  independently 
— without  any  stipulation  whatever. 

Munro  is  here,  squinting  at  the  Mayoralty  in  New  York,  and 
it  is  reported  that  he  presses  a  bargain  with  the  Lewisites,  but  he 
has  not  influence  enough  to  carry  his  point  ;  this  entre  nous. 

In  haste  yours, 

Rob.  Troup. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  27  Jan.,  1807. 
Dear  Sir  : 

As  was    expected,  the  Legislature    made   a   quorum    of  both 

houses  today.     The  Lewisites  with  the  aid  of  the  Federalists  are 

completely  triumphant ;  they  have  carried  their  Speaker  &  Clerk 

in  the  House  of  Assembly  by  a  majority  of  thirteen.     It  was  a  part 

*  Whatever  Mr.  King's  views  were,  he  probably  communicated  them  through 
his  friend  Judge  Benson,  in  whose  discretion  he  could  implicitly  rely. 


8  RUFUS  KING.  [1807 

of  the  plan  to  have  chosen  the  Council  of  appointment  to-day  like- 
wise ;  but  by  some  misarrangement,  they  have  adjourned  without 
doing  it,  and  appointed  Friday  next  for  the  choice.  This  false 
step  has  excited  some  uneasiness  ;  but  I  have  no  doubt  that  the 
soldiers  will  be  kept  in  their  ranks  and  that  the  second  action  will 
be  as  successful  as  the  first. 

Clinton  and  his  party  are  supposed  to  be  dished.  The  public 
sensibility  here  has  been  excessive,  and  the  joy  at  the  victory 
over  Jacobinism  not  less  moderate. 

The  Federalists  were  true  to  their  test.  I  have  not  understood 
that  one  of  the  16  failed  in  being  at  his  post  &  doing  his  duty. 
No  bargain  was  made.  The  conduct  of  the  Federalists  proceeded 
alone  from  a  manly  desire  to  break  in  pieces  the  fetters  by  which 
they  and  their  friends  have  been  so  long  bound.  Congratulate 
our  friends  on  their  dawn  of  freedom. 

McCord  is  Speaker,  and  Treasurer  Lansing's  son,  the  Clerk. 
The  old  Clerk,  Southwick,  a  most  wicked  democrat  is  of  course 
ejected  ;  he  has  been  Clerk  for  several  years. 

In  haste  yours, 

Rob.  Troup. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

New  York,  Saturday,  February  7,  1807. 
My  Dear  Friend  : 

James  will  leave  us  to-morrow  or  Monday* — I  feel  some  solic- 
itude on  account  of  the  severity  of  the  weather  and  the  destruction 
of  bridges  in  Connecticut — we  must  guard  him  against  the  frost  as 
well  as  we  can  by  warm  clothing,  and  as  I  expect  to  find  some 
discreet  person  going  on,  as  far  as  Hartford,  I  am  in  hopes  he 
will  encounter  no  serious  embarrassment  in  the  Ferries. 

We  find  James  a  good  deal  grown,  and  a  very  reasonable  and 
docile  boy.  Mrs.  Gore  supposes  he  has  lost  a  little  of  his  levity, 
and  that  he  is  less  cheerful  than  formerly — perhaps  in  ordinary 
this  may  be  the  fact,  but  as  our  family  has  for  the  first  time  for 
several  years  been  reunited,  and  as  at  this  season,  New  York  is  a 
sort  of  Carnival,  at  least  so  far  as  parties,  dances,  and  dinners 

*  To  take  his  place  with  Dr.  Gardiner  for  instruction. 


1807]  LIFE   AND    CORRESPONDENCE. 


make  a  part  of  it,  we  have  observed  the  same  merry  temper  in 
James  as  formerly  distinguished  him.  I  recommend  James  to 
your  &  Mrs.  Gore's  protection.  .  .  Our  family  are  well  at  pres- 
ent, tho'  most  of  them  have  suffered  with  heavy  colds,  and  par- 
ticularly Mrs.  K.  and  Frederick. 

We  have  no  foreign  news  later  than  you  have  reed,  nor  do  we 
know  more  of  what  is  going  on  upon  the  Mississippi,  or  at  Wash- 
ington than  the  newspapers  tell  us.  It  appears  that  our  Nego- 
tiators in  England  have  not  yet  finished  their  Treaty,  owing,  as 
is  said,  to  a  difficulty  respecting  the  seamen.  I  know  not  what 
they  are  ordered  to  claim  or  insist  upon  ;  but  I  cannot  be  mis- 
taken in  believing  that  a  most  beneficial  treaty  might  be  made, 
and  that  the  safety  of  this  Country  requires  that  small  difficulties 
should  not  delay  its  conclusion. 

In  the  seism  that  has  taken  place  in  this  State  between  the 
Democrats,  Lewis,  whose  party  is  only  less  bad  than  Clinton's, 
seems  with  the  aid  of  the  Federalists  to  have  the  power  in  his 
hands.  I  understand  that  the  decided  opinion  of  the  Federalists 
is,  to  give  their  assistance  in  the  Legislature  to  Mr.  Lewis'  Party, 
without  expectation,  contract,  or  pledge  ;  this  course  leaves  our 
friends  free  to  act  hereafter  as  in  their  judgment  the  public  wel- 
fare may  require.  You  may  have  seen,  but  I  am  sure  would 
have  given  no  credit  to,  several  articles  concerning  me,  and 
certain  offices  that  it  has  been  intimated  were  to  be  given  to  me. 

R.  K. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  Feb.  17,  1807. 

.  .  .  I  do  not  wonder  that  our  friends  in  New  York  are 
disgusted  to  the  very  soul  with  the  reports  they  hear  from  this 
quarter.  The  scene  constantly  exhibited  here  is  the  most  sicken- 
ing that  can  be  imagined  !  Lewis  and  his  friends  are  divided  in 
opinion,  and  starting  from  the  sight  of  Federalists  as  from  the 
sight  of  monsters  opening  their  mouths  to  devour  them.  The 
consequence  is  that  the  State  is  to  be  disgraced  by  the  proceed- 
ings of  the  Council.  Yesterday  Tillotson  was  restored  to  the 
the  office   of  Secretary  &   Maturin   Livingston   to  the  office   of 


I O  R  UFUS  KING.  [1807 

Recorder.  Today  the  Council  met  but  did  no  business.  Judge 
Thompson,  it  is  believed,  has  resigned  the  office  of  Mayor,  and 
this  creates  a  fresh  embarrassment.  In  short  the  Federalists  here 
are  so  deeply  disgusted  with  Lewis  &  his  party,  that  present 
appearances  strongly  indicate  a  total  separation  of  the  Federalists 
from  Lewis's  election.  I  should  not  be  surprised  if  the  Feder- 
alists were  to  take  up  a  candidate  of  their  own  &  support  him  at 
the  ensuing  election  ;  some  entertain  sanguine  hopes  of  success. 
Others  think  it  a  necessary  measure  to  keep  our  party  together  & 
to  prevent  their  contamination  by  so  foul  a  touch  as  it  would  be 
to  touch  either  of  the  Democratic  parties  ! 

Last  night  the  Clintonians  at  a  full  meeting  of  their  party 
nominated  Judge  Tompkins  for  Governor,  Broome  for  Lieut. 
Governor  ;  and  the  Lewisites  at  a  full  meeting  also  nominated 
their  Chief  for  Governor,  and   Thomas  Storm  for  Lt.  Governor. 

What  has  added  much  to  the  disgust  of  most  of  us  is,  that 
some  Federalists  have  been  begging — intriguing — and  working 
with  all  sorts  of  tools — for  offices  !  This  vile  business  has  been 
done  by  men  who  ought  to  be  ashamed  of  themselves  for  thus 
wading  thro'  mire  and  filth  to  the  seats  of  the  Members  of 
Council. 

What  course  the  Council  will  take  hereafter,  what  the  Federal- 
ists will  conclude  upon,  or  what  will  be  the  final  issue  of  things, 
is  as  much  a  problem  as  the  limits  which  will  bound  Bonaparte's 
ambition.  In  the  Legislature  everything  affecting  objects  of  a 
public  nature  is  an  affair  of  infamous  traffic  for  votes  at  the  next 
election.  Tomorrow  evening  the  Federalists  are  to  meet  to  talk 
over  the  state  of  things  and  compare  notes  on  the  proper  course 
for  us  to  take.     I  will  inform  you  of  the  result.  — In  haste 

Very  truly  yours 

Rob.  Troup. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

City  of  Washington,  Feby.  19,  1807. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Probably  you  may  have  letters  from  London  ;  however,  lest  it 
should  be  otherwise,  I  communicate  the  pleasing  intelligence 
that  all  our  differences  with  Great  Britain  have  been  adjusted. 


1807]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  II 

This  the  President  announced  in  a  message  to  Congress  this  day, 
communicating  a  copy  of  a  letter  from  Messrs.  Monroe  &  Pink- 
ney,  dated  Dec.  27.  These  Gentlemen  say,  that  they  believe  the 
terms  will  be  acceptable  to  their  country — that  nothing  remains 
but  to  reduce  them  to  the  form  of  a  Treaty,  the  work  of  a  few 
days,  which  they  should  send  by  a  special  messenger. 

The  President  also  communicated  the  correspondence  between 
Genl.  Armstrong  and  the  French  Minister  of  Marine,  on  the  sub- 
ject of  the  Decree,  declaring  the  British  Isles  in  a  state  of  Block- 
ade. The  Marine  Minister  (his  note  is  dated  Dec.  24  in  answer 
to  Armstrong's  of  the  10th)  says,  the  Decree,  in  his  opinion  was 
not  intended  to  comprehend  the  U.  States,  whose  commerce 
must  be  regulated  by  existing  Treaties  ;  but,  however,  that  the 
matter  does  not  lie  in  his  department ;  and  that  for  a  definitive 
construction,  Genl.  A.  must  apply  to  the  minister  of  Exterior 
Relations. 

A  letter  from  Cowles  Mead  (also  laid  before  us  by  the  President) 
dated  January  19th,  says  Col.  Burr  had  surrendered  himself  to 
the  Civil  authority  of  the  Mississippi  Territory.  He  had  with 
him  9  boats  and  about  100  men,  chiefly  young  and  apparently 
ignorant  of  his  designs.     I  am,  dear  Sir,  very  truly  yours 

Timothy  Pickering. 


Noah  Webster  to  R.  King. 

New  Haven,  Feby.  28,  1807. 
Sir  : 

I  take  the  liberty  to  enclose  to  you  a  few  circular  letters  * 
intended  to  make  a  new  experiment  in  this  country.  The  object 
contemplated  has  been  in  view  more  than  20  years,  but  has  been 
retarded  by  my  want  of  property  to  accomplish  the  design. 
When  I  left  New  York  in  1798,  I  supposed  my  resources  equal 
to  the  present  undertaking  ;  but  the  loss  of  my  papers  has  disap- 
pointed my  expectations.  I  cannot  but  hope  however  that  the 
liberality  of  gentlemen  of  property  will  afford  such  addition  to 
my  own  means  as  to  enable  me  to  prosecute  the  undertaking. 
The  design,  I  believe,  to  be  far  more  interesting  to  the  public 
than  to  myself  ;    but  I  have  expended  several  thousand  dollars 

*  Circular  for  his  English  Dictionary. 


12 


RUFUS  KING.  [1807 


already  ;  I  should  be  unwilling  to  abandon  the  undertaking  in  the 
midst  of  my  labors. 

Your  friendship  I  know,  but   I   know  not  whether  it 
will  avail  in  the  present  instance. 

With  high  respect  yr.  ob.  Servt. 

Noah  Webster. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  March  12,  1807. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  drop  you  this  by  Mr.  Hoffman.  The  conduct  of  Lewis 
and  his  Council  has  given  general  disgust  here.  Opinions  as  to 
the  course  to  be  pursued  by  the  Federalists  at  the  next  election 
have  been  fluctuating.  At  length,  however,  we  have  settled 
down  in  one  which  we  shall  adhere  to,  unless  it  should  prove  to 
be  contrary  to  the  sentiments  &  wishes  of  our  friends — and  that 
is,  to  support  Lewis  individually  and  in  our  several  spheres  as 
the  least  of  two  evils.  This  will  be  a  bitter  pill  to  most,  if  not 
all,  the  Federal  party,  and  yet  it  must  be  taken  or  worse  mischiefs 
to  our  country  will  be  likely  to  ensue.  The  general,  I  might 
almost  say  the  universal,  belief  amongst  our  friends  in  this  quarter 
is— that  we  cannot  succeed  with  candidates  of  our  own.  Mr. 
Hoffman  will  give  you  a  particular  detail  of  the  State  of  things 
here. 

The  turnpike  bill  for  your  Jamaica  road,  I  understand,  is  in 
the  same  situation  in  which  Mr.  Ditmas  left  it.  The  two  Houses 
disagree  as  to  the  General  Turnpike  bill  &  this  disagreement  has 
not  yet  been  terminated  by  a  conference  ;  and  until  this  event,  it 
is  supposed  all  new  Turnpike  bills  will  rest  where  they  are. 

I  have  got  a  bill  for  the  relief  of  Sir  James  Pulteney  & 
Lady  Bath  through  the  Senate.  It  is  now  before  the  house  of 
Assembly  and  lies  under  the  denunciation  of  Col.  Rutgers. 
This  denunciation  endangers  its  finally  passing  :  I  mean,  how- 
ever, to  press  it  and  I  do  not  despair  of  success. 

You  would  wish  to  hide  yourself  in  a  corner,  if  you  were  here 
and  could  look  for  one  hour  on  the  scandalous  scene  which 
Democracy  constantly  exhibits  ! 

I  am,  dear  sir,  very  truly  yours 

Rob.  Troup. 


:8o7]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 3 


R.  King,  to  G.  Morris. 

Monday,  30  March,  1807. 

Dear  Sir  : 

Some  days  ago  Mr.  Fairlie  put  the  enclosed  memorandum  into 
my  hands  with  a  request  that  I  would  speak  to  you  on  the  subject. 
Whether  the  Bill  has  yet  passed  I  do  not  know.  The  Commis- 
sioners named  are  yourself  with  the  two  Surveyors  Genl.  of  this 
State  &  Pennsylvania  ;  the  object  of  the  Bill  is  very  important, 
and  it  is  desirable  that  you  shd.  not  decline  giving  to  it  your 
assistance.     I  shall  see  you  soon  in  the  mean  time. 

Am  yr.  faithful  Sir. 

R.  K. 

P.  S.  I  reed,  your  Paper  concerning  the  Impressment  of  our 
seamen  but  have  delayed  its  publication  in  expectation  of  becom- 
ing acquainted  with  the  Contents  of  the  Treaty.  Hitherto  I  have 
not  acquired  such  precise  information  as  I  am  still  in  hopes  of 
getting.  I  am  not  sure  that  Jefferson  was  not  absolutely  obliged, 
if  he  regards  the  national  honour,  to  send  the  Treaty  back. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  7  April,  1807. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  Legislature  adjourned  today  about  2  o'clock.     .     .     . 

Tell  Bishop  Moore,  Mr.  Harison,  &c.  that  the  charter  of 
Columbia  College  was  met  by  objections  of  the  Council  of 
Revision  agt.  the  bill  for  its  destruction,  and  by  a  subsequent 
union  of  the  Federalists,  and  Lewisites  to  vote  agt.  the  bill.  The 
New  York  Representation  was  much  heated  with  the  objections 
of  the  Council  ;  and  alderman  Gilbert  in  particular  was  trans- 
ported with  the  most  violent  rage. 

The  two  Democratic  parties  have  gone  home  with  bosoms 
rankling  with  bitter  hostility  agt.  each  other.  One  object  of  the 
Federalists  is  completely  attained — an  irreconcilable  animosity 
between  the  Chiefs.  As  the  Legislature  was  rising  a  most  virulent 
attack  upon  Lewis  by  Clinton  was  spread  in  handbills  amongst 
the  members.  The  attack  is  a  reply  to  Lewis'  late  answer 
to  Clinton's  charge  relative  to  Webbers,  who  last  winter,  or  rather 
the  winter  before  last,  applied  to  be  appointed  Sheriff  of  West 
Chester.     I  have  sent  one  of  the  handbills  to  Mr.  Harison. 


14  RUFUS  KING.  [1807 

The  election  will  be  a  hard  fought  battle.  We  calculate  how- 
ever that  the  chances  are  with  Lewis,  provided  the  Federalists 
act  with  zeal  &  unanimity;  all  pains  have  been  taken,  and  still 
are  taking,  to  bring  the  Federalists  forward  in  the  Eastern  and 
Western  Districts  ;  and  our  last  accounts,  from  the  westward  in 
particular,  authorize  very  favorable  expectations.  Let  Lewis' 
election,  however,  terminate  as  it  may,  I  am  sanguine  in  the  belief 
that  we  shall  have  a  respectable  share  of  Federal  influence  in  the 
House  of  Assembly. 

The  Council  of  appointment  have  adjourned  without  appointing 
a  Judge  of  the  Supreme  Court.  It  is  said  the  Council  will  meet 
again  soon  after  the  election,  and  then  the  appointment  will  be 
made.  Very  truly  yours, 

Rob.  Troup. 

The  election  for  Governor  in  the  State  of  New  York, 
involving  as  it  did  the  endeavor  to  recover  that  portion  of 
the  Democratic  party  which  was  led  by  De  Witt  Clinton  and 
his  brother-in-law  Judge  Spencer,  and  the  overthrow  of  the 
Lewisites,  was  entered  upon  with  bitter  feelings  on  both 
sides,  and  resulted  in  the  choice  by  a  large  majority  in  favor 
of  Daniel  D.  Tompkins^,  the  Clintonian  candidate.* 

*  "A  young  Lawyer  of  New  York  distinguished  for  his  affable  manners  and 
pleasing  address,  chosen  a  member  of  the  ninth  Congress,  but  who,  before 
taking  his  seat,  had  been  appointed  a  Judge  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  the 
State.  .  .  .  The  Federalists,  indeed,  attempted  a  rally  in  the  city  of  New 
York,  where  they  nominated  an  Assembly  ticket  headed  by  Rufus  King.  They 
were  beaten,  however,  an  event  which  they  ascribed,  with  much  bitterness,  to 
the  predominating  influence  of  those  '  imported  patriots,'  Cheetham,  Genet 
(who  now  again  appeared  on  the  political  stage,)  and  Thomas  Addis  Emmet,  a 
recent  exile  from  Ireland,  where  he  has  escaped  a  prosecution  for  treason  only 
by  consenting  to  make  certain  disclosures,  as  to  the  conspiracies  in  which  he  had 
been  concerned.  Emmet  had  attacked  King  with  great  bitterness  and  no 
inconsiderable  degree  of  gasconade  for  having,  while  Minister  in  England,  en- 
deavoured to  interpose  some  obstacles  to  his  migration  to  America  on  the  ground 
that  so  troublesome  a  British  subject  would  not  be  likely  to  be  a  very  useful 
American  citizen.  It  is  exceedingly  difficult  for  us  at  this  day  to  comprehend 
the  degree  of  influence  exercised  at  that  time  by  a  few  immigrant  foreigners. 
The  talents  and  eloquence  of  Emmet  secured  him  a  decided  and  growing  in- 
fluence in  New  York  ;  and  in  the  impulse  which  he  gave  to  the  spirit  of  war, 
he  did  not  fail  to  fulfill  the  prognostications  of  King." — Hildreth  Hist,  of  New 
York,  2d  Series,  ii.,  668-9. 


;8o7]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 5 


The  Federalists  were  divided  in  their  vote,  but  many, 
with  some  hope  of  being  able  to  keep  the  control  of  the 
Legislature  from  the  Clintonians,  nominated  what  was 
supposed  to  be  a  strong  ticket  in  the  city  of  New  York, 
with  the  name  of  Rufus  King  at  the  head  of  it.  This  ticket 
failed  of  election,  among  other  reasons,  perhaps,  because  of 
a  malignant  attack  on  Mr.  King  by  Mr.  Emmet,  on  account, 
as  was  stated,  of  his  successful  interference,  when  Minister 
to  England  in  1798,  to  prevent  the  British  Government  from 
sending  the  Irish  state  prisoners  after  the  rebellion  to  the 
United  States,  as  a  place  of  banishment.  The  following 
letter  addressed  to  Rufus  King  and  published  in  The 
American  Citizen  of  April  9,  1807,  signed  by  Thos.  Addis 
Emmet — a  second,  he  says, — will  show  the  bitter  hostility 
and  recklessness  of  statement,  which  marked  the  opposition 
to  him  ;  and  the  answer  from  Mr.  King  which  is  now  published 
for  the  first  time,  being  found  among  his  papers,  will 
show  both  the  motives  which  influenced  him  in  making  his 
protest  against  the  proposed  action  of  the  British  Govern- 
ment, and  his  forbearance  in  not  then  repelling  the  attack 
made  upon  him. 

Thos.  Addis  Emmet  to  Rufus  King. 
Sir  : 

From  your  silence  on  the  subject  of  my  letter  of  the  4th  inst., 
I  presume  that  I  am  not  to  be  honoured  with  a  reply.  Perhaps  this 
may  be  owing  to  my  temerity  in  addressing  him,  whom  Mr.  Cole- 
man calls  "  the  first  man  in  the  country."  Of  the  height  to  which 
your  friends  exalt  or  wish  to  exalt  you,  I  confess  I  was  not 
aware  when  I  rashly  ventured  to  question  the  propriety  of  some 
part  of  your  past  conduct.  I  thought  that  in  this  country,  you 
had  many  equals  ;  and  I  protest  I  imagined  that  Mr.  Jefferson, 
for  instance,  was  your  superior.  You  will,  sir,  I  hope  excuse  my 
ignorance  in  this  respect  and  attribute  it  to  the  circumstance  of 
my  being  an  alien,  and  of  course  not  yet  sufficiently  acquainted 
with  the  local  politics  of  this  country. 

Though  you,  sir,  have  not  honoured  me  with  your  notice,  I 
have  been  abundantly  honoured  by  your  friends  ;  and  yet,   ex- 


1 6  RUFUS  KING.  [1807 

traordinary  as  it  may  appear,  I  mean  to  pay  little  attention  to 
their  assiduities,  but  to  envelop  myself  in  dignity  like  your  own. 
I  think  it  of  infinitely  more  importance  to  the  com- 
munity in  the  existing  crisis,  to  make  known  what  you  are  than 
what  I  am.  You  are  a  candidate  for  public  favor  and  your  conduct 
is  the  proper  subject  of  public  enquiry.  Mr.  Coleman  has  brought 
forward  some  extracts  from  the  reports  of  the  secret  committee 
in  Ireland — I  think  it  more  than  probable  that  he  was  not  him- 
self in  the  possession  of  these  documents — from  whom  then  did 
he  receive  them  ?  There  is  no  person  in  this  country  more  likely 
to  have  them,  than  the  gentleman  who  was  at  the  time,  the  resi- 
dent minister  at  London. 

When  you  handed  them  to  him,  perchance  your  memory  might 
have  served  you  to  state,  that  as  soon  as  these  reports  appeared 
in  the  prints  of  the  day,  Dr.  M.  Nevin,  Mr.  O'Connor  and  my- 
self, at  that  time  State  Prisoner,  by  an  advertisement  to  which 
we  subscribed  our  names,  protested  against  the  falsehood  and 
inaccuracy  of  these  reports  ;  for  which  act  we  were  remitted  to 
close  custody  in  our  rooms  for  upwards  of  three  months,  and  a 
proposal  was  made  in  the  Irish  House  of  Commons  by  Mr.  Mc- 
Naughton,  an  Orangeman,  to  take  us  out  and  hang  us  without 
trial.  You  might  also  have  recollected  (for  it  has  been  pub- 
lished) that  while  we  were  in  that  situation,  other  state  calumnies 
reached  the  ears  of  one  of  our  fellow-sufferers  in  another  prison, 
who  wrote  a  letter  to  the  editor  of  the  Courier  in  London,  for 
the  purpose  of  contradicting  them,  and  inclosed  a  copy  to  Lord 
Castlereagh.  For  this  Mr.  Secretary  Cooke  was  sent  to  inform 
him,  that  if  he  published  the  contradiction  he  should  be  hanged  ; 
that  he  replied  that  he  was  ready  to  meet  the  event  ;  upon  which 
Mr.  Cooke  told  him  that  since  he  was  indifferent  about  his  own 
life,  he  must  know  that  if  he  persevered,  the  whole  system  of 
Courts  Martial,  massacre  and  horror  should  be  renewed  through- 
out the  country.  By  that  menace  he  was  effectually  restrained. 
Had  you  thought  of  mentioning  these  things  you  might  have 
jocularly  added,  that  tho '  these  statements  might  serve  some 
present  party  purposes,  it  was  rather  more  unfair  to  judge  of 
us  by  the  calumnies  of  the  Irish  Government  than  it  would  be 
to  judge  of  Mr.  Jefferson  and  his  friends  by  the  editorial  articles 
of  the  Evening  Post. 


1807]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  \J 

The  weapons  you  are  using  have  been  tried  in  Ireland  among 
my  friends  and  my  enemies,  where  everything  was  minutely 
known,  and  they  failed  of  effect.  If  I  had  ever  done  anything 
mean  or  dishonourable,  if  I  had  abandoned  or  compromised  my 
character,  my  country,  or  my  cause,  I  should  not  be  esteemed 
or  believed  in  Ireland  as  I  am  proud  to  know  I  am  ;  I  should 
not  enjoy  the  affection  and  respect  of  my  republican  country- 
men in  America,  as  you,  Sir,  and  your  friends  confess  I  do.  It 
would  not  be  in  the  power  of  one  who  had  departed  from  the  line 
of  his  duty  in  theirs  &  his  common  country,  by  simply  express- 
ing to  them  his  sentiments  of  you,  to  do  you  such  an  essential 
injury  as  I  am  accused  of  having  committed. 

Another  charge  made  against  me,  is  that  I  am  an  alien,  inter- 
fering in  the  politics  of  this  country.  Be  it  so  for  a  moment,  and 
let  me  ask  why  is  it  that  I  am  an  alien  in  this  my  adopted  country 
this  day  ?  Because  in  consequence  of  your  interference,  I  was 
prevented  from  coming  to  it  in  1798,  and  from  being  naturalized 
three  years  ago.  Supposing  then  that  I  should  refrain  from 
intermeddling  with  politics  in  every  other  case  ;  where  you  are 
concerned  I  feel  myself  authorized  to  exerise  the  rights  of  a  citi- 
zen as  far  as  by  law  I  may;  for  you  know  that  it  is  an  established 
rule  of  equity  and  good  sense  that  no  man  shall  be  benefitted 
by  his  own  wrong.  But  how  do  I  come  forward  ?  Not  as  a  citi- 
zen, but  as  a  witness.  Allow  me  to  ask  you  if  I  possessed  a 
knowledge  of  facts  which  could  prove  Mr.  Jefferson  guilty  of 
a  robbery,  or  a  cheat  and  unfit  to  be  trusted  with  power,  would 
you  think  me  culpable  if,  notwithstanding  my  alienage,  I  made 
them  known  to  the  public  to  prevent  their  being  deceived  and 
misled  ?  And  shall  I  not  be  permitted  because  in  consequence 
of  your  own  misconduct  I  am  not  a  citizen,  to  testify  to  facts 
which  will  prove  you  unfit  to  be  entrusted  in  this  country  with 
any  kind  of  delegated  power.  ...  As  a  witness  then,  sir, 
I  come  forward  to  testify  not  to  my  countrymen,  but  to  the 
electors  of  this  city,  to  the  whole  of  the  United  States,  if  you 
should  ever  aspire  to  govern  them,  and  I  now  present  you  with 
my  evidence. 

In  the  summer  of  1798,  after  the  attempt  of  the  people  of 
Ireland  for  their  emancipation  had  been  completely  defeated  ; 
after  every  armed  body  had  been  dispersed,  or  had  surrendered, 
except  a  few  men    that  had  taken  refuge  in  the    mountains   of 


1 8  RUFUS  KING.  [1807 

Wicklow  ;  while  military  tribunals,  house  burnings,  shootings, 
torture  and  every  kind  of  devastation  were  desolating  and  over- 
whelming the  defenceless  inhabitants,  some  of  the  State  prison- 
ers then  in  confinement,  entered  into  a  negociation  with  the  Irish 
ministers  for  effecting  a  general  amnesty  ;  and  as  an  induce- 
ment offered,  among  other  things,  not  necessary  to  the  examin- 
ation of  your  conduct,  to  emigrate  to  such  country  as  might  be 
agreed  upon  between  them  and  the  government.  When  I  con- 
sented to  this  offer,  for  one  (and  it  was  the  case  with  the  great 
majority)  I  solemnly  declare  that  I  was  perfectly  apprized  that 
there  were  no  legal  grounds  discovered  to  proceed  against  me. 
I  further  knew  that  the  Crown  Solicitor  had  in  answer  to  the 
enquiries  of  my  friends  informed  them  there  was  no  intention  of 
preferring  a  bill  of  indictment  against  me.  So  much  for  the 
personal  considerations  by  which  1  might  have  been  actuated, 
and  now,  sir,  to  return. 

The  offer  was  accepted  ;  the  bloody  system  was  stopped  for  a 
time,  and  was  not  renewed  until  after  your  interference,  and  after 
the  English  ministry  had  resolved  openly  to  break  its  faith  with 
us.  On  our  part,  we  performed  our  stipulations  with  the  most 
punctilious  fidelity,  but  in  such  a  manner  as  to  preserve  to  us  the 
warmest  approbation  of  our  friends,  and  to  excite  the  greatest 
dissatisfaction  in  our  enemies.  Government  soon  perceived  that 
on  the  score  of  interest  it  had  calculated  badly  and  had  gained 
nothing  by  the  contract.  It  was  afraid  of  letting  us  go  at  large 
to  develop  and  detect  the  misrepresentation  and  calumnies  that 
were  studiously  set  afloat  and  had  therefore,  I  am  convinced,  de- 
termined to  violate  its  engagements  by  keeping  us  prisoners  as 
long  as  possible.  How  was  this  to  be  done  ?  In  the  commence- 
ment of  our  negociation,  Lord  Castlereagh  declared  as  a  reason 
for  our  acceding  to  government's  possessing  a  negative  on  our 
choice,  that  it  had  no  worse  place  in  view  for  our  emigration  than 
the  United  States  of  America.  We  had  made  our  election  to  go 
there,  and  had  to  have  our  agreement  carried  into  execution. 
In  that  difficulty  you,  sir,  afforded  effectual  assistance  to  the  faith- 
lessness of  the  British  cabinet.  On  the  16th  of  September,  Mr. 
Marsden,  then  under  secretary,  came  to  inform  us  that  Mr.  King 
had  remonstrated  against  our  being  permitted  to  emigrate  to 
America.     This  astonished  us  all,  and  Dr.  M'  Nevin  very  plainly 


1807]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 9 

said  that  he  considered  this  excuse  as  a  mere  trick  between  Mr. 
King  and  the  British  government.  This  Mr.  Marsden  denied, 
and  on  being  pressed  to  know  the  reasons  Mr.  King  could  have  for 
preventing  us,  who  were  avowed  republicans,  from  emigrating  to 
America,  he  significantly  answered  "  perhaps  Mr.  King  does  not 
desire  to  have  republicans  in  America."  Your  interference  was 
then,  sir,  made  the  pretext  of  detaining  us  four  years  in  custody, 
by  which  very  extensive  and  useful  plans  of  settlements  within 
these  States  were  broken  up.  The  misfortunes  which  you 
brought  upon  the  objects  of  your  persecution  were  incalculable. 
Almost  all  of  us  wasted  four  of  the  best  years  of  our  lives  in 
prison.  As  to  me,  I  should  have  brought  along  with  me  my 
father  and  his  family,  including  a  brother  whose  name  perhaps 
even  you  will  not  read  without  emotion  of  sympathy  and  respect. 
Others,  nearly  connected  with  me,  would  have  come  partners  in 
my  emigration  ;  but  all  of  them  have  been  torn  from  me.  I  have 
been  prevented  from  saving  a  brother,  from  receiving  the  dying 
blessings  of  a  father,  mother  and  sister,  and  from  soothing  their 
last  agonies  by  my  cares  ;  and  this,  sir,  by  your  unwarrantable 
and  unfeeling  interference. 

Your  friends  when  they  accuse  me  of  want  of  moderation  in 
my  conduct  towards  you,  are  wonderfully  mistaken.  They  do 
not  reflect  or  know,  that  I  have  never  spoken  of  you,  without 
suppressing  (as  I  do  now)  personal  feelings  that  rise  up  within 
me,  and  swell  my  heart  with  indignation  and  resentment.  But  I 
mean  to  confine  myself  to  an  examination  of  your  conduct  as  far 
as  it  is  of  public  importance. 

The  step  you  took  was  unauthorized  by  your  own  government. 
Our  agreement  with  that  of  Ireland  was  entered  into  on  the  19th 
of  July — your  prohibition  was  notified  to  us  on  the  16th  of  Sep- 
tember ;  deduct  7  days  for  the  two  communications  between 
Dublin  and  London,  and  you  had  precisely  41  days,  in  the  calms 
of  summer,  for  transmitting  your  intelligence  to  America  and  re- 
ceiving an  answer.  As  you  had  no  order  then,  what  was  the  mo- 
tive of  your  unauthorized  act  ?  I  cannot  positively  say,  but  I  will 
tell  you  my  conviction.  The  British  ministry  had  resolved  to  de- 
tain us  prisoners  contrary  to  their  plighted  honour  ;  and  you,  sir, 
I  fear  lent  your  ministerial  character  to  enable  them  to  commit  an 
act  of  perfidy,  which  they  would  not  otherwise  have  dared  to  per- 


20  RUFUS   KING.  [1807 

petrate.  The  constitution  and  laws  of  the  country  gave  you  no 
power  to  require  of  the  British  government  that  it  should  violate 
its  faith  and  withdraw  from  us  its  consent  to  the  plan  we  had 
fixed  upon  for  our  voluntary  emigration.  Neither  the  President 
nor  you  were  warranted  to  prevent  our  touching  the  shores  ; 
though  the  former  might,  under  the  Alien  act,  have  afterwards 
sent  us  away,  if  he  had  reason  to  think  we  were  plotting  against 
the  United  States.  I  have  heard  something  about  the  law  of 
nations,  but  you,  I  presume,  are  too  well  acquainted  with  that  law 
not  to  know  that  it  has  no  bearing  on  this  subject.  Our  emigra- 
tion was  voluntary,  and  the  English  government  had  in  point  of 
justice  no  more  to  do  with  it  than  to  signify  that  there  was  no 
objection  to  the  place  of  residence  we  had  chosen. 

Another  circumstance  which  compels  me  to  believe  a  collusive 
league  between  you,  in  your  capacity  of  resident  Minister  from 
America,  and  the  Cabinet  of  St.  James'  is  the  very  extravagant 
and  unwarrantable  nature  of  your  remonstrance,  which  had  the 
ministry  been  sincere  towards  us,  they  could  not  have  overlooked. 
If  they  had  intended  to  observe  their  compact,  you,  sir,  would 
have  been  very  quickly  made  to  feel  the  futility  of  your  ill-timed 
application.  You  would  have  been  taught  that  it  was  a  matter  of 
mere  private  arrangement  between  government  and  us,  with  which 
you  had  no  more  to  do  than  the  minister  to  Denmark,  Sweden, 
Portugal,  or  any  other  neutral  power.  What  inference  ought 
fairly  to  be  made  from  the  facts  I  have  stated,  every  man  must 
decide  for  himself.  On  me,  they  have  forced  a  conviction, 
which,  if  you  can  shake  it,  I  shall  much  more  gladly  forego  than 
I  state  it  here,  that  in  the  instance  alluded  to,  you  degraded  the 
dignity  and  independence  of  the  country  you  represented,  you 
abandoned  the  principles  of  its  government  and  its  policy,  and 
you  became  the  tool  of  a  foreign  state,  to  give  it  a  colourable 
pretext  for  the  commission  of  a  crime.  If  so,  is  it  fit  that  you 
should  hereafter  be  entrusted  with  any  kind  of  delegated 
authority  ?  What  motives  you  may  have  had  for  that  conduct,  if, 
in  truth  it  was  yours,  I  cannot  undertake  to  say.  Mr.  Marsden 
seemed  to  doubt  whether  you  wished  for  republicans  in  America — 
and  I  shrewdly  suspect  he  spoke  what  the  British  ministry  thought 
of  your  politics. 

Perhaps  it  may  be  said  that  you  were  yourself  deceived   by 


1807]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  21 

those  very  calumnies  of  which  I  have  complained,  I  sincerely  wish  I 
could  believe  that  such  were  the  fact — but  observe  this  argument. 
We  contradicted  the  mistatements  of  the  committee  of  the  Lords 
and  Commons  of  Ireland,  by  advertisement,  written  in  prison, 
signed  our  names,  and  published  on  the  3d.  of  September,  it  must 
have  reached  London  on  the  seventh  or  eighth — your  remonstrance 
must  have  been  made  before  the  12th,  for  it  was  communicated  to 
us  on  the  16th.  The  effect  produced  by  our  advertisement  was 
electrical,  and  the  debate  which  it  caused  on  the  very  evening  of 
its  appearance,  in  the  Irish  House  of  Commons,  was  most  remark- 
able. As  you  doubtless  read  the  newspapers  of  the  day,  these 
facts  could  not  be  unknown  to  you.  Why  then  should  you  be 
deceived  by  misrepresentations  which  we  have  recently  contra- 
dicted under  circumstances  so  extraordinary  ?  Mr.  King,  did 
you  enter  so  deeply  into  the  revolution  of  your  own  country  as  to 
implicate  your  life  in  the  issue  of  its  fortunes  ?  From  the  strong 
attachment  of  your  political  friends,  I  presume  you  were  a  dis- 
tinguished leader  in  those  eventful  times  ;  if  not,  you  had  cer- 
tainly read  their  history.  Did  you  remember  the  calumnies  which 
had  been  thrown  out  by  British  agents  against  the  most  upright 
and  venerable  patriots  of  America  ?  Did  you  call  to  mind  the 
treatment  which  had  been  given  in  South  Carolina  to  General 
Gadsden,  to  Gen.  Rutherford,  Col.  Isaacs,  and  a  number  of  others 
who  had  surrendered  to  that  very  Lord  Cornwallis,  with  whom, 
through  his  ministers  we  negociated  ;  and  that  these  distinguished 
characters  were,  in  violation  of  their  capitulation  and  of  the  rights 
of  parole,  sent  to  St.  Augustine,  as  we  were  afterwards  sent  to 
Fort  George  ?  How  then  is  it  possible  that  you  could  have  been 
a  Dupe  to  the  misrepresentations  of  the  British  Government  ? 

These  remarks  I  address  with  all  becoming  respect  to  "  the  first 
man  in  the  country  " — yet  in  fact,  sir,  I  do  not  clearly  see  in 
what  consists  your  superiority  over  myself.  It  is  true  you  have 
been  a  resident  minister  at  the  Court  of  St.  James,  and  if  what  I 
have  read  in  the  public  prints  be  true,  and  if  you  be  apprised  of 
my  near  relationship  and  family  connection  with  the  late  Sir  John 
Temple,*  you  must  acknowledge  that  your  interference  as  a  resi- 

*  Mr.  King,  when  a  lad,  was  a  servant  to  and  wore  the  livery  of  Sir  John 
Temple,  the  near  relative  of  Mr.  Emmet.  I  assert  this  on  the  authority  of  a  re- 
spectable gentleman  in  this  city.  Editor.      James  Ciieetham. 


22  KUFUS  KING.  [1807 

dent  minister  at  the  Court  of  St.  James's,  against  my  being  per- 
mitted to  emigrate  to  America,  is  a  very  curious  instance  of  the 
caprice  of  fortune.  But  let  that  pass.  To  what  extent  I  ought 
to  yield  to  you  for  talents  and  information,  it  is  not  for  me  to  de- 
cide. In  no  other  respect,  however,  do  I  feel  your  excessive 
superiority.  My  private  character  and  conduct  are,  I  hope,  as 
fair  as  yours — and  even  in  those  matters  which  I  consider  as 
trivial,  but  upon  which  aristocratic  pride  is  accustomed  to  stamp 
a  value,  I  should  not  be  inclined  to  shrink  from  competition. 
My  birth  certainly  will  not  humble  me  by  comparison  ;  my  pater- 
nal fortune  was  probably  much  greater  than  yours  ;  the  consider- 
ation in  which  the  name  I  bear  was  held  in  my  native  country, 
was  as  great  as  yours  is  ever  likely  to  be,  before  I  had  any  oppor- 
tunity of  contributing  to  its  celebrity.  As  to  the  amount  of  what 
private  fortune  I  have  been  able  to  save  from  the  wreck  of  calam- 
ity, it  is  unknown  to  you  or  to  your  friends  ;  but  two  things  I  will 
tell  you,  I  never  was  indebted,  either  in  the  country  from  which  I 
came,  nor  in  any  other  in  which  I  have  lived,  to  any  man,  further 
than  the  necessary  credit  for  the  current  expenses  of  a  family  ;  and 
am  not  so  circumstanced  that  I  should  tremble  for  my  subsistence, 
at  the  threatened  displeasure  of  your  friends.*     So  much  for  the 

*  It  is  said  that  on  Monday  evening  last  certain  federal  gentlemen  held  a  pri- 
vate meeting  at  which  they  agreed  to  withdraw,  or  cause  to  be  withdrawn  from 
Mr.  Emmet  federal  professional  business  put  into  his  hands,  and,  as  in  the 
glorious  times  of  '98,  to  combine  to  do  him  all  the  pecuniary  injury  in  their 
power !  Editor.  James  Cheetham. 

In  J.  Cheetham's  Citizen  of  April  1,  1807,  we  find  the  following  estimate 
of  Mr.  King. 

"  Side  view  of  Mr.  King. — Mr.  King  has  crawled  into  public  life  we  know 
not  how.  It  is  not  however  disreputable  to  him  that  from  being  the  Page  of 
Sir  John  Temple,  at  Boston,  he  is  become  the  leader  of  the  federal  party  in  the 
State  of  New  York. 

We  know  how  he  was  first  elected  to  member  of  Congress.  He  resided  in  a 
democratic  district  in  Massachusetts.  What  was  to  be  done  to  gratify  ambition  ? 
He  became,  as  a  federalist  might  term  it,  a  brawling  democrat,  and  professing 
democracy,  and  ingratiating  himself  into  public  favour,  by  his  professions,  he 
got  himself  elected  a  member  of  congress. 

All  this  was  right.  It  is  a  trite  remark  that  libertines  pay  adoration  to  virtue 
by  assuming  her  garb. 

But  upon  merely  professing  man  who  can  place  reliance  ? 

He  who  from  ambition  changes  from  federalism  to  democracy,  will,  for  am- 
bition, turn  back  from  democracy  to  federalism.      A/organ  Lewis  knows  this. 

Mr.  King  continued  to  be  a  republican,   when  republicanism  flourished.      I 


1807]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  23 

past  and  the  present — now  for  the  future.  Circumstances  which 
cannot  be  controuled  have  decided  that  my  name  must  be  em- 
bodied in  history.  From  the  manner  in  which  even  my  political 
adversaries  and  some  of  my  contemporary  historians,  unequivo- 
cally hostile  to  my  principles,  already  speak  of  me,  I  have  the 
consolation  of  reflecting,  that  when  the  falsehoods  of  the  day  are 
withered  and  rotten,  I  shall  be  respected  and  esteemed,  you,  sir, 
will  probably  be  forgotten,  when  I  shall  be  remembered  with 
honour,  or  if,  peradventure,  your  name  shall  descend  to  posterity, 
perhaps  you  will  be  known  only  as  the  recorded  instrument  of 
part  of  my  persecutions,  sufferings  and  misfortunes. 

I  am,  sir,  &c. 

Thomas  Addis  Emmet. 

The  history  of  Mr.  King's  agency  relative  to  the  preven- 
tion of  the  emigration  of  the  Irish  State  Prisoners  has  been 
so  clearly  given  in  the  body  of  this  work,*  that  it  would  seem 
unnecessary  to  introduce  any  further  proof  of  the  falsity  of 
the  charges  brought  against  him.  We  have,  however,  two 
distinct  refutations  of  these  charges  f  in  Mr.  King's  hand- 
writing. One  of  them,  a  letter  to  his  friend  Mr.  Gore,  Apr. 
IO,  1807,  says  : 

do  not  exactly  know  at  what  period  of  our  party  contests  he  changed  his  coat, 
but  we  may  safely  conclude  it  was  when  federalism  promised  something  better. 

And  he  has  in  a  great  measure  realized  all  that  federalism  promised.  He 
has  been  a  member  of  the  United  States  Senate,  where,  with  the  assistance  of 
Gen.  Hamilton,  he  made  a  few  good  speeches,  and,  whence,  through  the  instru- 
mentality of  that  great  man,  he  was  sent  minister  to  the  court  of  Great  Britain. 

Of  this  court,  as  we  shall  hereafter  show,  Mr.  King  became  the  political 
dupe,  as  he  was  at  the  same  time,  an  instrument  of  some  pernicious  schemes  of 
Mr.  Adams, — schemes  not  sanctioned  either  by  the  constitution  or  laws  of  his 
country. 

It  was  not  possible  that  a  man  so  yielding  to  British  policy,  especially  in  re- 
lation to  Ireland,  and  immigration  generally,  should  not  be  acceptable  to  the 
British  government. 

He  is  said  to  have  stood  well  with  Pitt,  and  this  good  standing,  since  his 
return,  has  given  him  political  consequence  with  the  numerous  friends  of  that 
premier  among  us. 

But  those  friends  should  be  informed,  if  they  do  not  already  know,  that  Mr. 
King  is  now  thought  very  despicably  of  by  the  British  government." 

*Vol.  [I.,  Appendix  IV.,  pp.  035-648. 

t  One  in  1807  the,  other  in  1816  ;    vol.,  v.  p. 


24  RUFUS  KING.  [1807 

"  We,  without  any  important  expectation,  and  with  the  embar- 
rassment of  a  qualified  support  in  respect  to  Governor,  are  here 
engaged  in  the  approaching  election.  I  have  been  prevailed  upon 
to  be  nominated  as  a  candidate  for  our  assembly,  and  several  of 
our  most  respectable  citizens  are  united  with  me  on  the  Ticket. 
This  has  awakened  old  animosities  and  brought  up  others  of  a 
more  recent  and  malignant  nature  against  me.  Of  course  my 
reputation  is  daily  assailed  with  the  lowest  and  coarsest  ribaldry. 
We  have  here  several  of  the  Irish  State  Prisoners,  agt.  whose 
banishment  to  America  I  protested  in  1798  ;  these  men,  who  are 
not  yet  citizens,  have  arrayed  a  body  of  their  countrymen,  ha- 
rangued them  on  the  subject  of  Irish  oppression,  denounced  me 
for  having  interfered  with  their  being  permitted  to  come  to  this 
country,  and  urged  them  to  enter  into  a  confederacy  to  resist  my 
election.  Emmet,  their  leader,  an  alien,  a  lawyer  who  has  been 
admitted  to  our  Bar,  has  addressed  a  letter  to  me,  ascribing  to 
my  interference  the  death  of  his  brother,  and  the  oppression  that 
he  for  years  suffered  in  Prison.  His  performance  is  full  of  inso- 
lence, vanity  and  malignity,  amongst  other  things,  in  a  compari- 
son of  himself  with  me,  he  asserts  that  I  was  a  menial  servant  in 
my  youth  to  Sir  John  Temple,  his  relative  (Rob.  Temple's  daugh- 
ter, Hetty,  married  Emmet's  brother)  and  my  reputable  opponents 
believe  the  assertion.  I  have  resolved  to  enter  into  no  expla- 
nations, leaving  the  Public  to  decide  between  me  and  these 
foreigners." 

Though  Mr.  King  published  no  answer  to  the  charges 
made,  there  is  in  his  handwriting  an  address  : 

"  Endorsed  by  R.  K.  Dft.  of  an  address  to  the  Pub.  (never 
made)  respecting  my  interference  to  prevent  the  Exile  of  the 
Ir.  Stat.  Prisrs.  to  the  U.  S." 

It  has  it  seems  been  deemed  expedient  for  the  purpose  of 
affecting  the  federal  nomination  of  Assemblymen,  to  make  an 
attempt  to  awaken  and  enlist  the  national  prejudices  of  a  body  of 
foreigners,  who  within  a  few  years  past  have  arrived  and  been 
naturalized  in  this  city. 

How  far  a  step  of  this  nature  will  be  likely  to  impair  the 
harmony  and  mutual  assistance  that  in  the  mixed  state  of  our 


1807]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  2$ 

population,  it  should  be  the  aim  of  good  men  to  promote,  the 
public  will  determine  :  most  certainly  no  consideration  which  as 
yet  should  influence  virtuous  citizens,  shall  urge  to  measures  of 
retaliation  ;  a  momentary  success,  a  partial  triumph,  the  mere 
gaining  of  a  single  election  would  be  but  a  poor  consolation  for 
having  created  a  durable  and  dangerous  feud  between  the  foreign 
and  native  inhabitants  of  this  prosperous  city. 

In  the  unworthy  attempt  to  excite  discord  and  hatred  between 
the  new  and  old  citizens,  various  means  and  devises  have  been 
employed  ;  all  of  them  unwarrantable  and  unworthy  of  being 
made  use  of  by  men  who  either  respect  themselves  or  love  the 
country. 

So  far  as  these  measures  are  calculated  to  injure  the  character 
of  the  federal  ticket,  by  assailing  the  reputation  of  Mr.  K.,  it  has 
been  done  by  repeating  a  charge,  long  since  preferred,  that  in  the 
year  1798  and  during  his  mission  in  England,  he  interfered  with 
the  British  Govt,  to  prevent  the  Irish  State  Prisoners  being  ban- 
ished to  America.* 

I  am  not  aware  that  any  part  of  my  conduct  during  my  resi- 
dence abroad  is  without  the  sanction  of  Government  ;  and  con- 
sidering the  nature  of  the  office  I  held,  I  might  rest  satisfied  with 
this  reflexion,  and  decline  entering  into  a  vindication  of  such 
particular  measures,  as  however  imperfectly  understood,  may 
become  matter  of  newspaper  animadversion  especially  as  whatso- 
ever is  done  by  a  forn.  Minr.  with  the  sanction  of  his  Govt, 
becomes  the  act  of  that  Govt.,  which  he,  more  than  another,  is 
not  bound  to  explain  or  to  justify.  I  do  not  however  perceive 
that  I  am  required  by  any  official  duty  to  follow  this  course  on 
the  present  occasion. 

The  Persons  whose  names  have  been  brought  into  view  in  the 
publications  referred  to,  I  am  willing  to  believe  are  in  no  sort 
privy  to  them,  and  I  may,  therefore,  owe  to  them  some  apology 
for  the  necessity  that  compels  me  to  allude  to  them  and  their  con- 
duct in  a  quarter  where  they  were  under  no  obligation  to  consult, 
or  respect  the  opinion  of  strangers. 

*  As  to  an  agency  on  his  part  in  preventing  their  being  sent  to  any  of  the 
other  countries,  to  wh.  they  were  at  liberty  to  retire,  or  in  any  other  manner 
interfering  with  them,  their  enterprize,  or  their  confinement,  every  insinuation 
to  this  effect  is  totally  groundless. 


26  RUFUS  KING.  [1807 

It  cannot  have  been  forgotten  that  after  resisting  the  unremitted 
efforts  of  France  for  a  series  of  years  to  acquire  an  influence  and 
control  over  our  public  Councils,  the  struggle  reached  its  crisis  in 
the  Summer  of  1798.  Then  the  question  was  to  be  decided, 
whether  the  affairs  and  Govt,  of  the  Nation  shd.  continue  to  be 
placed  in  the  hands  of  Citizens  devoted  to  the  liberties  and  in- 
dependence of  their  country,  or  delivered  over,  as  has  been  done 
in  Italy,  in  Spain,  in  Holland,  in  Switzerland  and  in  Germany,  to 
men  claiming  confidence  from  their  avowed  attachment  to  France. 
The  condition  of  the  United  States  at  this  momentous  period 
cannot  be  explained  more  distinctly,  or  with  greater  authority 
than  was  done  at  the  time  by  the  Father  of  his  Country,  in  his 
letter  to  the  President,  accepting  the  office  of  Commander-in-Chief. 
General  Washington's  letter  is  dated  July  13,  1798,  and  contains 
the  following  paragraphs  : 

"  It  was  not  possible  for  me  to  remain  ignorant  of  or  indiffer- 
ent to  recent  transactions.  The  conduct  of  the  Directory  of 
France  towards  our  Country  ;  their  insidious  hostility  to  its  Gov- 
ernment ;  their  various  practices  to  withdraw  the  affections  of  the 
People  from  it ;  the  evident  tendency  of  these  acts,  and  of  those 
of  their  agents,  to  countenance  and  invigorate  opposition  ;  their 
disregard  of  solemn  treaties  and  the  Laws  of  Nations  ;  their 
war  upon  our  defenceless  commerce  ;  their  treatment  of  our 
Ministers  of  Peace  ;  and  their  demands  amounting  to  tribute 
could  not  fail  to  excite  in  me  correspondent  sentiments  with  those 
my  countrymen  have  so  generally  expressed  in  their  affectionate 
addresses  to  you.  Believe  me,  Sir,  no  one  can  more  cordially  ap- 
prove of  the  wise  and  prudent  measures  of  your  administration. 
They  ought  to  inspire  universal  confidence,  and  will  no  doubt, 
combined  with  the  state  of  things,  call  from  Congress,  such  Laws 
and  means  as  will  enable  you  to  meet  the  full  force  and  extent  of 
the  crisis.  Satisfied,  therefore,  that  you  have  sincerely  wished 
and  endeavoured  to  avert  war,  and  exhausted  to  the  last  drop  the 
cup  of  Reconciliation,  we  can  with  pure  hearts  appeal  to  Heaven 
for  the  Justice  of  our  Cause,  and  may  confidently  trust  the  final 
result  to  that  kind  Providence,  which  has  heretofore  and  so  often 
signally  favoured  the  People  of  these  United  States." 

Congress  appear  to  have  taken  a  like  view  of  the  state  of  the 
nation,  and  after  solemn  deliberation  proceeded  to  dissolve  the 


1807]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  27 


Treaties  with  France,  to  suspend  all  commerical  intercourse  with 
that  Power,  to  declare  a  maritime  law  agt.  her,  and  to  pass  such 
other  Laws  to  protect  and  call  forth  the  resources  of  the  Country, 
as  the  greatness  of  the  danger  demanded. 

It  was  at  this  crisis  that  the  Irish  State  Prisoners,  who  had  been 
apprehended  in  the  preceding  Spring,  made  a  proposal  to  their 
Govt,  to  disclose  the  internal  transactions  of  their  associates,  to 
furnish  a  detailed  act.  of  their  connexion  with  for.  States,  and  to 
emigrate  to  such  country,  as  should  be  agreed  on  between  them 
and  their  Govt,  engaging  not  to  return  without  permission,  &  not 
to  pass  into  an  enemy's  country. 

The  Report  of  the  I.  Parliament  that  was  now  made,  and  which 
professed  to  be  supported  by  the  confessions  of  the  State  Prison- 
ers, which  was  annexed  to  the  Report,  not  only  disclosed  their 
ultimate  views  and  object,  but  bro't  to  light  the  secret  agreement 
that  subsisted  between  them  and  the  French  Directory. 

The  number  of  these  prisoners  is  not  remembered  ;  it  is,  how- 
ever, known  to  have  been  large,  and  in  the  Month  of  September 
it  became  matter  of  public  conversation  in  London  that  they 
were  about  to  be  exiled  to  America. 

We  were  then  at  war  with  France,  not  only  a  powerful  but 
most  subtle  enemy,  knowing  alike  the  arts  of  intrigue  and  the  arts 
of  war — The  Councils  of  our  Nation  were  not  unanimous,  and  the 
body  of  our  People  were  unhappily  divided. 

In  this  condition  of  the  Country,  does  anyone  believe,  will 
impartial  men  contend,  that  these  chiefs,  many  of  them  men  of 
talents  and  held  in  high  estimation  in  France  as  well  as  in 
Ireland, — that  these  directors  of  a  mighty  effort  to  divide  an 
ancient  nation,  leaving  their  friends  and  country  by  compulsion, 
not  choice,  that  these  men  foiled  but  not  conquered,  were  likely 
in  the  existing  situation  of  the  U.  S.  and  France  to  become 
contented  citizens  of  America  ? 

I  frankly  avow  that  I  did  not  think  they  would  ;  and  I  must 
have  been  profoundly  ignorant  of  the  passions  of  the  human 
heart  to  have  thought  they  could.  Thus  judging,  I  could  neither 
mistake,  nor  omit  the  performance  of  my  duty.  Accordingly, 
supported  by  the  principles  of  public  law,  which  forbid  one 
nation  to  banish  or  transport  its  subjects  to  the  Territories  of 
another,  without  the   consent  of  such  other,  I  did  in  the  month 


28  RUFUS  KING.  [1807 

of  September  1798,  interfere  with  the  Br.  Govt,  for  the  sole  pur- 
pose of  preventing  the  I.  S.  P.  being  banished  to  the  U.  S. 
Whether  my  opinions  and  conduct  on  this  occasion  merit  the 
censure  or  approbation  of  my  country,  is  submitted  to  the 
judgment  of  all  impartial  men. 


CHAPTER  II. 

Troup  to  King — Federalists  stimulated  by  Attack  on  King  and  by  Lansing's 
Declaration — Political  Aspect — Troup  to  King — Lansing's  Declaration 
causes  Disaffection  among  the  Democrats — Gore  to  King — Of  the  Abuse  of 
King — Troup  to  King — Attack  on  Van  Rensselaer — N.  Webster  to  King — 
Pronunciation  of  r,  or  t  preceding  u,  as  ch — King  to  Webster — That 
customary  among  higher  Classes — Cannot  encourage  him  in  his  Work — 
Ingersoll  to  King — Loss  of  his  Election — Troup  to  King — Trinity  Church 
should  rather  make  Provision  for  the  Support  of  Clergy — Webster  to  King 
— Regrets  his  Despondence  on  the  political  State — Hopes  it  is  not  re- 
mediless— King  to  G.  Morris — Wishes  to  discuss  with  him  respecting  Im- 
pressment— King  to  Gore — Impressment  and  Affair  of  the  Chesapeake — W. 
King  to  King — When  will  Question  with  England  be  settled  ? — Gore  to 
King — Will  not  support  Sullivan — King  to  Gore — Embargo  causes  Alarm. 

R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  ii  April,  1807. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  proceedings  of  the  Hibernian  Society  and  Emmet's  attack 
upon  you,  have  had  a  powerful  effect  upon  the  Federal  Spirit  in 
this  quarter  :  we  are  all  activity  &  all  exertion,  and  by  the  next 
western  mail  we  shall  endeavour  to  infuse  our  spirit  into  the 
hearts  of  our  friends  in  the  Western  District.  The  contest  now 
seems  to  be  for  everything  sacred  in  society,  and  the  man  who 
sleeps  upon  his  post  is  fit  for  the  oppression  meditated  against 
us. 

Chancellor  Lansing's  declaration  *  will  have  likewise  the  hap- 
piest effect.  The  Clintonians  will  of  course  begin  to  abuse  him 
&  his  friends.  This  will  heat  their  resentment  into  a  blaze. 
They  are  a  numerous  family   and  the  Chancellor   &    Treasurer 

*  The  declaration  was  that  he  had  declined  the  nomination  for  Governor  in 
1804,  after  having  first  accepted  it,  because  in  an  interview  with  Gov.  Clinton, 
"  an  attempt  had  been  made  by  them  to  induce  me  to  pledge  myself  for  a 
particular  course  of  conduct  in  the  administration  of  the  government  of  the 
State."     This  he  refused  to  give. 

29 


30  RUFUS  KING.  [*8o7 

have  considerable  influence.  It  Avill  also  have  the  effect  of  draw- 
ing a  line  of  separation  between  the  Lansingites  and  Clintonians  ; 
and  this  is  an  object  of  no  little  moment. 

Next  week,  and  early  in  the  week,  the  Chancellor's  declaration, 
the  proceedings  of  the  Hibernian  Society  and  Counsellor  Em- 
met's confession,  with  General  Nugent's  proclamation  here,  will 
be  in  a  course  of  rapid  and  extensive  spread. 

My  accounts  from  the  westward  are  of  a  very  flattering  nature. 
Mr.  Gold  of  Whitestown  in  Oneida  County,  under  date  of  the  6th 
inst.  writes  me  thus.  "  Our  nominations  have  gone  abroad  with 
appropriate  addresses.  Between  3  and  4000  handbills  are  put  in 
circulation  thro'  every  County  in  the  District.  If  the  Federalists 
do  not  succeed  the  sin  of  omission  will  not  be  found  at  their 
door."  The  ticket  in  Oneida  County  for  the  assembly  is  wholly 
Federal,  and  a  Federalist  is  also  on  the  Senatorial  ticket.  Mr. 
Gold  goes  on  to  say — "  As  to  the  probable  result,  I  subjoin 
the  following  for  this  District ;  Although  in  the  situation  of 
parties  there  is  much  uncertainty  yet  I  have  very  little  doubt  that 
this  District  will  give  Lewis  a  majority  " — (of  800) — 

From  what  I  know  myself  of  the  Western  District,  I  have  no 
doubt  that  it  will  yield  Lewis  a  majority  at  least  equal  to  Mr. 
Gold's  calculations,  unless  the  exertions  of  our  Federal  friends 
should  be  less  than  they  promise  to  be. 

In  this  District  (the  Eastern)  we  calculate  also  upon  a  majority 
for  Lewis.  It  will  not  however  be  large,  not  probably  exceeding 
500. 

Mr.  VanNess  from  Hudson  writes  us  that  things  are  going  on 
well  in  the  Middle  District. 

Citizen  Genet's  committee  of  vigilance  and  his  addresses  in 
Rensselaer  County  have  produced  nearly  the  same  effect  as  those 
which  have  been  produced  in  New  York  by  the  Hibernian  So- 
ciety &  Counsellor  Emmet. 

In  this  District  it  was  thought  inexpedient  to  run  a  Senator. 
The  whole  Senatorial  ticket  consequently  consists  of  Lewisites  ; 
but  the  Federal  vote  will,  notwithstanding  be  unanimous.  We 
shall  swallow  in  one  draft  the  Governor,  Lt.  Governor  and  three 
Senators.  In  doing  this  our  friends  in  New  York  must  allow 
that  we  have  at  least  good  electioneering  throats  !  Even  Mr. 
Henry,  the  most  inflexible  Federalist  amongst  us,  has  determined 


1807]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  3 1 

on  this  course.  So  far  indeed  has  zeal  warmed  us  up  that  we  are 
raising  a  fund  to  help  the  Lewisites  to  pay  the  expences  of  their 
Governor's  election.  If  this  had  been  asserted  not  long  since  it 
would  have  been  disbelieved. 

I  observe  that  your  ticket  in  New  York  is  called  the  American 
ticket.  Would  not  this  be  a  favorable  occasion  for  our  party  to 
assume  a  popular  and  significant  name,  free  from  the  hobgoblins 
attached  by  many  to  Federalism.  This  is  a  subject  worthy  of 
serious  consideration  ? 

If  Counsellor  Emmet  is  not  a  little  more  cautious  hereafter,  he 
will  stand  a  chance  of  being  thrown  over  the  bar.  Judge  Kent 
and  Judge  Thompson  are  very  much  dissatisfied  with  his  con- 
duct, and  I  believe  from  circumstances  that  Judge  Thompson 
bitterly  repents  that  he  consented  to  Emmet's  admission. 
Emmet  is  still  an  alien. 

I  wish  the  information  I  give  to  be  mentioned  only  to  our  con- 
fidential friends.  It  would  be  impolitic  for  me  to  give  the  Clin- 
tonian  Democrats  a  handle  to  injure  the  agency  I  have  confided 
to  me  (the  Pulteney  Estate).  Thus  far  they  have  been  very 
friendly  to  it,  barring  Col.  Rutgers,  who  carried  little  or  no  influ- 
ence with  him.  When  my  bill  was  under  debate  in  the  House  of 
Assembly,  he  made  so  violent  an  attack  upon  Lady  Bath,  that  if 
I  had  not  rescued  her,  by  the  aid  of  my  friends,  from  his  arms, 
her  Ladyship,  like  poor  Mrs.  Williams  in  the  hands  of  Webbenars, 
the  Deputy  Sheriff  of  West  Chester,  would  have  been  at  least  in 
imminent  danger  of  being  ravished  of  her  chastity. 

In  haste,  yours 

Rob.  Troup. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  15  April,   1807. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Inclosed  I  send  you  the  resolutious  of  the  Albany  Federal 
meeting  of  which  I  gave  you  an  account  in  my  last.  I  think  our 
Federal  friends  in  New  York  will  not  be  ashamed  of  the  senti- 
ments we  have  avowed.  I  wish  our  example  may  be  followed  in 
every  county  of  the  State. 

The  answer  of  Spencer  &  Co  to  the  Chancellor's  declaration  is 


32  RUFUS  KING.  [1807 

thought  here  by  several  of  us  to  make  the  Chancellor's  conduct 
appear  to  be  puerile,  and  we  apprehend  the  whole  business  will 
in  the  end  do  very  little  credit  to  his  understanding. 

The  truth  is  that  Clinton  originally  debauched  Lansing,  and 
drew  him  when  he  was  a  warm  partisan  from  the  party  he  was 
attached  to  and  put  him  in  the  opposite  ranks.  Ever  since 
which  Clinton  has  patronised  him  and  given  him  a  currency  to 
office  &  importance,  which  his  slender  abilities  never  entitled  him 
to.  I  have  no  doubt  that  what  passed  between  Lansing  and  his 
old  benefactor  &  patron  was  wholly  confidential.  It  is  a  little 
extraordinary  that  after  the  attempt  to  impose  terms,  Lansing 
should  have  consented  to  serve. 

The  effect,  however,  of  the  thing  will   be  to  sever  the  bond  of 
union  and  to  put  the  parties  at  a  distance  from  each  other.      .     .     . 
I  am,  Dear  Sir,  very  truly  yours 

Rob.  Troup. 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King 

Boston,  17  April,  1807. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

.     .     I  have  observed    the  abuse,   which    an  acquiescence 

with  the  Desires  of  your  Friends  has  brought  upon  you.     If  any 

Doubt  could  exist  as    to  the  Prudence  of  your  remonstrating 

against  the  Intentions  of  the  British  Govt,  in  relation  to  the  Irish 

Rebels,  the  impudent   Interference   of  Emmet  in  our  Elections 

must  remove  them. 

Sullivan  is  unquestionably  elected  Governour,  and  our  Senate 

will  be  democratic  &  so  will  be  the  House  of  Representatives.  .  .  . 

Yours  Sincerely 

C.  Gore. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  24  April,  1807. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

About  half  an  hour  ago,  I  received  your  favor  of  the  20th  inst, 
for  which  I  am  much  obliged.  I  made  a  pretty  lengthy  com- 
munication to-day  to  our  friend  Judge  Radcliff  on  the  state  of 
things  in  this  quarter.     The  letter  was  delivered  to  Dr.  Dexter 


1807]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  33 

of  this  place,  who  sailed  this  afternoon  for  New  York  in  the 
Albany  Sloop  Cornelia,  Capt.  Staats.  The  Doctor  expects  to 
lodge  on  board  the  Sloop  whilst  he  is  in  New  York.  I  beg  you 
to  mention  the  circumstance  to  Judge  Radcliff  that  he  may  send 
for  my  letter,  which  will  be  found  interesting.  I  refer  you  to  it 
for  details  I  have  not  time  now  to  write  you.  The  mail  will 
close  in  a  few  minutes.  I  just  parted  with  the  Governor  at 
Judge  Kent's  door.  The  Governor  had  come  from  Mr.  Van 
Vechten's,  who  has  spent  great  part  of  the  day  at  Mr.  Van  Rens- 
selaer's. The  account  brought  by  Mr.  Van  Vechten  is  that  Mr. 
Van  Rensselaer's  situation  is  dangerous  and  that  the  chances  are 
agt.  his  recovery.  The  surgeons  have  made  oath  of  his  danger 
&  I  have  no  doubt  the  Governor  was  going  when  I  parted  from 
him  to  confer  with  Judge  Kent  on  the  propriety  of  issuing  im- 
mediate process  to  apprehend  Bloodgood,  and  probably  Taylor 
and  Cooper. 

It  is  universally  believed  here  that  the  attack  made  by  these  three 
men  on  Van  Rensselaer  was  a  concerted  thing  between  them. 
They  all  had  a  hand  in  beating  Van  Rensselaer,  though  the  sup- 
posed mortal  blow  was  given  by  Bloodgood,  with  a  bludgeon  & 
with  both  his  hands.  It  is  said  that  Bloodgood  has  been  armed  ever 
since  the  affray  ;  and  as  he  has  made  himself  scarce  I  rather 
suspect  he  will  not  be  found  by  the  officers.  The  death  of  Van 
Rensselaer  will  be  attended  with  the  most  unpleasant  conse- 
quences !  * 

Our  accounts  from  all  quarters  give  us  reason  to  expect  that 
the  election  will  terminate  favorably  to  our  wishes  in  the  Eastern, 
Western  and  Middle  Districts.  May  our  expectations  be  realized  ! 
The  naturalization  mill  in  New  York,  I  fear,  will  defeat  our 
assembly  ticket.  In  great  haste  yours         Rob.  Troup. 

*  The  affray  which  resulted  as  above  was  caused  during  the  heated  political 
intrigues  at  Albany.  Genl.  Solomon  Van  Rensselaer,  indignant  at  certain  reso- 
lutions passed  by  the  Clintonians  at  a  meeting,  stating  their  disbelief  in  a 
deposition  made  by  the  General  and  his  brother,  attacked  on  the  street  Mr. 
Jenkins,  whom  he  believed  to  be  their  author,  and  after  notice  beat  him  with  a 
cane.  The  parties  named  above  defended  Mr.  Jenkins  and  caused  the  serious 
injury  to  the  General.     He  recovered. 

This  statement  is  founded  on  an  account  published  by  Mrs.  Catharine  Bon- 
ney  (daughter  of  Genl.  Solomon  Van  Rensselaer),  in  a  book  entitled,  A  Legacy 
of  Historical  Gleanings,  2d  ed.,  vol.  i.,  169.  Mr.  Wm.  Kelby,  Librarian  of  N. 
Y.  Historical  Society,  furnished  the  above  information. 

VOL.  v.— 3 


34  RUFUS  KING.  [1807 


Noah  Webster  to  R.  King. 

New  Haven,  Apl.  27,  1807. 
Sir  : 

My  desire  to  obtain  a  correct  knowledge  of  the  history,  as  well 
as  the  present  state  of  the  English  Language,  has  led  me  to  make 
some  inquiries  respecting  the  origin  of  a  late  most  important 
article  in  pronunciation.  The  change  of  u  \n\.o  yu  or  rather  of  / 
preceding  u  into  ch,  as  in  nachure,  virchue.  Dr.  Johnson  who  was 
in  England  at  the  time,  it  took  its  rise,  about  the  year  1770,  in- 
forms me  that  when  he  first  arrived  in  England  in  1766,  it  was 
wholly  unknown,  but  that  it  began  on  the  Stage,  when  Sheridan, 
Powell  &  Holland  were  principal  actors,  near  the  time  when  Gar- 
rick  retired,  &  spread  first  among  young  barristers  &  members  of 
Parliament.  I  have  long  supposed  &  have  now  ascertained  that 
it  came  from  Ireland. 

As  you  have  had  the  best  opportunities  to  ascertain  the  real 
state  and  extent  of  this  corruption,  I  will  thank  you  to  inform 
me  whether  it  is  general  or  universal  among  the  Londoners,  of  all 
descriptions,  or  whether  it  is  confined  to  the  higher  ranks.  Also 
whether  it  is  general  among  the  gentlemen  of  the  country  &  in 
the  universities.  This,  or  any  other,  information  you  can  give 
me  relative  to  this  subject  will  greatly  oblige  one  who  has  the 
honor  to  be  with  great  respect 

Your  obedt.  humble.  Servt. 

Noah  Webster. 

P.  S.  The  influence  used  in  your  N.  York  elections,  if  it 
should  not  produce  riots  &  bloodshed,  exhibits  a  melancholy 
state  of  moral  and  political  depravity.  Connecticut  is  falling  into 
the  stream  of  corruption  ;  but  from  the  best  information  I  can 
obtain,  the  opposers  of  the  present  administration  of  the  State 
Government,  have  made  little  or  no  impression  during  the  last 
year. 

Endorsed  by  R.  K.  :  "  Copy  of  letter  from  R.  King  to 
Noah  Webster  1807," — probably  June  30. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  stand  in  need  of  gt  excuse  for  not  having  sooner  replied  to 
your  letters  of  Feb.  &  Apl.  Concerning  the  subject  of  the  latter, 


1807]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  35 

so  far  as  my  observation  has  enabled  me  to  determine,  I  am  dis- 
posed to  believe  that  the  usage  of  giving  to  t,  before  u,  the  power  of 
ch,  has  become  general  among  the  learned  &  higher  classes  of  So- 
ciety in  England.  It  prevails  at  the  Bar,  in  the  Pulpit  &  in  Parlia- 
ment— at  the  Universities,  public  Schools  &  Theatres,  as  well  as 
among  persons  of  fashion  of  both  sexes.  The  tone  of  London  in 
this,  as  in  other  cases,  is  that  of  the  Country,  among  those  whose 
minds  and  manners  are  influenced  by  fashion.  In  respect  to  the 
numerous  body  of  Farmers,  Manufacturers  &  Tradesmen,  the 
innovation  not  having  reached  them,  their  pronunciation  is  that 
of  the  District  in  which  they  were  born,  or  passed  their  early 
years.  When  this  innovation  commenced  is  a  question  concerning 
which  I  am  without  information,  though  I  am  inclined  with  you 
to  ascribe  its  introduction  to  the  Irish. 

In  respect  to  the  more  interesting  subject  of  your  first  letter,  I 
am  sorry  to  remark  that  I  am  able  to  discern  but  little  probability 
of  your  receiving  adequate  encouragement  to  continue  to  devote 
your  time  and  talents  to  the  important  and  laborious  investiga- 
tion, in  wh.  for  so  many  years  you  have  been  engaged. 

Neither  learning,  morals,  nor  wisdom  seem  any  longer  to  be 
regarded  as  objects  of  public  esteem  &  favour  ;  and  we  behold 
few  or  no  indications  of  such  change  in  the  opinions  &  pursuits 
of  the  Nation,  as  wd.  afford  a  reasonable  hope  that  a  wiser, 
sounder  course  of  thinking  and  acting  is  likely  soon  to  prevail. 

Wealth  &  power,  or,  in  other  words,  money  and  office,  have 
become  the  ruling  passion  of  our  People  ;  and  as  these  may  be 
acquired  without  the  possession  of  learning,  we  can  be  at  no  loss 
to  understand,  why  there  has  of  late  years  grown  up  among  us  a 
neglect  of,  and  prejudice  agt.  Learning  ;  why  our  colleges  have 
become  objects  of  jealousy  ;  and  why,  instead  of  protection,  at- 
tempts are  made  and  encouraged  to  destroy  their  necessary  dis- 
cipline &  government. 

It  cannot  have  escaped  your  penetration,  that  in  nothing  has 
this  Country  suffered  a  greater  or  more  injurious  change  of 
opinion,  than  on  the  subject  of  education,  which  is  known  to 
have  exerted  the  earliest  and  most  anxious  solicitude,  of  our 
forefathers,  in  the  midst  of  their  difficulties.  They  founded  Col- 
leges, their  posterity  in  more  favourable  Circumstances  neglect 
them.     They  looked   upon   Colleges  as  Schools  of  wisdom  and 


36  RUFUS  KING.  [1807 

virtue,  we  behold  them  as  nurseries  of  inequality  and  enemies  of 
Liberty — and  here  as  elsewhere,  the  unnatural  genius  of  equality, 
the  arch  disturber  of  the  moral  world,  is  permitted  to  seek  her 
visionary  level,  not  by  elevating  what  ignorance  and  vice  have 
degraded,  but  by  degrading  what  knowledge  &  virtue  have 
elevated. 

I  have,  notwithstanding  my  own  persuasions,  consulted  some  of 
the  few  persons  with  whom  I  am  in  the  habit  of  freely  conferring  ; 
but  there  seem  to  be  so  much  torpor  and  want  of  exertion,  such 
despair  of  sound  principles  and  honest  views,  that  even  the  best 
men  are  with  difficulty  roused  from  their  lethargy,  and  even  then 
appear  to  be  restless  and  unhappy,  until  they  have  sunk  again 
into  their  hopeless  indolence. 

In  this  condition  of  the  many,  and  with  this  temper  of  the  few 
who  are  not  yet  swept  away  by  the  torrent  that  bears  us  forward 
to  the  gloomy  scene  before  us,  I  find  myself  unable  to  offer  you 
the  encouragement,  that,  on  every  consideration,  it  wd.  afford 
me  so  much  satisfaction  to  impart.  My  poor  and  limited  succour 
shall  not  be  withheld,  but  it  is  too  insignificant  to  be  mentioned 
or  attended  to  &  I  can  therefore  only  entreat  you  to  be  assured, 
that  I  remain  with  sincere  Respect  &  Esteem,  dr.  Sir,  yr.  ob.  & 
faithful  Servt.  R.  K. 


C.  I.  Ingersoll  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  14th  May,  1807. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Should  I  congratulate  or  condole  with  you  on  the  loss 
of  your  election  ?  I  imagine  if  it  was  not  the  wish  of  others,  it 
could  not  be  your  own  to  be  put  up  &  pelted  at  by  Irishmen  & 
Frenchmen.  The  citizens  of  New  York  deserve  to  be  stung  for 
fostering  that  viper  Emmet  ;  and  he  deserves  to  be  damned  for 
that  vain  &  absurd  letter  he  wrote  you.  I  mean  damned  politi- 
cally, because  it  was  egotistical,  ignorant,  and,  I  still  hope,  ill- 
judged.  The  baseness  of  the  thing  is  nothing  ;  that 's  to  be  ex- 
pected. It  was  the  folly  of  it  I  thought  must  turn  the  cowardly 
thrust.     .     . 

Sincerely  &  respectfully  yrs. 

C.  I.  Ingersoll. 


1807]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  37 

R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  i  June,  1807. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  more  I  see  of  the  progress  of  Jacobinism  in  the 
State,  the  more  I  am  convinced  that  the  idea  you  suggested  to  me 
when  I  last  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you,  and  which  I  find 
dictated  the  terms  of  the  donation  offered  to  the  church  at 
Geneva,  is  a  sowid  one.  I  have  no  doubt  whatever,  between  us, 
that  instead  of  building  churches  to  be  taken  possession  hereafter 
by  the  Jacobins,  the  true  policy  of  the  Corporation  of  Trinity 
Church  for  spreading  the  Episcopal  mode  of  worship,  so  friendly 
to  Government,  so  hostile  to  Jacobinism,  is  to  make  permanent  pro- 
vision for  the  support  of  Episcopal  Clergymen.  I  verily  believe 
that  under  the  present  order  of  things  a  contrary  policy  will  have 
no  other  effect  than  to  waste  the  funds  of  the  Corporation  and  to 
give  Episcopacy  but  a  temporary  support.  .  .  .  With  perfect 
Esteem  &c.  Rob.  Troup. 


Noah  Webster  to  R.  King. 

New  Haven,  July  6,  1807. 
Sir: 

I  thank  you  for  your  favor  of  the  —  ult.  &  the  information  in 
answer  to  my  inquiries.  It  gives  me  pain,  however,  to  observe 
the  spirit  of  despondence  manifested  by  your  remarks  on  the 
political  state  of  our  country.  That  state  is  really  what  you 
describe  it  ;  but  were  it  certain  that  such  a  condition  of  things 
must  continue,  it  would  furnish  to  me,  &  I  think  it  ought  to  fur- 
nish to  others,  substantial  reasons  for  seeking  amusement  in  lit- 
erary pursuits,  which  by  habit  may  afford  the  highest  satisfaction, 
without  the  vexations,  disappointments  and  endless  perturba- 
tions which  attend  the  pursuits  of  ambition. 

But  I  hope  our  condition  is  not  remediless  ;  and  perhaps  the 
crisis  is  hastening  which  will  lead,  through  many  evils,  to  a 
remedy.  A  State  of  war  or  of  extreme  danger  must  necessarily 
tend  to  unite  men  who  have  been  divided  ;  and  men  of  talents, 
whom  demagogues  have  influenced  the  people  to  proscribe,  will 
be  solicited  to  lend  their  aid  to  defend  their  country. 

There  is  one  particular  in  which,  I  think,  the  leading  gentle- 
men  of  the  Washington  School  have    uniformly    erred.      They 


38  RUFUS  KING.  [1807 

have  attempted  to  resist  the  force  of  current  popular  opinion, 
instead  of  falling  into  the  current  with  a  view  to  direct  it.  In 
this  they  have  manifested  more  integrity  than  address.  They 
are  men  of  independent  minds,  &  unsuspected  honor  &  honesty, 
and  appear  to  consider  it  wrong  to  yield  their  own  opinions,  in 
the  minutest  particular,  in  favor  of  such  as  are  more  popular. 
But  in  this,  I  think,  they  err,  either  from  scrupulous  regard  to 
principle,  or  from  mistaking  the  means  by  which  all  popular  gov- 
ernments are  to  be  managed.  Between  the  unbending  firmness 
of  an  H — n,  the  obsequiousness  of  a  J — n,  there  is  a  way  to  pre- 
serve the  confidence  of  the  populace,  without  a  sacrifice  of  integ- 
rity. In  morality,  an  honest  man  must  make  no  concessions  that 
violate  the  laws  of  right.  But  political  measures  are  rarely  con- 
nected with  moral  right  &  wrong  ;  at  least  the  greatest  proportion 
are  mere  matters  of  expedience  &  in  these,  I  think,  honest,  inde- 
pendent men  of  talents  should  yield  so  far  to  popular  opinion,  as 
to  retain  the  confidence  of  the  people  ;  for  without  that  confidence, 
they  are  lost  in  the  scale  of  political  measures  ;  but  with  it  they 
may  gradually  wean  the  people  from  their  most  foolish  schemes 
and  correct  their  opinions.  And  it  is  vastly  important  that  such 
men  should  not  lose  their  weight  of  character  ;  for  if  they  do  not 
lead  the  people,  fools  &:  knaves  will.  I  wish  to  see  our  dis- 
tinguished statesmen  regain  the  public  confidence,  and  I  believe 
they  may  do  it  without  mean  or  criminal  compliances.  Absolute 
perfection  in  Government  is  not  attainable  ;  &  measures  not 
the  best  may  be  rendered  harmless,  and  even  salutary  by  union 
of  counsels.  Union  is  of  far  more  consequence  than  any  degree 
of  theoretical  perfection  in  public  measures. 

I  do  not  believe  all  that  is  published  about  the  attack  upon  the 
Chesapeake.  The  real  facts  perhaps  do  not  appear  ;  but  with  all 
possible  palliations,  it  is  an  outrage,  that  deserves  public  indig- 
nation.* I  hope  it  may  not  prove  the  beginning  of  very  serious 
evils — evils  which  the  return  of  the  treaty  and  the  change  of 
ministry  lead  me  to  apprehend. 

Very  respectfully  yr.  obed.  Servt. 

N.  Webster. 

*  The  affair  of  the  Chesapeake,  to  which  reference  is  here  made,  was  one 
which  at  the  time  deeply  agitated  the  country.  It  may  be  here  stated  that  the 
frigate  Chesapeake-,  about  to  sail  to   the  Mediterranean,  had  among  her  seamen 


1807]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  39 

R.  King  to  G.  Morris. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Monday  July,  13,  1807. 
Dear  Sir  : 

If  the  weather  should  be  good,  I  think  of  making  you  a  visit 

on  Thursday  with  my  Brother  who  is  passing  a  few  days  with  me 

here.     I  am  the  more  desirous  of  finding  you  at  home,  that  we 

may  compare  opinions  on  the  subject  which  at  present  engages 

the  public  attention. 

Always  &  faithfully, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  G.  Morris. 

Jamaica,  31  July,  1807. 

I  last  Evg.  reed,  yr's  of  the  26th.  I  have  not  been  able  to  visit 
you  which  every  day's  occurrences  have  made  me  desire. 

I    shall    attend    the    Meeting   of  the  Trustees    of    Columbia 

College  advertised  for  Monday  next,  and  invite  you  to  meet  me 

in  town  where  we  can  examine  a  correspondence  I    had   with 

Lord    Grenville    respecting    the  visit    and    search    of    national 

Ships. 

Yrs.  always, 

Rufus  King. 

three  men,  who  were  claimed  as  British  subjects.  She  was  proceeding  down 
the  Chesapeake,  in  a  condition  of  disorder  on  board,  both  as  to  armament  and 
drill  of  her  men,  when,  outside  of  the  Cape,  she  was  hailed  by  the  British  ship 
Leander,  and  while  waiting  for  a  communication  was  boarded  by  an  officer 
from  that  ship,  demanding,  under  instructions  from  Admiral  Berkeley,  com- 
manding the  British  squadron  on  the  American  coasts,  the  surrender  of  the  three 
seamen  as  deserters.  Upon  the  refusal  of  Commodore  Barron  to  give  the  men 
up,  the  Leander  fired  a  shot  and  afterwards  several  broadsides  into  the  Chesa- 
peake, killing  several  men  and  wounding  many.  Unable  from  the  unprepared 
condition  of  his  vessel  to  return  the  shots,  Com.  Barron  ordered  his  flag  struck, 
and  surrendered  his  vessel.  His  crew  was  mustered  by  British  officers  who 
came  on  board,  carried  off  the  three  deserters  and  one  other,  and  left — offering 
regrets  for  the  loss  of  life,  and  assistance.  This  was  indignantly  rejected  and  the 
ship  returned  to  Norfolk.  As  a  consequence  there  was  great  public  indigna- 
tion and  the  President  issued  a  proclamation  ordering  British  ships  of  war  from 
the  waters  of  the  United  States  and  forbidding  all  intercourse  with  them. 
See  Hildreth's  U.  S.,  vol.  v.,  pp.  674-83. 


40  RUFUS  KING.  [1807 

R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

New  York,  Sep.  11,  1807. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Concerning  our  disputes  with  England,  I  have  never 
believed  they  could  end  in  war,  unless  Congress  engage  in  the 
management  of  our  foreign  affairs.  In  the  Treaty  signed  by 
Monroe  &  Pinkney,  no  provision  was  made  for  the  property 
captured  and  condemned  upon  the  new  Doctrine  asserted  by 
England — their  arrangement  by  which  we  are  permitted  to  carry 
on  trade  with  the  Colonies  of  the  Enemy  of  England  would 
satisfy  our  Government  ;  and  our  Merchants  wd.  not  object, 
provided  they  could  not  engage  in  the  trade  on  better  terms. 

The  question  about  Seamen  employed  in  our  Commerce  has 
nothing  new  in  it  ;  so  that  admitting  that  the  Parties  shall  not  be 
able  finally  to  form  a  commercial  Treaty,  it  does  not  follow  that 
they  must  quarrel.  The  want  of  a  Provision  agt.  Impressment, 
and  some  nonsensical  matter  concerning  Bonaparte's  Blockading 
Decree,  were,  I  have  reason  to  suppose,  the  motives  for  sending  the 
Treaty  back  for  further  negotiation  ;  that  they  will  come  to  any 
satisfactory  agreement  about  the  Seamen,  is  at  least  doubtful  ; 
without  it  I  presume  the  Treaty  will  not  be  concluded — but  still 
things  remain  as  they  were,  and  there  will  exist  no  new  motive 
for  war. 

But  the  affair  of  the  Chesapeake  :  here  I  think  the  officers  of 
both  countries  have  done  wrong;  our  Commodore  was  guilty  of 
a  gross  military  indecorum  in  engaging  Seamen,  knowing  them 
to  be  deserters  from  the  English  Ships  of  war.  On  this  point 
there  will  be  but  one  sentiment  in  Europe.  This  misconduct 
was  however  no  justification  of  the  attack  on  the  Chesapeak. 

Notwithstanding  certain  Dissertations  which  I  have  seen  in 
the  Repertory,  it  is  never  to  be  admitted  that  national  Ships, 
which  are  national  Fortresses  over  which  there  can  be  but  one 
sovereign,  are  to  be  visited,  searched  and  controlled  by  two. 

The  English  will  allow  this  right  to  no  nation  ;  they  cannot, 
and  I  think  they  will  not,  claim  it  of  any.  A  case  occurred  while 
we  were  in  England  (the  taking  of  55  seamen  out  of  the  Amer. 
Sloop  of  war  Baltimore  by  the  Carnatic,  Commodore  Loring  off 
the  Havannah)  in  which  I  delivered  a  remonstrance  to  the  Eng. 
Govt,    denying   this  right    and  demanding   satisfaction    for   the 


1807]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  4 1 

injury.  The  answer  as  a  preliminary  one  to  an  investigation  on 
their  Part,  was  entirely  satisfactory,  and  fully  authorizes  the  con- 
clusion that  England  would  claim  no  right  to  enter  and  search 
our  Ships  of  war  for  Seamen  or  Enemy's  Goods.  I  am  obliged 
to  break  off  here,  assuring  you  of  my  sincere  regards  &c. 

R.  K. 


William  King  to  R.  King. 

Bath,  November  28th,  1807. 
Dear  Brother  : 

I  am  extremely  anxious  to  learn  what  the  probable  result  of 
the  present  misunderstanding  with  the  English  will  be,  and  shall 
be  much  obligd.  if  you  will  give  me  your  opinion  frequently  on 
this  subject.  I  have  nearly  all  my  Vessels  now  in  different  ports 
of  the  United  States,  and  have  given  directions  for  them  to  be 
laid  up  for  the  present  although  a  moderate  charter  would  be 
more  than  a  hundred  &  fifty  dollars  a  day  for  them. 

Thus  circumstanced  you  will  readily  suppose  me  quite  desirous 
to  be  informed  as  correctly  and  as  early  as  possible  as  to  the 
time  when  our  mercantile  business  can  again  be  resumed  with 
safety.  Mrs.  King  requests  to  be  named  very  affectionately  to 
Mrs.  R.  King,  whose  attentions  she  is  quite  sensible  of,  in  which  I 
most  certainly  join  her  &  remain  affectionately  your  Brother, 

William  King. 

There  is  no  answer  to  this  letter,  though  it  is  probable 
that  one  was  given. 

C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  Dec,  25,  1807. 
My  Dear  Friend  : 

.  I  literally  pass  all  my  Hours  in  Courts  of  Law  or  pre- 
paring for  them.  The  Politics  of  our  degraded  Country  are, 
not  less  by  Inclination,  than  Business,  precluded  from  my  Re- 
flection. When  the  General  Court  convenes,  I  shall  be  obliged 
to  devote  part  of  my  time  to  the  local  affairs  of  the  State,  which 
will  be  as  bad  as  Vice  &  Folly  can  make  them.  Sullivan,  always 
whiffling  about,  made  some  feeble  and  transient  Efforts  to  ap- 
point a  few  weak  men,  who  were  not  decidedly  Democratic  to 


42  RUFUS  KING.  [1807 

office,  &  some  of  our  sagacious  Politicians  thought  that,  by  a 
proper  management  on  the  part  of  the  Federalists,  he  might  be 
restrained  from  doing  evil.  My  own  Determination  was  never  to 
oppose  his  measures,  except  bad,  but  individually  never  to  make 
the  smallest  advance  towards  conciliating  such  a  Wretch  ;  and 
of  course  I  never  see  him  but  on  Business.  He  has  &  will  bend 
to  his  Council  in  everything,  and  that  is  composed  of  the  most 
violent  &  revengeful  class  of  Democrats.  Tell  Benson  that 
I  trust,  so  far  as  concerns  myself,  his  Prophecy  relative 
to  the  future  support  of  Sullivan  will  not  be  realized,  yet  I  will  not 
undertake  to  answer  for  the  Body  of  Federalists  here  ;  for  even 
Cabot  thinks  there  is  a  Choice  between  the  evil  Spirits,  which  are 
destined  to  rule  us,  &  that  the  locum  tenens  is  not  so  malignant, 
as  the  Successor,  which  the  times  are  preparing  for  us.     .     .     . 

Yours  faithfully, 

G.  Gore. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Dec.  31,  1807. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

The  embargo*  has  excited  the  most  profound  alarm,  and  will 
here  occasion  real  and  extensive  distress.  I  have  never  seen  so 
much  anxiety  and  indecision  in  men  of  all  descriptions.  Persons 
of  reflexion  are  filled  with  suspicions  concerning  the  views  of 
Government,  whose  concealments  seem  to  have  shaken  the  con- 
fidence of  their  most  steadfast  friends.  The  thousand  rumours 
in  circulation,  joined  to  the  darkness  that  covers  the  proceed- 
ings of  the  administration,  have  produced  the  strongest  appre- 
hension that  it  is  meditated  to  bring  about  a  war  with  England 
upon  points  of  inferior  moment,  in  order  to  avoid  a  decision  on 
the  insolent  and  humiliating  demands  of  France.  The  embargo 
and  non-importation  together  will  amount  to  the  shutting  of 
our  Ports  agt.  England — a  measure  which  it  is  believed  has  been 
required  by  the  Tyrant. 

*The  President  in  a  secret  message  to  Congress  on  the  16th  Dec,  recom- 
mended an  Embargo  Act,  as  a  method  of  putting  an  end  to  the  various  out- 
rageous acts  of  Great  Britain,  which  was  passed  by  both  Houses  of  Congress 
and  signed  by  the  President  on  the  22d. 


1807]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  43 

Facts  of  immense  importance,  and  of  the  most  suspicious 
nature,  but  of  which  the  Country  are  utterly  ignorant,  are  believed 
to  have  taken  place — a  war  with  England  must  be  prevented  or 
the  nation  is  ruined.  But  how  is  this  to  be  done  ?  Boston  is 
purely  American  ;  New  York  resembles  the  image  of  Nebuchad- 
nezzar— you  must  begin — and  with  boldness. 

Always  &  faithfully  yours 

R.  K. 


CHAPTER    III. 

Pickering  to  King — Case  of  Senator  John  Smith — Adams's  Report — Mr.  Rose's 
Mission — Embargo  —  Pickering  to  King — President  withholds  Informa- 
tion— Effect  of  Embargo — Mr.  Jefferson  will  not  make  Treaty  with  Eng- 
land— Rose's  Mission  may  be  successful — Difficulties  met  by  Mr.  Rose 
before  landing — President's  Conduct — King  to  Pickering — Ruin  and  Dis- 
tress from  Stoppage  of  Trade — Thinks  there  is  Danger  of  War  if  Embargo 
continues — Pickering  to  King — Jefferson  says  :  England  because  of  Bona- 
parte's Measures  will  not  long  exist — Mr.  Adams  relative  to  Embargo — Is 
War  imminent? — King  to Monroe's  and  Pinkney's  Instructions — Arm- 
strong's Letters — Not  sent  to  Senate — France's  Acts  relative  to  Florida — 
Pickering  to  King — President  will  negotiate  with  Rose — Negotiation  in 
London  broken  off — What  will  the  President  do? — Gardenier  to  King — 
Speculations  about  foreign  Affairs — King  to  Gardenier — Rose  should 
make  Reparations — Impressment — Carrying  Trade — Pickering  to  King — 
Armstrong's  Letters  withheld — Bonaparte's  Requisitions. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

City  of  Washington,  Jany.  2,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

No  document  has  been  before  us,  during  the  present  session, 

more  extraordinary  than  the  one  I  now  enclose — the  report  of 

my  colleague,  in  the  case  of  John   Smith,   Senator  from  Ohio.* 

*  Allusion  is  here  made  to  the  action  of  the  Senate  of  the  United  States  in 
the  case  of  John  Smith,  a  Senator  from  Ohio,  who  had  been  charged  with 
"  treason  and  misdemeanor"  in  the  Circuit  Court  of  Virginia  held  in  the  previous 
August,  in  having  taken  part  in  the  conspiracy  of  Burr.  A  committee  had 
been  appointed,  on  the  27th  of  November,  1807,  of  which  Mr.  Adams  was 
chairman,  to  take  the  matter  into  consideration,  and  was  finally  instructed  to 
inquire  whether  it  be  compatible  with  the  "  honor  and  privileges  "  of  this  Senate 
that  John  Smith  "  should  be  permitted  any  longer  to  have  a  seat"  in  it.  The 
committee  made  a  long  report,  (Annals  of  Congress,  1st  Sess.,  1807-8,  p.  56), 
with  an  examination  of  the  facts,  ending  with  a  resolution  that  he  had  "  been 
guilty  of  conduct  incompatible  with  his  duty  and  station  as  a  Senator,  and 
that  he  be,  therefor,  expelled  from  the  Senate." 

After  a  long  discussion,  extending  over  several  months,  the   resolution  of 

44 


1807]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  45 

To  you  any  comments,  if  I  had  now  time  to  make  them,  would 
be  impertinent. 

I  learn  to-day  that  the  Statira  Frigate  with  Mr.  Rose  on  board,* 
arrived  on  Christmas  day  in  Hampton  Roads.  He  is  hourly 
expected  here. 

Mr.  A.  [Adams]  was  vehemently  zealous  for  the  embargo.  The 
President  had  recommended  the  measure  to  the  "  consideration  " 
of  Congress.  In  the  Senate  time  was  asked  for  the  purpose  of 
"  consideration."  Mr.  A.  objected.  "  The  President  has  recom- 
mended the  measure  on  his  high  responsibility  ;  I  would  not 
consider,  I  would  not  deliberate.  .  .  .  Doubtless  the  President 
has  further  information,  sufficient  to  authorize  the  recommenda- 
tion !  "  Such  was  his  language.  The  President  most  assuredly 
did  not  intend  that  it  should  be  considered.  His  confidential 
Senators  and  their  followers  were  evidently  prepared  to  adopt 
the  measure  without  consideration  and  probably  without  infor- 
mation of  its  real  object,  at  least  the  majority  had  not  that 
information. 

Although  the  Embargo  is  unquestionably  levelled  at  Britain, 
and  she  might  resent  it,  I  trust  she  will  not.  By  it  we  withdraw 
from  the  field,  where  alone  we  come  in  collision.  She  may  be, 
content  quietly  to  enjoy  the  monopoly  of  commerce  which  we 
voluntarily  abandon.  I  hope  she  will  adopt  this  policy,  which, 
to  me,  seems  evidently  the  best  for  her  and  for  us.  I  believe  at 
the  same  time,  it  would  disappoint  our  rulers,  who  would  be 
more  angry  with  the  British  Ministry  if  the  repeal  of  the  law 
should  be  required  not  by  them,  but  by  the  clamours  of  our  own 
suffering  citizens  refusing  any  denial.  In  great  haste  your 
obedt  servt. 

T.  Pickering. 

the  committee  failed  to  pass  on  9th  April,  1808,  the  vote  being  19  to  10 — not 
two  thirds,  Mr.  Pickering  in  the  negative.  Mr.  Smith  resigned  his  seat  in  a 
letter  to  the  Governor  of  Ohio,  dated  April  25,  1808,  giving  reasons  for  retir- 
ing from  public  life.     {Ibid.,  p.  324.) 

*  He  was  sent  to  Washington  by  the  British  Government  to  make  a  settle- 
ment of  the  question  relative  to  the  affair  of  the  Chesapeake. 


46  RUFUS  KING.  [1807 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

City  of  Washington,  Jany.  2,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

This  evening  I  received  your  impressive  letter  of  the  31st  of 
December.*  The  solicitude  you  describe  has  been  felt  at  Wash- 
ington by  all  those  whom  you  will  believe  capable  of  discerning 
&  pursuing  the  true  interests  of  their  country.  Would  to  God 
I  could  relieve  your  apprehensions  or  satisfy  your  inquiries  ;  but 
the  state  of  our  actual  relations  to  France  still  remains  in  the 
secret  cabinet  of  the  Executive  ;  for  the  short  letter  from  Arm- 
strong to  Champagny,  and  the  answer  of  the  latter,  related  solely 
to  the  Imperial  decree  of  Novr.,  1806,  why  then  (it  maybe  asked), 
were  they  not  published  as  well  as  Regnier's  letter  to  the  Imperial 
Attorney  General  ?  I  answer  that  their  contents  in  substance, 
if  not  the  letters  in  form,  ought  to  have  been  made  public  ;  for 
it  appeared  to  me  that  Champagny's  letter  was  more  comprehen- 
sive than  Regnier's.  But  it  also  contained  a  sentiment  or  two 
which  I  suppose  Mr.  J.  would  not  wish  to  have  appear  in  the 
public  prints.  And  this  circumstance  justifies  the  suspicion 
(if  the  known  character  of  Mr.  J.  renders  any  justification  need- 
ful) that  Armstrong's  letter  to  Mr.  Madison  contains  the  demand 
which  some  members  of  the  House  (Masters  particularly)  boldly 
alleged.  Of  that  letter  we  have  not  been  furnished  with  a  single 
sentence  ;  nay,  for  aught  that  appeared,  when  the  documents 
from  Paris  were  laid  before  Congress  on  the  18th  December, 
they  might  have  been  sent  by  Armstrong  under  a  blank  cover  ! 
I  could  not  suppress  my  suspicions,  and  conversed  with  my  friend 
Hillhouse  on  the  Embargo,  as  only  another  mode  of  shutting  our 
ports  against  British  commerce  in  compliance  with  the  requisition 
of  Napoleon.  We  were  not  without  apprehensions  that  the  British 
Government  might  view  it  in  that  light,  and,  as  a  hostile  measure, 
deem  it  a  cause  of  war.  Such  were  our  first  thoughts.  After- 
wards the  idea  occurred  to  me,  which  I  expressed  in  my  letter  to 
you  of  this  date,  which  I  sent  in  the  mail  with  a  report  of  my 
colleague  concerning  Mr.  Smith,  a  Senator  from  Ohio.  I  hope 
I  am  not  mistaken  in  what  seems  so  obvious  a  course  of  policy  to 
be  adopted  by  G.  Britain.  Will  she  not  see  at  the  first  glance 
that  the  Embargo,  tho'  aimed  directly  against  her,  will  do  most 

*  This  letter  is  not  found.     See  letter  to  C.  Gore  of  same  date. 


1807]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  47 

injury  to  ourselves  ?  Of  consequence,  that  we  shall  soonest  grow 
weary  of  it,  murmur,  clamour  and  force  its  repeal  ?  In  the  mean- 
time, Britain,  smiling  at  the  sufferings  inflicted  by  the  folly  and 
wickedness  of  our  idolized  rulers,  may  well  be  content  with  the 
commerce  of  the  world  ;  of  which  we  voluntarily  give  her  the 
monopoly.  As  soon  as  we  come  to  our  senses  (and  assuredly  the 
distresses  of  multitudes  and  the  losses  &  sufferings  of  all  classes 
of  people,  will  open  their  eyes — at  least  on  this  subject)  and  raise 
the  Embargo,  I  expect  our  commerce  will  be  resumed  ;  tho'  under 
such  restrictions  as  the  measures  of  her  terrible  enemy  will  com- 
pel Great  Britain  to  impose.  With  all  the  British  dominions  we 
may  enjoy  a  free  trade  ;  with  little  hazard  from  French  priva- 
teers. And  will  the  pride  and  wrath  of  Bonaparte  render  him 
for  ever  obdurate  ?  Will  he  for  one  year,  or  even  a  lifetime,  be 
deaf  to  the  wishes  of  his  immediate  subjects,  and  to  the  cries  of 
Continental  Europe,  for  the  admission  of  the  products  of  the 
two  Indies  ?  When  the  tyrant  relents,  then  our  commerce  may  be 
again  extended  to  France  and  all  her  Vassal  States. 

From  what  I  have  seen  during  the  present  session  and  from  the 
whole  train  of  Executive  proceeding,  since  he  sent  back  the 
British  Treaty,  I  have  come  to  this  deliberate  conclusion  That 
Mr.  J '  efferson  has  determined  not  to  enter  into  any  treaty  of  amity 
and  commerce  with  Great  Britain.  Probably  he  dreads  the  re- 
sentment of  Bonaparte.  You  will  remember  that  the  French 
Directory  affected  to  consider  Mr.  Jay's  treaty  as  equivalent  to 
an  alliance  with  Britain,  and  an  act  of  hostility  towards  France. 
Mr.  Jefferson  knows  that  he  cannot  obtain  a  treaty  in  any  meas- 
ure so  advantageous  as  Mr.  Jay's  ;  and  after  the  revilings  and 
execrations  cast  so  liberally,  by  himself  and  partisans,  on  that 
treaty,  would  it  not  be  too  much  to  expect  from  him  (tho' 
debased  as  his  mind  must  be)  a  sincere  attempt  to  negociate  a 
treaty  which,  on  comparison,  cannot  fail  to  expose  him  to  some 
disgrace  ?  I  do  not  believe  that  his  attempts  have  been  sincere. 
And  therefore  he  has  made  and  insisted  on  concessions  which  he 
was  morally  certain  Great  Britain  would  not  yield  :  Such  as  the 
absolute  protection  of  all  seamen  sailing  under  the  flag  of  the 
United  States,  in  all  our  merchant  vessels  ;  and  the  free  carrying 
trade  on  the  coasts,  and  between  the  mother-countries  and  col- 
onies of   her    enemies.     Could   he  have   obtained  these  points, 


48  RVFUS  KING.  [1807 

Bonaparte  might  have  been  satisfied,  and  have  approved  of   a 
treaty  which  secured  them. 

I  do  expect  that  Mr.  Rose  will  tender  reasonable  satisfaction 
for  the  attack  on  the  Chesapeake  and  that  it  will  be  accepted. 
For  after  all  the  stout  declaration  of  the  Executive,  as  uttered  by 
the  voices  of  his  partizans,  he  must  accept  it — or  go  to  war. 
This  affair  being  adjusted,  Mr.  Rose  will  return  home  :  unless 
he  is  commissioned  for  the  permanent  minister  :  and  as  he  is 
reported  to  be  an  able,  well-informed  man,  I  sincerely  wish  he 
may  remain.  Such  a  minister,  sagacious,  vigilant  and  firm, 
would  have  it  in  his  power  to  do  much  towards  preserving 
peace,  &  promoting  the  interests  of  the  two  nations. 

Admitting  that  fear  or  treachery  prevent  an  amicable  treaty 
with  England,  and  at  the  close  of  the  negociation,  the  Embargo 
remains  unrepealed  ;  and  especially,  if  our  administration  have 
the  hardihood  to  prolong  it,  in  defiance  of  the  distresses  of  the 
country  (a  hardihood  I  can  scarcely  imagine),  what  would  be 
the  true  policy  of  Britain  ?  Are  my  ideas  on  this  point  correct  ? 
Have  the  goodness  to  favour  me  with  yours.  Sometimes  I  fer- 
vently wish  the  Lights  of  our  Country  were  here  ;  but  then  again, 
I  see  that  they  would  serve  only  to  make  darkness  more  visible. 
While  the  efficient  influence  of  one  Man  remains  ;  while  the 
popular  mass  are  the  dupes  of  his  imaginary  virtues  ;  while  great 
majorities  in  both  Houses  repose  a  blind  confidence  in  his  sup- 
posed wisdom  :  and  in  default  of  all  or  any  of  these,  while  the 
views  of  the  dominant  party  bind  them  together,  to  secure  their 
exclusive  interests ;  those  of  our  country  will  be  sacrificed.  I 
know  not  but  that  they  might  be  hurried  into  a  war,  as  they  were 
into  the  Embargo. 

I  have  been  confounded  in  my  attempts  to  account  for  the 
conduct  of  our  rulers.  There  were  threats  and  speeches  de- 
nouncing war,  but  no  adequate  preparations  to  meet  it  ;  negocia- 
tions  and  pacific  professions — with  daily  insults  and  irritations. 
At  length  I  considered  (and  it  removed  my  embarrassment)  that 
when  Wickedness  and  Folly  combined  to  direct  the  affairs  of  a 
nation,  a  wiser  head  than  mine  would  be  puzzled  in  the  investi- 
gation. 

January  3. 

More  negligence,  or  purposed  difficulties  :  notwithstanding 
the  current  reports  that  Mr.  Rose  was  just  at  hand,  we  do  not 


1808]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  49 

know  that  he  has  even  landed  from  the  Statira  !  It  was  but 
yesterday,  that  in  answer  to  my  enquiry  about  Mr.  Rose,  Saml. 
Smith  told  me,  that  on  her  arrival  near  Norfolk,  her  commander 
applied  to  Capt.  Decatur  for  information  as  to  the  reception 
she  might  expect  :  that  Decatur  wrote  a  polite  answer  tendering 
his  services  ;  but  referring  him  to  the  Collector  of  the  Port  : 
that  the  Collector  conformably  to  his  instructions,  permitted  the 
frigate  to  take  a  suitable  station.  And  Smith  took  the  occasion 
to  pay  a  general  compliment  to  our  naval  commanders  for  their 
handsome  style  of  writing. 

But  Mr.  Rose  is  not  yet  arrived.  I  have  just  asked  Genl. 
Smith  what  difficulties  have  occurred.  He  answered,  That 
when  the  application  was  made  at  the  Collector's  office,  the 
Collector  was  absent,  and  his  clerk  referred  the  applicant  to  the 
President's  Proclamation  !  I  since  learn  (and  this  doubtless  is 
more  correct)  that  Mr.  Rose  enquired — Whether  the  Statira 
would  be  hospitably  received  and  supplied  with  all  the  provisions 
&  refreshments  requisite  for  her,  after  such  a  voyage  ;  and  that 
he  should  not  think  it  proper  to  land  until  he  was  satisfied  on 
this  point  ;  and  that  at  Norfolk  such  satisfaction  could  not  be 
obtained.  On  the  part  of  our  Government  could  deliberate 
enmity  manifest  more  perverseness  ? 

Later — The  embarrassment  was  stated  to  Mr.  Erskine  *  ;  he 
applied  to  our  Government  this  day  &  sent  off  an  answer  by 
express. 

I  did  long  believe  that  our  administration  had  not  seriously 
thought  of  war  with  Britain.  The  alarm  of  war,  industriously 
circulated  thro'  the  U.  States,  was  evidently  artificial.  Having 
waited  until  his  leaven  had  fermented  thro'  the  whole  mass,  and 
produced  a  violent  effervescence,  he  then  sent  the  Revenge,  with 
his  impracticable  instructions  to  Monroe  ;  possibly,  however,  in 
the  hope,  that  under  the  actual  pressure  of  the  times,  he  might 
extort  from  Britain  a  concession  of  points  which  she  had  hitherto 
immoveably  maintained.  He  was  disappointed.  What  has  since 
been  his  conduct  ?  With  pacific  professions  on  his  lips,  an  un- 
deviating  course  of  hostile  acts  or  most  provoking  irritations,  un- 
der the  insidious  garb  of  patriotism  and  a  spirited  maintenance 
of  the  rights  and  honour  of  the  nation  ;  thus  enlisting  the  pas- 

*  The  British  Minister  at  Washington. 


50  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

sions  of  the  people  to  justify  his  pernicious  measures.  What  then 
is  he  seeking?  Anything  but  an  amicable  treaty  with  Britain. 
What  can  be  the  principle  of  his  policy  ?  Your  Mumford  lately 
said,  Britain  would  ere  long  lose  its  independence  ;  that  she 
could  not  hold  out  more  than  nine  months,  certainly  not  beyond 
a  year.  Will  you  doubt  whether  he  received  this  idea  from  the 
President  ?  I  am  inclined  to  believe  that  the  President  has  ex- 
pressed it.  I  have  received  information  (and  not  I  only  but 
others  of  my  fellow-lodgers)  that  when  the  President  was  sending 
back  Monroe's  treaty,  with  fresh  instructions,  it  was  suggested 
that  these  would  render  a  treaty  impracticable.  He  answered — 
//  is  of  little  moment  whether  we  have  or  have  not  a  treaty  j  the 
British  will  soon  cease  to  be  a  nation.  This  sentiment  was  commu- 
nicated to  Mr.  Tracy  on  his  death-bed.  Well  then  may  appre- 
hensions be  excited,  "that  the  dearest  interests  of  our  country  is 
confided  to  treacherous  hands."  "  Consider  of  it,  take  advice 
and  speak  your  minds."  Faithfully  yours 

Timothy  Pickering. 


R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

January  7,  1808. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  duly  received  your  letter  of  the  2nd,  and  cannot  fail  to 
express  my  serious  regret  that  the  Report  in  the  case  of  John 
Smith  was  drawn  up  by  your  colleague.  The  times  are  not  such 
as  allow  men  of  learning  to  express  slight  opinions  concerning 
the  forms  and  independence  of  the  Judiciary  ;  under  any  circum- 
stance a  want  of  consideration  in  this  respect  would  be  indiscreet ; 
at  a  period  when  so  much  war  &  prejudice  prevail  concerning  the 
importance  of  this  Department  of  Govt,  it  is  eminently  the  duty 
of  enlightened  men  to  avoid  everything  that  may  seem  to  justify 
&  encourage  the  innovations  which  ignorant  &  wicked  men 
meditate. 

I  have  not  time  to  give  you  a  view  of  the  ruin  &  distress  that 
the  stoppage  of  all  trade  has  produced  in  this  city.  Bankruptcies 
follow  each  other  daily,  and  the  distrust  that  exists  among  men  of 
business  will  oblige  many  more  to  stop  payment.  The  Custom 
House  Bonds  will  not  be  paid,  and  every  motive  of  policy  calls 
upon  Congress  to  prolong  the  payments. 


1808]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  5 1 

There  is  not  a  particle  of  doubt  that  full  Reparation  will  be 
made  for  the  affair  of  the  Chesapeake  ;  nor  will  any  honest  man 
be  persuaded  that  the  business  of  impressment  is  now  more  than 
heretofore  cause  of  War.  If  England  in  more  prosperous  times 
refused  to  relinquish  the  service  of  her  seamen,  will  she  be  likely 
to  make  the  sacrifice,  when  her  enemies  have  increased,  and  her 
own  means  are  lessened  ?  Does  it  import  with  the  character  of  a 
statesman  to  urge  a  contested  demand  just  when  the  pride  of  his 
opponent  is  enlisted  against  him,  or  when  despair,  careless  of 
consequences,  may  dictate  the  answer  ? 

I  think  there  is  danger  of  war  with  England  :  if  we  persist  in  the 
Embargo,  which  must  very  soon  be  equivalent  to  the  entire  arres- 
tation  of  foreign  commerce,  it  is  my  belief  that  England  will  inter- 
pret the  measure  to  be  a  compliance  with  a  French  Demand  to 
shut  our  ports  against  England,  in  which  case  she  will  not  hesitate 
to  strike.     I  have  no  more  time  before  the  post. 

Most  faithfully  yrs. 

Rufus  King. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

City  of  Washington,  Jany.  9,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  renewed  my  enquiry  concerning  the  declaration  of  Mr. 
Jefferson  last  Spring,  when  he  was  sending  back  the  British  treaty. 
A  gentleman  present,  intimate  at  the  palace  &  with  Mr.  Madison, 
remarked,  //  might  give  offence  to  the  British  ministry  6°  embarrass 
or  prevent  further  negociation.  To  which  Mr.  J.  answered  to  this 
effect.  "  It  is  of  little  consequence  whether  we  have  or  have  not 
a  treaty  with  Great  Britain.  By  the  measures  pursued  &  pursuing 
by  Bonaparte,  her  government  will  not  much  longer  exist."  I  do 
not  know  but  I  mentioned  this  anecdote  to  you  in  a  long  letter  I 

wrote  you  a  few  days  since  in  answer  to  yours  of .     It  was 

given  by  the  gentleman  himself,  who  addressed  the  remark  to  Mr. 
Jefferson,  to  Mr.  Tracy  then  remaining  sick  in  this  city,  and  by 
Mr.  Tracy  repeated  to  the  gentleman  from  whom  I  have  received 
it. 

Will  not  this  explain  his  mysterious  conduct,  involving  contra- 
dictions of  character  ?      His  popularity  has  risen  on  his  constant 


52  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

pacific  profession  yet  he  has  for  months  past,  by  seizing  every 
opportunity  to  irritate,  been  provoking  war.  But  tho'  war  is  for- 
ever on  his  tongue  &  the  tongues  of  his  partizans  they  make  no 
effectual,  or  even  plausible,  preparations  for  that  event.  If  Brit- 
ain be  subjugated,  we  shall  want  neither  fleets  nor  armies  ;  our 
duty  &  interest  will  be  to  submit.  Is  that  the  result  he  antici- 
pates ?     "I  'm  weary  of  conjectures."  Adieu 

T.  Pickering. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

City  of  Washington,  Jany.  11,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  reed,  your  letter  of  the  9th.  In  one  of  mine  to  you,  I 
think  I  stated  Mr.  Adams's  extraordinary  zeal  to  pass  the  embargo 
bill  "  without  consideration,"  without  "  deliberation."  This  was 
Friday  Dec.  18th,  on  which  day  the  bill  was  brought  in,  read  a 
first,  a  second  and  a  third  time  and  passed.  Now  read  a  resolu- 
tion which  he  this  day  laid  on  the  table. 

"  Resolved,  That  a  committee  be  appointed  with  leave  to  report 
by  bill  or  otherwise,  and  instructed  to  inquire  at  what  period  the 
present  embargo  can,  consistently  with  the  public  interest,  be  re- 
moved, and  whether,  in  what  manner  and  to  what  extent,  upon 
its  removal,  the  merchant  vessels  of  the  United  States,  shall  be  per- 
mitted, in  defence  of  their  lawful  commerce,  to  be  armed  against, 
and  to  resist  foreign  aggression." 

I  suppose  this  originated  with  the  mover  :  for  the  democrats  in 
Senate  do  not  like  it.  It  is  but  a  few  days  since  some  of  them 
were  chuckling  at  the  acquisition  of  so  able  a  partisan.  Those 
of  us,  who  were  acquainted  with  the  character,  knew  that  their 
rejoicing  would  be  short-lived.  We  knew  that  he  would  not  al- 
ways follow,  and  that  they  would  not  be  led  by  him. 

Mr.  Giles  arrived  a  few  days  ago.  In  conversation  today  about 
Mr.  Rose,  he  said  it  was  a  pity,  when  there  were  so  many  serious 
matters  to  adjust,  that  we  should  quarrel  about  trifles  ;  referring 
to  the  obstacles,  arising  out  of  the  President's  proclamation,  to 
his  landing.  But  soon  after  added,  that  it  might  be  as  well  for 
Mr.  Rose  to  go  back  without  landing.  This  suggesting  a  conse- 
quent war  ;  Mr.  Giles  said  "  I  believe  we  shall  have  war."     But 


1808]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  53 

he  only  expressed  his  own  opinion  ;  for  he  had  not  seen  the 
President  since  his  arrival.  It  was  observed  that  notwithstand- 
ing the  right  claimed  by  Britain  to  take  her  own  seamen  from  our 
merchant  ships,  and  to  restrain  the  commerce  not  allowed  in 
peace,  which  we  carried  on  for  her  enemies,  we  had  prospered 
beyond  all  example  in  private  wealth  and  public  revenue  :  should 
we  then  go  to  war  to  obtain  a  renunciation  of  these  claims  ?  Why 
he  thought  not  ;  but  he  would  not  acknowledge  the  right. 

On  the  Friday  before  the  adjournment  of  Congress,  in  March 
last,  Mr.  Hillhouse  dined  with  Mr.  Erskine.  Mr.  Giles  was  also 
a  guest.  The  British  treaty  was  daily  expected.  Mr.  Giles  said, 
"  If  it  does  not  contain  a  specific  provision  that  the  flag  of  the 
U.  States  should  protect  those  sailing  under  it,  it  will  be  sent 
back."  Then,  said  Mr.  Hillhouse,  you  may  depend  on  it,  that  it 
will  be  sent  back. 

Last  evening,  Marsters  of  your  State  was  at  our  lodgings.  He 
is  a  native  of  Connecticut  and  called  to  see  his  acquaintance  from 
that  State.  He  said  that  one  of  his  colleagues  informed  him,  that 
the  administration  had  inquired  what  portion  of  the  New  York 
delegation  would  agree  to  a  declaration  of  war  if  the  measure  were 
proposed  ?  You  may  tell  them,  (said  Marsters)  that  not  one  will  vote 
for  it. 

To  day  Capt.  George  Izard  was  in  the  Senate  Chamber.  In 
conversing,  he  said,  he  was  with  his  brother  going  to  South  Caro- 
lina, but  said  he  "  we  are  fighting  men  "  ;  and  intimated  a  wish 
to  know  what  we  were  doing.  He  then  told  me  that  he  had  been 
officially  asked  what  federalist  (or  federalists)  in  South  Carolina 
retained  health  &  vigour,  and  would  be  willing  to  accept  a  mili- 
tary command  (or  military  commands).  "  Would  General  William 
Washington  accept  one." 

Now  whether  this  inquiry  had  reference  to  war — or  to  the  com- 
mand of  the  existing  army — I  cannot  pretend  to  say.  The  testi- 
mony of  Mr.  Clarke,  of  New  Orleans  (a  man  distinguished  for 
intelligence  &  fortitude)  this  day  given  in  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives, has  completed  Wilkinson's  damnation.  It  implicates 
many  other  patriots ;  and  I  am  told  that  some  other  evidence 
from  Pennsylvania  proves  the  Executive  to  have  been  long  pos- 
sessed of  the  material  facts.  The  opposition  to  inquiry,  made  by 
the   President's  friends,  carries   suspicions  to   the  palace.     You 


54  KUFUS  KING.  [1808 

will  recollect  the  insurgent  spirit  of  Kentucky  in  1793-4,  when 
General  Washington  deputed  Coll.  Innes  (brother  to  the  present 
district  judge  of  Kentucky)  to  confer  with  and  pacify  the  people 
of  that  State.  You  will  also  recollect  the  various  engines  set  to 
work  by  Th.  J.  to  disquiet  and  undermine  the  federal  adminis- 
tration. Was  "  the  hand  of  Joab "  in  the  Kentucky  clam- 
our?"    .     .     . 

Faithfully  yours, 

T.   Pickering. 


From  R.  King  {in  his  handwriting  not  signed')  to . 

New  York,  January  14,  1808. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

From  all  we  know,  and  indeed  from  what  we  are  not  permitted 
to  know,  concerning  the  views  of  our  Govt,  there  seems  to  me  to 
be  very  serious  cause  of  alarm.  In  respect  to  England,  every 
communication  with  its  Government,  together  with  Proclama- 
tions, orders  of  Council  and  Indian  Speeches  prepared  by  Gov. 
Hull  have  been  laid  before  Congress.  Reparation  for  the  attack 
upon  the  Chesapeake,  the  protection  of  all  Seamen  employed  in 
the  Merchant  Service,  and  a  free  trade  between  the  Ports  of  the 
Enemies  of  England,  including  the  colonial  trade,  as  well  between 
the  mother  Country  and  the  Colonies,  as  between  the  latter  and 
the  U.  S.,  formed  the  three  principal  points  of  Monroe  &  Pink- 
ney's  Instruction  ;  all  of  which  were  made  Ultimata — None  of 
which  except  the  first  were  countenanced  by  the  Eng.  Cabinet. 

Nothing  is  communicated  respecting  France.  The  Letter  of 
Regnier  to  the  Atty.  Genl.  had  appeared  in  the  News  Papers  be- 
fore it  was  laid  before  Congress.  Champagny's  &  Armstrong's 
Letters,  which  the  President  desired  shd.  be  returned  to  him  as 
unfit  for  publication,  merely  respected  the  Decree  of  Berlin  ; 
Armstrong  having  asked  of  the  Minister  explanations,  and  he 
having  in  Reply  answered  in  correspondence  with  the  Letter  of 
Regnier  to  the  Atty.  Genl. 

There  was  nothing  else  in  these  Letters.  They  might  have 
been  published,  indeed  ought  to  have  been,  as  they  constituted 
the  official  notice  of  the  Interpretation  of  this  Decree  in  viola- 
tion of  the  Convention  between  us  &  France. 


l8o8]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  55 

When  Armstrong  asked  a  like  Explanation  of  the  Minr.  of  the 
Home  Department,  and  he  gave  him  a  vague  and  unofficial 
answer,  these  were  sent  to  Congress  &  published  and  the  Presi- 
dent told  us  that  our  Commerce  was  to  be  excepted  from  the 
operation  of  the  Decree — now  he  has  the  official  denial  that  such 
wd.  be  the  Interpretation,  he  conceals  it. 

There  was  another  motive,  which  was,  to  lead  the  public  to 
believe  that  these  letters  from  Armstrong  and  Champagny  dis- 
closed our  situation  as  regards  France,  and  tho'  the  President 
would  not  permit  their  publication,  that  he  did  not  conceal  the 
information  from  Congress. 

Not  one  letter  from  Armstrong  or  Tureau  has  been  laid  before 
Congress,  a  majority  of  whom  vote  down  all  enquiries,  and  give 
their  sanction  to  all  measures  recommended  by  the  executive. 
The  Virginia  Legislature  has  come  forward  to  sanction  these  pro- 
ceedings, equally  ignorant  as  others  respecting  our  real  condition. 
Their  Intemperance  towards  Eng.,  and  silence  concerning  France 
shew  the  hand  that  influences  them. 

The  negotiation  for  the  Purchase  of  the  Floridas  has  failed, 
equally  with  the  attempt  to  settle  the  Boundaries  of  Louisiana. 
Bonaparte  avows  that  he  has  obtained  the  Floridas,  and  is  now 
preparing  a  Body  of  Forces  to  take  Possession  of  them  ;  such  at 
least  is  my  Information  and  Belief,  and  this  I  am  confident  is 
known  to  our  Govt.  He  has  beyond  Doubt,  in  what  form  I  know 
not  but  in  substance,  required  that  we  shut  our  ports  against 
England,  and  abstain  from  all  Commerce  with  her  Dominions. 
I  add  another  fact,  within  fifteen  months  France  has  remitted  to 
their  Man  of  Confidence  in  this  Country  one  million  Eight  hun- 
dred and  Fifty  thousand  Dollars,  of  which  Sum,  the  Revenge, 
that  lately  arrived  from  France  was  the  Bearer  of  an  order  for 
half  a  Million.  This  money  comes  out  of  the  Mexican  Dollars 
which  have  of  late  been  pouring  into  the  Country.  If  the  appli- 
cation of  this  immense  treasure  is  designed,  as  I  cannot  but  fear 
it  is  designed,  to  prepare  the  U.  S.  for  the  fate  wh.  has  awaited 
other  and  stronger  Countries,  what  ought  to  be  the  course  of 
those,  who  alone  can  save  the  freedom  and  Independence  of  the 
Country. — Let  us  not  suppose  that  we  are  more  virtuous  than 
other  states — the  error  wd.  I  fear  be  a  fatal  one. — rather  let  us 
bring  our  attention  to  facts  that  singly  considered  are  only  sur- 


56  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

prizing,  but  when  brought  together,  shd.  induce  us  to  apprehend 
that  America  may  have  her  Melzis,  Schimmelpennincks,  Haug- 
witz,  Cobenzels  and  Princes  of  Peace.  Have  we  not  produced  a 
Randolph,  a  Sebastian,  an  Innes,  a  Wilkinson  &  a  Burr. — a  Vice 
Pr.,  a  Secy,  of  State,  a  judge,  a  Senator  and  a  Commander  in 
chief. 

Ends  thus  and  no  signature. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

City  of  Washington,  Jany.  15,  1S08. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Judge  Pendleton  proposed  to  leave  this  place  to-day,  in  the 
stage  for  New  York  ;  having  satisfactorily  accomplished  his  busi- 
ness with  the  Secretary  of  Navy.  As  soon  as  this  terminated 
yesterday,  finding  Mr.  Smith  very  pleasant  and  apparently  in  a 
communicative  mood,  he  entered  into  conversation  with  him  on 
the  state  of  public  affairs  ;  assigning  as  a  motive,  the  general 
anxiety  &  yours  in  particular  to  learn  what  was  to  be  expected. 

Mr.  Smith  told  him,  that  the  President  had  determined  to  re- 
ceive Mr.  Rose,  and  negociate  with  him,  even  if  his  powers  were 
limited  to  the  single  affair  of  the  Chesapeake  !  And  added,  that 
it  was  a  case  by  itself  and  unconnected  with  any  other  point  of 
difference  between  the  two  nations  !  He  conversed  also  about 
the  impressing  of  Seamen,  and  the  offers  our  Government  had 
made  of  substituting  other  measures,  which  would  supersede  it  ; 
but  which  were  rejected.  Something  also  was  said  about  our 
carrying  on  the  Colonial  trade  of  the  enemies  of  England  with 
the  mother  country  :  but  not  one  word  about  France. 

Such  is  the  information  Judge  Pendleton  gave  me.  I  have  not 
time  to  state  particulars  ;  besides  you  will  soon  receive  it  more 
exactly  and  minutely  from  him.  I  anticipate  this,  in  order  to 
make  a  few  observations. 

The  Negociation  in  London  was  broken  off  because  the  Presi- 
dent had  tied  up  Mr.  Monroe's  hands,  by  forbidding  him  to  treat 
on  the  affair  of  the  Chesapeake  but  in  connection  with  the  other 
points  in  dispute. 

About  six  weeks  ago,  when  Judge  Van  Ness  was  here,  I  under- 


[808]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  57 


stood  that  the  President  said  to  him,  that  if  Mr.  Rose's  powers 
were  confined  to  that  single  object,  he  might  as  well  not  come  at 
all.  And  within  a  few  days,  in  conversation  with  Mr.  Giles  (who 
however  professed  not  to  know  the  views  of  administration,  not 
having  then  seen  the  President — Mr.  G.  came  to  Washington  last 
week)  that  gentleman  said,  that  Mr.  Rose  might  as  well  go  back 
again  without  landing.  The  immediate  occasion  of  the  conversa- 
tion was,  the  little  embarrassments  which  had  arisen  at  Norfolk, 
for  want  of  special  instructions  respecting  the  frigate  in  which  it 
was  known  he  was  coming.  The  National  Intelligencer  makes  a 
nourish,  this  day,  of  the  facilities  rendered  by  the  Executive  for 
his  prompt  reception. 

Whence  this  change  of  profession  &  conduct  ?  Does  the  Presi- 
dent perceive  that  the  extensive  mischief  of  the  embargo  will 
hazard  his  popularity  ?  Does  he  seek  a  pretence  for  removing  it  ? 
Will  the  general  joy  on  its  repeal  prevent  an  enquiry  into  the 
reasons  for  imposing  it,  and  so  save  him  from  reproach,  should  it 
be  removed  on  an  adjustment  of  the  affair  of  the  Chesapeake  ? 
Or  has  he  determined  to  receive  &  treat  with  Mr.  Rose,  even  on 
that  single  point — to  demand  reparation,  which  G.  Britain  cannot 
grant  without  humiliation — and  then,  on  failure  of  the  negocia- 
tion,  endeavour  to  fix  the  blame  on  Britain  ?  Does  not  the  aston- 
ishing blindness  of  the  people,  their  wilful  or  stupid  confidence 
in  the  President  authorize  him  to  practise  any  gross  deception  on 
their  credulity  ? 

After  you  shall  have  conversed  with  Judge  Pendleton,  I  shall 
be  greatly  obliged  by  a  communication  of  your  ideas  on  this  sub- 
ject, as  well  as  on  the  general  state  of  affairs  ;  I  will  make  only 
such  use  of  them  as  you  shall  prescribe.  At  the  same  time  I 
know  that  the  communication  would  be  very  grateful  to  a  few 
select  friends,  if  they  may  be  imparted  to  them. 

Judge  Pendleton  went  away  satisfied  that  we  should  not  have 
war,  grounding  his  opinion  chiefly,  if  not  wholly,  on  the  conver- 
sation of  R.  S.  For  myself,  I  desire  that  my  conjectures  may  be 
received  with  caution  ;  for  where  no  fixed  principles  direct  an 
administration,  the  well-formed  opinions  of  today,  may  be  over- 
thrown by  the  instability  of  tomorrow. 

I  am  with  great  truth,  Dear  Sir,  ever  yours, 

T.  Pickering. 


58  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

Barent  Gardenier  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  January  16,  i8o3. 
Sir  : 

.  .  .  In  the  present  critical  posture  of  our  affairs  in  relation 
either  to  one  party  or  to  the  Nation,  it  is  peculiarly  important  that 
the  Federalists  in  Congress  should  possess  all  the  Lights  which  it 
is  in  the  Power  of  those  who  are  out  of  that  Body  to  afford  them. 
Mr.  Rose  is  at  length  arrived.  I  have  not  been  able  to  learn  the 
manner  of  his  Reception.  But  I  am  induced  to  think  our  Ad- 
ministration begin  to  perceive  that  the  public  sentiment  will  not 
bear  them  out  in  the  Course  of  Conduct  they  had  intended  to 
pursue  towards  England,  and  of  which  the  Embargo  was  without 
question  the  commencement. 

Why  Mr.  Jefferson  refused  to  communicate  to  Congress  the 
Letters  written  by  Armstrong  to  this  Government  at  the  time  he 
communicated  the  Determination  of  the  Emperor  to  put  in  force 
the  Decree  of  November  21,  1806,  remains  still  as  inexplicable  as 
ever  ;  if  it  be  untrue,  as  was  strongly  urged  in  the  Debate  on  the 
Embargo,  that  Buonaparte  had  demanded  that  We  should  make 
common  Cause  with  him  against  G.  Britain.  Indeed  the  Letter 
of  Champagny,  of  which  you  must  so  often  have  seen  mention 
made,  goes  a  great  way  in  support  of  that  Conjecture.  I  have 
been  unable  to  find  any  other  Key  to  this  Mystery — indeed  for 
everything  here  is  Mystery,  at  least  to  federalists — and  we  must 
grope  our  way  in  the  dark  as  well  as  we  can. 

Nothing  decisive  has  yet  transpired  in  regard  to  the  ensu- 
ing presidential  Election.  One  thing  however  appears  pretty 
certain  ;  Clinton  cannot  compete  successfully  with  Madison. 
The  latter  it  begins  now  to  be  thought  will  find  a  much  more 
powerful  Antagonist  in  Monroe,  who  is  said  to  have  a  majority  of 
the  Virginia  Legislature  in  his  favor.  The  Federalists  here  feel 
a  strong  partiality  for  him.  But  after  his  treatment  to  Hamilton 
&  his  Book,  I  can  never  set  my  heart  upon  him.  Madison  & 
Monroe  are  to  me  "par  ignobile  fralrum  " — procul,  0  procul  este 
profani.  I  have  had  enough  of  quidism,  that  political  Herma- 
phrodite.— I  hope  our  N.  Y.  politicians  are  no  less  sick  of  it.  I 
am  not  without  strong  hopes  that  an  Act  will  be  passed  this  Session 
to  remove  the  Government  to  Phila. 

I  am  with  much  respect  yr.  obedt.  Servt. 

Barent  Gardenier. 


l8o8]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  59 


Draft  of  a  letter  from  R.  King  to  B.  Gardenier. 

24th  J  any. 

Sir  : 

I  have  duly  reed,  and  beg  you  to  accept  my  thanks  for  your 
obliging  letter  of  the  16th.  We  have  seen  with  no  small  satisfac- 
tion the  distinguished  part  you  have  taken  in  the  late  debates  of 
Congress,  and  although  you  do  not  always  succeed  in  the  attain- 
ment of  your  purpose,  the  effect  will  not  be  lost,  since  I  cannot 
but  persuade  myself  that  exertions  such  as  yours,  made  at  the 
present  juncture,  have  no  small  influence  in  opening  the  eyes  of 
men  whose  blunt  confidence  has  hitherto  prevented  them  from 
seeing  the  danger  of  the  country. 

With  regard  to  our  affairs  with  England,  if  Mr.  R.  [Rose]  be  a 
man  of  talents  and  temper,  he  will  prevent  a  rupture  between  the 
two  Countries  in  spite  of  the  desire,  if  it  exist,  to  the  contrary. 
He  may  and  ought  to  repudiate  the  affair  of  the  Chesapeake  from 
every  other  matter.  This  he  has  power  to  do,  and  I  have  no 
doubt  will  do.  His  Government  having  publickly  renounced  the 
claim  to  search  national  ships,  Mr.  R.  should  have  no  scruples  in 
making  the  most  ample  reparations  for  the  injury  we  have 
received. 

In  respect  to  the  question  of  British  seamen  in  our  employ,  I 
have  no  belief  that  Mr.  R.  is  authorized  to  relinquish  the  right 
of  searching  our  merchant  vessels  for  them  ;  though  he  may  have 
power  to  treat  concerning  certain  Regulations  to  be  observed  on 
this  subject  ;  and  were  it  not  for  the  difficulties  arising  out  of  our 
naturalizations,  there  might,  I  think,  be  a  project  devised  that 
would  be  mutually  satisfactory.  England  will  not  release  her 
claims  to  the  seamen  we  have  already  naturalized,  and  our  Ad- 
ministration, who  have  invited  foreigners  of  all  tongues  and  lan- 
guages to  come  among  us,  will  not  dare  to  give  them  up  :  so  that 
my  expectation  is  that  no  arrangement  will  be  made  on  this 
subject. 

As  to  the  carrying  trade  England  will,  if  I  mistake  not,  adhere 
to  the  regulations  with  some  unimportant  qualifications,  which 
were  in  force  towards  the  close  of  the  last  war.  Our  Government 
will  demand  a  greater  latitude,  and  nothing  will  be  settled  on  this 
head.  But  the  affair  of  the  Chesapeake  being  satisfactorily  put 
at  rest,  there  is  no  other  point  on  which,  now  more  than  at  any 


6o 


RUFUS  KING. 


[1808 


other  time  within  the  past  15  years,  we  should  go  to  war  with 
England. 

I  do  not  include  in  this  remark  the  late  Orders  of  the  Council 
blockading  the  ports  and  forbidding  to  merchants  a  trade,  except 
in  the  mode  pointed  out  in  these  Orders,  in  the  produce  and 
manufactures  of  France.  These  I  have  not  maturely  considered, 
nor  do  I  yet  fully  understand  the  extent  of  their  influence  upon 
our  trade  and  navigation  ;  of  one  thing  however  I  have  no  doubt, 
that  these  Orders  would  never  have  been  made,  had  our  Govern- 
ment done  their  duty  in  manifesting  a  proper  spirit  of  resistance 
to  the  Decree  of  Berlin.  Their  subserviency  to  France  and  their 
reserve  towards  England  have  produced  in  the  latter  strong  sus- 
picions of  collusion  with  the  former  ;  and  the  manner  in  which 
our  late  negotiation  in  London  is  considered  to  have  been  con- 
ducted, has  served  to  confirm  these  suspicions  and  to  recommend 
these  Orders  of  Council. 

Of  our  relations  with  France  I,  in  common  with  others,  am 
wholly  in  the  dark.  Had  Russia  been  drawn  into  a  war  with 
England,  Bonaparte  would  instantly  have  required  of  us  to  shut 
our  ports  against  England.  This  he  may  already  have  demanded, 
and  if  he  has  not  already,  I  have  little  doubt  he  will  do  it  ere 
long.  Our  Negotiation  for  Florida  has  failed.  Bonaparte  has 
obtained  it  for  himself  and  is  preparing  a  body  of  troops  to  take 
possession  of  this  Country.  This  he  may  effect,  as  he  has  lately 
done,  as  in  the  instance  of  Martinique  ;  nay  these  very  troops  may 
be  a  part  of  those  to  be  sent  to  the  Floridas. 

The  draft  of  the  letter  closes  here. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

City  of  Washington,  Jany.  17,  180S. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Dining  abroad  yesterday,  I  met,  unexpectedly,  Mr.  Rose. 
From  a  short  conversation,  I  have  formed  a  good  opinion  as  well 
of  his  abilities  as  of  his  disposition.  The  latter  accords  with  the 
spirit  manifested  in  Mr.  Canning's  correspondence  with  Mr. 
Monroe — perfectly  conciliating — even  to  solicitude.  He  is  as- 
tonished at  the  ignorance  in  which  the  public  is  kept   in  respect 


1808]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  6 1 

to  that  correspondence  ;  so  far  at  least  as  it  exhibits  the  prompt- 
ness of  England  to  disavow  the  attack  on  the  Chesapeake  &  to 
make  reparation.  For  months  past,  I  have  considered  it  as  prob- 
able, if  our  disputes  with  England  should  remain  unsettled,  and 
irritations  continued  &  increased,  that  the  first  knowledge  the 
American  people  would  obtain  of  the  questions  in  contest,  of  the 
demands  on  one  side  and  disposition  to  concede  what  was  reason- 
able on  the  other,  would  be  thro*  the  London  newspapers.  It  is 
true  that  in  his  opening  message,  the  President  disclosed,  that  as 
soon  as  the  British  Answer  to  the  demand  of  reparation  should 
be  received — "  or  as  soon  after  as  public  interests  shall  be  found 
to  admit,"  the  unratified  treaty  &  proceedings  relative  to  it,  should 
be  made  known  to  Congress.  But  this  reserve  will  enable  him 
to  retain  the  secret  indefinitely — until  the  die  shall  be  cast  and 
their  publicity  be  useless.  Besides  I  have  no  confidence  that 
the  most  important  parts  would  then  be  communicated  :  In 
furnishing  extracts  only  anything  might  be  omitted,  which  the 
President's  views  might  require. 

Did  I  ever  tell  you  that  by  direction  of  the  Senate,  the  short 
paragraph  in  the  President's  message  of  the  i8thulto.  which  de- 
sired the  return  of  Armstrong's  &  Champagny's  Letters,  was  left 
out,  in  the  copies  printed  by  their  order  ?  and  for  the  express 
purpose  of  preventing  the  public  knowing  that  such  letters  had 
been  communicated  ?  Such  is  the  fact.  What  then  may  not  the 
President  &  his  Secretary  of  State  not  omit  or  garble,  to  suit 
their  views,  to  conceal  their  projects,  until  the  consequent  toils 
might  be  remediless  ? 

Would  you  not  like  to  see  the  correspondence  between  Can- 
ning and  Monroe  on  the  affair  of  the  Chesapeake  ?  I  can  obtain 
it — as  I  believe.  Another  fact,  some  one  (I  suppose  the  Secy, 
of  State)  or  more,  of  our  ministers  has  or  have  said — "  We  must  " 
(or  "  I  suppose  we  must  ")  "  have  war  with  England  or  France." 
Does  this  not  nearly  demonstrate,  that  the  requisitions  of  Bona- 
parte by  the  Revenge,  were  peremptory  ;  that  he  would  have  no 
neutrals  ;  and  that  we  should  shut  our  ports  against  England,  or 
have  war  with  him  ?  Can  we  suppose  (taking  a  view  of  the  con- 
duct of  our  government)  that  the  decision  is  not  yet  formed  ? 
that  they  are  yet  "balancing  to  decide  on  their  party"  ?  I  con- 
sider the  former  more  probable  than  the  latter  supposition. 


62 


RUFUS  KING. 


[1807 


Yesterday,  Samuel  Smith  said  (in  conversation)  that  there 
would  be  no  difficulty  in  defending  our  commerce  against  French 
Cruizers  :  but  if  we  armed  our  vessels  for  that  purpose,  we  should 
have  war  with  France.     I  have  reason  to  think  that  he  would  pre- 

Why? 

Faithfully  yours 

Timothy  Pickering. 


fer  a  war  with  England. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

Pickering  to  King — Register — A  new  Paper — Its  Comments  on  Affairs — Effects 
of  Embargo — Pickering  to  King — Chesapeake  Affair — Order  of  Council — 
King  to  Pickering — Embargo,  if  continued,  prevents  Merchants  benefit- 
ing from  high  Markets  of  the  Continent — Effect  of  Orders  of  Council — 
Retaliation — Gardenier  to  King — Influence  of  Embargo — Only  Hope  rests 
on  the  Fears  of  the  Administration — Mr.  Adams's  Apostasy — Pickering  to 
King — Must  rescind  the  Proclamation  before  Settlement  of  Chesapeake 
Affair — King  to  Pickering — England's  Fall  the  Grave  of  our  Liberties — 
Urges  Call  for  Armstrong's  Letters — King  to  Gore — Rose's  Position  about 
the  Chesapeake — President's  Proclamation  must  be  withdrawn — Pickering 
to  King — Friends  advise  waiting  before  asking  for  Armstrong's  Letters — 
Pinkney's  Position — Jefferson's  Policy  wavering — King's,  The  Key  :  A 
Peep  behind  the  Curtain — King  to  Pickering — Proposed  Law  of  Treason 
unconstitutional — Pickering  to  King — Rose's  Negotiation  broken  off — 
Pinkney  nominated  as  Minister — Pickering  to  King — Law  of  Treason 
unconstitutional  ;  postponed — Pinkney's  Nomination  opposed — Ministers 
signed  the  Treaty  without  Authority — Pickering  to  King — Dispatches 
from  Pinkney's  and  Armstrong's  Letters — Not  a  Line  of  Letter  to  his  own 
Government — President  asks  to  raise  Troops. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

City  of  Washington,  Jany.  19,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  inclosed  new  periodical  paper,  judging  from  the  spirit  of 
this  first  number,  is  probably  set  up  under  the  patronage  of  Mr. 
J.  to  support  the  measures  of  his  administration.  Of  this  num- 
ber I  understand  the  democrats  sent  off  parcels  that  they  may 
pervade  the  nation,  and  justify  Mr.  Jefferson  on  the  two  points 
which  now  nearly  engross  public  attention — the  embargo  and  the 
charges  against  Genl.  Wilkinson. 

In  the  embargo  piece  you  will  see  a  great  deal  of  trash  ;  while 
you  trace  up  the  leading  sentiments  to  Mr.  J.,  even  some  expres- 

63 


64  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 


sions  seem  to  be  his  own.  It  is  a  new  discovery  that  the  embargo 
will  benefit  the  English.  The  discovery  for  the  first  time  has  been 
manifested  in  this  piece.  The  federalists  have  for  some  time 
mentioned  it  as  a  proof  of  the  folly  of  the  measure.  Some  demo- 
cratic member  of  Congress,  to  whom  within  a  day  or  two  it  was 
mentioned,  stared  with  surprize.  In  this  piece  you  will  see 
avowed  the  expectation  that  the  British  Govt,  would  retaliate 
Bonaparte's  decree  ;  and  that  the  embargo  was  calculated  by  our 
"  sagacious  Executive  to  meet  that  event."  I  believe  I  have  in 
some  former  letter  to  you  (if  not,  to  several  of  my  friends  I  have) 
suggested  this  same  idea.  I  was  led  into  it  by  Mr.  Jefferson's 
saying  (3  or  4  weeks  ago)  that  he  ivondered  we  did  not  get  the 
British  proclamation  of  retaliation  ;  he  manifested  a  solicitude  ; 
as  if  he  wanted  it  to  justify  the  embargo,  and  evince  his  profound 
sagacity. 

You  know  the  hostility  of  Jefferson  and  Virginians  and  other 
Southern  men,  to  our  carrying  trade.  In  this  Register  you  see 
no  class  of  citizens  conspicuously  noticed  except  "  God's  chosen 
people."  If  Mr.  J.  can  prevent  the  clamours  of  the  farmers  and 
soothe  the  manufacturers  by  giving  them  monopolies,  will  he  be 
persuaded  to  continue  the  embargo  to  the  destruction  of  the  navi- 
gation of  the  Northern  States  ?  and  will  the  latter  sit  still  with 
folded  arms  and  submit  to  ruin  ?  A  union  of  sentiment  in  the 
six  eastern  states  would  controul  the  folly  and  insidious  Views  of 
the  east  and  prescribe  a  salutary  policy  for  the  Union. 

Faithfully  yours 

T.  Pickering. 

R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

January  19,  1808. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

Yours  of  the  15th  has  been  duly  received.  While  Dearborn  & 
Gallatin  were  here  in  the  course  of  the  summer,  they  were  asked 
separately,  and  at  different  times,  whether  the  President  in  his 
Instructions  sent  to  England  had  coupled  the  affair  of  the  Chesa- 
peake with  other  matters  in  discussion  with  that  Nation  ;  they  both 
answered  in  the  negative,  and  assured  those  who  interrogated 
them  that  the  affair  of  the  Chesapeake  would  be  kept  apart  from 
every  other  question. 


l8o8]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  65 

The  result  has  shewn  these  assurances  to  be  false  and,  at  the 
time,  these  Ministers  could  not  have  been  ignorant  that  they  were 
so  ;  for  in  so  very  important  a  measure  it  is  natural  to  suppose 
that  the  President  consulted  the  cabinet. 

Whether  Mr.  Pendleton's  informant  is  pursuing  the  same  course 
as  his  Colleagues,  I  cannot  determine,  but  I  do  not  place  much 
confidence  in  communications  coming  from  any  of  them.  This, 
however,  is  certain,  that  whatever  may  be  the  views  of  the 
Adminn,  Mr.  Rose  has  it  in  his  power  to  separate  the  Case  of  the 
Chesapeake  from  all  other  matters,  and  without  doubt  will  do  so. 

I  send  you  the  long  expected  Proclamation,  or  rather  Order  of 
Council,  which  measures  back  upon  France  and  her  Vassals  the 
Decree  of  Berlin. 

Had  the  President  done  his  duty  in  taking  proper  measures  to 
procure  an  explicit  exemption  from  the  operation  of  this  Decree, 
and  in  failure  thereof,  authorized  our  Merchants  to  arm  their 
ships,  and  followed  the  other  steps  of  the  Congress  of  1798,  this 
order  of  council  would  never  have  appeared. 

R.  King. 


R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

New  York,  January  24,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Your  letter  of  the  19th  reached  me  in  due  course.  Mr.  Pen- 
dleton returned,  but  your  letter  had  previously  communicated  the 
most  material  information  he  had  obtained.  Mr.  Pendleton 
supposes  that  the  adi?iinistration  will  relinquish  their  Claim 
to  all  naturalized  seamen  provided  G.  Br.  will  discontinue  the 
Practice  of  impressing  on  the  Ocean.  If  they  acquiesce  in  this 
particular,  I  am  not  sure  they  will  stop  there,  and  perhaps  we 
should  be  vigilant  that  they  do  not  consent  to  Measures,  which 
will  finally  destroy  the  navigation  of  the  Northern  States. 

In  spite  of  all  that  can  be  said,  the  Embargo  which  touches  the 
farmer  as  well  as  the  Merchant,  cannot  be  popular  ;  and  if  con- 
tinued will  shake  many  men's  confidence  in  the  present  adminis- 
tration. So  evident  is  this  consequence,  that  I  cannot  think  the 
ruling  party  will  ever  risk  the  Spring  elections,  with  the  Embargo 
in  operation  :  so  manifestly  impolitic  a  measure  will  be  under- 
stood by  the  Envoy,  If  he  be  a  man  of  ordinary  shrewdness,  and 


66  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

may  operate  to  impair  the  just  claims  of  the  Country.  The  Mer- 
chants are  mortified  that  the  Embargo  arrested  the  shipments 
they  were  making,  and  would  have  made,  between  the  date  of  the 
Embargo,  and  the  notice  of  the  English  Orders  :  and  which,  as 
they  believe,  would  have  participated  in  the  high  markets  of  the 
Continent. 

Coffee  and  particularly  Cotton,  immediately  after  the  publica- 
tion of  the  Eng.  orders  in  Holland,  doubled  in  value  :  Cotton 
indeed,  according  to  the  latest  advices  from  Nantes,  was  four 
prices  above  what  it  is  understood  now  to  be  offered  for  it  here, 
or  nearly  threefold  its  former  price.  In  respect  to  the  late  Eng. 
Orders  of  Council,  after  endeavoring  to  comprehend  their  appli- 
cation to  the  detail  of  our  Commerce,  which  is  not  readily  done,  I 
cannot  but  disapprove  those  parts  of  them  which  too  plainly 
evince  a  purpose  on  the  part  of  England  to  give  by  these  Regu- 
lations an  advantage  to  their  Merchants  at  the  expense  of  ours. 

If  by  the  acquiescence,  or  non-resistance,  of  Neutral  States  (or 
indeed  of  the  U.  S.  who  are  the  only  neutral  comml.  States)  in  the 
Decree  of  Berlin,  England  has  been  justified  by  the  Law  of  Re- 
taliation to  measure  back  upon  her  Enemy  the  mischief  aimed  to 
be  done  to  her,  it  should  have  been  done  in  the  true  spirit  of  Re- 
taliation, and  no  other  ;  and  above  all  no  interested  or  sinister 
motive  should  have  been  admitted  to  influence  her  Regulations. 
Every  exception  should  have  been  so  formed  as  to  occasion  the 
least  possible  delay,  expense  &  risk  to  the  neutral,  whose  vessels, 
if  required  to  touch  in  an  Eng.  Port,  should  have  received  Pass- 
ports gratis,  and  permitted  to  proceed  to  their  Ports  of  destination  ; 
instead  whereof  all  neutral  ships,  excepting  such  as  sailed  before 
notice  of  the  Eng.  orders,  are  obliged  to  enter  inward  and  then 
outward,  and  to  conform  to  existing  Custom  House  Rules,  and 
such  new  ones  as  may  be  prescribed,  a  course  which,  independent 
of  the  unknown  Regulations  respecting  War,  Brandy,  Coffee, 
Sugar,  Snuff  and  Tobacco,  will  be  attended  with  great  delay  & 
expense  if  I  be  not  much  mistaken,  and  expense  of  more  than  5 
p.  ct.  upon  the  value  of  these  various  Cargoes.  If,  however, 
France  should  cause  the  Decree  of  Berlin  to  be  enforced  agt.  all 
vessels  coming  from  England,  the  exception  from  the  Blockade 
by  England  of  all  vessels  trading  between  her  ports  &  those  of 
the  enemy  will  become  a  nullity,  as  no  such  trade  will  be  allowed. 


1808]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  6j 

What  means  the  proposed  republican  revision  of  the  Naturali- 
zation Law  ?  Is  it  intended  to  widen  or  narrow  the  door,  thro* 
which  the  crimes  and  criminals  of  Europe  with  the  friends  of 
oppressed  humanity  are  to  find  an  asylum  in  this  free  and  happy 

land? 

Always  yours 

Rufus  King. 


B.  Gardenier  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  January  26,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  acknowledge  with  much  pleasure  the  receipt  of  your  letter 
of  the  2 1  st.  To  obtain  the  approbation  of  those  whose  good 
opinion  we  most  value,  is  in  all  situations  pleasing.  The  assur- 
ance I  have  received  of  meriting  yours,  permit  me  to  say  sincerely, 
is  an  ample  recompense  for  the  ill-nature  &  obloquy,  which  an 
open  hostility  to  the  ruling  Party  must  inevitably  excite. 

Our  prospects  are  more  gloomy  than  ever.  I  can  no  longer 
permit  myself  to  hope  for  a  specific  result  from  Mr.  Rose's  Mis- 
sion. All  that  will  be  done  by  our  Administration  will  be  to  con- 
duct with  the  appearance  of  so  much  moderation  as  to  secure 
their  popularity,  when  that  war,  which  they  are  resolved  upon, 
actually  breaks  out.  The  determination  of  Buonaparte  to  put  in 
force  the  Decree  of  Nov.  21,  1806,  can  mean  only  one  thing  & 
that  is,  that  we  shall  be  no  longer  Neutral,  we  must  close  our 
Ports  against  England.  It  seems  to  have  been  hitherto  the  price 
of  peace  paid  by  all  the  Nations  he  has  overcome,  and  has  in  no 
instance  been  omitted.  What  is  there  in  the  American  Govern- 
ment which  could  deter  him  from  demanding  from  us  to  give  a 
finishing  stroke  to  that  policy,  by  which  he  hopes  to  overcome 
the  only  power  that  seems  able  to  stand  between  him  and  the 
liberties  of  the  world  ?  Why  was  the  Embargo  recommended 
upon  the  receipt  of  Despatches  from  France,  and  those  Despatches 
too  kept  back  ?  Why  as  a  measure,  for  so  it  was  avowed  in  con- 
clave, intended  to  bear  upon  England,  when  nothing  new  in  rela- 
tion to  that  country  had  transpired  since  Mr.  Monroe's  Despatch  ? 
Why  as  a  measure  against  England  when  an  Envoy  was  expected 
from  that  Country  ?  Why  meet  him,  who  came  as  a  Messenger 
of  Peace  with  an  Act  of  Hostility  ?     I  will  not  fatigue  you  with 


68  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

my  reflections  on  this  subject.  If  the  Administration  think  they 
can  stand  their  ground,  we  shall  have  war.  Our  only  hope  rests 
upon  their  fears. 

Nothing  transpires  respecting  Rose's  negotiation.  Mr.  Erskine, 
who,  I  think,  feels  as  friendly  to  this  Country  as  can  be  expected 
of  a  foreign  Minister,  seems  to  apprehend  the  worst  result. 

Our  Legislature  will  soon  be  in  Session  in  the  State  of  New  York. 
As  I  am  myself  persuaded  that  the  Embargo,  so  far  from  being  in- 
tended as  a  measure  of  prudential  precaution,  was  only  intended  to 
feel  the  Public  pulse  ;  persuaded  as  I  am  that  the  Nation  will  be 
dragged  into  an  unnecessary  &  destructive  War,  if  the  Embargo 
is  generally  approved  of,  I  have  thought  it  my  duty  to  lay  before 
the  Legislature  of  our  State  a  faithful  detail  of  the  whole  pro- 
ceedings together  with  my  reflections  upon  them.  It  is  a  step, 
however,  which  I  would  not  like  to  take  without  the  assent  of 
wiser  heads  than  my  own.  I  shall  beg  your  opinion  *  therefore  as 
to  its  propriety  ;  and  I  must  assure  you  at  the  same  time,  I  shall 
not  feel  my  pride  at  all  wounded  at  being  told  it  is  improper,  if 
you  should  think  it  so.  It  has  seemed  to  me,  however,  that  this 
was  the  most  imposing  form  in  which  the  subject  could  be  pre- 
sented to  the  People  :  that  whether  its  reading  should  be  ordered 
or  denied,  it  would  equally  excite  public  attention,  &  I  think  it 
no  small  matter  in  this  Government  of  ours  to  be  able  to  catch 
the  public  ear.  If  I  could  so  frame  it  (and  I  think  I  could)  that 
Russell  and  Harris  as  well  as  Van  Rensselaer  would  put  their 
names  to  it,  it  would  be  all  the  better. 

Accounts  from  Virginia  "look  squally."  Monroe's  party  is 
supposed  to  have  a  majority  there.  A  caucus  of  all  the  members 
of  the  Legislature  is  to  be  held  on  Thursday  next.  I  shall  write 
you  the  result  as  soon  as  I  hear  it.  By  a  statement  which  I  sent 
Mr.  Coleman,  you  will  see  how  much  they  are  divided  here. 

John  Quincy  Adams  !  His  apostasy  is  no  longer  a  matter 
of  doubt,  with  any  body.  Would  you  suppose  it  possible  the 
scoundrel  could  summon  impudence  enough  to  go  to  their  cau- 
cus ?  f     I  thought  we  had   been   sifted  so  much  that  what  re- 

*  If  given  it  cannot  be  found. 
\  On  pages  497,  and  510,  vol  i.    Mem.  of  J.  Q.  Adams  will  be  found  the 
statement  of  reasons  why  he  decided  at  that  time,  the  close  of  1807,  to  support 
the  Administration  ;  and  on  pp.  505-07  those  for  joining  in  the  caucus  of  the 


1808]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  69 

mained  was  never  to  be  changed.  I  wish  to  God  the  noble  house 
of  Braintree  had  been  put  in  "A  hole"  and  a  deep  one  too 
twenty  years  ago. 

I  am,  with  sincere  Respt.  yr.  obedt.  servt. 

B.  Gardenier. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Confidential. 

City  of  Washington,  Jany  28,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

You  know  that  the  direct  object  of  Mr.  Rose's  Mission  was  to 
make  reparation  for  the  attack  on  the  Chesapeake  :  but  he  will 
not  treat  on  it,  until  the  President's  proclamation  is  rescinded,  which 
laid  the  interdict  on  all  British  Ships  of  War.  This  is  the  fact. 
The  pride  of  our  Government  and  their  willingness  to  avoid  any 
adjust?nent  of  our  disputes  with  Great  Britain,  unless  on  terms  which 
they  would  themselves  prescribe,  will  therefore  frustrate  his  embassy. 

If  the  people  of  the  Northern  States  will  continue  to  repose 
with  implicit  confidence  on  One  Man,  their  ruin  is  sure.  The 
President  says  "  Great  Britain  must  fall."  He  is  of  course  indif- 
ferent about  the  adjustment  of  differences.  There  is  no  cause  of 
war  ;  yet  that  will  be  the  result,  unless  the  Northern  States  arrest 
him  in  his  career.  If  Mr.  Rose's  instructions  were  discretionary  as 
to  the  Chesapeake  business,  I  am  persuaded  that  his  mission  would 
be  equally  nugatory  ;  it  would  cost  our  Executive  the  trouble 
of  inventing  some  other  excuse  for  not  concluding  a  treaty. 

Faithfully  yours 

T.  Pickering. 


R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

Feby.  5,  1S08. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  obliged  to  you  for  your  letter  of  the  28th  inst.  Every 
additional  article  of  news  from  Europe  confirms  the  value  and 
importance  of  a  good  understanding  between  the  U.  S.  and  Eng- 
land ;  the  Coalition,  the  League  of  Kings  against  whom,  embraces 
all  the  Powers  of  the  Continent. 

Republican  Members  of  Congress  to  nominate  candidates   for  the  offices  of 
President  &  Vice  President.    Messrs.  Madison  and  Clinton  being  the  nominees. 


70  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

If  England  sink,  her  fall  will  prove  the  Grave  of  our  Liberties  ; 
believing  this,  as  I  most  firmly  do  believe  it,  ought  not  the  coun- 
try to  be  alarmed  at  the  conduct  of  the  Executive,  whose  errors, 
or  the  indulgence  of  whose  prejudices,  may,  &  I  fear  will,  prove 
the  ruin  of  his  Country. 

The  man,  who,  being  without  prejudice,  possesses  but  a  com- 
mon understanding,  must  perceive  that  the  Coalition  agt.  Eng- 
land will  not  suffer  the  U.  S.  to  remain  neuter  ;  or  in  other 
words,  they  will  not  suffer  us  to  have  any  intercourse  with  them, 
provided  we  maintain  an  intercourse  with  England  :  And  yet  we 
are  told,  and  the  Govt.  &  State  Legislatures  repeat  the  declara- 
tion, that  France  has  no  influence  upon  our  public  Councils. 
Let  the  despatches  from  Armstrong  be  produced  and  then  we 
shall  see  our  real  condition.  Why  do  you  not  call  upon  the  Ex- 
ecutive to  lay  before  the  Senate  information  concerning  our  rela- 
tions with  France  ?  Let  them  refuse  your  demand,  the  time  is 
near  at  hand,  when  a  disclosure  must  take  place.  It  really  ap- 
pears to  me  to  be  the  duty  of  those  who  have  not  delivered  them- 
selves up  to  the  spirit  of  faction  &  the  implicit  Orders  of  our 
Rulers,  to  make  an  exertion  to  obtain  a  disclosure  of  our  actual 
situation. 

faithfully  &  always  yours 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

New  York,  Feb.,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

James  &  his  Brothers  will  embark  for  Providence  in  the  course 
of  the  Day  &  promise  themselves  great  pleasure  in  their  visit.  I 
have  desired  them  to  go  to  see  Mr.  Ames  &  Mr.  Cabot  as  my 
Friends. 

They  will  take  the  papers  with  them,  tho'  they  contain  nothing 
except  the  report  of  a  Captain  from  Ramsgate  (who  was  in  Lon- 
don Dec.  5  &  sailed  from  Ramsgate  Dec.  18),  "that  Russia  had 
declared  war  agt.  England."  He  brought  no  News  papers  :  those 
who  have  conversed  with  the  Captain  seem  to  give  Credit  to  his 
News,  which  is  the  more  probable  in  my  mind,  as  I  am  persuaded 
that  Russia  (if  she  already  has  not,)  will  take  the  side  of  France. 


l8o8]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  Jl 

This  event  ascertained,  we  shall  be  obliged  to  decide  for  or  agt. 
the  Confederacy.  Within  a  few  weeks  Mr.  Jefferson  has  several 
times  declared  that  England  must  sink  in  the  struggle,  and  be- 
lieving so,  he  will  be  disinclined  to  go  down  with  her. 

Mr.  Rose's  Mission  had  special  reference  to  the  affair  of  the 
Chesapeake  and  perhaps  this  is  his  sole  business.  You  will  recol- 
lect that  we  have  seen  several  articles,  saying  that  England  dis- 
avowed the  attack  ;  but  as  the  President  by  his  Proclamation  had 
taken  into  his  own  hands  a  portion  of  the  reparation,  that  which 
remained  for  England  to  make  must  be  necessarily  less  than  it 
otherwise  would  have  been.  On  this  principle  it  is  understood 
that  Mr.  Rose  declares  himself  authorized  to  make  the  fullest 
reparation  for  the  attack  on  the  Chesapeake  ;  but  that  he  is  re- 
strained by  his  orders  from  taking  any  one  step,  until  the  Presi- 
dent's Proclamation  interdicting  the  entry  of  Br.  men  of  war  be 
rescinded.  If  the  President  be  persuaded  that  Engd.  is  about  to 
perish,  he  will  be  restrained  from  doing  what  his  pride  would  be 
mortified  with  ;  and  so  the  Mission  of  Peace  may  fail.  The  Engh. 
Proclamation  or  instruction,  which  with  publicity  disavows  Berk- 
ley's attack,  might  well  be  set  agt.  the  ill  advised  Proclamation, 
which  might  be  withdrawn  and  the  business  amicably  settled. 

R.  K. 
P.  S.     Don't  mention  my  Name  on  this  subject. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

City  of  Washington,  Feby.  9,  iSoS. 
Dear  Sir  : 

This  morning  I  received  your  letter  of  the  5th.  The  number 
of  federalists  in  the  Senate  is  so  small  (only  5),  and  some  of 
these  of  tender  nerves,  it  is  more  than  ever  difficult  to  take  a  strong 
step.  Upon  Mr.  Bayard's  first  arrival,  I  mentioned  the  expedi- 
ency of  demanding  Armstrong's  communications.  Hillhouse, 
Goodrich  &  I  had  previously  conversed  on  the  measure.  Mr.  B. 
"  thought  it  not  the  proper  time.  Every  thing  depended  on  the 
timing  any  measure,  to  warrant  success."  We  were  induced  to 
acquiesce,  until  the  Embargo  should  be  felt.  I  have  just  shown 
Mr.  Bayard  your  letter.  His  answer  was  similar  to  that  before 
given.     I  remarked   that  if  the   President  persisted  in  his  attach- 


72  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

ment  to  France  and  was  willing  to  hazard  a  breach  with  England, 
the  die  might  be  cast,  and  a  call  for  papers  be  useless.  "  That  is 
true,"  said  he,  "  but  I  think  we  should  wait  longer,  to  ascertain 
effects  of  the. Embargo."  He  added,  that  from  some  of  the  Presi- 
dent's friends,  he  understood  the  President  to  be  coming  off 
from  his  French  attachments,  and  to  be  apprehensive  of  the 
danger  to  the  U.  S.,  should  Britain  fall.  Confidential.  Mr.  Pink- 
ney  was  appointed  joint-commissioner  with  Monroe,  to  settle  all 
differences  with  the  United  Kingdom  of  G.  B.  and  Ireland,  and  to 
agree  on  the prinicples  of  their  navigation  and  Commerce.  Conse- 
quently with  the  termination  of  that  negociation,  Pinkney's 
powers  ceased.  Nevertheless  the  British  Govt,  agreed  to  receive 
Mr.  Pinkney  as  the  resident  Minister  of  the  U.  S.,  but  in  full  re- 
liance that,  as  early  as  might  be,  he  should  be  furnished  with  new 
letters  of  credence  as  such.  Now  no  nomination  has  been  made  to 
the  Senate  during  the  session.  It  is  possible  that  before  we  assem- 
bled, the  President  might  send  him  a  commission,  which  will 
serve  till  the  session  closes.  But  the  fact  may  be  doubted.  You 
will  recollect  the  News-paper  paragraphs,  that  the  President  to 
send  a  new  Minister  to  England,  would  incur  Bonaparte's  dis- 
pleasure. For  some  time  past,  in  ruminating  on  the  President's 
conduct,  to  discover  some  clue  to  guide  me  to  its  principle,  this 
idea  occurred,  (tho'  I  never  broached  it  till  this  morning  to  my 
friend  Hillhouse)  that  it  was  possible  his  object  &  hope  was, 
by  a  course  of  indecisive  proceedings^  to  keep  Bonaparte  in  sus- 
pense. Dreading  his  power,  perhaps  to  delay  or  prevent  the  exe- 
cution of  a  threat,  he  may  not  only  have  avoided  entering  into 
any  treaty  with  England  ;  but  purposely  seized  every  occasion  to 
exhibit  proofs  of  antipathy,  &  a  hostile  spirit  towards  her,  and  en- 
couraged by  his  example,  the  abusive  language  of  that  country 
in  our  newspapers  &  on  the  floor  of  Congress,  to  induce  the 
belief,  in  the  mind  of  Bonaparte  that  he  was  preparing  the  people 
for  open  hostility  with  England.  These  demonstrations  on  the 
American  theatre,  joined  with  warm  assurances  (to  be  given  at 
Paris)  of  attachment  to  France,  he  may  have  practised,  to  amuse 
and  appease  the  Emperor,  and  thus  at  least  postpone  the  evil  day 
of  entering  into  an  open  war  with  him.  Considering  the  charac- 
ter of  Mr.  Jefferson,  would  he  not  be  likely  to  fall  into  such  a  line 
of  timid  wavering  policy  ?     If  he  has,  it  cannot  much  longer  be 


1808]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  73 

continued.  Of  all  men  living  Bonaparte  would  be  soonest  likely 
to  lose  his  patience  in  utter  contempt  for  the  man  and  his 
politics,  to  strike  a  sudden  blow.  And  as  the  Merchant  vessels  of 
the  U.  S.  are  by  the  British  Orders  now  excluded  from  his  ports, 
what  motive  has  he  to  remain  at  peace  ?  By  declaring  war,  he 
lays  his  hand  on  all  the  American  property  within  his  dominions 
from  the  Mediterranean  to  the  Baltic  without  needing  other  cover 
for  his  injustice.  "  My  constant  desire  and  prayer  to  God  is  "  that 
his  patience  may  have  been  exhausted  and  war  declared  against  the 
U.  S.  A  War  would  be  the  surest  way  (under  Providence)  to 
maintain  an  independence.  It  would  give  even  more  energy  to 
the  arm  of  England.  It  would  rouse  the  sleeping  spirit  of  our 
own  country  ;  and  prepare  us  for  defence  and  enterprize.  Then 
would  be  the  time,  in  conjunction  with  England,  to  detach 
Spanish  America  from  the  Mother  Country,  and  thus  open  an  im- 
mense field  of  commerce  to  us  both.  If  the  Spanish  dynasty  is 
to  be  changed,  the  emancipation  would  be  easily  effected.  What 
do  you  think  of  these  conjectures  ? 

Faithfully  yours 

Timothy  Pickering. 


R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

Feby  16,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  yesterday  received  yours  of  the  9th.  I  have  been  so  engaged 
since  the  receipt  of  your  letter,  that  I  have  not  had  leisure  to  do 
more  than  read  over  the  Bill  you  sent  me.  My  general  impression 
is  not  favourable  to  the  proposed  law. 

The  limitation  which  the  Constitution  establishes  on  the  sub- 
ject of  Treason,  proceeded  from  a  principle,  which  will  readily  be 
approved  by  every  man  who  is  acquainted  with  the  vindictive 
spirit  that,  at  different  times  in  the  History  of  England,  has  ani- 
mated the  ascendant  faction  against  their  political  adversaries. 
If  the  proposed  law  on  the  subject  of  Treason  neither  enlarges 
nor  lessens  its  constitutional  definition,  the  law  is  unnecessary  ; 
if  it  does  the  one  or  the  other,  it  is  unconstitutional.  In  the  un- 
fortunate periods,  during  which  a  country  is  torn  by  contending 
factions,  the  Treason  Laws  should  not  be  altered.  Neither  ought 
they  to  be  changed  just  at  the  time  when  the  Govt,  is  angry  or 


74  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

disappointed  in  the  failure  to  convict  such  as  are  believed  to  have 
committed  Treason.     It  is  better  in  such  case  to  follow  the  exam- 
ple of  Socrates,  who  said  to  the  slave  who  had  misbehaved 
"  Ccederem  te,  nisi  irascerer." 

My  opinion  has  been  that  Jefferson  would,  if  he  could  avoid  it, 
go  to  war  with  neither  France  nor  England  :  but  if  France  im- 
posed upon  him  the  alternative  of  fighting  her  or  England,  that 
he  would  make  a  choice  of  the  latter  for  his  enemy. 

faithfully  yr.  obv.  Sert. 

Rufus  King. 

P.  S.  If  the  Embargo  be  raised,  the  People  will  care  nothing 
about  Armstrong's  Despatches  :  while  in  operation,  they  will 
take  an  interest  in  enquiry  ;  it  is  now  therefore,  and  not  when 
the  Embargo  ceases,  that  the  demand  for  information  should  be 
made. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  Feby.  19,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Yesterday  we  were  confidently  told  that  the  Negociation  with 
Mr.  Rose  was  broken  off.  To-day  the  President  nominated 
William  Pinkney  to  be  minister  of  the  United  States  to  the  Court 
of  London  !  as  the  messengers  for  London  &  Paris  are  to  leave 
Washington  to-day,  it  may  be  well  to  get  Pinkney's  nomination 
inserted  in  some  of  your  newspapers,  to  go  in  the  same  vessel 
with  them. 

We  just  have  a  report  that  Bonaparte  has  declared  war  against 
the  U.  States.  God  grant  it  may  prove  true.  We  also  hear  that 
George  III.  is  dead  ;  this  is  to  be  regretted  ;  tho'  less  now,  per- 
haps, than  if  Fox  were  living. 

Faithfully  yours 

T.  Pickering. 
N.  B.  The  nomination  of  Pinkney  not  having  yet  been  ap- 
proved by  the  Senate,  you  will  not  mention  the  source  of  your 
information.  Pinkney  was  appointed  joint-commissioner  with 
Monroe  to  treat :  his  powers  ceased  with  that  negociation.  But 
the  British  Govt,  agreed  to  receive  him  as  the  resident  minister, 
until  he  could  receive  new  letters  of  credence. 


l8o8]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  75 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  Feb.  24,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  16th.  There  is  much  oppo- 
sition to  Giles'  treason  bill.  The  motion  at  present  before  the 
Senate  is,  to  postpone  it  to  December  next.  But  as  it  is  a  Presidential 
measure,  it  may  pass,  tho'  the  appearances  at  this  time  are  against 
it.  All  the  distinguished  Philadelphia  Lawyers,  who  have  been 
here,  reprobated  it  in  strong  terms.  I  sent  a  copy  of  the  bill  to 
Judge  Peters,  who  writes  me  that  he  received  it  when  on  the 
Bench,  &  threw  it  down  to  Lewis,  who  was  at  the  bar.  Lewis 
read  it  &  returned  it  with  this  note. 

"  §  1.  The  Constitution  having  defined  treason,  Congress  have  no 
power  to  vary  the  same,  or  to  enact  anything  respecting  its 
definition. 

"  §  2.  the  same. 

"  §  7.  This  by  altering  the  Name  of  the  offence,  cannot  alter  the 
nature  &  is  therefore  void." 

The  President  talks  freely  of  having  Congress  pass  an  act  to 
enable  him  to  remove  the  Embargo,  when  the  French  &  British 
Governments  annul  their  blockading  decrees  ;  in  which  he  affects 
to  consider  G.  Britain  as  the  first  aggressor  !  But  I  do  not  believe 
with  all  their  obsequiousness,  that  Congress  will  give  him  this 
power.  The  fact  is,  many  avow  their  fear  to  go  home  in  the 
present  State  of  things,  without  being  able  to  tell  their  constituents 
why  they  are  so. 

In  my  last  I  mentioned  the  nomination  of  Wm.  Pinkney  (Mon- 
roe's associate)  to  be  Minister  Plenipo.  at  London.  This  was 
on  Friday  the  19th.  The  Senate  adjourned  over  to  Monday,  when 
I  expected  the  nomination  would  have  been  approved.  But  it  was 
not  called  up  :  I  suspected  intentionally.  On  Tuesday  that  with 
other  nominations  was  taken  up.  A  number  preceded  it  in  order 
in  the  President's  list.  As  the  names  were  read,  several  were  de- 
sired by  different  members,  to  be  laid  over.  At  length  Pink- 
ney's  name  was  read.  Mr.  Giles  desired  it  might  lay  over.  Bradley 
said  the  same,  &  that  he  had  a  resolution  to  offer  in  the  case  ; 
and  now  (this  moment  that  I  am  writing)  Bradley  has  offered  the 
resolution  :  to  ask  the  President  to  lay  before  the  Senate  the 
unratified  treaty  &  papers  connected  with  it,  which  may  enable 


j6  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

the  Senate  to  judge  correctly  on  the  nomination  of  Wm.  Pinkney 
as  Minister  Plenipotentiary  to  the  Court  of  London.  Bradley 
prefaced  the  resolution  with  a  short  history  of  the  London  Mission 
as  it  united  Pinkney  with  Monroe.  The  President  had  informed 
Congress,  at  the  commencement  of  the  session,  that  those  minis- 
ters had  themselves  stated  that  they  signed  a  treaty  against  their 
instructions.  Bradley  wished  to  know  whether  circumstances  jus- 
tified them  in  doing  so.  Thus  you  see  (as  I  had  suspected  since 
Monday)  that  this  negociation  is  to  be  conjured  up  to  prejudice 
Monroe's  pretensions  to  the  Presidency,  and  probably  as  the 
means  of  withdrawing  our  minister  from  London.  Whether  another 
will  be  sent  must  be  a  subject  of  conjecture.  Jefferson  has  nom- 
inated to  give  the  appearance  of  a  pacific  disposition  towards  G.  B., 
and  to  avoid  Pinkney's  resentment  against  himself.  For  I  re- 
member, when  Pinkney  was  nominated  joint-commissioner  with 
Monroe,  being  told  that  he  consented  to  go  on  condition  of  re- 
maining in  London  as  the  permanent  Minister.  The  Senate  is  to 
take  on  itself  the  responsibility  of  a  negative  ;  and  at  the  same 
time  furnish  Jefferson  with  a  pretence  for  suspending  a  Mission  to 
London — to  please  Bonaparte  :  At  least  to  gain  time  &  take  the 
advantage  of  contingencies.  Or,  if  he  really  means  to  send  a  Min- 
ister immediately  to  London,  he  may  be  willing  to  sacrifice  Pink- 
ney in  order  to  ruin  Monroe.  He  may  not  advert  to  the  reproach 
which  must  attach  to  himself  for  ordering  the  same  faulty  Ministers 
to  renew  a  negociation,  after  they  had  violated  their  instructions. 
But  it  will  appear  that  they  complied  subtantially  with  their  in- 
structions respecting  impressment  of  seamen  (the  only  point  in 
question,  as  I  believe)  and  the  President  in  saying,  in  his  first 
Message  that  at  the  time  of  signing  the  treaty,  the  Commissioners 
told  those  of  Great  Britain,  that  they  were  acting  against  their  in- 
structions, did  not  truly  state  the  case.  At  a  certain  period 
of  the  Negociation,  in  1805,  our  Comrs.  did  tell  those  of  G.  B. 
that  they  could  sign  no  treaty,  in  which  provision  was  not  made 
respecting  seamen  in  our  merchant  vessels  ;  and  this  interrupted 
the  negociation.  But  afterwards  the  British  Comrs.  suggested  the 
idea  of  an  informal  arrangement  respecting  seamen,  which  in 
practice  would  prevent  the  vexation  complained  of.  This  was 
two  months  before  the  treaty  was  signed.  This  informal  arrange- 
ment was  sent  over  to  our  government  (no  doubt  by  the  first  ves- 


1808]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  77 

sel  after  our  Comrs.  reed,  it  from  Lords  Holland  &  Auckland) 
and  must  have  been  in  the  President's  possession  long  before  he 
reed.  Monroe's  &  Pinkney's  letter  of  Dec.  27,  1806,  which  he  laid 
before  Congress,  announcing  their  agreement  on  articles  of  a 
treaty,  which  they  believed  would  be  satisfactory  to  our  govern- 
ment, as  it  embraced  all  the  objects  committed  to  them  in  the  negotia- 
tion. Undoubtedly  it  was  the  informal  (but  practical)  arrange- 
ment, which  satisfied  our  Ministers,  and  induced  them  to  sign  the 
treaty.  And  it  would  have  satisfied  the  President  &  the  country 
(I  believe)  had  the  President  been  incli?ied  to  conclude  any  treaty  of 
amity  6^  commerce  with  G.  Britain. 

I  have  no  further  information  respecting  the  Chesapeake  nego- 
ciation.  I  believe  Mr.  Canning  did  not  waive  the  question  of  the 
interdicting  Proclamation,  in  London  :  but  that  the  coupling  the 
impressment  of  Seamen  with  the  attack  on  the  Chesapeake 
stopped  the  negociation  at  the  threshhold.  Canning  did  ask  (in 
one  of  his  notes  to  Monroe)  with  earnestness,  whether  he  had  in- 
formation that  the  Proclamation,  as  it  appeared  in  the  news-pa- 
pers, was  the  President's  act j  and  I  think  he  did  not  immediately 
answer  that  question.  I  mention  this  matter  in  reference  to  a 
discussion  on  Coleman's  paper,*  on  the  affair  of  the  Chesapeake, 
which  tho'  in  the  form  of  an  editorial  speculation,  I  have  taken  the 
liberty  to  ascribe  to  you,         very  respectfully  &  faithfully  yours 

T.  Pickering. 

*  It  is  probable  that  the  Article  referred  to  is  the  following  in  the  Evening 
Post,  Feby.  5,  1808. 

The  Key — Or  a  peep  behind  the  curtain.  The  nation  cried  aloud  for  satisfac- 
tion for  the  attack  on  the  Chesapeake  !  What  did  Mr.  Jefferson  do  ?  Did  he 
give  effect  to  the  national  wish  ?  He  did  not.  He  instructed  Mr.  Monroe  not 
to  demand  specific  satisfaction  for  that  specific  outrage,  but  to  connect  it  with 
subjects  already  under  discussion.  In  plainer  words,  not  to  receive  satisfaction 
for  that,  unless  arrangements,  on  all  other  topics,  should  be  made  too.  Not  to 
receive  separate  reparation,  for  this  detached  and  separate  injury.  The  British 
ministry  offered  that  reparation.  Mr.  Monroe  was  instructed  to  refuse  it,  and 
therefore  it  was  not,  and  is  not  yet  received.  But  Great  Britain  sends  a  min- 
ister here,  as  if  eager  to  press  reparation  upon  us.  While  he  is  on  his  passage, 
our  administration  receive  dispatches — from  England  ?  No — they  had  long 
before  received  all  that  is  yet  known  from  that  country.  The  administration 
receives  dispatches  from  France.  What  do  they  contain  ?  It  requires  a  ghost 
to  rise  from  the  dead  to  tell  us  that.  It  is  beyond  the  ken  of  every  member  ; 
except  that  Bonaparte's  Decree  of  piracy  is  put  in  force.     What  follows  ?     A 


78  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

J.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  Feby.  26,  1808. 

Dear  Sir  : 

With  great  pleasure  I  announced  to  you  in  my  letter  of  the  19th 
the  nomination  of  Mr.  Pinkney  to  be  Minister  Plenipotentiary  to 
the  Court  of  London — because  it  was  an  indication  of  the  Con- 


General  Embargo.  Upon  whom  is  it  to  operate?  On  France?  O,  nc 
On  England:  So  say  all  the  administration  prints,  and  so  we  are  told  avowed 
the  administration  Members  on  the  floor  of  Congress  while  in  conclave.  For 
what  ?  Because  England  had  refused  reparation  for  the  attack  on  the  Chesa- 
peake ?  No.  Because  they  had  committed  some  new  outrage  ?  Not  at  all. 
Why  then  in  the  name  of  wonder  !  Because  France  had  violated  the  laws  of 
nations,  and  the  obligation  of  treaties.  Therefore  was  Great  Britain  to  be  in- 
jured, and  we  ourselves  ruined  !  There  are  no  symptoms  of  French  influence 
in  this — or  if  there  are,  we  must  have  confidences  ?  Aye — that  powerful  opiate 
will  do  the  business  completely.  Reason  may  struggle,  but  it  will  struggle  in 
vain  against  it.  Confidence — And  Utter  Ignorance.  The  Pope  himself 
could  not  arrogate  more  infallibility.  But  the  Key.  Let  us  suppose,  from  the 
little  we  are  permitted  to  know,  and  what  nobody  can  hinder  us,  as  we  Yankees 
say,  from  guessing,  let  us  suppose  that  all  this  secresy,  fuss,  and  mystery,  was 
intended  to  lead  the  nation  blindfold  into  a  British  war  ;  but  that  the  man  of 
the  people  felt  a  little  skittish  of  the  disposition  of  the  nation  to  go  to  war,  with- 
out any  necessity  ; — a  little  squeamish  of  hazarding  his  popularity,  past  redemp- 
tion, even  when  requested  by  his  fellow  republican,  the  Emperor  and  King. 
Suppose  he  wished  to  do  something  which  should  bring  upon  the  nation  all  the 
evils  of  war,  the  substance  without  the  name,  but  which,  if  the  people  should 
grumble,  might  be  more  easily  receded  from  than  a  state  of  war  could  ;  what 
would  be  his  course  ?  An  Embargo  is  the  very  thing.  If  the  people  submit,  it 
will  be  no  difficult  matter,  in  due  time,  to  quarrel  with  Mr.  Rose,  and  with  the 
national  animosity  against  Britain,  it  will  be  as  easy  to  persuade  us  that  the  Brit- 
ish are  in  fault.  Then  for  the  Gun-Boats  on  the  water  and  Wilkinson  on  the 
land — dash  away  Americans — ruin  yourselves,  and  thus  fight  the  battles  of  the 
Grand  Pacificator.  And,  in  a  little  time,  you  may  be  in  a  condition  to  import 
a  King  into  the  only  Republic  Bonaparte  has  permitted  to  exist  on  earth.  The 
fact  is,  if  the  nation  tamely  bear  this  embargo,  we  shall  have  a  tvar  with  Brit- 
ain. It  was  intended  only  to  feel  the  national  pulse.  If  they  rise  up  against 
this  political  juggling — this  presidential  hocus  pocus,  all  may  be  set  right 
again.*  We  are  on  the  brink  of  a  dreadful  precipice.  The  intelligence,  the 
independence,  and  the  firmness  of  the  people  must  save  them  Now,  or  they 
may  awake  to  see  their  error  when  they  find  themselves  in  the  iron  grasp  of  the 
Universal  Despot. 

*  For  there  is  no  doubt  Mr.  Rose  is  instructed  to  make  ample  reparation  for 
the  attack  on  the  Chesapeake. 


f8o8]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  79 


tinuance  of  Peace— after  it  had   been  reported  that  the  negocia- 
tion  with  Mr  Rose  had  been  broken  off.     In  a  subsequent  letter 
(about  the  24th)  I  stated  the  obstacle  to  an  approval  of  the  nomin- 
ation and   my  conjectures   of   the    motives.     This   morning   the 
President  sent  a  message  to  the   two  Houses  with  one  copy  for 
both  Houses,  of  dispatches  from  Pinkney  &  Armstrong* — to  be 
read  as  much  as  was  needful  &  to  be  talked  on  freely — but  not  to 
be  published,  and  to  be  returned  to  the  President!      Pinkney's  first 
letter  was  very  long  ;  several  sheets  of  large  paper,  in  folio,  finely 
written.     It  was  dated  Nov.  23,  giving  a  minute  detail  of  a  long 
conversation  with  Mr.  Canning  on  the  subject  of  the  British  Or- 
ders of  Nov.  n.     He  says  that  Mr.  Canning  sought  the  interview 
— not  to  discuss  the  principle  of  those  orders  (it  was  too  late  for 
that)  but  to  explain,  if  necessary,  &  obviate  objections.     Pinkney 
was  prepared — as  he  had  contemplated  sending  to  Mr.  Canning  a 
note  stating  objections  ;  which,  however,  after  so  full  a  discussion 
at  the   interview,  he  should  dispense  with.     He  represented  the 
orders   as  contrary  to   our  neutrality,  unjust  and  impolitic.     In 
maintaining  these  positions,  he  necessarily  brought  into  view  the 
Berlin  decree  of  Nov.  21st  1806  :  and  seemed  to  have  convinced 
himself  (as  he  certainly  has  many  members  of  Congress)  that  the 
imperial  decree  did  not  warrant  the  British  retaliatory  orders,  nor 
violate  the  law  of  nations — nor  Buonaparte's  treaty  with  the  U. 
States  !      He  quoted  Armstrong's  letter  of   Dec,    1806,   to   the 
Minister  of  Marine  Decrees,  and  the  answer  of  the  letter  of  the 
24th  of  that  month,  as  proofs.     The  imperial  decree  (at  least  as 
practised  on)  contained  only  municipal  regulations.     He  particu- 
larly reprobated  the  article  in  the  British  orders  making  Certificates 
of  Origin  found  on  board  our  vessels  as  grounds  of  condemnation. 
He  represented  Mr.  Canning  as  having  misconceived  their  nature, 
in  supposing  the  want  of  them  in  neutral  vessels  to  be  the  cause 
of   capture  and  condemnation  by  the  French  ;  for  he  said  they 
could  operate  only  on  vessels  arriving  in  French  ports  in  order  to 
prove  their  cargoes  not  of  British  product  or  manufactures. 

I  do  not  wonder  that  the  President  directed  this  letter  not  to 

be  published  ;  tho'  its  inflammatory  language  would  have  exactly 

suited  the  President's  views  to  increase  the  public  irritation.    But 

such   affrontive  epithets  were  used  as  must,  if   published,  have 

♦Annals  of  Congress,  1807-  81st.  Sess.,  p.  150. 


80  RUFUS  KING.  1808 

obliged  the  British  Government  to  have  ordered  Mr.  Pinkney 
away,  or  at  least  to  have  required  his  recall.  Indeed  he  was  there 
a  minister  merely  by  courtesy  ;  as  I  believe  I  have  stated  in  a 
former  letter.  The  conversation,  no  doubt,  was  suitably  decor- 
ous. Doubtless  it  was  because  this  letter  was  calculated 
admirably  to  meet  the  popular  prejudices  &  inflame  them  that  the 
President  gave  us  permission  to  talk  about  it. 

I  presume  you  will  see  published  the  President's  Message  on 
this  occasion  ;  and  I  believe  (but  I  will  ascertain  this  to-morrow) 
it  purports  to  have  communicated  Armstrong's  letters  us  well  as 
Pinkney's  ;  but  the  fact  is,  that  we  again  did  not  receive  one  line 
of  Armstrong's  letters  to  his  own  government ;  but  only  his  letter  to 
Champagny  (I  think  dated  Nov.  12)  controverting  the  arguments 
of  the  Tribunal  of  Prizes  for  condemning  the  Ship  Horizon's  cargo 
so  far  as  it  consisted  of  goods  from  England  or  her  Colonies. 
The  decree  in  this  case  of  the  prize  court  was  very  long  &  has 
been  published  months  ago  in  all  our  news-papers.  The  ship  had 
been  wrecked  near  Morlaix.  This  document  from  Paris  was  a 
tub  to  the  whale.  I  am  pretty  sure  that  Pinkney  said  he  had 
known  of  no  instance  in  which  the  Berlin  decree  had  been  exe- 
cuted against  our  vessels.  Yet,  if  I  mistake  not,  the  case  in  which 
the  letter  of  Regnier  was  written,  occurred  in  September. 

The  other  letters  from  Pinkney  to  Madison  bore  dates  of  Dec. 
14  &  29th,  and  Jany.  2.,  the  latter  inclosing  (but  without  one  re- 
mark) the  Milan  decree  of  Dec.  17.  The  other  two  letters  were 
short — I  do  not  remember  their  contents. 

If  there  was  any  serious  design  to  negative  Mr.  Pinkney's 
nomination,  the  arrival  of  his  letters  was  fortunate  for  him.  For 
as  soon  as  they  had  been  read,  Bradley's  and  Giles'  doubts  were* 
completely  dissipated.  The  former  with  Giles'  consent  withdrew 
his  resolution  (which  lay  on  the  Vice-President's  table)  to  call  for 
the  returned  treaty  and  the  documents  pertaining  to  it.  His  able, 
but  inflammatory  letter  atoned  for  all  former  delinquency  :  his 
nomination  was  called  up — the  yeas  and  nays  voted — and  the 
nomination  unanimously  approved.  For  my  own  part,  I  was  will- 
ing, at  almost  any  rate,  to  secure  a  minister  in  London.  And  of 
his  ability  no  one  doubted. 

In  his  long  letter,  it  appeared  that  Mr.  Pinkney  had  a  regular 
communication  with  the  American  Merchants,  who  had  meetings 


1808]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  8 1 

with  Mr.  Percival,  relative  to  British  Orders  ;  but  that  neither 
their  interference,  nor  a  subsequent  one  from  the  merchants  of 
the  remoter  towns,  had  any  effect  to  abate  the  rigour  of  the  orders. 

With  these  communications  the  President  made  another  *  for 
the  purpose  of  raising  6000  regular  troops,  and  24,000  volunteers 
to  be  enlisted  for  5  years,  with  condition  to  serve  twelve  months 
in  24  &c,  pursuant  to  plans  of  the  Sec'y  of  War  at  the  same  time 
presented.  These  I  suppose  will  be  published.  But  we  were  not 
told  for  what  purpose  these  troops  were  to  be  raised.  A  com- 
mittee was  appointed  to  consider  &  report ;  and  as  the  members 
are  all  zealous  patriots,  no  doubt  we  shall  have  a  bill  on  Monday. 
Giles,  Adams,  Saml.  Smith,  Bradley  &  Sumter.  I  should  except 
Genl.  Sumter  from  the  zealous.  He  is  a  real  patriot — a  steady 
judicious  man — and  temperate  ;  certainly  the  most  estimable  of 
the  whole  party  in  the  Senate.  He  opposed  the  embargo  and 
evidently  is  much  dissatisfied  with  the  management  of  our  affairs. 
This  bill  may  possibly  pass  the  Senate  ;  but  stick  in  the  House. 
They  have  hitherto  resisted  the  bill  for  the  small  addition  long 
since  agreed  on  by  the  Senate  to  our  peace  establishment,  which 
we  deemed  expedient  for  our  extended  frontier  and  particularly 
for  the  security  of  New  Orleans.  The  whole  of  this  last  presi- 
dential project  may  be  like  what  Saml.  Smith  spoke  of  before  Mr. 
Rose's  arrival.  He  said  he'expected  in  a  few  days  that  a  resolu- 
tion would  be  laid  on  our  tables  to  raise  30,000  men  :  "  Who 
knows,  said  he,  but '  that  when  the  Envoy  arrives  and  sees  the 
clangour  of  our  preparations  for  war,  he  may  hold  a  very  different 
language  from  what  he  would  if  he  saw  us  reposing  in  the  hopes 
of  peace." 

*  I  wish  you  were  nearer — within  the  reach  of  conversation.  I 
give  you  the  best  information  in  my  power  ;  and  should  be  ex- 
tremely happy  to  learn  your  opinions  on  all  important  occurrences. 

Yours  truly,  T.  Pickering. 

I  have  reason  to  believe  that  last  week  the  negociation  was 
broken  off — and  renewed  at  the  instance  of  our  Government,  who 
with  all  their  irritations  to  provoke,  appear  as  yet  to  dread  a  war 
with  England.  We  must  have  a  union  of  Northern  Interests,  to 
controul  the  predilection  &  counteract  the  fears  of  Jefferson,  & 
overthrow  Virginian  domination. 

*  Annals  of  Congress    1867-8,  1st  Sess.,  p.  151. 

VOL.    V — 6. 


CHAPTER  V. 

King  to  Pickering — Peace  cannot  be  maintained  with  France  and  England — 
Pickering  to  King — Madison's  Answer  to  Rose — Demands  from  France — 
Pickering  to  Rose — King's  Opinion — Rose  to  Pickering — Thanks  him  for 
King's  Letter — Troup  to  King — Evil  Effects  of  Embargo — Pickering  to 
King — President  thinks  no  Occasion  for  War  with  England — King  to 
Gardenier — Life  no  longer  in  Danger — Duel — Gore  to  King — Postpone- 
ment of  Meeting  in  Boston  to  remonstrate  against  Embargo — Question 
asked  whether  Eastern  States  might  not  combine  to  prevent  a  War  with 
G.  Britain — Pickering  to  King — Champagny's  Letter — King  to  Pickering — 
Regrets  that  Chesapeake  Affair  is  unsettled — Approves  his  Letter  to  Sulli- 
van— Gore  to  King — Political  State  in  Massts. — King  to  Pickering — 
Pinkney's  Construction  of  the  Decree  of  Berlin,  indefensible — Smith  to 
King — Medal  to  Com.  Preble — Discussion  about  the  Inscription — King, 
Paper  on  Words. 

R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

New  York,  March  4,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  reed,  several  letters  from  you  that  remain  unacknowl- 
edged— the  last  is  dated  Feb.  26.  The  character  of  our  Minister 
in  London  is  too  well  known  to  me  to  be  surprized  or  disap- 
pointed with  the  Report  of  the  tenor  of  his  late  communications. 
The  mob  of  Congress  may  be  deceived,  because  their  leaders 
have  an  interest  in  deceiving  them  ;  but  it  will  be  hard  to  per- 
suade the  Country  that  the  Decree  of  Berlin  and  the  subsequent 
measures  of  France  are  no  violation  of  our  Rights.  I  greatly 
misjudge,  or  the  last  three  months  have  produced  considerable 
change,  and  that  against  French  influence,  among  the  people. 

With  regard  to  the  Proceedings  and  Views  of  our  Govt.,  I  can 
understand  and  interpret  them  but  in  one  sense,  and  that  sense  is, 
that  Peace  can  no  longer  be  maintained  with  both  France  and 

82 


1808]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  83 

England,  and  in  the  choice  of  an  enemy  England  will  be  pre- 
ferred. 

The  negotiation  hangs,  or  has  hung  as  I  am  informed,  upon 
the  amount  of  the  Reparation  that  shall  be  made  for  the  disa- 
vowed attack  upon  the  Chesapeake.  Deductions  from  this 
amount  are  claimed,  on  account  of  the  Proclamation,  of  the  char- 
acter of  the  seamen  who  deserted  from  the  Eng.  service  &  entered 
into  that  of  the  U.  S.,  and  of  the  demand  and  refusal  of  their 
surrender.  Upon  what  suggestion  the  Discussion  has  been  re- 
sumed, I  have  not  heard,  but  it  would  not  surprize  me,  if  the  ob- 
ject be  to  gain  time  for  further  information  and  further  intrigue. 

The  general  stop  of  Navigation  &  Commerce  is  beginning  to 
affect  a  class  of  Men  who  have  by  their  credit  hitherto  been 
enabled  to  perform  their  engagements,  but  who  seeing  no  pros- 
pect of  the  removal  of  the  Embargo,  and  finding  no  market  for 
the  great  amount  of  property  on  hand,  are  becoming  discouraged 
and  will  shortly  sink  under  the  embarrassment  of  their  affairs. 
Very  faithfully  yr.  ob.  Servt., 

Rufus  King. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  March  4,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

When  I  saw  in  Coleman's  paper  the  direct,  positive  statement 
of  Mr.  Rose's  question  to  Mr.  Madison,  and  the  answer  of  the 
latter  relative  to  the  President's  interdicting  proclamation,  I 
supposed  it  must  have  been  communicated  by  Mr.  Duer,  Mr. 
Rose's  cousin,  who  I  knew  was  here  and  to  whom  I  delivered 
(for  you)  the  President's  volume  of  evidence  &c,  in  the  trial  of 
Burr,  yet  I  doubted  whether  he  received  the  information  from 
Mr.  Rose  ;  I  had  a  special  reason  for  thinking  so  ;  and  in  this 
day's  National  Intelligencer  it  is  declared,  "  from  respectable 
authority  "  to  be  unfounded.  This  authority  is  that  of  Mr.  Rose 
himself  ;  for  his  secretary  (Mr.  Mansfield)  told  me  yesterday  that 
he  called  on  the  editor  for  that  purpose.  Where  then  originated 
the  report  ?  I  cannot  tell — 

The  answer  imputed  to  Madison  is  substantially  what  I  should 
have  expected,  if  such  a  question  had  been    proposed.     For  I 


84  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

have  long  entertained  apprehensions  (and  perhaps  I  have  already 
more  than  once  expressed  them  to  you)  that  Mr.  Jefferson  had 
determined  to  evade  a  settlement  of  the  Chesapeake  affair  ;  and 
with  the  proclamation  &  embargo,  effectually  shut  our  ports 
against  all  British  vessels  &  British  commerce  ;  as  effectually  as 
the  ports  of  France  &  her  dependent  States  are  shut,  by  Bona- 
parte's order,  or  in  open  obedience  to  his  will.  The  negociation 
remained,  four  days  ago,  precisely  in  the  State  in  which  it  was 
five  or  six  weeks  since.  Yet  surely  it  is  not  the  intention  of  Mr. 
J.  to  commence  a  war  with  G.  B.  Mr.  Pinkney's  appointment 
seems  to  be  an  assurance  of  this.  Were  it  not  for  Mr.  Jefferson's 
hatred  of  England  and  predilection  for  France,  I  could  imagine 
all  the  demonstrations  of  hostility  towards  the  former  to  be  the 
result  of  policy,  to  appease  the  wrath  of  Bonaparte  (whom  I  am 
assured  he  has  professed  to  dread)  and  lead  him  to  think  that  a 
more  decided  part,  at  present,  would  hazard  resistance  from  the 
spirit  of  the  people,  not  yet  sufficiently  debased  tamely  to  acquiesce 
in  his  demands.  No  one  (the  President's  dupes  excepted)  doubts 
the  receipt  of  such  demands,  and  I  think  the  recital  of  Cham- 
pagny's  letter,  from  Milan,  to  Armstrong,  in  a  letter  from  a 
gentleman  in  Paris  to  another  in  Leghorn  (dated  Dec.  3d  ) 
countenances  that  opinion.  Champagny  complains  that  our  Gov't, 
had  not  taken  some  steps  to  prevent  the  English  visiting  our 
vessels,  impressing  our  seamen,  &c  ;  but  said,  if  we  came  into 
the  views  of  France — like  the  Continental  powers — the  redress 
asked  for  would  be  afforded.  This  letter  is  in  Coleman's  Even- 
ning  Post  of  Feb.  26th. 

On  the  supposition  that  the  Chesapeake  affair  will  not  be 
adjusted,  and  that  our  Gov't,  will  continue  its  irritations,  we 
should,  in  ordinary  cases,  expect  G.  B.  to  strike  suddenly  and 
indignantly.  But  I  have  hoped  she  would  still  forbear.  I  have 
taken  the  freedom  to  express  earnestly  to  Mr.  Rose  my  opinion, 
that  good  policy  required  on  her  part  much  patience  and  even 
long  suffering  ;  while  we  were  seriously  punishing  ourselves  by 
the  embargo.  I  remarked  that  if  a  new  war  took  place  between 
us,  old  prejudices  would  be  strengthened — enmities  aggravated, 
and  a  future  cordial  amity  &  intercourse  perhaps  forever  barred. 
He  seemed  to  have  entertained  these  considerations  and  to  have 
been  deeply  impressed  with  their  importance  ;   while  he  could 


l8o8]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  85 

not  undertake  to  say  what  would  be  the  sentiment  of  his  Govern- 
ment. He  confirmed  what  Monroe  said,  that  there  were  many 
classes  of  people  in  England  eager  for  a  war  with  the  U.  S.,  and 
that  it  was  only  the  cool  part  of  the  ministry  which  prevented  a 
war.  He  has  received  my  suggestions  with  great  good  will,  and 
manifests  extreme  anxiety  for  an  amicable  adjustment  of  our  dif- 
ferences. I  do  not  know  that  you  would  deem  it  proper  to  express 
your  opinion  on  the  subject  (the  policy  of  England  towards  the 
U.  S.)  in  the  present  state  of  things.  Yet  you  so  well  under- 
stand the  best  interests  of  both  countries,  I  cannot  but  believe 
that  your  ideas  (if  you  permit  me  to  communicate  them  to  Mr. 
Rose)  could  not  only  be  highly  acceptable,  but  have  a  salutary 
difference  where  alone  (if  any  where)  the  opinion  of  the  most  dis- 
cerning American  can  now  have  effect. 

Mr.  Rose  may  be  here  10  days  or  two  weeks  longer  ;  I  shall  be 
greatly  obliged  by  your  early  answer.* 

In  the  National  Intelligencer  of  the  2d  inst  (which  I  inclose) 
you  will  see  two  letters  to  the  Editor  of  the  morning  Chronicle, 
signed  Veritas.  This  "  Briton  "  I  presume  is  Mr.  Pinkney. 
Veritas  has  taken  the  same  ground  of  defence  for  the  U.  States 
that  was  taken  by  Pinkney  in  his  very  long  and  "  hasty  "  (as  he 
affectedly  called  an  elaborate)  statement  of  his  consultation  and 
argument  with  Mr.  Canning  ;  and  appears,  likewise,  to  be  ac- 
quainted with  some  minutice  of  our  affairs  with  which  only  an 
American  would  be  familiar.  I  think  too  that  the  style  is  not 
that  of  the  English  writers.     .     .     . 

very  truly  yours 
T.  Pickering. 

*  An  answer  was  sent  by  Mr.  King,  as  would  appear  by  the  following  extracts 
from  the  Pickering  manuscript,  quoted  in  the  "  New  England  Federalism  "  by 
Mr.  Adams,  p.  366-7. 


T.  Pickering  to  G.  H.  Rose. 

"  Washington,  March  13,  1808. 
"  In  a  late  letter  to  Mr  King,  I  recollect  the  enforcing  my  opinion  by  senti- 
ments of  this  sort.     That  a  new  war  between  the  U.  S.  and  G.  B.  would  revive 
the  memory  of  former  strifes,  with  all  their  topics  of  hatred  and  ill-will  ;  would 
increase  existing  prejudices  and  excite  such  bitter  resentments,  as  hardly  any 


86  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 


Robt.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  March  7,  1808. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  am  very  sorry  to  see  that  the  cloud  over  our  foreign 
relations,  finstead  of  dispersing,  grows  thicker  and  thicker.  We 
will  not  be  long  before  the  effects  of  the  embargo  will  be  most 
severely  felt ;  and  if  they  should  produce  no  change  in  our  next 
election,  it  will  be  a  proof  that  the  public  mind  is  in  a  state  of 
incurable  infatuation.  The  prevalent  opinion  amongst  the  fed- 
eralists here  is,  that  it  is  our  duty  to  attempt  returning  as  many 
federalists  as  we  can  in  our  next  legislature.  The  awful  crisis  of 
our  country  seems  imperiously  to  demand  the  utmost  exertions 
of  patriotism  to  rescue  us  from  the  evils  we  suffer,  and  to  ward 
off  others  of  a  still  more  calamitous  nature  ! 

In  the  Genesee  country  some  farmers  have  been  compelled  to 
part  with  their  wheat  1/6  per  bushel  to  raise  money  to  pay  their 
taxes  ;  all  the  streams  that  flowed  into  the  treasury  of  the  Pulteney 
land  office  in  that  country  are  nearly  dried  up.     .     .     . 
I  remain,  My  dear  Sir,  very  sincerely  yours 

Rob.  Troup. 

length  of  time  would  remove.  To  that  letter  I  received  the  enclosed  answer, 
which  I  communicate  with  the  greater  satisfaction,  because  Mr.  King  is  well 
known  to  your  Government  for  his  distinguished  talents,  correct  views  in 
political  affairs,  and  great  respectability  of  character.  At  this  moment  recurs 
to  me  the  remark  made  to  me  by  the  late  excellent  Mr.  Hamilton  in  1796, 
when  he  expressed  to  me  his  desire  that  Mr.  King  might  be  sent  to  London. 
"  He  is  the  fittest  man  in  the  U.S.  to  represent  us  at  that  court." 

Mr.  Rose  to  Col.  Pickering. 

"  March  18,  1808. 
"You  will,  I  am  sure,  recollect  the  feelings  I  expressed  to  you  the  instant 
you  touched  in  our  late  conversation  on  the  subject  of  your  letter.  You  will 
therefore  readily  conceive  the  satisfaction  I  derive  from  the  sanction  of  your 
confirmed  and  still  further  reflected  opinion,  supported  as  it  is  by  such  a  man 
as  Mr.  King.  I  have  not  confined  myself  to  speculative  feeling,  but  have  acted 
in  consequence  of  the  conviction,  which  I  deeply  entertain.  I  avail  myself 
thankfully  of  your  permission  to  keep  that  gentleman's  letter,  which  I  am  sure 
will  carry  high  authority  where  I  can  use  it  confidently." 


1808]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  87 

R.  King  to  Mr.  Gardenier. 

New  York,  March  10,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Having  heretofore  expressed  to  you,  as  on  every  occasion  I 
have  done  to  our  political  friends,  the  satisfaction  with  which  I 
have  read  your  speeches  in  Congress,  you  will  naturally  imagine 
the  unfeigned  solicitude  that  I  have  lately  experienced  respecting 
your  situation  and  safety.*  So  far  as  my  observations  have  en- 
abled me  to  determine,  the  sentiments  of  the  worthy  and  respect- 
able men  in  this  quarter  are  such  concerning  you,  as  a  virtuous 
and  honorable  man  could  desire  they  should  be  ;  your  talents  as  a 
public  man  especially  in  these  hard  and  portentous  times  have 
appeared  to  me  of  great  value.  I  therefore  not  only  cordially 
rejoice  that  your  life  is  no  longer  in  danger,  but  that  by  the  man- 
ner in  which  you  have  behaved  in  a  situation  which  was  forced 
upon  you,  those  talents  will  hereafter  become  still  more  useful 
to  your  Country, 

With  sincere  esteem,  yr.  obt.  &  faithful  Servt, 

Rufus  King. 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  March  10,  1S0S. 
My  Dear  Friend  : 

.     .     .     Our  public  affairs,  so  far  as  known  and  felt  here  are 

in  a  most  lamentable  state,  and  I  see  no  prospect  that  they  will 

*  Mr.  Gardenier's  speech  this  day  last  week  on  this  bill  (3rd  Embargo  Bill) 
part  of  which  I  heard,  has  given  occasion  to  some  disagreeable  occurrences. 
On  Monday,  three  members  of  the  House,  Johnson  of  Kentucky,  Campbell  of 
Tennessee  and  Montgomery  of  Maryland,  replied  to  what  he  said  by  such  direct 
and  personal  invective,  that  a  challenge  of  Mr.  Campbell,  if  not  also  of  Mr. 
Johnson,  ensued.  Mr.  White  and  Mr.  Epps,  the  two  seconds,  have  been  mak- 
ing formal  arrangements  and  selecting  the  ground  just  beyond  the  line  of  the 
District,  with  much  publicity.  This  morning  they  all  went  out  with  such 
general  notice  that  a  crowd  of  one  or  two  hundred  persons  are  said  to  have 
followed  them  to  the  selected  spot,  where  they  were  finally  separated  by  the 
magistrates  of  the  District  and  of  the  neighboring  County  of  Maryland. 

J.  Q.  Adams,  Mem.  1,  p.  517.  For  Mr.  Gardenier's  Remarks,  see  An.  of 
Congress,  Feby.  1808,  p.  1653,  et  seq.  March  2nd.  Mr.  Geo.  Campbell  and 
Mr.  Gardenier  this  morning  fought  their  duel,  in  which  the  latter  was  badly, 
if  not  mortally  wounded,  f 

\  He  survived  and  continued  in  Congress  until  1811. 


88  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

change  for  the  better.  On  the  receipt  of  your  letter,  relative  to 
the  embargo,  I  had  several  conversations  with  our  Merchants  on 
the  propriety  of  calling  together  the  inhabitants.  They  thought 
a  few  weeks  later  its  effect  would  be  felt  and  a  desire  to  request 
its  repeal  more  general.  Since  that  time  events  have  been  con- 
stantly announced  to  us,  which  show  the  embarrassed  State  of 
Commerce,  and  by  many  have  been  cited,  as  proving  the  wisdom 
of  those,  who  proposed  and  imposed  the  embargo.  Some  of  our 
men,  who  have  generally  voted  &  acted  with  the  federalists,  being 
extremely  rich  &  fearful  of  losing  any  portion  of  their  property, 
are  weak  enough  to  believe  the  Measures  of  the  Executive  will 
prevent  a  war,  &  therefore  speak  favourably  of  the  Embargo, 
and  that  the  chances  of  war  are  diminished  by  our  having  no 
vessels  on  the  Ocean  to  be  captured. 

We  are  doing  everything  in  our  Legislature  that  the  vilest 
democrat  can  suggest — regardless  of  those  principles,  which 
elevated  and  secured  the  Rights  of  our  forefathers.  Mr.  Picker- 
ing's letter,  of  which  John  has  a  copy,  was  received  by  the  Gov- 
ernor last  Tuesday  evening  or  Wednesday  morning  ;  on  Monday 
a  motion  was  made  in  the  Senate  to  send  for  the  same.  This  did 
not  prevail ;  it  is  said  he  sent  it  back  again.  J.  Q.  Adams  wrote 
him  last  Saturday  that,  according  to  Mr.  Pinkney's  Dispatches, 
G.  Britain  had  given  unequivocal  proofs  of  her  Intention  to  make 
war  on  the  U.  States.  This  was  a  private  letter  and  therefore 
only  communicated  to  his  particular  friends.  We  have  some 
Hope  that  P's.  Communication,  of  which  we  shall  distribute  5000 
copies,  may  arouse  our  People  from  their  sleep,  which  really  ap- 
pears like  the  sleep  of  death  ;  but  even  of  this  I  dare  not  predict. 
A  Question  is  frequently  asked  here,  whether  the  States  to  the 
East  of  the  Delaware  might  not  combine  for  the  Purpose  of  pre- 
venting a  war  with  Great  Britain,  and  whether  a  portion  of  your 
democrats  would  not  unite  in  this  Object,  and  if  this  be  probable, 
whether  a  convention  of  Merchants  might  not  be  advantageously 
assembled  to  deliberate  on  their  affairs,  and  the  Embarrassments 
they  suffer  in  consequence  of  their  being  deprived  of  their 
accustomed  Business.     .     .     . 

Yours  affectionately 

C.  Gore. 


1808]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  89 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  March  28,  1808 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  We  have  our  war-days  and  our  peace-days  at  the  seat 
of  Government.  On  Saturday  evening  some  democratic  members, 
who  had  dined  with  the  President,  reported  that  he  told  them  he 
had  received  dispatches  from  Mr.  Pinkney  of  a  more  conciliatory 
nature  :  and  that  there  was  now  no  more  occasion  for  war  with 
G.  B.,  than  at  any  period  of  his  administration  ;  and  that  there 
would  be  no  necessity  for  an  army  !         very  truly  yours 

T.  Pickering. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  March  30,  1S08. 
Dear  Sir  :  ^v 

.  .  .  To-day  we  had  confidential  communications  from  Mr. 
Pinkney  to  the  26th  January  &  from  Mr.  Armstrong  to  the  2 2d 
of  that  month.  On  French  affairs  the  communications  are  mani- 
festly partial  ;  not  one  word  from  Mr.  Madison  to  Armstrong — 
and  but  two  from  the  latter  to  Madison — one  dated  Dec.  27,  the 
other  Jany.  22.  In  great  haste  Faithfully  yours 

T.  Pickering. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  Apr.  2,  180S. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  think  I  have  already  announced  to  you  a  secret  message,  with 
dispatches  from  Armstrong.  For  3  days  the  opposition  members 
have  been  engaged  to  draw  forth  Champagny's  letter.  To-day 
the  President,  as  of  his  own  mere  action,  sent  a  message  with  per- 
mission to  have  it  printed,  as  a  means  of  promoting  Union  &c  ! 
I  enclose  a  copy  of  the  letter.  *  yrs  truly 

T.  Pickering. 

*  Translation  of  the  letter  from  M.  Champagny  to  Genl.  Armstrong. 

Paris,  Jany.  15,  1S08. 
Sir  : 

The  different  notes  which  you  have  done  me  the  honour  to  address  to  me, 
have  been  laid  before  his  Majesty. 

The  proceedings  of  England  towards  all  Governments  are  so  contrary  to  the 
law  of    Nations,  and  to  all  the  rules  constantly  observed  even  among  enemies 


90  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

N.  York,  April  2,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

On  my  return  from  Long  Island  where  I  have  been  attending 
to  my  garden,  I  reed,  your  kind  letter  of  the  25th.  ulto.  with  a 
copy  of  the  correspondence  with  England  respecting  the  Chesa- 
peake. I  am  now  engaged  in  reading  it  :  the  result  is  such  as  I 
have  anticipated.  The  communications  from  the  French  Gov- 
ernment are  to  be  such  as  concern  "  the  General  Relations " 
between  the  two  Countries — a  restriction  that  will  keep  back  all 

that  no  recourse  against  this  power  is  any  longer  to  be  found  in  the  ordinary 
means  of  repression.  In  order  to  annoy  her  it  is  become  necessary  to  turn 
against  her  the  arms  which  she  makes  use  of  herself  ;  and  if  transient  incon- 
veniences result  therefrom,  it  is  to  her  alone  that  they  are  to  be  imputed.  Since 
England  respects  no  laws,  how  could  they  be  respected  with  regard  to  her? 
The  Maritime  laws  which  she  violates — ought  they  to  still  be  a  protection  to  her  ? 
And  if  some  powers  tolerate  the  infractions  committed  on  their  independence, 
could  they  have  the  right  to  require  that  France  alone  should  restrain  herself 
within  the  limits,  which  her  enemy  has  everywhere  overleaped? 

The  U.  States  more  than  any  other  power  have  to  complain  of  the  aggression 
of  England.  It  has  not  been  enough  for  her  to  offend  against  the  inde- 
pendence of  their  Flag,  nay  against  that  of  their  territory,  and  of  their  inhabi- 
tants, by  attacking  them  even  in  their  ports,  by  forcibly  carrying  away  their 
crews  ;  her  decrees  of  the  nth  November  have  made  a  fresh  attack  on  their 
commerce  and  on  their  Navigation,  as  they  have  done  on  all  the  Powers. 

In  the  situation  in  which  England  has  placed  the  Continent,  especially  since 
her  decrees  of  the  nth  of  November,  his  Majesty  has  no  doubt  of  a  declaration 
of  war  against  her  by  the  U.  States.  Whatever  transient  sacrifices  war  may  oc- 
casion, they  will  not  believe  it  consistent  either  with  their  interest  or  dignity, 
to  acknowledge  the  monstrous  principle  and  the  anarchy  which  that  Govt. 
wishes  to  establish  on  the  seas.  If  it  be  useful  and  honourable  for  all  Nations 
to  cause  the  true  Maritime  law  of  nations  to  be  re-established,  and  to  avenge 
the  insults  committed  by  England,  against  every  flag,  it  is  indispensable  for  the 
U.  States,  who  from  the  extent  of  their  commerce  have  oftener  to  complain  of 
those  violations.  War  exists  in  fact  between  England  &  the  U.  States,  and  his 
Majesty  considers  it  as  declared  from  the  day  on  which  England  published  her 
decrees. 

In  that  persuasion  his  Majesty,  ready  to  consider  the  U.  States  as  associated 
with  the  cause  of  all  the  powers,  who  have  to  defend  themselves  against  Eng- 
land, has  not  taken  any  definite  measure  towards  the  American  Vessels  which 
may  have  been  brought  into  our  ports  ;  he  has  ordered  that  they  should  remain 
sequestered,  until  a  decision  may  be  had  thereon  according  to  the  dispositions 
which  shall  have  been  expressed  by  the  Govt,  of  the  U.  States. 

Annals  of  Congress  1S07-8.     1st  Sessn.  p.  1S3. 


1808]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  9 1 

that  regards  the  particular  Relations,  which  are  precisely  those 
concerning  which  we  are,  as  we  have  been,  kept  in  the  dark.  I 
certainly  consider  it  as  a  matter  of  deep  regret  that  the  difficulty 
respecting  the  Chesapeake  has  not  been  totally  removed  :  enough 
has  been  done  to  prevent  a  rupture  between  the  two  nations  on 
that  subject  ;  but  in  the  crisis  of  our  affairs  it  would  have  been 
a  great  and  good  step  towards  security  had  the  ordinary  inter- 
course and  good  understanding  been  re-established  between  us 
and  England. 

If  we  may  understand  Mr.  Madison  as  having  consented  to 
waive  all  the  subjects  or  points,  alluded  to  in  the  Proclamation, 
except  the  affair  of  the  Chesapeake,  and  to  have  offered  to  recall 
the  Proclamation,  provided  the  reparation  for  the  attack  on  the 
Chesapeake  shd.  be  satisfactory,  I  cannot  help  believing  that  it 
would  have  been  the  best  policy,  and  in  nothing  exceptionable 
(had  Mr.  Rose's  powers  permitted)  that  the  offer  of  a  liberal 
reparation  should  have  been  made  ;  and  I  am  the  more  disposed 
to  this  Opinion  by  every  reflection,  which  suggests  that  a  satisfac- 
tory adjustment  of  this  misunderstanding  would  inevitably  have 
been  followed  by  a  decisive  State  of  things  with  France. 

I  do  not  recollect  that  I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  writing  to 
you  since  we  received  Copies  of  your  letter  to  Gov.  Sullivan.*  I 
need  not  say  to  you  all  I  think  on  the  Subject  of  your  Letter,  but 
you  will  allow  me  to  offer  you  my  sincere  thanks  for  writing  it. 

always  &  faithfully  yrs. 

Rufus  King. 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  8th  April,  180S. 
My  dear  Friend  ; 

Our  election  has  ended  full  as  well  as  ever  could  have  been  ex- 
pected.    We  have  reason  to  believe  that  Cumberland  County  will 

*  A  Letter  from  the  Hon.  Timothy,  a  Senator  *  *  from  the  State  of  Mass., 
exhibiting  to  his  constituents  a  View  of  the  Imminent  Danger  of  an  unnecessary 
and  Ruinous  War,  Addressed  to  his  Excellency  James  Sullivan,  Governor  of 
the  said  State. 

Mr.  Adams  answered  this  letter  in  one  controverting  the  opinions  of  Mr. 
Pickering,  addressed  to  H.  G.  Otis  and  sent  to  W.  S.  Shaw  "  to  get  it  printed 
immediately" — J.  Q.  Adams  Mem.  I,  p.  522-3. 


92  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

send  two  federal  Senators  to  the  Legislature,  in  which  case,  there 
will  be  a  majority  of  Federalists  in  the  Senate.  There  is  also 
some  ground  to  hope  Cobb  will  be  returned  as  Lt.  Govr.  This 
will  probably  be  more  mortifying  to  the  Democrats  than  the  Loss 
of  Sullivan,  as  the  latter  is  undoubtedly  not  their  favorite, 
although  Lincoln  is. 

In  this  town  we  are  becoming  divided  on  Questions,  where  we 
should  suppose  no  division  of  sentiment  could  exist.  It  is  impu- 
table to  a  multitude  of  little  passions  which  operate  on  the  minds 
of  men  who  by  nature  are  placed  in  Stations  under  what  they 
aspire  to,  and  which  they  are  unable  to  attain  without  relinquish- 
ing their  Character  as  honest  men  &  procuring  a  Degree  of  Bold- 
ness, in  which  they  are  deficient,  for  the  Democratic  Party,  or 
without  more  understanding  or  better  Information  to  make  them 
Leaders  of  the  Federalists.  J.  Q.  A.  has  conspired  to  produce 
much  of  the  evil  we  now  experience  in  this  State  of  our  Affairs  : 
and  a  letter  of  his  is  to  be  published  in  this  Town  on  Monday 

next,  in  answer  to  Col.  Pickering's.  yours  truly 

C.  Gore. 


R.  Smith  (Secy,  of  the  Navy)  to  R.  King. 

Navy  Department,  April  9,  1808. 
Sir  : 

I  have  the  honor  of  herewith  transmitting  to  you  for  your  ac- 
ceptance an  impression  of  the  Medal  presented  to  the  late  Com- 
modore Edward  Preble  in  pursuance  of  the  Resolution  of  Congress 
of  the  3d.  March,  1805. 

I  am  very  respectfully,  Sir,  yr.  most  obed  st. 

R.  Smith. 


R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

New  York,  April  12,  1808. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  yesterday  received  from  you  two  Packets  containing  the  cor- 
respondence relative  to  the  British  Treaty  to  page  69,  and  by  this 
mail  send  you  Mr.  Baring's  Pamphlet,  lately  republished  here, 
respecting  the  commercial  Relations  between  us   &  G.  Britain. 


1808]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  93 

Tho'  this  performance  contains  little  that  will  be  new  to  an 
American  conversant  with  the  subject,  it  nevertheless  communi- 
cates a  great  deal  of  information  to  Englishmen. 

The  construction  of  the  Peace  of  Berlin,  the  same  that  Mr. 
Pinkney  has  adopted,  is  indefensable  and  will  do  harm.  Should 
the  English  Ministry  be  unable  to  maintain  their  standing,  their 
successors  will  annul  the  Orders  of  Council,  which  so  far  as  re- 
spects the  taxation  of  our  Merchandise,  are  a  most  impolitic 
measure. 

It  may  be  apprehended  that  the  issue  of  the  Massachusetts 
Election  will  encourage  our  Rulers  to  persevere  in  measures, 
that  must  prove  ruinous  to  the  Trade  &  Navigation  of  the 
Northern  States.  Such,  however,  is  the  infatuation  of  the  Coun- 
try, that  the  authors  of  these  measures  lose  little  of  their  former 
popularity.  Time  &  the  continued  inconvenience,  which  all  will 
feel,  must  &  will  work  a  change. 

Very  faithfully  yr.  ob.  st. 

Rufus  King. 

The  Federalists  of  this  State  will  offer  Candidates,  but  I  sus- 
pect with  less  zeal  than  formerly. 


R.  Smith  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  April  22,  1808. 
Sir  : 

I  have  just  received  your  favour  of  the  13th  of  this  month  in 
answer  to  my  official  communication  to  you  of  the  9th. 

The  critical  remarks  of  a  gentleman  of  classical  taste  and  of 
liberal  mind  cannot  but  be  at  all  times  highly  acceptable  to  every 
person  who  has  any  pretensions  to  polite  literature.  I  am  justly 
sensible  of  the  full  force  of  your  criticism  on  the  words  "  Vindici 
Commercii  Americani" — namely  that  "it  may  hereafter  upon 
the  mere  evidence  of  this  medal  be  uncertain  whether  Edward 
Preble  was  an  American  or  a  Foreign  Admiral."  But,  pray,  are 
not  the  words  "  Commercii  patriae  Vindici  "  proposed  by  you  to 
be  substituted,  liable  to  precisely  the  same  objection  ?  In  both 
cases  the  words  would  convey,  only  by  implication,  the  idea  that 
he   was   an    American.     The   essential    difference    between    the 


94  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

words  adopted  and  the  words  proposed  is  that  the  latter  might 
hereafter  have  the  misfortune  to  be  applied  not  only  to  a  foreign 
officer,  but  also  to  the  commerce  of  the  very  country  of  such  for- 
eigner. 

As  to  the  word  "  Tripoli  "  I  know  not  on  what  authority  you 
have  considered  it  a  regular  &  classical  noun  of  the  third  declen- 
sion. Writing  as  I  now  am,  in  my  publick  office,  and  of  course 
not  having  within  my  reach  a  Latin  book  of  any  kind,  I  have  to 
rely  altogether  upon  my  recollection  ;  and  this  strongly  inclines 
me  to  the  opinion  that  your  position  has  not  the  sanction  of  any 
Latin  writer.  In  the  Legend  you  have  doubtless  perceived  that 
the  word  Tripoli  has  been  used  as  an  indeclinable  noun. 

Be  pleased  to  accept  an  assurance  of  the  real  esteem  with 
which  I  have  the  honor  to  be 

Sir,  yr.  ob.  Sevt. 

R.  Smith. 


R.  Smith  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  May  1,  1808. 
Sir  : 

Your  favour  of  the  25th  I  have  had  the  honour  of  receiving  and 
I  am  truly  sorry  to  find  that  you  cannot  reconcile  yourself  to  the 
Medal  of  our  deceased  friend.  Its  intention  being  to  preserve 
the  image  of  an  illustrious  countryman  and  the  memory  of  one  of 
his  gallant  achievements,  "  et  tui  et  mei  interest  "  that  its  real 
value  be  not  in  any  degree  diminished  by  a  supposed  oversight 
in  its  inscription.  Had  the  words  "  Commercii  patriae  vindici  " 
happened  to  have  occurred  to  me,  they  possibly — nay  probably — 
would,  euphonise  gratia,  have  been  preferred. 

In  my  last  letter  it  was  my  intention  not  to  have  expressed  any 
serious  opinion  of  my  own  upon  your  proposed  substitute,  but 
merely  to  have  suggested  what  the  meddling  hypercriticks  of  this 
busy  world  might  perchance  have  been  disposed  to  insinuate. 
And  let  me  now  add  that  the  same  captious  gentry  might  even 
ask,  how  a  man  who  had  no  knowledge  of  the  history  of  Rome  or 
of  the  biography  of  Cicero  could  discover  in  Cicero's  title,  "  Pater 
Patriae  "  that  the  "  Pater  "  was  a  Roman,  or  the  "  Patriae  "  Rome. 
Such  unlimited  criticism  however  is  not  to  be  regarded.     Every 


l8o8]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  95 

person,  who  has  at  all  attended  to  this  branch  of  knowledge,  will 
know  that  Medals  are  not  considered  as  isolated  monuments,  but 
that  they  and  history  are  ever  viewed  in  connexion  and  in  illus- 
tration of  each  other.  A  Medal  is,  indeed,  not  unfrequently  of 
use  in  ascertaining  the  chronology  of,  and  in  elucidating  an  im- 
portant event,  and,  in  truth,  to  be  duly  sensible  of  the  intrinsick 
merits  of  ancient  Medals  a  man  must  be  not  only  a  connoisseur 
in  drawing  and  engraving,  but  must,  moreover,  be  well  versed  in 
the  history,  the  antiquities  and  the  ceremonies  of  ancient 
Nations. 

I  must  entreat  your  indulgence  in  remarking  that  your  cita- 
tions from  Livy  only  show  what  no  person  can  controvert,  that 
Tripoli  is  a  regular  noun  of  the  third  declension.  This  name 
from  its  etymology  could  not  have  been  given  by  the  Romans  but 
to  a  City  formed  of  three  Cities  contiguous  to  each  other ;  and 
although  the  Greek  Polis  was  compounded  by  the  Romans  as  the 
French  Ville  is  by  us,  yet  there  is  no  instance  of  its  having  been 
done  by  the  Romans,  nor  I  trust  by  us,  in  utter  disregard  of  the 
true  meaning  of  the  terms.  The  Romans  never  could  have  called 
a  Kingdom  or  a  Province  Tripolis  :  nor  we  a  State  or  a  Country 
Fayetteville  &c.  In  Africa  they  have  given  the  name  of  Tripoli, 
not  only  to  their  principal  city,  but  to  their  Kingdom.  And  it  is 
not  material  in  the  present  inquiry  whether  this  name  was  or  was 
not  originally  a  corruption  of  Tripolis.  It  is  sufficient  to  know 
that  this  African  city  was  never  a  Roman  City  and  was  never  by 
them  called  Tripolis,  but  has  ever  been  and  yet  is  known  and  dis- 
tinguished in  every  Atlas  by  the  name  of  Tripoli.  If  then  the 
words  "  ante  Tripolim  "  had  been  used  in  the  Legend,  we  would 
have  been  exposed  to  the  imputation  of  altering  the  distinguish- 
ing name  of  the  City  as  every  scholar  must  necessarily  have  trans- 
lated such  words  into  "before  Tripolim." 

When  the  modern  name  of  a  City  has  even  the  termination  of 
the  nominative  case  of  a  Latin  noun  of  either  declension,  we  may 
at  pleasure,  use  it  either  in  the  vernacular  forms,  or  as  a  declin- 
able Latin  Noun.  The  former  I  prefer.  In  the  latter  there  is  to 
my  taste  a  quaintness.     But  de  gustibus  &c  &c. 

With  unfeigned  Esteem,  Sir,  truly  yours 

R.  Smith. 

P.  S. — It  is  somewhat  curious  that  you  &  I  should  thus  find  our- 


96  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 


selves  involved  in  a  kind  of  controversial  correspondence — and 
about  words*  As  the  Medal  is  immutable,  can  any  good  result 
from  its  further  continuance — "  Aestimo  te  magni."  R.  S. 

*  There  is  among  Mr.  King's  papers  one  on  -words,  which  tho'  it  does  not 
properly  relate  to  these  letters,  shows  how  certain  words  may  derive  a  meaning 
from  circumstances  connected  with  their  application. 

WORDS. 

Words  without  meaning  or  with  wrong  meaning  have  especially  of  late  years 
done  great  harm.  Liberty,  Love  of  Country,  Federalism,  Republicanism, 
Democracy,  Jacobin,  Glory,  Philosophy  and  Honor  are  words  in  the  mouth  of 
everyone  and  without  any  precision  used  by  any  one  ;  the  abuse  of  words  is  as 
pernicious    as  the  abuse  of  things.     Apostacy  is  another  word  of  Party. 

The  majority  are  careless  or  ignorant.  Such  a  man  is  an  apostate,  says  some 
impudent  Quack,  because  he  separates  from  the  party  with  which  he  commenced 
his  career  ;  the  Calumny  is  believed  and  Character  is  lost.  What  is  Glory,  what 
is  Patriotism,  what  is  apostacy?  are  they  names  or  things? 

When  the  French  Revolution  began,  the  hope  which  almost  all  men  enter- 
tained was  that  a  great  and  highly  cultivated  People  would  be  able  to  change  their 
dependence  on  a  purely  Monarchical  Government  and  acquire  a  portion  of  per- 
sonal freedom,  which  should  elevate  them  in  the  scale  of  society  and  increase 
the  mass  of  private  happiness ;  hence  their  good  feelings  and  good  wishes 
toward  France. 

But  when  in  the  course  of  the  Revolution  Despotism  instead  of  Freedom, 
became  more  firmly  established,  altho'  the  change  was  effected  in  the  name  of 
Liberty,  and  still  called  Freedom,  who  were  in  reality  the  Apostates?  Those 
who  adhered  to  France,  or  those  who  withdrew  their  good  wishes  and  feelings 
from  her  ?  Plain  as  the  answer  is,  it  has  nevertheless  been  the  latter  who  have 
been  branded  as  the  Apostates.  Bonaparte  on  his  first  usurpation  was  hailed 
as  the  Friend  of  Liberty.  When  he  afterwards  made  himself  Emperor,  these 
men  found  this  change  consistent  with  their  notions  of  Liberty  and  seemed  to 
have  been  particularly  charmed  with  his  new  stock  Nobility,  f 

f"  The  Cloth  of  Honour  should  be  strongly  woven,"  said  the  great  Captain 
Gonsalvo  de  Cordova.  One  great  object  gained  by  the  Revolution  will  be  that 
"  the  people  of  the  ante-chamber  and  the  kitchen  should  take  possession  of  the 
Drawing  Room,"  said  Sieyes. 

N.  B. — It  was  an  instruction  of  Bonaparte  to  his  first  agents  in  for.  countries 
— so  he  instructed  Goldsmith — to  address  themselves  to  the  men  who  were  al- 
ways speaking  on  Reform,  Love  of  Country,  Natural  Independence,  the  zeal- 
ous Advocates  of  Liberty,  wherever  to  be  found. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

W.  King  to  King — Large  Numbers  in  Maine  against  the  present  Measure  of 
the  Administration — Gore  to  King — May  choose  Electors  by  the  Legisla- 
ture— Suggested  as  Senator  of  U.  S. — Baring  to  King — His  Son's  Pam- 
phlet— Gore  to  King — Committee  appointed  to  correspond  with  Federalists 
about  the  next  Election  of  President — Gore  to  King — Proposed  a  meeting 
of  Federalists  in  New  York — Federalists  prefer  federal  Candidate — Alter- 
native Clinton — Dr.  Mason  to  King — Condoles  with  him  on  account  of  an 
Accident  to  his  Son — King  to  Mason — Responds — King  to  Gore — Aston- 
ished at  Parsons  views  about  the  Presidential  Election — Clinton  not  sup- 
ported in  N.  Y.  against  Madison — Ewing's  Career — King  to  Gore — Trees 
for  Jamaica — Better  Temper  in  England  respecting  America — Pickering  to 
King — Embargo  to  be  continued — N.  England  Opposition  makes  Presi- 
dent's Friends  uneasy — Anecdote  relative  to  Franklin  in  the  Peace 
Negotiations — King  to  Pickering — Madison  and  Neutral  Rights  as  affected 
by  the  Berlin  Decree — Gore  to  King — Disappointment  in  Boston  the  Em- 
bargo is  not  repealed — Sufferings  unbearable — Articles  in  Ev'g  Post,  on 
France's  Infringement  of  Treaty  attributed  to  King. 

Wm.  King  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  May  24,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  duly  received  yours  of  the  6th  &  12th  inst.  Considering  the 
present  situation  of  the  country,  there  are  many  persons  in  this 
State  and  in  the  District  of  Maine  in  particular,  who  have  been 
supporting  the  present  administration,  who  would  have  had  no 
objections  to  the  termination  of  your  State  election  in  the  way 
you  first  apprehended  (Federal) 

How  the  parties  will  stand  here  is  at  present  uncertain  as  it 
respects  the  organization  of  the  Government,  but  this  you  can 
calculate  on  to  a  certainty  that  there  will  be  a  large  majority  that 
will  not  approve  the  present  measures  of  the  administration. 
The  interest  which  I  mentioned  to  you  is  now  formidable  ;  I 
think  it  will  extend  to  one  half  of  the  democratick  members  of 

VOL.  v.— 7  gy 


98  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

the  District  of  Maine.  It  is  a  mercantile  interest  which  they 
believe  has  been  neglected.  When  the  Resolution  approving  the 
measures  of  the  Government  came  up  from  the  House  to  the 
Senate  the  last  winter,  they  were  postponed  from  day  to  day  for 
more  than  10  days  at  my  request  and  that  of  some  of  my  com- 
mercial friends,  who  were  then  of  the  opinion  that  there  was  not 
information  enough  before  the  Public  to  authorize  an  approbation 
of  the  Embargo  in  particular.  However  we  found  it  necessary 
then  to  give  way,  or  break  with  the  persons  with  whom  we  acted. 
The  difficulties  on  the  part  of  some  of  the  Republican's  were 
exaggerated  and  sent  abroad  with  a  view  to  injure  in  the  estima- 
tion of  the  People  men  who  they  observed  had  a  deep  commercial 
interest  which  they  were  disposed  to  accommodate  in  preference 
to  that  of  the  general  interest  of  the  country.  This  information 
had  an  effect  the  reverse  of  what  they  had  contemplated. 

There  will  be  no  difficulty  here  in  obtaining  such  Electors, 
whether  they  are  chosen  by  the  Legislature  or  the  People  at  large, 
as  your  friends  would  think  favourably  of.  Since  Congress  ad- 
journed, the  people  almost  despair  of  any  thing  being  done  for 
them  as  promptly  as  they  had  reason  to  expect,  and  I  am  of  the 
opinion  that  had  the  adjournment  taken  place  before  the  Inter- 
national Election,  Mr.  Gore  would  have  been  elected  with  a  large 
majority  ;  such  was  the  immediate  effect  it  had  &  continues  still 
to  have.  Should  things  remain  in  the  present  situation  until  the 
fall,  there  must  be  I  think  a  change  of  men.  Should  the  Election 
of  members  of  Congress  come  on  now  with  the  present  feelings 
of  the  people,  not  more  certainly  than  three  Democratick  mem- 
bers would  be  returned  from  this  State.  If  other  States  are 
similarly  influenced  there  can  be  but  little  do'bt  what  the  result 
of  the  fall  Elections  will  be  ;  with  the  Elections  of  the  Spring  I 
have  taken  no  part  and  feel  inclined  to  look  on  for  a  time,  at 
least  until  I  am  better  satisfied.     .     .     . 

Your  affectionate  Brother  Wm.  King 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

My  Dear  Friend  :  BosTON-  Ma^  28-  l8°8- 

.     .     .     Our  Friends  have  been  uncommonly  anxious  for  my 
return,  which,  however,  I  am  confident,  could  have  been  attended 


l8o8]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE. 


99 


with  no  good.  It  would  have  been  impossible  for  me  to  have 
avoided  being  Speaker.  .  .  .  We  have  a  majority  of  about  30 
(in  the  House )  &  yesterday  morning  we  elected  Senators  to  fill 
up  the  vacancies  there.  It  now  consists  of  23  Federal  members 
&  17  Democrats. 

We  shall  probably  pass  some  Vote  or  Resolve  for  choosing 
Electors  by  the  Legislature.  Sullivan  might  plague  us  in  approv- 
ing of  any  Resolve,  and  in  looking  into  our  State  and  the  Federal 
Constitution,  we  are  generally  convinced  that  the  two  Branches 
alone  have  the  right  of  directing  the  manner,  and  that  the  Resolve 
need  not  go  to  him  for  his  approbation.  Some  of  our  people 
hesitate  on  the  Expediency  of  this  proceeding  because  it  will  not 
be  according  to  the  usage  of  the  country,  but  I  trust  they  will  ac- 
cede to  our  wishes. 

We  shall  choose  a  Senator  this  Session  ;  but  who  it  will  be  I 
cannot  say.  To  take  one  that  cannot  be  objected  to  by  the  friends 
of  Mr.  Adams  seems  the  great  Difficulty.  The  Federalists  have 
been  very  importunate  with  me  on  this  subject,  believing  that 
such  a  choice  would  be  made  as  to  prevent  all  chance  of  a  Divi- 
sion. Whether  this  be  true,  I  cannot  judge,  but  the  Sacrifice  of 
personal  feeling,  or  of  interest,  by  absence,  would  be  greater  than 
I  think  I  am  required  to  make.  Mr.  Lloyd  is  thought  of  &  would 
certainly  be  an  acquisition  from  his  commercial  knowledge  &c, 
&c.     .     .     .  yours  truly 

C.  Gore. 

P.  S.  Sullivan  gives  a  Certificate  to  whomever  applies  for  per- 
mission to  import  Flour  ;  his  son  George  taking  only  one  dollar 
for  the  Certific.     .     .     . 


F.  Baring  to  R.  King. 

London,  3d  June,  1808. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     I  trust  that  my  son's  performance  has  reached  you. 

The  first  edition  was  sent  forth  in  too  much  haste  &  under  the 

pressure  of  severe  illness.     ...     It  was  undoubtedly  intended 

as  an  answer  to  "  War  in  disguise,"  but  as  nothing  has  appeared 

from  its  author  in  reply  &  that  the  opinion  is  generally  favorable 

even  by  Government  to  the  facts  and  principles  which  it  contains, 

much  good  may  be  said  to  have  been  done.      Ministers  and  their 


. 


100  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

friends  say,  it  is  too  much  American,  for  something  they  must 
say,  but  they  cannot  point  out  any  part  that  will  admit  of  such  an 
interpretation  &  their  language  in  public  has  been  much  more 
conciliatory  since  its  appearance.  Unfortunately  there  is  a  de- 
gree of  false  shame  which  induces  many  to  persist  in  error,  rather 
than  to  acknowledge  it,  and  if  the  late  administration  with  "  all 
the  Talents  "  did  not  succeed,  it  must  be  admitted  that  their  suc- 
cessors do  not  posses  that  superior  intellect  which  enables  great 
men  to  overcome  prejudices.  It  may  almost  be  said  that  there  is 
but  one  man  and  one  system  in  the  world,  and  that  defence,  or 
rather  the  contest  for  self  preservation,  consists  in  a  strict  literal 
opposition  according  to  the  circumstances  of  the  moment,  with- 
out contemplating  any  large  or  deep  plan  which  shall  aid  the 
courage  and  firmness  manifested  everywhere,  and  on  which  minds 
rely  too  much.     .     .     . 

Your  most  truly  faithful  hum.  servant 

F.  Baring. 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  Thursday,  June  8,  1808. 

To  avoid  all  question  about  the  Governor's  approbation  of  a 
Resolve  appointing  the  manner  of  choosing  Electors,  we  at  first 
voted  to  postpone  the  consideration  of  the  subject  until  the  next 
Session.  We  then  voted  to  ask  an  adjournment,  until  the  2d 
Thursday  in  November  ;  then  to  meet  for  the  purpose  of  choos- 
ing Electors  &c.  The  Democrats  have  had  an  Intention  to  em- 
barrass this  Measure,  through  the  Governor,  and  may  probably 
attempt  it,  when  we  come  to  request  the  Adjournment,  but  I  have 
no  great  apprehensions  on  the  subject. 

Mr.  Adams  last  night  sent  a  letter  to  the  Legislature,  resigning 
his  office  of  Senator.  We  have  elected  Lloyd.  Our  answer  to 
the  Governor's  are  in  unison  with  the  Resolutions. 

We  have  appointed  a  Committee  to  correspond  with  the  Feder- 
alists in  the  other  States  on  the  business  of  the  next  Election  of 
President  &  V.  President.  I  think  the  Federalists  were  never 
more  united  or  more  encouraged  than  at  present.  The  Embargo 
is  producing  real  &  extensive  distress  and  the  officers  are  acting 
very  indiscreetly,  if  not  wantonly,  in  taking  Flour  from  Stores  on 
the  Schoodiac  and  carrying  it  to  the  Custom  House  where  it  lies 


1808]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  101 

as  is  said,  uncovered  and  exposed  to  the  weather  ;  and  many  ac- 
tions we  are  told,  are  commenced  against  the  officers.     .     .     . 

C.  Gore. 

C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 
My  Dear  Sir  :  Boston,  June  16,  1808. 

Our  Committee  of  Correspondence,  which  was  appointed  by  a 
Committee  of  twenty,  which  20  were  chosen  by  the  Federalists 
consisting  of  nearly  three  hundred,  is  composed  of  George  Cabot, 
Otis.  Lloyd,  Bigelow  &  myself.  We  met  on  Saturday  last,  &  im- 
mediately sent  Livermore  to  N.  Hampshire,  and  we  are  flatter'd 
with  the  Belief  that  the  Electors  of  that  State  will  be  federal. 

After  some  Conversation  it  was  deemed  advisable  to  propose  a 
meeting  of  Federalists,  from  as  many  States,  as  could  be  season- 
ably notified,  at  New  York  the  last  of  this,  or  the  Beginning  of  the 
next  month  :  and  Bigelow  sets  off  on  Monday  for  Vermont  to 
consult  and  arrange  with  the  Feds  of  that  State,  on  their  sending 
some  person  or  persons  to  the  meeting  in  N.  York ;  and  to  attain 
the  best  Data  for  forming  an  opinion  as  to  the  Result  of  their 
Election.  Otis  is  now  at  R.  Island.  This  measure  of  the  pro- 
posed meeting  was  adopted  for  the  purpose  of  concerting  our  ar- 
rangements, &  ascertaining,  as  far  as  could  be  done,  the  Weight 
of  the  Federalists  in  the  next  Election,  and  how  to  dispose  the 
power  they  might  be  possessed  of.  It  was  hastened  by  a  letter 
from  Mr.  Hare  of  Philadelphia,  who  stated  the  necessity  of  the 
Federalists  knowing  in  Philadelphia,  what  was  conceived  to  be 
the  best  course  to  be  pursued,  whether  to  attempt  bringing  in  a 
Federal  Prest.  &c.  or  to  unite  with  the  Clintonians,  that  they  might 
begin  to  canvass  accordingly  for  Electors.  Hare's  opinion,  so  far 
as  could  be  gather'd  from  his  Letter,  appeared  to  be  in  favour  of 
running  the  Federal  Candidates,  although  the  probability  was 
against  our  Success  ;  and  Judge  Sedgwick  (who  is  in  Philadelphia, 
probably  with  a  view  of  gaining  some  heat  for  his  Autumnal  Cam- 
paign, which  is  to  be  matrimonial,  with  Miss  Penelope  Russell  of 
about  40  years  of  age,  who  does  not  appear  likely  to  be  gratified 
with  the  Coldness  or  Imbecility  of  age)  communicates  similar  opin- 
ions with  Hare.  Our  Gentlemen  are  anxious  to  support  a  federal 
Candidate,  and  that  from  New  York,  instead  of  the  one  from  S. 
Carolina  ;  provided  there  is  the  least  probability  of  Success.     But 


102  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

if  this  should  not  be  the  case,  I  think  they  have  a  leaning  to  Clin- 
ton, under  the  Idea,  that  he  would  support  and  cherish  Commerce, 
and  further  that  they  could  make  a  Bargain,  with  which  he  would 
comply,  as  to  the  principal  measures  &  offices  of  Government. 
It  was  not  known  to  whom  it  was  best  to  write  to  in  New  York  & 
therefore  writing  there  is  postponed. 

Bigelow  will  go  to  Burlington.  George  Blake,  who  is  just  re- 
turned, says  that  Clinton  will  have  no  support,  not  even  in  New 
York.  His  opinions  are  never  entitled  to  much  Consideration. 
The  Democratic  Leaders  have  remained  in  Town  this  week,  but 
with  what  Design  I  do  not  conjecture.  They  will  endeavor  to 
push  Sullivan,  to  some  desperate  Act  in  Relation  to  the  Electors, 
but  he  is  so  vacillating  and  feeble,  that  I  have  no  great  appre- 
hensions on  this  score,  unless  circumstances  at  the  Day  should 
be  very  different  from  what  they  now  are. 

We  are  looking  with  Anxiety  to  France,  &  with  hopes,  that  the 
Dismissal  of  Armstrong  may  be  confirmed  ;  still  not  without  great 
Fears,  that  some  soothing  speeches,  if  not  promises,  may  be  made 
by  the  Emperor.  However  vague  they  might  be,  they  would  do 
us  infinite  mischief  at  this  time.  I  shall  keep  this  Letter  to  send 
by  a  private  conveyance,  for  I  entertain  no  Doubt  that  Mr.  Jeffer- 
son's postmasters  open  all  letters  which  are  directed  to  men  of 
consideration.     .     .     . 

Old  Mr.  Adams  says  the  present  President  is  void  of  all  capacity 
to  preside  over  the  affairs  of  a  Nation,  &  the  country  is  now  ruled 
by  an  abominable  Faction,  which  is  second  to  none  in  the  World, 
in  Wickedness  and  Folly,  except  the  Essex  Junto  ;  that  is  fairly 
entitled  to  Pre-eminence  in  these  qualities.  The  young  man 
wrote  his  Letter  of  Resignation,  and  so  far  as  I  have  heard  of 
him,  is  silent.  He  walks  into  State  Street  at  the  usual  Hour  of 
Exchange,  but  seems  totally  unknown.     .     . 

Yours  truly,  C.  Gore. 


Dr.  I.  M.  Mason  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  27  July,  180S. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Will  it  be  convenient  to  send  the  letters  you  were  so  good  as  to 
promise  me  for  the  Eastward  ?     A  parcel  directed  to  me  I  should 


1808]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  IO3 

suppose  would  come  safe  by  the  Jamaica  stage.  After  to-morrow 
I  know  not  that  I  shall  wait  for  anything  but  your  letters.  I 
should  have  called  to  see  you  had  my  occupations  permitted. 
The  interest  you  take  in  your  friends  is  the  principle  by  which  I 
hope  you  will  estimate  the  pain  with  which  I  heard  of  the  alarm- 
ing accident  to  Frederick,*  and  my  joy  in  the  expectation  that 
your  fears  may  be  happily  disappointed.  It  is  a  beneficent  dis- 
pensation by  which  God  draws  back  his  protecting  hand  for  a 
moment,  and  stretches  it  out  again  the  next — a  strong  and  gra- 
cious appeal  to  the  heart  confirming  all  the  dictates  of  the  under- 
standing, and  the  doctrines  of  his  word,  concerning  our  entire 
dependence  upon  him  &  the  watchfulness  of  his  fostering  care. 
The  peril  and  the  preservation  of  your  boy  are  worth  a  thousand 
abstract  syllogisms  to  establish  not  only  the  truth,  but  the  consola- 
tions of  a  particular  providence.  Who,  that  is  not  insane,  would 
sacrifice,  for  all  the  substitutes  of  a  freezing  philosophy,  the  sweet 
repose  of  the  heart  upon  this  assurance  that "  as  a  father  pitieth  his 
children,  so  Jehovah  pities  them  that  fear  him  ?  "  I  have  griev- 
ously erred,  my  dear  Sir,  if  observations  like  these  shall  appear 
to  you  impertinent.  My  apology  must  be,  that  I  know  not  how 
more  forcibly  to  express  my  personal  attachment  than  by  my 
wishes  and  prayers  that  the  bosom  of  my  most  valued  friend  may 
be  the  abode  of  the  faith,  the  purity  and  the  peace  of  the  gospel. 
I  shall  be  much  gratified  to  hear  that  Mrs.  King  has  suffered 
no  serious  inconvenience  from  the  shock  she  must  necessarily 
have  felt  from  the  injury  to  her  son — Make  my  best  regards  ac- 
ceptable to  her  &  to  the  rest  of  your  family  ;  and  believe  me  to 
be,  my  dear  Sir,  with  esteem  &  affection 

Yours  &  truly     I.  M.  Mason. 


R.  King  to  Revd.  Doct.  Mason. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  July  28,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  received  your  friendly  letter  of  yesterday  and  both  Mrs. 

King  &  myself  are  heartily  thankful  to  you  for  the  kind  wishes 

*  In  jumping  from  a  hay  mow  in  the  barn,  he  was  struck  in  the  forehead  by 
one  of  the  tines  of  a  pitchfork  which  was  standing  upright.  No  serious  result 
followed,  as  the  bone  was  not  pierced. 


104  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

and  consoling  Reflexions  that  it  contains.  Tho'  the  poor  child's 
wound  was  extremely  hazardous,  and  the  danger  is  not  yet  passed, 
he  has,  thanks  to  God,  suffered  very  little  pain  ;  and  as  no  unfa- 
vourable symptom  has  hitherto  occurred,  we  are  encouraged  to 
hope  that  it  may  be  the  merciful  will  of  the  Almighty  that  his 
dear  life  shall  be  spared  to  us. 

The  enclosed  letters  are  all  I  have  been  able  to  prepare,  being 
called  off  by  Company.  If  you  think  it  probable  that  you  shall 
go  to  Portsmouth,  I  will  send  you  some  other  letters  for  that 
place,  as  also  one  or  two  for  Salem. 

With  sincere  regards  I  remain,  Dear  Sir, 

yrs  faithful  &  obed.     Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Sept.  27,  1808. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  congratulate  you  on  the  issue  of  the  Election  in  R. 
I.,  N.  H.,  and  Vermont,  for  although  we  have  no  official  Report 
respecting  the  last,  the  probability  is  in  favour  of  a  favourable 
result.  I  have  been  a  little  disappointed  to  hear  from  Hartford, 
Conn.,  that  Chief  Justice  Parsons  has  been  lately  there,  and  as 
was  there,  supposed,  for  the  purpose  of  changing  their  purpose  in 
relation  to  the  presidential  Election — his  wishes,  which  seem  to 
be  the  same  as  those  of  Mr.  Otis,  met  with  no  encouragement  ; 
and  the  fact  undoubtedly  is  that  with  the  exception  of  the  New 
Haven  Senator,  no  man  of  distinction  in  that  State  can  be  per- 
suaded to  adopt  these  heretical  opinions.  As  to  this  State,  every 
article  of  information  confirms  the  opinion  that  there  is  not  a 
single  individual  (out  of  Govr.  Clinton's  family)  who  is  a  person 
of  influence  in  the  democratical  party,  that  supports  Gov.  Clinton's 
pretensions  in  opposition  to  Madison.  Perhaps  the  Democrats  in 
no  State  are  more  generally  and  efficiently  united  in  favour  of 
Madison  than  in  this  State. 

Our  accounts  from  New  Jersey  &  Pennsylvania  are  highly  en- 
couraging ;  and  according  to  opinions  of  the  present  date  the 
federal  Cause  is  there  likely  to  prevail  in  the  approaching 
Elections. 

Why  does  not  Park  expose  and  dwell  upon  the  character  of 


1808]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  105 

Mr.  Evving,  our  locum  tenens  Ambassador  at  Madrid  ?  Let  his 
reputation  and  connexion  be  exposed — let  it  be  told  that  for  the 
inferior  intrigues  in  which  he  was  employed  to  promote  Jefferson's 
Election,  he  was  rewarded  by  an  immediate  appointment  as 
Consul,  Agent  to  protect  seaman  and  agent  to  prosecute  Claims 
before  the  Board  of  Comrs.  at  London — afterwards  appointed 
Secretary  to  the  Legation  to  Madrid,  where  he  found  no  difficulty 
in  going,  tho'  his  Principal  was  unable  to  reach  the  place  of 
his  Destination.  At  Madrid  he  has  become  the  instrument  of 
Bonaparte,  and  abused  his  office  by  covering  as  American  Dis- 
patches, the  Dispatches  of  Murat  to  his  agents  in  So.  America. 
Young,  the  Consul,  was  perhaps  ignorantly  employed  in  carrying 
the  Dispatches,  which  have  been  seized  by  the  Patriots,  and  are 
likely  to  have  a  most  unfavourable  influence  on  our  connexion  & 
interests  with  Spain.  Ewing,  Duane  &  Haley  are  men  fit  for  the 
same  employ,  and  whose  appointments  evince  the  influence  of 
France  upon  our  Govt.  faithfully  yr.  ob.  St.     Not  signed. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Oct.  10,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

As  the  season  is  at  hand  for  fall  planting,  I  must  remind  you 
of  the  young  Elms,  and  request  that  you  would  employ  some 
person  to  inform  you  when  there  happens  an  opportunity  from 
your  Port  to  New  York,  in  order  that  the  trees  may  be  put  on 
board. 

If  Mr.  Honeywell  has  any  larches  or  other  ornamental  trees 
that  he  would  spare,  I  should  be  obliged  to  him  to  send  me  some 
in  exchange  for  any  of  the  Fruit  Trees  or  Shrubs  to  be  obtained 
in  this  Quarter. 

As  to  politicks,  I  discern  nothing  that  must  not  be  equally 
evident  to  you  and  others  who  read  the  news-papers.  There 
is,  as  I  hear,  a  prevailing  opinion  in  town  among  persons  engaged 
in  trade  that  the  Embargo  will  soon  be  raised.  For  my  own  part, 
I  am  not  able  to  perceive  the  Evidence  that  authorizes  this 
opinion.  If  the  alternative  be  war  or  Embargo,  as  Mr.  Jefferson 
alleges  to  be  the  case,  I  conclude  that  the  Embargo  will  be  con- 
tinued.    Besides  if  no  material  Change  has  occurred  in  respect  to 


106  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

the  Motives  for  imposing  this  measure,  how  can  its  authors  con- 
sistently remove  it. 

Should  the  Elections  demonstrate  still  further  loss  of  popular 
confidence,  this  circumstance  may,  &  probably  will,  have  its  in- 
fluence, and  I  am  deceived  in  the  views  of  our  Rulers,  or  nothing 
short  of  this  inducement  will  engage  them  to  retract  their  measures. 

The  latest  accounts  from  England  are,  as  it  seems  to  me,  of 
considerable  importance.  I  do  not  refer  to  their  Military  Ex- 
peditions, but  to  the  temper  which  prevails  there  respecting 
America,  and  to  the  change  of  disposition  that  has  taken  place 
concerning  this  Country.  Should  the  tide  of  French  success  stop 
or  turn,  and  the  Spirit  of  England  rise,  our  removal  of  the 
Embargo,  and  recalling  the  Proclamation,  excluding  the  English 
Navy  from  our  ports,  may  not  enable  us  to  prosecute  trade  with- 
out interruption.  The  course  of  complaint  and  remembrance 
may  change,  and  instead  of  making  them  they  may  be  addressed 
to  us.  The  consequence  of  such  a  state  of  things,  if  our  present 
Rulers  are  supported  may  be  of  the  most  serious  nature. 

Farewell — always  &  faithfully  yr, 

Not  Signed 

Horatio  Southgate  to  R.  King. 

Portland,  Nov.  15,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Yours  of  the  10th  of  Oct.  last  I  have  received  &  have  with 
pleasure  attended  to  your  request. 

Mars  has  shipped  on  board  Capt.  Blanchard's  Packet  to  Boston, 
there  to  be  placed  on  board  a  New  York  packet,  three  boxes, 
containing  two  hundred  and  fifty  plants  viz.  Silver  fir,  double 
spruce,  hemlock  spruce,  larch  and  white  pine — fifty  each.  Mr. 
Mars  prefers  sending  on  all  the  plants  this  fall,  observing  for 
reason  that  the  spring  is  so  much  later  here  than  with  you,  that 
our  plants  could  not  be  taken  out  of  the  ground  until  your  season 
was  too  far  advanced  to  admit  of  their  succeeding  ;  resembling 
birds  of  passage,  they  must  travel  north  in  the  spring  and  south 
in  the  fall  of  the  year.*  ...  I  hope  you  will  receive  them  in 
safety  &  am  with  respect,  Your  very  hble.  Servt. 

Ho.  Southgate. 

*  It  was  incorrectly  stated  in  vol.  iv.,  p.  464  of  this  work   that  these  trees 
■were  sent  by  Mr.  Sheaffe. — Editor. 


l8o8]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  107 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  Nov.  19,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  a  packet  accompanying  this  you  will  find  the  President's 
Message  and  the  communications  referred  to  relative  to  the  ne- 
gotiations with  Great  Britain  and  France. 

It  is  manifestly  the  intention  of  Mr.  Jefferson  &  party  to  con- 
tinue the  embargo,  if  they  think  it  possible  that  the  people  will 
bear  it. 

The  order  for  equipping  a  hundred  thousand  militia,  to  be 
ready  at  a  moment's  warning,  has  probably  two  objects. — one,  by 
exciting  a  general  alarm  to  induce  the  people,  dreading  war,  to 
acquiesce  in  Mr.  Madison's  election  under  the  idea  that  a  change 
at  such  a  crisis  would  be  hazardous  to  our  union  &  defense  :  the 
other  ,  to  deter  the  people  of  the  northern  States  from  any  attempt 
to  resist  a  measure  which  is  working  their  destruction,  by  the 
imposing  attitude  of  the  militia  of  the  democratic  states,  in 
readiness  to  attack  them.  The  injunction  in  Dearborn's  letter  to 
the  Governors — to  select  Officers  who  can  be  depended  on — wears 
this  aspect. 

The  firm  but  cool  resolve  of  Connecticut  and  the  proceedings 
in  general,  in  New  England,  in  opposition  to  the  embargo,  have 
excited  great  uneasiness  in  the  breasts  of  the  administration  ; 
but  the  President's  infallibility  must  be  maintained,  and  the 
pride  of  the  party  knows  not  how  to  consent  to  any  essential 
change,  while  the  measures  of  the  belligerents  (of  G.  B.  especially) 
remain  unchanged. 

While  writing  my  long  letter  to  Govr.  Pinckney  in  January 
1787,  vindicating  our  Govt,  against  Mr.  Adet's  false  and  insulting 
accusations,  I  had  occasion  to  look  into  Mr.  Jay's  correspondence 
while  negociating  with  Mr.  Oswald  the  preliminary  Articles  of 
Peace.  I  remember  the  endeavours  of  Count  Vergennes  to 
persuade  him  to  relinquish  to  Spain  the  western  territory,  I  be- 
lieve, as  far  East  as  the  mountains  dividing  the  waters  running 
into  the  Atlantic  from  those  running  into  the  Mississippi  :  but  I  do 
not  recollect  meeting  with  what  I  uniformly  heard,  that  the  French 
Court  attempted  to  persuade  our  Ministers  to  relinquish  the 
Fisheries  on  the  Bank  of  Newfoundland,  &c.  You  are,  I  doubt 


108  RUFUS  KING.-  [1808 

not,  perfectly  possessed  of  all  the  information,  which  the  journals 
of  Congress  or  Mr.  Jay's  communications  on  that  business  could 
furnish.  If  you  can  find  time,  I  shall  be  greatly  obliged  for 
your  stating  to  me  the  important  facts  :  what  right  our  own 
French  Party  in  the  Congress  of  that  day  were  willing  to  give 
up,  to  please  the  court  of  France,  and  of  what  that  Court,  by 
open  demand  &  by  intrigue,  endeavoured  to  deprive  us.  I  well 
remember  Master  Lovell  (a  member  of  the  Committee  for  foreign 
affairs)  once  showed  me  a  letter  from  Dr.  Franklin  (I  think  in  the 
winter  of  1781  when  I  went  from  the  army  to  Philadelphia  on 
business)  in  which  the  Doctor  complained  of  Mr.  Adams'  want 
of  Complaisance  towards  Count  Vergennes,  by  which  he  had 
given  offence,  adding,  "  for  my  part  I  am  determined  to  please  the 
Court  of  France."  I  remember  too  Mr.  Lovell's  exclamation  on 
reading  those  words  of  the  Doctor,  "  an  old  Rascal."  This  same 
complaisant  disposition  in  the  Doctor  continued  until  the  terms 
of  our  peace  with  G.  B.  were  fixed ;  when  with  his  wonted  art,  he 
came  about  and  agreed  with  Mr.  Jay  &  Mr.  Adams.  His  devotion 
to  the  French  Court  was  so  manifest  that  (as  the  impression  from 
Mr.  Jay's  letters  rests  on  my  mind)  Mr.  Jay  was  afraid  to  trust  him 
with  the  knowledge  of  his  negotiations  with  Oswald. 

Mr.  Monroe  had  acquired  some  credit  among  Federalists  ;  but 
his  correspondence  with  Mr.  Jefferson  recently  published,  has 
completely  downed  him, 

I  am  dear  Sir  very  truly  yours,  T.  Pickering. 


R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Dec.  1,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  should  have  returned  a  more  seasonable  answer  to  your  letter 
of  the  19th  past,  had  I  not  from  day  to  day  expected  to  remove 
to  town — where  only  I  can  make  the  Examination  that  may  enable 
me  to  answer  your  enquiry  ;  we  are  still  detained  in  the  Country  ; 
but  propose  to  remove  to  town,  if  the  weather  be  favourable,  in 
the  early  part  of  next  week. 

Mr.  Madison  to  avoid  the  charge  of  acquiescence,  has  contended 
that  the  Berlin  Decree  did  not  infringe  our  Neutral  Rights  in  any 


l8o8]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE. 


IO9 


case  antecedent  to  the  case  of  the  Horizon.  What  are  we  to 
understand  by  Neutral  Rights  ?  Undoubtedly  the  Rights  that  a 
nation  at  peace  may  claim  to  enjoy  when  other  nations  are  at 
war — Belligerent  and  neutral  are  therefore  correlatives.  By  the 
Convention  with  France  it  is  agreed,  when  France  is  at  war,  and 
the  U.  S.  at  peace,  that  the  American  Flag  shall  cover  and  protect 
enemy  goods,  that  the  presence  of  a  national  ship  of  the  U.  S. 
shall  free  her  convoy  from  visit  and  search,  that  Amer.  ships  may 
pass  and  repass  between  the  Ports  of  France  and  those  of  her 
Enemy  &c.  &c. — not  having  the  Treaty  at  hand,  I  cite  from 
memory.  Are  not  these  neutral  Rights  ?  As  they  exist  only  in 
the  case  when  the  U.  S.  are  neutral  &  France  at  war,  they  most 
undoubtedly  are  neutral  Rights.  Did  not  the  Berlin  Decree 
violate  these  Rights  immediately  upon  its  publication  ?  was  not 
the  arrest  &  sequestration  of  American  vessels  arriving  in  the 
Ports  of  France  from  the  ports  of  England,  because  they  had  thus 
come  from  the  ports  of  England,  a.  direct  violation  of  the  above 
cited  stipulation  and  therefore  a  violation  of  a  neutral  Right  ? 
The  answer  must  be  in  the  affirmative.  How  dare  then  our  Govt, 
with  the  Document  before  them  to  affirm  and  endeavour  to  im- 
pose upon  the  Country  so  gross  a  misstatement  as  they  have  done 
in  reference  to  this  French  Decree  ? 

The  Berlin  Decree  being  an  infringement  of  our  Rights  should 
have  been  resisted  as  a  similar  Decree  of  the  Directory  was 
resisted  by  the  Federalists  in  1798.  We  should  have  armed  and 
passed  a  non-intercourse  with  France.  Had  we  so  done,  there 
would  have  been  no  orders  in  Council,  no  Embargo,  and  pro- 
bably before  this  we  should  have  been  again  in  Peace  with  France, 
for  you  will  remember  that  this  same  Bonaparte  concluded  the 
Convention  with  the  U.  S.  in  1800. 

This  however  the  present  adminn.  would  not  do,  and  for  rea- 
sons I  need  not  state  to  you.  We  are  now  told  that  the  Embargo 
must  be  continued  or  the  Country  disgraced — admitting  the  alter- 
native, how  shameful  it  is,  how  criminal  rather  might  I  say,  that 
the  men  who  have  brought  the  Country  to  this  condition  should 
have  the  effrontery  to  make  this  Declaration — The  administration 
will  be  disgraced  by  the  Repeal  and  they  deserve  to  be  ;  perhaps 
they  merit  more  than  disgrace. 

But  will  the  continuance  of   the  Embargo  save   the  Country 


IIO  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

from  Disgrace  ?  as  to  its  effect  on  France  &  England  we  have 
sufficient  evidence  of  its  inefficiency  :  the  longer  it  is  continued, 
the  deeper  our  disgrace  when  it  is  raised.  It  is  earnestly  hoped 
that  the  Federalists  will  leave  to  the  adminn.  and  its  Supporters 
all  projects  by  way  of  substitute  to  the  Embargo.  Having 
plunged  the  nation  into  its  present  embarrassment,  let  them  bear 
the  whole  responsibility  of  their  measures. 

The  Embargo  must  be  repealed — that  simple  unqualified  meas- 
ure must  be  adopted — It  is  high  time  to  discard  visionary  experi- 
ments— for  God's  sake  let  the  Federalists  abstain  from  any  share 
in  them. 

Always  &  faithfully  yr., 

R.  K. 

P.  S.  Having  written  in  the  midst  of  conversation,  I  would, 
could  I  do  so,  without  losing  a  Post,  re-write  what  I  have  written  : 
but  you  will  excuse  whatever  requires  to  be — slovenly  writing 
must  be  admitted  among  friends. 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  December  8,  1808. 

My  Dear  Friend  : 

The  Doings  of  Congress  have  disappointed  many  here,  who 
expected  that,  under  some  pretence,  the  Embargo  Acts  would  be 
repealed.  This  is  now  considered  as  permanent  in  regard  to  G. 
B.  &  F.,  but  the  men  of  business  begin  to  flatter  themselves  that 
a  permission  to  trade  with  Spain  &  Portugal  will  be  granted,  and 
that  Acts  authorizing  such  commerce  will  soon  be  passed.  I 
confess  that  the  Fear  of  Bonaparte,  if  no  other  consideration 
should  suggest  itself,  will  prevent  any  such  measure  from  being 
adopted.  The  people  of  our  Country  are  suffering  extremely 
and  must  soon  be  reduced  to  absolute  wretchedness  ;  I  mean  that 
portion  of  them,  who  have  hitherto  subsisted  by  navigation,  & 
especially  by  the  fisheries.  They  are  obliged  to  depend  on 
charity  for  food  &  fuel.  In  Beverley  &  Marblehead  this  is  mani- 
festly the  case.  In  the  latter  2000  dollars  has  been  borrowed  by 
the  Town  to  relieve  the  necessitous.  In  the  former,  private  con- 
tributions have  become  very  heavy  :  one  Gentleman  told  me  he 


l8o8]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  Ill 

had  already  given  to  men,  heads  of  families,  more  than  50  cords 
of  wood  in  quantities  of  2x4  feet — men  under  50  years  of  age, 
healthy,  honest  &  industrious,  and  who  have  on  hand  two  years 
earnings  in  the  fishery.  This  same  person  said  many  others  in 
that  Town  had  already  given  away  much  greater  quantities  in 
proportion  to  their  means.  In  Cape  Ann  they  have  continued  to 
send  their  Fish  to  market.  In  Portland,  they  have  in  several  in- 
stances, set  the  Officers  of  Customs  at  defiance  &  sent  their  ves- 
sels to  sea.  Military  companies  are  now  marching  Eastward,  it 
is  said,  for  Salem  &  Marblehead  for  the  purpose  of  preventing 
violations  of  the  Embargo,  or,  in  the  words  of  the  Resolutions,  to 
put  the  Country  in  a  state  of  Defence.  Genl.  Strong,  who  has 
been  here,  thinks  the  people  will  soon  require  the  influence  of 
good  men  to  Repress  or  guide  their  zeal  in  opposition  to  the 
National  Government. 

The  remarks,  under  the  signature  of  an  American,  in  Coleman's 
Paper,  on  the  Infringement  of  our  Treaty  by  France  &  the  base 
surrender  of  our  Rights,  by  the  Construction  of  our  Administra- 
tions, of  those  Edicts,  have  been  read  with  much  Interest  here, 
and  are  very  generally  attributed  to  your  pen.  The  only  part 
that  seems  to  want  further  Illustration  is  the  3d  Position,  made 
under  the  12th  Art.  of  the  Treaty,  &  to  show  that  this  is  conform- 
able to  the  Stipulations  of  the  Treaty,  and  that  under  these  Stip- 
ulations our  Vessels  have  secured  the  Right  to  go  from  an 
English  Port  to  France.  Mr.  Coleman  does  not  state  that  In- 
formation of  the  case  of  the  Victory  was  communicated  to  Mr. 
Madison  :  Such  a  Fact  would  have  added  to  the  weight  of  the 
Charge.     .     .     . 

Near  the  close  of  our  Last  Session  two  Resolves,  a  copy  of 
which  is  inclosed,  were  submitted  by  Mr.  Crovvningshield  of 
Salem  and  were  committed  to  five  Gentlemen  of  which  I  was 
Chairman  to  report  at  the  next  session.  (One  denouncing  the 
British  order  of  Council  of  Nov.,  1807,  interdicting  all  neutral 
trade  with  France,  &c,  as  Violations  of  neutral  rights,  &c,  to  be 
removed  by  fair  negotiation,  if  not  to  be  resisted  by  all  other 
means  in  their  power — which  resolve  Mr.  G.  objects  to — as  the 
matter  belongs  to  the  Natl.  Govt.) 

As  to  the  second  ("  Resolved  that  in  case  it  shall  appear  to 
Congress  that  all  fair  attempts  to  remove  said  Orders  &  Decrees, 


112 


RUFUS  KING.  [1808 


by  Negotiation  shall  have  been  exhausted,  and  they  shall  find  it 
necessary  to  assume  any  other  attitude  of  Resistance,  it  will  be 
the  Duty  of  the  whole  people  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Massachu- 
setts to  rally  round  the  Standard  of  their  own  Nation  &  its 
Government,  and  to  afford  them  their  utmost  Support,  by  all  con- 
stitutional means,  in  their  Power  "  )— while  it  might  be  proper  to 
express  our  Disposition  to  support  the  U.  S.  in  all  just  &  consti- 
tutional measures,  we  can  never  pledge  ourselves  to  support  them, 
in  any  Attitude  of  Resistance  the  present  adminis.  may  assume, 
after  the  Experience  we  have  had  of  their  incapacity  &  imbecillity 
in  choosing,  as  an  Attitude  of  Resistance,  that  which  injures  our- 
selves infinitely  more  than  it  does  any  other  Nation  &  destroys 
our  means  of  manly  &  honourable  resistance,  and  debases  the 
Spirit  &  degrades  the  Character  of  our  Country.  They  who  are 
a  little  removed  from  the  immediate  Scene  of  Action  are  fre- 
quently better  judges,  &  I  pray  you  to  reflect  on  this  subject  & 
give  me  your  reflections,  with  such  ideas,  as  suggest  themselves 
&  such  authorities,  as  may  show  the  Propriety  or  Impropriety  of 
my  own  thoughts.  Herein  I  will  thank  you  to  state  any  illustra- 
tion of  the  Idea,  contained  in  the  third  Proposition,  alluded  to  in 
the  former  part  of  this  letter.     .     .     . 

Affectionately  your  friend, 

C.  Gore. 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  Dec.  26,  1808. 

My  Dear  Friend  : 

.  With  respect  to  our  political  relations,  we  are  still 
plunging  deeper  in  distress.  Our  Citizens  are  suffering  under 
great  poverty,  &  will,  I  am  satisfied,  break  out  into  open  violence 
against  the  existing  laws,  unless  they  can  violate  them  with  Im- 
punity. This  will  rather  take  place  in  the  outposts  than  in  Bos- 
ton, where  the  Merchants  are  too  rich  to  hazard  much  on 
uncertain  projects  &  in  Defiance  of  Law.  Our  Representatives 
will  assemble  heated  with  Resentment,  and  it  will  be  difficult  to 
restrain  them  within  constitutional  Bounds.  What  under  all  Cir- 
cumstances will  be  proper   to    advise  I  feel  extremely  dubious. 


1808]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  II3 

How  far  the  people  of  our  own  State  will  be  disposed  to  confirm 
their  Doings  is  questionable.  In  the  Commonwealth  we  have 
probably  a  Majority  not  exceeding  4000  ;  a  small  Error  may  even 
lose  that.  The  other  N.  England  States  are  probably  not  so 
ardent  as  Masstts.  To  run  counter  to  them  would  destroy  our 
own  Majority  &  occasion  a  dreadful  Revulsion.  We  should  be 
thankful  for  the  Judgment  of  our  Friends  a  little  distant  from  our 
Scene,  though  occupied  by  their  own  Distress,  a  little  more  im- 
partial as  to  what  is  proper  to  be  done  here. 

Yours  truly, 

C.  Gore. 

The  communication  in  the  Evening  Post  referred  to  by- 
Mr.  Gore  is  here  given,  with  the  Preliminary  Remarks  by 
the  Editor  of  that  paper. 

To  an  Injured  and  Insulted  People. 

Americans  : 

I  cannot,  in  duty  to  you,  commit  the  following  communication, 
highly  interesting  and  important,  lucid,  learned  and  elegant  as  it 
is,  without  one  word  to  arrest  and  fix  your  attention  upon  it. 

In  my  last  paper  I  expressed  a  lively  regret  that  the  gross  viola- 
tions of  veracity,  of  which  I  had  in  three  instances  convicted  the 
Secretary  of  State,  in  his  official  letter  to  the  British  minister, 
should  not  have  been  the  most  objectionable  feature  in  that  letter. 
In  urging  upon  the  Secretary  the  charge  of  falsehood  in  relation 
to  the  case  of  the  Horizon,  I  was  aware  that  that  charge  was  open 
to  a  sort  of  answer,  founded  on  a  pretended  distinction  between 
captures  on  the  high  seas,  and  seizures  in  the  ports  of  France  ; 
but  as  the  National  Intelligencer  waived  the  benefit  of  such  dis- 
tinction, I  felt  myself  at  liberty  to  meet  him  on  his  own  ground. 
I  reserved,  however,  for  a  separate  paper,  a  different  view  of  the 
subject,  in  which  Mr.  Madison  should  have  been  allowed  the  ad- 
vantage here  suggested,  and  thus  been  permitted  to  clear  his 
reputation  of  a  breach  of  veracity  at  the  expense  of  incurring 
infinitely  deeper  guilt.  That  labor,  however,  has  been  done  for 
me  in  a  manner  I  could  not  hope  to  improve,  by  a  learned  corre- 
spondent who  has  sent  me  the  communication  which  I  now  intro- 
duce to  the  public. 

VOL.  V. — 7 


114  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

Read  it,  Americans,  read  it  attentively,  and  behold  how  your 
public  ministers  are  capable  of  becoming,  not  merely  the  apolo- 
gists, but  the  defenders  of  a  foreign  government  against  your 
fellow  citizens — read  it  and  behold  how  they  have  treacherously, 
traitorously  leagued  in  the  base  and  flagitious  design  of  sacrificing 
the  rights  and  interests  of  their  own  country,  to  France — read  it 
and  behold  an  instance  of  abandoned  profligacy,  such  as  will  call 
down  the  execration  of  America,  and  excite  the  contempt  and 
abhorrence  of  mankind.  That  this  is  not  the  hasty  ebullition  of 
resentment,  but  the  just  and  deliberate  expression  of  feelings 
which  the  occasion  demands,  will  be  apparent  to  every  one  who 
will  peruse  what  follows. 

For  the  Evening  Post. 

Mr.  Coleman, 

If  Mr.  Madison's  friends  feel  that  respect  for  his  reputation 
that  is  pretended,  they  must  suffer  no  small  degree  of  mortification 
in  reading  the  exposure  of  his  official  conduct  that  you  have  sub- 
mitted to  the  public.  A  deviation  from  truth  by  private  persons 
is  always  followed  by  loss  of  character,  but  a  falsehood  published 
by  a  public  officer  of  high  standing  in  the  country,  stamps  dis- 
grace upon  the  nation — There  is  but  one  way  in  which  the  asser- 
tion that  the  case  of  the  ship  Horizon  was  the  first  instance  in 
which  the  Decree  of  Berlin  was  put  in  force  against  the  neutral 
rights  of  the  United  States,  can  even  be  attempted  to  be  recon- 
ciled with  the  previous  one  of  the  brig  Victory.  To  hide  the 
shame  of  our  rulers'  criminal  submission  to  France,  as  well  as  to 
excite  resentment  against  England,  both  they  and  our  foreign 
ministers  have  set  up  and  applied  to  these  cases  a  distinction  be- 
tween the  provisions  of  the  Berlin  Decree,  which  are  territorial, 
to  be  executed  in  France,  and  the  provisions  which  are  extra 
territorial,  and  to  be  executed  on  the  ocean.  According  to  the 
doctrines  of  these  faithless  guardians  of  our  rights,  the  former 
are  lawful  regulations,  such  as  every  nation  is  free  to  establish, 
and  against  which  none  may  justly  complain.  "  That  his  majesty, 
(says  Gen.  Armstrong  in  his  letter  to  Champagny,  dated  August 
6,  1808)  has  a  right  to  make  such  municipal  regulations  as  he  may 
deem  proper,  with  regard  to  foreign  commerce  has  not  been 
denied.     For  example,  he  may  forbid  the  entry  into  the  ports  of 


1808]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  115 

France  of  American  ships  which  have  touched  in  England,  or 
been  destined  to  England  ;  and  he  may  either  sequester  or  confis- 
cate such  vessels  of  the  United  States  as  shall  infract  these  laws 
after  due  promulgation  and  notice  thereof ;  but  beyond  this,  the 
United  States  hope  and  believe  that  his  majesty  will  not  go."  And 
Mr.  Madison,  in  his  celebrated  letter  of  March  last  to  Mr.  Erskine, 
defends  the  decree  in  the  following  manner  : 

"  The  French  decree  has  two  distinct  aspects  ;  one  clearly  im- 
porting an  intended  operation  within  the  territorial  limits,  as  a 
local  law  ;  the  other  apparently  importing  an  intended  operation 
on  the  high  seas.  Under  the  first  aspect,  the  decree  however 
otherwise  objectionable,  cannot  be  said  to  have  violated  the  neu- 
trality of  the  United  States.  If  the  governing  powers  on  the  con- 
tinent of  Europe  choose  to  exclude  from  their  ports,  British 
property  or  British  productions,  or  neutral  vessels  proceeding 
from  British  ports,  it  is  an  act  of  sovereignty,  which  the  United 
States  have  no  right  to  controvert.  It  is  only,  therefore,  under 
the  other  aspect  of  the  decree,  that  it  can  have  violated  neutral 
rights." 

It  is  unquestionably  true,  that  every  independent  nation,  that 
has  entered  into  no  compact  by  which  its  power  is  limited,  may 
establish  and  execute  within  its  territories  such  municipal  laws 
as  may  be  deemed  advantageous  ;  and  it  is  under  colour  of  this 
essential  principal  of  sovereignty,  applied  to  certain  provisions  of 
the  Berlin  Decree,  that  our  administration  have  abandoned  mill- 
ions of  the  property  of  their  fellow-citizens. 

The  provisions  of  this  Decree  and  of  its  supplements,  say  our 
rulers,  although  they  expose  to  confiscation  American  ships  and 
cargoes  that  arrive  in  France  from  an  English  port,  are  a  mere 
municipal  law,  to  be  executed  within  the  territories  of  France,  a 
law  which  France  in  virtue  of  her  sovereignty  was  competent  to 
establish,  and  of  which  we  consequently  cannot  with  justice 
complain. 

The  case  of  the  brig  Victory,  and  of  others  which  had  arrived 
in  France  from  the  ports  of  England,  fell  within  the  provisions  of 
this  municipal  law,  and  notwithstanding  the  confiscation  of  these 
vessels  with  their  valuable  cargoes  be  matter  of  regret,  it  affords 
no  just  grounds  of  complaint.  While  on  the  contrary,  the  case 
of  the  ship  Horizon,  in   which  the  Decree  was  extended  to  the 


Il6  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

ocean,  violated  the  incontestable  rights  of  the  United  States.  For 
this  interpretation  of  the  French  Decrees,  our  republican  admin- 
istration are  indebted,  if  I  mistake  not,  to  the  opposition  writers 
in  England,  and  to  some  of  the  orators  of  the  English  parliament. 
Our  minister  at  London  availed  himself  of  their  discussions,  and 
as  has  been  said,  sent  over  to  his  employers  a  report  of  a  con- 
ference he  had  demanded  with  the  English  Secretary  for  foreign 
affairs  on  the  subject  of  the  French  Decrees  and  English  Orders, 
and  in  which  he  represents  himself  as  having  silenced  and  tri- 
umphed over  his  adversary  by  this  sagacious  explanation  of  the 
French  Decree  which  with  the  inofficial  explanation  of  the  French 
minister  of  marine  was  represented  as  being  altogether  local, 
municipal  and  innocent  ;  as  a  regulation  of  which  the  United 
States  could  not  complain  without  impeaching  the  sovereignty  of 
France,  and  which,  as  it  violated  none  of  the  rights  of  nations, 
could  not  afford  the  slightest  justification  of  the  English  Orders.* 
This  dispatch  having  been  laid  before  Congress,  the  argument, 
notwithstanding  the  closed  doors,  found  its  way  into  the  public 
papers,  to  the  no  small  edification  of  the  friends  and  admirers  of 
France. 

To  destroy  the  effect  of  this  base  apology  for  a  flagrant  act  of 
injustice,  to  expose  the  criminal  connivance  of  our  rulers  in  the 
views  of  France,  as  well  as  to  close  up  the  only  avenue  by  which 
the  Secretary  of  State  can  escape  from  the  disgrace  that  you  have 
heaped  upon  him,  I  subjoin  the  following  observations. 

It  has  been  stated  to  be  of  the  essence  of  sovereignty,  that  a 
nation,  which  has  not  by  any  act  limited  its  power,  may  establish 
and  cause  to  be  executed  within  its  territories,  such  laws  as  are 
thought  expedient  :  but  a  nation  cannot,  consistently  with  public 
law,  do  what  it  had  promised  to  another  not  to  do  ;  such  promise 
being  a  limitation  of  its  sovereignt) — it  may  not  for  example,  by 
law  forbid,  what,  by  treaty  with  another,  it  had  promised  to  per- 
mit. Thus,  if  in  a  treaty  between  England  and  the  United  States, 
the  former  engages  to  permit  the  importation  of  American  cotton, 

*  There  is  some  reason  to  believe  that  the  purport  of  this  dispatch  has  found 
its  way  back  to  England,  as  it  appears  from  the  documents  lately  submitted  to 
Congress,  that  Mr.  Canning  required  Mr.  Pinkney  to  state  in  writing  our  pro- 
posal to  repeal  the  Embargo  if  England  would  recall  their  Orders,  in  which 
course  he  might  speak  for  himself  and  not  through  Mr.  Pinkney  in  reply. 


1808]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  WJ 

and  the  latter  to  permit  the  importation  of  English  woollens  for  a 
certain  number  of  years,  neither,  by  a  subsequent  law  may, 
within  such  term,  forbid  the  importation  of  these  articles. 

So,  if  in  a  treaty  between  France  and  the  United  States,  the 
former  engages,  that  in  case  of  war  between  France  and  England, 
the  citizens  of  the  United  States  may  sail  with  their  vessels  and 
cargoes  to  the  ports  of  England,  and  from  thence  to  the  ports  of 
France  ;  and  the  latter  engages  in  case  of  war  between  the  United 
States  and  England,  that  the  subjects  of  France  may  sail  with 
their  vessels  and  cargoes  to  the  ports  of  England,  and  thence  to 
the  ports  of  the  United  States,  neither  would  be  at  liberty  to 
shut  their  ports  against  the  vessels  of  the  other,  arriving  from  the 
ports  of  England  ;  and  much  less  to  make  them  liable,  when  so 
arriving,  to  confiscation.  Neither  might  do  so  because  each  had 
by  compact  limited  its  sovereignty,  so  that  it  was  incompetent  to 
these  acts. 

By  the  XII.  article  of  the  Convention  between  France  and  the 
United  States,  concluded  Sept.  30,  1800,  it  is  mutually  stipulated. 

1st.  That  "  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  citizens  of  either  country 
to  sail  with  their  ships  and  merchandise  (contraband  goods  always 
excepted  )from  any  port  whatever,  to  any  port  of  the  enemy  of  the 
other,  and  to  sail  and  trade  with  their  ships  and  merchandise,  with 
perfect  security  and  liberty,  from  the  countries,  ports,  and  places 
of  those  who  are  enemies  of  both,  or  of  either  party,  without 
any  opposition  or  disturbance  whatever  ;  and  to  pass,  not  only  di- 
rectly, from  the  places  and  ports  of  the  enemy  aforesaid  to  neu- 
tral ports  and  places,  but  also  from  one  place  belonging  to  an 
enemy,  whether  they  be  or  be  not  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
same  power,  unless  such  ports  or  places  shall  be  actually  block- 
aded, besieged,  or  invested." 

2d.  That  "  vessels  sailing  for  a  port  or  place  belonging  to  an 
enemy,  without  knowing  that  the  same  is  either  besieged,  block- 
aded, or  invested,  may  be  turned  away  from  such  port  or  place, 
but  they  shall  not  be  detained,  nor  any  part  of  their  cargo,  (not 
contraband)  confiscated,  unless,  after  notice  of  such  blockade  or 
investment,  they  shall  again  attempt  to  enter  ;  but  they  shall  be 
permitted  to  go  to  any  other  port  or  place  they  shall  think 
proper." 

3d.     That  "  free  ships  shall  give  a  freedom  to  goods,  and  that 


Il8  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

every  thing  shall  be  deemed  to  be  free  and  exempt,  which  shall 
be  found  on  board  the  ships  belonging  to  the  citizens  of  either  of 
the  contracting  parties,  although  the  whole  lading,  or  any  part 
thereof,  should  appertain  to  the  enemies  of  either  ;  contraband 
goods  being  always  excepted." 

To  those  who  are  familiar,  as  our  rulers  doubtless  must  be,  with 
public  treaties,  their  interpretation  must  be  easy  and  unambigu- 
ous. But,  owing  to  the  manner  in  which  these  documents  are 
generally  drawn  up,  the  reciprocity  of  their  provisions,  casts  some 
obscurity  on  their  import,  especially  when  they  are  but  curiously 
read  by  persons  not  accustomed  to  examine  them.  To  remove 
this  difficulty  on  the  present  occasion,  I  have  thrown  into  the 
form  of  distinct  propositions,  the  several  engagements  which 
France,  by  the  above  cited  article,  has  made  to  the  United  States, 
in  the  case  which  actually  exists,  of  a  war  between  France  and 
England,  the  United  States  being  neutral. 

By  the  XII.  article,  France  engaged,  and  that  engagement,  so 
far  as  the  stipulation  of  treaty  goes,  is  now  in  full  force. 

1.  That  the  citizens  of  the  United  States,  may  now  sail  with 
their  ships  and  merchandize,  (contraband  goods  excepted,)  from 
any  port  whatever,  to  any  port  of  England. 

2.  That  they  may,  with  perfect  liberty  and  security,  sail  and 
trade  with  their  ships  and  merchandise,  from  the  ports  of  Eng- 
land, not  only  to  any  neutral  part,  but 

3.  That  they  may  pass  with  their  ships  and  merchandize,  di- 
rectly from  the  ports  of  England  to  the  ports  of  France,  and  also 
directly  from  the  ports  of  France  to  the  ports  of  England,  except 
such  of  them  as  shall  be  actually  blockaded. 

Without  entering  into  an  argumentative  analysis  of  the  XII. 
article  to  show  that  these  propositions  are  neither  more  nor  less 
than  its  just  import  warrants,  I  will  request  every  impartial  and 
intelligent  man,  who  feels  an  interest  in  the  honor  of  his  coun- 
try, to  make  the  comparison  for  himself  ;  being  confident  that  he 
must  admit  their  fidelity. 

If  such  be  the  tenor  of  our  treaty  with  France,  what  becomes 
of  the  distinction  relied  upon  by  our  administration,  to  excuse 
the  enormities  of  France,  between  the  territorial  and  extra-terri- 
torial provisions  of  the  Berlin  decree  ?  Between  one  part  of  a 
decree  to  be  executed  within  the  national  dominion,  contrary  to 


1808]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  II9 

an  existing  treaty,  to  good  faith,  and  its  guardian  public  law,  and 
another  part  of  the  same  decree  to  be  executed  upon  the  high 
seas,  contrary  to  the  law  of  nations  ?  If  the  clauses  in  the  de- 
cree of  Berlin,  subjecting  to  confiscation  our  ships  and  cargoes, 
going  directly  from  the  ports  of  England  into  the  ports  of  France, 
be  repugnant  to  an  antecedent  and  existing  treaty,  they  are  in 
law,  morality  and  honor,  void,  and  France  cannot  enforce  them, 
without  a  contemptuous  violation  of  the  rights  of  the  United 
States. 

Finally,  if,  in  this  one  case,  the  stipulation  of  a  treaty,  and  in 
the  other  the  law  of  nations,  forbid  France  to  enforce  the  Decree 
of  Berlin  against  America,  she  is  alike  restrained  in  each,  and  the 
rights  of  the  United  States  have  been  equally  infringed  in  both. 
It  necessarily  follows,  that  the  proceeding  in  the  case  of  the  brig 
Victory,  as  well  as  in  other  cases  of  earlier  date,  are  as  flagrant  a 
violation  of  the  rights  and  honor  of  the  United  States,  as  those, 
which  to  the  eternal  infernal  infamy  of  France,  occurred  in  the 
case  of  the  ship  Horizon. 

An  American.* 

Mr.  Coleman  makes  the  following  article  by  "An  Ameri- 
can "  a  part  of  his  (Coleman's)  editorial  entitled,  "The  Freyich 
Still  Defended." 

At  the  beginning  of  his  last  paragraph,  he  writes  as  fol- 
lows : 

"  Just  as  I  had  finished  the  above  I  received  the  following 
from  my  correspondent,  whose  just  and  severe  strictures 
(Nov.  29th)  first  drew  forth  the  correspondent  of  the  Public 
Advertiser.     .     .     ."f 

For  the  Evening  Post. 

Mr.  Coleman  : 

In  order  the  more  easily  to  come  at  the  true  meaning  of  the 
clauses  of  the  Xllth  article  of  the  Convention  with  France,  it 
seems  to  be  proper  to  state  the  casus  federis :  The  article  relates 

*  From  the  New  York  Evening  Post,  Tuesday,  November  29,  1808. 
f  Mr.  Wm.  Kelby,  Librarian  of  the  N.  Y.  Historical  Society,  has  kindly  fur- 
nished the  Editor  with  these  and  several  other  interesting  extracts. 


120  RUFUS  KING.  [1808 

to  the  conditions  of  the  two  parties  when  one  is  at  war,  and  the 
other  at  peace. 

This  condition  now  exists  ;  France  being  at  war  with  England, 
and  the  United  States  being  at  peace  with  both. 

The  Xllth  article  provides,  "  that  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the 
Citizens  of  either  party,  (consequently  for  the  citizens  of  the 
U.  S.)  to  sail  with  their  ships  and  merchandize  (contraband  goods 
excepted)  from  any  port  whatever,  (therefore  from  a  port  of 
France  or  port  of  England)  to  any  port  of  the  enemy  of  the 
other,"  (therefore  to  a  port  of  England  the  enemy  of  France,  or 
to  a  port  of  France  the  enemy  of  England.) 

Thus  then  the  voyage  from  France  to  England  is  lawful,  and  the 
voyage  from  England  to  France  is  lawful.  But  again  and  more  par- 
ticularly, the  article  further  provides,  "  that  such  ships  (namely  of 
American  citizens)  with  their  merchandize,  may  sail  with  perfect 
security,  and  liberty,  from  the  ports  of  those  who  are  enemies  of 
both,  or  either,  (consequently  from  the  ports  of  England  the 
enemy  of  France)  without  any  opposition  or  disturbance  what- 
soever ;  and  may  pass  not  only  directly  from  the  ports  aforesaid 
(to  wit  the  ports  of  England)  to  neutral  ports  or  places,  (there- 
fore to  the  ports  of  the  United  States  which  are  neutral)  but  also 
from  one  place  belonging  to  an  enemy,  to  another  place  belonging 
to  an  enemy,  whether  they  be,  or  be  not,  under  the  jurisdiction  of 
the  same  power  ;  "  consequently,  an  American  ship  having  arrived 
in  England,  according  to  the  first  clause  of  this  article,  may,  pur- 
suant to  the  last  clause  thereof,  sail  without  opposition  or  dis- 
turbance, not  only  directly  from  Bristol  to  London,  enemy  places 
under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  same  power  ;  but  also  from  London 
to  Bordeaux,  enemy  places,  not  under,  the  jurisdiction  of  the  same 
power  ;  and  thus  the  voyage  directly  from  England  to  France  is 
lawful — so  that  it  stands  demonstrated,  according  to  the  plain 
interpretation  of  the  article,  that  the  ships  of  the  United  States, 
with  their  merchandise,  may  not  only  sail  and  trade  between  the 
ports  of  the  United  States  and  those  of  England,  but  also  directly 
between  the  ports  of  England  and  the  ports  of  France. 

To  cut  off  all  cavil  respecting  contraband,  and  blockade,  and 
to  provide  against  the  future  operations  of  a  Decree  of  the  French 
Directory  similar  to  the  Berlin  Decree,  let  it  be  remembered,  that 
this  convention  (made  under  the  auspices  of  Chief  Justice  Ells- 


1808]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  121 

worth,  and  Messrs.  Davie  and  Murray),  contains  a  definition  of 
contraband,  as  agreed  upon  between  the  parties,  and  excludes 
blockades  by  proclamation,  by  confining  them  to  the  case  of  actual 
blockade,  which  cannot  exist  without  the  presence  of  a  competent 
force  before  the  port  blockaded. 

An  American. 

From  the  New  York  Evening  Post,  December  6,  1808. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

King  to  Geo.  Hammond — Anxiety  about  public  Affairs — Introduces  Col.  Trum- 
bull— King  to  Pickering — Alarming  Rumors — Trumbull  to  King — French 
in  Madrid — Prices  of  Articles  in  England — Pickering  to  King — British 
Orders  were  among  Causes  of  the  Embargo — Franklin  said  to  be  in  French 
Interest  in  Peace  Negotiations — King  to  Pickering — Answer  that  there  was 
powerful  French  Influence  in  Peace  Negotiations,  both  in  U.  S.  and 
Europe — Jay  by  Opposition  incurred  the  Displeasure  of  Vergennes — 
Thanks  him  for  his  Speech  against  Bill  to  enforce  the  Embargo — Picker- 
ing to  King — Impressment  in  1803 — Jefferson  determined  not  to  make  a 
Treaty  with  G.  B. — Duane's  Appointment — King  to  Pickering — Negotia- 
tions against  Impressment  of  his  own  Motion — Felt  confident  he  could 
have  made  a  good  Treaty — Administration  did  not  second  him — Gore  to 
King — Affairs  in  Massachusetts — Pickering  to  King — Embargo  to  be  re- 
moved 4th  of  March — Armstrong's  Correspondence  with  Madison — King — 
Berlin  and  Milan  Decrees  and  English  Orders  incorrect — Retaliation  a  Law 
of  Peace. 

R.  King  to  George  Hammond. 

New  York,  Dec.  12,  1808. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Whether  I  have  before  acknowledged  the  receipt  of  your 
friendly  letter,  I  am  uncertain  ;  if  not,  I  now  beg  of  you  to  ac- 
cept my  thanks  for  the  same,  as  well  as  for  the  Parliamentary 
Papers  and  debates  with  which  you  so  obligingly  accompanied 
it.     .     .     . 

Not  being  of  the  political  faith  that  is  here  at  present  in  favour, 
I  pass  my  time  in  the  bosom  of  my  family,  thinking  and  saying  as 
little  as  I  can  upon  the  subject  of  politicks.  I  cannot  however 
withdraw  my  mind,  were  I  to  desire  it,  from  the  struggle  which 
still  continues  to  waste  the  Nations  of  Europe  ;  for  England's 
safety  and  welfare,  my  hopes  and  my  confidence  have  never  de- 
serted me.     Spain  most  unexpectedly  is  now  your  Rival,  and 

122 


1809]  LIFE   AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  1 23 

merits  all  the  success  to  which  her  unequalled  wrongs  give  her  so 
just  a  title.  But  my  fears  are  stronger  than  my  hopes,  and  I 
should  feel  the  most  anxious  solicitude  for  the  safety  of  the  brave 
patriots,  who  united  in  the  direction  and  defence  of  their  coun- 
try, did  I  not  behold  a  refuge,  not  alone  such  as  will  shield  them 
from  personal  violence,  but  sufficient  to  enable  them  to  defy  the 
power  of  the  tyrant. 

Col.  Trumbull,  whom  you  will  probably  recollect,  is  the  bearer 
of  this  letter  ;  he  is  going  with  his  wife  to  England  and  may  there 
resume  his  profession.  Having  lived  in  friendship  with  this  gen- 
tleman for  a  great  many  years,  I  can  with  confidence  introduce 
him  to  you,  as  a  gentleman  of  distinguished  probity  and  honour. 
Going  directly  from  hence,  he  is  enabled  to  speak  with  knowl- 
edge concerning  the  course  and  condition  of  our  affairs  as  con- 
nected with  those  of  Europe. 

I  beg  that  you  will  do  me  the  favour  to  present  my  compliments 
to  Mr.  Canning,  Sir  Wm.  Scott,  and  Mr.  Wilberforce,  and  to  be 
assured  of  the  constant  Esteem  &  Regard,  with  which  I  am,  Dr. 
Sir,  your  obt.  &  faithful  Servt, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

New  York,  Jany.  5,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  We  daily  receive  alarming  rumours,  from  the  seat  of  Govt, 
which  are  intended  to  increase  the  public  solicitude,  and  thereby 
to  prepare  us  for  the  events  which  our  Rulers  seem  resolved  to 
bring  about. 

With  sincere  respect  &  regards, 

Rufus  King. 


Jno.  Trumbull  to  R.  King. 

Falmouth,  8th  Jany.,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

We  had  the  pleasure  to  land  yesterday.     .     .     The  news  from 

Spain  is  contradictory  ;  it  is  generally  understood  here  that  the 

French  are   again  in   possession    of    Madrid   after   some  severe 

partial  struggles  on  their  march  and  a  vigorous  opposition  from 


124  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

the  people  of  the  city.  The  British  force  commanded  by  Sir 
John  Moore  had  not  joined  the  Spanish  army,  or  been  in  action, 
except  some  skirmishes  of  Cavalry,  in  which  the  British  have  had 
the  advantage.  It  is  said  to  be  the  intention  to  augment  this 
army  to  70,000  men  :  an  expedition  of  10,000  are  expected  to 
sail  to-day  from  Portsmouth. 

I  am  informed  by  Mr.  Fox  here,  that  the  price  of  Corn  has 
been  falling  for  some  weeks  past,  and  not  the  least  apprehension 
of  scarcity  is  now  entertained  :  since  threshing  commenced,  the 
crop  proves  to  have  been  much  less  damaged  than  was  at  one 
time  apprehended.  The  quarten  loaf  (4.1bs  &  50Z)  now  sells  at 
a  shilling. 

The  price  of  Hemp  is  enormous,  £170.  the  ton,  but  Govern- 
ment have  large  supplies  in  store  ;  considerable  quantities  have 
found  their  way  from  Russia  thro'  the  means  of  neutrals  ;  &  the 
India  Company  have  contracted  to  furnish  1000  Tons,  the  arrival 
of  part  of  which  is  soon  expected.  Tallow,  (a  Russian  article) 
has  been  very  high,  but  is  falling  rapidly  in  consequence  of 
importations  from  Brazil.  Cotton  is  also  rather  falling  in  value 
in  consequence  of  some  arrived  &  large  quantities  expected  from 
Brazil  &  India.  Pilchards  of  which  immense  quantities  are 
annually  caught  on  this  coast,  and  usually  sent  to  the  Mediter- 
ranean, are  now  shipping  for  the  West  Indies.     .     .     .     faithfully 

your  friend  &  servant, 

Jno.  Trumbull. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

City  of  Washington,  Jany.  8,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

To-day  I  received  your  letter  of  the  5th.  ...  A  main  object 
in  my  speech  was  to  prove  that  the  British  Orders  of  Nov.  nth, 
were  not  among  the  causes  of  the  embargo.  Now  to  take  an 
extract  of  a  letter,  dated  Sept.  23d,  from  Mr.  Canning  to  Mr. 
Pinkney  &  delivered  together  with  Canning's  letter  of  that  date, 
which  the  President  communicated  to  Congress  the  8th  of  Novem- 
ber, and  is  published  in  the  pamphlet  of  documents  which  I  sent 
you  :  but  the  single  passage  I  am  going  to  recite,  you  will  see, 
must  have  deterred  the  President  from  laying  it  before  Congress. 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 25 

"  The  connecting  together  in  your  proposed  overture,  the  sus- 
pension of  the  embargo  &  the  repeal  of  the  orders  in  Council — as 
well  those  of  November,  as  the  preceding  one  of  the  7th  of  Jan- 
uary— might  appear  to  imply  that  the  embargo  had  been  the  imme- 
diate consequence  of  these  orders  ;  and  I  was  therefore  desirous 
to  ascertain  whether,  in  fact,  the  order  in  Council  of  November 
had  been  known  to  the  Government  of  the  United  States  previous 
to  the  message  of  the  President,  proposing  the  embargo,  so  as  to 
be  a  moving  consideration  to  that  message.  I  had  the  satisfac- 
tion to  learn  from  you,  Sir,  that  such  was  not  the  fact ;  that  ' 
rumours  indeed  might  have  reached  America  of  some  measure 
of  further  retaliation  being  in  the  contemplation  of  the  British 
Government,  that  perhaps  (as  I  understood  you)  some  more 
severe  and  sweeping  measure  might  have  been  expected  ;  but 
that  of  the  orders  of  Council  of  the  nth  of  Nov.  as  having  been 
actually  issued,  there  was  no  certain  knowledge  in  America,  or 
at  least  none  in  possession  of  the  American  Government,  at  the 
time  of  the  proposing  the  embargo." 

At  present  no  part  of  this  extract  should  be  published,  or  con- 
versed about  but  with  your  confidential  friends. 

I  requested  some  time  ago  information  about  the  intrigues  of 
Count  Vergennes,  when  Mr.  Jay  was  negotiating  with  Mr.  Oswald 
on  the  terms  of  the  Treaty  of  Peace.  I  wished  particularly  to 
know  all  the  points  which  Vergennes  endeavoured  to  persuade 
our  ministers  to  relinquish.  From  my  recollection,  the  burthen 
of  the  negotiation  and  all  the  merit  of  the  Treaty  rested  on  Mr. 
Jay  :  Dr.  F.  was  in  the  French  interest — at  least  disposed  to  be 
perfectly  complaisant,  and  to  obey  his  instructions  literally  ;  and 
Mr.  Adams  was  at  the  Hague,  tho'  heartily  concurring  with  Mr. 
Jay.     I  wish  to  receive  the  information  you  can  give  me. 

yr.  faithful  &  obed.  Serv. 

T.  Pickering. 


R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

New  York,  January  15,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  expected  sooner  to  have  answered  your  enquiries  respecting 

the  conduct  of  France  at  the  period  of  our  negotiation  for  Peace 

with  England,  but  I  have  been  disappointed  in  my  search  for  an 


126  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

abstract  of  this  negotiation  which  I  drew  up  from  the  original 
documents  many  years  ago.  Having  occasionally  lent  papers  of 
this  sort,  and  particularly  to  Col.  Hamilton,  I  fear  that  I  have  lost 
this  with  others.  I  however  send  you  (with  the  request  that  you 
will  return  it  to  me)  an  abstract  of  Mr.  Jay's  mission  to  Spain, 
together  with  a  precis  of  so  much  of  the  negotiation  at  Paris  as 
occurred  before  Mr.  Adams  joined  the  Commission.  I  likewise 
add  the  copy  of  a  note  of  References  to  ministerial  appointments 
and  instructions  by  Congress,  which  may  throw  some  light  upon 
the  subject  of  your  enquiry.  It  remains  upon  my  mind  as  matter 
of  conviction  derived  from  the  contemporaneous  suspicions  and 
proceedings  in  Massachusetts,  as  well  as  from  the  Examinations 
that  afterwards  I  had  the  opportunity  of  making,  that,  for  several 
years  before  and  after  the  conclusion  of  the  revolutionary  war,  a 
powerful  &  controlling  French  influence  existed  in  Congress  : 
both  here  and  in  Europe,  France  employed  various  intrigues 
and  manifested  no  small  solicitude  to  prevent  us  from  obtaining 
those  advantages  in  a  Treaty  of  Peace,  which  were  material  to 
our  Prosperity  &  our  Honour. 

By  reason  of  his  sagacity  and  fidelity  Mr.  Jay  incurred  the 
displeasure  of  the  French  Court,  which  did  not  fail  to  show  itself 
here  afterwards  through  the  French  Ministers.  The  persevering 
endeavours  of  the  French  Minister  of  for.  affairs,  the  Count  de 
Vergennes,  to  engage  Mr.  Jay  to  consult  and  obey  the  instruc- 
tions of  Congress  (equally  known  to  him  as  to  Mr.  Jay)  and  to  take 
no  step  in  the  negotiations  with  Mr.  Oswald  the  Eng.  Minr., 
unless  in  confidence  and  concert  with  France,  were  entirely 
fruitless  ;  while  the  respectful  deference  of  Doct.  Franklin  for 
the  wisdom  of  Congress  so  much  superior  to  his  own,  is  under- 
stood to  have  opposed  no  obstacle  to  the  views  of  the  French 
Cabinet.  Had  Mr.  Jay  been  equally  pliable  as  Doct.  Franklin, 
there  is  little  doubt  that  a  Treaty  would  have  been  concluded 
with  Mr.  Oswald,  under  the  auspices  of  France  and  before  Mr. 
Adams'  arrival,  which  would  have  restored  the  Tories  and  their 
estates,  which  would  have  established  the  epoch  of  our  Inde- 
pendence to  be  the  date  of  the  Treaty,  instead  of  the  date  of  the 
Declaration,  which  would  have  curtailed  our  Boundaries,  given 
up  the  navigation  of  the  Mississippi,  and  relinquished  the  Fish- 
eries.    The  views  of  France  at  this  period  to  keep  us  back,  and 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 27 

to  check  our  growth,  were  afterwards  openly  confessed  in  the 
instructions  of  the  Commee.  of  public  safety  to  Genet,  and  other 
Documents  have  confirmed  the  fact. 

Mons.  Anquetil,  of  the  French  office  for  for.  affairs,  in  his  work 
called  Motifs  de  Guerres  dedicated  to  Talleyrand,  and  published 
in  1800,  says  that  France  in  the  period  of  135  years,  between  the 
Treaty  of  Westphalia  in  1648  and  the  Treaty  of  Paris  in  1783, 
was  at  war  70  years  and  at  peace  only  65  years.  These  70  years 
are  divided  into  eleven  wars,  to  wit,  5  wars  of  family,  4  wars  of 
ambition,  pride,  hatred  and  obstinacy,  and  2  wars  of  commerce  ; 
and  in  these  two  wars  only  was  France  as  a  nation  interested.  The 
seven  years  war  which  was  commenced  in  1755,  an^  tne  American 
war  which  began  in  1778.  Of  the  first,  speaking  of  the  English, 
he  says  : 

"  Enfin  ils  se  sont  montres  ouvertement  quand  ils  ont  attaques 
les  Francais  en  1755  dans  le  Canada,  et  quoique  le  pretexte  de 
l'aggression  ait  ete  une  dispute  de  limites,  il  est  certain  que  le 
vrai  motif  etait  le  dessein  d'abbatre  et  d'  aneantir  la  marine  Fran- 
caise,  qui  se  relevait.  Reciproquement  ce  n'est  pas  pour  soustraire 
les  Americains  a.  la  domination  Anglaise  que  Louis  XVI.  s'est 
lie  avec  eux  en  1778,  ni  pour  les  faire  jouir  des  avantages  de  la 
liberte  ;  mais  pour  oter  a  la  marine  Britannique  la  Ressource 
d'un  continent  entier  bien  garni  de  ports,  dont  les  forces  avaient 
ete  tres  utiles  aux  Anglais  dans  les  dernieres  guerres  contre  les 
Francais,  et  pour  rentrer  en  possession  des  parties  de  Peche  et 
de  commerce  qu'ils  avaient  envahis  ;  a.  quoi  les  Francais  n'ont 
pas  reussi." 

You  will  recollect  that  the  Treaty  with  G.  Britain  was  con- 
cluded contrary  to  the  views  &  opinions  of  the  French  Court,  who 
were  desirous  of  our  waiting  until  the  conclusion  of  a  general 
Peace  ;  and,  if  I  recollect  correctly,  the  dissatisfaction  of  France 
and  her  Partizans  in  this  country  was  such,  that  Mr.  Madison  & 
others  (Chancellor  Livingston  being  the  minister  of  for.  affairs) 
meditated  a  censure  upon  our  ministers  for  their  disobedience  to 
their  instructions  who  enjoined  an  intimate  &  confidential  co- 
operation with  the  French  Cabinet.  Congress  were  at  this  time 
at  Princeton,  and  Col.  Hamilton,  a  new  member,  avowed  him- 


128  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

self  the  Defender  of  the  ministers.  The  eclat  of  the  expected 
discussion  and  the  great  popularity  of  the  Treaty  are  understood 
to  have  dissuaded  the  supporters  of  the  instructions  from  bring- 
ing forward  their  motion  of  Censure. 

I  thank  you  for  the  pair  of  Speeches  which  you  sent  me  to  re- 
place those  I  had  given  to  Col.  Trumbull,  and,  together  with  every 
impartial  and  honest  man  in  the  country,  I  am  obliged  to  you 
and  Mr.  Hillhouse  for  the  pains  you  have  taken  in  making  them 
and  other  excellent  speeches  to  the  Senate.  I  beg  you  to  thank 
Mr.  Hillhouse,  in  my  behalf,  for  his  useful  and  constitutional 
Speech  in  opposition  to  Mr.  Giles'  oppressive  and  tyrannical  Bill 
to  inforce  the  embargo.  These  measures  may  be  borne  for  a 
time,  but  they  cannot  be  of  long  duration.  You  will  have  seen 
the  proceedings  of  a  numerous  meeting  in  this  city  ;  these  will 
be  followed  in  other  parts  of  our  State.  Whether  the  officers  and 
dependants  of  administration  here  will  call  together  their  follow- 
ers to  approve  of  what  Congress  have  done  and  are  doing  I  know 
not,  nor  do  I  suppose  it  of  much  importance  whether  they  do  or 
do  not.  Perhaps  it  would  in  point  of  policy  be  our  wish  that 
they  shd.  approve.  It  is  not  however  from  our  cities,  but  from 
the  country  that  sound  opinions  are  to  be  looked  for. 

It  is  difficult  to  determine  upon  a  course  of  measures,  or  upon 
the  fitness  of  promulgating  and  inforcing  opinions,  which  deeply 
affect  the  public  welfare,  unless  all  the  circumstances  of  the  times 
and  the  occasion  are  before  us  ;  we  therefore  cannot  decide  how 
far  our  friends  at  Washington  have  been  influenced  in  their  con- 
duct by  considerations  with  which  we  are  not  acquainted.  I 
have  myself  thought  that  you  might  content  yourselves  with  op- 
posing such  bad  and  dangerous  measures  as  should  be  proposed  ; 
but  I  am  not  now  certain  that  the  condition  of  our  public  affairs, 
and  the  crisis  that  cannot  be  remote,  have  not  a  claim  upon  you 
to  point  out  the  course  which  ought  to  be  adopted.  That  course 
seems  to  me  the  repeal  of  the  Embargo  Laws,  and  the  adoption 
of  the  measures  that  were  pursued  in  1.798.  I  will  not  add  to 
this  long  letter  the  arguments  which  in  my  judgment  would  justify 
this  course,  especially  as  the  entire  subject  is  within  your  recol- 
lection.    Very  truly,  I  remain,  dear  Sir, 

Your  obdt.  &  faithful  Servt., 

Rufus  King. 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 29 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  Jany.  21,  1S09. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  Mr.  Madison's  letter  to  Monroe,  dated  Jany  5,  1804,  at  the 
20th  page,  he  speaks  of  your  negotiation  on  the  subject  of  im- 
pressment, so  as  to  exclude  the  practice  on  the  high  seas  ;  but 
says  that  "  at  the  moment  when  the  articles  were  expected  to 
be  signed,  an  exception  of  the  '  narrow  seas  '  was  urged  and 
insisted  on  by  Lord  St.  Vincent,  and  being  utterly  inadmissible 
on  our  part,  the  negotiation  was  abandoned."  I  suppose  the  ne- 
gotiation was  instituted  under  the  instructions  of  Mr.  Jefferson, 
and  I  suppose  also  that  this  exception  was,  as  it  has  been  since, 
sine  qua  non.  If  without  too  much  trouble  you  can  give  me  a 
view  of  your  negotiation,  I  shall  be  greatly  obliged.  In  the  page 
above  quoted,  Mr.  Madison  says,  "  Mr.  King  seems  to  be  of  opin- 
ion that  with  more  time  than  was  left  him  for  the  experiment, 
the  objection  might  have  been  overcome." 

I  have  long  entertained  the  opinion  that  Mr.  Jefferson  de- 
termined, at  the  outset,  not  to  form  a  treaty  of  unity  and  com- 
merce with  G.  B.,  and  therefore  insisted  on  some  terms  which 
he  believed  she  would  never  admit.  If  the  impressment  of  sea- 
men, except  in  British  ports,  had  been  given  up,  and  if  the  coast- 
ing and  colonial  trade  of  her  enemies  were  entirely  surrendered 
to  the  U.  S.,  so  that  the  whole  commerce  of  France  &  her  de- 
pendences should  be  carried  on  by  neutrals  without  molestation. 
Bonaparte  might  have  been  satisfied,  and  a  treaty  between  the 
U.  S.  and  G.  B.  to  secure  these  benefits  to  France,  consented  to 
by  the  Emperor. 

I  remember  that  on  my  way  home  last  May,  you  informed  me 
that  J.  Q.  Adams  had  called  on  you  ;  and  in  speaking  of  the  ac- 
quittal of  John  Smith  of  Ohio,  he  ascribed  it  to  Mr.  Jefferson 
whom  he  supposed  to  be  in  Smith's  hands.  This  undoubtedly  was 
the  fact.  If  you  recollect  any  fact,  stated  by  J.  Q.  A.  as  the 
ground  of  his  opinion,  I  should  be  glad  to  know  it. 

Mr.  Jefferson  has  committed  himself  to  many  people,  who  have 
been  employed  to  do  dirty  work  ;  hence  I  presume  Duane  was 
made  a  Lieut.-Colonel.  I  suppose  he  demandedihe  appointment  ; 
and  D.  now  commands  at  Mud-Island  Fort,  where  he  can  con- 
veniently edit  his  paper.     Freneau  was  appointed  translator  of 


I30  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

French  for  the  Dept.  of  State  by  M.  J.  while  F.  was  establishing 
the  National  Gazette,  altho'  F.  did  not  understand  the  language. 
I  remember  George  Taylor,  (chief  clerk)  once  showed  me  one 
folio  page  of  Freneau's  translation,  corrected  in  full  twenty 
places,  I  think  in  Jefferson's  own  handwriting.  Taylor  could 
translate  well  &  and  was  recommended  to  Jefferson  for  that  ser- 
vice by  Mr.  Jay.     .     .     . 

Very  truly  &  respectfully  yrs, 

T.  Pickering. 


R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

January  31,  1S09. 

Dear  Sir  : 

The  attempt  to  settle  with  England  an  article  respecting  the 
impressment  of  seamen,  was  made  by  me  without  any  instruction 
from  the  President.  As  the  war  was  about  recommencing,  I  was 
anxious  on  this  subject  &  therefore  endeavoured  to  conclude  an 
article  that  would  have  afforded  us  some  security:  had  not  the 
ministers  been  much  engaged,  &  had  not  I  myself  been  upon  the 
wing,  I  do  believe  I  should  have  succeeded. 

The  principal  article  was  in  these  words,  "  No  seamen  or  sea- 
faring person  shall  be  demanded  or  taken  [beyond  the  limits  of 
the  narrow  seas,  or]  upon  the  high  seas  and  without  the  jurisdic- 
tion of  the  contracting  parties  out  of  any  ship  or  vessel  belonging 
to  the  Citizens  or  Subjects  of  one  of  the  parties,  by  the  private  or 
public  armed  Ships  or  Men  of  War,  belonging  to,  or  in  the  service 
of,  the  other  Party,  and  strict  orders  shall  be  given  for  the  due 
observance  of  this  engagement."  ;  the  words  within  the  Brack- 
ets were  proposed  by  Lord  St.  Vincent  to  be  added  after  the  arti- 
cle had  been  settled,  and  altho'  his  Lordship  would  have  given 
them  up,  there  was  an  objection  to  doing  so,  from  another  quarter 
and  in  consequence  of  which  the  business  failed. 

With  regard  to  Mr.  Jefferson's  sincerity  in  seeking  a  good  un- 
derstanding with  Eng.,  I  will  mention  a  fact,  that  has  appeared  to 
me  of  great  significance.  You  will  recollect  the  objections  that 
were  made  in  this  Country,  as  well  as  in  France,  to  Mr.  Jay's 
Treaty,  on  account  of  its  having  been  negotiated  and  concluded 
during  a  war  between  England  and  France. 

Altho'  we  did  not  admit  the  validity  of  these  objections  in  the 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  131 

sense  in  which  they  were  offered,  there  certainly  is  considerable 
weight  in  the  observation  that  we  never  can  expect  to  negotiate 
as  favourable  a  Treaty  with  England  when  she  is  engaged  in  war, 
as  when  she  is  at  Peace.  The  various  interests  that  are  advanced 
in  England  in  time  of  war,  by  the  unlimited  exercise  of  belligerent 
rights  over  Neutrals,  will  be  active  to  resist  and  defeat  every  at- 
tempt to  restrain  those  rights.  Hence  the  conclusion  of  the  war, 
when  the  naval  power  is  disorganized  and  laid  up,  is  the  true 
time  to  enter  into  negotiations  concerning  Maritime  Regulations. 
Mr.  Jay's  Treaty,  so  far  as  concerned  commercial  &  maritime 
Rules,  was  limited  to  a  continuance  of  ten  years  from  the  date  of 
the  Preliminaries  of  Peace.  Influenced  by  the  foregoing  considera- 
tions, I  early  intimated  to  the  Administration  the  policy  of  at- 
tempting before  the  commencement  of  another  war  (which  all 
prudent  men  foretold  to  be  not  remote)  to  negotiate  and  conclude 
a  Treaty  with  England.  I  knew  the  character  and  disposition  of 
the  English  Ministry  (Addington's  Admn.)  to  be  favourable  ;  be- 
sides the  reputation  of  the  U.  S.  was  such  as  to  obtain  the  popu- 
lar favor  in  support  of  the  Ministry,  in  case  they  formed  a  Treaty 
with  the  U.  S.,  and  I  may  to  you  add  that  I  myself  felt  strong  in 
my  confidence,  that  I  could  put  our  Affairs  upon  a  better  footing 
than  it  had  been  in  the  power  of  Mr.  Jay  to  place  them  in  the 
untoward  circumstances  in  which  he  found  himself.  The  reply 
of  our  Administration  taught  me  that  no  such  overture  was  to 
proceed  from  the  U.  S.  ;  in  other  words,  if  Eng.  wished  a  renewal 
of  the  Treaty,  she  must  say  so.  I  understood  and  have  not  been 
disappointed  in  the  views  of  our  Executive  ;  and  as  I  did  not 
choose  to  be  the  witness  of  what  I  foresaw  would  take  place,  I 
resigned  my  office  and  came  home. 

Had  we  seasonably  and  sincerely  tried  to  renew  the  Treaty, 
we  shd.  have  succeeded.  I  have  believed  that  the  same  views  & 
motives  which  prevented  a  renewal  of  the  Treaty,  have  influenced 
every  subsequent  measure  of  our  Administration  relative  to  Eng- 
land. These  Reflexions  are  however  purely  confidential. 
I  remain  faithfully  &  always  your  obt.  Servt. 

R.  K. 

I  have  no  leisure  to  rewrite  and  copy  in  time  for  the  Post,  and 
you  will  I  hope  excuse  the  erasions  and  interlineations. 

Post  Scriptum.     The  Embargo,  as  we  are  now  told,  is  to  give 


I32  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

way  to  war.  If  the  project  be  to  unite  with  France  against  Eng- 
land, the  Union  cannot  be  preserved.  Has  this  been  the  real 
purpose  from  the  beginning,  or  has  the  last  news  from  Spain  en- 
couraged the  Administration  to  be  more  open  in  their  measures  ? 
perhaps  the  opposition  in  the  East  begins  to  excite  serious  alarm. 

Spain  may  be  overrun,  and  I  have  believed  that  such  wd.  be 
her  miserable  Fate,  but  the  best  and  bravest  of  her  sons  will 
escape  to  S.  America,  and  there,  allied  with  England,  defy  the 
Tyrant. 

According  to  the  accounts  from  Spain,  the  cause  of  the  Patriots 
will  suffer  severely  from  the  scarcity  of  bread  and  other  provi- 
sions. How  base  and  how  unfeeling  is  our  conduct,  in  refusing 
to  our  people  the  faculty  of  supplying  them?  The  Eng.  orders 
are  inapplicable,  and  nothing  but  the  fear  of  France  can  prevent 
our  carrying  to  Spain  those  supplies,  the  want  of  wh.  may  occa- 
sion the  failure  of  the  Patriot  cause  ? 

I  omitted  to  say  that  no  fact  was  mentioned  in  support  of  the 
opinion  that  Jefferson  was  in  the  power  of  Smith,  the  Ohio 
Senator.  R.  K. 

C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Waltham,  Jan.   27,  1S09. 

My  dear  Friend  : 

We  ended  the  Session  of  our  Legislature  in  Harmony  &  good 
Humour.     Satisfactory  Provisions  for  supporting  the  S.  was 

made,  by  a  handsome  majority,  composed  of  a  due  proportion  of 
both  Parties.  Two  or  three  Laws  relative  to  the  Sessions  &  the 
appointment  of  County  Attornies,  passed  the  first  year  of  Mr. 
Sullivan's  Admin,  for  the  purpose  of  securing  patronage  to  the 
Governor,  were  repealed.  No  officer  has  yet  been  displaced,  & 
none  will  be,  but  for  incompetency  or  mal-conduct.  In  making 
the  requisite  appointments,  no  question  has  ever  been  asked, 
what  were  the  politics  of  the  candidates,  &,  in  many  instances,  I 
know  the  men  appointed  to  be  of  different  sentiments  in  politics. 
No  office  has  been  asked  for  one  of  the  opposite  party  &  refused, 
yet  the  Chronicle,  in  its  malignant  &  lying  spirit,  complains  that 
none  but  Federalists  have  been  appointed  to  office,  and  among 
these  one  of  the  most  rancorous  temper,  alluding  probably  to  Col. 
Pickering,  whose  commission,  as  a  Justice,  was  near  expiring  and 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  I  33 

wasrenewed,  when  he  was  named  asa  Justice  through  the  Common- 
wealth. Were  Honestus  &  the  Adams  favoured  with  some  respect 
for  truth,  a  little  reason  and  a  belief  that  there  might  be  men  en- 
titled to  some  credit  besides  themselves,  we  might  indulge  a  hope 
of  something  like  peace  &  quiet.  But  the  insolence  of  these  men 
&  their  intolerant  Vanity  will  never  cease  to  goad  the  Community, 
as  they  are  goaded  by  their  own  passions.     .     .     . 

with  ever  affectionate  Regard,  I  remain   my  dear  Friend, 

Sincerely  yours     C.  Gore. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  Feby.  2,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

You  will  learn  that  yesterday  the  House  of  R.,  in  Commtee  of 
the  whole,  negatived  the  motion  of  Nicholas  to  fill  the  blank  in 
his  resolution  for  the  time  of  repealing  the  embargo  with  the  1st 
of  June.  Today  they  did  fill  it — with  the  4th  of  March, — and 
the  majority  being  75  to  about  26,  I  presume  the  resolution  for 
repealing  it  on  that  day  will  finally  prevail.  Mr.  Jefferson,  how- 
ever, is  employing  all  his  influence  against  an  early  repeal — or 
earlier  than  the  1st  of  June,  by  which  time  may  be  expected  the 
answer  of  Bonaparte  on  that  and  ulterior  measures.  I  cannot 
doubt  of  a  secret  Stipulation,  or  understanding  (probably  not 
known  to  Armstrong)  for  keeping  on  the  Embargo,  until  other 
measures,  as  well  or  better  suited  to  his  views  may  be  practicable. 
Without  such  an  obligation,  the  failure  of  which  might  throw 
Bonaparte  into  a  passion  and  cause  an  exposure  of  Jefferson, 
the  obstinacy  of  the  latter  in  maintaining  a  measure  so  hostile  to 
the  interests  of  the  nation  &  which  is  daily  diminishing  his  popu- 
larity, cannot  be  accounted  for.  From  the  mouth  of  a  reputable 
gentleman,  who  was  present  and  heard  it,  but  whose  name  I  am 
not  at  liberty  to  mention,  Mr.  Jefferson,  last  Summer,  said  he 
would  rather  the  U.  States  should  sink  than  that  any  alteration 
in  his  system  should  be  made.  I  hope  the  prospect  of  an  early 
repeal  will  not  render  the  opposers  of  the  embargo  remiss ;  any 
relaxation  in  the  determined  opposition  might  encourage  the 
devotees  and  enable  Mr.  J.  to  rally  his  troops. 

In  great  haste  faithfully  yr 

T.  Pickering. 


134  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

New  York,  Feby.  7,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  thank  you  for  your  letter  of  the  3rd,  and  am  glad  to  see  that 
the  H.  of  R.,  by  so  large  a  majority,  have  agreed  to  an  early  day 
for  the  repeal  of  the  Embargo  ;  altho'  some  among  us  still  think 
that  the  Rulers  are  madly  determined  upon  a  war  with  England, 
and  that  this  resolve,  repealing  the  Embargo,  will  contain  other 
matter,  which  may  in  its  consequences  involve  us  in  war.  I  am 
rather  disposed  to  consider  the  project  of  arming  our  merchant 
vessels  as  a  mere  something  to  cover  the  retreat  from  the  Em- 
bargo System,  from  which  the  public  voice  has  driven  them. 

If  the  Law  be  repealed,  which  forbids  our  merchants  to  arm 
their  vessels,  every  one  will  be  at  liberty,  as  he  ought  to  be,  to 
arm  or  not  to  arm  :  but  if  Congress  require  them  to  arm,  and 
authorize,  or  direct,  their  resistance  of  visit  and  search  by  the 
Belligerents — that,  so  far  as  I  understand,  is  war.  No  merchant 
who  arms  his  vessel  and  whose  master  is  ordered  to  resist  the 
belligerent  visit  and  search,  could  obtain  insurance  under  a  war 
premium  ;  so  that  the  trade  would  be  but  little  relieved  by  a  sys- 
tem which  shd  oblige  the  merchant  to  run  this  risque. 

The  Embargo  must  come  off — it  cannot  be  kept  on.  The 
plausible  reasons  heretofore  assigned  in  its  favor  no  longer 
operate.  No  man  of  sense  believes  them,  and  the  continuance 
of  this  bad  measure  every  day  exposes  the  Govt,  to  suspicions, 
Avhich  no  man  that  loves  his  country  dare  seriously  to  entertain. 
The  Govt,  must  take  off  the  Embargo  ;  and  they  are  unable,  and 
dare  not,  if  they  desire  it,  to  substitute  in  its  place  a  war  with 
England.     I  must  stop  here  to  save  the  post. 

R.  K. 

In  several  of  the  preceding  letters  reference  has  been 
made  to  the  fact  that  the  President  had  not  communicated  to 
the  Senate  the  correspondence  of  Mr.  Armstrong  with  the 
French  Government  and  with  the  State  Department,  and  that 
some  of  the  leading  Federalists,  among  others  Mr.  King,  had 
urged  upon  Mr.  Pickering  to  ask  for  it.  This  he  had  declined 
to  do  after  consulting  with  his  friends  in  Congress,  from  the 


1809]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  1 35 

certainty,  as  they  believed,  that  the  Senate  would  not  sustain 
the  demand  and  that  it  would  be  better  to  wait.  With  the 
exception  of  a  letter  from  Mr.  Champagny,  it  was  not  sent 
to  that  body  until  Nov.  8,  1808,  and  it  is  here  introduced 
for  the  purpose  of  showing  that  the  opposition  made  to  the 
acts  of  the  administration  by  the  Federalists,  though  not 
based  on  actual  official  information  as  to  the  influence  of 
French  counsels,  was  not  factional,  but  the  result  of  a  firm 
conviction  that  the  policy  of  the  Government  was  dictated  in 
what  are  called  by  Mr.  Jefferson  "  conversations  with  the 
Emperor,"  which  "  it  is  not  usual  to  bring  before  the  public." 
Mr.  Jefferson  characterizes  the  seizure  of  our  vessels  by  his 
privateers  as  "justifiable  by  no  law,  as  piracy,  the  wrong  we 
complain  of."  He  permits  the  Emperor  to  insult  the  United 
States,  but  directs  his  minister  to  remonstrate  against  his 
acts  in  a  "  friendly  manner."  His  eyes  were  closed  to  the 
efforts  which  England  made,  in  a  firm  yet  courteous  way,  to 
settle  the  questions  with  the  United  States,  though  she  was 
unwilling  to  yield  to  demands  involving  the  surrender  of  what 
she  claimed  as  rights,  which  ended  in  bringing  about  a  war 
as  unnecessary  as  it  was  fruitless  in  moving  her  from  her 
claims. 

1807,  August  15th. — "  We  had  this  morning  an  audience  of  the 
Emperor.  .  .  .  He  came  directly  to  me,  and,  after  some 
questions  merely  personal,  he  adverted  to  the  outrage  committed 
by  the  Leopard  on  the  Chesapeake.  'This,'  said  he,  'is  abomi- 
nable ;  they  have  pretended  hitherto  to  visit  merchantmen,  and 
that  they  had  a  right  to  do  so  ;  but  they,  even  they,  have  set  up 
no  such  pretentions  with  respect  to  armed  ships.  They  would 
now  arrange  it  by  giving  up  a  right  or  usage,  which  never  existed  ; 
but  they  will  arrange  it ;  they  are  afraid  to  go  to  war  with  your 
country.'" — Armstrong  to  Secy,  of  State,  2d  Sess.  10th  Congress 
{Annals  of  Congress,  p.  1668). 

1807,  Nov.  24. — "  The  unjust  pretensions  of  England  will  be  kept 
up  as  long  as  those  whose  rights  she  violates  are  silent :  and 
what  Government  has  had  more  to  complain  of  against  her  than 
the  United  States  ?     All  the  difficulties  which  have  given  rise  to 


I36  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 


your  reclamations,  sir,  would  be  removed  with  ease  if  the  Govern- 
ment of  the  United  States,  after  complaining  in  vain  of  the  in- 
justice and  violence  of  England,  took  with  the  whole  Continent 
the  part  of  guarantying  itself  therefrom." — Champagny  to  Arm- 
strong.     Ut  supra,  p.  1667. 

Jany.  15,  1808. — "  In  the  situation  in  which  England  has  placed 
the  Continent,  especially  since  her  decrees  of  the  nth  November, 
His  Majesty  has  no  doubt  of  a  declaration  of  war  against  her  by 
the  United  States,  whatever  transient  sacrifices  war  may  occasion  : 
they  will  not  believe  it  consistent  either  with  their  interest  or 
dignity  to  acknowledge  the  monstrous  principle  and  the  anarchy 
which  that  Government  wished  to  establish  on  the  sea.  .  .  . 
War  exists,  then,  in  fact,  between  England  and  the  United  States  ; 
and  His  Majesty  considers  it  as  declared  from  the  day  in  which 
England  published  her  decrees.  In  that  persuasion,  His  Majesty, 
ready  to  consider  the  United  States  as  associated  with  all  the 
Powers  who  have  to  defend  themselves  against  England,  has 
not  taken  any  definitive  measures  towards  the  American  vessels, 
which  may  have  been  brought  into  our  ports  ;  he  has  ordered  that 
they  should  remain  sequestered  until  a  decision  may  be  had  there- 
on, according  to  the  disposition  which  shall  have  been  expressed 
by  the  Government  of  the  United  States." — Champagny  to 
Armstrong.     Ans.  of  Cong.,  2d.  Sess.,  1809,     p.  1669. 

1808,  Febry.  22. — "  I  have  come  at  the  knowledge  of  two  facts, 
which  I  think  sufficiently  show  the  decided  character  of  the 
Emperor's  policy  with  regard  to  us.  1st.  That  in  a  Council  of 
Administration  held  a  few  days  past,  when  it  was  proposed  to 
modify  the  operation  of  the  decrees  of  November  1806  and  Decem- 
ber 1807  (though  the  proposition  was  supported  by  the  whole 
weight  of  the  Council)  he  became  highly  indignant,  and  declared 
that  these  decrees  should  suffer  no  change,  and  that  the  Americans 
should  be  compelled  totake  the  positive  character  either  of  Allies 
or  of  enemies.  .  .  .  If  I  am  right  in  supposing  that  the  Em- 
peror has  definitively  taken  his  ground,  I  cannot  be  wrong  in  con- 
cluding that  you  will  immediately  take  yours." — Armstrong  to 
Madison.      Ut  supra,  p.  1673. 

1808,  May  2d. — Mr.  Champagny's  letter  of  15th  of  January, 
"  has,  as  you  will  see  by  the  papers  herewith  sent,  produced  the 
sensations  here  which  the  spirit  and  style  of  it  were  calculated  to 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 37 

excite  in  minds  alive  to  the  interests  and  honor  of  the  nation.  To 
present  to  the  United  States  the  alternative  of  bending  to  the 
views  of  France  her  enemy  or  of  incurring  a  confiscation  of  all 
property  of  their  Citizens  carried  into  the  French  prize  courts,  im- 
plied that  they  were  susceptible  of  impressions  by  which  no  inde- 
pendent and  honorable  nation  can  be  guided  ;  and  to  prejudge 
and  pronounce  for  them  the  effect  which  the  conduct  of  another 
nation  ought  to  have  on  their  councils  &  course  of  proceeding  had 
the  air  at  least  of  an  assumed  authority,  not  less  irritating  to  the 
public  feeling." — Ut  supra,  1677. 

Mr.  Armstrong  was  directed  to  speak  of  the  offensive  tone 
of  the  despatch,  but  to  leave  way  for  friendly  explanations. 

1808,  July  26. — "  It  would  have  given  me  the  highest  pleasure  to 
have  drawn  from  this  Government  such  explanations  on  the 
general  subject  of  our  differences  with  them  as  would  have  met  the 
friendly  and  equitable  views  of  the  United  States  ;  but  I  owe  it, 
as  well  to  you  as  to  myself,  to  declare  that  every  attempt  for  that 
purpose  hitherto  made  has  failed,  and  under  circumstances  which 
by  no  means  indicate  any  change  in  their  aspect  for  the  better." 
— Armstrong  to  Madison.      Ut  supra,  p.  1682. 

In  a  subsequent  letter,  Aug.  30,  he  advises  raising  the  em- 
bargo, unless  France  do  the  U.  S.  justice,  and  establish  an 
armed  commerce. 

"  Should  she  adhere  to  her  wicked  and  foolish  measures,  we 
ought  not  to  content  ourselves  with  doing  this  ;  there  is  much, 
very  much  besides  that  we  can  do,  and  we  ought  not  to  omit 
doing  all  we  can,  because  it  is  believed  here  that  we  can  not  do 
much,  and  even  that  we  will  not  do  what  we  have  the  power 
of  doing." — Ut  supra,  p.  1684. 

Mr.  Jefferson,  in  a  letter  to  Robt.  L.  Livingston,  Oct.  15, 
1808  {Jeff.    Works,  V,  370),  says: 

"The  explanation  of  his  principles  given  by  the  French  Em- 
peror, in  conversation,  is  correct  as  far  as  it  goes.  He  does  not 
wish  us  to  go  to  war  with  England,  knowing  we  have  no  ships  to 
carry  on  the  war.  To  submit  to  pay  to  England  the  tribute  on 
our  commerce  which  she  demands  by  her  order  of  Council,  would 


I38  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

be  to  aid  her  in  the  war  against  him  and  would  give  him  just 
grounds  to  declare  war  with  us.  He  concludes,  therefore,  as  every 
rational  man  must,  that  the  embargo  is  the  only  remaining  alterna- 
tive. These  are  acknowledged  principles  and  should  circumstances 
arise  which  may  offer  advantage  to  our  country  in  making  them 
public,  we  shall  avail  ourselves  of  them.  But  as  it  is  not  usual 
nor  agreeable  to  governments  to  bring  their  conversations  before 
the  public,  I  think  it  would  be  well  to  consider  this  on  your  part 
as  confidential,  leaving  it  to  the  government  to  retain  or  make  it 
public,  as  the  general  good  may  require.  Had  the  Emperor  gone 
further,  and  said  that  he  condemned  our  vessels  going  voluntarily 
into  his  ports  in  breach  of  his  municipal  laws  we  might  have  ad- 
mitted it  rigorously  legal,  though  not  friendly.  But  his  condem- 
nation of  vessels  taken  on  the  high  seas,  by  his  privateers,  and 
carried  involuntarily  into  his  ports,  is  justifiable  by  no  law,  is 
piracy,  and  this  is  the  wrong  we  complain  of  against  him." 

Mr.  Jefferson  writes  to  Mr.  Short,  March  8,  1809,  telling 
him  of  the  Senate's  rejection  of  him  as  Minister  to  Russia 
(  Works,  v.,  456). 

"  Our  embargo  has  worked  hard.  It  has  in  fact  federalized  three 
of  the  New  England  States.  Connecticut  you  know  was  so  before. 
We  have  substituted  for  it  a  non-intercourse  with  France  and  Eng- 
land and  their  dependencies,  and  a  trade  with  all  other  countries. 
It  is  probable  the  belligerents  will  take  our  vessels  under  their 
edicts,  in  which  case  we  shall  probably  declare  war  against  them." 

The  beginning  of  the  following  examination  by  Mr.  King 
relative  to  the  priority  of  the  Treaties  between  the  United 
States  and  England  and  France  is  missing,  but  is  not  essen- 
tial to  the  understanding  of  its  conclusions. 

According  to  the  limitations  of  the  Treaties  between  the  U. 
States  and  England  &  France,  the  former  expired  in  May  1804,  & 
the  latter  in  August  1809. 

As  the  Treaty  with  France  was  posterior  in  date  to  the  Treaty 
with  England,  the  latter  possessed  certain  priorities  &  preferences 
in  the  American  ports  over  the  former.  Had  the  English  Treaty 
been  renewed  antecedent  to  its  expiration,  these  priorities  &pref- 


1809]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  1 39 

erences  would  have  been  preserved  ;  but  they  expired  with  the 
Treaty,  and  were  therefore  acquired  and  possessed  by  France  over 
England  during  the  unexpired  term  of  the  Treaty  :  that  too  hav- 
ing expired  in  August,  both  Nations  have  since  been  in  these 
respects  upon  a  footing  of  equality. 

In  the  Summer  of  1806,  the  U.  States  having  despatched  Mr. 
Pinckney  to  England  as  a  Special  Minister,  this  Gentleman  in 
conjunction  with  the  Resident  Minister,  Mr.  Monroe,  was  in  the 
Autumn  of  that  year,  employed  in  negotiating  a  new  Treaty  with 
England.  Bonaparte  having  seen  with  satisfaction  the  depreda- 
tions on  t-he  American  carrying  trade  practised  by  the  British 
Cruizers,  had  supposed  it  would  lead  to  a  rupture  between  the 
two  Countries,  and  when,  instead  of  this  result,  he  became  ac- 
quainted with  the  progress  of  the  negotiation  between  the  U.  States 
&:  England,  he  proclaimed  by  the  Decree  of  Berlin  the  British 
Island  in  a  state  of  Blockade,  and  interdicted  the  British  Trade 
to  all  nations. 

The  Decree  was  issued  in  Nov.  1806,  and  being  in  violation  of 
the  Laws  of  war,  gave  to  England  &  the  nations,  the  Right  to 
have  adopted  immediate  measures  of  retaliation  ;  the  Government 
of  this  Country,  professing  a  course  of  moderation,  notified  the 
Neutral  States,  whose  Commerce  alone  was  affected  by  this  De- 
cree that  England  proposed  to  retaliate,  in  the  expectation  that 
thro'  their  representations  &  influence,  this  enormous  Decree 
should  be  recalled,  intimating  to  them  at  the  same  time  that,  in 
failure  of  such  recall,  England  would  find  herself  obliged  to 
retaliate  upon  France. 

Immediately  before  the  signature  of  the  Treaty  concluded  with 
England  by  Mess.  Monroe  &  Pinckney,  a  notification  to  this  effect 
was  made  to  them  by  the  British  Ministers. 

We  must  all  recollect  the  Fate  of  this  Treaty,  which  was  sup- 
pressed and  smothered  by  the  President,  and  not  only  not  ratified, 
but  not  even  submitted  to  the  consideration  of  the  Senate.  The 
Decree  of  Berlin  was  known  to  the  American  Government  ;  the 
notification  of  the  provisional  determination  of  the  English  Gov- 
ernment to  retaliate  on  France  was  also  known  to  them  :  and  what 
was  their  influence  on  the  American  Government,  what  their  lan- 
guage &  conduct  ?  Did  they  remonstrate  against  the  Decree,  &  did 
they  adopt  eventual  measures  in  vindication  of  our  Rights  if  remon- 


140  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

strance  proved  fruitless  ?  or  did  they  acquiesce  in  the  Decree  ?  Nay- 
did  they  not  do  more  than  acquiesce,  did  they  not  justify  the  De- 
cree, and  was  not  the  disgraceful  weakness,  or  something  worse,  of 
Congress  blazoned  abroad  in  the  shameful  attempt  to  mislead  the 
Country  by  representing  the  Berlin  Decree  as  an  innocent  and  mere 
municipal  Law,  which  France  was  at  liberty  to  establish  and  which 
of  course  violated  the  Rights  of  no  other  nation.  I  was  born  an 
American,  I  have  passed  the  meridian  of  the  life  of  man,  and 
during  my  whole  life  have  been  the  attentive  and  careful  witness 
of  every  important  transaction  of  independent  America  :  altho' 
some  events  have  occurred  during  the  last  40  years  which  I  could 
have  earnestly  wished  might  not  have  happened,  never  until  I 
read  these  debates  &  heard  the  language  of  the  administration, 
did  I  feel  myself  completely  humbled,  for  I  had  not  before  seen 
reason  to  doubt  the  Integrity  of  my  Country. 

Who  has  forgotten  the  verbal  distinctions,  the  sophistry,  the 
false  logic  and  the  tricks  and  concealments  which  were  employed 
on  this  occasion  to  mislead  honest  &  confiding  men,  to  hide  truth, 
to  gloss  over  dishonesty  and  ambition  and  to  maintain  power  upon 
terms  that  integrity  revolts  at,  honour  rejects,  and  that  liberty 
must  pay  for. 

England  saw  thro'  the  whole,  and  finding  that  her  Expectations 
of  opposition  to  France  were  misplaced,  had  recourse  to  the  ex- 
ercise of  that  retaliation  which  the  Law  of  nature  confers  upon 
every  independent  man  &  nation. 

Retaliation  a  Law  of  Peace  as  well  as   War. 

The  display  of  scholastic  learning,  which  this  natural  and 
just  measure  on  the  part  of  England,  occasioned  in  this  Country, 
was  unworthy,  of  the  age  in  which  we  live,  and  has  served  only 
to  show  that  we  have  been  governed  by  Pedants,  not  Statesmen. 
The  Law  of  Nations  is,  in  its  nature  and  substance,  a  compact 
between  the  States,  and  the  accession  of  each  is  upon  the  implied 
condition  of  the  accession  of  all ;  every  separate  nation  is  engaged 
to  observe  this  law  towards  others,  upon  the  understood  condi- 
tion that  they,  in  their  turn,  will  observe  it  towards  her.  And  as 
between  independent  nations  there  is  no  Tribunal  for  the  hearing 
and  decision  of  their  disagreements  and  wrongs,  each  must  neces- 
sarily be  the  judge  of  its  rights  and  the  avenger  of  its  wrongs. 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  141 


If  therefore,  in  Peace  or  War  one  nation  violates  the  Law  of 
Nations  to  the  detriment  of  another,  the  nation  whose  rights  are 
so  violated  is,  in  respect  to  such  nation,  in  its  turn  released  from 
the  observance  of  this  law.  It  is  upon  these  principles  that  the 
Law  of  retaliation  is  founded. 

If  a  branch  of  international  Law  be  violated  by  one  nation  to 
the  injury  of  another,  the  injured  nation  is  at  liberty  to  disregard 
the  same  branch  of  the  Law  in  the  case  of  such  nation,  and  this 
without  regard  to  the  Quantum  of  damage  received  or  inflicted. 
The  notion  that  the  Law  of  retaliation  is  limited  by  the  actual 
pecuniary  damages  received  is  altogether  visionary.  How  is  the 
honour  of  a  nation  to  be  valued  in  such  estimating,  and  what  is 
the  pecuniary  sum  which  is  to  compensate  for  its  loss  ?  When 
the  Law  of  nations  is  violated  by  one  State  towards  another,  not 
only  the  interest  and  security  of  such  state  are  impaired,  but  its 
honour  is  affected  and  wounded  ;  and  those  men  have  a  most 
defective  sense  of  national  reputation,  who  are  alive  concerning 
the  property,  but  dead  as  respects  the  honour  of  their  country. 
It  is  honour  alone  that  can  justify  a  war  :  money  or  property, 
whether  it  be  thousands  or  millions,  is  never  worth  fighting  for, 
except  so  far  as  the  same  may  be  identified  with  national  honour. 

The  exact  sum  of  damages  therefore  received  by  England  from 
the  Berlin  Decree  was  no  rule  whereby  to  regulate  her  retaliation. 
The  non-observance  by  England  of  the  identical  rule  of  Law, 
that  had  been  violated  by  France,  was  the  only  manner  of  retali- 
ating that  violation,  without  at  all  considering  whether  such  re- 
taliation would  create  greater  or  less  damage  to  France,  than  her 
violation  had  occasioned  to  England  ;  another  and  an  equally 
unfounded  objection  has  been  rendered  against  the  retaliation  of 
England,  because  it  bore  upon  and  proved  disadvantageous  to 
the  commerce  of  the  neutral  states.  I  pass  over,  as  utterly  un- 
worthy of  attention,  the  question  whether  the  neutral  states  did 
or  did  not  acquiesce  in  the  Berlin  Decree  ;  the  right  of  retaliation 
can  never  depend  upon  the  conduct  of  third  parties. 

If  in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  vengeance  against  an  enemy, 
a  friend  be  injured,  the  avenger  is  not  accountable  according  to 
the  Law  of  nations,  as  practised  for  centuries.  Neutral  States 
may  during  war  carry  on  their  accustomed  trade  with  the  bellig- 
erent states,  except  in   articles  contraband  of  war  and  to  places 


I42  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

actually  blockaded.  This  right  is  of  equal  and  sometimes  of 
greater  value  to  belligerent  than  to  neutral  States.  If  one  of  the 
belligerents  disregarding  the  Law  should  interdict  all  trade  be- 
tween neutral  states  and  its  enemy,  the  rights  of  both  would  be 
injured,  the  Law  of  nations  as  respects  both  would  be  violated 
and  each  would  be  relieved  from  observing  this  rule  of  the  Law  of 
nations  as  respects  the  violator  ;  as  the  injured  neutral  and  bel- 
ligerent are  independent  of  each  other  each  is  the  guardian  of  its 
own  rights  ;  the  acquiescence  of  injured  belligerent  would  no 
more  impair  the  neutral's  right  of  seeking  redress,  than  that  of  the 
neutral  would  impair  such  right  of  the  belligerent.  The  circum- 
stance that  this  right  on  the  part  of  the  belligerent  cannot  be 
executed  without  affecting  the  interest  of  neutral  and  friendly 
states,  does  not,  and  ought  not  to,  impair  such  right.  It  is  but 
an  inconvenience,  a  damage,  incidental  to  the  exercise  of  a  per- 
fect right,  and  not  the  violation  of  a  right :  all  complaint  should 
therefore  be  addressed  to  the  doer  of  the  first  wrong,  which  not 
only  denied  to  the  neutral  the  enjoyment  of  a  lawful  right,  in 
trading  with  his  enemy,  but  exposed  him  to  the  loss  of  his  trade 
with  the  wrong  doer,  should  the  injured  belligerent  resort  to  re- 
taliation. It  is  against  France,  therefore  that  we  should  complain 
on  account  of  the  Decree  of  Berlin,  and  not  against  England 
whose  orders  were  a  retaliation  upon  France  for  that  Decree. 
Each  is  free  to  prohibit  all  foreign  Trade,  and  consequently  to 
exclude  from  her  ports  the  ships  of  all  foreigners. 


CHAPTER    VIII. 

Trumbull  to  King — French  Victories  in  Spain — Rumors  of  Overtures  from 
U.  S. — King  to  Gore — Measures  of  Non-Intercourse  with  England  and 
France — Will  they  change  the  Decision  of  England  ? — Gore  to  King — Re- 
monstrance of  Massachusetts  against  Acts  of  the  Government — Troup  to 
King — Charge  of  Toryism  likely  to  affect  the  Election — Should  not  ex. 
elude  from  Candidacy — Trumbull  to  King — Spain  and  Portugal — Farmers 
Prosperous  in  England — King  to  Gore — Spain — Independence  of  Spanish 
Colonies — England  may  make  Overtures  to  U.  S. — New  Congress  will  prob- 
ably do  Nothing  to  settle  Questions — King  to  Gore — Losses  by  State 
Treasurers  should  be  prevented — How  this  may  be  done — Election  in 
New  York  yet  unsettled — Probably  influenced  by  Arrangements  with 
England — Erskine's  Letters — Trumbull  to  King — Repeal  of  Orders  in 
Council — Baring  to  King — Hopeful  of  Peace — State  of  Politics  in  England 
— N.  Pinkney  to  King — Maryland  Bank  Stock — Gore  to  King — Massa- 
chusetts' Affairs — Trumbull  to  King — Erskine's  recall — Austria's  Successes 
— Effect  on  Bonaparte's  Career. 


Jno.  Trumbull   to  R.  King. 

London,  12th  Febry,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  late  events  in  Spain  have  been  calamitous  but 
not  dishonourable  to  this  Country.  By  that  want  of  combina- 
tion which  has  so  often  proved  fatal  to  the  efforts  of  those  op- 
posed to  France,  the  Spanish  Army  was  defeated  &  Madrid 
occupied  before  the  British  troops  had  joined.  Bonaparte  ap- 
pears then  to  have  directed  his  entire  force  against  the  British. 
All  was  done  by  Genl.  Moore,  that  skill,  discipline,  and  courage 
could  effect  under  such  circumstances  ;  and  the  retreat  to  Co- 
runna  and  embarkation  there,  in  the  presence  of  a  force  far 
superior  in  numbers,  have  been  conducted  in  a  manner  which 

i43 


144  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

does  the  highest  honor  to  the  Commander  &  his  troops.  The 
action  at  Corunna  was  unexampled,  and  inspired  the  French  with 
such  respect,  that  no  interruption  was  given  to  the  embarkation 
afterwards,  altho*  the  last  arriving  party  remained  on  the  ground 
63  hours  after  the  action. 

The  loss  of  troops  in  this  unfortunate  business  has  been  much 
less  than  was  dreaded  ;  it  is  said  not  to  exceed  5000  in  all.  Poor 
Moore,  whose  name  this  retreat  places  in  the  rank  of  that  of 
Moreau,  fell  unfortunately  by  almost  the  first  cannon  shot  that 
was  fired,  and  is  most  deservedly  lamented. 

The  weather  has  been  singularly  boisterous  for  the  last  month, 
and  we  have  had  no  correct  information  from  Spain  since  the 
return  of  the  army  ;  there  are  vague  reports  that  the  people  of 
the  South  still  hold  out  with  some  success,  and  it  is  said  to  be 
the  intention  of  this  Government  to  renew  their  efforts  in  their 
support.  There  is  also  a  rumour  of  some  conciliatory  proposition 
from  this  Government  to  the  U.  S.  being  in  contemplation,  in 
case  the  Non-intercourse  Acts  should  put  France  equally  with 
England  under  the  Ban  of  the  Empire.  How  well  founded  this 
rumour  is,  I  cannot  say;  other  affairs  have  almost  banished  it 
from  conversation. 

You  will  judge  of  the  danger  to  which  this  country  is  ex- 
posed from  the  want  of  Corn  by  the  following  quotations  from 
returns  of  the  Corn  Exchange  : 

Nov.  26th,  1808,  Wheat,  75/  to  90/.     Flour,  75  to  80/. 

Feby  6,  1809,  "       75    to  90/.  "      75  to  85/. 

Several  cargoes  of  Cotton  have  arrived  within  these  few  days 
from  America  and  some  Tobacco,  in  defiance  of  the  Gunboats. 
Hemp,  Timber  &  Flaxseed  are  very  dear.  Shipments  of  British 
Manufactures  are  making  at  Liverpool  for  America  almost  equal 
in  extent  to  what  is  done  in  common  times. 

27th  Feby. — Numerous  Cargoes  of  Cotton  &  Tobacco  have 
lately  arrived  from  the  U.  S.  principally  consigned  to  Baring  & 
said  to  be  owned  by  them.  These  arrivals  have  essentially  af- 
fected the  price  of  Cotton,  which  is  now  dull. 

Accounts  have  been  received  from  Spain  of  fresh  successes  ob- 
tained by  the  patriots  before  Saragossa  and  the  conquest  of  that 
country  seems  to  be  neither  complete  nor  certain. 

The  public  attention  here  has  been  occupied  for  some  weeks, 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  145 

by  charges  of  a  scandalous  nature  against  the  Duke  of  York  :  in 
the  course  of  the  examinations,  I  see  nothing  to  fix  upon  him  the 
charge  of  corrupt  conduct :  but  enough  has  appeared  of  scanda- 
lous and  corrupt  applications,  made  by  many,  who  are  called 
gentlemen,  to  a  worthless  woman  to  give  them  a  very  just  title 
to  the  honour  of  attending  their  swindling  patroness  to  Botany 
Bay. 

It  is  said  by  those  who  pretend  to  be  in  the  confidence  of  the 
Government  of  the  U.  S.  (among  whom  Mr.  Geo.  Joy  ranks 
high)  that  proposals  will  very  soon  be  made  on  their  part  to  this 
Country,  which  will  be  accepted  here  and  lead  to  a  friendly  fu- 
ture intercourse,  &  probably  to  a  war  on  our  part  against 
France  :  and  I  have  been  assured  by  the  highest  American  Au- 
thority here,  that  such  is  believed  to  be  the  real  wish  of  that 
Government.  How  true  this  is,  you  can  judge  better  than  I.  I 
must  be  forgiven  if  I  wish  for  the  future  confirmation  of  such 
unexpected  intelligence.  We  understand  also  that  the  new  Con- 
gress are  to  meet  on  the  fourth  Wednesday  of  May  ;  by  which 
day,  the  vessel  expected  with  the  dispatches  which  are  to  lead  to 
these  important  events,  is  expected  to  return  to  America.  I  can 
only  say  that  I  wish  these  gentlemen  may  be  correctly  informed. 

The  average  price  of  wheat  in  Mark  Lane  (the  Coon  market) 
for  the  week  ending  Feby  18th,  1809  is  92/  &  \  a  quarter,  which 
is  2\/  lower  than  the  preceding  week.  Flour  84/4  a  sack,  which 
is  one  farthing  on  a  sack  higher  than  the  preceding  week.    .    .    . 

Sincerely  yours, 

Jno.  Trumbull. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

New  York,  Feby  15,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  this  afternoon  reed,  your  favour  of  the  13.  I  am  fully  aware 
of  the  scruples  to  wh.  you  allude,  and  myself  am  inclined  to 
hesitate,  shd.  not  the  danger  of  war  become  imminent.  On  this 
subject  our  latest  advices,  dated  the  12,  from  Washington  state 
that  the  probability  is  in  favour  of  the  adoption  of  the  following 
Plan. 

The  Law  wh.  authorized  the  Pr.  to  interdict  our  ports  to  the 

vol..  v.— 10. 


I46  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

Br.  Navy  expires  with  the  present  session  of  Congress  ;  it  will  not 
be  revived.  A  Law  is  on  its  passage  raising  the  Embargo  on  the 
4th  of  Mar.,  except  with  regard  to  England  and  France,  and 
their  respective  dependencies,  with  which  all  commercial  inter- 
course is  to  be  strictly  forbidden  :  this  Law  is  to  contain  a  sec- 
tion repealing  the  former  and  partial  non-importation  Law,  and 
a  section  forbidding  the  entry  into  our  ports,  after  a  certain  and 
early  day,  of  all  English  and  French  vessels,  armed  or  unarmed, 
public  or  private,  whenever  England  or  France  revoke  their 
Decrees  or  Orders. 

This  Law,  it  is  said,  places  England  and  France  precisely  in 
the  same  situation,  and  is  taking  a  ground,  that  is  supposed,  will 
enable  the  admin,  to  renew  their  negotiation  with  England  with 
a  prospect  of  success. 

The  ulterior  measures,  which  on  Mr.  Giles'  suggestion,  were 
approved  by  the  Caucus,  at  the  same  time  that  this  plan  was 
agreed  upon,  will  be  brought  forward  in  due  time  ;  I  mean  the 
raising  of  15  m.  men,  &  opening  a  Loan  for  10.  Mills,  of  Dollars  : 
these,  however,  are  mere  paper  projects,  intended  either  not  to 
become  Laws,  or,  if  sanctioned  by  Congress,  to  be  placed  under 
the  discretion  of  the  President.  It  is  likewise  rumoured  that  it 
is  not  yet  decided  whether  we  are  to  have  new  missions,  or  em- 
ploy the  resident  Ministers. 

Now  the  important  question  is,  whether  this  project  will  have 
any  influence  to  change  the  decision  that  England  has  announced 
on  the  subject  of  her  Orders.  The  only  new  suggestion  to  be 
made  on  our  side  is  this.  We  have  by  this  Law  removed  the 
objection  wh.  was  made  use  of,  that  the  non-importation  Law 
and  the  Pr.  Proclamation  were  partial  measures.  England  is 
still  excluded  from  our  ports,  and  instead  of  a  partial,  a  complete 
non-importation  is  decreed  ;  the  non-exportation  is,  in  its  effects, 
the  same  as  the  Embargo.     France  receives  the  same  Law. 

The  Eng.  Admin'n  have  declared  that  they  wd.  not  revoke 
their  Orders  till  France  had  repealed  her  Decrees.  Now  no  one 
believes  that  France  will  do  this  ;  and  the  consequence  seems  to 
be  (if  no  changes  or  reverses  have  occurred  in  England)  that  the 
Ensr.  Admin'n  will  be  likelv  to  adhere  to  their  determination. 
If  as  is  not  unlikely  Spain  and  Portugal  are  conquered,  and  if 
the  British  Army  there  be  overwhelmed,  the  project  may  sue- 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 47 

ceed,  and  this  is  its  only  chance  ;  and  if  it  does,  as  the  boys  say, 
all  Jerusalem  cannot  save  us  from  a  war  with  France.  On  the 
whole,  if  England  be  not  depressed,  most  certainly  if  her  cour- 
age be  exalted  by  any  fortunate  turn  of  affairs,  this  overture  will 
share  the  fate  of  those  proceeding  from  the  Embargo  :  it  will  be 
rejected,  and  we  shall  be  vexed  and  harassed  by  the  non-inter- 
course Law. 

Yrs  truly, 

R.  K. 


C.  Gore  to  R.   King. 

Boston,  February  22,  1809. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

After  duly  weighing  the  Circumstances  of  the  times  &  the  great 
Apprehensions  of  all  the  Petitioners  that  the  Government  in- 
tended a  war  with  England  and  Alliance  with  France,  it  was 
decided  to  introduce  Resolutions  expressive  of  a  distinct  opinion 
on  this  subject.  These  were  reported  with  the  Remonstrance  to 
Congress,  and  were  intended  to  take  Priority  in  the  Discussion, 
but  from  a  trifling  Circumstance  were  postponed,  or  rather  not 
offered  by  the  Prest.  of  the  Senate,  until  the  Remonstrance  was 
read,  which  passed  &  was  forwarded  on  Monday  Morning.  This 
contains  a  strong  opinion  on  this  Subject  &  takes  up  the  substance 
of  the  intended  Resolutions.  It  was  intended  to  bring  forward 
the  Resolutions  immediately  afterwards  ;  but  on  Reflection  it  is 
decided  to  delay  them  for  a  few  days,  that  we  may  shape  them 
more  directly  to  suit  the  existing  state  of  things,  after  the  Non- 
intercourse  Bill  has  passed,  presuming  that  whatever  the  opinions 
of  this  State  could  effect  on  the  Dispositions  of  Congress,  relative 
to  the  Measures  now  under  their  consideration,  will  be  attained 
by  the  Remonstrance  which  went  in  the  mail  of  Monday  Morn- 
ing. We  shall  probably  make  an  Address  to  the  People  of  the 
Commonwealth  &  close  our  Sessions  the  next  week.  The  wish  of 
many  has  been  to  sit  until  the  nth  March,  but  the  Federalists 
are  constantly  returning  home,  either  called  by  their  own  affairs, 
or  from  Fear  of  giving  Discontent  to  their  townsmen,  by  imposing 
the  additional  expence,  which  is  incurred  by  so  large  a  Repre- 
sentation.    To  avoid  therefore  the  Probability  of  being  only  a 


148  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

small  majority,  or  possibly  even  a  minority,  we  must  ask  for 
Recess  sooner  than  we  had  intended.  The  people  are  becoming 
more  generally  convinced  of  the  Folly  &  Wickedness  of  our 
Rulers.  Yet  the  Leaders  of  the  Democrats  are  exerting  every 
power  to  obtain  the  semblance  of  support  to  the  obnoxious 
Measures  of  Congress. 

Yours  truly  C.  G. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  4th  April,  1809. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  As  to  the  ensuing  election  I  now  have  the  pleasure  of 
assuring  you  that  our  prospects  are  certainly  promising  and  I 
think  we  shall  succeed  if  we  act  with  becoming  unanimity,  zeal 
and  energy.  In  these  essential  qualities  we  mean  not  to  be  de- 
ficient here  ;  and  it  would  be  a  source  of  extreme  regret  to  us,  if 
our  friends  in  any  quarter  should  be  found  to  want  them. 

On  the  subject  of  unanimity  permit  me  to  remark,  that  we  are 
alarmed  with  late  reports  from  New  York.  We  are  told  that  our 
friends  there  are  divided  into  two  parties  who  have  become,  or 
are  likely  to  become,  open  enemies  to  each  other  ;  the  one  con- 
tending that  persons  liable  to  the  charge  of  toryism,  from  having 
resided  within  the  British  lines,  or  from  being  descended  from 
those  who  did  so  reside,  ought  to  be  excluded  from  the  ticket 
about  to  be  formed  ;  and  the  other  contending  that  the  exclu- 
sion of  such  persons  will  be  illiberal,  unjust  and  impolitic.  If 
these  reports  be  well  founded,  it  would  be  highly  gratifying  to 
your  friends  here,  if  you  would  be  kind  enough  to  employ  your 
weight  and  influence,  and  endeavour  to  heal  the  division  and 
restore  harmony.  Animosity  in  a  party  is  at  all  times  a  danger- 
ous disease  ;  but  at  the  present  critical  moment  it  might  prove  a 
mortal  one  to  ours.  The  advocates  of  exclusion,  besides  incur- 
ring the  imputation  of  illiberality  and  injustice,  stand  opposed  by 
a  long  and  uninterrupted  course  of  practice.  Soon  after  we 
regained  possession  of  New  York,  we  permitted  the  Tories  to 
enlist  under  our  banners  ;  and  they  have  since  manfully  fought 
by  our  side  in  every  important  battle  we  have  had  with  the 
democracy  ;  some  of  them  in  the  character  of  officers,  and  others 
in    those  of   common   soldiers.     And   when  monies    have  been 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 49 

necessary  to  support  our  cause,  many  amongst  them  never 
scrupled  to  pay  their  quota  of  the  general  tax.  Moreover  we 
ought  not  to  forget  their  zealous  and  useful  services  in  our  great 
contest  for  the  constitution  ;  which  I  presume  was  intended  to 
have  the  effect  of  putting  us  all  on  an  equal  footing  with  regard 
to  the  rights  and  honors  of  citizenship.  Why  therefore  should 
these  our  good  friends  be  now  branded  with  the  odium  of 
"  British  sensibility  "  and  drummed  out  of  our  ranks  ?  My  soul 
revolts  at  the  very  idea  of  a  measure  so  illiberal — so  unjust — and 
indeed  so  excessively  cruel  !  We  never  discovered  to  the  best 
of  my  remembrance  that  the  cry  of  toryism  had  the  least  influence 
in  any  of  our  elections  in  New  York,  and  we  often  had  on  our 
tickets  men  denominated  tories.  In  this  list,  I  name  our  worthy 
friends  Mr.  Harison,  Mr.  Cornelius  I.  Bogert  and  Mr.  Josiah  O. 
Hoffman,  and  to  their  names  we  may  add  those  of  Mr.  John 
Watts,  Mr.  John  De  Lancy  and  Mr.  William  Cock  with  several 
others.  What  would  the  generous  heart  of  our  ever  to  be  la- 
mented friend  Hamilton  induce  him  to  say  of  this  excluding 
project,  if  he  were  capable  of  participating  with  us  in  our  present 
patriotic  and  noble  struggle  ?  But  the  mere  mention  of  his  name 
calls  to  my  mind  ideas  and  fills  my  breast  with  emotions,  which 
prevent  my  enlarging  &  compels  me  to  conclude  with  assuring 
you  of  the  pure  and  exalted  esteem,  with  which  I  am, 

My  dear  Sir  Your  humble  Servt.  Robt.  Troup. 


Jno.  Trumbull  to  R.  King. 

London,  5th  April,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  In  my  last  letters  to  you,  I  stated  to  you  what  I  had 
heard  from  high  authority  here,  of  the  proposed  system  of  Amer- 
ican politics,  and  what  has  been  done  corresponds  so  exactly  with 
his  information,  that  I  presume  he  is  to  be  considered  as  thor- 
oughly acquainted  with  all  the  plans  of  those,  whose  darling  Em- 
bargo, he  terms  "  a  measure  of  almost  supernatural  Wisdom."  He 
must  of  course  consider  our  countrymen  in  New  England,  as  nat- 
ural fools. 

The  affairs  in  Spain  are  by  no  means  to  be  considered  desper- 
ate.    The  French  have  made  but  little  advance  since  the  affair 


I50  2WFUS  KING.  [1809 

of  Saragossa  ;  on  the  contrary  the  patriots  in  the  North  have  ob- 
tained some  successes,  small  indeed  in  themselves,  but  of  good 
omen.  They,  the  French,  have  not  yet  possessed  themselves  of 
Portugal  ;  on  the  contrary,  the  Portuguese  are  collecting  a  re- 
spectable force,  and  the  British  Troops,  now  in  that  country, 
amount  to  18,000  men  ;  and  seven  additional  Regiments  have 
just  sailed  from  Cork  for  Lisbon.  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley  goes  out 
in  a  few  days  to  take  the  command  and  his  force  is  to  be  made 
up  to  30,000.  If  this  force  is  wisely  directed  and  ably  com- 
manded, it  will  prove  of  prodigious  importance  in  the  approach- 
ing state  of  things. 

A  war  with  Austria  is  become  unavoidable  and  we  expect 
every  hour  to  hear  of  the  commencement  of  hostilities.  France 
of  course  will  be  occupied  in  a  distant  point,  and  the  Spaniards 
and  Portuguese  will  find  a  moment  very  favorable  to  their  exer- 
tions. 

The  attention  of  this  Country  has  been  very  much  engrossed 
by  the  folly  of  the  Duke  of  York.  He  has  resigned  ;  and  exam- 
inations are  now  going  on  in  respect  to  other  abuses.  The  price 
of  Corn  and  Flour  is  gradually  falling,  Cotton  is  at  /18  d.  a 
pound  ;  Tobacco  at  /o  d.  ;  Flaxseed  fallen  from  ^20.  to  ^5., 
and  the  Country  generally  in  prosperity.  .  .  .  Farmers  on 
old  leases  grow  rich,  and  as  leases  fall  in,  the  Rents  are  gener- 
ally raised  by  the  offers  of  the  farmers  themselves  from  50  to  100 
p.  Ct.  Thus  the  proprietor  of  the  Soil  becomes  much  richer  than 
he  was,  and  the  farmer  is  of  course  satisfied. 

The  Result  of  our  Sziper natural  Wisdom  will  be  to  satisfy,  first 
the  World  and  finally  ourselves,  that  the  importance  of  America 
in  the  scale  of  Nations  has  been  very  much  overrated — and  when 
our  national  vanity  is  a  little  lowered,  we  shall  certainly  be  a 
more  estimable  people — thus  things  work  together  for  good.  .   .  . 

I  am  faithfully  your 

Jno.  Trumbull. 

R.  King  (probably)  to  C.  Gore. 

New  York,  April  9,  1809. 
My  dear  friend  : 

After  being  the  object  of  jacobin  abuse  and  hatred,  it  is  a  great 
consolation  to  me  to  believe  that  the  good  cause  has  succeeded, 


1809]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  151 

and  that  your  Election  is  certain.  The  Effect  will  be  advanta- 
geous to  your  neighbours,  and  desponding  men  may  once  more 
be  roused  to  exert  themselves  to  save  their  Country.  Should 
your  Legislature  be  sound,  I  am  encouraged  to  hope  that  the 
influence  will  be  perceived  in  our  Election  which  takes  place 
towards  the  close  of  the  month. 

The  Campaign  in  Spain  has  thus  far  proceeded  as  I  have  con- 
stantly believed  it  would  do  :  except  that  the  English  army  has 
been  withdrawn  without  as  great  losses  as  I  apprehended  it  would 
sustain.  Perhaps  a  portion  of  this  army  may  be  re-embarked  for 
Cadiz  and  Gibraltar  :  but  the  Peninsula  must  be  conquered  by 
Bonaparte  ;  our  best  hope  is  that  the  Chiefs  with  a  portion  of  the 
People  will  escape  and  proceed  to  South  America.  Thus  the 
failure  in  Europe  will  hasten  the  Epoch  of  the  Independence  of 
the  Sp.  Colonies.  How  blind  must  our  Rulers  have  been  to  have 
remained  until  this  day,  unconvinced  of,  and  unprepared  for,  this 
great  event.  The  success  of  Bonaparte  in  Spain  is  matter  of  re- 
gret here,  and  everywhere  else,  among  men  who  are  anxious  for 
the  Independence  of  Nations.  But  what  effect  will  these  events 
have  upon  the  misunderstandings  between  us  and  the  two  great 
European  Powers  ?  France,  no  one  will  suppose,  is  likely  to 
lower  her  tone  or  change  her  Decree  ;  nor  do  I  perceive  any  evi- 
dence of  a  disposition  on  the  part  of  England,  to  recede  from  the 
ground  she  had  taken.  I  do,  notwithstanding,  think  that  the  re- 
peal of  the  partial  non-importation  Law,  the  expiration  of  the 
Law,  in  virtue  of  which  the  Eng.  Shps.  of  War  were  excluded 
from  our  ports  and  the  late  non-intercourse  Law,  which  is  alike 
applicable  to  France  and  England,  and  which  equally  excludes 
the  public  and  private  ship's  of  both,  afford  grounds  for  an  over- 
ture on  the  part  of  England,  which  would  very  greatly  embarrass 
our  Govt.  This  state  of  things  could  not  have  been  known  in 
England  at  the  date  of  our  last  news,  indeed  the  Law  itself  had 
not  then  been  passed.  Still  the  news-papers  say  a  Mr.  Oakley  is 
coming  over  and  that  the  negotiation  will  be  resumed.  Whether 
this  person  be  a  Secretary  of  Legation,  a  messenger,  or  clothed 
with  some  public  authority,  we  do  not  know  :  perhaps  the  Eng. 
Cabinet  may  desire  to  resume  the  negotiation,  upon  the  belief,  or 
supposition,  that  Mr.  Madison  will  act  with  more  impartiality  than 
Mr.  Jefferson — and  perhaps  the  story  of  Mr.  Oakley's  coming  has 


152  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

no  authority.  But  supposing  the  import  of  our  last  Law  to  be 
known  in  England,  and  that  it  is  actually  believed  that  the' Presi- 
dent will  exercise  the  power  of  suspending  the  Law,  in  respect  to 
either  of  the  nations,  which  may  recall  their  maritime  Decrees  or 
Orders,  would  it  not  be  a  wise  step  on  the  part  of  England,  to 
offer  to  enter  with  us  into  a  Convention,  by  which,  in  order  to  do 
away  with  existing  and  mutual  embarrassments,  and  to  re-estab- 
lish the  former  friendship  and  harmonious  intercourse  between 
the  two  Countries,  it  should  be  agreed  and  stipulated  that  Eng- 
land shd.  recall  her  orders  in  Council  so  far  as  concerns  the  U.  S., 
and  that  the  U.  S.  shd.  repeal  the  Law  closing  their  Ports  against 
the  public  &  private  Ships  of  England  and  imposing  a  non-inter- 
course and  Embargo,  so  far  as  respects  England,  and  moreover 
stipulating  that  the  Lawshd.be  continued  in  force  against  France, 
until  she  shall  repeal  the  maritime  Decrees  ?  Should  this  over- 
ture be  made,  it  would  test  the  sincerity  of  our  Professions — and 
could  not  fail  in  creating  the  most  serious  difficulties  in  the  Cabi- 
net. It  would  however  fail  to  restore  harmony,  because  its  res- 
toration wd.  inevitably  be  productive  of  an  immediate  war  with 
France — and  notwithstanding  the  Pr.  is  by  law  authorized  to  re- 
place things  on  their  former  footing  on  the  repeal  of  the  English 
orders,  he  would  not  dare  to  do  so,  because  the  dread  of  the  in- 
fluence of  a  French  war  upon  the  ruling  Party,  is  stronger  and 
more  controling,  than  the  fear  of  shame,  or  the  love  of  reputa- 
tion. I  at  present  discern  no  honourable  course  by  which  we  are 
likely  to  be  extricated  from  the  embarrassments  into  which  the 
folly  of  our  own  Government  has  plunged  the  Country.  The  new 
Congress  will  enter  into  the  disgraceful  controversies  of  the  old  ; 
and  I  am  apprehensive  that  nothing  can  or  will  be  done  by  them, 
to  rescue  the  nation  from  the  ruinous  Condition  of  its  Affairs. 

[No  signature.] 


R.  King  to  (probably)  C.  Gore. 

April  27,  1809. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  Maryland  &  New  York,  according  to 
my  recollection,  have  suffered  considerable  losses  by  the  infidelity 
of  their  respective  Treasurers.     These  losses  had  become  so  fre- 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 53 

quent  before  the  revolution,  that,  in  forming  the  State  Constitu- 
tion, most  of  the  States  appear  to  have  supposed  that  the  fidelity 
of  the  Treasurers  wd.  be  secured  by  assigning  their  appointment 
to  the  Legislatures  instead  of  the  Executives.  The  Result  has 
shown  that  this  remedy  has  proved  entirely  defective. 

Should  you  think  of  the  establishment  of  a  check  upon  your 
Treasury,  I  shd.  think  it  might  be  done  by  the  establishment  of  a 
Comptroller  :  the  regulations  concerning  whose  office  shd.  oper- 
ate as  checks  upon  the  Treasurer  :  for  example  all  a/cts.  shd.  be 
settled  and  registered  by  the  Comptroller  before  payment  ;  all 
monies  received  or  paid  by  the  Treasurer  shd.  be  subject  to  the 
control  of  the  Comptroller  ;  in  other  words,  that  no  receipt  of  the 
Treasurer  for  money  paid  into  the  Treasury  shd.  be  good  unless 
presented  to  &  registered  in  the  office  of  the  Comptroller — and 
that  no  money  shd.be  paid  by  the  Treasurer  unless  the  order  for 
such  payment  was  registered  and  signed  by  the  Comptroller.  The 
money  shd.  be  kept  in  some  one  of  the  Banks,  where  the  a/c  shd. 
be  kept  with  the  Treasurer,  and  no  money  shd.  be  drawn  except 
upon  the  Treasurers  check,  countersigned  by  the  Comptroller  : 
duplicate  Bank  books  might  be  furnished,  one  to  the  Treasurer 
the  other  to  the  Comptroller.  As  it  seems  to  me  there  would  be 
no  difficulty  in  devising  a  system,  by  which  not  only  a  particular 
account  with  each  of  the  Debtors  &  Creditors  of  the  State  shd. 
be  kept  in  the  Comptroller's  office,  but  moreover  an  exact  account 
with  the  Treasurer,  which  would  at  all  times  precisely  exhibit  the 
balance  of  his  account.  The  Plan  of  the  Treasury  Department 
of  the  U.  S.  would  suggest  every  material  idea,  and  you  would 
find  it  expedient,  as  they  have  done,  to  render  the  Comptroller's 
office  the  principal  one  and  the  Treasurer's  a  subordinate  office. 

This  day  terminates  our  State  Election  of  members  of  the 
Legislature  ;  what  will  be  its  issue  is  of  course  uncertain.  Our 
friends  as  usual  are  zealous,  and  not  without  some  confidence  of 
greater  success  than  heretofore.  The  arrangement  lately  made 
with  England  has  probably  had  some  influence  ;  it  certainly  has 
given  confidence  and  animation  to  the  supporters  of  the  Adminis- 
tration. The  correspondence  was  composed  so  as  to  produce 
this  effect,  and  was  sent  off  from  Washington  by  Expresses  in 
every  direction  where  Elections  were  about  to  take  place.  I  re- 
joice that  the  misunderstanding  between  us   &  Eng.  is  so  far  re- 


154  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

moved  ;  it  is  of  all  importance  that  we  avoid  a  rupture  with  that 
Nation  ;  and  it  will  conduce  to  our  mutual  welfare  that  the 
persons  who  direct  our  affairs,  rather  than  their  opponents,  shd. 
settle  with  England.  This  they  probably  now  will  do,  for  I  mis- 
take the  character  and  views  of  Bonaparte  if  he  do  not  declare 
war  agt.  the  U.  S. 

What  is  now  done  might  have  been  done  in  the  beginning,  and 
all  we  have  suffered  in  Reputation  &  Property  might  have  been 
saved.  In  Erskine's  second  letter,  in  the  concluding  Paragraph, 
you  will  perceive  that  an  agreement  of  some  sort  has  been  settled 
provisionally  respecting  the  resistance  of  the  French  Decrees. 
We  now  engage  to  resist  France,  wh.  had  it  been  seasonably 
done,  wd.  have  been  both  honourable  and  profitable,  but  better 
late  than  never.  The  Party  will  lose  the  claim  of  British  Influ- 
ence, British  Gold  and  British  Tories  :  this  is  much  gained,  and 
this  gain  we  here  ascribe  to  the  Minority  in  Congress,  supported 
by  the  Eastern  States.  yrs.  R.  K. 


Jno.  Trumbull  to  R.  King. 

London,  30th  April,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  conduct  of  the  Senate,  in  negativing  the  mission 
to  Russia  and  confirming  that  to  Brazil,  appears  to  me  to  be  im- 
portant, as  indicating  a  disposition  in  that  Body,  to  think  for  them- 
selves in  future,  &  no  longer  blindly  to  sanction  every  proposal 
of  the  Executive  :  if  this  disposition  continues,  it  will  produce 
very  salutary  effects. 

The  Pacifick  returns  immediately  with  the  good  news  that  the 
offensive  Orders  in  Council  have  been  revoked  by  the  Govern- 
ment of  this  Country,  by  a  new  order  of  the  26th  instant  ;  the 
enclosed  paper  will  give  you  the  outline  of  the  new  measure  as 
communicated  to  the  merchants  and  I  hope  to  send  you  the  Ga- 
zette of  last  night,  which  I  presume  contains  the  Orders  at  large. 
I  trust  the  Non-Intercourse  Law  must  be  repealed,  so  far  as 
affects  this  country,  altho'  the  Imperialists  will  probably  find  a 
new  ground  of  dissatisfaction  in  the  Blockade  of  Gallatin's  inde- 
pendent Nations,  Holland  &  Italy  :  in  truth,  so  far  as  I  can 
comprehend  the  measure,  Mr.  Canning  seems  to  have  given  us  a 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  I  55 

Rowland  for  our  Oliver  :  Our  non-intercourse  is  little  more  than 
the  Embargo  under  a  new  name,  &  the  absolute  Blockade  of 
France,  Holland  &  Italy  varies  the  state  of  things  not  much  from 
that  under  the  orders  in  Council.  If,  however,  the  mutual  Sensi- 
bilities of  the  two  Nations  (as  Mr.  Jefferson  would  say)  require 
that  a  mutual  retrocession  should  be  accomplished  in  masquer- 
ade, I  am  content — so  they  will  but  unshackle  the  Nation. 

How  the  Emperor  will  act  upon  this  occasion,  I  cannot  con- 
jecture. He  would  doubtless  give  a  new  name  to  his  measures 
also,  if  he  could  to  any  purpose  ;  but  unluckily  for  him,  these 
Blockaded  British  Islanders  are  restive  and  will  sometimes  burn 
his  blockading  Squadron  in  his  own  Harbors  :  the  reciprocity  in 
this  case  is  entirely  against  him. 

Austria  has  commenced  Hostilities  and  the  Force  of  France 
will  be  so  engaged  on  that  side  as  to  give  breathing  time  to  the 
Spaniards  and  Portuguese.  The  last  accounts  from  that  quarter 
confirm  our  hopes  that  success  will  ultimately  crown  their  efforts. 
We  are  in  hourly  expectation  of  great  news  from  the  Archduke 
and  from  Sir.  A.  Wellesley. 

What  sort  of  negotiation  is  going  on,  and  with  what  prospect  of 
success  between  the  Supernatural  Wisdom  of  the  U.  S.  and  the 
mere  worldly  knowledge  of  this  Country,  I  have  no  means  of 
knowing :  in  the  only  conversation  with  which  I  have  been 
honored  by  the  former,  it  was  admitted  to  be  doubtful  whether  a 
Treaty  would  now  be  concluded  so  advantageous  to  the  U.  S.  as 
that  which  Mr.  Jefferson  returned  with  scorn — and  conceded  to 
be  certain  that  terms  so  favorable  as  those  obtained  by  Mr.  Jay, 
particularly  on  the  subject  of  the  Trade  with  India,  cannot  now 
be  hoped  for.     .     .     . 

your  obliged  &  faithful  Servant  J.  Trumbull. 


Sr.  Francis  Baring  to  R.  King. 

London,  2d  May,  1809. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

The  vessel  that  carries  this  letter  returns  most  undoubtedly  on 
a  most  specific  errand  :  private  individuals  would  wish  for  some- 
what more  of  real  cordiality,  but  a  statesman,  I  fear,  is  persuaded 
that  it  never  really  exists.     The  assurance  contained  in  your  let- 


156  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

ters  that  the  continuation  of  peace  may  be  relied  on,  on  your  side, 
was  most  important  information  ;  I  believe  you  may  entertain  the 
same  confidence  on  our  side,  with  regard  to  the  sober  minded 
part  of  the  nation,  &  even  those  in  high  ranks  in  ostensible  situa- 
tions. But  the  farceurs  &  intriguants  have  always  too  much  to 
say,  &  in  truth  generally  rule  ;  for,  as  it  must  be  admitted,  that 
America,  Spain,  &c,  are  not  close  to  St.  Stephen's  Chapel,  therefore 
such  uninteresting  subjects  are  delegated  to  Clerks,  Secretarys,  &c. 
This  is,  as  it  ever  has  been,  the  true  state  of  the  case,  and  as  it 
ever  will  be,  in  Governments  capable  of  asserting  &  maintaining 
their  independence,  in  proportion  to  the  extent  of  the  democratic 
principle  that  mixes  in  the  Governments. 

I  reply  to  your  other  questions,  as  they  may  be  interesting  from 
the  knowledge  you  actually  possess  of  men  and  things  here.  But 
I  am  sorry  to  have  nothing  to  offer  that  is  either  distinct  or  cor- 
rect. The  broad  intelligible  distinctions  which  have  prevailed 
since  the  Revolution  (K.  G.  William's)  are  scarcely  perceptible. 
The  distinguishing  lead  and  power  is  undoubtedly  the  "  great 
friends  "  ;  the  system  of  divide  et  impera,  which  has  been  pursued 
without  intermission  through  the  present  reign,  has  been  com- 
pleated,  for  what  relates  to  the  "  divide,"  but  it  is  accompanied 
with  confusion  &  even  imbecillity,  destitute  of  talent  or  anything 
to  help  it,  but  the  most  decided  support  it  receives  and  the  un- 
popularity of  those  who  contend  against  it,  &  which  they  cannot 
surmount.  You  will  easily  understand  what  I  mean  by  the  fol- 
lowing classes, 

Liverpool       Canning  Grey  Sidmouth     The  Grenvilles,  a  corps  apart. 

Eldon  Melville  Holland  Ellenborough 

Percival      *  Castlereagh  Petty  St  Vincent  The  Wellesley  do 

*  Chatham  *  Chatham  Tierney  Windham    \  noun 

*  Castlereagh  Whitbread  f  substantive 

Those  marked  *  may  be  classed  with  the  "  great  friends,"  and 
likewise  with  the  relicts  of  Pitt.  The  last  is  become  a  powerful, 
daring  speaker,  and  must  be  a  great  feature  in  the  country,  but 
he  is  not  a  practicable  man,  his  manners  &  temper  are  coarse,  & 
his  principles  are  violent  :  he  aims  at  leading,  &  if  he  possessed 
temper  &  practicability,  it  could  not  be  refused  to  him  ;  his  char- 
acter, however,  appears  to  be  so  distinctly  formed,  that  I  am 
persuaded  the  aristocracy  will  never  submit  to  him,  indeed  they 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 57 

would  want  judgment  if  they  did.  The  union  that  would  please, 
is  Canning  &  Petty  with  a  sufficient  portion  of  the  first  class,  or 
their  principles,  but  it  is  difficult,  almost  impossible  to  be  effected. 
There  is  great  dissatisfaction  with  an  avowed  contempt  for  the 
leaders  on  both  sides.  The  orders  in  Council  are  no  more — 
peace  to  their  manes  !,  as  Lord  Grenville  justly  observed.  The 
Wiseacres  however  must  regulate  & — what  is  worse,  being  the 
true  cause  of  the  whole — the  Clerks  must  have  their  fees  ;  other- 
wise the  folly  of  a  blockade,  such  as  proposed,  is  not  much  short 
of  the  other,  but  the  sting  is  drawn  &  therefore  I  am  content  ;  for 
a  short  period  of  peace  and  tranquillity  is  better  than  none. 

yr.  Most  truly  faithful  &c. 
(Letter  endorsed  by  R.  K.,  Sr.  Fr.  Baring). 


NlNIAN  PlNKNEY  TO  R.  KlNG. 

Annapolis,  June  1,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  taken  the  liberty  to  ask  that  you  will  have  the  goodness 
to  inform  me  with  as  little  delay  as  possible,  the  date  of  Governor 
Mercer's  letter  to  you  of  the —  of  July  1803,  in  answer  to  the  very 
able  and  comprehensive  Communication  which  you  made  to  him 
respecting  the  Maryland  Bank  Stock,  and  thanking  you  for  your 
zealous  and  unremitting  exertions  to  promote  the  interests  of  the 
State  on  that  subject  when  you  were  Minister  at  the  Court  of  St. 
James. 

The  reason  that  I  am  under  the  necessity  of  requiring  this  in- 
formation, arises  from  Mr.  Mercer's  neglect  to  date  the  original 
draught  and  which  I  did  not  discover  until  some  months  after- 
wards, when  I  was  recording  it.  My  memory  would  lead  me  to 
say,  that  it  was  dated  on  the  fifth  or  sixth  of  July,  but  as  I  am 
now  making  out  a  Record  of  all  the  Papers  and  letters  relative  to 
the  subject  of  the  Bank  Stock,  for  the  purpose  of  being  used  as 
Evidence  in  the  Courts  of  Justice  of  this  State,  in  a  suit  which 
Mr.  Chase  has  lately  instituted  against  the  State  for  the  recovery 
of  his  Commission  of  four  per  Cent,  on  the  five  p.  Cents  Navy 
Annuities,  and  the  Cash  that  remained  in  the  Bank  uninvested 
when  my  Brother  received  the    Transfer  from   the  Accountant 


158  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

General  by  order  of  the  King,  and  which,  for  certain  reasons,  he 
omitted  to  assign  over  to  Mr.  Chase.  These  circumstances  ren- 
der something  more  than  memory  necessary.  The  amount  of 
Stock  that  was  transferred  by  my  Brother  to  Mr.  C,  was  four  per 
Cent  Bank  Stock,  on  one  hundred  thousand  pounds,  which  the 
State  conceived  was  as  much,  if  not  more  than  he  was  legally 
and  justly  entitled  to  ;  as  he  ought,  in  its  opinion,  to  have  borne 
his  proportionable  share  of  the  sacrifice  made  to  Mr.  Harford  as 
well  as  of  the  sum  that  was  paid  to  the  Executors  of  Mr.  Hanbury. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be  with  the  most  perfect  Resp't  &  Esteem 
your  obedient  Servant, 

NlNIAN   PlNKNEY. 

Endorsed  by  R.  K.     "  Ans'd  inclosing  copy  of   Gov.   Mercer's 
Letter." 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Waltham,  June  2,  1809. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

We  ended  the  Session  of  our  Legislature  in  Harmony  &  good 
Humour.  Two  or  three  Laws  relative  to  the  Sessions  &  the 
appointment  of  County  Attornies,  passed  the  first  year  of  Mr.  Sul- 
livan's admin,  for  the  purpose  of  securing  patronage  to  the  Gov- 
ernor, were  repealed.  No  officer  has  yet  been  displaced,  &  none 
will  be,  but  for  incompetency  or  mal-conduct.  In  making  the 
requisite  appointments,  no  question  has  ever  been  asked  what 
were  the  politics  of  the  candidate,  and  in  many  instances,  I  know 
the  men  appointed  to  be  of  different  Sentiments  in  politics.  No 
office  has  been  asked  for  one  of  the  opposite  party  &  been  refused, 
yet  the  Chronicle,  in  its  malignant  &  lying  spirit  complains 
that  none  but  Federalists  have  been  appointed  to  office,  &  among 
them  one  of  a  most  rancorous  temper,  alluding  probably  to  Col. 
Pickering,  whose  Commission  as  a  Justice  was  near  expiring  & 
was  renewed  when  he  was  named  as  a  Justice  through  the  Com- 
monwealth. Were  Honestus  &  the  Adams  favoured  with  some 
respect  for  truth,  a  little  reason  and  a  belief  that  there  might  be 
men  entitled  to  some  credit  besides  themselves,  we  might  indulge 
a  hope  of  something  like  peace  &  quiet.     But  the  virulence  of 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  I  59 

these  men  &  their  intolerant  Vanity  will  never  cease  to  goad  the 
Community,  as  they  are  goaded  by  their  own  passions.     .     .     . 

Yours  &c. 

C.  Gore. 


Jno.  Trumbull  to  R.  King. 

London,  12  June,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  If  we  were  most  agreeably  surprized  to  find  the  work 
of  reconciliation  had  advanced  so  rapidly  on  your  side  of  the 
water,  you  will  probably  be  equally  surprized,  tho'  not  so  pleas- 
antly, to  learn  that  the  conduct  of  Mr.  Erskine  on  this  occasion 
meets  the  disapprobation  of  Ministers  here  to  such  a  degree,  as 
to  be  the  occasion  of  his  recall,  and  of  the  appointment  of  Mr. 
Jackson  to  be  his  Successor.  I  have  not  been  able  to  learn  any- 
thing further  upon  this  subject,  than  what  has  appeared  in  the 
newspapers.  .  .  .  You  will  there  find  Mr.  Erskine's  instruc- 
tions as  well  as  what  has  been  said  upon  the  Subject  in  the 
Parliament  &  done  by  meetings  of  merchants  in  the  City — as  well 
as  a  new  order  in  Council  drawn  in  consequence  of  these  circum- 
stances. 

It  is  very  satisfactory  to  know  that  the  Session  of  Congress 
must  be  over  before  this  intelligence  can  reach  your  side  of  the 
water  ;  and  thus  time  will  elapse  before  the  December  Session, 
for  the  warmth  which  may  arise  at  first  to  evaporate.  We  shall 
in  that  time  recollect  that  in  refusing  their  approbation  on  this 
occasion,  the  British  Government  do  no  more  than  follow  the  ex- 
ample we  set  in  the  rejection  of  the  Treaty  negotiated  by  Messrs 
Monroe  &  Pinkney.  In  the  meantime  events  have  occurred 
which  by  their  vast  magnitude  sink  us  and  our  concerns  into  a 
very  diminished  degree  of  importance.  You  will  see  by  these 
papers  that  Buonaparte  fulfilled  his  threat  of  marching  to  Vienna 
in  a  month  from  the  commencement  of  hostilities.  Austria  had 
made  gigantic  efforts  ;  in  Italy  she  had  gained  important  advan- 
tages ;  &  in  Saxony  and  Poland  she  was  equally  successful  ;  when 
the  overthrow  she  met  in  Bavaria  rendered  it  necessary  to  slacken 
her  efforts  and  give  ground  on  both  these  points  :  in  all  quarters, 
however,  the  contests  have  been  unusually  obstinate  and  his  sue- 


l6o  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

cesses  cost  Buonaparte  so  dear  as  to  render  a  considerable  repose 
necessary  in  Vienna.  On  the  20th  of  May  he  crossed  the  Danube 
on  bridges  constructed  a  little  below  Vienna;  and  on  the  21st 
and  22d  he  was  attacked  on  the  North  Shore  by  the  Archduke 
Charles,  and  after  one  of  the  most  obstinate  conflicts  that  has 
ever  taken  place,  was  obliged  in  the  night  of  the  22d  to  fall  back 
and  seek  shelter  on  the  Island  Lobau,  in  the  Danube,  from  whence 
it  appears  by  one  of  his  own  Bulletins,  he  afterwards  withdrew 
his  Wounded  and  his  Caissons  to  the  South  or  Vienna  Shore  of 
the  River. 

The  Conduct  of  the  Arch  Duke,  as  well  as  his  bravery,  on  this 
occasion  merits  the  highest  praise  :  during  the  action  he  sent 
five  boats  down  the  river,  by  means  of  which  he  destroyed  the 
principal  bridge,  communicating  from  the  South  Bank  of  the 
River  to  the  first  Island,  (there  are  two  Islands  and  of  course 
three  bridges)  and  thus  the  invincible  Emperor  was  for  the  day 
irretrievably  separated  from  his  Reserve  &  his  ammunition.  It 
is  evident  from  his  bulletin,  that  his  loss  must  have  been  very 
severe. 

The  severest  Loss  is  however  in  the  disgrace  of  a  repulse  :  the 
talisman,  which  was  inscribed  Invincible,  is  broken — the  spell 
which  bound  the  minds  of  mankind  in  terror  is  dissolved,  and 
the  Omnipotent  Emperor  (as  his  Minion  Sebastiani  calls  him)  has 
sunk  into  a  mere  man  subject  to  reverses  even  as  we  are. 

This  event,  tho'  of  immense  importance,  is  not  to  be  regarded, 
however,  as  concluding  the  fate  of  the  campaign.  Russia  is  un- 
derstood to  be  advancing  with  a  large  force  from  the  side  of  Po- 
land ;  yet  hopes  are  entertained  that,  as  no  hostilities  have  yet 
taken  place,  the  news  of  this  reverse  in  the  affairs  of  her  new 
friend,  may  induce  a  change  of  policy.  The  Italian  army  has 
also  followed  the  Austrians  in  their  retreat  to  Carinthia  and  other 
desperate  efforts  must  soon  be  made  before  the  success  of  either 
party  can  be  complete. 

In  the  mean  time  the  French  have  been  completely  driven  out 
of  Portugal,  and  the  British  force  in  that  quarter  is  now  at  lib- 
erty to  combine  its  efforts  with  the  Spaniards  ;  and  one  almost 
certain  consequence  of  the  Battle  of  the  Danube,  is  the  relief  of 
that  unfortunate  country  at  least  for  some  time.  All  the  resources 
of  France  will  be  required  in  Germany  ;  and  the  force  now  re- 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  l6l 

maining  in  Spain,  diminished  as  it  has  been  by  sickness  &  repeated 
partial  misfortunes,  damped  as  their  ardour  &  confidence  must 
also  be,  is  by  no  means  equal  to  the  task  of  retaining  the  hold 
which  they  had  gained  in  that  unfortunate  country  ;  in  short 
there  appears  more  ground  to  hope  that  this  scourge  of  mankind 
approaches  the  close  of  his  triumphant  career  at  this  moment, 
than  we  have  before  known. 

June  15th. —  ...  In  confirmation  of  other  reports  to  a 
similar  effect,  I  know,  that  a  letter  has  been  received  within  24 
hours  by  a  noble  Marquis  here  from  a  banking  house  in  Holland, 
in  which  it  is  stated — Le  Bruit  court  ici — that  on  the  28th  May, 
the  Archduke  again  attacked  the  French  and  completely  defeated 
them  j  it  is  a  circumstance  of  some  weight,  that  the  Marquis  of 
H.  received  from  the  same  house  the  first  acts,  of  the  Battles  of 
the  21st  &  22nd.  And  it  is  natural  to  expect  that  the  Archduke 
should  make  a  desperate  effort  before  Buonaparte  would  be 
joined  by  his  Italian  army,  whose  near  approach  he  announces 
on  the  27th.  J.  T. 

VOL.    V.— II 


CHAPTER  IX. 

Mason  to  King — Columbia  College — Trumbull  to  King — Expedition  to  Spain, 
from  England — His  Eyes  give  him  Trouble — Hobart  to  King — Trinity 
Church's  Gratuities — Wilberforce  to  King — African  Institution — Slave 
Trade  must  be  abolished — Proposition  to  effect  this — Asks  King's  Assist- 
ance— Gore  to  King — People  will  object  to  British  Instructions — Will  act 
prudently — King  to  Gore — Family  Matters — Jackson's  Mission — Erskine's 
last  Instruction  inadmissible — King  to  Gore — Possible  Treaty  with  France 
— Sir  W.  Scott  to  King — Depressing  Views  of  Affairs  in  England,  single- 
handed  as  she  is — Trumbull  to  King — Battle  of  Talavera — Trumbull  to 
King— Change  of  Administration — Ingersoll  to  King — Believes  Madison's 
Policy  will  be  more  manly — Pennsylvania's  Affairs — Snyder  and  Leib — 
Baring  to  King — Struggle  for  individual  Existence — Change  of  Ministry — 
Gore  to  King — Dissatisfaction  with  Acts  of  Government  serious — Trum- 
bull to  King — No  Treaty  with  France — Austria  &  France  have  made  a 
Treaty — Pickering  to  King — Jackson's  Mission — King's  Objections  to  him 
— King  to  Pickering — Reasons  for  objecting  to  him — W.  India  Trade — 
Gore  to  King — Critical  Condition  of  Affairs. 

Doct.  Mason  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  June  23,  1809. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

A  meeting  of  the  Trustees  (of  Columbia  College)  was  held  yes- 
terday. I  knew  nothing  of  the  call  of  the  board  till  after  it  was 
advertised,  and  then  heard  of  it  only  by  accident.  I  have  sup- 
posed you  were  much  in  the  same  situation.  This  awkward  man- 
agement took  our  Committee  by  surprize  ;  and  as  our  report  was 
the  principal  business  to  have  been  considered,  the  members  of 
the  board  were  obliged  to  separate  pretty  much  as  they  came  to- 
gether. One  of  our  ecclesiastical  courts  having  opened  eight  days 
before,  and  continued  in  Session  with  great  pressure  of  business, 
till  one  half  day  before  the  meeting  of  the  Trustees,  it  was  impos- 
sible to  assemble  the  committee.  .  .  .  Another  meeting  of 
the  board  is  ordered  for  Friday,  the  14th,  and  our  committee  is 

162 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 63 

to  meet  on  Wednesday,  the  12th,  at  my  house  at  12  o'clock.  In 
the  mean  time  I  send  for  your  consideration  the  bull  issued 
against  the  sinners  of  the  committee  from  the  College-Vatican. 
I  hope  that  you  may  at  least  escape  absolute  annihilation  by 
their  amazing  thunders.  I  send  also  a  bit  of  paper  which  I 
scrawled  yesterday  morning  toward  a  germ  of  a  report.  If  you 
think  there  is  too  much  pepper  in  the  pot,  make  any  reduction 
which  shall  appear  proper.  I  would  thank  you  to  give  any  hints 
of  subjects  that  ought  to  be  touched  ;  to  draw  your  pen  through 
any  that  had  better  be  out ;  and  most  of  all  to  frame  a  report 
yourself.  I  should  be  glad  to  see  you  the  day  before  meeting  the 
committee,  that  is  Tuesday,  the  nth  of  July.  If  you  can  make 
it  convenient  &c  &c.     .     .     . 

With  highest  respect 

Yr.  most  ob.  &  obligd. 

J.  M.  Mason. 


Col.  Trumbull  to  R.  King. 

London,  July  6th,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

...  I  enclose  the  News-papers  of  this  day,  by  which  you  will 
learn  that  there  has  not  been  any  further  action  between  the  great 
armies  on  the  Danube  since  the  battle  of  the  21st  &  22d  of  May. 
The  surrounding  country  is  generally  in  a  state  of  insurrection 
against  the  French,  whose  communications  and  supplies  are  ren- 
dered very  unsafe  by  that  means  ;  a  few  days  must  produce  other 
great  events  in  that  quarter,  for  a  protracted  war  will  be  fatal  to 
Buonaparte  &  he  must  make  an  effort  to  disengage  himself. 

The  Spaniards  are  busily  and  successfully  profiting  by  the  oc- 
cupation of  the  Emperor  at  Vienna  :  in  several  partial  actions 
they  have  been  successful  and  their  enemies  are  everywhere  re- 
tiring, or  in  their  language  concentrating  themselves.  An  Expe- 
dition is  equipping  here  with  great  diligence  of  20  Sail  of  the 
Line  and  40,000  men — to  Sail  in  a  few  days — probably  for  the 
North  of  Germany. 

Mr.  Jackson  took  leave  of  his  Majesty  at  the  last  levee,  previ- 
ous to  his  departure  to  the  United  States.     .     .     . 

Your  faithful  Servant 

Jno.  Trumbull. 


164  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

Rev.  J.  H.  Hobart  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  July  12,  1809. 
Dr.  Sir  : 

You  will  allow  me  to  express  the  solicitude  which  I  feel  in  com- 
mon I  know  with  some  of  the  rest  of  the  Clergy  of  Trinity 
Church  for  your  presence  at  the  next  meeting  of  the  Vestry  on 
Thursday  next,  when  the  subject  of  our  gratuity,  wh.  has  generally 
been  granted  in  the  month  of  June  is  to  be  taken  up,  as  we  have 
been  informed.  The  permanent  Salary  of  the  Asst.  Ministers  is 
500  £  pr.  an.  To  this  an  addition  was  made  a  few  years  ago  of 
200  jQ  for  7  years  ;  and  last  year  our  gratuity  was  raised  from 
200^  to  300^.  Until  this  year  or  two  past  I  have  spent  more 
than  I  have  reed,  from  the  Chh.  ;  and  even  on  an  establishment  of 
1000.  £  pr.  an.,  I  do  not  conceive  it  would  be  in  my  power  to 
lay  up  any  sum  worth  the  mentioning.  Some  of  the  Presbyterian 
Clergy  receive  1000  jQ  pr.  an.  and  a  house  ;  and  the  establishment 
of  the  Rector  of  Grace  Church  including  the  parsonage,  will 
amount  at  the  least  to  1300  jQ  pr.  an.  Upon  these  establish- 
ments it  would  not  be  in  the  power  of  the  Clergy,  even  at  the 
termination  of  the  usual  period  of  life,  to  save  more  than  would 
constitute  a  decent  competency  for  their  families.  A  full  as- 
surance of  the  just  and  liberal  views  which  you  entertain  on  this 
subject  prompts  the  solicitude  for  your  attendance  at  the  next 
meeting  of  the  Vestry  ;  and  ever  indulging  me  as  you  have  done 
in  free  and  frank  communication  with  you,  I  am  sure  you  will 
require  no  apology  for  the  present  address  to  you. 

I  am  very  respectfully  &  Sincerely,  yr.  most  ob.  Srvt. 

J.  H.  Hobart 


Wm.  Wilberforce  to  R.  King. 

East  Bourne,  Aug.  1,  1809. 

Private. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  am  glad  of  any  decent  Pretext  for  addressing  you,  as  I  thereby 
am  furnished  with  an  opportunity  of  assuring  you  of  the  cordial 
Esteem  &  Regard  which  I  continue,  &  I  trust,  shall  never  cease, 
to  entertain  for  you.  So  lively  indeed  are  these  Emotions,  that  I 
am    naturally  prompted  in  the  first    Instance   to  give  you  this 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  165 

assurance  &  to  express  my  hopes  that  you  &  your  family  are 
well  &  happy.     After  this  Salutation,  I  proceed  to  ye.  main  Ob- 
ject of  this  Letter,  which  is  to  inform  you  of  the  formation  of  a 
Society,  the  very    name   of  which,  the    African  Institution,  will 
sufficiently  indicate  its  Nature  &  Objects,  the  Civilization  &  Im- 
provement of  Africa.     The  Duke  of  Gloucester,  of  whom  it  is  no 
more  than  Justice  requires  to  say  that  his  Character  &  Conduct 
are  such  as  become  his  Elevated  Station,  is  our  Patron  &  he  attends 
all  our  Committee,  as  well  as  general  Meetings,  &  takes  an  active 
Share   in    all  ye.   Business  transacted  at  them.     We  have  sevl. 
other  respectable  members,  men  whom  you  know  personally  as 
well  as  by  Character,  &  are  likely,  I  trust,  to  do  some  Good.     It  is 
obvious,  however,  to  any  one  who  is  ever  so  little  acquainted  with 
the  Subject,  much  more  to  one  who  knows  it  is  as  well  as  your- 
self, that  all  our  Hopes  of  extending  Civilization  in  Africa,  must 
be  frustrated  unless  the  Natives  are  incited  to  Industry  by  being 
no  otherwise  able  to  obtain  their  accustomed  Comforts  &  Grati- 
fications ;  all  therefore  depends  on  stopping  the  Slave  Trade.    To 
you,  I  need  not  State  in  detail,  how,  owing  to  ye.  war  our  fears  of 
its  being  carried  on  along  ye.  whole  coast  of  North  Africa,  are 
confined  to  our  own  Countrymen  &  yours.     Of  our  own,  we  are 
taking  all  public  care,  by  prevailing  on  Govt,  to  send  a  Ship  of 
War  occasionally  to  scour  the  Coast,  &  seize  all  offending  Vessels. 
But,  both    from   Reflection   &    actual   Experience,  we   entertain 
great  dread   of  ye.   Slave  Trade  operations  of  Citizens  of   ye. 
United  States.     Even  your  abolition   Law,  if  we  are  rightly  in- 
formed, is  so  far  defective,  unlike  in  this  respect  to  ours,  that  it 
does  not  prohibit  Vessels  under  foreign  flags,  or  being  ostensibly 
foreign  Property,  fitting  out  or  sailing  from  your  ports.     May  we 
not  hope  that  this  defect  will  be  supplied  speedily  ?     But  suppos- 
ing the  Law  complete,  how  is  it  to  be  enforced  ?     I  fear  there  is 
but  one  effective  Expedient  ;  that  would  be,  for  the  2  nations  to 
agree,  that  the  Cruizers  of  each,  should  be  at  liberty,  or  rather 
should  be  instigated  by  the  prospect  of  obtaining  the  value  of  ye. 
forfeiture,  or  condemnation  in  the  proper  Court.     Surely  if  yr. 
Legislature  be  earnestly  set  on  executing  the  Law  which  it  has 
passed  for  abolishing  the  Slave  Trade,  it  will  consent,  as  I  trust 
ours  would  consent  also,  to  agree   to  this,  which  I  fear,  is    the 
only  method  by  which  it  can  be  carried  into  Effect.     May  I  hope 


1 66  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

that  we  may  have  the  Benefit  of  your  Influence  towards  disposing 
your  Legislative  &  Executive  to  accede  to  such  an  arrangement  ? 
whatever  may  be  the  temporary  &  accidental  effects  of  those 
party  Incidents  which  are  common  to  free  Constitutions,  the  Aid 
of  a  man  of  your  natural  Weight  (for  Weight  must  ever  result 
from  Talents  &  Character  combined)  must  be  an  important 
Acquisition  to  any  Cause  which  it  is  wished  to  carry  into  Effect. 

I  will  detain  you,  My  dear  Sir,  no  longer — tho'  it  is  with  diffi- 
culty that  I  abstain  from  touching  on  those  Topics  of  public 
Interest,  which  must  naturally  be  uppermost  in  my  mind.  Your 
own,  howr.  will  suggest  all  that  I  should  state  if  I  were  to  express 
my  Sentiments,  for  when  we  know  another,  with  his  principles  & 
his  feelings,  we  can  anticipate  their  result.  Let  me,  howr.  men- 
tion, before  I  lay  down  my  pen  what  I  trust  will  not  be  unin- 
teresting to  you,  that  I  am  living  during  the  Recess  from 
Parliamt.,  in  Health  &  Comfort  with  Mrs.  W.  &  my  children 
about  me. 

Permit  me  to  beg  you  to  present  my  best  Respects  to  Mrs. 
King,  &  to  assure  you  once  more  that  I  am  with  Cordial  Esteem 
&  Regard,  My  dear  Sir, 

Your  faithful  Servant, 

W.  WlLBERFORCE. 

P.  S.  I  will  take  the  Liberty  of  transmitting  a  copy  of  ye.  Re- 
ports of  our  African  Institution.  The  perusal  of  them,  if  I  mis- 
take not,  will  interest  you. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Aug.  3,  1809. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

Owing  to  the  indecision  of  Mrs.  King,  concerning  her  visit  to 
Ball's  Town,  I  was  unable  to  reply  to  your  letter  in  season  to 
have  reached  you,  before  you  left  Boston  ;  and  afterwards  I 
could  not  tell  where  to  address  you.  We  have  heard  that  you 
have  been  at  the  Springs,  and  conclude  that  you  will  have  re- 
turned home  by  the  time  this  letter  reaches  Boston. 

After  a  sufficient  portion  of  hesitation,  Mrs.  King  relinquishes 
her  projected  visit  to  Ball's  Town  ;  she  could  have  gone  if  I  had 
consented  to  go  likewise  ;  My  Habits  are  such,  that  in  consent- 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 67 

ing  that  she  &  John  should  make  the  Excursion,  it  seemed  to  me 
that  I  had  agreed  to  a  great  deal,  and  that  more  should  not  have 
been  expected  of  me.  John  is  going  in  a  few  Days,  but  Mrs. 
King  has  wholly  abandoned  the  journey  for  this  season. 

Our  family  is  well  ;  we  have  had  a  cool,  and  almost  an  English 
Summer.  At  present,  however,  the  weather  is  dry  &  the  roads 
very  dusty.  Not  having  been  in  New  York  for  several  weeks,  I 
know  but  little  of  the  public  opinions  respecting  the  failure  of  the 
arrangement  with  England,  except  what  I  learn  from  the  news- 
papers. 

The  Instructions  being  published,  it  is  manifest  that  the  ar- 
rangement is  not  authorized  by  them.  What  will  be  the  issue  of 
Mr.  Jackson's  Mission,  it  is  not  easy  to  predict.  Foreign  events 
may  have  no  inconsiderable  influence  on  it.  If  our  Administn. 
saw  Mr.  Erskine's  Instructions,  they  must,  as  I  think,  be  embar- 
rassed extremely  by  the  present  posture  of  the  negotiation. 

The  first  condition  of  the  Instruction  is  well  enough  ;  the 
second  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  principal  subject  of  Negotia- 
tion, and  the  third  is,  in  my  mind,  absolutely  inadmissible,  so 
long  as  we  remain  out  of  the  war.  Perhaps  our  friends,  near 
you,  may  differ  from  me  in  these  opinions  :  tho'  I  respect  theirs, 
I  cannot  relinquish  my  own.  I  would  do  nothing,  nay  I  wd. 
claim  nothing,  that  England  may  fairly  complain  of,  or  justly 
deny.  On  the  other  hand,  her  interest  and  reputation,  as  well  as 
ours,  forbid  that  we  should  concede  more. 

The  War  on  the  Continent  is  too  complicated  for  me,  without 
more  information  to  form  a  correct  opinion  respecting  it.  My 
hopes  in  favour  of  the  good  cause  are  not  absolutely  extinguished, 
tho'  my  apprehensions  preponderate.     .     .     . 

Always  yrs.  R.  K. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Aug.  6,  1809. 
Mv  dear  Friend  : 

Hearing  of  an  opportunity  of  tomorrow  by  the  way  of  Newport, 

I  avail  myself  of  it  to  send  you  the  following  Extract  of  a  Letter 

from  our  old  friend  D.  P.  dated  Paris  July  1st  1809. 

I   have  good  Reasons  to  believe  that  all  differences  between 


<< 


1 68  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

this  Country  and  the  U.  S.  will  soon  be  settled,  and  that  a  Treaty 
will  be  made  in  a  short  time,  that  will  be  acceptable  to  the  U.  S. 
I  have  no  doubt  but  that  before  the  existing  convention  expires, 
a  Treaty  will  be  signed — "  !  !  ! 

Erskine's  arrangement  was  in  the  last  of  Apl.  ;  it  was  disavowed 
in  Parliament  towards  the  latter  end  of  May.  This  disavowal 
could  have  reached  the  Danube,  and  Instructions  been  remitted 
to  Paris  before  the  end  of  June  ;  it  would  not  disappoint  me  shd. 
we  very  shortly  receive  a  new  Treaty  from  Paris. 

Rufus  King. 

P.  S. — Show  this  to  Cabot :  but  the  person  whose  initials  are 
named,  must  not  be  mentioned — pray  observe  this  caution. 


Sir  Wm.  Scott  to  R.  King. 

Ramsgate,  Aug.  1 2th,  1809. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  avail  myself  of  the  very  short  interval  which  Mr.  McVicers 
occasions  will  allow  me,  to  remind  you  of  a  friend  on  this  side  of 
the  Atlantick,  and  to  send  you  my  best  Wishes  for  the  Welfare 
of  yourself  and  family. 

I  wish  this  part  of  the  globe  afforded  any  news  that  could  be 
agreeable  to  me  to  relate  or  to  you  to  hear.  But  everything  is 
dark  &  desperate  in  the  extreme,  at  least  they  are  so  to  men  of 
my  opinions  here,  and  I  am  confident  that  you  have  not  parted 
with  your  former  Sympathies  for  the  Liberty  of  Europe — and 
indeed  of  Mankind  in  general,  though  I  fear  such  Sympathies 
are  not  over  fashionable  in  your  Country.  Whether  we  shall 
have  a  peace  or  not,  is  uncertain  ;  if  we  have  it,  our  danger  is 
increased  ;  all  Experience  has  shown  it  with  other  European 
Countries  and  even  with  our  own  ;  at  present  Ministers  seem 
determined  to  have  it  at  all  events  ;  Mr.  Fox,  who  is  supposed  to 
be  very  near  his  own  dissolution,  strains  every  nerve  to  obtain  it, 
and  what  is  more  surprising,  Lord  Grenville  is  equally  ardent  for 
it.  All  depends  upon  the  Sovereign  Will  and  Pleasure  of  Buona- 
parte ;  it  is  supposed  at  present  that  his  gigantick  Plans  of  Am- 
bition extend  to  a  Partition  of  the  Ottoman  Empire  between 
Himself  and  the  Emperor  of  Russia  ;  and  to  an  annexation  of 
three  Pyrenean  Provinces  of  Spain  to  France,  for  which  Spain  is 


1809]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  1 69 

to  be  indemnified  by  the  Possession  of  Portugal.  The  little  com- 
munication which  I  have  the  Honour  of  holding  with  the  present 
Administration  gives  me  no  right  to  take  any  sort  of  special 
Credit  for  any  information,  that  I  can  impart,  but  I  am  sincere 
in  the  belief  of  it  myself,  and  I  do  not  think  that  a  Peace  is  likely 
to  obstruct  the  Execution  of  the  Projects  that  are  announced. 

What  the  final  Result  will  be,  the  Wisdom  of  God  can  alone 
foresee,  but  the  Continent  of  Europe  is  extinct,  and  it  will  be  a 
severe  Contest  for  these  Islands  to  maintain  against  those  who 
have  conquered  it.  If  France  and  Russia  unite,  it  will  require 
more  painful  Efforts  than  we  have  ever  yet  known  to  sustain  our- 
selves, not  merely  single-handed  but  even  hampered  and  ob- 
structed in  our  Exertions  by  States  not  professing  themselves  to 
be  unfriendly  to  us. 

You  may  think  this  the  Language  of  mere  depression  ;  God 
grant  that  the  Result  may  prove  it  so. 

I  am  here  at  Ramsgate  with  my  family,  enjoying  a  short  Relax- 
ation from  business.  Lady  Scott  desires  me  to  present  her  par- 
ticular Respects  to  Mrs.  King.  Be  assured  that  you  live  in  the 
warm  Remembrance  of  Friends  here  and  in  none  more  than  that 
of  yr.  faithful  &  obedient  W.  Scott. 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Waltham,  Aug.  15,  1809. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

.  .  .  Our  People  are  not  disposed  to  accede  to  the  last 
Article  of  the  British  Instructions  ;  and  I  feel  confident  will  not 
write  or  say  anything  in  Favour  of  it.  This  I  gather  from  several 
Conversations  with  those  would  be  most  disposed  to  support 
such  pretensions.  My  own  sentiments  being  perfectly  understood 
on  that  Subject,  &  I,  having  at  their  entreaty,  omitted  something 
last  Winter,  which  they  thought  might  have  a  tendency  unneces- 
sarily to  throw  any  weight  I  might  be  presumed  to  possess  against 
them,  conceived  myself  as  justified  in  expressing  my  sentiments 
on  this  subject,  to  which  They  seem  cheerfully  to  accede.  This 
was  done  on  my  return,  &  in  several  subsequent  Conversations, 
I  have  reason  to  believe  they  will  conduct  themselves  prudently 
&  with  Reserve  on  those  points  wherein  we  differ. 


I  JO  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

Your  letter  of  the  6th  confirms  accounts  received  here  from 
Paris.  One  Letter,  as  late  as  July  3d,  says  Mr.  A.  told  the  writer 
that  the  Project  of  a  Treaty  was  gone  to  the  Emperor,  &  would 
be  returned  within  a  certain  number  of  days,  as  he  had  no  doubt, 
approved.     .     .     . 

I  remain  affectionately  your  Friend,  C.  Gore. 


Col.  Trumbull  to  R.  King. 

London,  August  26,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  enclose  you  the  official  accounts  of  the  Battle  of 
Talavera  &  surrender  of  Flushing.  Lord  Chatham  having  left  a 
Garrison  in  F.,  has  collected  his  whole  force — probably  35,000 
Troops,  exclusive  of  Seamen,  at  the  South  extremity  of  St.  Beve- 
land  near  Fort  Lille  ;  from  whence  he  is  to  move  against  Ant- 
werp. Great  preparations  are  making  there  to  receive  his  attack, 
and  we  expect  every  hour  to  receive  accounts  of  active  operations 
having  commenced. 

Sir  A.  Wellesley  remained  several  days  in  possession  of  the 
Field  of  Battle  at  Talavera,  but  finding  his  rear  threatened  by 
the  Divisions  of  Soult  &  Ney,  who  have  abandoned  the  Northern 
provinces,  he  has  retired  with  the  Spanish  Army  across  the 
Tagus.  The  object  of  the  French  appears  to  be  to  destroy  the 
British  ;  but  I  trust  they  will  be  baffled  by  the  bravery  of  the 
Troops  &  the  skill  &  activity  of  their  Leaders. 

A  strong  expectation  prevails  that  hostilities  will  be  renewed 
between  Austria  &  France — a  few  days  will  determine. 

We  anxiously  hope  that  Mr.  Jackson's  negotiations  may  be 
successful,  and  that  good  sense  may  once  more  direct  the  con- 
duct of  the  two  nations  towards  each  other.  I  believe  all  dis- 
interested men  here  heartily  wish  for  a  good  understanding  with 
the  U.  S.     .     .     .  Truly  yours  J.  T. 


Jno.  Trumbull  to  R.  King. 

London,  30  Sept.,  1S09. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     We  do  not  learn  that  peace  is  yet  concluded  between 
France  &  Austria  ;  between  Russia  &  Sweden  a  peace  is  con- 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 71 

eluded  ;  one  Article  stipulates  the  exclusion  of  British  ships  from 
the  ports  of  Sweden. 

A  change  of  Administration  is  to  take  place  here.  Mr.  Can- 
ning, Lord  Castlereagh  &  the  Duke  of  Portland  go  out  &  per- 
haps others.  Lord  Grenville  has  been  sent  for  &  arrived  in 
Town  yesterday  ;  we  shall  know  in  a  few  days  the  new  arrange- 
ment. Mr.  Canning  &  Lord  Castlereagh  had  a  duel  a  few  days 
ago,  in  which  the  former  was  wounded  in  the  thigh — not  danger- 
ously. 

Our  season  has  been  the  wettest  I  ever  knew;  from  the  end  of 
July  to  this  day  (and  it  rains  now)  we  have  had  very  few  days 
without  heavy  showers  &  frequently  violent  gales  :  the  harvest  is 
not  good — Wheat  in  the  Corn  Market  at  Mark  Lane  sells  from 
96/  to  120/  the  quarter,  bread  \  the  quartern  loaf.  An  order  in 
Council  passed  a  few  days  ago,  offering  Licences  to  Vessels  to 
export  British  manufactures  and  colonial  produce  to  France  and 
her  dependencies,  and  to  import  Com  &  Burr-Stones  for  them. 
I  am  faithfully  yours  J.  T. 


T.  Baring  to  R.  King. 

4th  Oct.,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  writing  at  a  considerable  distance  from  London,  but  I 
cannot  suffer  the  packet  to  depart  without  thanking  you  for  your 
letter  of  the  31st  July  which  conveys  upon  the  whole  a  more 
favorable  prospect,  than  I  am  inclined  myself  to  entertain  ;  altho' 
I  can,  &  do,  enter  into  the  probability  of  your  speculation,  accom- 
panied with  doubts,  which  perhaps  impress  my  mind  more  from 
apprehension  than  from  well  founded  judgment.  In  our  political 
speculation  we  must  combine  the  general  state  of  the  World,  which 
is  almost  divided  into  three  parts,  Europe,  England  &  America, 
and  which  has  introduced  opinions  &  systems  solely  applicable  to 
the  present  times.  The  last  will  only  be  considered  by  the  two 
first,  as  she  applies  to  their  respective  interests,  when  opposed  to 
each  other  ;  &  the  questions  of  right  and  justice,  &  even  solemn 
treaties,  will  vanish  before  those  partial  interests.  The  struggle 
is  now  for  individual  existence  &  unfortunately  for  us,  those  who 
govern  are  more  hostile  than  favorable  to  Commerce,  imitating 


172  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

the  conduct  of  France,  &  conceiving  that  peasants  &  soldiers 
alone  contribute  towards  the  physical  strength  of  the  country. 
Whilst  those  who  reason  on  the  subject  with  you,  look  at  the 
minute  details  of  the  question,  I  fear  that  our  Govt,  will  not 
yield  to  a  full  return  of  a  free  neutral  trade,  notwithstanding  I  am 
persuaded  that  it  is  really  a  benefit  &  not  an  injury  to  ourselves  ; 
at  the  same  time  I  am  equally  satisfied  that  conciliation  on  our 
part  would  produce  open  hostilities  from  France,  who  has  coquetted 
with  America,  since  the  disavowal  of  Erskine,  &  keeps  the  countries 
precisely  in  the  situation  in  which  she  wishes  us  to  remain.  We 
are  not  informed  of  what  is  passing  in  Germany.  It  was  four 
weeks  after  we  had  heard  of  the  armistice,  that  our  Governt.  and  the 
Imperial  Ambassador  received  the  advice,  &  then,  very  little  in- 
formation about  their  plans  or  views.  The  Expedition  to  the 
Scheldt  was  originally  intended  for  the  Elbe  or  Baltic,  in  the  hope 
that  something  might  arise  from  Prussia,  or  perhaps  from  Russia 
&  we  have  not  yet  learnt  to  arm  or  disarm,  there  were  too  many 
commands  and  good  things  to  give  away,  Spain  waits  for  the  close 
of  the  Scene  in  Germany,  by  which  time  many  fine  parts  will  be- 
come a  desert.  The  battle  of  Talavera  was  bravely  contested 
against  superior  numbers,  but  was  not  a  victory.  The  papers  will 
inform  you  about  a  change  of  ministers  ;  those  who  remain  will 
have  carried  their  point  by  the  exclusion  of  the  others,  but  the 
last  letter  from  London  announces  a  premier,  who  is  distinguished 
for  a  narrow  mind  and  tenacious  disposition,  unsupported  by 
talent  or  character.  It  is  however  premature  to  pronounce  on 
the  3d  of  Octr.  .  .  .  Endeavors  are  used  to  alarm  the  public 
about  the  K's  conscience,  although  without  the  slightest  founda- 
tion, but  it  is  easier  to  make  John  Bull  swallow  a  lie,  than  truth, 
which  is  evident  in  the  opinion  generally  entertained  about  our 
disputes  with  America  by  the  public  at  large. 

always  your  most  faithful  humb.  servant. 


C.  J.  Ingersoll  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  8th  October,  1809. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     Our  foreign  relations  and  domestic  politics,  tho'  abun- 
dantly strange,  have  long  ceased  to  be  interesting.     Nothing  but 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 73 

perplexities  abroad — nothing  but  democracy  at  home — and  tho'  it 
is  my  misfortune  not  to  coincide  in  opinion  with  you  as  to  the  root 
or  remedy  of  our  foreign  evils,  yet  I  am  sure  we  concur  equally  in 
deploring  them,  and  in  deprecating  that  languid  internal  system 
which  endures  and  protracts  them.  I  cannot  but  believe,  perhaps 
merely  because  I  hope,  that  Mr.  Madison  will  display  a  more 
manly  &  magnanimous  policy  than  either  Adams  or  Jefferson,  and 
that  the  time  is  not  far  distant,  when  if  we  are  not  rescued  from 
embarrassments,  we  shall  at  least  rise  from  the  political  palsy, 
under  which  we  are  groaning  at  present,  into  something  like 
national  action  &  dignity.  Perhaps  the  non-ratification  of  Mr. 
Erskine's  adjustment,  which  we  have  all  so  much  regretted,  may 
be  the  means  of  more  benefit,  than  its  perfection  would  have  been  : 
for  if,  as  it  is  confidently  said,  we  are  to  have  a  treaty  or  an  ac- 
commodation with  France,  owing  to  the  threatenings  of  a  rupture 
with  England,  I  should  not  despair  of  some  sort  of  settlement 
with  the  latter,  notwithstanding  the  good  understanding  between 
our  government  and  the  French. 

I  am  told  that  the  commercial  speculations  which  were  ad- 
ventured during  the  short  interval  that  followed  the  proclamation, 
will  generally  terminate  most  ruinously,  and  that  before  the  next 
Spring,  a  scene  of  great  distress  will  be  exhibited  among  the  mer- 
chants. If  the  administration  had  not  been  supplied  from  this 
temporary  source  with  revenue,  the  public  coffers  must  have  been 
as  empty  as  the  private.  But  I  suppose  this  resort,  so  unfortunate 
to  the  country,  has  furnished  them  with  immediate  support  ;  how 
long  it  may  last  is  another  question.  In  New  York  you  are  pre- 
paring, I  suppose,  for  the  next  election,  with  some  prospect  of 
federal  success.  In  Pennsylvania  we  have  at  last,  I  trust,  reached 
the  nadir  of  factious  degeneration.  For  two  years  to  come,  the 
great  question,  about  which  the  passions  of  the  good  people  of 
this  state  are  to  be  beat  up,  is  whether  a  fool  or  a  rascal  is  the 
fittest  Governor.  Gov.  Snyder,  the  actual  incumbent,  tho'  hardly 
warm  in  his  place,  has  already  shown  such  utter  incapacity  that 
his  partizans  are  ashamed  of  him,  and  Dr.  Leib  is  making  violent 
efforts  to  pull  him  down,  no  doubt  with  a  design  of  succeeding 
him.  This  controversy  is  of  too  much  importance  to  permit 
such  minor  considerations  as  canals,  turnpikes  and  internal  im- 
provements to  disturb  its  discussions — and  they  will  have  little 


174  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

chance  of  legislative  attention  till  that  is  settled.  Next  Tuesday- 
will  determine  which  way  the  popular  scales  preponderate.  I  am 
inclined  to  believe  the  odds  heavy  against  the  reigning  executive. 
Col.  Duane  with  the  influence  of  the  Aurora  declares,  toto  caelo, 
for  his  friend  Leib  ;  and  he  is  a  host  irresistible.  In  our  part  of 
the  State  there  is  no  question  of  Leib's  triumph  ;  to  the  Eastward 
probably  Snyder  is  not  yet  so  unpopular.  From  the  excessive 
agitation  of  parties  among  us,  I  am  willing  to  anticipate  a  refor- 
mation at  no  remote  period,  for  the  people,  tho'  instigated  to  in- 
temperate actions  by  the  unlicensed  provocations  of  incendiary 
presses,  which  are  on  all  sides  equally  scandalous,  are  in  the  main 
certainly  disposed  to  quiet  and  propriety.  In  New  York  you  are 
a  different  community,  more  respectable — less  influenced  by  news- 
papers— better  governed — and  in  all  respects  more  enviably  cir- 
cumstanced. Your  partizans  are  entitled  to  lead  from  their  talents, 
whatever  may  be  their  principles  or  conduct.  Your  laws  are  ad- 
ministered justly — your  internal  improvements  are  never  neglected 
whoever  rules.  The  ablest  are  the  first  men  of  all  your  parties, 
whereas  we  are  so  deep  in  the  slough  of  faction,  that  the  best  men 
of  any  party,  are  never  the  most  prominent.  .  .  . 
Your  sincere  friend  &  humbl.  servt., 

C.  J.  Ingersoll. 

C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  October  19,  1809. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

.     .     .     The  People  discover  as  much  Contentment  as  can  be 

expected,  under  the  pressure  of  our  Affairs,  and  the  continued 

Excitement  by  our  Democrats  &  their  presses  against  G.  Britain, 

&  all  those  who  are  presumed  to  be  in  Opposition  to  a  French 

Alliance.     I  cannot  however  refrain  from  believing,  that,  should 

the  U.  S.  persist  in  their  Non-intercourse  with  England  &  carry 

the  measure  into  effect,  they  will  raise  an  opposition  against  their 

Government  in  a  Quarter  where  it  is  least  expected  ;    I  mean  in 

the  District  of   Maine,  (from  which   C.    G.   had  just  returned) 

whose  only  Trade  is  to  G.  B.  and  its  Dependencies.     Yet  they, 

who  suffer  most  by  these  measures  in  that  District,  really  are  the 

men  that  excite  &  encourage  the  Hostility  to  England  &  Devotion 

to  France. 


1809]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  1 75 

Should  Mr.  Madison  come  to  an  understanding  with  the  Brith. 
Govt.,  we  shall  do  well  in  Massts.  Should  the  former  System  be 
followed,  we  may  be  in  a  Minority  ;  though  such  a  policy  cannot 
be  long  acceptable  to  our  people  ;  and  I  am  confident  unless  re- 
strained by  the  actual  Power  of  Bonaparte,  the  people  of  this 
State  would  soon  rise  in  great  force  against  the  supporters  of 
that  system. 

Our  Accounts  from  Augusta  assure  us  that  the  Insurrection 
there  is  not  countenanced  by  a  single  Individual  of  any  Con- 
sideration. We  shall  be  obliged  to  keep  up  a  considerable  Force 
to  prevent  the  Rescue  of  the  men  confined  there,  until  the 
Prisoners  are  legally  disposed  of.     .     .     . 

Yours  truly 

C.  Gore. 


Jno.  Trumbull  to  R.  King. 

London,  November  3d,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  news  which  had  reached  America  of  the  state  of 
our  negotiations  in  France  was  incorrect.  No  Treaty  is  con- 
cluded, or  likely  to  be,  on  terms  which  we  ought  to  admit.  You 
will  find  an  official  note  from  the  French  Minister  to  Mr.  Arm- 
strong, in  which  is  expressly  stated  the  intention  of  the  Emperor 
to  establish  the  principle  of  free  ships  free  goods.  If  we  choose 
to  lend  ourselves  for  the  occasion,  to  his  views  (and  perhaps  the 
object  of  Mr.  J.  Q.  Adams'  Mission  is  to  renew  in  the  North  this 
old  principle  of  the  Armed  Neutrality)  we  may  have  a  Treaty 
with  him,  at  the  expense  of  a  war  with  this  Country. 

Peace  was  signed  on  the  14th  Oct.  between  Austria  &  France 
— we  are  ignorant  of  the  conditions — the  length  of  the  negotia- 
tions &  the  tone  of  the  official  communications  of  the  French 
Senate  give  reason  to  believe  that  this  peace  is  less  flattering  to 
the  Emperor  than  he  expected.  The  resistance  of  the  Tyrolese 
&  the  evident  want  of  cordiality  in  various  parts  of  Germany,  will 
render  it  necessary  to  keep  a  great  force  in  that  country,  and  the 
peace  will  prove  little  more  than  an  armed  truce. 

An  Administration  is  at  length  complete.  Lord  Wellesley  is 
on  his  way  home — perhaps  to  take  a  share  in  their  glories.  .  .  . 
The  Duke  of  Portland  is  dead.     Since  the  Battle  of  Talavera,  no 


176  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

great  affair  has  taken  place  in  Spain  ;  the  Spaniards  again  dis- 
tinguished themselves  in  the  defence  of  Gevona,  and  the  people 
seem  to  gather  new  animosity  and  enthusiasm  ;  but  their  govern- 
ment is  contemptible,  &  I  fear  an  explosion  there  which  may 
issue  well,  but  may  produce — to  their  cause. 

The  crops  of  this  country  prove  better  than  was  feared.    .    .    . 

Your  sincere  friend 
J.  T. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  Dec.  8,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Every  engine  which  the  views  of  unprincipled  partizans  could 
employ,  has  been  set  to  work  to  excite  popular  odium  against  the 
British  Minister,  Mr.  Jackson.  Among  others,  I  learn  that  it  has 
been  reported,  that  while  you  were  in  London,  it  was  once  pro- 
posed to  send  hither  this  same  Mr.  Jackson,  but  that  upon  your 
objecting  against  him,  Mr.  Merry  was  sent  in  his  stead.  I  am 
also  well  informed  that  Joel  Barlow  has  said  that  was  the  fact, 
that  he  was  at  the  time  in  London  &  knew  it. 

Will  you  have  the  goodness  to  tell  me,  whether  there  be  any 
truth  in  the  report  ?,  adding  any  explanation  you  see  fit.  Asser- 
tions of  Democrats  in  questions  which  affect  the  interests  of  their 
party,  require  other  testimony  than  their  own  to  obtain  credit 
with  me. 

Today  Mr.  Giles  delivered  the  most  laboured  and  the  most 
ordinary  speech  that  I  have  ever  heard  from  his  lips  in  support 
of  his  resolutions  concerning  Mr.  Jackson.  They  have  passed 
without  opposition  to  the  third  reading,  which  will  be  on  Mon- 
day next.  Massachusetts  and  Connecticut  alone  have  federal 
Senators  present,  and  probably  theirs  will  be  the  only  negative 

votes. 

With  great  Respect  &  esteem  I  am  yours 

T.  Pickering. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  Dec.  20,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     While  you  were  in  London,  a  trade  was  carried  on  in 

the  West  Indies  between  the  British  Islands  &  the  dominions  of 


1809]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 77 

Spain,  under  licenses  from  the  Brit.  Govt.  At  the  same  time 
American  vessels  were  captured  &  condemned  for  attempting  to 
carry  on  the  same  trade  with  the  Spaniards.  I  wish  to  learn  the 
principle  on  which  the  British  Ministry  justified  this  conduct,  see- 
ing the  prohibition  to  us  was  not  to  deprive  their  enemy  of 
necessary  supplies.  Was  it  not  on  the  ground  of  their  claim  of 
right  to  interdict  the  trade,  and  therefore  if  indulged,  they  might 
lawfully  monopolize  its  advantages  ?     Or  on  what  other  ground  ? 

Faithfully  yours, 

T.  Pickering. 

R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

New  York,  Dec.  25,  1809. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  obliged  to  you  for  the  Documents  which  you  have 
been  so  good  as  to  send  me  and  am  also  your  debtor  for  two 
unacknowledged  letters  ;  one  concerning  Mr.  Jackson,  and  the 
other  respecting  the  trade  carried  on  by  the  English  in  time  of 
war  between  the  West  India  Islands  and  the  Spanish  Colonies. 

In  respect  to  Mr.  Jackson,  it  is  true  that  I  opposed  his  being 
sent  to  this  Country  as  the  successor  of  Mr.  Liston  ;  when  this 
Gentleman  returned  home,  both  Mr.  Merry  and  Mr.  Jackson  were 
spoken  of  as  his  successor,  and  early  in  1801,  I  had  reason  to 
believe  that  Lord  Hawkesbury,  the  Minr.  for  foreign  affairs,  was 
inclined  to  give  Mr.  Jackson  the  preference.  As  I  was  acquainted 
with  the  Reputation  of  both  these  Gentlemen,  and  had  formed,  as 
I  believed,  a  pretty  exact  estimate  of  their  characters,  I  was  in- 
duced to  discourage  the  mission  of  Mr.  J.  in  the  expectation  that 
if  he  should  not,  that  Mr.  Merry  would,  be  sent  to  this  Country. 
Mr.  J.  was  at  that  time  a  young  man,  without  experience,  and 
distinguished  for  an  ample  share  of  those  prejudices  which  his 
countrymen  in  general  take  so  little  pains  to  conceal,  and  which 
are  so  disadvantageous  to  them  abroad  ;  his  temper  was  not  mild, 
nor  were  his  manners  conciliatory,  his  Integrity  and  Talents  were 
unquestioned,  but  no  proof  had  yet  been  disclosed  of  his  prudence. 
Furthermore  it  was  known  to  me  that  Mr.  Jackson  desired  the 
American  Mission  as  a  stepping  stone  in  his  career,  and  that  his 
real  views  were  directed  to  the  procuring  of  a  mission  to  one  of 
the  great  Courts  in  Europe. 


vol.  v. — :2 


178  RUFUS  KING.  [1809 

On  the  other  hand,  Mr.  Merry,  tho'  a  person  of  inferior  educa- 
tion and  moderate  ability,  had  lived  for  the  greater  part  of  his  life 
out  of  England  ;  had  imbibed  few  of  those  sentiments,  which 
disserve  his  countrymen  in  foreign  countries,  was  a  man  of  mature 
age,  mild  manners,  acknowledged  discretion,  and,  what  I  consider 
of  much  importance,  was  desirous  of  the  American  Mission  as  a 
comfortable  and  permanent  residence.  From  this  comparison  of 
characters  and  views,  I  was  led  to  avail  myself  of  the  opportunity 
of  occasional  conversations  with  Lord  Hawkesbury  and  his 
Colleagues,  to  throw  impediments  in  Mr.  Jackson's  way  and  to 
discourage  his  being  sent  to  America.  I  doubtless  employed  most 
of  the  reasons  to  which  I  have  alluded,  and  the  result  was  that 
the  Mission  of  Mr.  J.  was  relinquished  and  Mr.  Merry  was 
appointed  to  succeed  Mr.  Liston.  I  did  not  omit  to  communicate 
to  the  Secretary  of  State,  the  part  I  had  taken  in  this  business, 
and,  as  it  would  seem,  this  Dispatch  has  been  communicated, 
since  before  Mr.  Jackson's  arrival,  Duane  &  others  proclaimed 
that  on  a  former  occasion  I  had  remonstrated  against  Jackson's 
being  sent  to  this  country,  and  that  he  must  be  bad  indeed,  if  one 
of  my  principles  would  have  objected  to  him. 

Concerning  the  enquiry  made  in  your  second  letter,  the  prin- 
ciple upon  which  the  Eh.  Govt,  place  the  justification  of  these 
Licences  in  time  of  war,  is  this  ;  that  having  the  right  to  prohibit 
a  trade  either  to  their  own  subjects,  or  to  foreigners,  it  does  not 
follow  that  they  are  obliged  to  exercise  such  right  ;  and  that  their 
own  convenience  becomes  the  rule,  by  which  they  determine  to 
exercise  or  not,  their  Right  of  Prohibition,  or  to  exercise  the  same 
in  part,  and  to  forbear,  as  respects  the  residue.  So  far  as  regards 
the  reason  of  the  Law,  by  which  neutrals  are  supposed  to  be  ex- 
cluded from  certain  Branches  of  Commerce,  this  forbearance  to 
exercise  a  Belligerent  Right  seems  to  be  inconsistent  with  it ;  and 
the  Relaxation  by  the  Belligerent  for  the  benefit  of  his  own  subjects, 
ought  in  Equity  to  be  accompainedby  a  correspondent  Relaxation 
in  favor  of  neutrals. 

with  great  Truth  &  Esteem  I  remain  your  ob.  servt. 

R.  King. 

P.  S. — As  the  Etiquette  between  nations  requires  when  a 
Minister  is  desired  to  be  recalled  by  the  Sovreign  to  whom 
he  is  accredited,  even  for  admitted  delinquency,  that  the  recall- 


1809]  LIFE   AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  179 

ing  Sovreign  shd.  in  return  demand  the  recall  of  the  ministers 
accredited  to  him,  will  not  this  interruption  of  Dipl.  Intercourse 
be  a  satisfactory  offering  to  the  French  Emperor?  May  it  not 
explain  what  wd.  otherwise  be  inexplicable  ? 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  Dec.  25,  1809. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

You  will  perceive  by  our  Papers,  that  our  People  are  aware  of 
the  critical  Situation  to  which  our  Affairs  are  reduced  by  the  late 
Executive  disclosures.  This  State  of  Things  does  not  seem 
likely  to  be  altered,  for  the  better,  by  the  Wisdom  of  Congress. 
Our  Merchants,  however,  by  their  Disposition  to  send  every 
species  of  property  out  of  the  country,  discover  more  fear  of 
their  own  Government,  than  of  any  foreign  nation.  If  our 
Citizens,  should  be  aware  of  the  Hazard  of  a  war  with  G.  B.  they 
will  very  generally  be  disposed  to  exert  themselves  and  declare 
their  disapprobation  of  the  measures,  which  lead  to  so  disastrous 
an  event.  No  one  here  can  learn  what  Course  Congress  will 
adopt ;  but  our  Merchants,  Mechanics  &  Farmers,  and  especially 
the  inhabitants  of  Maine,  are  extremely  averse  to  war  with  Eng- 
land. The  non-intercourse  with  that  Country,  whether  effected 
by  direct  Laws,  or  by  such  as  will  produce  a  prohibition  to  our 
Vessels,  by  that  nation,  is  destructive  to  the  Prosperity  of  that 
District ;  many  of  the  Inhabitants  are  daily  emigrating  to  the 
British  Provinces  to  the  Eastward.     .     .     . 

Your  affectionate  friend 

C.  Gore. 


CHAPTER   X. 

King  to  Gore — Rulers  seek  to  gain  Time — France  will  not  change — Question 
with  England  will  remain  open — France  may  force  us  to  War  with  her — 
Trumbull  to  King — Reports  of  E.  India  Co.  Difficulties — American 
Affairs — Troup  to  King — Clinton  and  the  New  York  Mayoralty — Miscon- 
duct in  it — Gore  to  King — People  fear  War,  especially  in  Maine — Troup 
to  Pendleton — Erskine's  Arrangement  and  Jackson's  Negotiation,  in  both 
Government  wrong — Deprecates  possible  War  with  England — King  to 
Pickering — Fears  Government  wishes  to  keep  open  Misunderstanding  with 
England — To  establish  Continental  Maritime  Law  under  Influence  of 
France — Pickering  to  King — Mischievous  Regulations  to  coerce  Great 
Britain — Agrees  with  King's  Views  relative  to  the  Government — Foreign 
Missions — Pickering  to  King — Will  Great  Britain  retaliate  against  us  if 
Measures  proposed  pass  ? — Van  Ness  to  King — Varick  for  Mayor  of  New 
York — King — Presidency  of  Columbia  College — Mason  to  King — Presi- 
dency of  Columbia  College. 

R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

January  2,  1810. 

This  letter  relates  to  a  method  to  enable  Mr.  Gore  to 
settle  an  account  against  him  standing  on  the  books  of  the 
U.  S.  Treasury,  for  moneys  paid  to  him  for  salary,  while  he 
was  acting  as  Commissioner  in  London  under  the  7th  Article 
of  the  Treaty  of  Peace.  It  would  appear  that  this  account 
had  never  been  closed.  The  amounts  had  not  been  credited 
to  him,  though  all  had  been  receipted  for,  and  were  still 
charged  against  him,  as  no  regular  and  specific  account  had 
been  made  out.     Mr.  King  writes  : 

Soon  after  I  returned  I  made  enquiry  whether  any  accounts 
were  open  in  my  name  upon  the  books  of  the  Treasury,  and  to 
my  surprize  found  a  similar  charge  against  me  to  that  which  exists 
against  you.     I  immediately  forwarded  my  a/c  drawn  out  to  the 

180 


1810]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  l8l 


above  rule,  and  the  a/c  was  settled  in  a  small  balance  in  my  favor 
remitted  to  me.  Sometime  after  the  settlement  of  my  a/c,  I 
recollect  J.  Q.  Adams  speaking  to  me  concerning  a  like  a/c 
wh.  stood  open  against  him.  yours  R.  K. 

P.  Script.  As  I  have  filled  the  sheet,  and  an  Envelope  is  nec- 
essary I  may  as  well  say  a  word  or  two  on  Politics  :  tho'  being 
in  the  secrets  of  no  party,  I  may  in  my  conjectures  be  wide  of 
the  truth. 

Whatever  may  be  the  ultimate  aim  of  our  Rulers,  if  any  such 
they  have,  their  present  object  seems  to  be  mostly  to  gain  time, 
and  to  do  nothing.  Bonaparte  will  do  nothing  they  like,  and  as 
they  dare  not  displease  him,  since  their  party  is  identified  with 
friendship  with  France,  they  will  not  come  to  any  settlement  with 
England.  The  President's  speech,  with  the  Documents,  are  a 
Tub  to  the  whale  ;  and  the  plan  succeeds  to  admiration  ;  for  as 
was  expected,  Congress  and  the  whole  Country,  so  far  as  it  leaves 
its  business  to  attend  to  politics,  are  exclusively  employed  in  dis- 
cussing the  Documents,  in  justifying  or  condemning  Erskine,  in 
approving  or  disapproving  the  conduct  of  Jackson  ;  and  nobody 
either  thinks  or  speaks  of  the  alarming  condition  of  the  Country  ; 
nobody  points  out  the  wretched  policy  that  has  brought  us  into 
this  condition  ;  or  warns  the  People  of  the  danger  of  continuing 
to  confide  in  such  weak  and  treacherous  hands. 

There  is  not  the  smallest  reason  to  expect  a  favorable  change 
in  France.  Hopes  are  said  to  be  entertained  that  Lord  Grenville 
and  his  Party,  if  they  come  into  power,  may  do  something  that 
will  remove  the  embarrassments  between  the  two  Countries.  I 
doubt  the  sincerity  of  these  hopes  ;  and  moreover  believe  that 
upon  all  the  material  points  of  difficulty,  and  especially  as  re- 
spects the  French  point,  which  our  Rulers  believe  all  important, 
that  he  is  as  little  likely  to  make  what  we  think  just  concessions, 
as  any  man  in  England. 

I  therefore  have  no  expectation  of  an  adjustment  with  Eng- 
land, unless  France  adopt  some  measure  of  such  marked  violence 
that  the  People  shall  restrain  their  Govt,  from  acquiescing  under 
it.  I  have  no  apprehension  that  the  affair  with  Jackson  will  in- 
duce Eng.  to  declare  war  agt.  us  ;  but  if  Mr.  J.  Q.  Adams  is 
employed  to  revive  the  Northern  League,  and  we  are  to  become 
parties  to  it,  war  with  Eng.  we  shall  have. 


1 82  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 

This  step  however  desirable  would  be  a  bold  one,  and  the 
Country  would  not  justify  it  ;  I  therefore  doubt  if  it  will  be  taken. 
We  may  make  new  Commercial  Regulations,  and  England  retali- 
ate upon  us  ;  the  ports  may  be  opened  without  restraint  to 
American  ships  in  hopes  that  the  Eng.  Captures  of  Vessels  bound 
to  France  may  influence  the  Country  ;  but  it  will  all  fail  ;  what 
captures,  and  speeches,  laws,  and  treaties  and  public  Docu- 
ments could  do  has  been  done  :  the  people  cannot  be  roused. 
The  late  Publication  has  utterly  failed  in  its  object ;  the  papers 
are  read  with  the  same  indifference  that  an  old  almanack  is  read  : 
the  result  in  my  mind  is  this  ;  that  our  Govt,  would  adjust  all 
misunderstandings  with  France  if  they  could  ;  but  the  views  of 
France  have  stood  and  will  stand  in  their  way  :  with  England  they 
wd.  not,  if  they  could,  settle  our  disagreements  ;  both  therefore 
will  remain  open  as  England  will  not  make  war  on  us  :  we  shall 
make  it  of  choice  on  nobody,  except  upon  each  other.  France  is 
however  likely  to  adopt  some  measure  that  will  not  leave  our  Rul- 
ers their  own  masters — in  this  case  we  may  have  war  with  France 
and  friendship  with  Engld.  yor  &c. 


J.  Trumbull  to  R.  King. 

London,  January  n,  1810. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Your  two  letters  of  the  12th  &  2 2d  Nov.,  by  this  packet  are  in 
my  hands.  We  have  also  seen  (republished  here)  the  President's 
Speech,  &  the  correspondence  between  Mr.  Smith  and  Mr.  Jack- 
son ;  these  have  produced  considerable  sensation  here.  I  have 
no  doubt  but  France  has  given  the  U.  S.  her  ultimatum  in  the 
letter  from  M.  Champagny  to  Mr.  Armstrong,  of  which  I  sent  you 
a  copy  some  time  since  by  Mr.  Hartshorne  :  that  is,  that  she  ex- 
pects America  to  join  with  Europe  in  the  system  that  free  Ships 
make  free  goods.  I  presume  we  are  not  prepared  to  go  this 
length  and  take  the  consequences  :  but  I  fear  we  shall  in  the  End 
find  ourselves  completely  involved  with  both  the  Belligerents — 
the  usual  result  of  shuffling  policy  ;  not  that  I  regard  the  differ- 
ences between  this  Country  and  the  U.  S.  as  irreconcileable,  were 
they  but  submitted  to  the  discussion  of  temperate  men,  but  there 
is  the  difficulty. 


l8io]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  183 

We  are  told  that  negotiation  is  going  on  here  between  Lord 
Wellesly  &  Mr.  Pinkney  ;  but  I  know  nothing  of  the  real  state  of 
their  discussions. 

We  have  been  hitherto  very  fortunate  in  Weather,  having  had 
no  snow  and  very  little  Frost.  The  Parliament  will  meet  on  the 
23rd,  when  the  political  campaign  will  open.  I  send  you  a  few 
papers,  from  which  you  will  find  that  the  poor  Spaniards,  untaught 
by  experience,  have  again  been  hazarding  pitched  battles  in  the 
open  Country,  and  again  been  cruelly  beaten.  The  Cortez  are 
to  assemble  on  the  1st  of  March  ;  I  fear  a  little  too  late. 

There  is  an  unpleasant  report  from  India,  the  Company  have 
thought  proper  to  introduce  a  greater  degree  of  economy  in  their 
expenditures  than  formerly  prevailed,  &  in  the  course  of  this  ref- 
ormation, they  touched  the  emoluments  of  military  officers  ;  this 
occasioned  discontent,  and  is  said  to  have  ended  in  the  absolute 
Mutiny  of  all  the  native  Troops.  Probably  this  account  is  much 
exaggerated,  but  a  serious  evil  has  certainly  taken  place. 

The  Frigate  John  Adams  is  arrived  in  the  Downs,  and  various 
reports  are  current  of  violent  proceedings  &  resolutions  in  the 
U.  S.  I  have  not  seen  any  one  from  whom  I  can  learn  the  fact, 
but  I  conjecture  that  her  errand  is  merely  to  bring  to  Mr.  P.  his 
dispatches  and  instructions  to  demand  the  recall  of  Mr.  Jack- 
son. .  .  .  Have  the  Prince  Napoleon  and  the  Dutchess  of  Balti- 
more honored  New  York  with  their  august  presence  ?  I  presume 
the  Dutchess  of  Lenox  and  Lady  Glorvina  have  been  superlatively 
happy  in  such  exalted  Society. 

Mrs.  T.  joins  in  cordial  remembrance  of  Mr.  King  and  all  the 
Family  with  Dr.  Sir 

Your  faithful  Servant 

J.  T. 

Mr.  R.  Troup,  having  been  proposed  by  his  friends  as  a 
candidate  for  Mayor  of  New  York,  wrote  to  Mr.  King  two 
confidential  letters  from  Albany  of  Jan.  8  and  12,  1810. 
Being  himself  doubtful  whether  such  an  appointment  would 
not  interfere  with  his  agency  of  the  Pulteney  Estate  in  Gen- 
esee County,  he  asked  advice  as  to  the  propriety  of  his  ac- 
cepting it,  though  it  was  urged  upon  him  for  the  good  of 
the  party.     In  the  second  letter  he  says: 


1 84  KUFUS  KING.  [1810 

Quitting  what  is  private,  I  turn  to  what  is  public,  and  I  think 
of  much  public  importance.  The  late  report  of  the  committee  of 
the  humane  society  in  your  City  (N.  Y.)  has  excited  not  a  little 
interest  here  ;  we  see  in  it  the  scandalous  rapacity  of  Clinton  in 
licencing  grog  shops,  some  of  the  most  powerful  corrupters  of 
the  morals  of  the  people.  We  have  long  had  it  in  desire  here  to 
see  the  corrupting  influence  of  the  Mayor  of  New  York  destroyed 
by  confining  the  Mayor  to  a  decent  and  respectable  standing  sal- 
ary ;  and  obliging  him  to  account  with  and  pay  over  to  the  City 
Treasurer  all  his  receipts  beyond  his  salary,  for  the  use  of  the 
City.  It  is  very  certain  that  the  emoluments,  right  or  wrong,  of 
the  office  during  democratic  tyranny  have  been  enormous — Clin- 
ton's receipts  have  been  stated  in  the  federal  papers  at  $15,000 
per  annum. 

I  never  thought  it  possible  that  this  could  be  the  case,  till  some 
time  since  I  came  to  the  knowledge  of  a  fact  which  completely 
put  my  incredulity  to  flight.  The  fact  is  this.  Last  Fall  twelve- 
month, Lawrance  and  I  jointly  owning  some  lots  at  Coerlaer's 
Hook  went  to  look  at  them.  Col.  Willett  had  engaged  with  us 
to  see  the  lots  filled  up  under  an  order  of  the  Corporation  for 
that  purpose.  The  lots  are  in  Willett's  neighbourhood  and  they 
adjoin  lots  belonging  to  him.  We  went  to  Willett's.  He  received 
us  with  great  cordiality  and  told  us  he  had  lived  long  enough  to 
see  &  know  that  federal  men  were  the  most  honorable  men  in  the 
country  ;  we  then  drank  a  glass  or  two  of  good  wine  with  him  ; 
and  after  this  confession  &  the  good  wine  had  got  settled,  we  all 
went  in  glee  to  look  at  our  lots.  When  we  arrived  upon  the 
ground  it  appeared  that  Willett  had  filled  up  a  great  extent  of  his 
own  grounds  ;  upon  which  I  asked  him  jocosely,  "  Why  Col.  Wil- 
lett you  have  been  here  at  vast  expense  filling  up  ;  and  I  suspect 
you  must  have  found  the  emoluments  of  the  Mayor's  office  con- 
venient to  you."  To  which  he  replied  jocosely  also  "  that  he  had 
found  them  convenient."  I  then  asked  him  if  he  felt  any  objection 
against  telling  us  the  amount  of  his  receipts  ;  he  said  no,  and  then 
assured  us  that  he  was  particular  and  exact  in  having  an  account 
of  his  receipts,  while  in  office,  kept  by  his  clerk  ;  and  that  the 
amount  was  upwards  of  $13,000.  The  moment  he  mentioned  the 
sum,  I  cast  my  eyes  upon  Lawrance's  phiz,  and  I  need  not  tell  you, 
who  know  him  so  well,  what  effect  the  sum  had  upon  it.     Willett 


1810]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 85 

was  but  nine  months  or  little  better  in  office,  and  it  has  been  said 
of  him,  and  I  believe  truly,  that  he  gave  up  considerable  emolu- 
ments that  by  democratic  practice  he  was  entitled  to  take.  Is  not 
the  inference  a  fair  one  that  Clinton  has  been  in  the  annual  re- 
ceipt of  at  least  $15,000  ?  So  strong  has  been  the  desire  here  to 
have  this  corrupting  influence  of  the  New  York  Mayor  destroyed, 
that  Mr.  Van  Vechten  obtained  a  promise  from  Mr.  Harison  last 
year,  that  he  would  draw  a  bill  relative  to  the  salary  and  emolu- 
ments of  the  office  of  Mayor,  &  either  send  or  bring  it  here  for 
the  purpose  of  an  attempt  this  winter  to  get  it  passed  by  federal 
aid.  Harison  is  more  "  au  fait"  in  the  New  York  Charter  & 
affairs  of  the  Corporation  than  any  of  us.  When  I  was  last  in 
New  York,  I  reminded  Harison  of  his  promise  to  Van  Vechten, 
and  added  my  own  personal  request  in  favor  of  the  bill.  Amongst 
other  good  effects,  such  a  law  would  lessen  competition  for  the 
office,  and  tend  to  put  the  office  into  more  honorable  and  pure 
hands.  Now  the  pelf  of  the  office  is  the  occasion  of  a  general 
scramble  for  it.  I  beg  of  you  to  reflect  upon  this  subject,  and  if 
you  accord  with  us  here,  I  wish  you  would  take  a  convenient  op- 
portunity of  conversing  with  Harison  about  his  bill  ;  and  at  the 
same  time  suggesting  to  him  your  idea  of  the  salary  which  it 
would  be  proper  to  allow  the  Mayor.  Harison  about  the  2nd  or 
3rd  of  next  month  will  be  setting  off  for  Albany.  The  law,  if  we 
can  get  it  passed,  will  be  highly  honorable  to  our  party  ;  and  I 
am  much  mistaken  if  it  will  not  be  a  public  blessing  to  your  City. 
If  I  have  the  misfortune  of  being  called  to  the  office  by  the  de- 
cided opinions  &  wishes  of  my  friends  I  shall  hate  to  be  a  par- 
taker of  the  extortions  which  have  now  grown  into  the  shape  of 
regular  perquisites.  I  shall  wish  only  a  salary  proper  for  the  Sta- 
tion and  honorable  to  the  city.  My  object  will  be  public  good 
and  public  honor  and  not  private  emolument. 

You  will  excuse  the  length  of  this  letter,  when  I  declare  to  you 
that  I  intend  it  as  another  proof  of  the  implicit  confidence  I  place 
on  the  sincerity  of  your  friendship. 

With  the  most  perfect  Regard  &c 

Rob.  Troup. 


1 86  KUFUS  KING.  [1810 

C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  January  14,  1810. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

.  .  .  Our  People  are  somewhat  alarmed,  but  I  question  if 
enough  so  to  prevent  the  Evils  that  threaten  us.  Did  the  sober  Citi- 
zens think  war  with  England  probable,  all  their  Endeavours  to 
prevent  it  would  be  exerted.  The  District  of  Maine,  which  finds 
a  Market  only  in  G.  B.  &  her  Dependencies  for  their  produce, 
would  suffer  extremely  in  such  an  event,  and  did  the  Inhabitants 
believe  that  the  measures  of  Govt,  tended  directly  to  deprive  them 
of  this  Market,  Party  Spirit  would  for  a  time  yield  to  their  more 
substantial  interests. 

Our  Legislature  assembles  on  the  24th,  and  I  think  they  will  be 
disposed  to  adopt  all  proper  and  constitutional  measures  to  pre- 
vent the  Evils  which  threaten  us,  if  they  should  be  aware  of  the 
Tendency  &  Design  of  the  National  Administration  to  ally  us  with 
France,  or  produce  Hostilities  with  G.  B.     .     .     . 

yours  affectionately, 

C.  Gore. 

To  Mr.  Pendleton,  who  was  desirous  of  presenting  himself 
as  a  candidate  for  Mayor  of  New  York,  Mr.  Troup,  whose 
friends  had  urged  him  to  allow  them  to  nominate  him,  wrote, 
assuring  him  that  he  did  not  seek,  and  that  he  had  no  right  to 
expect,  the  office,  giving  him  many  reasons  for  his  decision  : 
his  agency,  with  which  he  was  contented,  and  with  which 
the  position  as  Mayor  might  interfere  ;  his  non-residence 
in  the  City,  and  his  unwillingness  to  expose  himself  and  his 
friends  to  the  imputation  of  caballing  so  as  to  exclude 
others,  citizens,  and  thus  better  entitled  to  the  office.  No 
man,  he  says, 

"  can  be  happier  than  I  am  in  my  family,  and  with  the  office  I 
hold  I  am  perfectly  comfortable  and  easy  in  my  circumstances, 
and  in  this  situation,  and  this  alone,  do  I  wish  to  continue,  with- 
out interfering  with  the  views  of  any  other  man,  particularly  with 
those  of  my  friends,  and  without  doing  anything  that  will  look 
like  avarice,  or  be  thought  mean,  or  unbecoming  a  candid  and 
virtuous  man." 


1810]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  1 87 

R.  Troup  to  N.  Pendleton. 

Albany,  Jany.  23,  1810. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

.  .  .  Our  friends  here  are  unanimous  on  the  subject  of  Er- 
skine's  arrangement  and  Jackson's  negociation  ;  and  with  regard 
to  both  of  them,  all  think  our  Government  is  decidedly  wrong. 
We  regard  Erskine's  arrangement  as  little,  if  any,  better  than  an 
act  of  swindling  ;  and  as  to  the  insult  offered  by  Jackson  none  of 
us  will  claim  to  divide  with  Fisk  the  reward  offered  in  Baltimore 
for  discovering  the  mighty  insult.  We  see  in  the  whole  corre- 
spondence, which  I  have  read  over  twice  with  close  attention,  a 
style  &  manner  on  the  part  of  Smith  intended  to  disgust  and  in- 
deed affront  Jackson  &  lead  to  a  rupture  of  the  negociation,  and 
thereby  to  please  Bonaparte — that  illustrious  protector  of  the 
liberties  of  mankind. 

We  think  that  you  and  our  other  friends  who  have  been  to  pay 
attention  &  respect  to  Mr.  Jackson  have  acted  rightly,  and  if  we 
were  in  New  York  we  should  follow  your  example.  By  the  by, 
what  is  meant,  my  good  friend,  with  this  character  of  Americanism, 
that  some  of  our  friends  are  advising  our  party  to  assume  ?  I  ask 
you  again  what  is  meant  when  we  are  told  we  must  be  Americans 
&  support  our  government  ?  What  ?  are  we  so  blindly  devoted 
to  the  measures  of  a  government  apparently  bent  on  a  system  of 
policy  that  is  likely  to  ruin,  not  only  our  commerce,  our  agriculture, 
and,  I  fear,  our  constitution  and  our  liberties  ?  Yes  all  these  im- 
portant objects  are  in  imminent  danger,  if  our  administration  per- 
sist in  their  wild  career.  If  we  get  into  a  war  with  Great  Britain, 
what  is  to  ward  off  the  fraternal  and  death-inflicting  hug  of  Bona- 
parte ?  Ought  we  not  therefore  to  be  in  favor  of  an  adjustment 
of  our  differences  with  Great  Britain,  and  thereby  avoid  all  en- 
deavours, however  feeble,  to  work  her  downfal, — when  she  is  in 
truth  &  fact  the  only  obstacle  in  the  way  of  the  subjugation  of 
the  world?  Is  it  not  an  insult  to  the  majesty  of  heaven  to  har- 
bour a  thought  of  placing  the  least  dependence  on  the  moderation 
and  justice  of  Bonaparte  ?  Is  it  not  therefore  our  duty  to  raise 
our  voices  and  cry  aloud  against  the  perfidious  and  detestable 
policy  of  our  Rulers  ?  Shall  we  discharge  our  duty  to  our  country 
— nay,  to  God  himself,  by  sitting  with  folded  arms  and  not  attempt- 
ing to  arrest  the  progress  of  our  nation  to  swift  destruction  ?    To 


1 88  KUFUS  KING.  [1S10 

me  therefore  it  appears  that  when  we  are  told  we  must  be  Ameri- 
cans, it  is  in  other  words  to  say  that  we  must  turn  round  and 
approve  the  conduct  of  our  Administration  &  support  their 
measures,  when  we  know  and  believe  that  they  are  dishonorable 
— disgraceful — and  ruinous  to  our  country.  If  such  be  Ameri- 
canism, may  God  in  his  infinite  mercy  deliver  me  from  it ! 

Such  are  the  sentiments,  my  dear  friend,  of  all  your  friends 
here,  without  a  single  dissenting  voice  on  the  present  state  of  our 
public  affairs  ;  and  I  beg  you  to  make  them  known  amongst  our 
friends  in  New  York  ;  that  they  may  see  that  we  ask  to  be  con- 
sidered as  worthy  of  being  united  with  them  in  that  bond  of 
patriotism — real  and  genuine  patriotism,  boldly  and  perseveringly 
pursuing  the  public  good — which  Washington  and  Hamilton 
have  left  as  a  legacv  to  their  friends  and  followers. 

Your  very  sincere  &:  affectionate  friend, 

Rob.  Troup. 


R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

New  York,  January  26,  1810. 
Dear  Sir  : 

At  this  distance,  and  without  exact  information,  it  is  quite  im- 
possible from  the  speeches,  motions  and  acts  of  Congress,  to  di- 
vine their  actual  views,  or  to  conjecture  with  any  measure  of 
satisfaction,  what  the  condition  of  the  country  is  likely  to  be.  If 
the  object  be  to  gain  time,  to  do  nothing,  but  to  wait  for  the  im- 
pulse of  foreign  events,  the  confusion  of  ideas  so  manifest  in  the 
proceedings  of  the  H.  of  R.  will  appear  to  be  less  extraordinary. 

I  have  for  some  time  apprehended,  that  the  Administration, 
embarrassed  by  the  domestic  difficulties  into  which  they  have 
plunged  the  country,  have  meditated  a  connection  with  the  conti- 
nental powers  of  Europe  for  the  purpose  of  renewing  the  attempt 
to  impose  a  new  maritime  Code  upon  Eng.  If  Mr.  A's  Mission 
has  this  project  in  charge,  the  course  of  our  Rulers  would  natu- 
rally be  such  as  it  has  been  ;  they  would  keep  open  the  misunder- 
standing with  England,  and  hold  the  trade  &  navigation  of  the 
country  subject  to  inconvenient  and  disadvantageous  restriction. 
The  Bill  of  Macon  could  in  my  belief  prove  most  injurious  to  the 
U.  S.  and  of  little  or  no  disadvantage  for  the  present,  and  for  the 
future  a  beneficial  Regulation,  to  England. 


l8io]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  189 

The  project  of  Mr.  Burwell,  who  avows  his  disappointment  in 
the  system  of  ex  parte  regulations,  is  quite  a  different  measure  from 
any  that  has  yet  been  offered.  It  is  even  stronger  than  those 
which  Sweden  &  Denmark  attempted  to  put  in  practice  in  1801  — 
and  to  my  mind  looks  very  like  a  preparatory  step  for  our  acces- 
sion to  the  Northern  League.  We  have  it  in  evidence  by  turn- 
ing to  the  Proceedings  in  England  in  1800  &  1801,  that  the 
English  nation  will  regard  every  attempt  of  a  neutral  state  to  pro- 
tect by  force  her  merchant  vessels  from  search  on  the  ocean,  as  a 
hostile  aggression  upon  their  incontestable  rights,  which  they  are 
bound  by  the  principles  of  self  preservation  even,  to  meet  and  re- 
pel by  force.  If  you  authorize  merchant  vessels  to  arm  and  resist 
visitation  and  search,  or  if  you  put  them  under  the  Convoy  of 
your  Frigates  which  shall  be  instructed  to  resist  visitation  and 
search — the  matter  will  not  demand  six  hours  deliberation  in 
England — it  must  and  will  be  treated  as  an  aggression  to  be  re- 
pelled by  arms. 

Any  project  of  this  nature  at  this  time,  wd.  be  regarded  as  hav- 
ing been  dictated  only  by  France.  For  our  former  Administra- 
tions have  openly,  clearly,  ably  and  I  may  add  triumphantly 
contended  against  the  principles  of  the  Armed  Neutrality,  &  in 
favor  of  the  old  law.  England,  as  well  as  every  other  Nation  of 
Europe  is  in  possession  of  our  elaborate  State  Papers  upon  this 
subject.  The  authority  of  the  U.  S.  has  been  cited  in  support  of 
the  ancient  law  ;  and  every  innovation  upon  that  Law,  after  the 
declarations  we  have  published  concerning  it,  will  be  naturally 
viewed  with  jealousy  and  ascribed  not  to  a  change  in  our  opin- 
ions, but  to  the  influence  of  that  Power,  which  aims  at  uniting 
all  other  nations  against  its  enemy.  If  a  combination  of  the 
Northern  Powers,  directed  by  France,  is  not  in  itself  a  thing  de- 
sired by  our  Rulers  because  such  an  accession  to  the  League 
would  be  an  unbecoming  desertion  of  our  recorded  principles, 
and  furthermore  because  it  would  involve  the  U.  S.  in  immediate 
war  with  England,  nevertheless  it  may  be  desired  as  the  only 
means  of  extricating  the  Administration  from  the  mistakes  & 
difficulties  that  have  been  created.  But  even  this  calculation 
would  prove  fallacious  ;  the  cause  of  the  war  would  be  investi- 
gated, its  miseries  would  be  felt,  and  its  authors  very  soon  brought 
into  disrepute  and  disgrace.     I  know  very  well  that  you  are  suffi- 


I90  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 

ciently  acquainted  with  this  subject  in  all  its  bearings,  and  there- 
fore need  not  that  any  of  your  friends  should  attempt  to  cast 
light  upon  it,  or  to  magnify  its  importance  ;  Nevertheless  it  may 
not  be  amiss  that  you  as  well  as  others  shd.  know  what  are  the 
apprehensions  of  men  disengaged  from  all  public  duties,  and  who 
are  spectators  of  the  events  which  are  so  rapidly  changing  the 
condition  of  the  world.  I  am,  dear  Sir, 

faithfully  yrs., 
Rufus  King. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  Feby.  2d,  1S10. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  duly  received  your  letter  of  the  26th.  The  subject  is  mo- 
mentous— the  ruinous  measures  of  our  unprincipled  Administra- 
tion— who  will  rather  sacrifice  the  commerce,  agriculture  & 
manufactures  of  the  U.  States,  and  even  hazard  their  independ- 
ence, than  impliedly  acknowledge  their  errors,  by  undoing  what 
they  have  done  in  imposing  commercial  restrictions  &  maintain- 
ing and  aggravating  our  differences  with  England.  They  have 
pronounced,  and  continue  to  pronounce,  the  embargo  to  be  "a 
wise  measure."  To  this  Giles  also  must  refer  in  his  late  speech 
on  the  bill  for  repairing  the  four  frigates  lying  in  the  mud  at  this 
place  (and  which  was  published  in  the  National  Intelligencer,  of 
January  29)  in  the  last  paragraph  but  one.  In  the  confidence  of 
an  uncontroulable  popularity,  they  married  the  embargo  and  its 
appendages  to  their  system  of  politicks.  This  is  one  cause  why 
they  so  obstinately  persevere  in  associating,  with  every  abatement 
of  their  vigour,  some  mischievous  regulation  to  keep  up  the  idea 
of  coercing  Great  Britain,  &  thus  provide  some  mask  for  their 
mortified  pride.  But  there  is  another,  and  it  is  the  great  and  de- 
cisive motive  to  the  course  they  pursue.  To  do  ?io  act  which  will 
conciliate  our  differences  with  Great  Britain.  Hence  the  adjust- 
ment with  Erskine  was  accompanied  with  expressions  so  offensive 
towards  the  King  as  would  ensure  its  rejection  ;  and  of  the  other 
point,  with  the  exclusion  of  all  the  conditions  on  which  they 
knew  Erskine  was  instructed  to  make  an  arrangement,  while  they 
deluded  him  with  assurances,  that  those  conditions  would  in  their 
spirit  and  effect  be  provided  for  or  admitted. 


i8io]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  191 

I  have  hitherto  supposed  agreeably  to  the  above  remark,  what 
you  have  conjectured — that  the  present  object  of  the  administra- 
tion was  "to  gain  time" — waiting  events  in  Europe.  Hence  in 
part  the  confusion  of  ideas  so  manifest  in  the  proceedings  of  the 
H.  of  R.  I  say  in  part,  for  much  is  the  offspring  of  sheer  igno- 
rance in  respect  to  our  foreign  relations  &  to  commerce,  and  to 
the  power  of  the  U.  States  ;  for  they  think  we  can  make  a  suc- 
cessful war  against  Great  Britain  ;  and  upon  her  fall,  resist  ef- 
fectually any  attempt  of  France  to  subjugate  us  ;  altho'  they 
imagine  (another  clear  proof  of  their  ignorance)  she  is  and  will 
be  our  friend  ! 

Your  apprehensions  of  a  design  of  our  Administration  to  form 
a  connexion  with  the  Continental  Powers  of  Europe,  for  the  pur- 
pose of  renewing  the  attempt  to  impose  a  new  maritime  Code  upon 
England,  appear  to  me  to  be  very  reasonable.  The  "  desertion 
of  recorded  principles  "  would  be  no  impediment  to  our  Adminis- 
tration. Excepting  the  admission  by  Mr.  Jefferson  to  Genet,  of 
the  old  law,  that  enemy's  property  might  be  taken  in  neutral  ves- 
sels, those  "  recorded  principles  "  so  far  as  they  apply  to  the 
present  state  of  things,  were  avowed  and  maintained  by  Adminis- 
trations exclusively  federal,  which  therefore  it  would  rather  give 
pleasure  to  our  present  Rulers  to  disavow  and  abandon.  Those 
"  principles  "  I  believe,  stand  "recorded"  chiefly  in  my  contro- 
versies with  the  French  &  Spanish  ministers  Adet  &  Yrujo.  That 
these  were  preserved  in  Europe  in  collections  of  State  Papers, 
and  quoted  by  any  distinguished  writer  on  maritime  law,  I  had 
no  knowledge  'till  within  a  few  weeks  past,  when  I  saw  them  so 
quoted  in  Ward's  Treatise  on  the  relative  rights  and  duties  of 
belligerent  and  neutral  nations  ;  a  book,  tho'  published  eight 
years  ago  (so  little  can  I  read)  I  had  not  ever  heard  of. 

The  inclosed  copy  of  Mr.  Jefferson's  message  to  the  Senate,  in 
nominating  Mr.  Short  minister  to  Russia,  countenances  your  ap- 
prehensions and  knowing  as  you  do,  the  insidious  character  and 
bias  of  the  man,  the  message  may  enable  you,  amid  his  disguises 
of  language,  to  penetrate  his  ultimate  views  in  instituting  that 
mission.* 

*  Mr.  Short  was  no  more  than  minister  resident  of  the  U.  S.  at  Madrid, 
which  Mr.  J.  must  have  well  known.  He  was  appointed  in  1794  by  Genl. 
Washington — probably  on  Jefferson's  recommendation — directly  or  indirectly — 


ig2  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 

Short,  I  have  understood,  had  rendered  himself  personally  ob- 
noxious to  some  leading  Virginians  ;  hence  Giles'  earnest  oppo- 
sition which  terminated  in  Short's  unanimous  rejection.  I 
explicitly  concurred  in  all  Giles'  public  objections  to  Short, 
grounded  in  part  on  my  own  knowledge  of  his  very  moderate 
abilities,  which  would  be  wholly  unequal  to  the  ostensible  objects 
of  the  mission.  I  remarked,  too,  on  that  occasion,  upon  the  dis- 
graceful idea  advanced  by  the  President,  of  submitting,  in  effect, 
in  the  future  negotiations  for  peace,  the  interests  of  the  United 
States  to  the  arbitration  of  a  Congress  of  Ministers  from  the 
powers  of  Europe. 

You  will  recollect  when  John  Q.  Adams  was  nominated  to 
Russia,  that  the  mission  itself  was  voted  by  the  Senate  to  be  in- 
expedient :  at  the  summer  Session,  when  Mr.  Madison  nominated 
him  anew,  he  laid  before  the  Senate  some  letters  from  our  Consul 
Harris  at  St.  Petersburgh,  &  extracts  of  a  letter  or  letters  from 
Armstrong — all  in  confidence — when  not  a  particle  of  the  informa- 
tion required  secresy.  My  interpretation  at  the  time,  of  the  ma- 
noeuvre, was  this  ;  The  democrats  who  had  voted  against  the 
mission  in  March,  would  need  some  pretext  for  a  direct  contrary 
vote  in  June  :  the  President,  therefore,  provided  a  salve  for  their 
first  scruples.  If  questioned  on  their  change  of  conduct,  they 
could  say,  the  President  had  communicated  papers  which  justified 
the  mission,  but  being  confidential  they  could  not  further  explain. 

A  fresh  instance  of  the  disposition  to  court  Bonaparte,  you  will 
see  in  the  debates  on  the  appropriation  bill,  in  which  an  item  was 
introduced  to  provide  explicitly  for  the  mission  of  a  minister  to 
Madrid!  explicitly,  no  doubt  to  sanction  the  future  deed  by  this 
approbation  of  Congress.  The  express  appropriation  was  refused. 
The  pretence  of  the  Executive  partisans  that  it  was  to  provide 
for  a  minister  to  whichever  party  should  obtain  the  Government 
of  Spain,  is  too  flimsy  to  impose  on  even  the  ignorance  of  the 
troops  of  the  palace  ;  who  with  their  master  not  only  expect,  but 
apparently  wish  to  see  the  speedy  subjugation  of  that  Kingdom 
to  Bonaparte. 

for  Short  was  one  of  his  favorites.  Observe  the  word  proceed  to  St.  Petersburg, 
as  if  it  were  merely  a  journey  from  the  Court  of  Madrid  to  St.  Petersburg, 
whereas  Short  was  in  the  United  States  when  he  received  the  appointment  to 
St.  Petersburg. 


1810]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  I93 

I  am  much  obliged  by  your  letter,  and  I  pray  you  not  to  hesi- 
tate to  communicate  to  me  your  ideas  on  any  subject  ;  for  on  all 
matters  of  public  interest  such  information  as  you  will  give  I 
know  will  be  important  &  useful.  Even  if  previously  possessed 
of  the  same,  it  will  afford  me  solid  satisfaction  to  find  my  own 
views  confirmed  by  yours. 

I  am  dear  Sir,  very  sincerely  yours, 

Timothy  Pickering. 

P.  S.  I  have  just  reed.  "  a  letter  on  the  genius  &  disposition 
of  the  French  Government  "  said  to  be  written  by  a  young  gen- 
tleman of  Baltimore,  of  the  name  of  Walsh.  In  page  247  he 
speaks  in  the  highest  terms  of  Wm.  Pinkney,  and  intimates  that 
he  could  settle  our  disputes  with  G.  B.  "  if  he  were  invested  with 
suitable  powers."  In  page  248,  you  will  see  the  climax  of  his 
Eulogium.  Whatever  may  be  his  talents,  a  letter  you  once  wrote 
me,  concerning  his  apostacy  from  federalism,  gave  me  no  favor- 
able impression  of  his  heart. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  Feby  5,  1810. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Your  conjecture  of  the  object  of  Mr.  Adams  mission 
to  Russia  is  now  supported  by  an  occurrence  in  the  H.  of  R. 
Smiley  let  the  cat  out  of  the  bag.  On  the  question  of  an  appropria- 
tion for  that  mission,  he  said  a  Northern  Confederacy  was  form- 
ing in  favor  of  the  liberty  of  the  seas  ;  and  it  was  necessary  for 
us  to  have  a  minister  there.  This  I  have  from  a  member  of  the 
House,  and  doubtless  you  will  soon  see  it  in  the  newspapers. 

Seeing  the  British  Government  perfectly  understand  the  char- 
acter of  ours — its  weakness  and  its  baseness — will  it  be  at  all 
necessary  for  the  former  in  vindication  of  its  honour  and  its  rights, 
to  retaliate  the  "  American  Navigation  Act,"  as  it  has  been  insid- 
iously called  by  the  agents  of  the  Administration  ?  Why  not 
consider  it  in  fact,  as  it  is  in  terms,  as  reproachful  to  France  as 
to  G.  Britain  ?  The  British  Government  were  willing,  in  the  same 
way,  to  view  the  non-intercourse  law  in  respect  to  ships  of  war, 
tho'  it  was  almost  nominal  as  to  France. 

VOL.  V. — 13 


194  KUFUS  KING.  [1810 

As  the  exclusion  of  British  Merchant  vessels  from  our  ports, 
cannot  be  for  the  purpose  of  giving  an  advantage  to  our  naviga- 
tion because  of  the  comparatively  small  proportion  the  former 
bears  to  the  latter,  and  because  the  Southern  men  who  now  bear 
rule  were  always  opposed  to  favoring  our  own  navigation  by  even 
a  small  additional  tonnage  duty  on  foreign  ships,  I  consider  it  as 
amounting  nearly  to  demonstration  that  the  real  design  of  Macon's 
bill,  and  the  confident  expectation  of  its  authors,  is,  to  provoke 
British  retaliation  and  thus  to  turn  it  to  their  own  account,  as  an 
additional  engine  of  popular  irritation  ;  for  there  is  no  sort  of 
delusion  which  they  think  (and  too  justly)  may  not  be  practised 
on  the  people,  and  with  a  fair  prospect  of  success.  Suppose  then 
that  Macon's  bill  becomes  a  law  ;  what  would  the  policy  of  G. 
Britain  suggest  ?  I  should  say — to  acquiesce — to  smother  its  re- 
sentment (if  this  should  not  be  absorbed  by  contempt)  and  thus 
let  our  government  fall  into  the  pit  of  its  own  digging.  G.  Britain 
would  then  almost  exclusively  enjoy  the  benefit  of  our  commerce  ; 
and  the  peculiar  excellence  of  it  would  be,  that  she  enjoyed  it  by 
our  own  act  !  I  am  forcibly  struck  with  this  idea.  Think  of  it 
— and  if  you  deem  it  correct  communicate  and  impress  it  on  Mr. 
Jackson,  with  whom  you  must  ere  this  time  be  acquainted.   I  have 

seen  him. 

faithfully  yours 

T.  Pickering. 

P.  S.     In  Coleman's  paper  I  think  I  saw  jour  ideas  of  Macon's 

bill. 

The  Article  referred  to  by  Mr.  Pickering  relative  to  Ma- 
con's Bill  is  here  copied  from  New  York  Evening  Post,  Jan. 
16,  1810. 

Macon  s  Bill — Are  we  never  to  see  the  end  of  measures,  equally 
repugnant  to  the  recorded  professions  of  our  rulers,  and  subver- 
sive of  the  public  welfare  ?  After  running  through  all  the  changes 
of  commercial  restrictions,  which  have  humbled  the  spirit,  im- 
paired the  morals,  and  utterly  deranged  the  commerce  of  the 
country,  is  there  no  prospect  of  our  administration  being  yet 
weaned  from  that  folly,  that  spirit  oi  faction,  which  is  fast  annihi- 
lating the  sources  of  our  wealth,  as  it  has  already  emasculated  and 
disgraced    the   nation  ?      Or  are  we  to  content  ourselves  with 


1810]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 95 


humiliation,  poverty  and  dishonour,  provided  we  receive  the  ap- 
probation and  countenance  of  France  ?  I  had  really  hoped  that 
there  did  exist  among  us,  if  not  a  sufficiency  of  elevated  pride 
and  sound  understanding,  at  least,  such  a  portion  of  common 
sense,  and  common  discernment,  as  would  restrain  our  rulers  from 
further  experiments  in  the  downward  course,  which,  at  a  period 
certainly  near,  must  deliver  us  up  to  civil  convulsions,  dissensions 
and  ruin.  These  rulers,  whatever  may  be  their  views  or  their 
wishes,  cannot  now  plunge  the  nation  into  war.  The  last  attempt, 
by  their  maneuvre  with  Mr.  Jackson,  to  inflame  the  country  and 
to  raise  it  to  the  war  pulse,  has  entirely  failed.  Whatever  may 
have  been  the  publick  sensibility  upon  the  rupture,  the  bulletin, 
the  message,  and  the  first  appearance  of  the  documents,  the  de- 
bates that  have  taken  place  in  Congress,  joined  to  the  discussions 
that  have  appeared  in  all  the  leading  federal  papers,  have,  so  far 
destroyed  the  public  confidence  in  the  integrity  of  these  people, 
that  they  cannot  now,  if  they  would,  excite  a  desire  for  war. 
Their  only  expectations,  their  only  remaining  chance  for  this  is 
to  effect  the  adoption  of  measures,  which  however  mischievous 
to  the  country,  may  produce  such  retaliatory  regulations  on  the 
part  of  England,  as  may  be  made  the  occasion  of  agitating  and 
inflaming  the  country  to  such  a  pitch  as  will  enable  them  to  bring 
about  their  object,  indirectly. 

Mr.  Macon's  Bill,  whatever  may  have  been  designed,  is  a  meas- 
ure of  this  tendency.  There  can  be  no  doubt  of  the  authority 
of  Congress  to  pass  a  navigation  Act.  But  its  principles  must  be 
such  as  will  secure  us  against  those  retaliatory  regulations,  which 
must  either  put  an  end  to  all  navigation,  or  must  defeat  the  pro- 
fessed object  of  acquiring  the  whole  or  a  principal  part  of  it  for 
ourselves.  As  the  British  navigation  Act  is  deemed  to  be  an 
authority  and  a  model,  let  us  examine  its  provisions  and  compare 
them  with  those  of  Mr.  Macon's  Bill. 

According  to  the  British  navigation  act,  the  trade  between 
Great-Britain  and  a  foreign  country  can  be  carried  on  only  by 
British  ships,  and  the  ships  of  such  foreign  country — and  foreign 
productions  can  only  be  imported  into  England  directly  from  the 
country  of  their  growth  or  manufacture.  The  limitations  of  this 
famous  act  apply  only  to  the  articles  imported  into  Great-Britain  ; 
it  being   free  for  any  vessel  to  export  and  to  carry  whithersoever 


I96  RUFUS  KING.  [1S10 

may  be  desired,  the  produce  and  manufacture  of  Great  Britain 
Thus  by  way  of  illustration,  while  British  merchandize  may  be 
exported  to  Russia  in  Russian  or  British  vessels,  or  in  the  vessels 
of  any  other  country,  which  Russia  permits  to  import  them,  the 
productions  of  Russia  can  be  imported  into  Great-Britain  only  in 
British  or  Russian  vessels,  and  such  importations  must  be  directly 
from  Russia,  and  not  from  any  third  place.  In  time  of  war,  the 
King  in  council  has  by  occasional  acts  of  Parliament,  a  power  to 
dispense  with  this  restraint,  as  to  the  direct  importations,  and  to 
permit  foreign  merchandize  to  be  imported  from  intermediate  or 
third  places,  so  that  as  far  as  respects  the  productions  and  manu- 
factures of  Great-Britain,  they  may  be  exported  in  the  vessels  of 
any  country  ;  and  as  far  as  concerns  the  productions  and  manu- 
factures of  any  foreign  country,  that  are  permitted  to  be  imported 
into  England,  such  importation  is  confined  to  British  vessels,  and 
vessels  of  such  foreign  country  ;  the  right  of  carriage  being  com- 
mon to  both. 

Mr.  Macon's  bill  proposes  a  very  different  regulation  :  namely, 
that  the  whole  of  the  imports  of  the  United  States  from  certain 
foreign  countries,  as  well  as  the  whole  of  the  exports  to  these 
countries,  shall  be  confined  to  American  bottoms.  Great-Britain 
as  well  as  the  United  States,  are  commercial  nations,  and  rivals 
in  the  carrying  trade.  It  is  a  maxim  alike  antient  and  equit- 
able, that  the  law  which  others  apply  to  us,  we  may  justly  apply 
to  them.*  G.  Britain  therefore,  from  those  motives  which  in- 
fluence all  states,  will,  without  doubt,  enact  a  regulation  con- 
cerning our  commercial  intercourse  with  them,  of  the  like 
import  with  the  regulations  of  Mr.  Macon's  bill  concerning 
their  commercial  intercourse  with  us.  The  consequence  will 
be  that  our  vessels,  being  excluded  from  their  ports,  &  their 
vessels  excluded  from  ours,  they  will  meet  in  the  Western  Islands 
and  other  intermediate  places,  whither  we  shall  carry  our  exports, 
and  where  they,  in  virtue  of  a  relaxation  of  this  navigation  law 
will  come  to  receive  them,  as  almost  every  other  market  will  by 
belligerent  Decrees  and  Orders  be  closed  against  us.  G.  Britain 
will  be  the  principal  and  almost  the  only  market  for  our  produce, 
which  is  more  than  sufficient  for  its  supply  ;  so  that,  to  the  re- 

*  "  Quam   legem    exteri   nobis  posuere   eandem  Mis  ponemus.      Stiernbook 
de  jure  Sue  ton. 


1810]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 97 

ductions  of  price  from  the  want  of  competitions  in  the  markets, 
the  proposed  regulations  by  requiring  the  double  freight,  will 
reduce  still  lower  the  price  of  our  productions.  And  as  by  the 
proposed  law,  our  vessels  cannot  import  into  the  United  States, 
the  manufactures  or  produce  of  Great  Britain  or  her  territories, 
except  directly  ;  as  we  shall  be  shut  out  from  their  ports,  in  the 
manner  that  they  are  shut  out  from  ours — the  consequence  must 
be,  that  no  article  of  British  growth  or  manufacture  will  be  law- 
fully imported  into  the  U.  S.  But  although  ten  men  may  divert 
the  course  of  a  river,  a  million  can  not  stop  it  from  running  to  the 
sea,  so  although  our  rulers  may  forbid  the  importation  of  articles 
which  our  habits  and  wants,  require,  they  cannot  prevent  our 
obtaining  them.  We  shall  be  supplied,  and  the  country  will  not 
only  pay  the  value  of  these  goods,  but  an  additional  sum  sufficient 
to  compensate  the  risk  of  bringing  them.  Not  only  will  the  goods 
be  supplied  at  an  enhanced  price,  but  the  revenue  will  be  de- 
frauded ;  since  being  imported  contrary  to  law,  no  duty  will  be 
collected.  But  even  these  are  not  the  worst  effects  of  the  regu- 
lation. 

No  country  on  earth  possessed  a  body  of  more  honorable 
merchants  than  those  of  the  United  States.  In  none,  was  there 
ever  so  large  a  revenue  collected  with  so  few  frauds.  Those 
honorable  men,  victims  of  the  incapacity  of  our  rulers,  will  be 
restrained  by  the  law,  but  their  places  will  be  supplied,  as  under 
the  existing  and  former  restrictions  their  places  have  been  sup- 
plied, by  an  unknown  yet  numerous  body  of  adventurers,  who  in 
combination  with  foreigners,  disregarding  republicanism,  scoffing 
at  patriotism  and  despising  our  laws,  will  fill  our  markets  with 
smuggled  goods. — Already  business  has  shifted  hands,  and  a  new 
class  of  men  are  appearing  amongst  us  with  capital  and  credit  to 
do  that  business  which  more  worthy  men  feel  themselves  compelled 
to  decline. 

If  all  the  power  of  France  has  been  unable  to  enforce  her  pro- 
hibition, can  we  persuade  ourselves  that  the  United  States  will  be 
able  to  succeed  in  this  impolitic  and  immoral  system  ? — a  system 
tried  during  the  course  of  the  war  of  the  revolution,  and  then 
proved  to  be  utterly  defective.  What  valuable  purpose  will  be 
accomplished  by  the  continuation  of  these  restrictive  measures  ? 
Will  they  coerce  foreign  nations  ?     Will  they  restore  the  public 


I98  RUFUS  KING,  [1810 

prosperity  or  replenish  the  public  treasury  ?  They  will  do  neither 
— and  the  only  motives  which  can  be  imagined  for  their  adoption, 
are  first,  a  compliance  with  the  views  of  France,  and  secondly, 
the  hope  of  thereby  prolonging  the  powers  of  a  faction.  To  res- 
cue the  country  from  these  ruinous  schemes,  to  preserve  what 
remains  of  national  honor,  and  national  resources,  there  is  but  one 
course  that  can  save  us  from  ruin,  and  that  is,  to  undo  all  that 
has  been  done — to  restore  commerce  to  its  freedom  and  its 
former  channels  ;  to  put  the  country  in  a  condition  to  meet  war  ; 
and  with  a  spirit  of  moderation,  firmness,  impartiality,  and  good 
faith,  to  attempt  an  adjustment  of  our  misunderstandings  and 
disagreement   with    foreign   nations.     This   has   not  been  done 

since   the  departure  of  the Adams,   but  when  done,  there 

are  the  best  grounds  for  expecting  that  the  result  will  be  honorable 
and  advantageous. 


W.  W.  Van  Ness  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  8  Feby.,  18 10. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  In  the  mean  time  I  wish  you  to  be  assured  that  I  am 
perfectly  satisfied  with  the  general  course  of  policy  which  you  have 
suggested.  In  relation  to  New  York  particularly,  I  can  say  but 
little.  I  am  mortified  and  disgusted  with  the  conduct  of  many  of 
our  friends,  in  that  city.  They  have  created  difficulties  &  em- 
barrassments which  appear  to  me  to  be  insuperable.  At  present  I 
am  convinced  the  appt.  of  Mr.  Varick  in  the  only  one  that  will 
answer.  I  wish  you  would  continue  to  write  me  when  your 
leisure  will  permit.  Your  opinions  will,  as  they  ought  to,  be  nearly 
decisive. 

Yours  very  respectfully  &  Sincerely, 

\V.  W.  Van  Ness. 


R.  King — Note  in  his  handwriting. 

Feby.  6,   18 10. 

This   evening   Dr.  Mason   renewed    with    me  a   conversation 

respecting  the  College  ;  in  the  course  of  which  he  recalled  the 

subject  of  a  conversation  with  me  at  Jamaica  in  the  summer  of 

i8c8,  which  treated  of  his  appointment  to  the  Presidency  of  the 


1810]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 99 

College.  I  expressed  to  him  the  opinion  before  avowed  of  his 
Competence,  etc.  told  him  I  had  mentioned  the  subject  to  Mr.  G. 
Morris,  who  approved,  but  that  I  had  not  entered  fully  into  the 
matter  with  him. 

That  he  could  not  be  unapprized  of  difficulties  which  I  had  to 
overcome — that  the  division,  and  rivalry  between  the  Episco- 
palians and  the  Presbyterians  were  such  as  that  a  common  opinion 
seemed  hopeless — that  the  Episcopalians  feared  that  the  College 
wd.  be  turned  into  a  theological  Institution  directed  by  Dissen- 
ters— and  that  connected  as  I  was  with  the  Episcopalians,  it 
would  be  difficult  to  take  any  part  that  wd.  appear  like  desertion. 
If  the  division  were  not  so  considerable  ;  if  the  feelings  of  Gentle- 
men on  both  sides  were  less  lively  and  strong  ;  in  a  word  if  the 
college  had  not  in  fact  become  a  bone  of  contention  between  the 
Episcopalians  &  the  Dissenters,  I  should  have  no  hesitation  as  to 
the  course  I  ought  to  take  :  that  in  my  opinion  the  College  shd. 
have  nothing  to  do  with  the  reasons  &  arguments  in  support  of 
Episcopacy,  or  the  Tenets  of  the  Dissenters  ;  that  a  collegiate  edu- 
cation was  to  fit  the  candidates  for  the  difft.  learned  professions — 
and  not  to  teach  any  of  the  Professions  ;  so  far  as  the  Evidence  of 
the  Chn.  Religion  was  concerned,  let  it  be  inculcated,  but  as  re- 
spects the  difft.  professions  among  chrns.  leave  the  students  to 
their  own  choice.  Dr.  Mason  concurred  in  these  sentiments — I 
asked  whether  if  he  shd.  be  Pr.  he  would  think  himself  bound  by 
his  own  particular  Tenets  or  wd.  be  content  to  explain  the  ch. 
system  as  understood  by  all  Xns  ?  His  answer  was,  that  his  own 
choice  was  made,  that  he  however  did  not  so  regard  the  different 
modes  of  worship  and  forms  of  Discipline  among  christians,  as  to 
want  charity  for  others,  and  in  case  he  could  not  communicate  in 
the  Hcly  Sacrament  with  his  own  denomination,  he  shd.  not  de- 
cline doing  so  with  Episcopalians  and  that  he  shd.  willingly  ad- 
mit Episcopalians  to  his  Communion. 

That  he  shd.  not  think  himself  bound  to  go  beyond  the  general 
inculcation  of  the  ch.  Religion,  omitting  the  doctrines  of  this  or 
the  other  Sect  of  Chns.  ;  that  he  was  solicitous  the  question  re- 
specting the  Pr.  shd.  be  decided  within  4  or  5  mos.,  as  it  would 
have  a  material  influence  upon  the  course  of  his  future  life  ;  that 
he  had  come  to  a  conclusion,  that  the  details  in  wh.  he  had  been 
so  long  employed,  might  with   equal  advantage  be  performed  by 


200  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 

an  inferior  man  ;  that  he  knew  his  own  powers,  that  they  exceeded 
what  his  present  station  required,  &  that  he  had  resolved  to  quit 
it,  and  at  40  years  of  age  to  prepare  himself  for  the  Bar.  This 
however  was  communicated  in  perfect  confidence,  and  the  resolu- 
tion wd.  depend  upon  his  succeeding  in  obtaining  the  Presi- 
dency. 

J.  M.  Mason  to  Rufus  King. 

{Confidential^) 

Feby.  10,   1810. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

Having  attentively  considered  the  subject  of  our  conversation 
on  Saturday,  I  submit  to  the  candour  which  I  have  at  all  times 
experienced  from  you,  the  general  views  under  which  it  has  pre- 
sented itself  to  my  mind  ;  and  I  trouble  you  with  my  remarks  in 
writing  rather  (than)  in  verbal  communication,  that  there  may  be 
no  mistake  of  my  meaning  and  that  further  explanations,  should 
they  be  necessary,  may  be  facilitated. 

If  I  rightly  understood  you  "  there  has  been  a  conversation 
among  some  of  our  episcopal  friends  relative  to  the  college,  and 
they  have  suggested  an  arrangement  with  regard  to  the  Presidency, 
which  they  suppose  may  unite  us  all  in  a  harmonious  compromise." 
The  arrangement  as  I  recollect  it,  is  the  following — 

"  That  the  President  continue  to  be  in  all  times  hereafter,  as  he 
has  been  in  all  times  past,  a  member  of  the  Episcopal  cburch. 
That  his  office,  however,  shall  be  merely  titular,  and  be  interpreted 
simply  as  a  compliment  to  that  denomination.  But  that  in  order 
to  provide  for  the  due  execution  of  a  vigorous  system  of  educa- 
tion, an  additional  officer,  with  the  designation  of  Vice-President 
or  any  other  which  may  be  agreed  upon  shall  be  created  ;  shall 
possess  all  the  power  and  receive  all  the  emoluments,  which  are 
now  intended  for  the  president,  and  be,  in  fact,  the  efficient  man. 
That  this  new  officer  shall  be  chosen  out  of  a  non-episcopal  de- 
nomination, and  that  this  arrangement  securing  a  nominal  presi- 
dent to  the  Episcopal  church,  and  the  real  one  to  non-episcopal 
churches  shall  be  permantly  incorporated  with  the  statutes. 

"This  compromise,  being  proposed  by  Episcopal  gentlemen  is 
thought  to  be  sufficiently  moderate  on  their  part,  and  to  be  recom- 


l8lo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  201 


mended  both  by  the  reasonableness  of  the  thing,  and  by  analogous 
arrangements  in  Great  Britain  ;  that  considering  the  connection 
which  has  always  subsisted  between  Trinity  church  and  the  col- 
lege, and  the  large  proportion  of  the  college-revenue  which  is  de- 
rived from  her  own  donation  of  lands  in  this  city,  the  sacrifice  is 
as  great  as  social  courtesy  can  require — that  what  she  shall  retain 
is  very  little  indeed  ;  but  is  still  something  ;  that  without  it  she 
shall  have  nothing  ;  and  that  it  would-be  a  source  of  pain  to  be 
excluded  from  the  college  altogether." 

It  is  very  possible  that  I  may  not  have  drawn  correctly  the  sub- 
ordinate lines  of  this  plan  ;  but  I  believe  I  have  preserved  its 
principal  features  which  are  enough  for  us. 

I  confess,  sir,  that  putting  myself  in  the  place  of  Trinity  Church, 
and  consulting  only  my  feelings  as  a  gentleman,  conceding  also 
that  the  assumptions  in  her  representation  are  correct,  and  that 
the  arrangements  of  the  college  ought  to  be  a  matter  of  courtesy, 
I  have  no  hesitation  in  saying  that  her  offer  is  both  modest  and 
liberal  ;  that  it  goes  as  far  if  not  further  than  with  her  sentiments, 
I  should  incline  to  go  myself,  and  that,  if  there  did  not  appear  to 
be  very  serious  obstacles  in  the  way,  I  for  one  would  cheerfully 
meet  her. 

But  in  a  matter  of  such  high  moment  as  the  education  of  our 
youth  I  must  lay  aside  individual  feelings  which  are  not  dictated 
by  self  respect ;  and  acting  as  a  Trustee  of  an  immense  public 
interest,  must  merge  the  man  in  the  functionary  and  inquire  how 
far  a  measure  is  likely  to  accelerate  or  retard  the  march  of  the  In- 
stitution towards  the  eminence  which  we  wish  to  see  it  occupy, 
regard  being  had  to  all  its  social  relations. 

When  I  sit  down,  under  these  impressions,  to  analyze  the  pro- 
posed arrangement  and  to  calculate  its  probable  effects,  the  very 
idea  of  a  compromise  strikes  me  unpleasantly.  I  cannot  perceive 
where  it  is  to  find  a  natural  place.  The  cause  of  letters  is  "  one 
and  indivisible."  Here  there  can  be  no  compromise,  because  there 
is  no  collision.  The  same  result  occurs  in  their  common  cause  ; 
and  whatever  dissonance  there  may  be  in  their  ecclesiastical  forms 
or  modifications,  they  are  equally  concerned  in  the  promotion  of 
literature.  Let  us  have  as  much  warfare  upon  our  Theological 
grounds  as  we  shall  think  either  profitable  or  amusing  ;  but,  in  the 
name  of  all  that  is  generous,  let  the  republic  of  letters  be  neutral 


202  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 

territory,  where  we  can  put  off  the  polemic  and  the  sectary,  and 
intermingle  as  gentlemen  &  friends.  Between  us  there  can  be  no 
dispute  on  this  head.  But  still  it  may  be  deemed  expedient  to 
secure  the  co-operation  of  all  parties  by  means  which  shall  soothe 
the  feelings,  or,  which  is  the  same  thing,  shall  flatter  the  vanity  of 
each.  I  own  it  and  this  must  be  the  real  compromise.  The  only 
question  then  is  whether  the  arrangement  proposed,  will  produce 
such  a  compromise,  and,  at  the  same  time  promote  the  prosperity 
of  the  institution.  I  think  not  and  my  reasons  are  these,  i.  The 
charter  under  which  we  now  act,  has  expressly  abolished  all  prefer- 
ence of  religious  denominations  in  the  affairs  of  the  College.  It 
received  its  present  modification  with  the  knowledge  of  Trinity 
church  and  with  the  concurrence  if  not  by  the  suggestion,  of  some 
of  her  most  distinguished  members.  Several  of  such  members 
and  all  the  Trustees  belonging  to  other  denominations  accepted 
their  seats  in  the  board  under  the  charter  thus  modified.  The 
Legislature  of  the  State  has  made  considerable  grants  of  money 
on  the  same  ground  ;  not  one  dollar  of  which  would  have  been 
granted  had  the  least  suspicion  existed  that  the  Board  of  Trustees 
would  ever  attempt  to  close  the  avenues  to  any  office  in  the  college 
upon  all  denominations  except  one.  Nor  have  I  the  smallest 
doubt,  should  the  attempt  be  made  and  succeed,  but  that  influ- 
ence of  various  sorts  would  speedly  be  enlisted  in  sufficient 
strength  to  destroy  the  college  altogether.  It  is  not  unknown  to 
you,  Sir,  that  certain  intriguing  men  have  been  looking,  for  some 
years,  with  rapacious  eyes  upon  the  college-property,  and  are 
feeding  themselves  with  the  hope  of  getting  it  into  their  hands. 
Such  a  step  as  I  am  now  considering  would  be  to  their  Jacobini- 
cal Archimedes  the  fulcrum  of  his  lever  for  overturning  our  little 
world. 

Nor  do  I  see  on  what  Trinity  church  rests  her  claim  to  the  grati- 
fication for  which  she  stipulates.  Her  legal  right  was  long  ago 
extinguished  by  the  charter.  That  instrument  has  been  in  force 
more  than  five  and  twenty  years  under  her  own  eye  ;  her  vestry- 
men, her  wardens,  her  priests  &  her  bishops  have  assisted  in  its 
operations,  and  she  has  never  objected  to  this  day.  If  her  con- 
duct be  not  acquiescence  in  the  extinction  of  her  original  prefer- 
ence, I  am  at  a  loss  how  to  interpret  human  actions.  To  the 
donation  of  lands  for  the  support  of  the  college  which  she  early 


l8io]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  203 

made,  I  cannot  now  attach  such  an  appendage  as  she  wishes, 
whether  that  donation  be  contemplated  in  form  or  in  substance. 
That  she  had  a  right  to  annex  any  conditions  she  chose  to  a  volun- 
tary grant,  is  clear ;  but  it  is  no  less  clear  that  one  of  the  prevail- 
ing reasons  moving  her  to  that  grant,  was  a  desire  and  endeavour  to 
give  to  her  own  ecclesiastical  character  a  real  as  it  already  had  a 
legal  ascendency  over  other  denominations.  This  can  never  be  a 
reason  of  concession  to  her  from  those  very  denominations,  who 
felt  themselves  aggrieved  by  her  establishment  above  them.  The 
substance  of  the  grant  will  influence  them  as  little  as  the  form. 
Because  she  herself  received  in  a  grant  from  the  crown  the  land 
on  which  Trinity  church  now  stands,  which  was  then  much  more 
than  equal  to  her  subsequent  grant  to  the  college  ;  and  because  a 
tax  for  her  support  was  levied  upon  the  other  denominations  for 
more  than  50  years  before  her  own  grant,  so  that  she  actually  got 
from  them,  and  in  the  most  mortifying  manner  a  full  &  ample 
quid  pro  quo.  Every  shilling  of  the  valuation  (^"2000  sterling) 
which  she  set  upon  her  grant  to  the  college,  has  been  repaid  into 
her  treasury  out  of  the  pockets  of  non-Episcopalians.  The  princi- 
ple of  our  discussions  is  that,  taking  men  and  things  as  they  are,  we 
must  labour  to  soften  prejudice  and  humour  predilections.  But 
that  same  principle  works  both  ways  and  what  shall  we  gain  by 
such  an  indulgence  to  Trinity  church  at  the  expense  of  rousing 
the  pride  and  souring  the  spirits  of  other  people  ?  They  will  ask 
troublesome  questions.  They  will  go  back  to  "  tales  of  other 
times."  They  will  associate  with  this  titular  dignity  the  idea  of  a 
latent  purpose  of  future  usurpation  ;  and  the  very  obscurity  which 
covers  it  will  minister  to  their  suspicions,  and  conjure  up  ill-bod- 
ing spectres  to  their  imaginations.  It  is  in  vain  to  tell  them  that 
the  privilege  to  be  confined  to  Trinity  church  is  a  name,  a  feather, 
a  pepper-corn.  They  will  reply,  that  it  is  a  badge  of  distinction 
recognizing,  however  delicately,  the  old  superiority — that,  with 
men  of  brain,  names  are  often  things — that  a  feather  can  answer 
all  the  purposes  of  a  crown — and  a  pepper-corn  is  as  much  a 
tribute  as  a  million  of  dollars.  Let  this  mode  of  reasoning  be 
irrelevant,  let  it  be  wild,  let  it  be  fanatical,  if  you  will ;  still  the 
feelings  which  call  it  forth  exist,  and  are  not  to  be  argued  out  of 
the  human  heart.  I  am  of  opinion,  therefore,  that  the  projected 
scheme  will  only  prove  upon  trial  an  apple  of  discord.     That  it 


204  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 

will  awaken  slumbering  resentments  ;  that  it  will  impart  to  Theo- 
logical discussions  a  political  complexion,  and,  instead  of  concili- 
ating, will  only  exasperate.  In  this  most  portentous  state  of 
human  society,  when  all  the  sound  hearts  and  sound  heads  that 
can  be  marshalled  against  the  inroads  of  profligate  misrule  are 
too  few,  the  hazarding  of  such  an  issue  is  too  desperate  a  game. 
Start  a  controversy  on  this  head,  and  no  man  can  tell  where  it 
shall  terminate.  The  enormous  wealth  of  Trinity  church,  indi- 
cated by  not  the  wisest  of  all  possible  displays,  breeds  a  more  ex- 
tensive uneasiness  than  she  is  perhaps  aware.  Consultations  have 
been  held  on  the  subject  of  reducing  it,  and  she  has  found  friends 
in  ecclesiastical  opponents,  because  they  are  friends  to  social  sta- 
bility and  dread  the  application  of  the  strong  arm  of  power  to 
chartered  rights.  It  is  not  impossible  that  the  arrangement  pro- 
posed might  be  a  spark  to  a  train  of  powder  ;  and  it  would  be 
hard  to  calculate  the  extent  of  the  explosion.  2.  Considering 
the  nature  of  our  charter,  the  Trustees  appear  to  me  to  be  under 
a  legal  incapacity  to  adopt  any  such  restriction  of  elegibility  to 
the  Presidency.  There  was  such  a  restriction  once  and  on  the  re- 
newal of  the  charter  it  was  expunged.  To  revive  it,  would  be  to 
create  by  an  act  of  the  board,  a  disqualification  for  a  particular 
office  in  the  very  teeth  of  the  charter  itself.  For,  if  the  Trustees 
may  restrict  one  office  to  a  particular  denomination,  they  may 
with  equal  authority  restrict  all,  and  thus  reduce  the  provisions  of 
the  charter  to  a  mere  Nullity.  To  do  it  at  all,  the  charter  must 
be  essentially  altered,  and  an  essential  alteration  introduced  with 
a  view  of  bestowing  certain  exclusive  rights  upon  one  denomina- 
tion, is  an  experiment  which  I  should  hardly  think  prudent  with  a 
New  York  Legislature.  3.  Supposing  these  difficulties  removed, 
let  us  inquire  how  the  new  arrangement  would  work. 

Inefficiency  has  been  the  bane  of  our  college  system  ;  and  that 
inefficiency  has  grown  out  of  the  plan  of  limiting  the  choice  of 
the  chief  officer  to  a  particular  denomination.  She  had  not  the 
proper  men  at  her  command.  The  presidential  chair  has  been 
filled  with  weakness,  and  the  college  is  almost  good  for  nothing. 
The  expedient  proposed  is  exactly  the  same  blunder  under  an- 
other form.  You  will  indeed  have  two  officers  instead  of  one,  but 
you  will  not  double  your  chances  of  talent,  for  by  the  terms  of 
the  expedient  you  are  to  have  one  real  president.     Would  it  not 


1810]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  205 

be  preposterous  to  see  an  able  Episcopalian  mocked  with  a  titular 
precedence  while  the  effective  power  should  be  in  the  hands  of  a 
Presbyterian  blockhead  ?  For  my  own  part  I  have  no  more  affec- 
tion for  absurdity  and  feebleness  in  the  shape  of  a  Presbyterian 
than  in  the  shape  of  an  Episcopalian.  If  "the  church  "  has  not 
her  full  proportion  of  those  articles,  we  can  spare  her  what  she 
wants.  It  is  true,  increase  of  population  increases  the  mass  of 
talent  ;  that  is,  talent  as  a  raw  material  j  our  education  must  be 
revolutionized  before  we  shall  be  able  to  command  much  of  it 
ready  for  use,  and  that  species  of  talent  which  our  institution, 
when  put  in  a  proper  train,  will  require,  is  extremely  scarce  in 
the  most  matured  nations.  Detur  meliori  is  my  motto,  and  I 
should  very  reluctantly  assent  to  any  compromise  which  could 
abridge  our  range  of  choice,  already  very  small,  through  our  then 
intellectual  population,  by  forbidding  us  to  go  into  the  Episcopal 
pale,  for  an  efficient  man.  I  would  take  him  where  I  can  get 
him,  and  premising  that  he  be  fit  in  other  respects,  would  bound 
myself  by  nothing  but  a  protestant  limit.  This  obviates  the  fear 
of  our  Episcopal  friends  about  their  entire  seclusion  from  the 
college,  unless  the  proposed  arrangement  be  accepted.  They 
will  narrow,  not  widen  their  own  access  to  it,  by  their  own  plan_ 
They  propose  to  surrender  the  efficient  power  by  way  of  securing 
the  possession  of  inefficiency  !  This,  /  should  call  the  most  hu- 
miliating exclusion.  But  how  are  they  excluded  by  the  Detur 
meliori!  They  must  either  despair  of  ever  producing  the  men  ; 
or  they  must  suppose  the  board  of  Trustees  to  be  a  knot  of  vul- 
gar sections.  The  first  they  will  not,  of  course,  admit ;  and  all 
past  experience  cries  shame  upon  the  second.  They  have  at  this 
moment  the  whole  faculty,  excepting  one  ;  &  have  them  with  the 
concurrence  of  non-episcopal  votes. 

But  to  proceed  ;  I  do  not  relish  the  business  of  a  double- 
headed  body  ;  Two  co-ordinate  executives  are  a  solecism  ;  and  a 
government  with  one  executive  for  action  and  one  for  shew,  i.  e. 
one  executive  and  one  non-executive  is,  a  pantomime.  A  man  of 
sense  &  spirit  who  should  submit  to  be  this  toy,  this  top-knot, 
is  in  my  view  a  contradiction  ;  and  it  would  not  mend  the  mat- 
ter to  push  him  behind  the  scene,  and  let  Punch  run  off  with  the 
Eulogy.  The  analogies  quoted  do  not  seem  to  be  in  point.  I 
spend  not  a  breath  upon  Phila.  because  nothing  has  no  attri- 


2o6  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 


butes.  The  English  Universities  are  no  parallel.  If  a  Peer  of 
the  realm  be  chancellor,  &  the  acting  authority  be  vested  in  a 
vice-chancellor,  the  system  may  go  on  well  enough  and  may  be 
no  loser  by  a  nominal  head.  But  we  have  no  Peers  of  the  realm. 
The  nominal  and  real  head  must  be  men  of  the  same  general 
standing  in  Society  ;  there  is  no  immense  distance  of  rank  to 
keep  them  from  collision  by  keeping  them  apart.  There  is  no 
grandeur  of  ancient  family,  no  influence  of  preponderating 
wealth,  no  extensive  political  patronage  to  shed  down  a  lustre 
on  the  institution.  Under  such  circumstances  we  cannot,  like 
the  Universities  of  Great  Britain,  afford  to  have  a  nominal  head, 
though  it  be  a  foolish  one.  There  is  no  dazzling  brilliancy  to 
hide  his  emptiness  from  the  public  eye.  To  model  ourselves 
upon  their  platform  in  this  particular  would  evince  not  that  mag- 
nanimity which  adopts  wise  plans  &  emulates  great  examples,  but 
that  petty  affectation  which  makes  itself  ridiculous  by  aping  a 
magnificence  beyond  its  reach. 

Look  at  it  in  another  attitude.     These  two  heads  must  reside 
near  each  other  &  come  into  frequent  contact.     If  your  system, 
good  in  itself,  be  inexorably  maintained,  there  will  always  be  some 
persons  dissatisfied  with  its  operation.    They  will  at  times  be  per- 
sons of  influence.     Is  there  no   danger  of  their   impeding   the 
whole  machinery  by  playing  off  one   head  against   the   other? 
Should  both  be  strong  men  and  honest,  this  small  policy  never 
would  succeed.     Even  without  such  an   embarrassment,  let  us 
suppose  the  nominal  head  to  be  a  feeble,  and  the  real  head  a 
powerful  man.     It  is  in  the  nature  of  littleness  to  be  jealous,  and 
to  be  dabbling  with  things  that  do  not  belong  to  it.     Your  nomi- 
nal head  would  be  forever  in  the  way  ;  he  would  be  the  rallying 
point  of  all  the  pedagogues  in  the  college  and  out  of  it ;  and 
would  contrive  with  their  assistance  to  render  himself  a  very  in- 
tolerable nuisance.     Reverse  the  case  ;  let  your  nominal  head  be 
strong  and  your  real  one  feeble.     Etiquette  would  never  hinder 
such  a  man  from  interposing  to  preserve  the  great  system  of  edu- 
cation, or  to  repair  its  injuries.     In  that  case  your  "  balance  of 
power"  would  be  overset,  the  very  principle  of  your  arrange- 
ment frustrated,  &  your  head,  who  was  to  do  nothing,  have  the 
weight  of  the  concern  upon  himself  under  the  most  deplorable 
of  all  conditions,  that  of  trying  to  make  an  absurd  fellow  do  right. 


1810]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  20J 

Still  further,  the  habits  of  our  country,  unacquainted  with  the 
double  diplomacy  of  France,  not  being  used  to  an  ostensible  and 
a  real  functionary,  will  associate  the  character  of  the  college  with 
that  of  the  President.  He  will  stand  foremost  in  the  public  esti- 
mation ;  you  may  explain  a  thousand  times  and  your  explanation 
will  be  forgotten.  At  public  commencements  and  other  special 
occasions,  your  president  must  take  the  lead,  and  be  the  promi- 
nent figure,  unless  you  mean  to  make  him  the  laughing  stock  for 
boys,  a  subject  for  caricatures.  How,  then,  on  the  one  hand, 
will  an  able  man  put  up  with  all  the  compliments  due  to  the  ignor- 
ance or  incapacity  of  his  Vice  ?  Being  constituted  a  scape-goat 
for  iniquities  not  his  own  ?  Or  how  on  the  other  hand,  will  an 
able  man  submit  to  have  the  praise  of  his  genuis  &  truth  trans- 
ferred to  another  who  did  nothing?  This  proxy-scheme,  for  such 
it  will  be  in  the  experiment,  cannot  answer.  No  man  of  intelli- 
gence &  spirit  will  permit  himself  to  be  either  applauded  for  what 
he  does  not  deserve,  or  robbed  of  what  he  does.  If  he  is  the 
luminary  in  the  system  he  will  never  allow  an  opake  body,  a 
smoked  glass,  to  intervene  between  him  &  the  eye  of  the  spec- 
tator. He  will  not  be  viewed  as  if  he  were  under  an  eclipse. 
Besides,  whatever  little  notions  may  fill  the  heads  of  both  the  great 
vulgar  and  the  small,  you,  my  dear  Sir,  and  every  one  who  thinks 
largely,  perceives  that  a  man  who  is  capable  of  performing  the 
service  which  we  should  expect  in  our  first  officer,  cannot  shut 
himself  up  in  the  college  alone.  He  will  consider  it  in  the  two- 
fold light  of  an  end  and  of  a  means.  But  as  it  furnishes  opportun- 
ity for  the  exercise  of  high  talent  in  acting  directly  upon  Society, 
it  is  only  a  means.  No  small  doer  up  of  lessons  understands  this. 
No  one  who  understands  it,  will  ever  be  a  doer  up  of  lessons,  or  a 
literary  mill-horse.  He  will  take  his  stand  upon  the  great  theatre 
of  human  life,  and  there  is  no  keeping  him  from  it.  Now,  no 
consideration  will  induce  such  a  man,  and  such  an  one  we  want, 
to  place  himself  behind  a  master  of  ceremonies,  and  play  second 
fiddle  to  one  whom,  if  multiplied  by  iooo  or  10,000,  he  could 
crush  with  his  grasp.  It  is  not  in  human  nature.  Such  a  man 
will  be  in  your  college  aut  Cozsar  aut  Nullus.  There  are  very  few 
among  secondary  men  who  would  deign  to  accept  the  post  of  your 
efficient  officer  with  a  harlequin  superior,  dancing  before  him  ; 
and  he,  to  whom  it  would  be  an  object  of  ambition,  is  of  course, 
much  less  than  harlequin. 


208  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 

Upon  the  whole,  the  proposed  arrangement  appears  to  me  to 
have  originated  in  that  most  fatal  policy  which  sacrifices  general 
principles  to  partial  and  temporary  expedients  ;  and  which  it  is 
therefore  impossible  for  me  either  to  approve,  to  support,  or  not 
to  resist. 

I  have  disclosed  my  sentiments  with  unreserved  plainness  ; 
not  only  because  such  a  disclosure  comports  with  the  frankness 
of  our  conversations  on  matters  of  great  interest ;  and  because  I 
wish  to  lay  before  you  the  extent  of  my  feeling  on  this  particular 
subject ;  but  also,  and  chiefly,  because  the  very  liberal  treatment 
I  have  received  from  your  friendship  ever  since  I  have  had  the 
happiness  of  your  acquaintance  both  justifies  and  requires  a  cor- 
responding candour.  You  will  give  to  my  opinions  and  reasonings 
their  just  weight ;  and  should  your  results  be  different  from  my 
own,  although  I  should  regret  the  circumstances,  it  will  not  dis- 
parage in  your  mind,  the  freedom  of  my  communications  ;  nor 
assuredly  in  mine,  the  respect  and  esteem  with  which  I  have  the 
honor  to  be,  dear  Sir,  your  obliged  &  faithful 

J.  M.  Mason. 


CHAPTER   XI. 

King  to  Gore — Hopes  the  best  if  England  moderate — King  to  Wilberforce — 
Thinks  no  incompatible  Claims  or  Pursuits  exist  between  the  Countries — 
Hopes  final  Rupture  will  be  avoided — Murray  to  King — Slave  Trade — 
Troup  to  King — New  York  Mayoralty— King  to  Pickering — Jackson  says 
temperate  Conduct  likely  to  prevail — King  to  Gore — Jackson  likely  to  be 
withdrawn — England's  Desire  to  live  in  Peace  with  the  United  States — 
Bonaparte's  Views  prevent  Continental  Peace — Pickering  to  King — England 
will  show  her  Willingness  to  discuss  Propositions  from  this  Country — King 
to  G.  Morris — Presidency  of  Columbia  College — Conditions  on  which  the 
College  holds  its  Property — Ingersoll  to  King — Fete  by  Daschkoff  in  Phila- 
delphia— Mob  caused  by  Crown  in  a  Transparency — Trumbull  to  King — 
Mail  opened  in  London — Denounces  the  Administration — Trumbull  to 
King — European  News — Siege  of  Cadiz — Sale  of  American  Property  in 
France — Berlin  and  Milan  Decrees  revoked — Probably  English  orders  in 
Council  will  be  modified — Mason  to  King — Proposition  to  lease  Lots  in 
rear  of  Columbia  College — Duties  of  the  President. 

R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

February  19,  1810. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  just  received  your  letter  of I  will  write  a  letter  to 

Gr.  whose  sentiments  on  the  Georgia  business  I  am  ignorant  of — 
altho'  I  should  be  disinclined  to  discuss  the  subject  with  the 
view  of  changing  any  opinion  he  may  have  formed  respecting  it. 
I  can  have  no  objection  to  suggest  to  him  considerations  in  favour 
of  his  abstaining  from  taking  a  share  in  the  debate  and  confining 
himself  to  the  giving  of  his  vote. 

From  the  time  of  the  joint  Report,  I  have  been  willing  to 
believe  that  the  public  opinion  has  already,  or  is  likely  to  undergo 
a  favourable  change  in  your  quarter.  The  offering  of  Gerry  as 
their  candidate  cannot  have  been  very  satisfactory,  and  does  not 
manifest  great  confidence  of  success, — very  much  will  depend 
upon  the  information  received  from  abroad,  before  the  election. 

VOL.    V. — 14  209 


2IO  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 

If  England  conducts  with  moderation,  I  think  the  good  cause 
will  succeed  ;  otherwise  the  worst  may  happen  not  only  in  Massa- 
chusetts but  elsewhere. 

I  hear  that  a  vessel  is  here  arrived  in  a  short  passage  from 
Lisbon,  where  news  from  England  had  been  received  up  to  the 
3rd  of  January.  I  have  heard  but  little  of  the  news  she  is  said 
to  bring.  Canning  it  seems  has  returned  into  the  ministry,  and 
holds  the  place  of  first  Lord  of  the  Admiralty.  In  a  speech,  full 
of  insolence,  by  Bonaparte  to  the  Legislature,  he  proclaims  his 
purpose  of  persisting  in  the  subjugation  of  Spain  &  Portugal 
from  whence  he  announces  the  retreat  of  the  Leopard  as  soon 
as  he  there  shows  himself. 

It  is  this  speech,  or  in  a  letter  to  the  Emperor  of  Russia,  in 
which  he  declares  "that  the  U.  S.  of  America  are  seriously  and 
sincerely  disposed  to  accede  to  their  System  against  England." 

As  the  news  of  the  dismission  of  their  minister  must  have 
reached  England  before  Christmas,  and  I  do  not  hear  that  the 
reports  by  the  Lisbon  vessel  make  any  mention  of  anything 
unusual  concerning  this  country,  I  am  inclined  to  hope  that  no 
measure  of  irritation  had  been  adopted,  and  if  time  be  given  for 
Reflection,  I  also  hope  that  none  such  will  be  adopted.  Logan  is 
here,  has  taken  his  passage  in  the  British  Packet,  and  is  understood 
to  be  going  to  England  upon  a  similar  errand  to  that  which  some 
years  ago  carried  him  to  France.  He  has  been  at  Washington 
and  has  Dispatches  &  Letters  of  Introduction  from  the  Govt,  to 
Mr.  Pinkney.  Bonaparte  has  repudiated  his  wife,  if  the  news 
from  Lisbon  be  true,  to  marry  whom  is  not  mentioned.  Mr. 
Jackson,  as  I  have  heard,  had  some  thoughts  of  making  a  tour 
thro'  the  Eastern  States — You  may  however  be  assured,  if  he  did 
intend  it,  he  has  relinquished  his  intention,  and  remains  where 
he  is  until  he  receives  the  orders  of  his  Govt. 

farewell  and  believe  me  always  &  faithfully 

Yrs. 

Political  extract  from  a  letter  to  Mr.  Wilberforce  from  R.  King. 

Feb.  21,  1810. 
Upon  the  topic  of  general  politicks,  I  am  not  sufficiently  in- 
formed and  therefore  forbear    to    express   any  opinion  ;  but  as 
respects   the   misunderstandings,    which  are  permitted  to   exist 


1810]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  211 

between  our  respective  Countries,  we  have  more  information  and 
therefore  may  speak  freely.  I,  as  you  know,  have  long  thought, 
as  I  still  firmly  do  think,  that  there  are  no  such  interfering  claims, 
or  incompatible  pursuits  between  the  two  nations,  as  should 
prevent  their  living  harmoniously  and  in  friendship  with  each 
other.  Jealousies  which  in  no  small  degree  are  unfounded,  are 
entertained  on  both  sides.  Every  step  taken  by  either  instead 
of  being  regarded  in  its  fair  and  obvious  light,  is  suspected  as  a 
measure  designed  to  promote  a  concealed  and  unfriendly  purpose. 
Instead  of  the  salutary  presumption  of  good  faith  in  their  mutual 
intercourse,  the  reverse  takes  place,  and  every  proposition  is  sus- 
pected to  be  not  only  unfriendly  but  insidious.  In  this  temper 
we  are  more  likely  to  increase  than  to  diminish  our  misunder- 
standings— and  nothing  short  of  a  return  to  a  more  frank  and 
confidential  mode  of  discussing  our  differences  will  be  likely  to 
heal  them.  When  this  necessary  change  may  arrive  I  know  not — 
in  the  meantime  I  derive  Consolation  from  the  belief,  that  the  U. 
S.  will  not  declare  war  agt.  Eng.,  nor  enter  into  any  such  engage- 
ments, as,  according  to  the  maxims  of  your  statesmen,  shall 
oblige  Eng.  to  declare  war  agt.  the  U.  S.  Notwithstanding  the 
diplomatic  quarrels  and  commercial  regulations,  which  may  hap- 
pen or  be  proclaimed,  I  am  not  without  hope  that  a  final  rupture 
will  be  avoided,  and  that  things  being  left  to  the  operation  of  time, 
temper  and  reflexion,  the  former  harmony  &  mutual  intercourse 
of  the  two  Countries  will  be  again  restored  and  established. 
With  sentiments  of  the  highest  esteem  etc. 

R.  K. 


John  Murray,  Jr.,  to  R.  King. 

New  York  2mo.  23d.  1810. 

John  Murray  Junior's  respects  wait  on  his  friend  Rufus  King, 
and  informs  him,  that  the  subject,  contained  in  the  letter  from 
Willm.  Willberforce,  relative  to  the  Slave  Trade,  has  obtained 
careful  attention,  and  the  object  of  that  communication  put  in 
train  for  further  investigation.  J.  M.  has  taken  the  liberty  to 
copy  so  much  of  the  Letter  as  appeared  necessary  to  be  retained, 
and  if  agreeable,  the  Act  of  Parliament  may  usefully  be  kept,  as 
some  guide  in  giving  further  attention  to  the  business.     J.  M.  has 


212  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 

been  very  much  gratified  with  the  present  reports  of  the  Com- 
mittee appointed  by  the  Society,  instituted  for  promoting  the 
civilization  and  improvement  of  Africa  ;  they  are  herewith  re- 
turned with  J.  M.'s  acknowledgement  for  the  loan  of  them  ;  and 
when  his  friend  Rufus  King  may  receive  further  information  on 
this  interesting  subject,  he  would  be  very  much  obliged  by  the 
perusal  thereof. 


R.  Troup  to  King. 

Albany,  27  Feb.,  1810. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  have  lately  received  a  very  affecting  letter  from  Varick 
on  the  score  of  his  treatment  relative  to  the  office  of  mayor.  I 
have  by  me  a  lengthy  letter  in  answer  ;  in  which  I  have  detailed 
the  facts.  He  will  find  from  it  that  he  has  no  cause  whatever 
for  being  offended  with  any  of  his  New  York  friends,  and  that 
his  disappointment  can  only  be  traced  to  vile  intrigue  and  cabal, 
the  true  causes,  as  generally  believed  here,  of  Radcliff's  appoint- 
ment. The  arrangement  to  which  all  the  influential  men  here 
were  privy,  and  which  was  thought  to  have  settled  Varick's 
appointment,  could  only  have  been  defeated  by  intrigue  &  cabal. 
This  business  has  so  disgusted  me  that  I  have  withdrawn  from 
all  communion  respecting  appointments,  and  I  therefore  cannot 
suggest  to  you  what  is  likely  to  be  the  further  course  with  regard 
to  New  York.  It  is  asserted  by  some  who  pretend  to  know, 
that  Williams  will  not  agree  to  Morris's  appointment  to  the  clerk- 
ship ;  and  that  nothing  will  be  done  with  that  office  till  after  the 
election.  From  appearances  Gardenier  now  stands  a  better  chance 
for  the  office  than  Morris — Benson  is  here  asserting  the  claims  of 
his  brother  to  the  same  office  ;  but  I  conjecture  without  any  prob- 
ability of  success.  Benson  says  he  would  not  have  the  office  him- 
self if  offered  to  him.  He  is  contending  for  pri?iciple  and  this 
demands  his  brother's  restitution.  A  more  objectionable  doctrine 
than  that  of  principle  could  not  be  broached.  To  urge  it,  is  to 
make  yourself  ridiculous — and  accordingly  our  friend  the  Judge 
is  laughed  at. 

very  truly  etc. 

Robert  Troup. 


i8io]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  2\% 


R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

New  York,  March  5,  1S10. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  Packet  which  arrived  yesterday  brings  London  news  to 
Jany.  12.  I  have  not  yet  had  time  to  look  over  the  communica- 
tions from  England,  but  I  may  state  to  you  that  Mr.  Jackson  says 
that  he  has  much  reason  to  be  satisfied  with  what  the  Packet 
brings,  and  as  respects  the  U.  S.  &  G.  B.,  that  the  temperate  line 
of  conduct,  which  he  professes  to  have  from  the  first  recom- 
mended, is  likely  to  prevail.     .     .     . 

yr.  obt.  Serv. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

New  York,  March  6,  18 10. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Notwithstanding  the  articles  which  you  may  observe  in  our 
newspapers,  you  may  be  assured  that  the  Packet  from  England 
has  brought  nothing  decisive  respecting  Mr.  Jackson  ;  from  the 
best  information  that  I  have  been  able  to  collect  there  seems  to 
be  little  doubt  that  he  will  be  shortly  withdrawn  ;  the  manner  in 
which  this  shall  be  done,  and  not  the  measure  itself,  is  said  to 
have  been  undecided  when  the  Packet  sailed.  The  dismission  of 
Mr.  Jackson  is  regarded  as  a  confirmation  of  what  was  before 
strongly  suspected,  that  our  administration  are  unwilling  to  settle 
the  misunderstandings  with  England  ;  preferring  for  some  reason 
or  other,  that  they  should  remain  open.  Circumstances  of  no  in- 
considerable significance  have  occurred  in  Europe,  which  have 
strengthened  this  opinion,  and  led  moreover  to  the  belief  that  the 
dismission  of  the  Eng.  minister  has  not  been  without  concert  with 
one  of  the  Belligerents. 

Under  these  convictions,  with  sentiments  not  hostile  towards 
the  U.  S.,  but  which  however  forcibly  enjoin  the  preservation  of 
respect  for  themselves,  England  may  find  the  means  of  communi- 
cating to  our  Govt.,  &  perhaps  to  the  world  the  light  in  which 
she  views  the  tenor  &  termination  of  the  late  Correspondence, 
may  reiterate  the  expression  of  her  desire  to  live  in  peace  with 
the  U.  S.,  and  to  that  end,  by  just  arrangements,  to  do  away  all 
misunderstandings  between   the  two   Countries  ;  and  altho'  the 


214  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 

Circumstances  in  which  she  withdraws  her  Minister,  may  prevent 
her  from  naming  a  successor,  she  may  avow  her  readiness  to  re- 
ceive and  to  discuss  any  such  communications  as  the  U.  S.  may 
think  fit  to  make  at  London. 

Whether  this  course  will  be  literally  pursued  is  not  certain,  but 
that  its  Spirit  will  be  adopted  seems  highly  probable. 

With  the  exception  of  the  Marq.  of  Wellesley's  accession,  the 
Cabinet  remains  as  it  was  after  the  resignation  of  Canning  &  Cas- 
tlereagh,  and  the  death  of  the  Duke  of  Portland — Austria  again 
appears  with  overtures  for  a  genl.  Peace,  which  like  her  former 
ones  must  utterly  fail  ;  the  condition  of  Europe  and  the  views  of 
Bonaparte  precluding  every  rational  expectation  that  it  can  take 
place.  Lord  Wellington  has  asked  for  30,000  Br.  Troops,  which 
have  been  sent,  for  the  defence  of  Portugal.  Girona  surrendered 
on  the  10th  December,  and  the  affairs  of  Spain  seem  to  be  very 
unpromising.  The  unfortunate  King  of  Sweden  is  to  be  delivered 
up  to  the  inexorable  Bonaparte,  who  never  forgives  a  personal 
injury.  While  we  withdraw  from  the  Ocean,  a  great  trade  is  go- 
ing on  directly  between  Eng.  &  Holland,  and  between  the  former 
&  France  under  French  Licences.  What  object  is  to  be  promoted 
by  the  late  interviews  at  Paris  between  the  Merchants  and  the 
Ministers  is  not  exactly  understood.  Whether  the  Danes  are  to 
receive  a  new  modification  by  which  they  shall  be  adjusted  to  an 
expected  League  on  maritime  affairs,  or  be  made  to  accomplish 
their  end  in  the  form  of  territorial  regulations,  remains  to  be  dis- 
closed. The  mercantile  opinion  in  London  was,  that  the  expected 
incorporation  of  Holland,  the  new  association  of  the  Hanse  towns, 
and  other  measures  affecting  the  northern  Powers,  indicate  a  firm 
purpose  of  excluding  Eng.  from  all  commercial  intercourse  with 
the  Continent.  Farewell,  &c.         R.  K. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  March  9,  1810. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Yesterday  I  was  favoured  with  your  letter  of  the  5th,  and  just 
now  with  that  of  the  6th.*  The  course  which  you  suggest  G.  B. 
may  pursue,  seems  to  me  to  flow  naturally  from  the  acts  of  our 
own  Government.     After  an  examination  of  Mr.  Jackson's  com- 

*  The  contents  are  nearly  the  same  as  in  that  to  Mr.  Gore  of  6th  March. 


1810]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  21$ 

munications  (which  must  embrace  the  whole  of  the  correspond- 
ence, &  probably  some  things  which  he  would  first  make  known 
to  his  own  Government)  the  British  Cabinet  must  see  the  soph- 
istry, the  captiousness,  the  shuffling,  the  madness  and  the  weak- 
ness of  ours  :  whence  their  momentary  resentments  will  at  once 
give  way  to  contempt. 

G.  B.  regarding  her  own  great  and  permanent  interests,  which 
demand  a  good  understanding  with  this  country,  will  do  no  hostile 
act.  From  the  beginning  I  supposed  that  withdrawing  her  min- 
ister she  would  not  name  another  ;  while  as  you  suggest,  good 
policy  will  lead  her  to  manifest  her  willingness  to  discuss  at  Lon- 
don, any  propositions  our  Executive  may  direct  to  be  made.  This 
will  suit  the  Executive  ;  because  it  will  enable  him  to  draw  out 
the  negotiation  to  any  length  he  pleases  ;  and  I  know  not  one 
man  of  sense  who  supposes  that  Mr.  Madison  (any  more  than  Mr. 
Jefferson)  really  wishes  an  adjustment  of  our  differences  with 
G.  B. 

It  is  given  out  to  day  by  the  Clerks  in  the  Secretary  of  State's 
office,  that  the  British  Cabinet  disapproves  his  conduct  here,  and 
will  send  out  a  person  of  rank  to  succeed  him  :  and  people  out  of 
doors  are  amused  with  the  idea,  that  the  people  about  the  palace 
are  in  high  spirits  in  consequence  of  the  news  from  London. 

I  trust  the  facts  in  the  case  will  be  communicated  to  Massa- 
chusetts, and  prevent  the  mischief  these  Cabinet  tales  are  cal- 
culated to  produce.  Every  day  exhibits  some  new  folly  in  the 
Administration  members  of  Congress — witness  Eppes's  convoy 
bill  and  Leib's  resolutions  &c.  very  truly  yours, 

T.  Pickering. 


R.  King  to  G.  Morris. 

New  York,  March  21,  1S10. 
Dear  Sir  : 

As  in  consequence  of  the  absence  from  town  of  several  mem- 
bers, the  Board  of  Trustees  met  on  Monday  only  to  adjourn  to 
Thursday  the  5th  of  April,  I  am  not  sorry  to  find  that  my  letter  in- 
forming you  of  the  time  and  place  of  meeting  was  not  forwarded 
as  I  supposed  it  to  have  been. 

You  probably  are  apprized  that  the  Conveyance  by  Trinity 
Church  of  the  ground  on  which  the  College  stands  contains  aeon- 


2l6  RUFUS  KING.  [18 


10 


dition,  that  conformably  to  a  provision  of  the  Charter,  requires 
that  the  President  be  an  Episcopalian  ;  when  the  Charter  of  the 
College  came  under  Revision  after  the  war,  the  Legislature  con- 
firmed it,  with  certain  exceptions,  among  which  is  the  clause  that 
excluded  from  the  Presidency  all  non-Episcopalians.  The  Law 
proceeds  to  grant  to  the  Trustees  of  Columbia  College  all  the  pow- 
ers, that  had  been  granted  by  the  charter  to  the  Governors  of 
King's  College,  excepting  the  exceptions  ;  and  also  grants  to  the 
Trustees  of  C.  Col.,  all  the  lands  &  property  of  which  the  Gov- 
ernors of  K.  Col.  were  seized  or  possessed.  Formerly  the  Epis- 
copal Church  claimed  in  this  State  a  pre-eminence  which  the 
Revolution  has  abolished.  Our  Episcopal  Clergymen  are  never- 
theless desirous  to  continue  at  the  head  of  the  College  as  a  privi- 
leged order  ;  a  pretension  which  you  must  at  once  see  would  meet 
with  opposition. 

An  overture  from  the  Episcopalians  for  a  compromise  was  lately 
made  through  me  to  the  non-Episcopalians  ;  I  send  you  Dr.  Ma- 
son's Reply,  in  order  that  you  may  be  in  possession  of  every  cir- 
cumstance relating  to  the  College  with  which  I  myself  am 
acquainted.  The  project  of  the  compromise  is  essentially  what 
Dr.  Mason  represents  it  to  be,  except  that  the  appointment  of  an 
Episcopalian  Pr.  and  non-Episcopalian  Vice-Prest.  was  to  be  mat- 
ters of  understanding,  and  out  door  agreement  among  the  Trus- 
tees, not  a  provision  by  statute.  Having  the  pen  in  my  hand,  I 
add  a  query  for  your  considn.  whether  the  duties  proposed  to  be 
laid  upon  the  Professor  of  Languages  are  not  above  his  strength  ; 
and  whether  by  way  of  relief  to  him,  as  well  as  of  improvement  to 
the  students,  it  might  not  be  well  to  charge  the  President  with  the 
classical  instruction  of  the  Senior  class  ? 

Very  faithfully  yr.  obt.  Servt., 

Rufus  King. 

C.  J.  Ingersoll  to  Mr.  King. 

Philadelphia,  March  27,  1S10. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  We  had  a  grand  imperial  fete  last  night  in  our  neigh- 
bourhood, which  had  like  to  have  been  turned  into  a  republican 
auto-da-fe.     M.  &  Made.  Daschkoff,*  to  do  honor  to  the  anni- 

*  Minister  from  Russia. 


l8io]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  2\J 

versary  of  their  master's  coronation  invited  one  third  of  Philadel- 
phia to  a  ball — and  to  give  the  greater  eclat,  the  front  of  the  house 
was  illuminated  and  an  emblematic  transparency  exhibited  from 
one  of  the  windows,  on  which  among  other  things,  one  of  the  most 
prominent  was  a  crown.  A  crowd  of  vagabond  boys  were  col- 
lected about  the  door  the  whole  evening  ;  but  the  constables  who 
mounted  guard — our  gens  d'armes,  easily  kept  them  in  order.  Just 
however  as  the  company  were  descending  to  supper,  word  was 
brought  that  a  mob  of  more  magnitude,  with  a  naval  officer  at 
their  head,  in  full  uniform,  and  armed  cap-a-pie,  were  making 
regular  advances,  and  demanded  that  the  crown  should  be  pulled 
down — abas  la  couronne — Mr.  Allyne  Smith,  of  Russian  memory, 
and  several  others  went  out  and  endeavoured  to  explain  to  the 
gentlemen  in  the  mud,  that  the  transparency  was  intended  to  do 
them  honor  ;  that  one  ship  was  sailing  into  Petersburg,  another 
into  Archangel  and  so  on.  But  all  in  vain — the  crown  must 
come  down  :  and  it  was  not  true  that  the  ship  was  going  into 
port,  for  her  sails  were  aback — a  mistake  it  seems,  the  painter, 
very  innocently  ignorant  of  setting  sails,  had  made  in  the  drawing. 
In  the  meanwhile  the  ladies  were  seated  to  a  very  good  supper. 
The  door  was  kept  fast,  and  we  did  as  well  as  it  was  possible  in  a 
besieged  place  with  plenty  of  provisions.  The  result  of  the  parley 
was,  that  finding  the  beleaguerers  inexorable,  the  odious  diadem 
should  be  removed.  Accordingly  M.  Daschkoff  himself  with  four 
others  clambered  up  into  the  window  and  were  surrendering  as 
fast  as  they  could,  when  the  officer,  who,  to  the  disgrace  of  his 
country,  proves  to  be  a  son  of  Genl.  Hand  of  Lancaster  and  a 
Doctor  in  the  navy,  fired  two  pistols  in  quick  succession,  the  ball 
from  one  of  which  passed  through  the  window,  where  there  were 
five  persons,  by  great  good  fortune  without  doing  any  personal 
harm.  The  ball  was  found  and  handed  about  the  rooms  after- 
wards— among  the  rest  I  had  it  in  my  hands.  The  mob  shouted 
victory  and  marched  off.  This  was  I  think  a  scene  at  the  same 
time  the  most  disgraceful  and  ridiculous  that  ever  occurred  in 
this  peaceful  town.  Our  police  is  so  extremely  bad,  that  I  have 
no  doubt  if  the  Mayor  of  the  city  had  been  acquainted  with  the 
affair,  he  would  have  been  the  principal  rioter. 

.     .     .     Yr  Most  respectful  &  Sincere  friend  and  Servant, 

C.  J.  Ingersoll. 


21 8  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 

J.  Trumbull  to  R.  King. 

London,  April  16,  1810. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Our  friend  S.  W.  received  by  the  last  Packet,  a  parcel  from  you, 
covering  one  to  F.  Baring  &  one  to  me.  These  were  sent  to  their 
address  by  one  of  the  junior  clerks.  Mine  did  not  reach  me  & 
some  days  passed  before  the  mistake  was  discovered  :  a  fruitless 
search  then  took  place  ;  the  parcel  has  not  been  found,  but  on  the 
1 2th  instant  (nearly  a  fortnight  after  the  arrival  of  the  packet), 
your  letter  to  me  dated  Feby  16th  came  to  S.  W.  by  the  penny 
post  and  was  sent  to  me.  I  opened  it  carefully  and  found  that  it 
had  manifestly  been  opened  &  resealed.  From  a  passage  of 
this  letter,  I  suppose  that  the  resolutions  of  the  Massachusett's 
Legislature  were  enclosed  with  it  in  the  missing  packet ;  these 
have  been  kept  back.  I  presume  that  this  kind  office  has  been 
performed  by  our  mutual  friend  the  M  ;  U.  S.,  who  formerly  told 
me  "  that  he  would  do  you  all  the  injury  in  his  power,"  and  whose 
hatred  I  have  now  the  honor  of  sharing  with  you  almost  equally. 
This  has  probably  been  done  with  the  hope  of  finding  something 
on  which  to  ground  a  good  democratic  accusation,  similar  to  that 
which  was  lately  made  against  S.  W.  and  his  uncle  P.  There  ex- 
ists a  direct  channel  thro'  which  this  may  have  been  done  ;  the 
man  who  formerly  wrote  in  your  office,  &  occasionally  for  me,  has 
since  written  for  the  M  ;  U.  S.  &  now  writes  for  S.  W.,  where  of 
course  he  knows  that  your  letters  to  me  frequently  pass — and  he 
is  poor — perhaps  I  am  wrong  in  this  suspicion,  but  it  bore  so 
strongly  upon  my  mind,  that  I  could  not  forbear  using  the  only 
measure  of  revenge,  which  presented  itself — I  caused  the  follow- 
ing to  be  inserted  in  the  Morning  Chronicle  of  yesterday. 

"  Mr.  T.  presents  his  Compliments  to  the  gentleman  who  has 
done  him  the  honor  of  opening  a  packet  addressed  to  him  from 
America ;  thanks  him  for  having  forwarded  the  letter  which  was 
enclosed  (the  clumsy  resealing  of  which  is,  however,  but  a  poor 
specimen  of  his  dexterity  in  this  art)  and  when  He  shall  have 
digested  them,  will  thank  him  to  forward  by  the  same  safe  convey- 
ance, the  resolutions  of  the  Massachusetts  Legislature  and  other 
papers  which  were  under  the  same  cover." 

Be  so  good  as  to  acquaint  me  what  papers  were  under  cover 
with  your's  of  Feby.  16th.     The  Letter  itself  would  do  you  honor 


l8io]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  219 


if  it  were  published  to  the  world,  and  does  not  contain  one  ex- 
pression to  which  the  Demon  of  party  could  affix  blame. 

The  Conduct  of  our  Supernatural  wisdom  is  at  least  consistent 
— it  has  never  by  any  accident  deviated  from  its  inherent  &  essen- 
tial obliquity,  into  a  Straight  Line.  All  the  smooth  and  plausible 
appearances  which  have  been  maintained  here  for  some  time 
past,  and  which  were  calculated  to  mislead  honest  well  mean- 
ing people,  are  admirably  explained  by  the  cotemporary  amicable 
cruize  of  the  Etna  in  the  W.  Indies  in  search  of  the  collector  of 
New  Orleans.  Mr.  Bainbridge  has  enforced  the  right  of  search 
with  a  vengeance.  If  he  has  not  had  a  battle  with  &  been  taken 
by  a  British  cruizer,  I  trust  he  will  either  be  broke  for  miscon- 
duct, or  some  people  will  break  their  hearts  from  vexation.  In 
truth  this  has  been  worse  than  that  of  the  Chesapeake  ;  how  cruel 
if  (it)  should  have  no  better  success  !  !  ! 

The  Devil  himself  (tho'  Counseller  Giles  and  his  friends  deny 
the  existence  of  this  gentleman)  must  be  in  the  luck,  if  such  ex- 
quisite policy,  aided  by  the  wisdom  now  assembled  here,  cannot 
produce  some  favorable  result.  We  have  the  profound  Dr. 
Logan,  the  superficial  M.  S.  (who  was  Mrs.  T.'s  good  or  evil  spirit 
the  first  summer  we  were  in  America)  to  aid  the  sublime  Talents 
which  were  before  upon  the  Spot.  Melancholy  however  will  it 
be  if  the  intemperate  folly  of  Massachusetts,  the  obstinacy  of 
Connecticut,  and  the  vile  tergiversation  of  New  York,  aided  by 
the  rashness  and  precipitation  of  our  most  dear  &  great,  &  good 
friend  the  Emperor  should  blight  at  last  the  fair  harvest  which 
has  been  so  long  and  so  assiduously  cultivated  by  our  enlight- 
ened Statesmen. 

You  will  see  by  the  10th  Article  of  the  Treaty  between  the 
Emperor  of  the  West,  &  the  King  of  Holland,  that  we  have  the 
glory  of  prolonging  the  existence  of  our  Royal  Sister  Republic  by 
merely  the  sacrifice  of  a  little  dirty  pelf.  O  Exploit  worthy  of 
this  age  of  Philanthropy  &  Reason  !  O  glorious  administration, 
who  with  mild  and  pacific  wisdom  insisted  that  Holland  was  an 
independent  nation  and  should  be  so  considered — and  so  she 
proves  to  be — at  our  expence. 

His  Imperial  and  patriotic  Majesty  is  married  to  a  young  wife 
and  is  I  presume  strenuously  occupied  in  the  laborious  duty  of 
providing  a  successor,  whom  he  may  educate  to  walk  in  his  pious 


220  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 

footsteps,  for  the  glory  of    France  and  the  happiness  of  Man- 
kind.    .     .     . 

Truly  yours 
J.T. 

J.  Trumbull   to  R.  King. 

London,  22  July,  1810. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Since  your  favor  of  3d  April  ...  I  have  not  had  the 
pleasure  to  hear  from  you.  I  find  Democracy  is  completely  tri- 
umphant with  you  ;  how  will  the  power  be  employed  ?  Will  the 
Idiot  ravings  be  still  directed  against  this  Country,  and  the  Idiot 
affections  still  fondle  &  slaver  Imperial  France  ?  I  send  by  Mr. 
Fellows  a  few  newspapers.  The  most  interesting  fact  they  con- 
tain is  the  abdication  of  the  Throne  of  Holland  by  King  Louis, 
and  the  formal  annexation  of  that  once  powerful  Republic  to  the 
Empire  of  France. 

Great  Events  are  passing  in  Spain  and  Portugal  ;  the  friends 
of  human  nature  still  hope  &  sanguine  lovers  of  Ancient  History 
stubbornly  insist  that  no  people  can  be  conquered  ;  they  even 
quote  the  glorious  days  of  our  history.  Perhaps  the  affairs  of 
Spain  are  not  at  this  day  more  desperate  than  were  ours  in  Dec. 
1776  ;  &  may  God  grant  them  union,  energy  and  success. 

Your  faithfull 

Jno.  Trumbull. 

J.  Trumbull  to  R.  King. 

Hammersmith,  Aug.  14,  1810. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  A  few  days  ago  arrived  a  packet  from  N.  York,  which 
was  ordered  by  Mr.  Jackson  to  sail  suddenly  and  not  to  touch  at 
Halifax.  This  uncommon  circumstance  led  us  at  first  to  hope, 
that  a  favorable  change  had  taken  place  in  the  opinions  of  the 
American  Government.  But  not  a  word  has  yet  transpired  from 
which  we  can  fortify  these  hopes  ;  and  we  are  left  to  fear  that 
delusion  is  too  firmly  established  there  to  yield  to  any  means  of 
Conviction,  or  rather  to  apprehend  the  complete  confirmation  of 
what  I  have  long  been  disposed  to  believe,  that  America  has  her 
Schimmelpenninks,  &  that,  for  the  punishment  of  her  sins,  is  des- 
tined to  suffer  with  the  rest  of  the  World. 


i8io]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  221 

The  siege  of  Cadiz  can  scarcely  be  said  to  progress  at  all. 
The  ephemeral  King  of  Portugal,  Massena,  has  commenced  his 
operations  for  the  conquest  of  his  Kingdom — but  he  makes  slow 
progress  and  appears  to  entertain  a  great  respect  for  the  British 
&  Portuguese  Troops  opposed  to  him.  The  cautious  conduct  of 
Lord  Wellington  does  him  great  honor  and  is  calculated  to  inspire 
hope.  He  occupies  very  strong  positions  from  which  he  cannot 
be  dislodged  but  by  great  sacrifice  ;  and  he  seems  to  have  placed 
his  enemy  in  the  necessity  of  practising  that  sort  of  war,  for  which 
they  of  all  men  are  the  least  calculated — a  war  of  posts  and  sieges 
— a  system  which  would  long  since  have  put  a  stop  to  French 
prosperity,  had  it  been  adopted  in  the  North  &  East  of  Europe. 

Spain  is  by  no  means  conquered,  &  if  they  are  wise  enough  to 
persist  in  the  partizan  system  which  they  have  adopted  ;  and  if 
the  Cortez  which  are  assembling  at  Cadiz,  should  prove  to  be 
well  composed  &  act  with  wisdom,  I  shall  not  despair. 

The  sale  of  American  property  in  France  has  been  some  time 
advertised,  and  is  going  on  with  great  success.  It  proves  an  ex- 
cellent stroke  of  Finance  ;  almost  equal  in  principle  and  in  pro- 
ductiveness to  the  mint  which  Robespierre  established  in  the 
Place  de  la  Revolution.  I  presume  the  good  friends  of  his  Im- 
perial Majesty  in  the  U.  S.  look  forward  with  pleasing  anticipa- 
tion to  the  happy  day,  when  by  adopting  a  similar  system  they 
may  at  once  punish  that  vile  minority  in  and  out  of  Congress, 
which  has  so  often  thwarted  their  plans  ;  and  apply  an  easy  & 
efficacious  remedy  to  the  disordered  finances  of  the  State — and 
their  own.     .     .     . 

Your  faithful  Servant 

Jno.  Trumbull. 


J.  Trumbull  to  R.  King. 

London,  August  25,  1810. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     I  enclose  you  two  newspapers  containing  a  letter  from 

the  French  Minister  to  Mr.  Armstrong  announcing  the  affection 

of  his  Imperial  Majesty  for  the  Americans  &  declaring  that  Milan 

&  Berlin   decrees    are    revoked,    &c. — judging   from    the   effect 

which  this  hypocritical  jargon  has  on  the  minds  of  our  Country- 


222  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 

men  here,  I  presume  it  will  completely  answer  its  obvious  purpose 
of  gulling  "the  best  informed  &  most  enlightened  government 
upon  earth." 

Heaven  defend  us  from  the  consequences  of  our  own  supernat- 
ural wisdom.  It  is  the  general  opinion  here  that  the  orders  in 
Council  will  be  also  &  in  similar  style  revoked  ;  but  that  neither 
the  right  nor  practise  of  blockade  will  be  abandoned.  Lord 
Wellington  keeps  Massena  still  at  bay — avoiding  a  battle — & 
tenaciously  keeping  to  strong  positions  in  the  mountains.  The 
Dysentery  &  Putrid  Fever  have  attacked  the  French  Troops,  and 
cause  great  mortality.  With  such  aid  the  British  Troops  may  re- 
tain their  position,  notwithstanding  the  numbers  of  their  enemy 
were  so  superior  at  the  opening  of  the  Campaign. 

Yours  faithfully 

Jno.  Trumbull. 

J.  M.   Mason  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  July  10,  1810. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  board  of  Trustees  is  to  meet  on  Monday  the  30  inst.  The 
report  of  the  Committee  of  leases  in  favor  of  leasing  a  tier  of  lots 
back  of  the  college  will  then  be  decided  on.  There  appears  a  fixed 
determination  in  some  members  of  the  board,  to  resist  every 
measure  calculated  to  promote  the  true  interests  of  the  College  ; 
and  to  obtain,  by  wearisome  delay,  what  they  cannot  accomplish  by 
open  and  manly  effort.  As  this  policy  is  now  too  palpable  to  admit 
of  any  doubt,  should  our  delicacy,  as  gentlemen,  consent  to  yield 
further  advantages  which  we  know  are  to  be  turned  against  us  ? 
Ought  no  steps,  proper  in  themselves,  to  follow  each  other  in  rapid 
succession,  and  leave  no  time  for  the  growth  of  machinations,  which 
owe  all  their  strength  to  the  courtesy  or  the  tardiness  of  others  ? 
It  will  be  necessary  to  settle  the  time  of  assembling  the  committee 
for  preparing  the  statutes,  and  also  to  agree  upon  a  report  which 
we  were  recently  directed  to  make  of  a  suitable  form  of  address 
to  the  public  with  a  view  of  obtaining  subscriptions.  On  every 
account  I  wish  much  to  have  some  conversation  with  you  &  es- 
pecially to  see  you  at  the  meeting  of  the  board. 

with  truth  &  affec.  your  faithful  &  obt. 

J.  M.  Mason. 


1810]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  22$ 

J.  M.  Mason  to  R.  King. 

N.  York,  August  31,  1810. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  As  several  members  are  out  of  town,  there  may  be 
some  difficulty  in  forming  a  board  on  Monday.  I  hope  you  will 
arrange  matters  so  as  to  be  here  and  to  bring  Mr.  Bogart. 

My  friends  who  are  engaged  in  the  plan  of  building  a  new 
church,  find  the  most  extreme  difficulty  in  procuring  a  proper 
site,  and  especially  one,  where  they  can  commence  building  this 
fall.  They  have  repeatedly,  since  I  was  at  your  house,  solicited 
me  on  the  subject  of  the  college  ground,  and  I  have  as  repeatedly 
avoided  giving  them  any  encouragement.  They  informed  me 
however  on  yesterday  morning,  that  they  shall  try  it  on  Monday. 
Some  gentlemen,  who  are  wholly  opposed  to  the  general  leasing 
of  the  lots,  will  readily  agree  to  this  proposal.  There  is  reason 
to  think  that  the  sensation  to  be  excited  among  some  of  our 
friends  by  such  a  grant,  will  not  be  so  strong  as  we  apprehended. 
Myself  and  another  gentleman  have  severally  conversed  with  one 
who  has  been  against  us  on  every  great  principle  agitated  in  the 
board,  and  although  he  very  properly  declined  committing  him- 
self absolutely  without  leisure  for  reflection,  declared  that  he  did 
not  perceive  any  reasonable  objection.  Should  ^Eolus  blow  no 
blast,  I  shall  count  according  to  the  opinion  you  were  good 
enough  to  express,  upon  your  friendship  in  this  matter.  I  shall 
trouble  you  to  mention  it  to  Mr.  Bogart,  and  if  you  shall  feel 
yourself  at  liberty,  to  gain  his  concurrence. 

Your  faithful  &  obedt. 

J.  M.  Mason. 


J.  M.  Mason  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  Nov.  6,  1810. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

Yesterday  was  the  stated  meeting  of  the  Trustees.  I  did  not 
get  there  till  12.  I  found  the  trenches  opened.  The  design  of 
defeating  all  the  effective  parts  of  the  plan  for  the  College  was 
more  apparent  than  ever.  A  vigorous  effort  was  made  to  destroy 
the  obligation  upon  the  President  to  conduct  the  studies  (classical) 
of  the  Senior  year.     A  motion  to  strike  out  the  clause  was  with- 


224  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 


drawn,  and  an  amendment  proposed,  viz.  that  the  President 
should  perform  that  duty  "by  himself  or  by  a  substitute" !! ! 
The  design  was  too  obvious  ;  no  pleadings  could  render  the 
amendment  plausible  and  it  perished. 

I  moved  to  replace  among  other  duties  of  the  President,  a 
course  of  lectures  on  the  subject  of  Divine  Revelation.  After  a 
long  debate  it  was  resolved  by  a  majority  of  3  (eighteen  present, 

not  voting,  Varick  in  the  chair  &  and  only  six  rising  in 

favour  of  the  amendment),  and  all  your  clergy  against  it,  it  was 
resolved  that  there  shall  be  no  Christianity  taught  in  Columbia 
College  in  any  shape. 

I  deeply  regretted  your  absence  and  that  of  Mr.  Morris.  We 
have  gone  through  the  duties  of  the  President,  which  stand  exactly 
as  reported  ;  and  partly  through  his  powers,  where  was  another 
conflict.  Mr.  H.  fastens  upon  everything  which  throws  strong 
power  into  the  hands  of  our  executive,  coupled  with  proportionate 
responsibility  ;  and  is  most  unremitting  in  his  exertions  to  take 
away  the  reality  of  both  under  the  appearance  of  maintaining 
them.  If  he  succeed  all  our  labour  is  lost,  and  every  thing  re- 
verts to  its  averted  lethargy.  "  By  degrees  "—is  the  Maxim  ; 
and  out  of  door  manceuvering  the  policy.  Nothing  can  be  more 
evident.  Tomorrow  the  7th  inst.,  being  Wednesday,  we  resume  at 
10  o'clock  the  discussion  of  the  President's  powers.  Let  us  be 
favoured  with  your  attendance.  Now  or  never  is,  I  believe,  the 
alternative.  I  should  have  been  to  see  you,  had  I  not  been  un- 
expectedly called  from  home  to  see  my  sister  Mrs.  Brown  and 
her  two  children,  who  have  come  from  Kentucky  to  spend  the 

winter  with  us.     .     .     . 

with  real  regard  your  obt.  faithful 

J.  M.  Mason. 


CHAPTER  XII. 

Gore  to  King — Despondent — People  must  submit  to  the  System  of  the  Rulers — 
Trumbull  to  King — Folly  and  Punishment  in  following  Guidance  of  Jeffer- 
son— King  to  Gore — Jackson's  Dismissal — Relations  with  England  em- 
barrassing— King — President's  Proclamation — King — President's  Charge 
against  England  of  Breach  of  Faith — King — French  Decrees  and  English 
Orders — King — Message  of  the  President — King — Analysis  of  Randolph's 
Speech  on  Erskine  Resolutions. 

C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Waltham,  Nov.  ii,  1810. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

.  .  .  Unfortunately  for  our  Land,  there  is  no  prospect  that 
I  can  perceive,  of  a  man's  promoting  either  his  own  welfare,  or 
that  of  his  fellow-citizens  by  taking  any  interest  in  public  meas- 
ures. The  Degradation  of  our  Nation  and  the  corruption  of  the 
public  mind  &  of  the  Morals  of  Individuals  are  constantly  increas- 
ing. In  this  State  for  a  long  time,  the  support  of  Mr.  Jefferson's 
weak  &  wicked  systems  was  confined  to  the  ignorant  and  needy, 
&  the  profligate.  The  Defection  of  the  former  President  has 
given  an  impudence  to  the  Democrats,  and  the  miserable  Vanity 
of  a  lucky  Merchant  affords  a  gloss  to  their  Baseness  &  supplies 
the  means  of  filling  their  Ranks  and  adding  to  the  Infamy  of  the 
Community.  When  &  how  this  state  of  things  is  to  be  changed 
is  far  beyond  my  Conception  :  that  it  will  not  be  within  my  time 
is  certain  &  I  exceedingly  doubt  if  within  the  days  of  any  who 
are  now  alive.     .     .     . 

I  have  not  been  in  town  since  Monday  of  the  last  week,  and 
am  therefore  unable  to  say  what,  if  any,  sensation  has  been  caused 
by  the  President's  Proclamation  &  the  Secretary's  Circular. 
Therefore,  presume  none  at  all — Our  men  of  reflection  are  aware, 

VOL.  V.— 15  225 


226  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 

that  the  Interest  &  Honour  of  the  Country  are  of  no  Considera- 
tion with  our  Rulers,  &  that  the  Welfare  of  the  commercial  part 
of  the  Community,  if  possible,  is  of  still  less  importance — They 
therefore  submit  themselves  to  their  destiny  with  the  same  list- 
lessness  as  did  the  Victims  of  Robespierre  to  the  Guillotine.  The 
democrats  will  use  it  as  an  Engine  to  increase  our  love  of  France 
&  Hatred  of  England,  &  the  indifferent  men,  which  are  a  large 
Class,  as  a  nice  Trick  of  Necromancy,  by  which  we  can  obtain  a 
free  trade  to  the  Continent  of  Europe,  &  show  our  superiority  to 
both  Belligerents, — our  Merch'ts  do  not,  as  yet,  according  to  what 
I  have  learned,  send  many  Vessels  to  the  Dominions  of  the  Tyrant. 

Your  affectionate  friend, 

C.  Gore. 


J.  Trumbull  to  R.  King. 

London,  Nov.  21,  iSio. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  We  hope  to  receive  the  most  favorable  and  decisive 
intelligence  from  Lisbon.  The  King  of  Sweden  per  tot  discrivii?ia 
rerum  is  at  length  safe  in  this  country,  reserved  I  hope  for  great 
&  useful  purposes.  The  King  of  England  whom  I  saw  two 
months  ago  in  such  fine  health,  has  been  broken  down  by  the 
protracted  sufferings  of  his  favorite  daughter.  His  health  & 
mind  sank  under  the  affliction  ;  but  now  that  all  is  over,  he  is 
slowly  recovering. 

I  lament  to  see  the  extent  of  folly  in  our  countrymen  ;  not  but 
I  expected  them  to  be  again  the  Dupes  of  Bonaparte's  policy — 
and  of  their  own  lust  of  filthy  lucre.  There  is  no  end  to  the  vile 
infatuation  which  Providence  is  employing  to  operate  its  own 
punishment.  From  the  days  of  Genet  to  this,  we  who  boast  of 
being  the  descendants  of  men  who  braved  all  dangers  for  the 
sake  of  Freedom  &  Religion,  have  been  worshipping  a  native,  who 
abolished  Divine  worship,  and  established  Atheism  by  one  De- 
cree and  Despotism  by  another.  Is  it  consistent  with  the  nature 
of  things,  with  that  inseparable  connexion  which  Providence  has 
established  between  crimes  &  punishment,  that  this  should  escape  ? 
No,  my  friend  ;  an  unhappy  country  must  expiate  her  guilt  by 
suffering,  and  since  Pestilence  (which  followed  close  upon  the  first 


i8io]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  227 

development  of  national  crimes)  has  not  sufficed  to  recall  us  to 
our  duty,  delusion  has  followed,  and  Evils  of  deeper  importance 
will  follow.     .     .     . 

Your  faithful  servant, 

Jno.  Trumbull. 


R.  King  (probably)  to  C.  Gore. 

New  York,  Dec.  6,  1810. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

Having  come  to  town  last  evening  &  intending  to  return  to 
Jamaica  this  morning,  I  have  had  no  opportunity  of  learning  what 
others  think  of  the  message  ;  but  for  myself,  I  feel  deeply  im- 
pressed with  the  weight  and  consequence  of  this  State  Paper. 

A  charge  of  broken  Faith  against  England  is  of  a  nature  to 
engage  the  universal  attention  &  feelings  of  their  People.  If  their 
ministers  have  dishonoured  the  nation,  the  nation  shd.  redeem 
their  Honour  by  the  sacrifice  of  the  criminals.  If  the  ministers 
can  vindicate  the  national  Faith,  they  are  by  every  motive  that 
can  influence  human  affairs  bound  to  do  so  ;  and  in  this  case  they 
ought  to  seek  reparation  for  the  injury  of  a  false  accusation.  How 
our  relations  with  England  will  be  affected,  I  cannot  determine, 
but  they  appear  to  me  to  be  now  placed  in  a  condition  far  more 
embarrassing,  and  even  critical,  than  at  any  antecedent  period. 
The  general  tone  of  the  message  is  alarming,  upon  the  subject  of 
Jackson's  behaviour,  the  import  of  what  the  President  says  is  this, 
— "  You  have  sent  us  a  minister  who  wants  good  manners,  and  for 
his  rudeness  we  have  kicked  him  out  of  the  country  ;  if  however 
you  will  send  another  who  will  carry  a  civil  tongue  in  his  head, 
we  will  receive  him."  Shd.  another  minister  be  sent,  it  must  be 
an  admission  of  Jackson's  delinquencies,  and  an  implied  engage- 
ment that  the  new  one  will  behave  better. 

Yrs.,  R.  K. 

President's  Proclamation. 

The  President  has  committed  the  same  fault  in  his  late  Proc- 
lamation concerning  France,  that  he  did  in  his  former  Procla- 
mation respecting  England.  In  both  he  departed  from  the  plain 
Text  of  the  Law  and  issued  his  Proclamation,  not  upon  the  Ex- 


228  RUFUS  KIXG.  [1810 

istence  of  a  Fact,  on  which  alone  he  had  authority  to  do  so,  but 
upon  the  Engagement,  or  Promise,  in  the  one  case  of  an  unau- 
thorized Ambassador,  and  in  the  other  of  a  disavowed  Minister 
of  State.  For  admitting,  contrary  to  our  opinion,  that  the  Duke  of 
Cadore's  Letter  of  August  may  be  construed  to  be  an  uncon- 
ditional Promise,  that  the  Berlin  and  Milan  Decrees  should  be 
effectually  repealed  on  the  1st  of  November  ;  it  is  now  officially 
ascertained  that  they  were  not  so  repealed  on  that  day  ;  of  course 
the  Promise,  or  which  is  the  same  thing,  the  minister  is  disavowed, 
and  the  Fact,  asserted  in  the  name  of  the  President,  turns  out  to 
be  not  true. 

On  the  faith  of  the  President's  first  Proclamation,  Property  of 
a  very  large  amount  was  shipped  from  this  Country  to  Ports, 
from  which  by  the  British  orders  in  Council  we  were  excluded  ; 
and  had  these  Orders  been  enforced,  as  in  strictness  they  might 
have  been,  (Erskine's  arrangement  being  unauthorized)  our  losses 
would  have  been  immense.  This  did  not  happen  ;  for  England 
at  the  same  time  that  she  disavowed  Erskine's  arrangement,  sus- 
pended the  Orders  in  Council  in  favour  of  all  American  Vessels, 
which  before  the  knowledge  of  the  disavowal  should  have  sailed 
for  the  blockaded  Ports.  In  consequence  of  this  equitable  deter- 
mination, not  only  were  our  merchants  saved  from  loss,  but  in 
some  cases  they  made  very  advantageous  Voyages.  Compare 
this  Conduct  of  England,  of  hated,  execrated  England,  with  the 
recent  conduct  of  beloved  and  applauded  France  ;  upon  the 
Faith  of  the  Duke  of  Cadore's  Letter  (vouched  even  by  our  Presi- 
dent) written  under  the  Eye  and  direction  of  the  Emperor  and 
published  in  the  French  official  Gazette,  our  ships  with  valuable 
Cargoes  have  entered  the  Ports  of  France.  To  the  astonishment 
of  their  owners  they  find  that  the  Berlin  and  Milan  Decrees  are 
not  repealed  ;  the  officers  of  the  Government  seize  and  detain 
them  ;  and  the  Plea  of  having  acted  upon  a  confidence  in  the 
Imperial  word,  instead  of  procuring  for  them  Protection,  exposes 
them  to  derision  ;  no  Order  has  been  passed  to  save  from  loss 
those  who  confided  in  the  royal  Promise  ;  on  the  contrary  their 
Credulity  has  been  scoffed  at,  and  the  Property  basely  and  dis- 
honestly plundered. 

Tho'  the  Virtuous  and  disinterested,  the  moderate  and  benevo- 
lent Bonaparte    may  treat    thus    contemptuously    the  friendless 


1810]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  229 

and  unprotected,  the  degraded  and  dispirited  Citizens  of  a  free 
Country,  have  they  nothing  to  hope  from  the  power  and  affection, 
the  elevation  and  generous  sentiments  of  their  own  Government  ? 
Or  are  Republics  an  inferior  and  debased  species  of  Government, 
whose  citizens  may  with  impunity  be  robbed,  imprisoned  and 
scourged  by  the  slaves  of  despotism  ? 

Suppose  that  one  of  our  Countrymen,  who  still  retains  impres- 
sions derived  from  the  Examples  of  better  Days,  should  represent 
to  Congress,  that  subsequent  to  the  President's  Proclamation 
he  had  engaged  in  a  voyage  of  great  value  to  France,  that 
upon  his  arrival  in  that  Country,  instead  of  finding  that  the  Ber- 
lin and  Milan  Decrees  had  been  repealed  and  had  ceased  to 
operate,  as  the  President  had  declared  would  be  the  case,  he 
found  them  in  full  Force,  and  that  his  ship  and  cargo  had  been 
seized  and  confiscated  for  having  violated  those  Decrees  ;  that, 
as  he  confided  in  the  official  Declaration  of  the  President,  and  in 
consequence  thereof  had  lost  his  property,  he  prayed  Congress  to 
compensate  him  for  his  losses  ;  what  Congress  would  decide  on 
such  an  application,  we  cannot  beforehand  tell  ;  but  looking  at 
the  Principles  of  Justice  for  an  answer,  looking  at  the  Example 
of  other  Governments,  and  looking  even  at  the  conduct  of  Eng- 
land, we  know  what  ought  to  be  their  decision. 

In  considering  the  President's  Message  and  the  Documents 
which  accompanied  it,  the  matter  which  they  contain  in  respect 
to  England,  may  be  divided  into  two  distinct  parts  ;  the  first, 
comprehending  the  charge  which  the  President  has  made,  of 
a  breach  of  faith  on  the  part  of  England  in  not  confirming  the 
arrangement  signed  by  Mr.  Erskine  ;  and  the  second,  the  dis- 
mission of  Mr.  Jackson  on  the  charge  of  disrespect  to  the 
Government  of  the  U.  States.  Each  of  these  charges  are  im- 
portant ;  the  first,  however,  beyond  all  comparison  is  the  most 
weighty  and  must  have  been  intended,  and  unless  honor  be  a 
jewel  lost  from  the  British  Crown,  will  be  sure  to  produce  the 
most  decisive  Consequences. 

Between  belligerent  nations  we  sometimes  hear  of  mutual 
charges  of  a  breach  of  faith — tho'  until  the  perilous  and  fearful 
times  in  which  we  live,  these  recriminations  were  rare  even  be- 
tween Enemies  and,  when  made,  called  for  the  most  authentic 
expositions  of  the  conduct  which  occasioned  them.     Anonymous 


23O  KUFUS  KING.  [1810 

publications  in  the  newspapers,  insolent  and  unmeasured  dis- 
courses in  popular  meetings,  and  even  in  legislative  bodies,  how- 
ever unpracticed  in  other  countries  and  disreputable  in  our  own, 
serve  rather  to  exhibit  the  coarseness  of  our  manners  &  vulgarity 
of  our  tastes,  than  to  produce  the  animadversion  of  foreign 
Powers. 

But  the  President  of  the  United  States  is  considered  by  the 
Constitution,  and  must  therefore  be  regarded  by  foreign  powers, 
as  the  Representative  of  the  Nation — in  him  are  vested  the  ex- 
clusive superintendence,  control  and  direction  of  our  foreign 
affairs.  When  he  speaks  therefore  upon  this  important  subject, 
it  is  not  as  an  individual,  but  his  voice  is  the  voice  of  a  Nation, 
heard  and  considered  throughout  the  world. 

We  may  question  the  wisdom,  the  prudence,  the  value,  the 
wealth,  or  the  power  of  a  Nation.  These  are  attributes  worthy  of 
esteem  and  highly  to  be  prized.  But  a  nation  may  be  deficient  in 
one  or  all  of  them,  and  still  be  a  virtuous,  beloved,  esteemed  by 
others  and  honorable  nation.  But  a  nation  that  can  suffer  its  in- 
tegrity, its  public  faith  and  honor  to  be  openly  and  solemnly  im- 
peached, without  making  every  exertion  in  its  power  to  vindicate 
its  reputation,  justly  &  unavoidably  loses  its  consideration  in  the 
estimation  of  all  other  nations  by  her  acquiescence,  becomes  con 
victed  of  dishonor  and  merits  the  degradation  inseparable  from 
so  foul  a  reputation. 

Whatever  may  be  believed  by  certain  men  in  this  country, 
there  are  myriads  of  men  in  Britain,  who  are  neither  princes  nor 
nobles,  and  who  neither  fill  nor  desire  public  offices,  who  believe 
with  pride  and  confidence  that  the  integrity  and  public  faith  of 
their  nation  are  as  unquestionable  and  unblemished  as  the  virgin's 
fame.  With  the  divisions  and  parties  of  Parliament  and  ministers, 
these  men  have  no  share  ;  they  belong  to  their  country  and  not 
to  its  factions  ;  they  love  that  country,  because  they  are  per- 
suaded it  is  a  virtuous  and  honorable  one.  It  is  not  for  Ships, 
Colonies,  or  Commerce  that  this  body  of  men  would  beat  their 
plough-shares  into  swords.  Money  never  was  in  their  estimation 
a  legitimate  cause  of  war,  whether  it  be  thousands  or  millions. 
They  think,  and  they  think  justly,  that  no  nation  ought  ever  to 
go  to  war  for  money,  except  so  far  as  its  acquisition  or  defence  is 
connected  with    honor.     It  is    honor,  reputation,  a    good   name 


1810]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  23 1 

which  are  alone  worth  fighting  for — and  no  nation  that  will  not 
fight  in  their  defence,  can  enjoy  them. 

With  the  broad  shield  of  England  exalted  before  their  eyes, 
and  the  object  of  their  affections,  what  will  be  their  feelings, 
what  will  be  the  sentiments  of  the  whole  nation,  when  they  look 
upon  the  foul  blot  that  is  cast  upon  it  by  the  President  of  the 
United  States  ? 

French  Decrees  &  English  Orders. 

It  may  appear  to  many  wholly  useless  to  add  to  what  has  been 
written  Sz  spoken  upon  this  subject.  The  current  of  almost 
every  thing  which  has  been  published,  since  the  Duke  of  Cadore's 
Letter,  has  been  of  the  same  tendency,  and  strengthened  by  the 
Decisions  of  the  President  &of  Congress,  have  served  to  produce 
a  general  opinion  that  France  has  revoked  her  Decrees,  while 
England,  contrary  to  good  faith,  refuses  to  rescind  her  Orders. 
If  such  be  the  Fact,  there  is  at  least,  the  appearance  of  an  apology 
for  the  wretched  condition  of  the  country  ;  and  our  Rulers  even 
may  claim  to  be  in  some  degree  exempt  from  the  charge  of 
Ignorance  or  Corruption. 

It  is  not  to  be  doubted,  that  the  calm  &  impartial  examination 
of  the  subject,  momentous  as  it  certainly  is,  and  influential  as  it 
undoubtedly  will  be  upon  the  liberties  &  character  of  the  country, 
is  a  task  of  extreme  difficulty,  is  a  labour  not  only  hopeless  of 
reward,  but  which  exposes  him  who  engages  in  it,  to  uncandid 
&  disingenuous  imputations. 

The  prejudices,  in  favour  of  one,  and  against  another  foreign 
power,  have  warped,  if  not  destroyed,  the  impartiality  of  the 
public  tribunal  ;  and  men  whose  minds  remain  free  are  dis- 
couraged from  making  those  efforts  in  favour  of  Truth  &  Justice, 
which  the  dangers  upon  whose  brink  we  stand  would  otherwise 
impel  them  to  make — quiet  men,  whose  personal  prudence  is  the 
ruling  motive  of  their  conduct,  are  from  the  hope  of  ease  deterred 
from  expressing  their  sentiments — office-seekers  &  those  who 
desire  popular  favour,  and  are  unwilling  to  incur  popular  dis- 
pleasure, hold  their  peace.  Men  of  sound  understanding  and 
who  perceive  the  delusion  of  the  times  and  the  gulf  which  opens 
to  receive  us,  doubting  the  impartiality  or  the  capacity  of  the 
People,  resign  themselves  to  an  unmanly  despair  &  like  the 
ignorant  clown,  call  upon  Jupiter  for  help  and  deliverance. 


232  KUFUS  KING.  [1810 

The  ruinous  system  of  Commercial  Restrictions  commenced  in 
Deer.  1807, — its  different  modifications,  antecedent  to  May  1810, 
are  for  the  sake  of  perspicuity,  passed  over,  in  order  that  we  may 
state  as  plainly  as  we  are  able  the  origin  of  things.  The  law  of 
May  1810  relinquished  the  prosecution  of  the  Embargo,  and  non- 
intercourse  schemes,  and  after  closing  the  Ports  of  the  U.  S. 
against  the  armed  vessels  both  of  France  &  England,  by  its  fourth 
section  provides  "  that  in  case  either  G.  Britain  or  France  should 
before  the  3d  day  of  March  181 1,  so  revoke  or  modify  her  Edicts, 
as  that  they  should  cease  to  violate  the  neutral  Commerce  of  the 
U.  S.,  which  fact  the  President  should  declare  by  Proclama- 
tion, and  if  the  other  nation  should  not  in  3  months  thereafter  so 
revoke  or  modify  her  Edicts  in  like  manner,  then  the  non- 
importation sections  of  a  former  Law  were  to  revive  &  operate 
against  such  other  nation,  and  our  ports  were  thenceforth  to  be 
opened  to  the  armed  vessels  of  the  Power,  which  by  the  Presi- 
dent's Proclamation  should  be  declared  to  have  so  modified  or 
revoked  her  Decrees." 

We  forbear  to  express  our  opinion  of  the  unconstitutional 
encroachments  which  this  Law  makes  upon  Executive  power  : 
the  President  acquiesced  in  it  (and  acting  under  a  Law  of  the 
U.  S.  or  as  an  agent  of  Congress  and  not  in  virtue  of  his  con- 
stitutional power)  he,  in  pursuance  of  its  enactment,  communi- 
cated the  provisions  of  the  Law  to  both  France  &  England. 

It  certainly  was  the  Right  of  the  U.  S.,  as  of  every  neutral 
nation,  to  trade  with  all  nations  in  times  of  war  as  well  as  peace, 
with  the  exception  in  time  of  war,  of  trade  with  a  belligerent  in 
contraband  goods,  and  to  blockaded  ports.  The  French  Decrees 
and  English  orders  abridged,  not  to  say  destroyed,  this  Right 
so  far  as  regards  our  trade  with  both  of  them.  Altho'  we  pro- 
fess to  have  a  clear,  and  as  we  believe,  a  correct  opinion  con- 
cerning the  retaliatory  character  of  these  Decrees  and  Orders, 
we  decline  expressi?ig  it,  because  it  would  divert  public  attention 
from  the  important  object  of  this  analysis. 

Message  of  the  President. 

So  far  as  regards  England,  Mr.  Pinkney's  Letters  relate  to  two 
points,  one  the  successor  of  rank  and  talents  to  Mr.  Jackson,  the 
other  the  orders  in  Council. 


1810]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  233 

As  to  the  first  every  man  of  honorable  feelings  and  national 
spirit,  must  be  sick  and  disgusted  with  the  overtures,  intimations, 
prayers  and  menaces  which  have  been  employed  to  engage  Eng- 
land to  send  another  minister  to  this  country.  The  apologies 
and  twistings,  the  alternate  hopes  and  fears  which  Mr.  P.  has 
manifested  upon  this  subject  are  humiliating  and  offensive. 

The  case  is  a  plain  one  ;  if  the  Govt,  thinks  the  omission  to 
send  another  minister  is  disrespectful,  their  remedy  is  at  every 
moment  in  their  own  hands  ;  let  them  positively  instruct  Mr. 
Pinkney  to  return  home  ;  in  which  case  he  must  do  so  ;  without 
it  no  one  who  reads  his  letters  upon  this  subject,  deficient  as 
they  are  in  good  manners  and  becoming  language,  will  believe 
that  he  has  any  intention  to  leave  his  post.  Endless  words  and 
phrases  and  petty  altercations  upon  a  question,  which  might  at 
any  moment  be  safely,  and  with  dignity  decided,  are  anything 
but  what  they  should  be  and  evince  more  than  any  other  course 
the  utter  weakness  and  indecision  of  these  who  prefer  this 
course. 

With  regard  to  the  second  point,  the  Orders  in  Council,  with- 
out saying  one  word  respecting  their  justice  or  expediency,  we 
are  called  to  give  our  attention  to  the  provisional  promise  of  Eng. 
to  repeal  them  as  soon  as  France  repeals  her  Decrees.  Mr.  P.  in  his 
third  letter  on  this  point,  claims  the  repeal  by  England  on  the  princi- 
ple of  good  faith,  or  because  she  is  bound  to  perform  her  promise. 
To  prove  that  the  promise  is  binding,  Mr.  P.  is  bound  to  prove,  and 
contends  that  he  has  proved,  that  the  French  Decrees  are  repealed  ; 
in  other  words  that  their  operation  has  absolutely  ceased.  It  is 
curious  enough  to  remark  the  similitude  of  Mr.  P.'s  efforts  on 
the  present  and  on  a  former  occasion,  in  which  a  question  was 
raised  and  discussed  with  much  zeal,  whether  the  Berlin  and 
Milan  Decrees  were  anything  more  than  mere  municipal  Regu- 
lations, which  France  was  free  to  make,  and  which  no  other 
nation  might  complain  of.  It  will  be  recollected  that  this  Doc- 
trine was  asserted  and  maintained  in  their  Courts,  in  order  to 
prove  that  England,  having  no  ground  of  complaint,  could  have 
no  right  to  retaliate  by  her  Orders  in  Council. 

Unfortunately  France  was  consulted  and  Bonaparte  answered, 
that  as  the  Decrees  were  general,  and  not  confined  to  the  Territory, 
no  exceptions  could  have  been  intended  and  therefore  that  none 


234  RUFUS  KING.  [18 


10 


existed.  So  on  the  present  occasion,  while  Mr.  Pinkney  is 
labouring  to  prove  that  the  Berlin  and  Milan  Decrees  are  uncon- 
ditionally repealed  and  have  wholly  ceased,  the  Grand  Judge,  by 
a  letter  to  the  Tribunals,  informs  them  that  the  American  vessels 
which  arrived  after  the  1st  of  November  are  in  virtue  of  those 
Decrees  sequestered,  and  that  in  case  the  U.  S.  shall  have  actu- 
ally performed  a  Condn.  connected  with  the  notification  of  repeal, 
they  will  be  discharged  from  the  Principles  of  these  Decrees. 
It  is  therefore  quite  probable,  as  these  letters  are  inserted  in  the 
French  newspapers,  that  they  will  have  reached  England  before 
Lord  Wellesley  answered  Mr.  P.'s  letter.  In  which  case  he  will 
have  nothing  more  to  do,  than  to  send  him  a  Copy  of  these 
Letters  by  way  of  answer,  and  conclusive  answer,  too,  of  that 
Min.  Letter. 

R.   King's  Analysis   of   Randolph's   Speech   in    Favor   of 

the  Erskine  Treaty. 

"  Homo  qui  erranti  coiniter  viam  monstrat." 

Ennius  ap.  Cic. 

Act  of  the  U.  S.  of  May  1st  1810,  restores  intercourse  to  the 
power  which  first  revoked  or  modified  its  decrees,  so  as  that  they 
shd.  cease  to  violate  the  Neutral  Com.,  of  the  U.  S.,  and  three 
months  after  established  their  non-importn.  agt.  the  other  which 
shd.  not  have  so  revoked  etc. 

Aug.  5th,  Cadore  announced  that  the  Decrees  of  B.  &  M.  were 
revoked  to  take  effect  Nov.  1st.,  provided  the  Br.  Gov.  shd. 
revoke  its  orders,  and  renounce  its  new  principle  of  Blockade,  or 
the  U.  S.  shd.  resist  the  Pretention. 

Each  had  promised  a  revocation  of  its  Decrees,  when  the  other 
revoked  theirs,  and  Eng.  promised  to  proceed  "  pari  passu  "  with 
France  in  the  Revocation. 

The  Cadore  letter  does  not  state  that  the  Decrees  wd.  absolutely 
cease  on  Nov.  1.,  nor  does  it  follow  the  former  promise  that 
they  shd.  cease,  when  the  orders  of  Council  ceased,  or  in  case 
of  their  continuance,  when  the  U.  S.  shd.  resist  the  orders  in 
Council.  Had  the  announced  revocation  been  upon  this  proviso,, 
we  are  assured  by  Marq.  W.  that  the  orders  wd.  have  been 
repealed  even  upon  the  evidence  defective  as  it  seemed  to  be. 
But  the  Fr.  added  another  and  a  new  Condition — that  Engd.  shd.. 


1810]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  235 


renounce  her  new  principle  of  Blockades,  or  that  the  U.  S.  shd. 
resist  it. — This  new  principle  is  described  in  the  Berlin  Decree 
and  England  asserts  that  instead  of  a  new  principle  it  is  old  and 
sanctioned  by  Law  &  usage  ;  she  therefore  refused  to  renounce 
it  ;  and  the  U.  S.  enforced  the  non-importation  to  compel  them 
to  renounce,  or  by  way  of  Resistance  to,   the  Practice  of  Blkades. 

In  order  to  understand  this  portion  of  the  Correspondence,  we 
must  cite  the  Case  wh.  the  U.  S.  have  selected  as  including  the 
new  principle  of  Blk.  asserted.  This  case  is  the  Blkade  of  May 
1806  notified  to  Monroe.  The  U.  S.  allege  that  this  was  (and  if 
still  in  existence,  is)  an  unlawful  Blk.,  because  it  was  the  blk.  of 
many  leagues  of  French  &  Dutch  Coast,  to  the  maintenance  of 
wh.  an  adequate  force  was  not  and  could  not  be  assigned.  Eng- 
land admits  the  Principle  on  wh.  the  U.  S.  contest  the  validity  of 
the  Blk.,  but  deny  the  matter  of  fact,  and  assert  the  force  to  have 
been  a  competent  one.  They  admit  that  no  blockade  is  valid, 
unless  an  adequate  force  is  assigned  to  maintain  it,  or  in  other 
words,  they  fully  allow  that  a  Blockade  on  paper,  and  which  is 
not  maintained  by  a  force  sufficient  to  enforce  its  observance, 
is  a  nullity  ;  that  it  has  no  foundation  in  public  Law,  and  that 
to  say  it  had  would  be  an  attempt  to  establish  a  new  principle 
in  the  Law  of  Nations — an  attempt  which  they  explicitly  dis- 
claim and  in  regard  to  the  Blk.  of  May  1806,  which  is  now 
merged  and  included  in  the  orders  of  Council,  England  declares 
should  the  orders  of  Council  be  revoked,  that  the  Blockade  of 
May,  if  continued,  shall  be  maintained  by  an  adequate  force. 

In  this  view  of  the  subject  ;  how  has  it  happened  that  the  Blk. 
of  May  1,  1806,  wh.  did  not  offend  us  when  established,  which 
seems  to  have  been  adopted  as  a  mere  device  to  enable  us  to 
carry  on  what  was  called  the  Colony  Trade,  which  we  never  com- 
plained of  when  in  operation,  but  under  wh.  we  were  enabled  to 
prosecute  a  most  advantageous  trade,  how,  we  ask,  has  it  hap- 
pened that  this  Blockade,  when  merged  in  the  Orders  in  Council, 
founded  as  they  profess  to  be,  on  a  totally  dift.  principle,  is 
made  the  subject  of  unsupportable  Controversy  on  the  part  of 
the  U.  S.  ?  There  is  but  one  reason  which  can  be  assigned, 
which  is  that  the  views  and  policy  of  France  prescribed  this 
Course,  while  the  honor  &  welfare  of  the  U.  S.  forbad  its 
adoption. 


236  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 

When  one  power  ceased  to  violate  our  Neutral  Com.,  &  the 
other  continued  to  violate  it,  the  Law  authorized  the  Pr.  to  open 
the  intercourse  with  one  and  to  close  it  with  the  other — two 
causes  of  violation  of  our  neutral  Com.  were  alleged  agt.  Eng — 
the  orders  in  Council  and  the  new  Principle  of  Blk.  as  exempli- 
fied in  the  Blk.  of  May  1806. 

Concerning  the  orders  of  Council,  there  is  the  most  satisfac- 
tory reason  to  conclude  that  they  wd.  have  been  revoked,  had 
not  the  U.  S.  coupled  with  their  Demand,  a  Demand  of  the  Re- 
nunciation of  the  Principle  of  Blockade  that  is  described  in  the 
Berlin  Decree  &  which  the  Emp.  calls  new. 

The  Controversy  with  Eng.  is  then  narrowed  to  this  single 
point.  The  Chesapeake  affair  is  settled,  the  subject  of  seamen  is 
held  out  of  question  for  the  present  ;  the  orders  in  Council  will 
be  immediately  revoked,  admitting  the  French  Decrees  to  be  in- 
operative as  regards  us  upon  the  ocean,  when  we  confine  our- 
selves to  their  mere  revocation,  and  the  real  matter  in  dispute  is 
the  new  principle  of  Blockade. 

Now  I  do  assert,  and  the  documents  bear  me  out  in  doing  so, 
that  so  far  as  respects  the  Case  selected  by  the  U.  S.  namely 
Mr.  Fox's  Blk  of  May  1806,  there  is  no  disagreement  between 
the  U.  S.  &  England  respecting  any  Principle  whatsoever.  We 
contend  that  the  Blk.  was  invalid,  because  it  was  not  maintained 
by  an  adequate  force.  England  admits  our  Principle,  but  denies 
our  Fact.  Upon  this  plain  and  actual  state  of  the  Case,  can  any 
one  suggest  that  there  is  any  principle,  either  new  or  old,  in 
dispute  between  the  U.  S.  and  Eng.  ?  Concerning  a  Fact  they 
disagree — a  fact  of  past  date  and  not  one  of  present  existence — 
a  fact  that  never  was  of  any  significance  to  the  U.  S.,  and  about 
wh.  when  it  existed,  we  made  no  enquiry  nor  complaint, — but 
which  is  now  brot.  forward  to  promote  the  views  of  France,  and 
to  keep  asunder  two  countries  wh.  their  respective,  best  and 
dearest  interests  require  shd.  live  in  harmony  with  each  other. 

Mr.  R.  has  great  merit  for  the  stand  he  has  made.  I  certainly 
do  not  envy  the  feelings  of  certain  men  whose  unworthy  views 
he  unmasks  :  I  expected  better  things  from  them — But  Mr.  R.'s 
manner,  forcible  as  it  must  be,  is  not  analytical  ;  this  property 
of  intellect  belongs  to  more  disciplined,  perhaps  inferior  minds 
to    his  ;    he  does  not  condescend    to  dissect,    separate  and  ex- 


1810]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  237 

pose  the  fallacious  parts  of  his  opponents'  Discourses  :  his 
speeches  are  not  a  continuous  application  of  argument,  but  his 
ideas  strike  in  bounds  the  minds  of  his  hearers.  We  supply  this 
defect  by  presenting  the  public  with  the  foregoing  analysis. 

In  a  paper  enclosed  in  the  above  are  the  following  mem- 
oranda— in  R.  K.'s  writing: 

From  the  Report  of  the  Conversation  with  M.  G.  &  Son,  it 
appears 

1.  The  Amer.  Govt,  is  prepared  on  the  revocation  of  the  orders 
in  Council,  contemporaneously  to  withdraw  on  its  part  the  inter- 
diction of  the  harbours,  and  all  non-intercourse  &  non-importa- 
tion Acts  as  regards  G.  B.,  leaving  them  in  force  as  with  respect 
to  France,  and  the  powers  wh.  adopt  or  act  under  her  Decrees. 

2.  That  during  the  present  war  Amer.  will  renounce  the  colon- 
ial trade. 

3.  That  Br.  shps.  of  war  may  enforce  the  Amer.  Laws. 

As  the  1,  &  2  are  suggestions  of  the  Amer.  Mer.,  and  as  Mr. 
P.  has  recently  expressed  to  me  his  opinion,  that  there  will  be 
no  indisposition  on  the  part  of  his  Govt.,  to  the  enforcement,  by 
the  naval  power  of  G.  B.  of  the  regulations  of  Amer.  with  resp. 
to  France  &  the  countries  to  which  these  regulations  continue  to 
apply  ;  but  that  his  Gov.  were  aware  that  without  such  Enforcet., 
those  Regns.  must  be  altogether  nugatory,  I  flatter  myself  there 
will  be  no  dify  in  obtaining  a  distinct  &  official  Recognition  of 
these  conditions  from  the  Amer.  Govt.  ;  for  this  purpose  you  are 
at  liberty  to  communicate  this  Despatch  in  extenso  to  the  Amer. 
Secy,  of  State. 

Not  Jefferson,  but  the  Pr.  &  his  Mins.  G.  &  S.  made  the  first 
overture  to  Erskine  to  recall  the  orders,  the  U.  S.  repealing  her 
Embargo.,  Non-importation  &  Procn.  and  imposing  the  same 
agt.  France,  renouncing  the  carrying  trade,  and  as  Pinky,  pro- 
posed to  allow  Eng.  to  enforce  our  Law, 

"  Positive  assurances  of  a  disposition  to  come  to  a  complete 
and  cordial  understanding  with  G.  B. 

"The  system  of  retaliation  his  Majesty  must  unquestionably 
continue  to  maintain,  unless  the  object  of  it  can  be  otherwise  ac- 
complished." 


238  RUFUS  KING.  [1810 

"After  the  professions  of  the  Amer.  Minrs.  of  a  sincere  desire  to 
contribute  to  that  object  (of  the  Retaliation)  in  a  manner  wh.  shd. 
render  the  continuance  of  the  orders  unnecessary,  it  is  thought 
right  to  afford  to  the  Amer.  Govt,  an  oppy  to  explain  its  meaning 
and  give  a  proof  of  its  sincerity." 

The  extension  of  the  Indiction  of  the  Amer.  Harb.  to  the  Shps. 
of  war  of  Fr.  as  well  as  of  G.  B.,  an  acceptable  symptom  of  Im- 
partiality &  the  first  that  has  been  manifested  by  the  Amer.  Govt. 
The  like  Extension  of  the  Non-Imp.  Act  to  other  Belligs.,  is 
equally  proper  in  this  view.  These  measures  preclude  those  pre- 
liminary objections  wh.  must  otherwise  have  precluded  any  use- 
ful or  amicable  Discussion. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

Pickering  to  King — Main's  Thorn  Hedges — Trumbull  to  King — Foster,  Minister 
from  England — King  to  Pickering — Thorn  Hedges — Danger  to  Judiciary 
in  New  York — Pickering  to  King — Hedges — Democratic  Senators  see  no 
Subserviency  to  France  in  President's  Proclamation — Trumbull  to  King — 
French  Retreat  in  the  Peninsula — Bonaparte  wants  Money  and  Men — 
Foster's  Mission — Pinkney  and  the  Prince  Regent  —Gore  to  King — Com- 
plaint that  King  does  not  take  more  active  Part  in  New  York — Trumbull 
to  King — French  steadily  retreating — War  between  France  and  Russia — 
Madison  Scored — Temple  to  King — Hopes  for  Conciliatory  Measures — 
Hobart  to  King — His  Statement  about  Jones — King  to  Hobart — Case  of 
Jones — Competency  of  the  Bishop's  Court — T.  L.  Ogden  to  King — Jones's 
Case — Sperry  to  King — Glebe  Lands  in  Vermont — King  to  Porter — On 
present  State  of  Public  Affairs — Does  not  consider  the  French  Decrees 
revoked — Impressment — Is  our  Honor  more  assailed  by  England  than  by 
France — Would  oppose  War  with  England. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  Dec.  27,  1810. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  inclose  a  subscription  paper  for  a  treatise  on  the  American 

Hedge-Thorn  by  Thomas  Main.    I  have  seen  Mr.  Main  repeatedly 

in  the  course  of  the  last  four  or  five  years,  at  his  residence  near 

Georgetown.     He    is    a  sensible  Scotchman,  a  well  informed  & 

practical  nurseryman.     A    small  pamphlet  he  published  a  few 

years  since  on  the  same  subject,  is  a  clear  evidence  of  his  ability 

to  write  correctly  and  usefully  on  the  subject  :  after  several  trials 

he   has  found  the  Species  of  Thorn    he  now  cultivates    to   be 

superior  to  any  other  foreign  or  indigenous.     It  is  incomparably 

superior  to  the  English  white  Thorn,  at  least  in  this  country.    I  have 

seen  the  growth  of  both,  in  hedges  on  the  ground  occupied  by 

Mr.  Main,  where  that  superiority  is  manifest.     I  have  also  seen 

Mr.  Lyman's  English  white  thorn  hedge    at  Waltham,  which  by 

239 


240  RUFUS  KING.  [1811 

the  last  of  August  had  lost  half  its  leaves,  &  the  residue  was 
withering  ;  while  mine  at  Wenham,  procured  from  Mr.  Main, 
remained  in  lively  verdure,  &  so  continued  to  the  beginning  of 
November  of  the  present  year.  Mr.  Gore  has  the  English  white 
thorn  ;  but  having  seen  Main's  American  Hedge-Thorn  at  Mr. 
Quincy's  &  Mr.  Lowell's,  was  so  struck  with  its  excellence  as  to 
have  ordered  twenty  thousand  seedling  plants  to  be  sent  to  him 
the  ensuing  Spring. 

The  object  of  these  details  is  to  satisfy  you,  and  thro'  you, 
gentlemen  of  your  acquaintance  and  some  liberal  booksellers  in 
New  York,  that  Mr.  Main  should  be  encouraged  and  enabled  to 
publish  his  large  treatise  on  the  subject.     .     .     . 

To  many  parts  of  New  York — particularly  Long  Island — 
hedging  is  of  incalculable  importance,  hence  booksellers  in  your 
city  can  surely  run  no  risk  in  subscribing  for  one  or  two  hundred 
copies  and  such  subscriptions,  with  similar  ones  in  Philadelphia 
&  Boston,  will  enable  Mr.  Main  to  publish  his  book  without 
delay. 

Yr.  obedt.  Servt. 

T.  Pickering. 


J.  Trumbull  to  R.  King. 

London,  Feby.  18,  1811. 
Dear  Sir  : 

,  .  .  You  will  observe  that  Mr.  Foster,  who  was  in  America 
with  Mr.  Merry,  is  appointed  Minister  Plenipotentiary  to  the 
United  States.  One  stumbling  block  is  thus  removed  ;  but  I  have 
neither  hope  nor  expectation  that  he  will  succeed  in  removing 
the  others  which  opposed  the  good  understanding  of  the  two 
Nations. 

Lord  Wellington  is  by  far  a  more  important  agent  in  the  nego- 
tiation than  Mr.  Foster  can  be,  or  even  Lord  Aberdeen  would 
have  been  to  whom  this  promising  situation  is  said  to  have  been 
offered.     .     .     . 

Yours  faithfully 

J.T. 


l8ll]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  24I 

R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 

N.  York,  February  24,  1811. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  for  a  long  time  omitted  to  reply  to  your  letter  enclosing 
Mr.  Main's  subscription  paper.  Having  by  personal  application 
obtained  a  dozen  or  fifteen  subscribers,  I  put  the  proposals  into 
the  hands  of  a  bookseller,  with  a  request  that  he  would  subscribe 
for  a  Hundred  Copies.  This  has  not  yet  been  done,  tho'  sufficient 
time  for  Consideration  has  passed,  and  I  apprehend  that  1  shall 
be  obMged  to  return  the  Paper  with  the  few  names  which  I  have 
obtained. 

I  would  plant  a  Hedge  of  this  Thorn  *  in  the  Spring,  of  about 
40  Rods,  provided  Mr.  Main  could  supply  the  plants,  and  should 
be  of  opinion  that  I  should  succeed  upon  a  level  piece  of  Ground 
(I  mean  without  Ditch  or  Ridge)  which  is  now  an  unbroken 
Turf.  Had  I  thought  of  it  last  fall,  I  would  have  prepared  the 
Ground  so  as  to  have  been  in  a  suitable  state  to  receive  the  plants  in 
the  spring  ;  whether  the  chance  of  success  in  the  present  condi- 
tion of  my  ground,  will  authorise  the  attempt  in  the  Spring,  Mr.. 
Main  is  better  able  to  determine  than  I  am.  Could  I  succeed  in 
a  Hedge,  I  have  no  doubt  that  it  would  have  a  great  influence  in 
introducing  Mr.  Main's  Hedges  into  extensive  use. 

I  hardly  dare  say  a  word  on  politicks,  the  Condition  of  the 
Country  appearing  to  me  so  much  worse  than  I  have  before  seen. 
I  am  not  sorry,  as  the  Bank  was  destined  to  dissolution,  that 
your  president  has  given  it  its  Death  blow — it  has  brought  him 
out  &  shewn  him  such  ay  we  know  him  to  be. 

I  shall  be  obliged  to  you  for  the  late  Message  of  the  President, 
which  I  suppose  has  been  printed.  If  after  the  Conduct  of 
France  from  Nov.  1806  to  the  latest  Dates  from  Fr.  Congress 
shall  not  only  acquiesce  but  subject  England  to,  &  exclude 
France  from,  a  non-intercourse  system,  I  must  say,  I  know  not 
what  our  Rulers  are  not  capable  of  carrying  into  operation. 
Very  faithfully  &  always  your  obed.  servt. 

Rufus  King. 

*  Mr.  King  planted  a  hedge  of  this  thorn,  which  grew  well  and  bore  trimming 
very  well,  but  having  been  neglected  soon  developed  into  trees — while  an 
English  hawthorn  hedge  planted  at  the  same  time,  even  with  neglect,  con- 
tinued to  preserve  its  hedge  character,  though  it  was  objectionable  in  con- 
sequence of  the  loss  of  its  leaves  very  early  in  September. 
vol.  v. — 16 


242  RUFUS  KING.  [i8ll 

P.  S.  A  proposal  has  been  made  in  our  State  Legislature  to 
destroy  all  qualifications  in  Elections,  founded  on  property  and 
to  alter  the  mode  of  appointment  to,  &  the  tenure  of,  all  offices.  I 
know  not  what  Countenance  the  project  receives,  but  that  it 
has  been  made,  shews  the  Danger  with  which  our  Judiciary  is 
threatened. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  Feby.  27,  1811. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  24th.  I  know  that  Mr.  Main 
has  already  engaged  vast  quantities  of  his  seedling  thorns  :  I 
think  50  thousand  by  Mr.  Quincy  for  his  friends  near  Boston  ; 
and  I  heard  Main  say  he  had  many  more  engaged  in  these  quar- 
ters. I  should  advise  you  to  plough  and  cultivate  the  strip  of 
ground  you  wish  to  plant  a  hedge  on  ;  and  next  year  set  the 
thorns.  Main  sells  them  at  a  year's  growth  ;  so  thousands  can 
be  packed  for  transportation  in  a  small  compass.  You  can  calcu- 
late the  number  you  shall  want,  for  the  plants  sh'd  be  set  only 
5  or  6  inches  apart — a  single  row  best.  You  must  allow  more  to 
be  set  in  a  nursery,  to  supply  failures  the  first  year.  Sort  them 
as  carefully  as  the  soldiers  in  the  same  rank  are  sized  ;  so  as  to 
save  a  weak  plant  from  the  oppression  of  a  taller  neighbour. 
Plain  hedging  (that  is  without  ditch  &  bank)  is  to  be  preferred  in 
our  country,  where  frosts  and  alternate  thaws  cause  banks  to 
moulder  rapidly.  Main's  hedges  (now  become  fences),  are  all 
on  a  plain  surface.  If  your  ground  be  riot  rich,  I  should  advise 
you  to  plant  potatoes,  manure  well  and  keep  them  perfectly  clean 
from  weeds. 

From  some  chance  conversation  this  day  with  two  or  three  of 
the  best  and  most  independent  members  of  the  Senate,  of  the 
democratic  party,  I  found  they  placed  an  entire  confidence  in 
the  multitude  and  wisdom  of  the  administration,  in  the  general 
management  of  the  affairs  of  the  nation  :  what  ground  (have) 
these  to  hope  for  a  useful  change  ? 

Democratic  gentlemen  are  astonishingly  scrupulous  in  respect 
to  France,  to  preserve  our  Nation's  faith  ;  and  talk  of  Cadore's 
letter  relative  to  the  repeal  of  the  Berlin  &  Milan  decrees,  &  the 
President's    proclamation,  as  a  "  compact  "  which  must  on  our 


1811]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  243 

part  be  sacredly  fulfilled.  The  public  faith  is  thus  made  a  pre- 
tence for  their  obsequiousness  towards  France.  Yet  the  really 
respectable  democratic  Senators  above  referred  to,  discover  in 
our  administration  no  subserviency  to  France  !  They  declared 
it  to  me  with  all  seriousness  this  day  !  " 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  very  truly  yours 

T.  Pickering. 


J.  Trumbull  to  R.  King. 

London,  Apl.  15,  1811. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  thank  you  for  the  information  of  what  was  doing  by 
the  wise  men  of  the  nation.  Our  news  has  since  come  down  to 
the  10th  of  March,  so  that  we  know  all  the  blessed  results  of  their 
deliberations.  Their  exterior  policy  retains  its  paltry  vacillating 
character  &  will  not  give  more  satisfaction  to  the  great  Emperor 
than  it  excites  contempt  &  disgust  here  ;  between  two  stools  will 
always  prove  a  dangerous  Seat. 

The  Tide  of  Fate  appears  at  last  to  be  changing  &,  blessed  be 
God,  the  once  irresistible  armies  of  France  have  been  most  suc- 
cessfully resisted.  You  will  have  heard  of  the  Retreat  of  Massena, 
the  battle  of  Burosa,  &  the  retreat  of  that  division  of  the  French 
army,  which  had  taken  Badajoz,  before  Marshal  Beresford  ;  the 
successful  &  gallant  defence  of  Anholt  against  the  Danes  will 
perhaps  be  new.  These  several  successes  in  various  quarters 
will  have  most  important  consequences.  The  self-confidence 
of  the  French  Troops  is  deeply  shaken  and  the  British  Army  will 
feel  its  ancient  superiority  restored  and  other  nations  will  see 
that  the  despotism  of  France  may  be  successfully  resisted.  But 
perhaps  the  most  invaluable  of  recent  occurrences,  is  that  pro- 
posed in  the  House  of  Commons  by  the  Minister,  seconded  by 
the  Leader  of  the  Opposition,  &  passed  unanimously,  for  grant- 
ing ^100,000  for  the  relief  of  the  Portuguese  peasantry  who  have 
suffered  by  the  depredations  of  the  French  during  the  invasion. 

The  Contrast  which  this  National  Act  offers  to  the  horrible 
excesses  and  wanton  ravages  committed  by  the  French  Army,  par- 
ticularly during  its  retreat,  is  of  the  most  splendid  and  impressive 
nature  ;  and  will  have  its  weight  on  the  minds  of  Mankind,  spite 


244  RUFUS  KING.  [i8ir 

of  all  the  falsehoods  so  eagerly  and  artfully  propagated  by  the 
Imperial  Father  of  Lies. 

There  is  every  probability  of  an  important  change  in  the  policy 
of  the  North.  That  Circumstance,  together  with  the  difficulty 
of  finding  ways  and  means,  is  thought  to  be  the  occasion  of  that 
languor  &  feebleness  of  supply  which  has  necessitated  the  dis- 
grace of  Massena.  His  retreat  is  in  every  sense  more  valuable 
to  England  than  the  most  splendid  Victory  ;  inasmuch  as  a  bat- 
tle may  be  lost  without  any  loss  of  reputation — as  this  event  is 
accompanied  by  no  loss  on  the  part  of  England,  while  a  Victory 
could  not  have  cost  less  than  10  or  15  thousand  men  :  and  inas- 
much as  the  loss  of  men  in  prisoners  &  deserters,  as  well  as  of 
artillery,  ammunition,  baggage  &  every  equipment  must  put  the 
French  Army  for  a  long  time  as  effectually  hors  de  combat,  as  the 
most  decisive  defeat  could  have  done. 

There  is  on  the  part  of  Bonaparte  evident  distress  for  money 
&  men  ;  his  frantic  conduct  in  respect  to  commerce  has  dissolved 
all  confidence  in  money  transactions  on  the  Continent.  There 
exist  no  banks,  no  Capitalists  to  supply  his  wants  by  loans  ;  and 
the  ruin  of  Commerce  renders  the  collection  of  Taxes  difficult, 
slow  &  diminished  ;  while  his  absurd  policy  in  respect  to  Spain, 
has  cut  off  those  supplies  from  her  mines,  which  had  been  for 
years  the  basis  of  his  operations. 

On  the  other  hand  the  ruinous  effects  of  the  conscription  be- 
gin to  be  severely  felt — that  system  was  adopted  in  1793 — 18 
years  ago  ;  and  the  waste  of  human  life  during  several  of  the  first 
years  of  the  Revolution  was  horribly  profuse.  The  children  of 
the  young  men,  who  then  perished,  ought  to  have  been  now  of  an 
age  to  serve  their  country  :  but  they  do  not  exist :  and  it  is  mathe- 
matically evident,  that  the  chasm  in  the  population  of  France  is 
indeed  daily  confirmed  by  the  continual  anticipations  of  the  con- 
scription. Mr.  Matthews,  with  a  happy  love  for  paradox,  tells  us 
to  be  sure,  that  the  more  men  are  destroyed  in  any  country,  the 
more  rapidly  the  population  will  increase  ;  not  evidently  in  the 
ordinary  mode  of  nature,  but  I  presume  by  sowing  the  Teeth  of 
the  Dead.  He  had  forgotten  doubtless  that  the  Campagna  of 
Rome  once  contained  8  millions  of  souls — and  by  the  ravages  of 
war  &  repeated  invasions  was  in  the  course  of  a  Century  or  two 
reduced  to  a  desert,  notwithstanding  this  miraculous  power  of 
reproduction,  which  he  ascribes  to  nature.     . 


l8ll]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  245 

Since  the  death  of  the  U.  S.  Bank,  how  many  must  join  with 
us  in  admiring  the  name  of  Clinton  !  !  !  by  their  works  ye  shall 
know  them. 

I  cannot  but  hope  that  the  recent  events  in  Portugal  &  Spain 
will  produce  some  effect  in  America — at  least  on  those  timid 
minds,  who  have  worshipped  France  from  the  same  motive  as  the 
Indians  did  the  Devil.  They  must  see  that  if  they  resist  the  Devil, 
he  will  still  fly  from  them. 

Mr.  Foster  will  have  the  goodness  to  forward  this  to  you. 

.  .  .  The  news  which  he  carries  will  at  least,  I  trust,  procure 
him  a  decent  &  civil  reception,  whatever  may  be  the  result  of  his 
negotiation.  His  personal  amiability  of  character  and  his  gen- 
eral acquaintance  with  the  people  in  power  are  also  important  cir- 
cumstances in  his  favour.  I  most  heartily  wish  him  success  in 
bringing  about  a  good  understanding  between  the  two  Nations. 

I  must  not  omit  to  mention  a  circumstance  which  has  recently 
occurred  to  our  very  good  friend  Mr.  Pinkney.  At  his  audience 
of  leave,  he  took  occasion  to  display  his  eloquence  in  assuring 
the  Prince  Regent  "  of  the  earnest  &  sincere  desire  which  his 
Government  entertained  of  accommodating  all  differences  &  be- 
ing upon  the  most  amicable  terms  with  Great  Britain,  &  concluded 
with  assurances  of  his  own  most  cordial  good  dispositions  to- 
wards this  Country,  &  deep  regret  that  it  had  not  been  his  happy 
lot  to  be  instrumental  in  restoring  perfect  Harmony  and  good 
will  between  the  two  nations." 

To  all  which  the  Prince  coolly  replied,  "  Sir,  as  I  do  not  possess 

the  power  of  seeing  the  Hearts  of  men,  it  is  necessary  that  I 

should  believe  their  Words."     As  you  may  naturally  suppose  his 

Ex- Excellency  is   outrageous  ;  the  Prince  can  know  nothing  of 

Etiquette.     .     . 

I  am  faithfully  yours 

J-  T. 

Mr.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Waltham,  Mays,  1811. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

.   .   .    That  you  have  become  disgusted  with  the  politics  of  our 

Country  can  excite  no  surprise.     Some  of  your  friends,  however, 

complain  that  you  do  not  take  a  more  active  part  in  the  affairs  of 


246  RUFUS  KING.  [181 1 

New  York,  and  think  that  your  exertions  might  materially  affect 
the  cause  of  order  &  freedom. 

The  fate  of  the  Election  last  year  entirely  destroyed  the  spirits 
of  the  Federalists,  and  the  folly  &  wickedness  of  Congress  the 
last  winter  appeared  to  strike  them  dumb  and  sink  them  in  a 
state  of  desperate  apathy.  They  awoke  in  Boston,  but  too  late 
to  make  any  excitement  through  the  Commonwealth.  They 
flatter  themselves  with  the  hope  of  a  federal  House  of  Represen- 
tatives. Many  are  weak  enough  to  believe  that  Madison  has 
altered  his  policy,  because  he  has  introduced  Mr.  Monroe  into 
the  administration.     .     .     .         your  faithful  friend 

C.  Gore. 


J.  Trumbull  to  R.  King. 

London,  14  June,  1811. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  had  the  pleasure  a  few  days  ago  to  receive  your  favor  of  the 
20th  April,  in  which  you  are  so  good  as  to  enter  into  further 
explanation  of  the  Law  as  applying  to  aliens.  It  appears  to  me 
that  the  difficulty  of  securing  property  to  them  is  greater  than 
I  before  imagined,  and  that  in  truth  there  is  no  safe  and  effectual 
remedy  for  the  disqualifications  attached  to  them  by  the  Law, 
except  naturalization,  which  was  the  object  of  our  petition  to 
the  Legislature.  The  injury  done  to  us  by  the  perfidy  of  Clinton 
was  therefore  greater  than  I  before  imagined,  and  I  see  that  we 
can  never  have  an  effectual  remedy  but  in  the  ruin  of  that 
brute's  political  influence  &  in  the  justice  of  some  future 
Legislature. 

In  my  last  to  you,  which  was  of  the  15th  of  April  by  Mr. 
Foster  (&  I  trust  was  conveyed  to  you  by  Sr.  G.  Temple),  I 
expressed  a  hope,  that  the  tide  of  human  affairs  had  changed. 
The  subsequent  Victories  of  Almeida  &  Albuera,  the  particulars 
of  which  you  will  find  in  the  enclosed  newspaper,  confirm  these 
hopes.  Almeida  has  been  since  abandoned  by  the  French  Gar- 
rison, &  Badajoz  must  fall  in  a  few  days.  No  reinforcements 
have  been  lately  sent  from  France,  nor  can  be  soon,  to  Spain  ; 
and  I  consider  it  as  certain,  that,  in  the  course  of  the  summer, 
the  allies  will  possess  all  that  part  of  Spain  west  of  the  Ebro  & 
probably  Catalonia. 


l8n]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  2tf 

Hostilities  are  perhaps  commenced  between  Russia  &  France. 
Marshal  Ney  who  commanded  the  rear  during  Massena's  retreat 
is  already  in  the  North.  Massena,  Loison,  &  others  are  on  their 
way  to  France,  doubtless  with  the  same  destination  ;  and  I  pre- 
sume it  is  the  intention  of  Bonaparte  to  endeavour  by  a  grand 
effort  in  that  quarter  to  re-establish  the  reputation  of  his  troops 
which  has  suffered  severely  in  the  three  successive  affairs  of 
Barroso,  Almeida  &  Albuera. — to  dictate  again  upon  the  field 
of  Victory,  a  triumphant  Peace,  which  shall  secure  him  against 
further  interruption  in  that  quarter  &  leave  him  at  liberty  to 
bear  with  all  his  force  upon  Spain  &  Portugal.  But  the  charm 
is  dissolved  which  has  so  long  held  Europe  in  chains,  the  late 
events  in  those  countries  must  convince  other  Nations  that 
French  troops  are  not  irresistible,  and  I  trust  that  the  Russians 
will  be  ashamed  to  prove  themselves  inferior  to  Spaniards  & 
Portuguese,  who  have  so  long  been  regarded  as  the  refuse  of 
Europe.  Something  may  also  be  fairly  hoped  from  the  riper 
years  of  Alexander,  &  from  the  experience  which  he  must  have 
had  of  the  fruits  of  French  friendship — something  may  also  be 
hoped  from  the  experience  which  all  the  vassal  German  States 
have  gained  within  a  few  years  ;  the  severity  of  the  French  Gov- 
ernment in  the  extension  of  the  system  of  conscription,  &  the 
restrictions  on  commerce  have  caused  disgust  &  abhorrence  to 
take  the  place  of  those  fond  hopes  of  Liberty  &  Happiness  by 
which  men  were  so  long  deluded  ;  and  there  needs  but  one 
reverse  of  fortune  in  the  North  similar  to  those  which  have 
lately  occurred  in  Spain  &  Portugal,  to  produce  a  general  explo- 
sion of  smothered  vengeance  throughout  Germany. 

Whatever  good  or  evil  may  arise  in  our  country  from  the 
appointment  of  Mr.  Monroe,  one  favorable  circumstance  I  do 
expect  which  I  should  not  have  hoped  for  under  Mr.  Smith — 
that  is,  that  the  reception  of  Mr.  Foster  will  at  least  be  civil  ; 
and  something  might  be  hoped  from  the  prudence  of  the  admin- 
istration, under  the  new  aspect  of  European  affairs,  had  we  not 
so  much  reason  to  fear  that  the  magnanimity,  of  which  they  have 
given  such  splendid  evidence,  may  induce  them  to  support  with 
hand  as  well  as  heart,  the  falling  fortunes  of  their  great  friend, 
the  Imperial  advocate  for  the  Freedom  of  Commerce  &  the 
Ocean. 


248  RUFUS  KING.  [181 1 

What  will  the  cold  blooded  wretch  say  now  of  Spain  &  Portu- 
gal ?  is  the  resistance  which  they  oppose  to  the  Omnipotent 
Emperor  (as  Sebastian  called  him  in  one  of  his  Proclamations) 
the  mere  ebullition  of  Bigotry  &  Superstition  ?  Shame,  shame, 
that  such  an  expression  should  have  been  applied  to  such  a 
struggle  by  the  first  Magistrate  of  a  nation,  which  had  been 
brought  into  political  existence  by  a  similar  struggle,  within  the 
memory  &  under  the  eye  of  that  man — odious  &  base  apostacy, 
for  which  I  hope  he  will  live  to  see  himself  despised  &  execrated 
as  such  conduct  ever  deserves  to  be. 

The  Budget  of  this  Country  is  a  fearful  document  to  those 
who  hope  to  ruin  her  by  withholding  Commerce — the  loan  of 
the  year  you  will  observe  is  12,000,000,  while  the  amount  from 
the  Sinking  Fund,  to  be  applied  to  the  purchase  of  National 
Debt,  will  exceed  13,000,000 — so  that  not  only  are  the  expenses 
of  the  year  provided  for  within  itself — but  one  million  of  real 
diminution  of  the  debt  is  effected. 

The  season  is  fine,  and  the  promise  of  all  Crops,  particularly 
wheat,  is  most  abundant — having  lately  been  to  place  J.  T.  Ray 
at  Berkely  in  Gloucestershire,  I  judge  from  my  own  observation 
as  well  as  from  report. 

Your  friend  &  servant, 

Jno.  Trumbull. 


Grenville  Temple  to  R.  King. 

4th  July  (iSii). 
Dear  Sir  : 

Enclosed  is  a  letter  which  I  received  from  Mr.  Trumbull,  who 
requested  me,  were  it  possible,  to  deliver  it  into  your  own  hands, 
&  in  entrusting  to  the  care  of  your  son,  I  conceive  that  I  conform 
to  the  spirit,  tho'  perhaps  not  to  the  letter  of  his  wishes  ;  the  fact 
is,  that  he  is  of  opinion,  that  in  the  instances  of  men  of  situation, 
the  American  post-offices  are  as  little  scrupulous,  as  those  of  the 
"  enlightened  Nation."     .     .     . 

Mr.  Foster  with  whom  I  came  in  the  Minerva,  has  charged  me 
with  a  packet  of  newspapers,  but  which  in  consequence  of  our 
long  passage  you  will  find  but  little  interesting.  I  left  him  in  the 
habit  of  daily  discussion  with  Mr.  Monroe,  &  sincerely  hope,  that 


1811]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  249 

some  conciliatory  measure  may  be  the  result,  to  which  the  late 
victories  in  Spain  &  Portugal  &  some  recent  political  disclosures 
in  this  country  may  perhaps  contribute. 

your  most  obt.  humble  sevt. 

Grenville  Temple. 


J.  H.  Hobart  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  Aug.  3,  181 1. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  unwilling  to  intrude  upon  a  retirement,  the  enjoyment  of 
which  I  can  very  readily  appreciate,  with  my  concerns.  The  con- 
nection of  my  concerns  with  those  of  the  church  must  be  my 
apology. 

I  had  expected  to  forward  to  you  before  this  time  my  state- 
ment. But  circumstances  prevented  my  commencing  it  until 
about  3  weeks  since,  and  my  progress  in  it  has  been  retarded  by 
some  necessary  visits.  .  .  .  The  Printers  are  striking  off  my 
statement  as  fast  as  possible  &  I  hope  it  will  be  finished  early  in 
the  ensuing  week. 

The  pamphlet  sent  herewith  is  supposed  to  be  the  joint  pro- 
duction of  the  Irvings  (some  of  whom  have  only  recently  become 
Episcopalians)  and  Mr.  Colden.  You  will  perceive  that  Jones  is 
justified  in  his  notes.  No  charge,  it  seems,  has  been  brought 
against  "The  Bp."  but  that  of  being  "a  quick  tempered  man," — 
his  misapplying  money,  favoritism,  proscription,  persecution,  in- 
tolerance and  tyranny  passing  for  nothing.  A  very  principal 
design  seems  to  be  to  excite  prejudices  against  my  statement  and 
the  testimony  which  I  may  exhibit.  I  consider  it  a  very  unfair 
and  insidious  production. 

I  am  most  respectfully  &  sincerely  yrs, 

J.  H.  Hobart. 

{Copy.) 

R.  King  to  (probably)  J.  H.  Hobart. 

August,  1811. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  received  and  am  much  obliged  to  you  for  the  tracts  which 
you  kindly  sent  me — the  first  I  had  seen,  and  thought  it  a  timely 
publication — the  second  is  certainly  a  sound,  and  I  am  persuaded 


250  RUFUS  KING.  [1811 

will  prove  to  be,  a  most  useful  performance.  The  statement, 
which  I  read  with  very  great  satisfaction,  and  which  reflects  so 
much  credit  upon  its  author,  must  have  had  its  influence  upon  the 
persons  who  met  at  Mechanic  Hall  ;  since  they  admitted,  by  their 
proceedings,  the  competency  of  Bp.  Moore  as  our  Diocesan. 
This  being  admitted,  and  now  there  never  can  be  any  rational 
doubt  respecting  it,  the  competency  of  the  Bishop's  court  can- 
not be  questioned.  This  Court  was  the  judge  of  its  own  juris- 
diction ;  it  alone  could  decide  whether  there  existed  a  Controversy 
or  Disagreement  between  Mr.  Jones  and  the  Vestry,  and  its  de- 
cisions are  conclusive — that  this  will  be  the  judgment  of  the  civil 
tribunals,  cannot  I  think  admit  of  the  least  doubt.* 

Our  defence  is  in  able  hands  and  the  concluding  paragraph  of 
the  statement  leaves  no  apprehension  that  aught  will  be  omitted 
which  the  occasion  may  require. 

I  am,  Dear  Sir,  with  very  sincere  Regard  and  Respect 

Yr  ob.  &  faithful  Rufus  King. 


T.  Ludlow  Ogden  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  19  Sep.,  1811. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  enclosed  paper  has  been  delivered  to  Bishop  Moore  in 

answer  to  a  letter  from  him  to  Mr.  Jones,  communicating  the  late 

Resolution  of   the  Vestry.     The  Bishop  has  sent   it  to  me  and 

seems  to  think  that  it  ought  to  be  laid  before  the  Vestry.     Mr. 

*  Rev.  Mr.  Jones  was  an  assistant  minister  of  Trinity  Church,  and  opposed 
the  election  of  Dr.  Hobart  as  an  associate.  After  the  latter  was  chosen,  he  per- 
sistently attacked  him  in  reference  to  his  personal  character,  charging  him  with 
"  unprincipled  ambition,  calumny,  implacable  revenge,  of  designing  and  unau- 
thorized malice."  As  a  result,  the  efforts  of  the  Vestry  being  unavailing  to 
restore  harmony,  they  were  obliged  to  appeal  to  the  Bishop  and  his  presbyters 
in  order  to  obtain  a  dissolution  of  Mr.  Jones's  connection.  The  result  was  that 
Mr.  Jones  was  suspended,  and  peace  was  restored.  He  afterwards  denied 
the  authority  of  Coadjutor  Bishop  Moore's  action,  because  Bishop  Provoost  was 
still  Bishop.  The  latter  had,  however,  resigned  all  his  power  and  therefore 
Dr.  Moore  was  competent  to  act.  Many  pamphlets  were  written  on  the  sub- 
ject and  Dr.  Hobart's  address  was  a  most  conclusive  vindication  of  his  own 
character. — Ed. 


1811]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  25 1 

Harison  has  gone  to  Albany  for  a  few  days  and  I  beg  you  to 
bestow  on  the  subject  a  little  reflection. 

Mr.  Jones,  as  you  will  observe,  denies  the  fact  of  any  exist- 
ing difference  between  himself  and  the  Vestry,  and  this  is  made  the 
basis  of  his  remonstrance  against  our  late  proceedings.  Whether 
the  case  which  has  occurred  be  a  proper  one  to  warrant  the  inter- 
ference of  the  Bishop  and  his  Presbyters,  under  the  32d  Canon 
will,  I  suppose,  be  a  question  for  them  to  decide.  Nevertheless 
it  may  be  advisable  that  the  Vestry  should  take  notice  of  this 
performance,  and,  grounded  on  the  communication  of  it  by  the 
author,  pass  some  resolution  containing  a  specification  of  the 
differences  referred  to.  The  occasion  might  not  of  itself,  per- 
haps, justify  an  extraordinary  meeting  of  the  Vestry,  but  such 
a  meeting  will  be  proper,  if  not  necessary,  on  another  account. 
I  mean  the  appointment  of  Delegates  to  the  Annual  Convention 
which  is  to  assemble  here  on  the  first  Tuesday  of  October.  The 
Business  of  the  Remonstrance  may  then  be  introduced  in  a  way 
to  obviate  the  objection  suggested,  and  give  effect  to  our  appli- 
cation. .  .  .  Be  so  good  as  to  return  the  Remonstrance  and 
to  favor  me  with  your  advice  as  to  the  course  to  be  pursued.  If 
Dr.    Beach   is   to   be    applied  to,  must  it  not  be  by  yourself  as 

Warden  ? 

I  am  very  respectfully  &  faithfully  yours 

T.  L.  Ogden. 

Anson  J.  Sperry  to  R.  King. 

Manchester,  October  28,  1811. 
Dr.  Sir  : 

After  I  saw  you  last  I  had  several  appointments  with  Mr. 
Harison,  on  the  subject  of  the  Glebe  lawsuit.  His  opinion  was 
agreeable  to  yours,  and  he  further  suggested  that  those  glebe 
lands  were  in  trust  in  the  hands  of  the  heirs  of  the  Governor  for 
the  church  and  would  not  escheat  ;  and  to  form  societies  under 
our  statute  &  obtain  conveyances  from  the  heirs  would  be  the 
most  regular  method  of  proceeding.  To  pursue  that  plan,  a  con- 
tinuance of  the  cause  became  necessary,  which  I  did  not  much 
expect  to  obtain.  I  however  directed  them  to  associate  them- 
selves in  a  way  agreeable  to  the  statute,  which  they  did,  &  hired  a 
clergyman. 


252  RUFUS  KING.  [1811 

At  the  October  term  of  the  C.  Court  we  found  we  could  not 
get  the  cause  continued  ;  those  we  had  calculated  upon  for  assist- 
ance did  not  come,  and  I  was  necessarily  called  away.  They 
were  anxious  to  get  a  fact  conceded  to,  respecting  the  identity 
of  the  land,  and  proposed  to  make  a  stated  case.  We  had  learnt 
that  the  Court  would  acknowledge  the  doctrine  of  incumbency 
and  give  every  latitude  we  could  wish.  This  was  not  known  by 
the  opposite  party  however.  We  therefore  procured  an  acknowl- 
edgement of  facts  which  we  could  not  have  produced  ;  the  case 
was  stated  &  to  be  decided  by  the  Court  &  continued  until  next 
term  for  argument  &  decision. 

On  the  part  of  the  Plff.  it  was  agreed  that  in  A.  D.  1802  there 
was  a  regular  society  of  the  denomination  of  Christians,  called 
Episcopalians,  in  the  town,  duly  organized  under  the  care  of  Revd. 
Bethuel  Chittenden,  who  had  leased  the  lands  and  received  the 
rents  till  A.  D.  1809.,  when  Revd.  Ab.  Brunson  received  the  rents, 
for  which  he  contracted  to,  and  did,  officiate  a  part  of  the  term 
until  Sept.  181 1,  when  the  Society  regularly  settled  Rev.  S. 
Iudet(?)  who  received  and  continued  to  receive  the  rents;  and 
that  all  persons  in  possession  were  in  by  consent  of  the  society. 
On  the  part  of  the  Uefts.  it  was  agreed  that  the  land  described 
was  a  glebe  lot  &  that  they  were  in  possession. 

There  will  now  be  ample  time  to  investigate  the  subject  &  from 
the  enquiries  &  suggestions  of  the  Court  and  the  decision  of  the 
former  judge  we  have  now  no  doubt  but  we  shall  get  a  decision 
in  favor  of  the  Church,  on  such  grounds  as  will  enable  the  incum- 
bent to  sue  for  the  lands  in  his  own  name,  &  one  clergyman  be 
incumbent  for  any  number  of  towns  :  but  all  things  are  uncertain 
in  these  days. 

I  wish  to  use  every  exertion,  though  at  my  own  expence,  to 
establish  the  principles  favorably  in  every  point  of  view,  &  then 
let  others  labour.  The  consequence  &  importance  of  the  deci- 
sion of  their  case  to  the  future  welfare  of  the  Church  in  this  State, 
the  interest  which  you  &  Mr.  Harison  have  taken  in  this  business, 
which  the  Church  in  Vermont  very  gratefully  acknowledge,  induce 
me  to  communicate  this  information  for  your  satisfaction  &  to 
invite  you  to  communicate  any  thing  further  you  shall  deem 
necessary.  With  highest  respect  &  esteem  &c, 

Anson  J.  Sperry. 


l8li]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  253 

Endorsed  on  the  back  by  R.  K. 

Ans.  Dec.  18.  That  Mr.  Harison's  opinion  &  the  course  of 
proceeding  recommended  by  him  shd.  be  pursued  ;  that  if  their 
law  was  like  yt.  of  N.  Y.,  concerning  Religious  incorporations, 
their  Corporations  must  like  ours  be  aggregate  ones,  and  all  suits 
by  or  agt.  ym.  must  be  in  their  aggregate  name  ;  and  not  in  the 
name  of  the  Parson,  who  in  England  is  a  sole  Corporation  and 
therefore  may  sue  or  be  sued  as  such. 

That  they  wd.  do  well  to  be  uniform  in  yr.  acts  of  incorpora- 
tion, including  the  Parson  in  the  name  of  them — E.G.  "The 
Rector,  Wardens  and  Vestry  men  of  the  Protestant  Epis.  Church 
in  A." 


R.  King  to  Porter.* 

{Private.} 

New  York,  Deer,  io,  1811. 
Sir: 

In  consequence  of  an  Extract  from  a  letter  that  you  lately  wrote 
to  Mr.  Coleman,  and  which  he  shewed  to  me,  I  take  the  liberty  of 
saying  a  few  words  upon  the  present  state  of  our  pub.  Affairs. 

Supposing  the  Report  of  your  Comtee.  on  Foreign  Relations  f 
to  mean  what  its  language  imports,  one  naturally  enquires  whether 
the  Facts  which  it  states  are  true.  I  am  unable  to  agree  with  the 
Committee  in  the  Fact,  that  the  French  decrees  are  revoked,  or  so 
modified  as  that  they  cease  to  modify  our  Rights  ;  I  dissent  from 
this  opinion,  because  it  seems  to  me  quite  inconsistent  with  the 
professed  views  &  policy  of  France,  that  they  should  be  so  re- 
voked or  modified  ;  and  moreover  because  the  evidence  thereof 
is  grossly,  as  well  as  technically,  defective  :  just  enough  has  been 
done  by  France,  without  receding  an  iota  from  her  system  of  war 
upon  the  Eng.  Resources,  to  mislead  a  nation  torn  asunder  by 
faction  &  blinded  to  her  most  important  interests.  I  do  not 
trouble  you  with  anything  in  the  shape  of  an  argument  on  this 
subject,  but  merely  express  my  personal  opinion  that  the  Pro- 
ceedings of  France  are  delusive.  If  the  French  decrees  are  not 
revoked,  the  provisional  promise  of  England  concerning  her  Or- 

*  John  Porter  of  N.  Y. 

f  Chairman's  Report  on  29  Nov.,  Hildreth's  U.  S.,  vol.  vi.,  p.  263. 


254  RUFUS  KING.  [1811 

ders  is  not  broken,  and  the  reasoning  which  turns  upon  the  fact 
must  fail.  The  Subject  of  Impressment,  tho'  an  old,  is  never  an 
indifferent  topic.  England  renounces  all  pretension  to  impress 
American  Seamen,  but  she  claims  the  services  of  her  own  Sub- 
jects, notwithstanding  we  may  naturalize  them.  A  late  law  con- 
cerning the  naturalization  of  Frenchmen,  carries  the  doctrine  of 
perpetual  allegiance  further  than  the  English  ever  have  done. 
So  long  as  the  naturalized  Citizen  remains  within  the  Territory 
of  his  new  Country,  he  is  safe ;  and  the  nation  is  bound  to  pro- 
tect him — whenever  he  leaves  that  territory  he  incurs  the  risk  of 
being  again  subject  to  his  former  Allegiance,  without  any  obliga- 
tion on  the  part  of  his  adopted  Country  to  reclaim  him  ;  for 
Naturalization  when  it  confers  new  rights,  does  not,  and  cannot 
dissolve,  old  duties,  the  performance  of  which  within  his  own  or 
a  common  Jurisdiction,  the  former  sovereign  may  compel. 

There  are  abuses  on  both  sides  ;  pains  have  been  taken  to  ad- 
just this  subject,  but  hitherto  without  success — the  evil  is  dimin- 
ished, perhaps  at  no  former  period  have  the  impressments  been 
less  numerous.  If  Congress  did  not  consider  this  subject  (un- 
doubtedly one  of  a  great  deal  of  importance)  when  before  them 
in  the  times  of  Washington,  Adams  &  Jefferson,  of  sufficient 
weight  to  become  the  occasion  of  war,  how  can  it  be  regarded  as 
such  now,  when  the  example  of  the  past  is  such  as  it  is,  and  when 
the  evil  was  never  so  small.  Besides,  what  is  the  dispute  ?  We 
claim  the  services  of  naturalized  Citizens  agt.  their  native  alle- 
giance. If  we  will  give  up  this  claim,  Eng.  will  give  up  impress- 
ment out  of  our  vessels — Does  our  population,  does  our  navigation 
require  that  we  shd.  insist  on  this  claim  ? 

But  perhaps  it  may  be  said,  that  in  the  actual  condition  of  our 
dispute  with  England,  our  Honor  requires  a  Decisn.  of  War, — 
if  so,  let  war  be  declared  ;  for  in  my  poor  judgment,  the  Honor 
of  the  Nation  is  the  only  legitimate  cause  of  war. 

Yet  before  we  declare  the  war  in  defence  of  our  Honor  assailed 
by  England,  should  we  not  pass  in  review  the  language  and  acts 
of  France,  which  some  may  think  affect  our  Honor.  We  have 
read  official  Letters  from  the  French  Govt.,  addressed  to  our 
Govt.,  have  heard  of  expressions  publicly  made  use  of  by  the 
Emperor  of  France,  have  suffered  the  confiscation  of  an  immense 
property  on  the  plea  of  reprisal  agt.  a  Law  competently  enacted 


l8ll]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  2$$ 

by  Congress.  Are  we  to  submit  to  these  taunts  &  injuries  aimed 
directly  at  our  Honor,  and  at  the  same  time  to  whine  and  strut, 
&  vapour  about  our  Honor's  being  insulted  by  the  Orders  in 
Council  and  the  impressment  of  seamen  ? 

Were  I  in  Congress,  I  would  resist  what  appears  to  me  to  be 
the  unjustifiable  views  of  yr.  administration.  I  wd.  oppose  a  war 
with  England  for  the  reasons  set  forth  by  yr.  Committee — as  re- 
gards mere  party  interest  some  men  may  (I  think  however  with 
doubtful  policy  as  well  as  morality)  acquiesce  in  a  War  with 
England  ;  others  may  dislike  the  imputations  that  will  be  cast 
upon  those  who  oppose  it  ;  and  so  a  division  may  arise  among 
those  whose  virtue  &  understanding  shd.  keep  them  united. 
This  would  I  think  be  a  subject  of  disappointment  and  regret  to 
what  we  believe  to  be  the  soundest  portions  of  our  Country.  It 
has  seemed  to  me  of  the  very  greatest  importance,  that  this  body 
of  men  shd.  with  the  utmost  care  preserve  the  purity  of  their  repu- 
tation. 

I  must  entreat  your  excuse  for  the  Liberty  I  have  now  taken, 
in  expressing  myself  in  the  unreserved  way  I  have  done  :  had  you 
not  invited  a  communication  of  my  opinion,  I  should  not  have 
presumed  to  trouble  you  with  it.  Not  having  the  honor  of  a  per- 
sonal acquaintance,  I,  &c. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

Gore  to  King — Massachusetts  Politics — King — Henry  Plot — Nothing  hostile  to 
the  United  States — Morris  to  King — French  in  Spain — Affairs  at  Home 
depend  on  Madison's  Re-election — King — Statement — Affairs  in  New 
York — Clinton's  Aspirations — Conferences  with  his  Friends  and  himself — 
King  finally  satisfied  that  Support  of  him  by  Federalists  would  be  unwise 
— Not  willing  to  be  a  Candidate  for  Vice-Presidency — King  to  Gore — 
War  one  of  Party,  not  of  Country — Cannot  be  carried  on  by  Militia — If 
England  wise,  Peace  will  soon  come — D'lvernois  to  King — Heard  he  was 
on  a  pacific  Mission — Trumbull  to  King — America  at  War  with  England — 
Northern  Europe  with  France — King  to  Gore — Attended  Meeting  in  New 
York  respecting  the  Presidential  Election — Opposed  to  its  Resolutions — 
Opposed  to  Clinton — Would  prefer  a  federal  Candidate  to  Madison — 
King  to  Gore — Elections  uncertain — War  has  dissatisfied  many  Democrats 
in  New  York — Gore  to  King — Leading  Federalists  want  Change — Oppo- 
sition to  Madison — Most  prefer  Clinton. 

C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  Feby.  7,  1812. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

.  .  .  Poor  Thacher  is  to  be  dismissed  from  the  office  of 
Judge,  for  having  offended  the  great  men  of  Maine.  He,  proba- 
bly, has  not  a  thousand  dollars  in  the  world.  Parsons  is,  I  fear, 
never  more  to  act  as  Judge.  He  is  becoming  a  very  sick  man,  and, 
if  Death  should  spare  him,  Democracy  will  not.  The  Senate  will 
be  so  chosen  by  the  new  districting  the  Commonwealth,  as  to 
give  an  ascendency  in  that  Body  to  the  present  Rulers,  of  one 
third — so  that  while  we  may  have  a  chief  magistrate  &  a  House  of 
Reps,  federal,  there  is  no  reason  to  apprehend  any  change  for  the 
other  Branch,  but  for  the  worse,  for  many  years.  Some  of  the 
leading  Feds,  are  sanguine,  that  by  associating  with  Democracy, 
they  may  obtain  an  immense  Bank,  and  amass  princely  fortunes. 

256 


1812]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  2$? 

In  times  of  great  commercial  prosperity  and  extensive  credit  7 
per  cent  was  the  dividend,  and  they  still  dream  of  returning  to 
more  fortunate  days.  The  ladder  by  which  these  men  mean  to 
ascend  to  power  &  consequence,  is  inveighing  against  G.  Britain, 
supporting  De  Witt  Clinton  as  Prest.,  and  expect  as  a  reward  a 
foreign  Embassy  or  the  Government  of  the  State — and  thus  we 
go.  I  remain  a  silent  observer  knowing  little  of  politicks,  noth- 
ing of  the  ,  and  interesting  myself  in  my  Books  &  my 
Farm.     .     .     .  Your  faithful  friend  C.  Gore. 

{R.  King's  Handwriting.) 

The  President's  Message,  of  the  9th  instant  (March  9,  181 2) 
must  be  considered  as  a  communication  to  Congress  of  Proceed- 
ings,  as  he  calls  Henry's  Mission,*  of  the  British    Government 

*  John  Henry  was  an  Irishman  who  had  served  in  the  American  Army  dur- 
ing the  Revolutionary  War  and  had  become  naturalized.  After  a  time  he  set- 
tled in  Vermont,  and  while  there  engaged  in  writing  to  the  newspapers  articles 
against  the  United  States  Government,  which  attracted  the  attention  of  Gov.  Craig 
of  Canada.  The  people  of  the  New  England  States,  and  especially  of  Massa- 
chusetts, early  in  1809,  deeply  resenting  the  acts  of  the  Government,  and 
particularly  the  Embargo  Act,  talked  seriously  of  a  separation  of  the  States  to 
protect  their  own  interests,  and  Gov.  Craig  sent  for  Henry  and  gave  him  in- 
structions to  go  secretly  to  New  England  and  to  remain  in  Boston  to  ascertain 
the  state  of  public  feeling,  the  probability  of  a  separation  taking  place,  and 
such  other  facts  as  might  be  interesting  under  the  circumstances,  suggesting  to 
him  that  his  services  would  without  doubt  be  rewarded  by  the  British  Govern- 
ment. 

He  went  to  Boston,  remained  there  some  months,  obtaining  such  information 
as  the  newspapers  and  frequenting  the  coffee-houses  could  give  him,  and 
transmitted  the  same  to  Gov.  Craig.  At  no  time  had  he  intercourse  with  any 
of  the  leading  people,  on  his  own  admission.  His  correspondence  was  closed  by 
what  was  called  the  Erskine  Treaty,  and  he  returned  to  Canada,  expecting  a 
valuable  appointment.  Failing  in  this  he  went  to  England,  and  though  thanked 
for  what  he  had  done,  received  only  promises  of  reward.  Angry  and  disap- 
pointed, he  returned  to  America  in  1812,  and  in  some  way  procuring  a  letter 
from  Gov.  Gerry,  proceeded  to  Washington,  where  he  remained  in  secret  some 
ten  days.  During  that  time  he  had  communication  with  Mr.  Madison,  who 
paid  him  $50,000  from  the  secret-service  fund  for  his  promised  revelations, 
which  were  the  letters  to  Gov.  Craig.  Immediately  on  the  receipt  of  the 
money  he  left  Washington  and  sailed  from  New  York  to  France  in  the  U.  S. 
sloop  of  war,  the  Wasp,  on  the  very  day  the  President  sent  his  Message  to  the 

Senate.    The  President  charged  that  while  negotiations,  three  years  before,  were 
vol.  v.— 17 


258  RUFUS  KING.  [1812 

which  in  conjunction  with  others  may  induce  them  to  declare  War 
against  that  nation.  So  far  as  any  of  the  citizens  of  the  U. 
States  have  been  implicated  in  this  Proceeding,  it  is  to  the  judi- 
ciary Department  &  not  to  the  Legislative  that  the  same  shd.  be 
referred.  It  is  worth  while  then  to  inquire  whether  this  Proceed- 
ing is  of  a  hostile  or  injurious  character,  and,  in  case  it  should 
so  appear  to  be,  whether  it  is  conformable  to  former  usage  and  to 
justice,  in  the  first  instance  to  impute  the  same  to  the  Principal 
without  calling  upon  him  to  avow  or  disavow  the  act  of  his  Agent. 
Upon  a  careful  reading  of  Govr.  Craig's  Letter  to  Henry — 
admitting  it  to  be  authentic — its  purport  is  neither  more  nor  less 
than  this.  As  it  is  evident  that  a  very  great  division  of  the  People 
exists  in  the  U.  States  respecting  the  Embargo,  and  as  in  conse- 
quence of  their  division  upon  this  and  other  subjects,  a  separation 
may  take  place  between  the  Southern  and  Northern  States,  the 
whole  subject  is  so  very  important  and  so  intimately  affects  the 
interest  of  England,  that  it  is  most  desirable  that  exact  informa- 
tion should  be  obtained  as  well  in  respect  to  the  commercial  Re- 
striction of  the  U.  States,  as  touching  the  State  of  Parties  and  the 
separation  between  the  Northern  and  Southern  States.  I  there- 
fore desire  you  (Mr.  H.)  to  repair  to  Boston,  which  is  the  princi- 
pal town  of  the  Northern  States,  for  the  purpose  of  procuring 
this  information.  I  cannot  point  out  to  you  any  particular  mode 
in  which  you  can  best  execute  this  Commission  ;  your  own  dis- 
cretion must  be  your  guide.     Should  there  exist  a  project  for  a 

pending,  Great  Britain  had  employed  a  secret  agent  in  fomenting  disaffection 
to  the  constituted  authorities  of  the  nation,  and  in  intrigues  with  the  disaffected, 
for  the  purpose  of  bringing  about  resistance  to  the  laws,  etc.  No  names  were 
mentioned,  no  acts  stated  ;  and  the  only  inference,  as  Hildreth  says,  is  that 
Madison,  in  paying  so  much  for  these  papers,  if  he  knew  beforehand  how  little 
they  really  contained  (which  is  doubtful),  sought  to  "  aid  the  administration  party 
of  Massachusetts  in  the  approaching  election  by  exciting  suspicions  against  the 
federalists,  as  well  as  odium  against  the  British  Government."  The  federalists 
indignantly  denied  any  knowledge  of  any  scheme  of  disunion,  and  the  Presi- 
dent could  furnish  no  other  facts.* 

*  President's  Message,  Annals  of  Congress,  1811-12,  Parti.,  p.  165.  Pam- 
phlet with  the  letters  and  papers  sent  in  with  the  Message  and  Report  of  the 
Committee  to  which  they  were  referred — which  Report  was  laid  on  the  table, 
no  action  being  advised.  Also,  Hildreth's  United  States,  vi.,  pp.  284-7. — 
Editor. 


1812]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  259 

division  of  the  States,  you  must  carefully  endeavour  to  find  out 
whether  those,  who  are  engaged  in  this  project,  think  of  a  con- 
nexion with  England,  or  desire  her  assistance,  but  to  receive  and 
transmit  to  me  any  application  or  communication  concerning  the 
same  ;  and  to  this  end  you  are  furnished  with  Credentials,  which 
if  indispensable,  may  be  shewn  by  you  to  persons,  wishing  to 
open  a  Communication  with  me. 

Now  may  it  not  be  asked,  what  there  is  in  this  Proceeding  that 
is  hostile  to  the  U.  States  ?  Is  it  not  true  that  a  great  division 
existed  in  1809-10,  respecting  the  Embargo? — is  it  not  true  that 
rumours  of  a  separation  of  the  States,  to  say  the  least,  were  at 
that  time  in  circulation  ?  Have  not  the  newspapers,  nay  did  not 
the  Debates  in  Congress,  allude  to  such  an  event — is  it  extraor- 
dinary then,  was  it  not  the  contrary  to  have  been  expected,  that 
the  Govr.  Genl.  of  the  English  Colonies  should  be  solicitous  to 
discover  the  actual  state  of  the  public  opinion  upon  these  sub- 
jects and  to  receive  and  transmit  the  same  to  his  superiors  ? 

Invert  this  state  of  things  and  suppose  the  period  to  have 
arrived  which  certainly  will  arrive,  when  the  English  Colonies  in 
our  own  neighbourhood  may  desire  to  throw  off  their  connexion 
with,  and  to  separate  themselves  from  Great  Britain.  Suppose 
that  the  operation  of  some  impolitic  law  should  be  the  occasion 
of  the  manifestation  of  this  disposition,  and  suppose,  moreover, 
that  such  law  should  be  not  only  injurious  to  the  Colonies,  but 
disadvantageous  to  the  U.  States  ;  would  it  be  injustice  to  Eng- 
land, would  it  be  contrary  to  the  usage  of  nations,  would  it  be 
extraordinary  that  the  Governor  of  N.  York  or  Massachusetts 
should  employ  some  person  to  repair  to  the  seat  of  Government 
in  Upper  or  Lower  Canada  to  ascertain  the  state  of  such 
Colonies,  to  learn  the  nature  of  public  opinion  there,  and 
in  case  such  separation  should  be  in  view,  to  endeavour  to  find 
out  if  assistance  from  or  a  Connection  with  the  U.  States  were 
desired,  and  to  receive  and  transmit  any  communication  on  these 
subjects  ? 

It  is  the  interest  of  neighbouring  States  to  know  what  is  pass- 
ing in  their  neighbourhood,  and  they  fail  in  what  is  honestly  due 
to  themselves,  when  they  neglect  to  acquire  such  information. 
The  establishment  of  resident  Ministers  is  in  a  great  degree 
founded  upon  the  principle  of  its  being  the  reciprocal  interest 


260  RUFUS  KING.  [1812 

of  States  to  know  what  is  doing  by  their  neighbours.  At  this  mo- 
ment, did  we  not  completely  neglect  the  only  true  and  solid  sys- 
tem of  foreign  Politicks  which  this  country  should  look  to  and 
with  undeviating  steps  pursue  at  this  moment,  the  U.  States 
ought  to  have  in  their  service  faithful  and  intelligent  Agents  in 
Mexico,  in  Caraccas,  in  Peru  &  elsewhere  upon  the  Southern 
Continent.  The  work  is  begun  and  no  earthly  power  can  stop 
its  projects  — the  ^Era  of  Emancipation  advances  and  the  day  of 
complete  deliverance  is  at  hand  ;  the  scourge  of  Europe  may 
prove  to  be  the  deliverer  of  America.  If  instead  of  a  miserable 
and  inglorious  struggle  for  mere  personal  preferment,  in  which 
the  vices,  not  the  virtues,  of  the  People  are  cultivated,  in  which 
we  are  arraying  brother  against  brother,  father  against  son,  and 
vice  against  virtue,  the  U.  States,  the  elder  sons  of  Freedom, 
would  perform  their  duty  ;  this  mighty  event  would  be  accel- 
erated and  not  only  so,  but  those  who  are  without  experience 
might  have  wisdom  from  us,  and  many  and  great  evils,  which 
otherwise  will  happen,  might  be  avoided.  Instead  of  a  divided 
we  should  become  a  united  people,  acting  upon  a  system  of 
affirmative  and  great  policy,  and  not  forever  quibbling  and  squab- 
bling and  wasting  our  character  and  resources  upon  secondary, 
inferior  and  litigious  controversies. 

From  the  preceding  views,  it  would  seem  that  the  Mission  of 
H.  was  not  a  violation  of  any  of  our  national  rights  ;  on  the  con- 
trary, that  it  was  a  proceeding  of  precaution  and  of  prudence, 
which  nations  are  accustomed  in  similar  circumstances  to  adopt  ; 
and  we  presume  that  the  Cabinet  at  Washington  cannot  be  with- 
out Documents,  concerning  the  late  transactions  which  occurred 
in  the  Floridas  ;  and  it  would  be  strange  indeed  were  not  the 
American  Agents  still  continued  in  these  provinces. 

But  admitting  even  that  the  Mission  of  Henry  was  a  violation 
of  our  rights — from  which  did  the  injury  proceed — from  the  Gov- 
ernor of  the  Br.  Colonies  ? — was  he  authorized  to  commit  this 
injury,  or  like  Adl.  Berkley,  did  he  act  without  orders  ? 

When  Sir  Guy  Carleton,  former  Governor  of  these  British  Prov- 
inces made  a  Speech  to  the  Inds.,  which  was  justly  exceptionable 
and  offensive  to  the  U.  States,  did  he  act  pursuant  to  the  orders 
of  his  Government  ?  At  any  rate  his  Speech  was  disavowed  and 
he  recalled,  and  the  Minister  declared  on  the  occasion  in  the  H. 


1812]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  26 1 

of  Commons  that  he,  Guy,  must  have  been  mad  or  drunk  when  he 
made  the  Speech. 

Men  of  the  President's  age,  as  a  public  man,  will  perhaps  rec- 
ollect the  Proceedings  instituted  in  this  Country  by  the  Spanish 
Minister  Gardoqui  in  connexion  with  American  citizens  residing 
upon  the  Western  waters  ;  younger  men  will  probably  remember 
the  proceedings  of  more  than  one  of  the  French  Ministers  in  con- 
nexion with  the  same  description  of  citizens.  These  were  un- 
doubtedly violations  of  our  national  rights,  which  would  have 
authorized  the  Government  to  call  upon  the  Sovereigns  of  these 
Ministers  to  disavow  and  punish  them.  But  until  such  demand 
had  been  made  and  refused,  would  it  not  have  been  premature  to 
have  imputed  these  delinquencies  to  their  Sovereigns? 

The  case  of  the  violation  of  an  important  national  right  by  the 
Governor  of  Louisiana  cannot  be  forgotten.  He  suspended  a 
stipulation  of  a  Treaty  between  the  U.  States  and  his  Master,  and 
in  effect,  put  an  end  to  our  navigation  of  the  Mississippi.  On 
looking  back  to  the  discussions  of  that  day  will  it  not  be  found 
that  it  was  not  deemed  correct,  without  enquiry  to  consider  the 
suspension  as  the  act  of  the  King  of  Spain  ?  If  then  in  the  case 
of  Genl.  Carleton,  of  the  Sp.  &  Fr.  Ministers,  of  the  Governor  of 
Louisiana,  of  Adml.  Berkley,  it  was  not  thought  right  to  demand 
an  explanation  of  their  Sovereigns  before  the  injury  received  was 
imputed  to  them,  why  does  the  case  of  Govr.  Craig  form  an  ex- 
ception ?  Why  does  the  President  without  enquiry  impute  his 
act  to  his  Principal  ?  Are  there  two  rules  of  justice  upon  the 
same  matter,  or  is  justice  one  and  immutable,  and  at  all  times 
and  in  all  places  the  same  ? 

Upon  the  whole,  Henry's  Mission  was  innocent  or  criminal  ;  if 
innocent,  it  certainly  should  not  have  been  presented  to  the  nation 
at  all,  much  less  in  the  light  it  has  been  :  if  criminal,  it  should  in 
the  first  instance  have  been  made  the  subject  of  complaint  to  the 
British  Government,  according  to  the  practice  of  our  own  Gov- 
ernment on  former  and  much  more  important  occasions.*  There 
must  have  been  therefore  some  other  purpose  than  the  ostensible 
one,  which  has  induced  the  President  to  dispose  of  the  public 
money  for  Henry's  secret  and  to  send  this  Message  to  Congress. 
On  this  subject  it  is  best  to  speak  out  and  to  discard  all  affecta- 

*  Genet's  appeal. 


262  RUFUS  KING.  [1812 

tion.  It  is  notorious,  then,  that  this  Country  is  divided  into  two 
parties  ;  that  one  of  them  is  charged  with  entertaining  a  prefer- 
ence for  connexions  with  France  and  the  other  with  England. 
The  Revolution  left  a  mass  of  prejudices  upon  the  People  against 
England,  and  in  favour  of  France.  Our  Government  is  popular, 
the  People  are  the  fountain  of  power  ;  by  their  favour  can  ambi- 
tious men  acquire  eminence.  Upon  these  data  are  our  Parties 
founded — France  and  England  alike  regard  us  in  subordination 
to  each  one's  interests  and  views  ;  and  so  ought  we  to  regard 
them  :  but  instead  of  seeking  what  would  be  for  the  honour  and 
advantage  of  the  Nation,  in  reference  to  either  of  these  powers, 
the  sole  enquiry  seems  to  be  what  will  most  contribute  to  the  inter- 
est and  predominance  of  our  Party  ? 

Whether  it  be  a  Law  to  elect  Members  of  the  State  or  General 
Government,  a  Law  respecting  Banks  or  other  Corporations,  a 
Law  imposing  Taxes,  or  providing  for  a  land  or  Naval  Force  ; 
whether  it  be  a  foreign  mission,  or  a  Message  from  the  State  or 
National  Executive,  instead  of  their  being  formed  and  adopted 
with  a  just  regard  to  the  rights  and  welfare  of  all,  these  measures 
are  regulated  and  adjusted  to  the  partial  and  ruinous  view  of  pre- 
serving power  in  the  hands  of  the  ruling  Party. 

It  is  contrary  to  all  experience  and  argues  an  utter  want  of  knowl- 
edge of  the  character  and  decisions  of  the  human  mind,  to  believe 
that  a  People  of  great  pride  and  enterprize,  who  detest  idleness  & 
whose  habits  urge  them  to  unceasing  activity,  can  for  any  length  of 
time  be  induced  to  suspend  their  employment,  to  relinquish  their 
pursuits  and  contentedly  refer  to  others  the  time  and  manner  of 
their  resuming  them. 


G.  Morris  to  R.  King. 

Morrisania,  3d  May,  1812. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  return  with  thanks  the  Chronicle.  His  discolored  Facts  are 
still  Facts,  and  the  Paint  rubbed  off,  shew  a  situation  which  at 
the  first  Glance  is  not  favourable  to  Spanish  Liberty.  That  their 
nobles  would  betray  them  I  had  never  a  doubt.  That  they  are 
still  at  Heart  indisposed  to  a  Course  which  will,  probably  reduce 
them  to  a  Level  with  the  Commons  I  cannot  but  believe.      That 


1812]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  263 

Actions  corresponding  to  such  Sentiments  must  happen  is  self- 
evident  ;  and  what  is  the  Conclusion  to  be  drawn  ?  that  in  the 
national  Ferment  the  Scum  of  their  Nobility  will  by  Reason  of 
those  very  Actions  be  purged  off. 

The  Chronicle  Editor,  and  by  that  Word  I  mean  also  the  would 
be  Ministers  in  Opposition,  seems  bewildered  beyond  Measure  in 
his  Reasoning  on  Ld.  Wellington's  Position.  His  Diversions  are 
indeed  diverting.  His  Lordship  seems  to  have  been  fairly  outwitted 
by  Marmont  ;  but  no  Generalship  will  enable  Boys  to  beat  men. 
The  Battle  of  Salamanca  proves  the  Truth  of  an  Opinion  I  formed 
long  since  on  what  I  believe  to  have  been  an  impartial  View  of  the 
contending  Nations.  The  cool  and  steady  Valor  of  the  English 
will  bear  down  all  opposition  from  the  French.  These  indeed 
stand  in  awe  of  their  Enemies,  who  go  into  Action,  when  tolerably 
led,  with  a  Confidence  which  ensures  Success.  Apropos  you 
have  doubtless  heard,  as  I  have,  that  Admiral  Sawyer,  when  our 
Declaration  of  War  was  the  Subject  of  Conversation  in  a  large 
Company  of  naval  Officers,  said  to  them,  "  Remember  Gentlemen 
these  are  not  Frenchmen  whom  you  are  now  going  to  fight." 

Marmont  had  manoeuvred  so  as  to  turn  his  Adversary's  Right 
and  nothing  remained  but  to  sustain  his  Position  two  Days  or  fall 
back  one  Day,  so  as  to  form  a  Junction  with  Joseph.  As  the 
Matter  now  stands,  that  is  to  say  as  it  stood  when  we  last  heard, 
the  British  are  in  the  center  and  can  destroy  the  different  French 
Corps  in  Detail — Provided  always  they  succeed  in  Season  ag.  the 
Army  of  the  North.  I  presume  that  this  Army,  viz  Marmont's, 
with  the  Troops  that  were  on  the  Northwest  of  the  Ebro  will  avoid 
an  action  and  will  therefore  be  driven  out  of  old  Castile.  While 
this  is  doing,  the  Troops  in  Grenada  and  Andalusia  will  I  suppose 
be  concentrated  in  Cordova.  On  the  other  Hand  Genl.  Hill 
will  probably  take  Post  at  Talavera  de  la  Reyna  and  Toledo. 
What  is  to  be  done  by  the  diverting  Troops  at  Alicant  I  do  not 
know.  If  they  can  penetrate  to  Albarete  on  the  Borders  of  New 
Castile  they  will  be  of  great  Importance.  The  Garrison  at  Cadiz 
and  all  the  Spanish  Corps  in  Andalusia  and  Grenada  will  form  a 
Junction  as  soon  as  the  French  leave  Cordova  and  hang  on  their 
Rear.  It  will  then  be  a  matter  of  serious  Consideration  with  the 
French  General  whether  to  attempt  marching  into  New  Castile 
or  forming  a  Junction  with  Joseph's  Troops  and  so  moving  along 


264  RUFUS  KING.  [181 2 

the  Coast  into  Catalonia,  or  remaining  in  Andalusia  so  as  to 
occupy  a  Part  of  the  allied  Army  there.  In  each  of  these  Plans 
there  are  manifold  Risques.  Lord  Wellington  after  leaving  a 
sufficient  Corps  of  Observation  in  the  Northwestern  Corner  of 
Old  Castile  can  assemble,  especially  if  joined  by  the  Troops  which 
were  at  Alicant  in  manner  already  mentd.,  an  effective  Army  of 
80,000  men  in  the  Center  of  New  Castile.  If  the  French  in 
Andalusia  attempt  a  March  into  that  Kingdom,  they  must,  I  should 
suppose,  be  destroyed.  If  they  go  along  the  Mediterranean  they 
can  be  anticipated  long  before  they  reach  the  Ebro.  And  even 
after  a  Junction  shall  have  been  formed  with  the  Troops  of 
Joseph  the  finding  of  Subsistence  will  be  no  small  Difficulty. 
Desertion  of  the  Juramentados  and  indeed  of  every  Sort  of  Troops 
will  be  a  serious  Inconvenience.  In  short,  if  the  Remnant  of 
Marmont's  Troops  with  such  Aid  as  can  be  collected  is  not  able 
to  oppose  the  Allies,  I  do  not  see  how  the  Emperor  is  to  keep  any 
Hold  of  the  Peninsula. 

I  have  not  seen  the  Russian  Correspondence  you  mention,  but 
I  never  questioned  the  Propriety  of  the  Copenhagen  Business. 
Britain  would  have  been  long  since  in  a  much  better  condition 
had  she  determined  at  first  to  attack  her  several  enemies.  As  to 
the  Part  we  shall  pursue,  it  will  I  think  depend  on  the  now  pending 
Election.  If  Madison  be  rechosen,  We,  if  by  that  you  mean  the 
United  States,  shall  not  I  believe  make  Peace  with  England.  If 
Clinton  be  chosen  We  shall.  In  the  former  Category,  We  may 
perhaps  not  be  the  United  States  and  in  that  Case,  &c,  &c,  &c. 

Yours  truly, 

Gouvr.  Morris. 

Statement  in  R.  King's  Handwriting. 

War   with    England  declared,    June    18,    1812. 

Monday,  July  27. — Mr.  Coleman  called  on  me,  for  the  purpose, 
as  he  stated,  of  consulting  me  respecting  the  State  of  the  Country. 
He  commenced  by  observing  that  the  manner  of  calling  out  the 
Militia  was  somewhat  extraordinary  ;  the  northern  Militia  were 
coming  to  serve  in  the  City,  while  that  of  the  City  were  to  be  sent 
to  serve  in  the  North. 


1812]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  265 


I  remarked  that  as  no  invasion  existed,  the  Detachment  of  the 
Militia  seemed  to  be  illegal — moreover  when  lawfully  detached, 
it  should  be  in  Corps,  entire  Companies  or  Regiments,  so  that 
the  men  should  only  serve  under  their  own  officers  ;  that  the 
Militia  was  an  organized  Body,  and  was  liable  to  serve  only  ac- 
cording to  such  organization  ;  that  the  Militia  acting  with  the 
regular  troops,  would  be  commanded  by  the  officer  of  highest 
rank — when  the  rank  was  the  same,  the  regular  officer  wd.  com- 
mand ;  that  a  regular  officer  without  regular  troops  ought  not  to 
command  the  Militia. 

Mr.  Coleman  then  spoke  of  the  encreasing  dissatisfaction  with 
the  war,  and  desire  of  Peace — that  the  City  wished  for  a  meeting 
of  the  Citizens  to  express  this  Desire — that  Mr.  J.  Radcliff  recently 
had  spoken  to  him  ; — that  Mr.  R.  had  quitted  Mr.  Wolcott  and 
become  a  peace  man — that  he  had  said  that  he  had  some  personal 
Difference  with  me,  but  that  this  circumstance  did  not  influence 
him,  and  he  hoped  that  I  wd.  co-operate  with  the  friends  of 
Peace,  and  that  he  wished  that  I,  Mr  Morris,  Genl.  Clarkson, 
Mr.  Varick,  and  Mr.  Harison  wd.  consent  to  be  a  Committee  to 
prepare  an  address  and  Resolutions  to  be  adopted  by  the  City  on 
the  actual  posture  of  the  Country. 

Mr.  Coleman  said  that  he  had  come  to  Jamaica  on  this  business, 
&  that  a  Committee  composed  of  a  number  from  each  ward  had 
agreed  to  recommend  a  City  Meeting  on  Tuesday,  5th  of  August. 

I  observed  that  I  had  no  personal  animosity  to  Mr.  Radcliff, 
tho'  I  had  little  respect  for  his  judgment  ;  that  I  was  ready  toco- 
operate  with  him  or  others  in  any  measures  likely  to  promote  the 
public  welfare,  and  that  he  was  authorized  to  say  so  to  Mr.  R. 

That  I  thought  it  very  desirable  that  Mr.  Jay  shd.  be  invited  to 
meet  a  few  of  his  friends  for  the  purpose  of  consulting  together 
respecting  the  public  affairs,  and  especially  concerning  the  pro- 
posed City  meeting  ;  that  I  recommended  that  Mr.  P.  A.  Jay  sh'd 
go  to  his  father  and  express  the  desire  of  myself  and  others  that 
he  would  attend  such  meeting  ;  that  Genl.  Clarkson  shd.  be  con- 
sulted, and  that  I  would  go  to  town  on  the  next  day  for  this 
purpose. 

Mr.  Coleman  observed  that  Sylvanus  Millar  and  some  other 
Persons  went  to  Pennsylvania  on  the  preceding  Friday,  to  treat 
in  behalf  of  Mr.  De  Witt  Clinton,  who  yesterday  asked  of  Mr.  S. 


266  RUFUS  KING.  [1812 

Boyd  a  letter  introducing  these  Gentlemen  to  Mr.  Hare  of  Phila- 
delphia— that  De  Witt  Clinton  wd.  engage,  if  chosen  President, 
to  make  immediate  Peace  with  England  and  that  he  called  him- 
self an  Aitierican  Federalist :  that  on  the  return  of  Quincy,  Emott 
and  others  from  Congress,  they  held  a  conference  with  him,  D. 
B.  Ogden,  Peter  Radcliff,  Jones  &  others,  concerning  the  Presi- 
dency :  that  it  appeared  that  the  Federalists  in  Congress  despaired 
of  being  able  to  elect  a  federal  President  and  that  they  wd.  pre- 
fer Clinton  to  Madison  :  that  the  Senate  of  Mass.  was  democratic, 
but  that  three  of  them  wd.  unite  with  the  Federalists  to  choose 
Clintonian  Electors  ;  that  Clinton  wd.  obtain  support  in  Maryland, 
in  Ohio,  and  North  Carolina  ;  that  in  these  circumstances,  they 
desired  to  know  whether  the  Feds,  in  N.  Y.  wd.  support  Clinton. 
Mr.  P.  Radcliff  declined  engaging  in  anything  in  favor  of  Mr. 
Clinton,  others  hesitated  ;  the  Congressmen  were,  however,  author- 
ized to  say  that  New  York  federalists  would,  if  possible,  choose 
federal  Electors,  and  if  they  despaired  of  a  federal  President, 
they  would  vote  for  Clinton  to  keep  out  Madison. 

Mr.  Coleman  shewed  me  two  letters  from  Benj.  Stoddart  of 
Maryland  (formerly  Secretary  of  the  Navy)  urging  Marshall  as 
fed.  Candidate  for  President,  and  King  or  Clinton  as  V.  P.,  Mar- 
shall alone  being  able  to  take  Virginia  from  Madison.  Mr.  Cole- 
man observed  that  Mr.  Joseph  O.  Hoffman  had  pledged  the  City 
delegation  to  Clinton — a  proceeding  that  some  persons  did  not 
approve, — and  that  late  accounts  from  Pennsylvania  made  it 
doubtful  whether  Clinton  wd.  prevail  over  Madison  in  that  State. 

Friday,  July  31. — Being  on  a  visit  to  Hell  Gate,  Dr.  Mason  hav- 
ing been  at  Jamaica  and  learned  that  I  should  not  return  home 
that  Evening,  followed  me  at  a  late  hour  to  Mr.  Grade's.  In  an 
interview  with  him,  after  the  Family  had  retired  to  bed,  the  Doc- 
tor stated  that  having  called  on  Mr.  D.  W.  Clinton  on  business 
of  the  College,  after  finishing  his  conversation  on  this  subject,  a 
free  conversation  took  place  between  himself  and  Mr.  Clinton 
concerning  public  affairs,  and,  especially,  relative  to  the  combina- 
tion of  the  Southern  States  to  govern  the  Nation,  to  oppress  com- 
merce and  degrade  the  Northern  States.  Mr.  Clinton  avowed 
his  determination  to  oppose  these  views  of  the  Southern  States, 
&  for  this  purpose  expressed  his  Readiness  to  meet  and  confer 
with  any  respectable  men  of  the  federal  Party,  with  the  view  of 


1812]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  267 

effecting  the  Union  of  the  State  of  N.  York.  The  Doctor  enlarged 
on  these  topics  and  made  many  observations  of  a  personal  char- 
acter affecting  myself,  and  concluded  by  asking  whether  I  wd. 
meet  &  confer  with  Mr.  Clinton. 

I  explained  to  the  Doctor  my  Engagement  to  confer  with  Mr. 
Jay,  Mess.  Morris,  Clarkson,  Varick  and  Harison,  and  added  that 
I  was  unwilling  to  give  an  answer  to  his  Enquiry,  and  shd.  prefer 
stating  what  he  had  communicated  to  the  persons  above  named, 
in  order  that  they  might  express  an  opinion  respecting  the  ex- 
pediency of  the  proposed  Conference  with  Mr.  Clinton.  This 
being  acquiesced  in  by  Doct.  Mason,  I  engaged  to  make  the 
Communication. 

Aug.  3. — Went  to  Morrisania  to  meet  Mr.  Jay,  Morris  &  Clark- 
son — communicated  to  them  the  Proposition  from  Mr.  Clinton 
by  Doct.  Mason.  Mr.  Jay  produced  and  read  the  Draft  of  a 
Set  of  Resolutions  to  be  adopted  by  the  City.  I  also  read  a 
Sketch  wh.  I  had  prepared — a  free  conference  ensued — the  Result 
was  an  opinion  that  it  was  desirable  to  unite  the  State  of  New 
York  in  favor  of  Peace,  and  that  a  Conference  with  Mr.  Clinton 
for  this  purpose  was  expedient ;  but  that  this  shd.  be  the  sole  ob- 
ject of  the  Conference.  I  objected  to  the  interview  &  Conference 
with  Mr.  Clinton,  but  finally  acquiesced  &  consented  to  be  present 
with  Mr.  Jay  &  Mr.  Morris  at  the  Interview  :  that  to  affect  the 
union  of  N.  Y.  and  if  practicable  to  extend  the  Peace  party,  it 
would  be  expedient  that  Delegates  from  each  County  in  the  State 
shd.  be  appointed  with  authority  to  confer  with  each  other  and 
with  the  Peace  Party  in  other  States. 

In  the  Conference  with  Mr.  Clinton  in  addition  to  the  object  of 
the  formation  of  a  Peace  Party,  that  nothing  should  be  added — 
if  any  other  topic  shd.  be  named,  that  it  shd.  be  said,  that  in  re- 
spect to  any  general  or  continental  measure  (meaning  the  Elec- 
tion of  President)  the  same  must  be  matter  of  concert  with  the 
Friends  of  Peace  in  other  States.  Mr.  Clarkson  left  us  after  dinner 
and  engaged  to  notify  Harison  and  Varick. 

Tuesday,  August  4. — Still  at  Morrisania — Harison  &  Varick 
joined  us.  Mr.  Morris  having  drawn  up  a  Paper,  embodying  the 
principal  Points  of  yesterday's  Discussion,  the  same  was  repeat- 
edly gone  over  &  corrected.  After  dinner  Harison  and  Varick 
went  to  town,  the  latter  being  charged  to  call  on  Doctor  Mason 


268  RUFUS  KING.  [1812 


to  inform  him  that  his  Communication  to  me  respecting  the  views 
of  DeW.  Clinton  had  been  made  and  considered,  and  that  Mr. 
Jay,  King  and  Morris  wd.  confer  with  him  on  the  next  day,  if  he 
wd.  come  for  that  purpose  to  Morrisania.  Dr.  Mason  having  in- 
timated that  he  also  wd.  accompany  Mr.  Clinton  in  the  proposed 
conference  with  Mr.  King,  Mr.  Varick  was  desired  to  state  that 
as  Clarkson,  Harison  &  Varick  would  not  be  present,  it  had  been 
thought  expedient  to  confine  the  meeting  to  Mr.  Jay,  King,  Mor- 
ris &  Clinton — Mr.  Varick  was  requested  to  send  a  message,  if 
Mr.  Clinton  declined  attending. 

Wednesday,  Aug.  5th. — At  breakfast  received  a  Letter  from 
Mr.  Varick,  reporting  that  he  had  executed  his  Commission  by 
delivering  it  to  Doct.  Mason  and  thro'  him  received  from  Mr.  Clin- 
ton the  answer  that  it  was  his  Desire  and  intention  to  meet  us  at 
Morrisania  to-day  as  soon  as  he  could  get  out  of  the  Mayor's 
Court,  which  he  hoped  would  not  be  later  than  2  o'clock  p.m. 
Mr.  Jay  was  a  good  deal  unwell  ;  we  however  revised  the  Draft 
of  the  City  Resolutions,  waited  dinner  till  4  o'ck.  Mr.  Clinton 
arrived  while  we  were  at  table,  joined  us  before  the  Dessert  was 
removed.  Mr.  Jay  had  ordered  his  carriage  for  5  o'clk.  to  go  & 
sleep  at  his  friend  Cortlandt's  at  Yonkers  :  about  this  hour  we  all 
left  the  table  and  went  to  Mr.  Morris'  Library.  According  to  a 
previous  arrangement  (Mr.  Jay  having  declined  on  account  of  ill 
health  and  the  want  of  acquaintance,  to  conduct  the  Conference 
with  Mr.  Clinton)  Mr.  Morris  opened  it,  by  stating  the  occasion 
of  our  meeting  and  that  the  Communication,  thro'  Doctor  Mason, 
having  been  made  to  us,  we  had  desired  Doctor  Mason  to  inform 
him  of  our  meeting,  as  well  as  of  its  object  ;  and  to  propose  that 
he  should  come  to  Morrisania  to  confer  with  us.  Mr.  Morris 
then  read  to  him  the  Resolutions  which  we  had  prepared  for  the 
City  Meeting.     Here  Mr.  Morris  paused. 

Mr.  Clinton  immediately  observed  that  in  the  interview  that 
had  been  mentioned  between  him  &  Doct.  Mason,  the  Doctor 
having  asked  him  whether  he  would  meet  and  confer  with  a  re- 
spectable Federalist,  he  had  answered  in  the  affirmative.  Mr. 
Clinton  then  observed,  that  he  supposed  that  he  did  not  differ 
from  us  in  opinions  respecting  the  public  affairs  and  that  he  en- 
tirely approved  of  the  Resolutions  that  had  been  read  to  him. 
But  as  his  friends,  comprehending  a  great  majority  of  the  Repub- 


1812]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  269 


lican  Party  in  the  State,  were  divided  in  their  opinions  respecting 
the  war — prejudices  against  England  leading  some  of  them  to 
approve  of  the  war, — Time  was  necessary  to  bring  them  to  one 
opinion.  Disastrous  Events  had  already  happened,  and  owing 
to  the  incapacity  of  the  national  administration  still  further  mis- 
fortunes would  occur,  and  would  serve  to  produce  an  union  of 
opinion  respecting  the  war  ;  that  for  these  Reasons  the  proposed 
Peace  meeting  in  the  City  should  be  deferred  four  or  five  weeks  ; 
in  the  interim  he  would  confer  with  his  friends  for  the  purpose 
of  bringing  about  a  common  opinion  ;  that  he  did  not  recommend 
Delay  with  a  view  of  temporising,  for  that  he  was  decided  ;  that 
he  would  have  received  what  should  have  satisfied  him,  especially 
as  he  was  yet  a  young  man,  provided  he  would  have  consented  to 
continue  with  Mr.  Madison  and  his  administration,  but  that  his 
knowledge  of  his  incapacity  would  not  permit  the  continuance  of 
this  Connection  any  longer  ;  that  he  was  separated  from  the  ad- 
ministration forever  :  that  he  pledged  his  honor  that  the  breach 
was  irreparable  :  that  for  political  Reasons  he  found  it  expedient 
to  avoid  publicity  on  this  subject,  on  his  own  account  and  in  re- 
spect to  his  political  friends  :  that  Armstrong  governed  Spencer 
"  who  was  his  Creature,"  that  Spencer  had  an  influence  on  Tomp- 
kins and  Taylor  :  that  Armstrong  while  carrying  on  a  negotiation 
with  the  administration  to  be  a  Brigadier  General  was  engaged  in 
measures  to  procure  a  Peace  meeting  in  Dutchess  County,  in 
which  he  offered  to  preside  :  "  that  he  had  been  bought  off  by 
the  miserable  Commission  of  a  Brigadier  General." 

In  respect  to  the  City  Meeting  Mr.  Clinton  said  he  would  ap- 
prize the  movers  of  his  ulterior  views  on  Monday  August  10, 
when  the  Canal  Commissioners  would  hold  a  meeting. 

In  reference  to  the  actual  state  of  public  opinion  throughout 
the  country,  Mr.  Clinton  observed,  that  in  Massachusetts  a  very 
great  change  had  taken  place,  that  instead  of  Fifty  thousand 
votes,  Gerry  would  not  obtain  half  that  number  ;  that  if  Penn- 
sylvania would  be  combined,  she  would  come  out  right  :  that 
Logan,  Read,  son  of  the  Governor,  and  Sergeant,  son  of  the  emi- 
nent lawyer  of  that  name,  with  others  were  his  friends  and  would 
co-operate  to  extend  and  establish  sound  opinions  ;  Gilman  had 
informed  him  that  New  Hampshire  would  have  been  well  united 
had  not  the  indiscreet  Violence  of  Boston  prevented  it. 


270  KUFUS  KING.  [181 2 

Almost  six  o'clk  Mr.  Jay  got  into  his  carriage  to  go  to  Mr. 
Cortlandt's,  Mr.  Clinton  remaining.  Mr.  Morris  resumed  the 
conversation  with  him,  by  observing  to  Mr.  Clinton,  you  may  ex- 
pect that  we  shd.  say  something  upon  other  topics  than  that  of  the 
desired  union  of  a  Peace  Party.  Mr.  Clinton  said  that  he  thought 
other  topics  had  better  not  now  be  spoken  of  ;  Mr.  Morris  how- 
ever stated  that  in  our  opinion  all  general  or  continental  measures 
should  be  referred  to  the  consideration  of  the  Peace  Party  through- 
out the  Union. 

Mr.  Morris  this  evening  wrote  a  note  to  Clarkson,  Harison  & 
Varick,  confidentially  advising  them  that  a  meeting  with  Mr. 
Clinton  had  taken  place  and  desiring  to  see  them  at  his  Sister 
Mrs.  Ogden's,  in  the  city  at  9  o'clock  on  Monday  Aug.  10. 

Returned  home  this  evening. 

P.S.  After  communicating  to  MM.  Jay  &  Morris  Mr.  Clinton's 
overture  to  confer  with  any  respectable  Federalists,  I  observed  to 
them  that  my  first  inclination  was  in  favor  of  the  expediency  of 
conferring  with  Mr.  Clinton,  but  that  on  farther  reflection  I  was 
disinclined  to  the  measure.  That  I  looked  upon  Mr.  Clinton  as 
upon  every  other  Leader  of  a  Faction  ;  that  so  long  as  he  went 
on  according  to  their  views  and  bias,  so  long  he  wd.  lead  them, 
but  as  soon  as  he  opposed  their  views,  and  more  certainly  so  soon 
as  he  united  with  the  rival  Faction  for  any  purpose,  he  would  be 
deserted  by  his  own. 

With  Armstrong,  Spencer,  Tompkins  &  Taylor  opposed  to  him, 
it  was  questionable  whether  any  considerable  portion  of  the  Re- 
pubs,  would  follow  him  ;  that  unless  a  large  body  of  the  Repubs. 
come  with  him,  he  was  not  worth  accepting.  Besides  that,  it  was 
of  less  importance  that  the  Federalists  should  acquire  a  temporary 
ascendency  by  the  aid  of  a  portion  of  the  Repubs.  than  that  their 
reputation  and  integrity  shd.  be  preserved  unblemished  ;  that  any 
coalition  in  which  they  were  to  submit  to  the  control  of  their  op- 
ponents wd.  tarnish  their  character  and  justly  impair  their  influ- 
ence ;  that  Clinton  and  his  Partizans  wd.  give  such  report  of  the 
nature  of  the  conference  as  would  suit  their  own  views  ;  that  we 
might  be  misrepresented,  and  after  the  mischief  was  done,  should 
be  obliged  to  vindicate  our  reputation  by  explaining  what  passed 
in  our  Conference.  From  a  solicitude  to  extend  and  establish  a 
peace  party,  as  the  best  if  not  only  means  of  promoting  the  gen- 


1812]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  27 1 

eral  welfare,  MM.  Jay  &  Morris  were  inclined  to  confer  with  Mr. 
Clinton,  and  as  the  overture  came  from  him,  I  acquiesced.  Not 
to  meet  Mr.  Clinton  wd.  be  to  give  him  cause  of  offence  and  Mr. 
Morris,  who  had  been  of  late  much  with  Mr.  Clinton  on  the  busi- 
ness of  the  Canal,  intimated  that  Gerry  had  accepted  of  the  nomi- 
nation of  V.  P.  conditionally  and  stood  ready  to  resign  it  to  Mr. 
Clinton.  To  refuse  his  desire  of  a  conference  might  drive  him  to 
this  choice.  Monroe's  act.  had  been  passed.  Hall's  also  had 
been  allowed.  Gerry  was  poor  and  money  might  be  more  accepta- 
ble to  him. 

Friday,  Aug.  7. — Went  to  town — called  on  Mr.  Harison  and  ex- 
pressed to  him  my  opinion  that  the  city  meeting  must  not  be  de- 
layed according  to  Mr.  Clinton's  wishes  ;  that  it  might  suit  and 
promote  his  personal  objects  to  postpone  the  meeting,  but  that 
ours  which  were  altogether  of  a  public  nature  could  not  be  bene- 
fitted by  delay  :  that  much  excitement  was  understood  to  exist  in 
the  city,  and  the  motives  for  delay  would  not  be  understood  & 
could  not  be  explained. 

Saw  and  conversed  with  Mr.  Radcliff,  who  was  desirous  of  an 
early  meeting,  and  averse  to  any  co-operation  with  Mr.  Clinton. 
He  asked  and  I  mentioned  to  him,  as  I  also  did  in  confidence  to 
MM.  Gracie,  Benson  and  Bogart,  the  purport  of  the  interview 
with  Mr.  Clinton,  which,  as  I  stated  to  them  (whatever  were  the 
views  of  Mr.  Clinton  in  proposing  the  Conference)  was  confined 
to  the  plan  of  forming  a  Peace  Party,  every  other  topic  being 
wholly  excluded. 

August  18. — Went  to  Town,  and  attended  the  Peace  meeting, 
tho'  without  the  zeal  and  animation  ascribed  to  me  by  the  Even- 
ing Post.* 

Aug.  29,  1812. — Wenttotown   .     .     .     Saw  Mr.  Wolcott,  stayed 

*  Meeting  of  the  Friends  of  Liberty,  Peace,  and  Commerce. 

.  .  .  Never  in  the  annals  of  this  city  was  such  a  meeting  witnessed  for  its 
respectability  and  numbers.  Gentlemen  of  the  very  first  standing  in  society 
here,  together  with  many  from  the  vicinity,  among  whom  were  Mr.  King,  Col. 
Piatt,  and  Mr.  C.  J.  Bogart,  showed  themselves  at  the  Hall  and  were  seen 
among  the  most  zealous  and  animated  of  the  audience. 

Col.  Fish  was  Chairman  of  the  Meeting — Messrs.  John  Wells  and  D.  B.  Og- 
den  submitted  resolutions  which  were  passed — Mr.  Hoffman  addressed  the 
meeting — Mr.  King  did  not  speak. — Evening  Post,  Tuesday,  Aug.  18,  1812. 


272  RUFUS  KING.  [1812 

and  dined  ;  conversed  abt.  the  State  of  pub.  affairs.  Mr.  W.  averse 
to  Clinton's  choice  as  Presidt.  I  confidentially  told  him  all  that 
passed  at  Morrisania.  He  confirmed  in  substance  Hoffman's  in- 
formation, that  Judge  Griffith  of  N.  Jersey  &  Mr.  Wallace  being  at 
Cont.  when  the  Council  met  abt.  the  Militia  Drafts,  a  project  for  a 
Caucus  to  meet  in  N.  Y.  on  ye  15  Feb'y  was  agreed  upon  ;  Cont. 
to  notify  the  Eastern  States  &  Pennsylvania  to  notify  the  South- 
ern States.  Wolcott  said  he  shd.  busy  himself  in  the  business, 
whether  asked  to  do  so  or  not. 

He  then  with  some  hesitation  asked  me  if  I  shd.  object  to  be 
nominated  V.  Pr.  with  Marshall  or  Judge  Washington  as  Pr.  I 
replied  vaguely — afterwards  said  that  I  shd.  not  be  willing  to  be 
named  for  either  office  ;  that  the  Feds,  were  desirous  of  coalition 
with  Clinton  &  while  I  shd.  not  agree  to  that  plan,  it  was  proper 
that  it  shd.  be  understood  that  I  put  myself  out  of  all  question  by 
declining  a  nomination  to  any  station. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  July  17,  1812. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

.  .  I  have,  upon  the  best  consideration  I  have  been  able 
to  give  the  subject,  come  to  the  conclusion  that  there  will  be 
neither  sequestrations  nor  confiscations  on  either  side.  American 
effects  in  M'treal  will  be  more  exposed  to  hazard  from  our  own 
people,  shd.  the  Canada  Expedition  proceed  than  from  any  other 
obvious  cause. 

I  have  understood,  and  from  a  pretty  direct  channel,  that  the 
Expedition  agt.  Canada  is  postponed,  and  that  it  will  not  proceed 
this  year.  The  non-intercourse,  or  rather  non-importation  law 
remains  in  force,  but  must  I  conjecture  be  repealed  early  in  the 
next  Session  of  Congress.  If  we  make  no  objection,  Engd.  will 
oppose  no  impediments  to  supplying  us  with  their  manufactures. 
The  only  opposition  will  be  from  France  :  indeed  the  only  serious 
danger  to  our  Country  is  from  that  quarter.  I  regard  the  war,  as 
a  war  of  party,  &  not  of  the  Country — those  who  have  made  the 
war  will  dread  the  unpopularity  of  French  connexion,  and  hence 
my  hope  that  French  influence  will  be  kept  out. 

Such  are  our  wants,  and  such  the  difficulties  in  the  way  of  the 


1812]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  273 


supply  from  any  Country  but  England  that  I  am  persuaded  that 
Eng.  manufactures  will  be  admitted.  If  Miller  or  some  other 
agent  of  yr.  Nephew's  house  remains  in  Canada,  charged  with  the 
care  and  disposal  of  these  goods,  in  case  the  non-importation  shd. 
be  repealed,  they  may  be  imported  and  readily  sold — if  it  shd.  be 
continued,  such  will  be  the  demand  that  Eng.  goods  will  come 
into  the  country  by  illicit  means  :  while  I  shd.  dissuade  from  any 
connexion  in  the  attempt  to  introduce  the  goods  in  this  manner, 
I  see  no  reason  (if  a  demand  shd.  arise  for  the  goods  in  Montreal) 
agt.  the  sale  of  them  :  the  only  caution  shd.  be  directed  to  the 
security  of  payment. 

If  the  prohibitory  Laws  continue,  there  will  be  a  demand  for 
goods  by  persons  who  will  attempt  to  smuggle  them — in  this 
event  they  may  probably  be  sold  in  the  fall  or  winter.  If  these 
laws  are  repealed,  there  will  be  no  difficulty  in  their  impor- 
tation. 

The  war  cannot  be  carried  on  by  the  Militia.  A  regular  army 
will  be  enlisted  with  the  utmost  difficulty  ;  besides  money  cannot 
be  raised  by  Loans  :  and  if  Taxes  be  collected,  the  popularity  of 
the  Party  according  to  Mr.  Jefferson's  former  opinion,  must  be 
destroyed.  I  infer  that  the  war  will  drag  on  heavily  ;  that  it  will 
become  very,  and  extensively,  unpopular  ;  that  the  dread  of 
French  connexion  will  greatly  increase  the  mass  of  discontent  ; 
that  the  Congressional  Elections  will  show  the  perilous  unanimity 
of  the  Northern  States  agt.  the  war,  and  if  England  have  a  wise 
ministry,  we  must  soon  return  to  Peace. 

With  affectionate  regards  &c.  I  remain  always  yours, 

R.  K. 


D'Ivernois  to  R.  King. 

Londres,  CE28Juillet,  1812. 
Monsieur  : 

J'eus  l'honneur  de  vous  £crire  il  y  a  six  semaines,  une  longue 
lettre,  que  le  porteur,  Mr.  Caldwell  de  Quebec,  me  rapporta  le 
matin  meme  de  son  depart,  et  que  je  jettai  au  feu  en  apprenant 
de  lui  que  vous  ^tiez  en  mer  pour  une  mission  pacifique  dans  ce 
pays-ci.  Combien  les  choses  ont  change  depuis  cette  epoque,  et 
que  j'ai  le  coeur  gros  de  tout  ce  qui  se  passe  en  Amerique.   T  m'en 

VOL.  V. — 18 


274  RUFUS  KING.  [1812 

console  cependant  en  voyant  la  resistance  qu'epreuve  Bonaparte 
au  Midi  et  au  Nord  de  l'Europe.  Je  suis  si  content  de  voir  les 
Russes  se  preparer  de  lui  faire  une  veritable  guerre  d'epuisement 
que  je  n'ai  pu  resister  a.  l'envie  d'aller  la  voir  sur  les  lieux  meme, 
et  je  pars  dans  trois  jours  pour  Petersburg.  .  .  .  Agreez, 
Monsieur,  l'assurance  de  tous  les  sentimens  d'estime  et  d'attache- 
ment  que  je  vous  ai  voues.  F.  d'Ivernois. 


J.  Trumbull   to  R.  King. 

London,  August  19,  1812. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  enclosed  Newspapers  will  give  you  a  general  view  of  the 
present  State  of  affairs  in  Europe.  The  Nations  of  the  North  are 
combined  against  the  Emperor  of  France,  and  have  hitherto  con- 
ducted the  campaign  with  wisdom  and  success  ;  while  Lord 
Wellington  has  gained  a  victory  in  Spain  more  important  in  its 
consequences  than  was  that  of  Blenheim. 

Thus  while  America,  without  Troops,  Ships  or  Revenue,  petu- 
lantly declares  war  against  England,  in  the  mean  hope  of  coming 
in  at  the  death  of  the  Old  Lion  and  sharing  a  scrap  of  the  spoil, 
Russia,  Sweden,  Turkey  &  probably  Denmark — 70  to  80  Millions 
of  people,  warlike  and  powerful — throw  themselves  into  the 
opposite  scale.  Oh,  the  supernatural  Wisdom  of  Embargoes, 
non-intercourses,  non-importations,  and  declarations  of  war — the 
cunningly-varied  machinery  of  Jesuitical  co-operation  !   !   ! 

But  the  corn  of  the  North,  &  the  abundant  harvest  now  reaping 
here  will  supply  the  place  of  what  we  withhold  ;  and  the  opera- 
tions in  Spain  will  not  be  palsied  by  our  baseness  ;  that  was  the 
object  of  the  campaign  which  the  great  Emperor  dictated  to  his 
minions  in  Washington. 

.  .  .  We  had  taken  the  resolution  of  returning  to  New  York 
this  autumn  ;  but  the  madness  of  the  times  induces  us  to  hesitate  ; 
the  fate  of  the  civilized  world  hangs  on  the  passing  moment,  and 
I  cannot  but  hope  that  the  Besom  of  destruction  will  itself  soon 
be  destroyed.     .     .     .     [unsigned,  but  endorsed] 

Col.  Trumbull. 


1812]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  275 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Sep.  9,  1812. 

I  reed.,  my  dear  friend,  your  letter  of  the  2 2d  a  few  days  past. 
Theimbecillity  of  Madison  is  daily  more  manifest,  still  his  friends 
and  party  in  general  adhere  to  him.  I  think  the  result  of  the 
Election  in  No.  Carolina  still  uncertain  ;  I  mean  as  respects  fed- 
eral or  republican  superiority.  Virginia  is  making  a  federal  strug- 
gle, but  I  fear  with  little  probability  of  success.  Maryland  will, 
as  I  conjecture,  be  democratical,  but  of  what  sort  of  democracy, 
whether  Madisonian  or  Clintonian,  is  uncertain  ;  tho'  Madison's 
influence  will  most  likely  predominate  ;  Dele,  will  continue  fed- 
eral. An  effort  is  making  by  the  Feds,  and  the  malcontents  of 
the  democrats  in  Pennsylvania  in  Clinton's  favour  ;  I  think  they 
will  fail,  as  I  regard  democracy  more  firmly  seated  in  Pennsyl- 
vania than  in  any  of  the  States  near  her.  New  Jersey  is  uncer- 
tain, but  may  with  federal  aid  become  Clintonian.  This  State  I 
believe  at  this  moment  to  be  federal  ;  with  exertions,  were  it 
worth  while,  fedl.  Electors  might  be  chosen.  But  it  seems  proba- 
ble that  things  will  be  ordered  here  favourably  for  Mr.  Clinton's 
views.  To-day  we  are  told,  that  contrary  to  confident  expecta- 
tion, Vermont  will  be  democratic  &  Madisonian.  Of  New  Hamp- 
shire I  have  no  information.  Connt,  R.  I.  and  Mass.  will  act 
together.  I  am  not  quite  determined,  but  am  inclined  to  attend 
the  meeting  which  is  to  be  held  here  on  the  15th.  In  conse- 
quence of  the  New  York  Meeting  and  Resolutions  we  are  hold- 
ing County  Meetings  in  all  the  Southern  Counties  of  the  State. 
They  are  numerously  attended,  and  in  some  cases  by  men  of  con- 
sequence of  the  democratical  party.  In  this  quarter  the  War  has 
dissatisfied  a  considerable  portion  of  that  Body  ;  but  they  are 
timid,  and  fear  some  inconvenience  from  meeting  with  their 
political  opponents.  It  is  in  contemplation  that  the  Representa- 
tives chosen  by  the  "  Peace  Meetings,"  as  they  are  called,  shd. 
meet  at  Albany  abt.  the  middle  of  Octr.  I  have  engaged  to  at- 
tend the  meeting  shd.  it  be  held.     .     .     . 

I  am  always,  faithfully  yrs. 

R.  K. 


2j6  RUFUS  KING.  [1812 

R.  King  to  Mr.  Gore. 

{Copy.) 
My  dear  Sir  :  Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Sept.  19,  1812. 

I  balanced  much  whether  I  would  attend  the  meeting  in  New 
York  respecting  the  approaching  Presidential  Election.*     I  had 

*  J.  Radcliff  to  R.  King. 
DR  Sir  :  New  York,  Sept.  12,  1812. 

Since  I  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you  the  Corresponding  Committee  of  the 
Federal  Republicans  of  this  city  have  directed  me  particularly  to  request  the 
favor  of  your  attendance  at  the  meeting  to  be  held  here  on  the  15th  instant  ; 
the  objects  of  which  have  already  been  mentioned  as  far  as  my  information 
extends. 

It  is  not  only  the  wish  and  expectation  of  our  friends  in  this  State,  but 
Gentlemen  from  Connecticut  &  I  believe  from  other  States  have  expressed  an 
anxious  desire  that  you  and  Mr.  Jay  should  attend  this  meeting.  Questions  of 
primary  importance  will  no  doubt  be  made  and  perhaps  be  decided,  and  we 
hope  you  will  not  fail  to  afford  us  your  counsel  and  advice. 

On  behalf  of  the  Corresponding  Committee,  I  have  the  honor  to  be  with 
great  regard,  your  most  obed.  Jacob  Radcliff. 

The  meeting  referred  to  is  thus  spoken  of  by  Hildreth,  United  States  History, 
vi.,  p.  376  :  "  For  the  purpose  of  deciding  what  course  their  party  should  take,  a 
convention  of  Federalists  from  all  the  States  North  of  the  Potomac,  with  dele- 
gates also  fom  South  Carolina,  assembled  in  New  York.  They  met  privately, 
with  closed  doors,  and  three  days  were  consumed  in  eager  debates.  The  adop- 
tion of  Clinton  as  their  candidate  was  very  eagerly  opposed  by  King  and 
others,  who  denounced  him  as  a  mere  ambitious  demagogue,  a  second  Aaron 
Burr.  That  course  was,  nevertheless,  finally  agreed  upon,  principally  through 
the  urgency  and  eloquence  of  Otis,  on  the  ground  that  the  defeat  of  Madison 
would  speedily  lead  to  a  peace,  for  which  the  door  stood  open  in  the  repeal  of 
the  orders  in  council.  The  Clintonians  in  their  turn  agreed  to  adopt  as  their 
candidate  for  the  vice-presidency  Jared  Ingersoll,  a  Pennsylvanian  of  New 
England  origin." 

Henry  Adams,  in  History  of  the  U.  S.,  vi.,  p.  410,  after  justly  characterizing 
the  canvass  for  the  Presidency  in  New  York  on  behalf  of  De  Witt  Clinton  as 
being  most  discreditable,  and  giving  his  reasons  for  this  opinion,  says  : 

"  Federalists  held  a  conference  at  New  York  in  September  and  in  spite  of 
Rufus  King,  who  was  said  to  have  denounced  Clinton  as  a  dangerous  demagogue 
in  almost  the  words  used  by  Hamilton  to  denounce  Aaron  Burr  ten  years  before, 
after  three  days'  debate,  largely  through  the  influence  of  Harrison  Gray  Otis, 
the  bargain  was  made  which  transferred  to  Clinton  the  electoral  votes  of  the 
federal  States.  No  one  knew  what  pledges  had  been  given  by  Clinton  and  his 
friends  ;  but  no  man  of  common-sense  who  wished  to  preserve  the  government 
and  the  Union  could  longer  refuse  to  vote  for  Madison." 


1812]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  277 

understood  as  well  from  the  declaration  made  in  the  Boston  Town 
Meeting,  as  from  the  Echo  of  the  same  opinion  from  other  quar- 
ters, that  it  would  be  deemed  inexpedient  to  name  a  federal  Can- 
didate, and  project  to  co-operate  with  the  views  of  Mr.  Clinton  : 
as  I  differed  in  opinion  on  both  these  points,  and  as  (certainly 
without  desire  or  gratification  on  my  part)  my  name  had  been 
mentioned  amongst  others,  I  felt  the  difficulty  that  I  should  place 
myself  in  by  becoming  a  member  of  this  meeting. 

Some  of  our  friends  in  the  city  pressed  me  to  attend,  and  altho' 
from  all  I  had  heard,  I  was  fully  persuaded  that  the  Gentlemen 
who  should  meet  would  entertain  and  adopt  opinions  and  meas- 
ures, wholly  repugnant  to  my  Judgment,  I  nevertheless  after  full 
Reflexion,  determined  not  to  absent  myself,  chiefly  because  I  was 
unwilling  that  my  absence  should  by  any  possibility  be  construed 
to  mean,  what  is  not  true  in  respect  to  my  personal  views. 

I  accordingly  attended  the  meeting,  which  was  composed  of 
more  than  sixty  Gentlemen,  assembled  from  So.  Carolina  and  the 
States  east  of  Virginia.  After  receiving  from  the  members  the 
best  information  in  their  power  to  afford  respecting  the  Character 
of  the  Electors  likely  to  be  chosen  within  their  respective  States, 
it  was  resolved  "  that  from  the  information  so  received,  it  was  in 
the  opinion  of  the  meeting  impracticable  to  elect  a  fedl.  Presi- 
dent, and  that  it  would  be  inexpedient  to  name  a  fedl.  Candidate. 
2nd  that  it  should  be  recommended  to  the  Federalists  to  co-oper- 
ate in  the  election  of  a  President,  who  would  be  likely  to  pursue 
a  different  course  of  administration  from  that  of  Mr.  Madison  ; 
and  that  a  Committee  should  be  appointed  to  collect  the  earliest 
information  of  the  character  and  views  of  the  Electors,  and  to 
communicate  the  same  to  the  Federalists  throughout  the  States." 

I  disapproved  of  the  first  Resolution,  because  I  would  have 
nominated  a  candidate,  a  respectable  federalist  from  any  quarter, 
not  in  the  expectation,  nay  without  the  desire,  of  succeeding  in 
his  Election  ;  but  for  the  purpose  of  keeping  the  federal  body  as 
entire  in  numbers  and  as  unbroken  in  principle  as  possible,  to  the 
end  that  their  character  and  influence  may  be  reserved  for  the 
occasion  which,  in  the  present  course  of  affairs,  cannot  fail  to 
arrive. 

I  disliked  the  second  Resolution,  because  it  did  not  speak  out 
and  name  the  person,  whom  every  one  had  in  view,  and  because 


278  RUFUS  KING.  [181 2 

there  was  no  evidence  exhibited  that  Mr.  Clinton,  with  the  aid  of 
the  federalists,  can  be  elected,  and,  if  elected,  that  he  will  pursue 
a  better  system  than  that  of  Mr.  Madison. 

I  stated  my  sentiments  to  the  meeting,  a  great  majority  of  whom 
thought  them  incorrect.  Time,  wh.  reveals  truth,  must  decide 
between  us. 

I  think  the  question  who  shall  be  President,  a  secondary  one 
and  quite  unimportant  in  comparison  with  the  attempt  which  we 
are  bound  to  make,  to  preserve  the  freedom  and  Independence  of 
the  nation  by  reforming  the  Constitution.  I  know  that  our  polit- 
ical adversaries  will  say  that  we  aim  at  a  Monarchy  ;  perhaps 
some  of  our  friends  even  may  suspect  our  views.  I  am  and  shall 
always  be  ready  to  purge  myself  from  this  suspicion  ;  I  would 
lessen,  sooner  than  increase,  the  presidential  power.  But  it  is 
idle  to  go  into  explanations  upon  a  Subject  that  is  now  so  little 
likely  to  call  for  attention.  I  am  convinced  that  things  cannot 
remain  where  they  are  if  the  war  continues  ;  a  great  change  must 
happen,  the  signs  of  its  approach  are  not  equivocal.  I  have 
earnestly  hoped,  and  thought  that  I  had  grounds  for  doing  so, 
that  by  a  prudent  course  we  should  be  able  to  direct  the  change 
and  to  turn  it  to  the  advantage  of  the  Country.  These  hopes 
have  been  the  result  of  an  impartial  estimate  of  the  tendency  of 
the  measures  of  Government,  and  of  the  most  anxious  solicitude 
to  discover  the  duty  of  good  and  disinterested  men  at  the  present 
Crisis.  I  deprecate,  and,  above  all  other  evils,  fear  the  interposi- 
tion of  the  Sword  as  the  umpire  of  our  difference.  Should  a  civil 
war  break  out,  we  have  no  occasion  in  future  for  caucusses  re- 
specting Presidential  Electors.  Things  will  then  be  ordered  in  a 
different  way.  One  chance,  and  only  one,  in  favor  of  reform 
without  violence  has  seemed  to  me  to  exist,  and  above  every  other 
consideration  to  be  worthy  of  the  deliberate  attention  of  the 
Federalist — Offer  a  federal  Candidate  for  the  Presidency  ;  acqui- 
esce in  Mr.  Madison's  re-election.  He  cannot  in  four  years  ruin 
the  Country  ;  but,  if  I  am  not  egregiously  mistaken,  unless  Peace 
be  made,  he  will  in  that  time  so  disgust  and  degrade  it,  that  the 
federalists  at  its  expiration  will  come  into  the  possession  of  the 
Government,  and  with  as  great  support  by  the  People,  as  Jefferson 
had,  when  he  succeeded  Adams.  Grant  this,  and  if  the  Federal- 
ists should  not  then  so  reform  the  Constitution  as  to  protect  the 


1812]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  2jg 

Country  in  future  from  the  Evils  it  now  feels  and  fears,  they  and 
their  posterity  will  deserve  to  suffer  the  ills,  which,  without  such 
reform,  must  crush  them  to  the  earth. 

Recollect  what  never  must  be  forgotten  in  a  popular  Govern- 
ment, that  next  to  the  power  of  the  Sword  is  that  of  a  depressed 
party  when  risen  to  be  a  triumphant  one. 

But  Mr.  Madison  may  make  a  French  Alliance.  If  he  dare,  I 
fear  he  would  :  the  country  will  not  now  bear  it,  and  the  course 
of  his  disastrous  administration  will  render  the  Country  still  less 
inclined  to  bear  it.  But  come  the  worst,  let  the  French  Alliance 
be  made,  and  French  troops  introduced  ;  the  certain,  and  I  think 
the  immediate,  consequence  will  be  a  civil  war  and  the  introduc- 
tion of  English  troops.  No  Event  would  be  more  calamitous,  none 
so  perilous  to  the  public  Liberties  ;  but  this  event  will  occur,  tho' 
perhaps  not  immediately,  unless  the  Constitution  be  reformed. 

A  new  president  from  the  Democracy  would  perhaps  adopt 
measures  that  for  the  moment  might  mitigate  present  evils  ;  tho' 
I  have  seen  no  evidence  that  he  will  be  either  willing  or  able  to 
do  so.  But  neither  a  democratical  nor  a  federal  President  could 
in  the  actual  State  of  parties  do  anything  to  remove  our  present 
evils,  or  to  prevent  their  recurrence.  All  palliatives,  such  as  the 
mere  change  of  President  among  Democrats,  or  between  them 
and  federalists,  will  have  the  effect,  not  only  to  postpone  the 
chance  of  reform,  but  to  weaken  the  faculty  of  making  it,  should 
the  opportunity  occur.  They  would  have  this  effect  by  the  more 
complete  conversion  of  political  parties  into  political  factions  ;  by 
the  inevitable  progress  of  corruption  and  by  the  difficulty  which 
daily  increases  of  confining  the  young  men  of  the  Country  to  a 
political  Creed,  which  is  sure  to  prevent  them  from  sharing  in 
public  distinctions. 

No  fact  seems  to  be  more  fully  established  than  that  a  nation  may, 
and  that  too  in  a  short  period,  become  so  debased  by  corruption 
and  the  agency  of  faction,  that  the  Sword  alone  can  put  an  end  to 
the  public  misery.  The  Roman  Empire,  as  we  are  told,  was  once 
offered  to  the  highest  bidder  at  a  public  sale — but  our  Country  is 
in  danger  to  be  so  sold  at  every  successive  Election.*     If  the  prac- 

*  Montesquieu  observes  "that  it  is  impossible  for  the  leading  men  to  be 
knaves  and  the  inferior  sort  to  be  honest,  and  for  the  former  to  be  cheats, 
and  the  latter  to  rest  satisfied  with  being  only  dupes." 


280  RUFUS  KING.  [1812 

tice  of  corruption  has  heretofore  been  more  prevalent  among  our 
adversaries  than  among  ourselves,  I  fear  that  this  distinction  is 
henceforth  at  an  end,  enough  was  disclosed  in  our  meeting  to 
make  me  apprehend  that  those  who  possess  the  greatest  means, 
will  hereafter  become  the  greatest  corrupters.  The  consequence 
is  unavoidable — there  must  be  a  speedy  end  of  our  political  systems 
or  the  public  Liberties  will  sink  with  them. 

Against  so  great  an  evil,  I  have  thought  that  we  are  bound  to 
struggle  ;  and  I  had  persuaded  myself,  tho'  I  have  been  unable  to 
persuade  others,  that  the  re-election  of  Mr.  Madison  would  pro- 
duce a  more  favorable  opportunity  for  a  peaceful  effort  at  Reform, 
then  can  hereafter  be  expected  to  occur. 

I  have  believed  it  due  to  our  long  and  uninterrupted  friendship 
to  write  this  letter  ;  especially  as  we  were  informed  by  one  of  yr. 
Delegates,  that  you  *  approve  of  the  co-operation  of  the  Feds,  to 
elect  Mr.  Clinton  ;  and  I  ask  the  favor  of  you  to  shew  this  letter 
to  Mr.  Cabot,  Mr.  Parsons  &  Mr.  Strong  from  whose  opinions,  as 
they  were  stated  in  our  meeting,  I  feel  the  deepest  concern  in  being 
obliged  to  dissent.f  with  sincere  regard  &c, 

Rufus  King. 

*  Observation,  the  Representation  was  wholly  incorrect,  and  that  respecting 
Cabot,  Strong,  and  Parsons  ill-founded. 

■f  Among  Mr.  King's  papers  is  the  following  account  of  the  meeting  of  Federal 
delegates  in  New  York,  Sept.  15,  16,  and  17,  1812  : 

"  Harper  moved  a  Resolution,  wh.  was  adopted  by  a  majority,  that  from  the 
information  received  from  all  parts  of  the  Union,  the  election  of  a  Fedl.  Pr. 
now  appeared  to  be  impracticable,  &  that  it  was  inexpedient  to  nominate 
Fedl.  Candidates. 

"  It  was  on  the  2nd  day  agreed  to  commit  to  a  member  from  each  State  the 
propositions  respecting  the  support  of  Dmo.  Candidates  for  Pr.  &  V.  P.  On 
the  third  day  their  Report  was  made  and  accepted  by  a  large  majority,  viz.  : 

"  That  it  is  recommended  to  the  Federalists  to  support  such  Candidates  for 
Pr.  &  V.  P.  at  the  ensuing  election  as  would  be  likely  to  pursue  a  difft.  course 
of  measures  from  that  of  the  now  Presidt. 

"  And  that  a  Comtee  of  5  persons  (Pennsylvanians)  be  appointed  to  ascertain 
the  result  of  the  elections  for  Electors,  and  the  Candidates  whom  they  wd.  be 
inclined  to  support,  and  to  communicate  the  same  as  expeditiously  as  practicable 
to  the  Electors  of  the  several  States. 

"  I  opposed  every  part  of  these  measures,  and  attempted  to  prevent  the  adop- 
tion of  the  first  Resolution,  and  afterwards  to  amend  the  second  so  as  that  it 
should  express  what  it  means,  namely  to  support  Mr.  D.  Clinton.  This  was 
objected  to  as  likely  to  prove  injurious  to  Mr.  C. 

"  In  conclusion  I  observed  that  I  regarded  the  Resolution  as  a  recommendation 


1812]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  28 1 

C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Waltham,  October  5th,  1812. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

I  duly  received  your  Letter  relative  to  the  Presidential  Election 
and  the  day  after  enclosed  it  to  Mr.  Cabot  with  a  Request  that  he 

of  the  election  of  Mr.  Clinton — added  that  the  practicability  of  such  election 
shd.  appear  probable,  and  moreover  if  chosen,  that  we  shd.  have  reason  to  ex- 
pect he  would  pursue  different  and  better  measures  ;  that  no  information  was 
communicated  respecting  his  views  ;  that  he  was  educated  and  practised  in  the 
principles  of  Democracy  ;  that  no  man  in  the  country  was  more  unequivocal  in 
his  character.  As  evidence  of  the  course  he  wd.  be  likely  to  follow,  we  should 
remember  that  he  disapproved  the  Embargo,  then  receded  from  his  opinion, 
and  in  a  speech  made  in  the  Senate,  wh.  he  published,  restored  himself  to  the 
confidence  of  the  Demos  by  a  tirade  of  abuse  poured  out  upon  the  Feds.,  and 
that  this  was  so  directed  as  to  bear  particularly  upon  the  Genn.  of  B.  who  must 
have  magnanimity  more  than  belongs  to  our  nature,  to  be  afterwards  Mr.  C.'s 
advocate. 

"  That  personally  I  could  feel  no  dislike  to  Mr.  Clinton  on  any  acct.  other 
than  that  wh.  arose  from  his  political  character  &  views  ;  that  I  had  had  no  in- 
dividual intercourse  with  him,  but  that  I  feared,  if  we  succeeded  in  promoting 
his  election,  that  we  might  place  in  the  chair  a  Coesar  Borgia  instead  of  a  James 
Madison — intimated  however  that  the  treatment  by  Madn.  of  the  Genn.  of 
Boston  had  been  such  in  the  charge  of  the  Henry  Mission  that  I  could  suppose 
their  resentment  implacable  ;  that  were  I  in  the  situation  I  never  would  forgive 
the  injury. 

"  A  letter  from  Genl.  Pinckney  to  the  Corresponding  Comtee  of  Philadelphia 
declines  explicitly  being  a  candidate  for  the  Presidency  :  recommends  Jay  or 
King. 

"  A  letter  from  B.  Stoddart,  Maryland,  recommends  Marshall  (C.J.S.)  as  the 
only  man  for  wh.  any  probability  existed  of  the  vote  of  Virginia,  and  Strong  V. 
P.  :  that  if  Virginia  shd.  succeed  in  an  electoral  ticket  Marshall  or  K.  shd.  be 
the  Candidate — the  former  preferable  on  acct.  of  his  great  popularity  in 
Virginia. 

"  A  letter  from  John  Hopkins  recommends  Marshall  and  states  that  if  Virga. 
is  fedl.  she  wd.  support  Jay,  King,  Strong,  Griswold,  Pickering  or  any  other 
respectable  Fedst,  and  that  Clinton  cd.  obtain  no  better  support  than  Madn. 

"  A  letter  from  Judge  Washington  to  the  N.  Jersey  Com.  of  Correspondence, 
who  applied  to  him  to  become  a  Candidate,  declines  in  a  modest  manner,  dis- 
qualifying his  abilities,  and  preferring  his  present  peaceful  office  of  a  judge — 
Clinton  rather  than  Madison. 

"  A  letter  from  Dexter,  Boston,  about  Piso's  conspiracy  agt.  Caesar  :  the  ob- 
ject to  shew  that  a  Fed.  Cand.  shd.  not  be  named. 

"A  letter  from  Pierson,  No.  Carolina,  Legislature  fedl.  ;  if  convened  will 
district  the  State." 


282  RUFUS  KING.  [1812 

would  send  it  to  the  Governor  and  C.  Justice.  I  refrained,  for 
the  week  past,  from  writing  in  expectation  of  seeing  these  Gentle- 
men, but  as  Mr.  Parsons  is  attending  Barnstable  Court,  whence  he 
will  not  return  for  some  days,  &  as  I  do  not  frequently  see  the 
Governor,  owing  to  his  constant  occupation  at  the  Council  Cham- 
ber &  my  absence  from  Boston,  I  could  no  longer  delay  to 
acknowledge  its  Receipt. 

Cabot,  whom  I  saw  yesterday  only  for  a  moment,  says,  while  he 
hopes  it  will  not  be  attributed  to  Pride  of  Opinion,  he  is  really 
satisfied  on  Reflection,  of  the  Fitness  of  the  Measure.  The  Truth 
is,  he  utterly  despairs  of  any  men  like  those,  who  were  denominated 
Federalists,  ever  having  any  influence  or  Power  in  this  Country  ; 
and  that  the  most,  if  not  the  only  thing,  to  be  hoped  for,  is  an 
amelioration  of  our  political  Evils  from  the  Election  of  some  one 
of  the  Democrats,  who  having  obtained  his  Power  by  Those  who 
were  opponents  to  the  Measures  of  Madison,  could  expect  to  re- 
tain it,  only  by  pursuing  a  different  course,  and  that  from  the 
Interests  of  the  Past  of  the  Country  and  of  his  Residence,  he 
might  be  inclined  to  an  opposite  System. 

I  early  found,  in  conversing  with  Mr.  Strong,  that  he  was  in 
favour  of  the  project,  and  that  he  was  prepossessed  with  very  fav- 
ourable ideas  of  the  character  &  views  of  Clinton.  Indeed,  until 
this  man  had  been  a  candidate  for  the  Presidency,  I  never  heard 
him  spoken  well  of  ;  and  since  last  Spring,  I  have  scarcely  heard 
any  one  speak  of  him,  but  extolled  the  Excellency  of  his  moral 
Character  and  the  Purity  of  his  present  political  Views,  he  having 
become  really  disgusted  with  the  imbecile  and  ruinous  measures 
of  Madison.  Parsons  &  Cabot  have  never  thought  thus.  They, 
as  I  believe,  have  been  influenced  by  the  Considerations  before 
stated.  Many  of  the  middle-aged  and  ardent  Politicians  of  our 
Section  of  Country  have  become  tired  of  waiting  for  Place  and 
Distinction.  They  sigh  to  represent  the  U.  States  at  some  for- 
eign Court,  or  to  enjoy  Power  and  Influence  at  Home,  and  believe 
by  bringing  up  a  new  Party,  consisting  of  Democratic  Leaders, 
in  name,  they  may  in  Reality  guide  the  Machine  of  State.  To 
such  motives  may  be  ascribed  the  Conduct  of  some  of  the  promi- 
nent Members  of  Congress  the  last  winter.  The  plan  was  hatched 
in  Boston  by  Q.  &  the  Orator  of  the  Massachusetts  Delegation  to 
your  Convention,  before  Congress  met.     It  was  then  gravely  de- 


1812]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  283 

termined  to  join  Democracy  in  the  Cry  against  G.  B.  and  declare 
that  war  with  her  was  preferable  to  commercial  restrictions  ;  that 
many  of  the  Federalists  had  been  wrong  ;  they  had  been  more  Brit- 
ish than  the  British  themselves,  and  it  was  necessary  this  oppro- 
brium should  be  got  rid  of,  by  encouraging  opposition  to  England 
and  uniting  in  the  Vulgar  Abuse,  which  was  belched  out  against  her 
Power  &  her  Enormities.  They  should  then  attain  the  Favour  of 
Democracy  and  controul  and  direct  the  Councils  of  the  Mild  and 
amiable  men  who  fill  her  Ranks,  to  the  Glory  of  the  Nation  and 
their  own  Distinction.  By  possessing  themselves  of  this  Vantage 
Ground  of  Popularity,  they  thought  to  exclude  from  Competition 
many  whom  they  considered  in  the  Light  of  Rivals  and  who,  in 
the  Event  of  the  Federal  party  coming  into  Power,  might  fill  the 
Stations  their  Ambition  languished  for. 

That  the  present  disastrous  War  may  be  attributed  in  some 
Degree  to  this  cunning  scheme  cannot  be  doubted,  although  these 
wise  men  constantly  declared  that  the  Administration  dare  not 
make  war  with  any  Nation  and  never  could  be  forced  into  that 
State  with  G.  B. 

It  is  more  than  can  be  warranted  by  my  Conduct,  or  Conversa- 
tion, to  say  that  I  was  for  a  co-operation  of  the  Federalists  in  the 
Election  of  Mr.  Clinton.  In  Midsummer  I  once  attended  a  meet- 
ing of  about  a  half  a  Dozen  Gentlemen,  where  this  subject  was 
merely  mentioned  and  it  was  decided  to  say  nothing  about  it  at 
that  time  ;  for  it  was  not  improbable  that  after  the  Pressure  of 
the  War  had  been  felt,  it  might  appear  feasible  to  elect  a  Federal- 
ist ;  and  should  the  Federalists,  on  Reflexion,  think  it  expedient 
to  aid  in  Mr  Clinton's  Election,  it  would  be  wise  for  the  present 
to  delay  any  Expression  on  the  Subject. 

In  August  I  was  requested,  by  Mr.  Sullivan,  to  meet  some  Gen- 
tlemen in  Boston  on  the  subject  of  the  Presidential  Election.  It 
rained  on  that  day  &  I  remained  at  home.  The  next,  being  in 
Town,  I  received  another  Note,  saying  the  Meeting  was  postponed 
until  that  day,  &  my  attendance  requested.  I  went,  no  Person 
was  there,  but  S.  &  Cabot  who  accompanied  me.  I  immediately 
proposed  that  myself,  Otis,  Sullivan,  Jackson  &  Thorndike  should 
attend  the  meeting  at  N.  York.  S.  said  that  Otis  had  made  it 
a  condition  of  his  going  that  the  Gentn.  should  go  expressly  and 
exclusively  to  support  the  Election  of  Mr.  Clinton.     Mr.  C.  said 


284  RUFUS  KING.  [1812 


something  in  favour  of  his  Election.  I  do  not  recollect,  and  am 
confident  that  I  expressed  no  opinion  on  the  Subject ;  for  it  was 
impossible  for  me  not  to  perceive  that  this  Business  had  been  al- 
together settled  before.  I  only  declared  that  it  would  not  be 
convenient  for  me  to  go.  A  few  weeks  afterwards,  on  being 
urged  by  a  note  from  the  Gentlemen  who  went,  to  accompany 
them,  and  verbally  by  Cabot  (which  happened  after  some  of  them 
had  left  town,  only  a  day  before  the  last  set  off),  he  said  to  me, 
I  do  not  know  what  your  Opinion  on  this  subject  is.  I  replied, 
that  without  giving  my  own,  I  would  state  to  him,  what  I  had 
written  to  Col.  North,  who  had  requested  to  know  what  might  be 
expected  to  be  the  Opinion  of  N.  England  in  Relation  to  the  elec- 
tion. I  endeavoured  in  that  letter  to  represent  the  Judgment 
and  Views  of  those  in  this  Quarter,  who  would  have  Influence  in 
the  choice  of  Electors.  He  conceded  that  I  had  made  a  correct 
Statement,  so  far  as  the  Opinions  &  Views  of  such  men  were  com- 
prehended by  him.  He  at  first,  and  I  believe  previous  to  asking 
my  own  Opinion,  desired  to  know  if  I  could  be  prevailed  on 
to  go  to  N.  York.  I  told  him,  No.  That  I  thought  the  Vote  of 
confining  the  Members  expressly  to  support  the  Election  of  Mr. 
Clinton  improper.  If  it  were  not  to  be  an  open  Question  at  this 
meeting,  who  should  be  named  as  Candidate,  and  we  were  deter- 
mined to  support  only  the  Pretensions  of  Mr.  C,  a  mere  letter,  say- 
ing that,  would  be  sufficient.  What  might  have  been  my  Judgment, 
had  the  Subject  ever  been  discussed  by  me,  or  in  my  Presence,  I 
do  not  and  cannot  undertake  to  say.  I  found  men's  minds  made 
up  either  separately  or  jointly.  That  many  whom  I  highly  re- 
spect, are  in  favour  of  the  measure  I  know,  and  certainly  others, 
whom,  to  say  the  least,  I  as  highly  respect,  and  whose  judgment 
has  great  Weight  with  me,  think  it  teeming  with  evil. 

with  Sincere  Regard  &  Esteem 

I  remain  your  faithful  Friend 

C.  Gore. 


CHAPTER  XV. 

W.  King  to  R.  King — Contradicts  Miller's  Statement  of  Latter's  favoring  Clinton 
— S.  Van  Rensselaer  to  King — Approves  his  Views  on  the  Presidential 
Election — Engagement  at  Queenstown — King  to  W.  King — Miller's 
Statement  untrue — King  to  Morris — Congress  should  declare  War  with 
France — C.  King  to  King — Election  to  Congress  from  Maine — People 
want  a  Change — King  to  Huntington — Paper  in  Suffolk  County — Van 
Rensselaer  to  King — Candidate  for  Governor — King — Election  as  U.  S. 
Senator — King  to  Gore — Election  to  Senate — Henderson  to  King — Op- 
position to  Van  Rensselaer  unfounded — King's  Election — Morris's  Paper 
favorable  to  Peace — King  to  Gore — Urging  his  Appointment  as  Senator — 
Strong  to  King — Favorable  to  Gore's  Appointment — King  to  Gore — Hopes 
he  may  get  it — King  to  Troup — Trinity  Church  and  Chapels. 

Wm,  King  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  October  i8,  1812. 
Dear  Sir  : 

On  Friday  evening  last  I  attended  a  meeting  of  the  Republican 
members  of  the  Senate  :  there  were  present  twenty-seven  of  the 
twenty-nine  members.  The  unanimous  determination  was  to 
make  one  more  proposal  to  the  House  ;  to  choose  the  Electors 
by  Districts  :  if  that  should  not  be  acceded  to,  to  make  a  further 
proposal ;  to  choose  by  a  concurrent  vote,  each  branch  to  name 
an  equal  number  :  Should  the  last  proposition  not  be  concurred 
in,  the  Senate  will  make  no  more,  and  will  reject  every  proposal 
made  them  which  has  for  its  object  a  different  result.  So  that 
every  thing  remains  in  this  State  as  I  stated  to  you  was  the  case 
when  I  left. 

The  friends  of  Mr.  Clinton  are  many  of  them  here  from  your 
place  ;  they  had  previous  to  my  arrival  in  town  conversed  with 
every  individual  of  the  Senate,  to  whom  they  had  made  different 
statements,  such  as  they  considered  most  likely  to  ensure  success. 
To  our  brother  B.  Porter,  a  Mr.  Miller  stated  that  he  was  the  bearer 

285 


286  RUFUS  KING.  [1812 

of  a  message  from  the  friends  of  Mr.  Clinton  to  you,  on  the  sub- 
ject of  his  (Mr.  Clinton's)  being  the  Presidential  Candidate  ;  that 
your  reply  was,  that  you  had  been  opposed  in  the  first  instance, 
but  on  more  mature  consideration  you  were  inclined  to  think 
favourably  of  the  measure  ;  that  you  believed  Mr.  Clinton  to  be 
possessed  of  intelligence  and  integrity  and  that  he  should  have  your 
cordial  and  entire  support  for  that  office.  Believing  this  statement, 
I  believe  Porter  had  made  up  his  mind  to  aid  Mr.  Clinton,  as 
well  as  many  other  Republican  Senators.  I  have  contradicted  it, 
and  will  thank  you  to  say  to  me  by  return  of  mail,  if  agreeable, 
that  I  have  reported  you  correctly.  There  is  not  at  this  time  the 
least  difficulty  respecting  Mr.  Clinton  in  this  State.     .     .     . 

Affectionately  your  Brother, 

Wm.  King. 

S.  Van  Rensselaer  to  R.  King. 

Buffalo,  Oct.  22,  1812. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  had  the  pleasure  to  receive  your  letter  covering  a  copy  of  the 
sound  and  valuable  speculation  upon  the  subject  of  the  ensuing 
Presidential  election  which  you  had  on  the  19.  Sep.  addressed 
to  our  Friend  in  Boston. 

Had  my  opinion  upon  this  important  subject  been  different 
from  the  general  conclusions  drawn  from  all  your  premises,  I  am 
by  no  means  sure  that  I  should  not  have  surrendered  it  to  the 
reasoning  contained  in  your  letter.  I  cannot  therefore  but  ex- 
press the  very  great  gratification  I  feel  on  finding  the  opinion 
which  I  have  uniformly  entertained  on  this  subject  sanctioned  by 
so  conclusive  reasoning  &  from  so  high  authority.  But  however 
willing  I  may  still  feel  to  throw  the  little  weight  I  can  into  the 
scale  with  this  opinion,  and  urge  it  for  practical  experiment  at 
the  Election,  I  cannot  say  that  I  have  much  hope  of  success. 
The  melancholy  truth  is,  that,  after  all  our  boast  of  patriotism  and 
knowledge,  the  political  Philosophy  of  our  Country  like  most  of 
our  other  sciences  is  but  superficial  ;  instead  of  paying  the  respect 
due  to  facts  established  by  the  history  of  other  Republicks,  or 
satisfactorily  demonstrated  to  our  own  observation,  we  substitute 
hypotheses  founded  on  immediate  interest,  or  adopt  maxims 
which   best  square  with  personal  views.     And  hence   it  is  in  our 


1812]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  287 

Republic!?,  as  in  all  others  which  have  gone  before  us,  the 
precious  maxims  of  sages,  discovered  by  deep  research  of  wisdom 
and  sanctioned  by  experience,  will  be  swept  away  in  the  torrent 
of  delusion,  and  the  voice  of  reason  drown  in  the  violence  of 
passion.  These  are  discouraging  considerations,  but  there  is  no 
halting  in  the  path  of  duty.  Having  been  several  months  on  this 
remote  frontier,  and  denied  most  of  my  sources  of  information, 
I  have  but  very  imperfect  knowledge  either  of  the  opinions 
entertained  relative  to  the  approaching  Election,  or  the  prospect 
of  the  Candidates  :  but  wherever  I  march,  I  find  myself  sur- 
rounded with  evidence  of  the  deplorable  state  of  our  distracted 
country.  I  expect  soon  to  return  to  Albany  and  shall  consider  it 
my  first  duty  to  co-operate  with  my  friends  in  adopting  such 
measures  as  may  be  deemed  best  calculated  to  relieve  our  beloved 
country  from  its  present  state  of  degradation,  &  restoring  it  to 
the  rank  and  prosperity  it  once  held  and  enjoyed.  Before  this 
will  reach  you,  you  will  have  learnt  that  a  detachment  of  troops 
from  our  Army  on  the  13  inst  passed  the  Niagara  River  opposite 
Queenstown,  had  a  severe  engagement,  dislodged  the  British  from 
their  works  on  the  Heights  of  Queenstown,  held  them  from  day 
break  until  afternoon,  and  then  were  compelled  to  surrender 
them.  But  as  the  circumstances  which  led  to  the  necessity  of 
this  movement  are  many,  I  tender  this  as  my  apology  for  omitting 
here  to  detail  them.  But  I  cannot  in  justice  to  myself  and  the 
brave  men  who  fought  the  battle  forbear  saying  that  such  were 
the  plan  and  execution  of  it  that  success  was  complete  ;  but  the 
Victory  was  at  last  lost  by  the  absolute  refusal  of  the  militia  to  re- 
enforce  and  cross  the  River.  It  is  out  of  my  power  to  ascertain 
the  number  killed  and  wounded  ;  probably  the  former  may  have 
been  60,  the  latter  170  ;  and  756,  nearly  in  equal  proportions  of 
Militia  and  Regulars  were  made  prisoners  of  war  ;  the  militia 
have  returned  on  parole.  The  enemy  have  suffered  severely  ; 
the  gallant  Brock  and  his  Aid  Col.  McDonnel  among  the 
slain.  The  misfortune  of  my  brave  Aid,  Col.  V.  R.  receiving 
five  wounds  in  leading  the  first  column  to  action,  added  to 
other  circumstances,  has  induced  me  to  assign  Brig.  Genl. 
Smyth  to  the  command  under  my  orders. 

With  great  respect,  your  friend  &c. 

S.  V.  Rensselaer. 


288  RUFUS  KING.  [181: 


R.  King   to  Wm.  King. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Oct.  23,  1812. 


Dear  Sir  : 

I  last  Evg  received  your  letter  of  the  18th  instant,  in  which 
you  inform  me  that  a  Mr.  Miller  of  New  York,  in  a  communica- 
tion to  our  brother  B.  Porter,  who  is  a  member  of  your  Senate, 
stated  to  him  that  he  had  been  the  bearer  of  a  message  to  me 
from  the  friends  of  Mr.  Clinton,  respecting  his  appointment  as 
President,  that  I  told  him  that  I  had  been  opposed  to  Mr.  Clin- 
ton's appointment  in  the  first  instance,  but  that  on  more  mature 
consideration  I  was  inclined  to  think  favorably  of  the  measure, 
and  that  he  should  have  my  cordial  and  entire  support — you  add 
that  in  my  behalf,  you  had  contradicted  the  statement. 

I  am  obliged  to  you  for  this  contradiction  ;  which  from  the 
knowledge  of  my  opinions  upon  this  subject,  you  were  well  war- 
ranted in  making.  I  abstain  from  applying  to  this  representation 
of  Mr.  Miller  the  character  it  deserves  ;  but  it  requires  me  to 
declare  that  no  message  concerning  the  Presidency  from  Mr. 
Clinton  or  his  friends  has  ever  been  delivered  to  me  by  anyone  ; 
that  I  have  never  told  Mr.  Miller,  nor  any  other  person,  that  I 
thought  favorably  of  Mr.  Clinton's  election  as  President,  or  that 
he  should  receive  my  support.  It  is  well  known  that  I  do  not 
approve  of  Mr.  Madison's  administration — but  between  him  and 
Mr.  Clinton  for  reasons  which  in  my  judgment  deeply  concern 
the  public  liberties,  I  prefer  the  election  of  Mr.  Madison. 

As  I  am  disinclined  to  take  any  share  in  the  electioneering 
measures  which  it  is  deemed  proper  to  pursue  on  the  present 
occasion,  I  desire  that  you  will  consider  this  letter  merely  as  a 
denial  of  the  opinions  and  views,  which  it  has  been  thought 
expedient  to  ascribe  to  me — I  however  request  that  you  will  com- 
municate it  to  B.  P.* 

Your  affectionate  Brother, 

Rufus  King. 

*  Mr.  Silvanus  Miller  published  a  letter  in  the  New  York  Columbian,  dated 
February  15,  1820,  in  answer  to  charges  made  in  the  American,  that  he  had 
"knowingly  and  wilfully  made  a  departure  from  truth"  in  stating  as  he  had 
done  that  Mr.  King  had,  "dismissing  his  former  apparent  caution,  expressed 
himself  without  reserve  to  his  friends  and  acquaintances  .  .  .  during  the 
close  of  the  summer  or  beginning  of  autumn  (1819),"  so  that  it  was  generally 


t8i2]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  289 


R.  King  to  G.  Morris. 

Oct.  28,  1812. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  send  you  for  yr.  amusement  the  morning  Chronicle  for  August. 
You  will  make  allowance  for  the  opposition  principles  of  the 
Editor.  The  correspondence  between  France  and  Russia  exhib- 
its the  proof  of  their  resolution  to  force  Denmark  to  take  a  part 
agst.  England  and  at  a  date  antecedent  to  Nelson's  attack  at 
Copenhagen.  Similar  Treaties  have  been  recently  made  between 
France  and  Russia,  and   France  and  Austria.     How  absurd  is  it 

understood  and  so  reported,  that  he  was  clearly  a  friend  of  the  State  admin- 
istration and  that  be  considered  the  opposition  to  Mr.  Clinton  "  unprincipled." 

Mr.  King  pronounced  these  statements  as  entirely  without  foundation,  says 
The  American. 

Mr.  Miller's  most  unsatisfactory  answer  is  here  referred  to,  because  The  Amer- 
ican states  in  the  same  article  that  this  was  the  same  Mr.  Miller  spoken  of  in 
the  letter  of  Wm.  King  in  1812.  Mr.  Miller  answers  this  as  follows,  and  it  will 
be  seen  how  the  statements  correspond  and  how  far  he  refutes  the  charge  there 
made  against  him. 

"One  other  charge  is  made  by  the  Editors  of  the  American — it  refers  to 
transactions  which  took  place  nearly  eight  years  ago.  .  .  It  is  said  he  (mean- 
ing the  subscriber)  had  the  assurance  to  say  to  one  of  the  Senators,  a  relative  of 
that  Gentleman  (meaning  Mr.  King)  in  order  to  determine  to  support  Mr.  Clin- 
ton's pretentions,  that  they  were  approved  of,  and  supported  by  Mr.  King — by 
that  Mr.  King  who  in  the  assembled  convention  at  New  York,  as  Mr.  Miller 
well  knew,  had  openly  denounced  them  dfc.  This  Senator,  I  understand,  from 
Mr.  King,  to  be  his  brother-in-law  Dr.  Porter,  who  was  in  the  Senate  of  Massa- 
chusetts in  the  year  1812.  I  remember  such  a  gentleman  ;  and  also  what 
were  his  sentiments  on  the  presidential  question.  I  found  him  an  ardent  friend 
of  Mr.  Clinton,  was  introduced  to  him  as  such,  and  such  he  continued  to  be 
while  I  knew  him.  These  facts  are  impressed  more  strongly  on  my  mind, 
from  some  remarks  made  by  him  in  relation  to  the  opposition  as  well  of  Mr. 
Rufus,  as  of  his  Brother,  Gen.  William  King,  who  was  then  in  Boston.  The 
manner  in  which  this  family  secret  was  procured,  as  well  as  its  publication, 
were  severely  censured  by  the  father  of  one  of  the  Editors  (Mr.  King).  It 
appears  that  Gen.  King  had  written  a  letter  to  his  Brother,  that,  I  had  repre- 
sented to  Dr.  Porter  that  he  (Mr.  King)  was  now  in  favor  of  Mr.  Clinton's 
election,  enquiring  whether  it  was  so — and  whether  he  had  changed  his  opinions 
since  he  saw  him  a  few  weeks  before — the  answer  from  Mr.  King  to  his  Brother 
was  that  he  had  not  changed  his  opinions." 

Mr.  Miller  concludes  by  saying,  "  that  whole  story  is  void  of  truth"  ;  that  he 

knew  Mr.  King  was  opposed  to  Mr.  Clinton's  election,  and  that  it  would  have 

been  "  weakness  and  folly"  to  have  thus  misrepresented  him.    And  yet  there  are 

these  letters. 
vol.  v. — 19 


29O  RUFUS  KING.  [18 


12 


that  we  should  talk  of  the  Repeal  of  the  French  Decrees  !  Con- 
gress should  declare  immediate  war  against  France  and  make 
peace  with  England. 


Always  yrs. 

R.  K. 


Cyrus  King  to  R.  King. 

Saco,  17th  December,  1812. 
My  dear  Brother  : 

From  your  kindness,  attention  and  assistance,  to  me,  in  early 
life  (of  which  I  shall  always  cherish  a  grateful  recollection)  I 
willingly  persuade  myself,  that  you  are  not  indifferent  to  occur- 
rences, favourable,  or  unfavourable,  which  may  prove  important 
to  me.  Under  this  persuasion,  I  esteem  it  a  duty,  to  communi- 
cate to  you  the  result  of  the  late  election  for  Representative  to 
Congress  from  this  district  ;  a  Certificate  of  which  I  this  day 
received  from  his  Excellency  the  Governor.  I  am  indeed  at  a 
loss  to  determine,  whether  you  will,  or  I  ought  to,  consider  this 
occurrence,  as  favourable  or  unfavourable.  When  I  consented 
to  be  a  Candidate  it  was  thought  scarcely  possible  that  any  nomi- 
nation could  prevail  against  the  present  Representative  ;  I  there- 
fore reflected  less  on  the  subject  than  its  importance  demanded  ; 
and  now  that  success  has  attended  the  efforts  of  my  fellow-citizens, 
I  feel  humbled  and  shrink  from  the  responsibility  of  the  situation. 
That  it  must  prove  a  sacrifice  of  interest  and  domestic  happiness, 
I  ought  to  expect,  and  could  submit  to  it,  if  I  deemed  it  possible, 
with  others,  in  any  way  to  promote  the  interest  of  our  Country. 
But  the  people  in  this  part  of  the  United  States  almost  despair, 
by  the  ordinary  means  of  our  election,  of  a  remedy  for  their  dis- 
tresses and  for  the  disasters  of  our  Country,  if  the  Anti-commercial, 
restrictive  Virginia  system  is  to  predominate  in  our  National 
Councils  for  four  years  longer.  As  this  is  deemed  the  greatest 
evil  that  can  befall  the  Country,  any  change,  in  the  minds  of  peo- 
ple here,  would  have  been  preferable  :  tho'  it  was  with  extreme 
reluctance  that  our  well-disposed  citizens  would  give  up  men,  as 
Candidates  for  the  first  offices  of  the  Government,  on  whom 
they  could  at  all  times  rely  ;  nor  would  they,  on  any  other 
ground,  than  that  the   Union,  which  has  been  promoted,  might 


1813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  29I 

prove  a  positive  accession  of  numbers   and  wealth,   to  correct 
principles.     .     .     . 

Respectfully  &  affectionately  yr.  Brother 

Cyrus  King. 

P.  S.  I  need  not  remark  to  you  that  the  result  of  this  election 
arose  from  a  partial  change  of  public  sentiment  from  the  pressure 
of  the  times — not  from  anything  personal  as  to  the  Candidates. 


S.  Van  Rensselaer  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  Feby  12,  1813. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

Influenced  by  the  considerations  suggested  in  your  letter  I 
have  been  induced  to  acquiesce  in  the  wishes  of  my  political 
friends  &  consent  to  be  their  Candidate.*  You  know  me  too  well 
I  natter  myself  not  to  believe  that  this  is  a  sacrifice  of  my  indi- 
vidual comfort  &  happiness  to  the  situation  of  our  Country.  The 
prospect  of  success,  I  am  told,  is  promising,  altho'  I  am  not  san- 
guine. A  prudent  &  liberal  course  of  policy  on  the  part  of  the 
Council,  I  am  confident  will  have  a  good  effect.  I  have  not  in- 
terfered, nor  shall  I,  in  any  of  the  appointments.  The  reap- 
pointment of  Mr.  Clinton  under  all  circumstances  I  approve. 
You  are  acquainted  with  my  sentiments  on  that  subject.  I  ought 
perhaps  to  say  that  the  conduct  of  that  gentleman  has  been  cor- 
rect this  session  as  far  as  my  knowledge  extends. 

Allow  me  to  apologize  for  not  sooner  replying  to  your  letter, 
but  until  a  nomination  was  made,  I  thought  it  improper  to  express 
my  assent  lest  it  might  influence  the  deliberations  of  the  party. 
With  great  respect  &  Regd.  your  friend 

S.  V.  Rensselaer. 

Mr.  King  was  living  quietly  at  his  home  in  Jamaica,  enjoy- 
ing his  country  life  and  little  anticipating  any  call  to  serve 
his  country  in  an  important  position.  Though  the  Federal 
party  had  to  a  certain  extent  recovered  its  influence  in  New 
York,  it  was  because  the  Democratic  party  was  divided  and 
distracted  by  bitter  contentions  in  its  ranks  between  those 

*  For  Governor. 


292  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

who  favored  Mr.  Clinton  and  his  opponents,  who  held  the 
power  by  the  aid  of  the  Federalists.  The  correspondence, 
which  has  been  given  will  show  the  motives  by  which  the 
active  leaders  of  all  parties  sought  to  obtain  an  advantage 
for  their  respective  friends  and  the  papers  and  publications 
of  the  day  evince  the  deep  interest  in  the  issues  before  the 
people.  Mr.  King  had  not  permitted  himself  to  be  con- 
nected with  any  of  the  political  schemes,  but  continued 
faithfully  to  urge  an  opposition  to  the  measures  of  the  ad- 
ministration, which  had  pushed  the  country  into  a  war  with 
Great  Britain — a  war  unnecessary,  unjust,  and  carried  on 
without  preparation  or  vigor.  He  was  about  to  be  called 
upon  to  take  an  active  part  in  the  councils  of  the  nation. — 
Mr.  Jabez  D.  Hammond  gives  the  following  account.* 

"  As  the  term  of  service  of  Gen.  John  Smith,  in  the  Senate  of 
the  United  States,  would  expire  on  the  4th  of  March,  it  became 
necessary  for  the  Legislature  to  appoint  a  successor. 

"  It  has  been  stated  that  there  was  a  federal  majority  in  the 
Assembly;  but  that  in  the  Senate  the  republican  majority  was 
greater  than  the  federal  majority  in  the  Assembly.  It  was,  there- 
fore, fair  to  presume  that  a  republican  Senator  on  a  joint  ballot 
would  be  chosen  :  but  the  event  disappointed  that  reasonable 
anticipation.  Mr.  Rufus  King  was  nominated  by  the  Assembly 
by  a  vote  of  fifty-five  to  fourty-four  and  Mr.  James  W.  Wilkin,  a 
Senator  from  Orange  County,  was  chosen  by  the  Senate.  Upon 
a  joint  ballot  Mr.  King  had  sixty-eight  votes  and  Gen.  Wilkin 
sixty-one.  There  were  three  blank  votes.  What  was  the  cause 
of  this  result  ?  By  the  Tammany  party  it  was  charged  to  Mr. 
Clinton.  They  alleged  that  this  was  the  consideration  for  which 
the  federalists,  in  November,  were  induced  to  give  the  Clinton  ians 
the  presidential  electors.  On  the  other  hand  the  republicans, 
who  had  supported  Mr.  Clinton,  insisted  that  it  was  the  result  of 
a  bargain  made  by  Gen.  Thomas  and  Mr.  Southwick,  by  which 
they  agreed,  that  if  the  federalists,  as  a  body,  would  vote  for  the 
incorporation  of  a  bank,  they  would  secure  to  the  federal  party 
the  election  of  the  next  Senator  ;  and  there  is  a  fact  within  my 

*  History  of  Political  Parties  in  the  State  of  New  York,  v.,  344-345. 


1813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  293 

knowledge  which  induces  me  to  believe  that  the  latter  supposi- 
tion is  the  more  probable." 

Mr.  Hammond  further  says,  that  in  consequence  of  a  re- 
quest on  the  part  of  Mr.  Clinton,  at  a  later  date,  who  had 
been  charged  as  having  with  his  friends  combined  to  defeat 
General  Wilkin,  he  had  written  to  General  Wilken  and  ob- 
tained an  answer  in  which  he  declared  his  utter  disbelief 
in  any  foundation  for  the  report.  He  was  convinced  that 
his  election  was  defeated  by  the  influence  and  vote  of  the 
friends  of  the  bank.* 

A  correspondent  of  the  Evening  Post  writes  from  Albany, 
February  2d : 

"  I  have  the  pleasure  to  inform  you  that  Mr.  King  was  this  day 
elected  a  Senator  of  the  United  States  in  the  room  of  John  Smith, 
an  event  which  must  afford  the  highest  satisfaction  to  every  true 
friend  of  his  country.     King  68,  Wilkin  61,  Blank  3." 

On  February  5th,  Mr.  Coleman,  the  editor  of  the  paper, 
says  of  this  election  : 

"  We  consider  the  conduct  of  the  Friends  of  Peace  and  Com- 
merce, whose  united  exertions  have  produced  this  happy  result, 
as  an  auspicious  pledge  of  what  may  be  expected  from  the  real 
lovers  of  their  country,  whenever  they  see  it  in  danger.  It  is  real 
patriotism  alone  that  in  such  a  crisis  can  forget  petty  distinctions 
and  party  names  and  adopt  for  their  motto,  Measures  not  Men. 

"  Of  Mr.  King  himself  the  Editor  of  this  paper  is  restrained 
from  saying  all  he  is  desirous  of  saying,  for  he  is  aware  of  the 
unworthy  motives  to  which  it  would  by  some  be  ascribed  ;  but 
he  will  not  be  deterred  from  mentioning  for  the  first  time  in  pub- 
lic, that  in  nearly  the  last  conversation  he  ever  held  with  General 
Hamilton,  before  his  death,  he  pronounced  with  great  decision  of 
manner,  that  Washington  and  Gen.  Greene  being  gone,  Mr.  King 
was  beyond  any  comparison,  the  ablest  statesman  this  country 
possessed. 

*  "  As  an  act  of  justice  to  Mr.  King,  it  is  proper  to  state  that  no  individual  of 
any  party  ever  suspected  that  he  was  a  party  to,  or  had  knowledge  of  any  nego- 
tiation either  with  the  Clintonians  or  the  bank  men." 


294 


RUFUS  KING.  [1813 


"  This  anecdote  is  here  related  not  for  the  trifling  purpose  of 
gratifying  the  ear  of  any  man,  but  for  the  purpose  of  inspiring 
with  a  just  and  unlimited  confidence  all  those  who  only  know  Mr. 
King  from  report.  It  shall  only  be  added  that  a  circle  of  the 
most  respectable  part  of  the  community  in  which  he  resides,  and 
who  know  him  intimately,  have  long  considered  that  his  splendid 
talents,  and  useful  as  well  as  splendid,  whenever  an  opportunity 
shall  offer  to  bring  them  into  his  country's  service,  were  only 
equalled  by  the  utmost  possible  purity  of  his  views. 


>'  * 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  February  14,  18 13. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  returned  home  from  town  last  evening  where  I  have  spent 
the  last  fortnight.  You  will  have  observed  in  the  Public  Paper 
the  notice  of  my  appointment  to  the  Senate  ;  this  decision  has 
created  some  embarrassment  in  my  mind  ;  I  had  heard  that  the 
measure  was  talked  of  ;  and  as  it  would  not  be  effected  by  federal 
votes,  which  are  six  or  eight  less  than  the  democratical  votes  on  a 
joint  ballot,  it  was  plain  that  my  election  would  not  be  effected 
without  democratical  assistance.  You  well  know  my  opinion  con- 
cerning the  project  for  the  election  of  President  and  I  have  been 
solicitous  that  no  conduct  on  my  part  should  in  appearance  even 
contradict  that  opinion.  From  assurances  which  have  been  given 
me  upon  the  subject  of  the  election  I  have  thought  it  my  duty  in 
the  actual  condition  of  the  Country  not  to  decline  the  appoint- 
ment, tho'  I  foresee,  that  it  will  break  in  upon,  and  impair  the 
repose  which  in  the  bosom  of  my  family  I  so  much  enjoy.  Of 
one  thing  you  may  be  assured  that  this  appointment  has  been 
made  without  solicitation,  nay,  without  the  expression,  or  exist- 
ence, of  a  wish  for  it  on  my  part. 

*Schouler  writes  respecting  the  United  State  Senate  of  1813  : 
"  But  a  better  statesman  and  far  more  experienced  than  either  of  those  emi- 
nent lawyers  (Gore  and  Jeremiah  Mason)  in  public  life,  was  Rufus  King,  just 
elected  by  the  New  York  Legislature  through  an  accidental  local  disarrange- 
ment of  parties.  King  sat  in  the  Senate  for  many  years  longer,  the  last  em- 
bodiment of  well-bred,  and  withal,  moderate  Federalism,  courtly  and  polished 
in  manners,  always  in  full  dress,  with  stockings  and  small  clothes,  as  became 
one  of  Washington's  pattern."     Hist,  of  United  States,  ii.,  379. 


1813]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  295 

I  shall  probably  pass  the  next  winter  at  Washington  ;  the 
changes  of  men,  as  well  as  measures  are  so  complete,  that  there 
will  not  be  a  single  member  of  the  Senate  except  myself,  who  be- 
longed to  that  Body  during  the  time  of  Genl.  Washington.  It 
would  be  a  very  great  satisfaction  to  me,  and  moreover  might  be 
eminently  serviceable  to  the  Country  if  you  would  become  also 
a  member  of  the  Senate. 

It  was  said  Lloyd  was  about  to  resign  in  the  Autumn,  perhaps 
he  will  determine  to  do  so  at  the  end  of  the  present  session.  In 
this  case  I  should  presume,  would  you  be  induced  to  consent,  that 
you  would  be  elected — pray  think  of  it — I  know  nothing  which 
would  sweeten  the  future  years  which  may  be  allotted  to  me  more 
than  again  renewing  that  intercourse  and  friendship  which  sub- 
sisted between  us  in  a  foreign  Country.  Our  wives  would  fully 
participate  in  our  happiness — again  I  pray  you  to  think  of  this 

project.     .     .     . 

Affectionate  Regards 

R.  King. 

Wm.  Henderson  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  Feb.  21,  1813. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  delayed  acknowledging  the  receipt  of  your  favor  of  the 
10th  inst.  untill  I  could  give  you  some  information  worth  commu- 
nicating. I  found  soon  after  my  arrival  here  an  unexpected  op- 
position to  the  Patroon,  as  our  candidate  for  Govr.  This 
principally  arose  from  gentlemen  in  the  middle  district,  who 
seemed  to  consider  his  conduct  in  urging  the  Militia  to  cross  at 
Queenstown,  as  an  objection  to  him  in  the  minds  of  the  federalists, 
in  their  counties,  not  to  be  overcome.  The  true  reason  with 
many  of  them,  certainly  was,  the  preference  they  entertained  for 
the  Speaker  Col.  Van  Rensselaer.  I  am  happy  to  say  that  his 
conduct  on  this  occasion,  has  been  highly  honorable,  and  justly 
entitles  him  to  the  confidence  &  esteem  of  his  party.  And  I  am 
persuaded  he  will  do  every  thing  in  his  power  to  promote  the  suc- 
cess of  the  candidate  agreed  upon.  It  gives  me  pleasure  to  find 
that  the  attempts  to  implicate  you  in  relation  to  the  appointment 
of  Mayor  of  New  York  have  failed.  I  hazard  nothing  in  saying 
that  your  election  to  the  Senate  was  a  sore  disappointment  to  some 


296  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 


of  those  who  had  been  loudest  in  your  favor  ;  the  reason  for  which 
you  may  easily  imagine.  I  can  assure  you,  from  the  best  author- 
ity, that  at  the  time  your  election  took  place,  Genl.  P.  (latt)  be- 
lieved it  would  be  necessary  to  take  a  third  man  for  Mayor,  and 
Clinton  was  fully  apprized  that  it  would  most  probably  happen. 
And  it  certainly  would  have  ended  so  but  for  the  obstinacy  of 
Mr.  P.  W.  R.(adcliff)  who  declared  that  on  the  subject  of  Mayor 
he  could  agree  to  no  compromise  by  which  his  brother  was  to  be 
sacrificed.  I  may  add  too  in  confidence  that  the  Quarter  Master 
Genl.  was  by  no  means  unfriendly  to  you  ;  and  he,  and  a  friend 
of  his,  put  in  blank  ballots  on  the  final  vote.  There  has  been  no 
meeting  of  the  Council  for  some  days,  Mr.  Radcliff  having  been 
on  a  visit  to  Rhinebeck.  He  returned  last  night.  The  Govr. 
has  summoned  them  to  attend  on  Tuesday  ;  what  course  R.  means 
to  take  is  yet  unknown  here  ;  and  accounts  from  New  York  state 
the  exertions  of  R.'s  supporters  there  to  create  dissention  will 
finally  prove  abortive.  A  paper  has  been  received  here  from  the 
pen  of  Mr.  Morris  :  supposed  to  be  submitted,  as  a  report  proper 
to  be  made  at  this  time  by  a  Committee  of  the  Legislature  on  the 
state  of  the  Nation.  It  contains  nineteen  folio  pages  in  which 
among  ether  matters  are  discussed,  the  rights  of  the  Majority  to 
govern  the  Minority  in  all  cases  ;  commerce  and  domestic  slavery 
as  opposed  to  each  other  ;  the  evils  resulting  from  the  black 
representatives  in  Congress  ;  the  embargo,  non  intercourse  &c.  ; 
rights  of  England  to  her  own  seamen,  employment  of  the  Militia, 
and  approbation  of  the  conduct  of  the  Governors  of  Massachu- 
setts &  Connecticut,  danger  of  a  French  alliance,  the  creation  of 
new  states,  anticommercial,  their  votes  in  the  Senate,  there  is  rea- 
son to  fear,  will  confirm  such  alliance.  It  concludes  with  propos- 
ing the  following  resolution,  "that  Delegates  be  appointed 
to  meet  at  the  City  of  New  York  on  day  of  next  with 
such  Delegates  as  may  be  sent  by  States  who  have  elected  a  Ma- 
jority of  Congressional  Representatives,  favorable  to  peace  & 
commerce,  for  the  purpose  of  considering  the  condition  of  public 
affairs  and  devising  measures  to  obtain  redress." 

You  will  readily  perceive  that  the  writer  thinks  the  separation 
of  the  States  an  event,  that  must  shortly  take  place,  if  our  Rulers 
persevere  in  the  War.  This  may  happen  but  I  can  see  no  good 
that  can  arise  from  any  attempt  that  can  produce  it.     Those  poli- 


1 8 13]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  297 

ticians  deceive  themselves,  who  suppose  there  are  men  of  any 
consideration  in  either  party  in  this  State  who  would  rashly  dis- 
solve the  Union.  Before  we  part  with  the  Government  we  have, 
there  ought  to  be  a  moral  certainty  of  our  obtaining  a  better.  In 
short  we  had  "  better  bear  the  ills  we  have,  than  fly  to  others  that 
we  know  not  of."  Before  the  Session  ends  some  resolutions  will 
be  brought  forward  respecting  the  Militia.  I  wish  you  would  let 
me  have  your  ideas  on  the  subject.  Stating  how  far  we  may  go 
in  support  of  our  eastern  friends.  The  treatment  the  Militia  com- 
plain of  from  the  U.  S.  Govt.,  is  likely  to  afford  us  greatt  aid  in 
the  next  election. 

I  am  with  great  respect  &  esteem, 
Yours  ob.  Sv., 

Wm.  Henderson. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Mar.  7,  1813. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  reed,  your  letter  of  the  1st  in  due  course,  and  after  taking  a 
day  to  consider  of  the  prudence  of  doing  it,  I  yesterday  wrote  a 
confidential  letter  to  Gov.  Strong  concerning  your  appointment  to 
the  Senate  in  case  Mr.  L.  shd.  decline  a  further  attendance.  You 
may  be  sure  that  I  have  observed  those  reserves  which  were  re- 
quisite to  be  attended  to,  as  well  on  your  account  as  on  my  own. 
After  attending  to  the  conditions  and  prospects  of  the  public  af- 
fairs and  impressing  my  conviction  that  you  were  strongly  disin- 
clined to  appear  in  any  public  station,  I  stated  the  long  friendship 
which- had  subsisted  between  us,  the  intimate  knowledge  that  I 
have  of  your  experience,  prudence  &  integrity,  and  the  very  great 
support  of  any  efforts  on  my  part  to  promote  the  public  welfare, 
that  would  be  derived  from  your  cooperation — In  case  Mr.  L.  de- 
clined to  resume  his  seat,  I  cannot  but  hope  that  the  Govr.  will 
renew  his  application  to  you,  and  should  he  do  so,  that  you  will 
consent  to  serve.  I  can  imagine  but  one  impediment  on  the  part 
of  Govr.  Strong  ;  if  Mr.  Lloyd  consented  to  serve  during  the  last 
Session  on  condition  that  he  shd.  be  relieved  at  its  close,  the  Gov. 
may  have  made  some  overture  to  some  one  on  the  subject,  and 
the  business  may  have  proceeded  too  far  to  be  recalled  :    Altho'  I 


298  RUFUS  KING.  [181 3 

have  seen  the  Bill  appointing  an  extra  Session  in  May,  I  do  not 
remember  at  what  period  in  the  month  it  will  take  place — How 
much  shd.  we  be  gratified  if  you  and  Mrs.  Gore  shd.  accompany  us, 
— I  can  most  truly  say,  that  would  be  a  solace  exceeding  all  others 
that  I  can  anticipate — indeed  as  there  will  be  not  a  single  member 
of  the  Senate  who  was  my  contemporary, . I  shall  find  myself  in  the 
midst  of  strangers,  and  that  too,  in  a  place  destitute,  as  I  fear,  of 
those  conveniences  &  comforts,  which  alone  can  compensate  us 
for  removing  from  homes  in  which  we  enjoy  the  indulgences  which 
our  habits  have  rendered  necessary. 

It  is  possible  we  may  do  good — we  may  encourage  &  soothe  the 
Govt,  to  restore  peace — and  shd.  we  contribute  to  this  very  im- 
portant purpose,  it  shd.  not  fail  to  produce  very  satisfactory  re- 
flections at  a  future  day.     .     .     . 

I  am  always  your  faithful  friend, 

R.  King. 

P.S.  be  assured  that  I  have  in  no  degree  compromised  you  or 
myself. 


C.  Strong  to  R.  King. 

Northampton,  March  12,  1813. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  have  just  reed,  your  letters  of  the  5th  inst,  and  wish  you  to 
consider  this  as  confidential. 

At  the  session  of  our  Legislature  in  Nov.  last,  Mr.  Lloyd  in- 
formed me  that  he  should  resign  at  the  close  of  that  Session,  I 
therefore  wrote  to  Mr.  Gore  who  was  at  Waltham,  that  if  he 
would  consent,  I  should  propose  him  for  the  office.  He  wrote  me 
in  answer  that  he  must  decline  to  accept  it.  The  morning  after 
the  session  closed,  Mr.  Lloyd  called  on  me  &  offered  his  resigna- 
tion :  with  much  difficulty  I  persuaded  him  to  take  it  back  & 
attend  our  session  now.  I  should  not  have  been  so  urgent  with 
him  if  Mr.  G.  had  consented  to  take  the  office. 

When  I  heard  of  your  election,  it  occurred  to  me  immediately 
that  Mr.  Gore  might  be  induced  to  accompany  you,  and  if  Mr. 
Lloyd  resigns  before  the  meeting  of  the  Legislature,  which  is 
highly  probable,  I  have  no  doubt  Mr.  Gore,  if  he  consents,  will 


1 8 13]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  299 

be  appointed  :  as  your  letter  is  confidential,  I  am  not  at  liberty  to 
mention  the  subject  of  it  to  him  ;  will  you  be  good  enough  to 
write  to  him  and  prepare  him  for  the  appointment,  if  a  vacancy 
occurs.  What  our  next  Legislature  will  be  is  uncertain,  but  if 
both  Houses  are  federal,  as  there  is  much  reason  to  expect,  there 
is  no  doubt  but  that  they  will  elect  Mr.  Gore,  if  he  is  appointed 
by  the  Executive. 

I  feel  myself  much  obliged  to  any  good  man,  who  engages  in 
publick  life  at  the  present  time,  and  hope  you  will  be  so  happy  as 
to  be  instrumental  in  checking  our  ruinous  career. 

With  unabated  friendship  yours  etc., 

Caleb  Strong. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

March  18,  1813. 

My  dear  friend  : 

I  this  evening  received  such  an  answer  as  I  expected  and  desired 
from  —  (Gov.  Strong).  He  says  that  it  immediately  occurred 
to  him,  upon  hearing  of  my  appointment,  that  it  might  have 
some  influence  with  you  to  consent  to  what  you  had  declined  : 
he  adds  that  as  my  letter  to  him  was  confidential,  he  does  not 
feel  himself  at  liberty  to  mention  it  to  you,  but  desires  that  I 
would  prepare  for  his  repeating  his  former  request,  in  case  of  a 
vacancy.  On  this  point  he  states  the  resignation  of  Mr.  (Lloyd) 
and  that  he  had  some  difficulty  in  prevailing  upon  him  to  serve 
another  Session.  If  the  Legislature  are  fedl.  which  he  thinks 
probable,  he  has  no  doubt  that  the  executive  appointment  will 
be  confirmed. 

I  have  apprized  my  wife  of  Mr.  —  (Strong's)  answer,  and  we 
both  conjure  you  and  Mrs.  Gore  to  cast  no  impediments  in  the 
way  of  the  accomplishment  of  our  wishes.  I  hope  Mr.  —  (Lloyd) 
will  adhere  to  his  purpose  of  resigning.  I  should  indeed  be  dis- 
appointed should  he  prove  inconstant.  An  acquaintance  of  his 
who  saw  him  on  his  return  home,  told  me  that  he  understood  from 
him  that  he  intended  to  resign.     .     .     . 

Affectionately  yours 

R.  K. 


300  RUFUS   KING.  [1813 

R.  King  to  R.  Troup,  Albany. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  March  29,  1813. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  this  evening  reed,  and  obeyed  your  letter  of  the  25th.  Being 
out  of  the  city,  I  am  out  of  the  influence  of  passions,  which  the 
unfortunate  disputes  in  the  Church  have  excited.  I  am  not,  how- 
ever, indifferent  with  respect  to  the  disorder  which  has  brought 
so  much  reproach  upon  the  Church.  A  separation  of  the  Churches, 
so  that  each  Shepherd  may  have  his  own  Flock,  can  alone  put  an 
end  to  these  Disputes.  I  hear  that  some  persons,  who  have 
figured  in  the  late  controversies,  doubt,  or  affect  to  doubt,  whether 
the  Legislature  can  enable  the  Vestry  of  Trinity  Church  to  separ- 
ate, set  off,  and  endow  the  chapels  ;  so  that  the  members  of  these 
separated  Churches  shall  be  precluded  from  voting  in  the  choice 
of  the  Vestry  of  Trinity  Church.  It  seems  to  me  very  strange 
that  this  can  be  made  a  question.  An  exact  analysis  of  the  sub- 
ject would  be  too  long  for  this  letter  ;  but  I  may  state  to  you  that 
I  have  carefully  and  I  think  impartially  considered  and  examined 
the  subject,  and  that  the  result  has  been  a  full  conviction  that 
the  law  is  expedient,  and  that  the  Legislature  are  competent  to 
pass  it.* 

I  remain,  Dr.  Sir  yr.  ob.  &  faithful  servant 

Rufus  King. 


*  Trinity  Parish  originally  covered  the  city  of  New  York,  and  all  com- 
municants in  the  city  had  a  right  to  vote  for  its  Vestry.  As  the  city  increased 
in  size  and  population,  several  chapels  were  built  in  different  sections  which 
obtained  charters  of  incorporation,  by  which  they  became  independent  parishes, 
exercising  full  power  as  such  and  thus  virtually  separated  from  Trinity.  Cer- 
tain individuals,  friends  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Jones,  but  not  worshippers  or  pew 
holders  at  Trinity,  claimed,  but  were  denied,  a  right  to  vote  for  Vestrymen  in 
Trinity.  This  matter  was  brought  before  the  Legislature,  and  by  an  act  passed 
on  Jany.  25,  1814,  it  was  declared  that  persons  entitled  to  vote  at  the  annual 
elections  must  have  been  for  one  year  preceding  members  of  the  congre- 
gation of  Trinity  Church,  or  of  any  of  the  chapels  belonging  to  the  same,  and 
"forming  part  of  the  same  religious  corporation,"  or  shall  hold  or  occupy 
a  seat  or  pew  in  it  or  theirs,  or  have  partaken  of  the  Communion  therein  within 
a  year.  Col.  Troup  was  a  Vestrymen  of  Trinity  and  a  member  of  the  Legis- 
lature at  the  time. 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

Defences  of  the  Harbor  of  New  York — The  Corporation  of  the  City  could 
not  Act — Memorial  to  the  Legislature  to  Interfere — It  failed  to  do  so — 
Patriotic  Citizens  made  the  Defences — King  to  Lord  Sidmarth — Introduc- 
ing his  Son — King  to  Vansittart — Relative  to  his  Son  and  deploring  the 
War — Adjournment  of  12th  Congress — Inefficient  Conduct  of  the  War — 
Assembling  of  the  13th  Congress — President's  Message — Russian  Media- 
tion— Nomination  of  Gallatin,  Adams,  and  Bayard  as  Envoys  under  the 
Russian  Offer — Rejection  of  Gallatin — King's  Notes  of  Speech  on  his 
Nomination — Dashkoff  on  the  Russian  Mission — Estimates  of  King. 

The  declaration  of  war  with  England  found  the  harbor 
of  New  York  unprotected  against  attacks  from  the  British 
Navy,  and  the  United  States  Government,  with  the  same 
carelessness  of  preparation  which  was  manifested  in  every 
quarter,  had  neglected  to  protect  it  against  foreign  invasion. 
It  was  felt  by  leading  men  in  the  city  that  something 
should  be  done  to  prevent  the  success  of  an  attempt  to  lay 
it  under  contribution,  and  an  appeal  was  made  to  the  Corpora- 
tion of  the  City  to  undertake  the  work.  Whether  Mr.  King 
had  been  called  upon  to  give  an  opinion  as  to  the  propriety 
of  such  action,  or  because  he  deemed  it  a  duty  to  protest 
publicly  against  it,  there  are  among  his  papers,  two,  showing 
that  the  Corporation  had  no  power  to  act,  otherwise  than  in 
making  an  earnest  appeal  to  the  General  Government,  or  a 
demand  of  protection  from  it.     These  papers  are  here  given. 

THE  CORPORATION  HAS  NO  POWERS  TO  CONSTRUCT  THE  DEFENCES 

OF  NEW  YORK. 

It  being  manifest  as  well  from  the  nature  and  tenour  of  the 
articles  of  union,  as  from  the  general  principles  of  all  just  Govt., 

301 


302  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

that  protection  and  allegiance  are  reciprocal,  and  therefore  that  the 
Govt,  of  the  U.  S.  is  bound  to  provide  adequate  defence  for  every 
part  and  portion  of  the  nation,  the  reports  of  the  daily  papers  render 
it  expedient  to  call  the  public  attention  to  the  neccessary  conse- 
quence of  this  obligation  on  the  part  of  the  U.  S.,  namely  that 
the  duty  of  defending  the  City  of  New  York  having  been  assigned 
to  the  nation,  it  is  the  magistrates  of  the  nation,  and  they  only, 
who  can  either  lawfully  or  advantageously  perform  this  service. 

When  the  power  and  obligation  to  perform  a  specified  service 
is  by  law  assigned  to  magistrates  appointed  for  the  purpose,  they 
are  exclusively  assigned.  No  other  persons  can  without  manifest 
disturbance  and  confusion  interfere  with  them  in  the  execution  of 
their  office.  Legislative,  executive  and  judicial  officers  of  a  State 
are  respectively  charged  with  the  performance  of  distinct  duties, 
and  the  officers  of  one  of  these  departments  may  not  interfere,  or 
attempt  to  perform  the  duties  of  another  ;  nor  may  the  People,  or 
any  section  of  them  exercise  the  power  lawfully  conferred  upon 
the  magistrates. 

If  this  reasoning  be  correct,  whence  do  the  City  Corporation 
derive  the  Right  to  interfere  with  the  Genl.  Govt,  in  the  fortifica- 
tion of  the  Harbour  ?  From  whom,  and  by  what  Law,  have  they 
authority  to  act  in  this  business  ?  The  Mayor,  Aldermen,  and 
Common  Councilmen  are  appointed  not  only  for  limited  times 
but  for  special  services  ;  their  powers  have  some  limitation  and 
none  can  be  found  except  in  the  charter  and  certain  auxiliary  acts 
of  the  Legislature.  It  must  then  be  evident  that  unless  the 
authority  to  fortify  the  Harbour  be  found  in  these  documents, 
they  have  no  authority.  These  have  been  examined  and  without 
discovering  that  it  has  ever  been  in  contemplation  to  vest  the  City 
Corporation  with  this  prerogative. 

Were  it  decent  upon  so  grave  a  subject  and  upon  an  occasion 
so  truly  important,  whether  we  regard  the  safety  of  the  country 
or  its  Constitution,  to  test  this  pretense  of  the  corporation  by  the 
supposed  capacity  of  its  magistrates  for  the  duties  to  which  it  so 
preposterously  aspires,  there  can  be  no  doubt  of  the  conclusion 
in  the  mind  of  every  man  of  common  understanding.  But  we 
have  no  inclination  to  draw  into  comparison  the  arduousness 
of  the  service  and  the  competency  of  the  servants.  We  are  will- 
ing to  admit  for  the  purpose  of  reasoning,  and  we  are  not  sure 


1813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  303 

we  might  not  for  the  sake  of  truth,  that  the  science,  experience 
and  consequent  fitness  of  the  committees  of  the  Corporation  are 
not  inferior  to  those  of  the  Committee  of  the  National  Committee, 
and  this  too  with  a  better  knowledge  of  the  qualifications  of  the 
latter  than  of  those  of  the  former  ;  but  if  we  have  a  Constitution 
which  is  entitled  to  our  fidelity  and  support,  these  and  all  other 
proceedings,  which  relate  to  its  provisions,  must  be  brought  to  its 
standard,  and  their  merit  or  demerit  ascertained  by  its  princi- 
ples. If  the  public  defence  be  assigned  to  the  National  Govt, 
that  Govt,  is1  alone  responsible  to  the  Country  that  it  be  well  de- 
fended ;  and  no  subordinate  or  special  magistrates  can  without 
disrespect  to  the  national  magistracy  interfere  with,  or  take  upon 
themselves,  the  performance  of  its  exclusive  functions. 

THE  LEGISLATURE  AND  NOT  THE  BOARD  OF  ALDERMEN  CAN  PRO- 
VIDE FOR  THE  DEFENCE  OF  THE  HARBOUR  OF  NEW  YORK. 

What  is  everybody's  business  is  nobody's  :  and  a  principal  end 
of  Government  is  to  provide  for  that's  being  done  by  somebody, 
which  without  such  provision  would  be  the  business  of  nobody. 
Amongst  the  things  which  thus  became  the  exclusive  duty  of 
Government  is  the  defence  of  the  nation  in  time  of  war  against 
foreign  enemies.  Every  Government  is  bound  to  protect  the 
lives  and  property  of  the  people,  all  of  whom  have  an  equal 
right  to  security,  without  discriminating  such  as  are  exposed  to  be 
first  attacked  on  the  frontiers  from  those  who  dwell  in  the  centre 
or  heart  of  the  State. 

Reposing  thus  beneath  the  broad  shield  of  the  nation,  every 
one  is  free  to  attend  to  and  pursue  his  particular  vocation  in  full 
confidence  of  being  at  all  times  protected  by  the  authority  and 
force  of  the  State. 

The  organization,  arming  and  leading  of  this  force  belong  to 
and  are  the  duty  of  Govt.  ;  the  raising  of  armies,  the  building 
of  navies,  the  erecting  of  forts  and  the  establishment  of  arsenals 
and  magazines  are  duties,  in  which  neither  individuals,  towns,  nor 
cities  may  have  any  other  concern  than  such  as  may  be  derived 
from  Government ;  and  the  voluntary  and  unasked  interference 
of  any  of  them  in  these  important  duties  is  altogether  irregular 
and  dangerous.     If  there  were  no  league  or  confederacy  between 


304  KUFUS  KING.  [1813 

the  several  States,  the  City  of  New  York  could  rightfully  call 
upon  the  State  Govt,  for  that  protection  which  she  so  eminently 
requires  agt.  for.  invasion  ;  and  there  can  be  no  room  to  doubt 
that  she  would  ask  in  vain.  Every  man  must  at  once  perceive 
that  a  single  State  was  less  able  to  afford  adequate  protection  to 
its  people  than  the  union  of  all  the  States  would  be  ;  and  there- 
fore in  the  Preamble  of  the  Constitution  it  is  truly  declared  that 
"  to  provide  for  the  common  defence  "  was  one  of  the  chief  ob- 
jects of  the  union  of  States.  The  General  Government,  by  the 
nature  and  tenour  of  the  Union,  is  bound  to  afford  adequate  pro- 
tection not  only  to  every  member,  but  to  every  city  and  citizen 
comprised  in  the  Union.  The  questions  of  particular  exposure, 
of  extraordinary  difficulty  and  of  great  expense  are  not  now  open 
for  consideration  ;  the  compact  is  formed  ;  the  correlative  duties 
of  obedience,  of  contribution,  of  allegiance  have  been  faithfully 
and  liberally  performed,  and  the  right  of  protection,  the  claims  of 
security  are  consequently  complete. 

It  is  an  elementary  principle  in  the  social  compact  that  the 
duties  of  Government  and  People  are  reciprocal  ;  and  the  abdica- 
tion and  non-performance  of  the  obligation  of  the  Govt,  is  not 
only  a  violation  of  the  compact,  but  virtually  a  discharge  of  the 
correlative  duties  of  the  People  towards  the  Govt.,  so  as  to  leave 
it  a  mere  question  of  expediency  whether  they  should  not  with- 
hold the  same.  Thus  the  People  and  State  of  New  York,  in 
entering  into  the  Union,  granted  unlimited  power  to  Congress 
over  their  persons  and  property  to  enable  it  to  provide  for  the 
common  defence,  and  in  consideration  of  this  and  other  powers, 
the  Union  is  bound  in  good  faith  to  provide  for  the  defence  of 
the  People  of  New  York,  whether  living  on  the  sea-board  or  the 
northern  frontier,  whether  engaged  in  commerce  or  agriculture, 
whether  living  in  cities  or  in  the  country. 

They  not  only  granted  this  power,  but  Congress  have  made  free 
use  of  it  by  levying  a  very  large  proportion  of  the  public  taxes 
within  this  State,  taxes,  which  had  they  remained  in  the  hands  of 
the  State,  and  been  collected  and  paid  into  the  State  Treasury, 
would  have  afforded  abundant  means  to  have  provided  those 
defences  which  the  exposed  position  of  her  ocean  frontier  de- 
mands. True  it  is,  that  our  claim  of  protection  would  have  been 
equally  strong,  had  the  national  taxes  collected  within  our  limits 


1813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  305 

been  as  scanty  as  they  have  been  abundant,  and  their  magnitude 
is  mentioned  by  way  of  showing  that  if  great  expenses  must  be 
incurred  in  defending  our  City,  great  and  correspondent  advan- 
tages accrue  to  the  Union  from  our  industry,  enterprize  and 
position. 

The  point  to  be  established  is  this,  that  of  right  and  according 
to  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution  the  City  of  New  York  may 
demand  of  the  National  Government  to  be  protected  in  their  per- 
sons, their  property  and  lawful  employment,  and  that  the  National 
Govt,  is  bound  to  afford  to  them  that  protection,  and  is  solely  re- 
sponsible for  whatever  injury  may  occur  by  reason  of  the  denial 
or  delay  of  our  just  demand. 

But  it  may  be  observed  that,  admitting  it  to  be  the  duty  of  the 
General  Govt,  to  fortify  our  harbour,  the  duty  however  clear  is 
neglected  ;  the  foreign  affairs  of  the  nation  have  been  critical  ; 
war  may  suddenly  break  out,  and  the  City  without  adequate  de- 
fences, is  exposed  to  great  and  imminent  peril.  In  such  circum- 
stances, are  the  citizens  to  remain  inactive,  are  they  to  wait  till 
invaded  before  they  take  measures  for  their  security  ?  Are  those 
the  friends  of  the  city  and  its  inhabitants,  who  recommend  their 
passive  course,  admitting  even  that  the  Corporation  may  be  de- 
ficient in  power  ;  who  with  more  propriety  and  advantage  in 
the  actual  posture  of  affairs,  can  interfere  in  those  arrangements 
without  which  every  man  of  common  understanding  and  prudence 
must  perceive  that  he  shall  become  the  first  victim  of  a  furious 
war  ? 

It  is  not  ambition,  not  a  competition  for  vacant  power  that 
stimulates  this  Body,  but  a  strong  sense  of  danger,  acting  upon 
an  honest  solicitude  for  the  welfare,  nay  for  the  existence  of  their 
fellow  Citizens.  It  would  be  both  unfair  and  unjust  to  deny  that 
this  strong  censure  of  the  Genl.  Govt.,  this  plausible  apology  for 
the  Corporation,  is  without  truth  or  the  colour  of  a  justification. 
But  we  must  recur  in  cases  which  most  interest  our  feelings  and 
our  interest,  as  well  as  in  those  which  address  themselves  to  our 
understandings  and  our  justice,  to  those  immutable  principles  of 
truth  and  of  the  social  Compact,  which  alone  will  invariably  lead 
us  to  right  conclusions. 

It  has  already  been  established  that  by  the  Union  of  the  States 
whatever  concerns  war  offensive  or  defensive  is  charged  upon  the 

VOL.   V. — 20 


306  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

Genl.  Govt.  The  rights  that  before  appertained  to  the  several 
States  on  this  subject  have  been  transferred  to  the  U.  S.,  which 
now  possess  the  entire  power.  Among  the  rights  of  the  individual 
States  is  the  dominion  of,  and  over,  all  navigable  waters  within 
their  limits,  which  by  the  maxims  of  common  Law,  as  well  as  bj' 
the  nature  of  Govt.,  cannot  belong  to  private  persons.  In  this 
dominion  of  the  State  all  the  citizens  possess  equal  rights  ;  he 
who  lives  remote  from,  equally  with  him  who  resides  upon  the 
margin  of  navigable  waters  ;  a  city  in  the  interior  equally  with  a 
city  upon  the  mouth  of  a  great  River  ;  and  thus  results,  not  only 
from  the  equality  in  interest  of  all  the  citizens,  in  that  which  is 
reserved  and  belongs  to  the  public,  but  in  the  present  instance  all 
have  a  common  motive  to  preserve  from  injury  a  great  navigable 
stream,  which  serves  as  their  highway  not  only  for  the  transporta- 
tion of  themselves  and  their  goods,  but  as  the  only  passage  by 
which  they  can  maintain  an  intercourse  with  foreign  nations  and 
their  sister  States. 

It  follows  from  this  view  of  the  subject,  that  the  Legislature  of 
the  States,  which  represents  the  whole,  and  not  the  Board  of 
Aldermen,  which  represents  but  a  part,  can  alone  authorise  meas- 
ures, which  concern  and  may  materially  affect  the  rights  of  the 
whole.  As  well  may  the  inhabitants  of  King's  County  and  of  Staten 
Island  discuss  the  expediency  of  fortifying  the  Narrows,  and  in  the 
execution  of  their  ridiculous  plan  take  steps  to  block  up  the 
channel,  as  the  City  Corporation.  The  charter  gives  to  the  City 
no  property  below  low  water  mark  even  in  the  River  contiguous 
to  the  City,  nor  does  the  jurisdiction,  which  relates  to  the  admn. 
of  justice,  confer  a  power  for  other  purposes. 

The  Board  of  Aldermen  having  no  power  to  fortify,  have  none 
to  borrow  money,  or  to  levy  taxes,  or  to  enter  into  contracts  for 
this  purpose.  They  cannot  lawfully  pledge  the  city  property  for 
this  unlawful  purpose,  and  in  all  but  the  ruinous  and  unheard  of 
scheme  of  destroying  the  finest  seaport  of  the  nation,  their  acts 
will  be  ipso  facto  void. 

The  Corporation  of  New  York,  in  February,  1813,1  ad- 
dressed a  memorial  to  the  Legislature  asking  an  appropria- 
tion to  protect  the  city  with  an  expose"  of  its  defenceless 

1  Evening  Post,  April  19,  18 13. 


1813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  307 

condition,  drawn  up  by  a  patriotic  and  able  Committee  of 
defence,  of  which  Col.  Fish  was  Chairman.  This  was  read 
with  closed  doors  in  the  Assembly;  a  committee  was 
appointed  to  purchase  munitions  of  war  and  provide  tem- 
porary means  of  defence,  and  an  appropriation  was  made  of 
$400,000  for  the  purpose.  The  Senate  reduced  the  appro- 
priation to  $100,000,  to  be  expended  by  the  Governor  in- 
stead of  by  the  committee.  To  these  changes  the  Assembly 
refused  assent  and  the  bill  fell.  It  would  appear  that  on 
the  6th  of  April  600  men  of  the  First  Regiment  of  U.  S. 
Volunteer  Artillery,  under  Col.  Sitcher,  arrived  in  New 
York,  and  were  set  to  work  to  break  ground  on  the  Battery, 
where  they  began  to  make  breastworks  for  heavy  cannon 
under  arrangements  with  the  Corporation.  Though  this 
work  was  begun,  nothing  more  was  done  by  the  Govern- 
ment, but  it  was  carried  on  by  patriotic  citizens  with  energy 
and  satisfactory  results.  Mr.  King,  after  taking  his  seat  in 
the  U.  S.  Senate,  presented  a  memorial  from  the  Common 
Council  of  New  York,  on  June  13th,  for  the  adoption  of 
measures  for  the  greater  security  and  protection  of  the 
City,  which  was  finally,  July  2d,  referred  to  the  Department 
of  War  to  consider  and  report  thereon.  But  no  special 
report  appears  to  have  been  made  on  the  subject. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Sidmouth. 

New  York,  April  28,  1813. 
My  Lord  : 

My  son,  Mr.  Charles  King,  who  is  the  bearer  of  this  letter,  will 
embark  in  a  few  days  for  Lisbon,  from  whence  he  may  find  it  nec- 
essary to  proceed  to  England,  as  his  business  exclusively  concerns 
property  of  a  considerable  amount,  belonging  to  a  House  of  Com- 
merce, of  which  he  is  a  member,  and  to  secure  the  restoration  of 
which  the  proprietors  may  be  obliged  to  pursue  their  claim  in  the 
English  Court  of  Admiralty.  I  have  taken  the  liberty,  notwith- 
standing the  unhappy  war  between  our  respective  Countries,  to 
give  to  my  son  this  letter,  and  of  requesting  your  Lordship  to 
have  the  goodness  upon  this  assurance  of  the  nature  of  his  busi- 


308  RUFUS  KING.  [x8i3 

ness,  to  grant  him  permission  to  come  to  England,  in  order  that 
he  may  in  due  season  adopt  the  requisite  means  to  effect  the  re- 
covery of  the  property  in  question. 

With  a  lively  recollection  of  the  tokens  of  confidence  &  esteem 
which  I  received  from  your  Lordship,  during  my  Residence  in 
England,  I  have  the  honor  to  remain  with  distinguished  Respect 
and  Esteem  your  Lordship's         Most  obedient  servant 

Rufus  King. 

P.  S.  I  do  not  know  whether  Mr.  Wilberforce  continues  in 
Parliament.  In  case  he  has  not  withdrawn  himself,  will  you  do 
me  the  favor,  of  enabling  me  thro'  my  son,  to  repeat  to  him  the 
assurance  of  my  constant  and  respectful  attachment  ? 

R.  K. 


R.  King  to  Mr.  Vansittart. 

New  York,  April  28,  1813. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Upon  the  presumption  that  my  son,  Mr.  Charles  King,  will  be 
permitted  to  go  from  Lisbon  to  London,  I  have  taken  the  liberty 
to  give  to  him  this  Letter  of  Introduction  to  you,  and  moreover 
to  ask  the  interference  of  your  good  offices  in  his  favor  during  the 
short  time  his  business  may  detain  him  in  England.  ...  I 
am  unwilling  to  ask  your  attention,  although  I  am  persuaded  that 
the  advice  of  no  other  person  would  be  more  advantageous. 

Remembering  as  I  do  the  liberal  opinions  which  you  have  al- 
ways professed  concerning  the  mutual  advantages  of  a  friendly 
intercourse  between  our  respective  Countries,  I  cannot  doubt  that 
you  must  with  me  deplore  the  continuance  of  the  present  unhappy 
war.  My  earnest  hope  is  that  means  may  be  fallen  upon,  consist- 
ent with  the  just  claims  of  each  party  to  bring  the  war  to  a  speedy 
termination.  It  is  likewise  with  equal  earnestness  to  be  desired 
that  the  mitigated  manner  of  making  war,  which,  for  the  honor 
of  humanity,  has  softened  its  rigors,  in  modern  days,  may  be  duly 
observed,  by  both  parties,  and  that  none  will  forget  that  we  are 
again  to  be  friends. 

With  the  highest  Respect  &  Esteem,  I  have  the  honor  to  remain 

Yr.  Obe  &:  very  humble  Servt. 

Rufus  King. 


1813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  309 

The  twelfth  Congress  expired  on  the  3d  of  March  18 13 
without  providing  effectively  for  carrying  on  the  war,  which, 
with  the  exception  of  some  brilliant  actions  of  the  navy,  had 
been  so  disastrous  in  the  operations  on  land  ;  for  the  admin- 
istration had  done  nothing  to  put  the  country  in  a  condition 
to  meet  the  attacks  which  were  invited  by  the  defenceless 
condition  of  the  sea  coast,  had  Great  Britain  been  disen- 
gaged from  the  continental  war  in  Europe,  or  had  she  seri- 
ously contemplated  carrying  on  a  war  with  the  United 
States.  Attempts  to  invade  Canada  had  failed  from  inade- 
quate provision  and  from  the  incapacity  of  the  officers  to 
whom  they  were  intrusted  ;  and  British  cruisers  on  the  sea- 
board caused  much  distress  by  their  outrageous  attacks 
upon  undefended  points,  pillaging  and  burning  the  towns. 

To  meet  these  troubles  the  Congress  had  done  little  more 
than  to  pass  bills  to  fill  the  ranks  and  increase  the  staff  of 
the  army,  to  give  five  millions  of  treasury  notes  and  to  bor- 
row sixteen  millions  of  dollars  to  meet  the  unusual  expenses 
of  the  Government.  The  necessary  measures  to  make  the 
use  of  these  means  effective  and  to  support  the  credit  of  the 
Government  were  left  to  the  new  Congress,  and  in  order 
that  action  might  be  promptly  taken,  the  day  of  meeting  of 
the  thirteenth  Congress  was  changed  to  the  24th  of  May, 
and  to  it  was  referred  the  performance  of  the  duties  which 
had  been  neglected. 

The  President  during  the  preceding  year  had  endeavored 
to  strengthen  the  small  army  at  his  disposal,  by  calling  upon 
the  Governors  of  several  of  the  Eastern  States  to  summon 
the  militia  and  place  them  under  the  command  of  his  gen- 
erals, but  they  had  answered  him  that  they  were  not  able  to 
see  any  of  the  conditions  under  which  the  militia  could  be 
required  to  serve,  and  especially  the  danger  of  invasion : 
whenever  this  was  imminent  they  were  ready  at  once  to  call 
them  out. 

Governor  Tompkins  of  New  York  had  responded  faith- 
fully to  the  President's  demands,  but  he  found  the  militia 
unwilling  to  serve  as' he  desired,  and  the  answer  made  to  his 


310  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

address  to  the  Assembly  of  New  York  on  the  5th  of  Novem- 
ber 1812,  contained  this  clause,  that  while  they  doubt  not 
that  the  Governor  has 

"in  facilitating  the  operations  of  the  General  Government 
been  animated  with  a  due  regard  to  the  provisions  of  that 
sound  law  (the  Constitution)  we  cannot  refrain  from  observ- 
ing that  neither  in  its  spirit,  nor  in  its  letter,  are  we  able  to 
discover  any  authority  to  order  the  militia  of  this,  or  any 
other,  State  upon  enterprises  of  conquest  or  attacks  outside 
of  the  limits  of  the  State." 

The  President  had  also  suggested  the  laying  of  a  new  Em- 
bargo against  Great  Britain  and  her  dependencies  and  pass- 
ing a  law  to  forbid  the  trade  by  citizens  of  the  U.  States 
under  the  special  licenses  which  had  been  granted  by  Great 
Britain  to  supply  provisions  for  the  people  of  Spain  and  Por- 
tugal, these  suffering  greatly  for  the  want  of  them  while  carry- 
ing on  their  desperate  conflict  with  France.  Though  the 
House  passed  these  measures  the  Senate  treated  them  with 
"  indifference  if  not  neglect."  * 

It  has  been  stated  that  Mr.  King  was  elected  to  the  Sen- 
ate of  the  thirteenth  Congress  by  the  Legislature  of  New 
York,  and  to  his  great  gratification  his  friend  Mr.  Gore  had 
received  the  appointment  to  the  same  body,  by  the  Governor 
of  Massachusetts.  Leaving  their  comfortable  homes,  they 
repaired  to  Washington  to  take  what  they  could  find  in  that 
city,  then  badly  provided  with  hotels  or  boarding  houses, 
and  to  enter  upon  the  duties  of  their  offices.  The  records 
of  the  Senate  do  not  report  the  speeches  of  the  members, 
giving  only  the  official  notices  of  the  resolutions  and  pro- 
ceedings under  them  with  the  votes  of  the  members ;  in 
looking  over  these  we  find  the  names  of  both  these  gentle- 
men on  important  committees,  whose  actions  they  evidently 
assisted  in  directing,  and  their  votes  recorded  on  nearly  every 
call  of  the  yeas  &  nays.  Indeed  they  were  rarely  absent  from 
their  seats.  Though  they  disapproved  of  the  war,  they  felt 
it  to  be  their  duty  to  do  what  they  could  to  bring  about  its 

*  Nat.  Intellr.,  June  12,  1S13. 


1 813]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  31I 

close  by  strengthening  the  Government.  The  President  in 
his  message  reported  the  reception  of  an  offer  of  mediation 
on  the  part  of  the  Emperor  of  Russia,  which  had  been  com- 
municated to  him  "  at  an  early  day  after  the  close  of  the 
last  session  of  Congress,"  and  that  it  had  been  immediately 
accepted  ;  that  to  avoid  delays  "  three  of  our  eminent  citi- 
zens had  been  commissioned,  with  the  requisite  powers,  to 
conclude  a  Treaty  of  Peace  with  persons  clothed  with  like 
powers  on  the  part  of  Great  Britain  ;  and  also  authorizing 
them  to  conclude  with  Russia  a  Treaty  of  Commerce."  He 
looked  forward  to  a  speedy  termination  of  the  war,  as  "  no 
adequate  motives  exist  to  prefer  a  continuance  of  the  war 
with  the  United  States  (by  Great  Britain)  to  the  terms  on 
which  they  are  willing  to  close  it."  These  terms,  as  may  be 
seen,  were  a  reiteration  of  the  demand  for  the  relinquish- 
ment on  the  part  of  Great  Britain  of  the  right  of  search  and 
the  impressment  of  her  own  citizens,  which  she  had  persist- 
ently refused  to  yield  to.  He  also  informed  them  that  the 
loan  of  sixteen  millions  of  dollars  had  been  effected,  but 
that  adequate  provision  should  be  made  for  future  supplies 
of  the  Treasury.* 

On  the  3d  of  May,  the  President  sent  a  message  to  the 
Senate,  nominating  Messrs.  Albert  Gallatin,  John  Q.  Adams, 
and  James  A.  Bayard,  as  Envoys  Extraordinary  and  Minis- 
ters Plenipotentiary  to  negotiate  a  Treaty  of  Peace  with 
Great  Britain  under  the  mediation  of  the  Emperor  of  Rus- 
sia, and  also  a  Treaty  of  Commerce  with  Great  Britain,  and 
one  with  Russia. f 

On  June  2d,  Mr.  King  offered  in  Executive  session  three 
resolutions,  relative  to  the  nominations ;  the  first,  asking  for 
copies  of  the  communications  from  the  Emperor  of  Russia, 
offering  mediation,  with  copies  of  the  answers  and  dates  of 
these  ;  second,  for  copies  of  the  Commissions  of  the  Envoys  ; 
and  third,  whether  Albert  Gallatin  retains  the  office  of  Secre- 
tary of  the  Department  of  the  Treasury,  and  in  case  of  his  so 

*  Annals  of  Congress,  1st  Sess.  1813-14,  p.  14. 
f  Ibid.,  p.  84. 


312  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

retaining  it,  under  what  authority,  and  by  whom  the  powers 
of  the  head  of  that  Department  were  discharged  during  his 
absence  from  the  United  States. 

The  next  day,  the  first  two  resolutions  were  negatived 
and  the  third  was  passed  and  ordered  to  be  communicated 
to  the  President.  To  this  he  answered  on  the  7th  that  the 
office  of  the  Secretary  was  not  vacated,  but  that  during  his 
absence  William  Jones,  Secretary  of  the  Navy,  would  per- 
form the  duties,  authorized  therefor  by  an  Act  of  Congress 
passed  May  8,  1792.  The  discussion  of  this  nomination 
occupied  several  days,  and  the  injunction  of  secrecy  having 
been  removed,  we  find  that  it  turned  chiefly  on  a  resolution 
offered  on  June  14th  by  Mr.  Anderson,  Chairman  of  the 
Committee  to  whom  the  matter  was  referred  : 

"  that  in  the  opinion  of  the  Senate  the  powers  and  duties  of  the 
Secretary  of  the  Department  of  the  Treasury,  and  those  of  an 
Envoy  Extraordinary  to  a  foreign  power,  are  so  incompatible 
that  they  ought  not  to  be,  and  remain,  united  in  one  person." 
By  a  second  resolution  the  Committee,  "  were  instructed  to  com- 
municate the  foregoing  resolution  to  the  President,  and  respect- 
fully to  confer  with  him  upon  the  matter  thereof." 

These  were  adopted  on  June  16th  by  a  vote  of  twenty  to 
fourteen.  This  conference  the  President  declined,  and  on 
July  19th  after  a  report  of  the  fact  by  the  Committee,  the 
Senate  proceeded  to  vote  on  the  nomination  of  Mr.  Galla- 
tin, and  refused  by  a  vote  of  seventeen  yeas  and  eighteen 
nays  to  advise  and  consent  to  his  appointment.  The  ap- 
pointment of  Messrs.  Adams  and  Bayard  was  advised  and 
consented  to  with  but  few  opposing  votes.* 

There  is  no  official  report  of  the  speeches  or  speakers  in 
the  debate  on  Mr.  Gallatin's  nomination,  but  among  Mr. 
King's  papers  is  the  following  report  of  his  speech,  in  his 
handwriting  and  headed  : 

*  Annals  of  Congress,  i8i3,pp.  86-89. 


1 8 13]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  313 

Notes  of  a  Speech  ag't  Gallatin's  Appt  as  One  of  the  En- 
voys to  Russia  while  holding  Secy  of  Treas's  Position. 

We  are  not  disposed  upon  the  present  occasion  to  hold  up  to 
public  observation  the  striking,  and,  we  might  perhaps  say,  the 
unprincipled  difference  of  conduct,  exhibited  by  persons  who 
were  zealous  in  their  efforts  to  restrain  and  limit  the  exclusive 
power  of  the  Nation  under  former  administrations,  but  who,  not 
very  consistently  for  themselves,  &  with  less  respect  for  the 
understanding  of  the  People  than  they  in  all  cases  profess,  now 
contend  for  an  extension  of  executive  power  upon  almost  every 
subject,  and  on  some  occasions  arrogate  prerogatives  denied  by 
the  Constitution  or  repugnant  to  the  express  provisions  of  the 
Laws — provisions  too  manifestly  established  for  the  purpose  of 
restraining  the  executive  power. 

It  is  a  case  of  the  latter  sort  to  which  we  confine  ourselves. 
Two  Laws  upon  the  same  subject,  one  enacted  in  1792,  the  other 
in  1795,  give  power  to  the  President  among  other  cases,  in  case 
of  the  death,  absence  from  the  seat  of  Government,  or  sickness  of 
the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  to  appoint  a  person  to  perform  his 
duties,  until  a  successor  be  appointed,  or  the  disability  arising 
from  absence  or  sickness  be  removed.  Both  Laws,  so  far  as  re- 
spects the  description  of  the  cases  in  which  this  power  is  granted, 
are  in  substance,  or  nearly  so  in  words,  the  same  ;  the  first  Law 
is  without  any  limitation  of  the  time  during  which  the  person  ap- 
pointed to  perform  the  duties  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury 
may  continue  to  do  so  ;  the  second  Law  expressly  limits  the  con- 
tinuance of  the  acting  Secretary,  not  to  exceed  six  months. 

Mr.  Madison,  being  called  upon  to  inform  the  Senate,  whether 
Mr.  Gallatin,  whom  he  had  sent  abroad,  retained  the  office  of 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  and  if  so,  by  whom  &  under  what 
authority  the  duties  of  that  office  were  to  be  performed  during 
his  absence  from  the  U.  S.  answered, — that  Mr.  Gallatin  retains 
the  office  of  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  and  that  under  the  law  of 
1792  Mr.  Jones  performs  his  duties  of  Secretary. 

Two  important  points  arise  out  of  this  answer — the  first  regards 
the  constitutional  validity  of  the  foregoing  Laws  of  1792  &  1795  ; 
the  second  respects  their  just  construction.  It  is  doubted  whether 
those  Laws,  so  far  as  respects  the  power  of  appointment  by  the 


3 14  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

President  of  a  person  authorized  to  discharge  the  powers  & 
duties  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  who  is  the  head  of  a  great 
Department,  are  constitutional. 

By  turning  to  the  Constitution  it  appears  that  "  The  President 
shall  nominate  &  by  and  with  the  advice  of  the  Senate,  shall 
appoint  ambassadors,  other  public  ministers  &  Consuls,  Judges 
of  the  Supreme  Court  &  all  other  officers  of  the  U.  S.  whose 
appointment  is  not  herein  otherwise  provided  for,  and  which  shall 
be  established  by  law.  But  the  Congress  may  by  law  vest  the 
appointment  of  such  inferior  officers  as  they  think  proper,  in  the 
President,  in  the  Courts  of  Law  and  in  the  heads  of  Depart- 
ments." 

Except  in  the  case  of  inferior  officers,  Congress  cannot  by  law 
authorize  the  President  alone  to  make  appointments.  The  ques- 
tion is  a  plain  one — Can  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  be  consid- 
ered as  (one  of)  the  inferior  officers  ?  We  think  not  because  the 
Constitution  demonstrates  him  a  principal  officer,  in  whom  may 
be  vested  the  power  of  appointing  the  inferior  officers  of  his  own 
Department.  Indeed  we  hardly  know  where  to  look  for  superior 
officers,  if  the  heads  of  the  Departments  are  to  be  considered  as 
inferior  ones. 

Notwithstanding  the  importance  of  this  particular  enquiry, 
especially  on  account  of  the  increasing  disposition  in  Congress  to 
dispense  with  the  consent  of  the  Senate  in  the  appointments  of 
officers — a  practice  which  unconstitutionally  enlarges  the  power 
of  the  Executive — we  pass  on  to  consider  the  second  point — what 
is  the  just  construction  of  the  Laws  authorizing  the  President 
alone  to  appoint  a  person  to  discharge  the  duties  of  the  Secretary 
of  the  Treasury  ? 

In  the  instance  of  Mr.  Gallatin,  does  a  case  exist  in  which  the 
President  alone  has  power  to  appoint  a  person  to  discharge  his 
duties  ?  Admitting  such  case  to  exist  is  the  appointment  of  such 
person  indefinite,  or  limited  to  six  months  ? 

The  cases  described  in  the  Laws,  in  which  the  President  has 
the  sole  power  of  appointment,  are  the  death,  absence  from  the 
seat  of  Government,  or  sickness  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 
The  first  and  the  last  case,  the  death  &  sickness  of  Mr.  Gallatin, 
need  not  be  considered.  But  is  his  appointment  as  an  Envoy  to 
Russia,  admitting  its  validity,  and  his  consequent  absence  from 


1 813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  3  I  5 

the  U.  S.,  such  an  absence  from  the  seat  of  Government  as  the 
Laws  provide  for  ? 

As  the  two  cases  of  death  &  sickness,  being  involuntary,  may 
require  extraordinary  provision,  so  likewise  the  occasional  and 
necessary  absence  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  from  the  Seat 
of  Government,  may  equally  call  for  the  like  provision — his  family 
may  be  sick,  his  estate  and  private  affairs  at  home  may  demand  his 
attention,  and  other  urgent  duties  may  oblige  him  for  a  short  time 
to  be  absent  from  the  seat  of  Government.  As  in  the  case  of 
death  time  may  be  counted  to  find  a  suitable  character  as  a  suc- 
cessor, and  in  the  case  of  sickness  it  must  be  allowed  for  recovery, 
so  in  absence  from  the  seat  of  Government  time  should  be  granted 
to  those  private  and  necessary  duties,  which  call  for  the  attention 
of  every  man.  It  is  for  such  an  absence  as  this,  that  provision  is 
made  by  the  Laws — an  absence  arising  out  of  the  situation,  cir- 
cumstances &  duties  of  the  person,  who  is  Secretary  of  the  Treas- 
ury— not  an  absence  created  by  the  President  himself,  nor  one 
proceeding  from  the  acceptance  of  another  office,  the  duties 
whereof  are  incompatible  with  those  of  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury. 

If  such  be  the  construction,  and  especially  if  the  substitute 
appointed  by  the  President  is  to  continue  indefinitely,  the  heads 
of  Departments  may  all  be  converted  into  ambassadors,  &  the 
business  of  the  nation  conducted  by  undertakers  or  job  men. 

Admitting  however,  that  the  two  Laws  are  constitutional,  and 
that  the  mission  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  to  Russia  is 
merely  an  absence  from  the  Seat  of  Government,  has  the  Presi- 
dent power  to  appoint  a  substitute  who  may  for  an  indefinite 
time  discharge  the  duties  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  or  is 
such  an  appointment  restrained  so  as  not  to  exceed  six  months  ? 
The  first  law  is  entitled  "  an  act  making  alterations  in  the  Treas- 
ury Department" — the  second  is  entitled  "an  act  to  amend  the 
act  making  alterations  in  the  Treasury  Department."  By  exam- 
ining the  two  Laws,  it  will  be  seen  that  so  far  as  respects  the 
grant  of  power  to  the  President,  the  second  act  grants,  with  an 
enlargement,  the  same  power  as  the  first.  The  repeating  of 
what  was  already  granted,  cannot  be  deemed  an  amendment,  and 
the  principal  difference  between  the  two  acts  consists  in  the 
limitation  of  the  President's  power,  contained  in  the  second  act, 


316  KUFUS  KING.  [1813 

&  by  which  instead  of  the  Substitute's  being  enabled  to  discharge 
the  duties  of  his  Principal  for  an  indefinite  time,  he  is  restrained 
from  doing  so  for  a  longer  time  than  six  months.  This  is  the 
chief  amendment  of  the  first  law  by  the  second. 

The  Title  to  the  second  Law  declares  it  to  be  an  Act,  not  in 
addition  to,  but  to  amend  the  first  Law.  The  first  and  second 
Law  must  therefore  be  construed  together,  or  taken  as  one  Law, 
to  the  end  that  the  provisions  of  the  first  may  receive  the  altera- 
tion or  amendment  contained  in  the  second. 

We  have  said  the  grant  of  power  to  the  President  is  nearly  the 
same  in  each  Law — according  to  the  law  of  1792,  on  the  death, 
absence  from  the  Seat  of  Government,  or  sickness  of  the  Secre- 
tary of  the  Treasury  whereby  he  cannot  perform  the  duties  of  his 
office,  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  President  of  the  U.  S.  to  authorize 
any  person  to  perform  the  duties  of  his  office,  until  a.  successor 
be  appointed,  or  until  such  absence  or  inability  by  sickness  cease. 
The  law  of  1795,  entitled  an  Act  to  amend  the  former  Law, 
provides,  that  in  case  of  Vacancy  in  the  office  of  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury,  whereby  ke  cannot  perform  the  duties  of  his  office,  it 
shall  be  lawful  for  the  President  of  the  U.  S.  to  authorize  any 
person  to  perform  the  duties  until  a  successor  be  appointed,  or 
such  vacancy  filled — Provided  that  no  vacancy  shall  be  supplied 
for  a  longer  term  than  six  months.  Does  the  word  vacancy,  in 
the  second  Law,  describe  the  cases  of  death,  absence  and  sick- 
ness of  the  first  ?  Altho'  technically  speaking  no  office  is  vacant 
in  which  there  is  an  incumbent,  yet  in  common  discourse  we  may 
say  that  an  office  is  vacant  by  the  death,  or  by  the  absence,  or  by 
the  sickness  of  the  officer — meaning  thereby  that  in  either  case 
there  is  no  one  to  discharge  its  duties — and  as  one,  if  not  the 
chief,  object  of  the  second  Law  was  to  limit  the  term,  during 
which  a  locum  tenens  might  perform  the  duties,  the  word  va- 
cancy, made  use  of  in  the  second  Law  in  reference  to  the  cases 
mentioned  in  the  first,  sufficiently  decribes  them. 

The  second  Law  refers  to  some  case  in  the  first.  If  it  does 
not  so  relate  to  all  the  cases  mentioned  in  the  first  Law,  it  must 
necessarily  be  limited  to  the  case  of  vacancy  by  removal  or 
resignation.  But  what  reason  can  be  suggested  why  the  limita- 
tion should  apply  to  the  case  of  a  vacancy  by  removal  and  resig- 
nation, and  not  to  that  of  death,  or  to  those  of  indefinite  absence 


1813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  317 

or   a  lingering   sickness  ?     In   case   of   resignation   or   removal, 
equally  as  in  that  of  death,  a  successor  would  be  sought  for  and 
soon  found,  and  there  would  be  no  greater  occasion  for  a  limita- 
tion in  one  more  than  another.     But  a  favorite  might  be  indulged 
with  a  term  of  absence  disadvantageous  to  the  public  service,  or 
a  sickness  might  happen,  which  altho'  it  should  not  terminate  the 
life,  might  destroy  the  capacity  of  the  Patient.     Do  not  these 
last  cases  limit   as  much  as  the  others  ?     If  the  officer  be  dead, 
resigns,  or  is  removed,  the  competition  for  his  place  will  be  such 
that,  if  motives  of  public  duty  do  not  urge  the  appointment  of  a 
successor,  such  is  the  avidity  for  office  that  considerations  of  per- 
sonal repose  would  not  fail  to  produce  it.    There  was  no  sufficient 
motive  therefore  to  induce  the  Legislature  to  pass  the  second  Law 
to  limit  the  term  of  the  locum  tenens  in  the  case  of  a  vacancy  by 
resignation  or  removal,  that  would  not  apply  to  vacancy  by  death. 
But  experience  has   shewn  that  sickness  has  for  year  after  year 
incapacitated  public  officers  from  discharging  their  duties — and 
if  an  absence  from  the  seat  of  Government,  or  what  is  the  same 
thing,  an  absence  from  office  be  indulged  from  favoritism  or  any 
other  motive,  beyond  what  is  reasonable,  and  to  the  injury  of  the 
public  service — if  the  great  officers  of   State  be  allowed  to  per- 
form their  duties  by  Deputy,  and  in  the  mean  time  to  accept  other 
high  stations,  contrary  to  the  principles  of  a  free  and  equal  Gov- 
ernment which  distributes  its  honors  with  impartiality  among  the 
citizens,  avoiding  the  accumulation  of  them  upon  individuals — if 
proceedings  like  these  be  equally  impolitic  and  offensive — if  they 
may  happen  under  the   Law  of   1792,  is  it  not  reasonable  so  to 
construe  the  Law  of  1795,  as  t0  aPPty  ^e  salutary  limitation  which 
it  provides  as  an  amendment  of  that  Law  ?     Is  there  any  viola- 
tion of  the  meaning  &  use  of  words  in  thus  construing  the  two 
Laws  ?     Does  it  not  comport  with  the  Principles  of  our  limited 
Government  to  establish  this  construction,  and  can  any  incon- 
venience or  hardship  arise  from  its  establishment  ? 

The  Law  of  1795,  enacted  to  amend,  and  pursuing  the  pro- 
visions of  the  Law  of  1792,  declares  that  in  case  of  vacancy  in 
the  office  of  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  whereby  he  cannot  perform 
the  duties  of  his  office,  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  President,  &c. 
A  vacancy  whereby  he  cannot  perform  his  duties,  seems  to  refer 
to  the  vacancy  created  by  absence  or  sickness,  rather  than  to  the 


3 18  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

vacancy  by  death,  for  the  Secretary  is  referred  to  as  living,  but 
unable  to  do  his  duty.  The  concluding  words  of  the  paragraph 
require  this  construction  in  order  to  give  them  any  meaning  ; 
and  the  rule  is  that  we  must,  if  possible,  give  to  every  word  a 
meaning.  In  case  of  vacancy  in  the  office  of  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury,  whereby  he  cannot  perform  the  duties  of  his  office, 
it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  President  to  authorize  any  person  to 
perform  the  duties  of  his  office  until  a  successor  be  appointed, 
or  such  vacancy  shall  be  supplied — provided  &c —  Now  if  only  a 
vacancy  by  death  be  here  intended,  it  would  have  sufficed  to 
have  said,  that  it  should  be  lawful  for  the  President  to  authorize 
any  person  to  perform  the  duties  of  the  Secretary's  office  until 
a  successor  be  appointed.  But  the  Law  adds,  "or  such  vacancy 
be  filled  " — what  vacancy  be  filled  ?  not  that  created  by  death, 
for  it  is  already  provided  for  ;  it  must  therefore  refer  to  the 
vacancy  created  by  absence  from  the  seat  of  Government  &  by 
sickness,  which  might  be  filled  not  by  a  new  appointment  but  by 
a  return  to  the  seat  of  Government,  or  the  recovery  from  sickness. 

In  another  abstract  of  argument  on  this  matter  R.  K. 
closes  thus  : 

Thus  Gallatin's  office  became  vacant  by  accepting  an  incom- 
patible office.  The  President  had  power  to  appoint  a  deputy  for 
six  months — since  the  expiration  of  which,  the  office  has  been 
and  is  now  vacant. 

hi  R.  King's  handwriting  is  an  interesting  paper  on  the 
Russian  Mission. 

Gallatin's  Mission. 

June  25,  6,  &  7. 

In  conversation  with  Daschkoff,  he  informs  me  that  in  January 

he  intimated  to  Mr.  Madison  *  that  the  Emp.  of  Russ.  wd.  find 

*The  National  Intelligencer ,  Sept.  8,  18 13,  says  :  "  A  Boston  editor  asserted  he 
•was  prepared  to  prove  the  proffered  mediation  of  Russia  to  be  the  unauthorized 
act  of  the  Russian  Minister."  This  was  denied.  "  The  editor  has  the  hardihood 
to  make  the  following  assertion  :  '  We  aver  that  Mr.  D.  made  his  first  verbal 
overture  to  Mr.  Madison  on  the  29th  of  January,  which  Mr.  Madison  then  de- 
clined.' "  The  Intelligencer  says  :  "  This  is  merely  a  repetition  of  what  was 
said  in  Congress,  afterwards  repelled  by  Mr.  Eppes  in  the  most  positive  man- 
ner. 


1813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  319 


pleasure  in  mediating  between  G.  B  &  the  U.  S. — D.  did  not  say- 
that  he  did  so  in  obedience  to  instructions  ;  I  rather  inferred  the 
contrary — that  the  Pr.  reed,  the  intimation  with  indifference. 
On  tlie  24th  Mar.  (Feb.  ?)  D.  reed.  Instructions  to  offer  the  media- 
tion of  Russia,  wh.  he  did  verbally  on  the  following  day  to  Mr. 
Monroe,  who  reed,  it  civilly  &  ad  referendum  ;  that  he  reed,  no 
answer  until  after  the  3d  of  Mar,  when  the  Pt  made  his  inaug- 
ural speech  referring  everything  to  ye.  vigorous  prosecution  of 
ye.  war — that  he  became  uneasy  lest  the  mediation  shd.  not  be 
accepted — that  he  wrote  a  Despatch  to  his  Gov.  expressive  of 
his  fears — that  he  apprehended  the  difficulty  to  arise  from  the  ties 
wh.  bound  the  U.  S.  to  Fr.  After  Congress  adjourned  Monroe 
announced  verbally  the  acceptance  of  the  mediation  and  the 
notes  of  the  8  and  n  immediately  followed — that,  after  accept- 
ing the  mediation,  no  intimation  was  given  to  D.  concerning  the 
number  or  names  of  ye.  envoys,  and  he  became  solicitous  lest  the 
Business  shd  have  been  referred  to  Adams,  who,  as  he  appre- 
hended, wd.  embarrass  the  negotiation — that  difficulties  respecting 
the  Loan  were  known  to  exist ;  if  the  mediation  went  forward 
and  was  given  in  charge  to  able  men,  the  Loan  would  be  obtained, 
but  otherwise  it  was  doubtful.  Gallatin's  name  came  up.  Parish 
&  Girard  wd.  come  forward  to  make  ye.  Loan  if  he  was  named 
an  Envoy — this  influence  had  its  effect — besides  as  Gallatin  was 
a  Min.  of  ye.  Cabinet,  it  wd.  be  complimentary  to  Russia  to  send 
him,  &c. 

That  Daschkoff's  application  for  a  Passport  for  the  Envoys 
was  made  on  ye.  25  Mar — Adl.  Warren  affected  to  be  displeased 
that  he  was  not  applied  to  to  negotiate  a  Peace,  and  instead  of  it  yt. 
the  negotiation  was  transferred  to  Russia — indirectly  insinuated 
that  he  had  full  power— D.  asked  an  interview  with  Ad.  Warren 
on  shore  wh.  the  Ad.  declined. 

D.  does  not  know  whether  Warren  has  power  to  agree  to  an 
armistice  upon  condition  of  the  Repeal  of  ye.  non-intercourse. 
Swertchkoff,  a  young  man,  and  his  communications,  confined  to 
the  special  objects  of  his  mission  to  ye.  admiral.  The  late  appli- 
cation for  a  Passport  for  the  Hannibal  was  made  to  Adl.  Cock- 
burn,  Warren  being  absent — the  object  was  a  Passport  for  a 
Russian  messenger  to  carry  out  duplicates  of  the  offer  &  accept- 
ance  of   the    Russian   mediation  ;    as   it  was   possible   that   the 


320  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

vessels  carrying  the  Envoys  &  D's  Dispatches  might  fail  or 
miscarry. 

Admiral  Cockburn  granted  the  Passport.  No  mention  was 
made  of  any  intention  to  carry  out  Moreau — the  Adl.  was  told 
that  the  Sp.  wd.  take  a  cargo.  He  replied  that  in  his  Passport  he 
wd.  recommend  to  the  King's  Sps.  to  suffer  Sp  &  cargo  to  pass, 
but  that  she  must  take  her  chance  agt.  Privateers.  Serurier, 
(Fr.  Min.)  knew  of  the  offer  of  ye.  Russian  Mediation,  but  at  the 
moment  was  pressed  &  chafed  by  the  Depart,  of  State  concern- 
ing the  French  Decrees. 

That   there   was   no    fear  of  Gallatin's  being  the  channel  of 

French  intrigue  at  St.  Petersburgh,  as  there  are  as  wise  men  as 

he  is  at  that  place. 

Sunday,  June  27. 

Armstrong  said  Daschkoff,  Gallatin  &  Parish  intrigued  to  have 
Gallatin  appointed  to  Russia — that  Daschkoff  had  a  slice  in  ye. 
Loan — that  Bibb  had  arrived,  but  that  he  did  not  think  Anderson 
wd.  give  way  and  vote  for  Gallatin  ;  he  saw  him  yesterday,  was 
then  undecided — Clay  had  been  named  as  the  3d  Envoy  but  was 
displaced  for  Gallatin — that  Monroe  did  not  like  Gallatin's  ap- 
pointment ;  perhaps  the  Com.  of  the  Senate  had  better  see 
Monroe,  who  might  say  something  to  induce  the  negative  of 
Gallatin — that  the  Project  of  putting  Monroe  at  the  head  of  the 
army  was  revived — that  formerly  Gallatin  recommended  the 
project,  as  he  anticipated  two  Results  from  it — 1st  that  he  shd. 
obtain  the  off.  of  Secy,  of  State,  and  second  that  Monroe  wd. 
disgrace  himself  the  first  campaign.  Monroe  thought  if  he  put 
a  sword  by  his  side  and  got  old  Burbeck's  orderly  Book  that  he 
should  be  equipped  for  Commander  of  the  Army — that  he  knew 
nothing  of  war  &  was  without  experience — that  Russell  named 
Envoy  to  Sweden  would  command  Howell's  vote,  and  if  he, 
Russell,  could  be  passed  as  Minr.  to  Sweden,  that  Howell  might 
be  bro't  to  vote  agt.  Gallatin. 

This  chapter  is  closed  with  statements  of  the  estimation 
in  which  Mr.  King  was  held  at  this  time. 

From  the  New  York  Evening  Post,  July  19,  1813. 

Hon.  Rufus  King. — It  is  with  no  small  sensations  of  pleasure, 
that  we  copy  the  following  article  from  the  "  Maryland  Ga- 


1813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  32 1 

zette,"  printed  at  Annapolis.  We  are  happy  to  perceive  that  the 
worth  and  talents  of  this  patriot  and  statesman  is  beginning  to  be 
understood  and  duly  appreciated  in  the  southern  section  of  the 
Union. 

From  the  Maryland  Gazette,  July  16th. 

The  Hon.  Rufus  King. — All  who  have  had  an  opportunity  of 
witnessing  any  important  discussion  in  the  Senate,  in  which  Mr. 
King  has  taken  a  part,  have  almost  universally  assigned  him  the 
palm.  His  talents  are  spoken  of  in  more  exalted  terms,  even  by 
his  political  opponents,  than  any  other  member  of  that  body,  and 
we  do  not  think  it  would  be  too  much  to  say,  that  he  is  superior 
at  this  time  to  any  other  man  of  which  the  United  States  can 
boast.  Bred  up  in  the  service  of  his  country,  and  guided  by  the 
strictest  integrity,  he  has  justly  acquired  a  reputation  which  enti- 
tles him  to  the  confidence  of  his  fellow-citizens.  With  such  a 
man  at  the  head  of  our  government,  we  might  soon  expect  to  wit- 
ness a  change  in  the  gloomy  aspect  of  our  affairs,  and  that  scene 
of  prosperity  again  restored  which  formerly  spread  its  blessings 
around  us.  For  many  years  he  has  lived  in  the  retirement  of  pri- 
vate life,  and  his  talents  when  greatly  required,  have  been  lost  to 
his  country.  But  since  all  parties  now  unite  in  speaking  his 
praise,  it  is  sincerely  to  be  wished  that  his  councils  may  produce 
that  effect,  which  they  so  eminently  deserve.  If  ever  there  is  a 
time  when  honest  men  come  again  into  fashion,  it  would  be  the 
pride  of  our  nation  to  have  a  statesman  like  him  to  direct  its 
affairs.  But  as  long  as  the  people  are  controuled  by  those  wild 
opinions  which  seem  now  to  actuate  them,  they  never  will  be  able 
to  distinguish  between  their  real  and  pretended  friends.  The  only 
hopes  that  can  be  entertained  at  present  are,  that  those  sufferings, 
which  they  have  already  experienced,  and  those  which  yet  await 
them,  will  learn  them  to  discriminate  between  those  who  look  at 
their  best  interests,  and  those  who  pursue  the  idle  phantoms  of  a 
distempered  imagination. 

Major  John  Lovett,  who  had  been  with  Genl.  S.  Van  Rens- 
selaer during  his  campaign  on  the  frontier,  and  was  elected 
a  Member  of  Congress  from  Albany  in  181 3,  thus  writes  to 


VOL.  V. — 21 


322  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

Col.  Solomon  Van  Rensselaer  June  22,  1813,*  apparently  in 
reference  to  an  appointment  in  command  of  the  army  in  the 
Northern  States : 

"  I  could  have  wished  to  see  Mr.  King  [Rufus  King]  on  the 
subject,  for  I  can  assure  you  he  is,  here,  the  very  Oracle  with  de- 
mocracy. I  think  they  would  be  heartily  glad  to  hustle  poor 
Madison  [James  Madison,  President)  and  this  scant-patterned  old 
skeleton  of  a  French  Barber  [Elbridge  Gerry,  Vice  President]  off 
hand  and  make  Mr.  King  factotum  in  all  things.  .  .  .  The 
plain  truth  is,  that  Federalists  do  not  like  you  to  go  into  the  army  ; 
especially  as  they  calculate  with  moral  certainty  that  the  campaign 
is  to  close  with  defeat  and  total  disgrace." 

*  Mrs.  Bonney's  Legacy  of  Hist,  Gleanings,  vol.  i.,  p.  301. 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

Attacks  of  the  National  Intelligencer  on  the  Senate — Rejection  of  the  Nomina- 
tions of  Gallatin  and  Russell — King's  Defence  of  the  Senate — Justification 
of  Refusal  to  advise  sending  an  Embassy  to  Sweden — President's  Refusal 
to  meet  a  Committee  of  Conference  from  the  Senate — His  Course  re- 
viewed— Gallatin's  Rejection  reviewed. 

In  looking  over  the  files  of  the  National  Intelligencer  in 
1812-13  there  will  be  found  many  editorial  articles,  defend- 
ing the  administration  and  severely  criticising  the  Senate 
for  their  failure  to  endorse  the  President  in  the  suggestions 
in  his  Messages  both  as  to  domestic  and  foreign  affairs.  Mr. 
King,  a  member  of  the  early  called  session  of  Congress  in 
1813,  was,  as  has  been  seen,  conspicuously  obnoxious  on  ac- 
count of  his  course  relative  to  the  nominations  of  Mr.  Gal- 
latin to  Russia,  and  of  Mr.  Russell  to  a  Mission  to  Sweden, 
both  of  whom  were  rejected  by  the  Senate,  the  former  for 
reasons  already  given,  the  latter  because  it  was  not  deemed 
wise  to  send  an  embassy  to  Sweden.* 

*  There  is  in  the  Evening  Post,  Nov.  27,  1812,  an  editorial  article  saying 
that  "  the  statement  of  Mr.  Russell  of  a  conversation  which  he  alleges  had 
passed  between  him  and  Lord  Castlereagh  respecting  Mr.  King's  having  been 
in  an  error  in  supposing  that  the  question  of  impressment  was  on  the  point  of 
being  satisfactorily  settled,  was  not  correct."  This  was  challenged  in  the  Pub- 
lic Advertiser,  which  consented  to  rest  the  question  "upon  the  authority  of 
Rufus  King,  zuhose  testimony  shall  be  considered  conclusive."  The  editor  of  the 
Post  responds  by  saying,  that  during  the  electioneering  contest,  Mr.  King  would 
hardly  be  willing  "  to  say  anything  that  might  be  construed  into  an  interfer- 
ence; but  that  he  could  not  but  hope  that  he  would  not  refuse  to  state  the 
facts  to  show  where  the  truth  lies." 

It  is  probable  that  this  was  the  reason  for  a  long  review  of  Mr.  Russell's  cor- 
respondence in  England,  which  was  published  in  "  many  successive  numbers 
of  the  Evening  Post,"  signed  by  "  an  American,"  the  name  Mr.  King  assumed 


324  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

The  constant  and  bitter  articles  of  the  Intelligencer  ap- 
pear to  have  so  roused  Mr.  King  that  he  wrote  the  following 
article,  which  is  found  among  his  papers,  in  defence  of  the 
Senate.  Though  long  it  is  very  interesting,  and  is  published 
at  length.  It  may  be  advisable  to  show  first  the  character 
of  some  of  the  Intelligencer  s  articles,  from  one  of  which,  of 
August  10,  1813,  these  extracts  are  made.     It  speaks 

"of  the  arbitrary,  unaccountable  and  as  we  conceive  indefensi- 
ble conduct  of  the  Senate.  .  .  .  Far  be  it  from  us  to  question 
the  constitutional  powers  of  the  Senate  or  to  cripple  their  un- 
doubted rights  but  we  do  hold  up  our  hands  against  the  general 
course  of  that  body  during  the  late  session,  and  more  particularly 
against  the  attempt  to  overawe  the  Executive  and  to  chaffer  with 
him  as  to  terms  on  which  they  would  agree  to  confirm  certain 
nominations.  The  President  refused  to  sanction  this  procedure, 
and  in  resentment,  it  would  almost  seem,  of  his  spirited  and  con- 
stitutional conduct,  they  rejected  two  important  nominations  to 
foreign  embassies." 

The  Senate  had  asked  for  a  conference  by  a  committee 
with  the  President  about  these  nominations,  but  were  re- 
fused and  referred  to  the  Secretary  of  State.  They  declined 
to  confer  with  him,  and  the  article  goes  on  to  say,  they  re- 
solved that 

"  It  is  inexpedient  to  send  a  minister  to  Sweden  !  Inexpedient, 
not  because  the  information  they  had  received  proved  it  so,  but,  as 
we  must  conclude  from  a  view  of  the  whole  proceedings,  because 
the  President  refused  to  hold  a  colloquy  with  the  committee  of 
conference." 

Defense  of  the  Senate. 

Reflecting  men  must  regret  that  indecent  as  well  as  unmerited 
attacks  are  made  upon  the  Senate,  in  the  official  Paper  of  the 
Administration.     If  disagreements  take  place  between  different 

when  writing  in  that  paper.  The  length  of  the  article  prevents  its  publication 
here  ;  but  his  letters  given  in  several  places  in  these  volumes  conclusively  show 
what  he  thought  upon  this  subject,  and  his  firm  belief  that  the  matter  might  have 
been  settled,  had  he  not  returned  home  at  the  time. 


18x3]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  325 


Branches  of  the  Government,  the  matter  of  such  disagreement 
being  published,  the  merits  or  demerits  of  such  disagreement  are 
considered  and  decided  by  the  people.  If  public  discussion  takes 
place,  it  may  assist  those  who  were  deficient  in  information,  in 
forming  their  opinions.  But  that  one  Branch  of  the  Government 
should  directly,  or  by  permission,  cause  another  Branch  of  it  to 
be  assailed  in  order  to  depreciate  its  proceedings  and  to  bring 
upon  it  the  public  hatred  or  contempt,  admits  neither  of  apology 
nor  justification.  It  requires  no  proof  that  the  National  Intelli- 
gencer is  a  Government  Paper  ;  that  sort  of  connexion  which  ex- 
ists between  it  and  the  Government  places  it  under  the  control  of 
the  administration  ;  it  is  this  connexion  alone  which  occasions  the 
extensive  circulation  of  this  Paper,  and  authorises  the  opinion  so 
generally  entertained  that  whatever  is  published  in  it  concerning 
the  views  and  measures  of  Government,  has  either  the  sanction  of 
the  Administration  or  is  not  disapproved  by  it. 

The  Letters  from  Military  and  Naval  Commanders,  the  diplo- 
matic correspondence,  the  official  acts  of  the  Executive  and  of  its 
Departments,  first  appear  in  this  journal,  and  from  it  are  copied 
into  the  newspapers  throughout  the  Country  :  these  facts  can  leave 
no  doubt  that  this  Paper  is  under  the  control,  if  not  the  direction 
of  the  Administration. 

Toward  the  close  of  the  late  session  of  Congress,  several  Publi- 
cations criminating  the  Proceedings  of  the  Senate  appeared  in  this 
Paper.  Dissertations  of  the  same  imprudent  character  have  since 
been  addressed  to  the  Public  thro'  this  journal.  It  would  be  fall- 
ing into  the  misbehaviour  which  we  disapprove,  were  any  recrimi- 
nation allowed  on  this  occasion  ;  but  misrepresented  and  censured 
as  the  Senate  have  been,  it  will  not  be  thought  strange  if  some- 
thing is  said  in  their  vindication.  The  Senate  are  a  great,  the 
greatest,  power  in  the  Constitution,  created  not  for  the  sake  of  its 
members,  but  to  impart  wisdom,  stability  and  safety  to  the  Laws  ; 
to  check  favoritism  in  the  appointments  to  office,  to  control  the 
compacts  with  foreign  States  and  to  try  and  remove  from  power 
public  offenders,  from  the  lowest  to  the  highest  office  in  the  Na- 
tion. So  that  great  dignity,  as  well  as  great  power  are  attributes 
of  the  Senate.  The  members  are  of  advanced  age  and  the  safety 
of  their  choice  is  entrusted  to  the  wisdom  and  patriotism  of  the 
Legislatures  of  the  respective  States.     When  the  Senate  become 


326  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

corrupt,  when  their  acts  are  habitually  unjust  and  impolitic,  above 
all  when  they  become  the  instruments  of  faction  and  of  violence, 
they  cease  to  be  the  safeguard  which  the  Constitution  aimed  to 
establish,  and  the  chief  security  of  the  public  freedom  will  be  lost. 

The  causes  of  complaint  against  the  Senate  may  be  divided  into 
three  distinct  branches  :  first  their  disagreement  to  the  President's 
nomination  of  Mr.  Russell  to  be  Minister  Plenipotentiary  to  Swe- 
den ;  2nd  their  refusal  to  advise  and  consent  to  Mr.  Gallatin's  ap- 
pointment as  one  of  the  Envoys  to  negotiate  with  and  sign  a  treaty 
of  Peace  with  England  under  Russian  mediation,  and  to  negotiate 
and  sign  a  treaty  of  Commerce  with  Russia  ;  and  3rd,  their  rejec- 
tion of  Mr.  Hamilton,  nominated  by  the  President  to  be  Loan 
Officer  in  So.  Carolina.  Each  of  these  causes  shall  be  considered, 
beginning  with  the  first. 

It  has  been  the  established  and  we  may  presume  the  safe  policy 
of  the  Nation  to  limit  its  foreign  ministers  to  as  small  a  number  as 
possible.  Notwithstanding  that  the  office  is  created  by  the  Con- 
stitution, the  first  Congress,  with  the  view  of  restraining  the  un- 
necessary appointment  of  foreign  Ministers,  appropriated  only 
40,000  dollars  annually  for  the  support  of  such  persons  as  the 
President  should  commission  to  serve  the  United  States  in  foreign 
parts,  and  for  the  expense  incident  to  the  business  in  which  they 
should  be  employed  ;  the  same  law  established  the  outfit  and  salary 
of  the  foreign  Ministers  to  be  employed. 

Gen.  Washington  accordingly  commissioned  only  two  Ministers 
Plenipotentiary,  one  to  France,  the  other  to  England.  He  also 
commissioned  a  Minister  Resident  to  Portugal,  to  Holland  and 
perhaps  to  Spain — the  Minister  to  which  country  was  afterwards 
advanced  to  the  rank  of  a  Minister  Plenipotentiary.  There  are 
those  who  will  recollect,  that  at  this  early  day  much  jealousy  ex- 
isted concerning  the  sending  and  receiving  of  foreign  Ministers  ; 
it  being  feared  that  constant  employment  would  be  as  likely  to 
embroil  as  to  pacify  nations.  Hence  a  doubt  did,  and  still  does, 
exist  whether  instead  of  the  employment  of  Resident  Ministers,  it 
be  not  the  policy  of  the  Country  to  send  them  on  such  special 
occasions  as  may  arise  with  us,  to  return  home  when  such  special 
business  is  done.  We  touch  this  important  subject  but  incidentally 
— and  return  to  the  policy  heretofore  observed  of  sending  minis- 
ters only  to  those  nations  with  whom  our  intercourse  and  com- 


1813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  $2 J 

mercial  relations  were  the  most  considerable.  With  the  Powers 
of  the  Baltic,  of  Germany  and  of  Italy,  we  have  had  no  such  in- 
tercourse as  required  an  interchange  of  ministers  ;  with  most  of 
them  our  correspondence  has  been  quite  inconsiderable.  The 
part  which  Russia  has  taken  in  the  affairs  of  Europe  places  her 
among  the  great  powers,  and  from  various  considerations  it  is  per- 
haps not  incorrectly  believed  to  be  sound  policy  to  maintain  a 
diplomatic  intercourse  with  her  :  altho'  this  mission  when  under- 
taken looked  like  a  co-operation  with  France  in  the  establishment 
of  the  continental  system. 

During  the  experiment  to  exclude  from  the  Continent  the  inter- 
course of  England,  the  American  trade  to  the  Baltic  was  harrassed 
from  the  ports  of  Denmark,  and  sending  a  special  minister  there 
by  our  Government  was  a  measure  of  discretion  ;  perhaps  it  ought 
sooner  to  have  been  done  :  the  business  being  finished,  the  mission 
is  discontinued.  In  Sweden,  owing  to  the  peculiar  circumstances 
and  policy  of  the  Government  no  such  embarrassment  to  our  trade 
happened  ;  and  as  the  other  Ports  of  the  Baltic  were  closed  or  ob- 
structed, a  number  of  our  vessels  resorted  to  Gottenburg,  as  a 
place  from  whence  they  might  distribute  their  cargoes,  as  openings 
for  the  same  should  offer.  Since  the  breaking  out  of  the  war  be- 
tween Russia  and  France,  most  of  the  American  property  at  Got- 
tenburg has  been  thus  distributed.* 

With  Sweden  the  United  States  have  ordinarily  very  little  trade. 
Sweden  is  a  poor  country  without  manufactures,  having  nothing  to 
sell  but  iron,  lumber,  tar,  pitch,  turpentine.  We  sell  to  Sweden 
little,  and  of  our  own  productions  nothing.  Sweden  is  a  second- 
ary power,  and  for  more  than  a  century  her  policy  has  been  con- 
troled  in  turn  by  France,  by  Russia  and  by  England.  It  is  a 
remarkable  fact  in  her  history  that  the  popular  liberties  of  Sweden 
have  been  from  time  to  time  promoted  by  foreign  Powers,  who 
thereby  acquired  means  of  influence  which  a  more  simple  form 
of  Government  might  not  afford  :  it  is  unnecessary  to  say  upon 
this  topic,  what,  perhaps  might  with  truth  be  told — tho'  a  con- 
fined, Sweden  has  nevertheless  been  a  most  active  scene  of  foreign 
intrigue  and,  it  also  is  said,  of  corruption. 

*  Sweden  having  made  peace  with  England  and  united  with  Russia  against 
France,  such  portion  of  the  American  property  as  remains  in  Sweden  is  in  no 
danger,  and  therefore  requires  no  minister  to  protect  it. 


328  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 


With  Sweden,  therefore,  we  have  little  or  no  commerce — thro' 
Sweden  we  cannot  expect  to  influence  in  our  favour  any  other 
Power,  with  whom  we  may  have  unsettled  questions,  for  Sweden, 
instead  of  influencing  others,  is  herself  influenced  by  others.  The 
American  property,  which  a  casual  state  of  affairs  deposited  in 
Sweden,  is  chiefly  disposed  of  and  has  never  been  in  danger. 
What  motives,  therefore,  could  there  be  permanently  to  maintain 
in  Sweden  a  Minister  Plenipotentiary,  with  the  same  rank  and 
emoluments  as  our  Ministers  to  France  &  England  ? 

The  President  in  his  Message  says  that  the  Swedish  Govern- 
ment having  repeatedly  manifested  a  desire  to  interchange  a  Pub- 
lic Minister  with  the  United  States  and  having  lately  appointed 
one  with  that  view,  and  other  considerations  concurring  to  render 
it  at  this  time  advisable  to  make  a  corresponding  appointment,  he 
nominated  Mr.  Russell  to  be  Minister  Plenipotentiary  of  the 
United  States  to  Sweden.  Mr.  Russell  having  been  left  by  Genl. 
Armstrong  in  charge  of  our  affairs  at  Paris,  is  the  person  to  whom 
the  Duke  of  Bassano,  as  he  asserts  in  his  letter  to  Mr.  Barlow, 
communicated,  at  the  time  of  its  date,  the  French  Decree  of  April 
28,  181 1,  respecting  the  Berlin  and  Milan  Decrees.  This  impor- 
tant Decree  did  not  become  public  until  more  than  a  year  after  its 
date  ;  it  was  the  duty  of  the  Senate  to  inquire  whether  Mr.  Russell 
had  been  guilty  of  suppressing  this  communication  of  the  Duke  of 
Bassano,  as,  in  case  of  such  suppression,  however  important  the 
Mission  to  Sweden  might  be,  Mr.  Russell  ought  not  to  be  the 
Minister.  The  Secretary  of  State,  upon  the  enquiry  of  a  Com- 
mittee of  the  Senate,  informed  them  that  there  was  no  official 
document  in  his  office,  admitting  or  denying  on  the  part  of  Mr. 
Russell  such  communication  from  the  Duke  of  Bassano  ;  but  that 
in  a  private  letter  of  Mr.  Russell  it  was  understood  he  denied  such 
communication. 

The  President  was  then  requested  by  the  Senate  to  communi- 
cate to  them  the  correspondence  that  had  passed  between  the 
United  States  and  the  King  of  Sweden,  relative  to  the  interchange 
of  Public  Ministers.  In  compliance  with  this  request,  the  Presi- 
dent laid  before  the  Senate  a  report  made  to  him  by  the  Secretary 
of  State  saying,  that  no  doubt  correspondence  with  the  King  of 
Sweden  had  taken  place,  but  that  in  reference  to  the  call  of  the 
Senate,  the  Secretary  submitted  to  the  President,  who  transmitted 


1813]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  329 

the  same  to  the  Senate,  extracts  of  several  letters  from  Mr.  Speyer, 
the  American  Consul  in  Sweden,  and  a  letter  from  Mr.  Beasley, 
Commissary  of  American  prisoners  in  England.  These  Docu- 
ments are  before  the  public  and  it  is  therefore  unnecessary  to  re- 
publish them.  It  may  however  be  remarked,  that  the  repeated 
mafiifestation  of  the  desire  of  the  King  of  Sweden  to  interchange 
Public  Ministers  with  the  United  States  is  to  be  found  in  the  cor- 
respondence of  Mr.  Speyer,  the  American  Consul  at  Stockholm, 
who  (altho'  it  may  appear  inexplicable  in  New  York,  where  Mr. 
Speyer  and  his  performances  are  known,  how  he  became  a  Consul) 
pretty  plainly  shews  that  he  aspired  to  become  the  American 
Minister  in  Sweden.  Cunning  little  Isaac,  he  was  doubtless  put 
up  to  this  work  by  those,  who,  he  little  thought,  were  themselves 
to  derive  the  benefit  of  it.  If  such  be  the  corruption  of  their 
youth,  said  Fauchet,  what  will  it  be  in  their  old  age  ?  Mr.  Beas- 
ley was  appointed  and  left  by  Mr.  Russell  as  Commissioner  of 
Prisoners,  and  doubtless  felt  some  gratitude  for  the  kindness. 
The  Government  knew,  altho'  the  Public  do  not,  who  first  sent 
Mr.  Speyer*  to  London — and  what  was  the  motive  of  being  sent. 
The  trio  of  Russell,  Speyer  and  Beasley  is  in  some  respects  ex- 
traordinary :  there  is  a  similitude  of  condition  among  these  men, 
which  seems  to  have  become  the  occasion  of  friendship.  It  is 
said,  tho'  we  cannot  assert  the  fact,  that  they  have  all  been  bank- 
rupts and  have  all  gone  abroad,  as  the  Servants  say,  to  better  their 
condition  ;  and  it  must  be  confessed  their  speculation  upon  our 
able  administration  has  not  been  deficient  in  discernment ;  Speyer 
became  Consul  at  Stockholm,  Beasley,  Commissary  of  Prisoners 
in  London,  and,  in  consequence  of  the  correspondence,  their 
friend  and  patron  Russell  was  well  nigh  touching  his  appoint- 
ment to  Sweden  !  !  ! 

The  Senate  having  thus  ascertained  from  the  Department  of 
State  that  there  existed  no  official  denial  on  the  part  of  Mr.  Russell, 
that  the  Duke  of  Bassano  communicated  to  him  the  Act  of  the  28 
of  April  181 1,  repealing  the  Berlin  and  Milan  Decrees  ;  and  hav- 

*  We  are  assured  that  Speyer  is  a  German  or  Polish  Jew  ;  but  whether  he  be 
a  connexion  of  Speyer,  the  rich  Jew,  who  was  at  the  head  of  the  contractors  to 
supply  Bonaparte's  army  upon  the  retreat  from  Moscow,  we  have  not  been  able 
to  learn.  We  however  suspect  he  is  of  a  different  tribe,  as  in  this  case  he  would 
in  preference  to  Russell,  have  been  nominated  Minister  to  Sweden. 


330  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

ing  moreover  ascertained,  from  the  report  of  the  Secretary  of  State, 
the  extracts  of  Speyer's  and  Beasley's  letters,  that  no  direct  cor- 
respondence had  taken  place  with  Sweden  respecting  an  inter- 
change of  Public  Ministers  ;  and  from  whatever  motive,  or  how 
brought  about,  that  Sweden  had  appointed  Mr.  Kantzou  to  be 
only  a  Minister  Resident  in  the  United  States — a  grade  only  of 
the  third  rank,  the  difficulties  in  the  way  of  confirming  Mr.  Rus- 
sell's appointment  as  Minister  Plenipotentiary,  a  grade  of  second 
and  highest  rank,  which  the  United  States  have  ever  appointed  to, 
were  rather  increased  than  diminished.  The  Senate  therefore 
committed  the  whole  subject  to  another  committee  with  instruc- 
tions to  confer  with  the  President  respecting  it. 

Two  objects  were  doubtless  in  view  in  the  adoption  of  this 
measure. 

1.  To  ascertain  whether  there  were  really  any  reasons  of  State, 
or  other  public  motives,  not  known  to  the  Senate,  in  favor  of  this 
Mission. 

2.  Whether  considering  the  immense  increase  of  expenses  of 
late  years  in  sending  and  maintaining  abroad  foreign  Ministers, 
and  the  necessity  of  strict  economy  at  the  present  juncture,  a 
special  Minister  might  not  be  substituted  for  a  permanent  one  ;  and 
in  case  a  permanent  one  was  deemed  necessary,  whether  a  grade 
corresponding  to  that  of  the  Minister  appointed  by  Sweden,  would 
not  be  more  economical,  more  consonant  to  the  practice  of  the 
United  States,  and  more  agreeable  to  the  etiquette  and  usage  of 
nations  on  similar  occasions. 

It  is  presumed  that  the  President  must  have  anticipated  these 
enquiries.  Had  the  President  received  the  Committee,  and  by 
the  communication  of  additional  reasons  in  favor  of  the  Mission, 
satisfied  the  Senate  of  its  expediency,  and  had  he  moreover  modi- 
fied the  nomination  of  Mr.  R.  it  is  not  improbable  that  the  Mission 
would  have  been  sanctioned.  This  however  is  mere  matter  of  in- 
ference deduced  from  the  character  of  the  Senate  and  the  Demo- 
crats upon  the  subject  before  the  People. 

It  is  plain  enough  from  these  documents  that  the  President  in- 
tended to  receive  and  confer  with  the  committee  :  but  a  similar 
course  had  been  adopted  by  the  Senate  in  respect  to  the  nomina- 
tion of  Mr.  Gallatin,  and  a  committee  had  been  appointed  to  con- 
fer with  the  President  upon  a  specific  point,  connected  with  Mr. 


1813]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  33  I 

Gallatin's  nomination — upon  a  point  the  difficulty  of  which  could 
be  removed  by  the  President  alone. 

In  this  situation  of  the  business,  the  President,  by  a  message  to 
the  Senate,  declined  the  conference,  and  attempted  to  justify  him- 
self by  a  construction  of  the  powers  of  the  Executive  and  of  the 
Senate,  which  is  believed  to  be  unsound,  contrary  to  original  usage, 
and  inconvenient  to  the  useful  discharge  of  the  duties  of  the 
President  and  Senate. 

Upon  the  first  operation  of  the  Constitution,  the  Senate  ap- 
pointed a  committee  of  three  of  its  members  to  confer  with  the 
President,  Genl.  Washington,  and  to  digest  with  him  the  manner 
in  which  the  Senate  should  give  their  advice  and  consent  in  the 
making  of  treaties  and  appointments  to  office.  The  obvious 
course,  pursued  in  analogous  cases  by  the  Governor  and  councils 
of  the  several  States  naturally  suggested  itself  and  was  adopted. 
A  nomination  or  a  Treaty  being  made,  upon  a  future  day  the 
President  was  to  come  to  the  Senate,  or  to  convene  them  at  his  own 
house,  when  such  nomination  or  Treaty,  in  his  presence,  was  to 
be  considered  and  decided.  This  arrangement  was  mutually  con- 
venient, the  objections  of  the  Senate  would  be  known  and  might 
be  removed  by  information  communicated  by  the  President  ;  and 
the  practice  under  it  would  have  been  followed  with  public  advan- 
tage, had  not  an  occurrence  that  happened  at  one  of  these  meet- 
ings occasioned  its  discontinuance.  The  Senate  have  justly 
regarded  their  body  so  much  in  the  character  of  constitutional 
advisers  of  the  President,  that  a  rule  is  believed  to  exist  regulat- 
ing the  course  and  manner  of  these  proceedings  when  convened 
in  that  character  in  the  Senate  room  or  elsewhere.  Has  it  be- 
come a  question  whether  the  Senate  or  the  heads  of  Department 
are  the  constitutional  advisers  of  the  President  ?  The  safety  of 
the  States,  as  well  as  the  principle  of  the  Constitution  would  seem 
to  settle  this  point.  The  self-named  cabinet,  composed  of  the 
heads  of  Departments  is  unknown  to  the  Laws  and  Constitution, 
and  their  employment  as  such  is  an  ill-judged  imitation  of  the 
administration  of  another  country. 

The  nomination  to  all  offices  and  the  initiation  of  all  Treaties 
with  foreign  powers  belong  to  the  President,  but  neither  Treaty 
nor  appointment  can  be  made  without  the  advice  and  consent  of 
the  Senate  :  to  give  this  advice  and  consent  the  Senate  must  ac- 


332  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

quire  the  requisite  information  to  enable  them  to  give  it  :  from 
Avhom  can  they  ask  it  except  from  the  President  ?  This  informa- 
tion which  produces  the  nomination,  it  may  be  presumed  would 
produce  its  confirmation.  The  instructions  and  correspondence 
respecting  Treaties  are  in  the  Department  of  State.  It  is  to  the 
President  therefore  that  applications  for  such  information  should 
be  made  by  the  Senate,  and  it  admits  of  no  doubt  that  the  Presi- 
dent is  bound  to  impart  such  information  to  the  Senate  when  re- 
quested. To  make  a  difficulty  concerning  the  manner  affording 
the  same  is  throwing  embarrassment  in  the  way  of  executing  the 
powers  of  the  Constitution  and  to  place  more  importance  upon 
the  form  than  upon  the  substance. 

The  mode  which  would  be  least  inconvenient  and  most  effectual 
deserves  a  preference  :  no  unnecessary  and  mere  forms  should 
defeat  the  easy  discharge  of  a  Public  Duty  :  if  a  request  of  in- 
formation from  the  President  be  made,  thro'  a  Committee  of  the 
Senate,  it  surely  is  more  respectful  than  a  Resolution  asking  for  it 
and  transmitted  by  their  Secretary.  When  the  two  Houses  of 
Congress  are  formed  at  the  beginning  of  a  session,  the  President 
is  notified  thereof  by  a  joint  Committee  and  before  the  close  of 
the  session  a  similar  Committee  notifies  the  President,  that  their 
business  being  finished  they  propose  to  adjourn,  unless  he  has  any 
new  matter  to  lay  before  them.  The  President  has  never  de- 
clined receiving  these  committees  or  giving  them  an  answer. 

The  advice  and  consent  without  which  the  acts  of  the  Ex- 
ecutive are  nullities,  is  a  power  vested  in  an  aggregate  body  ; 
the  Executive  power  is  lodged  in  a  single  individual.  There 
would  be  no  inequality,  if  President  Madison,  in  imitation  of  his 
great  predecessor  President  Washington,  should  meet  and  confer 
with  the  Senate  ;  nay,  it  would  be  no  degradation  of  the  Person 
or  office  of  President  Madison,  should  he,  as  President  Washing- 
ton did,  receive  and  confer  with  a  committee  of  the  Senate  con- 
cerning the  exercise  of  a  power  in  the  discharge  of  which  the 
consent  of  both  President  and  Senate  is  required.  Really  there 
seems  to  be  something  not  easily  comprehended,  which  restrains 
Mr.  Madison,  when  Genl.  Washington,  rightly  estimating  the 
substance  and  caring  little  for  forms,  found  no  impediments  in 
his  way,  but  in  such  cases  freely  conferred  with  the  Senate. 

Mr.    Madison  says   the   President  and  Senate  are  coordinate 


1 813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  333 

powers  ;  so  far  as  respects  their  relative  dignity,  there  would 
seem  to  be  no  loss  of  it  on  the  part  of  the  President,  should  he 
consent  to  confer  with  the  whole  Senate — not  so,  should  he  con- 
sent to  confer  with  a  committee  of  the  Senate  :  this  is  a  distinction 
contrary  to  the  nature  of  the  transaction.  When  an  aggregate 
body  is  a  numerous  one,  in  many,  nay  most  of  the  preliminary 
enquiries  that  are  made  to  enable  the  body  to  adopt  definitive 
acts,  they  are  made  by  committees.  When  it  becomes  necessary  for 
any  cause  to  confer  with  others  bodies,  whether  aggregate  or 
single,  this  is  likewise  done  by  Committees — and  the  principle  of 
convenience,  which  suggests  this  mode  in  preference  to  the 
business  being  done  by  the  whole  body,  has  the  sanction  of  com- 
mon sense  and  universal  usage.  Committees  of  conference  are 
appointed  in  matters  of  disagreement  between  the  two  Houses 
of  Congress — these  two  houses  are  coordinate  powers.  But  as 
the  Executive  is  a  single  power  and  the  Senate  an  aggregate  one, 
unless  the  Executive  will  confer  with  a  committee  of  the  Senate, 
deputed  for  such  purpose  for  the  mutual  convenience  as  well  of 
the  Executive  as  of  the  Senate,  no  conference  can  without  great 
inconvenience  ever  be  had.  The  increase  of  the  Senate  has 
already  carried  their  number  beyond  the  convenience  of  meeting 
in  a  small  apartment.  The  suggestion  that  the  Committee  of  the 
Senate  may  confer  with  the  heads  of  Departments  is  wholly 
inadmissible  and  tends  to  degrade  the  Senate.  The  heads  of 
Departments  are  no  part  of  the  Executive  Power,  the  whole  of 
which  is  vested  in  the  President.  Besides  the  heads  of  Depart- 
ments are  the  mere  will  and  pleasure  officers  of  the  Executive  : 
with  what  propriety,  nay  with  what  consistency  or  decorum  can 
it  be  proposed  as  a  measure  of  equality,  that  the  Senate  should 
by  a  deputation  from  their  body  confer  with  an  officer  holding 
his  place  at  the  will  of  the  Executive,  and  that  the  Executive 
should  decline  a  conference  with  a  portion  of  the  Senatorial 
body  itself  appointed  by  the  Senate  for  that  purpose  ? 

The  scruple  is  the  more  extraordinary  as  the  President  is  said 
to  allow  and  receive  Committees,  not  appointed  by  either  House 
of  Congress,  but  by  such  members  thereof  as  profess  certain 
political  opinions  ;  and  these  Committees,  in  their  conferences 
with  the  President,  are  said  to  recommend  important  measures  for 
his  adoption,  to  propose  the  removal  from  office  of  men  holding 


334  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

high  and  important  stations,  and,  what  is  yet  more  wonderful, 
those  recommendations,  as  we  are  told,  have  been  implicitly- 
observed  !  !  ! 

Does  the  President  of  the  United  States  receive  and  follow  the 
advice  of  Committees  from  turbulent  and  irregular  bodies  of  men, 
aiming  to  dictate  the  course  of  his  administration,  and  is  the 
dignity  and  independence  of  the  Executive  office  unsullied  and 
unimpaired  by  such  extraordinary  and  humiliating  proceedings  ? 
and  when  the  Senate,  the  constitutional  advisers  of  the  President, 
depute  a  portion  of  their  own  body  respectfully  to  confer  with 
and  ask  information  upon  a  subject  submitted  to  the  determina- 
tion by  the  President,  are  they  to  be  refused,  and  are  the  Presi- 
dent's doors,  opened  to  the  public  agitators,  to  be  closed  against 
Senators  of  the  United  States  respectfully  soliciting  information 
to  enable  them  to  perform  their  public  Duty  ? 

How  would  the  Presidential  office  have  been  depreciated,  had 
the  President  received  the  Committee  deputed  by  the  Senate  to  as- 
certain whether  there  were  any  other  reasons  in  favor  of  the 
Mission  to  Sweden  than  the  unsatisfactory  ones  exhibited  in  the 
letters  of  Speyer  and  Beasley?  How  would  it  have  been  degraded 
by  his  explaining  to  the  Senate  the  motives  for  departing  from 
the  common  usage  in  sending  a  Minister  of  the  second  order  to 
Sweden,  an  inferior  Power,  in  return  for  a  Minister  of  the  third 
order,  sent  by  Sweden  to  the  United  States  ?  Who  except  the 
President,  could  afford  this  information,  who,  but  he,  could  ex- 
plain the  unusual  circumstance  of  the  United  States  sending  to 
Sweden  a  Minister  of  a  higher  rank  than  that  of  the  Minister  sent 
to  them  by  Sweden  ?  Are  the  United  States  so  inferior  and 
Sweden  so  elevated  that  the  diplomatic  Tariff  should  as  a  matter 
of  course  be  violated  to  our  disadvantage  and  in  her  favor  ? 

The  power  of  the  President  could  not  be  controled  by  a  con- 
ference between  him  and  the  Senate.  He  had  made  the  nomina- 
tion ;  the  act  was  already  done  and  completed.  What  then  must 
be  the  object  of  the  Senate,  in  asking  a  conference  ?  It  could  not 
be  to  control  or  direct  the  power  to  nominate,  because  it  had  been 
executed  ;  for  the  rest  the  Senate  could  advise  and  consent  with- 
out a  conference.  Is  it  an  affront  to  the  President  that  the  Senate 
should  ask  of  him  information,*  or  is  it  required  that  they  approve 

*  Different  modes  of  seeking  this  information  may  be  devised.     It  may  be 


1813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  335 

as  a  matter  of  course  ?  The  object  therefore  must  have  been  the 
acquisition  of  such  information  as  would  enable  them  to  discharge 
their  own  duty  intelligently  and  harmoniously  :  for  attempting  to 
pursue  this  course,  they  are  misrepresented,  censured  and  de- 
nounced in  a  Paper  patronized  and,  as  we  are  persuaded,  con- 
troled  by  the  Administration. 

If  there  be  in  the  country  a  body  of  men  unpolluted  and  un- 
subdued by  the  unjust  and  destructive  spirit  which  is  breaking 
down  the  Constitution  and  destroying  the  nation,  to  that  body  of 
men,  we  appeal. 

Between  separate  bodies,  where  joint  concert  is  required  to  the 
validity  of  any  act,  whether  it  be  in  private  or  public  affairs,  a 
free  communication,  in  which  the  reasons  for  and  against  a  pro- 
posed act  may  be  examined,  in  which  objections  may  be  com- 
municated and  information  to  remove  them  given  ;  in  a  word,  in 
which  the  reasons  for  and  against  the  proposed  measure  may  be 
freely  communicated  and  weighed,  seems  to  be  essential.  The 
less  of  form  and  ceremony  that  exists  in  these  conferences,  the 
more  advantageous  will  they  be  to  the  attainment  of  a  correct 
result. 

If  instead  of  this  mode  of  communicating,  examining  and  de- 
ciding the  reasons  of  persons  charged  with  the  performance  of  a 
public  duty,  a  formal  proposition  is  made  by  one  and  a  separate 
decision  of  it  is  made  by  another,  it  is  to  be  feared  that  many 
good  measures  will  fail  ;  that  jealousy,  distrust  and  other  mis- 
chievous passions  may  arise  and  operate  between  those  who  are 
charged  with  deciding  upon  such  measures  ;  and  that  with  the 
best  views,  supposing  each  to  preserve  his  independence,  mistakes 
will  be  made  injurious  to  the  public  interest.  The  very  debates 
in  a  legislative  body  partake  essentially  of  this  character  ;  confer- 

asked  for  by  a  resolution  of  the  Senate,  transmitted  by  their  Secretary,  or  any- 
other  messenger — it  may  likewise  be  asked  for  by  a  Committee  of  the  Senate 
appointed  for  this  purpose — the  latter  mode  is  more  respectful  to  the  President, 
than  the  former.  The  Senate  may  possess  information  or  entertain  doubts 
which,  if  made  known  to  the  President,  he  might  be  able  to  correct ;  these  may 
often  be  of  a  delicate,  important  and  personal  nature,  which  in  every  respect 
should  be  treated  of  verbally,  in  preference  to  a  more  formal  and  durable 
manner  and  of  course  by  a  Committee  rather  than  by  written  communication. 
Everything  respecting  the  character  of  persons  nominated  to  office  is  of  this 
nature. 


336  RUFUS  KING.  [18 13 

ences  concerning  the  Resolutions  or  Acts  of  the  two  Branches  of 
such  body,  where  their  joint  consent  is  required,  are  emphatically 
of  this  nature. 

In  cases  of  nomination  to  office  by  the  Governor  of  one  of  the 
States  made  to  his  Council,  the  Governor  and  his  Council  being 
together,  confer  with  each  other  reciprocally,  giving  and  receiving 
information.  The  nominations  to  office  and  the  advice  and  con- 
sent of  the  Senate  are  similar  to,  and  the  plan  is  derived  from, 
that  of  the  Governor  and  Council  of  the  States.  So  true  is  this 
remark,  that  upon  the  putting  of  the  Constitution  into  operation, 
it  was  settled  between  the  first  President,  Genl.  Washington,  and 
a  committee  of  the  Senate  authorized  for  this  purpose,  that  the 
President,  after  nominating  to  office  should  come  into  the  Senate 
room  or  convene  them  elsewhere,  and  then  taking  the  seat  of  the 
President  of  the  Senate,  the  several  Nominations  should  be  ex- 
amined, objections  offered,  information  received  and  the  question 
of  advice  and  consent  finally  taken  in  the  presence  of  the  Senate. 

Those  who  affect  to  apprehend  an  improper  influence  or  con- 
trol upon  the  President,  which,  in  this  mode  of  proceeding,  the 
Senate  may  be  said  to  exercise,  have  not  taken  the  trouble  to 
consider  the  business  in  detail.  The  nomination  is  first  made  by 
the  President :  this  act  exclusively  belongs  to,  and  is  definitely 
performed  by  the  President  without  any  interference  of  the  Sen- 
ate, who  can  neither  annul,  send  back,  nor  do  any  other  act  con- 
cerning such  nomination,  except  to  give  or  refuse  their  consent 
to  the  appointment  of  the  person  so  named  by  the  President. 
This  they  may  do  without  any  communication  with  the  President. 
But  the  real  enquiry  is  whether  they  can  without  such  communi- 
cation, give  or  refuse  their  consent  with  as  much  satisfaction  to- 
themselves,  and  with  as  much  benefit  to  the  public,  with  as  much 
justice  to  the  individuals  nominated,  as  if  they  had  become  ac- 
quainted with  the  President's  information  or  knowledge  of  the 
qualifications  of  the  person  nominated  ? 

It  must  be  difficult  to  conjecture  with  any  degree  of  confidence, 
much  more  so,  to  attain  a  correct  knowledge  of  the  motives  of 
the  President  in  sending  to  the  Senate  the  very  important  mes- 
sage he  has  done  upon  this  subject.  We  may  and  shall  seriously 
regret  the  transmission  of  the  message  in  case  the  views  which 
have  influenced  the  President  upon  this  occasion  have  arisen  from 


1813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  7,37 

the  special  or  individual  circumstances  of  a  single  case,  instead 
of  having  been  produced  by  a  comprehensive  and  impartial  con- 
sideration of  the  subject.  We  shall  regret  it,  because  it  appears 
to  claim  for  the  President  what  we  cannot  but  esteem  as  uncon- 
stitutional and  useless  dignity,  because  it  separates  him  from  the 
Senate,  whose  advice  and  consent  are  necessary  to  the  validity  of 
all  appointments  to  office  and  to  all  Treaties  between  the  United 
States  and  foreign  nations  ;  because  it  exposes  him  to  the  influ- 
ences of  persons  in  no  manner  responsible  for  their  advice. 

Governors  of  these  States  convene,  meet  and  confer  with  their 
several  councils.  The  King  of  England  meets  &  presides  and 
transacts  business  in  his  council.  Every  crowned  head  of  Europe, 
not  excepting  the  French  Emperor,  does  the  same.  The  United 
States,  for  the  purpose  of  limiting  the  Executive  power,  have  by 
their  Constitution  created  an  executive  council — the  Senate  are 
that  council — but  Mr.  Madison,  their  President,  from  a  sense  of 
executive  dignity,  or  from  other  considerations  which  are  not 
avowed,  omits  to  come  into  the  Senate  and  refuses  to  confer  with 
their  committees  specially  appointed  respectfully  to  seek  informa- 
tion from  him  upon  a  business  that  he  has  brought  before  them 
for  a  decision,  and  respecting  which  they  ask  what  the  President 
alone  can  impart ! 

Gallatin. 

The  second  and  probably  the  most  unpardonable  act  of  the 
Senate  on  account  of  which  the  National  Intelligencer  has  been 
permitted  to  appeal  to  party  feelings  and  to  raise  party  animosity 
against  the  Senate,  is  the  rejection  of  Mr.  Gallatin  as  one  of  our 
Envoys  in  the  mission  to  Russia. 

There  is  so  much  of  mystery,  so  great  obscurity  and  so  little 
light  in  all  that  concerns  the  Declaration  of  the  war  &  the  meas- 
ures of  the  Executive  subsequent  to  that  unfortunate  war,  that  it 
is  with  extreme  difficulty  that  an  impartial  and  inquisitive  citizen, 
after  making  every  allowance  for  human  infirmity  &  the  errors  of 
our  nature,  is  enabled  to  form  an  unhesitating  opinion  on  these 
all  important  subjects. 

We  firmly  believe  that  the  assigned  causes  are  not  the  real  ones 
for  declaring  the  war.     We  have  strong  reason  to  believe  that  the 


VOL.    V. — 22 


338  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

Declaration  of  war,  was  against  the  deliberate  judgment  of 
men  who  voted  for  it.  It  is  embarrassing  to  explain  the  motives 
why  the  overtures  for  Peace  thro'  Adml.  Warren  made  immedi- 
ately after  the  commencement  of  the  war  were  rejected,  and  why 
the  Mission  to  Russia  was  adopted,  the  basis  thereof  being  the 
same  as  that  offered  to  England  by  our  Government  in  Oct.  last. 

It  is  probable  that  the  Russian  Minister  during  the  winter  and 
before  he  could  have  received  any  instructions  upon  the  subject 
did  suggest  to  our  Government  the  idea  of  availing  itself  of  the 
mediation  of  Russia  to  bring  about  a  peace  with  England.  It  is 
not  to  be  presumed  that  the  Russian  Minister  committed  himself 
by  an  offer  of  the  Russian  mediation — but  rather  that  he  insinu- 
ated to  our  Government  the  project  of  their  asking  the  medi- 
ation of  Russia. 

It  will  be  recollected  that,  at  the  period  we  refer  to,  no  accounts 
had  been  received  of  the  disasters  that  the  French  had  met  with 
in  Russia — so  far  from  it,  all  the  accounts  received  of  the  retreat 
and  defeat  of  the  Russian  army  authorized  the  general  opinion 
that  Bonaparte  would  reach  Moscow  and  that  he  would  there 
dictate  a  peace  to  the  Russians  as  he  had  before  done  to  the  Aus- 
trians  at  Vienna  ;  that  our  Government  should  have  therefore  de- 
clined, and  as  has  been  asserted  in  not  very  courtly  language,*  the 
overture  of  the  Russian  ambassador  is  not  very  extraordinary. 
But  the  intelligence  received  during  the  latter  months  of  winter, 
and  in  the  early  part  of  spring,  put  a  very  different  face  upon 
the  affairs  both  of  France  and  Russia  from  what  had  been  con- 
fidently anticipated. 

When  therefore  in  the  month  of  February,  despatches  were 
received  from  Mr.  Adams  by  our  Government,  and  from  the  Rus- 
sian Government,  by  Mr.  Daschkoff,  by  which  not  only  the  total 
of  ruinous  failure  of  Bonaparte  but  a  proposal  on  the  part  of 
Russia  to  become  a  mediator  between  the  U.  S.  &  England,  be- 
came known  at  Washington — the  value  of  this  mediation  was 
seen  in  quite  a  new  light  ;  its  importance  was  enhanced  by  the 
disgraceful  failure  of  our  Campaign  against  Canada,  by  the  loss  of 
the  Michigan  Territory  and  still  more  by  the  tacit  rejection  of 

*  Mr.  Daschkoff  says  that  the  statements  in  the  ministerial  papers  relative 
to  his  mediation  for  peace  are  an  ill-treatment  of  the  Emperor  and  himself,  and 
that  he  would  demand  his  passport. — Evening  Post,  March  22,  1813. 


1813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  339 

the  overture  made  in  October  to  England  for  peace.  The  only- 
avowed  cause  for  continuing  the  war  was  the  subject  of  Impress- 
ment— by  the  overture  made  thro'  Adml.  Warren  to  England,  Mr. 
Madison  offered  to  exclude  from  our  public  and  private  ships 
all  British  subjects — and  without  claiming  a  previous  armistice, 
offered  in  case  England  would  accept  such  exclusion  in  lieu  of 
the  practice  of  Impressment,  it  was  proposed  to  enter  into  an  im- 
mediate negotiation  in  order  to  devise  and  settle  the  Regulations 
by  which  such  exclusion  should  be  effectually  secured.  Four 
months  elapsed  and  no  reply  to  this  overture  was  received,  and 
by  the  course  of  events  in  the  North  as  well  as  in  the  South 
of  Europe,  it  was  naturally  concluded  that  no  satisfactory  one 
would  be  received.  What  then  was  to  be  done  ?  the  safety  of 
England,  as  she  alleges,  and  as  many  believe,  depends  upon  her 
Navy  ;  the  Navy  depends  upon  her  seamen  &  their  service  can  be 
effectually  secured  only  by  Impressment.  These  Doctrines  are 
undisputed  in  England — the  Opposition  as  well  as  the  friends  of 
Government  equally  maintain  their  justice  and  importance — the 
Ministry  of  Mr.  Fox,  even  well  disposed,  as  they  were  to  concilia- 
tion with  America,  declared  that  no  administration  dare  to  give 
up  or  to  impair  these  maritime  Rights.  The  expectation  of  co- 
ercion upon  England  by  the  conquest  of  Canada,  by  the  expul- 
sion of  the  English  from  the  Peninsula,  the  subjugation  of  Russia, 
and  the  establishment  everywhere  of  the  French  anti-commercial 
system  had  all  failed  ;  and  instead  of  being  a  subdued,  Russia 
now  appeared  a  victorious  nation,  and  as  such  possessed  more 
influence  than  any  other  Power  with  England.  The  object  in 
these  circumstances  is  to  get  out  of  the  war  as  soon  and  with  as 
little  loss  of  Reputation  or  of  party  influence  as  possible  ;  to 
negotiate  openly  and  directly  with  England,  unless  the  relin- 
quishment on  her  part  of  Impressment  could  be  obtained,  might 
materially  injure  the  Party. 

If  it  had  become  evident  that  England  would  neither  relinquish, 
nor  accept  a  substitute  for,  impressment,  the  point  must  be 
given  up  by  us,  or  the  war  continued  without  expectation  of 
being  able  to  coerce  her.  The  latter  without  hope  and  with 
heavy  taxes  would  be  destructive  of  the  Party — the  former,  if 
managed  with  adroitness,  might  still  preserve  the  dominion  of 
Republicanism.      The  Russian  mediation  should  therefore  be  ac- 


340  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 


cepted,  and  if  England  would  not  give  up  the  practice  of  Impress- 
ment, Russia,  the  common  friend,  would  urge  the  necessity  of  the 
U.  S.  receding  from  their  claim  &  submitting  to  the  just  Rights 
of  England.  It  might  be  said  that  the  Government  had  acted 
for  the  best,  they  had  relied  upon  the  impartiality  of  Russia,  who 
offered,  and  we  accepted,  her  mediation — Russia  having  decided 
in  favor  of  England,  there  was  no  choice  left,  we  were  bound  to 
acquiesce  in  her  decision.  Thus  Russia  is  to  be  made  a  cloak  to 
conceal  the  blunders  &  disgrace  of  our  Rulers.  The  men  who 
succeeded  in  passing  the  Henry  Plot  upon  the  country,  without 
the  charge  of  temerity  and  without  change  of  opinion  concerning 
the  discernment  of  the  People,  might  confidently  expect  to  justify 
their  submission  to  Impressment  by  alleging  the  part  which 
Russia,  to  whose  mediation  they  had  submitted,  had  taken. 

It  being  determined  to  accept  the  Russian  mediation,  without 
waiting  whether  England  would  also  accept  it,  without  the  place 
being  agreed  upon  where  the  negotiations  should  be  held,  precau- 
tions which  common  prudence  and  the  uniform  example  of  other 
nations  upon  similar  occasions  required  to  have  been  observed, 
our  Rulers  cast  about  for  the  men  to  be  employed  on  this  occa- 
sion. It  seems  to  have  been  expeditiously  decided  that  the  mis- 
sion, according  to  former  usage,  should  consist  of  three  Envoys 
to  be  taken  one  from  the  Eastern,  one  from  the  Middle  and  one 
from  the  States  upon  the  Western  waters,  the  Southern  States 
being  duly  noticed  by  the  honor  of  Mr.  Crawford's  appointment 
to  France.  Mr.  Adams  &  Bayard  were  soon  selected,  and  while 
the  choice  of  the  Western  man  was  undecided,  the  President  be- 
comes apprized  that  Mr.  Gallatin  would  have  no  objection  to  be 
one  of  the  Envoys.  The  failure  of  the  Loan  had  inspired  great 
alarm  ;  if  with  difficulty  and  at  an  enhanced  rate  of  interest,  the 
sixteen  millions  could  be  borrowed,  enough  had  been  learnt  to 
create  serious  doubts  whether  another  Loan  could  be  effected 
upon  any  terms,  unless  preceded  by  serious  effort  to  make  peace. 
If  Mr.  Gallatin  should  be  one  of  the  Envoys,  it  would  not  only 
create  the  belief  that  Government  were  in  earnest  in  seeking  for 
peace,  but  moreover,  that  if  Mr.  Gallatin,  a  member  of  the  Cabi- 
net consented  to  serve,  "  it  would  be  concluded  that  he,  who 
knew  the  whole  subject,  had  confidence  in  the  success  of  the 
mission.      These  considerations  would  fill  fhe  Loan  of  16.  mil- 


1813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  34 1 


lions,  and  give  a  little  breathing  to  the  Government.  In  aid  of 
this  intrigue,  it  is  reported  that  the  Russian  Minister  did  not  fail 
to  insinuate  that  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Gallatin,  the  Minister  of 
Finance  and  the  most  influential  member  of  the  Cabinet,  would 
not  fail  to  be  flattering  to  his  master,  the  Emperor  of  Russia. 
Furthermore  Mr.  Gallatin*  had  a  personal  motive  to  be  absent 
from  the  U.  S.  at  this  period.  He  had  opposed  the  direct  and 
whiskey  Taxes  under  the  former  administrations.  As  Congress 
were  now  about  to  impose  the  same  taxes  again  it  would  be  ex- 
pedient that  he  should  not  figure  in  the  scene,  but  rather  that  he 
should  appear  not  to  have  contributed  to  their  imposition.  The 
taxes  being  laid,  Mr.  Gallatin  might  return  to  superintend  their 
collection,  and  aided  by  his  experience  and  great  talents,  would 
be  able  to  prescribe  such  regulations  as  might  serve  to  reconcile 
the  People  to  the  taxes.  Does  any  one  doubt  that  views  of  this 
sort  were  examined  in  the  confidential  dialogues  between  Mr. 
G.  and  his  friends  upon  this  occasion  ? 

*  Gallatin  is  ready  to  make  his  patrocinium  ;  he  was  opposed  to  commercial 
*reaties  and  Mr.  Jay's  mission,  but  accepts  a  mission  himself  and  is  named  to 
make  two  treaties  of  Commerce  !  !  ! 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 

King  to  Gore — The  Russian  Offer  of  Mediation  examined — Gore  to  King — 
Talk  in  Boston  of  aiding  Commerce  by  a  Peace  or  Armistice — King  to 
Gore — Continuance  of  War  will  endanger  the  Union — Doubts  relative  to 
the  Russian  Mediation — Sir  W.  Scott  to  King — Regard  for  him — Though 
Condition  of  Europe  more  favorable,  still  Anxiety  in  England — It  is 
United  upon  Questions  between  her  and  United  States — And  has  grown  in 
Wealth — Sidmouth  to  King — Time  for  his  Son's  Visit  unfavorable  for  Set- 
tlement— King  to  Gore — Nothing  heard  of  Mediation — His  Son  finds  Eng- 
land's Opinion  very  hostile  towards  United  States — King  to  Gore — Adams 
and  Bayard  to  treat  directly  with  England — Continental  Affairs — Moreau's 
Death — Hamilton's  Opinion  of  DeWitt  Clinton — Lee  to  King — Baltimore 
Riot — English  in  West  Indies  do  not  applaud  the  War — Danger  to  the 
United  States,  should  War  cease  on  the  Continent — Hopes  for,  and  urges 
King  to  strive  for  Peace. 

R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Sunday,  29  Aug.,  1813. 
Mv  dear  Sir  : 

I  am  glad  to  hear  that  your  people  are  not  as  extravagant  and 
short  sighted,  as  our  friends  were  at  Washington.  If  there  be  a 
class  of  men  who  more  than  others  should  support  contracts  and 
credit,  it  is  the  Federalists  :  exclusive  therefore  of  consistency, 
which  in  a  good  cause  is  worth  something,  the  Federalists  should 
always  co-operate  in  provisions  to  enable  the  Govt,  to  perform  its 
contracts. 

Respecting  the  Russian  Mediation,  I  have  no  sort  of  doubt  con- 
cerning two  things  :  one  is  that  Daschkoff  did  offer  the  good  offi- 
ces of  the  Emperor  before  he  reed.,  and  therefore  without, 
instructions  to  do  so,— and  the  other  that  he  made  a  formal  offer 
of  this  mediation,  pursuant  to  instructions  which  he  received  after 
the  24th  of  Feby.     I  saw  the  note  making  this  offer,  which  is 

342 


1 813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  343 

dated  March  8,  1813,  also  the  note  accepting  the  mediation  thus 
offered  by  the  Emperor,  which  is  dated  March  11. 

Adams  reed,  his  Dispatches  announcing  the  war  in  Octr.  :  he 
communicated  their  contents  immediately  to  the  Russian  Min- 
ister, who  (the  knowledge  of  the  war  having  been  obtained  before 
Mr.  Adams  reed,  his  Dispatches)  had  before  expressed  his  regrets 
that  the  war  had  broken  out ;  and  explained  the  cause  of  these 
regrets  to  be  the  diversion  of  the  Eng.  Army  in  the  Peninsula  to 
Canada,  and  the  consequent  increase  of  the  French  forces  bro't 
agt.  Russia,  the  new  embarrassment  which  the  Russian  Commerce 
would  feel  by  the  interruption  of  the  American  Trade,  adding 
that  having  just  then  concluded  a  Treaty  with  England,  by  which 
it  was  hoped  that  the  commerce  of  Russia  would  recover  from  its 
past  stagnation,  it  was  matter  of  disappointment  that  the  American 
war  would  in  a  considerable  degree  renew  the  late  embarrassment. 
At  this  early  conversation,  the  Russian  Minister  intimated  the 
idea  of  the  good  offices  of  the  Emperor  to  restore  Peace.  After 
the  official  communication  of  the  war  (which  was  accompanied 
with  these  reservations,  that  it  would  be  confined  solely  to  Eng- 
land, that  of  course  our  commercial  intercourse  with  Russia  would 
be  continued,  and  our  friendly  relations  cherished,  and  that  no 
overture  had  or  would  be  made  to  France  to  co-operate  with  the 
U.  S.)  the  Russian  Minister  requested  Mr.  A.'s  consent  to  send  a 
copy  of  this  note  to  the  Russian  Ambassador  in  England  in  order 
that  it  might  be  communicated  to  the  Eng.  Government.  Mr.  A. 
replied  that  he  'could  give  no  such  consent — that  Russia  would 
make  such  use  of  the  note  as  she  pleased  ;  but  in  case  of  its 
transmission  to  England,  that  he  desired  to  be  understood  as 
neither  having  proposed  nor  consented  to  it.  The  Russian  Min- 
ister soon  after  informed  Mr.  Adams  that  the  Emperor  was 
pleased  to  learn  that  the  war  with  England  could  not  lead  to  any 
new  connexion  between  America  and  France  ;  and  then  offered 
on  the  part  of  the  Emperor  his  mediation  and  proposed  that 
Adams  should  take  immediate  measures  to  transmit  the  offer  to 
America — a  conversation  followed  concerning  the  mode  of  doing 
it,  and  a  licence  from  Lord  Cathcart,  the  Eng.  Ambassador,  was 
suggested  as  a  safe  mode  of  sending  a  vessel  to  America.  Adams 
consenting,  the  Russian  Minister  charged  himself  with  an  appli- 
cation to  Lord  Cathcart,  who  consented  on   condition  the  vessel 


344  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 


would  touch  in  England.  This  Adams  declined,  and  so  the  busi- 
ness of  the  vessel  fell  thro'.  This  report  is  made  by  A.  to  the  Sec- 
retary of  State,  as  the  Secy,  told  me — he  also  told  me  that  Adams' 
letters  containing  this  information  were  received  about  the  24th 
or  26th  of  Feby.,  that  Daschkoff  at  the  same  time  rec'd  instructions 
to  make  the  offer  of  the  mediation,  and  accordingly  did  so  defini- 
tively on  the  8  March. 

Whether  the  observations  accompanying  Adams'  communica- 
tion of  the  war  to  Russia  were  made  to  induce  her  to  offer  her 
mediation,  or  in  order  to  be  sent  to  England,  is  matter  of  conjec- 
ture.    Public  Ministers  occasionally  interpose  their  good  offices, 
and  assist  in  conferences  without  the  mediation  of  their  masters 
being  accepted  or  even  offered  ;  this  interposition,  says  DeReal, 
is  not  the  function  of  a  mediator,  but  of  a  Pacificator  and  so  they 
are  called  when  not  acknowledged  by  all  the  Powers.     Daschkoff 
may  have  thus  interposed  in  the  winter,  and  before  the  fate  of  the 
Russian   Campaign   was  known.       Mr.   Madison  believing    that 
France  would  dictate  a  peace  to  Russia,  would  of  course  receive 
these  pacific  offers  of   Daschkoff  coldly,  perhaps  uncivilly — but 
the  affairs  of  France  as  well  as  of  Russia  wore  a  different  face  in 
March,  when  the  destruction  of  the  French  army  was  ascertained 
— a  renewal  of  the  Russian  good  offices  now,  was  not  to  be  rejected. 
I  confess  myself  at  a  loss   to   explain  the   President's  conduct  in 
sending  his  Envoys  before  he  had  ascertained  that  England  would 
appoint  ministers  to  meet  them,  and  before  the  place  of  meeting, 
a  point  sometimes  of  importance,  was  chosen.     This  Step  is  the 
more  unaccountable   when  we  consider  that  the   offer,  made  by 
Monroe  thro'  Adl.  Warren  in  Oct.  last,  was  to  settle  the  subject  of 
impressment  by  the  exclusion  of  Br.  subjects  from  our  service  ; 
which  principle  being  accepted,  nothing  would  remain  for  nego- 
tiation but  the  regulations  for  giving  effect  to  the  principle.     To 
this  overture  it  does  not  appear  that  Eng.  has  given  any  reply. 
The  inference  is,  that  she  will,  as  she  has  offered  to  do,  negotiate 
regulations  for  the  practice  of  impressment  ;  but  that  she  rejects 
our  substitute.     If  the  same  proposition  of  a  substitute  were  the 
only  power  given  to  the  envoys, and,  at  the  time  of  their  departure, it 
had  become  pretty  certain  that  England  would  not  accept  it,  why 
were  they  sent  ?     If  the  President  knew  that   England   rejected 
our  substitute  and  still  sent  the  Envoys,  may  we  not  infer  the  in- 


1 8 13]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  345 

tention  of  making  the  decision  of  Russia  in  favor  of  England's 
claim,  the  excuse  for  our  submission  to  it  ?  How  otherwise  can 
we  account  for  the  mission  ?  How  explain  the  confidence  with 
which  the  Executive  has  calculated  upon  &  expected  a  Peace  ? 
How  comprehend  the  fact  that  Gallatin  consented  to  be  employed  ? 
If  such  be  the  object  of  the  mission,  will  not  means  be  found  out 
to  apprize  England  of  our  views,  and  when  she  knows  them,  will 
she  not  send  ministers,  notwithstanding  her  former  decision 
to  the  contrary,  to  accept  our  submission  and  give  us  Peace  ? 

yrs         R.  K. 

C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Waltham,  13th  September,  1S13. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

Your  letter  confirmed  my  opinion  on  the  subject  of  the  Russian 
mediation, — Indeed  some  Letters  received  from  Mr.  Adams,  by 
his  Friends  leave  no  doubt,  but  part  of  Colo.  P.'s  information  was 
erroneous. 

I  have  reason  to  believe,  that  a  deep  plan  is  laying  by  some 
gentlemen  in  N.  Y.,  Albany  &  Boston  to  effect  the  election  of  Mr. 
C.  to  the  next  Presidency.  The  orthodox  Church  is  enlisting 
Converts,  and  working  with  appropriate  zeal.  It  is  said,  that  Doc- 
tor Mason  states,  that  Colo.  Hamilton  declared  on  his  death  bed, 
that  DeW.  Clinton  was  the  only  man  to  put  down  Democracy  in 
the  U.  S. 

Some  men  talk  here  of  making  a  Declaration,  next  Winter,  that 
the  Union  is  dissolved  and  that  Massachusetts  is  willing  to  be  at 
peace  with  G.  B.,  and  that  her  ports  shall  be  open  to  all  Nations. — 
Others  propose  that  the  State  should  ask  Permission  of  Congress 
to  make  an  Armistice  with  the  Enemy — what  may  arise  from  the 
Discontent  and  Distress  that  are  daily  augmenting  it  is  impossible 
to  tell. — Hanson  &  Grosvenor  have  been  here.  The  former  I  hope 
is  in  better  Health,  than  when  he  left  Washington.  He  is  a  man 
of  a  fine  and  more  correct  mind  than  most  of  our  zealous  Feder- 
alists. I  asked  him  if  he  did  not  intend  to  visit  you  at  Long 
Island — he  said  he  should  be  happy  to,  but  as  you  had  not  asked 
him  to  come  &  see  you,  he  doubted  the  Propriety  of  his  going  to 
your  house. — He  left  Boston  this  Morning  for  Providence,  &  will 
probably  be  in  New  York  as  soon  as  this  letter. — If  you  choose, 


346  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

you  can  tell  James  to  invite  him  to  Jamaica.     Grosvenor  is  going 
on  to  Washington  immediately. 

Your  faithful  Friend 

C.  Gore. 

R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Sep.  30,  1813. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Every  exertion  will  doubtless  be  made  to  carry  the  project  to 
which  you  allude  into  effect.  I  find  both  from  Mr.  Hanson  & 
Mr.  Grosvenor  that  the  continuance  of  the  war  will  in  their  opin- 
ion endanger  the  Union.  There  can  be  no  question  that  our 
situation  will  become  extremely  difficult,  and  indeed  perilous, 
should  England  refuse  to  enter  into  a  negotiation  with  the  Envoys. 
The  condition  of  the  eastern  States  may  drive  them  to  measures, 
which  neither  the  actual  State  of  public  affairs,  temporary  as  it 
must  be,  nor  their  own  permanent  welfare  will  justify. 

I  perceive  no  reason  which  alters  my  views  in  respect  to  the 
probability  that  the  Envoys  are  to  make  great  efforts,  and,  if  un- 
avoidable, to  yield  up  the  only  point  of  difficulty  to  obtain  Peace. 
Upon  this  subject  I  have  nothing  new  to  add,  except  that  if  Col. 
Pickering  be  right  in  his  supposition  that  Russia  has  not  author- 
ized the  offer  of  her  mediation,  it  is  very  extraordinary  that  no 
intimation  has  been  made  in  the  English  Papers,  of  the  delusion 
that  has  been  practised  upon  the  People  of  this  Country,  in  the 
attempt  to  make  them  believe  that  such  mediation  had  been 
offered.  Those  Papers,  instead  of  denying  that  Russia  had 
offered  her  mediation,  assert  that  England  will  not  submit  the 
discussion  of  her  Maritime  Rights  to  any  mediation  ;  thereby 
admitting  that  the  overture  may  have  been  made.     .     .     . 

yrs.  R.  K. 

Sir  W.  Scott  to  R.  King. 

Oct.  8,  1813. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

It  is  with  great  Pleasure  that  I  seize  the  opportunity  which  my 
introduction  of  myself  to  your  son  gives  me,  of  recalling  to  your 
recollection  the  name  that  is  subscribed  to  this  letter.  It  was 
long  before  I  knew  that  your  son  was  arrived  in  this  Country.  It 
was  by  accident  only  that  I  was  informed  of  it.      May  I  be  per- 


1 813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  347 

mitted,  without  giving  offense,  to  complain  a  little  of  this  ?  If  my 
son  should  come  to  your  Country,  you  may  depend  upon  it 
that  he  shall  not  come  without  some  little  private  credentials  to 
a  person  whom  his  father  never  recollects  but  with  strong  feelings 
of  respect  &  regard,  and  about  whose  welfare  he  will  ever  con- 
tinue a  sincere  solicitude. 

The  affairs  of  Europe  had  assumed  their  terrifick  form  before 
you  quitted  it.  We  have  often  talked  of  them  together,  and,  if  I 
remember  right,  with  no  great  difference  of  opinion.  They  have 
gone  on  in  a  progress  of  publick  disorder  &  misery  every  year 
since  in  a  way  that  is  equally  known  to  both  of  us.  The  extreme 
alarms  of  the  civilized  parts  of  the  World  in  this  Hemisphere  (at 
least  of  those  Countries  which  had  not  entirely  sunk  under  the 
shock)  have  been  in  some  degree  relieved  by  the  events  of  the 
last  Winter's  Campaign  in  Russia  ;  but  much  remains  yet  to  be 
both  done  and  suffered,  before  we  can  consider  the  Liberties  of 
Europe  (and  consequently  of  the  world)  as  secured  upon  a  firm 
&  permanent  footing.  It  is  at  this  moment  a  matter  of  critical  & 
perilous  contest  what  is  to  be  the  result  ;  present  appearances  are 
favorable,  but  nothing  decisive  has  yet  taken  place  ;  and  my 
powers  of  language  wd.  fail  me,  if  I  were  to  attempt  to  describe 
the  anxiety  &  hesitation  with  which  depending  events  are  at  this 
hour  contemplated  in  this  Country. 

To  the  unfortunate  state  of  affairs  that  has  taken  place  between 
our  two  Countries,  it  would  be  improper  on  my  part  to  advert 
with  any  degree  of  particularity.  But  you  will,  I  hope,  think  it 
not  unbecoming  nor  perhaps  quite  useless  to  assure  you,  that  upon 
the  points  in  contest  between  us  we  are  an  undivided  People  ;  that 
all  political  Parties  of  any  consequence  are  agreed  upon  them  ;  and 
that  we  consider  ourselves,  without  any  difference  of  opinion 
(but  such  as  is  to  be  found  amongst  the  enemies  of  all  order  & 
government)  as  a  People  that  have  not  met  with  fair  &  generous 
treatment  from  those  who  have  the  conduct  of  your  national  in- 
terests. I  will  not  enter  further  into  this,  than  merely  to  say, 
that  if  any  measures  of  America  are  taken  upon  the  supposition 
of  a  partiality  to  American  Politics  existing  among  us,  they  will 
be  taken  upon  a  false  &  most  erroneous  view  of  facts,  and  can 
produce  nothing  but  disappointment  and  defeat,  so  far  as  they  are 
founded  upon  any  such  basis.     We  are  most  sincerely  disposed  to 


34§  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

reconciliation  ;  have  no  animosity,  though  strong  resentments  and 
lament  most  heartily  to  see  the  powers  of  a  new  &  free  State  em- 
ployed (as  they  appear  to  us)  in  riveting  the  chains  of  every  Coun- 
try in  Europe  &  assisting  the  design  of  extinguishing  the  last 
remains  of  Publick  Liberty,  wherever  found,  on  this  side  the 
Atlantick.  We  trust  that  such  an  unnatural  state  of  things  can't 
last  long  and  are  ready  to  meet  you  more  than  half  way  to  put  an 
end  to  it. 

Your  Son,  I  found  in  the  short  conversation  I  had  with  him, 
has  been  viewing  different  parts  of  this  Country.  I  think  that 
since  you  left  us,  it  has  been  regularly  increasing  in  wealth  & 
prosperity,  notwithstanding  the  pressure  of  war  &  the  occasional 
interruptions  they  receive  from  temporary  causes.  He  can  tell 
you  what  met  his  observation  in  the  course  of  his  travels  through 
it  ;  but  as  far  as  I  can  judge,  the  Country  has  reached  a  very 
high  state  of  improvement  in  everything  that  can  be  considered 
as  contributing  to  the  strength  and  grandeur  of  a  State  ;  and  un- 
less some  unforeseen  calamity  should  occur,  is  likely  to  advance  in 
that  condition  under  the  direction  of  the  same  heads,  to  which  it 
has  been  for  some  time  entrusted. 

After  the  many  years  that  we  have  been  separated,  one  feels  an 
apprehension  about  making  particular  enquiries  about  the  state  of 
Families.  But  I  hope  that  nothing  unpleasant  has  occurred  in 
yours,  and  that  your  own  health  has  remained  firm  &  unimpaired. 
My  own  I  have  no  reason  to  complain  of.  I  have  ventured  upon 
a  second  matrimonial  connection,  Lady  Scott  having  been  re- 
moved by  death  above  4  years  ago.  My  only  son  is  at  Oxford 
with  a  fair  promise  of  future  character  &  conduct,  and  my  daugh- 
ter is  married  to  a  very  amiable  young  gentleman,  much  to  my 
own  satisfaction.  My  time  passes  in  the  duties  of  my  Office,  in 
the  business  of  Parliament  &:  in  the  enjoyment  of  literary  and  do- 
mestick  pleasures.  I  hear  with  great  pleasure  that  your  Country 
is  likely  again  to  receive  the  benefit  of  your  talents  in  a  more  ac- 
tive capacity  than  you  have  chosen  to  assume  for  some  time  past. 
May  both  countries  be  benefitted,  for  they  have  a  common  inter- 
est in  many  respects. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  with  unfeigned  Regard 

your  faithful  friend  &:  Servt 

W.  Scott. 


1 813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  349 

I  write  this  in  the  Country,  and  send  it  up  to  your  Son,  who 
has  promised  to  convey  it.  I  fear  he  will  have  left  this  Country, 
before  my  return  to  Town. 


Private. 

Lord  Sidmouth  to  R.  King. 

Richmond  Park,  October  16,  1813. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  was  much  gratified  by  your  letter  transmitted  to  me  by  Mr. 
Charles  King,  to  whom  it  has  been  my  Wish,  and  Endeavour,  to 
show  those  Attentions,  which  are  due  to  him,  both  on  your  Ac- 
count and  his  own. 

The  immediate  Object  of  his  coming  to  England  could  not,  un- 
fortunately, be  accomplished.  The  Impossibility  of  its  attain- 
ment was  regretted  by  all  the  Members  of  the  Government  whose 
attention  was  call'd  to  it. 

I  cannot  forbear  adding  that  your  Son  will  leave  in  this  Country 

the  most  favourable  Impressions  of  himself.     He  will  tell  you  that 

his   Father  is  never  mentioned  here  but  with  the  Esteem  and 

Respect  which  are  due  to  his  character.     With  these  Sentiments, 

which  I  have  long  and  invariably  entertain 'd,  I  have  the  Honor 

to  be 

Dear  Sir,  your  most  faithful  Servant 

Sidmouth. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Oct.  22,  1813. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     I  have  nothing  new  concerning  public  affairs  ;  whether 

England  has  taken  any  measures  to  sound,  or  confer  with  our 

Envoys  is  wholly  unknown.     Lord  Walpole,  who  is,  as  I  presume, 

a  young  man,  is  secretary  to  Lord  Cathcart's  embassy.      Lord 

Cathcart  is  with  the  Emperor  in  Germany,  or  was  so  at  the  date 

of  our  last  news.     Perhaps  Lord  Walpole,  in  the  absence  of  Lord 

Cathcart  may  be  authorised  informally  to  ascertain  the  extent  of 

the  powers  of  the  Envoys,  and  to  transmit  the  same  to  England. 


350  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 


This  will  gain  time  and  enable  the  Ministry  to  determine  whether 
they  will  accept  &  negotiate  under  Russian  Mediation. 

Charles  was  at  Liverpool  on  the  29th  Aug.,  looking  for  an  op- 
portunity to  return  home  :  owing  to  the  obstruction  which  the 
English  are  said  to  meet  with,  in  retiring  from  this  Country,  it 
seems  that  the  Cartels  from  England  will  be  either  suspended,  or 
confined  to  the  transportation  of  prisoners  of  war — so  that  Charles 
was  apprehensive  that  he  should  be  obliged  to  go  back  to  Lisbon, 
in  order  to  find  a  passage  home. 

He  seems  to  be  disappointed  in  the  state  of  the  public  opinion 
in  England,  which  appears  to  be  in  a  high  degree  and  extensively 
hostile  towards  us.  Mr.  Jeffrey  who  lately  arrived  here  (nephew 
of  P.  Jeffrey  and  a  principal  writer  of  the  Edinburgh  Review) 
confirms  this  opinion  of  the  resentment  agt.  us,  which  prevails  in 
England.  He  knew  nothing  of  England's  acceptance  of  the 
Russian  Mediation  ;  and  had  heard  that  Russia  had  not  offered 
her  Mediation  in  Eng.  ;  in  this  however  I  am  persuaded  he  is 
mistaken. 

Perry's  victory  (to  applaud  which  I  was  glad  to  see  you  took  a 
part)  has  enabled  Harrison  to  recover  Detroit  and  invade  upper 
Canada.  The  capture  of  Proctor's  forces  and  the  dispersion  of 
the  Indians,  must  put  an  end  to  the  war  in  that  quarter,  for  I  pre- 
sume that  the  Indians  who  depended  upon  the  enemy  for  food, 
will  now  submit  in  order  to  be  fed  by  us.  The  state  of  things 
upon  Ontario  and  the  movement  of  our  Army,  which  I  conjecture 
is  going  against  Montreal,  are  critical — a  short  time  will  determine 
whether  we  winter  in  Canada,  or  return  within  the  U.  S. 

R.  K. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Nov.  1,  1813. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  this  evening  rec'd  yrs.  of  the  27th  ulto.     .     .     . 

In  a  letter  that  I  rec'd  from  Mr.  Sec'y  Monroe,  dated  the  r.4. 
ulto.,  he  says  they  had  not  received  any  letter  from  the  Envoys, 
nor  did  they  know  what  part  England  had  taken  respecting  the 
Russian  Mediation.  I  have,  however,  seen  a  letter  from  a  per- 
son, who  has  lately  been  in  Washington,  and  who  there  conferred 
with  Monroe  &  Jones,  which  states  that  they  informed  the  writer, 


1813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  35 1 

that  instructions  had  been  sent  recalling  Gallatin,  and  directing 
Adams  &  Bayard  to  treat  directly  (&  without  the  Russian  media- 
tion) provided  they  had  any  reason  to  conclude  that  such  nego- 
tiation wd.  be  desirable  to  England — whether  they  were  instructed 
in  this  case  to  go  to  England  the  writer  does  not  explain.  How 
this  direct  negotiation  can  be  authorized,  I  do  not  know  ;  since 
the  appointment  was  limited  to  one  under  the  Russian  mediation. 
It  may  however  be  equally  correct  with  anything  that  could  be 
done  upon  the  first  commissioning  of  the  Envoys  without  the 
consent  of  the  Senate.  The  events  of  the  war  in  Germany  are  of 
the  deepest  interest.  The  Allies,  at  our  latest  dates,  were  upon 
the  whole  gainers,  and  were  I  not  always  fearful  that  my  hopes 
would  be  disappointed,  I  should  anticipate  according  to  the  best 
estimate  I  can  form  of  the  strength  of  the  Parties,  and  the  actual 
posture  of  things  at  our  latest  dates,  that  Bonaparte  will  be  forced 
to  cross  the  Rhine  and  that  the  North  of  Germany,  including 
Holland,  &  possibly  more,  will  be  delivered.  But  the  death  of 
Moreau,*  whose  life  in  any  event,  connected  with,  or  arising  out 
of,  the  downfall  of  Bonaparte  would  be  more  worth  than  that  of 
any  other  man,  seems  to  be  a  discouragement  of  hopes  that  the 
relative  state  of  the  armies  would  appear  to  authorize  ;  since  by 
the  removal  of  the  ablest  man  in  the  council  of  his  enemy,  for- 
tune prepares  new  success  for  Bonaparte. 

Being  in  town  to-day  I  saw  Doct.  Mason,  and  asked  him  if  the 
Report  circulated  under  his  name  and  authority,  of  what  Coll. 
Hamilton  told  him  a  little  before  his  death,  was  true — He  replied 
No,  for  he  never  had  any  conversation  with  Col.  Hamilton  on 
that  or  any  other  occasion,  upon  this  subject  ;  but  that  he  sup- 
posed the  Report  arose  out  of  a  communication  of  Mr.  Mulligan 
(a  lawyer  of  N.  York)  who  told  him  that  a  Mr.  Schermerhorn 
(a  worthy  sort  of  householder)  told  him,  that  when  D.  W.  C.  was 
a  young  man,  Col.  H.  said  he  would  become  a  great  &  influen- 
tial public  character  !     .     .     .     Farewell. 

yrs.,  R.  K. 

*  Moreau  had  been  banished  from  France  by  Bonaparte,  for  having  engaged 
in  the  conspiracy  against  him  in  1S04,  and  came  to  the  United  States,  where  he 
occupied  himself  in  farming  at  Morrisville,  Pa.,  until  he  was  invited  back  by 
the  Emperor  Alexander  of  Russia  to  assist  in  a  campaign  against  Bonaparte. 
He  was  shot  in  a  battle  near  Dresden  on  August  27,  1813,  and  died  a  few  days 
afterwards. 


352  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

General  H.  Lee  to  R.  King. 

Barbadoes,  Nov.  19,  1813. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

Many  years  have  passed  since  we  had  the  pleasure  of  meeting, 
and  now,  when  by  your  return  to  public  life,  that  event  was  sure 
to  occur,  the  extraordinary  atrocity  of  the  unpunished  Baltimore 
mob,  *  has  for  a  time  exiled  me  from  home  in  pursuit  of  restora- 
tion of  my  broken  health.  Bitter  as  are  my  reflexions  on  the 
past  and  personally  uncomfortable  as  is  the  prospect  before  me 
whenever  I  experience  the  flood  tide  of  health  however  little,  as 
in  my  present  weak  state,  I  forget  my  own  sorrows  in  those  of  our 
afflicted  Country.  Your  return  to  the  care  of  the  common  weal, 
I  receive  as  an  auspicious  omen,  and  it  enlightens  the  dark  politi- 
cal horizon  which  envelopes  our  miserable  country. 

What  really  heightens  the  horror  of  the  scene  is  that  a  major 
portion  of  both  Nations,  now  cutting  each  other's  throats,  abhor 
the  war  and  sigh  for  its  conclusion.  I  often  see  here  the  land 
and  sea  officers  of  G.  B.,  and  daily  meet  with  English  gentlemen, 
as  well  as  those  of  this  Island,  and  I  rarely  pass  a  week  without 
spending  hours  with  the  Governor,  Sir  George  Beckwith,  and 
what  is  surpassing  strange,  I  have  never  met  with  but  a  single  in- 
dividual, who  applauds  the  war. 

*  The  Baltimore  Whig  newspaper  edited  by  Alexander  Hanson,  after  the 
declaration  of  the  war,  announced  that  it  would  continue  to  speak  with  the 
same  freedom  as  before,  relative  to  the  war.  Two  days  after  a  "  mob,  headed 
by  a  French  apothecary,  unopposed  by  the  city  magistrates,  .  .  .  com- 
pletely demolished  the  office  of  that  paper  with  its  types  and  presses,"  causing 
the  associate  editor  to  fly  for  his  life.  The  paper  was  re-established  at  George- 
town, but  soon  afterwards  it  was  re-issued  from  a  new  office  in  Baltimore, 
the  editor  &  his  friends  being  determined  "  to  vindicate  the  liberty  of  the  press 
no  matter  at  what  personal  risks  to  themselves."  The  Mayor  re- 
fused to  protect  them  ;  but  under  a  plan  of  defense,  drawn  up  by  Gen.  Henry 
Lee,  "  of  which  he  volunteered  to  superintend  the  execution,"  the  mob 
again  attacked  the  house,  which  was  bravely  defended,  until  the  authorities  in- 
terfered and  the  defenders  surrendered  themselves  under  a  promise  of  protect^"  m 
and  were  taken  to  prison.     The  mob  pursued  them  there,  the  prison  was  op1  >ne(l 

to  the  mob,  and  they  proceeded  to  wreak  vengeance  upon  the  prisoners.   C  w,w 

to  the  darkness,  though  very  severely  maltreated,  all  except  Genl.  Lingan  e  xi^ 

death.  General  Lee,  however,  was  made  a  cripple  for  life,  and,  as  Y  Per"  sayS| 
was  obliged  to  seek  for  health  away  from  home.  For  a  full  accounterred  0f  this 
transaction  see  Hildreth,  U.  S.,  vi.,  pp.  325-332.  /riter 


1813]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  353 


The  same  contrast  is  to  be  found  in  many  parts  of  America,  as 
I  am  told,  tho'  not  to  the  same  extent.  Certainly  then  it  is  time 
to  know  what  we  are  about,  and  when  we  shall  be  extricated  from 
the  fatal  labyrinth  into  which  we  have  been  winded  :  what  en- 
hances the  affliction  which  the  true  hearted  American  feels  is 
that,  without  discussing  the  justice  or  wisdom  of  the  war  on  our 
part,  it  must  be  admitted  that  its  end  never  can  be  effected,  was 
the  success  of  our  arms  as  complete,  as  it  has  been  defective. 
We  only  can  assail  G.  B.  on  her  American  territorys  and  were  we 
to  master  them  all  to-morrow,  still  would  peace  be  remote,  if  pro- 
curable only  by  the  enemy's  ceding  the  maritime  principle  for 
which  we  are  fighting.  This  fact  cannot  be  doubted,  and  of  itself 
is  enough  to  induce  us  to  sheathe  our  swords.  However  we  have 
heretofore  failed  in  our  projected  conquest  of  Canada,  I  have  not 
a  doubt  but  that  it  will  be  accomplished  with  the  exception  of 
Quebec,  because  the  defenders  of  Canada  are  3000  miles  distant 
and  committed  in  the  most  awful  &  wide  spreading  contest  for 
the  safety  of  Europe,  of  the  independence  of  most  of  its  nations, 
in  short  for  the  maintenance  of  all  those  rights  dear  to  civilized 
man.  Should  however  the  battle  in  Europe  cease,  G.  Britain  and 
her  allys  would  soon  turn  the  tide  of  conquest  in  America,  was  it 
progressing  with  the  rapidity  so  arrogantly  predicted.  Spain 
would  be  indubitably  introduced  in  the  South,  the  Floridas  & 
Louisiana  become  the  theatre  of  combat,  of  all  points  belonging 
to  the  U.  S.  the  one  wherein  we  are  most  vulnerable. 

This  view  of  our  condition  ought  to  press  peace  on  our  Rulers, 
for  by  continuance  of  war,  it  may  become  vastly  extended  and 
with  its  extent  in  the  direction  suggested  would  become  multifa- 
rious &  formidable  in  the  extreme. 

We  have  not  yet  heard  here  from  Europe  since  those  active 
operations  which  opened  the  campaign  after  cessation  of  the  ar- 
mistice &  in  the  leading  member  of  which  the  good,  the  virtuous 
the  consummate  soldier  Moreau  fell.  The  advantage  was  evi- 
dently on  the  part  of  the  Allys  &  should  Bonaparte  obstinately 
hold  his  position,  he  will  be  cut  off  from  the  Rhine,  if  the  Allys 
maintain  their  evident  superiority  in  the  field  of  battle.  However 
this  may  be,  let  us  not  wait  but  in  the  course  of  the  winter  let 
peace  be  restored.  Even  should  Wilkinson  prove  himself  to  be 
the  reverse  of  Dearborn,  which  I  fondly  (from  my  intimate  knowl- 

VOL.    V. — 23 


354  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

edge  of  the  first)  hope  &  believe,  still  he  will  have  difficulties  to 
encounter  great  and  obstinate. 

And  the  nation  must  be  everywhere  defended,  as  well  as  Canada 
conquered.  Look  at  our  extent,  see  our  thin  population  in  the 
West  &  in  the  South.  Hordes  of  inveterate  warriors  hover 
around  the  first,  and  hostile  fleets  occasionally  accompanied  with 
bodys  of  regular  troops  sound  every  inlet  of  the  last.  God  of 
heaven,  infuse  love  of  peace  into  our  rulers  and  save  our  land 
from  the  tragic  scenes  which  must  follow,  with  increased  fury  and 
extent,  continuance  of  the  war. 

Always  admiring  and  loving  Mr.  Madison,  and  full  of  good 
will  &  regard  to  Mr.  Monroe,  I  have  two  or  three  times  written 
to  the  latter  gentleman  and  once  to  the  former  since  my  residence 
under  this  tropic.  I  again  now  write  to  them  both  and  have 
frankly  expressed  my  heart  to  their  view  on  the  subject  of  peace. 
Governor  Beckwith  whom  I  dare  say  you  remember  in  America, 
is  like  myself  ardently  anxious  for  stop  of  war,  &  as  we  often 
converse  and  sometimes  write  on  the  subject,  I  have  enclosed  to 
Mr.  Monroe  a  copy  of  his  last  letter  to  me  in  reply  to  one  accom- 
panying a  project  of  a  treaty. 

I  wish  to  God,  if,  as  I  presume,  you  &  Mr.  Monroe  are  much 
together,  that  you  would  confer  with  him  on  the  form  of  a  treaty 
acceptable  to  our  Government.  If  it  is  a  right  thing  and  you 
will  send  it  to  me  I  do  believe  that  Govr.  Beckwith  will  actively 
and  honorably  assist  it  to  consummation.  Do  as  you  will,  I  must 
beg  you  to  accept  my  best  respects,  to  present  the  same  to  Mrs. 
King,  accompanied  with  my  best  wishes  for  the  health  and  happi- 
ness of  you  and  every  member  of  your  family. 

Mr.  Storm,  Son  of  Mr.  Thomas  Storm  of  New  York,  politically 
adverse  to  you,  as  I  hear,  but  personally  full  of  respect  to,  &  con- 
fidence in  you,  tells  me  that  two  of  your  sons  are  married  to  two 
daughters  of  Virginia.*  I  believe  the  ladys  were  born  in  Peters- 
burg, Virga.  Thus  you  see  how  we  tye  the  Union,  against  whose 
sacred  ark  the  door  of  Janus  is  impiously  open.  Shut  it,  do  shut 
it. 

This  Mr.  Storm  is  Commissary  of  Prisoners  here  ;  we  live  un- 
der the  same  roof.  He  is  honest,  candid,  decided  &  warm  ;  for- 
tunately has  become  attached  as  yet  to  no  political  opinion  & 

*  See  end  of  this  chapter. — Ed. 


1 813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  355 

will,  therefore   I  think,  be  sure  to  take   the  right  side.     .     .     . 
Adieu  my  dear  Sir,  yr.  faithful  friend  H.  Lee. 

.  .  .  The  packet  arrived  yesterday.  By  her  we  learn  that 
Holland  is  in  arms,  Bayonne  taken  by  Wellington  &  Bordeaux 
also  with  120  of  our  vessels.  Oh  !  my  friend  push  peace,  it  may 
now  be  effected,  but  the  hour  is  fast  passing.  I  go  tomorrow,  or 
this,  to  Porto  Rico  on  my  approach  home  in  the  Spring.  I  am 
much  better  than  when  I  last  wrote.     God  bless  you. 

H.  Lee. 

Letter  endorsed  by  R.  K. — "  Rec'd  Mar.  2,  1814. — Original  rec'd  three 
weeks  earlier. 

"  N.  B.     Sent  the  orig.  to  Mr.  Hanson  for  his  perusal." 

The  "two  daughters  of  Virginia"  were  the  daughters  of  Archibald  Grade,  a 
Scotchman,  who  married  while  in  New  York  Miss  Esther  Rogers  of  Connecti- 
cut. After  his  marriage  he  removed  to  Petersburg,  Va.,  and  was  there  engaged 
in  business  with  a  Mr.  Walker.  His  three  eldest  children  were  born  there, 
William,  Eliza,  who  was  married  in  18 10  to  Charles  King,  and  Sarah,  who  was 
married  in  1812  to  James  Gore  King,  both  sons  of  Rufus  King.  Mr.  Gracie 
had  removed  from  Petersburg  to  New  York  several  years  before  these  marriages 
took  place. 


CHAPTER    XIX. 

King  to  Morris — Matters  that  may  be  considered  by  Congress — Asks  his  Opin- 
ion relative  to  Retaliation  for  Condemnation  and  Execution  of  British  Sub- 
jects taken  in  Arms  against  England — Morris  to  King — President's  Reme- 
dies will  not  prevent  illegal  Importations — England  and  the  People  of  the 
U.  S.  will  get  what  they  want — Increase  of  Manufactures  will  interfere 
with  Recruiting — Cannot  shorten  the  War  by  making  the  Enemy  feel  its 
Pressure — Retaliation  wrong — No  Nation  has  a  Right  to  interfere  with 
the  interior  Police  of  another — Conscription  will  fail  in  Results — King  to 
Morris — The  President  prepared  to  receive  the  Law  from  England — If 
Peace  made,  Effect  of  its  Terms  on  the  divided  Democracy — Morris  to 
King — The  President's  Views  relative  to  the  State  of  France  erroneous — 
Russia  not  so  powerful  as  he  thinks — Would  not  sanction  Expatriation — 
President's  Acceptance  of  English  Proposition — Division  in  the  Cabinet 
— Government's  Defense — C.  King  to  King — England  favorable  to  Peace, 
but  not  giving  up  her  Maritime  Rights — Morris  to  King — Gives  Reason 
why  a  Minority  should  not  move  Resolutions  asking  for  Information — 
Morris  to  King — Opinion  on  England's  probable  Conduct — Agrees  as  to 
Character  of  our  Rulers. 

R.  King  to  G.  Morris. 

Washington,  Dec.  19,  1813. 
Dear  Sir  : 

As  there  is  nothing  in  the  President's  message  at  the  opening 
of  Congress,  nor  in  the  information  that  I  have  received  since  ray 
arrival  here,  which  encourages  an  expectation  that  the  Mission  to 
St.  Petersburgh  will  produce  peace,  we  may  conclude  that  our 
session  will  be  consumed  in  giving  authority  to  the  Plan  of  the 
next  campaign.  What  this  plan  will  be,  we  are  not  informed  ;  in- 
deed as  the  Secretary  at  war  has  not  returned,  it  is  probable  that 
the  Plan  is  not  yet  fully  prepared.  Among  the  parts,  I  think,  I 
shall  not  be  mistaken  in  enumerating  Embargo  for  a  year,  the 
non-importation  from  any  Country  of  articles,  which  heretofore 
have  been  commonly  or  chiefly  derived   from  the  Territories  of 

356 


1 813]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  357 

G.  Br.,  a  revision  of  the  Militia  Laws,  and  such  a  modification  of 
them,  as  will  enable  the  Pr.  to  raise  by  Draft  or  otherwise  fifty  or 
sixty  thousand  men.  The  obstruction  of  all  navigation  and  com- 
merce will  facilitate,  as  we  hear,  the  raising  of  loans,  which  may 
be  obtained,  as  is  said,  to  any  amount. 

With  sixty  thousand  men  all  Canada  may  be  conquered,  says 
Genl.  Armstrong  (who  would  be  named  Lieutenant  Genl.,  if  he 
could),  in  a  single  campaign, — altho'  the  expense  will  be  very  great, 
it  will  be  the  best  policy,  as  well  as  the  greatest  economy.  Canada 
and  the  Floridas  are  becoming  the  principal  objects  of  the  war — 
no  peace  is  to  be  made,  say  the  people  of  the  western  waters,  unless 
Canada  and  the  Floridas,  especially  Canada,  be  added  to  the  Union. 

Congress  will  be  urged  to  support  the  President  in  what  he 
calls  a  Retaliation,  should  G.  Br.  try  and  execute  any  of  her  sub- 
jects taken  levying  war  against  her  in  Canada.  Whether  a  further 
law  upon  this  subject  will  be  passed,  I  know  not  :  but  if  it  be  de- 
sired by  the  President,  such  is  the  subserviency  of  Congress  that  I 
really  apprehend  it  will  refuse  nothing. 

Waiving  all  questions  about  perpetual  allegiance,  and  what  is 
called  the  natural  right  of  Emigration,  does  there  exist  an  instance 
in  which  the  trial,  condemnation  &  execution  of  a  person  according 
to  the  course  of  the  established  Laws  of  any  Country,  has  been  ever 
considered  to  be  a  cause  of  Retaliation  by  another  Country  ?  such 
Retaliation  instead  of  being  according  to  the  Laws  of  Nations, 
would  be  subversive  of  them,  and  an  attack  upon  the  independ- 
ence of  nations.  Be  good  enough  to  consider,  and  to  impart  to 
me  your  views  upon  this  very  important  subject.  As  a  stand 
must  be  made,  it  is  desirable  that  it  should  be  forcibly  made  and 
with  such  evidences  of  the  error  which  is  opposed  as  may  be  likely 
to  correct  it. 

With  sentiments  of  Respect  & 
Sincere  Regard  I  am,  dear  Sir,  yr.  faithful  servt. 

Rufus  King. 


G  Morris  to  R.  King. 

Morrisania,  Dec  27, 1813. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Your  favor  of  the  19th  reached  me  on  Friday.      As  Christmas 

and  Sunday  followed  immediately  I  could  not,  untill  this  morning, 


358  RUFUS  KING.  [1813 

attempt  to  reply,  and  have  now  to  thank  you  for  that  also  of  the 
2 1  st. 

To  begin  with  this  last,  I  believe  the  President  to  be  correct  in 
his  notion  that  an  export  of  our  Produce  furnishes  the  Enemy  with 
such  part  of  it,  as  he  wants,  and  that  the  admission  of  vessels  un- 
der neutral  flags,  tends  to  the  introduction  of  British  goods  on 
British  or  American  acct.  I  admit  also  that  illegal  importations 
are  made  ;  and  even  venture  to  say  they  will  continue  to  be  made 
in  spite  of  all  you  can  do.  That  I  do  not  believe  the  President's 
remedies  will  cure  the  evils  he  complains  of  ;  neither  is  it  clear 
that  the  case  is  desirable  ;  for  in  the  body  politic,  as  in  the  natural 
body,  it  sometimes  happens  that  removing  slight  diseases  occasions 
others  which  are  mortal. 

He  thinks  it  hard  that  British  Cruizers  should  get  our  victuals 
for  their  money,  but  he  should  consider  that  in  this  case,  we  get 
their  money  for  our  victuals.  Suppose  they  should  lay  some  of 
your  exposed  Towns  under  contribution  and  oblige  you  to  give 
the  food  you  refuse  to  sell ;  or  suppose  the  British  Government 
should  send  a  few  shiploads  of  Liverpool  Salt  to  some  convenient 
place  in  the  Chesapeake,  and  give  ten  bushels  of  it,  which  would 
cost  them  less  than  twenty-five  cents  a  bushel,  for  a  barrel  of  flour, 
now  selling,  I  understand,  in  Virginia  for  less  than  a  bushel  of  salt. 
Their  Fleet  would  thus  be  supplied  with  flour  at  less  than  three 
farthings,  Stg.,  a  pound,  while  the  planters  would  pay  twenty 
prices  for  their  salt.  Smugglers  would,  in  this  traffic,  gain  nine 
barrels  of  flour  on  each  interchange. 

I  have  said  that  the  Enemy  is  furnished  with  such  part  of  our 
produce  as  he  wants.  But  the  convincing  proof  that  he  don't 
want  our  provision  either  for  his  Fleets  and  Armies  or  those  of  his 
Allies  is  the  rigorous  Blockade  of  States  which  produce  provision  : 
for  surely  the  Enemy  must  know  his  own  wants. 

I  admit  for  argument's  sake,  that  you  can  cut  off  a  commerce 
in  British  goods  on  American  acct.  ;  but  if  your  people  want 
those  goods,  they  will  buy  them,  paying  always  to  the  British 
manufacturer  his  price  ;  and  to  all  concerned,  as  intermediaries, 
for  their  labor,  skill  &  risque  an  exorbitant  premium.  Now  as 
your  Fisc  will  not,  I  suppose,  be  concerned  in  the  contraband 
trade,  it  cannot  share  in  the  booty.  Your  citizens,  therefore  will 
be  fleeced,  while  your  Treasury  is  defrauded  of  the  Duties  ;  your 


1 813]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  359 

Enemy  smiling  at  your  efforts  to  wash  the  Blackamoor  white,  to 
fill  a  sieve  with  water  and  other  such  notable  projects. 

As  to  the  notion  that  you  can  supply  your  wants  by  domestic 
manufacturers,  tho'  true  in  a  degree,  it  is  false  in  the  extent.  But 
in  the  attempt  you  set  so  many  at  work  to  bid  against  you,  that 
you  will  be  unable  to  recruit  your  Armies.  Moreover  when  this 
mad  frolic  is  over,  you  must  say  farewell  revenue  from  trade,  or 
you  must,  by  lowering  the  duties,  hear  the  groans  and  curses  of 
those,  who  now  embark  in  manufacturing  projects,  so  that  you 
disarm  yourselves  in  the  midst  of  a  war,  in  order  that  you  may 
ruin  your  planters  now,  and  your  mechanics  by  and  bye. 

If  the  subject  were  not  serious,  and  it  is  most  fully  so,  one  could 
not  help  laughing  outright  at  the  idea  of  shortening  the  duration 
of  this  war  by  making  the  enemy  feel  its  pressure.  It  is  as  if  a 
man  on  the  bed  of  Procrustes  should  console  himself  at  the  sight 
of  a  Louse  on  the  Tyrant's  cloak.  It  is,  no  doubt,  unpleasant  to  be 
teazed  by  those  little  crawling  creatures,  but  he  who  would  sub- 
mit his  members  to  the  rack,  for  the  pleasure  of  seeing  his  enemy 
bitten  by  a  louse,  must,  I  should  suppose,  have  rather  more  nerve 
than  intellect. 

Our  Rulers  seem  to  suppose  not  only  that  Great  Britain  is  ex- 
tremely feeble,  but  that  her  pity  exceeds  her  imbecility.  They 
would  see,  and  seeing,  they  would  believe  in  her  strength,  if  they 
were  not  struck  with  judicial  blindness  :  afflicted  with  that  "  Esprit 
de  vertige  et  d'erreur  de  la  chute  des  rois  funeste  avant-coureur." 
One  of  your  Roman  friends  told  you  long  ago  "  quem  Deus  vult 
perdere  prius  dementat ;  "  and  Moses  said  nearly  the  same  thing 
of  Pharaoh  before  Romulus  was  born.  The  British  Administra- 
tion had  not  hitherto  dared  to  do  the  mischief  in  their  power,  fear- 
ing the  opposition  would  appeal  to  the  good  nature  of  Englishmen. 
Is  it  to  relieve  them  from  such  apprehensions  that  we  are  about  to 
hang  British  Officers  in  Retaliation  for  Traitors  executed  under 
the  British  Laws  ?  It  seems  to  me,  my  dear  Sir,  that  argument  on 
this  occasion  would  be  a  waste  of  thought,  of  time  and  breath.  It 
is  unquestionably  a  point  of  universal  Law,  established  from  the 
earliest  ages,  that  every  nation  has  an  indefeasable  right  over  its 
own  natural  born  Citizens.  If  the  President's  statement  of  what 
he  insinuates  to  be  facts  on  this  Subject,  were  true,  it  would  prove 
nothing.     Even  if  England  had  attempted  to  defend  French  Citi- 


360  RUFUS  KING.  [18 1 3 

zens  in  her  Services  against  the  French  Government,  and  to  that 
end  had  executed  {which  she  did  not),  Prisoners  of  war  in  retalia- 
tion for  Frenchmen  landed  at  Quiberon  in  1795,  wno  being  taken 
were  immediately  executed,  tho'  it  might  be  considered  a  case  in 
point,  still  it  could  not  justify  us  in  violating  public  Law.  Un- 
less perhaps,  by  the  rogue's  reason,  that  there  is  no  harm  in  steal- 
ing from  a  thief.  The  thing  is  ridiculous  as  well  as  atrocious. 
But  you  may  remember  we  long  since  agreed  that  this  horrible 
issue  would  follow,  of  necessary  consequence,  from  a  war  to  pro- 
tect British  subjects  in  neutral  merchant  ships  against  the  author- 
ity of  their  Sovereign. 

It  would  be  almost  an  insult,  should  I,  even  at  your  own  request, 
take  up  the  argument  on  so  plain  a  subject.  With  respect  to  one 
ground,  however,  which  you  hint  at,  I  cannot  coincide.  Unques- 
tionably those  who  defended  the  plunderings  of  Napoleon  as  be- 
ing right  because  merely  the  operation  of  his  Municipal  Laws 
occasionally  framed  in  violation  of  Treaties  for  the  very  purpose 
of  plundering,  cannot  consistently  pretend  that  we  should  take 
umbrage  at  the  Prince  Regent  for  the  execution  of  Municipal 
Laws  established  in  his  Country  so  many  centuries  ago.  But 
these  gentlemen  do  not,  I  believe,  regard  consistency.  I  am  not 
one  of  those  who  think  a  Nation  has  no  right  to  interfere  with  the 
interior  police  of  others  ;  but  on  the  contrary,  hold  that  when  a 
Nation  is  wronged,  no  matter  in  what  way,  she  may  lawfully  seek 
redress  from  the  wrong-doer.  I  go  further,  and  pretend  that  if 
my  neighbour  Nation  adopts  such  internal  regulations,  the  con- 
scription for  instance,  as  will,  when  ripened  into  effect,  endanger 
my  safety,  I  may,  of  full  right,  make  war  and  take  from  him  a  part 
of  his  Territory  so  as  to  lessen  the  mass  of  his  force,  unless  he 
will  abandon  the  measures,  which  render  that  mass  injurious  to 
my  peace  and  dangerous  to  my  existence.  I  always  thought  the 
British  Ministry  conceded  more  to  their  parliamentary  opponents 
on  this  delicate  point  than  consisted  with  sound  sense.  But  let 
us  leave  them  to  manage  their  own  arguments  as  they  like,  and 
look  at  the  condition  to  which  our  unhappy  country  is  about  to  be 
reduced. 

I  cannot  help  believing  the  projects  proposed  are  more  levelled 
at  New  England  than  at  Old  England.  Such  they  will,  at  any 
rate,  appear  to  our  Eastern  friends.     Your  conscription  will  fill 


1 813]  LIFE   AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  36 1 

the  measure  of  grievances  even  to  overflowing.  The  system  taken 
together  appears  to  me  more  absurd,  if  possible,  in  the  whole  than 
extravagant  in  its  several  parts.  By  the  Embargo  you  take  away 
the  means  not  only  of  paying  taxes,  but  of  purchasing  necessaries. 
By  the  retaliating  scheme  every  American,  who  shall  accept  of  a 
commission,  or  enlist  as  a  soldier  in  the  regular  army,  or  turn  out 
as  a  militia  man  must  put  a  halter  about  his  neck  with  which, 
when  taken  prisoner,  he  may  be  hanged.  By  your  conscription 
project  you  are  to  order  men  with  arms  in  their  hands,  while  you 
have  only  a  bit  of  paper  in  yours,  to  quit  their  families  and  engage 
in  the  splendid  scheme  of  conquering  Canada  under  such  appal- 
ling circumstances.  Before  the  first  day  of  March,  you  will,  in 
all  probability,  have  no  Northern  Army  left.  Your  army  of  the 
South  will  be  as  God  and  Great  Britain  please  ;  and  if  you  raise 
another  Army  of  the  West,  you  must  seek  for  a  mountain  of  silver 
instead  of  salt  to  pay  the  expenses.  Considering  the  wretched 
state  to  which  we  must  be  reduced  by  travelling  on  in  our  present 
path  might  it  not  be  proper  instead  of  combating  the  pretexts 
which  will  be  advanced  in  the  lack  of  arguments,  seriously  to  de- 
clare the  conviction  that  these  northern  States  will  not  prosecute 
a  war  of  extermination  ;  and  that  if,  in  consequence  of  a  violation 
on  our  part  of  the  usage  of  civilized  nations,  Great  Britain  should 
execute  the  threat  of  devastation  against  that  part  of  the  Country 
whose  Representatives  uphold  sueh  barbarous  measures,  far  from  at- 
tempting to  avenge  they  should  applaud  a  conduct  tending  to  re- 
call our  Rulers  to  the  practice  of  humanity. 

Believe  me,  my  dear  Sir,  it  is  in  vain  to  mince  matters.  If  it  be 
possible  to  preserve  the  Union,  which  I  doubt,  it  can  only  be  by 
checking  outrages  which  are  no  longer  to  be  borne.  True  it  is 
that  the  Administration  have  adherents  among  us  who  will  stick 
to  them  as  long  as  personal  considerations  will  permit  ;  and  among 
these  are  some  fighting  friends.  It  is  possible,  therefore,  that  Mr. 
Madison  may  blow  up  civil  broil  into  civil  war.  But  the  result 
must  be  ruin  to  his  tools  here,  and  awful  vengeance  on  his  sup- 
porters elsewhere. 

Adieu,  I  am  always  truly  yours 

Gouv.  Morris. 


362  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

R.  King  to  Hon.  Mr.  Morris. 

Washington,  January  9,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

To  Admiral  Warren's  proposal  of  an  armistice  in  181 2,  Mr. 
Monroe  replied,  that  notwithstanding  the  Repeal  of  the  orders 
in  Council,  the  subject  of  impressment  remained  unadjusted,  and 
that  no  Peace  between  the  U.  S.  could  be  durable,  without  a  set- 
tlement of  the  interfering  claims  of  the  two  Countries  upon  this 
head  :  with  the  view  therefore  to  such  settlement,  the  Admiral 
was  informed  by  Mr.  Monroe  that  the  President  was  willing  to 
enter  into  stipulations,  the  observance  of  which  should  be  enforced 
by  Laws  to  be  passed  for  that  purpose,  for  the  exclusion  of  all 
British  Seamen  from  the  Maritime,  including  the  merchant,  service- 
of  the  U.  S.  We  have  never  heard  of  any  answer  to  this  offer  : 
if  any  has  been  received,  it  has  been  unsatisfactory,  or  we  should 
have  heard  of  it. 

By  the  Mail  of  yesterday  I  sent  to  you  the  Papers  accompany- 
ing the  late  Message  of  the  President,  announcing  the  failure  of 
the  Mission  to  Russia  and  his  acceptance  of  the  offer  to  nego- 
tiate at  Gottenburgh  ;  if  you  connect  with  these  Documents  the 
Regent's  late  speech,  the  whole  subject  as  far  as  Ave  understand 
is  before  you.  In  the  Regent's  Speech,  which  was  delivered  in 
November,  he  says  :  "I  have  not  hitherto  seen  any  disposition 
on  the  part  of  the  Government  of  the  U.  S.  to  close  it  (the  war) 
of  which  I  could  avail  myself  consistently  with  a  due  attention  to 
the  interests  of  his  Majesty's  subjects." 

This  declaration  of  the  Regent  must  refer  to,  and  reject,  the 
project  offered  by  the  U.  S.  to  Admiral  Warren,  equally  with  that 
of  the  Russian  Mediation  ;  neither  manifesting  in  the  Regent's 
opinion,  a  disposition  to  close  the  war,  of  which  he  could  avail 
himself  consistently  with  the  interests  to  which  he  alludes. 

Placing  the  pretensions  of  our  Government  on  one  side,  the 
Letters  of  Lords  Castlereagh  &  Cathcart,  together  with  the  Regent's 
Speech  on  the  other,  and  adding  Mr.  Monroe's  letter  accepting 
the  offer  of  a  direct  negotiation  at  Gottenburgh,  it  will  scarcely 
be  doubted  that  the  President  is  prepared  to  receive  the  Law  from 
England.  There  is  however  another  view  of  the  subject ;  a 
negotiation  will  help  to  fill  the  Loan,  and  to  recruit  the  Army  ;  it 
will  also  afford  time  to  ascertain  the  extent  and  effects  of  Bona- 


I8l4]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  363 


Instru?  Defeat ;  and  as  weak  men  prefer  a  postponement  to  the 
renew  jn  °^  an  important  Question,  this  course  maybe  considered 
agreecise  one  in  the  present  occasion. 

prop'e  fading  persons  in  Congress  have  probably  been  consulted  ; 
U„<  the  Cabinet  it  is  said  that  Armstrong's  voice  was  for  war, 
JVtonroe  &  Jones  for  negotiation. 

If  Peace  be  made,  securing  not  one  thing  claimed,  and  abandon- 
ing some  interests  of  which  we  were  in  possession,  the  various 
branches  into  which  the  democracy  is  now  divided,  will  proba- 
bly unite  in  throwing  the  blame  of  failure  upon  the  weakness  & 
incapacity  of  Madison  and  his  Ministers,  and  upon  the  opposition 
of  the  Federalists,  who,  it  will  be  said,  paralyzed  the  measures  of 
the  Government. 

With  great  esteem  &  Regard,  I  am  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


G.  Morris  to  R.  King. 

Morrisania,  Jan.  17,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

While  I  thank  you  for  your  favors  of  the  fourth  and  ninth,  I 
must  entreat  your  Pardon  for  delaying  an  Answer  so  long.  When 
the  first  arrived  I  was  preparing  to  meet  our  Board  of  Commrs. 
in  Town,  where  I  continued  several  Days,  so  that  the  other  lay 
till  the  15th  in  our  Post  Office. 

I  believe  the  President  to  be  mistaken  in  his  notion  that  Bona- 
parte will  be  pestered  by  Insurrections.  Neither  Frenchmen  nor 
any  other  men  are  prone  to  rise  against  so  severe  and  so  crafty 
a  Chief  as  Napoleon.  Moreover  that  Nation,  which  consists  now 
chiefly  of  old  Men,  Women  and  Children,  is  disarmed.  Admit- 
ting, however,  that  Insurrections  should  happen,  I  see  no  serious 
Results.  The  Dethronement  of  his  Imperial  Majesty  is  not 
desired  by  the  Powers  at  War  with  him,  for  most  of  them  have 
a  direct  Interest  in  his  Establishment.  England  cannot  wish  to 
see  again  a  Connection  of  Blood  between  the  Sovereigns  of  France, 
Spain,  Portugal  and  great  Part  of  Italy.  Austria  can  have  no 
Desire  to  turn  her  Daughter  out  of  Doors  ;  and  still  less  to 
aggrandize  a  Family  which  held  in  Check  her  Greatness  ever 
since  modern  Europe  was  civilized.     The  German  States,  Prussia 


364  RUFUS  KINL  [1814 


included,  while  they  cling  for  Support  against  Austrian   C 
and  Pretensions,  to  the  Power  of  France,  would  see  with  3814. 
eye  that  Power  so  great  that  she  could  again  dictate  to  th 
Subjects  rather  than  persuade  them  as  Allies  and  pay  tht  Mr. 
Subsidiaries.     To   Russia  it  is  a  matter  of  Indifference  who  Srs 
on  the  French  throne,  provided  there  be,  in  that  quarter,  a  Mast 
sufficient  to  keep  Austria  in  Check  and  preserve  the  Anarchy  of 
Germany  ;  a  Condition  which  leaves  the  South  of  Europe  open 
to  the  Action  of  her  Policy  and  the  Weight  of  her  Arms. 

I  think  the  President  is  also  mistaken  in  supposing  that  Russia 
is  the  greatest  Power  in  Europe,  and  especially  that  she  will 
exercise  her  Greatness  in  our  Favor.  Russia,  acting  on  the  de- 
fensive, is  indeed  a  prodigious  Power.  Her  Back  to  the  Arctic 
Circle,  her  left  covered  by  the  Tartarian  Desert,  her  right  by  the 
Gulph  of  Finland  and  the  Baltic  Sea,  her  Front  from  the  Carpa- 
thian Mountains  to  the  Black  Sea,  by  the  barbarous  Regions  of 
Moldavia,  Wallachia  and  the  Country  of  the  Cossacks,  she  is  assail- 
able only  on  the  Side  of  Prussia  and  Poland.  Even  there  she  is 
covered,  in  a  great  Measure  by  the  vast  Morasses  of  an  unsettled 
Domain  and  has  in  her  Favor  those  Circumstances  of  Space  and 
Time  which  neither  Lovers  nor  Princes  can  annihilate  for  the 
Gratification  of  their  Wishes.  But  these  very  Circumstances,  and 
that  other  little  Circumstance  called  Finance,  which  will,  I  ap- 
prehend, begin  now  to  cramp  the  Energy  of  our  aspiring  President, 
must  for  a  long  Time  to  come  render  the  offensive  operations  of 
Russia  less  dangerous  to  her  Neighbors  than,  from  the  Mass  of 
her  Force,  might  otherwise  be  apprehended. 

But  admitting  the  Russian  Greatness  to  be  whatever  Mr.  Madi- 
son may  choose  to  represent  it,  and  admitting  also,  what  I  do  not 
doubt,  that  the  Emperor,  with  all  his  Justice  and  Generosity  and 
Love  for  his  English  Ally,  would  see  with  Pleasure  a  Shackle  put 
on  the  British  Maritime  Power  ;  I,  nevertheless,  cannot  persuade 
myself  that  he  would  sanction  a  Doctrine  so  inconsistent  with 
Reason,  and  so  abhorrent  to  the  Feelings  of  every  Sovereign  as 
Mr.  Madison's  notion  about  Expatriation. 

The  Acceptance  of  Lord  Castlereagh's  Proffer  is  unquestion- 
ably an  abandonment  of  the  Ground  on  which  this  hopeful  War 
is  waged  and  should  the  American  Negotiators  attempt  to  re- 
occupy  it,  they  will,  I    presume,  be  requested  to  look  at  their 


1814]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  365 

Instructions,  and  be  told  it  is  incredible  that  the  Presidt.  should 
renew  a  Claim  directly  opposed  to  the  Terms  on  which  he  had 
agreed  to  treat.  But  if,  indeed,  he  entertains  such  an  Idea,  it  is 
proper  again  to  assure  him,  thro'  them,  that  Great  Britain  cannot 
listen  to  Propositions  inconsistent  with  the  Maxims  of  picblic  Law 
and  her  Maritime  Rights. 

From  Mr.  Monroe's  Epistle,  it  is  manifest  that  our  Administra- 
tion have  reluctantly  accepted  his  Lordship's  offer.  They  have 
reserved  as  much  Ground  for  future  Cavil  as  they  conveniently 
could.  They  refer  to  the  Desire  they  have  already  ma?iifested 
and  express  the  same  Willingness  to  terminate  the  Contest  on 
Conditions  of  perfect  Reciprocity  consistent  with  the  Rights  of  both 
Parties,  and  calculated  to  provide  against  future  Collisions.  And 
their  Negotiators  will  be  instructed  to  set  off  their  qualified  ac- 
ceptance against  the  Explicitness  of  Lord  Castlereagh's  Proposn. 

Before  I  received  the  Information  contained  in  your  letter,  I 
conjectured  a  Division  in  the  Cabinet  from  the  Stile  of  Monroe's 
uncourteous  Letter.  That  Mr.  Armstrong  should  urge  the  Con- 
tinuance of  a  War,  in  which  his  Plans  have  proved  so  lamentably 
deficient,  is  strange,  and  only  to  be  accounted  for  by  the  good 
opinion  he  entertains  of  his  own  Powers,  and  by  that  "  vaulting 
Ambition  which  overleaps  itself."  His  Scheme  of  a  Lieutenant 
Generalship  will  probably  bring  forth  that  Dignity  for  Massa  Billy 
Harrison,  as  the  Blacks  in  his  native  Country  used  to  call  him. 
But  Mr.  Armstrong,  were  he  skilled  in  Chaldean  Dialect,  would 
understand  the  Mene  tekel  written  on  the  Walls  of  the  War  Office. 
He  must,  I  think,  go  down  maugre  his  Intrigues  with  Western 
Men,  the  Intrepidity  of  our  Governor,  the  Sagacity  of  our  Lieu- 
tenant Governor  and  the  Fidelity  of  his  Friend  Ambrose. 

In  the  Debate  on  our  President's  humane  plan  of  Retaliation, 
an  opportunity  will  present  itself  for  testing  the  Sincerity  of  his 
Conduct  in  accepting  Lord  Castlereagh's  Offer.  The  Division 
of  the  Party,  on  that  subject,  may  then,  I  should  suppose,  be 
brought  into  broad  Day,  by  taunting  them  and  tormenting  them 
for  giving  up  their  Ground  to  obtain  an  inglorious  Peace,  while 
they  maintain  it  to  shed  innocent  Blood.  Perhaps,  to  avoid  such 
shocking  Inconsistency,  they  may  be  driven  to  declare  that  the 
Point  on  which  the  War  turns  is  not  to  be  given  up.  This  will 
defeat  the  Project  of  filling  their  Coffers  and  their  Ranks  by  the 


366  RUFUS  KING.  [1814- 

delusive  appearance  of  Peace.  I  say  delusive,  for  altho  I  ac- 
knowledge that  in  fair  Construction,  Mr.  Madison's  acceptance  of 
the  British  offer  is  so  compleat  an  abandonment  of  his  claim 
that  no  man  who  feels  as  he  ought,  would  afterwards  renew  it, 
yet  I  am  convinced  that  our  rulers,  as  they  were  not  prevented 
by  Motives  of  Humanity  from  shedding  the  Blood  of  their  fellow- 
citizens  in  Support  of  that  unfounded  Claim,  so  they  will  not  be 
deterred  by  a  Sense  of  Shame  from  declaring  (should  circum- 
stances render  it  convenient)  that  in  acceding  to  the  proposed 
Negotiation  for  Peace  they  never  meant  to  go  beyond  the  Terms 
contained  in  their  Reply  to  Admiral  Warren's  Proposition. 
My  wife  joins  with  respectful  compliments  to  Mrs.  King. 

yours,  Gouv.  Morris. 


Charles  King  to  R.  King. 

Thursday,  Jany.  20,  1814. 

Dear  Sir  : 

You  will,  I  imagine,  have  learnt  from  the  letters  I  sent  you, 
that  there  exists  every  disposition  in  England  to  make  an  equal 
&  honorable  peace  with  us.  It  was  declared  to  me  from  the  mo- 
ment I  reached  London,  that  they  never  would  consent  to  mingle 
the  questions  of  maritime  right  between  themselves  &  us  with 
the  politics  of  Europe  :  they  had  taken  a  ground  which  they 
never  could  nor  would  abandon,  while  they  were  blessed  with  the 
means  of  maintaining  it,  &  least  of  all  would  they  permit  Russia 
to  interfere  in  its  decision. 

The  Law  passed  by  us  last  session  concerning  seamen,  they  did 
not  allow  us  much  credit  for,  believing  it  out  of  the  power  of  the 
Government  to  cause  its  strict  execution  ;  tho'  I  do  think  the 
British  ministry  would  suspend  the  practice  of  impressment  in 
order  to  give  us  a  fair  trial  of  it.  As  to  the  men  now  in  our  ser- 
vice, of  British  origin,  they  possess  a  willingness  to  enter  into  any 
arrangement  that  can  be  made,  by  which  without  renouncing  on 
their  part  the  right  to  reclaim  their  men,  our  claim  to  them  as 
naturalized  citizens  may  be  respected  ;  in  short  they  say  "  Keep 
out  of  our  way  &  we  will  not  go  to  look  for  them." 

Upon  the  whole,  I  feel  quite  satisfied  that  if  we  are  sincerely 
disposed  to  make  a  peace,  the  present  moment  is  as  favorable  for 


1814]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  36 7 

it,  as  any  other,  notwithstanding  England's  triumphant  situation. 
Their  magnanimity  has  kept  pace  with  their  success.  If  we  are 
not  disposed  to  close  the  temple  of  Janus,  England  will  make  no 
effort  to  do  so.  The  liberation  of  Germany,  indeed  of  Europe, 
has  opened  a  market  for  her  manufactures  &  colonial  produce, 
which  is  insatiable  in  proportion  to  the  time  it  has  been  without 
supplies,  &  leaves  no  regret  &  barely  the  recollection,  of  the 
American  war.  If  therefore  the  gentlemen  to  be  sent  to  Gotten- 
burgh,  go  there  with  the  least  expectation  that  England  will  recede 
one  tittle  from  the  ground  she  has  taken,  or  consent  to  modify  in 
any  way  the  right  of  search  &  impressment,  they  will  assuredly 
go  on  a  fruitless  errand.  Reciprocity,  as  the  Regent  says,  in  his 
speech,  is  all  we  offer  or  ask.  "  Damus  patimurque  vicissim  " 
was  the  conclusion  of  every  conversation  I  held  with  the  gentle- 
men of  the  administration  on  this  subject, — and  the  nation  re- 
echoes the  sentiments.  I  wish  and  hope  we  may  meet  them  in  it. 
I  am,  dear  Sir,  Yours  &c  Chas.  King. 


R.  King  to  G.  Morris. 

Washington,  Jany.  26,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  received  in  due  course  your  letter  of  the  17th,  and  agree  in 
your  opinions  respecting  France.  Our  Administration  change 
their  views  from  month  to  month,  shifting  their  measures  accord- 
ing to  the  vicissitudes  of  public  occurrences,  the  causes  and  conse- 
quences of  which  they  seem  equally  incapable  of  justly  appreciating. 

If  one  could  believe  the  Declarations  of  an  intention  to  adhere 
to  what  is  called  our  Rights,  in  opposition  to  the  Maritime  Claims 
of  G.  Br.  we  might  without  hesitation  predict  the  failure  of  the 
proposed  negotiation  at  Gottenburgh.  But  I  conjecture  that  the 
intention  is  to  obtain  if  possible  from  G.  Br.  some  stipulation, 
which,  while  it  shall  not  impair  their  Rights,  may  serve  to  give 
something  to  us,  that  may  be  used  as  an  apology  for  the  war.  I 
send  you  enclosed  an  extract  of  a  letter  that  I  received  by  my 
son  Charles  from  Sir  William  Scott.  You  know  his  character, 
and  public  station — it  is  hardly  therefore  necessary  to  remark, 
that  in  the  mode  public  affairs  are  managed  in  England,  no  ques- 


368  KUFUS  KING.  [1814 

tion  effecting  the  maritime  Rights  of  Nation  is  decided  without 
his  Opinion.* 

From  the  tone  of  this  Extract,  I  should  derive  little  hope,  that 
the  project  of  excluding  by  our  Laws  British  seamen  from  our 
service  will  be  accepted  as  a  means  of  obtaining  what  the  exer- 
cise of  the  Practice  of  Impressment  has  been  deemed  necessary 
to  secure.  If  this  project  offered  in  1812  was  not  accepted,  what 
reason  have  we  to  believe  that  it  will  now  be  agreed  to  ?  ... 
With  entire  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c,         Rufus  King. 


G.  Morris  to  R.  King. 

Morrisania,  Jan'y  27,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  to  thank  you  for  the  Documents  in  your  late  Envelope. 
It  seems  to  me  that  our  Friends  in  pursuing  a  parliamentary 
Course,  do  not  allow  for  the  Difference  between  British  and 
American  opposition  and  Administration.  Without  going  after 
the  causes  of  such  difference,  which  may  easily  be  discovered,  it 
is  sufficient  to  notice  Facts.  In  Britain,  it  is  understood  that  the 
Administration  are  so  strictly  bound  by  Honor  and  Truth,  that 
perfect  Reliance  may  be  placed  on  what  they  say  ;  whereas  the 
opposition  are  not  to  be  restrained  by  Principles  of  any  Sort 
from  making  every  Sort  of  Assertion,  nor  by  Regard  to  Consis- 
tency or  Decency  from  Motions  for  any  kind  of  Information. 
When  they  can  shew  probable  cause  to  apprehend  that  Ministers 
have  been  playing  a  foul  Game,  they  can  easily  carry  their  Point, 
because  among  the  Ministerialists  are  always  to  be  found  a  num- 
ber of  high  minded  men  who  scorn  to  aid  in  concealing  mean  or 
dirty  business.  Moreover  Motions  for  Information  there,  if  car- 
ried, are  sure  to  bring  out  the  Truth,  because  the  Administration, 
should  they  be  detected  in  Falsehood  or  Prevarication,  are  lost. 

Were  Federalists  in  Power,  this  Country  would  resemble  that, 
but  as  Matters  now  stand,  the  Case  is  reversed.  If  a  Charge  of 
Inconsistency,  much  less  of  Duplicity,  can  be  established  it  will 
injure,  if  not  ruin,  our  opposition,  while  the  Administration,  like 

*  Extract  of  a  Letter  dated  London  Oct.  8,  1813,  to 

Private.     "  To  the  unfortunate  state  of  affairs  that  has  taken  place  between 
our  two  countries  &c,  &c,  see  further  p.  306  of  this  Volume." 


1 814]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  369 

their  Model  Napoleon,  not  only  practice  but  glory  in  Deceit.  In 
moving  a  Resolution  to  obtain  Information,  you  are  certain  that 
it  will  pass  or  be  rejected  according  to  the  Nature  of  the  Informa- 
tion ;  which  will  be  granted  if  it  can  do  you  mischief,  but  if 
good,  withheld.  It  seems  to  me  therefore  that  in  making  these 
Motions  you  place  yourself  in  a  Condition  which  permits  your 
Adversaries  to  play  old  John  Carpenter's  Game  of  tossing  up — 
— Heads  I  win,  Tails  you  lose.  Would  it  not  be  safer  to  entrench 
yourself  in  Doubt  and  claim  a  Right  to  deny,  on  the  Ground  of 
Doubt,  every  Fact  not  established.  This  might  force  out  as 
much  Information  as  you  can  obtain  in  any  other  way  ;  perhaps 
more. 

I  am  as  ever  yours 

Gouv.  Morris. 


G.  Morris  to  R.  King. 

Morrisania,  Jan.  31,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  receive  this  moment  your  Favor  of  the  twenty  sixth,  for  which  I 
pray  you  to  accept  my  thanks.  It  confirms  my  opinion  respecting 
the  Conduct  which  Britain  will  pursue.  I  have  said  on  that  Sub- 
ject, more  than  a  year  ago,  that  if  her  Ministers  act  otherwise, 
they  deserve  to  be  hanged  here  and  damned  hereafter.  I  will 
now  tell  you  that  I  considered  the  Flag  with  Lord  Castlereagh's 
Letter  as  full  Proof  of  what  your  Letter  contains.  It  speaks  the 
Language  of  the  Lord  of  the  Ocean  "  So  far  shalt  thou  go  and 
no  farther." 

Your  Sentiments  of  our  Rulers  are  just.  I  ask  a  serious  Ques- 
tion, what  Chance  is  there  of  better  Rulers  if  the  Union  be  pre- 
served ?  When  you  have  turned  that  well  over  in  your  mind 
consider  this  other,  what  Chance  is  there  that  better  Rulers  could 
do  better  and  not  forfeit  the  Support  of  the  many  headed  mon- 
sters whose  barking  annoys  us  from  the  Head  of  Kennebeck  to  the 
Mouth  of  Mississippi  ? 

As  ever  yours 

Gouv.  Morris. 


CHAPTER  XX. 

King — Memorandum  relative  to  Armstrong — Armstong  on  Terms  of  Peace — 
Jefferson's  Views  as  to  the  Power  of  Virginia — King,  Examination  of  Plan 
of  Finance  relative  to  the  twenty-five  million  Loan — Debate  in  the  Senate 
— King's  Objection — Absence  of  a  special  funding  Provision  to  pay  Interest 
and  Principal. 

Jany.  1814. — Col.  Swift  on  the  part  of  Gen.  Armstrong  held  re- 
peated conversations  with  Mr.  Mason,  N.  H.,  the  real  object  of 
these  interviews  had  reference  to  the  next  Presidency.  Their 
tenor  was  that  the  Virginia  Dynasty  must  be  broken  ;  that  State 
must  not  furnish  the  next  President.  The  policy  has  been  to 
divide  the  Eastern  States,  to  exclude  from  every  pubc.  office  of 
distinction  Eastern  men.  There  was  no  doubt  of  the  influence  of 
France  upon  Jefferson  and  Madison.  Any  man  acting  an  inde- 
pendent part  as  Minr  at  Paris  would  be  cut  down.  Jefferson  sent 
Col.  Coles,  his  secy,  to  France  while  he,  Armstrong,  was  Minister 
there.  Coles  was  charged  with  and  delivered  despatches  to  the 
French  office  of  For.  Affrs.  from  Jefferson,  in  which,  the  extracts 
of  Armstrong's  letter  to  the  Dep.  of  State,  which  expressed  disad- 
vantageous opinions  respecting  the  French  Govt.,  or  communi- 
cated information  of  an  unfavorable  nature  concerning  the  admn. 
of  France,  were  sent  to  the  French  office  of  for.  Affrs. 

Col.  Coles  was  the  bearer  of  a  letter  from  Gallatin  to  the  French 
Min.  of  for.  Affairs,  in  which  he  informed  him,  in  case  the  opin- 
ions and  conduct  of  Armstrong  were  disagreeable  to  the  Emperor, 
that  upon  a  request  or  intimation  of  a  wish  on  the  part  of  the 
Emperor,  Armstrong  would  be  recalled. 

The  minister  of  foreign  affairs  being  absent  with  the  Emperor, 
Hauterive  who  held  the  port-feuille,  gave  up  to  Armstrong  these  let- 
ters. Swift  said  Armstrong  was  decided  to  have  his  just  weight  in 
the  Cabinet,  or  to  throw  up  his  office  ;  that  an  understanding  with 

370 


1 8 14]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  37 1 

the  Federalists  in  Congress  was  his  wish  ;  that  he  desired  nothing 
on  their  part  in  respect  to  himself  ;  that  he  was  willing  to  co-op- 
erate agt.  Virginia,  leaving  men  and  things  to  take  their  course 
when  the  Presidential  Election  comes  on. 

Genl.  Armstrong  speaks  respectfully  of  Mr.  King,  wishes  to 
open  himself  upon  these  topics  to  the  Federalists.  Mason  recom- 
mended that  he  should  do  so  to  Mr.  King  and  believes  that  as  he 
is  on  a  poise  whether  he  is  to  have  the  fair  support  of  the  Pr.  or 
not,  that  he  will  call  on  Mr.  K.  in  a  few  days  :  he  condemns  the 
Generals — when  Hull  is  disposed  of,  Wilkinson  and  Hampton 
will  be  brought  to  trial  and  crushed. 

1814 — Feby.  25.*  Armstrong  told  me  that  the  overture  by  the 
Bramble,  was  laid  over  at  the  first  meeting  of  the  Cabinet ;  on 
that  occasion  he  urged  the  absence  of  the  Ministers'  (Gallatin  & 
al.)  despatches.  They  were  referred  to  by  Castlereagh,  no  copy 
was  sent  :  before  the  proposal  to  treat  at  Gottenburgh  was  ac- 
cepted, they  ought  to  have  the  letters  of  our  Envoys.  It  was 
accordingly  determined  to  wait.  Unexpectedly  however  he  was 
called  to  another  meeting,  when  he  found  that  a  new  Resolution 
had  been  adopted,  and  his  presence  was  wanted  to  witness  the 
adoption  of  the  Letter  to  Castlereagh,  accepting  the  overture  to 
treat  at  Gottenburgh. 

Armstrong  said  that  there  would  be  Peace  ;  they  would  give  up 
everything.  Something  like  the  arrangement  of  Monroe  and 
Pinkney,  a  mere  informal  Provision  would  be  accepted.  Gallatin, 
he  said,  to  his  knoivledge  \  would  have  made  Peace  on  these  terms 
under  the  Russian  mediation. 

Feby.  28,  1814.  Granger,  speaking  of  the  Virginian  views,  in- 
formed Mr.  Mason,  N.  H.,  that  he  was  particularly  intimate  with 
Jefferson,  who  urged  him  to  remove  to,  and  settle  in,  Virginia — 
offered  him  a  portion  of  the  Monticello  Estate  at  5.  Doll,  the 
acre  ;  and  to  engage  him  to  settle  there,  said  Virginia  ivas  the  head 
of  the  Slave  holding  States,  would  always  direct  their  politics  ; 
that  the  New  England  States  would  be  discontented  and  aim  to 
govern  the  Nation  ;  that  the  primary  object  of  Virginia  must  be 

*  In  R.  King's  handwriting. 

f  This  was  said  after  the  receipt  of  the  late  despatches,  sent  by  Dallas  to 
England,  and  received  from  thence  by  Anne  Alexander,  Russian  Shp.  arrived 
at  Boston.    The  despatches,  therefore,  it  is  probable,  contained  this  information. 


372  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 


to  secure  Pennsylvania,  as  with  that  State  on  her  side  she  would 
always  rule  the  Nation. 

Among  the  measures  proposed  in  the  12th  Congress  to 
provide  means  to  carry  on  the  war  was  one  to  borrow 
twenty-five  millions  of  dollars.  A  Bill  for  that  purpose 
was  passed  by  the  House  of  Representatives  on  March  4, 
1 8 14,  and  sent  to  the  Senate  asking  their  concurrence.  On 
the  7th  it  was  referred  to  a  select  committee  consisting  of 
Messrs.  King,  Giles  and  Roberts,  and  on  the  10th  Mr.  King 
reported  back  the  Bill  with  Amendments,  which  report  was 
discussed  for  several  days.  The  speeches  are  not  to  be  found 
in  the  Annals  of  Congress  *  ;  but  among  Mr.  King's  papers 
are  portions  of  the  speeches  he  delivered  during  the  debate. 
As  will  be  seen  this  hinged  upon  an  amendment  brought  in 
by  the  special  committee  to  create  a  special  Sinking  Fund 
for  the  payment  of  the  interest  and  final  extinguishment  of 
the  debt  by  setting  apart  for  the  purpose  enough  of  "  the  in- 
ternal duties  imposed  during  the  last  Session  of  Congress  " 
instead  of  charging  those  payments  upon  the  existing  Sink- 
ing fund,  which  was  no  more  than  sufficient  to  pay  the  claimes 
under  previous  loans  for  which  it  had  been  specifically 
pledged.  It  will  be  seen  that  though  Mr.  King  "  had  a  desire 
to  aid  the  loan,"  he  could  not  do  so  without  this  pledge. 

Loan   Bill. 

Substance  of  R.  K.'s  speech  (in  his  handwriting). 

It  becomes  my  duty  to  state  to  the  Senate  the  reasons  which 
have  led  the  Commtee  to  report  the  amendment  on  the  Loan  Bill. 

The  Bill  from  the  House  of  Representatives  proposes  to  borrow 
25  millions  of  dollars,  and  pledges  the  Sinking  Fund  of  8  millions 
of  dollars  for  the  payment  of  the  interest  and  the  reimbursement 
of  the  capital  of  the  proposed  Loan. 

Upon  a  reference  of  this  Bill  to  a  Committee  of  the  Senate, 
the  Committee  have  made  a  Report,  recommending  that  the  sec- 
tion of  the  Bill  which  pledges  the  Sinking  Fund  for  the  payment 

*  13th  Congress,  1813-14,  p.  650  to  674. 


18x4]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  373 

of  the  interest  and  the  redemption  of  the  principal  of  the  proposed 
Loan  should  be  struck  out  of  the  Bill,  and  that  two  new  sections 
should  be  inserted  in  its  place,  appropriating  so  much  of  the  in- 
ternal Duties,  imposed  during  the  last  Session  of  Congress,  as 
should  be  sufficient  to  pay  the  annual  interest  of  the  Loan,  with 
a  further  sum  equal  to  one  per  centum  upon  the  whole  capital  of  the 
Loan  to  be  annually  applied  towards  the  redemption  of  the  princi- 
pal thereof — and  providing  that  the  said  internal  Duties,  subject  to 
such  modifications  as  may  hereafter  be  found  advantageous, 
should  be  continued  and  remain  pledged  for  the  payment  of  the 
interest  and  the  redemption  of  the  Principal  of  the  Loan,  until 
the  same  be  fully  reimbursed. 

Altho'  the  Report  of  the  Committee  would  be  fully  supported 
by  shewing  that  the  Sinking  Fund,  which  is  charged  with  the 
payment  of  the  interest  and  the  redemption  of  the  principal  of 
the  new  Loan,  is  already  overcharged  ;  and  that  the  internal 
Taxes,  proposed  to  be  established  in  lieu  of  the  Sinking  Fund, 
have  not  been  appropriated  and  are  sufficient  to  pay  the  interest 
and  redeem  the  principal  of  the  new  Loan  ;  the  subject  is  so  in- 
timately connected  with  the  state  of  the  public  Finances,  the 
extent  of  the  public  engagements,  and  the  security  of  the  public 
Credit,  that  a  more  enlarged  support  of  the  proposed  amendment 
may  with  propriety  be  offered.  It  is  proposed  to  present  to  the 
Senate  a  view  of  the  Finances,  under  the  following  heads. 

1st.  A  statement  of  the  aggregate  amount  of  the  Debt  of  the 
U.  S.  including  the  Loan  authorized  by  the  Bill,  and  distinguish, 
ing  the  Debt  incurred  before  the  War  from  the  Debt  created 
since  the  War. 

2d.  An  estimate  of  the  Taxes  receivable  in  the  years  1814  & 
1815 — together  with  an  estimate  of  the  annual  charges  upon  such 
Taxes,  shewing  the  insufficiency  of  the  Taxes  to  carry  into  effect 
the  war  plan  of  Finance. 

3d.  A  statement  of  the  amount  of  the  actual  charges  upon 
the  Sinking  Fund,  and  shewing  the  exceedings  of  these  charges 
above  the  amount  of  the  Fund. 

War  Plan  of  Fi?iance. 

A  plan  of  finance  to  be  observed  during  the  War,  was  brought 
before  the  H.  of  Representatives  by  the  Committee  of  Ways  and 


374  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 


Means.  According  to  this  plan,  a  sum  sufficient  to  defray  the 
expenses  of  the  Peace  Establishment,  estimated  at  seven  millions 
annually,  together  with  a  further  sum  which  should  be  sufficient 
to  pay  the  annual  interest,  including  that  upon  the  new  Loans, 
payable  by  the  U.  S.,  is  required  to  be  raised  by  Taxes  within 
each  year — Government  depending  upon  Loans,  for  money  to 
meet  and  defray  the  extraordinary  expenses  of  carrying  on  War. 
To  determine  how  far  this  plan,  defective  as  it  is  in  the  omis- 
sion of  a  Sinking  Fund,  will  be  adhered  to  in  the  current  year,  it 
is  necessary  to  ascertain,  in  addition  to  the  seven  millions  for  the 
Peace  Establishment,  the  amount  of  the  annual  interest  that  will 
be  payable  by  the  U.  S.,  and  then  to  compare  the  amount  of  these 
sums  with  the  amount  of  the  Taxes. 

In  ascertaining  the  amount  of  the  annual  interest,  there  can 
be  no  difference  of  opinion  respecting  any  of  the  items,  unless  it 
may  exist  in  regard  to  the  annual  interest  payable  to  the  Commis- 
sioners of  the  Sinking  Fund.  By  the  law  of  May  1792  it  is  en- 
acted that  the  interest  of  so  much  of  the  Debt  of  the  U.  S.,  as 
has  been,  or  shall  be  purchased  or  redeemed  for,  or  by  the  U.  S., 
or  as  shall  be  paid  into  the  Treasury  thereof  in  satisfaction  of 
any  Debt  or  demand,  shall  be  and  hereby  is  appropriated  and 
pledged  firmly  and  inviolably  for  and  to  the  purchase  and  re- 
demption of  the  said  Debt. 

By  the  Law  of  March  1795.  In  addition  to  the  money  before 
appropriated  to  the  S.  F.,  this  Act  appropriates  to  it  the  neat 
proceeds  of  the  sales  of  Lands  belonging  to,  or  which  shall  here- 
after belong  to,  theU.  S.  in  the  Western  Territory  thereof.  And 
the  ninth  section  of  this  Law  declares  that  the  monies  (including 
the  interest  on  the  redeemed  Debt)  thus  assigned  to  the  Commrs 
of  the  S.  F.  shall  be  and  continue  to  be,  appropriated  to  the  said 
Fund,  and  vested  in  the  Commissioners  thereof  in  trust — to  be 
applied  to  the  reimbursement  and  redemption  of  the  then  exist- 
ing Debt  ;  And  the  Faith  of  the  U.  S.  is  pledged  that  the  monies 
and  funds  aforesaid  shall  inviolably  remain  and  be  appropriated 
and  vested  as  aforesaid,  to  be  applied  to  the  reimbursement  and 
redemption  in  manner  aforesaid. 

These  provisions  of  the  Laws  creating  the  Sinking  Fund  have 
never  been  repealed,  and  the  following  principles  are  established 
by  them. 


1814]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  375 


i st.  That  every  portion  of  the  funded  Debt  that  is  reimbursed 
or  redeemed,  must  be  transferred  to  the  Comrs.  of  the  S.  F.,  and 
the  interest  thereof  must  be  annually  paid  by  the  Treasury  De- 
partment to  the  said  Commissioners,  who  are  required  to  apply 
the  same  to  reimburse  or  redeem  further  sums  of  the  principal  of 
the  Debt. 

2nd.  That  the  proceeds  of  the  annual  sales  of  public  Lands  are 
also  annually  payable  to  the  Commrs.  of  the  S.  F.,  to  be  by  them 
in  like  manner  applied  towards  the  redemption  as  aforesaid  of  the 
principal  of  the  Debt. 

As  the  Debt,  to  redeem  which  the  S.  F.  is  established,  is  not  yet 
paid  off,  and  as  the  Comrs.  of  the  S.  F.,  equally  with  individual  Cred- 
itors are  entitled  to  receive  the  annual  interest  payable  upon  the 
stock  standing  in  their  names,  to  ascertain  the  amount  of  interest 
annually  payable  by  the  U.  S.,  it  is  necessary  to  add  the  sum  pay- 
able to  the  Commrs.  of  the  S.  F.  to  the  sum  payable  to  other  per- 
sons. The  following  statement  shows  the  sum  payable  by  the 
U.  S.  in  the  year  1814  out  of  the  Taxes  to  be  raised  within  that 
year. 

To  defray  the  annual  expenses  of  the  peace  estab- 
lishment       7, 000, 000. CO 

Interest  on  the  loans,  including  that  on  stocks 
standing  in  the  name  of  the  Com.  S.  F.  1,971,- 
316.67  &  \  yrs  int.  on  New  Loan,  of  28,328,  ace. 
at  6f0,  562,000 6,911,764.42 

Aggregate  amount 13,911,764.42 

Estimate  of  Taxes  receivable  in  the  year  1814. 

from  Custom  House  Bonds 5.500,000 

from  duties  reed,  in  Cash 500,000 

from  Land  Tax  and  internal  duties ....    3,500,000    9,500,000.00 

leaving  a  deficit  in  the  Taxes  of  18 14  to  satisfy 

all  charges 4,411,764.42 

In  the  estimate  laid  before  Congress  from  the  Treasury  De- 
partment during  the  present  Session,  the  Deficit  of  the  Taxes  in- 
stead of  the  4,411,764  dollars,  is  estimated  at  something  less  than 


376  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

one  million  dollars.  This  important  difference  arises  from  the 
erroneous  increase  of  the  amount  of  Taxes  of  the  year  1814,  by 
the  addition  of  1,180,000  dollars  of  former  appropriations  remain- 
ing in  the  Treasury  at  the  end  of  last  year,  by  the  further  addi- 
tion of  600,000,  the  estimated  proceeds  of  the  annual  sales  of  pub. 
Lands,  and  by  the  withholding,  from  the  annual  charges  upon  the 
Taxes  of  the  year,  the  sum  of  1,971,316,  being  the  interest  annu- 
ally payable  out  of  the  Taxes  to  the  Commissioners  of  the  S.  F. 

There  is  no  propriety  in  bringing  forward  the  unapplied  sur- 
plus of  the  appropriation  of  a  former  year  in  aid  of  the  Taxes  re- 
ceivable within  the  current  year,  because  the  war  plan  of  finance, 
the  observance  of  which  is  under  consideration,  project  is  to  raise 
within  each  year  the  whole  sum  chargeable  upon  the  Taxes  of  the 
year.  Besides  this  surplus  is  conjectural  and  may  be,  and  proba- 
bly will  be,  wanted  to  satisfy  outstanding  claims  for  past  services, 
and  if  not  so  wanted,  ought  to  be  applied  in  aid  of  the  new  Loan 
to  defray  the  war  expenses  of  the  current  year. 

There  is  still  less  propriety  in  adding  to  the  Taxes  of  1814, 
which  are  applicable  to  the  payment  of  interest  and  to  the  support 
of  the  Peace  Establishment,  the  600,000  expeeted  to  be  received 
from  the  sales  of  pub.  Land  ;  because  this  sum  is  inviolably  ap- 
propriated, under  the  sanction  of  the  faith  of  the  U.  S.  to  the 
S.  F.,  and  the  same  is  required  to  be  by  the  Comrs.  of  that  Fund, 
annually  applied  in  the  redemption  of  the  principal  of  the  pub. 
Debt. 

The  Laws  which  require  the  payment  to  the  Comrs.  of  the  S.  F. 
of  the  annual  interest  upon  the  redeemed  Debt  standing  in  their 
names,  have  already  been  stated  :  and  none  can  doubt  that  the 
interest  so  payable  is  an  annual  charge  upon  the  Taxes  of  the 
year,  and  ought  so  to  appear.  The  conclusion  is  also  estab- 
lished that  the  deficit  in  the  Taxes  of  the  year  will  exceed  Four 
millions  instead  of  falling  below  One  million. 

Should  the  war  continue  another  year,  as  no  additional  Taxes 
are  proposed,  as  the  land  Taxis  laid  for  only  one  year,  as  the  Em- 
bargo and  System  of  commercial  restriction  will  be  as  necessary 
next  year  as  they  are  this,  and  as  the  revenue  from  foreign  trade 
will  be  reduced  still  lower,  the  Deficit  in  the  Taxes,  alarming  as 
it  may  be  this  year,  must  be  still  greater.  The  following  is  an  es- 
timate of  the  sums  which  will  be  payable  by  the  U.  S.  in  the  year 


T814]  life  and  correspondence.  377 

1815,  out  of  the  Taxes  to  be  raised  within  that  year,  pursuant  to 
the  War  plan  of  finance. 

For  the  Peace  Establishment  and  for  Interest, 

the  same  as  in  1814,  deducting  562,081,28,  being 

\  years  Int.  on  the  25,  Mills.,  Loans  the  whole        "  I3»349.663-I4 

year's  int.  being  charged  below  J 

Int.  on  28,328,  611  dolls.,  Loan  of  1814  1,699,716.66 

Int.  on  loan  of  1815,  supposing  its  amt.  and  terms 

the  same  as  in  1814.  \  year's  interest  562,081.28 


15,611,461.08 

Estimate  of  the  amount  of  Taxes  receivable  in  1815. 
From  Custom  House  Bonds  &  duties  of  import 

&  tonnage  3,500,000.00 

From  arrears  of  Land  Tax  &  Internal  Duties  of  1814  1,500,000.00 
From  Internal  Duties  2,000,000.00 


7,000,000.00 
leaves  a  deficit  of  the  Taxes  of  1815  to  satisfy  the 

charges  thereupon  8,611,461.08 

The  sure  symptom  and  forerunner  of  the  explosion  of  the  pub- 
lic credit  in  every  country  has  been  the  continued  and  increasing 
Deficit  in  the  Taxes.  Loans  are  the  extraordinary  resource  of  a 
Nation,  and  are  only  resorted  to  on  extraordinary  occasions.  The 
enormous  expenses  of  modern  war  cannot  be  defrayed  by  con- 
temporaneous Taxes.  But  Taxes  must  be  levied  sufficient  to 
maintain  the  ordinary  Government,  to  pay  the  interests  of  the 
Loans,  and  to  enable  the  S.  F.  to  redeem  the  Debt. 

If  instead  of  levying  Taxes  sufficient  to  meet  these  objects, 
Loans  are  resorted  to,  not  only  for  extraordinary  services,  but  to 
pay  the  Civil  List,  or  the  interest  of  former  Loans  ;  and  especially 
if  no  Sinking  Fund  be  provided,  by  the  operation  whereof  the 
price  of  the  stocks  shall  be  kept  up,  an  object  of  not  less  import- 
ance to  Government  than  to  the  stockholders,  we  may  be  certain 
that  the  difficulty  in  obtaining  Loans  will  be  greater  and  greater, 
that  their  terms  will  become  harder  and  harder,  until  finally  they 
cannot  be  obtained  on  any  terms. 


378  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

The  Deficit  in  our  finances  is  great — will  become  greater — and 
if  war  continues  the  only  remedy  is  to  be  sought  for  in  Taxes. 
The  evil  is  not  to  be  prevented  by  refusing  to  look  at  it ;  Congress 
must  impose  Taxes,  or  consent  to  become  answerable  for  the  con- 
sequences of  their  not  doing  it. 

When  the  Debt  of  the  U.  S.  was  funded,  it  was  thought  to  be 
essential  to  the  solidity  and  stability  of  the  public  credit,  not  only 
to  provide  and  pledge  adequate  funds  to  pay  the  annual  interest, 
but  moreover  to  provide  and  vest  in  certain  Commissioners  an 
annual  Fund,  afterwards  denominated  the  Sinking  Fund,  to  be 
inviolably  applied  to  reimburse  the  Principal  of  the  Debt. 

It  cannot  be  requisite  to  repeat  the  arguments  employed  to  es- 
tablish the  principles  of  public  credit  then  adopted.  It  must 
suffice  to  say  that  not  only  their  truth  and  importance  are  at  this 
day  everywhere  acknowledged  ;  but  that  without  their  strict  ob- 
servance, any  extensive  system  of  funding  the  public  Debt  will 
prove  pernicious  to  the  Nation  that  adopts  it. 

Without  enumerating  the  sums,  which  from  time  to  time  were 
appropriated  to  the  S.  F.,  it  may  be  stated,  that  before  the  year 
1802  this  Fund  principally  consisted  of  the  annual  interest  upon 
the  redeemed  Debt,  standing  in  the  name  of  the  Commissioners, 
and  of  the  annual  proceeds  of  the  sales  of  the  public  Lands.  In 
the  year  1802  a  Law  was  passed  to  enlarge  the  duties  of  the 
Commissioners  of  the  S.  F.,  which  had  before  been  confined 
to  the  paying  off  and  redeeming  the  principal  of  the  public 
Debt.  By  this  Law,  the  Commissioners  are  constituted  Agents 
to  pay  the  interest  of  the  public  Debt,  which  had  before  been 
paid  by  the  federal  Commissioners  of  the  Loan  offices,  and  by 
the  Department  of  the  Treasury  ;  and  so  much  of  the  duties 
of  import  and  tonnage,  as  with  the  monies  belonging  to  the  S.  F., 
should  together  make  7,300,000  dollars,  was  appropriated  to  the 
Sinking  Fund.  Afterwards  in  the  year  1803,  when  the  interest 
upon  the  Louisiana  stock  became  payable,  a  further  sum  of  700, 
000,  dollars,  to  be  taken  from  the  duties  of  import  and  tonnage, 
was  appropriated  to  the  S.  F.,  which  was  thereby  increased  to  the 
annual  sum  of  eight  millions  of  dollars,  and  this  Fund  is  pledged 
to  redeem  the  existing  Debt.  It  is  not  obvious  why  the  original 
plan  of  the  S.  F.,  was  in  this  manner  changed.  The  purpose  of 
its  establishment  was  to  confirm  the  national  Credit,  by  the  grad- 


1814]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  379 

ual  redemption  of  the  principal  of  the  public  Debt ;  and  notwith- 
standing the  additional  funds  appropriated  to  the  S.  F.,  and  the 
new  duties  required  of  the  Commrs,  the  original  provisions  and 
pledges  of  the  S.  F.  made  and  enacted  by  the  Loans  of  1790 
and  1795,  st^l  remain  unimpaired,  and  in  conformity  to  them, 
the  public  Debt  which  has  been  redeemed,  has  been  transferred 
to,  and  stands  in  the  names  of  the  Commissioners  of  the  S.  F., 
and  is  held  by  them  in  trust  to  apply  the  annual  interest  thereof, 
together  with  the  neat  proceeds  of  the  annual  sales  of  the  public 
Lands,  to  the  redemption  of  the  principal  of  the  old  Debt  of  the 
U.  S.  and  to  no  other  purpose.  Moreover,  in  pursuance  of  the 
original  plan  of  the  S.  F.,  the  Laws  of  1802  and  1803,  with  equal 
precision  and  force  with  those  of  1790  and  1795,  appropriate  the 
whole  S.  F.,  consisting  of  the  annual  sum  of  8  millions  to  the 
payment  of  the  interest  and  the  reimbursement  of  the  principal, 
the  three  per  cents  excepted,  of  the  then  existing  Debt  of  the 
U.  S.  ;  and  the  S.  F.  is  vested  in  the  Commrs  thereof  to  be  by 
them  applied  accordingly. 

Notwithstanding  these  Laws  and  the  solemn  pledge  of  the  pub- 
lic Faith,  notwithstanding  that  more  that  40  mills,  of  the  old  Debt 
remains  unredeemed,  immediately  on  the  breaking  out  of  the  war, 
when  the  preservation  of  the  public  credit  could  alone  enable  the 
Govt,  to  meet  the  extraordinary  expenses  of  the  war,  Congress 
broke  in  upon  the  S.  F.,  and  in  the  year  1812,  the  principal  and 
interest  of  the  Loan  of  Eleven  millions  were  charged  upon  the 

S.  F. 

In  1813,  the  interest  and  principal  of  the  Sixteen  million  Loan, 
and  the  interest  and  principal  of  the  Seven  and  a  half  million 
Loan,  were  also  charged  upon  the  S.  F.  In  addition  to  which 
sums,  the  interest  and  principal  of  the  temporary  Loans,  together 
with  the  interest  and  principal  of  an  average  annual  Sum  of  Five 
Millions  of  Treasury  Notes  are  in  like  manner  charged  upon  the 
same  Fund.  And  it  is  now  proposed  by  the  Bill  before  the  Sen- 
ate, to  charge  this  Fund  with  the  interest  and  principal  of  the 
Stock  of  the  new  Loan  of  25  Millions.  These  great  additional 
charges  have  been  made  since  the  War,  and  without  any  addition 
having  been  made  or  even  proposed,  to  the  Sinking  Fund. 

By  recapitulating  the  charges  upon  the  S.  F.,  it  will  be  mani- 
fest that  it  is  insufficient  to  satisfy  them. 


380  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

The  various  stocks   redeemed   by  the   Commrs. 

of  the   S.  F.  and  standing  in  their  names  Dec. 

31,  1813,  amounted  to $33,873,453 

The  annual  interest  on  which  stocks  is 

1,971,316.67 
Estd.  The    annual    proceeds    of  sale 

of  pub.  Lands 600,000.00 

2,571,316.67 

This  sum  of  2,571,316.67  must  according  to  the  provisions  of 
the  Laws  establishing  the  S.  F.  be  annually  paid  by  the  Treasury 
Department  to  the  Commissioners  of  the  S.  F.,  who  are  obliged 
to  apply  the  same  to  redeem  the  principal  of  the  old  Debt  of  the 
U.  S. 

The  S.  F.  of  Eight  millions  of  dollars  is  already  charged  to  pay 
in  the  course  of  the  year  1814 
Towards  the  redemption  of  the  Principal  of  the  old 

Debt 1,971,316.67 

Amount  of  the  annual  proceeds  of  sales  of  pub. 

Lands 600,000.00 

Interest  upon  59,463,763.07,  6$  stock 3,567,824.16 

Annuities  of  1813,  upon  16.  Million  Loan 7,968.00 

Interest  upon  16,158,177.34,  3  per  cent  Stock....        484,655.50 
Interest  upon  5  millions  Treasury  notes  at  5f  pr.  ct.        270,000.00 

Reimbursement  of  temporary  Loans 750,000.00 

Reimbursement  of  5  millions  Treasury  notes 5,000,000.00 


12,651,764.33 


being  a  surplus  of  4,651,764.36  dollars  above  the  amount  of  the 
Fund. 

Upon  this  Fund  already  overcharged  more  than  Forty  percent, 
the  Bill  sent  from  the  H.  of  R.  proposes  to  charge  the  principal 
and  interest  of  the  new  Stock  of  the  25  million  Loan  ;  the  annual 
interest  of  which  Stock  will  be  not  less  than  1,680,000  ;  in  other 
words,  the  Fund,  out  of  which  the  interest  and  principal  of  the 
new  Loan  are  proposed  to  be  paid,  is  unable  to  pay  one  cent  of 
them. 

In  private  concerns,  such  an  attempt  would  be  hopeless  ;  and 
Congress  should  in  time  reflect,  whether  they  consult  the  interest 


[814]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  38 1 


and  honor  of  the  Nation,  whether  they  will  worthily  discharge 
their  own  duty  by  hazarding  what  they  must  hazard  in  attempting 
to  obtain  a  Loan  in  this  exceptionable  manner.  If  the  Loan  fail, 
because  the  offered  security  is  defective,  who  ought  to  be,  who 
will  be  responsible  to  the  Nation  ? 

Anticipating  the  calamitous  consequences,  private  as  well  as 
public,  of  a  failure  to  fill  the  Loan,  let  Congress  attempt  to  avert 
this  great  calamity  by  those  means  which  are  within  their  power, 
means  that  it  may  be  hoped  may  be  sufficient  to  ensure  success. 
Let  them  provide  and  pledge  Funds,  adequate  to  pay  the  inter- 
est and  to  redeem  the  principal  of  the  new  Loan.  Let  them 
moreover  engage  that  the  Funds  so  provided  shall  continue  to  be 
so  applied  until  the  Debt  be  redeemed. 

The  product  of  the  internal  Taxes,  which  have  not  yet  been 
appropriated,  will  be  sufficient  for  this  purpose — possibly  in  the 
commencement,  the  proceeds  of  these  Taxes  may  be  less  than 
hereafter  they  will  become.  But  with  such  modifications  as 
experience  may  suggest,  this  Fund  will  be  adequate  to  fulfil  the 
object  of  its  appropriation. 

There  is  another  object  of  great  importance  connected  with  the 
establishment  of  a  permanent  system  of  internal  Taxes.  The  rev- 
enue derived  from  foreign  trade  is  dependent  upon  the  laws,  the 
justice,  the  moderation  and  the  policy  of  foreign  Powers.  It  is 
not  therefore  a  resource  upon  which  Nations  can  rely  in  extra- 
ordinary occasions  ;  and  certainly  ought  not  in  these  circumstances 
to  be  the  only  resource. 

Altho'  war  between  other  commercial  Nations  has  the  effect  to 
increase  our  own  neutral  commerce,  and  the  revenue  derived  from 
it ;  yet  war  in  which  the  U.  S.  are  a  party,  curtails  our  trade,  and 
diminishes  the  revenue  received  from  it.  Moreover  as  commerce 
is  considered  and  employed  by  our  national  authorities  as  an  in- 
strument to  compel  other  Nations  to  change  their  measures,  and  to 
pursue  a  policy  more  agreeable  to  us,  the  insecurity  of  trade  and  of 
the  revenue  which  it  affords,  are  not  only  dependent  upon  foreign 
Powers,  but  upon  the  foreign  policy  of  our  own  Government. 

Debate  on  the  Loan  Bill  continued. 

Friday,  18  March.  Mr.  Bibb  of  Georgia — Objectio7i. — Mr.  K's 
Estimate  of  Debt  erroneous — because  2  millions  of  debt  will  be 


382  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

paid  off  in  1814  :  this  therefore  should  be  deducted  from  his  Es- 
timate of  the  aggregate  of  the  Debt  at  the  end  of  1814. 

Answer.  The  war  plan  of  finance  is  now  stated  to  be  to  raise 
within  the  year  enough  to  defray  7  mill,  on  acct.  of  the  Peace  Es- 
tablishment, and  the  whole  interest  upon  the  Debt,  including  that 
of  new  Loans — unf finding  the  Sinking  Fund  in  its  operation  to  re- 
deem the  Debt  during  the  war  and  effecting  the  stipulated  redemp- 
tion of  pub.  Debt  by  contracting  new  Loans. 

It  is  plain  from  this  statement  of  the  plan  of  finance,  that  such 
redemption  of  ten  millions  of  the  principal  of  the  Debt  cannot 
diminish  the  Debt ;  because  for  every  two  millions  redeemed  the 
money  is  obtained  by  borrowing,  and  contracting  new  Debt  of 
equal  amount — in  other  words  an  equal  Debt  is  contracted.  If  a 
man  owes  5000  dollars,  for  which  he  has  given  5  different  Bonds 
of  1000  dols.  each,  and  his  purpose  be  to  pay  them  off,  and  he 
does  pay  off  one  Bond  annually,  and  out  of  his  income,  he  will 
reduce  his  Debt  twenty  five  per  cent  yearly,  and  in  five  years  pay 
off  the  whole  Debt.  But  if,  to  enable  him  to  pay  off  this  Debt, 
he  annually  borrows  1000  dol.  upon  a  new  Bond  and  with  this 
pays  off  an  old  Bond  for  the  same  sum,  will  any  one  say  he  has 
lessened  his  Debt  ;  if  he  will,  the  problem  is  a  curious  one,  in 
how  many  years,  at  this  rate,  will  he  be  able  to  pay  off  the  whole 
of  his  Debt  ?  The  operation  is  a  delusion,  it  is  downright  staring 
folly,  and  very  ill  comports  with  the  sincerity  of  the  profession  of 
respect  for  the  intelligence  of  our  fellow  Citizens  which  we  so 
often  hear  repeated. 

Mr.  Bibb  of  Georgia.  2d.  Objection. — The  comparison  of  the 
annual  income  and  the  charges  which  are  made  upon  it,  accord- 
ing to  the  war  plan  of  finance — inasmuch  as  the  plan  includes  the 
proceeds  of  the  annual  sales  of  pub.  land  as  a  branch  of  income, 
and  it  is  excluded  from  the  statement  offered  by  Mr.  K. 

Answer. — All  will  allow  that  the  proceeds  of  the  Lands  are  in- 
violably appropriated,  and  under  the  sanction  of  the  pub.  faith, 
are  alone  payable  to  the  Comrs.  of  the  S.  F.,  to  be  applied  to 
redeem  the  principal  of  the  old  Debt. 

In  the  comparison  of  the  income  and  the  charges  upon  it,  the 
proceeds  of  the  Land  neither  appear  as  a  branch  of  the  income, 
nor  does  the  reimbursement  of  any  part  of  the  principal  of  the 
debt  appear  as  a  charge  upon  it,  the  income.     If  the  proceeds  of 


1 8 14]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  383 

Land  sales  be  added  to  the  income,  a  correspondent  additional 
charge  must  be  made  upon  the  income  to  enable  the  Commrs.  to 
payoff  so  much  of  the  principal  of  the  old  Debt,  as  such  proceeds 
would  redeem.  Hence  it  is  manifest  that  the  result  is  the  same 
which  ever  way  the  account  is  stated.  The  deficit  in  the  cur- 
rent year  exceeds  4  mills.,  instead  of  falling  short  one  Million. 

But  the  question  is  not  whether  there  be  a  deficit  or  not  ;  that 
is  admitted  by  all  ;  the  only  enquiry  is  whether  it  be  one  or  four 
millions. 

Bibb.  Geog.  3d.  Objection. — The  charges  upon  the  Sinking 
Fund,  by  which  they  are  made  to  exceed  the  amount  of  the  Fund 
by  more  than  four  millions  are  erroneous.  First  by  the  charge  of 
750,000  dol.  temporary  Loan  upon  this  Fund  ;  which  is  to  be  re- 
imbursed by  money  to  be  borrowed  or  by  creating  an  equivalent 
and  new  Debt.  And  secondly,  by  the  charge  of  5  mil.  of  Treasury 
Notes  ;  which  tho'  in  fact  charged  by  Law  upon  the  S.  F.,  ought 
not  to  have  been  so  charged,  and  which  are  not  an  incumbrance 
except  for  a  single  year,  after  which  the  Fund  will  be  adequate. 

Answer.  The  inquiry  is  not  what  ought  to  have  been  charged, 
but  what  is  charged  upon  the  S.  F.  The  payment  of  the  tempo- 
rary Loan  of  750,000  dols.  and  of  the  5  mils,  of  Treasury  Notes  is 
by  Law  charged  upon  the  S.  F.  ;  and  the  question,  therefore, 
whether  the  Fund  be  sufficient,  is  a  simple  one  of  arithmetic.  By 
this  rule  it  is  ascertained  that  the  fund  is  this  year  deficient  more 
than  four  millions. 

But  there  is  a  still  more  conclusive  answer  which  may  be  given 
to  the  doubts  whether  the  Sinking  Fund  be  sufficient  to  satisfy 
the  charges  already  made  upon  it,  and  moreover  to  pay  the  inter- 
est of  the  proposed  Loan  of  25  millions. 

By  the  Law  of  1803,  which  increased  the  Sinking  Fund  to  the 
sum  of  8  millions,  the  whole  of  the  S.  F.  is  vested  in  the  Comrs.  and 
appropriated  to  the  payment  of  the  interest  and  principal  of  the 
Debt  of  the  U.  S.,  existing  at  that  time.  More  than  Forty  mil- 
lions of  that  Debt  still  remains  unredeemed  ;  and  the  faith  of  the 
U.  S.  is  pledged  to  the  holders  of  this  stock  to  apply  this  sum, 
this  identical  Fund,  annually  in  the  payment  of  the  interest,  and 
reimbursement  of  the  principal  of  the  Debt. 

By  what  principle  of  honest  policy,  by  what  rule  of  justice  or 
of  honor,  can  Congress  now  divert  this  Fund  ?     Congress  may 


384  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

repeal  the  Laws  of  the  U.  S.  but  can  they  repeal  their  Contracts? 
Congress  may  pledge  the  public  faith  and  the  President  may 
pledge  the  honor  of  the  U.  S.  but  can  either  withdraw  the  pledge, 
until  that  be  performed  for  which  faith  and  honor  are  the  security  ? 
I  address  myself  to  the  Senators  of  the  U.  S.  ;  I  put  this  question 
to  honorable  men. 

You  have  charged  upon  the  Sinking  Fund  the  interest  of  the 
war  Loans  already  made  ;  and  you  now  propose  to  add  to  this 
charge  more  than  a  million  and  a  half,  on  acct.  of  the  25  mil. 
Loan  ;  in  case  the  S.  F.  should  become  insufficient  to  discharge 
these  additional  burthens  upon  it,  the  Bill  pledges  the  faith  of 
the  U.  S.  to  make  up  such  deficiency. 

Thus  you  propose  to  the  money  lenders  to  advance  their  money 
upon  the  security  of  the  Sinking  Fund,  supported  by  the  pledge 
of  the  pub.  faith  ;  you  do  this,  forgetting  that  the  entire  Fund 
is  pledged,  and  that  by  offering  to  pledge  it  afresh,  you  violate 
the  pub.  faith.  Why  has  this  device  been  resorted  to  ?  why  has 
it  been  attempted  to  withdraw  from  the  Sinking  Fund  so  much 
thereof  as  stands  pledged  to  the  Creditors  to  be  applied  annually 
in  paying  off  the  principal  of  the  old  Debt,  as  may  from  year  to 
year  be  required  to  pay  the  interest  upon  the  new  Loans  ?  Why 
has  it  been  resolved  that  the  public  faith  should  be  violated  for 
this  purpose  ? 

According  to  the  war  plan  of  finance,  as  now  explained,  for 
every  reimbursement  of  the  principal  of  the  old  Debt,  the  money, 
instead  of  being  taken  from  the  Fund  provided  for  that  pur- 
pose, is  to  be  borrowed,  and  so  much  of  the  S.  F.  as  may  there- 
by be  liberated,  is  to  be  applied  to  pay  the  interest  of  the  new 
Loans. 

Why  not  preserve  the  pub.  faith  by  suffering  the  S.  F.  to  pro- 
ceed according  to  the  provisions  of  Law,  and  borrow  to  pay  the 
interest  of  the  new  Loans  ?  the  effect  as  regards  the  increase  of 
the  Debt  would  be  the  same  in  either  course.  The  only  imagin- 
able reason  is  that  the  public  credit  might  be,  as  it  ought  to  be 
and  will  be,  affected  by  a  system  of  borrowing,  in  which  money 
is  borrowed  not  only  for  the  extraordinary  service  of  war,  but 
to  pay  the  interest  of  former  Loans.  But  does  the  device  resorted 
to  conceal  the  truth  ?  Money  lenders  are  among  the  keenest 
and  most  sharpsighted  men  in  society.     They  understand  their 


1814]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  385 


business,  and  examine  most  critically  your  Laws  and  your  prac- 
tice under  them. 

Instead  of  gaining  in  point  of  interest,  by  an  expense  of  char- 
acter, we  shall  be  certain  to  lose  in  both  ;  we  shall  lose  in  character 
by  a  palpable  and  unnecessary  violation  of  the  public  faith  ;  we 
shall  lose  in  interest.  To  show  this  requires  a  short  illustration 
of  the  nature  and  salutary  influence  of  a  Sinking  Fund. 

The  ultimate  purpose  of  a  Sinking  Fund  is  to  pay  off  in  a  given 
time  a  public  Debt.  Thus  one  per  cent  of  the  capital  of  any 
Loan,  annually  applied,  interest  being  6  per.  cent.,  would  pay  off 
any  Loan  or  Debt  in  about  34  years.  The  effect  of  this  regular 
demand  and  gradual  redemption  is  to  keep  up  the  value  or  price 
of  the  stock  ;  so  that  the  stockholder  may  at  any  time  sell  out 
at  the  price  he  bought  in.  This  stability  in  value  induces  per- 
sons, having  money  on  hand,  to  invest  the  same  in  the  purchase 
of  stocks,  knowing  when  the  money  is  wanted  to  provide  for  his 
children,  to  improve  his  estate,  or  to  engage  in  business,  that  he 
can  sell  out  of  the  stocks  without  loss.  Not  only  is  the  stability 
of  the  price  of  the  stocks  advantageous  to  the  stockholder,  but 
Government  itself  is  deeply  concerned  therein  ;  and  at  no  time 
so  much  concerned  as  in  time  of  war,  and  especially  in  a  war,  the 
expenses  of  which  are  to  be  wholly  defrayed  by  a  series  of  Loans. 

As  the  borrowing  by  a  Government,  is  nothing  more  than  sell- 
ing its  Bonds,  or  certificates  of  stock,  it  requires  no  proof  to 
show,  that  the  higher  the  price  of  stock,  the  more  money  will 
Govt,  receive  on  the  sale  of  its  certificates  or  stock.  If  the  6  per, 
cents  were  now  at  98  or  99,  as  they  were  at  the  declaration  of 
war,  Govt,  would  receive  98  or  99  dollars  for  every  certificate  of 
100  dollars  ;  instead  of  receiving  only  88  and  a  fraction  dollars, 
as  it  did  upon  the  last  Loan.  The  Sinking  Fund,  instead  of  being 
violated,  should  have  been  suffered  to  continue  in  full  opera- 
tion ;  every  new  Loan  should  have  been  accompanied  by  the 
provision  of  an  increase  of  the  S.  F.  sufficient  to  pay  off  such 
Loan  in  a  given  time,  and  taxes  sufficient  to  pay  the  expense  of 
the  Peace  Establishment  and  the  interest  of  the  Debt,  including 
the  new  Loans,  should  have  been  raised  within  each  year.  Had 
this  been  done,  the  stocks  would  have  maintained  their  value  ; 
Individuals  would  more  readily  lend,  and  the  Govt,  would  effect 
their  Loans  with  greater  certainty  and  on  better  terms. 


VOL.  V. — 25 


386  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

Indeed  without  adding  to  the  8  million  Fund,  which  may 
properly  be  called  part  of  the  S.  F.,  as  the  same  existed  at  the 
declaration  of  war  ;  if  the  8  million  Fund  had  been  annually 
increased  by  a  sum  sufficient  to  pay  the  interest  of  the  new 
Loans,  it  would  have  had  great  influence  in  maintaining  the 
price  of  the  stocks,  and  would  be  moreover,  sufficient  to  redeem 
the  whole  Debt,  including  the  new  Loans,  in  a  limited  time. 

A  Nation  cannot  carry  on  a  war  by  Loans,  unless  it  have  an  an- 
nual income  equal  to  the  annual  interest  upon  its  Debt,  and  more- 
over sufficient  to  apply  an  annual  sum  towards  the  redemption  of 
the  principal  of  every  Loan  ;  nor  can  this  be  done  in  our  own 
country  unless  the  system  of  commercial  restrictions  and  Embar- 
goes be  absolutely  and  forever  abandoned. 


Endorsed  by  R.  K.     Loan  Bill  debate  continued  Mar.  18,  1814. 

Remark — The  division  of  the  Sinking  Fund,  by  making  Loans 
to  redeem  Loans,  ill  policy  ;  bad  economy,  because  as  you  pay  off 
at  the  nominal  amount  of  the  Debt,  and  sell  new  stock  to  raise  the 
money,  you  are  losers  by  the  operation  of  the  amount  of  discount 
upon  the  sale  ;  and  the  Debt  is  increased  by  as  much  more,  as  the 
new  stock  sold  under  par,  exceeds  the  old  stock  redeemed.  Thus  if 
the  stock  be  90,  or  at  a  discount  of  10  pr.  ct,  you  must  sell  1100 
dollars  to  redeem  1000. 

Report  of  Debate  on  Loan  Bill. 
(Not  in  R.  K.'s  writing) 

Mr.  King  said  he  would,  notwithstanding  the  inducement  to 
retort  and  criminate,  to  do  which  he  did  not  feel  himself  incom- 
petent, confine  himself  to  his  original  purpose.  He  said  the 
Honorable  Gentleman,  Mr.  Bibb,  Georgia,  on  the  present  occa- 
sion and  all  others  set  an  example  of  decorum,  which  all  ought 
to  imitate.  He  then  examined  the  constitutional  sample  set  up 
by  Mr.  Brown.  Mr.  King  felt  no  difficulty  as  it  regarded  the 
privileges  of  the  other  Branch  ;  it  would  be  competent  to  protect 
its  own  rights.  Mr.  King  replied  to  the  observations  of  Mr.  Bibb 
of  Kentucky,  more  repugnant  than  any  oration  delivered  in  fifty 
years.    He  had  not  supposed  any  gentleman  so  informed.    If  moral 


1814]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  387 

sense  was  as  obligatory,  why  a  bond  ?  Why  establish  courts  of 
Law  ?  If  men  be  morally  honest,  lawyers  may  learn  other  trades. 
It  seems  to  be  held  that  if  a  man  doubt  the  obligation  and  force 
of  morality,  he  is  an  assassin.  If  enlightened  jurists  be  necessary 
to  coerce  contracts  of  moral  individuals,  what  will  be  necessary  to 
coerce  Congress  ?  Corporations  have  no  conscience.  For  the 
reason  Congress  cannot  be  sued,  is  a  strong  reason  why  a  public 
Creditor  wishes  something  equivalent  to  the  agency  of  courts. 
Ask  in  what  case,  in  which  funds  had  not  been  set  apart  for  Loans 
and  a  war  conducted  on  such  principles,  an  explosion  in  the  pub- 
lic credit  did  not  follow.  If  he  wished  to  advise  the  measure, 
that  would  sooner  overthrow  the  government  than  any  other,  he 
would  recommend  proceeding  without  pledging  funds. 

Mr.  King  then  replied  to  the  remarks  of  Mr.  Bibb,  of  Kentucky 
relative  to  the  Laws  of  the  Confederation  to  pledge.  Moral  hon- 
esty existed  then  as  much  as  it  does  now  ;  but  the  States  did  not 
furnish  their  Quotas.  An  illustration  of  my  ideas  of  the  efficacy 
of  moral  sense. 

Can  any  man  doubt  that  with  a  designated  and  pledged  Fund, 
you  can  borrow  on  better  terms  ?  Which  would  most  likely  suc- 
ceed a  Bill  with  or  without  a  sufficient  pledge  ?  He  replied  to  the 
inconsistency  of  Mr.  Bibb,  that  a  former  administration  had  put 
its  hands  too  deeply  into  the  people's  pocket.  Compare  the  econ- 
omy of  the  present  and  former.  As  to  the  power  of  Congress  to 
pass  a  law  which  a  future  Congress  cannot  repeal,  Mr.  King  made 
a  few  very  irresistible  observations. 

Mr.  King  replied  to  Mr.  Bibb,  of  Georgia,  as  to  the  amount  of 
the  public  Debt.  He  apprehended  the  several  charges  then  will 
be  a  deficit  of  4  millions.  Here  Mr.  King  stated  Mr.  Bibb's  idea, 
and  then  quoted  from  the  Laws  to  establish  his  own  hypothesis — 
90-95 — Comment — a  process  in  law  by  which  a  Nation  may  be 
made  to  do  justice.  Mr.  King  stated  the  operation  of  the  Sink- 
ing Fund,  as  working  a  security  to  the  Creditors.  Have  I  not 
made  out  a  case?  And  is  not  this  revenue,  the  Sinking  Fund  al- 
ready pledged  ? 

Here  Mr.  Bibb,  of  G,  explained — 

Mr.  K.  said  he  was  not  aware  that  the  correction  changed  his 
ground.  To  apply  the  Sinking  Fund  in  the  mode  spoken  of  is 
following  a  fraud.     The  advantages  of   the  Sinking  Fund.     It 


388  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

would  allow  the  Creditor  to  exchange  your  stock  in  market  for  his 
money  when  he  wanted  it.  The  ludicrous  idea  of  a  Sinking  Fund 
furnished  by  borrowing  illustrated  by  a  promising  himself,  without 
an  undertaking  to  the  Creditor,  to  appropriate  a  certain  sum  to 
discharge  his  Debts — finds  it  inconvenient  and  revokes.  The 
Sinking  Fund  is  an  addition  to  the  original  obligation.  What 
will  be  the  consequence,  if  progressing  in  this  way  ?  Consult  the 
true  state  of  the  finances.  He  pressed  an  attention  to  the  impor- 
tance to  the  public  Credit.  He  hoped  we  should  come  out  of  this 
war  with  credit — and  the  attainment  to  a  reasonable  extent  of  the 
object  for  which  it  is  prosecuted. 

Mr.  K.  stated  the  estimates  of  the  money  required  for  1814,  and 
then  the  ways  and  means  ;  can  gentlemen  then  expect  that  they 
will  not  fail  when  their  expenses  exceed  ?  He  concluded  by  a 
simple  and  different  view  by  way  of  a  reply  to  Mr.  Bibb  of  Georgia. 
The  Sinking  Fund  is  pledged  for  the  Debt  antecedent  to  the  war  ; 
if  any  man  will  deny  it,  I  will  sit  down.  You  offer  a  pledge  of 
faith  by  a  violation  of  faith.  He  had  not  the  power  nor  the  in- 
clination to  deceive.  He  had  a  desire  to  aid  the  Loan.  If  this 
Loan  fails  we  are  degraded  not  only  in  our  own  eyes,  but  in  the 
eyes  of  our  enemy.  I  hoped  all  would  cooperate.  I  disdain  the 
insinuation  of  being  influenced  by  scorching  ambition.  Mr.  King 
here  enlarged  in  an  emphatic  and  energetic  manner,  in  which  he 
asserted  his  motives  &c.*  He  was  pleased  with  the  annunciation 
of  Mr.  Jefferson,  but  he  had  not  acted  up  to  his  promises.  He 
begged  gentlemen  to  look  at  the  proposition  on  its  own  merits. 
He  did  not  claim  greater  sagacity  or  experience  ;  but  he  had 
some  years  and  had  seen  what  had  happened  in  other  countries. 

*  See  Appendix  IV. 


CHAPTER   XXL 

Morris  to  King — Where  in  God's  Name  is  this  to  end  ? — King — Conversation 
with  the  Secy,  of  War — About  Conquest  of  Canada — With  Col.  Monroe — 
Relative  to  the  Bank-Bill — Is  an  Armistice  probable — Has  the  Admiral 
Power  to  make  it  ? — King  to  Morris — Wishes  he  could  console  him  in  the 
present  State  of  Affairs — National  Bank — Is  Armistice  probable  ? — King 
to  Gore — No  Peace  in  Europe  till  Bonaparte  receives  Coup  de  Grace — 
The  Impressment  said  not  to  be  of  pressing  Importance  now — Peace  on 
any  Terms — Jay  to  King — Morris'  Address  on   Overthrow  of  Napoleon, 

King  To Believes   Peace  will   be  made,   England  and  the    Maritime 

Powers  want  it — Drain  of  Specie — Proposed  Coalition  of  N.  Y.  and  South- 
ern  Banks — Remarks  on  it — King  to  Gore — Advises  no  Association  with 
Southern  Banks — Farther  Remarks  on  the  financial  Condition — Gore  to 
King — Boston  Bank — Specie  going  to  Canada — Do  not  consider  the  New 
Loan  satisfactory  Security  for  Loans — King — Memorandum  of  State  of 
Negotiations. 

G.  Morris  to  R.  King. 

Morrisania,  March  23,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  to  thank  you,  tho'  late,  for  Favors  long  since  received. 
The  Report  of  the  Secretary  at  War  will  do  no  Credit  to  the 
Administration  or  to  the  Country.  That  of  the  Commissioners 
of  the  Sinking  Fund  is  shocking.  Where,  in  God's  name  is  all 
this  to  End  ?  Men  without  Talents,  administering  the  Powers 
of  a  conventional  Government  over  Communities  which  boast 
of  Freedom,  exercise  a  Tyranny  which  would  drive  the  Slaves 
of  Asia  to  Despair,  and  no  Man  is  hardy  enough  to  raise  a  finger. 
Am  I  awake  or  do  I  dream  ?  Is  this  the  People  that  resisted  a 
mere  Claim  of  arbitrary  Power  ?  It  seems  to  me  I  was  once  a 
Member  of  Congress  during  a  revolutionary  War  ;  but  is  it  certain 
there  was  such  a  thing  as  a  Congress  ?  Was  there  a  revolution- 
ary War  ?  If  I  venture  to  groan  aloud  I  am  told  to  be  patient — 
to  wait  ; — and  what  are  we  to  wait  for  ?     Must  we  wait  till  the 

389 


390  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

Claws  of  a  human  Tiger  rake  our  stinking  Bowels  to  look  for  a 
Heart  ?  We  once  had  Hearts — Hearts  that  beat  high  with  the 
Love  of  Liberty — But  tis  over,  Adieu — I  will  not  plague  my 
friends  with  the  Expression  of  my  Anguish — God  bless  you. 

Yours, 

Gouv.  Morris. 


Endorsed,  Conversation  Between  the  Secy,  of  War  and 

R.  K. 

April  5,  18 14. 

Secy  of  War — Wilkinson  having  scented  the  intention  to 
bring  him  before  a  Court  of  Enquiry,  has  demanded  a  Court 
Martial.  This  will  be  granted,  but  as  the  requisite  number  of 
Generals  cannot  be  spared  to  try  W.  he  will  remain  in  service  : 
probably  he  may  be  ordered  to  take  the  command  at  Washington 
and  generally  upon  the  Chesapeake.  Porter  will  be  nominated 
Brig.  Genl.  to  command  at  Norfolk,  where  Parker,  whom  the 
Senate  negatived,  was  to  have  commanded.  An  officer  other 
than  a  Virginian  required,  on  the  score  of  economy. 

R.  K.  How  are  you  going  on  with  the  recruiting  service  ?  and 
will  you  invade  Canada  this  year  ?  S.  W. — If  we  are  in  earnest 
the  recruiting  would  proceed  well — but  new  views  are  enter- 
tained— pains  are  taken  to  impress  upon  the  Western  States,  that 
Canada  is  a  fertile  and  desirable  country, — if  acquired  by  the 
U.  S.  that  the  surplus  population  of  the  East  will  go  to  Canada, 
and  not  as  now  to  the  Western  States — that  the  consequence 
will  be  to  check  their  population  and  prosperity — this  will  endure 
until  Canada  be  filled — hence  it  will  be  expedient  to  defer  the 
acquisition  of  Canada  until  the  Western  States  are  fully  populated 
and  their  vacant  lands  taken  up  and  settled — There  will  be  no 
Peace.  R.  K.  You  have  then  changed  your  opinion  which  was 
lately  favorable  to  the  expectation  of  an  early  Peace. 

S.  W.  I  have  altered  my  opinion.  I  think  the  late  and  great 
success  of  the  allies  will  indispose  G.  Br.;  their  terms  will  be  too 
hard,  and  a  war  pulse  will  be  excited  upon  the  failure  of  the  mission 
to  Gottenburgh.  In  this  case  we  must  take  Canada  and  Nova 
Scotia. 

R.  K.  Are  you  not  mistaken  about  your  expected  war  pulse  ? 
What  reason  have  you  to  conclude  that  your  Cabinet  will  not 


1 8 14]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  39 1 

descend  as  G.  B.  rises  ?  And  in  case  of  a  failure  at  Gottenburgh, 
is  it  not  probable  that  another  mission  will  be  despatched  to  sue 
again  for  Peace  ? 

S.  W.  It  cannot,  or  rather  ought  not  to  be  expected.  R.  K. 
One  other  view  of  the  subject — Do  you  believe,  and  if  you  do, 
are  you  not  deceived,  that  you  or  any  other  man  of  talents  from 
the  East  will  be  permitted  to  acquire  the  credit  of  conquering 
Canada,  or  of  rendering  any  other  important  service  to  the 
country  ?  I  do  not  wait  for  a  reply,  but  express  my  own  opinion 
that  the  Virginia  Dynasty  will  never  allow  to  you  an  opportunity 
to  take  Canada.  Peace  is  the  order,  and  the  object,  of  the  day. 
It  is  to  be  sought  for,  and  accepted  upon  the  best  terms  which 
can  be  attained.  But  Peace  must  be  had  upon  any  terms.  R.  K. 
was  at  no  loss  to  interpret  the  feelings  of  the  S.  W.  and  broke 
off  the  conference. 


Col.  Monroe. 

April  6,  1814. 

K.  Will  the  Bank  Bill  pass  ?  M.  I  do  not  know,  but  the 
juncture  is  favorable.  K.  Will  the  President  consent  or  refuse 
the  bill  ?  M.  I  am  not  able  to  say  with  confidence  ;  but  I  think 
he  might  regard  the  measure  as  expedient ;  and  if  the  Legislature 
pass  a  Law  for  a  Bank,  notwithstanding  his  former  doubt  he  might 
suffer  the  Bill  to  become  a  Law  without  his  signature.  K.  Will 
not  the  relinquishment  of  the  restrictive  system  occasion  great 
difficulty  and  vexation  in  the  importation  of  Eng.  Goods  ?  they 
can  come  only  as  neutral  property,  but  will  be  liable  to  seizure 
and  detention  by  both  Eng.  and  Amer.  Cruizers  and  officers,  as 
American  or  English  property.  Would  it  not  be  expedient  by 
Law  to  Vest  in  the  President  extensive  powers  relative  to  the  im- 
portations and  exportations  of  the  U.  S.  ?  All  other  Governments 
leave  this  power  in  their  Executives.  It  may  be  equally  the  dis- 
position, and  the  interest,  of  G.  B.  and  of  the  U.  S.  to  mitigate 
the  Laws  of  war,  and  to  give  from  time  to  time  to  their  respective 
Cruizers  instructions  to  permit  a  regulated  intercourse  between 
the  two  countries.  M.  I  perceive  that  the  difficulties  to  which 
you  refer  will  exist.  The  merchants  and  ships  of  the  U.  S.  will 
derive  little  advantage  from  the  removal  of  the  restrictive  system. 
Neutrals  only  will  be  benefitted.     Perhaps  it  will  be  advisable  that 


392  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

a  pretty  extensive  power  should  be  vested  in  the  hands  of  the 
President.  K.  If  there  be  a  reasonable  hope  of  Peace,  why  pro- 
ceed immediately  to  fill  up  the  army — Why  invade  Canada,  when 
the  Status  quo  ante  bellum  will  restore  it,  should  you  have  taken  it  ? 
M.  If  Congress  remain  two  or  three  weeks  in  session,  something 
important  from  Europe  may  be  expected.     The  Bramble  sailed 

from  this  Country and  must  have  long  ago  arrived  in  Eng.  If 

ministers  be  immediately  appointed  to  proceed  to  Gottenburgh, 
and  evidence  shews  itself  of  the  expectation  of  an  early  Peace,  we 
shall  learn  it  ;  we  shall  know  it  shortly  ;  moreover  despatches 
from  the  Continent  may  be  soon  expected.  K.  Do  you  believe 
that  the  Br.  Adl.  has  any  power  to  conclude  an  armistice  ?  M. 
I  know  he  has  power.  K.  That  is  extraordinary.  I  recollect 
no  example  of  Eng.  ever  having  granted  any  such  power,  except 
to  Warren — She  has  constantly  declined  a  truce  upon  the  ocean  in 
all  her  modern  wars.  The  offer  of  an  Armistice  to  America  was 
I  suspect  without  precedent.  (Mr.  M.  appeared  to  be  shook  in 
his  opinion,  or  as  he  said  knowledge,  that  the  Adl.  on  this  station 
has  a  power  to  conclude  an  Armistice.)  K.  I  hope  that  if  Peace 
be  expected  the  evils  of  war  may  be  diminished  as  much  as 
possible.  M.  distinctly  insinuated  that  they  expected  informa- 
tion which  would  change  our  affairs,  and  that  Congress  would  be 
wanted  to  adjust  the  laws  to  such  expected  change. 

U^gr0  An  Armistice  is  possibly  expected  ? 

K.  Has  Crawford  made  any  progress  ?  M.  He  has  pressed 
the  claim  of  compensation  with  strenuousness.  The  Duke  of 
Vicence  used  general  assurance.  Crawford  returned  to  the 
charge  and  again  pressed  the  claim.  The  Duke  in  answer  ad- 
mitted the  justice  of  the  claim  for  compensation  and  engaged  to 
submit  the  subject  to  the  Emperor.  Crawford  again  pressed  the 
subject,  and  the  Duke  left  Paris  to  appear  at  the  Congress  of 
Chatillon. 


R.  King  to  G.  Morris. 

Washington,  April  10,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Owing  to  my  confinement  for  nearly  a  fortnight  by  an  inflam- 
mation of  one  of  my  Eyes,  I  have  not  been  able,  more  seasonably, 


1 8 14]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  393 

to  thank  you  for  one  or  two  letters  that  I  have  received  from  you 
during  this  time. 

I  wish  I  could  console  you,  by  disproving  your  representation 
of  the  degraded  and  dangerous  condition  of  the  country.  Where, 
and  in  what,  the  disorder  of  our  Affairs  will  end  no  one  can  pre- 
dict. 

The  entire  derangement  of  the  Finances,  joined  to  the  late  news 
from  France,  drove  the  President  to  abandon  the  restrictive  sys- 
tem. But  so  long  as  the  Enemy  keeps  up  the  Blockade,  altho' 
English  Goods  may  come  in,  the  Produce  of  the  Country  not 
being  suffered  to  go  out,  the  Payment  for  Eng.  Goods  must  be 
made  in  Specie,  and  thereby  the  difficulties  which  the  Govt,  al- 
ready feel,  will  be  increased,  not  lessened,  by  the  new  attitude,  as 
it  is  called. 

Mr.  Astor,  for  himself,  Parish  &  Girard,  has  been  here  rec- 
ommending to  the  administration  the  immediate  Establishment 
of  a  National  Bank,  and  has  assured  them  the  measure  would  en- 
able the  Govt,  immediately  to  borrow  of  the  Bank  15  Millions  of 
Dollars.  An  effort  to  incorporate  such  a  Bank  was  made,  but  has 
been  abandoned,  in  the  H.  of  Reps. 

A  Judge  Moers,  or  some  such  name,  was  in  Canada  some  three 
months  since,  where  he  and  Adjutant  Genl.  Baynes  talked  about 
an  armistice  ;  Baynes  expressing  himself  favorably  about  it.  Judge 
Moers,  who  lives  in  the  N.  E.  part  of  New  York,  reported  this 
conversation  to  a  Mr.  Winter,  a  Representative  from  that  Quarter, 
in  Congress;  he  communicated  it  to  Genl.  Armstrong,  who 
authorized  Genl.  Winder  (who  lately  returned  from  a  visit  to  his 
family,  to  his  Prison  in  Quebec)  to  confer  with  Sir  Geo.  Provost 
concerning  it,  alluding  to  the  subject  as  an  overture  made  by 
Baynes.  Sir  George  not  admitting  that  Baynes  was  authorized  to 
hold  any  conversation  with  Moers,  said  an  armistice  was  a  good 
thing,  and  that  he  should  not  object  to  make  an  armistice  upon 
the  Nova  Scotia  and  Canada  frontier,  including  the  Lakes.  He 
was  asked  if  he  could  extend  it  to  the  maritime  frontier  ;  he 
answered  ambiguously  or  negatively  ;  and  being  asked  whether 
the  admiral  on  this  station  possessed  power  to  give  to  an  armis- 
tice this  Extension,  he  recommended  the  enquiry  to  be  made  of 
the  admiral.  Such  is  understood  to  be  Winder's  communication 
lately  received  by  Government.     The  Cabinet  has  taken  measures 


394  RUFUS  KING.  [i#l4 

to  ascertain  from  the  Admiral,  whether  a  maritime  armistice  will 
be  consented  to  by  him  ;  and  as  there  is  some  reason  to  believe 
that  the  Admiral  has  lately  arrived  in  the  Chesapeake,  the  enquiry 
will  be  likely  to  receive  an  early  response.  Our  Rulers  would 
most  gladly  now  accept  what  they  refused  when  Warren  offered 
it.  But  I  have  no  belief  that  the  Admiral  has  any  power  to  con- 
sent to  a  maritime  truce,  or  to  unblockade  our  ports.  I  there- 
fore have  little  expectation  that  any  relief  from  the  Blockade  will 
be  had,  until  Peace  be  concluded.  On  that  subject  I  cannot  but 
believe  that  the  mission  to  Gottenburgh  will  make  Peace  upon  the 
best  Terms  that  they  can  obtain — because  the  Administration 
must  see  that  they  cannot  carry  on  the  war  another  year. 
With  great  regard  &  Esteem  I  am,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 
P.  S.     The  Rumour  of  an  armistice  is  expected  to  help  the 
Loan.     Congress  have  agreed  to  adjourn  on  the  18th  instant. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  May  24,  1814. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  next  news  from  Europe,  as  I  hope,  will  be  still 
more  decisive  than  that  reed,  by  the  late  arrivals — I  shall  not 
think  the  work  done,  nor  can  I  expect  Repose  in  the  world,  until 
the  Tyrant  receives  the  coup  de  Grace.  Any  treaty  with  Bona- 
parte would  be  insecure — I  care  nothing  about  the  Bourbons,  but 
by  their  reestablishment  there  may  be  and  probably  will  be  a 
Peace  of  considerable  duration — I  therefore  earnestly  hope  that 
the  Allies  will  persevere  until  Bonaparte  be  expelled  from  France. 

Of  our  Negotiators  I  know  nothing  but  what  was  equally 
known  to  you  before  we  left  Washington,  except  that  a  letter 
from  Beasley  (Corny,  of  Prisoners  London)  to  Charles,  reed,  by 
the  latter  lately  arrived,  mentions,  that  Gallatin  &  Bayard,  were 
in  Holland,  that  the  former  had  applied  for  Passports  to  come  to 
England,  that  he  Beasley  having,  thro  the  Bermuda  News  Paper, 
ascertained  that  Gallatin  was  appointed  to  negotiate  at  Gotten- 
burgh, had  sent  him  notice  thereof,  and  concluded  that  he  would 
proceed  thither — so  that  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  Gottenburgh 
negotiations  will  be  assisted  by  Gallatin. 


1814]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  395 

Of  terms  I  can  suggest  no  new  thought — except  that,  should  a 
continental  Peace  have  been  concluded,  or  its  conclusion  believed 
to  be  near,  our  Envoys  wd.  say  the  Question  of  Impressment  had 
ceased  to  be  of  present  importance.  Peace  might  be  concluded 
upon  the  Status  quo,  and  the  Discussion  respecting  Impressment 
taken  up  after  the  Conclusion  of  the  War.  This  would  be  but  a 
poor  Escape  ;  but  if  I  mistake  not,  would  be  preferred  to  the  Con- 
tinuance of  the  War.  Wise  and  intelligent  as  we  are,  does  any 
one  doubt  that  the  Country  wd.  still  adhere  to,  and  approve  such 
a  Device  of  the  Administration  ?  I  am  persuaded  that  those  who 
approved  the  Embargo,  &c,  and  who  approved  also  its  Repeal, 
after  approving  the  war  for  Sailors'  Rights,  will  approve  of  a 
Peace  that  takes  no  care  of  them. 

Democracy  honored  &  loved  Louis  XVI. — it  loved  &  honored 
Robespierre  &  Company  who  murdered  him,  it  loved  and  honored 
Bonaparte  who  overturned  them,  and  should  it  happen  that  Louis 
18th  expels  Bonaparte,  and  reigns  in  his  Place,  he  will  succeed  to 
the  good  will,  favor,  &  partiality  of  our  Democracy. 

And  there  is  no  inconsistancy  in  all  this,  because  it  is  not  attach- 
ment to  France  but  hatred  of  England  which  occasions  these 
apparent  changes.  What  becomes  of  Jacob's  5  Mil.  of  the  Loan, 
I  know  not ;  he  applied  in  the  city  for  1^  Mil.  to  pay  his  first 
Instalment  due  to-morrow,  could  not  obtain  a  cent — went  to 
Albany  came  back  without  success,  and  has  returned  I  believe  to 
Washington.  Miserable  administration  to  be  reduced  to  seek  the 
aid  of  such  men.  Our  Legislature  is  democratic,  so  that  I  fear 
German  will  lose  his  seat.  I  hear  nothing  of  a  successor,  who 
will  succeed  German  ?  I  have  reed,  half  a  Doz.  applications  for 
my  vote  for  a  successor  to  poor  Otis.     But  have  answered  none. 

R.  K. 


John  Jay  to  R.  King. 

Bedford,  June  23,  1S14. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  this  morning  ree'd  your  obliging  Letter  of  20  Inst.  I  sin- 
cerely rejoice  in  the  events  to  which  you  allude  and  should  be 
happy  to  join  our  Friends  in  the  proposed  Celebration  of  them. 
.  .  .  The  oration  will  doubtless  correspond  with  the  acknowl- 
edged Talents  of  the  Author.     The  subject  certainly  has  Bear- 


396  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

ings  on  and  towards  Topics  which  prudential  Considerations 
render  delicate  ;  and  which  it  is  desirable  should  be  treated  ac- 
cordingly. I  presume  it  will  be  committed  to  your  consideration 
and  that,  under  a  joint  Revision,  it  will  be  freed  from  any  Idea  or 
Expression  of  doubtful  Expediency  which  in  the  Haste  of  Com- 
position may  have  escaped  uncorrected.  * 

Circumstanced  as  I  am,  I  can  only  thank  my  Friends  for  think- 
ing of  me  and  express  my  Regret  that  I  cannot  be  with  them  on 
so  joyful  an  occasion. 

Unless  I  regain  more  Health  and  strength  than  I  at  present 
enjoy,  I  cannot  promise  myself  the  satisfaction  of  seeing  my 
Friends  any  where  but  here,  and  here  it  will  always  give  me 
pleasure  to  receive  them.  It  cannot  be  necessary  to  say  that  I 
number  you  among  them  ;  so  that  I  am  with  the  best  wishes  for 
your  Health  and  Prosperity 

Dr.  Sir  your  obt.  Servt. 

John  Jay 

R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  July  11,  1S14. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  obliged  to  you  for  more  than  one  unacknowledged  Letter. 
I  scarcely  know  what  authority  to  give  to  Mr.  B.  &  G.  opinions 
concerning  Peace — Without  communication  with  those,  who  only 
could  impart  correct  information  concerning  the  Views  of  the 
Eng  Govt.,  they  could  form  no  better  opinion  in  England  than  in 
Russia — Neither  of  these  Gentlemen,  in  the  present  situation  of 
the  two  Countries,  had  any  business  in  England.     Had  they  felt 

*  "  On  Thursday,  the  16th  of  June,  the  diary  of  Gouverneur  Morris  mentions 
a  large  party  at  Mr.  Gracie's,  where  a  plan  was  made  for  a  federal  celebration  of 
the  European  peace  settled  ;  and  on  the  20th  June  Morris  says  "  Mr.  Coles  and 
General  Clarkson  come  to  ask  that  I  will  pronounce  an  oration  at  a  meeting  to 
celebrate  the  restoration  of  the  Bourbons.     Promise." 

"Go,  between  eleven  and  twelve  (June  20th),  to  a  church  where,  after  a 
prayer  from  Dr.  Mason,  I  pronounce  an  oration  of  triumph  to  celebrate  the 
downfall  of  Bonaparte  and  the  restoration  of  the  Bourbons,  with  the  conse- 
quent peace  to  Europe.  This  oration,  tolerably  well  written,  was,  in  part, 
well  delivered.  The  audience  were  well  satisfied.  Dine  with  some  of  them 
afterwards  at  the  Washington  Hall  ;  a  number  of  tolerable  toasts  ;  Mr.  King  in 
the  chair."— Diary  6°  Letters,  II p.  565. 


1 814]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  397 

upon  this  point  as  they  ought,  they  wd.  not  have  appeared  in 
England,  where  they  are  liable  on  mere  suspicion  to  be  confined, 
or  to  be  sent  with  ignominy  out  of  the  Country. 

It  is  manifest  that  the  democratic  Party  are  disappointed,  and 
confounded,  by  the  overthrow  of  Bonaparte — they  affect  to  be, 
and  perhaps  are,  alarmed  at  the  Politics  of  England,  and  assert 
that  she  will  be  indisposed  to  Peace  with  us. 

I  am  of  a  different  opinion,  and  still  believe  that  we  shall  have 
Peace,  provided  that  the  Envoys  are  not  limited  in  their  powers 
— I  mean  Peace  consistent  with  the  just  Rights  of  the  Country. 

I  cannot  desire  peace  on  other  terms, — We  must  not  relinquish 
Territory  (the  Louisiana  Boundary  is  an  open  question),  we 
must  not  yield  any  maritime  Rights  appertaining  to  the  Sover- 
eignty ;  we  must  therefore  retain  the  Right  to  use  the  Ocean  for 
Navigation  and  Fishery — The  Coasts,  Bays  &  Shores  of  other 
countries  are  their  coasts,  bays  &  shores,  and  like  our  own  to  us, 
subject  to  their  Control. 

The  Ministers  before  this  Date  are  met  at  Gottenburgh,  or  else 
where — a  long  time  cannot  be  wanted  to  ascertain  whether  a 
Peace  can  be  made — so  that  the  Result  will,  in  all  probability  be 
known  here  before  October. 

I  think  England  as  well  as  the  Maritime  Allies  must  desire 
Peace  between  America  and  England — the  Market  of  the  U.  S. 
is  of  more  value  to  England  than  that  of  all  Europe.  The  Con- 
tinent is  impoverished  and  cannot  pay  for  the  supplies  England 
could  furnish — on  the  other  side,  tho'  we  have  wasted  our  oppor- 
tunity to  grow  more  rich,  we  are  still  able  to  purchase  and  pay  for 
the  supplies  the  Country  may  require.  Spain,  Portugal,  France, 
Holland,  Russia  and  perhaps  others  will  want  our  ships  and  ser- 
vices in  resuming  their  Trade,  into  which  at  least  temporarily  we 
should  immediately  enter,  were  we  not  involved  in  a  foolish  & 
unprofitable  war.  The  President  must  now  be  convinced  that  he 
can  gain  nothing  by  prosecuting  the  war  ;  his  tone  may  continue 
to  be  lofty,  but  his  terms  will  lower.  Not  only  can  nothing  be 
gained  by  prosecuting  the  war,  but  the  present  administration 
cannot  go  on  with  it  if  they  would,  because  they  have  omitted  to 
lay  Taxes,  and  will  be  unable  to  make  Loans.  On  this  head, 
affairs  are  at  the  present  moment  highly  critical,  the  Drain  of 
Specie  continues  to  exhaust  the   Bks   here  and  to   the   south. 


398  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

Smith,  Cashier  of  one  of  the  Baltimore  Bks,  Parish,  Girard,  & 
Astor  lately  made  a  provisional  contract,  to  take  7  mil.  of  the  re- 
maining 15  of  the  25  Mil.  Loan. — the  reduced  Treasure  of  the 
Baltimore  &  Philadelphia  Bks  has  discouraged  them,  and  they 
have  declined  the  Contract  at  85  pCt. 

Smith  and  a  person  with  him  from  one  of  the  Philadelphia 
Bks  are  at  N.  Yk  ;  desiring  to  bring  about  a  coalition  of  the 
NYk.  Phil.  &  Bait.  Bks  in  order,  that  by  mutual  succour  they 
may  mutually  uphold  each  other.  Fresh  Drafts  from  your  quar- 
ter are  said  to  hang  over  the  City — when  brought  forward,  the 
City  Bks  will  draw  upon  Philad.  &  Bait,  and  there  is  reason  to 
fear  that  they  may  be  compelled  to  follow  the  Example  of  the 
New  Orleans  Bank. 

I  have  been  conversed  with  upon  the  Subject  of  this  Project. — 
My  observation  has  been  to  this  Effect. 

That  to  the  security  of  this  association,  the  Business  of  all  the 
Banks  shd.  be  conducted  by  a  common  Rule  or  Principle,  and 
moreover  that  previously  to  its  adoption,  the  Condition  of  each 
Bank  shd.  be  known  to  all. 

The  current  of  the  removal  of  Specie  has  been  from  the  west- 
ern &  middle  States,  to  the  eastern  ones — whence  it  has  gone  out 
of  the  country,  or  is  hoarded  by  Individuals.  The  Boston  Bks 
are  better  off  than  those  in  this  quarter,  tho'  not  so  much  so  as 
is  believed  :  the  discrimination  in  their  favor  has  arisen  from  the 
contraction  of  their  business,  which  has  left  the  power  over 
their  vaults  more  entire. 

The  value  of  specie  in  Europe  is  such  that  a  great  profit  is 
made  by  sending  it  out  of  the  U.  S.  to  that  market ;  no  restraint 
can  effectually  stop  it.  Besides  there  is  great  Reason  to  believe, 
that  Br.  Gov.  Bills,  to  a  great  amount  are  sold  among  us,  and  paid 
for  in  specie,  which  finds  its  way  to  Halifax,  Quebec  and  the  West 
Indies. 

Loans  to  our  own  Govt,  by  some  of  the  Bks  (whether  made  di- 
rectly or  indirectly  is  immaterial)  throw  large  quantities  of  Bk 
notes  into  Circulation,  which  facilitate  the  means  of  Individuals 
to  draw  the  Specie  from  the  Bks. 

The  Result  of  this  State  of  things  cannot  be  mistaken — the 
specie  before  long  will  be  so  diminished,  that  the  Bks  will  be  un- 
able to  answer  the  Demands  upon  them  by  paying  Specie — the 


1814]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  399 

proposed  association  may  defer  a  little,  not  long,  the  crisis, — but 
it  cannot  prevent  it. 

It  has  been  suggested  that  the  Bks  in  the  Middle  states  shd. 
explain  their  situation  to  the  Boston  Bks.  and  obtain  with  them  a 
credit,  which  shd.  enable  them  to  draw  upon  the  Boston  Banks  to 
relieve  themselves.  To  this  project  the  objections  are  strong — 
even  if  the  Boston  Banks  would  redraw,  like  all  the  attempts  to 
preserve  credit  by  merely  drawing  &  redrawing,  the  scheme 
would  fail ;  and  the  amount  of  the  Credit  would  be  drawn  in 
specie  out  of  the  Boston  Banks — besides  if  the  Boston  Bks  have 
curtailed  their  Business,  and  others  have  enlarged  theirs,  the 
proposed  Credit  wd.  put  them  all  on  a  footing. 

Another  plan  has  been  suggested,  viz,  to  extend  the  association 
or  compact  of  mutual  support,  so  as  to  include  the  Boston  Banks. 
To  this  also  all  the  objections  which  lie  against  the  partial 
association  are  applicable. 

The  decisive  objection  is,  that  a  few  months  continuance  of 
the  actual  course  of  things  will  exhaust  all  the  Bks,  if  united  in 
common  support,  and  compel  them  to  refuse  payment  in  specie — 
The  Remedy  adopted  in  England  cannot  be  adopted  here — so 
numerous  are  the  Bks. — so  much  more  numerous  their  Directors 
— so  independent  of  each  other,  and  so  incapable  &  little  worthy 
of  Trust  that,  remove  the  limitation  of  specie  Payments,  and 
the  Country  will  be  flooded  with  Bank  Notes  or  depreciated 
paper  money. 

Peace,  and  that  speedily,  is  the  sole  Remedy  ;  even  that  with- 
out a  System  of  Taxes  will  not  save,  the  Explosion  of  Credit — 
If  the  evils  to  be  apprehended  wd.  fall  upon  our  Bad  Rulers,  one 
would  have  less  solicitude — but  it  will  fall  upon  the  Property, 
and  Prosperity  of  the  Country — and  altho'  in  warding  it  off,  we 
seem  to  be  helping  our  miserable  administration,  we  must  still  at- 
tempt to  save  the  Credit  of  the  Country — all  losses  from  its  fail- 
ure must  be  borne  by  those  who  have  Property — those  who  have 
nothing  can  lose  nothing.  R.  K. 


400  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  July  15,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Since  the  date  of  my  last  letter  I  have  been  in  town,  and  in- 
formed myself  as  well  as  I  could  upon  the  topics  that  I  touched 
upon  in  my  letter.  Smith,  the  Baltimore  Cashier,  had  gone  out  of 
town  to  Long  Branch  on  the  Jersey  Shore,  is  expected  to  return 
in  a  day  or  two,  and  as  I  hear  is  to  proceed  to  Boston — Smith  is 
a  federalist,  was  at  Washington  last  winter — is  reported  to  be 
skillful  in  money  matters,  has  made  money,  and  probably  wd.  like 
to  make  more. 

I  recommended  to  our  N.  Y.  Bank  to  decline  any  association 
with  the  southern  Bks,  but  as  the  Dealers  of  each,  are  also  to  a 
considerable  extent  dealers  of  all  our  Bks,  they  must  mutually 
support  each  other,  provided  all  will  agree  to  use  circumspection, 
and  to  do  business  upon  a  common  Principle. 

The  Drain  of  Specie  that  is  imperceptible,  has  the  effect  to 
lessen  the  cash  at  the  Bks  throughout  the  U.  S.  But  the  con- 
siderable Drafts  (Drafts  for  large  sums)  which  are  occasionally 
presented  on  the  part  of  your  Bank,  and  particularly  the  New 
England  Bank,  excites  alarm  and  dissatisfaction. 

It  is  said  that  the  New  England  Bk  makes  it  a  Business  to  col- 
lect the  notes  of  our  Bks  (giving  in  lieu  thereof  their  own,  and 
perhaps  some  advantage  as  an  Encouragement  for  the  Exchange) 
in  order  to  send  them  on  here  to  be  cashed.  In  ordinary  times 
this  wd.  not  be  regarded  ;  most  likely  would  not  be  practised,  in 
the  difficult  condition  of  the  present  times.  It  is  I  think  very 
much  to  be  regretted.  It  is  not  only  a  Business  which  excites 
odium  among  Political  Parties,  but  one  that  creates  meanness  and 
Disapprobation  among  a  very  numerous  class  of  Men,  whose 
interest  would  be  deeply  affected  by  any  serious  Difficulty  that 
shd.  arise  in  our  monied  Companies. 

As  this  collecting  the  Notes  of  other  Banks  either  to  curtail 
their  Circulation,  or  in  order  to  substitute  the  notes  of  the  Bank 
making  such  Collections,  is  not  among  the  ordinary  Duties  of  a 
Bk,  is  not  of  a  liberal  character,  and  on  the  whole  is  a  mode  of 
making  Profit,  neither  Customary  nor  altogether  creditable,  I 
cannot  avoid  expressing  a  wish  that  the  Practice  may  be  discon- 
tinued ;  since  I  am  confident  that  the  effect  is  contrary  to  their 


1 814]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  40 1 

Interests,  the  security  of  which,  is  without  doubt  of  more  conse- 
quence to  the  Gentlemen  of  the  N.  Engd.  Bank,  than  the  Profits 
derived  from  this  extraordinary  mode  of  business. 

We  hear  or  rather  see  articles  in  the  Papers  concerning  an 
earlier  meeting  of  Congress  than  we  expected,  perhaps  the  Pr. 
may  convene  us  on  the  first  of  Oct. — tho'  I  doubt  it  and  should 
reluctantly  attend  at  that  early  and  unhealthy  Season.     ...  * 

R.  K. 
*  Memorandum  in  R.  King's  Handwriting. 

Messrs.  Smiths,  cashiers  of  the  Baltimore  and  of  one  of  the  Philadelphia 
Banks  had  proposed  in  conversation  at  N.  Y.  (July  9,  18 14)  with  Mr.  Gracie  and 
others  an  association  between  the  N.  Y.,  Phil,  and  Baltimore  Bks  to  answer 
the  Dfts.  from  Boston  or  elsewhere  for  specie  :  the  subject  was  mentioned  to  me. 
My  reflexions  are  : 

That  to  the  security  of  this  association,  the  business  of  all  the  Bks  should  be 
conducted  upon  a  common  principle,  and  the  state  of  the  affairs  of  each  should 
be  known  to  all. 

The  demand  for  specie  arises  from  its  value  in  Europe.  If  British  Bills  of 
exchange  to  a  considerable  amount  are  sold  here,  and  paid  for  in  specie  which 
will  be  removed  from  the  country,  the  Bks  will  with  difficulty  support  the  drain. 
If  loans  to  our  own  Gov.  by  some  or  all  the  Bks  be  made,  whether  directly  or 
indirectly,  is  immaterial ;  the  power  of  individuals  over  the  vaults  of  the  Bks 
will  be  stronger  than  the  associated  Bks  can  meet.  Their  loans,  whether  to  our 
own  or  to  the  British  Gov.  (for  the  purchase  of  Brit.  Gov.  Bills  is  in  its  nature 
a  loan)  operate  disadvantageously  upon  the  Banks  by  withdrawing  the  specie 
from  their  vaults  ;  the  loans  to  Govt,  throwing  into  circulation  a  surplus  of  Bk 
Notes,  which  facilitate  the  drawing  of  specie  out  of  the  Bks — the  sale  of 
British  Gov.  Bills  having  the  like  operation. 

It  is  probable  that  the  Eastern  Banks  are  better  off  than  those  of  the  Middle 
States  ;  tho'  perhaps  not  so  much  so,  as  has  been  supposed.  This  discrimina- 
tion can  arise  from  no  other  cause  than  that  their  Bks  do  little  business,  so 
that  they  retain  the  command  over  their  specie.  If  the  proposed  association  be 
so  extended  as  to  include  the  eastern  Bks,  its  ability  to  ward  off  the  appre- 
hended drain  of  specie  wd.  certainly  be  increased.  But  the  objections  sug- 
gested agt.  the  association  of  the  Bks  of  the  Middle  States  would  apply  to 
this  extension.  Those  who  have  been  extremely  cautious  and  limited  in  their 
loans,  may  be  unwilling  to  make  common  cause  with  others  who  have  dispensed 
with  these  restraints  upon  their  business. 

The  same  objection,  with  increased  force,  would  exist  against  the  project  of 
eastern  Bks  giving  to  the  other  Bks  a  credit  which  would  enable  them  to  confirm 
draft.demands  upon  these  Vaults  by  drafts  upon  the  eastern  Bks,  as  the  effect 
would  be  to  empty  the  vaults  of  the  eastern  Bks  to  the  amount  of  such  credit. 

The  danger  to  the  public  and  private  credit  of  the  country,  so  far  as  the  same 

depend  upon  specie  payments,  is  great ;  and  an  explosion  cannot  for  any  length 
vol.  v. — 26 


402  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Waltham,  July  28,  1814. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  hitherto  omitted  to  reply  to  your  two  Favors  of  the  nth 
&  15th,  because  I  had  not  been  able  to  ascertain  the  Views  & 
Practice  of  the  Boston  Bnks,  in  relation  to  the  Subject  of  your 
Letters. 

The  New  England  Bank  is  the  only  Institution  that  collects  & 
sends  forward  to  New  York  the  Paper  of  their  Banks  for  Specie. 
The  Directors  set  out  with  a  Determination  to  collect  money,  for 
any  one,  in  all  Parts  of  the  Continent,  and  to  receive  in  Deposit 
the  Paper  of  all  Banks.  This  with  the  double  View  of  obtaining 
some  small  Commission,  and  of  inducing  Custom  to  their  Bank — 
By  these  Means  they  drew  Custom  from  the  other  Institutions, 
&  were  enabled  from  this  Circumstance,  &  their  Commission  as 
Brokers,  to  make  a  considerably  larger  Dividend,  than  any  other 
Bank — This  has  exalted  the  value  of  their  stock  as  well  as  their 
own  Conceit  of  their  superior  Wisdom.  Most  of  the  Directors 
are  industrious  &  shrewd  men  but  of  a  very  limited  View. — Their 
great  demand  on  New  York  Banks  does  not  at  present  arise  so 
much  from  their  taking  Bank  Notes,  as  from  taking  Drafts  on 
that  City. — I  rather  believe  from  the  Conversations  I  have  had 
with  them  that  their  Practice  is  not  without  considerable  Hazard 
to  themselves,  and  is  certainly  not  free  from  certain  injury  to 
their  own,  and  the  other  Banks  here,  as  it  occasions  a  great  Influx 
of  the  New  York  Paper,  which  in  some  measure  supplies  that  Cir- 
culation which  would  otherwise  be  filled  with  their  own  Paper. 
It  must  be  in  a  Degree  advantageous  to  the  distant  Banks  to  have 
one  here  to  receive  their  Paper  &  exchange  it  for  that  which 
circulates   at   Home,    yet  when    these   Directors   send   forward 

of  time  be  prevented,  should  the  war  continue.  Peace  alone  can  preserve  the 
credit  of  the  Bks. 

Conference  and  concert  among  the  Bks,  including  those  of  Boston,  may  be 
beneficial.  Tho'  from  the  independence  of  these  conferences  of  each  other, 
from  the  great  number  of  persons  concerned  in  their  direction  and  other  con- 
siderations, these  conferences  even,  unless  managed  with  great  prudence,  may 
prove  mischievous. 

How  much  to  be  regretted  the  dissolution  of  the  Bank  U.  S.  Had  it  been 
renewed  and  its  capital  doubled,  great  assistance  might  have  been  given  to  the 
credit  of  the  Country — and  the  other  Bks  made  much  more  secure. 


1814]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  403 

a  large  sum  &  receive  Specie,  which  is  brought  to  Boston,  it  ex- 
cites odium,  &  should  a  misfortune  happen  to  any  Bank  of  whom 
it  is  received,  from  any  Cause,  the  Evil  will  be  imputed  to  this  In- 
stitution— Although  several  of  the  Gentlemen,  with  whom  I  have 
conversed  assent  to  the  justice  of  these  Remarks  and  would  be 
willing  to  refrain  from  the  Practice,  I  much  fear  whether  they 
will  be  able  to  do  so  until  compelled,  by  the  Diminution  of  their 
own  Specie,  to  contract  their  own  Business  of  every  Kind. — The 
Mass'ts,  Boston,  &  I  believe  the  Union  Banks,  do  not  discount 
to  the  amount  of  their  Capital ;  of  course,  They  do  not  divide 
more  than  4  or  5  per  Ct. 

The  Specie  is  constantly  going  in  Cart  Loads  to  Canada,  be- 
tween which  country  &  the  Eastern  States,  especially  this,  there 
is  an  uninterrupted  trade  in  Bills  of  the  British  Gov't — from  two 
Banks  in  Boston  there  have  departed  1,800,000  Dollars  since  the 
first  of  June.  The  State  Bank  sent  its  Specie,  or  a  considerable 
Portion  of  it,  to  Worcester,  to  save  it  from  British  Invasion  and 
has  been  obliged  to  borrow,  from  their  Neighbours  Specie  to  an- 
swer demands, — They  were  told  the  Week  before  last,  that  they 
must  bring  their  own  Specie  back,  for  no  future  accommodation 
would  be  granted  them — Should  any  application  be  made  to 
these  Banks,  for  a  Coalition  with  those  South  of  them,  it  will  not 
succeed.  Great  Attempts  have  been  made  to  obtain  Credit  here 
for  the  Subscribers  to  the  last  Loan.  The  Massts.  Bank  was 
formally  applied  to  for  a  Loan  of  two  hundred  thousand  Dollars 
in  unquestionable  Security  ;  the  answer  was  prompt,  that  if  the 
Security  was  Satisfactory  the  amount  could  be  had.  The  Pledge 
offered  was  any  Quantity  of  the  last  Loan,  and  the  Reply  as 
prompt  as  the  other,  that  they  should  not  consider  themselves 
secured  for  one  thousand  Dollars,  by  a  Deposit  of  the  whole 
Loan. 

The  whole  of  our  Country  on  the  seaboard  is  most  dreadfully 
disturbed.  In  Newburyport  the  Rich  have  become  poor,  &  those, 
who  were  in  comfortable  Circumstances,  are  Mendicants  —  There 
were  formerly  not  more  than  20  Persons,  who  used  to  receive 
Support  from  the  Town,  out  of  the  Almshouse  —  The  Number  is 
now  244  —  Most  of  them  but  a  few  years  since  good  Livers. 
This  was  from  one  of  the  Overseers  and  is  but  a  Sample  of  all 
the  Towns  on  the  Coast.     The  accounts  from  Eastport  are,  that 


404  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

the  British  have  taken  that  Island  with  the  Intention  of  retaining 
it  as  within  the  Bounds  of  the  English  Territory  as  settled  by  the 
Treaty  of  Peace. 

We  are  rejoiced  to  hear  that  Mrs.  King  has  recruited.  I  think 
within  a  few  days  Mrs.  Gore  appears  to  be  recovering,  and  I  am 
not  without  hopes  that  she  may  be  in  good  health  before  the  time 
arrives  for  commencing  our  journey. 

I  have  never  had  any  fear  of  our  being  summoned  at  an  earlier 
Day,  than  the  first  of  October  —  This  I  have  sometimes  thought 
probable.     Appearances  indicate   that   we  could  not   reside   at 
Washington  without  Perturbation  at  the  present.     .     .     . 
I  remain  as  ever  faithfully  yours. 

C.  Gore. 


By  the  Olivier,  French  Corvette  sailed  6th   July  recd. 

by  Envoys,  18.  Augt. 

Yesterday  Bayard  and  Gallatin's  Letter  was  recd.  from  London. 
The  conclusion  of  the  Continental  War  has  elevated  the  national 
feelings  and  pride.  The  prosecution  of  the  Amer.  War  highly 
popular,  and  pretentions  are  made  to  restrain  our  commerce  and 
fisheries,  to  curtail  our  boundaries,  to  exclude  us  from  the  Lakes 
and  even  to  dismember  the  country. 

Gallatin  and  Bayard  however  are  of  opinion,  that  Peace  may 
be  made  "  by  foregoing,  for  the  present,  to  assert  our  rights  as 
respects  a  principal  object  of  the  war."  Ministers  however  will 
in  their  opinion  prefer  the  adoption  of  regulations  of  abuses  to  an 
entire  omission  of  the  subject  in  the  Treaty. 

From  other  intelligence,  we  learn  that  a  great  Force  is  coming 
agst.  us  from  G.  B.  ;  and  also  that  a  large  Spanish  army  is  to 
proceed  to  Florida,  Louisiana,  or  some  of  the  Southern  States. 
And  moreover  that  a  great  concert  exists  between  Sp.  &  G.  B. 

We  have  no  evidence  that  Russia  has  interposed  her  good  offices 
to  prevent  the  prosecution  of  the  war  agst.  the  U.  S.  by  G.  Br.  ; 
altho'  Russia  is  interested  in  all  questions  of  neutral  Rights. 

The  Vienna  Gazette  asserts  (as  the  Eng.  Gazettes  declare) 
that  an  agreement  has  been  made  between  England  and  the  other 
allies,  to  which  France  is  said  to  have  acceded,  that  none  of  them 


1 8 14]  LIFE' AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  405 

shall  interfere  in  the  war  between  her  and  the  U.  S.  If  so  the 
experiment  of  another  campaign  will  be  made  and  the  negotiation 
delayed  on  that  account. 

There  are  several  papers  containing  the  points  of  a  speech, 
of  which  the  date  is  not  given,  in  favor  of  endeavoring  to 
obtain  peace.  No  continuous  report  is  made,  but  there  is  a 
general  arraignment  of  the  administration  for  its  neglect  to 
prevent  the  declaration  of  the  war,  its  failure  to  accept  the 
offers  of  an  armistice  and  of  other  means  to  bring  it  to  a 
close,  its  prosecution  of  a  system  of  foreign  invasion  instead 
of  making  preparation  to  meet  the  enemy  on  the  ocean,  where 
alone  she  was  truly  vulnerable,  and  the  deranged  financial 
condition.  Mr.  King  claims  that  the  right  of  opposition  to 
such  a  course  is  inherent  in  every  freeman.     He  says  : 

"  The  charge  that  opposition  encourages  the  enemy  and  injures 
the  cause,  has  at  all  times  been  made  as  an  excuse  for  the  failure 
and  defeat  of  a  weak  administration.  ...  If  war  suppresses 
opposition,  the  public  liberties  could  not  endure.  Whether  the 
present  war  was  intended  to  put  down  opposition  I  do  not  know. 
This  has,  tho'  I  hope  erroneously,  been  alleged.  It  should  have 
been  foreseen.  Men  are  to  be  taken  as  they  are,  not  as  theorists 
say  they  should  be.  In  this  view  whether  the  opposition  is  reason- 
able or  not  is  immaterial,  as  the  fact  alone  should  have  been  con- 
sidered. It  should  have  been  foreseen  ;  not  only  so,  but  the 
rejection  of  the  armistice  would  unite  the  enemy  and  confirm  and 
increase  the  opposition.  Neither  the  administration  nor  its  sup- 
porters will  doubt,  what  no  one  can  do,  that  the  friends  of  Peace, 
including  the  Federalists  and  not  a  few  of  their  political  oppo- 
nents, have  as  much  honor  and  integrity  and  as  deep  a  stake  in 
the  preservation  of  the  liberties  and  just  rights  of  their  country, 
as  any  other  description  of  citizens,  however  arrogant  may  be 
their  exclusive  pretentions — and  that  in  defence  of  these  rights, 
on  every  proper  occasion,  none  will  be  more  profuse  of  blood  or 
treasure  than  the  men  who,  while  they  obey  the  laws,  openly  pro- 
fess to  have  no  confidence  in  the  measures  or  the  ability  of  the 
present  weak  and  dangerous  administration.     .     .     . 

"  The  prosecution  of  the  war  is  to  be  continued,  by  creating 


406  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

such  a  pressure  upon  the  resources  of  the  enemy  as  to  compel  him 
to  subscribe  to  reasonable  terms.  It  is  difficult  to  discuss  this 
topic  with  patience.  Comparing  the  uninterrupted  and  prosper- 
ous condition  of  the  commercial  affairs  of  the  enemy,  his  triumphs 
and  his  resources  with  the  coerced  and  ruinous  condition  of  our 
navigation  and  trade,  with  the  result  of  our  campaigns  and  accounts 
of  the  state  of  our  armies,  and  with  the  impoverished  and  ill  con- 
conducted  finances  of  our  country,  how  extraordinary,  how  ex- 
travagant to  talk  of  a  pressure  upon  the  resources  of  our  enemy. 
Is  it  not  the  fact  that  the  prosecution  of  the  war,  if  conducted  as 
heretofore,  by  the  suspension  of  navigation  and  commerce,  by  the 
failures  of  the  army  and  by  the  entire  want  of  system  in  the 
finances,  cannot  operate  a  pressure  upon  the  enemy,  on  the  con- 
trary must  end  in  the  disgrace  of  the  country  and  the  ruin  of  its 
prosperity  ? 

"  If  you  prosecute  the  war  you  must  place  at  the  head  of  the 
finances  an  able  man.  When  before  was  this  department  at  a 
crisis  like  the  present  abandoned  to  clerks,  and  merely  nominal 
directors  ?  You  must  abandon  the  project  of  free  conquest,  and 
preparing  to  defend  your  frontiers,  cast  your  whole  strength  upon 
the  ocean  :  here,  if  anywhere  you  will  make  your  power  felt. 
With  twenty-five  Ships  of  the  line,  a  general  blockade  of  your 
coast  could  not  be  made  ;  with  a  hundred  frigates  and  sloops  of 
war  you  might  materially  affect  the  commerce  of  your  enemy  and 
afford  great  protection  to  your  own  navigation.  This  is  the  natu- 
ral bias  of  your  people  ;  it  will  be  to  advance  the  high  destiny  of 
your  country,  destined  to  become  the  first  maritime  power. 

"  As  but  a  single  subject  occasions  your  extension  of  the  war, 
and  as  that  is  to  become  the  subject  of  negotiation  agreed  to  by 
both  nations,  I  think  it  inexpedient  to  enter  into  any  discussion 
upon  that  head.  I  cannot  avoid,  nevertheless,  from  the  materials 
which  are  before  the  people  to  express  my  apprehension  that  the 
conclusion  of  their  negotiation  will  neither  redound  to  the  security 
of  our  rights,  nor  to  the  honor  of  the  country." 


CHAPTER   XXII. 

King,  Home  Life — Battle  of  Lundy's  Lane — King  to  Gore — Destruction  of 
Washington — Advises  the  Governor  of  New  York  to  call  out  the  Militia 
and  the  Corporation  to  pledge  Assistance  to  defend  the  City — Where  will 
Congress  meet  ? — Armstrong  to  King — Condition  at  Washington — King 
to  Gore — Preparations  against  Attack  in  New  York — Condition  and  Acts  of 
the  Banks — Specie  Payments  stopped — King  to  J.  Mason — Cannot  tell 
where  Congress  will  meet — Public  Credit  has  failed — Banks  agree  to  be 
careful — Will  go  to  Washington  as  soon  as  Congress  meets — Effect  of 
Changes  in  Europe  upon  Negotiations  with  Great  Britain — King  to  Morris 
— Negotiation  probably  failed — Lord  Hill's  Expedition — King  to  Morris 
— Treasury  Empty — Army  could  not  defend  the  Cities — England's  Condi- 
tions for  Peace — Rulers  cannot  make  War  nor  conclude  Peace — King — In- 
structions to  Commissioners  at  Ghent  examined — English  Demands  ought 
not  to  be  acceded  to — King  to  Morris — Question  of  Removal  from  Washing- 
ton— King — Course  agreed  to  be  pursued  by  the  Federalists  in  Congress, 
1814,  1815. 

The  return  of  Mr.  King  to  public  life  changed  to  a  very- 
considerable  degree  the  quiet  and  home  routine  to  which  he 
had  been  for  so  many  years  accustomed  and  which  gave  him 
so  much  occupation  and  pleasure.  His  house,  which  was 
always  open  to  his  friends  and  to  his  own  family,  had  been 
enlarged  so  as  to  give  him  ample  room  for  entertainment, 
and  every  arrangement  known  in  that  day  ministered  to  the 
comfort  of  his  country-life.  His  large  and  well-selected 
library,  filled  with  books  of  every  department  of  literature 
and  history,  was  the  family  room,  and  at  the  same  time  the 
sanctuary  where  he  drew  in  the  stores  of  knowledge  with 
which  his  mind  was  filled  and  where,  in  converse  with  the 
wise  and  learned  of  former  days,  and  with  those  who  were 
then    on  the  world's  stage,  his  hours  passed  with  ever-re- 

407 


408  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

newed  pleasure  and  profit.  An  active  and  vigorous  consti- 
tution was  maintained  by  exercise  in  fishing  along  the  trout 
streams,  and  in  shooting  the  various  kinds  of  game  which 
then  abounded  about  his  very  home  on  Long  Island.  In 
these  sports  he  had  a  worthy  companion  in  one  of  his  neigh- 
bors Mr.  Cornelius  I.  Bogart.  Both  were  good  horsemen 
and  enjoyed  their  rides  through  the  country,  dressed  in  the 
olden  style — short  breeches  and  long  boots  with  broad 
leather  tops. 

The  care  of  his  farm,  which  he  sought  to  keep  in  high 
cultivation,  gave  him  variety  in  his  daily  life ;  his  cattle  were 
carefully  bred  and  of  the  best  kind,  and  everything  about 
him  indicated  that  his  personal  supervision  was  the  secret  of 
success.  But  where  his  love  of  nature  was  most  clearly 
shown,  was  in  the  plantations  of  fruit  and  shade  trees  and 
shrubbery  about  the  house.  Native  plants  found  a  tender 
care  and  a  fitting,  congenial  home  among  the  many  foreigners 
which  adorned  the  grounds.  Each  year  an  almanac,  with 
blank  leaves,  is  marked  with  times  of  the  flowering  of 
plants,  the  return  of  seed-time  and  harvest,  the  coming  back 
of  birds  to  their  homes,  so  carefully  guarded,  among  the 
trees  and  shrubs — and  indeed  with  every  indication  that  he 
loved  these  minute  but  deeply  interesting  facts. 

With  the  exception  of  short  excursions,  visits  to  the  sea- 
shore, eight  miles  distant  from  his  house,  and  not  very 
frequent  jaunts  to  New  York,  twelve  miles  from  Jamaica, 
but  where  he  met  his  friends  and  personally  mingled  among 
business  men,  he  was  satisfied  with  the  enjoyment  of  the 
pleasure  of  a  happy  home,  and  most  reluctantly  left  it  to 
engage  in  the  more  active  duties  to  which  his  senatorial  life 
called  him,  amid  the  discomforts  of  a  large  village,  which  the 
City  of  Washington  was  at  this  time.  It  was  always  a  great 
happiness  to  him  to  return  to  the  quiet  life  and  pleasant 
surroundings  to  which  he  had  accustomed  himself. 

But  as  has  been  seen  in  the  letters  which  have  been  and 
are  to  be  given,  the  affairs  of  the  Country, — troubled  by  an 
unnecessary,  and  with  its  embargoes  and  mercantile  restric- 


1814]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  409 

tions,  ruinous  war, — required  most  careful  and  prudent 
handling  and  absorbed  the  deep  attention  of  all  who  could 
influence  and  possibly  direct  the  issues.  Mr.  King,  though 
representing  those  opposed  to  the  administration  of  Mr. 
Madison,  and  in  a  minority  in  the  Senate,  entered  earnestly 
upon  the  duties  of  his  office,  and  sought  to  prevent  the  evil 
effects  of  much  proposed  legislation,  and  to  bring  back  those 
sound  principles  in  diplomacy  and  finance  which  he  believed 
were  best  for  the  Country ;  and  while  deprecating  the  war, 
deemed  it  right  to  put  in  the  hands  of  the  executive  the 
means  of  bringing  it  to  a  close  with  honor. 

The  Country  had  recently  been  cheered  with  the  glorious 
achievements  of  the  Army  at  Chippewa  and  Lundy's  Lane,* 
and  with  the  destruction  of  the  British  fleet  on  Lake  Cham- 
plain  by  Macdonough  ;  and  the  offer  of  Russian  mediation 
with  England  opened  a  way  to  a  peace  which  all  longed  for. 
Though  this  was  rejected  by  Great  Britain,  it  led  to  a 
proposition  for  a  direct  negotiation  between  the  two  States, 
which  at  this  time  was  about  to  be  entered  upon,  and  upon 
the  results  of  which  great  hopes  were  entertained.  The 
administration  had  abandoned  all  the  points  for  which  the 
war  was  proclaimed,  and  Great  Britain  seemed  willing  to 
waive  all  questions  which  did  not  propose  to  abridge  what 
she  claimed  as  indefeasible  rights. 

*  The  Editor  cannot  refrain  from  recording  here  an  interesting  anecdote  told  to 
him  by  his  father,  John  A.  King,  relative  to  the  battle  of  Lundy's  Lane. 
While  he  was  in  England  in  1825-6,  as  Secretary  of  Legation  to  his  father  and 
afterwards  as  Charge" d'affaires,  he  frequently  met  the  Marquess  of  Tweedale, 
who  had  been  an  aide  to  the  Duke  of  Wellington  in  Spain,  and  was  one  of  those 
who  met  the  charge  of  the  American  soldiers  at  Lundy's  Lane.  He  always 
spoke  in  high  terms  of  the  gallantry  of  those  to  whom  he  was  there  opposed  and 
particularly  of  Col.  Miller.  He  said  he  never  could  forget  his  voice  and  the 
solid  step  of  the  soldiers  he  commanded,  as  they  ascended  the  hill.  The  night 
was  dark,  and  the  storming  force  could  only  be  seen  when  the  artillery  was 
discharged  ;  but  the  tramp  of  the  steadily  advancing  men  was  distinctly  heard, 
broken  only  by  the  sound  of  the  guns,  and  after  each  discharge  of  these  against 
the  coming  foe,  the  calm  voice  of  Col.  Miller  called  to  his  men  :  "  Steady, 
boys,  close  up."  Not  another  word  was  heard  ;  there  was  no  stop  in  the 
steady  tramp,  and  the  hill  was  taken. 


410  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

In  the  meantime  the  financial  condition  at  home  was 
causing  great  anxiety  and  a  want  of  confidence  which 
interfered  with  the  borrowing  of  money  by  the  government, 
thus  crippling  all  operations.  The  correspondence  will  show 
how  this  trouble  was  viewed  and  how  it  it  was  proposed  to 
remedy  it. 


R.  King   to   C.  Gore. 

Jamaica  L.  L,  Aug.  30,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  been  with  Mrs.  King  during  the  last  week  to  the  Sea 
side,  where  she  has  bathed  for  her  health,  but  the  disgraceful  loss 
of  the  Capital  and  the  agitation  it  has  excited  brought  me  to 
town  ;  where  the  effect  upon  the  Populace  is  such  as  might  be 
expected.  The  Govr.,  who  is  there,  the  Genl.  charged  with  our 
Protection,  and  the  Comtee  of  Defence  appointed  by  the  Corpora- 
tion, are  alike  alarmed  and  undecided. 

My  object  was  to  induce  the  Gov.  to  call  forth  and  bring  to 
N.  Y.  20,000  Militia,  and  as  the  U.  S.  have  no  funds,  and  have 
deserted  our,  as  well  as  their  own,  protection,  to  stimulate  the 
City  Corporation  to  pledge  themselves  to  provide  the  means  of 
subsistence  for  these  Troops.  I  am  encouraged  to  hope  that  both 
will  be  done  ;  in  which  case  we  shall  not  be  attacked.* 

*  "  The  citizens  of  the  City  of  New  York,  greatly  alarmed  for  the  safety  of 
the  city,  organized  themselves  into  military  corps  and  volunteered  to  attend  at 
regular  hours  for  the  purpose  of  drilling. 

"  Mr.  Clinton  as  mayor,  by  his  public  addresses  and  by  his  influence  with 
the  city  corporation,  did  much  to  keep  alive  a  spirit  of  patriotism,  and  to  aid 
the  national  government,  with  funds  to  sustain  its  sinking  credit. 

"  Money  was  wanted.  The  banks  would  not  loan  their  bills  without  better 
security  than  the  stock  or  treasury  orders  of  the  United  States.  It  was,  how- 
ever, understood  that  if  treasury  notes  were  deposited,  endorsed  by  Gov. 
Tompkins,  they  would  advance  some  four  or  five  hundred  dollars  to  be 
expended  in  erecting  fortifications  for  the  defence  of  the  port  of  New  York. 
Mr.  Rufus  King,  on  being  informed  of  this,  called  upon  the  governor  and  stated 
to  him  that  the  time  had  arrived  when  it  was  the  duty  of  every  man  to  put  his 
all  at  the  requisition  of  the  government,  and  that  he  himself  was  ready  to  do 
this.  Mr.  Tompkins  replied,  he  should  be  obliged  to  act  on  his  own  responsi- 
bility, and  should  be  ruined.  '  Then,'  said  Mr.  King,  '  ruin  yourself  if  it 
becomes  necessary  to  save  the  Country,  and  I  pledge  you  my  honor  that  I  will 


1 8 14]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  411 

Where  Madison  and  his  Ministers  are,  nobody  knows,  and  but 
few  enquire. 

Whether  the  Enemy  will  be  satisfied  with  the  Eclat  of  the 
Destruction  of  W.  or  will  attempt  other  Places  on  the  Chesapeake, 
or  come  this  way,  I  can  form  no  satisfactory  conjecture.  I  am 
inclined  however  to  suppose  that  the  Campaign  will  probably  close 
in  the  Chesapeake. 

From  the  Canada  frontier  we  have  no  late  News  ;  Izard's 
Position  is  becoming  critical,  and  I  do  not  understand  how  the 
Army  at  Fort  Erie  are  to  effect  with  safety  their  Retreat :  whether 
Madison  will  issue  a  new  Proclamation  founded  upon  the  Destruc- 
tion of  the  public  Buildings  at  W.  (which  was  contrary  to  the 
usage  of  modern  war)  and  recommending  to  Congress  to  meet  at 
Lancaster  or  elsewhere,  we  can  only  conjecture.  I  shall  not  be 
surprised  if  he  suffers  the  Members  to  assemble  at  W.  and 
adjourn  to  some  other  Place  ;  this  will  save  him  from  deciding  ; 
if  he  had  any  character  he  wd.  convene  Congress  at  Phila.,  but 
this  he  will  be  afraid  to  do. 

I  shall  wait  until  the  last,  to  hear  what  is  likely  to  happen  con- 
cerning the  Residence  of  Congress,  and  will  endeavour  to  inform 
you  of  my  views.  In  the  present  alarm  I  feel  unwilling  to  be 
absent  when  the  session  opens,  and  if  I  could  contribute  any- 
thing to  bringing  Cong,  to  Phila.  I  shd.  be  anxious  to  do  it.  If  no 
Place  be  fixed  upon  by  the  Pr.  I  may  decide  to  go  on  in  the  Stage, 
leaving  Mrs.  K.  to  follow  at  her  leisure  with  one  of  her  sons. 

R.  K. 

If  our  Corporation  issue  these  Bonds  at  7  pc.  payable  half 
yearly,  your  Parkmans  and  others  could  not  do  better  than  to 
loan  their  money.     The  loan  will  probably  be  half  a  Mil. 

The  Corporation  is  not  only  rich,  but  probably  the  richest  pri- 
vate corporation  in  the  World. 

support  you  in  whatever  you  do.'  These  sentiments  are  the  more  honorable  to 
Mr.  King,  when  we  consider  that  he  was  then  the  prominent  leader  of  the 
opponents  to  Mr.  Madison. 

"  Gov.  Tompkins  endorsed  the  notes  and  the  money  was  advanced  by  the 
bank."— Hammond,  Polit.  Hist,  of  N.   Y.,  ii.,  p.  378. 


412  RUFUS  KING.  [l8l  + 

J.  Armstrong  to  R.  King. 

Washington,  Aug.  30,  i3r4. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Your  letter  of  the  20th  inst.  has  been  received.  From  our 
negociators  or  either  of  them,  we  have  nothing  later  than  the  2nd 
of  June.  I  think  with  you  that  the  result  of  the  negociation  will 
not  be  known  here  till  October.  The  finances  present  a  subject 
of  most  urgent  character,  but  which  will  probably  be  made  to 
give  place  to  one  growing  out  of  the  late  disaster  of  the  Capitol.* 

You  will  best  determine,  how  far  this  should  affect  your  move- 
ments, under  the  family  circumstances  you  mention.  We  are  busy, 
or  rather  bustling  to  make  head  against  a  new  attack  from  some 
frigates  which  have  ascended  the  Potomack  and  put  Alexandria 
under  contribution. 

Yr.  respectfully  &  truly 

J.  Armstrong. 

In  consequence  of  the  financial  embarrassments  the 
Southern  banks  had  been  obliged  to  suspend  specie  pay- 
ments. A  meeting  of  the  merchants  of  New  York  was  held 
on  August  25th  to  consider  what  the  banks  should  do,  and  a 
committee  was  appointed  to  report  upon  the  subject.  In 
the  meantime  the  Philadelphia  and  New  York  banks  sus- 
pended the  payment  of  specie,  and  on  September  1st,  the  com- 
mittee above-mentioned  reported  to  a  meeting,  presided  over 
by  Genl.  Ebenezer  Stevens,  resolutions  sustaining  the  New 
York  banks  in  taking  this  course. 

The  New  York  Evening  Post  of  September  2d,  says: 

"  After  the  resolutions  were  read  and  previous  to  their  adoption, 
the  Hon.  Mr.  King  rose  and  addressed  the  Chairman  in  a  short, 
but  very  eloquent  and  impressive  speech  on  the  subject  before 
the  meeting.  He  stated  that,  in  such  a  time  of  peril  and  danger 
as  the  present,  it  was  the  duty  of  all  well  disposed  citizens  to  join 
in  the  defense  of  each  other  and  of  the  country;  that  he  was 
satisfied,  after  examination,  of  the  stability  of  our  banking  insti- 
tutions, and  that  the  directors  would  confine  the  issue  of  paper 

*  Aug.  25th. 


.  ii4]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  413 

within  safe  limits ;  that  they  had  been  driven  to  adopt  the 
measure  they  had  taken  on  account  of  the  distress  of  the  times 
and  that  therefore  it  was  our  duty  to  support  them.  He  said  this 
was  not  a  time  for  recrimination  and  division  among  ourselves, 
nor  was  this  a  fit  occasion  to  discuss  the  causes  of  our  present 
troubles.  We  are  in  a  critical  situation,  and  it  is  therefore  our 
duty  to  get  out  of  it  the  best  way  we  can.  The  enemy  is  at  our 
doors  and  it  is  now  useless  to  enquire  how  he  came  there  :  he 
must  be  driven  away  and  every  man  join  hand  and  heart,  and 
place  shoulder  to  shoulder  to  meet  him. 

"  We  cannot  pretend  to  give  Mr.  King's  own  words,  nor  to  do 
justice  to  a  speech  in  a  sketch  ;  but  the  above  is  the  substance  of 
it  as  near  as  can  be  collected.  It  was  received  with  shouts  of 
applause.  The  sentiments  were  unanimously  approved  and  the 
resolutions  were  passed  without  a  dissenting  voice." 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Sept.  2,  1814. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  wrote  to  you  a  few  days  past — since  then  I  have  no 
further  information  respecting  the  place  of  our  next  meeting — it 
is  very  extraordinary  that  we  receive  nothing  from  Govt,  by  wh.  we 
may  know  they  have  not  abdicated,  and  thrown  up  their  charge. 
In  effect,  so  far  as  regards  the  common  defence,  this  abandonment 
actually  exists  ;  and  for  some  days  past  I  have  been  busy  in  the 
City  to  raise  up  the  means  of  protecting  ourselves, 'in  default  of 
the  interposition  of  those  who  ought  to  provide  for  our  safety. 
We  shall  immediately  assemble  in  and  abt.  the  City  20,000  militia — 
the  corporation  supply  a  million  for  subsistence — and  by  this 
array  of  means,  my  best  hopes  are  that  the  enemy  may  be  dis- 
couraged to  come,  in  case  our  City  has  been  among  the  objects  of 
attack.  .  .  .  Yesterday  I  was  in  town  to  assist  on  the  occasion 
of  the  Stoppage  of  the  Specie  Payments  of  the  Bks. — I  found 
everybody  well  inclined  to  adopt  any  measures,  which  those  in 
whose  knowledge  or  prudence  they  had  confidence,  recommended 
— the  Bks  have  by  Concert  resolved  to  limit  the  amount  of  their 
Discounts,  or  in  other  words  their  Debts,  to  a  sum,  that  I  am 
inclined  to  believe  will  entitle  their  notes  to  nearly,  if  not  quite, 


414  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

the  same  Credit,  as  if  they  were  exchangeable  for  Specie — In 
confidence,  and  on  the  presumption  that  this  Contract  will  be 
faithfully  observed,  the  merchants  and  others  met  for  the  pur- 
pose, approved  of  what  all  regret,  and  unanimously  resolved  to 
support  the  credit  and  assist  the  Circulation  of  the  Notes  of  our 
City  Bks. 

I  presume  that  yr  Bks  will  be  obliged  to  follow  this  example — 
the  same  alarm  will  prevail  at  Boston  as  has  appeared  at  N.  Y. — 
after  a  constant  drain  of  Specie  during  the  war  to  satisfy  the 
Bal.  of  our  for.  Trade,  no  Bank  can  stand  the  Effect  of  that 
Distrust  which  the  fear  of  Invasion  is  sure  to  create.  .  .  . 
Farewell  I  am  faithfully  yr.  ob.  Sr. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Jeremiah  Mason. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Sept.  2,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Hitherto  we  hear  not  a  syllable  from  the  Government  ;  where 
they  are,  or  what  they  are  about  nobody  knows,  and  few  enquire. 
So  far  as  regards  the  common  defence,  the  Genl.  Govt,  has  de- 
serted its  duties.  Without  money,  without  soldiers  &  without 
courage,  the  President  and  his  Cabinet  are  the  objects  of  very 
general  execration.  Where  Congress  will  meet  next  no  one  knows, 
some  believe  that  the  President  will  recommend  Lancaster,  more 
that  he  will  do  nothing  :  Philadelphia  should  be  the  place,  but 
lest  its  accommodation  should  prove  too  agreeable,  and  so  operate 
against  the  rebuilding  of  Washington,  it  is  likely  that  a  majority 
will  be  found  in  favor  of  some  inconvenient  temporary  residence. 

What  we  feared  has  come  to  pass  ;  the  Public  credit  has  failed. 
The  Banks  in  this  quarter  are  obliged  to  stop  the  payment  of  spe- 
cie and  I  presume  the  same  causes  will  have  the  same  effect  at 
Boston  and  with  you. 

In  New  York  the  Banks,  I  mean  those  of  the  city,  have  unani- 
mously agreed  to  limit  their  Buisness,  so  that  the  aggregate  of 
their  debts  shall  not  exceed  a  certain  amount.  Specie  payment 
is  the  ordinary  convenient  &  Salutary  Restraint  upon  the  issue  of 
Bank  Credits  ;  this  check  being  no  longer  practicable,  the  next 
and  a  nearly  equal  security  may  be  found  in  retaining  the  issue 


1814]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  415 

of  the  Banks  within  certain  ascertained,  and  proportionate  limits. 
A  measure  to  this  Effect,  the  observance  of  which  is  to  be  subject 
to  constant  inspection,  has  been  communicated  to  the  body  of 
merchants,  who  have  in  consequence  thereof  engaged  to  support 
the  credit  &  circulation  of  Bank  notes. 

The  Destruction  of  the  Capitol  has  alarmed  our  city. — At  length 
we  have  the  expectation  of  the  assembling  in  and  about  it  of 
20,000  Militia  ;  the  city  advances  a  million  by  way  of  subsistence 
and  I  am  in  hopes  that  this  array  of  means  will  discourage  the 
enemy  from  making  any  attempt  upon  us. 

We  have  no  tidings  from  the  Envoys,  nor  have  I  better  means, 
than  when  we  separated,  to  predict  the  issue  of  their  Mission.  I 
had  wished  to  delay  my  attendance  until  the  first  week  in  Oct., 
but  from  the  late  disaster  which  I  am  fearful  will  not  be  the  last, 
I  am  now  thinking  of  going  on  in  season  to  be  present  when  Con- 
gress meets.    Should  this  be  the  case  I  hope  you  will  not  be  absent. 

Very  faithfully  Yr.  ob.  Servant 

Rufus  King. 


*  Without  knowing  the  views  and  instructions  of  either  the 
American  or  British  Cabinet,  no  inference  concerning  the  Result 
of  the  negotiation  at  Gottenburgh,  can  be  made  except  it  be  drawn 
from  general  considerations,  and  from  an  acquaintance  with  the 
interest  and  advantage  of  both  to  be  derived  from  Peace. 

It  is  not  extraordinary  that  men  should  be  doubtful  of  the 
effects  of  the  late  wonderful  change  that  has  taken  place  in 
Europe.  These  events  have  been  so  sudden,  and  to  the  mass  of 
our  countrymen  so  wholly  unexpected.  They  are  so  entirely  the 
reverse  of  all  the  calculations  of  our  Cabinet  and  their  numerous 
friends,  that  the  shock  has  not  been  more  unexpected,  than  its 
effects  have  been  embarrassing. 

As  the  presumed  basis  of  the  policy  which  has  involved  the 
Country  in  War,  is  not  to  be  discovered  in  the  able  and  correct 
estimate  of  the  interest  of  the  Nation,  we  may  presume  that  the 
Cabinet  will  find  little  difficulty  in  changing  its  measures,  seeing 
the  foreign  state  of  things,  upon  the  continuance  whereof  they 
relied,  has  undergone  so  total  a  change.     The  War  having  been 

*  In  R.  King's  handwriting. 


416  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

declared  in  the  belief  that  Bonaparte  would  conquer  Russia,  es- 
tablish his  Continental  System  and  in  the  end  dictate  a  dishonor- 
able and  insecure  Peace  to  England,  and  these  events  having 
failed,  it  must  be  the  earnest  desire  of  Mr.  M.  and  his  Cabinet  to 
withdraw  from  the  War  as  soon  as  possible.  This  is  a  topic  upon 
which  we  are  unwilling  to  enlarge  :  but  we  cannot  avoid  calling 
the  public  attention  to  the  dangerous  folly  of  the  political  course 
adopted  by  our  Rulers.  The  Washington  policy,  rightly  esti- 
mating the  character  of  the  War  and  anticipating  its  termination, 
firmly  adopted  the  system  of  neutrality  as  the  only  safe  and  honest 
one  that  could  be  pursued  by  America.  Whether  the  Washington 
Cabinet  ever  threw  the  question  open  so  as,  without  the  restraint 
of  duty,  to  examine  what  would  be  most  advantageous,  what 
course  would  best  conduce  to  the  interest  and  power  of  America, 
is  a  point  on  which  we  have  no  particular  information.  Had  they 
done  so,  we  cannot  preserve  our  respect  for  their  sagacity  and  at 
the  same  time  believe  their  decision  would  have  been  that  which 
our  present  Cabinet  adopted. 

In  the  European  Convulsion  it  was  manifest  that  England  and 
France  would  in  all  its  stages  be  found  on  opposite  sides.  If  the 
war  was  to  be  prosecuted  to  the  destruction  of  one  or  the  other, 
Nations  who  could  lay  aside  the  merits  of  the  struggle  and  look 
only  to  the  question  how  its  interests  would  be  affected  by  the 
ruin  of  Eng.  or  of  France,  might  have  formed  different  decisions. 
Their  circumstances  and  local  situation  would  naturally  influence 
this  decision.  But  can  any  intelligent  American  now,  or  could 
he  at  any  stage  of  the  war,  hesitate  which,  if  we  were  to  take  a 
part,  it  would  have  been  our  interest  to  join.  If  England  pre- 
vailed, it  is  certain  that  France  could  afford  us  no  aid  or  resources 
against  the  Conqueror.  Her  situation  on  the  other  side  of  the 
Ocean,  the  dominion  which  the  Fleets  of  England  in  this  event 
possessed,  preclude  any  help  from  that  quarter,  if  France  be  even 
disposed  to  bestow  it. 

But  if  France  prevailed,  if  she  had  overthrown  and  conquered 
England  in  the  struggle,  the  fleets  of  Great  Britain  she  could  not 
have  overcome.  These  with  her  seamen,  a  large  portion  of  the 
wealth,  of  the  arts,  of  the  artificers,  of  England  would  have  come 
hither  and  here  the  struggle  might  have  been  renewed  with  the 
highest  prospect  of  success. 


1814]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  417 

R.  King  to  G.  Morris. 

Washington,  Oct.  ir,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Enclosed  I  send  you  the  President's  message  of  yesterday- 
communicating  the  late  Dispatches  from  Ghent.  It  would  appear 
from  the  Dispatch  of  the  19th  of  Augt.  that  the  negotiation  has 
failed.  Some  persons,  however,  entertain  an  expectation  that  a 
Treaty  with  a  provisional  arrangement  respecting  an  Indian 
Boundary,  may  have  been  concluded. 

If  Lord  Hill's  Expedition  should  be  directed  to  Louisiana, 
there  will  be  little  opposition  to  the  occupation  of  the  new 
State  of  Mississippi.  Some  apprehend  that  this  Expedition  is 
intended  agt.  New  York,  or  to  take  Possession  of  Rhode  Island 
— According  to  such  accounts  as  I  have  seen,  it  is  not  sufficiently 
strong  to  take  and  retain  during  the  winter  either  of  those  places. 
I  enclose  under  another  cover  the  National  Intelligencer,  contain- 
ing a  marvellous  Project  for  the  supplies  of  the  next  year  ! 

On  this  subject,  indeed  upon  all  others  connected  with  the 
administration  of  the  present  men,  one  scorns  to  express  what 
the  pub.  so  generally  feel.  Crawford  writes  from  Paris  that  Eng. 
influence  pervades  all  the  States  of  Europe;  that  none  are  dis- 
posed to  listen  to  our  Representatives  agt.  England,  and  that  not 
a  finger  will  any  where  be  raised  in  our  favor. 

With  Sincere  Respect  &  attachment  I  am,  dear  Sir, 

Yr.  faithful  Ser.  Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  G.  Morris. 

Washington,  Oct.  13,  1814. 
Dear  Sir: 

The  Conferences  at  Ghent  are  probably  at  an  end,  and  the 
expectation  of  immediate  peace  given  up.  No  plan  for  prosecut- 
ing the  war,  none  for  the  restoration  of  the  Pub.  Credit  are 
thought  of  or  proposed.  Congress  must  feel  the  difficulties  of 
our  situation,  proceeding  from  the  general  want  of  confidence  in 
the  Administration.  But  the  excitement  expected  from  the  Pub- 
lication of  the  Dispatches,  it  is  believed  will  authorize  the 
President  and  his  miserable  assistants,  to  call  upon  the  Nation 
for  their  blood  &  money,  reserving  to  themselves  the  exclusive 
direction  of  the  expenditure  of  both. 

VOL.    V. — 27 


4l8  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

You  have  seen  in  the  News  Papers  the  Report  of  the  Commit- 
tee of  Ways  &  Means  ;  indeed  I  sent  you  a  copy  of  it — but  the 
Treasury  is  empty  and  owing  to  the  deranged  condition  of  the 
Banks,  the  trifling  aid  obtained  can  be  applied  to  the  public  ser- 
vice only  in  the  particular  Districts,  within  which  their  respective 
notes  have  a  circulation.  Various  estimates  are  made  of  the  force 
coming  out  under  Lord  Hill  ;  conjectures  likewise  vary  respect- 
ing the  object  of  this  Expedition.  If  the  army  does  not  exceed 
14,000  men,  it  is  said,  it  will  be  unable  to  occupy,  with  the  expec- 
tation of  retaining  the  same  during  the  war,  either  Rhode  Island 
or  the  City  of  New  York  and  Long  Island,  or  any  other  position 
upon  the  Maritime  frontier  of  the  Middle  States  ;  but  that  it  will 
enable  the  enemy  to  seize  and  retain  the  possession  of  New 
Orleans  &  the  contiguous  Country. 

The  last  Note  from  the  Br.  Commissioners  at  Ghent  intimates 
an  expectation  of  such  acquisition  in  the  progress  of  the  war,  as 
could  authorize  an  extension  of  British  Demands  at  the  conclusion 
of  Peace. — Taking  into  view  the  Dissatisfaction  of  Spain,  the 
Demand  of  an  Indian  Barrier  in  the  north,  the  exterminating 
war  prosecuted  against  the  Indians  of  the  South  (the  whole 
Choctaw  Nation  which  has  been  hitherto  at  Peace  is  said  to  be 
now  in  motion  to  destroy  the  remnant  of  the  Creeks,  who  have 
taken  refuge  in  Florida)  no  acquisition  would  seem  to  be  more 
important  for  such  purpose  than  the  new  State  at  the  mouth  of 
the  Mississippi.  By  the  treaty  of  Grenville,  concluded  with 
the  Indians  in  1795,  the  whole  of  the  country,  with  a  few  and 
inconsiderable  exceptions,  north  of  the  Ohio  and  west  of  an 
irregular  line  from  the  River  Cuyahoga  falling  into  Lake  Erie, 
to  the  confluence  of  the  Kentucky  &  Ohio  was  reserved  to  the 
Indians.  Subsequent  Treaties  with  the  Indians  have  ceded  con- 
siderable Portions  of  this  region  to  the  U.  S.,  and  two  territorial 
Governments  are  established  within  it,  viz  the  Michigan  &  the 
Indiana. 

The  enemy  now  demand  that  the  whole  of  this  Region  should 
constitute  an  Indian  Reservation  or  Barrier,  between  their  &  our 
Territories.  Should  a  like  Demand  be  hereafter  made  in  favor 
of  the  Creeks,  Cherokees,  Choctaws  and  Missouri  Indians,  inclu- 
ding the  two  territorial  Governments  of  the  Mississippi  and 
Missouri,  it  would  in  Effect  deprive  Congress  of  the  power  of 


1 8 14]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  419 

admitting  new  States,  since  these  Territories  alone  remained  out 
of  which  to  form  them  !  !  ! 

In  a  word,  the  Condition  of  the  Country  is  dangerous,  and 
every  Day  becomes  more  so — the  administration  possess  neither 
the  Confidence  of  their  own  nation,  nor  that  of  any  other.  Even 
Mr.  Madison  lately  complained  that  the  Ears  of  every  Court  in 
Europe  were  closed  against  us  ;  such,  as  he  says,  have  been  the 
intrigues  and  misrepresentations  of  England,  that  no  power  will 
raise  a  finger  in  our  favor  ;  indeed,  and  strange  to  tell,  adds  the 
President,  they  have  succeeded  in  causing  a  general  belief  that 
the  U.  S.  entered  into  this  war  to  assist  France  ! 

Our  rulers  can  neither  make  war,  nor  conclude  Peace.  What 
are  the  minority  to  do  ?  The  Country  is  invaded  ;  it  is  threat- 
ened with  waste  and  Destruction — must  we  not  unite  to  defend 
it,  must  we  not  join  in  granting  supplies  ;  ought  we  not  to  hold  a 
language  firm  &  which  cannot  be  misunderstood  concerning  the 
Rights  and  honor  of  the  Nation  ?  And  ought  we  not  to  tell 
them,  after  doing  all  this,  that  it  is  our  solemn  conviction  that  the 
present  administration  is  incapable  of  carrying  on  the  war,  or  of 
bringing  it  to  a  safe  or  honorable  conclusion.  How  is  this  to  be 
done,  by  mere  speeches,  or  by  a  more  authentic  and  solemn 
address.  How  often  do  I  regret  that  you  are  not  here,  and 
that  the  Country  remains  deprived  of  your  Talents  and  great 

Experience. 

very  faithfully  yrs 

R.  K. 


Commissioners  at  Ghent* 

According  to  the  Instructions  given  to  the  Commissioners  at 
Ghent,  f  they  are  instructed  to  accept  Peace  upon  the  state  of 
things  before  the  war,  including  maritime  equally  with  territorial 
rights.  In  other  words  every  object  for  which  the  War  is  said  to 
have  been  declared  is  abandoned.  Compensation  for  alleged 
wrongs  under  the  Orders  in  Council,  the  establishment  of  new 
limitations  in  the  maritime  Code  of  Nations,  the  security  against 

*  In  R.  King's  handwriting. 

f  Annals  of  Congress,  1814-15,  p.  13 10  et  seq.  These  instructions  were  sent 
by  the  President  to  the  Senate,  October  ro  and  14,  1814,  and  referred  to  a 
select  committee,  of  which  Mr.  King  wras  one — Mr.  Bibb,  chairman. 


420  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

visit  and  search  upon  the  Ocean  for  the  purpose  of  impressment, 
each  and  all  are  given  up.  They  are  set  forth  in  the  Declaration 
of  AVar  as  the  causes  thereof.  A  Treaty  of  Peace  is  solicited  in 
which  they  will  be  explicitly  or  tacitly  renounced.  By  the  Law 
of  Nations  a  Treaty  of  Peace  is  an  extinguishment  of  the  causes 
for  which  the  war  was  made.  It  is  in  this  sense  that  the  Peace  is 
declared  to  be  perpetual.  Not  that  for  other  and  new  causes, 
War  shall  not  be  made  ;  but  that  no  future  war  shall  be  made  for 
the  same  cause. 

On  account  of  Orders  in  Council,  impressment  of  British  Sub- 
jects out  of  American  Vessels,  or  for  any  other  reason  assigned 
for  the  present  war,  our  Envoys  are  authorized  to  sign  a  perpetual 
release  and  Treaty  of  Peace  and  oblivion. 

But  notwithstanding  the  entire  failure  and  abandonment  of  the 
professed  objects  of  the  War,  (its  real  object  failed  at  the  Capit- 
ulation of  Paris  and  the  dethronement  of  Bonaparte)  the  Enemy 
may  finally  refuse  to  give  us  Peace,  unless  those,  who  have 
humiliated  themselves  by  renouncing  all  their  lofty  claims,  con- 
sent to  humiliate  their  country  by  consenting  to  terms  which 
must  weaken  and  disgrace  the  nation. 

The  privilege  of  fishing  within  the  territorial  jurisdiction  of 
G.  B.  and  of  drying  and  curing  fish  upon  their  uninhabited 
Shores,  is  of  little  advantage  to  us.  The  renewal  of  this  privilege 
would  be  of  no  disadvantage  to  G.  B.  Its  refusal  discloses  a 
temper  unworthy  of  a  nation.  We  may  acquiesce  in  this  denial 
without  much  inconvenience  and  without  any  dishonor. 

The  course  of  human  affairs  is  in  no  way  affected  by  a  pettish 
diplomacy  of  a  nation,  alike  capable  of  a  wise  foresight  and  an 
enlightened  policy.  The  Coast  of  Labrador  and  the  Shores  of 
the  Gulph  of  the  St.  Lawrence  are  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the 
U.  S.,  whose  consistency  and  growth  can  leave  none  to  doubt, 
that  at  no  distant  period,  the  dominion  of  G.  B.  upon  the  Ameri- 
can Continent  must  cease  when  others  may  deny  to  her  what  she 
now  illiberally  refuses  to  them. 

The  demand  of  a  cession  of  territory  in  the  District  of  Maine 
is  altogether  different  in  its  importance  from  that  of  the  refusal 
of  the  Fishery  upon  the  Coasts.  So  long  as  Maine,  according  to 
its  present  boundary,  belongs  to  the  U.  S.,  and  especially  so  long 
as  the  N.  E.  angle  of  it   remains  unsettled,  a  passage  between 


1 8 14]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  42 1 

Quebec  and  the  Province  of  Nova  Scotia  &  New  Brunswick  will 
be  impossible.  Troops  and  supplies  can  be  moved  from  one  to 
the  other  only  by  the  long  and  dangerous,  and  for  half  the  year 
impracticable,  passage  by  sea. 

Cede  the  required  portion  of  Maine,  and  a  direct  military  road 
will  immediately  be  opened  between  them  ;  which  at  all  seasons 
may  be  safely  and  conveniently  used  to  march  troops  and  trans- 
port military  supplies  from  one  to  the  other.  Halifax  may  be  at 
any  time  reinforced  from  the  W.  Indies  ;  these  troops  may  be 
speedily  marched  by  this  route  to  Quebec,  and  the  forces  in  both 
may  with  ease  and  expedition  be  united  in  either. 

The  Islands  of  Passamaquoddy  Bay  are  of  small  importance, 
except  that  should  Moore  Island  be  retained  by  G.  B.,  it  may 
give  colour  to  the  refusal  of  a  passage  north  of  Moore  and  Campo- 
bello  Islands  to  the  Bay  of  Fundy.  As  mere  territory,  Moore 
Island  is  not  an  object  worth  disputing  on  either  side  ;  but  there 
being  no  safe  passage  for  ships  between  the  Continent  and  Moore 
and  Campobello  Islands,  its  annexation  is  on  this  account  of  con- 
sequence. 

That  the  U.  S.  should  neither  maintain  a  naval  force  upon  the 
Lakes,  nor  keep  up  military  fortresses  upon  the  shores  thereof, 
while  G.  B.  shall  be  at  liberty  to  do  both,  is  a  demand,  the  mere 
statement  whereof  insures  its  rejection.  The  want  of  reciprocity 
in  the  arrangement  would  make  its  acceptance  dishonorable. 
That  neither  party  should  maintain  a  naval  force,  or  only  an 
equal  and  regulated  force,  might  be  acceded  to  ;  perhaps  good 
policy  recommends  this  arrangement  ;  but  neither  can  consent, 
certainly  the  U.  S.  cannot  do  so  with  safety,  that  the  Fortresses 
on  the  Borders  of  the  Lakes  shall  be  dismantled,  and  none  kept 
up.  Without  considering  the  subject  on  the  side  of  the  enemy 
we  must  recollect  that  the  progress  of  settlement,  from  its  begin- 
ning in  Mass.  and  Virginia,  has  been  protected  by  Blockhouses, 
Fortresses  and  Garrisons.  The  frontier  inhabitants  are  scattered 
over  a  great  extent  of  country  and  rely  for  protection  and  refuge 
against  Indian  incursions  upon  these  Garrisons.  If  the  enemy 
maintains  Fortresses  on  their  side,  and  if  they  moreover  possess 
the  naval  dominion  of  the  Lakes,  they  will  be  considered  by  the 
Indians  as  the  only  formidable  power  near  them.  With  them  will 
be  the  chief  intercourse  and  trade  of  the  Indians,  who  may  be 


422  RUFUS  KING.  [x8l4 

readily  excited  to  fall  upon  and  to  destroy  the  frontier  settlements 
of  the  U.  S.;  Indian  wars,  and  if  G.  B.  and  the  Indians  are  to  re- 
main allies,  future  wars  between  the  U.  S.  and  G.  B.  would  be 
speedily  kindled  by  this  unequal,  unsafe  and  degrading  stipula- 
tion. 

The  arrangement  would  be  moreover  ruinous  to  the  revenue  of 
the  U.  S.  Having  neither  garrisons  upon  the  shores,  nor  naval 
power  upon  the  Lakes  to  guard  and  enforce  the  revenue  laws, 
they  would  be  violated  with  impunity  and  thro'  Canada  Br.  goods 
to  any  amount  would  be  brought  into  the  U.  S.,  in  contravention 
of  these  Laws,  the  Fortresses  and  armed  vessels  serving  as  the 
channel  and  the  security  of  this  illicit  trade. 


R.  K.  to  G.  Morris. 

Washington,  Oct.  14,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  been  confined  by  a  cold  and  fever  for  some  days  ;  to- 
day I  am  doing  better.  Yesterday  I  wrote  you  a  hasty  letter 
which  I  have  not,  even  now,  health  to  revise.  I  therefore  send  it 
you  in  the  rough.  The  subject  of  Removal  will  I  hear  be  called 
up  again  on  Monday.  Whether  an  adjournment  to  Philadelphia 
will  take  place  is  uncertain.  A  majority  is  believed  to  exist  in 
favor  of  removal,  but  they  are  not  united  in  the  Place.  Unless 
we  go  to  Philadelphia,  we  might  as  well  remain  where  we  are. 

Very  truly  yr.  ob.  sert. 

R.  K. 

(The  following  paper  is  endorsed  by  R.  K.  as  follows:) 

October,  1814. 

Early  in  this  month,  the  Federalists  of  the  two  Houses  of  Con- 
gress met  at  Crawford's  to  consider  of  the  course  which  they  ought 
to  pursue  during  the  Session.  Mr.  Gore  was  called  to  the  chair. 
The  conversation  was  very  general.  A  committee  consisting  of 
Mr.  Gore,  Mr.  King,  and  Mr.  Dagget  of  the  Senate,  Stockton, 
Pickering,  Pearson  and  Oakley  of  the  House  were  appointed  to 
consider  the  subject  and  make  a  Report.  The  enclosed  paper  was 
agreed  to  by  the  Committee,  and  circulated  among  the  Federalists, 
and  formed  the  basis  of  their  Proceedings  and  votes  during  the 
important  session. 


1814]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  423 

Altho'  the  Declaration  of  war  was  unnecessary  and  highly  in- 
expedient, the  manner  in  which  it  has  been  prosecuted  by  the 
enemy,  and  the  avowed  purpose  of  waste  and  destruction  that  he 
proclaims  have  so  changed  the  character  of  the  war,  that  it  has 
become  the  duty  of  all  to  unite  in  the  adoption  of  vigorous  meas- 
ures to  repel  the  invaders  of  the  country  and  to  protect  its  essential 
rights  and  honor. 

Congress  should  therefore  grant  supplies  of  both  men  and 
money,  provided  the  same  be  done  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of 
the  Constitution,  and  according  to  an  impartial  estimate  of  the 
relative  ability  of  the  several  States.  In  respect  to  the  Army,  no 
scheme  of  conscription  for  the  purpose  of  raising  it,  can  be  ap- 
proved. Concerning  the  Navy,  a  steady  policy  in  favor  of  its 
gradual  increase  must  be  pursued,  and  numerous  vessels,  not  ex- 
ceeding the  size  of  sloops  of  war,  should  be  equipped  to  cruize 
against  the  Enemy. 

As  political  power  and  direct  taxes  are  apportioned  by  the  Con- 
stitution among  the  several  States,  by  the  same  ratio,  although  in 
ordinary  and  peaceable  times  the  latter  has  not  been  exacted  in 
compensation  for  the  former,  the  extraordinary  demands  of  war 
require,  and  will  justify,  a  free  recourse  to  this  constitutional  sup- 
ply of  the  Treasury  ;  more  especially  as  commerce,  heretofore  the 
only  and  abundant  source  of  revenue,  has  by  the  folly  of  our 
Rulers,  and  the  power  of  the  Enemy  been  entirely  destroyed. 
Hence  the  expediency,  that  a  large  portion  of  the  supplies  should 
be  now  obtained  by  a  direct  Tax,  to  be  apportioned  among  the 
States,  according  to  the  Constitution. 

Of  indirect  taxes,  that  upon  the  distillery  of  ardent  spirits 
should  be  increased,  and  beyond  the  rate  which  is  recommended 
by  the  Committee  of  Ways  and  Means.  The  Stamp  Duty  may 
also  be  extended,  and  other  articles  recommended  by  the  Com- 
mittee may  be  adopted  as  objects  of  Taxation.  Some  of  these, 
such  as  furniture,  leather  in  the  extent  proposed,  and  the  products 
of  the  infant  manufactures  should  be  exempted. 

On  account  of  the  unequal  operation  of  the  taxes  in  the  several 
States,  it  is  not  expected  that  gentlemen  will  be  unanimous  in  the 
choice  of  the  various  objects  of  Taxes.  It  is  only  in  the  general 
Principle,  that  supplies  ought  to  be  granted  for  the  defence  of 
the  essential  rights  of  the  nation,  that  such  unanimity  is  hoped  for. 


424  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 


The  Federalists  have  at  all  times  been  ready  and  at  every  haz- 
ard to  defend,  and  will  be  the  last  to  consent  to  give  up,  the  rights 
of  Soil  and  Sovereignty  belonging  to  the  Nation.  They  will  there- 
fore concur  in  the  grant  of  supplies  upon  equal  and  constitutional 
principles,  whereby  these  rights  may  under  wiser  counsels  and  with 
the  aid  of  divine  Providence,  be  vindicated  and  preserved. 

But  witnesses,  as  they  have  been,  of  the  incapacity  of  the  Exec- 
utive Government,  invariably  manifested  at  home  and  abroad, 
whereby  the  public  credit  is  deeply  impaired,  and  the  objects  of 
the  war,  as  well  as  of  negotiation,  have  been  alike  abandoned  ; 
they  cannot  entertain  any  reasonable  expectation,  whatever  be  the 
further  means  entrusted  to  these  men,  that  the  same  will  be  so 
used,  that  the  public  confidence  will  be  reunited  and  the  public 
credit  restored,  or  that  Peace  will  be  concluded  on  terms  of  safety 
and  of  honor.  Nothing  short  of  an  entire  change  of  the  Heads 
of  Departments  will  be  likely  to  attain  these  important  objects. 


CHAPTER   XXIII. 

C.  King  to  R.  King — Proposed  Changes  in  military  Arrangement  in  New 
York — J.  Taylor  to  R.  King — In  Favor  of  National  Banks — Morris  to 
King — Recommends  a  Refusal  of  Supplies  of  all  Sorts — Does  not  Believe 
the  Enemy  will  attack  New  York — Believes  the  Chesapeake  will  be  Centre 
of  Operations — King  to  Morris — Commissioners  authorized  to  make  Peace 
upon  Status  ante-Bellum — Govr.  Tompkins  to  relieve  Gen.  Lewis — King 
to  Morris — Monroe  proposes  to  fill  the  Army  by  Conscription — Van 
Rensselaer  to  King — Character  of  the  War  changed — Distrusts  the  pro- 
posed Hartford  Convention — C.  King  to  King — Proposes  entering  a  new 
Regiment  of  U.  S.  Army — Morris  to  King — Probable  Basis  of  Negotiation 
— Plan  of  Finance — Jay  advises  support  to  the  Government  when  right — 
King — Speech  on  3-million  Loan — Administration's  Treatment  of  eastern 
Men — C.  Wilkes  to  King — Objections  to  a  national  Bank — Wilkes  to 
King — Resumes  the  Subject. 

Chas.  King  to  R.  King. 

Camp  at  Stuyvesants,  Oct.  15,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  There  is  great  reason  to  fear  that  Genl.  Lewis  has  it  in 
contemplation,  to  transfer  from  our  corps  of  infantry  into  his  more 
favored  corps  of  artillery  and  uniformed  volunteers,  all  such,  as 
owing  to  the  stricter  discipline  and  more  exact  subordination  ob- 
served in  the  infantry  corps,  or  from  any  other  cause,  may  wish 
such  transfers.  The  effect  of  this  in  the  first  instance  will  be  so 
to  reduce  the  infantry  battalions  as  to  render  a  reconsolidation 
necessary  &  a  consequential  reduction  in  the  number  of  officers  : 
by  which  measure  a  number  of  meritorious  and  aspiring  young 
men,  who  have  with  great  zeal  and  success  labored  hitherto  in 
the  discipline  of  their  companies  will  be  cut  adrift  at  the  moment 
when  they  began  to  derive  credit  and  satisfaction  from  their 
efforts.     The  next  and  more  serious  effect  will  be,  to  produce 

425 


426  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 


such  a  jealousy  between  these  corps,  as  to  render  hopeless  any 
prospect  of  union  in  their  endeavors  when  required  :  beside 
which  the  esprit  de  corps,  without  which  no  officer  or  man  ever 
was  good  for  anything  will  be  so  entirely  destroyed,  by  a  step  so 
degrading  as  the  one  contemplated  to  the  infantry,  that  the  few 
officers  who  will  consent  to  remain  in  the  service  upon  such 
terms,  will  lose  all  pride,  and  with  it,  in  my  opinion,  all  usefulness. 

Without  however  going  any  farther  into  detail  on  the  subject,  I 
must  refer  you  at  once  to  Mr.  Wm.  Irving  for  full  information  on 
it ;  and  if  he  and  every  other  person  from  this  city,  who  has  an 
opportunity  of  judging,  does  not  say  that  the  infantry  corps  (par- 
ticularly Mapes'  brigade)  are  more  efficient,  better  disciplined 
and  better  officered  bodies  than  Genl.  Morton's  artillery,  I  will 
consent  that  you  should  take  no  steps  in  the  request  which  I  now 
proceed  to  make,  and  which  is  that  you  will,  if  you  can  with  pro- 
priety, ask  Mr.  Monroe  to  direct  Genl.  Lewis  to  abstain  from  all 
such  transfers.*  Genl.  Mapes  at  my  request  wrote  some  time 
since  to  Mr.  Monroe  on  this  subject,  &  he  has,  I  believe,  been 
spoken  to  by  others  and  been  made  acquainted  in  some  measure 
with  our  "griefs,"  for  such  I  consider  them.  Your  voice  will  I 
think  be  not  lost,  if  raised  in  our  behalf  :  that  you  will  not,  on 
enquiry  into  these  circumstances,  find  it  improper  so  to  raise  it,  I 
sincerely  think. 

We  are  all  well  in  health  ;  but  Mr.  Grade's  mind  is  not  at  all  at 
ease.  I  should  extremely  like  to  hear  your  opinion  of  the  chance 
of  peace.  If  there  were  a  reasonable  hope,  I  would  not  hesitate 
to  do  what  I  think  Mr.  Gracie  wishes  me  to  do,  and  go  back  to 
Europe  ;  but  if  war  is  to  continue,  I  should  be  most  unwilling  to 
leave  home.f     With  love  to  Mama     yours  ever 

Chas.  King. 


*  General  Lewis  was  removed  from  the  command,  as  the  following  shows  : 
"Governor  Tompkins,  with  Adjutant  General  Solomon  Van  Rensselaer  his 
aide,  arrived  in  the  steamboat  from  Albany  to  take  command  of  the  United 
States  and  State  troops  in  this  district  (New  York  City)  in  place  of  Genl. 
Lewis."— Ev'g  Post,  Oct.  20. 

fAn  opportunity  is  afforded  by  this  letter  to  state,  that  the  sons  of  Mr. 
King,  though  they  adopted  his  views  in  relation  to  the  declaration  of  the  war, 
did  not  hesitate  to  follow  the  example  he  had  set  them,  to  give  their  personal 
services  to  promote  its  successful  issue,  and  especially  for  the  defence  of  New 
York.     John  A.  King  was  a  Lieutenant  of  a  cavalry  company,  Charles  King 


1 8 14]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  427 

John  Taylor  (Lieut  Gov)  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  Oct.  17,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  received  under  cover  from  you  the  Message  from  the  Presi- 
dent with  the  accompanying  Documents  from  our  Ministers  at 
Ghent.  The  propositions  on  the  part  of  the  British  are  in  my 
opinion  inadmissible  ;  and  I  am  happy  to  learn  that  this  senti- 
ment pervades  every  class  of  our  citizens.  Our  next  object  will 
be  to  prosecute  the  war  to  an  honorable  termination.  To  effect 
this,  the  means  will  be  required,  and  how  to  obtain  them  is  the 
important  desideratum.  The  manner  in  which  the  last  loan  was 
taken  up  did  not  add  much  to  the  credit  of  the  nation.  To  cen- 
sure is  easier  than  to  remedy  ;  I  will  therefore  make  no  observa- 
tions on  that  subject  ;  but  will  hazard  an  opinion,  which  if  not 
approved  by  you,  will,  I  am  convinced,  be  imputed  to  no  improper 
motive.  I  could  wish  that  a  National  Bank  was  instituted.  In- 
deed, I  always  doubted  the  propriety  of  suppressing  the  former 
one  :  but  will  a  Bank  afford  the  required  relief  ?  I  presume  that 
it  may  in  time  afford  some  aid,  but  cannot  answer  the  end.  Ex- 
chequer Bills  bearing  an  interest  from  experience  will  be  in  a 
great  measure  ineffectual,  as  the  community  requires  a  circulating 
medium.  Will  it  not  therefore  be  of  more  general  use  to  issue 
paper  of  small  as  well  as  large  denominations  declaring  it  to  be 
a  lawful  tender,  and  receivable  in  all  payments  to  the  United 
States,  at  the  same  time  pledging  a  certain  specific  fund  for  its  re- 
demption, say  land,  redeemable  in  six  years.  The  country,  at 
least  this  part  of  it,  approve  of  this  mode.  The  interest  saved  by 
this  medium  will  be  a  considerable  fund  for  its  redemption.  The 
Taxes  will  create  a  demand  for  this  paper,  and  the  Banks  who 
now  refuse  paying  Specie  for  their  Bills,  will  be  relieved  from 
the  embarrassments  they  may  experience  by  having  this  paper  in 
their  possession.  I  have  hazarded  my  opinion  ;  at  the  same 
time,  I  feel  confident  that  this  subject  is  intrusted  to  persons,  who 
from  a  full  view  of  the  whole  ground,  will  be  more  capable  of 

was  a  captain  in  a  volunteer  regiment,  and  James  Gore  King  was  selected  as  an 
Assistant  Adjutant  General  by  Genl.  Ebenezer  Stevens,  who  commanded  the 
militia  of  the  city,  under  the  United  States  general  officer.  They  all  continued 
in  the  service,  except  Charles,  who  was  obliged  to  go  to  England  on  the 
business  of  his  mercantile  house,  until  the  conclusion  of  the  war  in  1815. — Ed. 


428  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

deciding  than  I  can  possibly  be.  We  have  passed  in  the  Sen- 
ate a  Bill  directing  the  raising  of  12000  men  ;  and  a  Bill  in- 
corporating any  number  of  persons  not  less  than  five  to  carry  on 
privateering  is  become  a  Law.  I  believe  we  shall  adjourn  Satur- 
day next.  Yours  most  respectfully 

John  Taylor. 

G.  Morris  to  R.  King. 

MORRISANIA,  Oct.   l8,  1814. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

I  receive  this  Moment  your  favors  of  the  13th  and  14th.  The 
Condition  of  the  Finances  was  and  is  remediable,  but  will  soon 
be  desperate.  The  Plan  of  the  Committee  of  Ways  and  Means 
is,  in  my  opinion,  inefficient.  It  would  be  impertinent  to  assign 
Reasons  for  that  opinion  to  you. 

I  wrote  yesterday  to  Wells  and  Pickering,  who  will  no  Doubt 
communicate  my  Letters.  In  Reply  to  your  Question,  what  is  to 
be  done,  I  answer  decidedly,  and  without  the  Slightest  Hesitation, 
refuse  Supplies  of  every  Sort.  Should  the  Grand  Signior  ask  for 
Men  and  Money  to  invade  Persia,  you  would  tell  him  we  want 
both  to  defend  ourselves.  Tell  Mr.  Madison  the  same  thing,  and 
let  him  shew  what  Interest  we  have  in  the  Conquest  of  Persia  or 
Canada. 

There  is,  thank  God,  good  Sense  in  Massachusetts.  Should 
the  Rest  of  New  England  join  her,  I  shall  have  Hopes  of  my 
Country. 

In  answer  to  your  Question,  I  feel  myself  bound  in  Duty  and 
Honor  to  declare  that  any  thing  like  a  Pledge  by  Federalists  to 
carry  on  this  wicked  War,  strikes  a  Dagger  to  my  Heart.  Who- 
ever shall  utter  a  word  of  that  Sort  will  repent  it.  The  Passions 
of  honest  men  are  played  on  by  Contrivers  who  laugh  at  their 
Credulity.  How  often,  in  the  name  of  God,  how  often  will  you 
agree  to  be  cheated  ?  What  are  you  to  gain  by  giving  Mr  Madi- 
son Men  and  Money  ?  Has  he  not  told  you  distinctly  that  he 
will  not  defend  you  ?  How  are  you  to  defend  yourselves  when 
you  have  parted  with  the  Means  ?  If  you  go  on  at  this  present 
Rate  you  will,  in  six  months,  be  incapable  of  Exertion,  for  you 
wage  war  at  an  Expence  which  no  Nation  can  bear.  Patriotism 
is  one  thing,  but  Food  is  another,  and  tho*  Patriotism  may  turn 


1 8 14]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  429 

out  Soldiers  it  cannot  buy  Bread.  As  to  any  Protestations  you 
may  make  after  giving  Men  and  Money,  they  are  mere  Wind,  and 
put  them  in  what  Form  you  may,  they  will  make  no  more  Im- 
pression than  mere  Wind.  If  you  withhold  Supplies  your  oppo- 
nents will  call  you  Enemies  of  your  Country  ;  And  what  of  that  ? 
These  also  are  mere  words.  Hard  words  if  you  please,  but  they 
break  no  Bones.  Withhold  Supplies  and  they  hate,  but  grant 
Supplies  and  they  despise  you. 

I  have  never  believed  that  the  Enemy  intended  to  attack  New 
York.  If  he  should  he  will,  I  think,  carry  it  and  covering  his 
Flanks  with  his  Ships,  the  Fortifications  you  have  raised  and 
which  he  may  avoid,  will  serve  him  much  better  than  they  can 
serve  you.  But  cui  bono  ?  What  will  they  gain  by  it  ?  Or  cui 
damno  ?  what  shall  we  lose  by  it  ?  The  Expedition,  unless  con- 
nected with  a  strong  Party  in  the  Eastern  States,  would  be  if  suc- 
cessful useless,  if  unsuccessful  pernicious  to  them.  In  all  Events, 
of  little  Consequence  to  us  and  therefore  a  Piece  of  Folly  on 
their  Part. 

I  have  always  supposed  that  their  main  Effort  would  be  in  the 
Chesapeake  and  not  seriously  commenced  until  the  sickly  Season 
is  over.  The  Conquest  of  Louisiana,  which  will  doubtless  form 
a  Part  of  their  Plan,  cannot  require  so  great  a  Force  as  that  un- 
der Lord  Hill.  Moreover  an  Invasion  of  Virginia  will  operate 
effectually  on  the  Fate  of  Louisiana.  An  Army  of  twenty  thou- 
sand Men  landed  at  Annapolis  will  march  without  serious  Im- 
pediment to   the   Point   of  Florida  and    oblige  the   Country  to 

Maintain  them 

Yours  truly, 

Gouv.  Morris 

P.  S.  yours  of  the  nth  just  received  as  I  am  making  this  up. 


R.  King  to  G.  Morris. 

Washington,  Oct.  19,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

A  day  or  two  since  I  sent  to  you  a  copy  of  the  instructions  given 
to  the  Commissioners  authorized  to  treat  with  England  ;  as  several 
material  portions  of  these  Instructions  were  communicated  to 
Congress  in  Confidence,  and  are  therefore  not  published,  you 
have  but  an  imperfect  view  of  the  Pretensions  and  Expectations 


430  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

of  our  Cabinet,  enough  however  is  before  you,  to  shew  that  every 
object  for  which  the  war  was  professed  to  have  been  made,  is 
given  up  ;  and  that  the  Commissioners  were  authorized  to  conclude 
a  Peace,  upon  the  "  Status  ante  Bellum,"  including  maritime  as 
well  as  territorial  Rights. 

I  understand  that  the  war  men  are  dissatisfied,  and  that  this 
Disclosure  has  not  had  the  effect  of  satisfying  them.  Herewith  I 
send  you  a  copy  of  our  new  Secretary's  Report  upon  the  Finances  ; 
as  well  as  upon  the  expediency  of  creating  a  Bank. 

I  also  understand,  in  consequence  of  applications  on  the  Part 
of  the  City,  that  Genl.  Lewis  is  removed  from  his  command  ;  and 
that  Govr.  Tompkins  has  been  requested  to  repair  immediately 
to  the  City  to  command  the  Forces.  It  will  be  quite  in  character, 
if  the  respective  Governors  of  the  Eastern  States  be  called  upon 
to  take  measures  to  defend  their  Territory  and  repel  the  Invader, 
with  assurances  that  the  expenses  shall  be  defrayed  by  the  U.  S. 
Very  faithfully  yr.  ob  Sert. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  G.  Morris. 

Washington,  Oct.  21,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  send  you  a  report  respecting  the  Taxes  wh.  we  have  reed, 
this  morning. 

We  have  nothing  extraordinary  to  communicate — a  late  News 
Paper  from  New  Orleans  speaks  of  recent  intelligence  reed,  from 
Mexico  ;  according  to  which,  the  Rejection  of  the  Spanh.  Con- 
stitution by  Ferdinand  has  produced  the  highest  Dissatisfaction 
in  Mexico  ;  where  a  disposition  to  cast  off  the  Dominion  of  the 
mother  Country,  extensively  manifests  itself. 

Monroe  proposes  to  fill  the  regular  army  to  62  thousand,  by 
conscription,  and  further  now  to  raise  40  thousand  local  troops 
for  the  defence  of  the  several  States. 

I  hear  that  the  military  Comrs.  are  somewhat  intractable  and 
that  poor  Monroe  is  at  the  end  of  his  poor  Resources. 

Yrs  &c. 

R  King 


l8i4l  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  43  I 

S.  Van  Rensselaer  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  Oct.  25,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  had  the  pleasure  of  rec'g  your  letter  &  the  documents — the 
demands  of  G.  Britain  evince  a  disposition  to  continue  the  Con- 
test. I  can  not  persuade  myself  yet,  that  they  are  serious.  I 
concur  in  sentiment  &  I  am  glad  of  your  sanction  that  the  char- 
acter of  the  war  is  changed  and  that  our  Soil  &  Sovereignty  must 
be  defended,  notwithstanding  the  incompetency  of  our  Rulers. 
Our  Legislature  have  passed  a  Conscription  Law,  12000  Infantry 
2000  St.  fencibles  &  2000  Negroes — the  Genl.  goes  this  morn- 
ing to  take  the  command  :  he  is  Lt.  General  his  friends  say. 
Your  taxes  &  our  Militia  I  think  will  work  a  change,  or  an  insur- 
rection. Judge  Benson  is  here,  begs  to  be  remembered  ;  he  says 
he  has  half  a  mind  to  go  to  New  England  to  get  them  right ;  he 
fears  they  will  at  their  Convention  not  take  the  federal  course. 
I  think  their  game  will  be  a  difficult  one  &  what  their  object  is  I 
cannot  divine. 

With  great  regard  &. 

Your  friend 

S  V  Rensselaer 


Chas.  King  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  Oct.  31,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  change  of  command  in  this  district  has  taken  place  and 
General  Lewis  has  gone  to  Washington  for  the  purpose,  I  sup- 
pose, of  resigning  his  commission  and  settling  his  old  accounts. 
He  is  very  sore  at  being  displaced.  You  will  have  seen  in  the 
papers  probably  the  high  character  Mapes'  brigade  has  obtained. 
Lewis  said  rather  too  much  in  his  general  order  on  the  subject ; 
yet  not  a  word  that  was  not  true.  It  is  undoubtedly  the  best 
militia  brigade  in  this  State  and  probably  any  other.  I  have  just 
given  up  my  command  to  Col.  Rensselaer,  who  has  returned.  I 
have  gained  some  information  and  some  credit  by  this  tour  of  camp 
duty.  If  the  war  is  to  last,  of  which  I  think  there  are  strong 
appearances,  I  feel  much  disposed  to  go  into  the  army,  and  of 
course,  of  preference,  into  the  United  States  Army.     I  observe 


432  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

the  Secretary  at  war  contemplates  an  additional  force  of  40,000 
men  ;  and  one  of  these  regiments,  I  should  like  very  well  to  com- 
mand. I  should  not  willingly  take  an  inferior  commission.  What 
do  you  think  of  the  project  ?  The  force  of  12,000  men  voted  by 
this  State  depends  as  to  its  being  raised,  upon  the  voice  of 
Congress,  as  to  whether  they  will  receive  and  keep  them  in  pay — 
to  which,  as  the  force  is  to  be  officered  and  organized  by  the  State 
authority,  I  presume  there  will  be  strong  objections.     .     .     . 

Of  Lord  Hill  and  his  myrmidons  we  hear  nothing — and  I  trust 
shall  see  nothing  :  for  brave  and  skillful  as  we  presume  ourselves, 
12,000  men  under  his  command  would  possess  themselves  un- 
doubtedly of  this  City.     .     .     . 

I  am,  Dear  Sir,  Chas.  King. 

Endorsed  by  R.  K. : 

Ansd.  Nov.  6 — that  until  the  plan  to  raise  the  new  military 
force  was  understood,  I  could  not  decide. 


G.  Morris  to  R.  King. 

MORRISANIA,  Nov.   I.   18 14. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  to  acknowledge  your  Favors  of  the  19th  &  21st  of  last 
month,  which  by  Reason  of  a  short  Visit  to  New  York,  did  not 
reach  me  in  due  Course.     Accept  now  my  thanks  for  them. 

The  British  Commrs,  mentioned  very  slightly  the  alleged  Ground 
of  Quarrel  as  one  which  would  probably  make  a  Point  in  the  ne- 
gotiations. It  may  be  disposed  of  in  two  ways,  the  first  and  most 
eligible  in  my  opinion,  is  to  make,  on  our  Part,  a  frank  avowal  of 
the  contested  Right  and  then  ask  of  them  to  insert  such  Modifi- 
cations in  the  Exercise  of  it  as  the  Sameness  of  Language  and 
Similarity  of  Manners  require,  when  one  of  the  Parties  may  be 
at  War  and  the  other  at  Peace.  The  Second  way  to  dispose  of 
it,  and  that  which  the  British  Comrs  may  prefer,  is  to  say  nothing 
about  it.  This  will,  in  Effect,  be  a  full  acknowledgment  on  our 
Part  and  Spare  them  the  delicate  Task  of  arranging  reciprocal 
Modifications  of  the  Exercise  to  suit  John  Bull  in  the  double 
Hypothesis  of  belligerent  and  Neuter.  The  Publication  of  these 
Instructions  places  the  Ball  at  the  Foot  of  our  Enemy  who  will, 
of  Course,  kick  it  in  the  manner  most  agreeable  to  him. 


1814]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  433 

I  was  surprised  at  the  Fire  and  Fuss  made  about  this  negotia- 
tion when  it  was  first  published.  Next  to  the  folly  of  our  Rulers  is 
the  Madness  of  our  Friends,  who  rashly  pledge  themselves  to 
fight  for  Sailors'  Rights  on  the  Frontiers  of  Canada  ;  because, 
forsooth,  Great  Britain  will  not,  abandoning  her  Allies,  sign  seal 
and  deliver  a  Declaration  of  her  own  Perfidy. 

Pray  make  my  respectful  Compts.  to  your  name  Sake  in  the 
House  of  Representatives,  whose  Speech  I  have  read  with  singu- 
lar Satisfaction.  The  Pretext  that  if  we  do  not  grant  Supplies 
we  shall  be  conquered  and  colonized  is  so  futile  that  I  wonder  to 
hear  it  from  Men  of  Sense.  This  Nation  is  not  to  be  conquered 
by  twenty  or  thirty  thousand  Soldiers.  Neither  would  our  Inde- 
pendence be,  at  all,  endangered  tho'  a  more  powerful  Army 
should  march  from  Maine  to  Georgia  and  from  Georgia  to 
Maine. 

Your  Scheme  of  Finance  will  not  answer.  The  People  are 
unable  to  pay  such  heavy  Taxes  in  real  Money,  and  the  general 
Interest  to  depreciate  your  Paper  will  take  Effect  notwithstanding 
the  Struggle  of  monied  men.  The  Project  of  putting  a  world  on 
an  Elephant's  Back  to  stand  on  a  Tortoise  and  he  on  nothing, 
will  have  the  Success  to  be  expected  from  so  rational  a  Device, 
Immediate  Peace,  or  the  Destruction  of  Money  Capital.  Take 
your  Choice. 

As  to  Mr.  Monroe's  60,000  conscriptive  men  in  Kendal  Green, 
his  40,000  in  Buckram,  they  are  worthy  of  Mr.  Dallas'  Bank 
Stock.  Your  Enemy  will  not  be  deceived  by  such  a  Paper 
Machinery  of  Force  and  Finance,  but  pursue  his  plans  of  Hos- 
tility with  a  Confidence  of  ultimate  Success.  An  Union  of  the 
commercial  States  to  take  Care  of  themselves,  leaving  the  War, 
its  Expense  and  its  Debt  to  those  choice  Spirits  so  ready  to  de- 
clare and  so  eager  to  carry  it  on,  seems  to  be  now  the  only  rational 

Course.*  Yours  truly 

Gouv.  Morris. 

*  In  answer  to  a  letter  from  Mr.  Pickering  of  Oct.  22,  1S14,  saying  that  he 
had  sent  to  him  "  the  despatches  from  our  Ministers  in  Ghent,  their  instructions, 
and  the  statement  of  the  New  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  of  his  plan  of  taxes  and 
his  project  of  a  national  bank,"  Mr.  Jay  writes  on  Nov.  1,  among  other  matters, 
"  Things  being  as  they  are,  I  think  we  cannot  be  too  perfectly  united  in  a  de- 
termination to  defend  our  country,  nor  be  too  vigilant  in  watching  and  reso- 
lutely examining  the    conduct   of  the  administration  in  all  its  departments, 

VOL.    V. — 28 


434  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

C.  Wilkes  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  Nov.  3,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

We  are  all  extremely  anxious  here,  upon  the  question  of  the 
proposed  bank  of  the  U  States,*  which  I  hope  you  will  permit 
me  to  plead  as  an  excuse  for  giving  you  the  trouble  of  this 
letter.     I  venture  to  ask  your  opinion  whether  such  a  measure 

candidly  and  openly  giving  decided  approbation  or  decided  censure,  according 
as  it  may  deserve  the  one  or  the  other.  ...  I  have  just  read  Mr.  King's 
speech  ;  they  who  complain  that  it  exhibits  too  little  of  the  snaviter  in  modo,  can- 
not also  complain  that  it  exhibits  too  little  of  the  fortiter  in  re."  \ 

\  Corresp.,  etc.,  of  John  Jay,  1893,  iv. ,  379.  It  is  probable  that  the  Mr.  King 
alluded  to  is  Cyrus  King,  in  the  House  of  Representatives  from  Massachusetts, 
who  made  a  very  earnest  speech  against  the  increase  of  taxes,  in  which  he 
warmly  arraigned  the  administration  and  its  followers. 

A  gentleman  in  Washington  writes  to  the  New  York  Evening  Post,  on  Nov. 
4th. 

"  Mr.  King,  on  the  subject  of  the  bill  to  borrow  three  millions  of  dollars 
yesterday  in  the  Senate,  came  out  with  his  usual  ability.  How  cutting  are  his 
remonstrances  ;  at  the  same  time  how  wise  and  parental  his  admonitions. 
'  However  discouraging  the  present  of  the  country,'  said  he,  'with  a  depre- 
ciated, degraded  currency,  embarrassed  and  sunken  by  the  war,  I  will  vote  the 
men  and  the  money  to  the  administration,  suck  as  it  is,  to  defend  the  Country. 
Be  the  application  with  them.  But  let  me  remind  gentlemen  that  conviction  is 
now  abroad  in  the  land,  conviction  produced  by  experience,  that  they  wrill  be 
held  responsible  for  the  violation  of  those  maxims  which  prudence  and  success 
have  confirmed.' 

"  I  have  long  observed  here  that  a  certain  political  regimen  is  observed,  cal- 
culated to  break  down  the  pretension  of  every  man  who  makes  his  appearance 
on  this  great  political  theatre  from  the  eastward,  and  who  is  at  all  qualified  to 
draw  the  attention  of  the  public  to  him.  No  matter  what  may  be  his  talents, 
his  acquirements,  or  his  virtues,  two  questions  only  are  asked.  Is  he  of  our 
party?  Is  he  willing  to  submit  to  the  dominion  of  Virginia?  .  .  .  Hence 
it  is  that  in  your  State  you  have  Clinton  proscribed,  German  spurned  because  he 
dares  to  remember  that  he  represents  the  great  State  of  New  York — Fisk  and 
Taylor  kept  on  the  footing  of  mere  voters,  when  the  executive  decrees  are 
to  be  registered,  and  Rufus  King  hated.  King's  lustre  is  so  dazzling,  his  worth 
so  sparkling,  that  they  cannot  obscure  him.     They  therefore  hate  him."  % 

\  Evening  Post,  Nov.  10,  1814. 

*  On  Sept.  30,  1814,  the  petition  o  fDavid  M.  Clarkson  and  others,  citi- 
zens of  New  York,  was  presented  to  the  Senate  by  Mr.  German,  praying  for  the 
establishment  of  a  National  Bank  and  on  Oct.  31st  it  was  referred  to  a  special 
Committee,  of  which  Mr.  King  was  chairman.  Mess.  Smith,  Taylor,  Bibb,  and 
Mason  were  the  other  members.  On  Dec.  2d  Mr.  King  reported  a  bill  to  in- 
corporate one. 


1814]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  435 

is  likely  to  be  adopted  upon  the  plan  of  the  new  Secretary.  I 
have  found  no  person  here  who  thinks  the  measure  practicable 
at  present,  or  at  all  likely  to  give  much  relief  to  the  government.  It 
appears  impossible  that  six  millions  of  specie  should  be  obtained  ; 
but  if  they  could  be,  they  would  not,  by  any  means,  secure  the 
payment  of  the  notes  of  such  a  bank  in  specie  for  a  month,  & 
if  restricted  from  paying  in  specie  I  do  not  see  how  the 
notes  can  possibly  be  kept  from  depreciation  for  a  week.  In 
short  it  appears  to  me  most  evident,  that  an  issue  of  Treasury 
notes,  bearing  a  low  rate  of  interest  but  fundable  at  eight  p.  cent 
interest  whenever  the  holder  pleased,  &  not  payable  at  any  def- 
inite period,  would  be  an  infinitely  better  remedy  for  the  present 
distress  of  the  government  than  a  bank  beginning  almost  in  bank- 
ruptcy, and  urged,  as  it  will  necessarily  be,  to  press  out  its  notes 
without  measure.  Such  a  bank,  I  own,  appears  to  me  a  mere  job 
to  serve  a  few  persons  who  hold  very  large  sums  of  stock  &  hope 
in  this  way  to  get  rid  of  it  by  changing  its  form.  I  beg  pardon 
for  this  detail  to  you  who  know  the  subject  as  well  as  any  person 
&  will  only  add  that  at  our  weekly  meetings  of  the  banks,  there 
seems  to  be  an  universal  opinion  that  the  proposed  plan  will  be  a 
bad  one  for  the  public  &  for  the  administration  ;  &  if  you  thought 
it  would  be  of  any  use,  I  think  it  very  probable  the  banks  might 
be  induced  to  join  in  any  measures  of  remonstrance  against  it. 
There  would  be  some  danger  to  be  sure  in  such  a  measure,  as  we 
should  probably  be  asked  to  loan  money,  but  perhaps  it  would  be 
better  even  to  do  that,  rather  than  see  carried  through  a  bank, 
which  in  our  opinion  will  only  make  the  state  of  paper  credit  still 
more  desperate  than  it  already  is.  May  I  beg  the  favor  of  your 
opinion  whether  it  is  worth  while  to  stir  the  question  at  our  meet- 
ings, and  whether  in  any  way,  we  can  do  any  thing  here  which 
may  be  useful  ?  I  would  fain  reserve  a  bank  of  the  United  States 
as  a  remedy,  in  better  times,  to  recover  the  wretched  state  of  our 
currency.      I  am  Dr.  Sir  with  the  greatest  respect,  your  obt  Servt. 

Chas.  Wilkes. 
P.  S.  As  a  proof  of  what  the  difficulty  would  be  to  collect 
specie,  I  will  just  mention  that  I  have  information  from  the  most 
unquestionable  authority  that  the  notes  of  our  bank,  sold  at  pub- 
lic auction  at  Boston  a  few  days  ago  at  fourteen  p  Cent  discount 
&  I  know  that  our  notes  are  in  better  credit  there  than  those  of 
any  of  our  fellow  banks. 


43^  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

C.  Wilkes  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  Nov.  ir,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  just  received  yr.  favor  of  the  8th.  I  am  very  happy  to 
find  that  you  see  no  objection  to  a  memorial  on  the  part  of  the 
banks  here  against  the  proposed  bank.  When  I  received  yr. 
favor  of  the  3rd,  giving  the  heads  of  the  bill,  I  thought  it  well  to 
lose  no  time  in  getting  as  well  as  I  could  the  opinion  of  our 
general  committee  on  the  subject,  &  I  found  them  so  much  dis- 
posed to  oppose  the  measure,  that  I  proposed  a  memorial  which 
was  at  the  general  meeting  on  Wednesday,  referred  to  a  com- 
mittee to  report  again  next  Wednesday.  I  am  persuaded  all  the 
banks  will  agree  to  it  except  possibly  the  City  bank  where  Mr. 
Few's  influence,  as  President,  may  prevent  it.  I  have  however 
seen  him  &  read  the  memorial  to  him  &  he  has  not  expressed  any 
opinion  unfavorable  to  it.  I  think  it  not  unlikely  that  we  may 
conclude  upon  it  next  week.  I  wish  very  much  that  we  could 
have  the  benefit  of  your  advice  as  to  the  matter  of  it.  I  fear  it 
may  be  found  too  long,  altho'  I  have  as  much  as  possible  endeav- 
oured to  shorten  it.     We  express  it  as  our  firm  belief  ; 

That  the  capital  will  be  found  too  large,  that  six  millions  of 
specie  cannot  be  obtained  by  any  inducements  which  can  be  held 
out,  altho'  a  less  sum  in  specie  than  six  millions,  will  not  afford  a 
proper  security  to  the  public. 

That  even  if  six  millions  could  be  procured,  the  payment  of 
the  notes  in  specie,  could  not  be  continued  for  any  long  period. 

That  if  the  notes  are  not  paid  in  specie,  they  will  infallibly 
depreciate. 

That  if  they  depreciate,  the  present  banks  cannot  without  ruin, 
take  them  either  in  payment  or  on  deposit,  & 

That  if  the  Banks  throughout  the  country  generally  do  not  take 
them,  they  will  not  answer  as  a  general  medium  of  circulation  ; 
which  is  used  as  a  great  argument  for  the  necessity  of  a  bank. 

These  different  propositions  we  have  endeavoured  to  shew  the 
truth  of,  as  well  as  we  can  in  a  short  compass,  &  we  end  by  a 
positive  declaration  that  so  far  from  opposing  a  national  bank, 
one  of  our  principal  reasons  for  thinking  the  present  plan  should 
not  be  adopted,  is  that  it  would  be  to  throw  away  the  best  remedy 
for  a  disordered  state  of  finance  &  credit,  which  in  our  opinion  a 


1 8 14]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  437 

national  bank,  upon  proper  principles  &  at  a  more  auspicious 
moment,  would  prove.  We  add  also  that  we  think  Treasury  bills 
issued  in  the  way  proposed  by  the  Committee  of  Ways  &  Means, 
with  some  slight  alterations,  would  be  a  better  resource  for  the 
government,  a  much  better  medium  for  general  circulation  & 
much  less  liable  to  depreciate. 

I  should  be  happy  to  hear  if  any  of  these  topics  appear  to  you 
improper  to  be  introduced.  Not  the  slightest  objection  was  made 
to  any  of  them  at  the  general  meeting  &  the  truth  of  them  all  was 
admitted  ;  indeed  before  I  read  the  memorial  at  all,  I  had  pro- 
posed for  discussion  the  different  arguments. 

I  am  astonished  to  find  that  the  banks  in  Baltimore  have  de- 
termined, at  least  we  are  told  so,  to  take  the  notes  ;  it  appears  to 
me  quite  evident  that  no  bank  can  take  them,  if  they  depreciate, 
without  absolute  ruin  as  a  Bank,  and  that  they  must  depreciate,  I 
think  as  demonstrable  as  that  two  &  two  will  make  four,  if  the  gov- 
ernment borrows  from  the  bank  even  twenty  millions.  We  are 
told  that  the  banks  in  Philadelphia  are  likely  to  follow  the  example 
of  Baltimore. 

As  the  main  objection,  in  my  opinion  to  a  national  bank,  is  the 
utter  impossibility  of  paying  specie  for  its  notes,  and  as  that 
reason  has  only  existed  a  short  time,  is  it  not  a  little  curious  that 
the  persons  who  have  so  long  opposed  a  national  bank  should 
choose  the  moment  to  advocate  it  when,  the  first  time,  there  has 
been  really  a  sound  argument  against  it  ?  As  I  take  it  for  granted 
that  a  less  capital  than  the  proposed  one,  would  not  suit  the  views 
of  the  government  or  enable  the  bank  to  lend  the  necessary  sums, 
I  presume  there  is  no  danger  in  urging  that  the  present  capital  is 
too  large.  Nearly  all  the  same  arguments  will  apply,  at  present, 
to  a  capital  of  even  ten  millions  ;  but  I  do  really  think  that  the 
proposed  amount  very  much  increases  the  chance  of  permanent 
mischief.     With  the  greatest  respect  I  am  yr  obt.  Sevt. 

Chas.  Wilkes. 


CHAPTER  XXIV. 

C.  King  to  King — New  York  Banks  will  send  Memorial  against  the  National 
Bank — New  York  Troops — Wilkes  to  King — Sends  Memorial — Some 
Banks  object  to  it — Has  read  the  Bill — Gives  his  Objections — Prefers 
Treasury  Notes  to  Bank  Notes — King  to  J.  Adams — Announces  Gerry's 
Death — Mason  on  Gerry's  Death — Choice  of  President  pro  tern. — Adams 
to  King — On  Death  of  Gerry — C.  King  to  King — Regrets  he  must  go  to 
Europe  on  Business — The  Governor  gave  him  a  Lieut. -Colonel's  Com- 
mission— Mason  on  Speech  of  King — King  to  Sir  William  Scott — Former 
cordial  Relations — Regrets  the  War  with  England — Hopes  for  speedy 
Peace — King  on  the  Hartford  Convention — Advises  Prudence  in  its  Acts — 
King's  Speech  on  the  Land-Tax  Bill. 

Chas.  King  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  iSth  Nov.,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  On  the  subject  of  the  great  bank,  there  prevails  here  a 
singular  degree  of  indifference.  The  banks  will,  however,  with 
the  exception  of  the  City  Bank  and  perhaps  the  Manhattan,  agree 
to  transmit  a  memorial  against  it,  drawn  by  Mr.  Wilkes,  I  think, 
with  considerable  ability. 

The  Conscription  bill  is,  I  presume,  relinquished,  as  Mr.  Giles 
has  introduced  one  of  so  different  a  nature  in  the  Senate.  Accord- 
ing to  his  plan,  the  troops  voted  by  this  State  will  come  very  ac- 
ceptably. You  will  see  by  the  papers,  that  we  have  been  successful 
in  our  Election — which  has  been  rendered  more  important  than 
Charter  Elections  usually  are,  by  the  exertions  of  the  democrats  to 
displace  "  per  fas  et  nefas  "  the  present  incumbents.    .    .    . 

Yours  truly  Chas.  King. 


C.  Wilkes  to  R.  King. 

Bank  of  New  York,  Nov.  19,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  send  herewith  the  memorial,  which  I  am  desired  by  the  Com- 
mittee to  request  you  will  present  to  the  Senate  when  you  think 

43S 


1814]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  439 

best.  A  similar  one  has  been  sent  to  Mr.  Irving  to  be  pre- 
sented to  the  House  of  Representatives.  You  will  perceive  that 
it  is  only  signed  by  committees  from  five  of  our  banks,  the  Man- 
hattan, Mechanics  &  City  Banks  declining  to  authorise  their  com- 
mittee to  sign  it.  I  am  disappointed  at  this  result,  because  there 
never  was  the  slightest  opposition  made  at  the  general  meeting, 
either  to  the  resolution  to  present  a  memorial,  or  to  the  arguments 
used  in  it,  &  all  the  members  of  the  general  committee  were  pres- 
ent except  Mr.  Few,  whom  I  saw  two  or  three  times  on  the  subject 
&  he  agreed  perfectly  in  the  truth  of  all  the  statements.  Whether 
their  interest,  as  holders  of  6  <$>  C.  stock,  prevails  over  their  stake 
as  holders  of  bank  stock,  whether  they  were  afraid  of  displeasing 
the  administration  or  whether  (which  I  think  the  most  likely)  it 
arose  merely  from  party  spirit,  it  equally  shews  how  impossible  it 
is  to  hope  for  unanimity  upon  any  subject.  We  have  endeav- 
oured to  use  only  such  arguments  as  were  of  a  general  nature  & 
not  applicable  to  ourselves  as  bankers,  &  we  have  refrained  from 
any  reasoning  to  shew  that  the  interest  of  the  proposed  stock- 
holders is  almost  entirely  under  the  control  of  government  by  the 
bill  as  it  stands  ;  yet  I  am  afraid  our  memorial  is  too  long  to  be 
heard  with  attention.  We  have  no  hopes  of  its  doing  any  good, 
except  as  it  gives  the  opinion  of  a  few  practical  men. 

I  am  very  much  obliged  to  you  for  your  goodness  in  sending 
me  the  act  &  for  your  favor  of  the  14th.  It  is  melancholy  to  see 
in  what  hands  we  are  placed  at  a  moment  requiring  so  much 
talents — I  have  read  the  bill  over  &  see  many  things  in  it  I  do 
not  like — in  fact,  I  doubt  whether  a  bank  can  ever  be  made,  upon 
what  I  think  good  principles,  when  it  is  so  much  under  the  con- 
trol of  the  government.  I  think  the  pledge  to  lend  thirty  millions, 
whenever  the  government  shall  pass  a  law  to  require  it,  particu- 
larly exceptionable,  not  only  to  the  bank,  but  as  it  affects  the 
public  ;  inasmuch  as  there  being  no  choice  left  to  the  bank,  the 
government  may,  under  this  act,  force  a  loan  from  the  bank  with- 
out providing  adequate  funds  for  the  payment  of  either  interest 
or  principal — nor  does  it  seem  a  very  improbable  conjecture  that 
under  various  pretences,  a  majority  may  be  found  in  Congress, 
ready  enough  to  raise  30  millions  without  the  unpopularity  of  lay- 
ing adequate  taxes. 

Altho'  I  have  no  idea  that  either  Treasury  notes  or  Bank  notes 


440  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

can  supply  the  necessary  means  to  carry  on  the  war  twelve  months 
longer  without  being  made  a  legal  tender  or  something  approach- 
ing to  it,  yet  I  think  it  quite  clear  that  Treasury  notes  have  the 
less  chance.  I  can  see  no  advantage  on  the  side  of  the  Bank 
notes  &  many  disadvantages,  &  1  firmly  believe  that  Treasury 
notes  will  be  less  mischievous,  indeed  I  think  their  depression  is 
not  a  whit  more  hurtful  than  that  of  6  ^  Cent,  stock. 

I  am  Sir  with  the  highest  esteem  yr  obt  Ser. 

Chas.  Wilkes. 

R.  King  to  John  Adams. 

Nov.  23,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Another  of  the  patriots  of  the  revolution  is  gone  ;  the  Vice 
President  was  dressed  as  usual  to  attend  the  Senate  this  morning, 
went  in  his  carriage  to  call  upon  Mr.  Nourse  of  the  Treasury  de- 
partment, complained  while  there  of  feeling  unwell,  was  helped 
by  Mr.  Nourse  into  the  carriage  to  return  to  his  quarters,  distant 
not  more  than  a  quarter  of  a  mile,  was  senseless  when  he  arrived 
there  &  being  taken  out  &  laid  upon  a  bed  immediately  expired 
without  a  groan  or  a  struggle.  Knowing  your  long  &  constant 
friendship  for  Mr.  Gerry,  I  have  thought  it  to  be  my  duty  to  im- 
part to  you  the  melancholy  information. 

With  the  highest  respect  I  remain  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

Jeremiah  Mason  to  Rev.  Jesse  Appleton.* 

Wash.,  Nov.  24,  1814. 
Yesterday  Gerry  died  very  suddenly.  .  .  .  The  President 
is  often  subject  to  bad  health  and  is  now  sick,  though  not  dan- 
gerously. This  gives  considerable  importance  to  the  election. 
[President  pro  tempore  of  the  Senate.]  The  federalists  and  a  few 
others  will  vote  for  Mr  King.  Two  on  our  side,  one  from  Dela- 
ware and  one  from  N.  Carolina,  are  absent.  Were  they  present 
we  might  probably  elect  him.  As  it  is  I  do  not  expect  it.  Today 
the  administration  party  think  of  choosing  Mr  Taylor  of  S.  Caro- 
lina. They  are  not,  however,  very  well  agreed.  Their  chief 
reason  for  setting  him  up  is  to  prevent  his  voting  for  Mr.  King, 
which  it  is  said  he  is  inclined  to  do.     .     .     . 

*  Memoir  and  Corresp.  of  yeremiah  Mason,  p.  107. 


1814]  LIFE   AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  44 1 

On  November  25th  an  election  was  held,  resulting  in  the 
choice  of  Mr.  Gaillard,  who  received  on  the  second  ballot 
16  votes;  Mr.  King  had  10,  Mr.  Chase  5,  Mr.  Anderson  1. 

John  Adams  to  R.  King. 

Quincy,  Dec.  2,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  very  much  obliged  to  you  for  the  information,  melancholly 
as  it  is  to  me,  of  the  death  of  Mr.  Gerry. 

A  Friendship  of  forty  years  I  have  found  a  rarity  though  not  a 
singularity. 

I  am  left  alone.  While  Paine,  Gerry  and  Lowell  lived,  there 
were  some  that  I  seemed  to  know,  but  now  not  one  of  my  Con- 
temporaries and  Colleagues  is  left.  Can  there  be  any  deeper 
damnation  in  this  Universe  than  to  be  condemned  to  a  long  Life, 
in  danger  Toil  and  anxiety  ?  to  be  rewarded  only  with  Abuse  In- 
sult and  Slander  and  to  die  at  Seventy,  leaving  to  an  amiable 
Wife  and  nine  amiable  Children  nothing  for  an  inheritance,  but 
the  contempt,  hatred  and  malice  of  the  World  ? 

How  much  prettier  a  thing  it  is,  to  be  a  disinterested  Patriot 
like  Washington  and  Franklin,  live  and  die  among  the  Hozannas 
and  Adorations  of  the  Multitude  and  leave  half  a  Million  to  one 
Child  or  to  no  Child. 

Do  you  wonder  at  Tacitus  and  Quintillian  ?  I  do  but  not  at 
the  profoundness  of  their  Philosophy.  I  am  astonished  at  the 
Shallowness  of  it,  I  am  amazed  at  their  Vanity  and  Presumption 
in  pretending  to  judge  the  government  of  this  all.  Their  only 
true  Philosophy  should  have  been  submission  and  Resignation. 
I  am,  Sir,  with  much  respect  and  real  Esteem 

your  obliged  humble  Servant, 

John  Adams. 

Chas.  King  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  Dec.  9th,  18 14. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     When  I  had  decided  to  go  [to  Europe  on  business  of 

his  house]  I  waited  on  the  Governor  to  ask  a  furlough.      He 

granted  it,  but  as  he  said  with  great  regret,  at  the  necessity  of  my 

departure ;      he,    however,    tendered    me   immediately   a    Lieut. 


442  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

Colonel's  commission,  which,  he  added,  "  as  you  are  going  away 
can  only  be  complimentary,  tho'  it  may  perhaps  be  a  good  travel- 
ling name  in  Europe."  He  expects  my  return  in  the  Spring, 
should  the  war  continue  ;  and  I  shall  endeavor,  at  any  rate,  not 
to  delay  it  beyond  the  summer.  If  peace  be  made  this  winter 
my  regret  at  leaving  here  will  be  diminished — but  if  not,  tho'  I 
feel  the  propriety  of  the  measure,  I  shall  feel  it  as  very  hard.  .  .  . 

I  am  ever  your 

Chas.  King. 


J.  Mason  to  Rev.  Jesse  Appleton.* 

Washington,  Dec.  n,  18 14. 
.     .     .     We  have  had  an  interesting  discussion  on  a  bill  to  es- 
tablish a  National  bank,  in  which  I  took  part.     .     .     .     On  that 
occasion  Mr.  King  of  the  Senate  spoke  in  his  best  manner  and 
greatest  power.     He  is  the  most  eloquent  man  I  ever  heard. 

In  the  Federal  Republican  of  December  7th  there  is  a 
comment  on  this  speech,  which  follows: 

"  It  was  then  [after  the  speech  of  Mr.  Smith,  of  Maryland,  in  the 
debate  on  the  National  Bank]  that  Mr.  King  arose  and  addressed 
the  Senate  in  opposition  to  the  bill  and  in  behalf  of  Mr.  Mason's 
motion  to  reduce  the  capital  to  twenty  millions  of  dollars.  Those 
who  know  Mr.  King  will  at  once  judge  how  incompetent  we  can 
be  to  give  a  just  and  adequate  description  of  his  powers  on  a 
great  subject  like  this.  He  displayed  much  learning  and  great 
feeling  on  the  occasion  and  created  an  interest  that  we  could 
hardly  believe  the  subject  of  a  bank  would  admit  of.  We  forbear 
now  to  make  quotations  of  any  of  his  sentences,  as  disconnectedly 
they  must  lose  their  force  and  necessarily  be  tarnished  by  a  sec- 
ond rendering.  The  Senate  and  as  numerous  an  auditory  as  the 
apartment  would  admit,  was  chained  down  for  an  hour,  with  the 
deepest  interest  and  undivided  attention,  and  we  can  justly  say 
no  audience  was  ever  more  charmed,  no  statesman  ever  more 
admired." 

*  A/em.  and  Cor.  of  J.  Mason,  p.  1 12. 


1 8 14]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  443 

R.  King  to  Sir  William  Scott. 

Washington,  Dec.  n,  1814. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  received  with  very  great  satisfaction  the  letter  which  you  gave 
in  charge  to  my  son  for  me.  To  know  that  those  for  whom,  and 
for  whose  virtues,  we  cherish  a  cordial  Respect  and  Admiration, 
likewise  preserve  their  Esteem  for  us,  is  a  solace  worth  much  at 
all  times  and  especially  in  times  of  difficulty  and  public  anxiety. 
It  has  been  the  source  of  much  comfort  to  me,  to  recollect  the 
consolation  which  I  derived  from  the  frequent  comparison  of  our 
hopes  &  fears,  concerning  the  disordered  and  dangerous  condition 
of  Europe,  during  the  period  that  I  passed  in  England.  It  has 
been  the  decree  of  Providence  that  these  evil  and  alarming  con- 
ditions should  pass  away.  I  have  rejoiced  in  this  event,  and  I  do 
still  rejoice,  that  Europe  is  not  only  restored  to  Peace,  but  that 
the  great  Disturber  of  the  world  is,  as  I  hope,  reduced  to  a  con- 
dition in  which  he  can  no  longer  torment  &  devour  his  species. 

But  you  will  be  at  no  loss  for  my  feelings,  nor  those  of  my 
Countrymen,  who,  abhorring  the  Power  that  has  desolated  Europe, 
and  hoping  for  the  final  triumph  and  security  of  his  enemies,  and 
especially  of  England,  are  now,  strange  to  relate,  afraid  lest  Eng- 
land meditates  to  employ  her  whole  force,  freed  as  it  is  from  the 
European  struggle,  to  divide,  dismember  and  waste  our  happy 
Country. 

I  cannot,  it  would  on  no  account  be  fit  that  I  should,  touch 
upon  the  cause  of  this  wretched  war  ;  but  I  may,  perhaps  with- 
out indiscretion,  observe,  that  on  our  side,  we  are  all  desirous,  and 
I  think  sincerely  so,  to  put  an  end  to  it,  by  restoring  things  to  the 
condition  in  which  they  were  before  the  war  commenced.  What 
consequences  may  ensue,  should  the  war  be  continued,  I  cannot 
foresee.  However  much  we  may  have  differed  among  ourselves 
respecting  the  declaration  of  war,  should  England  refuse  to  put 
an  end  to  it  on  the  basis  we  have  offered,  its  character  will  be 
changed  and  all  will  be  called  upon  to  unite  in  defending  our 
Country  against  what  will  be  represented  to  be  the  rooted  and 
vindictive  animosity  of  England. 

I  have  considered  the  principles  and  conduct  of  England,  mani- 
fested in  the  late  Treaty  of  Peace  as  disinterested  &  magnanimous, 
and  I  have  believed  that  the  motives  &  maxims  of  this  policy 


444  RUFUS  KING.  \\i 


*i3l4 


were  not  peculiar  to  that  extraordinary  juncture,  but  of  an  en- 
lightened, universal  &  unchangeable  nature.  We  have  therefore 
extolled  the  wisdom  &  forbearance  of  your  policy  and  spoken  of 
it  as  worthy  of  the  applause  and  admiration  of  all  men.  What 
must,  my  dear  Sir,  be  our  disappointment  and  regret,  if  we  have 
committed  an  error,  in  these  opinions,  and  our  Country  should  in 
any  way  be  disadvantageously  affected  by  our  mistake  ? 

But  I  will  not  pursue  the  painful  topic  ;  My  son  will  have  the 
honor  to  deliver  this  letter  to  you  &  on  my  part  to  renew  to  you 
the  assurance  of  my  unaltered  Respect  &  Regards.  I  beg  of 
you  to  receive  him  kindly  and  to  allow  him  to  ask  your  protection 
while  he  remains  in  England.  The  same  reason  that  heretofore 
deterred  me  from  even  giving  my  son  a  letter  introducing  him 
to  you,  prevents  my  now  saying  anything  to  you  respecting  the 
business  which,  in  these  unhappy  times,  compels  him  to  revisit 
England. 

Since  my  return  from  London,  I  have  lived  on  Long  Island 
near  to  the  Ocean  and  but  a  little  more  than  an  hour's  drive  from 
the  city  ;  my  books,  a  little  farm,  with  the  amusements  of  the 
country  have  occupied  my  time,  which  I  have  passed  in  good 
health,  in  the  bosom  of  my  family  &  free  from  public  cares.  Mrs 
King  has  enjoyed  but  indifferent  health,  tho'  I  am  encouraged  to 
hope  that  it  is  becoming  better.  My  three  elder  Sons  (we  have 
five)  are  married  and  have  families  each  of  them.  The  two 
youngest,  one  of  whom  was  born  in  Westminster,  are  in  the 
course  of  their  education.  Soon  after  the  war  broke  out,  I  was 
appointed  a  member  of  the  Senate  of  the  U.  S.,  where  I  earnestly 
endeavour  to  promote  the  re-establishment  of  Peace  between  our 
respective  Countries,  on  terms  mutually  honorable  and  advanta- 
geous to  both.  With  distinguished  consideration  &c 

Rufus  King. 

The  Hartford  Convention  assembled  on  Dec.  15,  1814. 
Among  Mr.  King's  papers  is  the  following,  in  his  handwriting, 
giving  his  views  respecting  it. 

Hartford  Convention 

1814 

Public  attention  is  directed  with  uncommon  earnestness  to- 
wards this  assembly.     The  difficulties  of  the  Country  and  the 


1   4]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE. 


445 


entire  loss  of  confidence  in  the  executive  Government,  have 
eminently  contributed  to  create  this  uncommon  concern.  From 
the  character  and  patriotism  of  the  gentlemen  who  are  members 
of  this  body,  there  is  no  ground  of  apprehension,  but  on  the  con- 
trary, much  confidence  may  be  placed  in  the  prudence  of  their 
proceedings.  None  who  have  proposed  the  means  of  obtaining 
correct  information  can  be  ignorant  that  feelings  of  deep  dis- 
satisfaction and  of  pretty  strong  resentment  exist,  and  were  rising 
to  such  a  pitch,  in  the  Eastern  States,  that  without  great  pre- 
caution there  was  danger  of  an  open  resistance  to  the  measures 
of  the  General  Government. 

Singular  as  it  may  appear,  it  would  seem  that  there  is  but  little 
difference,  and  not  much  to  choose,  between  the  voluptuous  and 
indolent  possessor  of  a  despotic  throne,  and  the  obstinate, 
inexperienced  and  visionary  man,  who  by  chance,  or  the  blind 
force  of  faction,  may  be  placed  in  the  Presidential  chair.  Neither 
knows  the  true  condition  of  his  Country  ;  neither  examines  into 
the  State  of  Agriculture,  Manufactures  or  Commerce.  Both  are 
ignorant  of  the  bearing  and  force  of  public  opinion,  the  only 
decisive  power  in  a  free  government.  Both  rely  upon  informa- 
tion and  counsel  received  from  those  and  only  those,  who  have 
an  interest  in  deceiving,  and  who  therefore  do  invariably  deceive 
them. 

Mr.  Madison,  as  it  seems  to  us,  has  in  this  way  become  the 
willing  instrument  of  corrupt  and  wicked  men.  By  what  bonds 
he  may  be  bound,  we  know  not ;  but  this  we  do  know,  that  he  not 
only  systematically  declines  to  avail  himself  of  the  means  of  cor- 
rect information,  which  the  presence  of  enlightened  and  impartial 
men  put  within  his  reach  to  obtain,  but  instead  of  consulting, 
studiously  excludes  them  from  the  opportunity  of  imparting  to  him 
facts  and  opinions  of  which  he  ought  not  to  be  ignorant,  and  which 
they  have  too  much  patriotism  to  withhold.  The  same  errors  have 
been  committed  by  Mr.  Madison — the  consequences  may  likewise 
resemble  each  other — as  were  practised  by  George  the  Third. 
The  King,  like  the  President,  was  ignorant  of  the  true  opinion  of 
New  England,  depending  upon  the  reports  and  advice  of  his 
Governors,  Custom-house  officers  &  others,  who  either  held  places 
under  him,  or  hoped  to  obtain  places — faithless  men,  who  by  in- 
spiring jealousies  against  everyone,  who,  as  they  apprehend,  may 


446  RUFUS  KING.  [1I14 

give  different  information  from  their  own,  effectually  exclude  or 
discredit  their  opinions  :  not  only  is  the  truth  concealed,  but 
those  dangerous  men,  knowing  that  the  Administration  desires  to 
succeed  in  its  measures,  and  feels  displeasure  towards  such  men 
as  are  supposed  to  oppose  them,  communicate  false  accounts  of 
the  influence  and  numbers  of  the  friends  and  opponents  of  the 
Executive,  ascribing  to  the  latter  selfish  or  dishonest  views,  and 
to  the  former,  not  only  greater  strength  but  more  purity  and 
higher  influence  than  they  possess.  It  is  a  fact  that  is' notorious 
throughout  the  States  east  of  Pennsylvania,  that  the  men  selected 
for  office  by  the  national  Executive,  the  Commissaries,  the  District 
Attornies,  Loan  Officers,  Marshals,  Contractors  &  Navy  Agents, 
Post  Officers,  Officers  of  the  Customs,  Tax  Gatherers,  are  not 
only  taken  from  one  class  of  citizens  only,  but  that  the  persons, 
so  chosen,  are  men  who  have  little  reputation  either  for  intellect 
or  integrity  ;  and  if  Congress  were  to  call  for  an  account  of  the 
losses  by  unfaithful  agents,  altho'  the  aggregate  sum  would  be 
found  to  be  great,  the  number  of  dishonest  agents  would  astonish 
the  Country.  These  things  are  not  looked  into.  The  President's 
friends,  who  annually  vote  immense  sums  for  contingencies  in 
every  Department,  an  expenditure  which  has  increased  as  our 
morals  depreciate,  never  stir  this  subject.  Their  opponents,  civil 
men,  decline  the  trouble  of  doing  it. 

No  men  have  ever  been  placed  in  a  situation  of  higher  respon- 
sibility, very  few  have  been  surrounded  by  greater  difficulty. 
Angry  and  powerful  impulses  press  them  from  without,  while  an 
influence  that  some  may  call  mere  pride  or  vanity,  altho'  un- 
observed, perhaps  unsuspected,  will  stimulate  them,  as  it  is  sure  to 
do  other  men  who  have  been  called  to  difficult  and  ostensible 
stations,  to  devise  and  propose  plans,  which  shall  be  answerable 
to  the  crisis  and  that  may  satisfy  the  public  expectation.  It  is 
from  this  quarter  more  than  any  other  that  the  danger  of  prema- 
ture measures  may  be  apprehended,  as  no  explicit  remedy  from  the 
complications  of  the  mischiefs  can  now  be  devised.  As  important 
results  may  soon  occur,  which  must,  and  ought  to  have,  a  bearing 
upon  the  subjects  which  engage  the  attention  of  the  Convention, 
prudence  will  recommend  further  deliberation,  more  time,  more 
extensive  information,  fuller  evidence  of  common  sentiment  and 
more  complete  concord  of  opinion,  concerning  the  great  interests 


1 8 14]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  447 

which  will  be  affected  by  anything  of  a  positive  character  that  can 
now  be  proposed. 

The  proceedings  of  the  present  session  of  Congress  will  have 
an  extensive  and  powerful  influence  upon  the  Country.  If  the 
laws  that  shall  be  passed,  instead  of  reviving  and  sustaining  public 
and  commercial  credit,  as  they  ought  to  do  and  could  do,  should 
have  the  effect  of  bringing  down  private  &  commercial  credit 
to  the  level  of  the  public  credit  ;  should  designedly  put  into  cir- 
culation a  depreciated  and  depreciating  paper  ;  should  it  be  the 
purpose  that  Taxes  &  Dividends  &  Debts  should  be  paid  in  this 
paper,  either  by  the  fraudulent  agency  of  a  Bank  or  by  unchecked 
issues  of  Government,  such  measures  ought  to  be  received  as  full 
evidence,  that  after  wasting  the  navigation  and  destroying  the 
commerce  of  the  country,  domestic  as  well  as  foreign,  our  Rulers 
are  resolved  upon  further  weakening  the  middle  and  northern 
States,  by  the  abolition  of  Debts. 

Delay  will  moreover  put  us  in  possession  of  the  issue  of  the 
apprehended  invasion  of  N.  O  ;  an  invasion  which  ought  not  to 
have  furnished  a  moment's  anxiety.  Government  were  seasonably 
notified  of  the  Enemy's  intention.  They  possessed  abundant 
means  to  protect  that  important  city  ;  and,  if  it  falls,  they  ought  to 
be,  and  ultimately  will  be  made  accountable  to  the  Nation  for 
its  loss.  Should  the  enemy  be  repulsed,  we  shall  probably  have 
peace  in  the  Spring  ;  and  being  freed  from  a  ruinous  war,  may  then 
direct  our  whole  attention  to  the  re-organization  and  re-establish- 
ment of  our  affairs.  If  N.  O.  passes  under  the  dominion  of  the 
enemy,  the  war  will  be  continued  for  many  years. 

Altho'  New  England  may  have  been  more  deeply  humiliated 
and  a  greater  sufferer,  than  other  States,  they  cannot  be  igno- 
rant that  deep  and  extensive  dissatisfaction  prevails  in  every  State 
of  the  Union  ;  that  the  secret  proofs  of  folly  and  weakness  which 
occur  without  interruption,  are  producing  their  just  and  natural 
effect.  The  evils  that  we  feel,  are  working  their  own  cure. 
Patience,  prudence,  time  are  the  only  resources  to  which  wise 
men  can  look  for  remedies. 

Partial  measures  will  disappoint  their  authors.  They  may  do 
more,  they  may  put  at  hazard  measures  of  a  comprehensive  and 
permanent  character.  A  deliberation,  uniting  in  it  the  wisdom, 
the  courage  and  the  experience  of  the  whole  Nation  may  at  no 


448  RUFUS  KING.  [1814 

distant  day  be  required  ;  whether  it  can  be  accomplished  is  uncer- 
tain ;  the  character  of  our  country  has  materially  changed  since 
the  year  1786  ;  but  no  hasty  or  sectional  proceedings  should  em- 
barrass the  attainment  of  this  object.  The  real  patriots,  the  men 
of  sound  principles,  are  dispersed  over  the  whole  nation.  They 
have  the  same  pride  of  country,  the  same  devotion  to  the  princi- 
ples of  freedom,  the  same  desire  that  the  Government  of  the 
Nation  should  afford  equal  protection  and  distribute  its  honors 
with  an  impartial  hand  among  the  respective  members. 


The  Administration.* 

Immediately  after  the  Bladensburgh  Races,  all  the  world  knows 
that  General  Armstrong  was  turned  out  of  office  and  that  Colonel 
Monroe  soon  after  descended  from  the  rank  and  emoluments  of 
the  Department  of  State  to  those  of  the  War  Department  office. 
Since  this  period,  the  very  important  office  of  Secretary  of  State 
has  remained,  and  still  continues  to  be,  vacant. 

The  Treasury  Department  having  remained  for  a  long  time 
without  a  Head,  pursuant  to  an  engagement  understood  to  have 
been  made  with  Mr.  Gallatin,  Mr.  Campbell  of  the  Senate  was 
named  to  that  distinguished  and  arduous  station  :  the  short  and 
confused  career  of  this  Cabinet  Minister  was  terminated  about  the 
same  time  with  that  of  his  colleague  Genl.  Armstrong.  How  far 
the  causes  which  removed  the  latter,  influenced  the  retreat  of  the 
former,  is  matter  of  conjecture  only.  Neither  were  in  good 
odour  with  the  Pretender  to  the  succession.  Mr.  Dallas  who  has 
the  double  merit  of  foreign  origin,  and  that  suppleness  of  char- 
acter which  knows  how  so  well  to  wind  his  way  among  hesitating 
and  ill  informed  Statesmen,  was  called  from  a  profession  in  which 
he  held  a  respectable  standing,  but  the  pursuits  of  which  have 
never  been  supposed  to  have  any  special  relation  to,  or  as  being 
likely  to  afford  much  help  in,  administration  of  the  national 
finances. 

If  temerity  be  wisdom,  if  the  recommendation  of  plans  which 
cannot  fail  deeply  and  vitally  to  impair  the  public  credit,  if  the 
multiplication  of  taxes,  without  regard  to  their  bearing  upon 
the  employments,  the  habits,  the  prejudices,  or  the  ability  of  the 

*  In  R.  King's  handwriting. 


1815I  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  449 

People  to  pay  them,  be  evidence  of  the  talents  and  qualifications 
of  a  financier,  then  is  Mr.  Dallas  an  able  and  eminent  Minister  of 
Finarce. 

Mr.  Rush  to  be  sure  is  in  statu  quo — but  of  nothing  nothing 
need  be  said — though  we  might  intimate  that  he  passes  more  time 
with,  and  since  the  death  of  the  Vice  President  is  more  consulted 
by  the  President  than  any  other  personage. 


From  the  "  Federal  Republican." 

In  one  of  their  late  papers,  Messrs.  Gales  and  Madison  have 
graciously  condescended  to  publish  a  word  or  two  in  praise  of 
some  sentiments  which  fell  from  Mr.  King  in  the  senate,  when  a 
tax  bill  was  on  its  passage  in  that  body.*  What  fell  from  the  hon- 
orable gentleman,  who  has  had  the  misfortune  to  be  applauded  by 
the  court  paper  is  no  more  than  we  have  several  times  heard  him 
express  ourselves  ;  and  if  we  mistake  not,  in  much  stronger  lan- 
guage on  some  occasions,  with  the  exception  of  that  part  of  his 
remarks,  which  divides  the  blame  of  the  people's  wrongs  and 
sufferings  between  Mr.  Madison  and  his  majority  in  congress.  It 
was  this  equitable  distribution  of  responsibility  among  the  authors 
of  our  calamities,  that  so  pleased  his  majesty,  as  to  draw  forth  a 
complimentary  notice    in  his  journal.     Crime  and  misery  love 

*  "  A  debate  of  some  interest  took  place  on  its  passage,  in  the  course  of  which 
we  were  much  gratified  at  the  accidental  opportunity  of  hearing  some  honor- 
able sentiments  uttered  on  the  occasion  by  Mr.  King  of  New  York.  Much  as 
he  deprecated  the  state  of  war  in  which  the  nation  was  placed,  he  said  he  should 
contribute  his  vote,  by  all  constitutional  means  to  make  it  effective,  by  afford- 
ing to  the  Executive  men  and  money  to  any  item.  It  might  be  and  no  doubt 
was,  true,  that  blame  was  in  a  degree  imputable  to  the  executive  department, 
as  well  for  the  fiscal  as  the  military  conduct  of  the  war ;  but  it  behoved  Con- 
gress, he  justly  remarked,  to  examine  how  far  they  were  culpable  of  omissions 
to  furnish  the  means  to  enable  the  Executive  to  act.  It  was  their  duty  to  raise 
armies,  to  provide  the  ways  and  means  to  support  them.  It  was  well  worthy 
of  consideration,  he  said,  how  far  the  omission  or  delay  to  perform  these  duties 
had  disabled  the  Executive  from  performing  his  duty  in  the  most  efficient  man- 
ner. These  are  generally  the  ideas  very  handsomely  expressed  by  Mr.  King. 
If  so  liberal  a  course  had  always  been  pursued  by  that  gentleman,  we  should 
not  have  had  occasion  to  withhold  from  his  conduct  the  tribute  of  our  respect. 
On  this  occasion  his  observations  gained  additional  force  from  the  vivid  contrast 
which  they  exhibited  to  the  arguments  of  his  political  friends,  who  had  preceded 

him  in  debate." — Natl,  Iutdlr.,  Jany.  5,  181 5. 
vol.  v. — 29 


450  RUFUS  KING.  [1815 

company,  and  Mr.  Madison  really  seems  so  delighted  to  hear 
others  accused  of  being  not  less  guilty  than  himself,  that  he  is 
willing  to  be  brought  to  the  bar,  tried  and  convicted  himself,  if 
he  can  only  have  his  abettors  in  crime  in  both  branches  of  con- 
gress swung  off  on  either  side  of  him. 

To  prevent  any  misconception  which  the  paragraph  in  the  Intel- 
ligencer might  otherwise  occasion,  we  now  invite  the  reader's 
attention  to  an  accurate  sketch  of  the  proceeding  in  the  Senate 
referred  to. 

In  Senate.* 

On  the  passage  of  the  land  tax  in  the  senate,  Mr.  Gore  delivered 
a  speech  of  great  ability,  in  justification  of  the  vote  he  gave  against 
the  passage  of  the  bill.  Mr.  Gore  admitted  a  direct  tax,  as  a 
branch  of  the  system  of  taxes  sent  from  the  house  of  representatives, 
to  be  not  only  expedient,  but  necessary  to  equalize  the  operation 
of  the  taxes,  and  to  be  due  from  certain  states  by  way  of  compen- 
sation for  their  otherwise  disproportionate  number  of  representa- 
tives. 

Mr.  Gore  then  proceeded  to  state  in  a  clear  and  concise 
manner,  the  facts,  respecting  the  calling  out  of  the  militia  of 
Massachusetts,  vindicated  the  proceedings  of  Governor  Strong, 
and  exposed  the  unconstitutional  and  impolitic  conduct  of  the 
President  of  the  United  States,  in  requiring  that  the  militia  should 
be  separated  from  their  own  officers,  and  placed  under  the  com- 
mand of  regular  officers,  sent  into  the  state  without  regular  troops. 
He  observed  that  large  detachments  of  militia  had  been  called  out 
and  done  duty  in  the  public  service  ;  that  the  general  government 
which  called  them  out  had  refused  to  pay  them  ;  and  that  the 
state,  out  of  its  limited  resources  had  been  obliged  to  pay  them  ; 
that  the  state  was  unable  to  continue  these  expenditures  in  future, 
and  at  the  same  time  to  pay  their  quota  of  taxes  to  the  general 
government  ;  and  as  according  to  past  decisions  no  portion  of 
these  taxes,  when  collected,  would  be  applied  for  the  protection 
of  Massachusetts,  he  should  feel  himself  bound  to  vote  against  a 
bill  for  laying  and  collecting  a  direct  tax  in  that  state. 

Mr.  King  of  N.  Y.  observed,  that  as  the  passage  of  the  tax  bill 

*  January  5,  1815. 


1815]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  45  I 


afforded  an  opportunity  for  a  great  range  in  debate,  the  circum- 
stance would  account  for  a  variety  of  topics  which  had  been  urged 
on  the  question,  whether  the  bill  laying  a  land  tax,  should  pass 
the  senate. 

That  he  considered  the  able  speech  of  his  hon.  friend  from 
Massachusetts,  (Mr.  Gore)  for  he  said  it  was  a  speech  of  great 
ability  and  precision,  in  the  nature  of  a  protest,  against  what  he 
deemed  the  unwarrantable  and  impolitic  decision  of  the  national 
executive  in  respect  to  the  service  and  command  of  the  militia  of 
that  state.  His  hon.  friend  had  made  no  special  objection  to  the 
tax  bill  before  the  senate  ;  on  the  contrary  he  admitted,  that  a 
portion  of  the  revenue  ought  to  be  collected  by  a  direct  tax.  He 
appeared  to  have  some  doubts  whether  the  aggregate  of  taxes  was 
not  too  great,  but  he  rested  his  vote  against  the  land  tax  upon  the 
ground  that  no  part  of  it  would  be  applied  for  the  defence  and 
protection  of  Massachusetts. 

No  man,  said  Mr.  King,  has  from  the  beginning  entertained  a 
more  decided  opinion  than  he  himself  had  done,  respecting  the 
declaration  of  war.  He  had  always  considered  it  as  unnecessary, 
improvident,  and  contrary  to  every  maxim  of  prudence.  That 
much  of  censure  had  been  justly  urged,  not  only  against  the  de- 
claring of  the  war,  but  against  the  executive,  for  the  omission  of  an 
early  opportunity  to  put  an  end  to  it,  as  well  as  for  the  defective  and 
disastrous  manner  of  carrying  it  on — that  much  more,  in  his  opin- 
ion might,  without  injustice,  be  charged  against  the  executive  ; 
but  that  the  executive  was  not  alone  responsible  for  the  present 
condition  of  the  country  ;  and  he  called  upon  honorable  senators 
to  lay  their  hands  upon  their  own  breasts,  and  to  answer  whether 
the  congress  had  done  their  duty  ? 

The  war  being  declared,  not  only  the  raising  and  providing  of 
armies  and  navies  belonged  to  congress,  but  the  means  to  main- 
tain and  support  the  army  and  navy  could  only  be  furnished  by 
congress.  Hence  the  finances  and  the  public  credit  were  objects 
of  their  peculiar  care  ;  these  demanded  their  early  and  undivided 
attention.  The  moment  when  war  was  resolved  upon,  that  mo- 
ment a  system  of  taxes  and  of  rigorous  economy  should  have 
been  devised  and  adopted  by  congress.  From  that  moment  the 
public  credit  should  have  been  guarded,  cherished  and  strength- 
ened, as  the  precious  and  principal  resource,  by  means  whereof 


452  RUFUS  KING.  [1815 

the  country  could  hope  to  be  enabled  to  bring  the  war  to  a  safe 
and  honorable  conclusion. 

Instead  of  performing  this  duty,  the  congress  which  declared 
the  war,  took  no  measures  to  increase  the  revenue  which  was 
daily  sinking  :  gave  no  attention  to  the  dangers  which  awaited  the 
public  credit.  Within  the  first  year  of  the  war,  the  department  of 
the  treasury  was  deserted  by  its  head.  The  superintendance  of 
the  finances,  the  preparation  of  a  system  of  taxes,  and  the  cus- 
tody and  care  of  the  public  credit  were  devolved  upon  clerks  and 
job  men  and  undertakers. 

The  President  committed  a  great  fault  in  sending  the  secretary 
of  the  treasury  out  of  the  country,  without  naming  a  successor, 
(and  Mr.  King  might  have  added,  that  he  committed  a  greater 
fault  in  expelling  from  his  presence,  as  he  did,  a  committee  of  the 
senate  deputed  to  expostulate  with  him  upon  this  subject)  but  the 
congress  committed  a  much  greater  one,  in  suffering  the  treasury 
department,  the  object  of  their  special  charge  to  be  thus  aban- 
doned, without  an  adequate  effort  on  their  part  to  correct  the 
abuse  ;  or  to  make  those  provisions,  without  which  all  reflecting 
men  foresaw  the  derangement  of  the  finances,  and  the  failure  of 
the  public  credit,  which  have  since  occurred. 

These  opinions,  said  Mr.  King,  were  not  then  for  the  first  time 
avowed  by  him — honorable  senators  would  do  him  the  justice,  to 
acknowledge  that  from  his  first  taking  his  seat  among  them,  he 
had  repeatedly  presented  them  to  the  senate,  and  earnestly  pressed 
their  importance  upon  their  consideration. 

That  hitherto,  little  had  been  done  by  congress,  and  that  little 
had  not  been  advantageously  employed  in  support  of  the  public 
credit.  That  now,  late  as  it  was,  and  increased  as  the  public  dif- 
ficulties were,  by  past  omissions,  so  all  important  did  he  deem  it 
to  be,  to  make  the  utmost  exertions  the  country  could  do,  to  re- 
vive the  public  credit,  that  he  should  not  withhold  his  support 
from  any  constitutional  measure,  which  he  thought  capable  of 
promoting  this  object. 

He  therefore  should  vote  for  the  land  tax,  as  the  basis  of  a  sys- 
tem of  taxes,  which  if  prudently  administered,  promised  to  revive 
and  support  the  public  credit.  He  was  not  sure  that  congress 
were  not  now  going  too  far  ;  and  that  the  amount  of  the  proposed 
taxes  might  not  exceed  the  present  ability  of  the  people  to  pay,. 


1 815]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  453 

but  so  dangerous  did  he  consider  the  condition  of  the  nation,  that 
with  all  his  apprehensions  arising  out  of  past  failures,  he  should 
vote  for  those  supplies  of  men  and  money  without  which  the 
country  could  not,  in  his  judgment,  be  defended. — From  the  New 
York  Evening  Post,  January  13,  1815. 


CHAPTER  XXV. 

Action  of  Maryland's  House  of  Delegates,  thanking  King,  by  Name,  and  other 
Members  of' Congress,  for  their  Agency  in  stopping  the  Militia  Bill — King's 
Answer — Morris  to  King — National  Bank — Failure  of  Conscription  Law — 
Fears  Hartford  Convention  will  not  take  strong  Ground — King's  Remarks 
on  Bill  to  lay  a  direct  Tax — Approves — Morris  to  King — Strictures  on  the 
Support  of  the  Government — King  to  C.  King — On  current  Actions  of 
Congress — King  to  C.  King — Battle  of  New  Orleans — King  to  Morris — 
Answers  his  Strictures — Union  in  Defence  of  the  Country  only  Way  to 
Peace — King  to  Morris — Treaty  of  Peace  arrived — Morris  to  King — Con- 
jectures relative  to  the  Treaty — Democrats  will  probably  go  for  Abolition  of 
the  direct  Tax. 

By  the  House  of  Delegates  of  Maryland. 

January  6,  1815. 

Amidst  the  impending  sufferings  and  multiplied  disorders  of 
war,  brought  upon  the  American  people  by  their  misplaced  and 
abused  confidence  in  the  wisdom  and  virtue  of  their  rulers,  there 
has  been  no  evil  of  a  more  alarming  and  fatal  tendency  in  the  con- 
templation of  this  House,  than  the  inordinate  grasp  of  power  and 
undisguised  spirit  of  encroachment  on  the  sovereign  rights  of  the 
States  and  the  personal  liberties  of  the  citizens,  so  repeatedly  and 
unequivocally  manifested  in  the  acts  of  the  General  Government. 

Under  this  impression  and  in  the  maintenance  of  those  rights 
and  privileges,  it  was  considered  as  a  prompt  and  paramount  duty 
on  the  part  of  this  House  to  evince  a  faithful  and  firm  determina- 
tion of  purpose,  the  moment  that  intelligence  was  recently  re- 
ceived of  the  progress  of  a  Bill  *  in  both  Branches  of  the  National 

*  On  Nov.  5,  1814,  Mr.  Giles,  from  the  Committee  on  Military  Affairs, 
reported  a  bill  to  the  Senate  authorizing  the  President  of  the  United  States  to 
call  upon  the  several  States  and  Territories  thereof  for  their  respective  quotas  of 

thousand  militia,  for  the  defence  of  the  frontiers  of  the  United  States      On 

Nov.  22d,  after  amendments,  and  a  discussion,  in  which  Messrs.   Gore  and 

454 


1 815]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  455 

Legislature,  whose  palpable  object  it  was  to  convert  the  free 
militia  of  these  United  States  into  train-bands  and  cohorts  of  an 
odious  despotic  force.  This  decision  was  rendered  the  more  in- 
dignant by  a  view  of  the  gross  sophistry  and  arbitrary  pretensions 
promulgated  in  the  Report  of  the  Secretary  of  War  at  the  com- 
mencement of  the  session,  designed  to  reconcile  the  repugnant 
sentiment  of  the  free  people  of  this  land  to  the  principle  of  the 
several  schemes  and  projects  of  invasion  on  their  birth  rights  and 
liberties,  and  suggested  in  that  Report  for  the  acquiescence  of 
Congress. 

To  the  sensibility  of  this  House  thus  seriously  awakened  by  the 
threatened  pressure  of  a  system  so  immediately  calculated  to 
make  "  confusion  worse  confounded,"  and  to  produce  a  dread 
collision  of  authority  between  the  National  Government  and  the 
authority  of  the  individual  State,  it  is  therefore  now  a  matter  of 
lively  gratification  to  learn,  that  the  passage  of  the  proposed  Bill 
has  been  eventually  arrested  in  the  Senate  of  the  United  States. 
And  the  gratification  is  enhanced  by  the  circumstance,  that  this 
happy  issue  has  been  effected  at  the  instance  of  an  illustrious 
Statesman  and  Jurist,  whose  opinion,  worthy  as  it  is  on  all  sub- 
jects of  the  most  attentive  consideration,  is  entitled  to  peculiar 
regard  on  any  question  touching  a  construction  of  the  powers 
imparted  by  the  Federal  Constitution,  because  it  is  the  opinion  of 
a  surviving  member  of  the  convention  of  sages  and  patriots, 
by  whom  that  constitution  was  planned  and  originally  recom- 
mended for  adoption. 

Wherefore  in  order  more  fully  to  display  the  solemn  interest 
which  the  occasion  has  inspired  throughout  the  community  of  this 

Gouklsborough  opposed  the  bill,  the  Senate  passed  it,  19  to  12,  the  title  of 
the  bill  containing  the  clause  "  for  the  defence  of  the  frontiers  against  invasion." 
Mr.  King  was  absent  owing  to  sickness. 

The  bill  was  sent  to  the  House  of  Representatives  for  concurrence,  and  was 
passed  by  it  on  Dec.  21st  with  amendments.  The  Senate  refused  to  accept 
all  the  amendments,  and  the  matter  was  referred  to  a  Committee  of  Conference 
between  the  two  Houses.  Their  report  was  made  to  the  Senate  on  the  2Sth, 
and,  there  being  still  disagreement,  on  motion  of  Mr.  King,  the  bill  with  the  re- 
port was  postponed  to  the  second  Monday  in  March  next,  after  the  final  adjourn- 
ment of  Congress,  14  to  13. 

It  is  to  this  action  that  the  House  of  Delegates  of  Maryland  refers. — Ed. 
Annals  of  Congress,  1814-15,  pp.  38,  95  el  seq. 


456  RUFUS  KING.  [1815 

State,  and  more  especially  for  the  purpose  of  rendering  a  just 
meed  of  public  applause  for  eminent  service  in  the  defence  of 
public  liberty, 

Resolved — That  the  thanks  of  this  House,  in  behalf  of  the 
Freemen  of  Maryland,  be  and  they  are  hereby  presented  to  the 
Honorable  Rufus  King,  of  the  Senate  of  the  United  States,  for 
the  reasonable  and  successful  interposition  of  his  experienced  wis- 
dom and  elevated  influence  of  character  in  averting  the  meditated 
operation  of  a  measure,  hostile  to  the  immunities  of  constitutional 
freedom,  offensive  to  the  pure  genius  of  independence,  and  fraught 
with  consequences  baleful  and  appalling  to  the  social  order,  tran- 
quillity and  well  being  of  this  united  Republic. 

And  the  House  would  accompany  the  respectful  tribute  which 
is  thus  specially  offered,  with  a  general  expression  of  the  grateful 
sense  which  it  also  entertains  of  the  distinguished  merit  of  the 
other  members  of  the  minority,  who  so  steadfastly  and  ably  co- 
operated, at  every  renewal  of  the  struggle,  in  both  Branches  of 
Congress,  in  combatting  against  the  insidious  introduction  of  an 
authoritative  conscript  establishment,  more  specious  in  the  form 
of  its  approach,  but  not  essentially  different  from  that  whose  in- 
tense oppression  has  just  vanished  from  the  Continent  of  Europe, 
with  its  guilty  author  the  blood  stained  usurper  of  France. 

Ordered  that  the  Honorable  the  Speaker  of  this  House  be  re- 
quested to  transmit  to  the  Honorable  Rufus  King  an  authenti- 
cated Copy  of  this  present  proceeding 

By  order — Upton  L.  Reid  Clerk, 

House  Deleg.  Maryland. 


Annapolis,  Jany.  6,  18 15. 
The  Honble.  Rufus  King. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  obedience  to  the  direction  of  the  House  of  Delegates  of 
Maryland,  I  have  the  honor,  herewith,  to  transmit  to  you  a  Copy 
of  their  proceeding  on  the  subject  recognised  by  the  enclosed 
Resolution.  I  beg  you  to  be  assured  of  the  high  satisfaction  I 
take  in  the  discharge  of  this  duty,  and  to  believe  me  with  senti- 
ments of  esteem  and  respect 

Yr.  very  obedient  Servt.  Henry  H.  Chapman 
Speaker  of  the  House  of  Delegates  of  Maryland. 


1815]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  457 

R.   King  to  Henry  H.  Chapman,  Esq. 
(Speaker  of  the  House  of  Delegates  of  Maryland). 

Washington,  January  S,  1815. 

Sir  : 

I  have  had  the  honor  to  receive  your  letter  of  the  6th  inst., 
transmitting  to  me  a  copy  of  the  Resolution  of  the  House  of 
Delegates  of  the  State  of  Maryland  of  the  same  date. 

Permit  me,  Sir,  thro'  you  to  express  to  the  House  of  Delegates 
the  high  sense  that  I  entertain  of  the  honor  of  their  approbation 
of  my  conduct  as  a  member  of  the  Senate,  in  opposing  a  Bill, 
which  required  of  the  Militia  of  the  several  States,  to  furnish 
recruits  for  the  regular  army,  under  the  penalty  of  being  them- 
selves drafted  to  serve  in  the  prosecution  of  the  war. 

At  the  same  time  that  I  offsr  my  acknowledgments  to  the 
House  of  Delegates,  I  am  bound  in  justice  to  others,  to  disclaim 
any  particular  merit  on  this  occasion  ;  the  failure  of  the  Bill  must 
be  ascribed  to  the  strenuous  and  able  opposition,  which  it  received 
in  both  Houses  of  Congress,  sustained  as  this  opposition  has  been, 
by  the  voice  of  the  country. 

I  ask  your  indulgence  to  add,  that  while  I  have  resisted  the 
Progress  of  a  Bill,  professing  to  have  for  its  object,  to  provide  for 
the  common  defence,  by  means  which  the  Constitution  does  not 
in  my  judgment  authorize,  I  have  thought  myself  obliged  by  a 
faithful  regard  for  the  general  safety,  at  a  period  of  great  public 
difficulty,  without  reference  to  the  past,  to  vote  for  supplies  of 
men  and  money  and  for  other  important  measures  within  the  pale 
of  the  Constitution,  that  are  deemed  necessary  to  revive  the  pub- 
lic credit,  to  protect  the  several  States  against  invasion  and  to 
defend  and  save  from  dismemberment  the  Territory  and  Sover- 
eignty of  the  Nation — objects,  to  the  attainment  of  which  no 
efforts  that  can  be  made  by  Freemen  will  be  deemed  too  great. 

With  distinguished  consideration,  I  have  the  honor  to  be 

Sir,  your  obt.  Servant 

Rufug  King. 


458  RUFUS  KING.  [1815 


G.  Morris  to  R.  King. 

Morrisania,  Jan.  7,  1815. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

I  have  seen,  with  Concern,  that  your  health  has  been  feeble, 
and  am  the  more  obliged  by  your  Attention  in  forwarding  sundry 
Documents.     I  learnt  yesterday  that  your  Bank  Bubble  has  burst,* 
on   which,  if  the   Union   is  to  be  revived,  I  congratulate  every 
Friend  to  our  Country  ;  for  it  would  have  hung  a  millstone  round 
our  Necks  and  rendered  a  sound  System  of  Finance  almost,  if  not 
altogether,  impracticable.     A  thing  of  this  Sort  is  more  pernicious, 
in  its  immediate  Effects,  and  far  more  dangerous,  in  its  remote 
Consequences,  than  Paper  Money  of  the  old  Stamp.     Whether  to 
congratulate  or  condole  with  you  on  the  Failure  of  your  Con- 
scription Scheme  I  know  not.     Had  it  passed  and  attempts  been 
made  to  execute  it,  the  People  might  have  roused  from  a  Leth- 
argy boding  Death  to  our  Rights.     If  not  resisted,  many  precious 
Rights  enjoyed  under  the  British  Government,  which  their  Claim 
of  Supremacy  had  not  jeopardized,  would  have  been  destroyed. 
We  shall  I  suppose  soon  learn  what  the  Hartford  Convention  has 
done.     As  far  as  my  Information  goes,  they  will  not  come  up  to 
the  point  which  would  have  insured  Success.     An  opinion  gen- 
erally exprest,  tho'  not  perhaps  entertained,  that  the  Union  must 
be  preserved  may,  by  enfeebling  their  Decisions,  lessen  the  Mo- 
tives for  adherence.     Should  they  cause  it  to  be  well  understood, 
not  only  that  no  Men  or  Money  shall  be  drawn  from,  and,  in 
Case  of  Separation,  no  Part  of  the  War  Debt  be  Paid  by   New 
England,  that  the  Execution  of  Ofhces  held  under  the  Union  is 
suspended,  and  that  honorable  Conditions  of  Peace  shall  if  pro- 
posed on  the  Part  of  Great  Britain,  be  immediately  accepted, 
this  State  would,  I  believe,  adhere  by  an  almost  unanimous  Vote. 
Because  Office  holders  being  appalled,  Office  Hunters  put  on  a 
new  scent,  the  People  paid,  with  their  own  money,  to  abandon  a 

*  The  bill  for  the  charter  of  the  National  Bank,  which  had  been  passed  and 
sent  to  the  President  for  his  signature,  was  returned  to  the  Senate  on  January 
30th,  with  his  objections.  The  Message  was  read,  and  on  February  2d  its  con- 
sideration was  engaged  in,  when  Mr.  King  made  a  careful  examination  of  the 
objections  (which  will  be  found  in  Appendix  II.).  The  bill  was  put  upon  its 
passage  and  failed  to  receive  the  sanction  of  the  Senate,— Mr.  King  voting  in 
the  affirmative. 


1815]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  459 


sinking  Ship,  and  the  Traders  and  Consumers  of  foreign  Mer- 
chandise— I  had  written  thus  far  when  a  Pamphlet  containing  the 
Acts  of  the  Convention  was  brought  to  me  They  have  fallen 
short,  not  only  of  the  ideas  just  exprest,  but  of  general  Expecta- 
tion, and  will  be  laughed  at  by  many.  Nevertheless  the  Business 
will,  I  am  persuaded,  go  all  the  Length  they  look  to.  If  Mr. 
Madison  &  Co.  close  with  their  Propositions  (it  will  be  difficult 
to  adjust  the  terms)  a  Separation  will  be  acknowledged  ;  and 
should  those  terms  be  rejected  it  must  ensue.  While  you  sit  de- 
liberating, the  Union  withers  in  the  opinion  of  those  who  think 
they  are  thinking  Men.  For  my  own  Part,  I  considered  the  Con- 
stitution as  dead  from  the  Repeal  of  the  judiciary  and  the  Union 
as  dissolved  when  the  national  Executive  declared  they  could 
not  defend  the  States,  and  would  not  abandon  their  Scheme  of 
conquering  Canada.  A  new  Order  of  things  must  arise  when  the 
actual  Disorder  shall  be  generally  felt.  A  Government  without 
Force,  without  Money,  without  talent  and  generally  despised 
cannot  stand.  If  not  over  thrown  it  must  tumble  down,  and  the 
Convention  have,  out  of  pure  Malice  perhaps,  left  [illegible]  as 
being  the  more  humiliating  alternative. 

Yours  truly 

Gouv.  Morris. 


G.  Morris  to  R.  King. 

Morrisania,  Feb.  2,  1815. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  received  the  Papers  and  Report  you  had  the  Goodness 
to  send.  Mr  Secretary's  Defence  of  his  taxes  will  not  bear  him 
out,  for  some  of  them  are  unwise  and  some  unjust  ;  but  I  shall 
not  attempt  to  point  out  Defects  ;  Taxes  are  sufficiently  unpala- 
table even  when  correctly  and  judiciously  imposed.  It  would 
therefore  be  unnecessary,  in  any  Case,  but  improper  now  to  ex- 
pose Defects  in  the  Plan  adopted  ;  seeing  that  it  was  supported 
by  many  of  our  Friends.  This  support  has  delighted  our  Foes. 
A  Gentleman,  speaking  on  the  subject  yesterday,  said  that  shortly 
before  he  left  Home,  he  inveighed  in  Conversation  with  one  of 
them,  against  the  Impositions  occasioned  by  this  wicked  war. 
This  Antagonist  replied  "  I  am  surprized,  Sir,  that  you  should 


460  RUFUS  KING.  [1815 

say  any  thing  against  taxes  voted  for,  in  Congress,  by  your  own 
Party."  The  same  Reason  which  prohibits  Strictures  on  what  is 
done,  requires  Silence  on  what  remains  to  do.  You  my  Friend, 
standing  on  an  elevated  Stage  and  viewing,  of  Course,  an  exten- 
sive Prospect  may  see  your  way  thro'  Difficulties,  daily  accumu- 
lating, which  appear  to  me  insurmountable;  you  may  have  Reason 
to  believe  that  money  lavishly  granted,  will  be  prudently  applied. 
It  may  be  expected  therefore  that  you  and  those  who  think  and 
feel  like  you,  will  go  on,  piling  up  one_  oppressive  tax  on  the  top 
of  another  to  support  the  Measures  of  Mr.  Madison.  We  who 
think  differently  of  him  and  them,  are  compelled  to  believe  that 
this  Mode  of  defending  our  Country  must  reduce  it  to  a  Condi- 
tion not  worth  defending  ;  but  I  am  far,  very  far,  from  blaming 
those  with  whom  it  is  my  great  misfortune  to  differ  in  opinion  ; 
on  the  contrary,  I  pray  God  that  my  Views  may  be  as  false  as 
they  are  limited,  that  federal  support  of  a  jacobin  Administration 
may  not  ensure  its  Continuance  ;  that  peace  may  be  as  near  as 
wiser  Men  than  I  am  believe,  and  as  honorable  as  more  sanguine 
Men  than  I  am  expect.  The  taxes  already  laid  will  not,  I  think, 
be  paid  (unless  in  worthless  Paper)  because  great  Part  of  the 
Community  cannot  pay  having  neither  money  nor  means  to  pro- 
cure it.  Paper  Currency,  therefore,  of  some  sort  or  other  will,  I 
presume,  issue  and  (depreciating)  destroy  the  just  Relations  of 
Life.  The  vast  Treasure  of  Britain  would  be  insufficient  for 
Defence,  much  less  Conquest,  on  the  wild  Principles  and  ex- 
travagant Practices  adopted  and  pursued.  Having  no  doubt 
that  our  Want  of  funds  and  of  Force  must  encrease,  I  prepare  to 
meet  Consequences  which  appear  inevitable.     God  bless  you. 

Gouv.  Morris. 


R.  King  to  Charles  King,  England. 

Georgetown,  Feby.  7,  1815. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  wrote  to  you  from  the  Senate  today,  informing  you  of  the 
promise  that  in  a  few  days  we  shd.  have  the  nomination  of  a  new 
Secry.  of  the  Treasury  ;  nothing  having  transpired  which  enables 
me  to  conjecture  who  will  be  named,  I  can  add  nothing  satisfac- 
tory upon  this  point.     If  ever  any  Country  wanted  a  person  of 


1815]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  46 1 

abilities,  knowledge  &  firmness  in  the  department  of  its  finances 
more  than  we  do,  its  condition  must  have  been  deplorable  in  the 
extreme. 

By  the  destruction  of  Commerce,  the  Revenue  has  been  de- 
stroyed ;  and  during  the  current  year  money  must  be  borrowed 
to  pay  the  interest  of  the  pub.  Debt,  or  the  ordinary  expenses  of 
the  Peace  Establishment  ;  the  Product  of  the  Taxes  being  defi- 
cient nearly  two  millions  for  both  these  objects.  Mr.  Gallatin's 
Plan  of  Finance  for  the  war,  was  to  raise  by  Taxes  within  the 
year  sufficient  to  support  the  Peace  Establishment,  taken  at  7. 
mills.,  and  to  pay  the  interest  upon  the  old  &  new  Debt,  which 
allowing  about  half  a  million  payable  in  the  current  year  on  ac- 
count of  Interest  upon  the  new  Loan,  amounts  to  upwards  of  5 
millions,  making  together  something  more  than  12  millions — to 
defray  this  expense  the  estimated  Receipts  of  Taxes  are  about  10 
millions,  or  a  little  more,  leaving  the  deficit  I  have  mentioned. 

The  full  interest  upon  the  large  Loan  of  this  year  will  be  pay- 
able next  year  in  addition  to  a  further  sum  on  account  of  a  fur- 
ther Loan,  which,  be  it  Peace  or  war,  will  be  requisite.  To  meet 
this  increased  expenditure,  instead  of  an  increase  of  Taxes,  the 
Product  of  the  current  year  will  be  lessened.  The  internal  Rev- 
enue may  be  increased  by  a  million  of  Dollars,  but  the  Customs, 
instead  of  Six  Millions*  receivable  in  the  current  year,  will  (slid, 
the  System  of  Restrictions  continue)  be  reduced  to  half  a  million: 
so  that  while  the  Peace  Establishment  &  Interest  on  ye  pub. 
Debt  in  the  year  1815  will  amount  to  nearly  14  Millions,  the 
Revenue,  shd.  no  further  Taxes  be  imposed,  and  the  restrictive 
System  continue,  will  not  exceed  six  millions,  leaving  the  defi- 
ciency Eight  millions — Of  the  credit  of  a  Country,  which  man- 
ages its  affairs  in  this  manner,  nothing  need  be  said.  Mr.  Barker 
&  others  from  New  York,  &  persons  of  Philadelphia,  whose 
names  I  do  not  recollect,  are  applying  to  Congress  to  make  a 
National  Bank.  Scruples  respecting  the  power  of  Congress  stand 
in  the  way.  To  get  over  them,  it  is  proposed  to  create  a  Bank 
within  this  District  (over  wh.  Congress  have  exclusive  legislation) 
with  a  capital  of  30  mils.,  and  a  power  to  establish  Branches  in 
such  States  as  shall  permit  them.     The  Projectors  say  that  half 

*  5|  millions  of  wh.  will  arise  from  the  Bonds  upon  the  last  year's  importa- 
tion. 


462  RUFUS  KING.  [i8t. 

the  Capital  shall  be  lent  to  the  U.  S.,  and  that,  with  the  help  of 
the  Bank,  future  Loans  will  be  readily  effected,  and  great  facility 
afforded  in  the  management  of  the  Revenue. 

What  degree  of  countenance  may  be  given  to  this  Project,  I 
know  not  ;  I  dislike  it.  In  respect  to  the  Projects  to  which  you 
allude,  where  you  are,  I  commend  your  resolution  to  keep  your- 
self clear  of  them.  Your  own  sense  of  justice  and  of  honor, 
giving  them  fair  play,  will  keep  you  where  you  shd.  be.  I 
therefore  repeat  my  earnest  hope,  that  you  will  hold  yourself 
aloof,  and  not  permit  any  man  to  discuss  with  you  a  subject,  which 
an  honorable  man  cannot  hear  proposed  without  losing  half  his 
integrity.* 

Very  affectionately  yrs 

R.  K. 

P.  S.  Of  Peace  I  can  say  nothing  with  any  sort  of  confidence. 
It  is  very  difficult  to  form  a  safe  opinion  of  the  views  of  men 
whose  principles  are  so  very  different  from  your  own.  Upon  the 
whole  it  seems  to  me  that  not  only  our  own  affairs,  but  those 
of  France  are  in  so  wretched  a  state,  that  our  Rulers  must  be  anx- 
ious of  Peace  ;  whether  they  form  a  correct  estimate  of  what 
England  will  do,  is  my  chief  difficulty.  The  danger  is  that  they 
may  believe  that  England  will  be  more  accommodating  than  they 
will  perhaps  find  her. 


R.  King  to  Charles  King,  England. 

Georgetown,  Dt.  of  Columbia, 
Feb.  11,  1815. 

Dear  Sir  : 

On  the  14th  of  December  the  first  Gun  Boats,  which  were  sta- 
tioned in  Lake  Ponchartrain,  and  had  been  dispatched  to  carry 
supplies  from  N.  Orleans  to  Mobile,  were  met  upon  the  return 
near  to  the  Entrance  of  Lake  Borgne,  and  attacked  by  a  great 
number  of  Barges  &  Launches,  from  the  British  Squadron  which 
had  arrived  with  a  considerable  army  to  attack  N.  Orleans — The 
open  waters, — the  small  boats  not  having  yet  reached  the  narrow 

*  There  is  nothing  to  show  to  what  this  alludes. 


1 815]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  463 

Passes  into  the  Lake, — enabled  the  Enemy  to  apply  a  great  num- 
ber of  Boats,  which  after  a  severe  contest,  the  particulars  of 
which  have  not  been  received,  captured  or  destroyed  all  the  Gun 
Boats — These  being  the  only  guard  upon  the  Lake,  the  enemy 
entered  Lake  Borgne  with  his  Boats,  and  vessels  of  light  draft, 
and  succeeded  in  landing  about  2000  troops  on  the  23rd  of  Dec. 
at  a  Plantation  about  Seven  miles  below  N.  Orleans  upon  the  Left 
Bank  of  the  Mississippi. — General  Jackson  who  had  charge  of 
the  Tennessee  troops  in  the  Creek  war,  had  been  ordered  to  pro- 
ceed from  Mobile  to  N.  Orleans,  and  his  militia,  as  well  as  that  of 
Kentucky  and  Louisiana,  including  the  Mississippi  Territory, 
were  also  ordered  to  be  marched  to  that  Station — In  the  first 
week  of  December  Jackson  without  his  Militia  reached  N.  O., 
where  were  the  remains  of  two  Regular  Regiments  consisting  of 
450  Men  together  with  about  200  artillery.  The  City  Militia  of 
all  colours  and  tongues,  together  with  such  as  could  be  called  in 
from  the  neighbourhood,  added  a  few  Hundred  more  to  the 
Forces. — His  force  was  only  this  handful,  until  the  Day  of  the 
Disembarkation  by  the  Enemy ;  in  the  forenoon  of  which  a 
Body  of  12  or  T400  Tennessee  mounted  Militia  arrived  in  the 
neighbourhood  of  the  City.  Jackson  called  in  a  portion  of  his 
Reinforcements,  leaving  the  residue  to  guard  the  City  from  an  at- 
tack on  the  north,  and  at  about  7  oC'k.  at  Night  with  about  1500 
Men  attacked  the  Enemy  in  Camp. — After  doing  more  injury,  and 
creating  great  alarm,  Jackson  recalled  his  men  and  retired  Back 
to  within  a  few  miles  of  the  City.  So  confident  were  the  Enemy 
that  the  People  of  the  Country  would  join  them,  and  that  N.  O. 
was  without  Forces  to  protect  it,  that  he  encamped  on  the  night  of 
the  23rd  without  posting  centinels  towards  the  City  ;  and  Jackson 
was  in  the  Camp  before  he  suspected  his  approach.  The  Effect 
of  the  bold  attempt  created  apprehension  that  Jackson's  forces 
were  very  large  &  strong.  The  Enemy  altho'  reinforced  on  the 
following  morning  by  the  Disembarkation  of  2000  more  Troops, 
carrying  his  forces  to  4000,  hesitated  &  waited  for  more  Rein- 
forcements. In  the  mean  Time  Jackson  was  reinforced,  and  en- 
abled to  raise  a  work  extending  from  the  Mississippi  to  a  Cypress 
Swamp  reaching  to  Lake  Borgne  ;  there  having  been  a  Mill  Race 
entirely  across  from  the  River  to  the  Swamp  nothing  but  the 
Parapet  was  wanting  and  a  little  deepening  of  the  Ditch. — About 


464  RUFUS  KING.  [18 15 

the  28th  of  Dec.  the  Demonstration  of  an  assault  upon  this  work 
was  made  by  the  Enemy,  but  was  not  pressed  ;  in  the  first  day  or 
two  of  January  similar  advances  were  made  ;  in  which  affairs  be- 
tween the  Pickets  occurred,  and  in  which  the  Riflemen  with  Rifles 
carrying  balls,  60.  to  the  pound,  punished  the  Enemy  severely. 

Further  Reinforcements  from  Kentucky  &  Tennessee  reached 
New  Orleans  during  the  first  week  of  January.  The  Movements 
of  the  Enemy's  Camp  on  the  6  &  7  were  correctly  interpreted  by 
Jackson,  who  arranged  his  Militia  upon  the  Left  next  the  Cypress 
morass,  and  the  few  Regulars  with  other  Militia  upon  his  right 
adjoining  to  the  River.  The  attack  was  expected  during  the 
night.  The  Riflemen,  for  the  Militia  were  generally  armed  with 
hunting  Guns  or  Rifles,  were  placed  four  deep  behind  the  Parapet ; 
the  ablest  and  most  active  and  skilful  composed  the  two  front 
lines,  the  older  and  less  skilful  composed  the  two  last. — The  two 
front  ranks  alone  were  to  fire,  the  two  rear  ranks,  to  receive,  load, 
and  return  the  Rifles  to  the  front  Ranks.  The  artillery  was  placed 
&  served  advantageously.  Soon  after  daylight  the  Pickets  were 
driven  in  by  the  Enemy's  advance.  The  fog  clearing  away  the 
Enemy  was  discovered  at  400  yards  distant  in  columns — they 
halted,  threw  off  their  knapsacks,  gave  three  cheers  &  rapidly 
advanced.  The  cannonade  had  commenced  on  both  sides  and 
the  Troops  were  preceded  by  Rockets  8z  hand  Grenades — as  soon 
as  the  Enemy  came  within  100  yards  a  murderous  fire  commenced 
from  the  Riflemen  each  man  taking  deliberate  aim,  and  with  un- 
erring certainty  giving  Effect  to  his  fire.  Each  man  discharged  his 
Piece  &  without  moving  his  eyes  from  the  Enemy  handed  back 
his  Gun  and  received  a  loaded  one  ;  and  in  this  manner  without 
any  order  than  to  be  cool  and  sure  of  their  mark,  the  two  first 
lines  repeated  an  uninterrupted  and  most  destructive  fire  for  an 
hour  and  a  half ;  during  which  the  Enemy,  often  renewing  his 
attempts,  persisted  in  his  assault. — He  finally  gave  up  the  attempt, 
retreated  in  confusion,  having  in  killed  and  wounded  the  flower 
of  his  army  including  many,  and  a  disproportionate  Number,  of 
Officers  upon  the  field  ;  nearly  two  thousand  muskets  were  taken 
by  our  people,  in  front  of  their  lines,  thrown  away  or  left  by  the 
Enemy  ;  a  supply  of  great  importance  as  owing  to  the  Detention 
of  the  Boats  carrying  the  arms,  between  one  &  two  thousand  of 
the    Militia  were  without   arms.     The  dead  and  wounded   were 


1 8 15]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  465 

many  of  them  perforated  by  from  two  to  four  Rifle  Balls.  Paken- 
ham,  Comr  in  chief,  was  killed,  Gibbs  also  the  second  in  command, 
and  Keene  badly  wounded.  The  correspondence  between  Jack- 
son &  the  Enemy,  who  asked  &  rec'd  permission  to  bury  his  dead, 
was  carried  on  by  Lambert  said  to  be  4th  in  command.  The 
Enemy  passed  over  the  Mississippi  the  morning  of  this  attack 
about  600  men  in  boats  which  were  dragged  thro'  a  canal  which 
they  dug  from  Lake  Borgne  to  the  Mississippi.  The  Militia  on 
the  right  bank  behaved  ill  &  fled. — A  Reinforcement  was  sent 
over  by  Jackson,  but  before  they  advanced  agt.  the  Enemy,  he 
reembarked,  recrossed  &  joined  the  Enemy  after  his  defeat.  At 
50  miles  below  N.  O.  is  a  Fort  on  the  left  Bank  of  the  River 
called  St.  Philips,  a  strong  closed  work,  with  casemates,  and 
bomb  proof  magazines.  The  Enemy  crossed  the  Bar  with  their 
Bomb  vessels,  attacked  the  Fort,  and  after  two  Days  incessant 
bombardment,  during  which  they  threw  more  than  1000,  13^  inch 
Shells  into  the  Fort,  with  the  loss  of  only  two  men,  they  aban- 
doned the  attempt  to  pass  it,  never  having  come  within  the  range 
of  the  32  Pounders,  which  were  prepared  with  proper  furnaces, 
and  under  the  command  of  Major  Covington  with  about  500 
Regulars,  to  have  made  them  feel  the  Power  of  his  Fortress. 
This  Day  week  we  received  the  official  account  of  the  repulse  of 
the  Enemy  on  the  8th  of  January  but  nothing  from  Fort  St  Philips 
except  accounts  from  N.  O.,  that  an  incessant  Cannonade  had 
been  heard  for  two  or  three  days  in  that  Quarter.  The  injury 
sustained  by  the  enemy  in  his  attempt  to  carry  Jackson's  works 
was  so  great  that  we  had  no  apprehension  of  his  repeating  it,  or 
if  he  sh'd  that  he  wd.  succeed;  but  if  the  Bomb  Ketches  and  other 
armed  vessels  shd.  pass  the  Forts,  and  come  up,  so  as  to  attack 
the  City,  some  anxiety  existed  still  for  the  safety  of  the  City.  To 
day  all  further  anxiety  has  been  removed.  Dispatches  from 
Jackson  are  received,  stating  the  failure  of  the  attempt  to  pass 
Fort  St.  Philips,  and  the  reembarkation  of  the  mutilated  Remnant 
of  the  British  army.  Here-with  you  have  a  copy  of  a  letter  from 
Jackson  to  a  member  of  the  Senate  announcing  this  important  Con- 
clusion of  the  British  Expedition.  We  hope  that  this  failure  will 
hasten  the  conclusion  of  Peace.  Since  you  left  us  no  other  impor- 
tant Event  has  occurred.  The  offer  of  our  Ministers  to  make 
Peace  upon  the  Status  ante  Bellum,  laying  aside  every  maritime, 

VOL.    V. — 30 


466  RUFUS  KING.  [1815 

or  other  Subjects  on  account  of  which  the  War  was  declared  ;  and 
the  refusal  of  this  offer  &  demand  of  a  Portion  of  our  Territory 
by  the  Enemy,  produced  a  union  and  Decision  which  no  other 
Event  would  have  effected.  Many  among  us  were  dissatisfied  with 
the  Declaration  of  War,  but  when  the  Govt,  offers  to  return  to 
Peace  upon  the  terms  which  have  been  stated  and  these  are  refused 
by  the  Enemy,  who  attempts  to  dismember  us,  we  all  say  war 
must  be  continued  until  more  just  and  moderate — and  as  we  also 
think — who  have  no  unreasonable  opinion  about  England, — a  more 
politick  Policy  prevails  there.  If  England  continues  the  War  on 
this  ground,  I  am  at  no  loss  to  foresee  events  which  she  has  not 
anticipated  ;  if  from  our  peaceful  habits  she  converts  us,  as  she 
will  do,  into  a  Military  People — and  perhaps  on  the  earth  no 
People  could  more  easily  be  converted  into  a  Soldiery  actuated  by 
the  highest  Military  Enthusiasm, — neither  our  neighbors  on  the 
East,  nor  the  West  will  remain  in  security.  I  have  heard  that 
150  or  200  Vacancies  in  the  lowest  Military  Grade  of  the  army 
exist  at  this  time,  and  so  extended  is  the  passion,  that  between 
two  and  three  thousand  applications  have  been  made,  including 
all  the  States  and,  as  is  said,  the  best  educated  youths  of  the 
Country  to  obtain  appointments.  Perhaps  the  applications  for  the 
Station  of  Midshipman  is  comparatively  equally,  or  more,  numer- 
ous. But  we  desire  Peace,  and  tho'  we  may  lament  the  loss  of  the 
brave  Enemy  who  fell  before  our  gallant  Peasantry,  we  have 
some  Consolation  in  hoping  that  the  Discomfiture  will  hasten  the 
Return  of  Peace. 

Your  family  were  all  well  on  the  9th  ;  your  mother  has  had 
more,  &  better  health  this  winter,  than  she  has  had  for  several 
years.  We  are  now  beginning  to  experience  some  relaxation  of 
the  unusual  &  intense  Frost  that  has  prevailed  here,  indeed  it 
seems  to  have  been  extended  over  all  the  States,  for  such  was 
the  intensity  of  the  Frost  even  in  N.  Orleans  towards  the  close 
of  the  year,  that  the  Creeks  were  frozen  over,  and  the  two 
Regiments  of  Black  Troops,  which  came  with  Pakenham  and 
landed  on  the  Island  of  N.  Orleans  with  the  Enemy,  are  said  to 
have  suffered  severely,  so  much  so  as  to  be  almost  incapable  of 
service. 

Farewell  my  dear  Sir  I  am  &. 


1815]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  467 

R.  King  to  G.  Morris. 

Washington,  February  12,  1815. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  indebted  to  you  for  more  than  one  friendly  Letter,  the 
Receipt  of  which  I  have  hitherto  omitted  to  acknowledge.  This 
has  in  part  arisen  from  my  having  been  of  late  a  good  deal  en- 
gaged in  the  business  of  the  Senate,  and  in  part  from  the  great 
importance  of  the  subject  of  your  last  Letter.  Here  we  have 
been  struggling  without  avail  to  defeat  a  dangerous  Bank  Project, 
which,  after  all  our  efforts,  yesterday  by  force  of  Executive  Influ- 
ence passed  the  Senate  by  a  majority  of  two  votes  ;  one  of  our 
friends  being  casually  absent,  the  real  majority  was  only  one. 
The  Fate  of  the  Bill  is  uncertain  in  the  H.  of  R. 

I  am  sensible,  truly  sensible  of  and  deeply  regret  the  difference 
of  opinion  existing  between  good  Men,  respecting  the  leading 
course  of  Policy,  which  ought  to  be  pursued  by  the  Federalists. 
Concerning  the  views  and  character  of  the  men,  who  have  brought 
the  Country  into  its  actual  difficulties,  we  are  all  agreed  ;  it  is 
about  the  course,  which  should  be  followed  to  extricate  us  from 
these  difficulties,  that  we  disagree. 

If  by  a  strenuous  opposition,  ending  in  the  refusal  of  supplies 
of  every  kind,  our  Rulers  could  be  driven  from  their  posts,  and 
abler  men  called  to  fill  them,  a  practical  and  intelligible  object 
would  be  before  us  ;  and  provided  it  could  be  accomplished, 
without  exposing  the  Country  to  the  vengeance  of  the  Enemy  or 
to  the  danger  that  by  our  divisions,  he  might  be  able  to  dismem- 
ber and  degrade  us,  united  and  persevering  opposition  would  be- 
come an  obvious  duty.  But  with  the  present  Executive,  with  a 
Senate  composed  as  the  Senate  is  &  will  be  for  years  to  come  ; 
and  with  such  a  House  of  Reps,  as  we  have  &  shall  have  during 
the  next  Congress,  there  can  be  no  expectation  of  driving  these 
men  out  of  their  offices.  The  Press  even  is  not  in  such  hands, 
nor  is  it  likely  to  be  so,  as  will  do  much  in  effecting  a  change  of 
popular  prejudices. 

In  England  a  majority  of  the  House  of  Commons  can  remove 
the  Ministry — in  effect,  can  change  the  Executive  Government. 
There  the  refusal  of  supplies  immediately  produces  a  revolution 
in  the  Executive  Government — not  so  here.  According  to  our 
theory,  all  political  power  is  in  the  hands  of  the  people,  and  until 


468  RUFUS  KING.  [1815 

they  choose  to  dismiss  their  Chiefs,  no  considerable  change  can 
be  made.     Reason  and  wisdom  can  do  little  to  effect  this  object. 

The  People  must  feel  the  inconvenience,  &  suffer  the  punish- 
ment, of  their  own  folly,  before  they  will  consent  to  renounce  it. 
The  ruin  of  their  business  and  the  burthen  of  Taxes,  which  their 
favorites  have  accomplished,  may  prove  a  salutary  corrective, 
which  may  weaken  their  attachment  to  one  set  of  politicians  and 
their  aversion  to  another.  Until  this  case  be  effected,  we  shall 
go  on  as  we  have  done,  or  plunge  still  deeper,  as  we  are  likely  to 
do,  should  the  country  hold  on  in  its  present  course. 

Moreover  the  Enemy  is  guilty  of  the  utmost  folly.  His  war- 
fare is  licentious,  and  he  discloses  objects,  in  respect  to  our  Ter- 
ritory, which  furnish  our  Rulers  with  arguments  against  the 
opposition,  and  in  favor  of  their  supporters,  which,  when  ad- 
dressed to  the  People,  are  irresistible. 

In  these  circumstances  &  with  these  views,  after  careful  de- 
liberation, in  which  the  dissenting  opinions  of  able  men  were 
allowed  the  respect  and  deference  to  which  they  are  always  en- 
titled, it  has  appeared  to  me,  that  I  had  but  one  course  ;  which 
was  to  avow  a  firm  purpose  to  defend  the  Country  against  the 
invasion  of  the  Enemy,  and  to  concur  in  granting  the  necessary 
supplies  for  this  object.  By  doing  so,  we  establish  a  right  to 
hold  the  Executive  and  its  Departments  answerable  for  the  degra- 
dation of  the  public  credit,  the  failure  of  the  military  expendi- 
tures, and  above  all  for  declaring  a  war,  whose  objects  are 
abandoned,  and  the  expenses  of  which,  can  only  be  defrayed  by 
heavy  and  durable  Taxes  upon  the  People. 

Furthermore  that  course  which  exhibits  union  in  defence  of  the 
Country,  has  seemed  to  me  to  be  more  likely  than  any  other,  to 
influence  the  Enemy  to  consent  to  a  speedy  and  equal  Peace. 
An  honorable  Peace  we  cannot  demand — having  already  aban- 
doned every  object,  for  the  attainment  of  which  we  declared  the 
war  :  but  a  Peace  leaving  to  us  the  same  Rights  of  Soil  and  Sov- 
ereignty, which  we  possessed  before  the  war — will  be  a  safe  Peace 
&  one  that  will  not  humiliate  us. 

Entertaining  these  views  in  common  with  the  principal  men  of 
our  Party  here,  I  have  deemed  it  to  be  expedient  to  be  open  and 
unreserved  in  the  avowal  of  them.  I  explain  myself  to  you  my 
Dear  Sir,  not  to  invite  discussion  upon  the  Subject,  although  I 


1 8 15]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  469 

am  always  benefitted  by  your  opinions  and  habitually  cherish  for 
them  an  unfeigned  respect,  but  for  the  purpose  of  opening  to 
you  my  reasons  for  the  course  of  policy  which  I  am  pursuing  in 
these  critical  times. 

With  sincere  attachment  &  Regard,  I  am  Dear  Sir, 
yr.  friend  &  faithful  Servt. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  G.  Morris. 

Washington,  February  15,  1815. 
Dear  Sir  : 

We  have  received  the  Treaty  of  Peace  *  :  it  will  be  considered 
by  the  Senate  tomorrow.  As  the  Instructions  sent  to  Ghent  re- 
nounced, or  did  not  insist  upon,  any  Provision  in  favor  of  the 
objects  for  which  war  was  declared,  no  one  is  authorized  to  ex- 
pect more  than  the  Status  ante  Bellum.  Should  the  Enemy  con- 
sent to  evacuate  and  restore  the  whole  terra  firma  of  the  District 
of  Maine,  Massachusetts  will  not  perhaps  complain  if  in  the  end 
she  loses  Moose  Island — in  one  sense  only  is  it  of  much  conse- 
quence— should  the  Enemy  keep  it,  there  will  be  left  to  Mass.  no 
practicable  Channel  from  St.  Croix  to  the  Ocean,  except  for  small 
vessels.  It  is  said  the  Coast  Fisheries,  according  to  the  Eng.  in- 
terpretation, were  not  vested  Rights,  but  merely  Privileges  of  the 
First  Peace,  and  lost  by  the  following  war. 

If  a  Treaty  be  concluded  making  no  provision  about  impress- 
ment, and  other  Maritime  rights,  about  which  so  much  has  been 
said  &  written  ;  and  especially  if  the  security  of  these  interests 
were  the  object  of  the  war  ;  some  persons  would  infer  that  no 
future  complaint  or  war  could  be  made  respecting  them  :  the  Law 
of  Nations  being,  not  that  a  Peace  is  perpetual  as  respects  future 
causes  of  war,  but  that  it  is  so  concerning  every  interest  or  claim, 
to  obtain  or  secure  which  the  war  is  made.f 

I  am  very  faithfully  yr.  ob.  sr. 

Rufus  King. 

*  The  news  of  the  signature  of  a  treaty  of  peace  was  received  on  February 
nth,  and  the  treaty  was  sent  to  the  Senate  on  the  15th. 

f  The  treaty  has  been  approved  by  the  Senate.  Your  conjectural  remarks  in 
the  Post  of  the  13th,  as  to  the  contents  of  the  treaty,  are  most  likely  correct. 
There  is  no  stipulation  saving  to  the  United  States  the  privilege  of  the  fisheries — 


470  RUFUS  KING.  [1815 

G.  Morris  to  R.  King. 

Morrisania,  Feb.  16,  1815. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  thank  you  for  yours  of  the  12th  just  arrived.  I  should  not 
discuss  the  Subject  of  it  even  were  the  present  Circumstances  such 
as  those  under  which  you  wrote.  That  would  be  worse  than  use- 
less. As  matters  now  stand,  whatever  has  been  done  is  done  and 
the  Consequences  will  follow  in  their  own  Course  without  Impedi- 
ment or  Deviation  from  what  we  may  do  or  attempt.  I  think  the 
Administration  will  lay  another  Trap  ;  for  I  calculate,  alike  on 
their  Craft  and  Immorality.  The  treaty  of  Peace  was  I  suppose 
laid  before  the  Senate  on  the  14th  or  15th  and  agreed  to,  of 
Course,  whatever  may  be  the  Terms.  No  important  Cession  of 
Territory  has,  I  presume,  been  made  or  seriously  demanded  ;  it 
being  a  Matter  understood  among  the  great  Powers  that  Britain 
should  not  acquire  additional  Strength  in  this  Hemisphere.  For 
Reasons  of  a  similar  Kind  she  will  not  have  withheld  the  Permis- 
sion formerly  granted  to  fish  on  the  Great  Bank  ;  neither  is  it 
improbable  that  the  Privilege  of  fishing  along  her  Coasts  may  be 
continued  on  certain  Conditions.  Lord  Castlereagh  may  have 
supposed,  from  what  passed  in  the  Boudoirs  of  Vienna,  that  Sel- 
den's  Mare  Clausum  is  a  treatise  too  pedantic  for  the  taste  of 
fashionable  people.  Should  there  unfortunately,  be  any  Clause^ 
Matter,  or  Thing  in  the  Treaty  liable  to  objection,  and  should 
federal  Senators  have  objected,  we  shall  be  charged  with  a  desire 
to  prolong  the  war  ;  or  should  they  not  have  objected,  with  the 
Sacrifice  of  National  Honor  :  but  this  Dilemma  is  not  the  Trap  to 
which  I  allude.  Be  not  surprized  at  a  Proposal  to  relinquish  the 
direct  Tax.  It  comports  with  southern  Interest  and  Policy. 
Federal  opposition  will  be  a  deadly  weapon  in   the   Hands  of 

no  stipulation  saving  to  the  British  the  navigation  of  the  Mississippi,  nor  any- 
thing relative  to  the  causes  for  which  the  war  was  declared.  It  is  understood 
that  when  the  treaty  was  under  consideration  in  the  Senate  Mr.  King,  in  a 
speech  of  about  forty  minutes,  pointed  out  the  great  blessings  of  the  present 
war  in  a  style  of  biting  satire  scarcely  ever  equalled.  Every  sentence  was 
Cantharides  to  the  already  blistered  feelings  of  the  administration. — Corre- 
spondent of  N.  Y.  Evening  Post,  Feb.  14,  181 5. 


1 815]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  47 1 

their  Adversaries.  Say  what  you  will  of  public  Faith,  moral 
Right  and  constitutional  Policy  ;  Talk  if  you  please  in  Latin 
Greek  or  Hebrew  ;  publish  Discourses  in  English  Syriac  or  Cop- 
tic Characters,  No  one  will  listen,  no  one  will  read.  But  all  will 
eagerly  catch  and  greedily  swallow  the  plain  democratic  Propo- 
sition "  Gentlemen  Electors,  it  was  with  extreme  Reluctance,  un- 
der the  Pressure  of  dire  Necessity,  that  we  laid  a  direct  Tax  ;  and 
as  soon  as  that  Pressure  was  removed  we  proposed  to  take  it  off  ; 
but  those  accursed  Federalists,  who  delight  in  oppressing  the 
People  insisted  on  its  Continuance."  This  plain  Proposition,  I 
say,  will  be  understood  felt  and  acted  upon,  any  Cause  Matter 
or  thing  to  the  contrary  thereof  in  any  wise  notwithstanding. 
Adieu 

I  am  as  ever  truly  yours 

Gouv.  Morris. 


CHAPTER  XXVI. 

Emott  to  King — Rejoices  at  the  Peace — Troubles  in  New  York  Legislature — 
King  to  Gore — Inability  to  do  Good  suggests  Wisdom  of  retiring  from  pub- 
lic Life — Gore  to  King — Wishes  to  leave  the  Senate — Conversation  with 
Cabot  on  the  Hartford  Convention — Peace  in  Boston — Gore  to  King — 
No  Plan  by  Parties  in  Massachusetts — King  to  Trumbull — Affairs  at  Home 
and  Abroad — King  to  Gore — Hanson's  Paper  and  Affairs — Accommoda- 
tions for  Winter  at  Washington — Opinion  relative  to  Dartmoor — What 
the  Fate  of  Bonaparte — Harison  to  King — Compares  Case  of  Mettus  Tuf- 
fetius  with  that  of  Napoleon — C.  King  to  King — Account  of  the  Dartmoor 
Investigation — Gore  to  King — Dartmoor  Report — Gratified  by  the  manly 
Character  and  Decision  of  the  Statement — Changes  of  Men  at  Washington 
— Lafayette  to  King — Introducing  St.  Jean  d'Angely. 

James  Emott  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  Feb.  19,  1815. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  now  the  honor  of  acknowledging  the  receipt  of  your 
letter  of  the  nth  of  February.  It  will  be  gratifying  to  me  to  hear 
from  you  as  frequently  as  your  other  avocations  and  your  leisure 
will  permit,  for  to  say  the  truth  to  you,  my  other  friends  at  Wash- 
ington are  so  much  engaged,  or  have  become  so  idle,  that  I  can 
learn  nothing  but  at  second  and  third  and  fourth  hand.  We  were 
prepared  to  hear  of  the  retreat  or  the  capture  of  the  British  at 
New  Orleans  after  their  terrible  discomfiture  on  the  8th  of  Janu- 
ary. Now  that  the  expedition  is  over  it  appears  to  have  been 
commenced  and  carried  on  in  folly.  The  notice  given,  the  delay 
and  the  want  of  prompt  measures  had  a  mutual  and  a  strong  ten- 
dency to  a  disastrous  termination.  I  confess  that  what  I  have  seen 
of  the  British  in  our  war  has  lessened  the  government  and  the 
people  in  my  estimation.  It  is  no  more  to  me  a  dreadful  and 
dreaded  nation.  They  can  be  met  and  they  can  be  conquered. 
They  have  terminated  the  war  at  a  point  when  this  has  become 
the  sentiment  of  our  Statesmen  and  nation,  and  they  have  given 

472 


1815]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  473 

a  direction  to  public  opinion  on  the  subject  of  a  navy  which  will 
bear  it  up.  I  rejoice  at  the  peace  because  we  wanted  it ;  but  I 
plainly  foresee  that  at  no  very  distant  time  we  shall  have  another 
English  war,  when  with  a  more  vigorous  administration  and  an 
army  and  navy  in  fact,  and  to  commence  with,  the  British  must 
be  driven  from  the  continent,  if  not  from  this  quarter  of  the  globe. 
The  President  I  presume  is  highly  delighted  with  the  peace,  as  it 
will  allow  him  to  slumber  out  the  residue  of  his  term  in  a  state  of 
comparative  ease  and  quiet ;  but  how  do  the  wildmen  of  the  west 
relish  a  treaty  that  is  not  garnished  with  free  trade  and  sailor's 
rights  and  withal  does  not  provide  for  the  extinction  of  the  In- 
dians and  the  assumption  of  the  "uppermost"  Canadas  ?  The 
southerners  I  presume  have  had  enough  of  the  war  for  this  time. 
Is  it  possible  to  conjecture  how  the  peace  is  to  affect  the  great 
parties  in  this  country  ?  The  opinion  here  appears  to  be,  among  our 
friends  of  course,  that  the  first  effect  of  the  news  will  be  to  para- 
lize  both  parties  but  that  in  the  end  it  will  aid  the  good  old  cause. 
The  democratic  party  commenced  the  session  in  passion,  I 
mean  among  themselves,  and  they  have  progressed  in  passion. 
The  first  measure  of  importance,  and  it  became  really  a  ques- 
tion of  importance,  was  the  election  of  a  continental  Senator. 
Spencer  had  secretly,  for  some  time,  been  a  candidate  to  further 
Armstrong's  views  on  the  Presidency  and  Sandford  was  finally 
fixed  on  as  the  Tompkins  candidate,  for  he,  God  help  us,  has  also 
an  eye  on  the  Presidency.  After  several  caucusses  by  the  mem- 
bers, Spencer  grew  timid  and  declined,  but  he  remembered  the 
opposition  and  the  two  parties  are  now  in  a  steady  course  of  op- 
pugnation.  Van  Buren  who  opposed  Spencer  was  kept  in  great 
doubt  about  the  office  of  Attorney  General,  on  which  he  had 
fastened  his  wishes,  and  finally  was  appointed  by  the  casting  vote 
of  the  Governor.  Young,  the  Speaker  who  was  promised  and  ex- 
pected the  office  of  Secretary,  but  which  he  was  by  no  means 
entitled  to,  was  completely  thrown  out  and  Porter,  who  was  not 
known  as  a  candidate,  was  appointed.  The  Council  have  not  yet 
touched  New  York,  and  an  opinion  is  prevailing  that  Clinton  will 
keep  his  place,  the  Tammany  men  to  the  contrary  notwithstand- 
ing. The  Council  are  known  to  stand  two  and  two. 
I  am  with  unfeigned  respect 

Your  obed.  Sert.  James  Emott. 


474  RUFUS  KING.  [1815 

J.  Emott  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  February  22,  1815. 
Dear  Sir  : 

We  join  with  you  and   with  all  good  men   in  thanks  to  the 

Almighty  for  restoring  peace  to  the  country.     We  are  indeed  the 

brand  plucked  from  the  fire.     Another  year  of  war  and  misrule 

might  have  brought  our  tottering  edifice  to  the  ground.      As  it  is, 

it  may  last  a  little  longer  and  perhaps  through  our  day.     The 

Treaty  is  such  a  thing  as  was  to  have  been  expected  from  men 

who  made  war  to  keep  themselves  in  power  and  who  went  suing 

for  peace  for  the  same  purpose.     The  country  and  its  character 

and  interest  are  nothing  to  them  as  long  as  they  can  preserve 

place  and  patronage.     Had  Madison  and  Monroe  the  feeling  of 

honorable  men  their  blood  would  tingle  to  their  fingers'  ends  ; 

they   would  clothe   themselves  in   sackcloth  and   ashes  for   the 

sufferings  and  situation  of  the  nation.     But  they  have  not  such 

feelings.     If  they  can  persuade  our  countrymen  to  banish  from 

their  councils,  and  their  hearts  the  men  who  would  guide  them  to 

prosperity  and   happiness,  and   prevail  upon   them  to  continue 

their  misplaced  confidence  in  the  men  who  lord  it  over  us,  they 

will  be  satisfied  come  what  will  to  the  country.     The  articles  in 

the  treaty  for  settlement  of  our  boundaries  will  I  think  in  future 

times  be  referred  to  as  curiosities  not  precedents.     Two  adverse 

commissioners  are  to  be  appointed,  who  will  of  course  disagree 

and  then  we  are  to  have  the  umpirage  of  a  friendly  power  who  is 

to  decide  on  a  case  to  be  stated.     What  friendly  power  is  to  be  the 

power  is  a  subject  for  another  Treaty  to  be  made  by  five  more 

commissioners,  and  of  consequence  we  are  as  we  were.     Nothing 

is  doing  here  of  any  consequence  and  the  Session  will  probably 

be  one  of  little  interest,  tho'  if  the  war  had  continued  we  should 

have  gone  into  high  matters  and  done  strange  deeds.     Tomorrow 

it  is  understood  the  council  will  proceed  to  appoint  a  Mayor  for 

New  York  when  I  have  no  doubt  Ferguson  will  succeed  to  Clinton 

by  the  casting  vote  of  the  governor.     As  a  nursery  and  schc 

for  our  navy,  I  should  have  no  objection  to  an  Algerine,  o- 

Japanese  war.     But  when  the  maritime  nations  of  Europe  will  'd 

sent  to  pay  what  our  people  are  pleased  to  call  tribute,  and   d. 

a  naval  armament,  to  be  kept  up  in  the  Mediterranean,  whf  me 

have  no  possessions,  will  amount  to  so  much  more  than  thven 


1 815]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  475 

we  have  been  in  the  habit  of  paying,  the  wisest  course  appears  to 
be  to  continue  to  pay  on  the  principle  which  induces  other  nations 
to  pay.  But  if  we  have  no  other  war,  we  shall  have  a  war  with 
experience,  and  prudence. 

With  great  respect,  I  am  yours  very  truly, 

James  Emott. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Mar.  21,  1S15. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Having  had  a  quiet,  and  uninterrupted  day  or  two  here, 
I  have  endeavored  to  revise,  and  pass  over  again,  the  occupations 
in  which  during  the  three  last  sessions  we  have  been  engaged — and 
I  am  obliged  to  confess,  that  the  result  of  this  process  is  dis- 
couragement, and  humiliation — We  have  had  a  full  opportunity  to 
observe  and  to  approach  the  course  and  character  of  our  political 
System,  —  and  when  the  question  is  asked,  to  what  good  purpose 
do  a  few  impartial  and  worthy  men  toil  and  weary  themselves  in 
the  public  service,  does  the  only  Reply  that  can  be  given  afford 
encouragement  to  them  to  persevere  ? — rather  does  it  not  admonish 
them  to  retire  from  scenes,  which  they  cannot  improve,  and  where 
they  behold  more  clearly  the  degradation,  and  the  shameless 
corruption  of  their  Country?     But  enough  of  this.     .     .     . 

I  am  my  Dr.  Sir.  faithfully  yrs. 

R.  K. 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Waltham,  Apr.  11,  1815. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

.  .  .  It  appears  that  Governor  Strong  will  be  elected  by  a  hand- 
some Majority,  tho'  considerably  diminished  from  that  of  last  year, 
kihe  Senate  will  possess  but  a  bare  Majority  of  Federalists.  The 
touvt.  of  the  State  will  be  federal  this  year,  but  appearances  indi- 
kee*  another  Result,  the  succeeding  year — This,  with  the  Difficulty 
ing.  •ocuring  suitable  accommodations,  although  at  an  enormous 
ise,  leads  me  to  question  the  obligations,  or  prudence  of  an- 
visit  to  Washington. — I  know  no  inducement,  to  risque  the 


476  RUFUS  KING.  [1815 

chance  of  being  obliged  to  go  there  more  than  one  Session,  and 
should  the  Legislature  be  democratic  another  year,  the  obligation 
to  prevent  the  election  of  a  Senator  of  that  Party  would  be  con- 
sidered by  others,  if  not  by  myself  imperious.  ...  I  have 
been  in  town  only  twice  since  my  return  &  have  had  no  particular 
conversation  with  any  one.  The  chief,  you  know,  is  at  N.  Hamp- 
ton. I  know  no  time  when  every  one  appeared  to  receive  me  with 
more  respect  or  cordiality.  Mr.  Cabot,  so  soon  as  he  knew  I  was 
at  Mr.  Payne's  Office,  came  to  me,  and  laughed  very  heartily  at 
his  going  to  Hartford,  and  says  he  was  prevailed  upon  to  take  the 
journey,  merely  because  they  declared  an  absolute  determination, 
in  all  men  of  any  standing  in  the  community  not  to  go,  unless  he 
went,  and  that  a  measure  of  the  Sort,  was  necessary  to  allay  the 
ferment  and  prevent  a  crisis,  in  the  hope  of  something  occuring 
to  change  the  state  of  affairs.  He  expressed  his  unaltered  con- 
viction, that  the  worst  of  evils  would  be  a  dissolution  of  the  Union, 
and  all  the  good  which  could  arise  from  the  Convention  would 
be,  in  case  of  a  total  failure  of  all  the  powers  of  the  Federal  Govt, 
that  a  sort  of  organized  body  would  be  in  existence,  which  might 
attempt  to  provide  for  the  exigencies  of  the  moment,  and  that  all 
their  endeavors  were  to  avoid  doing  anything.  This  Conversa- 
tion was  frequently  interrupted  by  persons  coming  in  &  entering 
into  the  talk,  and  on  the  whole  my  reflection  is,  at  present,  that 
they  had  no  views,  but  to  avoid  immediate  peril,  in  the  possibility 
that  chance  might  relieve  them.  He  thought  ill  of  sending  the 
Commission  to  Washington,  and  this,  as  I  inferred,  from  the  idea 
that  the  measure  was  calculated  to  hasten,  &  promote  what  wis- 
dom &  prudence  would  delay  &  repress.  It  is  not  impossible, 
some  one  at  least  of  the  actors  imagined  a  state  of  things  had 
arisen,  which  might  be  improved  to  waft  him  into  places  of  great 
power  &:  distinction  and  that  these  phantoms  were  continually 
playing  before  his  imagination.  I  think  it  probable  that  future 
opportunities  will  afford  a  more  distinct  view  of  their  plans  &  ob- 
jects if  they  had  any — To  obtain  peace  on  any  terms  seems  to 
have  been  the  great  desideratum,  and  I  think  it  not  unlikely,  if 
the  war  had  continued,  some  rash  and  unadvisable  step  would 
have  been  taken — The  evening  before  the  news  of  Peace  reached 
Boston  there  was  a  meeting  of  several  of  the  influential  leaders 
in  the  Legislature,  at  the  house  of  the  Chief,  to  discuss  &  consider 


1815]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  477 

the  propriety  of  adopting  some  legislative  resolution,  declaring 
the  willingness  of  the  State  to  accede  to  the  desire  of  G.  B.,  for  a 
road  between  N.  B.  &  Quebec. — Fortunately  no  conclusion  was 
adopted.  The  people  of  Maine  have  it  constantly  sounding  in 
their  ears,  that  the  Federalists  were  willing  to  cede  their  Country 
to  the  Enemy,  and,  however  disposed  to  such  an  Event  were  the 
inhabitants,  &  especially  the  Democrats,  the  odium  of  such  a 
Disposition  will  be  thrown  altogether  on  their  opponents,  and  will, 
I  fear  give  them,  the  Democrats,  the  ascendancy.  The  Demo- 
crats affect  to  consider  the  Peace  as  the  fruit  of  Madison's  wis- 
dom, and  every  occurrence  of  the  war,  which  was  honourable  to 
the  character  of  the  individual  and  the  more  so,  as  having  been 
produced  without  the  aid  of  Government,  as  entirely  resulting 
from  the  abilities  &  exertions  of  the  Admon. 

Yours  truly,     C.  Gore. 


C.  Gore   to   R.  King. 

Waltham,  Apr.  24,  1815. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  hear  nothing  from  Georgetown  or  Washington,  relative 
to  our  Accommodations  next  Winter.  I  should  not  be  satisfied  to 
go  to  one  of  the  mixed  lodging  Houses  &  make  a  joint  mess  with 
the  multitude,  and  I  do  not  perceive,  where  we  are  to  pitch  our 
tent.  If  I  decline,  it  ought  to  be  this  June  and  as  I  know  noth- 
ing, that  will  tempt  me  to  risque  incurring  the  obligation  to  visit 
Washington  every  Session  until  182 1,  I  shall,  unless  the  prospect 
be  very  clear  of  a  federal  Majority,  in  Massachusetts,  next  election, 
resign  before  the  close  of  the  Session  of  the  Legislature  which 
will  end  in  March  next — Under  existing  circumstances,  I  should 
prefer  to  go  the  next  Winter  if  we  can  be  accommodated  tolerably 
well. 

The  Newspapers  say  Virginia  will  be  as  bad  as  the  last  Congress, 
and  all  of  the  old  Delegation,  who  chose  to  be  reelected,  will  be 
gratified.  North  Carolina  will  probably  follow  in  the  same  course. 
The  policy  &  measures  of  the  Government  will,  therefore,  continue 
as  for  years  past. 

I  do  not  perceive  any  strong  reason  for  believing  in  any  great 
&  immediate  changes  in  Massachusetts.      The  Election  for  Rep- 


478  RUFUS  KING.  [1815 

resentatives,  which  will  be  soon  taking  place,  will  show  more 
distinctly  the  bearing  of  Parties,  on  the  doings  of  last  Winter. 
I  am  forced  to  this  conclusion,  that  no  definite  view  or  plan,  was 
either  conceived  or  marked  out  by  any  one.  A  general  dissatisfac- 
tion was  prevalent,  and  the  leaders  knew  not  how  either  to  direct 
or  oppose  it,  and  were  yet  desirous  of  keeping  a  hold  on  this 
temper,  that,  if  occasion  occurred,  it  might  be  improved  to 
advantage.  Their  conduct  appears  to  have  been  inconsequential 
&,  in  some  instances,  contradictory  to  what  little  of  plan  they 
seem  to  have  entertained.  They  wished  for  and  expected  the 
destruction  of  the  ruinous  policy  of  the  Govt,  and  considered 
what  would  follow  either  a  continuance  of  the  war,  or  a  disgrace- 
ful Peace  ;  yet  they  urged  the  making  Peace  on  any  terms,  and 
by  Legislative  Resolutions  would,  within  a  few  days,  had  they 
not  received  the  Treaty,  have  avowed  a  willingness  to  have  Peace 
at  the  sacrifice  of  a  portion  of  this  State's  Territory. 

Many  think  if  the  war  had  continued,  we  should  have  been 
cured  of  our  follies,  yet  all  see  &  feel  the  relief  that  Peace  affords — 
No  great  business  is  doing,  but  the  little  which  is  done  gives  an 
appearance  of  life  where  stillness  and  death  seemed  alone  to 
triumph. — Stores  are  wanted  at  the  Peace  prices,  and  a  new  wharf, 
is  to  be  immediately  built  between  Indian  and  Long  Wharf,  and 
the  stores,  fifty  in  number,  are  all  engaged, — whether  this  be  a 
fortunate  speculation,  time  alone  can  show.     .     .     . 

Yours  faithfully, 

C.  Gore. 


R.  King  to  J.  Trumbull. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  May  22,  1815. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  is  a  long  time  since  I  have  heard,  or  reed,  letters  from  you. 

As  I  have  reed,  no  letters  from  Charles,  I  know  not  whether  you 

have  relinquished  your  thoughts  of   visiting  us,  or  still  persist. 

Since  about  the  middle  of  March  we  have  been  peaceably  at  home. 

The  season  hitherto  has  been  cold  and  the  progress  of  vegetation 

uncommonly  retarded.     Today  it  is  warm.     Having  been  in  town 

and  heard  that  a  vessel  sails  tomorrow  for  England,  I  cannot  omit 

the  opportunity  of  recalling  ourselves  to  you  and  Mrs.  Trumbull's 


1 8 15]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  479 

recollection.  In  public  affairs  since  peace  again  has  been  restored 
to  us,  as  I  have  reason  to  hope  not  again  soon  to  be  exiled,  we 
must  look  to  the  old  world  for  extraordinary  events  ;  in  which 
it  seems  to  be  yet  fruitful.  We  are  ignorant  of  the  course  which 
the  allies  will  pursue.  If  Bonaparte  continues  at  the  head  of  the 
French  nation,  Europe  must  expect  the  repetition  of  the  same 
deeds  that  have  desolated  her  during  the  last  twenty  years.  As 
you  will  conclude  we  are  all  solicitude  for  decisive  information  of 
the  course  that  Eng.  and  the  other  allies  shall  pursue. 

Of  the  opinions  in  France,  I  scarcely  think  it  worth  while  to  en- 
quire, France  is  ruled  by  the  sword  ;  and  those  whose  profession 
is  plunder  and  violence  call  for  rulers  and  leaders  who  are 
attached  to,  and  masters  of,  the  business.  The  poor  Bourbons 
were  without  the  means,  as  they  seem  to  have  been  without  the 
talents,  to  rule  the  country. 

That  the  chief  should  have  been  disposed  of,  as  he  was  ;  that 
he  was  placed  in  a  situation  quite  convenient  to  hold  the  necessary 
intercourse  with  France,  and  to  keep  alive  the  hopes  of  his 
associates  there,  was  not  the  measure  of  the  Bourbons.  They 
neither  chose  it  nor  could  they  change  it. 

You  can  be  at  no  loss  to  decide  upon  our  opinions  and  wishes 
in  this  country.  Those  who  desire  peace  and  the  enjoyment  of 
national  independence,  the  progress  of  the  arts  and  the  extension 
of  human  happiness,  regret  an  event  which  menaces  these  inestim- 
able blessings. 

But  I  relinquish  these  topics  and  with  best  respects  to  Mrs. 
T.,  in  which  we  all  unite,  I  remain,  my  dear  Sir,  with  sincere 
attachment,  yr.  faithful  Servt. 

R.  K. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  L,  July  22,  1815. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  have  reed,  as  I  believe  I  have  before  mentioned  to 
you,  a  letter  from  Hanson*  on  the  subject  concerning  which  you 

*  The  reference  in  this  letter  is  to  Mr.  Alexander  Hanson  of  Maryland,  who 
was  the  Proprietor  and  editor  of  the  Federal  Republican,  a  newspaper  of  which 
the  publication  was  begun  in  Baltimore  in  1812,  and  in  which  he  had  fearlessly 
denounced  the  Government  for  declaring  war.     This   course  had  caused  the 


480  RUFUS  KING.  [1815 

had  one  or  two  conferences  with  him — He  is  very  much  mortified 
and  dissatisfied — appears  to  entertain  strong  resentment  agt. 
Mason,  suspects  Webster  &  Easton,  conceives  that  he  has  been 
unfairly  treated,  that  his  standing  and  character  are  struck  at,  and 
that  his  own  &  family's  ruin  is  aimed  at.  It  is  more  than  probable 
that  his  pecuniary  affairs  have  been  neglected  ;  that  while  his  ex- 
penses have  been  certain  and  great  in  circulating  his  paper,  the 
income  has  been  far  short  of  what  it  shd.  have  been,  and  would 
have  been  under  the  direction  of  a  man,  who  understood  the  value 

riots  in  Baltimore  in  July,  1812  (see  p.  352  of  this  volume).  Driven  away  from 
there,  he  resumed  at  once  the  publication  in  Georgetown,  D.  C,  and  continued 
a  strong  and  outspoken  opponent  to  the  measures  of  the  administration.  Dur- 
ing the  last  session  of  Congress  the  opinions  he  advocated  had  caused  dissen- 
sions between  him  and  many  of  his  political  associates  in  that  body,  of  which 
he  also  was  a  member  from  Maryland.  As  a  consequence  he  deemed  it  advis- 
able to  dispose  of  his  paper,  "  to  preserve  concord  and  harmony,"  though  he 
would  not  like  it  "  to  pass  into  hands  which  might  misapply  such  an  engine." 
Among  others  consulted  as  to  the  advisability  of  selling  it,  he  wrote  to  Mr. 
King,  a  warm  personal  friend,  who  in  a  letter  of  May  28th  to  him,  while  assur- 
ing him  of  a  hearty  concern  in  all  that  affects  him  &  his  estimable  family,  says  : 

"  Of  your  zeal,  your  disinterested  views  and  correct  principles  I  have  the  most 
entire  conviction  :  of  your  devotedness  to  these  principles  no  proofs  are  want- 
ing ;  for  the  honor  of  our  country  they  are  already  too  strong.  The  injury 
done  to  your  property  has  been  great  ;  and  further  sacrifices,  should  they  be 
necessary,  no  one  seems  to  have  a  right  to  call  upon  you  to  make.  I  know  that 
you  can  never  compromise  your  well  settled  opinions,  and  I  am  mistaken  if,  at 
this  period  of  your  life,  you  can  much  abate  in  your  laudable  zeal  to  explain 
them  ;  still  the  interest  of  your  own  independence  and  the  comfort  of  a  beloved 
family  ought  not  to  be  neglected.  I  am  not  insensible  to  the  personal  esteem 
and  confidence  which  you  have  so  obligingly  manifested  towards  me,  and  on 
this  account,  had  I  no  other  or  more  laudable  motive,  I  should  be  unwilling 
that  my  opinion  should  for  a  moment  retard  the  adoption  of  any  measure  that 
should  in  your  opinion  be  likely  to  prove  advantageous  to  you. 

"  If  I  do  not  misread  the  future,  new  public  difficulties  are  soon  to  occur  ;  and 
unless  they  shall  be  properly  met  and  disposed  of,  the  consequences  may  be 
ruinous  to  the  country.  Dallas'  management  of  the  Treasury  is  alarming. 
Projects  seem  to  be  contemplated  which  in  any  state  of  our  foreign  affairs  will 
be  dangerous  to  public  and  private  credit. 

"  Poor  Thomas'  death  would  at  any  period  have  been  thought  a  great  public 
loss  ;  in  the  present  crisis  it  is  a  national  calamity.  God  grant  that  it  may  not 
prove  the  forerunner  of  still  greater  afflictions. 

"  With  great  respect  &  esteem  &c, 

"  Rufus  King." 


[815]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  48 1 


of  money,  and  who  would  bestow  the  proper  care  on  the  money 
department.     Any  one  who  knows  Hanson,  must  know  that  he 
has  feelings  and  sentiments  which  disqualify  him  for  that  sort  of 
attention  wh.  is  indispensable  in  collecting  the  annual  subscrip- 
tions.    Since  the  death  of  Thomas,  Hanson  thinks  his  political 
friends  in  his  own  State  have  been  shy  of  him.     To  a  meeting  of 
the  leaders  held  some  time  since,  preparatory  to  the  fall  Election, 
Hanson  alone  of  the  fedl.  members  of  Congress,  was  omitted  in 
the  invitation  ;  this  has  increased  his  dissatisfaction  ;  he  talks  of 
declining  a  re-election,  and  of  selling  his  paper  at  auction  &c  &c 
&c.     In  my  answer  to  his  Letter,  I  took  pains  to  soothe  his  feel- 
ings, but  declined  any  agency  respecting  the  disposal  of  his  paper. 
From  all  this  we  can  expect  nothing  respecting  quarters  from  Han- 
son, who  has  not  been  in  Washington  or  Georgetown  since  he 
left  it  soon  after  us.     I  thought  of  writing  to  Mr.  Senator  Ander- 
son ;  but  to  have  what  you  want,  those  you  employ  shd  themselves 
require  like  accommodations  ;    I  therefore  have  written  to  Mr. 
Bowie  of  Georgetown,  explaining  what  we  want,  expressing  a  pref- 
erence for  Georgetown,  and  of  a  private  house  to  a  public  one — 
two  good  bed  rooms,  with  fire  places,  drawing  &  dining  rooms, 
separate  table  for  four  persons,  accommodations  for  four  or  five 
white  servants,  coach  house  &  stable  for  ten  horses — coal  fires 
preferable  to  wood  one,  &c  &c.     Fire,  candles,  horsefeed,  every- 
thing, excepting  liquors  to  be  supplied — I  desired  Mr.  Bowie  to 
give  me  the  result  of  his  enquiry,  with  the  price  which  would  be 
required  of  us  per  week.     Not  recollecting  Bowie's  name,  I  in- 
closed  the  Letter  to  Anderson,  saying  that  we  had  thought  of 
troubling  him  to  make  inquiries  which  we  had  requested  Bowie  to 
make.     As  I  understand  that  the  National  Intelligencer  is  per- 
mitted to  animadvert  upon  the  Report  *  made  by  Mr.  Larpent  & 
Charles,  I  added  "that  some  Legislators  have  thought  the  Law  a 
severe  one,  that  visits  the  sins  of  the  father  on  the  children,  but  it 
seems  that  at  Washington  the  Jewish  rigor  in  this  respect  deserves 
approbation."     On  the  subject  of  this  Report  I  have  no  Letters 
from  Charles — nor  have  we  any  other  information  except  what  has 
appeared  in   the   News   Papers — we   ought   not   perhaps   to   be 
obliged  to  Messrs  Clay  &  Gallatin  for  their  selection  ;  had  they 

*  Relative  to  the  Dartmoor  prison  transactions. 

VOL.  v. — 31 


482  RUFUS  KING.  [1815 

employed  one  of  their  Secretaries  I  shd  have  been  as  well  satis- 
fied. Charles  is  of  too  generous  a  nature  to  have  suspected  any 
fraudulent  purpose  ;  perhaps  none  was  meditated  ;  the  truth  is,  it 
was  not  an  affair  of  Government  discussion — it  strictly  belonged 
only  to  the  criminal  jurisprudence  of  England.  With  more  years 
and  greater  caution  Charles  wd.  perhaps  have  assented  only  to  a 
special  Report  of  facts,  leaving  the  rest  to  inference  :  this  how- 
ever wd.  have  defeated  the  object  of  the  Commission — the  occur- 
rence like  that  of  ye.  5th  of  Mar.  is  to  serve  in  future  times  as  a 
topic  to  criminate  Engd.  and  enflame  popular  and  party  feelings  : 
those  who  are  most  noisy  are  least  sorry,  that  the  unfortunate  men 
were  killed  &  maimed.  Charles  left  England  about  the  1st  of 
May  for  Portugal,  and  probably  did  not  return  to  London  before 
the  middle  of  June — of  his  business  no  authentic  information  is 
reed.;  nothing  had  been  decided  before  he  went  to  Portugal. 
Each  successive  arrival  increases  our  solicitude  respecting  the 
state  of  Europe.  If  France  does  not  submit  to  all  the  rigors, 
which  her  perilous  condition  calls  for,  she  must  be  conquered — 
in  other  words  Bonaparte  &  the  army  will  be  crushed.  In  case 
the  allies  succeed,  what  is  to  be  Bonapart's  fate  ?  What  that  of 
his  Marshals  and  the  great  Leaders  who  adhere  to  him  ?  Whither 
can  they  escape,  except  to  this  Country  ;  and  can  they  escape  still  ? 
I  concur  in  your  sentiments  respecting  the  condition  of  the  Try. 
Dept.  The  more  confusion  and  disorder  in  the  currency,  the 
stronger  the  case,  and  the  more  powerful  the  arguments  agt.  the 
issue  of  a  Bank  paper  money — Should  the  war  in  Europe  be 
speedily  concluded,  I  shd.  have  hopes  that  we  may  again  defeat 
a  mischievous  and  cheating  National  Bank.  I  look  forward  with 
disinclination  to  the  residence  at  Washington — independent  of 
the  inconveniences  of  the  place,  my  health  also  has  lately  suffered, 
and  the  attack  has  been  of  a  sort  to  make  me  uncertain  respecting 
its  true  character — whether  it  was  inflammation  of  the  Kidney, 
Gravel,  or  the  commencement  of  those  assaults  which  gradually 
and  painfully  finish  our  course  is  a  matter  of  uncertainty  and  of 
some  solicitude.     .     .     . 

Faithfully  and  always  yr  friend. 

R.  K. 


1815]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  483 


Rich.  Harison  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  July  24,  1S15. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  case  of  Mettus  Tuffetius,  alluded  to  by  Mr.  Mason,  is  in 
the  27  &  28th  Chapters  of  the  first  Book  of  Livy.  It  is  a  strong 
case,  and  should  be  considered  in  connection  with  the  Treaty 
stated  in  the  24th  Chapter  of  the  same  Book.  This  Treaty  pre- 
ceeded  the  celebrated  Battle  between  the  Horatii  and  the  Curiatii 
&  contained  the  following  Terms.  "  Cujus  Populi  Cives  eo  Certa- 
mine  vicissent,  is  alteri  Populo  cum  bona  Pace  imperitaret."  The 
Inhabitants  of  Alba,  therefore  after  the  Victory  of  the  Horatii, 
became  Subjects  of  Rome  :  and  the  punishment  of  Mettus  appears 
to  be  founded  upon  that  basis — not  upon  the  Principle  of  public 
Law,  as  between  distinct  Nations, — Mettus  was  considered  &  pun- 
ished as  a  traitor  &  Livy  himself  treats  of  the  Subject  in  that 
Light.  How  far  the  Case  may  be  applicable  to  the  existing  Case 
of  the  great  Criminal,  is  certainly  a  nice  question.  He  once  owed 
Allegiance  to  the  French  Monarchy — He  had  renounced  all  pre- 
tensions to  the  Crown,  &  he  entered  France  with  the  avowed  pur- 
pose of  dethroning  the  Monarch — why  then  is  he  not  a  traitor 
&  liable  to  ultimate  punishment  ?  Believe  me,  Dr.  Sir,  with  the 
most  sincere  Respect  your  obed  Servt.  &c. 

Rich.  Harison. 


Charles  King  to  R.  King. 

Liverpool,  14th  Aug.,  1815. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  James  informs  me  that  he  had  read  to  you  on  your  sick 
bed,  my  report  of  the  transaction  at  Dartmoor,*  &  that  you  were 

*  When  the  Treaty  of  Peace  was  made,  there  were  several  thousand  American 
prisoners  confined  in  the  prison  at  Dartmoor  in  England.  They  naturally  be- 
lieved that  they  would  soon  be  released,  but  were  disappointed,  and,  without 
blaming  their  own  Government  for  the  delay  in  this  matter,  they  showed  very 
decided  animosity  to  Mr.  Beasley,  who  was  the  Commissary  of  Prisoners.  His 
answer  was  that  the  Government  had  not  provided  vessels  for  their  transporta- 
tion home  and  he  had  no  alternative  but  to  leave  them  where  they  were.  On 
the  6th  of  April  there  was  an  attempt  on  their  part,  as  was  charged,  to  force 
their  way  out  of  the  prison  ;  at  any  rate  what  appeared  to  be  a  mutiny  took 


484  RUFUS  KING.  [181 5 

satisfied  with  it.  I  need  not  say  that  no  approbation  can  ever  be 
so  valuable  to  me,  after  that  of  my  own  heart,  as  yours  ;  and  my 
gratification  therefore  at  learning  your  opinion  on  this  subject,  was 
in  proportion  to  the  value  it  has  in  my  estimation. 

The  agency  I  had  in  this  business  was  rather  forced  upon  me, 
than  courted  by  me.  Mr.  Clay  &  Mr.  Gallatin  both  reiterated 
their  requests  on  several  occasions,  that  I  would  take  up  the 
enquiry  ;  adding  that,  as  I  was  a  commercial  man  &  from  the 
northern  States,  my  decision  would  be  most  likely  to  satisfy  those 
more  immediately  connected  with  the  sufferers  on  that  disastrous 
occasion.  Thus  invited,  and  feeling  that  perhaps  the  investiga- 
tion might  be  committed  to  less  unbiassed  persons,  I  decided  at 
once  to  act  in  the  business  and  trust  (the  more  confidently  since 
you  approve)  that  in  the  course  of  it,  I  neither  forgot  the  loyalty 
of  an  American,  nor  the  impartiality  of  an  honest  man.  In  these 
views  I  was  most  amply  and  honorably  seconded  by  my  colleague, 
Mr.  Larpent,  whose  conduct  throughout  was  most  frank  and 
manly  and  unmarked  by  either  passion  or  prejudice.  As  to  the 
report  itself,  my  own  judgment  and  the  advice  of  Mr.  Clay  pointed 

place,  the  guard  was  called  out,  and  the  prisoners,  continuing  their  riotous  pro- 
ceedings, were  fired  upon  ;  several  were  killed  and  many  more  wounded. 

It  was  necessary  for  the  British  Government  to  make  an  examination  into  the 
circumstances  connected  with  this  sad  transaction,  and  a  joint  commission, 
English  &  American,  engaged  in  the  examination.  Mr.  Larpent  and  Mr. 
Charles  King  were  the  Commissioners,  who,  after  what  they  believed  to  be  a 
faithful  investigation  of  the  case,  agreed  upon  a  report  which  sustained  the 
authorities  of  the  prison,  under  the  apparently  threatening  state  of  the  case. 
The  prisoners  denounced  this  report  as  untrue  in  its  conclusions  as  to  their  in- 
tentions or  acts,  and  certainly  as  to  the  measures  taken  to  restore  quiet.  Mr. 
King  in  his  letter  to  Mr.  Adams,  Minister  from  the  U.  S.  in  London,  giving  a 
report  to  him,  says  {Natl.  Intellr.,  July  14,  1815) :  "  I  cannot  but  express  it  as 
my  settled  opinion,  that  by  conduct  a  little  more  temporising,  this  dreadful 
alternative  of  firing  upon  unarmed  prisoners  might  have  been  avoided.  Yet  as 
this  opinion  has  been  the  result  of  subsequent  examination,  and  after  having 
acquired  a  knowledge  of  the  comparatively  harmless  state  of  the  prisoners,  it 
may  be  but  fair  to  consider,  whether  in  such  a  moment  of  confusion  and  alarm, 
as  that  appears  to  have  been,  the  officer  commanding  could  have  fairly  estimated 
his  danger,  or  have  measured  out  with  precision  the  extent  and  nature  of  the 
force  necessary  to  guard  against  it.  There  was  no  plea  or  shadow  of 

excuse,  for  the  general  firing  which  took  place  afterward,  except  the  personal 
exasperation  of  the  soldiers."  He  says  he  and  Mr.  Larpent  agreed  upon  this. 
See  Annals  of  Congress,  1815-16,  pp.  1506-1600. 


1815]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  485 

out  a  joint  report,  if  the  respective  commissioners  could  agree 
upon  one,  as  the  most  proper  mode  of  presenting  the  business  to 
our  Govts.,  and  pending  that,  the  opinion  of  Mr.  Larpent,  as  well 
as  the  instructions  he  had  received  from  Lord  Castlereagh,  con- 
templated the  same  result.  I  had  no  hesitation,  upon  finding  how 
entirely  we  concurred  in  opinion,  to  adopt  that  mode  ;  and  we, 
accordingly  drew  up  conjointly  the  relation,  or  rather  digest  of 
evidence,  which  you  have  seen.  I  am  induced  principally  to  men- 
tion this,  from  having  been  informed,  tho'  not  directly,  that  Mr. 
Adams  to  whom  the  report  was  addressed  by  me,  has  said,  that 
such  a  document  was  wholly  uncalled  for  on  my  part  ;  that  my 
sole  duty  was  to  have  taken  the  examinations  and  submitted  them 
without  any  comment  to  the  Government.  I  cannot  help  adding 
my  persuasion  that  Mr.  Adams  has  been  led  to  make  this  remark 
from  disappointment  at  not  finding  in  the  report  itself,  as  I  fear 
he  both  wished  and  expected,  any  coloring  of  animosity  or 
prejudice. 

As  to  the  style,  in  a  literary  sense,  of  the  paper,  our  aim  was  to 
make  it  short  &  perspicuous  and  simple  ;  tho'  if  we  had  taken 
more  time  and  employed  more  hands  to  write,  for  our  own  were 
completely  tried  with  taking  down  innumerable  folios  of  evidence, 
we  could  have  rendered  it  more  polished,  without  diminishing 
either  its  strength  or  its  simplicity.     .     .     . 

Yrs  most  truly 

Chas.  King. 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Waltham,  Aug.  20.,  1S15. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Democracy  seems  to  have  lost  her  great  high  Priest,  and 
I  cannot  but  feel  some  surprize,  that  the  Leaders,  at  the  seat  of 
Government,  should  as  I  understand  they  do,  express  so  openly, 
&  strongly  their  regret  at  the  downfall  of  the  Tyrant.  Hatred  to 
England  seems  to  be  one  of  the  fundamental  injunctions  of  their 
political  constitution,  and,  on  this  subject  they  observe  neither  the 
maxims  of  prudence  nor  decorum.  Their  behaviour,  as  appeared 
from  the  Government  paper,  on  the  Report  relative  to  Dartmoor 
Prison,  was  shameful.  Common  decency  claimed  from  the  Ad- 
ministration, not  only  an  acquiescence,  but  an  unqualified  support 


486  RUFUS  KING.  [1815 

of  what  the  two  Gentlemen  subscribed.  Probation  can  ever  be 
ingly  gratified,  with  the  manly  character  \  as  yours  ;  and  my 
Statement.  Hanson  in  his  letter,  discoverecon  this  subject,  was 
Dissatisfaction  with  his  federal  friends.  I  rrm. 
pecuniary  affairs  are  in  a  bad  State.  He  is  un  forced  upon  me, 
in  his  conjectures,  that  the  gentlemen  to  whom  \.  both  reiterated 
discontented  with  the  manner  in  which  his  Pape  Id  take  up  the 
last  Winter.  Giles,  we  understand,  is  connecting  m  &  from  the 
association,  to  make  a  purchase  and  settlement  of  so.  satisfy  those 
border  on  waters,  which  communicate  with  the  Mobile,  disastrous 
he  resigns  his  seat  in  the  Senate,  and  intends  an  early  ivestiga- 
for  that  country.  Crawford,  I  observe  takes  the  place  ot^ed  at 
tary,  and  from  this  circumstance  I  infer,  perhaps  erroneously,  ice 
by  one  Party  he  is  intended  as  a  Candidate  for  the  Chair  of  GOV 
ernment — Monroe  I  presume  will  be  the  Virginia  Candidate. 

R.  Goldsborough  writes  me,  that  the  Democratic  party  in  Mary- 
land made  overtures  to  Gen.  Smith,  for  his  support,  in  the  ensuing 
Election.  He  was  disposed  to  enter  with  them,  provided  they 
would  make  him  some  Consideration,  by  assigning  an  Office  for 
him.  But  not  considering  his  services  worthy  of  reward,  they 
declined — He  is  for  sale,  but  no  one  is  willing  to  pay  the  pur- 
chase money — Golds,  thinks  the  Federalists  will  succeed,  but  the 
contest  supported,  as  it  will  be,  by  the  whole  force  of  the  Adminis- 
tration, at  Washington,  will  be  little  short  of  a  civil  War.     .     .     . 

Ever  &  faithfully  your  Friend, 

C.  Gore. 


Lafayette  to  R.  King. 

Paris,  August  21,  1815. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

Permit  me  to  introduce  you  to  my  former  and  late  Colleague, 
at  26  years  distance,  in  the  French  Representative  Houses,  Reg- 
nault-de  St.  Jean  d'Angely.  He  has  in  this  interval  acted  an 
able  and  eminent  political  part,  chiefly  under  the  imperial  govern- 
ment, where  he  has  professed  himself  my  personal  friend.  Now 
he  finds  his  name  on  a  Royal  list  of  Proscription  and  since  the 
chamber  of  Deputies  Has  taken  in  Consideration  the  kind  of  im- 
peachment published  Against  him,  he  is  going  to  Visit  the  U.  S. — 


1815]  LIFE?  AN&   CORRESPONDENCE.  487 


out  a  joint  report,  if  of  Conspiracies  to  recall  Napoleon  from  the 
upon  one,  as  the  mof-I  who  for  one  have  been  opposed  to  his  Gov- 
our  Govts.,  and  pen  allowed  to  say  the  Royalists  have  proved  the 
as  the  instructions  ators  against  themselves — Had  their  Conduct 
templated  the  san^enial  to  the  progress  of  knowledge  and  the  Spirit 
entirely  we  cone  aever  would  it  have  been  possible  for  Bonaparte  to 
accordingly  drc-  of  his  former  power — permit  me  to  entreat  your 

evidence,  which  s  in  favour  of  the  Bearer  and  friendly  remembrance 

tion  this,  fron  st  of  these  lines,  who  shall  ever  be  bound  to  you  by 

Adams  to  v  ament  of  regard,  gratitude  and  attachment. 

such  a  dr  Lafayette. 

sole  duf 

with- 

mv 


CHAPTER  XXVII. 

King  to  Gore — Commercial  Treatywith  England — C.  King  to  King — Condition 
of  France — England  said  to  be  about  taking  Florida — W.  King  to  King — 
Treaty  unfavorable  to  the  W.  India  Trade — King  to  J.  Mason — Condi- 
tion and  Course  of  Banks — Excessive  Issue  of  Notes  destructive  to  them — 
King  to  Gore — Count  Survilliers's  proposed  Residence  in  America — King 
to  his  Son  Edward — To  practise  Law  in  Ohio — Advice  as  to  his  Life  and 
Studies — King  to  E.  King — Commercial  Treaty  with  England — King  to 
E.  King — New  Year's  Letter  with  Advice — King  to  E.  King — Branch  of 
National  Bank  better  at  Chillicothe — Henderson  to  King — Harbor  on 
Lake  Ontario — Dallas's  Plan  of  a  Bank  not  approved — C.  King  to  King — 
Commercial  Treaty  liked  in  England — Van  Ness  to  King — Affairs  in 
Albany — Irregularity  in  Election  Returns  gives  Majority  to  Democrats  in 
the  Assembly — Dwight  to  King — Federalists  must  secure  New  York — 
Coleman's  Sketch  of  King. 

R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

August  29,  181 5. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  From  him  [his  son  Charles,  then  in  London]  we  learn 
that  the  treaty  of  Commerce  provides  for  the  Equalization  of 
Duties,  by  which  I  understand  that  Goods  imported  or  exported 
shall  pay  like  Duties  in  the  Ships  of  both  Countries  ;  that 
no  prohibition  of  the  Goods  or  Manufactures  of  one  shall  be 
made  by  the  other  unless  such  prohibition  extend  to  the  like 
Goods  &  Manufactures  of  all  other  Countries  ;  in  other  words 
that  we  shall  pass  no  non-importation  Laws.  The  East  Ind. 
Trade  to  be  as  heretofore  j  voyages  to  the  E.  Ind.  to  be  circuitous 
or  direct. — The  Wt.  Ind.  Trade  to  be  also  as  heretofore  subject  to 
proclamation  of  admission  &  exclusion — whether,  by  "as  hereto- 
fore" in  respect  to  the  East  Ind.  Trade,  be  meant  according  to 
Mr.  Jay's  treaty,  I  am  at  a  loss. — No  provision  whatsoever  about 
captures,  spoliations  &c,  or  concerning  impressment,  is  contained 

488 


1815]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  489 

in  the  treaty. — Whether  it  contains  articles  concerning  blockades 
&  contraband  is  not  mentioned  in  Charles'  Letter.  If  existing 
Duties  on  Goods  imported  into  the  Br.  Dominions  remain,  I  fear 
that  New  Hampshire  &  Maine  will  be  great  sufferers.  When  I 
adjusted  the  countervailing  Duties  under  Mr  Jay's  treaty,  the 
Duties  on  Potash,  Lumber,  Masts,  Timber,  &c.  were  the  same  as 
these  articles  imported  from  Canada  &  Nova  Scotia.  You  know, 
that  they  have,  since  we  commenced  our  war  of  commercial  regu- 
lations, been  increased,  and  as  I  recollect  are  higher  than  the 
Duties  on  the  like  articles  imported  into  G.  B.  from  Norway, 
Sweden  &  elsewhere.  If  these  Duties  remain  these  articles  can- 
not be  carried  to  English  Markets  either  in  Br.  or  Amer.  Ships — 
the  Treaty  is  limited  to  four  years.  If  I  recollect  the  expression 
in  one  of  Charles'  Letters  the  difference  of  Duties  on  cotton  &c 
is  to  cease  as  soon  as  Laws  shall  be  passed  in  the  two  Countries 
abolishing  all  discrimination — perhaps  our  Law  on  the  subject, 
passed  the  last  session,  may  dispense  with  the  convening  of  Con- 
gress earlier  than  the  constitutional  day  ;  but  in  this  case,  a  session 
of  the  Senate  will  be  necessary  at  an  early  day.  I  suspect  our 
Envoys  have  made  a  miserable  Treaty ;  but  we  must  wait  to  see 
it,  before  we  condemn  it — Dallas  is  every  day  shewing  his  rash- 
ness &  incapacity — the  subject  of  our  Currency  is  a  most  seri- 
ous one. 

Affectionately  yrs 
Rufus  King. 


C.  King  to  R.  King. 

Liverpool,  3d  Oct.,  1S15. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  France  is  a  prey  to  every  sort  of  division  in  parties 
&  interests,  and  altho'  it  is  for  the  present,  I  believe,  decided  that 
her  territory  shall  remain  entire,  the  allies  retaining  for  a  certain 
number  of  years  her  frontier  towns,  I  fear  if  the  discordant 
feelings  of  her  various  population  are  not  soon  moulded  into 
something  like  union,  that  the  greedy  powers  of  her  neighbour- 
hood, and  above  all,  Prussia,  will  effect  a  partition  of  her  Terri- 
tory. G.  Britain  has  uniformly,  it  is  understood,  opposed  any 
such  partition  ;  and  upon  the  whole,  this  nation  has  acquired 


490  RUFUS  KING.  [1815 

great  credit,  since  the  decisive  battle  of  Waterloo,  for  the  modera- 
tion, as  well  of  her  military,  as  of  her  diplomatic,  agents.  Towards 
us  alone,  I  think,  there  exists  no  great  feeling  of  amity  ;  at  least 
in  the  people  ;  and  I  do  not  understand  what  object  this  country 
can  have  in  taking  possession,  as  it  is  said  she  is  about  to  do,  of 
the  Floridas,  unless  it  be  for  the  purpose  of  retaining  an  undue 
influence  over  the  Indians  bordering  our  territory  ;  and  to  have  a 
sort  of  command  upon  the  commerce  of  the  bay  of  Mexico.  If 
it  shall,  as  I  presume  it  will,  be  deemed  necessary  for  us  to  acqui- 
esce for  the  present,  in  such  a  surrender,  on  the  part  of  Spain,  of 
this  territory,  we  must,  I  think,  at  some  not  distant  period,  appro- 
priate it  to  ourselves.  It  is  impossible  to  form  any  idea  for  the 
present  of  what  may  be  the  result  of  the  insurrection  into  which 
the  execrable  tyranny  of  Ferdinand,  has  driven  a  portion  of  his 
suffering  people.  But  all  honest  men,  I  believe,  hope  here  for  one 
result,  the  total  overthrow  of  such  a  bigot  as  Ferdinand  has  proved 
himself  to  be.     .     .     .  Ever  with  great  truth  &c. 

Chas.  King. 


W.  King  to  R.  King. 

Bath,  Oct.  9,  1815. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  It  was  expected  on  the  part  of  the  Merchants  generally 
in  this  section  of  the  Country,  that  the  Senate  would  have  been 
convened  by  this  time  to  consider  the  treaty  ;  and  it  is  as  gen- 
erally a  subject  of  regret  that  it  has  not  been  the  case.  I  fear  we 
shall  not  be  as  well  situated  in  relation  to  the  Lumber  Business  as 
we  formerly  were  ;  it  is  not  expected  that  there  has  been  any 
stipulation  in  relation  to  the  West  India  trade,  in  which  case  the 
English  calculate  to  do  the  whole  business  themselves — this  must 
be  prevented,  it  has  already  got  up  quite  an  excitement  ;  the 
Merchants  will  not  rest  satisfied  to  have  this  business  exclusively 
conducted  by  the  British — I  wish  this  subject  to  have  your  usual 
consideration,  and  that  you  may  be  prepared  when  Congress  meets 
to  bring  forward  such  measures  as  will  have  a  tendency  to  place 
this  Colonial  business  on  an  equitable  and  satisfactory  footing.  I 
will  state  to  you  very  concisely  my  impressions  on  this  subject. 
No  article  the  growth,  produce,  or  manufacture  of  any  Nation  or 


1815]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  49I 

Colony  should  be  imported  into  this  Country,  from  which  place 
an  American  Vessel  could  not  import  the  same  article.  A  meas- 
ure of  this  kind  would  I  think  open  the  English  W.  India  Colo- 
nies to  the  Americans.  If  it  did  not  I  should  think  all  foreign 
Vessels  on  leaving  this  Country  with  Cargoes  should  give  Bonds 
that  no  part  of  their  Cargoes  should  be  landed  at  any  place  where 
an  American  Vessel  could  not  land  the  same  articles.     .     .     . 

W.  King. 

R.  King  to  Jeremiah  Mason. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Nov.  2,  1815. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  last  evening  reed,  your  letter  of  the  12th.  I  have  some  ac- 
quaintance with  the  Conditions  and  views  of  the  Bks.  in  our  city 
and  though  I  have  no  particular  information  concerning  the  Bks. 
southward  of  us,  my  apprehensions  are  much  the  same  as  respect 
them  all.  Mr.  Burke  has  remarked  that  all  men  professing  un- 
limited and  discretionary  power  tending  to  their  own  advantage 
abuse  it,  and  we  are  not  to  expect  a  miraculous  interposition  to 
alter  the  laws  of  nature.  To  be  sure  there  has  been  a  commenda- 
ble moderation  which  would  have  been  more  considerable  in  the 
administration  of  our  City  Bks.  if  they  had  unitedly  rejected  the 
projects  of  Dallas.  In  Penn.,  Maryd.  &  the  Dist.  of  Columbia 
the  Bks.  seem  to  have  imposed  no  restraint  on  themselves  ;  their 
issues  have  been  excessive  and  their  profits  indispose  them  to 
resume  a  better  course.  By  an  agreement  between  our  City  Bks., 
they  are  pledged  to  each  other  and  to  the  Public  that  their  Debits 
shd  not  exceed  their  respective  Capitals  and  sixty  per  Cent, 
additional  ;  that  such  of  them  as  owed  more  than  this  sum  should 
reduce  their  debts  within  that  limit  and  that  the  Debtor  Bks. 
should  pay  to  the  creditor  Bks.  six  per  Cent,  interest  on  their 
weekly  balances.  The  interest  is  paid  but  I  doubt  whether  the 
Bks.,  which  at  their  stoppage  owed  more  than  the  limited  Ratio, 
have  diminished  their  Debt,  and  have  some  reason  to  believe  that 
the  aggregate  debt  at  the  foregoing  epoch  has  been  increased, 
though  not  exceeding  five  or  six  per  Cent.  According  to  a  sup- 
plement and  late  agreement  the  Debtor  Bks.  are  severally  pledged 
to  reduce  their  Debts  to  the  Creditor  Bks.  to  $400,000  each  before 
the  first  of  January.     To  effect  this  they  must  sell  funded  Debt 


492  RUFUS  KING.  [1815 

or  Treasury  notes,  exceeding  a  million  and  a  half  of  Dollars. 
This  would  depress  the  stock  market,  and  be  attended  with  loss 
to  the  settlers,  a  circumstance  sufficient  to  deter  them  from  doing 
it.  Some  of  the  Bks.  desire  to  return  to  the  old  system,  others  of 
them  do  not  wish  it  even,  and  I  think  I  risk  nothing  in  expressing 
an  opinion,  that  the  Paper  circulation  will  be  persisted  in.  If  its 
discontinuance  be  left  to  the  Bks.,  wh.  do  not  pay  their  notes 
in  specie,  Congress  may  arrest  the  mischief  of  this  State  of  things, 
by  passing  laws  to  establish  a  Bk.  on  the  only  correct  Principles 
and  providing  that  the  Revenue  shall  be  receivable  only  in  specie, 
or  the  notes  of  Bks.  which  pay  their  notes  in  specie,  the  Paper 
system  vanishes.  The  currency,  bad  as  it  is,  cannot  preserve  its 
present  credit  ;  unless  the  public  have  satisfactory  evidence  of 
the  probable  Resumption  of  Specie  Payments  it  will  become 
worse  and  as  the  States  can  pass  no  laws  protecting  the  Bks. 
against  their  Creditors,  the  further  depreciation  of  their  notes  will 
stop  their  circulation.  Suits  will  be  instituted  ag't  the  Bks.  ;  one 
decision  had  and  the  bubble  bursts.  Whether  Congress  will 
establish  a  National  Bk.  on  the  only  true  plan  you  are  as  able  as  I 
am  to  determine  ;  if  they  do  not,  I  am  pursuaded  that  the  exces- 
sive issue  of  Bank  notes  must  put  an  end  to  their  circulation.  I 
have  no  expectation  of  leaving  home  for  Washington  before  the 
6th  or  7th  of  Deer.  By  late  accts  from  Mr.  Gore  I  am  uncertain 
whether  his  health  will  be  such  as  will  allow  him  to  undertake  the 
journey.  I  should  like  well  enough  to  be  present  at  the  Discus- 
sion of  the  commercial  Convention  with  Engd.  If  those  who 
made  it  so  far  as  it  is  made  are  gratified,  let  it  become  a  law. 
The  Currency  is  in  my  opinion  the  most  important  subject  that 
will  require  our  attention  and  exertions — and  we  shall  be  there  in 
time  to  hear  and  be  heard  concerning  it. 

With  very  sincere  respect  &  esteem  I  am  my  Dr.  Sir  yr.  ob.  & 
faithful 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  Nov.  4,  1815. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     Our  family  is  all  well — On  Wednesday  Mr.  Gracie  gave 
a  Breakfast  to  the  Count  Survilliers,  alias  J.  B.;  the  Count  St.  Jean 


1815]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  493 

D'Angely  and  three  or  four  young  Frenchmen  came  with  the 
great  Personage, — John  &  James,  with  one  or  two  Gentlemen  of 
the  City  were  invited.  I  also  was  present — he  appeared  to  be 
under  50  yrs  of  age,  mild  in  his  manners  and  discreet  in  his  con- 
versation— He  expects  his  wife  &  daughters  in  the  Spring — is 
making  enquiries  respecting  the  Country  with  the  view  of  select- 
ing a  situation  for  an  Establishment — asked  me  a  few  Questions 
on  this  subject  concerning  situations  that  had  been  recommended 
to  him.  I  replied  that  it  seemed  to  me  that  the  expedient  course 
wd  be  to  defer  any  present  decision,  to  see  for  himself,  to  pass 
some  time,  at  least  the  four  seasons,  before  he  fixed  himself.  He 
spoke  of  the  distracted  state  of  Fr.  ;  the  elements  were  there  con- 
founded ;  the  Duke  d'Artois  &  the  Duchess  D'Angouleme  were 
Bigots,  and  earnest  to  restore  absolutely  the  antient  Regime  ;  the 
King,  the  best  of  his  family,  but  without  the  men  about  him  who 
could  supply  the  defect  of  25  years  absence.  So  far  as  we  can 
ascertain  the  new  Legislative  Body  will  be  of  the  stamp  of  the 
Duchess  D'Angouleme — if  so  the  proscribed  list  will  have  but 
little  chance  of  being  allowed  to  return  to  France.  Certainly  the 
condition  of  France  is  most  humiliating — and  the  King,  whose 
return  is  identified  with  the  present  mortification  of  the  Nation, 
must  wear  a  Crown  of  Thorns.  A  day  or  two  after  the  arrival  of 
the  Ct.  S.,  he  made  a  little  excursion  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the 
City,  and  strolled  into  Mr.  Gracie's  Grounds.  The  family  invited 
him  into  the  house  without  knowing  who  he  was,  in  this  way  Mr. 
G.,  John  &  James,  who  were  at  Mr.  Gracie's,  became  known  to  the 
Ct.,  who  preserves  his  incognito  and  declines  entering  into  Society. 

Mr.  King's  fourth  son,  Edward,  who  had  been  educated 
in  New  York,  passed  two  years  in  the  study  of  law  in  Mr. 
Reeve's  law  school  at  Litchfield,  Connecticut.  As  he  had 
expressed  a  desire  to  practise  his  profession  in  one  of  the 
Western  States,  his  father  considered  that  it  would  be  wiser 
for  him  to  pass  the  last  year's  study  in  the  State  in  which 
he  proposed  to  live  (Ohio)  and  thus  familiarize  himself  with 
the  modes  of  practice  of  law  there  and  become  acquainted 
with  the  members  of  the  Bar.  In  May  he  had  written  to 
Governor  Thomas  Worthington  at  Chillicothe,  Ohio,  asking 


494  RUFUS  KING.  [1815 

him  to  assist  him  in  making  arrangements  for  his  son's 
studies  and  residence  in  that  city,  and  to  introduce  him  to 
those  who  would  help  him  in  his  work  and  admit  him  to 
social  intercourse  with  their  families.  The  Governor  promptly 
responded  with  every  promise  to  do  what  he  could  to  render 
his  son's  residence  profitable  and  agreeable  to  him,  and  as 
the  sequel  will  show,  faithfully  fulfilled  his  promise. 

In  October  Edward  began  his  journey  westward,  and  his 
father  wrote  to  him  on  November  12th,  that  he  hoped 

"  that  without  having  suffered  any  unnecessary  delay  you  are  en- 
gaged in  settling  yourself  down  to  the  finishing  of  your  prepara- 
tory studies.  Not  a  day,  not  an  hour  of  postponement  should  be 
suffered,  for  the  influence  of  suspense  and  of  unprofitable  occu- 
pation is  as  injurious  as  early  decision  and  the  steady  prosecution 
of  your  studies  would  be  advantageous." 

Again  on  December  16th  he  writes  to  his  son  giving  him 
advice  as  to  his  daily  life,  and  relative  to  the  position  he 
should  aim  to  attain  in  his  profession,  and  in  the  good 
opinion  and  respect  of  those  whose  estimation  was  most 
desirable. 

"...  One  great  point  you  have  to  study  is  economy  ;  with 
it  you  may  succeed  to  acquire  reputation  and  property  ;  without 
it  you  will  fail  in  both  respects. 

"  You  must  also  beforehand  well  understand,  that  you  must  have 
much  &  enduring  patience  ;  as  it  will  be  by  industry,  regularity, 
and  sober  &  unexceptional  habits,  that  you  may  expect,  in  due 
time,  to  obtain  a  portion  of  the  business,  which  now  belongs  to 
others. 

"  To  be  a  Lawyer  of  reputation,  your  punctuality,  industry,  ac- 
quirements &  talents,  bottomed  upon  the  purest  integrity,  must 
be  seen  and  understood  by  others  ;  and  until  a  favorable  opinion 
in  these  respects  is  established,  you  cannot  and  must  not  expect 
employment.  As  to  jumping  at  once  into  fame  and  fortune,  it 
would  be  more  than  folly,  to  even  hope  you  will  be  able  to  do  it. 
You  must  have  a  beginning  before  you  can  make  any  progress, 
which  will  be  slow,  or  rapid,  exactly  in  proportion  to  your  merits. 


1 8 15]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  495 


"Your  present  object  is  not  immediate  acquisition  of  fortune, 
but  to  acquire  character,  standing,  &  public  consideration  ;  the 
obtaining  of  which  will  call  for  the  exercise  of  all  the  virtues — 
habits  of  order,  industry  and  uninterrupted  perseverance  must  be 
strictly  observed — rise  daily,  at  the  same,  and  an  early  hour — 
pursue  the  same  course  of  industry  tomorrow  as  today — whatever 
interruption  is  indulged  in,  let  it  be  at  the  same  hour  every  day  ; 
and  whether  you  read,  write,  study,  eat,  sleep,  or  amuse  yourself 
in  society — let  each  be  done  at  the  same  hour  daily.  Method  is 
the  parent  of  order  and  the  first  law  in  education  &  business — 
one  day  shd.  be  the  copy  of  another.  In  this  course  you  cannot 
fail.  Something  added  daily  to  your  stock  of  knowledge,  will  in 
proper  time  become  a  treasure  above  price.  I  recommend  to  you 
to  keep  a  journal,  in  which  with  fidelity  you  make  a  short  entry 
of  every  day's  work — noticing  current  events — and  rigorously 
marking  down  the  omissions  of  order,  application,  and  the  ob- 
servance of  your  prescribed  course,  which  happened  in  the  pre- 
ceding day.  This  will  be  calling  yourself  to  account,  &,  if 
impartially  practised,  will  have  the  effect  to  exclude  bad  habits 
and  confirm  good  ones. 

"We  left  home  on  the  4th  and  arrived  here  on  the  12th.  .  .  . 
Congress  are  not  yet  fairly  at  work  :  the  Senate  have  the  com- 
mercial Convention  with  Eng.  before  them  ;  it  will  probably  be 
ratified  on  the  18th  or  20th. —     .     .     ." 


R.  King  to  E.  King. 

Washington,  Dec.  23,  1815. 
Dear  Edward  : 

As  the  morning  Paper  contains  the  commercial  Convention 
with  England  I  send  it  to  you.  The  Senate  with  almost  unanimity 
advised  the  President  to  ratify  it  ;  not  because  it  will  do  much 
good,  but  because  it  can  do  little  harm  :  in  truth  it  is  scarcely 
worth  the  wax  of  its  seals,  and  leaves  every  point  of  dispute  and 
disagreement  unsettled. 

The  West  Ind.  trade  is  retained  under  the  colonial  System  of 
G.  Br.,  and  the  intercourse  with  Canada  and  Nova  Scotia  is  left 
without  adjustment  by  the  Parties  &  of  course  subject  to  the 


496  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 


ex  parte  Regulations  of  each  ;  Mr.  Jay's  Treaty  opened  to  us  the 
navigation  of  the  St.  Lawrence  as  low  down  as  Quebec  ;  from  this 
we  are  to  be  excluded  hereafter.  On  the  Subject  of  Impress- 
ment, Contraband,  Blockade,  Trade  to  Enemy-Colonies,  and 
Orders  in  Council,  the  fruitful  topics  of  past  misfortunes,  con- 
troversy and  war,  the  Convention  is  entirely  silent.  It  provides 
agt.  our  future  embargoes  &  non-intercourse  Laws — and  the  act 
of  Ratification  seems  by  indirect  means  to  make  us  Parties  to 
Bonaparte's  confinement. 

Altho'  I  make  mention  to  you  of  these  subjects,  I  may  add,  that 
I  have  no  desire  that  you  shd.  engage  in  their  discussion  where 
you  are.  It  is  likely  that  most  persons  about  you  think  well  of 
whatever  is  done  under  the  actual  Administration,  and  as  your 
true  object  is  to  establish  yourself  in  your  profession,  and  not  to 
dispute  political  Questions,  it  will  be  the  part  of  prudence  to  de- 
vote your  mind  and  all  your  exertions  to  your  own  personal  pur- 
suits. You  will  not  infer  from  this  suggestion,  that  I  recommend 
to  you  to  impair  your  own  independence,  by  an  improper  con- 
cealment of  your  real  sentiments  ;  but  prudence  may  enjoin  an 
abstinence  from  controversy,  which  might  disadvantageously 
affect  your  permanent  welfare.*  affectionately  yrs. 

R.  K. 


R.  King  to  E.  King. 

Washington,  January  i,  1816. 
My  dear  Edward  : 

In  sending  you  my  wishes  for  a  happy  new  year,  I  anticipate 
the  common  return  on  your  part  ;  and  the  occasion  awakens  all 
the  anxious  concern  that  I  have  felt  on  your  account,  while  it 
permits  me  to  recall  to  your  consideration,  how  much  of  the  hap- 
piness of  my  future  years,  which  cannot  be  very  many,  &  may  be 
few,  will  depend  on  you. 

Laying  aside  the  amusements,  the  occupations  &  pursuits  of 
the  past,  it  behoves  you  to  adjust  your  condition,  employment  & 
expectation,  and  to  fix  your  whole  mind  to  the  scene  that  sur- 
rounds you  ;  and  where  by  studying  the  manners,  habits,  business 
and  modes  of  thinking,  you  will  be  able  to  acquire  the  standing, 

*  He  was  only  20  years  old. 


1816]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  497 

and  hereafter  the  influence,  that  will  gratify  yourself  and  be  use- 
ful to  the  public.  You  will  however  understand,  that  I  do  not 
recommend  this  course  without  cautioning  you  carefully  to  dis- 
criminate between  good  and  bad  manners,  &  emphatically  between 
good  and  bad  habits — vulgarity  in  manners,  language  and  habits 
exists  everywhere,  and  is  everywhere  to  be  avoided. 

Altho'  I  have  no  particular  knowledge  of  the  State  of  society 
in  Chillicothe,  and  have  believed  it  to  be  exempt  from  many  of  the 
impurities  that  are  found  elsewhere  ;  I  should  be  wanting  in  af- 
fection towards  you,  as  also  deficient  in  the  duty  of  a  father,  were 
I  to  omit  touching  on  a  few  points  of  cardinal  importance.  It  is 
matter  of  regret  as  well  as  mortification  that  habits  of  intemper- 
ance dishonor  and  destroy  the  reputation  and  usefulness,  of  not 
a  few  of  the  men  of  education  and  public  standing  among  us. 
You  know  that  I  have  never  permitted,  except  in  extraordinary 
cases,  the  use  of  ardent  spirits  in  my  family.  This  regulation 
arose  from  my  observation,  that  the  habitual  use  of  ardent  spirits, 
as  a  common  beverage,  is  extremely  dangerous  ;  and  from  the 
knowledge  that  prevention  is  more  to  be  relied  on  than  correction, 
I  earnestly  caution  you  against  the  use  of  ardent  spirits  in  any 
form.  Beer,  cider  and,  better  than  either,  water  are  the  safest  and 
most  healthy  drinks.  Gaming  of  every  sort,  is  inconsistent  with 
the  acquisition  and  security  of  property.  Borrowing  and  con- 
tracting debts,  for  present  expenses,  are  inconsistent  with  personal 
independence,  lead  to  meanness,  &  even  dishonesty.  Regularity, 
order,  in  small  equally  as  in  great  affairs,  early  rising,  with  in- 
dustry, and  the  prudent  regulation  of  passions  as  well  as  discourse, 
not  only  conduce  to  health  and  wealth,  but  are  the  infallible 
agents,  by  which  great  results  are  produced.  Don't  read  this 
new  year's  gift  as  the  churlish  expressions  of  one,  whose  age  im- 
pairs the  relish  for  indulgence,  but  accept  them  as  the  fruits  of  the 
experience  of  an  affectionate  father.  R.  K. 


R.  King  to  Edward  King. 

Jany.  6,  1816,  Georgetown. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

From  Mr.  Morrow  I  have  heard  that  you  were  on  your  way  to 
Philadelphia.    On  the  object  of  your  mission  the  Senators  of  Ohio 

VOL.  V. —  3a. 


498  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 

are  divided  in  opinion.  Having  regard  to  the  wishes  and  con- 
venience of  the  State,  Chillicothe  has  a  preference  over  Cincin- 
nati ;  but  it  will  probably  be  urged,  that  on  other  considerations, 
especially  that  of  affording  to  the  Indiana-State  a  facility  of 
making  their  Land-Payments,  or  rather  to  the  collectors  a  facility 
in  making  their  remittances  of  such  Payments,  Cincinnati  is  more 
eligible  than  Chillicothe.  But  you  will  not  omit  to  remark,  that 
instead  of  leaving  it  optional  with  the  Bank  to  establish  or  not 
a  Branch  in  each  State,  the  Law  obliges  the  Bank  to  establish  such 
Branch  in  each  State  that  owns  two  thousand  shares  ;  provided 
Congress  on  application  of  the  Legislature  of  such  State  shall  re- 
quire the  same. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  of  the  requisition  being  made  by  Con- 
gress, on  the  application  of  any  State,  whose  inhabitants  own 
Bank  Capl.  amounting  to  200,000  Dollars  ;  nor  do  I  think  it  can 
be  long  before  this  portion  of  property  in  the  Bk.  will  be  owned 
in  Indiana,  and  a  consequent  application  made  for  a  Branch. 

Indeed  the  public  will  have  no  small  interest  in  placing  a  Bk. 
in  Indiana.  The  intention  has  been  with  a  view  of  aiding  the 
Revenue,  and  its  collection,  that  Branches  should  be  established 
through't.  the  U.  S.,  and  the  increased  Capital  above  that  of  the 
former  Bk.  of  the  U.  S,  manifests  the  expectation  of  the  Con- 
gress on  this  #head.  If  Indiana  be  placed  out  of  the  question, 
which  it  soon  will  be  by  the  interest  and  demand  of  the  State, 
then  Cincinnati  becomes  an  inconvenient  place  for  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  Ohio  Branch  ;  which,  looking  to  the  important 
interests  of  the  State,  as  well  as  the  permanent  advantage  of  the 
Bk.  U.  S.,  should  be  placed  at  Chillicothe  or  some  other  more 
central  position.     .     .     .  Yrs.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

Wm.  Henderson  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  Jany.  19,  1816. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  very  much  obliged  to  you  for  your  attention  to  the  sub- 
ject of  the  Harbor  in  which  I  am  interested  on  Lake  Ontario. 
Commodore  Chauncey  is  now  at  Washington.  I  have  reason  to 
believe  that  if  he  is  consulted,  his  opinion  would  be  in  favor  of 
the  permanent  naval  establishment  being  at  the  Town  of  Hender- 


1816]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  499 

son.  Genl.  Brown  is  also  in  favor  of  it.  He  spoke  to  me  last 
Summer  respecting  land  for  military  purposes.  He  said  it  would 
be  proper  for  the  U.  S.  to  obtain  500,000  acres  near  the  Naval 
station,  and  so  situated  that  the  Troops  might  be  prevented  from 
mingling  with  the  people  of  the  Country.  Any  land  that  belongs 
to  me,  I  shall  be  willing  to  sell  to  Government  at  a  price  that  will 
be  deemed  reasonable. 

I  do  not  find  that  Mr.  Dallas's  plan  of  a  Bank  has  any  advo- 
cates here.  He  and  Mr.  Burrall  correspond.  Jonathan  has  told 
him  that  such  a  Bank  would  not  fill.  Subscribers  to  it  could  not 
expect  more  than  5  prct.  dividends  per  ann.  &c.  &c.  I  have 
seen  a  letter  of  the  Secy's,  to  him  in  which  he  appears  to  be  highly 
displeased  with  the  conduct  of  the  Banks  here  ;  considering  five 
of  them  at  least  as  hostile  to  the  Govt,  from  party  motives.  Mr. 
B.  defends  the  Banks  for  refusing  Treasury  Notes  ;  and  to  show 
that  party  was  out  of  the  question,  informs  him  that  in  the  Bank 
of  America  where  six  or  seven  of  the  directors  are  administration 
men  (two  of  them  appointed  by  Govr.  Tompkins)  the  vote  against 
receiving  Treasury  Notes  was  unanimous.  If  Mr.  Dallas  is  anx- 
ious for  Banks  to  resume  specie  payments,  he  ought  to  fund  the 
Treasury  Notes  now  in  circulation  on  the  best  terms  he  can  ;  and 
not  issue  in  future  more  than  4  or  5  millions  of  dollars  in  a  year, 
which  sum  might  be  kept  in  circulation  at  par.  The  quantity 
of  foreign  merchandize  now  in  this  City  is  so  great,  that  if  the 
duties  are  suddenly  reduced  to  the  extent  proposed,  many  mer- 
chants will  suffer  severely.  A  large  addition  of  revenue  next 
year  will  arise  from  importations  from  beyond  the  Cape  of  Good 
Hope.  From  Europe  our  market  will  not  bear  one  half  the 
amount  of  last  year,  without  ruining  the  importers. 

Owing  to  death  and  disease  among  the  Democratic  Members,  it 
seems  certain  the  feds,  will  have  the  majority  in  the  State  Assem- 
bly. This  may  produce  a  Council  of  Appt.  which  may  produce  a 
great  deal  of  trouble. 

I  am  with  sincere  respect  &  esteem,  your  hum.  Servt. 

Wm,  Henderson. 


500  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 


Charles  King  to  R.  King. 

Liverpool,  3d  Jany.,  1816. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  new  commercial  Treaty  is  l:ked  here,  for  except- 
ing the  farmers,  there  is  no  class  of  persons  in  this  country  whose 
interests  have  suffered  more  by  the  peace  than  Shipowners  ;  and 
they  are  glad  of  the  opportunity  of  running  with  us  upon  equal 
terms  ;  and  from  the  extreme  pressure  under  which  they  now 
labour,  I  have  no  doubt  they  will  be  enabled,  by  the  almost  nom- 
inal freights,  which  they  prefer  taking  to  letting  their  ships  be 
idle,  for  a  time  to  carry  off  from  us  a  share  of  the  trade  ;  but 
eventually  I  think  we  shall  not  be  losers  by  this  arrangement.  .  .  . 

Peace  has  not  realized  here  any  of  the  golden  hopes  with  which 
such  an  event  is  usually  hailed.  The  commerce  of  the  country  is 
diminished,  its  agriculture  deprived  of  the  market  which  large 
armies  abroad  &  great  consequent  waste  produced  ;  the  Navy  re- 
duced has  thrown  hundreds  of  hungry  and  unprovided  officers 
&  thousands  of  men  upon  the  world,  to  increase  the  general 
clamor  ;  the  gradual  reduction  of  the  army  is  adding  to  this  list ; 
the  country  banks,  which  had  extended  themselves,  as  tho'  the 
hour  of  reckoning  was  never  to  come,  are  breaking,  or  by  their 
sudden  retrenchments,  causing  their  customers  to  break,  &  finally 
it  is  evident  from  preludes  which  the  ministerial  papers  are  sound- 
ing, that  it  is  the  intention  of  ministers  to  continue  the  income  tax 
at  half  its  present  rate  and  all  the  other  war  taxes  or  equivalents 
to  them.  In  this  state  of  things  every  one  complains,  tho'  none 
suggest  remedies,  and  I  have  no  doubt  this  session  of  Parliament 
will  be  unusually  stormy  ;  and  yet,  tho'  I  confess  myself  wholly 
unable  to  say  how,  I  feel  persuaded  the  evil  will  be  remedied 
without  any  convulsion.  The  system,  after  being  wound  up  to 
such  a  height  as  it  has  been,  is  indeed  exhausted  ;  but  there  was 
a  vigor  in  its  former  efforts  &  there  is  still  such  evidence  of  it,  in 
its  inanimate  state,  that  one  cannot  but  anticipate  the  happiest 
results. 

In  France  the  ultra  Royalists  seem  to  me  to  be  driving  all  who 
took  any  share  in  the  revolution  to  utter  despair,  and  by  their  late 
efforts  to  restore  to  the  Clergy  all  the  lands  &  endowments  they 
formerly  possessed,  and  to  enable  them  to  receive  legacies  &c 
from  "  dying  sinners  whom  they  shrive,"  to  be  bent  on  throwing 


[8i6]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  501 


away  all  the  benefits  which,  amidst  its  numerous  evils,  the  resolu- 
tion had  produced  ;  and  determined  to  rival  even  Ferdinand  in 
their  base  submission  to  bigoted  &  ambitious  priests.  Hyde  de 
Neuville  is  said  to  be  the  most  furious  of  these  white  yacobins,  as 
the  constitutionalists  call  them.     He  is  lately  appointed  Minister 

to  the  U.  S.     .     .     .  believe  me  yours 

Chas.  King. 


W.  VV.  Van  Ness  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  31  Jany.,  18 16. 
Dear  Sir  : 

You  no  doubt  are  desirous  to  know  what  has  been  done,  and 
what  is  doing  here,  and  I  therefore  take  the  liberty  of  communi- 
cating it. 

The  Assembly,  in  consequence  of  a  certificate  given  by  the 
Clerk  of  Ontario  most  corruptly  and  flagitiously  to  one  Allen  a 
Democrat,  stood  64  Dems.  to  62.  Feds.  Two  Democrats  are  not 
here,  one  being  dead  and  another  having  gone  to  Charlestown 
(S.  C.)  on  account  of  indisposition.  The  House  then  stood  62  to 
62.  Governeur  Ogden,  the  federal  member  for  St.  Lawrence,  is 
dangerously  ill,  indeed  is  probably  no  more,  and  we  now  stand  61 
Fed.  to  62  Dem.  To-day  the  house  met  and  we  of  course  lost  the 
Speaker  by  the  vote  of  Allen.  Our  friends  then  moved  to  vacate 
Allen's  Seat,  in  order  to  admit  Fellows  without  a  previous  refer- 
ence to  the  Committee  of  Elections.  I  will  briefly  explain  the 
grounds  upon  which  this  course  is  considered  justifiable.  By  our 
Election  law  the  inspectors  are  directed  to  make  duplicate  re- 
turns, one  to  be  filed  "  of  Record"  in  the  Town  Clerk's  office,  and 
the  other  in  the  office  of  the  County  Clerk.  In  the  case  before 
the  House,  the  return  of  one  of  the  Towns,  filed  in  the  County 
Clerk's  office  in  Ontario,  stated  that  Hen :  Fellows  had  49  votes  ; 
the  duplicate  field  in  the  Town  Clerk's  office  stated  49  votes  were 
given  to  Henry  Fellows,  &  the  Inspectors  all  swear  the  letters 
"  ry  "  in  the  first  mentioned  return  were  omitted  through  inadver- 
tence. The  federalists  contend  that  both  returns  being  equally 
matter  "  0/ record,"  and  the  return  in  the  Town  Clerk's  office  being 
conclusive  evidence  that  all  the  votes  were  intended  to  be  for 
Henry  Fellows,  there  is  no  necessity  to  refer  this  case  to  the 
Committee  of  Elections.     There  are  no  facts  which  that  Commit- 


502  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 

tee  can  report,  that  are  not  already  before  the  House,  and  which 
cannot  be  controverted  and  which  indeed  the  sitting  member  does 
not  call  in  question. 

What  disposition  the  House  will  make  of  this  question,  I  do  not 
know,  but  should  the  Democrats  be  vile  enough  to  postpone  a 
decision  of  Fellows'  application  until  after  a  Council  of  Appoint- 
ment is  chosen  ;  our  next  Spring's  election  will  most  undoubtedly 
be  lost. 

We  have  resolved,  if  we  have  the  power,  to  put  two  federalists 
and  no  more  in  the  Council,  and  if  this  can  be  accomplished,  I 
have  very  strong  hopes  we  shall  make  this  State  permanently 
federal.  Our  opponents  fear  this  measure  very  much  and  I  shall 
not  be  surprised  if  they  persevere  in  excluding  Fellows  from  his 
seat  until  they  have  defeated  it. 

There  is   doubt   that  Tompkins  is  seriously  bent  upon  being 

President.     His  friends  here  are  active  and  apparently  confident 

of  success.     They  join  the  cry  "Virginia  has  ruled  long  enough." 

These  very  men  four  years  ago  would  have  crucified  Federalists, 

if  they  had  possessed  the  power,  for  uttering  such  a  sentiment — 

When  the  Council  is  chosen  you  will  hear  from  me  again — Very 

respectfully  your  obt.  Servt 

W.  W.  Van  Ness. 


T.  Dwight  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  Feb.  io,  1816. 
Dear  Sir  : 

You  will  probably  have  learned  from  the  papers,  &  from  other 
sources,  the  history  of  the  proceedings  of  the  House  of  Assembly, 
since  the  commencement  of  the  present  session  of  the  Legisla- 
ture. The  leaders  of  the  democratic  party,  those  of  the  highest 
pretensions,  it  is  said,  goaded  Allen  to  his  task,  &  now  openly 
boast  of  their  success,  as  the  result  of  an  ingenious,  well  exe- 
cuted political  measure,  in  which  they  outwitted  the  federalists. 
It  is  a  lamentable  fact,  that  men  holding  high  offices,  and  claim- 
ing much  consideration  from  the  stations  they  occupy  in  the  com- 
munity, can  boast  of  a  transaction,  which  I  believe  cannot  be 
equalled  in  the  history  of  political  depravity.* 

The   federalists    are   in    some   measure   disconcerted    by    this 
*  See  Hammond's  Political  History  of  N.   ¥.,  Chapter  beginning  i.,  402. 


1816]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  503 

manoeuvre,  by  being  obliged  to  change  their  candidate  for  gover- 
nor. Judge  Van  Ness  cannot  be  persuaded  to  leave  the  Bench 
exposed  to  be  filled  with  a  man  of  that  party,  in  the  possible  event 
of  a  federal  election,  &  is,  I  presume,  to  be  considered  out  of 
the  question.  There  is  to  be  a  State  Convention  here  next  week, 
for  the  purpose  of  fixing  on  a  candidate.  I  presume  their  wis- 
dom will  direct  them  to  the  best  man,  under  all  circumstances, 
that  can  now  be  had. 

A  great  effort,  certainly,  is  necessary  to  redeem  this  great  State. 
Without  the  force  &  aid  of  New  York,  federalism  cannot  expect 
to  make  any  serious  advances.  The  present  appears  to  me  to  be 
a  crisis  with  us.  If  we  cannot  get  the  command  of  this  State,  we 
cannot  expect  to  have  any  effectual  agency  in  the  presidential 
election.  If  we  cannot  make  any  impression  upon  the  presi- 
dential election,  this  time,  I  see  no  hope  for  the  future.  The  first 
step,  then,  must  be,  to  secure  the  State  &  the  second,  to  do  as 
much  towards  the  United  States  as  possible. 

I  think  the  politicians  here,  wise  &  able  as  they  are,  want  all 
the  help  they  can  possibly  obtain  from  their  friends,  in  every 
quarter  of  the  country — and  especially  from  those  who  are  at 
Washington,  and  who  understand  the  interests,  &  character  of 
the  State.  With  regard  to  the  candidate  for  Governor,  he  will 
probably  be  fixed  upon  next  week.  But  as  to  the  general  scheme 
of  operations,  &  the  sources  from  whence  topics  are  to  be  drawn, 
to  influence  the  great  body  of  the  people,  their  friends  at  the  seat 
of  government  may  be  able  to  render  them  essential  service. 

The  transactions  of  the  House  of  Assembly,  it  is  tho't,  are 
making  some  favorable  impressions  abroad.  The  nakedness  of 
the  case  &  the  avowed  object  of  the  course  pursued  by  the  demo- 
crats appear  to  remove  every  possibility  of  imposition  from  it : 
that  a  Council  of  Appointment  should  be  chosen  by  the  vote  of  a 
spurious  member,  strikes  some  minds  with  considerable  force. 

I  am  endeavouring  to  contribute  my  mite  to  aid  a  cause,  which 
I  have  much  at  heart.  If  I  do  no  good,  I  do  not  intend  to  do  any 
hurt  ;  I  should  stand  a  much  better  chance  of  being  useful,  if  my 
friends  would  instruct  me,  &  above  all  give  me  the  benefit  of  their 
wisdom,  and  experience.  I  am  willing  to  beg  for  the  public 
good.  With  great  respect,  I  am  you  very  obt  sert. 

T.  Dwight. 


504  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 

W.  Coleman  s  Sketch  of  Rufus  King. 

"  Mr.  King,  although  he  has  past  the  sixty  first  year  of  his  age, 
enjoys,  in  an  uncommon  degree,  the  blessings  of  a  hale  constitu- 
tion, unimpaired  by  sickness  or  excesses  ;  and  his  love  of  retire- 
ment, combined   with  a  taste    for  elegant   literature,   which  an 
extensive  and  well  chosen  library  enables  him  to  indulge,  and  a 
well  cultivated  taste  for  botany  and  agricultural  pursuits,  have 
led  him  to  exchange  the  feverish  tumult  and  enervating  routine 
of  cities,   for  the  healthy   activity  and   rational    pleasures  of  a 
country  life.     In  person  he  is  rather  above  the  middle  size  ;  per- 
fectly symmetrical,  but  somewhat  athletic.     His  countenance  is 
manly  and  bespeaks  intelligence  of  the  first  order.     The  portrait 
prefixed  gives  an  uncommonly  near  resemblance.*     He  possesses 
naturally  a  cheerful  disposition,  with  a  large  portion  of  sensibility 
and  much  generosity  of  character.     His  self  command  is  so  per- 
fect, that  he  is  very  seldom,  if  indeed  ever,  thrown  off  his  guard 
either  in   debate,  or  in  discourse,  by  open  attack  or  ensnaring 
artifice.     On  subjects  of  real  importance  he  bestows  much  time 
and  thought,  and  does  not  decide  until  after  a  very  thorough 
investigation,  but  when  his  mind  is  settled,  his  judgment  is  irrev- 
ocable.    At  times  his  manner  is  strongly  marked  with  reserved- 
ness  ;  by  which  is  not  meant  a  want  of  frankness,  for  no  man  has 
more  of  that  quality,  but  the  absence  of  those  lively  sallies  of  hu- 
mour and  pleasantry,  which,  on  other  occasions  display  themselves 
in  his  conversation.     By  assiduous  study,  he  has  acquired  large 
funds  of  information  on  almost  every  subject.     His  conversation 
and  writings  are  remarkable  for  conciseness,  force  and  simplicity. 
A  constant  adherence  to  the  point  and  an  attentive  pursuit  of  the 
thread  of  his  argument,  leave  no  opportunity  for  excursions  in 
search  of  a  figure  of  rhetoric  which  might  not  adorn,  and  could 
not  illustrate.     And  this  habit  of  closeness  in  reasoning,  gives  a 
general  character  to  his  style,  which  prevents  him  from  being  dif- 
fuse, even  in  familiar  narrative. 

"  Mr.  King  was  the  intimate  friend,  both  personal  and  political, 
of  Hamilton.  With  that  great  man,  he  was  many  years  in  habits 
of  unreserved  familiarity,  and  it  is  asserted,  on  the  testimony  of 
several  of  his  friends  now  living  (1816)  that  Hamilton  considered 

*  The  portrait  by  Wood  in  the  third  volume  of  this  work. 


1816]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  505 

Mr.  King  not  only  the  most  finished  orator  amongst  the  moderns, 
but  conceived  him  to  possess  a  capacity  better  qualified  to 
take  a  wide  and  comprehensive  view  of  his  subject,  and  of  judg- 
ing correctly  of  results,  than  any  other  American. 

"  For  his  speeches,  however  great  or  interesting  the  occasion, 
he  makes  no  verbal  preparation.  Having  studied  his  subject 
well,  and  made  himself  familiar  with  it  in  all  its  bearings,  he 
trusts  entirely  to  the  immediate  resources  of  his  mind  to  supply 
him  with  words  which  never  fail  to  flow  in  a  steady  and  copious 
stream. 

"  In  fine,  as  a  profound  statesman,  intimately  conversant  with 
the  laws  and  constitution  of  his  country,  and  familiarly  acquainted 
with  its  various  interests,  foreign  and  domestic, — as  a  civilian, 
well  read  in  the  laws  of  nations, — as  an  excellent  classical  scholar, 
both  in  ancient  and  modern  literature, — as  an  elegant  writer,  and 
a  consummate  orator, — as  a  finished  gentleman  in  his  deport- 
ment,— and,  as  the  last  key-stone  that  makes  the  arch,  as  a  pro- 
fessor of  religion,  whose  duties  he  performs  with  an  unostentatious 
yet  exemplary  punctuality,  Mr.  King  may  be  said  to  rank  with 
the  first  of  his  contemporaries." 

Sketch  of  Rufus  King,  by  W.  Coleman,  in  Delaplaine's 
Repository,  1816,  vol.  i.,  p.  185. 


CHAPTER   XXVIII. 

H.  Bleecker  and  Others  to  King — Announcement  of  his  Nomination  as  Gov- 
ernor of  New  York — J.  R.  Van  Rensselaer  to  King — Urging  his  Accep- 
tance of  the  Nomination — Kent  to  King — Acceptance  absolutely  necessary 
— J.  Morris  to  King — Choice  without  consulting  him — Duer  to  King — 
Dwight  to  King — Oakley  to  King — All  urging  his  Acceptance — Ogden  to 
King — Van  Ness  not  being  Candidate  wishes  King  to  be — S.  Van  Rens- 
selaer to  King — W.  Henderson  to  King — Duer  to  Henderson — Z.  R. 
Shepherd  to  King — Van  Ness  to  King — All  pressing  him  to  accept  the 
Nomination — J.  A.  King  to  King — State  of  Opinion — Tompkins'  demo- 
cratic Nominee — S.  Van  Rensselaer  to  King — Division  among  the  Demo- 
crats— Hopes  for  King's  Success — King  to  Bleecker  Committee — Accepts 
the  Nomination — Mrs.  King  to  E.  King — His  Father's  Nomination — 
Affectionate  Messages. 

H.  Bleecker  and  Others  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  16  Feby.  1816. 
Sir: 

We  have  the  honor  to  inform  you  that  in  a  Convention  of  Dele- 
gates from  the  several  Counties  of  this  State,  called  for  the  Pur- 
pose of  nominating  federal  Candidates  for  the  offices  of  Governor 
and  Lieutenant  Governor,  at  the  ensuing  election,  you  were  nomi- 
nated unanimously  as  a  Candidate  for  the  office  of  Governor.  As 
the  Committee  appointed  by  the  Convention  to  make  this  Com- 
munication to  you,  permit  us  to  express  their  earnest  desire,  that 
your  views  of  the  publick  good  will  so  far  coincide  with  theirs,  as 
to  induce  you  to  consent  to  be  the  federal  Candidate  for  the  office 
of  Governor  of  this  State.  We  believe  that  your  consent  to  serve 
in  the  Office,  to  which  the  Convention  have  nominated  you,  will 
have  a  most  happy  effect  on  the  Politicks  of  the  State,  and  enable 
it  to  obtain  that  Influence  over  the  Policy  of  the  general  Govern- 
ment, to  which  our  Wealth,  Population  and  Importance  give  us 
so  strong  a  claim. 

506 


1816]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  507 


It  will  be  evident  to  you,  Sir,  that  in  a  Convention  of  Delegates 
from  different  and  remote  Parts  of  the  State,  held  in  this  city, 
your  previous  Consent  to  the  Nomination  could  not  be  obtained. 
We  hope  this  will  be  a  sufficient  apology  for  a  Nomination,  of 
which  any  previous  Intimation  was  altogether  impracticable. 

In  addition  to  the  Considerations  above  suggested,  we  feel  it  our 
Duty  to  add,  as  the  unanimous  opinion  of  the  Committee,  that  your 
Acceptance  of  the  Nomination  is  essential  to  preserve  the  Har- 
mony and  Unity  of  the  federal  Party  in  the  State. 

With  the  most  ardent  Wish  that  your  Views  of  your  Publick  Duty 
will  correspond  with  those  of  the  Members  of  the  Convention. 
We  are  with  great  respect  your  very  obedt.  Servants, 

H.  Bleecker, 
Peter  Augustus  Jay, 
J.  G.  Lansing, 
Jno.  Duer, 
J.  Rutson  Van  Rensselaer. 


J.  R.  Van  Rensselaer  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  February  16,  1816. 
Sir: 

An  ardent  desire  to  promote  the  prosperity  and  happiness  of 
my  native  State,  and  to  give  her  an  elevation  in  point  of  charac- 
ter above  her  Sisters,  must  plead  my  apology  for  addressing  you 
on  this  occasion.  As  a  political  man  I  know  you  well  and  in  that 
character  I  write  to  you.  It  is  doubtless  known  to  you  that,  for 
some  time  past,  our  friend  Judge  Van  Ness  has  been  contemplated 
as  the  Candidate  for  Governor  of  that  State  at  the  approaching 
election.  In  consequence  of  the  turpitude  of  our  political  ad- 
versaries, a  state  of  things  has  been  produced,  which  in  the  opin- 
ion of  himself  and  several  of  his  friends  jeopardized  the  bench 
of  the  Supreme  Court,  in  consequence  of  which  he  has  totally  de- 
clined being  considered  as  the  Candidate.  As  might  have  been 
expected,  several  gentlemen  were  immediately  proposed  as  Candi- 
dates by  their  friends.  The  inevitable  consequence  would  have 
been  the  destruction  of  the  party  and  inevitable  ruin  must  suc- 
ceed, if  fortunately  our  eyes  had  not  been  cast  on  one  who  would 
unite  all  in  his  favor  and  satisfy  not  only  the  persons  named  as 


508  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 

candidates  but  their  friends,  that  an  acquiescence  in  favor  of  that 
person  would  be  not  only  a  duty,  but  a  source  of  pleasure  and 
pride.  You  were  proposed  in  a  Convention  consisting  of  about 
one  hundred  persons  from  almost  every  part  of  the  State,  con- 
vened for  the  purpose  of  nominating  our  Candidate  and  unani- 
mously approved.  I  am  persuaded  that  a  spirit  exists  in  the  party 
in  favor  of  your  nomination,  which  I  hope  and  believe  will  be  irre- 
sistible at  the  approaching  election,  if  you  will  do  the  party  the 
favor  of  accepting  the  nomination  ;  and  you  will  allow  me  to  add, 
that  I  most  sincerely  believe  the  existence  of  the  federal  party  in 
this  State  depends  on  the  decision  you  shall  make.  "  Under  this 
impression  I  persuade  myself  you  will  forego  all  private  consid- 
erations and  yield  yourself  to  your  political  friends.  I  have  not 
the  honor  of  a  personal  acquaintance,  but  write  freely  because  I 
believe  I  know  your  character  and  that  you  will  consider  every- 
thing I  write  as  proceeding  from  a  pure  motive.  I  have  the  honor 
to  be,  Sir,  your  obedt.  Servt. 

J.  Rutson  Van  Rensselaer. 


James  Kent  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  Feby.  16,  1816. 
Dear  Sir  : 

You  will  learn  by  the  time  this  arrives,  of  your  nomination  as 
Governor.  I  have  nothing  to  do  actively  with  meetings  or  nomi- 
nations, but  my  wishes  for  the  honor  and  success  of  the  federal 
Party  (as  containing  more  virtue  and  juster  views  than  any  other 
Party)  are  ardent  and  unceasing.  I  take  the  liberty  by  this  merely 
to  apprize  you  that  a  singular  anxiety  prevails  here  that  you  should 
consent  to  be  a  Candidate,  that  on  this  consent  depends  essentially, 
and  I  apprehend  absolutely  the  courage  and  success,  or  the  despair 
and  ruin  of  the  Party  ;  that  nothing  could  be  more  soothing,  or 
nattering  or  animating  to  the  whole  Party,  than  the  signification 
of  that  consent,  and  you  may  be  assured  that  they  will  bestow 
upon  you,  in  return,  the  warmest  tribute  of  their  affections.  The 
causes  that  have  led  to  this  crisis  I  have  not  a  fit  opportunity  to 
detail,  and  I  hope  you  will  not  deem  this  spontaneous  communi- 
cation impertinent.     I  only  wish  that  you  should  truly  know  what 


1816]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  509 

I  conscientiously  believe  to  be  the  important  consequences  of 
your  consent  or  refusal,  and  I  am  persuaded  you  have  a  strong 
and  a  much  more  enlightened  zeal  for  the  welfare  of  our  common 
Country.* 

I  am  with  great  Respect  your  obedt.  Servt. 

James  Kent. 


Jacob  Morris  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  Feby.  16,  1S16. 
Dear  Sir  : 

A  Convention  of  Delegates  from  almost  every  part  of  the  State 
for  the  purpose  of  nominating  suitable  Candidates  to  be  offered 
to  the  choice  of  the  electors  of  the  State  at  the  ensuing  election 
for  Governor  and  Lieut.  Governor,  assembled  in  this  City  on  the 
14th  inst,  and  broke  up  yesterday. 

Having  deliberated  on  the  momentary  question  before  us,  we 
unanimously  determined  that  the  great  weight  attached  to  your 
character  and  high  standing  in  this  State  would  justify  the  liberty 
we  have  taken  to  select  your  name  for  the  first  mentioned  office, 
without  consulting  you  previously,  on  the  subject. 

The  breaking  up  of  the  Convention  without  a  nomination,  would 
have  been  fatal  to  that  cause  and  those  principles  in  which  we 
are  proud  to  see  you  so  prominent  :  we  therefore  fondly  wish  and 
humbly  hope,  that  you  will  attribute  the  step  we  have  taken  in 
this  particular,  to  the  true  and  only  motives  that  governed  (I 
trust)  every  member  of  that  assembly,  to  wit,  attachment  to  your 
person,  and  a  regard  for  the  interest  and  welfare  of  our  beloved 
Country  and  of  this  great  and  respectable  State  in  particular. 

Your  name  at  the  head  of  our  ticket  bids  fair  to  restore  this  State 
to  the  glorious  course  pursued  by  the  immortal  Washington,  and 
nothing  will  be  more  gratifying  to  our  wishes  and  flattering  to  our 
hopes  than  your  approbation  of  the  measures  we  have  taken. 

I  remain  with  the  most  respectful  and  affectionate  regard 
Dear  Sir,  yr.  obedt.  humble  servt. 

Jacob  Morris. 

*  Endorsed — "Ansd.  24,  that  Van  Ness  ought  still  to  be  our  Candidate." 


5IO  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 


W.  A.  Duer  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  Feby.  16,  1816. 
Dear  Sir  : 

As  a  member  of  the  Convention,  by  which  you  have  been  unani- 
mously nominated  as  our  Candidate  for  the  Government  of  this 
State  at  the  ensuing  election,  it  is,  in  some  measure,  incumbent 
upon  me  to  explain  to  you  the  reasons,  which  induced  me  to  con- 
cur in  making  this  appeal  to  your  patriotism  and  public  spirit, 
at  the  hazard  of  interfering  most  materially  with  your  private 
wishes  and  convenience. 

The  Convention,  which  has  just  adjourned,  was  composed  of 
the  leading  and  most  active  men  of  the  party  from  every  part  of 
the  State,  and  assembled  under  strong  impressions  that  Judge 
Van  Ness  was  to  receive  the  nomination.  They  were  not  all 
aware  of  the  condition  under  which  he  had  originally  consented 
to  serve,  if  elected  ;  and  were  not  in  the  least  disposed  to  regard 
it.  You,  my  dear  Sir,  were  not  at  hand  to  be  consulted,  and  the 
Convention  resolved  to  nominate  Mr.  Van  Ness  notwithstanding 
it  was  understood  that  he  had  determined  not  to  risque  the  appoint- 
ment of  a  Democratic  successor  on  the  bench  of  the  Supreme 
Court  in  case  of  his  being  elected  Governor  ;  and  that  therefore 
he  had  determined  to  decline.  Judge  Van  Ness,  upon  receiving 
this  nomination,  acted  with  firmness  and  declined,  his  resolution 
against  it  being  unalterable.  The  Convention  was  then  upon  the 
point  of  adjourning  without  making  any  nomination.  But  this 
was  most  fortunately  prevented,  and  they  endeavoured,  if  possible, 
to  prevent  the  evil  consequences  which  they  apprehended  from 
the  declining  of  Judge  Van  Ness.  After  many  repeated  experi- 
ments, it  was  found  absolutely  impossible  to  come  to  an  agree- 
ment upon  any  person  but  yourself,  whom  they  had  only  been 
deterred  from  naming  in  the  first  instance  by  motives  of  the  high- 
est respect  and  delicacy. 

Our  situation  was  such  as  to  overturn  all  other  considerations 
but  for  the  existence  of  the  party  and  the  safety  of  the  State  ; 
and  as  the  only  measure  to  preserve  the  one,  and  insure  the  other, 
it  was  determined  to  put  you  in  nomination,  without  having  pre- 
viously consulted  you.  Had  it  not  been  understood,  until  too  late, 
that  Judge  Van  Vess  had  been  fixed  upon  as  our  Candidate,  we 
should  not  have  been  reduced  to  the  necessity  of  hazarding  any 


1816]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  S11 


injury  to  your  feelings  ;  and  I  trust  the  situation  in  which  we  have 
been  individually  placed,  and  the  motives  by  which  we  have  been 
actuated,  will  be  deemed  sufficient  to  justify  us  in  your  good 
opinion.  For  my  own  part,  I  am  perfectly  convinced  that  the 
salvation  of  Federalism  and  its  resuscitation  in  this  State,  depend 
upon  your  acceptance  ;  and  never  should  I  have  given  my  voice 
to  your  nomination,  had  I  not  entertained  a  confident,  and,  as  I 
believe,  well  grounded  assurance  of  your  success. 

Excuse,  my  dear  Sir,  the  haste  in  which  I  am  compelled  to 
write,  and  believe  me 

With  great  respect  your  obliged  and  faithful  humble  Servant, 

W.  A.  Duer. 


T.  Dwight  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  Feby.  16,  1816. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  federalists  of  this  State  have  taken  a  step  in  which  you 
must  necessarily  feel  deeply  interested,  and  however  deep  that 
interest  may  be,  I  am  convinced  it  cannot  exceed  that  which  the 
party  feel  on  the  occasion.  By  the  loss  of  the  Council  of  Appoint- 
ment, Judge  Van  Ness  tho't  it  his  duty  to  decline  being  the  can- 
didate for  governor,  as,  in  the  event  of  his  election,  the  Council 
would  have  it  in  their  power  to  fill  his  place  on  the  Bench  with 
some  Democrat,  who  would  be  a  lasting  scourge  to  the  State. 
This  event  reduced  the  federal  Convention  to  a  dilemma,  from 
which  it  was  by  no  means  easy  for  them  to  extricate  themselves. 
They  could  not  agree  on  a  gentleman,  who,  it  was  tho't,  would 
unite  and  call  out  the  strength  of  the  party.  They  were  under  the 
necessity  of  either  breaking  up  without  making  any  nomination, 
or  to  take  the  course  they  have  pursued.  Had  they  dissolved 
without  making  a  nomination,  nothing  can  be  more  apparent  than 
that  it  would  entirely  defeat  the  election  and  break  down  the 
party.  The  Democrats  here  are  considered  as  greatly  divided — 
not  having  less  than  three  or  four  persons  in  view  as  candidates 
for  governor.  The  most  intelligent  gentlemen  that  I  have  seen, 
feel  strong  confidence,  with  the  present  nomination,  of  success. 
I  am  too  recent  a  settler  here,  to  be  considered  a  judge.  But  I 
am  perfectly  well  persuaded,  that  with  any  other  they  can  make, 


512  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 

they  will  be  unsuccessful — if  for   no  other  cause,   for  want  of 
confidence. 

Should  this  State  remain  in  the  hands  of  the  Democrats,  it  seems 
to  be  clearly  settled,  that  there  is  no  hope  of  a  federal  president ; 
whether  there  is  any,  in  any  event,  is  more  than  I  can  pretend  to 
say.  But  I  am  perfectly  convinced,  that  the  only  chance  to  re- 
deem the  State  and  the  Nation,  is  now.  It  is  taxing  your  patriot- 
ism pretty  heavily,  to  call  upon  you  to  sacrifice  so  much  to  the 
cause.     But  the  cause  must  be  sacrificed  without  it  I  am  afraid. 

I  presume  you  will  hear  from  all  your  friends  on  this  interesting 
subject.  I  hope  it  will  be  in  your  power  to  gratify  them  all  and 
to  do  what  we  all  think  indispensably  necessary  for  the  salvation 
of  a  great  cause  and  perhaps  of  the  country. 

With  the  highest  respect,  I  am  most  sincerely,  etc 

T.  Dwight. 


Thos.  J.  Oakley  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  Feby.  16,  1816. 
Sir: 

You  will,  no  doubt,  have  learned  before  this  reaches  you,  that 
you  were  unanimously  nominated  last  evening  by  the  general 
Convention  of  Federalists  convened  here,  as  a  Candidate  for  the 
office  of  Governor  at  the  ensuing  election.  It  was  no  doubt  known 
to  you  that  during  the  last  fall  and  early  winter,  the  attention  of 
our  political  friends  was  generally  turned  to  Judge  Van  Ness,  as 
their  Candidate.  Circumstances  have  occurred,  since  the  com- 
mencement of  the  session  of  this  Legislature,  to  induce  Judge  V. 
N.  to  decline  the  nomination. 

In  this  state  of  things,  the  Convention  were  unable  to  agree 
upon  any  Candidate  from  the  number  of  those  gentlemen  who 
had  been  previously  named  as  Candidates,  and  the  display  of 
opinion  was  such,  that  serious  apprehensions  were  entertained 
that  the  Convention  would  separate  without  making  any  nomina- 
tion. The  effect  of  which  would  have  been  extremely  disastrous 
to  the  party  generally.  Your  name  had  frequently  been  suggested 
in  the  course  of  our  deliberations,  and  a  general  disposition  mani- 
fested to  nominate  you.  But  the  idea  was  at  length  laid  aside 
under  the  impression  that  you  would  not  assent  to  the  measure. 

When  however  it  was  discovered  that  no  other  man  in  the  State 


1816]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  513 

could  unite  the  views  and  opinions  of  the  party,  we  felt  impelled  by 
a  sense  of  duty  to  the  State,  to  put  you  in  nomination,  and  at  the 
hazard  of  your  declining. 

It  does  not  become  me  to  undertake  to  urge  to  you  any  consid- 
erations, which  I  might  think  calculated  to  influence  your  deci- 
sion in  this  case.  I  can  only  say  that  it  is  the  sincere  and  universal 
wish  of  your  friends  here,  that  you  should  assent  to  the  measure 
they  have  adopted  ;  and  this  wish  is  entertained  by  no  one  more 
warmly  and  sincerely  than  by  myself.  I  consider  the  success  of 
the  party  at  the  ensuing  election  as,  in  a  great  measure,  depending 
on  the  decision  that  you  may  make.  Feeling  this  conviction  very 
strongly,  I  have  ventured  to  write  this  letter,  a  liberty  perhaps 
that  my  limited  acquaintance  with  you  does  not  authorize  me  to 
take.  But  I  hope  you  will  attribute  it  to  the  anxiety  I  feel,  in 
common  with  many  others,  for  the  prosperity  and  success  of  the 
Federal  party,  with  which  I  consider  the  essential  interests  of  the 
country  as  inseparably  connected. 

I  am  with  great  respect  your  humble  servt. 

Thos.  J.  Oakley. 

D.  B.  Ogden  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  Feby.  17,  1816. 
Dear  Sir  : 

To  my  utter  astonishment  I  have  seen  by  the  newspaper  of  this 
evening,  that  a  Convention  of  Federalists,  which  have  been  as- 
sembled at  Albany  from  all  parts  of  the  State,  for  the  purpose  of 
nominating  a  Governor  and  Lieutenant  Governor,  have  nominated 
you  as  our  Candidate  for  Governor,  and  George  Tibbets  for  Lieu- 
tenant Governor.  I  have  had  no  communication  from  any  indi- 
vidual in  Albany  upon  this  subject,  nor  have  I  seen  any  of  our 
friends  here,  since  I  saw  the  nomination.  I  am  left  therefore  to 
conjecture  for  the  causes  which  have  led  to  it.  As  I  suppose  you 
will  not  be  less  surprized  than  I  have  been,  at  this  step  taken  I  am 
sure  without  any  consultation  with  you,  I  have  thought  that  you 
would  excuse  me  for  begging  you  not  to  decide  upon  the  course 
you  will  take  in  relation  to  it  without  full  consideration. 

You  know  that  Judge  Van  Ness  was  the  Candidate  talked  of, 
and  indeed  fixed  upon,  had  our  friends  in  the  Legislature  been 
able  to  have  chosen  a  Council  of  Appointment,  that  would  not 

vol.  v.— 33 


514  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 

appoint  a  democratic  Judge.  As  they  have  not  been  able  to  do 
this,  he  is  out  of  the  question.  It  will  never  do  to  have  any  more 
stupid  or  unprincipled  democracy  on  the  Bench  of  the  Supreme 
Court,  if  it  can  be  avoided.  In  this  state  of  things,  I  presume,  it 
has  been  found  extremely  difficult  to  fix  upon  a  man  who  would 
not  excite  local  and  individual  jealousies  and  rivalship  ;  until  at 
last  your  name  has  been  mentioned,  which  has  at  once  put  an  end 
to  all  rivalship  and  competition. 

Against  Judge  Van  Ness  there  were  objections  which  I  have  no 
doubt  you  have  heard  of,  and  which,  altho'  in  my  mind  they  were 
weighty,  were  not  insurmountable,  but  which  might  and  probably 
would  by  many  gentlemen  have  been  considered  as  of  greater  im- 
portance. When  his  name  was  withdrawn  there  were  so  many 
with  equal  claims,  and  against  many  of  whom  the  same  objections 
would  have  been  urged  as  against  Judge  Van  Ness,  and  without 
the  same  reasons  for  overcoming  them,  that  I  really  am  at  a  loss 
to  know  what  would  have  been  done. 

Now,  my  dear  Sir,  although  your  nomination  never  entered 
into  my  brain  for  a  variety  of  reasons,  I  am  not  sure  but  that 
it  may  be  upon  the  whole  a  most  fortunate  event.  There  is  such 
a  cloud  over  the  characters  of  several  gentlemen,  who  may  now 
be  considered  as  the  leaders  of  the  party  in  this  State,  that  I  have 
long  feared  that  the  most  respectable  men  of  the  community 
would  withdraw  in  disgust  from  taking  any  interest  in  our  politics, 
and  any  part  in  our  Elections.  Your  name  would,  as  it  were, 
erect  a  new  banner  under  which  every  man  in  the  party  would 
rally,  because  they  would  do  so  with  pride,  and  without  any  of 
those  misgivings  which  they  would  feel  in  supporting  almost  any 
other  prominent  man  of  the  party.  Your  Election  would  be  a 
new  sera  in  Federal  politics,  and  men  of  high  character  and  honor 
would  feel  as  they  ought. 

There  are,  I  am  aware,  several  objections  against  your  con- 
senting to  be  the  Candidate,  and  I  feel  and  acknowledge  the  full 
force  of  them  ;  nor  do  I  mean  to  be  presumptuous  enough  to 
pretend  to  advise  you  upon  this  occasion.  My  intention  in 
taking  the  liberty  I  have  done  in  writing  this  letter,  was  merely 
to  ask  you  not  to  decide  without  due  reflection. 

With  great  respect  &  esteem,  your  humble  servant 

David  B.  Ogden. 


1 8i 6]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  515 

S.  Van  Rensselaer  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  Feby.  19,  1816. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  address  you  on  a  subject  in  which  I  feel  a  lively  interest. 
You  doubtless  have  been  informed  of  your  nomination  by  a 
convention  at  Albany  for  the  chair  of  State.  Knowing  your 
desire  of  retiring  from  the  bustle  of  politics,  I  feel  a  delicacy  in 
asking  you  to  make  a  sacrifice,  which  would  be  grateful  to  all 
our  friends  and  particularly  to  myself.  Therefore  all  I  request  is, 
and  that  with  deference,  that  you  would  at  least  deliberate  well 
before  you  determine. 

An  effort  would  be  made  for  your  election  which  no  other 
Candidate  can  expect.  The  respectability  of  the  party  depends 
on  your  decision,  and  I  may  add,  its  salvation  if  you  allow  us  the 
use  of  your  name.  I  promise  my  warmest  support  and  will 
immediately  make  arrangements  in  our  part  of  the  State  to  merit, 
if  not  ensure  success. 

With  great  respt.  &c 

S.  Rensselaer. 


W.  Henderson  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  Feby.  20,  1816. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  yesterday  received  the  enclosed  letter  from  Duer  at  Albany. 
I  send  it  to  you  because  it  shows  the  State  of  affairs  there, 
which  led  to  your  nomination  as  a  Candidate  for  Governor.  I 
have  seen  Judge  Ford  from  St.  Lawrence,  who  was  one  of  the 
Delegates  to  the  Convention.  He  is  decidedly  of  opinion  that 
your  declining  at  this  time,  would  break  up  the  party  in  this 
State  ;  as  no  other  man  can  be  named  in  whom  all  will  unite.  He 
farther  declares  his  firm  conviction  that  your  election  is  sure,  if 
you  consent  to  serve.  He  agrees  with  Mr.  Duer  that  the  Demo- 
crats at  Albany  are  very  much  distracted  and  divided.  Clinton  is 
now  there  ;  and  there  is  no  doubt  of  his  friends  attempting  a 
nomination,  if  there  is  the  least  prospect  of  success.  Mr.  D.  B. 
Ogden  informs  me  he  has  written  to  you  on  the  subject  ;  his 
opinion  being  that  of  an  intelligent  honest  man  will  have  its  due 
weight  with  you.    Indeed  you  can  have  no  hesitation  in  believing 


516  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 


that  it  would  be  extremely  gratifying  to  all  your  friends  that  you 
should  accept  the  nomination.  The  communications  you  will  re- 
ceive of  all  the  circumstances  that  produced  the  nomination,  will 
enable  you  to  determine  (and  I  am  persuaded,  correctly)  the 
course  you  ought  to  take  in  an  embarrassing  situation. 

I  am  with  respect  and  esteem  your  very  humb.  Servt. 

W.  Henderson. 


W.  A.  Duer  to  Wm.  Henderson. 

Albany,  Feby.  16,  1816. 
Dear  Sir  : 

You  can  have  no  conception  of  the  agitation  which  took  place 
upon  the  assembling  of  our  Convention,  in  consequence  of  Judge 
Van  Ness's  declining.  Notwithstanding  the  explanations  which 
were  given  by  his  friends,  they  insisted  upon  passing  an  unani- 
mous resolution  for  his  nomination,  and  the  appointment  of  a  com- 
mittee to  urge  upon  him  its  acceptance.  This  was  done  and  he 
remained  firm  in  his  determination  ;  it  was  then  with  the  greatest 
difficulty  that  the  most  judicious  men  amongst  us  could  dissuade 
the  body  from  adjourning  without  making  any  nominations.  But 
it  was  at  length  agreed  to  proceed  to  a  ballot  after  passing  a  res- 
olution that  any  candidate  who  should  be  elected  by  a  majority 
of  the  whole  number  of  votes,  should  be  unanimously  adopted. 
After  several  ballots  it  was  found  that  none  succeeded  in  obtain- 
ing a  majority,  although  Emott,  upon  the  last  ballot,  came  within 
one  of  it.  The  Convention  was  then  once  more  upon  the  point 
of  adjourning  without  making  a  nomination,  or  of  what  would 
have  been  infinitely  worse,  to  have  nominated  Judge  Van  Ness 
again  after  his  positive  refusal  :  and  this  was  only  prevented  by 
the  nomination  of  Mr.  King  ;  and  in  my  mind  nothing  but  his 
acceptance  can  save  the  party  and  rescue  the  State.  And  this 
will  do  it.  It  is  impossible  to  describe  the  enthusiasm  with 
which  this  nomination  was  received,  when  it  was  strongly  urged 
to  the  Convention — that  under  present  circumstances  we  had 
every  reason  to  hope  that  Mr.  King  would  not  decline.  Were 
there  not  a  strong  hope,  or  rather  almost  a  confidence  of  succeed- 
ing with  him,  the  expedient  of  nominating  him  without  previously 
consulting  him,  would  not  have  been  resorted  to.     A  Committee 


l8i6]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  $l7 

has  been  appointed  to  announce  his  nomination  to  him  in  proper 
terms.  But  it  has  been  thought  necessary  to  urge  it  upon  him 
more  strongly  through  the  medium  of  every  one  of  his  personal 
friends  who  can  be  engaged,  to  write  to  him.  Let  me  therefore 
take  the  liberty  of  requesting  that  you  will  write  to  him,  and  that 
you  will  engage  Mr.  Gracie  to  write  also,  entreating  him  as  he 
has  the  cause  of  Federalism  at  heart,  not  to  blight  all  its  present 
promise  by  refusing  to  yield  to  the  unanimous  call  of  its  advo- 
cates in  this  State. 

The  Democrats  affect  to  believe  the  whole  a  manoeuvre  in- 
tended to  promote  the  success  of  Mr.  Clinton,  and  they  have 
made  some  impression  upon  our  weaker  brethren.  Both  Madison- 
ians  and  Tompkinsians  declare  their  convictions  that  the  plan  is 
all  arranged  :  that  Mr.  King  will  of  course  decline  and  that  the 
Federalists,  being  then  without  a  candidate,  will  be  under  the 
necessity  of  supporting  Mr.  Clinton,  whom  a  strong  section  of  the 
party  are  anxious  to  nominate — a  much  stronger  section  than  those 
usually  called  Clintonians.  This  belief  should  not  be  discouraged 
among  this  set  of  men  :  but  Federalists  need  not  give  it  the  least 
countenance  among  themselves  :  and  it  ought  to  be  used  as  an 
additional  argument  with  Mr.  King,  that  he  do  not,  by  declining, 
seem  to  confirm  its  reality. 

Our  adversaries  are  divided  and  distracted  beyond  all  example, 
and  I  see  no  means  by  which  they  can  proceed  except  by  making 
Tompkins  stand  again  ;  and  in  that  event  it  is  probable  that  a 
nomination  would  be  got  up  for  Clinton.  We  never  entered 
the  field  with  such  strong  foresight  of  Victory.  The  course  the 
opposite  party  is  pursuing — the  Council  of  Appointment — the 
Presidential  struggle — the  Taxes  &c,  &c,  are  all  strongly  acting 
auxiliaries  to  our  success  ;  and  if  we  do  not  lose  the  only  man 
who  can  now  unite  the  exertions  of  the  whole  party,  we  must  be 
triumphant  :  without  him,  defeat  and  all  its  consequences  for 
years  and  years  to  come,  is  almost  certain.     .     .     . 

Believe  me,  dear  Sir,  very  truly  yours 

W.  A.  Duer. 


5 18  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 

Zebulon  R.  Shepherd  to  R.  King. 

Granville,  Feby.  20,  1816. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Before  the  receipt  of  this  letter,  you  no  doubt  will  learn  the 
proceedings  of  our  State  Convention.  The  nomination  of  your- 
self for  the  chief  magistracy  of  the  State  was  a  measure  rarely 
matched  and  never  exceeded  for  the  unanimity  of  the  members, 
and  also  for  the  solicitude  that  you  will  condescend  to  accept  the 
nomination.  All  eyes  of  the  federal  party  are  turned  to  the  in- 
teresting object  and  importune  your  acquiescence  in  their  wishes. 

Feeling  in  common  with  many  fellow  citizens  a  strong  desire 
that  you  should  be  our  Candidate,  and  yielding  to  the  earnest 
importunity  of  my  friends,  I  have  presumed  to  address  you  on  the 
subject,  and  if  my  confidence  exceeds  the  humble  station  allotted 
me  in  life,  your  magnanimity  will  veil  the  fault  and  doubtless 
accord  forgiveness. 

Our  situation  is  peculiar,  and  should  you  decline  there  can  be 
but  little  doubt  of  a  complete  triumph  of  our  enemies  with  the 
addition  of  ruinous  and  mortifying  contentions  among  ourselves; 
for  entre  nous  there  are  men  respectable  for  talents  and  virtue  who 
upon  the  turf  would  fail,  and  who  could  they  succeed,  seem  not 
to  possess  all  the  requisites  to  subserve  our  best  interests,  concili- 
ate their  foes  and  unite  their  friends,  and  who  unconscious  of 
their  defects  fondly  wish  and  probably  have  expected  to  be  nomi- 
nated. I  say  men,  because  there  are  several,  who  while  they  will 
seek  no  competition  with  yourself,  and  cheerfully  acquiesce  in 
your  nomination,  should  you  decline  there  can  be  no  doubt  but  a 
scene  of  bickering  discussion,  and,  I  should  fear  hostility  would 
be  the  consequence. 

If  enough,  we  are  barely  enough  federal  to  succeed  in  our  elec- 
tion when  united  ;  any  schism  would  be  certain  defeat  ;  and  with 
great  confidence  I  can  say  no  man  will  more  effectually  unite  us 
than  yourself.  All  our  prudence  and  united  exertion  and  perfect 
cooperation  being  necessary,  to  be  deprived  of  our  favourite 
object,  is  to  be  deprived  of  our  hopes,  and  languor,  despondency 
and  torpor  will  ensue. 

I  am  not  insensible  how  great  a  sacrifice,  we  ask  you  to  make 
and  how  little  we  have  to  offer  you  as  an  equivalent.  We  ask 
you  to  expose  yourself  to  the  slanders  of  calumniators  and  the 


1816]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  519 

infamous  fabrications  of  a  licentious,  furious,  unprincipled  party  ; 
but  believing  your  feelings  are  as  much  above  them  as  they  are 
above  being  flattered  with  any  honours  we  can  tender  you,  and 
that  your  regard  for  the  interests  of  the  State  will  triumph  over 
every  other  consideration,  we  cannot  but  hope  we  have  a  friend 
in  your  breast  that  will  be  our  advocate  and  secure  our  wishes. 

Should  you  yield  to  these  wishes  we  shall  not  despair  of  suc- 
cess. The  strong  motive  to  vigorous  exertion  will  exist  and  what 
can  be  achieved  by  the  party  will  be  accomplished.  I  am  not  so 
vain  as  to  believe,  I  ought  to  influence  your  mind  in  fixing  your 
ultimatum.  No  Sir,  I  feel  humbled  and  tremble  as  I  offer  you  a 
single  motive,  but  the  object  is  paramount  to  diffidence  and  com- 
pels me  to  avow  not  merely  my  own,  but  the  wishes,  the  feelings, 
the  earnest  desires  of  thousands.  Was  it  otherwise,  I  would  be 
silent  ;  and  your  repose  would  not  be  disturbed  by  the  pen  of 
your  most 

obed  friend  &  very  humble  Servant 

Zebulon  R.  Shepherd. 


Judge  Van  Ness  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  Feby.  19,  1816. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  wrote  to  you  on  Friday  last,  but  having  reason  to  believe  that 
several  of  my  late  letters  have  been  stopped,  I  take  the  liberty  to 
repeat  what  I  then  said. 

Before  this  reaches  you,  you  will  have  heard  of  your  nomination 
as  the  Federal  Candidate  for  Governor,  and  of  the  peculiar 
circumstances  which  produced  it.  I  lament  exceedingly  that 
there  was  not  time  to  consult  you  on  this  subject  before  your 
nomination  took  place,  and  I  can  easily  imagine  how  sensibly 
you  are  affected  by  the  extreme  delicacy  of  the  situation  in  which 
you  are  placed.  My  object  is  not  to  state  the  various  reasons 
which  exist  to  induce  you  to  yield  to  the  wishes  of  your  friends. 
This  has  already  been  done  by  others,  but  I  must  be  permitted 
to  say  that  if  you  decline,  there  is  an  end  of  the  federal  party  in 
this  State. 

We  are  waiting  for  your  answer  with  trembling  anxiety.  If 
you  consent  to  be  our  Candidate,  I  firmly  believe  we  shall  suc- 
ceed, and  I  beg  to  assure  you  that  no  individual  in  the  State  will 


520  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 

labor  more  constantly,  faithfully  and  zealously  to  promote  your 
election  than  myself.  I  shall  hail  your  election  as  the  return  of 
the  reign  of  honest  men,  and  I  will  venture  to  say  that  you  will 
find  yourself  surrounded  and  supported  in  your  administration 
by  as  resolute,  high-minded  and  honorable  a  set  of  men  as  ever 
existed  in  any  community.  I  beg  you  to  think  long  and  dis- 
passionately before  you  say  "  No." 

I  have  received  both  your  letters  and  thank  you  for  them. 
The  Democrats  here  say  that  the  Presidential  question  is  settled 
and  that  Monroe  is  to  be  the  man.  You  would  be  astonished  at 
the  bitterness  of  the  divisions  in  the  Democratic  Party  in  this 
State.  They  will  never  cordially  unite  in  any  nomination  for 
Governor,  except  that  of  Tompkins,  who  beyond  all  doubt  is  out 
of  the  question. 

I  am  very  respectfully  and  truly  your  obedt.  Servt. 

W.  W.  Van  Ness. 


John  A.  King  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  Feby.  19,  1816. 
Dear  SiR  : 

.  .  .  D.  B.  Ogden  told  me  that  he  had  written  to  you  yester- 
day on  the  subject  of  your  nomination  at  Albany.  I  imagine 
that  this  new  honor  was  as  much  unexpected  by  you,  as  it  was 
by  all  your  friends  here.  It  seems  that  to  satisfy  the  feelings  of 
Judge  Van  Ness  and  of  his  friends  an  offer  to  support  him  was 
openly  made  ;  but  what  previous  arrangements  had  been  entered 
into  in  consequence  of  which  he  was  to  decline,  do  not  appear. 
Mr.  Van  Rensselaer  is  very  desirous  that  you  should  consent  to 
enter  the  lists  ;  he  says  that  in  case  of  your  acquiescence,  he  will 
set  out  immediately  for  Albany  and  electioneer  for  you  with  all 
his  zeal  &  ability  ;  he  said  he  should  write  to  you  upon  this 
subject  by  today's  mail.     .     .     . 

Yours  sincerely  John  A.  King. 


John  A.  King  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  Feby.  26,  1816. 
Dear  Sir  : 

We  have  for  the  last  two  days  been  expecting  letters  from  you, 
particularly  on  the  subject  of  your  late  nomination  at  Albany. 


1816]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  521 

Since  that  event  Tompkins  has  been  set  up  by  the  Republican 
party  as  your  opponent.  DeWitt  was  at  Albany  at  that  time 
endeavouring,  as  I  learn  from  his  friend  Dr.  Hosack,  to  rein- 
state himself  in  the  confidence  of  his  old  friends,  and  through 
their  influence  to  have  become  again  a  Candidate  for  popular 
favor  ;  his  ambition  was  less  grasping  than  it  was  wont  to  be  ; 
he  could  have  been  content  to  have  entered  the  lists  for  the  Gov- 
ernment of  this  State,  but  it  would  seem  that  in  this  intrigue  he 
has  been  foiled,  and  a  preference  given  to  Tompkins,  who  stands 
again  for  his  third  consulship.     .     .     . 

Yours  affectionately 

John  A.  King. 

S.  Van  Rensselaer  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  Feby.  29,  1816. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  yesterday  received  your  favor  of  the  24th  inst.  upon  the  sub- 
ject of  the  late  nomination  for  Governor.  I  am  well  aware  of 
your  sentiments  and  inclination  in  relation  to  this  business,  and 
can  easily  conceive  that  your  standing  as  regards  the  Federal 
party  must  create  embarrassment. 

I  cannot  presume  to  advise  you,  as  to  the  decision  you  ought 
to  make,  altho'  I  think  your  decision  of  great  importance  to  the 
party  as  also  to  the  country.  As  to  the  course  Judge  Van  Ness 
has  thought  proper  to  pursue,  his  friends  say  it  was  in  consequence 
of  the  certainty  in  case  of  his  election,  that  an  improper  person 
would  by  the  present  Council  be  placed  on  the  bench.  Possibly 
it  may  have  arisen  from  some  other  cause,  and  I  think  he  was 
right. 

There  is  great  division  among  our  opponents.  Clinton's  friends 
intended  to  have  procured  his  nomination  as  the  Democratic 
Candidate  for  Govr.,  and  are  mortified  at  their  disappointment. 
I  should  not  be  surprised  if  Clinton  is  at  last  nominated  by  his 
friends,  counting  upon  Federal  support  if  we  have  no  Candi- 
date. Many  of  our  friends,  it  is  to  be  apprehended,  will  support 
him,  and  in  that  event  many  will  believe  that  your  nomination 
has  been  made  to  make  room  for  him. 

Whether  any  man  can  prevail  against  Tompkins,  I  doubt  ;  yet 
the  accounts  from  the  country  induce  me  almost  to  believe  in 


522  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 


your  success.  Great  enthusiasm  is  evinced  everywhere  upon 
your  nomination  being  known,  and  I  am  convinced  no  other 
person  would  run  as  far.  If  you  were  the  Candidate,  our  best 
characters  everywhere  would  be  Candidates  for  the  Legislature 
and  with  such  men  I  think  you  could  be  of  great  service  to  the 
Country.  Our  friends  everywhere  represent  your  consent  as 
essential  almost  to  the  existence  of  the  party.  They  state  the 
embarrassments  were  such,  that  they  had  no  resort  left  but  to 
throw  themselves  on  the  man,  to  whom  they  look  as  the  leader 
and  with  whom  there  can  be  no  competition.  I  do  not  think  V. 
Ness  ought  to  be  urged  to  be  the  Candidate — there  are  objections 
against  him  which  would  jeopardize  the  election,  and  do  him 
lasting  injury.  I  want  the  Government  to  be  in  better  hands. 
With  great  regard  &  respect,  your  friend  &c 

S.  Rensselaer. 


R.  King  to  the  Bleecker  Committee. 

Copy.* 

Washington,  March  2,  1816. 
Gentlemen  : 

I  have  had  the  Honour  to  receive  your  letter  of  February  the 
16th,  informing  me,  that  by  a  Convention  of  Delegates  from  the 
several  Counties  of  the  State,  I  had  been  nominated  a  Candidate 
for  the  office  of  Governor  ;  and  I  desire  you  to  be  assured  of  the 
great  value,  which  I  place  on  this  Token  of  their  Esteem  and 
Confidence. 

As  the  measure  was  wholly  unexpected,  I  may  claim  to  be  ex- 
cused in  having  taken  time  for  Deliberation  before  my  Reply  ;  I 
continue  to  regret  that  Mr.  Van  Ness  declined  to  be  the  Candi- 
date ;  his  consent  would  have  given  Satisfaction,  and  relieved  me 
from  Embarrassment. 

After  repeated  Consideration  of  the  Subject,  I  have  concluded 
to  signify  to  you  my  Consent  to  the  Nomination.  I  do  so  never- 
theless with  Hesitation  ;  and  having  Regard  to  the  Peculiarity 
and  Force  of  the  Circumstances,  of  my  absence  from  the  State,  and 
of  the  separation  of  the  Convention,  after  having  made  the  Nom- 

*  Sent  by  mail  of  Sunday  Night,  3d.  March,  under  cover  to  Chancellor  Kent. 

R.  K. 


1816]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  523 

ination,  without  my  knowledge,  I  indulge  the  Hope  that  I  may 
not  have  erred  in  believing  that  no  other  Decision  was  left  to  my 
choice.  With  great  Respect 

I  have  the  Honour  to  be,  Gentlemen, 

Your  obedient  and  faithful  Servant 

Rufus  King. 
H.  Bleecker 
J.  G.  Lansing 
J.  R.  Van  Rensselaer 
P.  A.  Jay 
Jno.  Duer,  Esquires. 

Committee  of  the  Convention. 


Mary  King  to  E.  King. 

Washington,  6th  March,  1816. 
My  dear  Edward  : 

Were  it  not  for  my  invincible  objection  to  writing,  I  might  in- 
undate you  with  my  Epistles  at  the  publick  Expence,  and  thereby 
interrupt  your  grave  and  learned  studies  ;  but  fortunately  for  you 
there  is  no  apprehension  on  that  score,  for  I  will  very  frankly 
acknowledge  that  this  is  the  first  time  that  I  have  taken  my  pen 
to  write  to  you.  There  is  less  cause  of  regret  on  this  account,  as 
your  father  has  become  so  regular  a  correspondent,  and  keeps 
you  well  informed  of  all  that  is  important  in  State  affairs.  I  do 
not  know  whether  he  has  communicated  one  very  important  piece 
of  information  as  it  regards  his  encreasing  honors  ;  and  lest  you 
should  not  have  timely  notice  of  this  event,  I  will  take  it  upon 
myself  to  announce  it — that  is  his  nomination  for  Governor  of  the 
State  of  New  York  !  !  !  don't  laugh  I  beg.  This  step  was  taken 
without  any  previous  consultation  with  him,  for  he  believed  with 
others,  that  Judge  Van  Ness  was  to  be  the  Federal  Candidate,  & 
was  much  surprised  and  somewhat  indignant  at  seeing  his  name 
in  the  papers  as  Candidate  for  Governor  without  ever  having 
heard  one  word  upon  the  subject.  However  in  a  day  or  two  the 
mystery  was  unravelled  and  a  sufficient  explanation  given  of  the 
causes  that  led  to  this  choice,  without  having  an  opportunity  of 
conferring  with  him  on  the  subject.  The  papers  will  give  you  the 
particulars  ;  and  after  mature  deliberation  he  has  yielded  a  re- 


524  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 


luctant  consent  to  become  the  candidate,  and  to  this  he  was  driven 
by  the  urgent  entreaties  of  his  friends  who  thought  he  was  the 
only  man  that,  in  their  own  language,  could  rally  &  save  the  fed- 
eral party  in  the  State.  I  must  confess  my  patriotism  is  not  suffi- 
cient to  induce  me  to  congratulate  or  wish  him  success.  He 
probably  has  or  will  mention  the  subject  himself. 

And  now,  my  dear  Son,  I  should  be  glad  to  know  with  more 
particularity  than  your  letters  express,  how  you  are,  what  you  do, 
and  what  prospects  for  the  future.  I  hope  &  trust  the  answer  will 
be  satisfactory  to  all  these  questions.  With  the  exception  of 
Governor  Worthington's  family,  you  say  nothing  about  the  female 
society  of  Chillicothe  ;  are  there  many  females  whose  manners  & 
conversation  will  compare  with  those  you  have  been  accustomed 
to  ?  For  I  like  female  society  for  young  Men.  It  softens  & 
polishes  the  manners  even  if  the  Ladies  themselves  are  not  very 
refined.  Have  you  many  amusements,  such  as  dances,  not  to 
dignify  them  with  the  name  of  Balls,  tea  parties,  &c  ?  .  .  .  John 
has  leased  his  house  for  five  years  to  Mr.  James  McEvers,  the 
Partner  of  LeRoy  &  Bayard.  He  is  going  to  try  a  country  life, 
but  he  has  not  decided  as  yet,  whether  it  shall  be  near  Jamaica 
or  Greenwich.  He  would  prefer  the  former,  if  he  could  purchase 
Captain's  Motley's  place,  but  I  do  not  know  if  that  is  for  sale  ; 
however  he  must  soon  make  his  decision,  as  the  first  of  May  is 
not  far  distant.* 

Before  this  reaches  Chillicothe  you  will  have  attained  your 
twenty  first  year,  and  with  it  I  trust,  an  increase  of  wisdom  & 
prudence.  I  congratulate  you  with  the  most  heartfelt  sincerity 
on  the  arrival  of  man's  estate  and  wish  you  may  live  to  see  many 
and  prosperous  anniversaries,  and  that  you  may  be  enabled  to 
fulfill  all  the  wise  and  good  resolutions  which  you  have  formed 
for  your  own  government,  ever  walking  in  the  paths  of  rectitude 
and  virtue  is  the  ardent  prayer  of  your  affectionate  mother 

M.  King. 

*  He  bought  Mr.  Motley's  place  and  removed  there  soon  after. 


CHAPTER   XXIX. 

King  to  E.  King — Nomination — King  to  Morris — Accepted  the  Nomination — 
Morris  to  King — Pleased  with  Candidacy — Oakley  to  King — Tompkins 
nominated — State  Politics — J.  A.  King  to  King — Abuse  in  Papers  of  C 
King  for  Dartmoor  Business — Letter  to  H.  Clay — Satisfactory  Answer — 
King's  Vindication  of  his  Course  towards  Irish  State  Prisoners — Irish  Emi- 
grant Association  to  King — Asking  his  Support  in  certain  Measures  for  the 
Relief  of  Irish  Emigrants  to  the  U.  S. — Kingto  Gore — Defeat  of  Federalists 
in  New  York — King  to  Gore — Personally  satisfied  with  the  Result  of  the 
Elections  — Gore  to  King — Satisfied  he  was  a  Candidate — Life  at  Warm 
Springs,  Va. — King  to  E.  King — Return  Home — E.  King's  Engagement 
— King  to  E.  King — Federalists  must  adhere  to  their  Integrity — Gore  to 
King — Sent  to  the  Legislature  his  Resignation  of  Senatorship. 

R.  King  to  E.  King. 

Washington,  Mar.  9,  1816. 
Dear  Edward  : 

.  .  .  You  may  have  heard  that  I  have  been  nominated  at 
Albany  a  Candidate  for  the  off.  of  Govr.  This  was  quite  a  sur- 
prize, and  in  no  sort  desired  by  me  ;  but  I  have  been  placed  in  so 
peculiar  a  Situation,  as  to  give  my  consent  to  the  nomination  ; 
yielding  to  the  opinion  of  others  and  without  much  support  from 
my  own. 

Present  my  compliments  to  Governor  Worthington,  tell  him 
that  Congress  in  imitation  of  his  Legislature,  are  employed  in 
raising  their  own  Pay.  A  Bill  has  probably  passed  the  House  of 
R.  to  allow  in  addition  to  Travelling  Compensation  an  annual 
Salary  of  1500  Dollars  to  the  Members  of  Congress.     .     .     . 

R.  K. 


R.  King  to  G.  Morris. 

March  9,  1816. 

Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     My  nomination  at  Albany,  as  you  will  have  believed, 
was  a  surprize  to  me  :    my  mind  felt  no  doubt  of  the  decision  I 

525 


526  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 

should  make,  when  I  first  heard  of  the  measure.  But  delay  and 
the  occurrences  belonging  to  it,  have  brought  me  to  a  different 
conclusion.  I  have  assented  to  the  nomination — in  doing  so  I 
have  yielded  to  the  opinion  of  others  and  without  the  full  support 
of  my  own.     .     .     . 


G.  Morris  to  R.  King. 

Morrisania,  March  15,  1S16. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  have  received  yours  of  the  ninth,  and  am  pleased  to 
learn  that  you  stand  a  Candidate  for  the  Government.  The  of- 
fice, could  it  be  restored  to  what  we  made  it  by  the  constitution, 
is  of  great  Dignity.  But  cut  down  by  Mr.  Burr's  convention, 
from  a  seventy  four  to  a  razee,  it  is  not  worth  your  acceptance. 
I  feel,  therefore,  and  applaud  your  self-denial,  convinced  that 
your  experience,  your  self-command,  your  coolness  and  discretion, 
will  be  of  great  use.  They  perhaps  may  raise  the  office  to  its 
original  worth.     .     .     . 


Thos.  J.  Oakley  to  R.  King. 

Albany,  Mar.  29,  1816. 
Dr.  Sir  : 

.  .  .  You  ask  whether  Tompkins  will  accept  the  nomination 
for  V.  P.  and  continue  to  be  candidate  for  Gov.  ;  I  think  he  will 
— He  is  urged  to  this  by  several  considerations — the  principal  of 
which  is,  that  his  party  would  not  unite  cordially  on  any  other 
candidate — Can  the  friends  of  D.  W.  C.  have  become  partizans 
for  T.  in  the  expectation,  and  as  many  say,  with  the  express  un- 
derstanding, that,  if  T.  is  elected  V.  P.,  C.  is  to  be  the  candidate 
of  Democratic  Party  a  year  hence  ?  If  the  circumstance  of  T.'s 
being  a  candidate  for  the  two  places  at  the  same  time,  will  operate 
at  all  in  our  favor,  it  will  be  by  exciting  the  apprehensions  of 
that  portion  of  the  democratic  party  who  are  irreconcilably  hos- 
tile to  D.  W.  C,  that  the  occurrence  of  an  election  of  Governor 
next  spring  will  have  a  tendency  to  restore  him  to  his  standing 
in  that  party — Many  of  them  would  prefer  the  success  of  even 
the  Federal  Candidate  to  any  prospect  of  C.'s  restoration  to 
power. 


1816]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  $27 

Our  election  is  approaching  under  circumstances  as  favorable 
as  we  could  have  anticipated — The  exertions  of  our  friends  here 
are  directed  chiefly  to  the  west — where  we  have  hitherto  been 
defeated  more  by  the  fraud  than  the  number  of  our  opponents — 
You  may  never  have  adverted  to  the  fact,  that  at  the  last  Govern- 
er's  election,  the  majority  of  T.  in  the  County  of  Genessee  and  I 
think  one  other  western  county,  was  greater  than  the  zuhole  num- 
ber of  electors  in  the  county,-according  to  the  census.  To  pre- 
vent a  recurrence  of  such  gross  fraud,  we  are  adopting  all  the 
measures,  that  seem  to  us  calculated  to  produce  this  effect. 

I  cannot  forbear  to  express  to  you  the  deep  sense  of  obligation, 
which  the  party  feels  towards  yourself  personally,  for  yielding  to 
their  wishes  in  relation  to  this  election.  It  will  stimulate  them 
to  exertions  which  will  deserve,  if  they  do  not  command  success. 

I  am  with  entire  respect 

Your  obt  Ser. 

Thos.  J.  Oakley. 

John  A.  King  to  R.  King. 

N.  Y.,  Apr.  5,  1816. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  As  the  time  approaches  for  the  Election,  the  papers 
increase  in  the  virulence  of  their  abuse  ;  Charles'  unfortunate  re- 
port *  furnishes  the  materials  for  the  most  unworthy  insinuations 
against  his  character  &  conduct ;  neither  are  you  exempt  from 
your  share  of  censure  on  that  head,  for  they  say  that  the  feelings 
&  prejudices  which  dictated  that  report  were  an  honest  inheritance 
fostered  and  cherished  at  the  Paternal  Board.  In  consequence  of 
the  numerous  and  violent  attacks  of  this  kind,  after  being  much 
urged  on  all  hands,  I  at  last  consented  to  write  a  letter  to  Mr.  Clay, 
a  copy  of  which  I  enclose.  The  Paragraph  alluded  to  therein  was 
of  a  most  violent  and  inflammatory  complexion  ;  in  it  Charles  was 
stigmatized  as  the  apologist  of  the  murderer  Shortland  ;  that  they 
had  heard  that  Mr.  Clay  &  Gallatin,  however,  approved  of  his 
conduct,  that  they  did  not  believe  it  ;  if  it  were  so,  why  had  not 
the  friends  of  Mr.  C.  King  published  their  approval  ?  that  they 
judged  alone  from  the  evidence  which  was  before  the  public  ;  that 
by  that  he  was  clearly  guilty  of  deserting  his  country  and  of  boldly 

*  Dartmoor  Prison. 


528  RUFUS   ICING.  [1816 

vindicating  the  murderer  of  his  countrymen;  that  it  was  melancholy 
to  reflect  that  this  country  could  have  given  birth  to  such  a  mon- 
ster &c,  &c.     I  sent  my  letter  to  Mr.  Clay  about  3  days  ago.    .     . 

Very  sincerely  yours, 

John  A.  King. 

Copy  of  letter  above  referred  to. 

The  reports  which  have  been  for  some  time  past  in  circulation 
to  the  disadvantage  of  my  brother,  Mr.  Charles  King,  in  relation 
to  his  conduct  in  the  Dartmoor  investigation,  have  at  last  found 
their  way  into  the  prints  and  are  at  this  moment  made  subservient 
to  the  vilest  purposes.  That  you  may  be  enabled  to  judge  of  their 
character  and  dye,  I  have  taken  the  liberty  of  enclosing  for  your 
perusal  an  extract  from  an  Albany  Paper.  No  one  knows  better 
than  yourself,  Sir,  how  to  estimate  the  feelings  and  attachment  of 
Mr.  C.  King  towards  the  Country  which  gave  him  birth.  You 
were  both  in  England  at  a  period  which  was  eminently  calculated 
to  call  forth  and  give  strength  to  their  warmest  effusions.  To  no 
one  then  could  I  apply  with  more  justice,  and  I  trust  with  more 
propriety,  than  to  yourself  for  a  vindication  of  those  feelings,  and 
in  a  particular  manner  of  his  conduct  in  relation  to  the  Dartmoor 
affair,  more  especially  as  it  was  at  your  instance  and  solicitation 
that  he  was  induced  to  undertake  the  investigation,  which  is  at 
this  moment  furnishing  the  materials  for  a  most  venomous  and 
unprincipled  attack  upon  his  character  and  reputation.  To  you 
therefore  I  appeal  in  the  utmost  confidence  that  you  will  afford 
the  means  of  repelling  these  attacks  by  vindicating  his  conduct  in 
this  behalf  from  the  unworthy  insinuations  which  have  been  lev- 
elled against  it.  Your  intimate  acquaintance  with  the  circum- 
stances of  that  unfortunate  event,  the  high  station  which  you  were 
filling  at  that  moment  in  England,  enable  you  to  speak  with  that 
confidence  and  authority  which  cannot  fail  in  a  great  degree  to 
correct  and  control  the  popular  prejudice.  Feelings  of  the  strong- 
est attachment  to  my  Brother,  an  earnest  desire  that  his  standing 
and  integrity  should  remain  unimpaired  in  the  estimation  of  hon- 
orable men,  the  sentiments  of  regard  and  friendship  for  him  which 
you  were  good  enough  to  express  to  me,  when  you  were  in  New 
York  &  when  speaking  of  him  in  relation  to  the  Dartmoor  affair, 
must  plead  my  apology  for  thus  enlisting  you,  Sir,  in  the  defence 


1816]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  529 


of  an  injured  and  an  absent  Brother,*  and  I  trust,  Sir,  that  your 
reply  to  this  letter  will  enable  me  to  put  forth  a  vindication  of  his 
character  and  conduct,  which  shall  be  at  once  honorable  to  your 
friendship  and  fatal  to  his  calumniators.! 


Copy  of  a  letter  from  R.  King  vindicating  his  course  to- 
wards the  Irish.  It  is  not  known  to  whom  it  was  addressed, 
nor  is  the  date  given  : 

I  duly    received   your  letter  of with  the  number  of    the 

Register,  containing  a  sketch  of  the  characters  of  certain  mem- 
bers of  the  Senate. 

You  have  done  me  both  more  and  less  than  justice.  You  have 
overrated  my  talents  and  acquirements — while  you  have  ascribed 
to  me,  as  a  party  man,  sentiments  and  opinions,  and  a  want  of 
liberality  wh.  I  must  disavow. 

I  was,  and  am,  and  shall  never  change — a  Federalist  :  the  sense 
in  wh.  Washington,  Hamilton,  and  Madison  for  a  time,  were 
federalists. 

I  used  my  best  exertions  to  obtain  the  establishment  of  the 
Constitution,  and  to  put  it  into  operation,  agt.  the  strong  and  per- 
severing opposition  of  its  opponents.  Before  the  death  of  Genl. 
W.  and  during  his  Presidency,  I  went  abroad,  where  I  resided  in 
the  public  service  during  Mr.  A.'s  administration  and  for  more 
than  two  years  of  that  of  Mr.  Jefferson.  After  my  return  home  I 
remained  in  absolute  retirement,  having  no  part  in  political  or 
public  affairs,  until  my  appointment  to  the  Senate  in  1813. 

The  angry  temper  of  politicians  had  not  risen  up  to  its  height 
until  I  was  out  of  the  country.  I,  of  course,  perhaps  more  than 
any  other  pub.  man  of  my  age,  was  less  affected  by  this  excited 
state  of  parties. 

It  is  true  I  took  a  part  while  abroad  in  a  critical  posture  of  our 
affairs,  when  we  had  become  involved  in  a  war  with  France,  and 
when  the  Leaders  of  the  Insurrection  in  Ireland  who  were  inti- 

*  Mr.  C.  King  was  in  Europe. 

f  Mr.  Wm.  Coleman  in  a  letter  to  Mr.  King,  April  21,  i3i6,  says:  "  Mr. 
Grade  told  me  yesterday  that  John  had  received  a  satisfactory  response  from 
Mr.  Clay — but  that  he  should  make  no  use  of  it  until  after  the  election.  I 
confess  I  do  not  comprehend  this."     This  letter  cannot  be  found.— Ed. 

VOL.    V. — 34 


530  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 


mately  connected  with  France,  and  had  failed  in  their  attempts 
in  Ireland,  were  about  to  emigrate  to  this  country,  to  remonstrate 
agt.  their  being  permitted  to  do  so — not  because  I  was  unwilling 
that  the  U.  S.  should  be  the  refuge  of  political  exiles,  but  by 
reason  of  the  peculiar  character  and  connexions  of  these  men, 
and  the  State  of  war  between  us  and  France. 

I  have  been  uniform  in  my  opinions,  that  a  free  country  shd. 
receive  and  protect  the  political  fugitives  or  exiles  of  other  nations 
— but  this  is  a  general  opinion,  and  subject  to  the  control  of 
special  and  peculiar  circumstances. 

I  incurred  naturally  the  disapn.  of  these  exiles,  and  being  of 
the  fallen  party  in  our  political  divisions,  this  displeasure  was 
likewise  felt  and  expressed  by  those  of  my  political  opponents 
who  disapproved  of  my  political  or  party  opinions. 

These  times  are  past — circumstances  have  changed — the  old 
political  division  is  no  longer  debated,  no  longer  a  question  to  be 
decided.  This  has  been  done  by  those  from  whom  there  is  no  ap- 
peal. The  federal  party  in  the  sense  of  a  party  aiming  at  political 
power  no  longer  exists — Victrix  causa  diis  placuit,  sed  victa  Catoni. 
If  individuals  of  the  Irish  Exiles  have  suffered  inconvenience, 
that  can  be  ascribed  to  my  interference,  while  I  may  regret  the 
same,  I  can  have  nothing  to  reproach  myself  with  for  the  part  I 
took  which  was  from  the  sole  sense  of  strict  duty,  &c. — 

There  is  an  envelope  endorsed  as  follows  : 

Letter  from  Rufus  King  Esquire — April  19,  1816 

Contains  an  explanation  of  his  motives  in  preventing  the  Irish 
Rebels  from  emigrating  to  this  country.  This  was  sent  to  me  by 
Mr.  King  for  publication,  at  the  time  he  was  the  Federal  Candi- 
date for  Governor  of  New  York.  Thinking  it  better  not  to  make 
the  publication,  I  wrote  to  Mr.  King  advising  him  against  it.  He 
replied  acquiescing  in  my  opinion  and  the  publication  was  never 
made.  D.  B.  Ogden. 

The  letter  of  Mr.  King  to  Mr.  Ogden,  inclosing  the  ex- 
planation is  as  follows : 

Washington,  April  19,  1816. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  perseverance  with  which  I  am  censured  for  having  inter- 
fered to  prevent  the  emigration  of  the  Irish  chiefs  to  this  Country, 


i8i6]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  53 1 


has  induced  me  to  think  that  a  little  explanation  might  be  useful. 
I  have,  therefore,  drawn  up  the  enclosed  paper,  addressed  to  the 
Editor  of  the  National  Advocate,*  and  request  that  you  would 
present  it  to  him  for  publication. 

Should,  however,  anything  occur  to  you  by  way  of  objection  to 
this  publication,  you  may  suspend  it,  until  you  can  give  me  in- 
formation. 

The  common  opinion  has  been,  that  I  felt  personal  animosity 

towards  Mr.  Emmet  and  his  associates  ;  than  wh.  nothing  could 

be  more   erroneous  :  for  I  really  knew  so  little  of  Irish  affairs, 

and  had  heard   so  little  of  the  chiefs  of  the  Insurrection,  that 

until  I  saw  their  examination,  I  had  never  seen  the  names  of  any 

of  them. 

I  am  Dr.  Sir 

yr.  ob.  &  faithful 

Rufus  King. 

D.  B.  Ogden,  Esq. 

I  presume  that  the  Ed.  of  the  N.  Ad.  will  not  object  to  this  publi- 
cation. Shd.  he  delay  or  refuse,  and  you  deem  it  expedient, 
desire  Coleman  to  publish  it. 

To  the  Editor  of  the  National  Advocate. 

The  publications  recently  made  in  your  paper  concerning  my 
interference  while  Minister  of  the  U.  S.  at  London,  to  prevent 
the  emigration  to  this  country  of  the  Irish  State  Prisoners,  are  of 
a  character  so  extraordinary  and  so  calculated  to  excite  the  anger, 
the  resentment  and  even  the  animosity  of  the  numerous  body  of 
Irishmen  amongst  whom  I  live,  that  I  think  it  due  to  them,  as 
well  as  to  myself  to  say  a  few  words  in  my  own  vindication. 

Towards  Ireland  and  Irishmen  I  have  not,  I  never  had  either 
ill  will  or  illiberal  prejudices.  Any  attempt,  therefore,  that  has 
been  or  shall  be  made  to  excite  a  contrary  opinion  is  doing  me 
manifest  injustice.  My  interference  to  prevent  the  emigration  of 
the  Irish  State  Prisoners,  ought  not  to  be  regarded  as  extending  to 
other  persons  ;  because  the  measure  was  confined  to  them  and 
embraced  no  others.  Of  them  even  I  had  no  personal  knowledge, 
and  towards  them,  therefore,  could  feel  no  personal  antipathy.  I 
was  a  public  man,  placed  as  a  centinel  on  a  distant  post  and  bound 
*  In  which  paper  the  charges  were  published. 


53-  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 

in  fidelity  to  ward  off  as  far  as  might  be  in  my  power,  whatever 
appeared  to  me  likely  to  be  injurious  to  my  country. 

A  great  effort  had  been  made  in  Ireland  to  establish  its  inde- 
pendence. France  had  been  engaged  to  co-operate  in  the  attain- 
ment of  this  result.  The  persons  at  the  head  of  the  Irish  affairs, 
and  who  had  secured  this  co-operation  of  France,  were  men  of 
distinction,  possessing  the  confidence  of  the  French  Govern- 
ment. 

The  effort  to  make  Ireland  independent  failed  ;  and  the  Irish 
Chiefs  became  the  State  Prisoners  of  England  ;  an  arrangement 
having  been  afterward  concluded,  between  them  and  the  English 
Government,  that  they  should  emigrate  from  Ireland  and  reside  in 
some  foreign  country,  not  at  war  with  England,  a  portion  of  them 
made  their  election  to  come  to  the  United  States. 

At  this  juncture  our  Ambassadors  in  France  had  been  dis- 
honored, our  relations  of  friendly  intercourse  with  that  nation 
had  been  abolished  by  Congress,  and  the  war  did  not  terminate 
till  September  1800.  Of  the  policy  of  this  war  I  have  nothing  to 
observe  except  that  the  country  was  much  disunited  concerning 
it,  our  political  divisions  on  this  occasion  having  been  more  ani- 
mated and  more  extensive  than  at  any  antecedent  period.  In 
these  circumstances  it  was  my  deliberate  opinion,  that  it  would  be 
injurious,  if  the  Irish  State  Prisoners,  connected  as  they  were  with 
France,  should  be  received  in  the  U.  S.;  their  character,  their  con- 
nexions and  their  influence  would  serve  to  increase  our  internal 
divisions  and  to  weaken  the  measures  of  the  Government. 

In  this  conviction  I  did  request,  in  September  1798,  not  that 
the  Irish  State  Prisoners  should  be  detained  in  confinement,  not 
that  they  should  be  precluded  from  proceeding  to  any  other  for- 
eign country  ;  but  solely  that  they  might  not  be  allowed  to  pro- 
ceed to  the  U.  S. — and  in  doing  so,  I  did  no  more  than  I  should 
have  felt  it  my  duty  to  do,  in  respect  to  individuals  under  like 
circumstances  and  belonging  to  any  other  nation.  The  answer 
which  I  received  from  the  English  Government  was,  that  they 
should  not  be  permitted  to  proceed  to  the  U.  S.  without  the  con- 
sent of  our  Government. 

I  immediately  apprised  my  own  government  of  what  I  had 
done,  and  of  the  answer  which  I  had  received.  The  President 
approved  of  my  interference  and  persisted  in  keeping  up  the  bar 


1816]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  533 

against  the  emigration  of  the  Prisoners.  A  letter  to  me  from  the 
Department  of  State  of  Feby.  1799,  contains  the  following  para- 
graph. 

"  Your  timely  interference  to  prevent  the  emigration  of  the 
Irish  State  Prisoners  to  this  country  is  extremely  acceptable  to 
the  President ;  but  if  removed  to  any  other  country,  many  of 
them  will  find  their  way  hither  ;  and  therefore  not  only  a  list  of 
their  names,  but  descriptions  of  their  persons  and  their  ages  would 
be  very  useful  to  us  if  attainable." 

I  took  no  farther  step  on  this  subject — applications  were  subse- 
quently made  to  me,  tho'  I  never  understood  the  same  to  have 
been  made  at  the  instance  of  the  State  Prisoners,  to  withdraw  the 
impediment  to  their  emigration  to  America — this  I  was  restrained 
by  my  instructions  from  doing. 

This  statement  is  now  made  for  the  purpose  of  correcting  any 
misunderstanding,  which  may  exist,  concerning  the  extent  and 
motives  of  my  interference  ;  and  of  showing  it  to  have  been  the 
dispassionate  performance  of  a  public  duty,  which  was  approved 
and  maintained  by  my  government. 


Rufus  King. 


Washington,  April  19,  1816. 


It  may  be  interesting  to  conclude  this  summary  with 
the  following  letter  addressed  to  Mr.  King  in  the  U.  S. 
Senate. 

New  York,  Jany.  29,  1818. 

Sir  : 

The  undersigned  are  directed  to  address  you  on  behalf  of 
the  Irish  Emigrant  Association  of  New  York  and  to  acquaint 
you  with  the  humane  and  patriotic  objects  of  this  Association 
as  well  as  to  request  your  support  and  patronage  in  Congress 
of  the  measure  to  be  proposed  to  that  Honble  Body  by  the 
same  and  other  similar  Associations  from  various  parts  of  the 
Union. 

You  will  find  all  our  objects  and  motives  detailed  in  a  Mem- 
orial to  Congress  and  we  trust  you  will  judge  them  to  be  no  less 
calculated  for  the  present  relief  of  the  Emigrant  and  his  family 
than  the  lasting  interests  of  the  United  States  ;  as  such  we  flatter 


534  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 


ourselves  they  will  receive  the  approbation  of  a  philanthrophic 
and  enlightened  Legislator. 

We  have  the  honor  to  be 

with  very  perfect  consideration  and  respect 

your  obedient  servants 

Thomas  Kirk 

Wm.  J.  McNeven 

James  Megher 

John  W.  Mulligan 

Rufus  King  Esquire. 


R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Wed.  8th  May,  1816. 

Dr.  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Duane  says  the  N.  Y.  City  election  closed  on  Thursday 
the  2nd.  The  Repub.  Ticket  (I  presume  for  Cong.  &  the  Assem- 
bly) he  says  succeeded  by  a  large  majority.  Of  the  10  Wards  the 
Repubs.  have  carried  6,  so  that  the  Corporation  has  passed  out  of 
the  hands  of  the  Feds.  Probably  this  result  will  in  the  main  cor- 
respond with  that  of  the  other  Counties.  So  that  there  is  no  like- 
lihood that  the  Federalists  have  succeeded,  except  in  the  election 
of  some  Members  of  Congress  &  of  the  State  Legislature. 

Ca  ira — the  first  imposition,  says  Aristotle,  is  to  flatter  the  peo- 
ple and  is  naturally  followed  by  violence.  Liberty  is  too  dear  to 
be  voluntarily  parted  with  ;  it  must  therefore  be  gradually  weak- 
ened by  making  the  People  jealous  of  its  wisest  and  most  sincere 
Defenders  ;  so  that  open  force  may  in  the  end  be  used  to  destroy 
it.  But  why  touch  on  this  subject  to  you,  who  have  so  often  and 
so  impartially  considered  it  ?  We  have  been  the  visionary  men, 
who  have  believed,  as  many  have,  that  mere  Paper  Constitutions, 
without  those  moral  and  political  habits  and  opinions,  which  alone 
give  solidity  and  support  to  any  Government,  would  be  sufficient 
to  protect  and  preserve  the  equal  Rights  of  the  weak  against  the 
strong,  of  the  honest  agt.  the  dishonest,  of  the  wise  and  faithful 
friends  of  free  Govt,  against  the  wicked  and  ambitious  men,  who 
disregard  every  thing  that  stands  in  the  way  of  their  criminal  de- 
sires :  but  enough  ! 

With  affectionate  regards 

R.  K. 


1816]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  535 

R.  King  to  C.  Gore. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  May  15,  1816. 
My  Dr.  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  have  seen  a  few  friends,  who  confirm  the  result  of 
our  late  Election.  As  was  anticipated,  the  effort  made  by  the 
Federalists  had  the  effect  to  unite  the  several  sections  of  the 
Democrats,  and  they  have,  as  I  learn,  succeeded  in  all  Branches 
of  the  Election. 

As  regards  what  I  deem  the  best  policy  of  the  Country,  as  well 
as  the  purity  and  duration  of  our  Institutions,  I  ought  to  regret 
this  manifestation  of  public  opinion.  Personally  I  am  satisfied  ; 
no  event  would  have  been  less  agreeable  than  to  have  been  elected 
Governor  of  the  State.  I  presume  that  the  failure  will,  as  I  think 
it  should,  discourage  the  Federalists  from  maintaining  a  fruitless 
struggle.  It  has  probably  become  the  real  interest  &  policy  of 
the  Country,  that  the  Democracy  should  pursue  its  own  natural 
Course.  Federalists  of  our  age  must  be  content  with  the  past.  It 
would  be  most  unworthy  to  affect  to  have  changed  our  opinions. 
I  would  not  suffer  the  self  humiliation  &  reproaches  of  the  change- 
lings, I  could  name,  for  the  highest  offices  &  applauses,  that  could 
be  given  them.     .     .     . 

Pray  write  to  us  &  tell  us  the  state  of  your  health,  the  Roads  & 
Inns  you  have  met  with,  the  accidents,  if  any,  that  have  happened 
to  your  Horses,  or  Carriages,  the  accommodations  you  find  at  the 
Warm  Springs,  and  the  effect  of  the  waters.  These  and  especially 
the  last  are  all  interesting  to  us — and  we  must  complain  a  little 
that  you  have  given  us  no  information  respecting  anything  which 
has  happened  to  you  since  crossing  the  Potomac. 

Yrs.  affectionately 

R.  K. 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Warm  Springs,  May  24,  1816. 
My  Dear  Friend  : 

.  .  .  The  last  National  Intelligencer  is  only  to  the  8th  &  the 
Richmond  Enquirer  to  the  nth.  By  the  last,  however  I,  per- 
ceived the  Democracy  of  N.  Y.  has  prevailed,  and  afforded  new 
Evidence  of  the  Popularity  of  extravagant  and  disgraceful  meas- 


536  RUFUS  KING.  [181 6 

ures,  when  executed  by  weak  &z  imprudent  men.  I  am,  notwith- 
standing the  event,  quite  satisfied,  that  you  consented  to  the 
Nomination.  Had  not  this  been  permitted,  all  the  blame  of  the 
defeat  would  have  been  imputed  to  the  want  of  a  proper  Candi- 
date. In  this  County  a  Majority  of  the  Electors  are  Federalists, 
a  strange  thing  in  Virginia.  .  .  .  The  manner  of  living  here  is 
not  of  the  most  pleasant  kind.  It  is  the  fashion  of  the  place  and 
of  most  of  those  we  have  passed  through  to  dine,  breakfast  &  sup 
with  the  landlord,  his  wife,  boarders  and  travellers — and  our  fare 
is  principally  ham  &z  eggs.  The  potatoes  were  frozen  the  last 
Winter  and  of  course  ruined.  Peas  are  not  to  be  obtained  before 
July.  Asparagus  none,  some  Greens.  The  Innkeeper  and  his 
Wife  very  obliging.  The  House  old  &  in  a  state  of  dilapidation. 
At  the  Hot  Springs  we  found  the  house  more  commodious,  but 
altho*  the  people  appeared  well  disposed,  they  are  not  so  agreeable 
as  those  of  this  place.  On  the  whole  the  bathing  is  excellent,  and 
that  constitutes  the  amount  of  all,  that  is  so  here,  at  least  in  our 
Estimation.     .     .     . 

I  remain  truly  &  faithfully  your  friend 

C.  Gore. 


R.  King  to  Edward  King. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  May  19,  181 6. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

We  reached  home  on  the  15th.     As  I  have  informed  you  we 

accompanied  Mr.  Gore  to  Frederic,  Mard.  ;  here  we  parted,  he 

crossing  the  Potomac  at  Harper's  Ferry  on  his  way  to  the  Warm 

Springs,  Va.,  and  we  crossing  the  South  Mountain  to  Hagers- 

town,   whence   we  proceeded    thro'  the   Valley   Conococheaque 

to  Harrisburgh,  on  the  Susquehannah,  &  thence  to  Easton  on 

the  Delaware,  &  so  thro'  Morristown  N.  J.  home.     The  valley 

from  the  Potomac  to  the  Delaware  is  a  fine  tract  of  land,  and 

generally  is  well  cultivated.    Last  evening  we  received  your  letter 

of  the  7th.,  having  before  reed,  those  which  you  wrote  before  & 

after  your  admission  to  the  Bar.     We  earnestly  hope  that  your 

proposed  connexion  *  may  prove  to  be  the  source  of  Happiness 

and  Contentment.     You  must  both  begin  the  world  with  habits  of 

*  The  connection   referred   to   must    have   been   his   engagement  to   Sarah 
Worthington,  daughter  of  Gov.  Thos.  Worthington,  of  Ohio. 


1816]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  537 

economy  and  Diligence  ;  with  them  you  cannot  fail  to  succeed  in 
establishing  your  Independence,  without  them  you  will  be  certain 
to  become,  and  to  continue,  dependent  on  others.  Frederic  *  we 
found  quite  well  &  much  grown.  He  is  the  head  of  his  Latin 
Class,  doing  Tully's  Orations,  but  in  Greek,  he  is  third  only.  I 
have  not  yet  examined  him,  it  being  the  Holidays. 

Farewell  I  am  affectionately  yrs. 

R.  K. 


R.  King  to  Edward  King. 

Jamaica,  L.  I.,  May  21,  1816. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  We  are  here  quiet,  content,  and  much  inclined  to  stay 
at  home,  which  has  additional  charms  by  reason  of  our  Comfortless 
Residence  at  Washington.  I  have,  I  believe,  already  told  you, 
that  the  Result  of  our  late  State  Election  has  been  favorable  by 
an  increased  majority  to  the  good  Patriots.  So  certain  are  the 
Effects  of  the  requisite  Arts  of  the  Democracy,  and  so  effectually 
prostrate  is  Federalism,  that  I  have  no  kind  of  Expectation,  that 
the  latter  can  be  again  in  Favor. 

The  course  remaining  for  Federalists,  is  to  adhere  to  the 
integrity  of  their  Principles  ;  and  they  being  out  of  the  ques- 
tion as  a  rival  Party,  and  the  Republicans,  so  soon  as  this  is  un- 
derstood, being  sure  to  divide  among  themselves  ;  the  Federalists 
will  be  able  to  assist  the  true  interests  of  Freedom  &  of  Justice, 
by  giving  their  influence  to  the  least  wicked  Section  of  the 
Republicans. 

Except  this  service,  and  it  will  be  a  valuable,  as  well  as  disin- 
terested and  honest  one,  I  know  of  none,  which  federalists  can 
render. 


With  sincere  &  affectionate  Regards,  I  am 


R.  K. 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Warm  Springs,  June  6,  1816. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     The  New  York  Election  shows  a  more  depraved  state 

of  the  public  mind,  than  I  had  anticipated,  altho'  I  never  felt 

*  R.  King's  youngest  son. 


53§  RUFUS  KING.  [1816 


sanguine  of  a  right  Termination,  considering  the  Defection  of  N. 
England.  I  can  not  perceive  any  advantage  to  the  Public,  as  In- 
dividuals, from  any  further  struggle  of  Federalists.  I  have  sent 
my  Resignation,  as  Senator,  to  the  Mass'ts.  Legislature,— This 
will  afford  them  an  opportunity  to  elect  either  at  their  May  or 
Next  Session.  My  Health  would  not  admit  of  my  attendance,  if 
I  were  inclined,  but  if  I  had  the  Strength  of  Sampson  I  should 
have  no  Inclination,  and  I  know  no  Duty,  that  calls  me  to  go 
against  my  Inclination.     .     .     . 

Your  faithful  Friend, 

C.  Gore. 


APPENDIX  I. 

ESSAY   ON    STATE   OF   THE   FOREIGN    RELATIONS,    l8lO. 

Instead  of  Resolutions  expressive  of  any  Opinion  respecting 
the  French  &  English  Decrees  and  orders,  would  it  not  be  more 
expedient  to  contrast  the  present  condition  of  the  Nation  with  its 
condition  at  the  period  when  the  Administration  passed  into  the 
hands  of  our  present  Rulers. 

In  doing  this  reference  might  be  made  to  the  Embarrassments 
at  home  and  abroad  with  whh.  the  former  admn.  were  encom- 
passed ;  1  st.  Distress  arising  out  of  the  waste  of  capital,  the  defect 
of  credit  and  the  want  of  Revenue  at  the  conclusion  of  the  Revo- 
lution ;  2nd.  Embarrassments  proceeding  from  the  reciprocal 
claims  of  the  U.  S.  &:  G.  B.  relative  to  the  provisions  of  the  Treaty 
of  Peace  ;  3rd.  Embarrassments  relative  to  the  Navigation  of  the 
Mississippi  and  aggravating  all  such  as  before  existed  that  arose 
out  of  the  French  Revolution,  and  which  were  followed  by  exten- 
sive Depredations  upon  our  Commerce  by  England,  by  France  & 
by  Spain. 

With  these  Obstacles  to  contend  with,  the  Peace  &  neutrality 
of  the  Nation  were  impartially  asserted  &  maintained,  its  credit 
revived,  its  Capital  enlarged  and  its  Revenue  established.  With 
England  ancient  Controversies  were  satisfactorily  adjusted,  the 
Posts  were  surrendered,  Indian  wars  extinguished,  adequate  Com- 
pensation for  the  Depredations  on  our  Commerce  were  obtained 
and  the  national  faith  redeemed  by  provisions  for  the  settlement 
of  the  Debts.  By  Spain  our  Right  to  the  navigation  of  the  Mis- 
sissippi was  recognized  and  Indemnity  secured  for  ye.  illegal  cap- 
ture of  our  ships.  With  France  a  new  Treaty  was  concluded, 
annulling  her  unjust  Decrees,  granting  us  Security,  so  far  as  the 
faith  of  Nations  may  be  so  considered,  against  their  future  re-es- 
tablishment and  containing  her  Submission  to  the  Act  of  Congress, 

539 


540      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 


which  declared  the  old  Treaties  void  by  reason  of  their  unjust 
violation. 

Thus  our  antient  Controversies  with  foreign  Nations  were  ad- 
justed, and  those  of  a  more  recent  date,  and  which  had  grown  out 
of  a  fierce  and  unexampled  war,  were  likewise  composed,  and  the 
Navigation  &  Commerce  of  the  U.  S.  were  encouraged,  protected 
and  greatly  encreased.  At  Home,  Agriculture,  Manufactures,  the 
Fisheries,  Navigation  and  Commerce  were  encouraged,  protected 
and  greatly  extended.  The  Credit  of  the  Nation  was  revived,  its 
Capital  enlarged  &  its  Revenue  established.  The  public  Arsenals 
were  replenished,  a  naval  force  created,  and  the  American  name 
upheld  and  revered  throughout  the  world. 

In  this  state  of  unexampled  prosperity  at  home,  and  of  peace  & 
reputation  abroad,  our  present  Rulers  were  called  to  the  admin- 
istration of  the  public  Affairs,  and  what  has  been  the  fruit  of  their 
Labours  ?     Let  the  following  Facts  answer: 

Our  Agriculture  is  discouraged, 

The  Fisheries  abandoned, 

Navigation  forbidden, 

Our  Commerce  at  home  restrained, 

Our  Commerce  abroad  cut  off,  & 
Our  Navy  sold,  dismantled,  or  degraded  to  the  service  of  Cutters 
&  Gun  Boats.  The  Revenue  extinguished,  the  course  of  justice 
interrupted,  the  military  power  exalted  above  the  civil,  and  by 
setting  up  a  standard  of  political  Faith,  unknown  to  the  Consti- 
tution, the  nation  is  weakened  by  internal  animosity  and  division, 
at  the  moment  when  it  is  unnecessarily  and  improvidently  exposed 
to  a  War  with  Eng.  Fr.  &  Sp. 

So  great  a  change  accomplished  in  so  short  a  time  is  unexam- 
pled in  the  history  of  weak  &  unfaithful  Administrations,  and  can 
have  proceeded  only  from  the  want  of  that  Capacity,  Impartiality 
&  Prudence,  without  which  no  Government  can  long  preserve  the 
prosperity  or  confidence  of  their  Country.  The  dawn  of  this  Ad- 
ministration promised  an  impartial  and  patriotic  Course,  and  we 
anticipated  a  Continuance  of  the  public  &  private  Enjoyments 
wh.  distinguished  our  Country.  But  their  Expectations  were 
soon  disappointed  by  the  avowal  of  a  System  of  political  persecu- 
tion wh.  has  disturbed  the  union  &  subordination  of  families,  in- 
terrupted the  harmony  of  good  neighbourhood,  and  gone  far  to 


APPENDIX.  54I 


destroy  the  happiness  of  social  Intercourse.  The  conclusion  of 
the  war  in  Europe  in  1801  afforded  a  favourable  opportunity 
to  enter  into  negotiations  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  such 
maritime  Provisions,  as  in  the  event  of  future  wars,  might  secure 
the  navigation  and  Trade  of  the  U.  S.  from  the  repetition  of  the 
injuries  they  had  so  recently  sustained.  This  opportunity  was 
wholly  neglected,  and  the  commercial  and  maritime  Treaty  with 
a  great  naval  power  was  suffered  to  expire  without  a  single  at- 
tempt that  we  ever  heard  of  to  obtain  its  renewal.  In  1803  the 
war  in  Europe  recommenced  and  our  Navigation  became  exposed 
to  interruptions  upon  the  Ocean.  These  served  as  matter  of  inef- 
fectual remonstrance  until  in  1806,  when  France  passed  the  decree 
of  Berlin,  thereby  violating  the  provisions  of  her  Treaty  with  the 
U.  S.,  infringing  the  Law  of  Nations  &  prostrating  the  Rights  of 
all  Neutral  States.  This  Decree  in  substance,  and  almost  in 
letter,  is  the  same  as  that  passed  by  the  Directory  in  1798,  and 
which  the  President  of  the  U.  S.  in  December  following,  in  his 
Speech  to  Congress,  declared  to  be  an  unequivocal  act  of  War, 
which  interest  as  well  as  honour  called  upon  the  Nation  firmly  to 
resist.  Congress  accordingly  proceeded  to  pass  Laws,  dissolving 
the  Treaties  with  France,  prohibiting  all  communication  and  pro- 
viding for  the  equipment  of  a  naval  force  for  the  defence  of  our 
just  Pvights. 

The  Country  cannot  have  forgotten  the  protection  afforded  to 
our  trade  by  these  measures,  so  honourable  to  the  Nation,  meas- 
ures by  which  our  Flag  was  respected  on  every  sea,  and  the  skill 
and  courage  of  our  Officers  &  Seamen  displayed  in  battle  with 
the  ships  of  France.  It  was  in  consequence  of  these  decisive 
acts  that  an  early  communication  was  made  to  our  Government 
of  the  desire  of  France  to  return  to  the  relations  of  Peace  and  the 
authority  of  public  Law  ;  and  the  Convention  which  was  soon 
after  concluded  with  the  person,  who  now  wears  the  Diadem  of 
France,  accomplished  these  important  objects. 

Had  our  Rulers,  after  the  promulgation  of  the  Decree  of 
Berlin,  followed  the  example  of  their  predecessors,  the  English 
Orders  would  not  have  been  issued,  the  embargo  would  not  have 
been  imposed,  nor  should  we  now  have  to  deplore  the  distress 
that  afflicts  the  Country. 

If  these  evils  might  have  been  avoided  by  imitating  the  ex- 


542      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

ample  in  1798,  may  they  not  yet  be  removed  by  retracing  the 
erroneous  steps  which  have  been  taken,  and  by  resorting  now 
to  those  measures  which  then  proved  efficaceous  ?  To  this  end 
let  Congress  repeal  the  Embargo,  annulling  the  Convention  with 
France ;  forbid  all  commercial  intercourse  with  the  French 
Dominions,  arm  our  public  &  private  vessels  again  and  unfurl 
the  Republican  Banner  against  the  Imperial  Standard.  This 
done,  the  English  Orders  would  cease  to  operate,  we  should  hear 
no  more  of  the  unparalleled  folly  of  contending  at  the  same  time 
with  all  the  great  powers  of  Europe  &  our  Trade  to  every  region 
of  the  Globe,  except  France  and  her  Dependencies,  will  again 
revive  &  flourish  ;  our  Agriculture  will  feel  the  influence  of  the 
emancipation  of  trade  and,  hand  in  hand  with  the  general  pros- 
perity, the  Revenue  of  the  Nation  would  once  more  exceed  its 
Expenditures. 

APPENDIX  II. 

THE  PRESIDENT'S  MESSAGE,  NOV.  4,  l8l2. 

It  is  not  to  be  contested,  that  the  President's  Message  taken  in 
just  connection  with  the  whole  of  the  Correspondence  that  accom- 
panies it,  is  of  a  pacific  character.  The  overture  thro'  Mr. 
Russell  was  certainly  placed  on  too  lofty  ground ;  England 
could  not  with  reputation  accede  to  it,  inasmuch  as  it  demanded 
of  her  to  give  up  during  the  Armistice  that  of  which  she  was  in 
possession,  and  concerning  which  alone  the  war  is  now  carried 
on.  Such  a  demand  is  not  conformable  to  the  practice  between 
Nations  in  similar  circumstances. 

The  second  Despatch  from  Mr.  Monroe  to  Mr.  Russell  is 
materially  the  same  as  the  first.  It  varies  the  manner  but  retains 
and  insists  upon  the  substance  of  the  condition  precedent  of  the 
Armistice. 

Lord  Castlereagh's  answer,  declining  to  accede  to  the  proposed 
Armistice,  as  on  various  grounds  absolutely  inadmissible,  an- 
nounces "  that  the  British  Government,  as  heretofore,  is  ready  to 
receive  and  discuss  any  proposition, — professing  to  have  in  view, 
to  check  abuse  in  the  exercise  of  the  practice  of  Impressment,  or 
to  accomplish  by  means  less  liable  to  vexation  the  object  for 
which  Impressment  has  hitherto  been  found  necessary." 


APPENDIX.  543 


The  object  of  Impressment  is  the  recovery  of  British  seamen 
from  foreign  service.  If  effectual  Regulations,  excluding  them 
from  our  service  be  stipulated  by  Treaty,  this  object  is  accom- 
plished, and  the  motive  to  Impressment  is  removed. 

The  refusal  of  the  armistice  proffered  by  Admiral  Warren  was 
proper,  if  for  no  other  reason,  because  the  only  end  of  it  was  to 
give  effect  to  the  revocation  of  the  Orders  in  Council.  The  con- 
cluding paragraph  of  Mr.  Monroe's  reply  to  the  Admiral  is  very 
important.  It  meets  the  overture  made  by  Lord  Castlereagh,  and, 
without  proposing  an  Armistice,  offers  to  proceed  to  the  adjust- 
ment of  the  subject  of  Impressment  by  a  Convention,  in  which 
the  exclusion  of  British  seamen  from  our  service,  shall  be  provided 
for  by  such  Regulations  as  may  be  mutually  deemed  effectual. 

This  is  all  that  England  can  or  does  require.  If  her  seamen 
are  thus  excluded,  she  can  no  longer  under  any  pretence  continue 
the  practice  of  Impressment.  Lord  Castlereagh  declares  that  she 
is  ready  to  receive  and  discuss  any  proposition  professing  to  have 
this  object  in  view.  Mr.  Monroe  declares  that  the  proposition  he 
makes  has  this  object  in  view.  The  President  says  Mr.  Monroe 
is  willing  that  England  should  be  secured  against  the  loss  of  her 
seamen,  and  to  that  end  he  offers  to  negotiate  a  Convention  by 
which  effectual  Regulations  shall  be  agreed  upon  for  their  ex- 
clusion from  the  pub.  and  commercial  service  of  the  U.  S. 

As  no  precise  Regulation  for  the  effecting  this  object  is  in- 
timated, and  as  therefore  every  means  by  which  it  can  be  accom- 
plished may  become  matter  for  discussion,  the  proposition  must 
become  the  subject  of  negotiation.  There  can  be  no  doubt  of 
this  conclusion  ;  and  as  adequate  Regulations  can  be  devised  to 
afford  security  against  the  employment  of  British  seamen,  there  is 
just  ground  to  expect  that  a  definitive  settlement  on  this  point 
will  be  made.  If  Adl.  Warren  be  clothed  with  sufficient  powers, 
it  may  be  done  immediately  ;  if  not,  the  adjustment  must  wait  till 
authority  be  sent  from  England.  Upon  the  whole  the  Orders  in 
Council  in  the  President's  opinion  no  longer  stand  in  the  way  of 
Peace,  as  there  is  no  other  important  difficulty  except  that  of 
Impressment,  and  as  there  is  a  reasonable  probability  that  this 
can  be  adjusted,  with  advantages  to  both  parties,  it  would  seem 
that  the  early  conclusion  of  the  War  may  be  confidently 
expected. 


544      LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

APPENDIX  III. 

ON   IMPRESSMENT   AS   A   CAUSE   OF   WAR. 
(In  J?.  King's  handwriting.) 

Admitting  the  doctrine  that  every  Nation  has  a  right  to  the 
services  of  its  citizens  at  all  times,  and  more  especially  in  time  of 
war — admitting  that  the  right  may  be  enforced  in  all  places  where 
national  jurisdiction  may  be  exercised — admitting  that  the  ocean  is 
such  a  place  ;  it  nevertheless  is  true  that  this  right  must  be  so  exer- 
cised as  that  the  rights  of  others  may  be  secure.  We  are  so  to  use 
our  own  rights  as  not  to  infringe  upon  the  rights  of  another.  This 
is  a  principle  and  a  rule  of  natural  justice,  not  a  law  which  obliges 
because  it  has  been  enacted  by  a  competent  authority,  but  a  law  of 
a  nature  arising  out  of  those  innumerable  relations  and  duties 
which  are  inseparable  from  our  condition.  If  therefore  from  any 
circumstance  one  nation  cannot  exercise  the  right  of  reclaimng 
her  citizens  without  violating  the  rights  of  another  nation,  it  must 
abstain  from  the  exercise  of  such  right.  A  nation  has  a  right 
to  the  service  of  her  people,  but  a  portion  of  them  withdraw  and 
reside  in  a  for.  country  :  the  right  becomes  a  merely  naked  one 
and  cannot  be  exercised  because  in  attempting  to  enforce  it  the 
jurisdiction  or  rights  of  another  nation  wd.  be  violated.  So  upon 
the  ocean — if  from  any  circumstance  it  becomes  difficult  or  im- 
practicable to  distinguish  her  own  citizens  from  the  citizens  of 
another  country  in  whose  employ  they  may  be,  the  right  seems  to 
become  in  like  manner  a  naked  one,  because  it  cannot  be  exer- 
cised without  violating  the  right  of  another  nation.  The  right  of 
one  nation  to  the  service  of  her  citizens  is  not  stronger  than  the 
right  of  another.  If  the  similitude  be  such  that  citizens  of  two 
countries  cannot  be  distinguished,  it  may  be  said  that  the  nation 
employing  such  foreign  citizens  thereby  injures  the  nation  to 
which  they  belong  ;  and  therefore  that  it  should  make  laws  ex- 
cluding from  its  service  the  citizens  of  the  other  ;  it  may  be  added 
in  case  this  is  not  done,  that  the  nation  whose  citizens  withdraw 
from  their  homes,  may  exercise  the  right  to  recover  them,  not- 
withstanding the  injury  which  maybe  done  to  the  nation  employ- 
ing them  by  taking  their  citizens  instead  of  their  own. 

It  is  not  to  be  denied  or  questioned  that  a  nation  may  restrain 


APPENDIX.  545 


their  citizens  from  going  abroad,  and  to  this  end  may  pass  laws 
with  sufficient  penalties  to  prohibit  and  prevent  the  same.  But 
no  nation  is  at  liberty  to  exclude  foreigners.  Every  one  may  re- 
fuse to  them  political  privileges.  The  practice  of  all  times  has 
sanctioned  this  doctrine.  If  therefore  nations  have  a  right  to 
restrain  their  citizens  from  migrating,  but  do  not  enact  laws  to  pre- 
vent the  same,  they  ought  not  to  exercise  their  right  of  recovery 
at  the  expense  of  other  nations. 

Nations  may  forbid  and  restrain  emigrations,  but  they  must  not 
refuse  to  receive  strangers  claiming  refuge.  It  cannot  therefore 
be  reasonable  that  those  who  omit  to  do  what  they  might  have 
done,  shall  ask  redress  for  losses  proceeding  from  their  omission 
from  those  who  have  done  only  what  might  justly  be  done.  A 
nation  has  a  right  to  restrain  emigration,  or  it  has  not  such  a 
right.  If  it  has  no  right  to  do  so,  the  citizens  are  free  to  depart, 
may  be  freely  received  and  adopted  by  another  nation  :  in  which 
case  the  parent  nation  can  have  no  right  to  recall  or  recover  back 
such  emigrant  ;  for  if  it  has  a  right  to  restrain  and  does  not  do  it, 
but  by  its  laws  regulates  the  manner  in  which  the  citizen  may 
depart  or  emigrate,  and  thus  impliedly  consents  to  the  same,  it 
can  have  no  just  ground  of  complaint  against  other  nations  who 
receive  and  employ  their  emigrating  citizens. 

Notwithstanding  these  reflexions  may  fail  to  convince  us  that 
the  conclusion  to  which  they  lead  is  just  and  incontestible,  they 
at  least  give  a  colour  of  justice  to  the  opinions  of  those  who  deny 
the  right  of  recovery  as  exercised  by  England;  they  therefore 
justify  the  U.  S.  in  requiring  England  to  desist  from  the  impress- 
ment of  her  seamen  out  of  American  vessels,  whenever  the  Ameri- 
can Govt,  shall  offer  and  be  ready  by  mutual  consent  to  establish 
such  regulations  as  shall  afford  reasonable  security  against  their 
employment  in  the  American  service. 

Absolute  security  is  probably  unattainable.  Such  provisions 
upon  this  head  as  shall  not  in  their  execution  create  too  unneces- 
sary embarrassment  or  penalties,  to  the  Navigation  and  commerce 
of  the  U.  S.  must  satisfy  England.  As  the  subject  stood  at  the 
breaking  out  of  the  war,  altho'  the  practice  was  injurious,  still 
the  cases  of  impressment  of  American  citizens  were  rare.  Besides 
the  condition  of  the  world  is  a  disordered  one  ;  instead  of  law 
and  the  rights  of  peace,  war  and  violence  everywhere  prevail. 


vol.  v. — 35 


546      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE    OF  RUFUS  KING. 


It  was  too  much  to  expect  that  the  only  peaceful  nation  should 
escape  without  some  share  of  the  general  calamity. 

Perhaps  no  nation  had  stronger  motives  than  the  U.  S.  to  tem- 
porise and  to  continue  the  policy  which  has  so  much  increased 
their  wealth  and  strength.  So  long  as  our  rights,  be  they  what 
they  may,  are  not  relinquished,  they  remain  to  be  asserted  when 
times  and  circumstances  permit.  The  practice  of  impressment 
existed  and  prevailed  in  a  greater  degree  under  the  Presidency 
of  Washington  than  at  any  time  since.  He  remonstrated  against 
it,  but  did  not  think  it  sufficient  cause  of  war.  Neither  was  it  in 
1 812.  But  the  war  is  made  and  the  practice  of  impressment  is 
the  only  remaining  cause  assigned  for  making  the  war.  Is  the 
exercise  of  the  right  of  England  to  search  for  her  seamen  on 
board  our  vessels,  and  to  take  such  of  our  crews  as  her  Officers 
decide  to  belong  to  her,  to  be  submitted  to  ?  Is  a  peace  to  be 
made  without  any  security  in  favor  of  our  own  seamen,  and  are 
we,  explicitly  or  by  silence,  implicitly  to  consent  to  the  Brit, 
practice  of  impressment  from  our  vessels  ? 

Altho'  I  would  not  have  put  the  question  to  the  issue  of  the 
sword,  yet  it  has  been  done  ;  altho'  I  lament  the  want  of  pru- 
dence of  those  who  made  this  great  fault,  the  fault  is  nevertheless 
committed.  The  question  then  is,  what  is  now  to  be  done  ?  One 
nation  has  as  entire  right  to  the  service  of  its  citizens  as  another  ; 
and  neither,  in  recovering  its  own,  may  take  those  of  the  other. 
If  there  has  been  omission  in  not  restraining  emigration,  if  there, 
moreover,  has  been  an  implied  consent  to  such  emigration,  Gr. 
Br.  ought  to  use  great  moderation  in  the  means  she  employs  to 
recover  back  her  emigrants.  Her  right  in  such  case  is  perhaps 
doubtful  ;  other  nations,  whose  interests  may  be  affected  by  her 
course  of  proceeding,  may  look  into  and  examine  the  same,  and 
may  either  oppose  her  practice,  or,  if  from  any  motive  they  be 
disinclined  to  such  opposition,  may  offer  to  enter  into  arrange- 
ments to  adjust  their  reciprocal  rights  or  interests  upon  terms  of 
equity. 

If,  therefore,  the  U.  S.  proposed  to  Eng.  to  devise  and  with 
her  concurrence  to  settle  a  plan  for  the  exclusion  of  her  seamen 
from  our  service,  she,  on  her  part,  is  bound  to  consent  to  it  and 
also  to  agree  to  a  reciprocal  plan  in  our  favor,  and  moreover  to 
abstain  from  impressment  out  of  our  ships.     Admitting  the  right 


APPENDIX.  547 


of  Eng.  to  the  service  of  her  seamen,  we  have  an  equal  right  to 
the  service  of  ours  ;  she  therefore  must  not  violate  our  rights  in 
vindication  of  her  own.  In  case  Eng.  shd.  decline  to  attempt  to 
devise  and  settle  such  a  plan,  the  prosecution  of  the  war  would 
be  unavoidable.* 


APPENDIX  IV. 

R.  king's  course  in  sustaining  the  vigorous  prose- 
cution OF  THE  WAR. 

Although  it  would  seem  to  have  been  of  a  later  date 
than  the  report  of  Mr.  King's  speech,  of  which  an  abstract 
is  given  on  page  338  of  this  volume,  this  paper,  in  his  hand- 
writing, covers  the  ground  of  defense  of  his  course  in  using 
his  influence  to  sustain  the  government  in  a  vigorous  prose- 
cution of  the  war: 

I  may  be  calumniated,  but  I  still  remain  unshaken  in  my  integ- 
rity and  in  my  principles.  I  will  not  say  that  I  never  have  seen 
cause  to  change  any  opinion  that  I  may  have  formed  ;  but  I  will 
say  that  no  such  change  has  ever  been  made  but  in  order  to  con- 
form my  opinions  to  political  principles  wh.  I  had  adopted  and 
which  I  never  have  changed.  Here  I  remain  immoveable.  While 
the  General  Government  pursued  a  course  of  administration  con- 
trary to  those  principles,  which  in  my  conviction  was  adverse  to 
the  welfare,  the  prosperity  and  the  liberties  of  the  Union,  I  op- 
posed the  same.  I  was  in  other  words  in  opposition  ;  but  since 
all  the  great  measures  that  the  Federalists,  the  true  founders  of 
the  Union  and  liberties  of  the  States  and  of  their  citizens  are  ap- 
proved, adopted  and  made  the  rule  of  administering  the  General 
Government,  I  cease  to  be  in  opposition.  I  support  and  applaud 
the  administration,  it  being  in  a  very  great  degree  indifferent  to 
me  who  are  our  Rulers  :  my  chief  and  almost  only  concern  being 
what  are    these   principles  of   administration  and  the  measures 

*  "  If  Great  Br.  will  not  be  satisfied  to  arrange  the  subject  fairly,  so  as  to 
exempt  us  from  the  abuse  of  impressments  out  of  our  vessels,  when  such  secur- 
ity as  is  in  our  power  to  give,  and  such  as  she  ought  to  require  is  given,  then 
we  shall  have  a  cause  of  war,  and  be  united  in  it,  more  worthy  of  the  en- 
ergies of  the  nation." — Pierson's  speech  on  Seaman's  Bill,  1813. 


548      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

which  they  maintain  ?  If  these  meet  my  approbation,  no  personal 
considerations,  no  political  friendships,  no  desire  of  office,  or  of 
distinction  for  myself  or  friends  impede  or  divert  my  best  efforts 
to  promote  the  measures  which  have  received  my  approbation  ; 
because  they  satisfied  my  mind  that  they  were  calculated  and 
adopted  to  promote  the  welfare  and  happiness  of  our  country. 

Who  ever  heard  of  my  aspiring  or  wishing  for  any  employment 
under  the  Fedl.  Govt,  either  for  myself  or  my  connexions  ?  For 
whom  have  I  asked  employment  and  who  that  holds  office  re- 
ceived it  by  my  influence  ? 

Why  then  have  I  supported  the  Genl.  Administration  ?  Merely 
because  I  thought  it  deserving  of  support,  not  for  my  own,  but 
the  public  benefit.  I  disapproved  of  the  war  made  under  the  late 
Presidency  of  Mr.  Madison,  and  it  was  my  earnest  wish  to  bring 
about  an  early  Peace  :  but  the  principles  of  prosecuting  the  war, 
proclaimed  by  the  enemy,  changed  its  character  in  my  eyes  ;  and 
I  resolved  to  go  as  far  as  any  man  in  providing  and  putting  into 
the  hands  of  even  a  weak  administration,  the  means  of  defending 
and  protecting  the  country  agt.  the  desolation,  wh.  was  menaced, 
and  as  far  as  in  their  power  carried  into  effect  by  the  enemy. 

In  this  I  changed  no  opinion.  I  disliked  the  war,  because  it 
was  unnecessary.  I  disapproved  of  those  who  made  it,  because 
they  omitted  to  provide  the  means  of  prosecuting  it  ;  and  thereby 
exposed  the  country  to  the  waste  and  desolation  of  the  enemy  ; 
but  when  the  efforts  for  peace  were  rejected  and  a  barbarous 
warfare  proclaimed  agt.  us,  it  became  the  duty  of  all  to  resist,  and 
thereby  preserve  the  country  from  ruin.  I  opposed  the  war  be- 
cause for  the  cause  and  the  want  of  preparation,  I  considered  it  un- 
necessary and  dangerous,  and  I  afterwards  supported  it,  because 
without  resistance,  we  should  have  been  laid  waste  and  the  Union 
destroyed.* 

*  "  In  i3i3,  he  was  again  chosen  by  the  Legislature  of  New  York,  a  Senator  of 
the  United  States.  The  nation  was,  at  that  time,  at  war  with  Great  Britain, 
and  it  ought  to  be  recorded  to  the  eternal  honour  of  Mr.  King,  that  he  was  one 
of  those  whom  no  habit  of  opposition  to  administration,  and  no  arbitrary  clas- 
sification or  supposed  claims  of  party  could  induce  to  a  forgetfulness  that  the 
United  States  was  his  country  ;  and  that  the  rights  and  honour  of  that  country 
he  ought  to  support  and  maintain.  It  has  been  observed  that  the  conduct  the 
enemy  exhibited  in  their  destruction  of  Washington,  tended  to  unite  all  parties 
in  America.     The  speech  of  Mr.  King  in  the  Senate,  on  this  occasion,  while  it 


APPENDIX.  549 


APPENDIX   V. 

STATUS  OF  THE  INDIANS  AFTER  THE  WAR  OF  1812-15. 

Among  the  propositions  on  the  part  of  the  British  Com- 
missioners at  the  first  conference  with  those  of  the  United 
States  relative  to  a  Treaty  of  Peace  was  one  *  that  "  the 
Indian  nations  should  be  included  in  the  pacification, 
and  a  definite  boundary  be  settled  for  their  territory." 
The  answer  to  this  was  "that  the  proposition  to  define,  in 
the  treaty  between  the  United  States  and  Great  Britain,  the 
boundary  of  the  Indian  possessions  within  our  own  terri- 
tories was  new  and  without  example."  The  British  Com- 
missioners asserted  that  "the  Indians  must  in  some  sort  be 
considered  as  an  independent  people,"  as  both  countries 
had  made  treaties  with  them  ;  and  the  answer  was  that 
there  was  an  obvious  and  important  difference  between 
treaties  with  them  "  in  our  territory,  and  such  a  treaty 
as  was  proposed  to  be  made  respecting  them  with  a  foreign 
power." 

After  stating  what  had  been  the  liberal  and  humane  policy 
of  the  United  States,  which  had  enabled  them  to  live  in 
peace  with  the  Indians,  the  American  Commissioners  asked 
"  whether  the  pacification  and  the  settlement  of  a  boundary 
for  them  were  both  made  a  sine  qua  non  ?  Which  was  an- 
swered in  the  affirmative."  To  further  questions  one  of 
the  British  Commissioners  said  "  that  the  Indians  would 
not  be  restricted  from  selling  their  lands,  but  that  the 
United  States  would  be  restricted  from  purchasing  them." 
Another  stated  "  that  it  was  intended  that  the  Indian  terri- 
tories should  be  a  barrier  between  the  British  dominions  and 
those  of  the  United  States;  that  both  Great  Britain  and  the 

may  compare  favourably  with  any  of  his  former  efforts,  in  eloquence,  has  the 
rare  and  enviable  distinction  of  being  approved  and  applauded  for  its  senti- 
ments also,  by  the  entire  Nation." — W.  Coleman,  in  "  Sketch  of  Rufus  King," 
Delaplaine's  Repository,  1816,  v.  i.,  p.  184. 

[The  Editor  has  not  been  able  to  find  any  report  of  the  speech  above  alluded 
to,  although  similar  testimony  as  to  its  character  is  given  in  other  notices.] 

*  Annals  of  Congress,  18 14-15,  pp.  13 14  tt  seq. 


5$0      LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

United  States  should  be  restricted  from  purchasing  their 
lands;  but  that  the  Indians  might  sell  them  to  a  third 
party."  This  was  considered  by  the  American  Commis- 
sioners as  "  nothing  less  than  a  demand  of  the  absolute 
cession  of  the  rights  both  of  sovereignty  and  of  soil  "  ;  and  as 
they  stated  in  their  despatch,  it  was  deemed  "that  any  dis- 
cussion would  be  unprofitable  until  it  was  admitted  as  a  basis." 

At  future  conferences  the  British  Commissioners  reiterated 
their  demand  ;  but  on  the  24th  of  August  the  Americans  an- 
swered that  so  far  from  being  instructed  or  authorized  to  yield 
"  both  the  rights  of  sovereignty  and  soil  over  near  one  third 
of  the  territorial  dominions  of  the  United  States  to  a  number 
of  Indians,  not  exceeding  twenty  thousand  .  .  .  they  as- 
sure the  British  Commissioners  that  any  arrangement  for 
that  purpose  would  be  instantaneously  rejected  by  their  Gov- 
ernment." It  is  not  necessary  to  extend  this  examination 
further,  as  it  was  ably  argued  by  the  American  Commis- 
sioners, and  resulted  in  the  abandonment  of  the  demand 
made ;  a  clause,  No.  IX.,  in  the  Treaty  of  Peace,  pledges  both 
countries  immediately  after  the  ratification  of  the  treaty  to 
engage  to  put  an  end  to  hostilities  with  the  Indians  with 
whom  they  may  be  at  war,  and  to  restore  to  them  the  posses- 
sions, rights  and  privileges  they  had  enjoyed  or  been  entitled 
to  before  hostilities  commenced. 

Mr.  King,  as  it  is  supposed  in  a  speech  upon  the  Treaty, 
carefully  examines  and  sets  aside  the  claim  made  by  the 
British  Commissioners,  as  new  and  erroneous : 

The  required  arrangement  upon  the  subject  of  Indian  pacifi- 
cation and  Indian  Boundary  suggests  an  enquiry  of  what  has 
been  the  practice  in  like  cases  between  other  nations.  When  the 
territorial  limits  are  settled,  as  those  of  the  U.  S.  and  G.  B.  are, 
it  is  believed  that  no  instance  of  a  like  foreign  interference  in  be- 
half of  persons,  in  the  situation  of  the  Indians,  has  occurred.  No 
principle  seems  better  understood,  or  more  universally  admitted 
than  that  the  Dominion  or  Sovereignty  of  every  nation  is  exclu- 
sive and  co-extensive  with  its  Territory.  All  within  such  limits 
whether  men  or  things  being  subject  to  such  Dominion. 


APPENDIX.  551 


Thus  the  Indian  Tribes  within  the  U.  S.  by  different  Compacts 
or  Conventions  have  all  admitted  themselves  to  be  under  the 
Dominion  of  the  U.  S.  It  is  true  that  they  are  included  within, 
not  subject  to  their  ordinary  Jurisdiction,  having  their  own  laws, 
customs  and  government,  which  are  acknowledged  and  allowed 
by  the  U.  S.  It  is  also  true,  that,  according  to  these  privi- 
leges, they  may  pass  out  of  the  U.  S.  into  the  territories  of  the 
neighbouring  powers,  and  may  allow  other  Indians  of  remote 
tribes  to  come  into  their  cantons  and  hold  intercourse  with  them. 
But  their  subordination  is  such  that  they  may  not  enter  into 
Conventions  with  the  sovereign  of  a  neighbouring  territory  ;  and 
it  is  an  infringement  of  the  Sovereignty  of  the  U.  S.  for  another 
sovereign  to  form  Compacts  or  Conventions  with  them. 

No  such  interference  is  known  to  have  occurred.  When  France 
possessed  Canada,  and  England  the  U.  S.,  they  made  war  and 
peace  without  stipulations  concerning  the  Indians — except  that 
in  the  Treaty  of  Utrecht,  provision  is  made  by  the  XV  Article 
thereof,  that  the  Indians  might  pass  and  repass  from  the  territory 
of  one  to  that  of  the  other — France  engaging  not  to  molest  the  5. 
cantons  of  Indians,  subject  to  the  Dominion  of  G.  £.,  nor  other 
nations  of  America  who  are  friends  to  the  same. 

It  may  be  true  that  the  treatment  of  the  Indians  by  the  U.  S. 
is  inequitable  and  injurious  as  well  to  them,  as  to  the  character 
of  the  U.  S.  ;  but  does  this  give  a  right  to  G.  B.  or  any  other  for- 
eign nation  to  interfere  ?  Will  not  the  sovereignty  of  the  U.  S. 
exclude  such  interference  ?  They  are  responsible  to  the  tribunal 
of  public  opinion,  and  their  reputation  will  be  affected  by  this  as 
by  any  other  act  of  Injustice  ;  but  they  are  the  sole  keepers  of 
their  own  reputation  and  rights,  and  from  the  very  nature  of 
sovereignty  are  not  accountable  to  others. 

The  Spaniards  wasted  the  population  of  their  American  Terri- 
tories. The  English  have  overrun  and  destroyed  as  well  the 
governments  as  the  inhabitants  of  the  E.  Indies.  The  Caribbee 
Islands,  in  modern  times,  have  been  some  of  them  depopulated 
and  the  spared  remnant  of  the  Caribs,  but  a  few  years  since, 
were  removed  entirely  from  the  Islands  on  which  they  were  born. 

The  Settlement  of  the  Colonies,  now  the  U.  S.,  was  by  gradual 
encroachment  upon  the  Indians,  who  by  war  and  other  causes 
arising  from  the  society  of  the  whites,  have  been,  from  numerous 


552      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

and  populous  tribes  inhabiting  the  whole  maritime  frontier  of 
the  U.  S.,  driven  back  during  the  colonial  Govt,  of  G.  B.,  in  like 
manner  as  they  have  since  been  obliged  still  further  to  retire  by 
the  U.  S.  Much  of  hardship,  of  injustice,  and  not  unfrequently 
of  cruelty  has  been  in  this  way  inflicted  upon  persons  in  the 
circumstances  of  the  Indians  actually  within  the  U.  S. 

But  no  foreign  nation  has  ever  claimed  to  interfere  in  favor  of 
the  Indians  of  So.  America,  or  of  those  of  the  E.  Indies,  or  of  the 
inhabitants  of  the  W.  India  Islands,  or  of  the  American  Indians, 
while  the  territory  of  the  U.  S.  belonged  to  G.  B.  or  that  of 
Canada  to  France.  Why  should  G.  B.  now  insert  herself  into 
affairs,  for  the  good  or  ill  direction  whereof,  she  is  in  no  manner 
responsible,  and  over  which  we  have  the  exclusive  power  of  de- 
cision ?  With  what  right  could  she  make  an  alliance  with  Indians, 
who  were  under  the  dominion  of  the  U.  S. — or  how  does  she 
derive  a  right  to  enter  into  stipulations  with  the  U.  S.  respecting 
them  ?  The  Indians  and  the  U.  S.  may,  as  they  before  have 
done,  settle  their  own  concerns  ;  and  it  imports  the  safety  of  the 
U.  S.  to  exclude  the  interference  of  G.  B. — Indians  are  tiot  citizens 
of  the  U.  S.,  but  perpetual  inhabitants  living  in  Tribes  independent 
of  each  other,  and  possessing  by  occupancy  title  to  the  soil  where 
they  inhabit.  Those  natives  west  of  the  Mississippi  are  now,  as 
they  probably  were  at  the  discovery  by  Columbus,  independent 
Tribes. 

Discovery  gave  no  dominion  over  the  Indians,  except  in  cases 
of  Conquest ;  for  the  sake  of  peace  among  the  discoverers,  it  was 
established  as  a  principle  or  Law  between  themselves,  that  Dis- 
covery gave  title  to  the  country  discovered,  not  against  the 
native  inhabitants,  but  against  each  other — a  title  capable  of 
being  consummated  by  possession.  This  title  gave  to  the  re- 
spective discoverers,  the  exclusive  right  to  acquire  the  soil  occu- 
pied by  the  natives  and  of  establishing  settlements  upon  it. 

As  between  the  discoverers  and  the  natives,  the  relations 
between  them  remained  to  be  regulated  by  themselves.  The  his- 
tory of  the  Eng.  discoverers,  demonstrates  that  in  regulating  the 
relations  between  them  and  the  native  Tribes,  the  rights  of  the 
primitive  Inhabitants  were  not  overlooked,  tho'  they  were  some- 
what impaired  ;  they  were  considered  to  be  the  rightful  occupants 
of  the  soil,  with  a  just  claim  to  retain  and  use  the  same,  according  to 


APPENDIX.  553 


their  own  discretion.  But  their  right  to  the  soil,  as  independent 
nations,  was  diminished  by  the  denial  to  the  natives  the  power  to 
dispose  of  the  soil  at  will  to  whomsoever  they  pleased  ;  it  being 
assumed  that  in  virtue  of  the  Discovery,  the  discoverers  acquired 
a  title  to  the  soil,  subject  to  the  Indian  right  of  occupancy. 

This  principle  seems  to  have  been  recognized  throughout 
America  from  the  earliest  Discovery.  Eng.  derives  her  title  by 
discovery  from  the  Cabots,  who  discovered  the  continent  of  N. 
A.,  as  far  South  as  Virginia. 

The  country  west  of  the  Mississippi  ceded  by  G.  B.  to  France  ; 
of  France  south  of  the  actual  boundary  of  Canada  ceded  by  Fr. 
to  G.  B. — after  a  cession  by  France  to  Spain  and  a  retrocession 
by  Spain  to  France  of  the  territory  west  of  the  Mississippi  ;  the 
latter  power  ceded  the  same  to  the  U.  S.,  who  hold  that  country 
in  full  right,  subject  only  to  the  Indian  right  of  occupancy,  the 
exclusive  power  to  extinguish  which  is  vested  in  the  U.  S. 

They  hold  that  Discovery  gives  them  the  exclusive  right  to 
extinguish  the  Indian  title  of  occupancy  by  purchase  or  conquest 
— possessing  such  a  degree  of  Sovereignty,  as  the  rights  of  the 
natives  will  allow  them  to  exercise,  the  U.  S.  have  an  absolute 
right  to  the  soil,  subject  to  the  Indian  right  of  occupancy,  and  also 
the  absolute  right  to  extinguish  that  right.  This  division  includes 
a  complete  title  to  the  soil  either  in  the  U.  S.  or  the  Indians.  The 
sovereignty  of  the  U.  S.  is  therefore  limited  not  absolute. 

The  claims  of  the  U.  S.  have  been  established  as  far  west  as 
the  Mississippi  by  the  sword — beyond  we  have  had  no  war  and 
few  treaties.  The  limits  of  Conquest  are  prescribed  by  the 
conqueror  ;  but  humanity  and  justice  call  upon  us  to  prescribe 
limits  to  conquest. 


APPENDIX  VI. 

NATIONAL  BANK   OF    THE   UNITED    STATES   OF   AMERICA. 

Mr.  King's  Speech  upon  the  President 's  Veto. 

The  proposed  bank  would  have  a  capital  of  thirty  five  millions 
of  dollars,  composed  of  five  millions  specie,  ten  millions  six  per 
cent,  stock,  funded  since  the  commencement  of  the  war,  fifteen 


554      LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

millions  Treasury  notes  and  five  millions  to  be  held  by  the  United 
States  and  paid  for  in  four  per  cent,  stock,  to  be  created  for  this 
purpose. 

The  President  of  the  United  States  objects  to  the  bill. 

ist.  Because  the  amount  of  stock  to  be  subscribed  to  the  bank 
is  insufficient  to  raise  and  sustain  the  public  credit. 

2nd.  Because  no  adequate  public  advantage  will  arise  from  the 
subscription  of  Treasury  Notes. 

3rd.  Because  the  full  aid  and  cooperation  of  the  bank,  in  the 
furnishing  of  permanent  aid  by  temporary  loans,  is  not  secured 
to  Government  during  the  war. 

4th.  Because  the  bank  cannot  be  relied  upon  during  the  war 
to  provide  a  circulating  medium. 

How  the  public  credit  could  be  raised  and  sustained  by  the 
transfer  of  any  sum  of  war  stock  from  one  citizen  to  another,  or 
from  the  present  holders  to  the  proposed  bank,  is  not  obvious. 
If  the  war  stock  be  taken  at  fifty  millions,  a  demand  for  one 
fifth,  or  ten  millions  of  it,  to  be  united  to  the  bank  capital, 
would  have  a  temporary  influence  upon  the  stock  market ;  and  if 
any  except  stockholders  become  subscribers  to  the  bank,  this  in- 
crease of  price  would  be  advantageous  to  the  sellers.  But  the 
advantage  would  be  a  private  one,  no  part  of  which  would  ac- 
crue to  the  Government.  As  soon  as  the  requisite  sum  is  transferred 
to  the  bank,  the  stock  will  be  precisely  as  valuable,  and  no  more 
so,  as  it  was  before  such  transfer.  Government  will  be  obliged 
to  make  the  same  annual  provision  to  pay  the  interest  after  the 
transfer  as  before.  The  public  credit,  which,  after  employing  all 
the  cabalistic  words  and  manoeuvres  of  stock  jobbers,  always  did 
and  always  will  depend  upon  the  ways  and  means,  or  the  ability 
of  Government  to  fulfil  its  engagements,  or  to  pay  its  debts  in 
equivalent  values,  will  be  little  if  at  all  affected  by  a  transfer  of 
stock  from  individuals  to  a  corporation  within  the  country, 
especially  as  these  transfers  are  to  be  made  at  different  times  and 
at  periods  of  considerable  distance  from  each  other.  The  same 
debt  would  continue  to  exist,  yielding  the  same  dividends  and 
representing  the  same  sum  of  American  capital  as  it  now  rep- 
resents. No  addition  to  domestic  capital  would  be  made  by  this 
operation.  If  it  releases  the  capital  of  A.  who  sells  the  stock, 
it  will  employ  the  capital  of  B.  who  purchases  it ;  and  the  only 


APPENDIX.  555 


difference  will  be  that  A.  becomes  the  owner  of  a  disposable 
capital,  which  before  belonged  to  B. 

The  raising  of  the  price  of  stocks  may  prove  beneficial  to  a 
Government  in  two  ways,  if  it  wants  to  borrow  ;  the  permanent, 
not  the  casual  raising  of  the  price  of  the  stock  market,  will  enable 
it  to  sell  new  stock  dearer.  If  foreigners  come  into  the  market, 
the  raising  of  the  price  increases  the  money  which  must  be 
brought  into  the  country  to  purchase  stocks.  It  was  to  meet  the 
latter  case,  that  an  operation  was  undertaken  by  Colonel  Hamil- 
ton which  proved  to  a  limited  degree  advantageous.  But  although 
Government  desires  to  obtain  loans,  it  is  not  probable  that  any 
permanent  application  of  the  public  credit  would  have  been 
produced  by  the  transfer  of  a  given  sum  of  the  war  stock  to  the 
bank,  especially  when  the  deep  wound  given  to  the  public  credit 
by  the  extraordinary  terms  upon  which  the  late  loans  were 
negotiated  is  considered.  More  favorable  times  ;  a  revival  of 
industry  and  of  commerce  ;  an  improved  state  of  the  finances, 
with  a  public  income  commensurate  to  the  public  expenditures, 
are  necessary  to  the  revival  and  re-establishment  of  the  public 
credit. 

The  discrimination  which  is  proposed  to  be  carried  still  further 
than  the  bill  carries  it,  in  favor  of  the  war  stock,  is  impolitic. 
Were  Government  at  liberty,  for  its  own  advantage  (a  case  not 
now  existing)  to  make  such  discrimination,  the  holders  of  war 
stock  ought  not  now  to  desire  it  in  their  favor,  as  the  example 
might  hereafter  be  cited  as  a  precedent  against  them,  and  in  favor 
of  the  now  postponed  though  equally  meritorious  stock  of  the 
Revolution. 

There  should  be  no  discrimination  ;  the  public  faith  knows  no 
favorites  ;  the  holders  of  the  war  stock  ought  not  to  contend  for 
preferences.  They  ought  to  be  satisfied  that  the  public  faith, 
whether  formerly  or  recently  pledged,  is  equally  precious  to  an 
honest  Government.  If  there  still  remains  a  doubt  concerning 
the  correctness  of  the  first  objection  contained  in  the  President's 
message,  can  there  be  any  respecting  that  of  the  second  ?  Will 
no  adequate  public  advantage  arise  from  the  subscription  of 
Treasury  notes  ? 

Public  credit  as  has  already  been  observed  depends  on  the 
ability  and  inclination  of  the  Government  to  fulfil  its  contracts. 


556      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

Treasury  notes  are  contracts,  promising  to  their  holders,  the  sums, 
and  at  the  times,  mentioned  in  them.  The  bill  provides  that 
fifteen  millions  of  dollars,  in  these  notes,  shall  be  receivable  as  a 
part  of  the  bank  capital,  and  when  received  shall  be  converted 
into  fifteen  millions  of  six  per  cent,  stock.  If  not  received  by 
the  bank  and  converted  into  six  percent,  stock,  this  sum  of  fifteen 
millions  of  Treasury  notes  will  fall  due,  and  must  be  paid  off,  in 
the  beginning  of  the  next  year.  To  this  end  money  must  be 
borrowed  ;  and  assuming  the  rates  of  the  last  loans,  to  borrow 
fifteen  millions  of  dollars  Government  must  give  eighteen  millions 
and  three  quarters  of  a  million  of  dollars  of  six  per  cent,  stock. 
So  that  the  difference  between  paying  them  off,  or  allowing  them 
to  be  subscribed  to  the  bank,  would  be  a  clear  saving  to  the 
public  three  millions  seven  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  dollars  six 
per  cent,  stock. 

Moreover  by  this  conversion  of  Treasury  notes  into  an  equal 
sum  of  six  per  cent,  stock,  room  would  be  made  for  a  further 
loan  of  Treasury  notes — the  finances  would  also  be  relieved  by 
releasing  the  Government  from  the  obligation  to  pay  off  their 
notes  at  a  fixed  day,  and  the  ways  &  means,  whether  from  loans 
or  taxes,  to  the  amount  of  fifteen  millions,  which  would  have 
been  required  for  this  purpose,  would  be  left  at  the  disposition  of 
Government.  Is  then  the  objection  correct  which  alleges  that  no 
public  advantage  will  arise  from  the  subscription  of  Treasury 
notes  to  the  bank  ? 

The  third  objection  alleges  that  the  bank  is  under  no  legal 
compulsion  to  afford  that  full  aid  and  co-operation  to  Govern- 
ment, which  the  Message  declares  to  be  both  indispensable  and 
necessary  in  the  administration  of  the  finances,  it  being  neither 
obliged  to  make  temporary  nor  permanent  loans  to  Government. 

Temporary  loans  to  Government,  in  advance  or  anticipation  of 
the  taxes,  are  without  doubt  among  the  chief  advantages  that 
Government  derives  from  a  National  Bank  ;  as  portions  of  the 
annual  expenditure  are  required  to  be  made  before  the  taxes  are 
collected,  the  bank,  with  mutual  advantage  to  itself  and  the  Gov- 
ernment, is  commonly  able  to  make  the  advances  wanted  for  this 
purpose,  waiting  for  the  repayment  until  the  taxes  come  in.  In 
ordinary  times  every  bank  of  circulation  finds  its  interest  in  afford- 
ing to  the  Government  this  accommodation  ;  which  is  made  pur- 


APPENDIX.  557 


suant  to  the  correct  maxims  of  commercial  credit,  being  a  loan 
made  upon  "  good  pledges,"  or  undoubted  security,  which  at  a 
fixed,  and  no  distant,  period  will  repay  it. 

But  it  must  be  evident  that  such  advances  in  anticipation  of 
the  taxes,  and  which  are  to  be  repaid  by  them,  can  be  made  only 
upon  the  faith  that  the  currency  in  which  the  taxes  are  paid  will 
be  of  equal  value  with  that  in  which  the  bank  made  its  advance. 
If,  as  in  the  instance  of  this  bank,  its  notes  are  convertible  into 
specie,  and  the  taxes  are  payable  either  in  them  or  a  Government 
paper,  which  is  at  a  discount,  no  one  will  suppose  that  the  bank 
can,  in  such  case,  make  advances  to  the  Government,  and  receive 
in  payment  thereof  the  depreciated  paper  in  which  the  taxes  are 
paid. 

If  the  bill  pass,  the  bank  must  redeem  its  notes  with  cash  ; 
the  taxes  will  be  receivable  in  bank  notes  or  Treasury  notes  ;  the 
latter  being  at  a  discount,  the  taxes  will  be  paid  in  them.  Ought 
any  one  to  expect  that  the  bank  will  advance  to  Government  a 
million  of  dollars  in  its  notes,  as  an  anticipation  of  the  land  tax, 
and  receive  in  payment  a  million  of  dollars  in  Treasury  notes, 
which  may  be  at  a  discount  of  ten  or  fifteen  per  cent.  ?  Is  it  not 
plain  that,  instead  of  receiving  compensation  for  the  loan,  the 
bank  would  in  such  case  suffer  a  positive  loss  equal  to  the  depre- 
ciation of  the  Treasury  notes  ?  It  results  that  neither  this  bank, 
nor  any  other,  whose  notes  are  of  greater  value  as  a  currency,  than 
Treasury  notes,  can  make  advances  in  anticipation  of  taxes,  pay- 
able in  Treasury  notes. 

The  objection,  therefore,  against  the  bank  amounts  to  this,  that 
it  cannot  do  what  can  only  be  done  by  a  bank  which  is  released 
from  those  indispensable  restraints,  without  which  no  bank  can 
with  safety  be  established. 

This  objection  goes  further,  and  urges  the  rejection  of  the  bill 
because  the  bank  is  not  obliged  to  make  permanent  loans  to  Gov- 
ernment. No  bank  doing  business,  upon  securities  of  short  dates, 
can  make  permanent  loans,  and  all  banks  of  circulation  are 
obliged  to  require  such  securities.  If  any  exception  to  this  rule 
exists,  it  can  only  be  for  moderate  sums.  Banks,  acting  upon  the 
principle,  that  cash  advance  must  be  upon  a  security  or  pledge, 
which,  at  a  short  date,  enables  the  bank  to  recall  its  advance,  are 
called  commercial  banks.     Those  which  make  loans  of  long  dura- 


558      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 


tion,  or  of  a  permanent  character,  do  so  with  a  reliance  solely  upon 
the  public  credit ;  and  without  the  specific  pledge,  demanded  by- 
banks  of  circulation,  and  which  enable  them  to  recover  their 
money,  in  all  cases  of  failure.  These  are  called  financial  or  gov- 
ernmental banks.  So  long  as  banks  confine  their  business, 
whether  with  Governments  or  with  individuals,  to  the  maxims  of 
commercial  credit,  receiving  for  their  advances  notes  and  bills  of 
undoubted  credit,  and  payable  at  early  periods,  or  pledges  of  spe- 
cific funds  or  effects— so  long  are  they  of  advantage  to  Govern- 
ments, as  well  as  to  individuals  employed  in  any  business  requiring 
the  aid  of  credit. 

But  all  experience  has  proved,  and  the  examples  are  numerous 
throughout  Europe,  and,  as  is  believed  without  a  single  exception, 
that  whenever  banks  become  what  is  called  financial  banks,  with- 
out making  permanent  loans  upon  the  mere  pledge  of  the  public 
faith,  when  they  become  the  mints  employed  by  Governments  to 
fabricate  paper  to  such  amounts  as  often,  and  for  such  periods, 
as  their  wants  frequently  recurring,  and  always  urgent,  demand, 
they  never  fail  to  accomplish  an  extensive  revolution  in  personal 
property,  sometimes  produce  the  abolition  of  debts,  and  after 
preying  upon  the  credulous  and  unprotected,  end  in  their  own,  and 
the  nation's  bankruptcy. 

It  has  been  supposed  that  the  Bank  of  England  is  a  financial 
bank,  and  an  exception  from  this  conclusion  ;  it  would  require  time 
and  detail  to  give  a  correct  idea  of  the  operations  of  this  bank  ; 
all  that  will  now  be  said  in  reply  to  this  suggestion  is,  that  who- 
ever takes  the  requisite  pains  to  understand  the  origin,  progress, 
maxims  and  manner  of  conducting  the  business  of  the  Bank  of 
England,  whether  with  Government  or  individuals,  will  be  satis- 
fied that  it  transacts  its  business  strictly  upon  the  principles  and 
rules  of  commercial  credit ;  and  that  because  it  does  so,  and  for 
that  reason  only,  it  has  been  enabled  to  afford  the  aid,  which  it 
has  done  to  the  public,  private  and  commercial  credit  of  the 
nation. 

It  would  therefore  seem  that  it  is  no  sufficient  objection  to  this 
bill  that  it  does  not  oblige  the  bank  to  make  large  loans  to  the 
Government  ;  since  to  compel  a  bank  to  make  such  loans,  upon 
the  pledge  of  the  public  faith,  or  upon  depreciated  public  securi- 
ties, especially  when  the  bank  is  relieved  from  the  obligation  to 


APPENDIX.  559 


make  specie  payments,  would  be  to  require  it  to  repeat  the  ex- 
periment so  often  made  in  different  forms,  both  at  home  and 
abroad,  which  has  everywhere  and  always  failed,  and  which  en- 
lightened economists  will  all  unite  to  condemn. 

Lastly  it  is  objected  that  the  bank  cannot  be  relied  upon  during 
the  war  to  provide  a  circulating  medium.  No  bank,  which  is 
obliged  to  redeem  its  notes  in  specie,  can  in  the  present  state  of 
commerce,  credit  and  alarm,  issue  the  same  beyond  a  very  limited 
sum. 

If  to  the  distrust  which  the  war  and  a  real  or  supposed  scarcity 
of  specie  create,  be  united  an  unusual  demand  for  specie  to  be 
hoarded,  or  sent  abroad  for  security  or  to  compensate  unfavorable 
balances  of  trade,  in  lieu  of  the  produce  usually  exported  for  this 
purpose,  and  if  at  the  same  time  a  considerable  depreciation  of  the 
public  credit  takes  place,  a  case  will  exist  in  which  banks  of  cir- 
culation are  reduced  to  the  necessity  of  either  a  total  suspension 
of  business,  or  such  an  abridgment  of  it,  as  to  render  them  in- 
capable of  circulating  their  notes  in  quantities  commensurate  to 
the  public  demands. 

The  objection,  therefore,  is  not  against  the  structure  of  the 
bank,  but  against  the  condition  of  the  country,  and  the  state  of 
the  public  credit,  which  may  compel  the  bank  to  curtail  its  circu- 
lation. 

In  effect  the  objection  amounts  to  the  confession  that  no  bank 
which  confines  its  business  to  the  only  safe  and  practical  test  of  a 
paper  circulation  will,  or  can,  afford  important  aid  in  the  furnish- 
ing a  circulating  medium  in  times  and  circumstances  like  the 
present  ;  that  no  bank,  except  one  which  is  released  from  the 
obligation  to  pay  its  notes  in  specie,  can  now  afford  a  circulating 
medium  ;  in  a  word  that  none  but  a  bank  which  could  circulate 
a  depreciated  currency  and  which  it  would  be  dangerous  to  create, 
ought  now  to  be  established. 

It  might  suffice  to  have  shown  that  the  President's  objections 
ought  not  to  prevent  this  bill  from  becoming  a  law  ;  but  a  few 
words  may  be  added  concerning  the  bill.  The  amount  of  the  capi- 
tal of  the  bank  has  already  been  mentioned.  Its  duties  and  gen- 
eral provisions  are  conformable  to  those  of  the  late  Bank  of  the 
United  States  ;  they  have  had  a  fair  trial  and  been  approved  ; 
whatever  that  bank  would  have  done,  this  would  be  able  to  do  ; 


560      LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 


and  advantages  such  as  it  afforded  to  Government  in  the  manage- 
ment of  the  finances,  this  bank  would  in  due  time  be  equally  or 
more  capable  of  affording. 

It  has  not  been  contended  that  at  this  time,  owing  to  the  condi- 
tion of  the  finances  and  credit  of  the  United  States,  as  well  as  to 
the  general  stagnation  of  trade,  and  the  distrust  of  every  kind  of 
credit,  any  safe  bank  that  might  now  be  established,  could  afford 
to  Government,  or  to  individuals,  much  or  important  assistance 
by  loans,  even  of  a  temporary  kind. 

But  the  agency  of  this  bank  would  now  be  of  service  to  Gov- 
ernment ;  whatever  it  should  be  able  to  do  would  be  well  done. 
Its  operations  would  be  all  solid  and  of  standard  character  ;  its 
business  must  be  limited,  but  it  would  be  safe  and  exemplary  ; 
and  with  regard  to  every  other  moneyed  institution,  conducting 
its  affairs  honestly,  it  would  cherish  and  sustain  it. 

Moreover,  by  the  establishment  of  this  bank  upon  sound  and 
improved  maxims,  although  it  may  not  now  do  what  no  safe 
bank  can  do — much  good — it  will  do  no  injury.  It  will  not  con- 
tribute still  further  to  depreciate  public  and  private  credit  ;  and 
during  the  time  of  its  charter,  it  will  prevent,  a  circumstance 
worth  much,  the  establishment  of  a  bank  upon  false  and  dangerous 
principles.  On  the  return  of  peace,  the  agency  and  influence  of 
this  bank  will  become  invaluable  in  the  recovery  and  establish- 
ment of  the  credit  and  finances  of  the  nation. 

For  these  reasons  which  had  their  influence  in  the  passage  of 
the  bill  by  the  Congress,  and  the  force  of  which  remains  not  only 
undiminished,  but  the  latter  of  them  is  increased  by  the  objec- 
tions made  by  the  President,  it  is  earnestly  to  be  wished,  although 
scarcely  to  be  hoped,  that  the  bill  may  become  a  law. 

The  concluding  paragraph  of  the  Message  of  the  President  is 
incomparably  the  most  important.  It  is  this  which  opens  and  in- 
terprets the  object  desired  to  be  attained  by  the  rejection  of  this 
bill.  Congress  are  here  admonished  by  the  President  to  make 
haste  to  "  substitute  "  (in  lieu  of  the  bill)  "  a  more  commensurate 
and  certain  provision  for  the  public  exigencies."  The  President 
of  the  United  States,  after  alluding  to  the  exigent  and  perilous 
condition  of  the  country,  after  insinuating  to  Congress  in  lan- 
guage not  to  be  misunderstood,  that  the  resources  of  the  Treas- 
ury were  exhausted,  that  extraordinary  succor  from  loans  was  no 


APPENDIX.  561 


longer  attainable,  that  a  bank  created  upon  safe  and  approved 
principles  could  afford  no  public  assistance,  plainly  intimates 
that  paper  money,  and  only  paper  money,  will,  or  can,  assist  the 
nation  in  the  further  prosecution  of  the  war.  If  this  be  so,  if  by 
the  neglect  and  mismanagement  of  the  finances  and  profusion 
in  the  public  expenditures,  the  country  is  already  reduced  to  this 
situation,  and  the  President  announces  the  same  to  Congress, 
will  they  prove  themselves  the  faithful  friends  of  the  people,  un- 
less they  reasonably  apprize  them  of  the  fact,  however  humiliat- 
ing ?  If  paper  money  be  necessary,  avow  it,  prepare  it,  issue  it ; 
but  under  every  caution  and  guard  which  can  be  devised  to  miti- 
gate its  evils.  All  experience,  public  and  personal,  demonstrates 
that  every  object  is  attained  with  more  certainty  and  greater  ad- 
vantage by  a  direct  than  by  an  indirect  course. 

Why,  then,  will  Congress  by  the  creation  and  employment  of  a 
bank  attempt  to  conceal  their  actual  condition  and  real  object  ? 
Why  establish  a  bank  which,  dealing  only  in  paper,  will  fabricate 
and  lend  as  many  millions  as  Congress  may  desire  to  borrow  ? 
Why  pay  to  this  bank  an  interest  of  six  per  cent,  for  the  loan  of 
their  notes,  which  in  no  single  ingredient  will,  or  ought  to  be 
thought,  to  be  of  greater  value  than  Treasury  Notes  ?  The  peo- 
ple of  this  country  have  much  natural  sagacity,  and  will  not  long 
be  deceived  by  this  or  any  similar  contrivance.  Rather  devise 
an  improved  scheme  for  the  immediate  issue  of  Treasury  Notes, 
let  them  be  converted  at  pleasure  into  a  public  stock,  bearing 
a  high  interest  ;  fund  this  stock  by  pledging  specific  taxes  to  pay 
the  interest ;  the  credit  of  this  currency  will  be  better  than  that 
of  the  notes  of  such  a  bank  as  it  is  desired  should  be  created. 

If  a  paper  circulation  alone  will  enable  us  to  defend  the  coun- 
try, prepare  and  make  use  of  it  ;  but  spare  us  the  expense  of 
paying  interest  for  it  to  a  company,  whose  faculties,  without  our 
contributions,  will  enable  them  to  make  dividends  equal  to  their 
utmost  desire. 


APPENDIX  VII. 

COMMERCIAL   CONVENTION   WITH   ENGLAND. 

Recollecting  as  some  of  us  are  able  to  do  the  great  sensibility 
that  was  shewn  in  respect  to  the  navigation  and  trade  of   the 

VOL.  V.  — 36 


562      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

country  when  Mr.  Jay's  Treaty  with  England  was  concluded,  and 
which  it  was  confidently  asserted  was  grossly  defective  in  just  pro- 
visions for  their  advantage,  there  is  some  difficulty  in  accounting 
for  the  apathy,  not  to  say  disregard,  which  are  so  manifest  at  this 
time  in  relation  to  the  same  important  and  necessary  interests. 
The  system  of  a  passive  commerce,  like  that  of  China,  resting 
solely  on  the  theory  of  selling  dear  and  buying  cheap,  has  at  all 
times  had  its  advocates  among  us.  But  of  late,  and  especially 
since  the  late  war,  an  opinion  that  a  Navy  is  our  best  arm  of  de- 
fence, as  well  as  aggression,  has  become  general,  and  is  nowhere 
more  cordially  approved  than  in  Virginia  and  other  quarters 
where  the  theory  of  a  passive  commerce  has  found  its  most  able 
advocates. 

The  late  Commercial  Convention  with  England  is  the  fruit  and 
trophy  of  the  late  war — a  war  which  is  creditable  to  our  arms  on 
land  and  ocean,  but  which  has  added  nothing  to  our  political 
reputation  or  national  character  ;  since  no  single  object  has  been 
attained  for  which  great  waste  of  blood  and  treasure  have  been 
made,  increased  as  the  latter  was  by  the  sacrifice  of  our  enriching 
commerce  for  a  series  of  years,  before  the  declaration  of  war. 

When  we  look  back  to  the  prosperous  condition  of  our  naviga- 
tion and  trade  in  the  year  1795,  an<^  compare  what  it  probably 
would  have  been  at  this  day,  without  restriction,  embargo  and 
war,  with  what  is  now  actually  is,  it  would  really  seem  that  there 
could  be  no  difference  of  opinion  respecting  the  administration 
of  our  pub.  affairs,  and  that  all  would  agree  that  a  course 
altogether  the  reverse  of  that  which  has  been  followed,  would 
have  been  our  wise  course. 

He  must  possess  an  unenviable  temper  and  unworthy  princi- 
ples who  does  not  prefer  a  free  Govt,  to  an  arbitrary  one  :  but  no 
honest  man  who  has  lived  in  a  free  democratic  Govt.,  if  his  mind 
has  been  lifted  above  those  pursuits  and  occupations  which  ren- 
der men  in  a  great  measure  indifferent  about  the  forms  of  Govt., 
can  have  shut  his  eyes  upon  the  tendency  of  such  Govts,  to  fac- 
tion and  to  a  sort  of  political  compulsion  which  obliges  men  to 
do  and  to  permit  what  is  neither  honest  nor  beneficial  to  the 
public. 

No  free  democratic  Govt,  has  ever  existed  without  faction  ; 
and  every  such  Govt,  which  is  subject  to  the  action  and  influence 


APPENDIX.  563 


of  it,  approves  &  adopts,  or  disapproves  &  rejects,  regulations  & 
measures,  not  because  they  are  beneficial  or  injurious  to  the  Pub- 
lic, but  because  they  affect  advantageously  or  otherwise  the  views 
and  interest  of  the  faction  that  rules. 

Had  the  Govt,  of  the  U.  S.  of  late  years  been  administered  with 
an  exclusive  regard  to  the  welfare  and  prosperity  of  the  Nation, 
disregarding  altogether  the  struggle  between  the  two  parties  wh. 
has  warped  our  public  counsels  and  so  extensively  deranged  our 
public  and  private  affairs,  how  different  would  have  been  our 
present  condition  in  morals  as  well  as  riches.  The  great  and 
honest  body  of  the  People  have  little  interest  in  these  political 
struggles  ;  it  is  those  who  seek  for  office  and  its  emoluments  who 
are  benefitted  by  these  struggles  ;  it  is  they  who  excite  the  People 
to  engage  in  them,  &  who  present  and  urge  a  thousand  different 
motives  to  rouse  and  persuade  the  People  to  follow  their  advice. 

These  reflexions  are  not  offered  with  a  hope  that  they  will 
change  a  course  of  proceeding  which  is  inseparable  from  our 
scheme  of  Govt.,  but  as  in  some  manner  explanatory  of  our  actual 
situation.  With  all  the  causes  of  complaint,  and  they  are  almost 
wholly  political,  we  have  great  and  most  extensive  reasons  of  sat- 
isfaction— altho'  all  is  not  right,  yet  so  comparatively  small  is  the 
portion  of  what  is  wrong,  that  we  would  not  consent  to  exchange 
condition  with  any  other  nation. 

So  long  as  the  political  struggle  is  nearly  equal,  it  wd.  be  idle 
to  attempt  being  heard  in  favor  of  moderation  &  a  wise  policy,  or 
to  expect  that  any  counsel  except  of  a  mere  party  complexion 
would  be  favorably  received — but  when  the  ascendency  of  one 
party  is  established  and  the  other  is  so  small  a  minority  as  to  ex- 
cite little  or  no  apprehension  of  their  being  able  to  overturn  their 
rivals,  the  counsels  of  wisdom  and  experience  may  be  listened  to, 
&  the  welfare  and  prosperity  of  the  nation  may  be  consulted 
without  fear  of  endangering  the  interests  of  the  Rulers. 


