xxviii Illustrations ing school, studying law with William Wetmore of Salem, gaining ad mission to the bar, and beginning practice of the law at Beverly in 1782. He was elected the same year to the Massachusetts General Court, where he served three years before being elected to Congress, 1785-87, and to the Massachusetts Senate, 1790, 1793-98. Increasing deafness forced Dane from public deliberations, but he was appointed a commissioner to revise the laws of the Commonwealth, devoting much of his time to the work until 1812. He published an eight-vol ume Abridgement and Digest of American Law in 1823. In Congress Dane was concerned over the reluctance of the states to adopt the Conti nental impost to provide adequate revenues, but argued against a gen eral overhaul of the Confederation until the Shaysite threat in Mas sachusetts convinced him, along with most of the state’s leaders, of the necessity for strengthening the federal government. He has been noted for the central role he played in drafting the Northwest Ordi nance, particularly in adding the provision that “There shall be nei ther slavery nor involuntary servitude in the said territory.” Painting by Marcia Oakes Woodbury after the original in Dane Hall, Harvard College. Essex Institute, Salem, Mass. John Kean 165 Kean (1756-95), a wealthy Charleston, S.C., merchant-planter, led an inconspicuous public life until his capture by the British at the fall of Charleston in 1780. Following his release he represented St. He lena Parish in the South Carolina Assembly in 1782 and 1785-86 and was elected to represent the state in Congress in 1785-87. Kean mar ried Susan Livingston, daughter of Peter Van Brugh Livingston, in 1786, thereafter residing in New York City, and was later named by President Washington commissioner for settling Continental Army ac counts in 1790 and cashier of the Bank of the United States in 1791. Kean’s work in Congress had a strong bent toward commercial and fis cal issues, and he was indefatigable in pursuit of South Carolina’s claim against Spain for the use of the state’s frigate in naval opera tions against Britain. He also took great interest in the conduct of In dian affairs in the southern department, served on the committee that drafted the Northwest Ordinance, and urged the sale of western lands in Europe to raise immediate revenue. Engraving by Max Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Li brary of Congress. LC-USZ62-54685. John Bubenheim Bayard 185 Bayard (1738-1807), a Philadelphia merchant, was born and edu cated in Maryland, joined a Philadelphia mercantile house as a young man, and emerged as a moderate leader in opposition to British im-
