Rufus King to Caleb Davis Dear Sir New York 7th. Nov. 1785 I reply in great haste to your’s of the 27th ult. which I have just re ceived. It is not a little singular that Congress have no information from any Gentleman in the Service of the united States in Europe concerning the Algerine War. A Letter from J. P. Jones inclosing, from France, a copy of the Letter of a French Consul, which has been published in almost all the States, is the only intelligence before Con gress relative to the hostile Disposition of the Algerines. 1 Eighteen months, or two years ago, congress directed the ministers in Europe to make inquiry of the mode, and money, necessary to treat with, and obtain peace from, the Barbary powers. Upon examination, it was found that the States of Europe, upon an average pay each near 200,000 Dollars annually to these powers, to obtain their friendship. The Emperor of Morocco made overtures through Doct. Franklin for a Treaty; and about seven months since a formal Letter was written by the President of Congress to the Emperor of Morocco, in Answer to his Overtures, assuring him of the friendship of the united States, and their wishes to treat with him. That Letter was sent to the ministers in Europe, with full powers to treat with the Emperor of Morocco, the Regencies of Algiers, Tripoli, & Tunis, and to conclude peace with them upon the best possible Terms—and to enable the Ministers to treat with a prospect of suc cess, they were authorised to draw upon the monies of the United States in Holland, for Eighty Thousand Dollars, to be applied to the pur poses of these Treaties—a blank commission was also transmitted, to be filled with the name of such person as the Ministers should ap point, to repair to the Coast of Barbary for the execution of the busi ness under their Directions. A Capt. Lamb of Connecticut was charged with the Dispatches and took passage in the Packet in April or May last. No account has been received of his arrival in France. Duplicates of the Dispatches have been since forwarded, and every thing on the part of Congress has been done, which their situation would permit. The sum appropriated for these Treaties was as large as the Fi nances would allow—and it was supposed, that with such auxiliary contracts, or engagements, as the Negotiator might form, would effect a peace with these piratical states; who, to the Disgrace of Europe, subject almost all the commercial States to pay them Tribute. It will be unfortunate if the capture of any american Vessels should increase their Demands. 3
