November 8, 1785 9 don’s appears inimical—their true line of Conduct, is to rival in our Commerce the other Europeans, as they can, if they would conquer their vindictive Disposition & renew Friendship; but they are too de generate for this, & the Consequence will be, such an implacable Ha tred between the two Nations as will terminate all Commerce, & divert that of the U States into Channels from whence it will never return to G Britain. If they wish for Hostilities, We mean to be prepared for them by having a well armed & disciplined Militia, but with forty Mil lions sterling unfunded & with a people so burdened, as to be clam orous upon every Attempt to fund this Debt or any part of it, so loaded with Taxes for supporting Government & for paying the Inter est of the funded Debt as to be hardly able to subsist, I think they can not be so distracted as to wish for another hundred Millions on their shoulders by again waging War with the U.S. If they are, in the Name of God let them come on, & sink into the pit they had provided for Us; for such an addition to their Debt, or a less Sum, would produce a Convulsion that must subjugate them to some of the Other European powers; An Event I wish not to see, if they will cease to disturb & de stroy the Happiness of Mankind. As to an Allowance of Interest to the british Merchants for Debts contracted before the War, I do not conceive the Demand to be just, or that a Jury in the Union will ever be found to admit it. Interest is a Consideration for the Improvement of property, & the Fact is, that the American Debtors had not an Opportunity during the War to make such Improvement. They were obliged to sell their british Imports on Credit & to receive paper, which on an average is depreciated to an half of one third of its nominal Sum. Shall then the british Creditor recover Interest on a Book Debt, when the Debtor could only recover the principal, because such a privilege was admitted by Us under the british Government? if this indulgence was just then, is it, for the same Reason just now? I think not, & beleive them, whatever they may say, to be of the same Opinion: or at least, that they must feel in some De gree, the Injustice of a Demand, so apparent to those who are person ally disinterested. I allude to the most cool & judicious Men in this quarter. If a proposition should be made by partial Favours to divide the states, it will as formerly have a most happy Effect. It will tend to unite Us more than any propositions of our own. But I think it impossible that the British Court can be so lost to common sense, as to betray their Enmity by such weak propositions as Facilities in Trade. Your plan of granting a Bounty on oyl to be paid by an Impost on british Manufactures strikes me very agreably. The operation would be twofold, & I should hope the Effect would be powerful. I think You may make Yourself easy at present, respecting Con gress—most of your Opponents are out by Rotation, & the Members appear in general to have great Confidence in your Abilities & In-
