10 Novembers, 1785 tegrity. Should You be attacked, You may rely on Mr King for a friendly & firm Support. Those who wished to supplant You, have quoted in private Circles, such Details 8c familiar Expressions in your Let ters as they conceived were below the Dignity of your Station. Their objections have had little or no Effect on liberal & judicious Minds, more especially, as all allow, You write with great Abilities on great Subjects. But to quiet these Competitors, or Creatures of Competitors, it may be best to avoid Details, & gratify in some Measure their Taste for Sublimity of Style, & Rotundity of periods. The Tales which You have heard of Gallicans & Antigallicans, british & antibritish, are without Foundation. Congress can not be more free from foreign & domestic Influence, than they now are; & there are no parties in America, but such as are produced by clashing Interests, which there is a general Disposition to reconcile—the Cincinnati in deed may be considered as an Exception; but their Institution will be soon attacked in Congress, 8c I hope abolished. Congress have taken much pains to obtain a full Representation of the States from the Want of which We have not done half the Business which We otherwise might have done the past Year. We have however put on a good Footing the Departments of the Treasury, War Office & foreign Affairs, the Business of which is very regularly 8c expeditiously conducted. We have also by adjourning to this place, quieted the Un easiness which resulted from the Want of accomodations in Prince town, Trenton 8c Annapolis. We have obtained a good Requisition 8c regulated the Loan Offices so as reduce the thirteen Receivers of Taxes, 8c unite both Offices into One: passed the Land ordnance, in which however I think there must be an alteration so far as to reduce the price of the foederal Lands offered for sale. We have also given You powers to adjust with the Court of London the eastern Boundary Line of Massachusetts, 8c have made You, Mr Jefferson 8c Mr Carmichael Consuls general, in the Kingdoms wherein You respec tively reside. The foederal Court between Massachusetts 8c New York is postponed, as two out of nine Judges have not yet accepted. We urged the Expediency of submitting the cause to the seven who have ac cepted but N York declined. The new Congress is not yet formed 8c probably will not be within ten Days; they will have nothing to take off their Attention from the great objects of laying plans for empowering Congress to collect the Taxes levied in pursuance of their Requisitions; to regulate Trade, so as to retaliate on Foreigners 8c carry commercial Treaties into full Ef fect; & to obtain an Adjustment of the State Accounts 8c a fcederal Val uation for assessing the States, or rather a Rule, for forming the latter, indeed the Algerine War, if it has taken place, will require an Exer-
