Novembers, 1785 11 don, as We must have peace at all Events with these Barbarians, who are probably encouraged to commence Hostilities, by our british or some other European friends. I wish You would attend to the Resolution of Congress making You Consul General: 1 & if it will admit of the Measure, appoint General Warren’s Son Mr Winslow Warren Consul untill the sense of Congress can be known, provided he can remove from Lisbon. This would give such satisfaction to our Milton Friends, that I sincerely wish the Mea sure may be adopted: & there is no Doubt in my Mind the appoint ment would be confirmed by Congress. I am no longer eligible to Congress, & feel such a Relief from Anxi ety & Care already, As induces me to think I shall relish private Life too well to to quit it Again for any public office whatever. 2 Possibly I may alter my Mind after resting awhile, but I sincerely declare, that I always supposed & ever found publick Life inconsistent with my Hap piness. The obligations, Solicitudes, & Confinements thereof, are ut terly irreconciliable to my Disposition—however I can never divest my self of a Desire to see the U States happy in their Government, prosperous, & respected. These objects an Individual may as well pro mote in his study, & often times better, than by appearing as an Actor in the political Theatre. You have much more Philosophy than most Statesmen can boast; & yet I am sometimes diverted to see it put to the Test. Pray give my Compliments to the Ladies of your Family, & Colo Smith & be assured I am ever yours most sincerely, E. Gerry P.S. Mr. King has lately written to you, but request his respectful Com pliments. RC (MHi: Adams Family Papers). 1 For the adoption of this October 28 resolution and the recommendations of secre tary for foreign affairs John Jay on a consular establishment for the United States, see JCC, 29:722-24, 831-33, 845-46, 855. 2 Gerry’s congressional career under the Articles of Confederation ended with the adjournment of November 4, 1785. Before leaving New York, however, Gerry submitted the following deposition con cerning baron von Steuben’s contract with the United States which had been agreed to when Gerry was in Congress in January 1778. “New-York, 23 November, 1785. The subscriber certifies, that having a seat in Con gress at the time of the Baron de Steuben’s arrival at York-Town, he well remembers the facts herein stated, excepting what relates to the entertainment, which he doubts was not provided, and to the time of the Baron’s arrival at that place, which was in the be ginning of the year 1778. The subscriber further certifies, that in questions agitated in Congress while he has been a member, respecting the allowance that should be made in pursuance of the within stipulation, he has considered the claim of the Baron, for a full indemnification and compensation, as a claim of justice, founded in the verbal contract of the parties. (Signed) E. Gerry.” PCC, item 19, 5:585 (document no. 17).
