November 14, 1785 15 against the United States, and the nature of the evidence on which the same depends, and that the board from time to time make report theirof to Congress, in order that they may be duly consider’d, and proper measures adopted for the final adjustment of the accts, of the United States. Your Excelly will please to observe that in consequence of my being reelected by the Honble. General Court a delegate in Congress for the ensuing year, was the reason of my not returning with Mr. Foster— Supposing the Official information thereof would come to hand in season for me to take my seat but as yet have not received any. As I know its my duty to wait here untill so much time expires as would bring an answer to this, shall tarry, and then if I do not receive my credentials, shall return to New Hampshire. I have the Honr. to be with sentiments of respect & Esteem, your Excellys Most Obedt. Hum ble Servant, Pierse Long RC (Nh-Ar: Executive Records). 1 Adams’ letters of August 6, 8, and 10, 1785, are in PCC, item 84, 5:585-604; and Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783-89, 2:421—30. No September 11 letter from Adams to Congress has been found. 2 See William Samuel Johnson to Matthew Griswold, July 9, note 2, and Joseph Gard ner to John Dickinson, October 1, notes 1 and 3. 3 See JCC, 28:870. William Grayson to James Madison Dear Sir New York Nov. 14th. 1785. On inquiring at the Office for F.A. I find it is uncustomary to give copies unless by special direction of Congress, a circumstance I did not advert to, when I was writing to you last. I shall therefore give you the best information in my power from memory. Mr. A. says that a Commee. of merchts. from Glasgow waited on him in London & told him their business was to lay the affair of the debts before parliament; that he dissuaded them from taking this step, as he was apprehensive it might be productive of disagreable consequences; by holding out the idea of a speedy accomodation of all subjects of dispute. That he had some conversation with Lord Caermarthen on the subject of the debts among other things. That his Lordship mentioned to him the bill for opening the Courts of justice, and that the same (he had understood) had been lost by the accidental circumstance of a post. That his Lordship ob jected to the loss of interest which was to be incurred by that bill—& farther apprehended great losses to the Brittish merchants by the em igrations to Kentucki. That with respect to the interest Mr. Adams had urged, the calamities of war, the sufferings of the debtors & the
