24 November 22, 1785 3 The enclosed 21-page “Abstract of Quaries made, and Information transmitted by the Commissioners” is in the Continental Congress Papers, Vi. 4 John Adams’ brief letter of September 15, which was not read until November 25, is in PCC, item 84, 5:657; and Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783-89, 2:476. The “letter from Mr. Jefferson” is undoubtedly that of August 14, for which see PCC, item 87, 1:33—37, item 185, 3:145; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 8:375-76. William Grayson to James Madison Dear Sir. New York, Nov. 22nd. 1785. I wrote you by the last Post, since which other letters have arrived from the gentleman therein mentioned. They came by the last pack- ett; and one is dated as late as the 15th of September last. 1 In it how ever there is no mention of the Algerine War. Mr. Jefferson has also wrote by the french packett, but his letter is of an old date. 2 There has been a conference with Mr. Pitt. 3 That gentleman thinks the war could make no change in the na ture of the debts due by or to the citizens or subjects of either coun try; that the interest is as much due as principal; that the Brittish lawyers hold this opinion. In answer Mr. A. observes the lawyers in America hold a very different opinion respecting the War, and that no jury from New Hamshire to Georgia would allow interest during the war. That the war put an end to all laws and government, conse quently to all contracts made under those laws. That it is a maxim of law that a personal right or obligation once destroyed is lost forever: that the treaty & new laws were necessary for the restoration of the contracts or obligations; that the contracts could not be said to have had any existence during the War. Mr. Pitt replied, that if these were the ideas in America, it was necessary there should be some new stip ulation respecting the subject. With respect to the negroes he acknowledged that this was so clear a case, as that satisfaction ought to be made therefor, as soon as the number carried off could be made appear. To this Mr. A. replied, that Colo. Smith who had transacted the business with Sir Guy Carleton could evince it by documents then ready to be produced. He acknowl edged also with respect to Mr. A’s construction of the Armistice there could be no great difficulty: that with reguard to the Posts it was so connected with other matters as not to be decided on singly. As to the commercial treaty there seems to have been a great difference of sen timent; Mr. A. is of opinion that nothing will be done shortly. Mr. Pitt however has promised that during the recess of parliament he will turn his thoughts to those subjects. Mr. A. thinks that the reason why the Elector of Hanover came into the Confederation agt. the Emperor was to preserve peace, in Europe, on our accounts. I need not observe
