November 23, 1785 27 perous Journey am with great respect, Dr. Sr., Yr. most obedt. humble Servt., Wm Sam Johnson 3 FC (CtHi: Johnson Papers). In the hand of William Samuel Johnson. 1 Not found, but see Charles Thomson to Certain States, November 18. 2 Actually Abraham Baldwin arrived and Congress proceeded to business this day. See JCC, 29:875-84. Johnson recorded in his diary this day: “Seeking Lodgs. at Judah’s &c. Congress formed. President Hancock chosen. Ramsay Chairman.” Johnson Papers, CtHi. For the cryptic nature of Johnson’s diary and the limited use made of it in these Letters, see Johnson’s Diary, January 13, 1785, note. 3 Johnson also wrote a letter on December 4 to his son Samuel William, expressing concern over “Billy’s” impending voyage to Bermuda and explaining that he was about to return home with Mrs. Johnson. Johnson Papers, CtHi. According to his diary, John son left New York December 5 and returned the 14th. Secretary Thomson’s journals confirm that he returned to Congress December 15. JCC, 29:901. And on January 1 he wrote again to Billy, expressing impatience to hear that he had had a safe voyage. Johnson Papers, CtHi. Maryland Delegates to Charles Thomson Sir. New York 23 Novr. 1785. Messrs. Goddard & Langworthy, the conductors of a news paper in Baltimore 1 being desirous to obtain the proceedings of Congress in the order in which they are printed, for the purpose of reprinting the same in their paper; we have to request that you will be good enough to inclose to the said printers a copy of the Journals as soon as printed, which we have no reason to doubt will be approved of by our successors in the delegation. We have the honor to be, Sir, your most obdt., James McHenry William Hindman RC (DNA: PCC, item 55). Written by McHenry and signed by McHenry and Hindman. 1 That is, The Maryland Journal, and Baltimore Advertiser, published by William Goddard and Edward Langworthy. Charles Thomson to the States Sir (Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress, November 23d, 1785 I have the honor to inform your Excellency that seven States this day assembled in Congress, and have unanimously elected his Excel lency John Hancock, President. 1
