November 28, 1785 31 I remain Yr. Affect, fd. & Most Obed Servt., Willm. Grayson. [PS.] You will please to consider what relates to Adams as altogether confidential. The Affair of the negroes which has made so much noise in our house 4 is rather trifling. Negroes carried off from N.Y. Men 1,386, Women 954, Children 657, Total 2,997. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 For the recognition of Massachusetts native John Temple as British consul general, see Charles Thomson’s first letter to the States, December 3, 1785. 2 See Elbridge Gerry to John Adams, November 8, note 1. 3 Cf. Shakespeare’s Merry Wives of Windsor, act 3, sc. 5, lines 90-91, 113-14. 4 That is, the Virginia House of Delegates in which agitation over Britain’s evacuation of Virginia slaves in violation of the Treaty of Paris had become endemic. See, for exam ple, Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 8:59-61, 426n.3, 454. William Grayson to James Monroe Dr Sir New York. 28th. Nov. 1785. I imagine long before this you have heard of the death of our wor thy friend Mr. Hardy; he was hardly ever well after you left us, having been much troubled with fevers, till going to Haerlem heights on a party, he broke a blood vessel in coughing, & dyed the 17th of Octob. His death has giv’n me the greatest concern on account of the sincere friendship I had for him; and I have been much embarassed with his affairs since his death; his funeral has cost 385 dolls, for which I am li able; his frends being not equal to the paymt. of his private debts. I have wrote particularly to the Governor thereon to which I refer you, 1 & request your assistance thereon, provided this finds you at Rich mond; I shall be much pinched to pay the money if I am not relieved in time. With respect to your affairs, I have done the best that it was in my power to do; by paying the importunate, & giving fair words to the others, I have managed so that your credit has not suffered in the smallest degree. I inclosed you by last post, all the letters which have come to hand directed to you since your departure to the care of Genl Weedon; a book referred to (I expect) in one of Mr. Jefferson’s letters is now in my possession having been delivered to me by Mr. Otto. 2 I now inclose you the journals of Congress complete by which you will see what we have been about since you left us; since the new Congress met, nothing has been done of any consequence, except the appoint ing of Hancock President, and Doctr. Ramsay, Chairman untill his ar-
