32 November 28, 1785 rival; some people think he will not come forward. The business imm- edy. before them is whether Temple shall be received as Consul gen eral from G. Brittain or not. I am inclined to think it will be carried in the affirmative, when the States come forward (there being but 7 at present on the floor). As Congress have committed themselves by re solving that all Ministers, Charges, &c at foreign Courts shall be Con suls genl, ex Officio: of course Adams is Consul genl, at the Court of G.B. There is some important foreign intelligence but which I cannot communicate witht. a cypher. Whether there is actually an Algerine War or not, is more than I can tell with certainty; the news comes au thenticated from individuals in different parts; but we have no official accts, about the matter. They talk much about a new requisition al ready: & I hope you will inform yourself well about the State of our public accounts, also of the sentimts. of the legislature respecting the last request as well as of the foederal buildings at Trenton. The latter is asleep for the present. Pray dont forget the situation of your col- legues: & yourself, it is rather unworthy the State to deduct for absent time. The Members ought also to be allowed a hundred pounds a piece for house rent if the delegate expends so much. As to stowing them all together in a State house, I think it highly improper, though this I understand is the idea in Pensylvany. I think it would be right that we should be paid our house rent for this year: You know it was very heavy upon us. Your friend Gerry is on the point of being united to the elder Miss Thomson; in consequence of this, I have been able to sell the black horses yesterday for 160 dollars. They were put up be fore this at the Coffee house, & only one hundred & eight dollars was bid for them: this I should have been obliged to have taken, if I had been under the necessity of setting off for Virginia when I expected, by keeping them I have done better for you; though bad is the best: had it not been for the death of Mr. Hardy I would have taken them myself at the price: but circumstanced as I was I did not think it right to be concerned with them at all. Your friends at the Sycamore are all well, & very frequently inquire after you; Rufus, the Capt., & myself were at the play with them the other evening when they made so bril liant & lovely an appearance as to depopulate all the other boxes of all the genteel male people therein. The town is likely to be very gay this winter. There is a regular Concert & assembly established—be sides the Play house. I intend to decamp from [here] this Week; if I should not meet you, I beg leave to inform You that you will find our house tolerably well furnished for people in our circumstances as to funds; you may take possession of my bed & sheets &c till I return. I advise you to take back the black Cook again, she has left us in a frett on account of a difference between her & my Irishman when they had nearly pro ceeded to actual hostilities.
