November 28, 1785 35 2 For John Jay’s October 7 report, which was read in Congress on the 10th, see JCC, 29:817-20, 929; and Richard Henry Lee to Unknown, October 10, note 5. Jay’s “stric tures” included a recommendation that Massachusetts and New Hampshire revise their navigation acts of June 23 originally intended to force a change in British policy. Upon reexamination, the Massachusetts legislature agreed that portions of its act appeared to contravene “the principles of reciprocity which ought ever to be adopted in Commer cial Regulation” and on November 29 repealed those clauses which imposed tonnage duties and some double duties on foreign vessels and also restricted their commerce to Boston, Falmouth, and Dartmouth. The act ofjune 23, however, would continue “in full force against the subjects of the King of Great Britain and the property of such sub jects.” The new act, with a letter of explanation, was circulated among the states by Gov. James Bowdoin in December. See, for example, N.C. State Records, 17:592-93. For its part, the New Hampshire House of Representatives instructed Gov. John Langdon on November 9 to inquire of other state executives “whether their Assemblies have, or are like to join with this State, and Massachusetts in their Commercial opposition to Great Britain?” and whether they had “impowered Congress to regulate Commerce,” for which see ibid., pp. 571-76. Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Assembly [November 28? 1785] 1 The late dispatches from the ministers of the U.S. in Europe espe cially from Mr Adams, containing matters of great importance to the peace and well-being of the States, we have conceived it to be our duty to lay them confidentially before the honorable the general assembly, premising at the same time as no copies or extracts could be made from these communications that we have been obliged to depend upon our memory. 2 The chief points with which Mr. Adams is charged are, 1. An expla nation of the armistice. 2. a compensation for the negroes carried off contrary to the treaty. 3. a remission of the interest due on British debts contracted before the war. 4. The surrender of the Western posts, and 5thly a commercial treaty. These points have been discussed by Mr. Adams in several confer ences with Lord Carmarthen and in one with Mr. Pitt, but he has not yet been able to obtain a cabinet determination upon either of them. The ministry seems unwilling to commit themselves officially either from an apprehension of doing something which might prove dis agreeable to the nation—from its being necessary to have matters pre viously adjusted with Ireland, before they treat with America, or from an intention to recommence war should their finances admit of a recommencement. With respect to the 1st point, Mr. Adams observed to Mr. Pitt. 3 On the 2d point, Mr. Pitt said that, compensation ought to be made when the number of negroes which had been carried off could be as certained. 4 What passed on the 3d point is too interesting not to be particularly noticed. Mr. Pitt observed that wars made no change in
