36 November 28, 1785 the nature of debts due by or to the parties at war. That this opinion was held by the British lawyers. The American lawyers, Mr. Adams re- plyed, were of a different opinion as to the present case; and that no jury from New Hampshire to Georgia would allow the interest which run during the war. The american lawyers hold that the war put an end to all laws and government, and consequently to all contracts made under the laws. That it is a maxim of law that a personal right or obligation once destroyed or suspended, is lost forever. That hence an article in the treaty and new laws became necessary to reproduce the contracts. That the contracts therefore could not be considered as having any existence during the war; and of course during that pe riod, could not generate interest. This was a subject Mr. Pitt said that required consideration, and that the merchants must be consulted upon it, before any thing could be done. The balance, he added, is in favor of Great Britain to which Mr. Adams assented. Touching the sur render of the western posts, which Mr. Adams is instructed to demand, Mr. Pitt observed, that this point must be taken up and settled in con junction with some others; meaning, Mr. Adams remarks, the obstruc tions which some of the States have raised against the recovery of British debts. The last point, “a commercial treaty” seems to engage the greatest share of our ministers attention, as being perhaps the most important of his embassy. He has laid before the British cabinet the project of a treaty which has for its basis the most perfect reciproc ity in all exchanges and intercourse between the two countries. He is of opinion however notwithstanding all his endeavours, that the na tionaljudgement and popular voice is so decided in favor of the navi gation acts that neither administration nor opposition dare avow a thought of relaxing them further than has been already done, and that Great Britain will hold out in this system as long as she can main tain the credit of her stocks. Great Britain he thinks must be compelled into a treaty. He urges therefore the necessity of meeting her, as he ex presses it, with correspondent “commercial hostilities” and of the States relinquishing to Congress the sole and exclusive power of regu lating their trade. He says that this war of mutual duties, restraints and prohibitions must necessarily be a long one—that it cannot be known which side will “roar” out first—that Great Britain may hurt us by tak ing off the duty from Spanish tobacco, and by that means make the Spaniards our rivals, in that article—and that she may also injure our exports in a variety of other ways. But “to confine our exports to American shipping, to lay heavy duties upon all foreign luxuries; and to encourage manufactures by prohibitions and exclusions, appear to him to be our only resource”—That we should immediately enter upon the execution of this system, “altho” he subjoins, under this head, “I am very sensible of the many difficulties in the way, and of the danger of its bringing on in the course of a few years another war.
