November 28, 1785 37 Nothing but our strength and their weakness will in my opinion pro tect us from such a calamity.” 5 This “commercial war,” which is already commenced by the State of Massachusetts, (as will appear by their act in reference No. and a re port of the Secretary of foreign affairs thereon No. ) 6 has struck your delegates as involving some very interesting questions which your representatives in Congress may be called upon to decide. To apprise the honorable Assembly of these facts seemed to be the bounden duty of your present delegates. In a country where there is land to employ the labor of double or fourfold its inhabitants that money and industry which a severe navi gation act will force into ship building, would be employed in agricul ture. As such a country acquired more wealth than the land could employ, and more men than were necessary to work it, the excess would be converted into ships, seamen, merchants, manufacturers and manufactures. How far this order ought to be disturbed for the purpose of creating on a sudden a naval defence is of great moment to have truely ascertained. It deserves also to be examined whether it is not our interest, for at least twenty years to come, to be at peace with all the world; and whether it is not in our power to enjoy peace without any diminution of our prosperity, and in the mean while, be forwarding the means of a future navy. It may also be made a matter of serious inquiry, how far the confining the exportation of our pro duce to American built ships navigated by American sailors will effect the price, and, whether the advantages of this system generally and specially considered, are sufficient to counterbalance the conse quences of another war. We have been thus particular that the general assembly may have a full view of the subject should Congress refer the question to the States; and because the Secretary of foreign affairs in a report No. has given it to Congress as his opinion, that “it may be demonstrated that while we bend our attention to the sea, every naval war, however long, which does not do us essential injury, will do us essential good.” 7 With respect to the Algerine war which for some time past has agi tated the public mind, and given rise to the official report just alluded to, Congress have received no confirmation thereof, nor does Mr. Adams take any notice of it in any of his letters tho’ one is as late as the 15 Sept. We will not therefore consider it other than a story fabri cated to answer some speculating purpose till it comes authorised by our ministers. Measures have been long since taken to keep peace with the piratical powers, but the person who was charged by Con gress with instructions had not been heard of by Mr. Jefferson the [...] tho’ he received his orders from Congress. We have now to subjoin the substance of a communication from Dr. Franklin which will close the foreign state of our affairs. 8 The last act
