November 30, 1785 39 6 The delegates sent this information under separate cover, for which see the preced ing entry. 7 See McHenry tojohn Henry, this date, note 4. 8 For Benjamin Franklin’s September 19 letter to John Jay, which had been read in Congress on October 4, see PCC, item 100, 2:260-62, item 185, 3:141; and Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783—89, 1:398-99. 9 Among these McHenry notes are also two fragments that reflect other preoccupa tions at the close of his congressional career. In the first of these, he recorded charac terizations of three of the ministers abroad, drawn by their own colleagues: “The minis ter to the Court of Tuscany [Ralph Izard\ says that Doctr. Franklin is destitute of every principle of moral rectitude. Doctor Franklin says Mr Adams is some times a madman. Mr Adams says that Doctr. Franklin just does what the court of France bids hirm” McHenry Notes, fol. 40. In the second fragment he focused on the powers of Congress. “Question, what pow ers exist in Congress by the confederation? Congress shd not be the expositors of the confed—they shd act under it. The measures of Congress sufficiently declaratory of the powers.” Ibid., fol. 20. William Grayson to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir New York Nov. 30th. 1785. I have very little news to communicate. Mr. Hancock is appointed President but it is much doubted whether he will accept of this high Office. It was surely improper to play the risquing game on such an occasion. The business immedy. before Congress is whether Mr. Tem ple shall be received as Consul Genl, from G.B. or not; there are on this occasion different sentiments, though I presume when the States are fully represented (there being but seven at present) that it will be decided in the affirmative as Congress seem to have committed them selves as they have resolved that the Ministers & Charges des affaires of the U.S. are Consuls genl, ex Officio. Of course Adams is Consul Genl, at the Court of G.B.—as soon as the dispatches from the Secy, for foreign affairs arrives. Temple himself is in a peck of troubles about it; it seems a very good salary depends on the decision. Since your departure Adams has givn us another fire, to the old tune of commercial restrictions. Jay & Thompson have thought his last advices of so much importance as to send official letters to the States to require the immediate attendance of the Members. 1 It is a little extraordinary that Mr. Adams should recommend a commercial war, when in the same letter he agrees that in the prosecution of this commercial war it is highly probable we shall incur a rea/war. 2 We are no doubt in a good situation for war. I inclose you a schedule of the advances to the States, 3 by which you will see that Virginia has had less by a million of dollars than her proportion. No advantage it seems can however be taken of this circumstance in the next requisi tion as the resolution of the 3rd of June 1784 suspends the payment
