December 1, 1785 41 formed you of in my last. No account of Mr. Lamb with the dispatches, nor any prospect of a reciprocal commerce. Mr. Adams has had a long, and free conversation with Mr. Pitt respecting Trade, and on giv ing up the Posts agreable to treaty but nothing has been determined on as yet. I would beg leave to inform your Excelly that I expect to draw for money very soon, being considerably in debt to my Friends here for the supplys I have had for some time past. I have the honr. to be with Very Great Regard & Esteem, Your Excellys Most Obt. hum. Servt, Pierse Long RC (Nh-Ar: Executive Records). i See JCC, 29:883, 889. 2 Long’s list (not found) was undoubtedly compiled from information provided by Secretary Charles Thomson, whose report to Congress on this subject is in JCC, 30:10. 3 A transcript of this October 16, 1785, Edward Dowse letter is in the New Hampshire Council Records, Peter Force Collection, DLC. For the eventual election of Winthrop Sargent as Continental surveyor for New Hampshire in the place of Dowse, see ICC 30:355. John Bayard to Samuel Bayard My Dear Son, 1 New York Deer 1st. 1785 I received a few Lines from your Brother James by Post informing that you had moved the furniture &c without any accident & that you were all Well. I mentioned in a Letter to your Brother my wish that He would for ward your Sister Jennys Forte Piana by the first Vessell that should come round from Philada. & that He would purchase & Send an En glish Cheese & 2 Bbls of our best potatoes but As I suppose He is much engaged in business I wish you to see this business performed. Take care that the forte piana is well cased—the Musick Books belong ing to the Instrument were in the Drawer of one of the Mahogony Card tables in the front parlour those ought to be sent with it. I wish to hear as frequently as possible from You, I hope you live in Love & Friendship with each other. My Mind is much exercised re specting my family, I cease not to remember you all in my prayers to God, that He may preserve you & make You blessings to each other & to Your Country. I find Congress opens a new scene of Action to me & candidly con fess it requires greater abilities than I am possessed of to make a dis tinguished Appearance on that Floor. There are several Gentlemen who shine as speakers particularly a Mr. Rufus King from Mas- sachusets. He has a graceful Attitude—a fine flow of Words & in gen- ral a thorough acquaintance of the Subject on wch. He speaks. This
