42 December 1, 1785 gives him an unrival’d Influence. The Debates are conducted in gen- ral with great Decency & propriety & the Members treat each other with the utmost politeness—the greatest inconvenience is, that We have so many good speakers, each willing to display their Abilities on the Subject in debate that they are frequently lenthned out, & ex hausted & become rather tiresome. I thought to have wrote to cousin James but fear I shall not have time at present. I wish He would write to me & I will endeavour to an swer His Letters in course. You must all write two or three Letters to me for one from me, for remember I have a great Number to core spond with, and at the Same time to attend my duty in Congress—re ceive & pay Visits &c. We are all well at Dr. Rodgers’s & Join in Love to you all as if named. I am my Dear son Your Afft. Father, John Bayard NB. You can enquire for a Vessell bound to New York, they generally put an advertisement in the papers but if this should not be the Case, Your Uncle Andw. can tell you of any coming this way. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Addressed: “Mr. Samuel Bayard, In Philadelphia.” 1 Samuel Bayard (1767-1840), a 1784 graduate of the College of New Jersey, was studying law with William Bradford, the attorney general of Pennsylvania. He was ad mitted to the Philadelphia bar in 1787 and subsequently became Bradford’s partner. Ruth L. Woodward and Wesley Frank Craven, Princetonians, 1784-1790, A Biographical Dictionary (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1991), pp. 9-13. David Ramsay to Ralph Izard Dear Sir, December 1, 1785. New-York. Your favor, of the 20th ult is now before me and I shall endeavor to reply to the various parts of it. We have at present only seven States & five of them are represented by two & two of the at present repre sented States will be of[f] the floor in a few days. We notwithstanding expect New-Hampshire, Connecticut & Virginia. It is probable that we will not have more than ten States on the floor this winter. The at tendance of Georgia, North Carolina, Delaware & Rhode island is very uncertain. From these facts I doubt our being able to get seven States in favor of any Gentleman to represent us at the Hague. I am farther induced to believe this from a strong suspicion I have that it is the wish of the Eastern States to keep open the appointment to the Hague for John Adams Esq. Should that Gentleman fail in his negoti ations at the court of London & his success is very doubtful I expect that next Spring a motion will be made to recal him from London & reappoint him to the Hague. This is only conjecture but from the
