Decembers, 1785 51 you will meet with no delay and it is hoped you will be able to come to a speedy decision. But as two of the Gentlemen are of the Legislature of this State which meets on the 6th of January they may possibly not be able to give close attendance during the session. Your speedy answer will oblige, Sir, Your most obedt huml Servt. C.T LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 For the context of this issue, see Thomson to William Malcom et al., May 31, 1785. 2 See JCC, 29:860, 870. 3 Houston’s response to this letter is not in the PCC, but it may be inferred that he declined the appointment since Thomson wrote an almost identical letter to Elbridge Gerry on August 2, 1786, for which see PCC, item 18B, fols. 80-81; and Thomson to Walter Livingston and Comfort Sands, August 19, 1786. Maryland Delegates to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer Dear Sir Philadelphia Deer. 6th. 1785 Mr. McHenry who goes down to Baltimore in a few Days takes Charge of what old Money our Contracts have as yet produced. 1 The Remainder of the two Millions, which We have the Strongest Assur ances of receiving in a short Time, will be forwarded by Mr. Hindman on his Return to New-York, 2 either to Baltimore or directly to Annapo lis. You will perceive from the Nature of this Transaction that We have been obliged occasionally to advance our Money to enable the Agents to carry their Speculations into Effect, unless We had advanced in this Manner, We could not so readily have obtained the Paper. The Ac count between Us stands as follows—Viz. Amount of the two Millions conformably to your Restriction at 175 for 1 £4280.10.0 By Draughts & Orders on Willing Morris & Swanwick for 3000.0.0 Balance 1280.10.0 This Balance You will be pleased to remit as soon as convenient to Willing, Morris & Swanwick, subjecting the same to the Order of Mr. Hindman, who is in the Disposition of it. We have only to add on this Head that We have Reason to believe that as much more could be ob tained on the same Terms, but as We had no Orders to go beyond the two Millions, We have entered into no new Contracts—all that We could venture to do was to desire one of the Agents to write to Mr. McHenry, in Case He could immediately and without any Delay pro cure another Half a Million or thereabouts, telling him that He would
