54 Decembers, 1785 the City. In addition to these a public Assembly and concert alter nately every fortnight—a company of players furnish the pleasures of a Theatre three nights every Week. I confess this last amusement is very agreeable, and that I partake of it more frequently, and with more satisfaction, than of any other which this Gay city affords. This is not a letter from the Delegate, but from your freind, and is confidential. I embrace you, Adieu! R King RC (NNC: King Collection). 1 King is actually referring to his November 7 letter to Caleb Davis. 2 Notwithstanding this posturing, King married 16-year old Mary Alsop, the only daughter of John Alsop, a wealthy New York merchant and former delegate to Con gress, on March 30, 1786, six days after his 31st birthday. See Robert Ernst, Rufus King, American Federalist (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press for the Institute of Early American History and Culture, 1968), pp. 66-67; and King to Elbridge Gerry, March 29 and April 5, 1786. Massachusetts and New York Delegates to Thomas Hutchins et al. Sir New York Decemr. 9. 1785. In the year 1773 the late Coloneis now States of Massachusetts and New York, agreed on the Course of a line of Jurisdiction on the Eastern boundary of the latter and between the North and South boundaries of the former—repeated attempts have since been made by the parties to run this line in conformity with the agree ment, but they have hitherto proved fruitless; the happiness of the people who live adjacent to this line is materially interested in it’s establishment—and the two States are for this and other reasons very desirous that this uncertainty of Jurisdiction should be re moved by the actual running and marking of the same. To effect this Object each State by a legislative Act has vested full powers in Congress to appoint three Commissioners to execute this business; and Congress in pursuance of these powers on the 2d instant elected you, Mr. Rittenhouse and Doctr. Ewing for that purpose. 1 We are unable to mention the precise length of the line to be run, perhaps it is not far distant from a Degree of Latitude—the time will be made convenient to the Commissioners and although we are sensible a pecuniary inducement will be with the last motives to your acceptance— We assure you nevertheless that the Compensa tion will be to your Most intire Satisfaction. This election being in Consequence of our Joint nomination we hope you will not decline
