December 11, 1785 59 Morris’s patriotism, or of his Judgment in Politics & Finance. The sec ond & third hang together and are more easily accounted for. It is a bold Stroke to be sure, after what has lately happened; but it is honest, because it is open & undisguised, the Intention, or leading Motive cannot be mistaken. The warm Friends of the Bank will of course be pleased with it as far as they can conceive it practicable. Some of the public Creditors will also be pleased with it on the same Principles, having also an additional Motive from supposing it favourable to their own Interest; but wise Men as well as good Politicians will carefully consider the practicability as well as the plausibility of a Measure be fore they build their Hopes upon it exclusively. Let us suppose for a Moment that the general Prejudice against the Bank were so far over come as that the Legislature would agree to re-establish and make the proposed use of it; still, in my Apprehension the Plan of raising the necessary Revenues (except the Branch arising from Imposts) would be frustrated, and the Discontents arising from the others might de stroy Imposts also. Plans of Revenue are delicate Subjects in all Coun tries. It is unsafe to make large Strides and great Alterations in them, even in old established Governments, less free than ours, & whose Powers are sufficient to enforce Obedience without having previously obtained the general Assent of the People. It is still more unsafe in a Government like ours, even if it were more matured than it is by Age & Experience, the concurrent Sense & Approbation of the People being essentially necessary to the Efficacy of our Legislative Acts. It is not enough with us that a Measure be wise & good in itself; to give it Effect it must be so understood by the Body of the People; and whether their Disapprobation arises from solid Reasoning or ill- founded Prejudice, it should be generally removed before an Experi ment, on which anything considerable may depend, be hazarded. To give up a System of Revenue which is well understood and generally approved, in order to make Room for one of, at best, doubtful Experi ment, is therefore far without my Ideas of Prudence and good Policy. I fear it would throw the State into Confusion, and blast the tender plant of Public Credit which appears to have taken Root in a good Soil in Pensa. and to be growing with admirable Thriftiness. The noxious Weeds which sprang up for want of Culture are withering under it’s Shade, and may shortly be wholly eradicated. I am glad to find a Bill is preparing to meet the Requisition of Con gress. I hope it will contain some Mode to possess the State of the Cer tificates intended to be funded, in order to evade the Circulation of our Quota of the Facilities, as otherwise I fear the public Creditors will lose the further Benefit of the funding Act & be thrown back into the common Mass of the Creditors of the U States. It would perhaps be improper for me to say that the Facilities will depreciate. I am per suaded it is unnecessary for me to suggest the Idea to the Legislature of Pennsa. But if they judge of the whole Matter as I do, they will
