December 14, 1785 63 Philip Blackledge, Abraham Terrill, John Dennis, Abraham Hetfield. You will be pleased to procure an order of Court for their Examination at Eliz. Town & give me Timely notice that I may notifyjames Mitchell to attend at said place. I shall be obliged to you, at same Time to point out the Legal Steps I am to pursue in Consequence of the order of Court. I hope we shall be able to try Mitchell’s Cause in the Spring.” Hollingsworth Collection, PHi. Charles Pettit to John Nicholson Dear Sir, New York 14th Decemr. 1785 Your Letter of the 7th Instant came to Hand by Post on the 12th. I put it into the Hands of Mr. Secretary Thomson with a Request that he would furnish me with the necessary Documents to comply with your Desire. He has since given me the inclosed Paper 1 which he thinks will be sufficient. If it be not, you will be pleased to describe what farther you may desire & I will endeavour to obtain it. The Leisure afforded by the Want of States in Congress, has made me more industrious than I otherwise should have been, so that in stead of being at Leisure myself I have been more than usually labori ous. I mention this as an excuse for making my Letter short; tho’ it is as long as the Cary-Note, 2 to which it is an Answer, deserves. I am with Regard, Dr Sir, Your most hum’l Servant, Chas. Pettit Tr (DLC: Edmund C. Burnett Collection). Endorsed: “Copied from the original in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia.” 1 Not identified. 2 An asterisk was inserted at this point to which was keyed the following note at the foot of the page: “If you are at a Loss for the meaning of this Cant Expression, enquire for Sampson Cary’s stile of writing Letters, who formerly lived at Bristol in Pensylvania.” David Ramsay to Benjamin Rush Dear Sir, New-York Deer. 14th 1785 Yours of the 14th is now before me. 1 Many thanks for your friendly congratulations on the present station which I hold. They are sincere & therefore as acceptable as though the occasion was of much greater consequence. I flatter myself that Continental credit is in a convalescent State. Virginia I hear has passed the requisition. The only states we have now to fear are Georgia and North Carolina. This state we have good reason to beleive will pass the five per cent impost. If the requi sition & the impost both operate they will have an immediate effect on public securities.
