64 December 14, 1785 The subject of your oration2 is very interesting not barely in a spec ulative but in a practical view. I admire most those disquisitions which come to our bosoms as men & as immortals. I beleive much might be done to make mankind mechanically more virtuous & of course more happy than they are at present. I hope you will introduce slav ery as one principle source of vice. It appears to me that previous to the extirpation of this evil it must be made in the first instance odi ous in sentiment. I sincerely congratulate you on your growing foreign fame. You are now in the most valuable dekade of human life. 3 Before imagination preponderated & in the course of another ten years, judgment some times begins to decline. At least the compound ratio of the two is greatest about your time of life. The printer finished my history on the 7th instant. It is now in the hands of the bookbinders. Aitkin has two hundred copies of it & he has my orders to bind in the most elegant manner one of them & to present it to you in my name. I have 1600 on board Cowper to the care of Mr Dilly. I have only reserved 1400 for the United States. I can always command the work in America, but in Europe it was expedient to supply the market at once. I feel all the anxiety of an author who is about to risque his character & his peace of mind. Many faults have al ready occurred & I shall hold it the highest proof of friendship to point those out that strike those of the readers who are my acquain tances & friends. Present my most respectful complimts to Mrs. Rush & to Doctor Hall. With the greatest respect, I am yours sincerely, David Ramsay RC (PPL: Rush Manuscripts). 1 The date of Rush’s letter, which has not been found, is problematical. The editor of the Ramsay papers transcribed the date as the “12th.” Ramsay, Writings (Brunhouse), p. 94. Although Ramsay clearly wrote “14th,” he may have inadvertently repeated his own dateline. It could not have been a letter of November 14 because Rush would not have known of Ramsay’s November 23 election to his “present station” as chairman of Con- gress. JCC, 29:883. Yet, it is difficult to believe that a letter written by Rush on December 14 in Philadelphia could have reached New York, more than 100 miles distant, the same business day, especially allowing for ferry crossings. There is evidence, however, that del egate Charles Pettit received from Philadephia “this Afternoon” a “Paquet of Inclosures of yesterday.” See Pettit tojames Hutchinson, December 18. 2 Rush had undoubtedly informed Ramsay, as he did ex-delegate John Montgomery, that he had been selected to deliver the American Philosophical Society’s annual ora tion and had chosen as a subject “An Enquiry into the Influence of Physical Causes upon Morals. Rush, Fetters (Butterfield), 1:378. The work was published the following year under the title An Oration, Delivered Before the American Philosophical Society, Held in Philadelphia, on the 27th of February, 1786; Containing an Enquiry Into the Influence of Physi cal Causes Upon the Moral Faculty (Philadelphia: Charles Cist, 1786). Evans, Am Bibliogra phy, no. 19,972. 3 Rush’s fortieth birthday was imminent.
