December 16, 1785 65 Charles Pettit to James Hutchinson Dear Sir, New York 16th. Deer. 1785 I have lately intimated to you that I had large calls on my Industry, tho little or nothing was doing in Congress. Corresponding with my Friends in Philada. (& you may suppose that other Matters have some Claims as well as Politics) has claimed Attention. In writing to Mr. M —~ s ' 1 thought it necessary that every Expression as well as every Sentiment shd. be carefully examined & be, not only clearly defenci- ble, but, especially the former, unexceptionable. I hope it will do good if it be only in aiding the Author of a Scheme that must be aban doned, with plausible Reasons to justify the Change to himself. Such Aids have sometimes a more operative Effect than direct Opposition, as it disarms Pride in a great Degree by changing the Appearance of Defeat into that of Candor and Conviction. Last Evening (I attempted it before but was prevented from mak ing any Progress by successive Interruptions) I formed the inclosed Draught of a Bill for complying with the Requisition of Congress. 2 Let it be carefully examined, corrected & put in another Handwrit ing than the present before it is offered to the House or even the grand Committee. When I set about it I was apprehensive it would have required more length & Time than I found necessary on Experi ment. I believe it contains all that is necessary for that Bill. After wards I set about the other, for transferring the Certificates &c ac cording to the proposed Plan. Here I met with much more difficulty than I expected. It requires a minuteness of organization & Thought; and as the Fabric must be original I should think Consultation neces sary if it were practicable, especially with the Treasurer & Comptroller who must execute the Plan & therefore ought to under stand the Machinery & to be consulted in forming it, so as to make it as simple & practicable as may be consistent with Safety. I shall, how ever, mark out the Lines of my Ideas to send by Monday’s Post—but they will probably be rough & scarified, & I shall not have leisure to change the Patch-work into a new Dress. Pray express my Respects to Mr Bryan, Dr. Jackson & our Friends in the House. I doubt whether I shall write to my Family by this Post. I am Dr Sir, Your Frd. & huml Servt., Cha Pettit RC (PPAmP: Hutchinson Papers). 1 That is, Robert Morris, for whose “Scheme” see Pettit to Hutchinson, December 11. 2 Pettit s enclosed “Draught,” which has not been found, was a revision of portions of the Plan of a Report of the Committee of Ways and Means of the Pennsylvania Assembly for which see Pettit to Hutchinson, December 23, note.
