66 December 17, 1785 Samuel Livermore to John Langdon Dear Sir New York 17 Deer. 1785. I left home the 22 Nov. & arrived at this place the 6 Deer, by way of Providence and Newport. 1 Am now at lodgings in the same house with Col Long. I had a little touch of the gout since my arrival: but am bet ter. I mourn sincerely for Genl Whipple, ‘tho’ the news of his death was not unexpected. 2 I shall enclose you a paper. And, whenever any thing interesting shall occur shall do myself the honour to write. Presi dent Hancock is expected from Boston soon. Your Excellencys most obedt. Servt., Samuel Livermore 3 RC (PHi: Langdon Papers). 1 Livermore took his seat in Congress December T.JCC, 29:899. 2 William Whipple, who was a delegate to Congress from February 1776 to September 1779, had died November 28 after years of poor health. 3 Livermore also wrote the following brief letter on December 23 to Roger Alden, the deputy secretary of Congress: “Please to send me by the bearer The Journals of Con gress for the years 1782, 1783, 1784 & 1785. PCC, item 55, fol. 220. Charles Pettit to James Hutchinson Dear Sir, New York 17th. Deer. 1785, 12 at Night According to the Expectation I gave you I now inclose a rough Draught of a Bill for new modelling the funding of the public Debts. 1 It is not so complete as I would wish it. The Dress may be much amended, but I have not Leisure to draw it over again & correct it, being really fatigued by the Confinement & sedentary Labour I have undergone for a Week past in which I have allowed myself too little Exercise & Recreation. It does not occur to me, however, that any Idea is omitted, which ought to be inserted, unless it be a Mode of Proof of Citizenship of the Persons named in the Certificates, or of the Mode of obtaining such as may have been received from Staff Of ficers as public Agents in Lieu of Money. Some such Mode of Proof may be proper; but it is a delicate Subject. Many of the Loan Office Certificates, which for a Time passed as Money, have passed thro’ so many hands that tho’ they may be ever so fairly intitled in reality, it may not be in the Power of the Holder, tho’ he became so at an early period and for full Value, to make the Proof or even to know any thing about the Person in whose Name it was issued. I am inclined to think the Payment of the last Year’s Intt. may be taken as a Proof for these, as far as it goes as to Loan Certificates. The Temptation was
