68 December 18, 1785 Charles Pettit to James Hutchinson Dear Sir New York 18th December 1785, Sunday Evening When I closed my Letter of last Night, which was written after 12 o’Clock, till which Time I had been hammering at the Bill it incloses, I intended that this, being Sunday, should “shine a Holiday to me.” This Afternoon, however, I was favoured with your Paquet of Inclo sures of yesterday. I have looked them over with some Attention, such as the Shortness of the Time would admit, & shall for the present give you only some short Notes on the Draught of the Report. Two of the Sheets being absent, I can only guess at their Contents by the general Tenor and Tendency of the Rest. It appears to me to be a well digested Plan, and to have a proper Aim at the great Objects; but it embraces a great Variety of Articles, many of which I am not well enough acquainted with in Detail & Cir cumstances to trace so thoroughly as I wish; and Tho’ I perceive the Propriety of bringing them all into view in considering of and form ing a System of Legislative Regulation I cannot but apprehend that the interweaving the whole into one Machine, would make it too complex & unwieldy for our present Situation and Circumstances, and that it would be better to work them into different Acts & per haps at different Times (keeping the general Systematic Plan contin ually in View) than to risk the Embarrassment of any one Wheel by the irregular or uncorrespondent Motions of others. At the same Time I would wish the principal Machine to be so calculated as to be capable of receiving Additions from Time to Time. I like the Idea of appropriating particular Revenues to particular Purposes—but it is an Idea more applicable to Business before us than that behind us—I mean to the creating of a new Debt, than to the picking up a con fused parcel of old ones. Our Plan of last Year was to create an aggre gate Fund as large as Circumstances would admit, and to charge upon it such Burthens as we thought it would bear without being overloaded, laying on the principal Objects first &, as it were, consoli dating them as they were laid on, & with an Intention to add others to the Load till the whole should be taken up, and then, as our Strength should enable us, to lighten the Load by discharging the Principal. The Old Emissions of Paper Money had peculiar Funds ap propriated to them which I have supposed want only to be put in Mo tion to be adequate to their Objects. I should therefore be desirous of putting them in Motion for that Purpose separately & indepen- dantly of the Debts of other Kinds and the Funds created for their Redemption—tho’ the one may occasionally lend aid to the other. But I am going farther than I intended at this Time. I believe I have been led into it by observing that under the 9th Article Page 14, it is
