December 18, 1785 69 proposed to appropriate part of the Impost Revenue to pay the Ar rearages of Intt. on a particular Class of Debts, and to continue the Appropriation of such part till the principal of that Class shall be re deemed, and in page 26—the Arrears of Intt. on the Continental Certificates are proposed to be specially charged on the Arrea[ra]ges of Taxes. I should think it better to let the aggregate Fund continue as stated in the Act of March last, & to let these Objects rest upon it in common with others as is proposed in that Bill—and so of other Matters of the like kind. The Year 1792 I apprehend is too distant a period for the final Redemption of the Paper of 81, 82 & 83. If it were fixed at April 10, 1787, the Time allowed for paying the Arrear ages due to the Land Office, or a few Months after, I shd. think it long enough. The Fees from the Secrys. Office & Land Offices I should apprehend over-rated. The Profits from the Lottery undoubt edly are—indeed I doubt the propriety of counting on these Profits at all & I wish the whole of that Subject had been left out, as I am ap prehensive the mention there made of the Bank is improper & will give an adversary advantage. 1st. it is not an Object of Importance in itself; but little Money will be reed.—and it rests on that single Object by a special Law which extends to no other, & 2dly. It may be doubted whether it can be considered as a State Revenue within the meaning of the Constitution. On the whole I fear it will be construed into snarling at a chained Animal. I shall send on the Bill as I had prepared it last Night, as I believe it agrees in Spirit with the Plan of the Committee. If however they shd. think proper to alter either the one or the other, they can do it. I could wish that the Plan had been less prolix. It would perhaps have been better understood & less liable to cavilling objections. I am much gratified by the good Opinion of our Friends, & flat tered by their Confidence in my Judgment. I wish I could give them stronger Instances to found their Confidence upon, and that my Abili ties were equal to my Wishes in aiding their laudible Endeavours to promote the true Interests and Honour of the State. Though you are a little out in your conjecture, that I should be surprized at Mr. Findlay’s Superiority in Argument, I am pleased with the Instance of it which you mention. In that Respect my Judg ment is justified. I have discerned in him reasoning Faculties that ex cited my Emulation rather than Envy. I have for some Time suspected that the Knavery of the Collectors was working under Cover of the Supineness of Government. I hope the Discovery you mention will lead to proper Exertions in developing the Business throughout the State. I fear, as you observe, it will be found that much more has been taken from the People than has been accounted for; but I am confident it will also be found that much has
