December 27, 1785 79 it, for ourselves or other nations—the saving within the Union the profits arising from factorage & transportation, are questions of mo ment. And whether the States respectively or assembled in Congress are most adequate to the conducting the system of Commercial war fare, that will consequently ensue, on any regulations being made, we must leave to the wisdom of the Legislature to determine, but might we be supposed to be disinterested judges, our opinion would be, under proper regulations to Vest the power in Congress. The appointment of Agents to meet those from the State of Georgia the second Monday in May for establishing a federal Court, will also be necessary 7 —perhaps, as good consequences might result from an amicable settlement as from a decision had this way—we submit for the information of the House an estimate of what we suppose will be the expence. The recommendation of Congress in their resolve of the 2nd November last, 8 on the application of the State of New Hampshire merits serious attention—to be provided for defence is one of the first duties of Government. The resolution of the 7th June 1785 9 —making provision for dis abled seamen & Soldiers—the propriety of this resolve is such that we trust no remarks enforcing the adoption of it are necessary. These are all the resolutions of Congress of consequence which at this time occur to us, & we hope the House will find time to make a decision on them this session. With the greatest respect, we have the honor to be, Your Excel lency’s mot. obt. and very humble servants, (Signed) Charles Pinckney David Ramsay John Kean Estimate of the Expence of a Federal Court. 7 Judges for 90 days @ 10 dollrs. each. dollrs. 6300 To be borne equally So. Carolina’s half 3150 4 Council, cannot be allowed less than 4000 Messengers, Clerks, Witnesses, Agents & Contingent Expences 2850 dollrs. 10,000 The Court to settle the difference between Pennsylvania and Con necticut sat six weeks, but the Judges were allowed their pay from their leaving untill their returning home, therefore, we suppose ninety days, a moderate allowance. Tr (ScCoAH: Governor’s Messages). i See JCC, 16:261-67. 2 JCC, 22:83-86, 24:133-37, 256-61.
