December 31, 1785 81 Mr. Wingrove that they shall then & there be ready to receive such Communications as he suggests a Desire to make respecting a com mercial Intercourse with the East Indies. Mr. Wingrove’s Application refers to a Letter from our Minister at the Court of London to Con gress respecting him; which Letter is said to be in your Custody, either under Reference or on file. The Committee wish to see that Letter, or to be furnished with an Extract from the same, so far as relates to Mr. Wingrove. 2 If you can with Propriety put the said Letter or such Ex tract into my Hands for the Use of the Committee I doubt not you will readily do it; but if that should be improper you will please to cause the Letter to be presented to the Committee at their Meeting Tomor row Morning. 3 I have the Honour to be, Sir, Your most obedt. & most humble Servant > Cha. Pettit RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). 1 John Wingrove’s November 29, 1785, letter, offering “to promote the Commercial Interests of the Union in the East Indies,” is in PCC, item 78, 24:575-78. The committee to which it had been referred on December 27 consisted of Pettit, John Bayard, and John Kean. 2 John Adams’ September 3, 1785, letter to Jay recommending Wingrove because of his “long experience in the East Indies,” is in PCC, item 84, 5:649-52. For Jay’s response to Pettit of this date, see PCC, item 120, 2:57. 3 For the report of Pettit’s committee recommending against the appointment of Wingrove as a consul in India on the ground that only citizens of the United States were eligible to such posts, see JCC, 30:35, 40n. The committee’s report was read January 31, 1786, and Congress directed Secretary Charles Thomson “to take order” on the com mittee’s recommendation the following day. See ibid.; and Thomson to Wingrove February 2, 1786. Pennsylvania Delegates to Benjamin Franklin Sir New York December 31st. 1785. We think it our duty to Communicate to Your Excellency and the Honorable Council the intelligence We have this day received from His Excellency Governor Clinton—which is—that he has been in formed of undoubted authority, that a large quantity of Powder and Lead has lately been purchased and lodged at Fishkiln with a View of transporting it to the Susquehanna. That the quantity vastly exceeds what is necessary for the peaceable and ordinary Consumption of the Country, and that there remains no doubt of its being intended during the Course of this Winter to be transported to Wyoming—the Governor is not at Liberty to give us the Name of his Informant, but assures Us, We may depend upon the Truth of his information, and added—had We not been here as Rep-
