84 January 1,1786 enter into the Discussion of Subjects that I have on my Mind, my Imagination is apt to be playful, and lead me into Dances that I had never before conceived the Figure of. But Vagaries of this kind must always have something to float upon that is pleasing in itself, or which affords a Foundation for Pleasure or Gratification, tho’ the Mind may not have minutely investigated it’s Properties and Capacities for af fording Pleasures; and perhaps may not have examind to which of sev eral Objects it is possessed of, to impute the Sparks of good Humour it finds to be acting upon it. Whether it be the Interest I feel in the present S[t]ate of Affairs in Pennsylvania, or a temporary flow of Spir its from another Cause that has now led me into an unpremeditated Train, I have not examined; but certain it is that I have let my Pen run into a playful Strain, & followed it so heedlessly that I have not looked a Sentence a Head of it from the Beginning of this Epistle. It has ex hausted the Time I can now afford you; I can therefore recall it to Se riousness only to say that I am much your Friend & obliged Servant, Cha. Pettit [PS.] Please to deliver the inclosed Letter 2 unobserved by any other than Mrs. Pettit. The Reason for this another time. RC (PPAmP: Hutchinson Papers). 1 None of these other letters has been found. 2 Not found. Charles Thomson to the States (Circular) Office of Secy of Congress, Jany 3. 1786 In Obedience to the order of Congress I herewith transmit to your Excelly to be communicated to the legislature a state of the represen[ta]tion for the last month. 1 With the greatest respect I have the honor to be yr Excy most obt & most hu Ser, CT LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 For this enclosure and the 11 other monthly attendance lists sent to the states dur ing the Congress of 1785-86, see Appendix. Nathan Dane to Edward Pulling Dear Sir, 1 New York, Jany 8, 1786..... Since my arrival here Congress has done but little business there being only seven States assembled at any time, which you know
