January 8, 1786 85 are unequal to the great objects of the Confederacy; and a consider able part of the time only six. Congress has lately received interesting dispatches from Europe and has many important subjects before them, they requiring the as sent and consideration of nine States we have not entered into any discussion of them, and therefore it has not been practicable to col lect, with certainty, the sentiments of the States on them, or to deter mine what part their Delegates will act in settling the interesting ques tions as to our conduct towards G. Britain in future, towards the Barbary powers etc., as to vesting commercial powers in Congress, set tling the accounts of the several States with the Union, and carrying into effect the Continental impost system. But from the little informa tion I have collected since here I am induced to believe that the fed eral Government have it in its power to carry its present important subjects into effect in time by a firm and steady perseverance. I do think the States are at present represented in Congress by can did, and for the most part, good federal and republican men—men reasonably disposed to give up partial, or States interests for the good of the Confederacy. It is true there are several young gentlemen from the Southern States of considerable fortunes, educated in Europe and bred to the law who come with some high ideas of distinction and the etiquette of society; but these sons of a warm and debilitating climate, and a luxu rious soil, think and speak plausibly, are gentlemen, and possessed of agreeable qualities but their minds and constitutions want the energy and habits of attention and perseverance of the Northern States— they are capable by their wealth of giving aid to the Union, and I have that partiality for our Northern people, their efficient strength in the field and abilities in the forum as to believe the Southern States have much to fear from a dissolution of the present Confederacy. Ener vated, disposed over a large territory but little inured to constraint they are capable of making perhaps if left to stand alone but little re sistance to a foreign enemy or one near home. Nor are their best men totally unacquainted with these circumstances. These considerations must press them into Federal measures—they surely must be alarmed even at the suggestion of a confederacy of the States north of the Po tomac or even the Delaware and give up their opposition to avoid such a measure. All the States have adopted the Conti, impost except R. Island, N. York and Georgia, in the terms of the system recommended. R. Island has done it partially, N. York it is believed will adopt it this winter. 2 Their General Assembly is now convening and will soon enter upon the consideration of it—if the question whether the Theatre here
