90 January 18, 1786 LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: “Honble. John Bayard, Esqr., Delegate from Pen- sylvania.” 1 For the laws of Pennsylvania requested by Thomson, see Evans, Am. Bibliography, nos. 17,659-62, 18,094-96, 18,681-83, 19,161. See also Thomson to Samuel Bryan, February 3, 1786. David Ramsay to John Eliot Dear Sir, New-York. Jany 18th 1786 Accept my thanks for your friendly letter by Mr Gorham containing also Mr Gardiners oration. 1 I am happy that it is now in my power to repay you for your friendly attention in furnishing me with copies of your Boston orations. 2 A work which has engaged my attention for five years past is now published. It contains the history of the late War in the Southern States in two octavo volumes, price four dollars. I wait for an opportunity to send a few copies to Boston for sale & I shall at the same time request the favor of you to accept one copy as a token of my sincere esteem and regard. The expense of a land conveyance would be too much. I am therefore at a loss how to get them to Boston. They are bound & ready to be sent if I could hit on a proper mode of conveyance. How many copies would you advise me to send? By what route would you propose? & to whom addressed? The work will not be in much demand with you as it is limited to the Southern war; but nevertheless as it is the first that has been published I sup pose a few copies might be disposed of. I shall endeavor to pay Boston a visit this winter or the next spring before I return to Carolina. We have only seven States represented in Congress & of course we proceed very languidly in business. We hope for two or three more in the course of a few days. When will President Hancock come on? I long to see him & shall with great pleasure resign to him that chair which I now occupy in his absence. I am sincerely sorry for the many restrictions under which your trade languishes. Though the Southern States suffer less than the Eastern yet they all have a great interest in vesting Congress with [com]petent powers to regulate commerce. Present my most respectful compliments to Mrs. Elliot & beleive me to be with great regard & esteem your most obed sert & affectionate friend, David Ramsay. RC (MHi: Andrew-Eliot Papers). 1 Probably John Gardiner’s An Oration, Delivered July 4, 1785, at the Request of the Town of Boston, in Celebration of the Anniversary of American Independence (Boston: Peter Edes, 1785), which was dedicated to George Washington. Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 19,017.
