January 18, 1786 91 2 That is, the orations commemorating the Boston Massacre that Eliot had sent Ram say in 1782 and thereafter, for which see these Letters, 18:647n.2. David Ramsay to William Gordon Sir, New-York Jany 18th 1786 I have at last published my work & have deliverd to Mr Hazard a complete copy in sheets to be forwarded to you of which I beg your acceptance. Unacquaintd with the roads to the Eastward I presumed Mr Hazard could forward the copy to you much sooner than I could myself. If I knew how I would send forty or fifty copies to Boston for sale; but I am at a loss what conveyance to make use of. I have sent sixteen hundred copies in sheets to Dilly in London & have adver tised them in New-York three days ago. I can as yet form no conjec ture about the sales; but am of opinion that the trade of an author is a very poor one in our new world. My advances will not be replaced till I have sold 500 copies & my debts contracted & yet unpaid will require the sale of seven hundred more. The edition has cost me 5,500 dollars. The printers bill is 2500 dollars. The engravings 800, the binding 4/10 a copy. In short I have no brilliant pecuniary prospects before me. I fear that your plan of requiring a previous payment will hurt the subscription for your work. 1 I flatter myself that the scarcity of dollars will be a considerable reason why my sales will be little productive. This will hold still stronger where nothing is given to the subscriber but a receipt for a book to be delivered at a future period. How many hundred citizens are there in our States to whom the advance of even three dollars would be very inconve nient? If you can accomplish the work without requiring any ad vance it would be much for your interest. Pardon the liberty I take in giving advice. I asked my engravers to reserve their plates for you; they seemed averse from it but said they would deliver a number of copies at a reasonable price. I wish you all success & shall recom mend to all my acquaintances to become subscribers to your work; but, I fear that little profit will arise from the American sales of your books or of mine. In point of pecuniary interest I would exchange all my prospects for the profits of a few benefit nights of the New York theatre. Present my best respects to Mrs. Gordon & believe me to be yours respectfully, David Ramsay. RC (NN: Myers Collection). 1 That is, Gordon’s The History of the Rise, Progress, and Establishment, of the Independence of the United States of America, which was published in four volumes in London in 1788.
