100 January 20, 1786 mands. The latter I think is the better opinion. It remains therefore for Congress to appoint some man or board of commissioners who will be equal to the business and have the Confidence of the parties to settle these accounts and determine how far they shall be charged against the Union and for Congr. to prescribe rules as far as it is prac ticable for conducting the business. This has become a matter of great importance and Serious and we must be decisive and in earnest in the business, if you shall have leisure to send me your ideas or opinion as to the best mode of settling these demands &c. I shall be happy to re ceive such communications. We learn by the papers that another convention is proposed to be held in the Eastern Counties 6 —nor are we informed that the Genl. Court did any thing respecting those disturbances the last Session or whether they thought it practicable to do any thing. I hope those Con ventions may not be productive of much trouble and expence to the Commonwealth but I fear it. The situation of those Counties between us and the British provinces is unfavourable. The reason we have to believe that the British are privy to all that is done there makes the af fair of more consequence. All kinds of information from Europe tends to prove that Great Britain would not have many Scruples of Conscience about disturbing our peace, that haughty nation feels sore and wounded & might be induced to buy peace in Europe at a dear rate in order that she might get back but an inch of our Territory. I do not imagine that those Counties at present wish to become a part of the British Governt. The people in General perhaps have no direct motives for their conduct—a few who have local or personal advan tages in coud put the machine in motion but if the towns & individu als who are opposed to the separation lay still and do not in the cov- nentions or in some manner Make their sentiments and opposition known the field will be left to those ringleaders and they and the world in Genl, will believe the people in those Counties Unan[imousl]y. They will petition Congr. to be made a separate State. The question for a while lay undecided. Will these people keep them selves attached to and attend on the Govert. of Massa, in the mean time & pay taxes or will they not be hatching up Govert. among them selves & keep their money at home. Congr. undoubtedly will not agree to make them a separate State, the sd. States will not wish to throw an other voice into the northern interest and we shall Join with them in this instant—and the idea of making separate states is genrally repro bated as produce of the worst evils to the Confederacy. The Assent of nine States is required at any rate—but may not a doubt be started on the Confederation whether Congr. have a right to divide a State at all—or whether any provision is made or the idea held up in that orig. compact for the dismemberment or separation of a State. If not then those people are violating the very constitution of the Society. It is
