January 20, 1786 107 counts of others, as from his Situation in Philadelphia, from his grasp ing Disposition, and from the Influence he obtained with our Brother Cox, his Office extended its Ligaments into the Accounts of so many others that their Accounts cannot be settled without some Reference to & Explanation from his. Mr. Denning, at best, makes but slow Progress in the Business, and I believe rather easily permits even small Obstacles to impede and lay by an Account. The Course of Deprecia tion so frequently overwhelmed and unhinged the Rules established by Congress for the Settlement of Accounts that the different Com missioners are at great Loss for want of established Principles & Rules for their Government. Various Applications have been made to the Board of Treasury, to the Superintendt. of Finance, while he was in Office, and to Congress, to establish such Principles & Rules as may be more easily & uniformly understood; but the Circumstances to be weighed & measured by such Rules are so various, numerous & het erogeneous, that they get lost in a maze of Difficulties whenever the Subject is entered upon, and therefore cannot be brought to enter on any radical Measures, and it is with great Difficulty they are brought occasionally to form a Resolution of Expediency only; & when they do pass such a Resolution it is generally either of little Extent as to it’s Object, or operative by a Reference to a train of former Resolutions occasionally passed on pressing Emergences, with limited and perhaps different Aspects. Hence every Commissioner is left too much to his own Discretion & Judgment in forming, as it were by Inference, the Rules by which he is to decide on various Matters that come before him. Some have Resolution enough to exercise this Discretionary Power so as to let few Obstacles impede their Progress. Others, more timid, or less inclined to dispatch the Business, boggle at many Things which the former pass pretty easily over, and shelter themselves be hind the Letter, or a narrow Construction of some Act of Congress. The Commr. for the Quarter Master’s Department, 3 seems to be of the latter kind, tho’ I believe a well meaning Man; but he is engaged in other Pursuits, being at this Time a sitting Member of the Assembly. The Commr. for the commissary’s Department 4 makes better progress. He is more liberal in the Construction of his Powers, and at tends to no other Business. I believe his Conduct is also more accept able to his Superiors as well as to the Accomptants. I have Reason to believe the Plan will soon be altered so as to form one Office for the Accounts of the 5 Departments, which are now under 5 distinct Heads acting independantly of each other. 5 The last Election in Pennsa. made considerable Changes in the Leg islature. 6 The Attack on the Bank inflamed the Industry of Mr. Morris &c. They made great Efforts throughout the State. In the City they succeeded by about 1100 to 1000. I was absent & did not meddle with it, tho’ I was placed at the Head of the losing Ticket. They had some Success also in other Places, & for some Time the Cry of Victory was
