108 January 20, 1786 on their side on a Supposition of a decided Majority. The Choice of Speaker & Clerk first convinced them of their Mistake. They still had Hopes that Mr. Morris’s masterly Talents in Finance would bear down all Opposition in Business of that kind, which in fact is now the lead ing Object of Legislation. I had conversed with him on the Subject, & I left Philadelphia in great Expectation of the Parties harmonizing in Measures relating to it, as he agreed with me in the Objects to be ac complished & promised to adopt the Means I had in view as far as his Judgment would permit on a candid Consideration of them. He framed his Plan so as to embrace the Objects I had proposed, even more extensively than I had thought it prudent yet to aim at. But on a Supposition that this would draw in both Sides of the House, and en list all the Public Creditors in support of his Measures, he made a bold Stroke to restore the Bank by interweaving it into the Machine of the State in such Manner as to make the latter dependant upon it; and, in order to accomodate the Revenues of the State to Bank operations, he proposed such modes of raising Revenues as I conceive are wholly in admissible even under a british Constitution, much more so under ours. He proposed to abolish our Ordinary Mode of Taxation on Land & Stock, ad valorem, and to lay on a Poll Tax of one Dollar per Head on Males fit to bear Arms—A Duty on Flour & Grain ex- ported—The Revenue of Excise to be trebled, and farmed out to the highest Bidder—and an additional Impost on the Import of specified Articles, so high as in my Opinion would either introduce smuggling, or drive the Trade from our Ports to those of our bordering Neigh bours. He sent me his Plan, & in polite & even flattering Terms asked my Opinion of it fully and freely. I gave him my Opinion with Frank ness & Candor. My Friends in the House asked my Assistance; I gave them all that I could at this Distance. Mr. Morris’s Plan was rejected by a large Majority (12 to 5) in the grand Committee of which he was Chairman, and another Plan reported to and adopted by the House, without any Aspect to the Bank, founded on the Revenues established last Year, and pursuing the same Principles of funding then adopted, under a new modification to meet the Requisition of Congress, and extending the Plan to some other Objects which were last year in View but could not then be embraced. Bills were accordingly published for Consideration one for complying with the Requisition of Congress, and another for paying to our owii Citizens so much of our Quota of the Contribution as is allowed to be discounted for Interest on the do mestic Debt. This is done by opening a State Loan to receive in Cer tificates of certain Descriptions (such as were admitted under the funding Act of last year) and giving State Certificates on Interest in lieu of them. By which Means the State will be possessed of the origi nal Continental Certificates & can discount the Interest on them at the Continental Loan Office according to the Terms of the Requisi tion, & the State will then pay the Interest to it’s Citizens in it’s own
