118 January 29, 1786 Circumstance of this Kind is so unfavorable. I hope to God you will take great Care of yourself as Persons who have had this Disease are very liable to a Relapse and this in your present State may prove fatal. 2 1 am oftentimes very uneasy about you as I know you rely too much on your Constitution and very often expose it to very severe Tryals with out any real Necessity. This may be assigned as the Reason why so many Persons of a strong vigorous Make either do not reach the usual Term of Life or become liable to the most dreadful chronical Dis eases. I send you herewith inclosed the Letters which passed between Mr Jay & Mr Littlepage while abroad? You have no Doubt seen the first Newspaper Publications wh have given Rise to a most violent Quarrel between them and occasioned considerable Parties in this City. The latter came out just before I got to Town & were so much in Demand that I could not get them, otherwise I would forward them by this Opportunity. Littlepage is a young Virginian who in the Year 80 went over to Spain recommended to the particular Care & Patronage of Jay who was then at the Court of Madrid. The former being a young Man of Parts and of an ardent Temper could not think himself happy in a State of Retirement with Jay but being desirous of making a Campaign he went to the Siege of Minorca & returned with considerable Eclat. Having made an Acquaintance with several Persons of Distinction on his first Excursion he received Encouragement to go to the Siege of Gibralter where he distinguishd himself in the grand Attack upon that Place. On this Occasion he became acquainted with all the principal Men of Rank in the Army, particularly the Prince of Nassau with whom he has since been on his Travels thro several Parts of Europe. He came over lately to America with Letters from some of the first Personages in Europe to Congress in his Favor, and expected to have returned with some Testimonials of their Approbation, but Jay having called upon him for the Money he had supplied for his Expences in Europe Littlepage referred him to his uncle, who was his Guardian, for Payment, wh. Jay would have been satisfied with, but hearing there was a Sum of Money in a Merchants Hands in N York belonging to Lit tlepage, he instantly sued him which brought on the Quarrel. It seems there had been some Difference between them while abroad which Jay could not forgive—Littlepage appealed to the Public, abused Jay personally in the Street & challenged him. The Latter replied with great Sharpness twitting him with the Favors he had reed, of him in Spain. Littlepages letters are written with great Spirit and Accuracy & in a Brilliancy of Style seldom to be met with. Jay’s Language is not so pure as I could wish. Of the Merits of the Men you will judge by the Letters I now send you. I think you will see a very unfavorable Portrait of Littlepage who seems to me to possess more Understanding & Abil ities than Steadiness, and Rectitude of Mind.
