120 January 31, 1786 proposals not so much because I have interesting information to com municate but I wish to promote our correspondince. The general tranquillity that prevails throughout the U States affords but few daily occurrences—and there having been since my arrival here at no time more than seven States assembled in Congress we have been able to form no very interesting determinations—however we have turned our inquiries & Congress its attention in some degree to the impor tant matters which at present attract the attention of the several parts of the Union—and endeavour to put them in a train of Decision. I mean the matters respecting the finances, the Commerce of and unliquidated demands upon the United States—to carry some better federal System of revenue into effect than our present—to regulate our trade on a broad and uniform basis—and to settle those demands of States and individuals upon the union which at present create so much uneasiness & inequality & tend much to obstruct federal mea sures—are objects in my opinion of the first consequence. Whenever measures are adopted on these heads these subjects that extend to ef fect the various interests of the States & parts of the Confederacy pre sent & future they undoubtedly ought to be the result of strict labori ous enquiry, candid discussion and impartial but deliberate determinations. The present time of peace and leisure is certainly favourable to these objects. The danger is that if we neglect to im prove our federal polity in these important points and to adopt some different Systems till compress’d & compelled into the measure by war or a Common danger the states will then act precipitately and adopt undigested measures unequal to the purposes intended or by un guarded expressions give up what they never proposed to do. We have the good fortune to live in a Country where the people by it’s laws and it’s polity are Governed by consent and by informing their understandings and fairly convincing them of the Justice, propri ety and good policy of the measure to which their assent is requested. Information therefore concerning federal proceedings, the proceed ings, reasons, & opinions of indiv. States, and matters of common con cernment are not only their due but necessary to the perfection of Government. No people in the world I believe ever adopted the best forms of government best adapted to their genius and circumstances. In the first instance they have been the productions of attention to their effect in administering them to present defects and Judicious amendments. The machinery of Social compacts is delicate and cau tiously to be touched especially such combined ones as our’s. And the greatest danger perhaps we run is that of incorporated in some early period in material part of it the hidden seeds of its destruction. Every combined government has its parts to be ballanced, in which the stress, the secresy, the difficulty of preserving it lies. Had the Romans been attentive to this idea they never would soon after the abolition of the Kingly office admitted plebian leaders an accession to the patri-
