122 January 31, 1786 been divided & confused—nor do I think we are ripe for or ought to attempt without further experience any more amendments in the Confederation or federal System radically than are now proposed by investing Congress with the avails of the revenue system of Apr. 18, 1783—by the proposed alteration of the 8th art. of it and by vesting them with well defined powers to regulate trade—either by a perpet ual new art in the Confedn. or by temporary laws. As to another idea that has been started by some that Congress ought to have a controuling power to bring back to their duty the parts of States that may revolt & set up for independence, it is here held by Congress & the best informed Statesmen that the Confedn. is now sufficient for that purpose, that the 2 & 3 articls are a guarrantee of the States to each State of it[s] Jurisdiction and territory & when called on are held to assist it agt. any part that may revolt—that the 11 art does not is held by many & I believe will be by all who examine the Confedn. carefully extend to authorise Congress to divide an original State and make a new one out of an acknowledgd part of it. So much aware of this have N. York & Vermont been in their disputes that the principal point contested by them has been whether Vermont has or has not been a part of N. York since N. York became part of the Con federacy. But how shall we carry into full effect the amendments I have hinted at which a majority of the States have adopted as recom mended by Congress. This is a work of time & enquiry but would not the perseverance that enabled us to combine & unite several parts of this body politic in 1774-1775 &c against the efforts of Great Britain enable us now to bring over a few little states to understand the Com mon good of the whole. The States make no difficulty about the Conti impost except R. Island, which has adopted it partially, N. York & Georgia, which stand out. We are informed that one man in Georgia has had the influence principally to prevent it’s passing there whose conduct is disagreeable to the people & the grand Juries have gener ally indicted their assembly as guilty of a dangerous evil for not adopt ing it. This State is divided in opinion and the opposers of the System must be hard pressed soon by the States of N. Jersey & Connectt. Con gress have it in contemplation in a few days to make a pressing appli cation to their Legislature now setting on this head. It is thought the rest of States will accede to the proposed alteration of the 8th Art. of the confederation without difficulty execept N. Hampshire & R. Is land about which there are some doubts. All the States have vested Congress with a large Coml. power as they recomd. by their resolve of Apr. 30, 1784, except N. Jersey, Delaware, So. Carolina & Georgia. 3 (N. Jersey has not done it at present because as it is said their powers are not exten sive enough. The gentlemen who come from S. Carolina say they are willg to confine their carrying trade to Am[erica]n bottoms sub modo, that is to lay a
