January 31, 1786 123 heavy tonnage & light duty on foreign vessels coming to their ports & light ones on Amn. vessels but don’t wish the Northern States to have it in their power to monopolize the whole carrying trade of the Southern ones on any terms the carriers may please to make). However they rather think their State will comply with the recommendation. I hope our State will not think of rejecting the late requisition of Congress, if so respectable and so federal a State as Massa, does, A number of States will think them selves quite excused for not complying with it—no State as yet has re jected it—but several have adopted it. I should be very sorry if federal measures in our State should be impeded because some State de mands are not settled. To obtain a vote in Cong, for the late requisition]—our State & others were obliged here to croud on the Southern States who Complain loudly of unsettled accounts. But my letter would be too tediously long to detain you with many observa tions that might be made on this head. I have written to Capt Wales on the matters of accounts giving a genl view of yours. Be kind enough Sir to give my best respects to your Kinsman the Hon. Dr. Choate. I should have done myself the honor of writing to him but I am unexpectedly prevented by this post. With respect & esteem your Sincere friend & Humble Servant, N. Dane. FC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). In the hand of Nathan Dane. •John Choate (1737-91) of Ipswich, Mass., was a member of the Massachusetts House of Representatives, 1781, 1783, 1785-86, 1788, ajustice of the sessions court, and subsequently a delegate to the state convention of January 1788 which ratified the fed eral constitution. E. O. Jameson, The Choates in America, 1643-1896 (Boston: Alfred Mudge & Son, 1896), pp. 65-66. 2 For the Massachusetts delegates’ failure to submit to Congress the assembly’s re quest for a revision of the Articles of Confederation as instructed, see Massachusetts Delegates to James Bowdoin, August 18, note 2, and September 3, 1785. s See JCC, 30:10. Nathan Dane to Jacob Wales Dear Sir 1 N. York. Jan. 31. 1786. When I left Boston we proposed I remembered to let each other know what should be doing in our respective Situations. I feel pleased with an opportunity to perform on my part—so far as I can by suggest ing to your consideration some things on a subject interesting to the States and will probably be kept in view. I mean the subject of Public accounts by the present unsettled situation of the proposition of Massa, respecting the revision of the Confederation havg rec’d no no tice what the State did on that subject the last Session I am this day naturally led into some observations in a letter to my friend Jno.
