February 2,1786 131 I shall do myself the Honor to write to you by a private hand, who leaves this City in a few weeks for London—the conveyance being se cure I can then write with more freedom. Mr. Gerry is still here, al though not in congress, he returns soon to Massachusetts with a most amiable Wife, whom he has married here. With perfect respect & esteem I have the honor to be my Dear Sir your most obedient servant, Rufus King RC (MHi: Adams Family Papers). 1. See Charles Thomson to the States, January 12, note. Charles Thomson to the States Sir (Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress, February 1st. 1786 In obedience to the order of Congress I herewith transmit to your Excellency, to be communicated to the Legislature, a state of the rep resentation for the last month. 1 I am sorry that this goes unaccompa nied with any Journals of the proceedings of Congress. So few States have attended that for these three months past little has been done besides adjourning from day to day. On the 30th of last month the States present impressed with the ur gency and importance of the several objects of general concern which demand the immediate attention of the United States in Congress As sembled, directed their Chairman to write to the Executives of the States of Rhode-Island, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina and Georgia, to state to them the inconveniencies arising from a want of a sufficient number of States to proceed on the business of the Union and earnestly press them to send on their Delegates immedi ately. 2 With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be Your Excellency’s &c. CT LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 For this enclosure and the 11 other monthly attendance lists sent to the states dur ing the Congress of 1785-86, see Appendix. 2 See David Ramsay to the States, January 31. Charles Thomson to John Wingrove Sir, Office of Secretary of Congress, Feby 2. 1786 In Answer to your letter of the 29 November last, I have it in Charge to inform you, that a standing resolution of Congress passed the 16
