February 8,1786 135 delegates in congress it is provided that the President shall draw or ders on the treasury &ca. I suppose it was intended that the delegates should draw their orders on the President, and that the president should, on such orders or bills being presented to him, refer the same to the treasury for payment. Upon this plan I shall take the liberty to draw a bill on your Excellency for 150 dollers as soon as I shall be able to find a purchaser, making such bill payable on or about the first day of March, at which period, that sum and more will become due, ac cording to the tenor of the aforesaid vote. My cash is in a manner ex pended—and a delegate cant live here (with credit) without plenty of cash. I have nothing new—eight States in Congress—Mr Ramsy chair man—Mr Hancock not arrived. I expect this will find you in Session with the genl Court and wish you great success in the publick business. I am Your Excellencys most obedt servant, Sam Livermore RC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). John Bayard to John Nicholson My Dear Sir New York Feby. 8th. 1786 My Son James forwarded me your Letter of the 3d Inst. I have not been unmindfull of the Debt, I owe the State for Duties, it has lain as a heavy weight on my Mind, & I have been steadily attempting to fall on some plan to discharge it, but hitherto all my endeavours have proved ineffectual. I was in hopes long before this to have been able to take up on Interest a sum of Money for this and other purposes. I also depended on receiving a large sum from Carolina but am disa- pointed in both. You may recollect I requested you to enquire for me & engage monies for this purpose. I am very sensible My Dear Sir of your former kindness in not pressing payment nor exposing to the public my being in Arrears, at a time when party Rage might have made it injurious. I can truly say it is my most earnest wish to dis charge this debt as soon as in my power. But My losses in the Vendue Business, together with my having my whole Capital locked up in the public Funds prevents me. I have now near three Years Interest due on my Loan Office Certificates, wch. amots. to £800 P Ann. & a Large sum wch. I expect from Carolina &—I believe between two or three thousand pounds would pay all I owe in the World—thus circum stanced what can I do. I am willing to Mortgage any part of my real Es tate, or my Certificates, to produce the money. I know your situation is delicate nor would I wish Yau from Freind- ship to me to do any thing that would subject you to censure or a Ne glect of Your Duty as a public Officer—but if the Money can be ob-
