136 February 8, 1786 tained on any equitable plan, I will most cheerfully embrace it. I am told there is yet remaining between £5000 & £6000, of our late Emission that has not been taken out of the Loan Office by our Back Counties— wch. will be to be Lett without the restriction mentioned in the Law. I would gladly take up £1000 or £1500 of this money & mortgage my House in Arch Street. Pray let me beg your freindly Inter [cession] with the Loan Officers in this Matter. I shall be glad of a Letter from you in answer to this by post 1 & be Assured I shall ever entertain a gratefull sense of Your freindship to me on this Occasion. I am My Dear sir, Your Sincere Freind, John Bayard RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 For Nicholson’s March 4 response, see Bayard to Nicholson, March 11. James Monroe to James Madison Dear Sir New York Feby. 9. 1786. I have reed, yours of the day subsequent to the adjournment of the assembly. 1 Since my last the subject of the impost has been taken up; a report made on it some time last year was recommitted & a report being brought in to the following effect viz: that it be earnestly recom mended to the States of New York & Georgia, the only States who have fail’d in some degree or other to comply with the recommenda tion of the 18th of April 1783, to take it into their immediate Consid eration, especially that part wh. respects the impost, & to comply with the same 2 —stating Further that the plans authoriz’d by the confidera- tion have fail’d or are highly inexpedient, viz: requisitions, loans, or emissions of paper bills of credit. It implies a relinquishment of the supplementary funds, and admits the necessity of a further reference to the States & especially R I. to extend their powers upon that subject so as to come up to the recommendation—being taken up it was delay’d & protracted by its advocates, particularly Mr. Pinckney & ulti mately (there being but 7 States present for it) postpon’d to take up a motion of his own, to the same effect, but in different language; this is now under consideration & will probably pass to day. 3 This subject hath imploy’d Congress for several days, so that nothing else hath been before them since the arrival of Mr. Lee. 4 I have confer’d with Mr. Scott upon the subject of his lands upon the Mohawk river. 5 I enclose you a draft of a patent in wh. he owns an undivided right to about 8,000 acres. He wishes to sell—his terms are, in short payments, by wh. he means abt. one third immediately & the other two thirds in annual payments 20/ New York currency. I have heard that similar lands may be obtain’d still cheaper, even of the
