140 February 9,1786 were coming; but I am yet chained to the Oar tho’ the Detention is re ally very inconvenient to me. If a Relief does not shortly come, I fear I shall be obliged to commit the Honor of the State & embarrass the Business of Congress by leaving the State for a Time without a Vote. Out of 3 Gentlemen appointed I could not but hope that at least one of them would have followed us within less than the 3 Months which have elapsed since their Appointment. If my Convenience affords them no operating Motive, I should hope their Zeal in the service would have imposed some Obligation on them. I am Dr Sir, your most obedt. Servt., Cha. Pettit. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 There is no mention of this case in the journals of Congress and no such “Applica tion” from Swanwick is in the PCC. John Swanwick was receiver of Continental taxes for Pennsylvania. Nathan Dane to Samuel Adams Sir New York Feby. 11. 1786. When I had the honor three months since of proposals to commu nicate such interesting matters as our respective situations might af ford or require I did not expect from a want of a fuller representation of the States in Congress that so little during that time would occur in the administration of federal affairs worth communicating. This inat tention and delay in many of the States is not only a burden and ex pence to those who attend but ruinous in their consequences to the federal Government itself. It appears to me that a government formed as our[s] is on the broad basis of liberty and in the administration of which the rights of every man is considered as valuable to him and his assent to be had by himself or representative to every measure noth ing but candor, political industry, and perseverance can effect the ends and purposes of it. On it’s valuable principles the people at large are to be lead & persuaded to adopt measures and in many instances a great majority but men never will assent till they are informed, and convinced of the Justice & propriety of the measure or system pro posed. Congress since the year 1780 have submitted to the considera tion of the States several important systems & propositions to which they have asked their consent. The adoption of these are consider [ed] as essential to the preservation of the union and to enab[le] Cong, to administer the Govert. of the Confederacy for the benefit of the peo ple and for obtaining the ends of its institutio[ns]. Most of them are adopted by a majority of the States yet none of them carried into ef fect. Some States are foun[d] who have objections to the one or the other of them. R Island, and N. York and Georgia to the impost sys-
