142 February 11, 1786 thinking men. It is acknoledged that we have passed some imprudent laws & done injustice in some cases but that our systems of Govern ment, of laws, of finance and modes of administring Justice are on the whole the best & have in the [main] strong and lasting features. The part she has held in federal measures, the public characters she has produced, the strength of her dicernment in most Cases and the disinterestedness with which her merchantile interest have adopted on public motives the impost systems & coml. regulations to their present disadvantage convince the other States that she reasons on extensive principles and sees her situation in an extended point of view. Another thing I want our people to bear in mind is that they stepped forward in the late revolution, had a principal hand in form ing the Confederacy & bringing the U States into existence, that they had a large share in forming this body politic so far as it is formed and it’s parts organised—that we have a thousand Struggles yet to make before our complex machine of Government can be compleated and acquire a tone of energy sufft. for obtaining the ends intended. It must be cautiously mended in some parts & put into practise & opera tion in others. I think the [a]mendments proposed and adopted by some of the States are Judicious and ought to be steadily pursued. Other nations who have been so fortunate as to get good govern ments after the labor, experience and attempts of Centuries have thought themselves well off. Why should we despair because in this in fant State of our national existence we find some perhaps material de fects in our federal polity. We are at a loss how to govern our Com merce—and how to call forth our resources for federal purposes. More than 4/5 of the Community have agreed that powers should be vested in Congress for these purposes in a certain degree. These are important subjects and if we attend to the progress of our ideas on them we shall conclude in favor of succeeding finally. Many years ago when the articles of confederation were under the consideration of the States it was proposed by the State of N. Jersey that Congr. should have full power to regulate trade internally & externally & to lay Du ties of impost &C. 1 These propositions were then rejected by almost every State in the Union. Even their Delegates in Congress appeared pointedly against them—but experience has faithfully taught us that we were then mistaken—and we may ventur to affirm that more than 3/4 of the Community have changed their opinions—since for more than 8/10 of the union have adopted the impost system—and 9 states including the largest have granted to Cong Coml. powers as fully as they recomd. it to be done. Will not experience, the industry and in fluence of so large a part in time bring those who now stand out to adopt the same sentiments. I think if Cong., federal States & federal
