144 February 11, 1786 Nathan Dane to Thomas Dwight Dear Sir, 1 New York. Feb. 11. 1786 I should have wrote to you before this had my situation furnished me with any thing worth communicating—for want of a fuller repre sentation of the States since I have been here but little business of Consequence has been done by Congr—and but few interesting sub jects brought forward or examined. We have of Course been confined to the dull but necessary business of examining the past doings of Congr. on their Journals and collecting information from the files of the several appendent offices. I have nearly the same opinion of our federal affairs I had when I left you at Boston—except in this the fed eral Government may not be administred, even with so much atten tion and energy, even as I expected—while in fact the machinery of it is of such a nature as to require in those who administer it the greatest candor, industry & perseverence. Many of the gentlemen in Congress from the Southward have reed, polite educations and possess abilities that at first appear brilliant and plausible but not very well adapted to the man[a]ging of our forms of Government. Their information in the essential parts of it does not appear to me to be suffy. extensive nor their ideas well and maturely digested. Their arguments, propor tions and observations often at first appear plausible but they seldom bear that Strict inquiry they must & will undergo in Congress. The many amusements and multitude of social forms—the unsubstantial etiquette of society in this City are not very favourable to the industry of men not naturally inclined to it. I hardly need tell you I hope our Genl. Court will pass the late req uisition of Congr. and adopt it. I think they must be convinced of the necess. of doing it. I wish them to be possessed of this idea and what is to their honor—that the example of Massa, has a very Great influence upon the other States—if She should pass over or reject that requisi tion there are many States in the Union which would think themselves quite excused for doing nothing federal. The policy laws and conduct of each State is considered merely relatively and is esteemed good or bad as they appear in the comparison with those of the other Sta[tes]. Massa, is generally considered as the moving Cause in some measure in the late & great revolution—the deliberate and firm manner in which She has conducted her policy, formed her laws & regulated her finances & administred Justice since the peace and the disinterested manner in which her merch[ant] interest have urged the impost sys tems &c—& the part she has held in the fed. Governt, compared with most of the other States have given her a degree of respectability that every other State acknowledges. We are considered as a federal State
