February 11,1786 147 James Monroe to James Madison Dear Sir New York Feby. 11. 1786 In my last I mention’d to you, the subject of the impost was reviv’d & that a report of a Committee had given place to a motion of Mr. Pinckney, the latter being still before the house. The report, and mo tion with a report from the Bd. of treasury to the same effect have since been committed, in which State the business now lies. 1 I inclose you a paper containing the report. It is doubted whether in any event this State will adopt it. Those members elected in opposition to such as were turn’d out, for their opposition to the measure, have I hear imbib’d their sentiments & act under them. They are it is said pos sess’d to great amount (I mean the leaders of the party) of publick se curities, and doubtful of their payment by federal exertion, seem in clin’d to pursue the course Pena, latterly did & provide for it, by establishing State funds. The more extensive the funds of the State, & the more fully they exclude the citizens of other States & foreigners from such provision, the better of course for the party. I am sincerely yr. friend & servant, Jas. Monroe 2 [PS.] If you visit this place shortly I will present you to a young lady who will be adopted a citizen of Virga, in the course of this week. 3 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 See/CC, 30:54-59, 958; and Monroe to Madison, February 9, notes 1 and 2. 2 Monroe also wrote a letter to Madison on February 16 which has not been found, but from Madison’s March 19 reply containing a partial quote from Monroe’s letter it is clear that he proposed a joint purchase of confiscated loyalist land in the Mohawk Val ley and questioned whether “it will be better to correct the vices of the Confederation, by recommendation gradually as it moves along, or by a Convention. If the latter should be determined on, the powers of the Virga. Commssrs are inadequate.” See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 8:493-94, 504-6. 3 Monroe is referring to his impending February 16 marriage to Elizabeth Kortright, daughter of New York merchant Laurence Kortright. See Harry Ammon, James Monroe: The Quest far National Identity (New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1971), pp. 61-62. Charles Pettit to John Nicholson Dear Sir, New York 11 th Feby. 1786 Since I wrote to you by the last Post I have examined into the State of Mr. Morris’s Application respecting the Balance of his Account as Agent for the State in procuring specific Supplies. It has been re ferred to the Board of Treasury who have reported a Resolution to authorize them to appoint Mr. Milligan or such other Person as they
