148 February 11,1786 may think proper on the Part of the U.S. to settle the Commutation with such Person as may be appointed on the Part of the State. I have avoided calling it up for a Decision, because I wish it to be set tled by Compromise. 1 If the Principles were agreed upon I suppose the Calculation would not be difficult; and as far as I understand the Matter the Principles suggested in my last Letter are such as I should recommend. I presume you have frequent Opportunities to Carlisle & therefore trouble you with the inclosed Letter to forward thither. I am, Dr. Sir, your most hume Servant, Chas Pettit RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). 1 For the board of treasury’s report on Robert Morris’ memorial concerning the set tlement of his accounts as Pennsylvania’s “Agent for the purchase of Specific Supplies” during the war, see JCC, 29:885-86. The memorial, undated but read in Congress September 23, 1785, is in PCC, item 41, 9:343-46. For the settlement of this issue September 5, 1786, in accordance with a subsequent recommendation of the board of treasury, see JCC, 31:634-35; and John Bayard to Nicholson, September 18, 1786. David Ramsay to Benjamin Rush Dear Sir New York Feby 11th 1786 Please to deliver the inclosed 1 to Doctor Noyes in which are nine letters of introduction in which Mr Frazier 2 is also included. Yours by Col Oswald 3 is come to hand & it has been the means of making us ac quainted & I shall be happy to render him any service in my power. Aitkin writes me word on the 4th that only four copies of my book had sold. Congress are doing very little. Last week Harry Lee made the 8th State, before we never exceeded seven. No state to the southward of Pennsylvania is represented excepting South Carolina & Virginia. Of course we can do none of the more important business. We are [at] present framing a new recommendation to pass the impost & to en able us to pay our debts. There is a languor in the States that fore bodes ruin. The present Congress for want of more states has not power to coin a copper. In 1775 there was more patriotism in a village than there is now in the 13 states. Present my most respectful compliments to Mrs. Rush & believe me to be with much respect & esteem, Your most obedient servt, David Ramsay RC (PPL: Rush Manuscripts). 1 Not identified. 2 Apparently horticulturalist John Frazer (1750-1811) who made an extended trip to South Carolina to collect botanical specimens. Ramsay, Writings (Brunhouse), p. 98n.
