February 13,1786 149 3 That is, Eleazer Oswald who published Philadelphia’s Independent Gazetteer, or Chroni- cle of Freedom. Rufus King to James Bowdoin Sir, New York 12. Feb 1786 I have delivered to Mr. Rufus Amory a copy of the Laws of Pensylva- nia & New Jersey, forwarded by the executives of those states for your Excellency to Mr. Secretary Thomson. 1 Mr. Amory engages for their careful delivery. I also inclose a copy of a Letter yesterday received from the commissioners appointed to run the line between Mas sachusetts & New York, this paper explains itself. 2 With perfect respect, I have the honor to be your Excellencys Obedt. Servt, Rufus King RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). 1 For Congress’July 27, 1785, resolve for distributing sets of “the legislative acts” of the several states to the delegates of each state, “to the end, that every state, being thus informed, may have the fullest confidence in the other states, and derive the advantages which may result from the joint wisdom of the whole,” see JCC, 29:582-83. 2 Enclosure not identified, but for the appointment of these commissioners, see Charles Thomson tojohn Ewing et al., December 10, 1785. Nathan Dane to Justin Ely Dear Sir, 1 New York. Feb. 13. 1786. Since my arrival here I have taken an opportunity to converse with the Secretary at war respecting the powder you mentioned to me being at Springfield in a perishable situation—&c. He tells me great pains have been taken to try the quality of it, to dry, Cleanse & keep it in order, and that from a late examination of it it is found to be, with sifting some parts of it, in good order, and will retain it’s strength. As to other affairs here I have been waiting for some interesting busi ness to be compleated by Congress that I might have something to com municate to my friends worth their attention—but for want of a fuller representation Congress has compleated, or even brought forward or examined but very little business—daily occurrences we have but few— federal affairs appear nearly as I expected to find them. Gentlemen who have been, since the peace, in our Legislature & attended to the af fairs of the Union, I believe have in general a pretty Just idea of them; whence I make but few general observations about them, to my friends in that situation. However there is as little energy and perseverence in administering the federal government as I expected. The States must
