February 15,1786 151 Rufus King to Theodore Sedgwick My dear Sir, New York Feb. 15. 1786 Eight States only have been represented in congress since you left us, of consequence no Business of importance has been before this assembly. Perhaps within a few days an additional State will be represented, but this is rather a Hope, than expectation. 1 Congress yesterday agreed to a report on the subject of their pecuniary Em barrassments, and most earnestly recommended to the States the Adoption of the Revenue System of Ap. 1783. 2 Possibly the alarming Facts stated in this act of congress may rouse the states to the Adop tion of those measures, which alone will prevent convulsions in the federal Government. I pray you to hasten your return here as soon as your engagement will permit—it is true that our acquaintance is not of long duration, and that the Habits of our intimacy are few. But I think we shall dis cover motives sufficient to produce a mutual Esteem & Friendship, and I wish to know you more, that I may love you better. Although, an entire Stranger I entreat you to present my most re spectful Homage to your Mrs. Sedgwick, and to be assured that I am with sincere esteem & Respect, Affectionately your’s, Rufus King RC (MHi: Sedgwick Papers). 1 In fact, the following three days Congress failed to muster a quorum. See JCC, 30:77. 2 See the following entry. Charles Thomson to the States Sir Circular Office of Secy of Congress. Feby. 15th. 1786. I have the honor of forwarding to Your Excellency herewith en closed an Act of the United States in Congress Assembled, respecting the System of General revenue recommended in the Act of the 18th April 1783, and a schedule of the French & Dutch Loans, shewing the periods of their redemption with the annual Interest payable thereon, until their final extinction, for which provision is yet to be made: 1 I also enclose a copy of the Act of the 18th April 1783. 2 As the United States in Congress assembled are exceedingly anx ious, that the several States should come to a decision on this subject as soon as possible, Your Excellency, I hope, will take the earliest op portunity of laying the enclosed papers before the Legislature of Your State. With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s &c.
