170 March 1, 1786 such deficiencies either in Certificates to be issued pursuant to the requisition of the 27th September for payment of the said interest, or in specie to be applied to the redemption of such Certificates; provid ing nevertheless that the sum to be paid into the Treasury in Interest Certificates as part of the requisition of April 1784 should not at any time exceed the proportion of facilities to be paid agreeably to that requisition. These several Acts I transmitted to the president; but have received no answer, I have therefore to request the favour of you, to use your endeavours that I may have an answer to these several transmissions. The best answer will be the Acts of the Legislature complying with the several recommendations, Acts and requisitions. It is my earnest wish therefore that you would exert your interest and abilities, both which I know are great in prevailing with the Legislature to pass laws as speed ily as possible in compliance and conformity with those several Acts if they have not already done it and then to use your interest in having them forwarded that I may make report thereof to Congress. I shall be still further obliged if with these laws you can have the thirteen Copies sent on which are mentioned in the Act of 27 July. I should not be thus troublesome were I not fully convinced of your zeal in the cause of liberty and your ardent desire to preserve the honor and pro mote the happiness of this infant Commonwealth. This I hope will be my apology. I am with sincere respect, Yours &c. C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 See the preceding entry. 2 See Thomson to Nicholas Van Dyke, February 22. s See Thomson to the States, May 31, 1785. 4 See Thomson to the States, June 9, 1785. 5 See Thomson to the States, July 28, 1785. 6 See Thomson to Certain States, October 7, 1785, note 1. 7 Ibid. 8 See Thomson to the States, October 15, 1785. Charles Thomson to the States Sir, (Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress, March 1st. 1786. As many States in the Union continued to be unrepresented in Congress or to be represented by only two Members notwithstanding the many recommendations of Congress for remedying these defects particularly those of 1 November 1783 and the 19th of April 1784 and as from the want of a compleat representation the great interests of the Union had frequently been and continued to be neglected or de layed, and the Confederation itself or the administration thereof
