March 2, 1786 171 might be considered as the cause of evils which solely resulted from an incompleat representation, Congress, judging it incumbent on them to prevent opinions so derogatory to their honor and so danger ous to the public welfare, did on the 17th August last pass a resolve whereby it became the duty of the Secretary of Congress once in every Month to transmit to the Legislatures of the respective States a list of the States represented and of those unrepresented in Congress and of the Members from each State. 1 The object of this resolution was that effectual measures might from time to time be taken by such States as were unrepresented or represented only by two Members, to remedy these defects. In the execution of this duty I have had the honor every month since of transmitting to Your Excellency a Monthly statement of the represen tation of the States in Congress to be laid before your Legislature. 2 The statement which accompanies this and which I have to request the favour of your Excellency to communicate to the Legislature is for the month of February last. 3 By this and the three other statements transmitted since the meeting of Congress on the first Monday in November last your Excellency and the Legislature will see that there has not been for a single day a number of States assembled sufficient to proceed on the great business of the Union; indeed for half the time not a number sufficient to do more than adjourn from day to day. With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s &c ” C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). ' See JCC, 29:631-33. 2 For this enclosure and the 11 other monthly attendance lists sent to the states during the Congress of 1785-86, see Appendix. See also these Letters, 22:597, 622-23 702-3 3 Ibid. Henry Lee to George Washington My dear Genl March 2d. N. York. 1786 I did myself the honor to write to you some days past: 1 since which an Arabian stud horse has arrived in this City & has been announced in the Gazettes a present to you, from his Catholic Majesty. I consider it not improper to inform you that the printers have mistaken the matter, the horse being sent to Mr. Jay. 2 Our foederal distresses gather fast to a point. New Jersey has refused the requisition, and will grant not a shilling, till New York accedes to the impost. 3 Perhaps this intemperance in Jersey may bring this state to acquiesce in a system of finance long ago approved by ten states &
