172 March 2, 1786 whose operation might have saved the difficultys which impend over the Union. I intended to have sent you Mr. Ramsays late publication, entitled The Revolution of So. Carolina but am anticipated by the Author who forwarded you a sett by a vessel from this port to Alexandria. 4 Gordon’s history has not yet made its appearance 5 & many hope never may; as the character & genius of the writer illy corresponds with the subject. I hope your lady enjoys her health & beg to be presented to her. I have the honor to be, dear sir, Your most aff h sert, Henry Leejur [PS.] Mr Jays narrative of his late altercation with Mr. Littlepage ac- companys this. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Thal is, on February 16. 2 Erroneous information concerning Charles Ill’s gift of an Arabian stallion to Wash ington rather than to John Jay appeared in the Independent Journal or the General Adver tiser for March 1 and 4, the New York Journal for March 2, and the New York Packet for March 6. For Jay’s exchange of correspondence with Don Diego de Gardoqui regarding the horse and his March 1 request to Congress for permission to accept the gift (to which Congress consented on March 3), see JCC, 30:95; PCC, item 80, 2:169-73, item 97, fols. 128-33; and Charles Thomson to Jay, March 3. 3 See Charles Thomson to Nathaniel Gorham, William Grayson, and Charles Pinck ney, March 7. 4 See David Ramsay to Washington, February 22. 5 For William Gordon’s “history,” see Ramsay to Gordon, January 18, note. James Monroe to Joseph Jones Dear Sir New York March 2. 1786. Agreeably to the information I gave you in my last the Thursday en suing 1 I was united to the young Lady I mention’d 2 —to avoid the idle ceremonies of this place we withdrew into the country for a few days. We have been several days since return’d to her fathers house since which I have as usual attended Congress. While I shall remain in Con gress we shall reside with him. If the state of business here will permit I shall unquestionably attend the Court in April. My plan is to bring Mrs. Monroe into Virga, the latter end of Sepr. next. In the meantime I shall seek to effect the best possible establishment either in Freder icksburg or Richmond. Colo. Grayson advises strongly Richmond, & is further of opinion that it will be ill advis’d in me to attend the Court as I shall lose perhaps 150£ by it. I believe you will have time to advise me upon this head. Enclose me also the Act of Assembly pass’d in
