March 4, 1786 177 RC (PPAmP: Franklin Papers). Addressed: “The Honorable Doctor Franklin, late Minis ter plenipotentiary of the United States of America at the Court of Versailles.” 1 A transcript of Franklin’s September 19 letter to John Jay is in PCC, item 100, 2:260-62. For Jay’s report on the letter and its referral to committee March 1 see ICC 29:824-25,30:90n. J ’ 2 See JCC, 30:95. Charles Thomson to Certain States Sir Office of Secretary of Congress, March 4th. 1786. I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith en closed an Act passed yesterday by the United States in Congress As sembled, together with a Copy of their Recommendations of the 30th April 1784, which are again presented to the View of your State. 1 As a longer delay in complying with these Recommendations, must be attended with very great evils, the Legislature of your State is most earnestly called upon to grant powers conformable thereto. With the greatest Respect, I have the honor to be &c &c., C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: “Delaware, S. Carolina & Georgia.” 1 For these two enclosures, see JCC, 26:321-22, 30:93-94. To cope with the adverse ef fects of Britain’s post-war commercial policies and the interstate trade rivalries that had since developed, the states had been requested to vest Congress with power to regulate trade for a term of 15 years. They had responded in a variety of ways to several exhorta tions, and by the resolves adopted March 3 Congress attempted to secure the compli ance of the three which had not yet acted (Delaware, South Carolina, and Georgia), while bringing about greater uniformity in the enabling legislation of six of the ten oth ers which had. The acts of New Hampshire, Rhode Island and North Carolina, were deemed so inconsonant to the original recommendation as to require substantial al teration, while Connecticut, Pennsylvania, and Maryland were asked merely to amend their legislation in regard to “the time from which they were to commence.” Only the responses of Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, and Virginia were regarded as satis factory. To these latter four, Thomson’s letter of this date consisted of the following sen tence: “Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act which was passed yester day by the United States in Congress assembled.” PCC, item 18B, fol. 37. For the letters he wrote to the other six states, see the following two entries. Charles Thomson to New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and North Carolina Sir Office of Secretary of Congress, March 4th. 1786. I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith en closed An Act passed yesterday by the United States in Congress Assem bled together with a Copy of their Recommendations of the 30th of April 1784 which are again presented to the view of your State. 1
