178 March 4, 1786 As a longer delay in complying with these Recommendations, must be attended with very great evils, and as the Act passed by your State is so inconsonant to them both in Letter and Spirit that it cannot be deemed a Compliance; the Legislature of your State is earnestly so licited to reconsider their Act and to make it agreeable to the recom mendations of the 30th of April 1784. With the greatest Respect &c. &c., C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: “Newhampshire, Rhodeisland, North Carolina.” 1 See the preceding entry, note. Charles Thomson to Connecticut, Pennsylvania, and Maryland Sir Office of Secretary of Congress, March 4th. 1786 I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith enclosed an Act passed Yesterday by the United States in Congress Assembled together with a Copy of their Recommendations of the 30th April 1784, which you will be pleased to communicate to the Legislature. 1 As the powers granted to Congress by the several States in compli ance with these Recommendations ought to commence at the same time and have the same duration, it is therefore recommended to the Legislature of your State to amend their Act so that the term of fifteen years shall commence on the day that Congress shall begin to exercise the power granted. With great Respect, I have the Honor to be &c, C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: “Connecticut, Pensylvania, Maryland.” 1 See the preceding two entries. Rufus King to James Bowdoin Sir, New York 5th March 1786 I intended by an earlier post to have acknowledged the honor of your excellency’s letter of the 11th ult. but from constant engage ments have been prevented until this period. Your excellency’s senti ments touching the communication of the instruction to Mr. Adams at London, which I had the honor of transmitting to you, 1 are in per fect correspondence with my ideas on that subject, and the instruc tion I hope will give satisfaction to the Persons immediately interested therein. I most sincerely wish that it was in my power to communicate any information that would be agreeable concerning the affairs of the
