188 March 13, 1786 sovereignty it was not necessary to delegate, and which could be exer cised without injury to the federal authority. In them were placed all those essential powers which constitute a nation. Such are the exclu sive rights of peace and war—of sending and receiving embassies—of forming treaties and alliances—and equipping and raising fleets and armies. To them also were delegated the power of obtaining loans on the faith of the United States, and of apportioning to the several members of the union, their quotas of the publick expences. The mode established by the confederation for ascertaining the quota of each was at that time sup posed equal and practicable. Experience, however, has proved the contrary, and the states, though frequently urged, having neglected to furnish returns of the value of their lands, and the buildings and im provements thereon, agreeably to the article, Congress were induced to recommend an alteration of it. This has been under reference for some time—ten of the states have complied, and some of them fur nished the returns of their numbers in conformity to the recommen dation. New-Jersey has done both. It is the best information Congress have been able to obtain of the comparative strength and resources of the different states, and the only one on which they could properly found those requisitions the services and supplies of the federal gov ernment render necessary. The states having thus, by their voluntary act, formed one govern ment as essential to the protection of the whole, and placed in one controling power the administration of its concerns, and to whom they were to look up for support, each state is bound according to its abilities to furnish a proportion of the expences, and the whole are jointly and severally pledged for the publick engagements, foreign and domestic. The mode prescribed by the confederation being im practicable, it follows that the proportions are to be quotaed agree ably to the best lights in the possession of the union; for, while the government exists, its members are bound to contribute to its mainte nance; and New-Jersey having not only assented to the mode by which she is rated, but furnished the returns on which the assessment could be made with exactness; she certainly cannot with propriety complain of bearing an undue proportion; nor will she, I trust, upon serious re flection, suppose she can, consistently with her duty to the union, refuse the requisition. 2 If she has been over-rated, let her substantiate it in evidence to Congress, and she will always find that body inclined to do her the completest justice. Nay more, if she conceives herself op pressed under the present confederation, let her, through her dele gates in Congress, state to them the oppressions she complains of, and urge the calling of a general convention of the states for the purpose of increasing the powers of the federal government, and rendering it more adequate to the ends for which it was instituted. In this constitu-
