March 13, 1786 189 tional mode of application there can be no doubt of her meeting with all the support and attention she can wish. Had her resentment, in concert with Connecticut, been pointed against New-York, and the means in their power by duties, and by open ing a free port immediately opposite their city, been exerted to oblige that state to do them justice, so far from injuring, she would have received the countenance of every federal state in the union. But her present conduct, in refusing the constitutional requisition of Congress, and involving the states who were friendly to her interests in the general confusion that must now ensue, so far from obtaining the ends she proposes, will divert the attention of the union from New-York, and from that system which could alone relieve the non-importing states, and apply it wholly to her. For, with what propriety could compulsory means be used against a state, for not assenting to a measure on which we confess she had a right to deliberate, when we suffer another in si lence and with impunity to refuse a requisition she is constitutionally bound to comply with? It will be proper here to remark, that the present requisition is founded upon more advantageous principles than any hitherto adopted, so far as it respects the eight northern states, whose citizens probably hold more than three-fourths of the whole certificate debt of the United States—for of the 11,400,485 dollars, being the total specie value of the loan-office debt, 9,998,880 dollars being more than seven-eighths of the whole were loaned in the seven eastern states. The state of New-Jersey is in proportion a considerable credi tor of the union. How far therefore it becomes her to support the measures of Congress in providing for the interest of this debt, and in asserting its credit, is left to the good sense of the house to deter mine. The several requisitions of September 1782, April 1784, and September 1785, which have been just stated to the house, and their principles fully explained, obviate every objection with respect to a larger number of certificates being issued than are provided for, and prove that certificates will not issue from the loan-offices to a greater amount than the interest of the domestic debt to December 1784. If the states comply with the several requisitions, the funds on which the interest certificates depend will be co-extensive with them, and the certificates all be sunk and called in by the taxes levied by the states. As to the commutation to the army, it is only necessary to re mark, that the late Congress found an act of a former Congress fi nally adopted upon the subject, and the national faith pledged to carry it into effect. The certificates are so exchanged that it would be impossible now, even if it was proper, to make any discrimination be tween them and the other publick securities. To the army, however, I am of opinion their country are bound by the strongest ties of grati tude and affection, and if it could be ever admissible to make any dis-
