March 14, 1786 197 mention this as an apology for the price. The Engravings have cost me upwards of eight hundred dollars. The map of the State was very ex pensive. If the books are in request I shall send more but I have no more bound in New-York at this present time. I have the honor to be, your very humble sert, David Ramsay. RC (MHi: Andrew-Eliot Papers). William Grayson to Henry Knox Dr Sir Trenton March 14th. 1786. I received a tickett 1 from you just as I was setting out from N. York, 2 & had not then time to answer it: I am sorry it is not now in my power to say any thing certainly on the subject matter of it. We yesterday had an audience before the Assembly, but have had no answer, neither can we form any conclusions as to what will be the result of our Embassy. 3 A bill for paper money, including a right of tendering, is before the Upper house and will be decided on in a day or two; it is said the Council are nearly divided in opinion on this important subject. 4 I remain with great respect, yr. Affect, frd. & most Obed sert, Willm. Grayson 5 RC (MHi: Henry Knox Papers). 1 Not identified. 2 For Grayson’s mission to New Jersey, see Charles Thomson to Grayson, Nathaniel Gorham, and Charles Pinckney, March 7. 3 See Committee of Congress to William Livingston, March 12; and Charles Pinck ney’s Speech to the New Jersey Assembly, March 13. 4 For the great debate over paper money raging in Newjersey at this time and the tri umph in May of the debtor forces, see Richard P. McCormick, Experiment in Indepen dence: Neco Jersey in the Critical Period, 1781-1789 (New Brunswick: Rutgers University Press, 1950), pp. 192-203; and the dialogue between “Primitive Whig” (William Liv ingston) and his soft money detractors in Livingston, Papers (Prince), 5:215-41. 5 Grayson had also written to James Monroe from Princeton on May 10 enclosing a note for $400 “in order to take up the note in the bank for that sum, in case it becomes due before I return.” bMS Am 1649.5, MH-H. Charles Thomson to William Livingston Sir, Office of Secretary of Congress, March 14. 1786 The letters which your Excellency did me the honor to write on the 6 & 7 have been duly received and communicated to Congress. 1 An Application similar to that contained in your letter of the 7th was last
