198 March 14, 1786 week made by the legislature of New York and referred to the board of treasury, who reported against prolonging the time. The enclosed extract will shew how far Congress proceeded on that report. 2 Should they think it necessary to proceed farther and come to a decision, I shall immediately transmit it to your Excellency. In the mean while the Commissioner must be governed by the resolution of the 17 March 1785. 3 With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s &c LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: “His Exy Govr Livingston of New Jersey.” 1 Governor Livingston’s March 6 letter reporting that New Jersey had done nothing yet to comply with the act Thomson had sent in his “Letter of the 28th of February last,” is in PCC, item 68, fols. 667-70. His letter of the 7th, which obviously contained a re quest for an extension of the deadline set by Congress March 17, 1785, for submitting claims to the Continental commissioners of accounts, has not been found. 2 For Congress’ failure to adopt the board of treasury’s recommendation to reject a similar New York appeal for an extension of the 12 month deadline set March 17, 1785, see JCC, 30:109-10. 3 See JCC, 28:168-69. Pierse Long to John Langdon New York March 15t. 1786 I Received your favor of the 23d Ulto. per post wherein you say that measures will be taken by the Honble. General Court, to furnish their Delegates at Congress with Cash—and that your Excellency will do all in your power to have this money paid in preference to any others, for which you will please to accept my most cordial thanks. Will you Sir be so obliging as to inform the Honble. Mr. Gilman the amount of what was due for My last years services Viz. Three hundred & Thirty Six pounds 18/4 L[egal] M[one]y. And that more than One quarter of this year has already expired. And will your Excelly at the same time please to tell him that I am waiting for an opportunity to draw on him for a sum not Exceeding One thousand dollars—which draught shall be put on as long a sight as possible. There is Eight States only in Congress—and three single Gentle men from Three other states—of course the business that require a larger number of States cannot be concluded. There are Two Grand committees appointed and are setting as often as opportunity offers to prepare Such business as a less number than Nine are inefficient to enter on. No news of a public nature to inform you of. No packetts from Europe—tho two are daily expected. Neither is their any Further Accounts from the Commissioners who are trading with the Indians. I am with Sentiments of Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obt. Hum Servt., Pierse Long
