March 22, 1786 201 seems as if many of the States had forgot the relation in which they stood to the Union As well as to foreign powers. Congress have done very little since their last meeting; indeed with so few States, it is out of their power to do any thing of material consequence. They have been lately alarmed at the conduct of our Sister Jersey in consequence of a resolution passed by the House of delegates of that state revolting agt. the requisition of 1785 & declaring they would nei ther consent to this or any other requisition unless the 5 Per Cent Im post is adopted: the apprehensions of Congress in consequence of this abdication of Jersey induced them to send a Commee. to Trenton to remonstrate to them on the fatal consequences that must result from their adherence to their resolution. 1 A few days ago the Commee. consisting of Mr. Pinkney, Mr Gorham & myself had an audience, & the Assembly were polite enough to re scind the resolution. 2 They are however still very much dissatisfied & complain heavily of the injuries they suffer from imposts laid by N. York on the one hand & Pensylvany on the other. They alledge that they pay as much to these States by way of commerce as their propor tion of the specie part of the requisition would amount to; Some of them wish for annihilation & that E. Jersey might be joined to N. York & W. Jersey to Pensylvany. Our foreign affairs are much in the same situation as when you left us. Mr. Adams has done nothing with the Brittish Ministry; and Mr. Jay has done about as much with Mr. Gardoqui. The Commrs. in Europe have dispatched Mr. Berclay, Mr. Franks, Mr. Lamb & a Mr. Randal to negotiate with the Barbary powers, & we understand that they have ac tually arrived at the Court of the Emperor of Morocco. 3 As they are authorized to give only 80,000 dolls, to the four most greedy sovereigns in the world; which is a little better than £4000 Sterling a man, I think there is every reason in the world to suppose that some of the dramatis personae will get incarcerated. I think it not improba ble that these people will look upon the offer as an insult & that we are laughing at them. There has been a great exertion in Jersey & this State for paper money. It is lost for the moment in Jersey 8 to 5 in the Council: 4 the fate of it is suspended here but I believe it will pass in the affirmative before the session breaks 8c with a tender to it. The Antients were more candid than we are, they contended directly for an abolition of debts, in so many words while we politely ask for the same thing in the soft and specious language of paper money. Your friends here are all well. Mr. Monro is lately married to Miss Eliza. Kortright: many other conjunctions copulative are talked of. Mr. King is about being married to Miss Alsop: they say that Mr. Hindman is thinking about some tender connections: in short we seem as if we had all got into Calypso’s Island. The Hon’ble Mr. Lee is not intirely
