202 March 22, 1786 an unconcerned spectator among all this good business; he has been assiduous at the Sycamore & at Mrs. Levingstons; various rumors have circulated in consequence of the Doctor’s maneuvres: all parties agree that a storm is gathering but whether it will ultimately burst on Miss Alleday Levingston or Esther Kortright is yet in the womb of fate: 5 if I was to give my own opinion on so intricate a question & forced to bett on the occasion I should stake the Sycamore against the field. I shall be extremely obliged by a continuance of your fa vors, and will give you from time [/o time] such occurrences as I think may be worth your notice. From yr. Affect, frd. & most Obed. Servt., Willm. Grayson [PS.] Since writing above I understand that Georgia & Rhode Island have both passed the 5 Per Cent Impost; the legislature of N. York are now sitting; the impost is before them, but it is matter of great doubt whether it will go through: if this state passes it, it will become efficient. I shall attend particularly to what you say respecting the Post Office. The Ordinance is ready to be produced when there are a sufficient number of states collected. 6 It being a doubt whether a Member out of Congress & before he has taken his seat is exempted from Postage: I have pro majori cautela, franked this. W G [March] 24. There are great thoughts among some of the principal members in Congress to recommend a Convention of the States for the purpose of amending the confederation, which it is said is per fectly inefficient: A resolution to this effect is now before Congress, brought forward by Pinkney. 7 RC (ViU: Lee Family Papers). 1 See Charles Thomson to Nathaniel Gorham, et al., March 7. 2 See Committee of Congress to William Livingston, March 12; and Charles Pinck ney’s Speech to the New Jersey Assembly, March 13. 3 See Virginia Delegates to Patrick Henry, November 7, 1785, note 3. 4 See Grayson to Henry Knox, note 4. 3 Nothing came of these “maneuvres.” Arthur Lee never married; Alida Livingston, sister of Chancellor Robert R. Livingston, later married John Armstrong, Jr. 6 When the committee appointed under the resolve of June 17, 1782, “to enquire into the Proceedings of the Department of the Post Office” reported on February 28, 1785, it recommended that another committee be appointed “to prepare an additional Ordi nance for better regulating the Post Office." A committee appointed that day and re newed March 14 took no action. Grayson became a member of the committee reconsti tuted on December 27 which was also assigned a request from Secretary at War Henry Knox to establish a post to Vincennes. The committee reported on January 6, 1786, in favor of a post route from Philadelphia to Fort McIntosh on the Ohio River, but failed to submit an ordinance. It was renewed again on February 25, with Grayson as chair man, and given the same assignment. Although an ordinance was quickly drafted it was not submitted until June 15 when it was ordered published, but again no action was taken. The report was not revived until February 14, 1787, when it was entered on the journals. See JCC, 28:109n, 1 lOn, 158n, 29:904n, 30:15, 84n, 31:963, 32:45-56; and PCC, item 190, fols. 15, 21, 84.
