March 22, 1786 203 7 Pinckney may have offered a motion for calling a convention in late February that was swept aside by the pressing concern over New Jersey’s refusal to comply with Con gress’ 1785 requisition, for which see Nathaniel Gorham to Caleb Davis, March 1, note 2. Pinckney, Gorham, and Grayson were subsequently chosen to convince the New Jer sey Assembly of the pressing need to reverse its decision (see Charles Thomson to Gorham, Grayson, and Pinckney, March 7), and, in his March 13 speech to that body, Pinckney had specifically noted the availability of this remedy. If New Jersey “conceives herself oppressed under the present confederation, let her, through her delegates in Congress, state to them the oppressions she complains of, and urge the calling of a gen eral convention of the states for the purpose of increasing the powers of the federal government, and rendering it more adequate to the ends for which it was instituted.” Upon his return from New Jersey Pinckney may have revived his earlier motion or of fered a new one which was not acted on. He subsequently altered his approach and on May 3 called for a committee of the whole to consider “the state of public affairs.” Pinckney eventually served on the grand committee which on August 7 presented seven amendments to the thirteen original Articles of the Confederation. See ICC, 30:230, 354, 387n, 31:494-98; and Thomas Rodney’s Diary, May 3, note 1. William Grayson to James Madison Dr Sir. New York March 22nd. 1786. I should have done myself the pleasure of writing to you sooner, but really nothing occur’d here of sufficient consequence to communi cate. Congress from the small number of States that have come for ward have remained in a kind of political torpor. They have of course taken no active steps, till lately that they have addressed the States on the subject of commerce: they were not long since a good deal alarmed at the conduct of sister Jersey. The House of delegates of that State in a moody fit declared that they would not only comply with the requisition of 1785, but with no other requisition, until the 5 Per Ct. Impost was adopted. The State by this Act having declared Indepen dance, Congress thought it was a matter that merited some attention. They therefore ordered a Comme. to go to Trenton & expostulate with the House on the impropriety of their conduct. The Comme. was heard, and the House were so complaisant as to rescind the resolution but they have passed no legislative act in affirmance of the requisition, & I very much doubt whether they will. It may however have this ef fect, that other States will not be deterred (by her conduct in an abso lute refusal) from passing the requisition. There is at present a greater prospect of the Impost than has been ever known; Georgia & Rhode Island have come into the measure, & it remains only with N. York to give her consent to make it productive. The Legislature is now sitting and deliberating on this subject but I doubt extremely whether the re sult will be favorable. Our foreign affairs are very little altered one way or other since I had the pleasure of seeing you, Mr. Adams has done nothing with the
