204 March 22,1786 Brittish Ministry; & Mr. Jay has done very little more with Mr. Gardo- qui. The Commrs. in Europe have dispatched Mr. Barclay, Mr. Franks, Mr. Lamb & Mr. Randall to negotiate with the Barbary powers & We understand that Mr. Barclay has actually arrived at the Court of the Emperor of Morocco. I am very apprehensive that no good will come of all this. These potentates are the most greedy & rapacious in the whole world, & yet we offer nothing worth their acceptance. In addi tion to this it is shrewdly to be suspected that the maritime powers will underhandedly counteract all our measures: they cannot but be pleased to see American vessels (in addition to the dearness of labor) tottering under the accumulated pressure of Corsair insurance. Some people are seriously of opinion that we should turn Algerines our selves; they must surely be out of their senses: however not more so, than some others who thought it for the interest of the U.S. to keep constantly at war with them. This latter sentimt. which proceeds from our Secy, of foreign affairs comes fully up to the idea of fighting for nothing & finding ourselves. There has been a great contest in Jersey for the Argent papier; but though it went triumphantly through the lower house, it was lost in the Council, 8 to 5. 1 Some of the Members who were adverse to it, have been burn’t in effigy, in particular Colo. Ogden at or near Eliza beth town. The old Governor was drawn up to the stake but par doned, on account of his having been the first magistrate. 2 This same Jersey bill was one of the most iniquitous things I ever saw in my life; the money was a tender; if it was refused, the debt was suspended for 12 years, in the mean time the act of limitation ran of course, which in effect destroyed it. Jersey has not been singular in her attempts at cheating. In this place a bill is depending, of the same purport as that of Jersey, & which it is probable will pass, although it is violently op posed by the upright & respectable part of the Commy. The Antients were surely men of more candor than We are; They contended openly for an abolition of debts in so many words, while we strive as hard for the same thing under the decent & specious pretence of a circulating medium. Montesquieu was not wrong when he said the democratical might be as tyrannical as the despotic; for where is there a greater act of despotism than that of issuing paper to depreciate for the purpose of paying debts on easy terms. If Lord Effingham is right that an act agt. the Constitution is void, surely paper money with a tender an nexed to it is void, for it is not an attack upon property, 3 the security of which is made a fundamental in every State in the Union. There has been some serious thoughts in the minds of some of the Members of Congress to recommend to the States the meeting of a general Convention, to consider of an alteration of the Confoederation, & there is a motion to this effect now under consideration. 4 It is con tended that the present Confederation is utterly inefficient, and that
