March 26, 1786 209 James Wilson to Rachel Wilson My dear Rachel: 1 New York 23rd March 1786 After a Variety of Delays, unexpected and disagreeable, I arrived here on Tuesday last, and have taken my Seat in Congress. 2 I expected to have heard from you or Dr. Redman by the Post, which left Philadelphia on Sunday, and reached New York on Tuesday last; but was unfortunately disappointed. Indeed I am very anxious to hear from you. If you are at Somerset, send your Letter to the Post Office at Trenton, addressed to me in Congress at New York. Let me know how you and Jimmy are, and if all the other Children are in good Health. There are no News here; two Packets are daily expected to arrive from Europe. Major Lennox will leave tomorrow; by him I will write you more particularly, and also to Mr. Bird. I forgot my Nomination and Commission to sit in Congress. Let them be immediately sent to me. If you are not in Philada, write to Mr. Young to send them on. I send a Duplicate of this letter, enclosed to Col. Hooper, to be transmitted to you, if you are at Somerset. Kiss the dear Children for me, and believe me to be, Your affection- ate > James Wilson Tr (PSC. Konkle Collection). Copied by Burton A. Konkle from an original manuscript in the possession of the Rev. Dr. J. A. Montgomery of Philadelphia. 1 Rachel Bird and James Wilson were married November 5, 1771. Soon after he sent this letter, Wilson learned that Rachel was ill and a few days later hurried home. Her condition was even more grave than supposed, however, and she succumbed April 14 at the age of 39. See Page Smith, James Wilson, Founding Father, 1742-1798 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1956), pp. 38^12, 212-14. 2 Wilson took his seat on Wednesday, March 22. He was in attendance on March 28 but was gone the next day, when Pennsylvania was unrepresented in Congress See ICC 30:122, 140-41. b J , Rufus King to Theodore Sedgwick My dear Sir New York 26 March 1786 Nine states are now represented in Congress, 1 and I claim your promise & society: It is with very sincere satisfaction that I inform you that Rhode Island, Maryland & Georgia, if we can rely upon the Gazettes of these respective states, have acceeded to the system of a general impost upon the plan of the act of Congress of the 18th of Apr. 1783. New York is the only state which has not come into that part of the system, & the Legislature have it under present considera tion; but whether they will comply or not is problematical.
