April 2, 1786 215 2 In his letter to North Carolina governor Richard Caswell, Thomson’s opening para graph acknowledged the receipt of letters from Caswell of January 6 and 21, and February 6 and 22, which are in PCC, item 72, fols. 221-36. In that to Rhode Island governor William Greene, Thomson similarly acknowledged receipt of Greene’s letter to him of March 21, “with the three Acts enclosed.” PCC, item 64, fols. 574-77. And in that to New Hampshire governor John Langdon, Thomson acknowledged Langdon’s letter of March 15. Ibid., fols. 272-75. Maryland Delegates to William Smallwood Sir, 1 New York, April 2d, 1786. As the Intendant’s Office is abolished, 2 thro’ which your Delegates to Congress recieved their Allowance during the last year, we are under the Necessity of applying to your Excellency, for Information on a Sub ject so essential to our being here, and of solliciting your Attention to it. The late Intendant, Mr. Jenifer, made his Advances of Money to the Delegates thro’ the Channel of Messrs. Willing, Morris & Swanwick. Could the same Mode be adopted by your Excellency (under whose di rection we presume this Business is) it would be very agreable to us. Mr. Hindman has drawn no Money since the present Year. None of the Laws, passed at the last Session, complying with the Recommendations & Requisition of Congress, have as yet been offi cially recieved from the State of Maryland; and tho’ we have Reasons to believe that every thing right has been done, yet we are not able to give Congress any decided Information on these important points. Mr. Harrison’s 3 Arrival here made a Representation of Nine States, and enabled Congress to proceed pretty generally on Business; but at present there are only eight represented. General Parsons, one of the commissioners appointed to treat with the Shawonese Nation of Indians, has just returned, with the Treaty of peace concluded with that Nation on the 1st ofjany. last. 4 We have the Honor to be, with great Respect, your Excellency’s mo. obedt. Sevts., Wm. Hindman Will. Harrison RC (MdAA: Executive Papers). Written by Harrison and signed by Harrison and Hind man. 1 Smallwood (1732-1792), who had achieved the rank of major general during the war, had been elected governor of Maryland in November 1785. Ilio. Did. of Md. Legis., 2:741-42. 2 Addressing the harsh economic conditions induced by indebtedness, tight money, and declining trade, the Maryland General Assembly had abolished the position of In tendant of the Revenue, held by Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer since February 1, 1782, and vested the governor and council with new and far-reaching authority to deal with the state’s financial crisis. On April 20, 1786, the council appointed Jenifer as a special
