April 3, 1786 217 realiz’d. I shall be anxious to know how you suceed in your first At tempts, which are of much consequence & for which it is adviseable you sho’d endeavour to be as well prepared as possible by fully study ing your Cases & making yourself perfectly Master of them in all their lights. Yr. Farm we will dispose of as soon as it can be done advanta geously, but you are sensible it is but an ill time to sell Lands in this country, & as to engaging in other business besides your profession, Mr. Van Dam, (if he continues in the Island, for it is said here he is going to England) can give you the best Advise, & you must first see by your experience how the Island suits you in point of health, as well as in other respects. You are right in being affable & familiar with both parties, & declaring for neither, by which means you will probably be courted by both, & may avail yourself of both, & you will for a long time yet have a just excuse for not embarking with either, & perhaps may eventually be the means of reconciling them to each other, & thereby rendering your Country the most essential service. By Mr. Van Dam’s Account of them they are by no means so bitter as we had been induced to believe. What Age is the Attory General, of what are his Connexions, & who supports him in the Office, either in the Island, or in England? What are the Emoluments annex’d to the Office &c? It may be of some use perhaps, if you continue there for me to be ac quainted with these Circumstances. We have some of the things you gave Charles a Memorandm. for, & hope shall have them all ready by the time there is a conveyance for them. The first we can expect is Mr. Tuckers Vessel, which he says he will detain but a few Days, & tho’t wo’d have arriv’d some time ago. This I must forward by the cir cuitous rout of South Carolina. I have Letters from Stratford by last Saturdays Stage acquainting me that they are all well there; as your sis ter & Mr. Verplank are there. She proposes to write you by this Con veyance, & by her appearance promises in a few Months to give you the Title of Uncle. Mr. King of Massachusetts, was last Thursday Mar ried to Miss Alsop, with whom you was acquainted. I hope you will be as prudent as he has been, & in due time, be happy in a yet more agreeable Companion with as handsome a Fortune. They are not in compatible, & it is worthy a useful Attention to discover where they may be united. It is the most easy & agreeable Method of acquiring a Competency. With the most ardent Prayers for your health & prosper ity in every respect, I remain yr. most affectionate Father & Friend, Wm. Sami. Johnson [PS.] Yr. first Letters are not yet come to hand. RG (CtHi: Johnson Papers). 1 Apparently A Lazu Grammar; or Rudiments of the Law. .. (2d ed.; London, 1749) by Jacob Giles; and Maxims of Equity, Collected from, and Proved by Cases, out of the Books of the Best Authority in the High Court of Chancery (London, 1739), by Richard Francis.
