230 April 12, 1786 RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1582). Addressed: “The Hon. Mr. Lowell, Mr. Sullivan & Mr. Parsons.” 1 The Massachusetts General Court had already empowered the state’s congressional delegates to join with New York agents to appoint “commissioners or Judges” for hear ing Massachusetts’ claims to lands in western New York, but this March 17 decision had not yet reached the delegates. Documents certifying this authorization were laid before Congress April 17. See JCC, 30:184-85; and Nathaniel Gorham to James Bowdoin, April 5, note 5. Rufus King to Robert Southgate My Dear Friend: 1 New York, April 12, 1786. General politics are so uninteresting to those who are not particu larly bound to examine their probable effects—that I have declined writing to you on the subject. My personal concerns have been few since my being in Congress, and I therefore have not troubled you with any notice of them. This silence has not, I hope, been construed into a want of friendship to you or any of the family. Indeed I cherish the truest attachment to you all and am deeply interested in every event which can affect your happiness or prosperity. My own—if any thing human is certain—are secured by my late marriage. My wishes never exceeded my present felicity. When you know my Mrs. King, you will not withhold, what she certainly merits, your genuine friendship and sincere affection. She is the only child of Mr. John Alsop, long a very respectable and eminent merchant in this city. Mr. Alsop de clined business in 1775 with a very handsome fortune, and served a number of years as a delegate in Congress from this State. He is now wholly free from public and private employments and venerable for his years; and respected by his friends, enjoys the reward of an indus trious and virtuous life. I pray you to communicate this event to each of our family. I am so hurried at this time that I cannot write to Mrs. King or Dr. Porter. I hope to see you all in June or July. Farewell yours affectionately, Rufus King. MS not found; reprinted from King, Correspondence (King), 1:131-32. 1 Robert Southgate, a physician and lawyer of Scarborough, Mass., had married King’s sister Mary in 1773. Ernst, Rufus King, p. 16. David Ramsay to Benjamin Rush Dear Sir, New-York April 12th 1786 I return you many thanks for your oration. 1 The sentiments it con-
