April 13, 1786 231 tains are not only ingenious & philosophical but in many cases new. I differ with you in one thing that “revenge is a vice growing out of warm climates.” I acknowledge that irascibility is but revenge appears to me to grow more naturally out of cold climates than warm. Re venge is not the passion of youth. The odia longa are the vices of age & also of cold countries. A disposition to resent injuries & affronts in- stanter is one thing & the deliberate resolution of punishing at a dis tant day another. You would do well to send some copies here for sale. I have not made that one publick you were so kind as to send me lest it might injure the sale by previously gratifying curiosity. I wish to see matters on such a footing in America that an author may be on at least a footing equal to a taylor or shoemaker. Your example has in many instances inspired me with laudable reso lutions. In the confidence of friendship I mention that from a wish to follow you though it is confessed hard passibus aequis. I have some thoughts of proposing an annual oration in our Charleston Library society & of offering my service in the first instance. The subject which has occurred is an enquiry into the nature & effects of the cli mate & soil of Carolina on the inhabitants. I fear this would lead to unwelcome truths; but without sacrificing truth I could say many things that would be agreeable. I beleive the vices of that country are more chargeable on slavery than on the climate. I wish you woud re solve this in your mind. You can furnish me with some leading thoughts & facts. Paradise was in the same latitude. Spain was formerly a fine country. So was Egypt. Warm weather is favorable to longevity. By the act of heaven it was the original seat of man. I hope to see you soon on my way to Carolina & shall thank you for hints on this sub ject. Present my best respects to Mrs. Rush & believe me dear Sir that your diligence & example has had a most powerful influence in stimu lating me to do likewise, & that it is with the language of unfeigned sincerity I subscribe myself your most obedient & very humble servt, David Ramsay RC (PPL: Rush Manuscripts). 1 For Rush’s oration on the influence of physical causes on the moral faculty, see Ramsay to Rush, December 14, 1785, note 2. John Bayard to William Bayard Dear Sir Congress Chamber N. York Api. 13th. 1786 I do myself the pleasure to enclose You an attested Copy of the Arti cles of Peace. It is attested by the Signature of the Secretary of Con-
