April 13, 1786 233 could why it might be necessary for those Certificates still to issue under your Authority, but at the same time admitted that it might be well to have some Communication with you upon the subject. They have come to a Resolution that the Board of Treasury take measures for having all the Blanks now out called in, and I suppose the Board will of course write to you upon the subject. 3 Should any thing occur to you as proper further to be said upon the subject be pleased to write to me thereof. It is indeed probable that this power may be abused by some of the department, if the issues still continue in the hands of all who have been authorized to issue Certificates while they were in Office. 4 Your favor by Mr. Webster I had the pleasure to receive in good sea son, but was not able to Commit to paper the necessary remarks in ad dition to those of Mr. Beverly in time for the second Tuesday in this Month but I will soon do what I can on the subject, and forward the result of my reflections to you. I am, Dr Sir, with great regard, your Most obt servt, Ed Carrington RC (MHi: Pickering Papers). 1 For the involvement of Carrington and Pickering (former quartermasters general) in the settlement of quartermaster certificate debt, see David Ramsay to Pickering, Jan uary 19, note 2. 2 According to the journals, Congress did not meet on Tuesday, April 11. JCC, 30:159-60. 3 On April 10 “a motion for calling in & cancelling all the certificate papers delivered to late qr. Master” was referred to the board of treasury to report. On May 8 the board wrote to Pickering in Philadelphia asking whether any unissued certificate papers re mained in the hands of his deputies and what means he would recommend “to prevent the Abuses which have been suggested to Congress.” See JCC, 30:160n; PCC, item 190, fol. 94; and Pickering Papers, MHi, (microfilm). 4 Congress had abolished the five staff departments of the army on March 24 and vested authority for settling the remaining accounts of those departments in a single commissioner, for which see Nathaniel Gorham to James Warren, March 6, note 1. On April 7, however, Congress received a memorial from Jonathan Burrall, Joseph Bindon, and Edward Fox, former commissioners for settling the accounts of the commissary, clothier, and hospital departments, complaining that any alteration in the procedure for settling accounts “at this very advanced stage of the business” would do great “mate rial injury” to public creditors by further delaying settlements as much as 18 months. Charles Thomson reported on the memorial the following day recommending that it be referred to the board of treasury. Congress instead assigned it on April 12 to a com mittee consisting of William Samuel Johnson, Carrington, Nathaniel Gorham, Rufus King, and Pierse Long. The committee recommended on April 20 that the March 24 act be repealed and proposed that the five departments be combined under the com missary and hospital commissioners (Burrall and Fox) who would be placed under con trol of the board of treasury. The report was debated on May 3-4, disapproved on the 5th, then “revived by new motion—& passed 8th May,” when Congress authorized the election of an independent commissioner to settle the accounts of the commissary and
