244 April 19, 1786 And almost simultaneously the commissioners in London appointed John Anstey, a barrister, to repair to the United States to collect additional evidence to facilitate their investigations, particularly on unsubstantiated or fraudulent claims, a work he con ducted from April 1786 to September 1788. John Eardley Wilmot, Historical View of the Commission for Enquiring into the Losses, Services, and Claims of the American Loyal ists. . . (1815; reprint ed.; Boston, Gregg Press, 1972), pp. 58, 67, 89; and Leslie 1. S. Upton, ‘The Claims: The Mission of John Anstey," Esmond Wright, ed., fled, White and True Blue. The Loyalists in the Revolution (New York: AMS Press, Inc., 1976), pp. 135—47. 2 For the marquis of Carmarthen’s November 30, 1785, letter to John Adams, and Adams’ December 2 letter to John Jay recommending Anstey, see PCC, item 84, 6:1-6; and Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783-89, 2:539—40. Henry Lee to Henry Lee, Sr. My dear father Newyork April 19th 1786 I have not heard from Leesylvania but thro Mr. C Lee since my ar rival at Newyork. In obedience to your order I have paid three hun dred dollars to Doctor Witherspoon and enclose his receipt. I did not know when I made this payment that the sum required was 95£ four shillings or I should have paid the whole demand. This I will rectify as soon as I can. The Doctor complains bitterly of the injury which he sustains by the difference of the interest received from you and to be paid by him for Money which your debt would have supplied, had your remittances been punctual. We have very gloomy prospects with respect to national faith, dig nity & importance. Indeed unless matters soon alter, the United States must inevitably become more insignificant than words can express. Every state in the Union but this, have granted the impost to Con gress*, whether New-york will or will not, is yet a matter of doubt. The house of delegates have passed a bill yeilding the duty of five per cent on imports for 25 years but have cramped it with certain modifica tions which will render the system unoperative for another year, un less the senate should amend the bill in its passage. The Feby. packet from Great Britain and from France have arrived. No news worthy of communication has yet transpired. I enclose the Gazette of this day. How do the taxes collect with you; how are the people, willing and able; how proceds the elections for this year; much contest or per fect indifference. Will you oblige me so far as to take measures for having my house repaired in Dumfries and the lot enclosed. I apprehend from its con dition when I left Virga, that it must fall to the ground if longer de layed, and I really cannot engage any person to undertake it for me. Whatever money may be requisite, I trust it will be in my power to ad-
