April 20, 1786 245 vance when called for. Present my most respectful love to Mamma, to my sister & to the little ones. I am your affect, son, H. Lee Junr. RC (ViHi: Edmund Jennings Lee Papers). Charles Thomson to William Ellery Sir, Office of Secretary of Congress, April 19. 1786 I have the pleasure to inform you that The United States in Con gress assembled have appointed you Commissioner of the Continental loan Office for the state of Rhode island and Providence plantations. 1 Herewith you will receive a copy of the minute. Be pleased to Accept my Congratulations on the appointment. With great respect, I have the honor to be, Sr, Your most Obedt & Most humble Serv 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 SeeJCC, 30:185, 198. Congress received Ellery’s acceptance of this appointment on May 8. Ibid., p. 245n. 2 Rufus King also wrote the following letter to Ellery this day. “I am told that a Packet goes tomorrow morning for Newport, by her I acknowledge the Honor of your polite letter of the 17 instant, and with pleasure communicate what I wrote by Post [not found] a few Days since, Your election by Congress as Loan Officer of R. Island. “I thank you for your friendly congratulations on my matrimonial engagements, and in great haste, am your sincere friend, & obt. servt. Rufus King.” Christie’s Catalogue, June 8, 1990, item 40. James Monroe to John Jay Sir, New York, April 20, 1786. The Committee to whom it is referred to report the plan of a tem porary government for such States as shall be erected under the acts of cession from individual States, previous to their admission into the Confederacy, as also to organize the Indian department, request the favor of your attendance and advice upon those subjects upon Satur day next in Congress chamber at half after ten in the morning. The first question which arises with respect to the government is, Shall it be upon Colonial principles, under a governor, council and judges of the U.S., removeable at a certain period of time and they admitted to
