256 May 2, 1786 2 The issue of the confiscation of loyalist estates was also about to be raised again with the states by the secretary for foreign affairs, John Jay, who directed the following circu lar letter to the executive of each of the states the following day. “Congress has been pleased to order that I should ‘report particularly and specially, how far the several States have complied with the Proclamation of Congress of the 14 January 1784, and the Recommendation accompanying the same, pursuant to the definitive Treaty of Peace between the United States of America and Great Britain.’ “In order that I may be able to fulfil the Expectations of Congress I must request the Favour of your Excellency to inform me whether and how far the State (or Common wealth) of has complied with the Recommendation in Question.” PCC, item 120, 2:281, item 127, fol. 147. For the January 14, 1784, proclamation at issue, concerning provisions of the Treaty of Paris which provided safeguards for loyalists whose estates had been confiscated, see JCC, 26:29-31. Jay was complying with an order of Congress adopted March 8, 1786 (JCC, 30:100), but no evidence has been found indicating why he waited nearly two months to do so. A complaint from the British consul John Temple that loyalists had met with ob stacles in attempting to obtain redress from state confiscations had been received De cember 21, 1785. But the complaint had been submitted without substantiating evidence and Jay had used that opportunity to inform John Adams that he should simply advise the British court that the issue was one that exceeded the scope of consular affairs and that if Britain wished Congress to treat such matters with a “mark of attention” it would be expedient to send an accredited minister to the United States. JCC, 30:2-5. Thomas Rodney’s Diary New York. In Congress May 2d. 1786. 1 A report was read respecting a proposed peace with the Algerines & Barbary States. 2 Mr. Pinkny—Said that the sum of 80,000 dols heretofore appropri ated to the purchasing peace with those States was insufficient—that it was necessary to Send a larger Sum, that Congress ought to address the States and let them know our Situation that they might provide— That we ought to send a Sufficient Sum and a person of Talents & In tegrity to Negociate a Treaty—that Mr. Lamb the person now there is not a Sober Man but of a Loose Caractor unfit for that purpose that he was surprized Congress appointed Such a person &c. Mr. Grason—said the sum was Contemptable, that Even the great Maritime States of Europe were obliged to buy peace of those pirates, and that they at least winked at the depredations on our Trade that probably G. Brittain woud give them a larger sum than we had sent to Continue those depredations, and that if we Expected peace we Must out bid them &c. Almost every Member in Congress rose on this Occasion, and the general Sentiment respectg. this Matter Singlely was to the Same pur pose. But the Consideration how Money was to [be] procured drew into Argument the Whole affairs of the United States—So it was post poned till Munday.
