May 2, 1786 257 According to the Order of the day, The Seneca King Captn. Abail, or the Corn planter was Introduced with five other Indian Chiefs of the Same Nation. 3 They were Clean & Neatly drest in Match Coats & Leggings & clean Shirts all new. The King Advanced to the Chair & Shuck hands With the President then Went round and Shuck hands With each Member—the rest did the same. Then the King Standing in the Floor, Addressed Congress. “Brothers I have long wanted to See the thirteen fires, and I thank the great Spirit that there is a Bright Sun and a Clear Sky at our first Meeting. I am glad to See you Sitting in Council and I look up to the great Spirit, Who is King over us all, to direct you right. We were born in the Same Country and ought to live like brothers. “Brothers I want you to Listen to me a few Words, I am never tired to do good, I cannot be Tired of doing right, I hope you will listen and Consider my Speech, The Indians are but poor—they can’t be rich—for their harts are known, their sentiments, and mind, are fixt, therefore you will Consider and Take pitty of My people, for they have No place to go to, Nor any body to apply To, they hope you Will ap point, Some body for them to Apply to, They want you to appoint General Butler, to do business for the Indians, because they know him, and know that he is their friend. “Brothers Consider this and look to the great Spirit and he Will di rect you right. “Brothers I want you to Consider the Speech I made before (mean ing the Treaty) and do What is right. “Brothers of the Thirteen Fires I have no more To Say only that I hope the great Spirit, Which Rules above, will direct you right, and move your hearts to do good.” 4 MS (DLC: Rodney Family Papers). In the hand of Thomas Rodney. 1 This entry is taken from a fair copy of a diary Rodney made at a later date, which in cludes entries for May 2, 3, and 4, 1786, as well as for the period February-April 1781 (for which see volumes 16 and 17 of these Letters'). In addition to the retrospective com ments found at the conclusion of the May 4 entry, proof that the present compilation was constructed from other, contemporary notes is found in a separate page of notes dated “May 4th 1786” located in the H. F. Brown Collection at DeHi, which was been quoted in notes 1 and 2 of Rodney’s Diary, May 4. The document printed as Rodney’s Notes of Debates, May 18, 1786, is a unique item in the Thomas Rodney Collection at DeHi, archivally unrelated to the other Rodney diary entries printed in these Letters. 2 For this report, which was submitted to Congress on April 5, see JCC, 30:152-53. 3 For the adoption of this “Order” and discussion of the efforts of the Seneca chiefs to visit Congress, see David Ramsay’s Speech, May 5, note 1. 4 Rodney’s version of this speech was apparently set down from memory. In the ver sion preserved in the PCC (item 56, fol. 407), which also served as the basis for the re port of the Indian reception published in the May 8 issue of the New York Daily Advertiser, Cornplanter’s speech was recorded as follows: “Brothers of the thirteen fires I am glad to see you: It gives me pleasure to see you meet in Council to consult about public affairs. May the great Spirit above direct you to such measures as are good. I wish to put the chunks together and to make the thirteen
