262 May 3, 1786 David Ramsay to Benjamin Rush Si r> May 3d 1786 New-York I have receivd your two friendly letters together with the two pam phlets inclosed for which I thank you. I can write the general history of the revolution with more ease than I have wrote a part of it. Indeed I have got the parts already collected. Mr Thomson has all General Washingtons letters copied in books in the order of time & from my access to papers, the remembrancer, 1 & the regularity of records in the offices of Congress, I have been enabled to do a great deal in a lit tle time. For some months past I have spent from five to 8 hours every day at this work. The drudgery is already nearly done. I have got my facts & I shall put them together in Carolina. I thank you for your freindly offers of your papers &ct. I have on more occasions than one found your advice & friendship salutary. I owe more of my present independence to yourself than to any living person. Your example has animated me to industry & your advice has directed it to proper channels. We have now eleven States. I sat in my chamber this morning till near eleven, from that hour till half after three in the chair of Con gress & heard some of the best reasoning & most elegant speaking I have ever heard in my life.^ My present station has excused me from all committees which has given me more leisure for my history. M[y] time will be out next week & I shall then set out for Philada. Present my most respectful compliments to Mrs. Rush. I am with the greatest esteem your friend & very humble sert, David Ramsay RC (PPL: Rush Manuscripts). 1 That is, John Almon’s The Remembrancer; or, Impartial Repository of Public Events, 17 vols. (London, 1775-84), which reviewed both British politics and American affairs. 2 See the following entry. Thomas Rodney’s Diary Wednesday May the 3d. [1786] Mr. Pinckney of S. Carolina, Moved that a grand Committee be ap pointed, To Take into consideration the affairs of the nation. Said our Situation was Such that it Was necessary To inform the States thereof—that it was necessary that Congress Shoud be Invested with greater powers and therefore it was Necessary to appoint a Con vention for that purpose or that Congress Shoud call on them by req-
