May 4, 1786 263 uisition for Such powers as was Necessary to enable them to Adminis ter the Federal Governme[n]t or it Must fall—That the Confederation Was deficient in powers of Commerce; in raising Troops, and in the means of Executing those powers that were given &c. Mr. Munroe of Virgina Alledged that Congress had ful power to raise Troops; and that they had a right [to] Compel a Complyance in every case Where they Acted agreable to the powers given them by the Con federation; That all the States but N.Y had invested them With Com mercial powers (a member informd that N.Y past an Act for that pur pose yesterday) therefore he Saw no Occasion for a Convention &c. Much was said pro, & Con, on this Subject to the same purpose on one side or the other and then the Matter was refer’d to a Committee of the Whole on Tuesday next. 1 A Report respecting the great Official Departments came for ward—Much debating—pospon’d Till Munday. 2 Loan officer for the N.Y. State Voted for—5, for Caughran, 2, for Livingston, 3 blanks so not determined—postpon’d. 3 MS (DLC: Rodney Family Papers). In the hand of Thomas Rodney. 1 See JCC, 30:230. See also William Grayson to Richard Henry Lee, March 22, note 7; and Jensen, Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution, 13:32-33. 2 There is no mention of this issue in the journals (JCC, 30:228-31), but see Edward Carrington to Timothy Pickering, April 13, note 4. 3 Although this election had been set for this date, Secretary Thomson omitted all mention of this balloting this date. John Cochran was elected commissioner of the Con tinental loan office for New York May 8. See JCC, 30:219, 239. Roger Alden to John Jay Sir Office of Secy of Congress, May 4th. 1786 I have the honor to inform You that Friday the 5th Inst, at 12 oClock, is appointed for a second visit from the Seneca Chief & his Associates. 1 As he is to receive assurances from the Chairman of Congress of the ratification of the treaty of peace between the United States and Great Britain, will You give Yourself the trouble to order the original treaty to be transmitted to the Office of the Secy of Congress. 2 I have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, Your most Obedt & Most humble Servt, Roger Alden FC (DNA: PCC, item 55). In the hand of Roger Alden. 1 See David Ramsay’s Speech, May 5. 2 For the definitive treaty ratified by Congress January 14, 1784, see JCC, 26:23-28. The original document Alden was requesting is now preserved among the General Records of the United States Government, RG 11, DNA.
