264 May 4, 1786 Timothy Bloodworth to Abner Nash Dear Sir New York Thursday May 4th 1786 Last Tuesday Landed in this Town, and Yesterday took my seat in Congress with Mr White. 1 We have now ten States on the floor, which will enable Congress to proceed on business. It is not in My Power to give You any satisfactory accounts, of the business before the House, as time has not favoured me with an oppertunity for information. A paper currency has taken place here, & the Assembly, now siting, has pas’d an act to enable Congress to Collect the impost, but will not suf fer them to remove the officer of the Impost, for Maladministration. Their remedy in this case, is to complain to the Executive, who may remove him & appoint som other in his place. This measure gives um brage to the Delegates before whome it has not yet com officially. A coppy of this act is to be Lay’d before them this Day. Am exceeding anncious to see You here with Youre Amiable Lady, as I am convinced the state of North Carolina will stand in need of able Advocates. I earnestly wish Youre Families Good & remain (with Compliments to Mrs. Nash) Dear Sir, Your Most Obedient Servant, Under Various Obligations, Timothy Bloodworth RC (Nc-Ar: Bloodworth Papers). 1 See Bloodworth to Richard Caswell, May 3, note 1. Rufus King to John Adams Sir, New York 4 May 1786. By the January Packet I was honored with your letter of the 23 of December, and by Mr. Anstey who arrived in the February Packet, I re ceived your’s of the 22 of January. 1 I pray you to accept my acknowl edgments for these kind attentions, and to be assured that if any com munications in my power concerning our common country, will afford you any information, the pleasure of transmitting them, will be my best and most satisfactory reward. Long before this time, the Dis patches from Mr. Jay’s Office will have convinced you that Congress entertain the same sentiments, which you possess, on the Subject of an exchange of ministers between the United States & G. Britain; they will not be inattentive to the Dignity of their country, nor the Eti quette of courts. Mr. Temple will be confined to the authorities of his commission, & will not be permitted to travel out of his consulate. The Determination is, that the court of St James must send a minister here of your Rank in consequence of the proposal for that purpose, or congress must recall their minister at London.
