272 May 5, 1786 In addition to receiving the chiefs, Congress on May 2 also referred the texts of the speeches Butler and Cornplanter had exchanged at Carlisle to a second committee which recommended that the chiefs be invited to a second audience, at which Ramsay delivered the present address, described in the journals as an answer to Cornplanter s speech of the 2d. JCC, 30:227n, 234-36. As the deputy secretary of Congress, Roger Alden, was simultaneously directed to procure the original treaty of peace with Great Britain from the office of the secretary for foreign affairs for this event, it is clear that Congress was still concerned with reports that the Indians did not believe that their lands south of the Great Lakes had been ceded to the United States, as demonstrated by Britain’s continued occupation of several frontier posts. See Roger Alden to John Jay, May 4; and PCC, item 56, fols. 407-8. 2 For the procurement of the original treaty of peace for displaying to the Indians, see Roger Alden tojohn Jay, May 4. 3 According to the report of this event preserved in PCC, item 56, fols. 407-10, “Cap tain OBeel” then delivered the following reply. “Brothers, What you have said is good. You advise to what is proven. My mind has been disposed to war, but you wisely recommend peace, and I thank you for your ad vice, and for the good things you have said, and pray that the Great Spirit above may take care of you.” Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry Dear Gerry, New York 6 May 1786 I now inclose you Translations of the two Arrets concerning the cod Fishery. Fifteen livres the quintal in favor of the French Fish intro duced into the west Indies must destroy all competition. Will you in form me what will be the operation of these arrets on our Fishery. These Regulations were urged by our freind Marbois, and will afford him peculiar Gratification. If you have concluded your contract for the Cambridge Estate, will you inform me what it costs you? I request this information upon the idea that the contract is a notorious one, if this is not the case, you will consider the request as improperly made. Although I informed you in my last that Eight States only were rep resented and it was quite uncertain when a greater number would be on the Floor, yet the Fact now is, that north Carolina & Delaware have come on, and we number Ten States—Two only from New England and a number of visionary projects already introduced and proposed to be adopted by Congress. What we shall do, I know not—this is cer tain that I should feel much happier were the new England States all represented. No arrivals from Europe, consequently no foreign information— nothing domestic has occurred worthy of communication, except that the assembly of New York this day broke up having granted the im post to Congress, to be collected by Officers of their own appointment & accountable to & removable by the Legislature—the regulations to be of their own making, & the Duty to be paid in Paper money or
