May 7, 1786 273 Specie at the option of the persons paying the Duty. This you observe is a total Deviation from the Grants of every other state. So we are where we were. Adieu—Yours affectionately, R King [PS.] Compliments to Mrs. Gerry & Miss Kitty, your freinds are all well. RC (NHi: King Papers). Endorsed by Gerry: “N York Lettr, Mr King, 30th April & 6th May, 1786, ansd 18th May.” 1 See King to Gerry, April 9, note 3. 2 Because New York was the last state to authorize Congress to levy a Continental im post, interest in the state’s authorizing act had been intense. Although such an act fi nally passed on May 4, opposition efforts to cripple the bill by amendment had suc ceeded—the provisions requiring state rather than federal collectors and allowing the payment of duties in depreciated paper currency were unacceptable. The New York act was referred on May 12 to a congressional committee which submitted a report that was read June 16, debated July 27, and adopted August 11 specifying the act’s deficiencies and urging Governor Clinton to call the legislature into special session to rectify them, which he refused to do. See Spaulding, New York in the Critical Period, pp 176-80' William F. Zornow, “New York Tariff Policies, 1775-1789,” New York State Historical Associ ation Proceedings, 54 (1956): 60-63; PCC, item 75, fols. 179-83; and ICC, 30'263 345n 439-44,31:513-14,963. Pennsylvania Delegates to Benjamin Franklin S* r > New York 7th. May 1786. We do ourselves the honor to transmit herewith a Copy of a Repre sentation from the Board of Treasury to Congress, recommending the discharge of the additional Commissioner for liquidating and certify ing the Claims of the Citizens of Pennsylvania against the United States and for settling the Accounts between the Union and that State. This Representation has not yet been acted upon in Congress, but it is likely to be, and probably will be taken up and decided upon in the Course of a few days. In the mean time it would be highly pleasing as well as instructing to us to be favoured with the Sentiments of Your Excellency and the Council on this Proposition. We are induced to be lieve that a considerable Proportion of the Claims of the Citizens of Pennsylvania yet remain unliquidated, and that from the want of a General Knowledge among those Citizens of the time limitted for pre senting their Claims, which expired the seventeenth of March last, many hundreds of those Claimants are now left remediless by other Means than an Application at the Treasury Office in New York; that considerable time must elapse, before Mr. Stelle can enter upon the Settlement of the State Account; and that therefore two Commission ers may yet continue to be usefully employed in Pennsylvania for some time to come.
