May 11, 1786 279 feet to be a colonial govt, similar to that wh. prevail’d in these States previous to the revolution, with this remarkable & important differ ence that when such districts shall contain the number of the least nu merous of the “13 original States for the time being” they shall be ad mitted into the confederacy. The most important principles of the act at Annapolis 7 are you observe preserv’d in this report. It is generally approv’d of but has not yet been taken up. The treaty with Prussia will be shortly ratified and forwarded for exchange. 8 Upon the subject of commerce I have nothing new to give you. The plan of a convention at Annapolis which I believe will be carried into effect, has taken the subject from before Congress. As it originated with our State we think it our duty to promote its object by all the means in our power. 9 Of its success I must confess I have some hopes. The investigation of the subject will always be of advantage since truth and sound state policy in every instance will urge the commission of the power to the U. States. You will be surpris’d to hear that I have form’d the most inter esting connection in human life, with a young Lady in this town, as you know my plan was to visit you before I settled myself, but having form’d an attachment to this young Lady (a Miss Kortright, the daughter of a gentn. of respectable character & connections in this state tho’ injur’d in his fortunes by the late war) I have found that I must relinquish all other objects not connected with her. We were married abt. three months since. I remain here untill the fall at wh. time we remove to Fredericksbg. in Virga, where I shall settle for the present in a house prepard for me by Mr Jones to enter into the prac tice of the law. I intended to have made you a remittance by this packet to replace the money you have advanc’d for the Encyclopedia but have been unable. I shall not neglect this. We were unfortunate in an imposition at Annapolis—but yrs. I hope ended there—mine has since been encreas’d. A young Mr. Grymes in the most iminent dis tress, prevail’d on me lately to be responsible for his payment of 50£ Virga, currency. He moved off and the payment fell on me. 1 have since made application to his father in Orange 10 who I hear disowns him and will have nothing to say to his engagments. My friend Short will I hope pardon my not writing him at present—a variety of circum stances have interrupted me for a few days since, so as to put it out of my power. If the packet does not sail tonight I will. I observe the {king of France} 11 has {issued) an {edict} to encourage his own {fisheries}. I mention this more for the purpose of suggesting to you that this event has reach’d us circuitously—that this circumstance has been noted here. There are always some who deal in things of this kind and al though it was no sooner suggested, and that in {private}, than an apol ogy was made for the suggestion, yet I have thought proper to {bring it to your view}. Believe me most sincerely your friend & servant, Jas. Monroe
