May 14, 1786 William Samuel Johnson to Samuel William Johnson 281 My dear Son, New York May 14th. 1786. I have receiv’d yr. several favours of the 25th of Deer. 1785, Febry 21st, March 4th, & 28th 1786, but not in the Order in which they were written, the first having come to hand last of all. To that of Jany. 24th, which arrived first, I answer’d by the only Opportunity that has offer’d of writing since you left us. I heartily bless God for the restoration & continuance of your Health, & for your favourable prospects in busi ness. We too through the favour of Heaven have been bless’d with good health upon the whole, tho’ as I mention’d to you, Charles had had a Fever of short continuance, & I have this Spring had several re turns of the Gout, but they have happily not been severe; nor con fined me for any length of time, & the whole Family seem now to be in perfect health. Mr. Verplank & Betsey are on a Visit at Stratford, where I have not been since the beginning of March, but hope soon to make an excursion there. Mr. Verplank go’s to Fish Kill before they return here. Our Winter has been moderate, but the Spring is back ward, as the phrase is. The severest snow Storm since you left us, was on the first of April. In the fine Climate of Bermudas, I presume, you experience few inconveniencies from the changes of Weather which give us so much trouble here. Your Introduction into that country has been favourable, & I hope your continuance (while you shall chuse to remain there) will be equally fortunate & agreeable. It was particularly fortunate, it seems, that you fell so early into Mr. Van Dams hands, from whom I had a very friendly Letter upon the subject & have re turned him my hearty thanks for his kindness to you, & pray God he may have a happy Meeting with his sister & Neices, who go in the Ves sel by which I expect to send this. I am also under very great Obliga tions to the Governor, & all those other Gentlemen you mention, who have shewn you so much polite Attention, to whom I wish you, if it be proper, to present my Compliments & assure them of my gratitude. It gives me particular pleasure to see that you have so speedily & success fully engaged in Business, & pursue it with so much Ardour. You seem at once to have adopted the true Spirit of business, to engage boldly in everything, & to labour earnestly in all things; It is the sure road to fame & fortune, & tho’ it is not to be expected but that you will meet with difficulties in affairs, yet I hope by perseverance & assiduity, you will experience the truth of Seneca’s observation “Non quia difficilia sunt, non Andemus; sed quia non Andemus, difficilia sunt.” 1 The Admi ralty Cause was indeed a bold undertaking at so early a period of your Practice, but it was happily successful, & success justifies the boldest at-
