286 May 14, 1786 Punishment in a legal Course of some of the Offenders^ but the Mis conduct of Persons on both Sides had run so high, that it became the Wish of good Men to cover, as with a Veil, Enormities which could not have been strictly accounted for in a legal Course without endanger ing many Lives & hazarding Consequences which every good Man would deprecate. The Assembly chosen in 1784 were much disposed to lenient Mea sures. In March 1785 They sent a respectable Committee of their own Body to confer with the Settlers in a conciliatory way, to enquire into their Complaints, their Expectations & their Wishes. The Report of this Committee did not fully justify the Expectations which had been formed of the Moderation & conciliatory Disposition of the Settlers. The State was nevertheless disposed to Moderation as far as could be consistent with the necessary Dignity of Government. An Act was passed, at a Subsequent Session, for quieting the Disturbances at Wyoming & for pardoning such offenders as should enter in to Recog nizance by a certain Day for future good Behaviour. 3 In the early part of the last Session a Resolution was passed to strengthen the Hands of the Executive in Case Force should become necessary, and some of the old Leaven of Resentment seemed to urge for Active Measures; but towards the Close of the Session it subsided, & the Minority joined with an appearance of Cordiality in lenient Views. A Bill was brought in & published for Consideration for laying off a new County in which Wyoming will probably be the Seat of Jus tice. 4 By this the People will have the Choice of their Officers [from among] themselves, and be the Jurors to try the Causes arising within the County. If they prudently improve the Opportunity, the Bill will probably be enacted at the next Session, 5 and by it I imagine they may obtain every reasonable Object of their wishes. Having not the Acts & Resolutions alluded to with me the Information I now give you may be less minute than you wish, but the general Tendency of it I believe it substantially right. I hope the Wise & the Prudent in your State will embrace this Opportunity to induce such of their Friends as are inter ested in the Welfare of the Settlers at Wyoming to act with Prudence & Discretion. In such Case I doubt not the establishment of Peace and a fair Investigation of and Decision upon every reasonable Claim to Property in that Part of the Country. I am, Dear Sir, with much Es teem, Your most obedient Servant, Chas. Pettit 6 RC (CtHi: Wadsworth Papers). * For this reference to the turmoil in the Wyoming Valley following Pennsylvania’s ar rest of Zebulon Butler for treason against the state in October 1783, see Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:xxxvi-xxxvii, 307-9. 2 See ibid., pp. 407-11, 423, 427-32.
