May 18, 1786 295 sent me last year to Congress, with the state of our accounts and claims and sufficient vouchers. We obtained a hearing before a committee appointed to report on the sub ject of the petition, and obtained a favorable report, but lost it before Congress when the report was acted upon. Our late Professor Howell was then a member, and had great influence; but as he had effectually opposed some continental measures, he thinks the question was lost by that means, together with the small number of the states represented on the floor. By the articles of the confederation, he is not again eligible for three years; nor could we find any man, probably, to be chosen, who would deeply interest himself for the College. This induced me, at his earnest importunity, together with his giving the greatest encouragement that a grant might be obtained, to accept the unanimous appointment of our Legislature, at their late session, as their first dele gate in Congress till next November—an appointment to me most unexpected, as I had considered politics out of my province, and on that account had declined a former nomination to that office. The interests of the College lay near my heart, and the neces sities of it call aloud for the exertions of all its friends. I thought proper to give you these hints, lest upon hearing of my being in Congress you might think I meant to as sume the political character; than which, in general, nothing is more remote from my intentions, notwithstanding the great importunity of many of the Legislature for me to continue in the office.” See ibid., pp. 388, 431. Charles Thomson to John Hancock Sir, Office of Secretary of Congress, May 17. 1786 In Obedience to the Order of Congress I have the honor to trans mit to your Excellency herewith enclosed an Act of the United States in Congress assembled passed the 15 instant and their pro ceedings thereon. 1 With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt & Most hu Serv, CT LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 Thomson undoubtedly enclosed the proceedings related to the election of Nathaniel Gorham as chairman of Congress, “to serve until the first Monday in June next,” succeeding David Ramsay, whose term as a South Carolina delegate had expired. Ramsay had presided over Congress in the absence of President Hancock since Novem ber 23, 1785; Gorham continued to serve as chairman until he was formerly elected president on Tuesday, June 6. See JCC, 29:883, 30:264, 330. Nathaniel Gorham to James Bowdoin Sir New York May 18h. 1786 Your Letter with the inclosures has been reed, and the Book de liver’d to Mr. Temple. 1 Inclosed is the report of the Treasury Board on the subjects of the Mint. 2 Congress have not yet taken any resolu tion upon it—but will do it in a few days When it is most probable that the American Dollar will be made exactly of the same value as the New Spanish Dollar. I have seen in the News papers that some person
