296 May 18, 1786 has made a proposal to the Legislature of Massachusetts relative to a Copper Coinage—but it is thought here that it will be attended with great inconveniencies if the States act in this matter saperately. After Congress have agreed upon a plan which they will soon do—there may be a uniformity in the money—and Massachusetts & any other State may make a better bargain after they know the Terms on which the Board of Treasury conduct the business than they probably can now do. I am much obliged to your Excellency for the Books you were so good as to send to the Delegates, and remain with the most perfect re spect & esteam Your Excellencys most Huml Servt, Nath Gorham RC (CSmH: HM 39002). 1 John Temple, the British consul general, was Governor Bowdoin’s son-in-law. 2 For this April 8 report, see JCC, 30:162-82; and Timothy Bloodworth to Richard Caswell, August 16, note 7. Rufus King to James Bowdoin New York 18 May 1786. The revival of the Newfoundland bill in the late Session of Parlia ment & the renewal of the Act vesting in the King in Council the reg ulation of the intercourse between the US & his dominions is satisfac tory evidence to every impartial man, that Great Britain will not enter into a commercial treaty with this Country; & that if the accom plishment of that measure is the only object of the residence of a minister at London, Mr. Adams may be recalled without farther delay or disappointment. These acts are for one year, & if during that term the States of America continue as destitute of an union of measures, as they have remained since the peace they will probably be made perpetual un less the fear of a rival in America induces the British Government to relax their Navigation Acts, no other motive will; for in fact the effect of every project of a commercial treaty must be an alteration of the Laws of Navigation. The present ministry are unquestionably against a treaty; indeed were they well disposed to treat they would not dare do it without the approbation of Parliament; there the measure would find few or no ad vocates—the nation is wedded to their ancient regulations; & the prej udices of the Kingdom are so much in favor of the Navigation Laws, that he must be a bold minister who should propose an alteration. 1 It is said however & from probable authority, that the Nation would have relaxed these Laws in favour of the United Netherlands could
