May 18, 1786 299 selves, without the approbation of the particular States, tis probable it would have been effected, but the Danger that much Time would be lost by nominating in Congress & Sending to the States for their Ap probation, prevented the Adoption of this salutary measure. I sent you per Capt. Barnard the journals of Congress, which I trust you duly receivd. With Congratulations upon the Genl. Election, I am with much Esteem & respect, your very humbl Sert., Stephen Mix Mitchell RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). 1 See Mitchell to Wolcott, March 7. James Monroe to James Madison New York May 18. 1786. I have not heard from you lately but hope it hath not arisen from ill-health. Two days since we reed, dispatches from Mr. Adams in which he informs us of his demand of the surrender of the posts, & remonstrance agnst the violation of the treaty also in the instance of the negroes, with the answer of the minister to his memorial. 1 In this answer it is stated that the King admits a violation in those points on his part, but on the other hand states the instances of violation on our part with respect to the debts in particular enumerating the acts of all the States contravening it, finally giving assurance that it is the Kings desire to carry the treaty fully into effect on his part provided the U S. will do the same on theirs. This I think is the amt. of the communica tion reed. & from which the injunction of secrecy is remov’d. It ap pears as if his expectation was that we shod, take the first steps in this business. In my last 2 I suggested the probability of my being able to accom pany you in a trip up th[e Mohawk,] but of this at present I have doub[ts. There are] present 11 States & the business [of last May is] before Congress, so that I fear I cod. [not reconcile] it to my duty to be absent upon th[e present] occasion. 3 I have pd. Taylor the [money for] the first payment so that that difficulty is at an end. I am Dr. Sir yr. friend & servt, Jas. Monroe [PS.] We shall be happy to see you here & indeed calcul[ate] on a visit. Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 9:59. 1 See David Ramsay to John Adams, May 14, note 1; and Pierse Long to John Lang don, May 21, note 1. 2 That is, his letter of April 28, which has not been found, but in which he responded to Madison’s March 19 suggestion that they “explore the ground” in New York before ex tending their joint purchase of land. See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 8:505, 9:29. In his May 13 reply to Monroe’s April 28 letter, Madison addressed Monroe’s concern about
