300 May 18, 1786 the forthcoming Annapolis Convention and Charles Pinckney’s call for a federal conven tion to amend the Articles of Confederation. “I think with you that it would have an odd appearance for two Conventions to be sitting at the same time, with powers in part con current. The reasons you give seem also to be valid against augmenting the powers of that which is to meet at Annapolis. I am not surprised therefore at the embarrassment of Congress in the present conjuncture. Will it not be best on the whole to suspend mea sures for a more thorough cure of our federal system, till the partial experiment shall have been made.” Ibid., 9:55. See also Nathaniel Gorham to Caleb Davis, February 23, note 4; and William Grayson to Richard Henry Lee, March 22, note 7. 3 For Monroe’s three-fold responsibility at this time for developing an ordinance for the government of new western states, seeking a revision of Virginia’s act of cession, and formulating plans for an Indian department, see Monroe to John Jay, April 20. Thomas Rodney’s Notes of Debates Thursday May 18th 1786. In Congress. Mr. Johnson moved to Take into Consideration the Connecticut Cession. 1 Mr. J. Wilson (Pensylvania). Objected that if Congress accepted this Cession it woud imply that Connecticut had a right to grant and of Course, to the ungranted Territory between this Grant and the West bounds of Pensylvania, and that He Suspected under cover of this they wou’d renew their Claim to that part of Pensylvania that was lately decided against them in favour of P by the federal Court at Trent Town. That the United States had never pretended To Claim the Territory reserved or ungranted by Virginia, New York and Mas sachusetts, but that their acceptation of the part Ceded was consid ered as a ful acknowledgmt. of the part of the United States, that the Ceding State was entitled to the reserved Territory, and that this Con struction was Agreable to the Municipal as well as to the Law of Na ture & Nations, &c. &c. &c. Mr. Johnson, replied, That Connecticut only wanted Congress to Accept their Cession on the Same Terms that they had done those of the other States, That according to the Idea of Congress, the Accept ing those Cessions only Operated as an Extinguishment of the Claim of the State in the Lands Ceded and Not as an approbation of the Claim of such State to the Land reserved or Not granted. &c. &c. &c. That as to the Claim of Connecticut to the Lands held by the Delaware & Juniata companies which been determined by the federal Court to be in Pensylvania, there was no intention of Connecticut actg. against the Decission of that Court &c. &c. Mr. Wilson then introduced a Motion, to make it a Condition in ac cepting this Cession that Connecticut shoud ackowledge the right of Pensylvania to said Lands &c.
