May 18, 1786 301 Mr. King (Massachusetts) then observed that this was unnecessary and improper, That the Matter had been decided in a Regular Judicial Manner by a Court appointed agreable to the Confederation for that purpose. And that it had been the Uniform Idea of Congress, that these Cessions were only Considered as an Extinguishment of the Claim of the State to the Lands Ceded and that the acceptation thereof by Congress was not to be Considered An Acknowlegment of the Claim of the State to any Lands reserved or not Ceded; That therefore the Claim of Connecticut to the Lands not Ceded would be in the same situation after acceptation as before, that it woud be nei ther better nor worse, therefore all provisos were unnecessary. Mr. Dana 2 (Massachusetts) spoke to the same purpose. Mr. Mitchel (Rhode Island) 3 spoke to the same purpose. Mr. Grason (Virginia) Objected to the Amendment, for several rea sons, he said that he Considered the Accepting the Cession as an Ac knowledgement of the right of Connecticut not only in the Lands Ceded but in the Lands reserved or not Granted, And that this Amendment confirmed that acknowledgement. That the grant of Vir ginia differed from this Grant, that grant only reserved the Lands to the Southward of the Oye, and had granted all the Lands north of that River to the United States as well the jurisdiction as Soil, That New York and Massachusetts had done the same and their grants in cluded the same Territory that Connecticut now Claims both to Cede & reserve, and therefore it would be Acknowledging the right of Con necticut in the 120 Miles reserved, that is in the Territory already granted to the united States. &c. &c. Mr. Carrington, (Virginia) Spoke to the same purpose. Mr. Monroe (Virginia) Spoke to the same purpose and then Moved an Amendment (to wit) “Provided also that Accepting the said Ces sion shall not be Taken or deem[ed] an Acknowledgement of the Right of Connecticut in the Land laying between the said Cession & the West boundary of Pennsylvania heretofore ceded to the United States by Virginia, New York and Masachusetts.” Mr. Pinkney (S. Carolina) Introduced a general Motion to su percede both the others, Implying a right in all the States to grant western Territory, and to have the rights of the United States only as it Stood upon the Cessions of the Individual States. Postponed Till Tomorrow. 4 MS (DeHi: Thomas Rodney Papers). In the hand of Thomas Rodney. 1 Secretary Thomson made no mention of these proceedings in his journal entry for this date, recording only a request for postponing the date set for a meeting of state agents in the South Carolina-Georgia boundary dispute. However, it is significant that his entry for May 22 recorded that Congress resumed consideration of the Connecticut cession, which was undoubtedly a reference to the resumption of this day’s debate. See JCC, 30:287-88, 295.
