May 19, 1786 303 James Manning to Nathan Miller Sir New York 19th. May 1786 I am continually interrogated by Congress when my Colleague is likely to be on the floor. 1 I am tired of telling them that I expect him soon. Pray have you not obtained the money necessary? If not are you likely to obtain it & when? I wish you to inform me by the first oppor tunity. Some great national matters are now before Congress, and are suspended for a fuller Representation. Eleven States are now on the Floor. New Hampshire & Rhode Island are the only delinquent states. You see that what is called the Southern Interest, has greatly the Ad vantage of the Eastern, and, in many cases, we have found the want of these two States. But I know you are not delinquent of choice. If you are doubtful of your being able to come at all, I should wish to know it by the first Opportunity, that I may make my Arrangements accordingly. I perceive that [our] State have directly violated the Treaty with Great Britain in making the Paper Money a tender in all cases of debts contracted before its Emission. You may find this in the 4th Article of that Treaty. We have just received, through Mr. Adams, the British Minister’s Answer to the demand to deliver up the western Posts; & he assigns as the principal reason the Laws made in several States, whereby British Subjects are deprived of their Property, as they cannot recover their Bona fide Debts, as stipulated in the Treaty. Con gress have now referred to a Committee to report the necessity of res- pealing all these Laws, & sending it forward to ob[t]ain, as soon as possible, a repeal of such Laws in the respective States. I am sorry that Rhode Island is now to be ranked in the Number of the States, which have violated the Treaty aforesaid. I have been severely handled by an obstinate Diarhea, almost ever since my arrival here, but am now some thing better. I have not yet taken permanent Lodgings, but have remained at my Brother James, expecting your arrival. I believe they would be willing to take us in to lodge, should you think it best, but I mean to let this matter rest till you arrive. Please to write me by the first, & every Opportunity. 2 I have the Honour to be, Sir, Your very Humble Servt, James Manning RC (RPB: Manning Collection). 1 None of the Rhode Island delegates elected May 4, 1785 (John Brown, George Champlin, Paul Mumford, and Peter Philips), ever attended Congress. Manning and Miller had been elected in a special appointment March 2, 1786. Manning first at tended Congress May 3; Miller did not arrive until July 14. JCC, 30:228, 407. The state
