May 21, 1786 305 RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by King and signed by King, Dane, and Gorham. 1 By terms of this April 28 act, the New York Assembly appointed four additional agents (John Haring, John Lansing, Melancton Smith, and Robert Yates), and empow ered them “to settle the said Controversy between this and the Commonwealth of the Massachusetts, otherwise than by the said Foederal Court... in such Manner as they shall judge most conducive to the Interest of this State.” See Laws of New York, 9th Ses sion (1786), chapter 49; and The Law Practice of Alexander Hamilton, ed. Julius Goebel et al., 2 vols. (New York; Columbia University Press, 1964-69), 1:573-77. Rufus King to Theodore Sedgwick My Dear Sir, New York 21 May 1786 Since the receipt of your kind letter of the 21 of April, I have been in daily expectation of the pleasure of your arrival, but I now fear that the indisposition which you mentioned has increased and thereby your Journey is prevented. I hope your health will soon be confirmed, and that your engagements will permit you to join us in Congress. Be good enough to accept my affectionate Gratitude for your po lite and freindly congratulations, at the same Time be assured that the event must be far more extraordinary than marriage, which will separate me from Massachusetts; the Frenzy however, which at this Time possesses numbers of our fellow Citizens relative to our profes sion, if carried to an Extent by no means improbable, would go far ther in my mind, towards removing my Residence than almost any imaginable Event. I forbear writing a Detail on the subjects before Congress, Ques tions of the highest national Magnitude are at this Time under their consideration; and if the Wisdom of our Confederacy is now fully rep resented, my ideas of the Abilities of our country men have been im properly magnified, and I am forced to the Beleif, that Great Events are more frequently the Effects of Accident, than the Result of human systems. The British ministry will not consent to any commercial Treaty with Mr. Adams, they know our disjointed condition, and despise us. Mr. Adams demanded the Evacuation of the Posts, and has been of ficially refused. Repeal your laws against the Recovery of British Debts before you demand a compliance with the Treaty on our part, is the language of the Reply to Mr. Adams’s Demand. Eighty Thousand Dollars were appropriated for the Barbary Treaties—the sum is too small, 150,000 Guineas being the least sum necessary.
