306 May 21, 1786 There is no money in the federal Treasury—the civil list is in ar- rear—the Troops in service mutinous for pay—the loans abroad ex hausted—the foreign Ministers destitute of Funds to draw on for their Daily support—and the payments maid by the four Eastern & three southern States for 15 Months past not equal to 4 thousand Dollars. Adieu—Believe me my Dr. Sir your affectionate freind, Rufus King RC (MHi: Sedgwick Papers). Pierse Long to John Langdon Sir New York May 21 st. 1786. The Packet for France in whose bag I put your letters sailed the 14th instant since which finding Vessels have arrived from England— by whom Congress have received letters from Mr Adams, as late as the beginning of March in one of which he says Lord Carmarthen has officially informed him that his Britanick Majesty was determined to hold the western posts until the United States on thier part mani fest a real determination to fulfil the treaty among things less impor tant the States of South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Mary land, Pennsylvania, New York and the Massachusetts must repeal certain acts now in existance that prevents justice being done to British creditors. 1 Mr. Adams likewise advises Congress that an envoy is in London from Tripole on the business of bringing about a treaty with us—he was very particular in his questions respecting extent, climate and soil of this country and from the information he received aforesaid it was a great country. But Tripole was at war with us but are disposed to be at peace which was his business with him—he has proposed to Mr Adams to make a perpetual peace for 30,000 guineas 12,500 paid in land and 3,000 per annum—until the 30,000 are paid. He has assured him that Tunis and Morocco are ready to agree to their terms and has no doubt but the Algerine Monarch will come into the same agree ment which four sums will amount to 120,000 Guineas besides a large present that must be made to the Ambassadors and 500 guineas to each consul. I am inclined to think that this business including all charges will cost 200,000 guineas. Mr Jefferson is arrived in London to assist Mr Adams in negotiating this affair. We have eleven States on the floor sincerely wish New Hampshire was here for it appears to me New England should never be unrepresented. The act of Assembly of New York passed in consequence of the rec ommendation of Congress of the 28th April 1783 is together with all
