May 26, 1786 311 James Manning to John Collins Sir New York 26 May 1786 Agreeably to the directions of the General Assembly at their Session at Greenwich 1 proceeded to New York & took my seat in Congress, as a Deligate, the 2d of this Inst., in full expectation that General Miller would follow me in a few Days, with the necessary supply of money, to support us; but to my surprise I have not heard from the General since my departure from Rhode Island. Destitute of money to defray my nec essary Expences, & at a loss to conjecture the reasons of the General’s delay, you must naturally conclude my situation is far from being agreeable. I wish to be informed whether the State mean to support a Representation in Congress or not, that I may act accordingly. My pri vate purse will not support me here, and you Sir, know the Expence at tending this Character too well to be informed that money in hand is necessary for the support of your Delegation. Congress are highly displeased with the conduct of Rhode Island in not sending forward her Delegates. I have made the best Apology I could for this neglect, but am obliged now to be silent, as I have no advice on the subject. I think it my duty to inform you that this hon ourable body is not a little alarmed at the present Crisis; with an empty Treasury, while pressed on all sides for money. The Requisi tions not complied with in many of the States; the Collection of Taxes postponed; Our trade embarrassd & all most prostrate; The Barbary Powers fitting out more formidable Armaments than ever sailed out of the Straights. G Britain, through our Minister, has absolutely refused the Surrender of the western Posts, until the United States comply, on their part, with the 4th Article of the Treaty, which provides that British Merchants shall be under no legal incapacity of recovering, in Sterling money their bona fide debts from the Citizens of the United States. Against which Article (since the passing the money bill in our State) Nine States in the Confederacy have passed Acts; and several of the Indian tribes, as we learn from recent dispatches, have already commenced Host[il]ities on our western frontier. This is our de plorable Situation, and Congress obliged this day to adjourn for want of a sufficient Number of States to proceed in the necessary & most important business of the Confederacy! 1 In a word, Sir, all the old members here look serious, & are alarmed for the safety of the Con federacy. A motion is made, & it is proposed to assign a day to go into the State of the Nation in a Committee of the whole house, that we may send forward to the States, without loss of time, the dangerous Situation of the federal government, that they may acquitt themselves of censure, should disasterous Events happen through the neglect of the States. This motion has only been postponed for a fuller Repre sentation, as they were in daily expectations of having both Rhode Is-
