May 28, 1786 321 tween them are made common highways for ever & free to the citi zens of the Atlantic States as well as those of the new States without any tax or impost whatever. An attempt was made to change the sys tem altogether and was negatived; indeed the Eastern & some other States are so much attached to it, that I am satisfied no material al teration can be effected; the Geographer and surveyors will set out it is supposed immediately to carry the Ordinance into execution, 6 provided the Indians will permit them, of which however 1 have very great doubts. I beg leave to inform you confidentially, that there does not appear at present the most distant prospect of forming treaties with Spain or G. Brittain: That the treaty with Portugal now carrying on in London is in an apparently proper train; that peace can certainly be obtained from Tripoli & Tunis for 33,000 Guineas each, & probably from Morocco & Algiers for double that sum re spectively, provided money can be loaned in Holland for that pur pose, & (which being the only resource) will be attempted: That Mr. Jefferson has lately informed Congress that he has applied to the Court of France to destroy the Monopoly of the farmers general re specting Tobo. His reasoning & calculations on this subject does him the highest honor: he has proved incontestably that it is the undoubted interest of both nations that this injurious monopoly should be destroyed. I shall not make any observations on this Subject, as I am satisfied you must have long since fully considered it, in all its relations. I only beg leave to submit to you the propriety of the State of Virginia & Maryland through Congress representing to the Court of France in strong but affectionate language the fatal consequences of an adher ence to this measure. This representation when added to the Commercial Interests of France & joined by the natural enemies of the Farmers general, will possibly shake this ruinous sytem. The delegation have lately recieved a letter from the Governor stat ing the depredations and murders of the Wabash Indians on the Ken- tucki Settlements; these Indians refused to come to the treaty last year i e, they gave no answer and are now at war with the Citizens of the United States; they have therefore left no alternative to them but hos tilities; the delegation intend to move tomorrow that Colo. Harmar with 400 Continental troops and such a number of Kentucki Militia as may be necessary, march to their towns & destroy them if they do not make concessions & deliver hostages as security for their good behav[i]our in future. 7 They will also press for the arrangement of a standing Indian department. In all this however they expect opposi tion, from the circumscribed States who being themselves in no dan ger, will reluctantly yield assistance to those who are exposed. I have with pleasure understood from Colo. Munro, that you intend
