June 1,1786 327 I think however I will mention it to you by this or the next post; 1 possibly you & I may think differently concerning it. Should that be the case I should doubt my own Opinion, although the Office of For eign Affairs accords with my sentiments. Mrs. King has been confined ten days past with an [...] Fever, it was the return of an attack of last year but thank God she is now again in good Health, & by the free use of the Bark I hope will continue so till we both see you & yours in Massachusetts. She joins me in sincere Re gards to you & Mrs. Gerry & compliments to Kitty, R King RC (NHi: King Papers). 1 See King to Gerry (1st letter),June 4. Pierse Long to John Langdon Sir New York June 1st. 1786 In my letter of the 21st Nov [May] 1 I had the honor of informing your excellency that when the committees had reported on the im port [impost] acts as granted by the respective States I would advise you thereof but as no report has as yet been made and it is uncertain when there will, I beg leave to make the following observations on some of the acts. 1st. That several of the States which have passed acts investing the United States in congress assembled with power to levy the duties on imported goods agreeable to the recommendations of the 18th April (83) have inserted in their acts express conditions that the same shall not be in force or begin to operate untill all the States in the confed eracy have passed acts vesting the United States in Congress assem bled with power to levy in the several States like duties. 2d That the act of the State of New York does not invest the United States in congress assembled with power to levy in that State the du ties therein mentioned but revenues [reserves] to the State of New York the sole favour of levying and collecting the same in the manner directed in and by an act of that State entitled, an act imposing duties on certain goods, wares and merchandise imported into that State passed the 18 November (84) and consequently prevents the opera tion of the imports [imposts]: since some States have made the exer cise of this power by the United States in Congress assembled an in- dispensible and express condition of their grants. 3d That the act aforesaid does not make the collector of the said duties amenable to and recoverable by the U.S. in C[ongress] A[ssembled].
