June 4, 1786 333 any other country? Would not the conventional forbearance of the use of the Mississippi implicate most strongly the right of the U.S. in dependent of the Convention or Treaty? If these queries are answered in the affirmative, what objection is there on the part of the U.S. to conclude such a Treaty? This question brings into view the plan of ex tinguishing the domestic debt by the Sale of the Western Territory, the system whereby it is proposed to govern the people, who shall set tle Westward of the Apalachian Mountains, within the U.S., and the ability of the U.S. at this time to contend with Spain in vindicating their right to the free use and navigation of the Mississippi. I am very sensible that the popular opinion throughout the U.S. is in favor of the free navigation of the Mississippi, and the reasons must be strong and important, which could be offered to oppose this opinion. I am also pretty well satisfied that the free navigation of that River will some day be of vast importance to the inhabitants within the Territories of the U.S.; yet admitting, what will not be denied, that Spain will on no condition agree that any people, except those of their own Nation, shall navigate the Mississippi, are the U.S. in a condition to assert their right? If you answer this question as I should, (believing as I do that a war with Spain, France, or England would terminate in the loss of the Fisheries, and the restriction of boundaries, perhaps by the Kennebeck on one part and the Apalachian Mountains on the other) is there any substantial objection against an Article in a Treaty with Spain relative to the Mississippi such as is alluded to? It is a consent to what we cannot alter, considering other benefits to be obtained. It must be wisdom then to consent. But how will this article affect the sale of the Western Territory? The answer which the delegates of Virginia (all of whom are probably deeply interested in the Ohio and Kentucky lands) would give is, that the value of the country west of the Allaghany Mountains depends in a high degree upon the opening of the Mississippi. Admit the fact; it is desired that the U.S. should under these circumstances open that River to their navigation. If so the value placed upon these lands which depends upon the opening of the Mississippi, is an ideal value, at this time. With those therefore who do not wish to involve the U.S. in a war against policy and sound reason, this objection is of little con sequence. The lands perhaps will not produce so much under the pre sent circumstances of the Mississippi, as they would if the river was open. But to all persons desirous of becoming settlers, they will sell for a reasonable price and go a good way in extinguishing the domestic debt. But how will such an article affect the intercourse between the inhabitants of the Western Territory and those of the Atlantic States? In my judgment, very favorably. If the former are cut off for a time from any connections, except with the old States, across the moun tains, I should not despair that a Government might be instituted so
