June 7, 1786 339 opened a new chapter in his quest for faith that lasted until about 1790 when he em braced the principles of Emanuel Swedenborg. For Carter’s spiritual journey and reli gious activities during his Baptist years, see Louis Morton, Robert Carter of Nomini Hall, A Virginia Tobacco Planer of the Eighteenth Century (Williamsburg: Colonial Williamsburg, Inc., 1941), chapter 10. 2 Apparently a reference to the conversion of Saul of Tarsus, whose dramatic experi ence on the road to Damascus is recorded in the New Testament book of Acts, 9:3-18. 3 Isaiah 59:19. James Manning to Nathan Miller Dear Sir, New York 7th ofjune 1786. I think if for a moment you would figure to your self my Situation; Alone here for more than a Month; reduced to the very last Guinea & a trifle of Change (which is the case); My lodging, washing, Barber’s, Hatters, Taylors Bills, &c not paid; without the favour of a single Line from you advising me whether you mean to come or not; or sending forward the 100 Dollars on hand, which you proposed doing from the Election, if you was not likely to follow me soon: I say if you would but realize my situation you could not but pity me from your heart. I wrote you long since & begged an answer from you one way or an other that I might know what measures to take. 1 But as I am now situ ated I can neither stay nor go, except to the New City Hall, if my Cred itors exact it; & strangers have no more compassion on me than the State that appointed me. I must intrust you to forward that sum of 100 Dollars if no more can be had, by the first opportunity, with a Line ad vising me of your real Intentions. Matters highly interesting to this Confederacy; and indeed I think the Question whether the federal Government shall long exist, are now before Congress, & there are not States sufficient to transact the necessary Business, as we now have rarely Nine States on the floor. Our Affairs are come very much to a point; and if the States continue to neglect keeping up the Delegation in Congress, the federal government must ipso facto dissolve. I have written the Governour on these subjects & desired his answer whether we should keep up our Delegation or not. 2 I shall wait till a reasonable time for an answer from you & quit If I do not receive it. Send me by the Post or Packets. Frank your Letters by the Post. I shall impatiently wait the Event, &c. With Sentiments of Esteem I have the Honour to be, Sir, your Hum ble Servt., J Manning RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 See Manning to Miller, May 19. 2 See Manning to John Collins, May 26.
