June 8, 1786 341 cates, and that some persons are confident of its success. 1 You know the paper money of Pensylvania has been for some Time in good credit—but within a few days it has depreciated from 15 to 20 per Cent. This Depreciation has taken place since the issueing of Paper in this State and in the State of New Jersey. Connecticut it is said have refused in their present Session to emit a paper Medium, but have passed a law inabling the Citizens of that State to satisfy any Judgements, which may be recovered against them in their courts by the Citizens of any State which has emitted paper, in such paper as may be current in the state in which the Creditor is an Inhabitant—the Newjersey paper will certainly depreciate. Adieu, RK RC (NHi: King Papers). 1 For Massachusetts’ hard money policies and political opposition to paper emissions, see Ferguson, The Power of the Purse, pp. 245-47. Virginia Delegates to Patrick Henry Sir. New York June 8th. 1786. We have the honor of acknowledging the receipt of your letter to the Delegation, as well as that to the President of Congress: the latter has been delivered, and on motion of the State committed; the report of the Commee. is herewith inclosed; it was under debate yesterday, and a decision would have been had, if the number of States on the floor had been adequate thereto; 1 When the representation will be sufficient for this purpose, we cannot determine as the delegates of several States in the Union have been for some time past very irregu lar in their attendance, and there is no reason to conclude that any al teration will take effect for the better in a short time; Indeed when this event takes place, we are apprehensive the issue will be extremely doubtful as a considerable opposition was made to the report when under consideration; It is perhaps an inconvenience in this instance that so few States have extensive frontiers; as they with reluctance as sent to relieving us from difficulties to which they are not themselves likely to be exposed; we can however assure you that nothing shall be wanting on our parts to get such measures adopted, as will not only promote the views of the State, but contribute to the general peace and tranquility of the Union. The Organization of the Indian department is an object of the highest moment; 2 and we intirely concur in sentiment with your Excy. on this subject as well as to the manner, as to the necessity of expedit ing it: it has been some time in the hands of a Commee., and we hope
