344 June 9, 1786 there is, however, too much reason to fear that we shall wake up at too late an hour, when, to borrow a sacred figure, The Summer is over & the Harvest is ended The Genius of Liberty & the spirit of Patriotism have flown from this Country. An Ideal, impracticable, selfish & topical Policy have been, & I fear will be the ruin of this Confederacy. Tracing back the transactions of America, I am fully convinced, that flagrant injustice have not only, in the Eyes of the Nations, stained our national Charac ter, but provoked the just rules of the Universe. The cloud thickens in the west portending a Deluge of Blood on our extended, & almost de fenceless frontiers. The subject is under Consideration in Congress, whether to send a force into the Indian Country, especially against the Wiandots, with the Sword in one hand and Conditions of peace in the other, but has been postponed from day to day for want of a sufficient Number of States on the floor. Of those here on my arrival, Connecti cut, Delaware & South Carolina are off, & North Carolina talks of going soon. This too is the only reason why we have not drawn up & forwarded, before now, a pointed address to the States. In expectation of more we are reduced to a less number of States. The same reason has prevented me from even moving in the Affair of the College; 2 for it is rarely we have nine States on the floor, & then so much business of National Importance, which, together with my being a new mem ber, have prevented me from moving in that Business. Congress are highly displeased that the States are running mad for & in the Emis sion of Paper money; but it is even out of our power, with any Grace to remonstrate against the Measure. It is considered by them tantamount to a Declaration that they will not support the federal government. I have laid your Demand, 3 inclosed before Mr. Walker, who is at the Head of the marine Department. He sais that the Books by order of Congress were sent to, & still remain at Boston where Pennel left them, & the Treasury Board will immediately make Application to Congress to put that Business in train to be setled. He assures me that as soon as he can become possessed of the Books it shall be the first business he would transact. It was necessary to leave the award in his Office, but has given me a Receipt of its Lodgment there for Ad- justmt., which I think sufficient. Would you have me retain, or trans mit this Receipt to you? A letter read yesterday from General Clarke addressed to the Presi dent of Congress, informs us that several tribes of Indians in Conjunc tion with the Wiandots, had in a War Council declared war, in a for mal Manner, against the United States, 4 & urges the speediest decisions of Congress on a subject so important & interesting to our western Frontier. With sentiments of Esteem, I have the Honour to be, S, Your Hum ble Servt, J Manning
