June 9, 1786 345 RC (RPJCB: Brown Papers). Addressed: “Honble Jabez Bowen Esquire.” 1 Cf. “The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved.”Jeremiah, 8:20. 2 See Manning to Hezekiah Smith, May 17, note. 3 Not identified. 4 This information was contained in an undated letter from George Rogers Clark to former president Richard Henry Lee, which is endorsed “read June 8th 1786 ’’ See PCC, item 56, fols. 279-82. James Manning to Nicholas Brown $ lr > New York 9th. ofjune 1786. Yours of the 22d & 23d ult; & also of the 29th have been duly reed.; & the reason why I returned no answer was, that I could not satisfy you on the subjects of Enquiry. The Acts of the several States granting the 5 per Ct. & the requisitions of Congress were committed before I reed your Letter, & I have waited for them to report, which has not yet been done. Whether Congress can receive them upon said grants re mains yet to be decided: for those States which have granted them have embarrassed them with such proviso’s that it is doubted whether these can be accepted. I have several times enquired for Information on this subject & have reed, for answer that it cannot be known till Congress takes up this Business, which I see no prospect of their doing soon, for want of a sufficient number of States on the floor. This is the 3d day running that Congress have been obliged to ad journ for want of a sufficient number of States to transact Business. 1 I have felt several of the members on the subject of the Loan Offi cer, or a Deputy in Providence, but am silenced by being told that this is admitted in no other State, where they have to travail some hun dred miles to get their Business accomplished. They seem not to listen to the complaints of the Distance of 30 miles, though by water, & the Island some part of the year inaccessible. I can give but little encour agement that an Application will succed, in this Business; but if you think proper to try, by way of Petition to Congress, which in my opin ion is the best way, I will afford it all the support in my power, but I cannot speak incouraging as to its success, though I think with you, that it is a real Grievance. It would furnish a Precedent which would give Congress a great deal of trouble in the larger States. When you reflect on the tardiness of the State in supporting their Delegation, you cannot think that they would pay much attention to the com plaint of Ellerys appointmt. before our Delegates arrived. 2 I would wish, should you petition, that Argument to be omitted. The appoint ment of a Person to transact the Business at Providence, would also augment the Expence, which is contrary to the present views of Con gress who are determined to reform, as much as can be deemed rep utable, the civil List. Besides the Treasury is at present intirely empty,
