346 June 9, 1786 for I heard that board this very day tell the Minister at War that they would not, on any account furnish him with 100 Dollars to forward the amunition to the troops on the frontiers, & that they had yester day borrow’d 16 Dollars to reimburse the Indians, robbed in Elizabeth town, as ordered by Congress, such is the situation of our Treasury! As to any other method proposed for paying the public debt, I have heard of none besides requisitions, 5 per Ct. & the sale of the western territory; none of which promise very soon to be productive, while Congress, or the federal Government, is so totally inefficient, & the States (disregarding the federal Government) by their paper emis sions, inattention in keeping up a Delegation in Congress, & postpon ing the Collection of Taxes already assessed, &c, &c, &c. totally defeat all the plans of Congress. In short it is my candid Opinion without a very speedy reform in the policy of the states, they will not long be cumbered with a federal Government. Then where we shall land next is out of my province to divine. I yesterday proposed going immedi ately into a Commee. of the whole house on the state of the Nation, and to draw up, if expression did not fail to describe our Situation, a true state of the Confederacy & forward it, with our best advice to the respective states, that we might acquit ourselves from that heavy cen sure which must eventually fall upon Congress if she did not lift up her voice like a trumpet, & shew the People their transgressions, & warn them of their rapidly approaching ruin. It was thought that the remonstrance of only 7 States, for there were no more present, would be disregarded: & that we should wait for a more full representation. To day I proposed that, in addition to that measure, we should imme diately, on forwarding this address adjourn to next September, to save the states expence & ourselves the reproach of sitting here to do noth ing of the least Importance. Should the States form, in the interim, a Convention & vest Congress with adequate powers to conduct the fed eral Government, we might then meet to some purpose; & the States be convinced that it imported them to be more federal if we meant to retain a name amongst the nations. Several Gentlemen thought well of the Idea, & I hope yet to see it reduced to practice. 3 I wish it may be in time to be laid before the next meeting of our General Assembly, but this will, probably, depend on the arrival of more of the States by their delegates. You can easily see from the aforegoing that I have not had the least chance to propose the affair of our College; nor have I much reason to expect a sufficient number of States on the floor to flatter us with the least prospect of success. Should an opportunity offer, I mean to embrace it. Not a lisp have I reed from General Miller, nor a copper from Gov ernment for my support. I am now reduced to my last Guinea & my Bills unpaid. Relying on G1 Millers promise to send forward an 100
