June 9, 1786 347 Dollars from the Election, then on hand, should Ac not then come for ward, has placed me in this untoward situation. As he has not written I have been in hourly expectation of his Arrival. I have written to him, & to Govr. Collins on this subject but reed no answer. Congress do not think that the Confederation, even by implication, sufficiently vests in them the Power of Coining or emitting, exclusively, paper Money. Be sides the present Congress dont chuse to assume any powers which are not expressly delegated to them. They too well know the Jealousy of the States to risque their Character in this way. The consequences of paper Emissions cannot be veiwed by you ruinous, in a stronger point of light, I believe, than they are by me, though possibly you may have a more feeling sense of it. At present, should the Eastern States support their delegations, there is little reason to fear that the south ern States can carry it for an indiscriminate location of the western Territory, though I am fully of opinion that there is an impracticability in carrying into effect the Land Ordinance, as at first established. I have mentioned to several Members a plan of my own, which 1 think will nearly meet the ostensible wishes of both the Southern & North ern Interests. It is to survey, if possible, the whole tract from a Point where the Southern boundary line of Pennsylvania intersects the Ohio, down said River to the River Scioto, up that River till it inter sects a line drawn due West from the place of the beginning, & thence due East to the Ohio. But as the present hostile State of the Savages may not suffer them to actually survey the lines of the Townships; that, after running round it, the Surveyor General delineate the Townships upon paper, with the respective Lotts, and immediately ad vertize in every State in the Union that said Lotts shall be sold at Auc tion in New York, under the direction of the Treasury board, begin ning perhaps the first of next November. This measure would certainly very soon extinguish a considerable Sum of the domestic debt, & woud avoid many of the inconveniencies complained of in the Ordinance. This is thought well of by several to whom I have men tioned it. But it is time to request you to present my best respects to Mrs. Brown & Family, & assure you how much I am, Dear Sir, Your very humble Servt, J Manning RC (RPJCB: Brown Papers). 1 Manning apparently means that the withdrawal of one or more delegates during the proceedings had been forcing early adjournments, for according to Secretary Thom son’s journal Congress was in session on each of these days. See JCC, 30:333-36. Curi ously, Manning himself did not attend from June 1 to 7, for which see JCC, 30:316, 324, 328-29, 333. 2 William Ellery had been appointed Continental loan officer for Rhode Island, upon the nomination of Pierse Long of New Hampshire, April 18, 1786, at a time when the Rhode Island delegation was unrepresented in Congress. JCC, 30:198. 3 Secretary Thomson made no mention of this proposal or discussion in the journals. JCC, 30:336.
