June 10,1786 349 was setting out for Stratford, & since my return here, see by a Letter from Mr. Smith, yr. Vendue Master, to Dr. Romaine, that you was well on the 24th of May, for which I bless God. I send you the Silk for Waistcoat & Breeches, & shall be able to get Burroughs Repts. for you on my return here, which may probably be a fortnight hence, as I must go to Hartford before I return." Charles Thomson to the States Sir, Circular Office of Secretary of Congress, June 9. 1786. I have the honor to transmit to your Excy herewith enclosed two copies of the continuation of the journal from 3 March to 2 instant, one for the legislative the other for the executive branch of Govern ment, and also two copies of the treaty of Commerce lately concluded between the United States of America and his Majesty the King of Prussia. 1 & With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excys Most Obedt & Most humbe Servt, LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 See JCC, 30:268-85. Nathan Dane to James Bowdoin Sir New York June 10. 1786 I do myself the honor to enclose to your Excellency for your private information at the request of Mr. Temple Copies of the demand made by Mr. Adams of the W. posts and Lord Carmarthen’s answers which Copies Mr. Temple yesterday gave me. 1 On this occasion permit me to observe Sir, that a few weeks since Congress received dispatches from Mr. Adams enclosing copies of his dem [an] d of those posts and the answer of Lord Carmarthen with a Statement of sup [pose] d. grievances similar to those mentioned in the inclosed papers. All the matters to which these papers refer are under the Consideration of Congress and in a train of examination. The Injunctions of Secrecy relative thereto being removed the several Delegations would probably before this time have communicated to their respective States Copies of those Dispatches touching the posts but on attention to this subject and said Statement of Sup posed grievances it appears proper previously to ascertain several facts relative to it. Some doubts arise how far several laws mentioned in that Statement ever had in fact the effects of laws—and what constructions the Courts of Justice have put on those laws which passed in due form the several branches of the legislature, [and] how far other laws of the
