352 June 11,1786 Rufus King to Jonathan Jackson Dear Sir, New York 11. June 1786 I intended sooner to have replied to your’s of the 10th ult, but have been disappointed from post to post until this Time. I wish, most sin cerely, that your Opinions concerning the manners, and Government, of our country were more general, than I think they are. The views of individuals are so various, and the imaginary interests of the States are so opposite, that without the Danger of some Evil that will affect each member of the Confederacy, a reasonable Hope cannot be indulged of a Reform. The Situation of the federal Government is now critical; the author ity of the confederation is found to be inadequate to bring money into the common Treasury, and the Credit of the states is not suffi cient to procure loans at home or abroad: indeed if the public credit was better, it could not, in my Judgment, be reconciled to the princi ples of common Honesty to borrow, without foreseeing the means of Repayment. In this condition every inconvenience, which can flow from a Viola tion of national engagements, & a loss of national Character, might justly fall on our Country. The embarrassments of commerce are better known to you than me. I cannot discover how the merchants of America, can bare a com petition with Foreigners. No commercial nation will regret our dis jointed condition, or wish the states to unite in any System of com merce. Every partizan of France or England residing among us, uses his utmost exertions to inspire the People of the different States with Jealousies of each other; and some of them have even sounded the alarm that the liberties of the People were endangered by the plan of delegating additional powers to congress. How long the most valueable, & important, interests of the States, will continue to be sacrificed to these unfounded Jealousies, cannot exactly be determined, but it is not possible that the public Affairs can be in a much worse situation, & there is therefore consolation in the Reflection that they will not long remain as they are. I fear that the commercial convention proposed to be held in Mary land in September, will go but a little way in Effecting those measures Essentially necessary for the prosperity and safety of the states. Geor gia & South Carolina have not appointed Delegates; and their legisla tures will not be in Session before the Winter. Maryland has not ap pointed; although the convention is to be in that State. The Assembly of North Carolina have not elected Delegates, but it is said that the ex ecutive of that State has nominated persons for the Office. 1 It is doubtful What the real Sentiments of Virginia are on the Question of commercial powers—this is certain, that the proposition for the Annapo-
