June 16,1786 357 2 The preceding day Blount had also sent the following brief letter to Caswell: “The Annexed is a Catalogue of Books this day delivered me by the secretary of Congress for the State of North Carolina all which I forward to Your Excellency by Captain Stephen Tinker to the Care of The Honblc. John Hawkes Esquire Newbern.” Governors’ Letter- books, Nc-Ar. For this “Catalogue of Books” of laws from the states of Pennsylvania Newjersey, and Virginia, see N.C. State Records, 18:651-52. Blount apparently left Congress soon after writing these letters. He did not vote on June 21 or thereafter. JCC, 30:348, 353. He subsequently wrote to Governor Caswell from Piney Grove, N.C. on July 8 acknowledging his reelection to Congress for 1787 and announcing his intention “to perform a Tour of duty of eight Months in Congress the ensumg year provided I have assurance that my salary shall be regularly paid me in hard Mony at the place where Congress sits agreeable (I believe) to a resolution of the General Assembly passed in the Spring Session of 1784. If this cannot be done and War rants are sent me by the Bearer Reading Blount I shall endeavour to convert the paper into hard Cash at the least possible loss.” Governors’ Papers, Nc-Ar. Caswell responded immediately, admitting the extreme “impracticability” of effecting regular salary pay ments in hard money, but issuing instead “warrants to the amount of eight month’s salary for the ensuing year.” N.C. State Records, 18:678-79. Blount resumed his atten- dance in Congress on November 7, 1786. JCC, 30:249, 31:930. On July 7 Blount also wrote to Col. Archibald Lytle offering to negotiate with the board of treasury, for a 5% commission, the three to six months pay promised to all army officers during the war but not yet paid to those of North Carolina and the rest of the southern line. William Lytle Papers, Southern Historical Collection, NcU. Nathaniel Gorham to Caleb Davis New York June 16 1786 You may perhaps recollect that neither you nor I were very fond of Massachusetts passing a Law for the regulation of Trade & for the ex cluding British Vessells 1 —unless there was very good reason to sup pose the other States especially those in the Neighbourhood would come into similar measures—but I think Massachusetts must now be convinced that there is not the least probability that any one State will joyn them in this measure—any further than to impower Congress to make the necessary regulations, and in the mean time they are very willing that Trade should continue on its present footing—which is very advantageous to this State in particular—there having been many Vessells from all the British Islands in the West Indies at this Port since I have been here. The demand for Lumber, pickeld fish, and indeed dryd fish whenever they could get it has consiquently been great. I am told Boards have generaly been at 5 dollars at Boston while at this place they have been 8 and 9 dollars per thousand. Our Law can now have no other tendency than to injure ourselves for the British will never feel restrictions untill they become general. You are the best judge wither Mass, will not be in the right to repeal her Law—wither a repeal will not allso opperate toward restoring the Province of Main to good humour.
