358 June 16, 1786 New York continue sellg. the Lands that Lay in the Country which Massachusetts claim. A large quantity was sold yesterday & more is sell ing at this moment. Some of that sold yesterday brought 12/ per Acre in final settelments. 2 I wish you to consider wither it would not be proper for our Government to impower & direct their Agents to make some publication to discourage those Sales in future. Perhaps it may not be improper to go as farr as to impower us to offer the same Lands for sale, as they may advertize in future for they mean to con tinue and they will very probably make use of our silence against us at the time of tryal. . . . New York have impowered their Agents to compromise this busi ness. 3 I was long ago of Opinion that if Massachusetts could get a handsome sum of money to quit claim their right it would be best to do it. The expence of bringing the Court togeather will be very great, and if Massa, recovers there will be great dificulties with those people who hold under N York, who perhaps to secure their property will adopt the example of Vermont. At any rate Massachusetts cannot ex ercisejurisdiction over a people so remote. It is therefore so farr as re lates to a compromise a business that requires the consideration of Government. The business of Congress is excessively retarded by the delinquency of the States in their representation and what has heretofore been un usual this delinquency is principally with the Eastern States NH., RI. & Cont. being unrepresented & have been so for some time past RI ever since November last. The interest of the Union suffers extreamly by this conduct—many important subjects now before Congress can not be passed on for want of nine States. There is no prospect of our Finances being in a better state for this year at least the Impost Law of N York is attended with so many just exceptions that it cannot be reed, by Congress, and a Comtt. have so reported. 4 For it is so different from all the other State[s] that it would be manifestly unjust to them to accept it, and it is inconsistent with the conditions on which the other States give theirs to recieve this. The Assembly of N York do not meet untill next Winter so that no remedy can be had this year. Pensylvania have allso annexed a condi tion—which is that all the States shall give the supplementary funds before theirs opperates... & no State except North Carolina has as yet gone thus farr. I hope you will not think of paper money, but if you wait a very little while you will se the effects of it in those States where it is. It has lately fallen about 15 per Cent in Philadelphia, though the sum emited by that State is no more than the quantity proposed by the small State of Rhode Island. The Currency of North Carolina is the same as N York:
