June 16,1786 359 but it requires 12/ of their paper to buy a dollar and it is not probable that it will long hold at so good a rate as that. By what I have seen & heard I find the publications against the Lawyers have had considerable weight in Massachusetts, perhaps they have or may have influence in the choice of Delegates to Congress. 5 But this I can say for the Gentm. my collegues, that there are not three Men better acquainted with the affairs of Congress or held in higher estemation than Messrs. Sedgwick, King & Dane. They know not that I mention their names & least I should be thought to take a part what does not become in speaking their praise I conclude by as suring you that I am Your Huml Serv, N Gorham RC (MHi: Davis Papers). 1 See Massachusetts Delegates to James Bowdoin, August 23, 1785, note 5; and Mary land Delegates to the Maryland Assembly (first letter), November 28, 1785, note 2. 2 That is, in the final settlement certificates issued by the commissioners appointed to settle Continental accounts. See Ferguson, The Power of the Purse, pp. 184-87. For the Massachusetts delegates’ concern over New York’s sale of lands located within the area claimed by Massachusetts, see also Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry, April 18; and these Ut ters, 22:672-73. 3 See Massachusetts Delegates to James Bowdoin, May 19, note; and New York Agents to Robert Yates and John Lansing, September 22, note. 4 See JCC, 30:345n, 439-44; and Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry, May 6, note 2. 5 For the context of this flowering of anti-lawyer sentiment in Massachusetts, see Ger ard W. Gawalt, The Promise of Power: The Emergence of the Legal Profession in Massachusetts, 1760-1840 (Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1979), pp. 60-64. For other expres sions of concern over this upsurge of sentiment, see also Theodorick Sedgwick to Pamela Sedgwick, June 24 and July 4, 1786. James Monroe to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir N. York June 16. 1786. Since my last but little hath been done in Congress. We have had generally no more than 7 States present. The only time that 9 were their time was employ’d upon the subject of the Connecticut cession, which ultimately was accepted; whereby she cedes all the land lying westwd. of a line to be drawn westwd. of the Pena, line parellel with the same. Our State voted agnst it but were in sentiment for it. It is hop’d it will terminate the variance respecting the Wyomin settlement by enabling Connecticut to give the claimants other land in lieu & thereby establish the government of Pena, in the benefit of the decree of Trenton. Other reasons there are which apply to the geographic position of the land & the influence that consideration may have on the councils of Connecticut. We voted agnst. it under the sentiment, upon wh. our State hath always acted of her right to the no[rth]west
