364 June 18,1786 may depend on it, that the Treasury now is literally without a penny. By anticipations, and the collections from Virginia, Maryland & this state, the Board of Treasury have made provision for the Dutch inter est, which fell due this month—but there is no prospect of their being able to provide for the payments which will be due in January. The posts on the Ohio are not well supplied with military Stores, the Sec retary at War applied a few days since for 1000 Dollars for the trans portation of the necessary Amunition to these Posts. The Board of Treasury, urgent as the occasion of this application is allowed to be, explicitly declare their utter inability to make this pitiful Advance. 1 What are we to expect? I wish I could see you for a few hours; It is impolitic to write any thing as information, which cannot be clearly proved—and yet you and I have been under the fullest Conviction of the views & intentions of men, concerning which such clear proof did not exist. Be assured that your apprehensions of a certain influence in this State are well founded—nay farther, the influence is not confined to this State. Those men who have hazarded every valuable consideration in the cause of their country, and those who are willing to pursue their ex ample, are now held up to the people as their Enemies & not their friends. Every man who wishes to strengthen the federal Government, and confirm the Union, is represented as unfriendly to the liberties of the People. These expressions of anxiety for the Liberties of the people, come not from those who have lent their aid in the days of Adversity, but from those artful & venal Miscreants, who withdrew themselves from their country’s support, and existed her bitterest enemies. They now successfully gratify their hatred of our Independence, by scattering Jealousies among the People. I am not vain enough to think my country has much interest in my services-, but inconsiderable as they truly are, they have been consid ered as inconvenient to certain views. I have made it a certainty that a character in this City, which you & I never did, or shall confide in, has industriously communicated to a number of our Fellow Citizens, that I was in the Interest of N York, 8c opposed to Massachusetts, & that I intended to leave the latter & become an Inhabitant of the former. So far as the effect of this measure is personal, I ought not to be anx ious—but concerning the Objects wished for I am, and must be, concerned. The Election of Delegates will have taken place before this reaches you—it will therefore require no Apology. Your’s affectionately, R King RC (NHi: King Papers). 1 For Secretary Henry Knox’s June 15 letter to Congress explaining this crisis, and copies of his June 9 application to the board of treasury with the board’s June 14 reply, see PCC, item 150, fols. 357-72; and JCC, 30:345n.
