370 June 23, 1786 In obedience to the Orders of the General Assembly at their Session in February, I, on the 27th of April ult. embarked for New York, & im mediately took my seat in Congress, in the full expectation that the State determined to support a Delegation. But I have not reed, a sin gle Dollars to defray the great Expences attendant upon my present Situation. As I was not in Cash of my own, I could not discharge my Bills; & they consequently all remain unpaid, & that to my no small mortification; and this must remain to be the case till I experience the Assistance of the State. Add to this I am without a Colleague without whom the State cannot have a voice. I now solicit explicit directions from the Legislature in referrence to my future conduct. My present situation is peculiarly disagreeable, & I beg your Excellency, as early as possible in the Session to lay my re quest before the house, that I may have their Ultimatum, whether they mean to support a delegation or not, that I may conduct myself accordingly. But I must presume that that Honourable House will not recall me without furnishing me with efficient means to enable me to leave New York, in a way which may not wound my feelings, nor reflect dishonour on the State. Please, Sir, to communicate, on this subject without loss of time. I have the Honour to be, Sir, Your Humble Servt, J Manning RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 See Manning to Collins, May 26. William Hindman to Unknown My dear sir New-York June 24. 1786 Had You pursued my Advice to call at the Manor, You would have been made extremely happy in the Company of the Baron, who had got thus far on his Return to this Place. It is the highest Pleasure to be with him. He speaks in Raptures of his Lands & the adjacent Country, 1 & thinks his Mind will be sufficiently magnanimous to pre vail with him further to reside upon it or in it’s Vicinity, I sincerely wish that so good & so great a Man as He is, had it in his Power to pass the Residue of his Days where & in what Manner might be most pleas ing to him, I shall for the present take my Leave of the Baron, who only wants to be known to be beloved: & give You some Account of our worthy Friend North, 2 He return’d here from Boston the 21st In stant in good Health and Spirits, & impatiently waits for Orders from the Secretary of War to depart for the West. The sad Want of Money will probably detain him a few Days. I have been a steady Friend to the
