372 June 24, 1786 Theodore Sedgwick to Pamela Sedgwick My dearest Pamela. New York 24. June 1786. Your favor by your Mamma I received, she has been so obliging as to undertake to purchase the articles mentioned in your memoran dum, so that I suppose you will receive them all by Mr. Brown’s return. I have likewise desired her to purchase some little memorandum of my remembrance for our dear Fanny & Dory. Sweet little ones how much I wish to see them. Mrs. Dwight informs me you have not yet weaned little Harry, I am sorry, because I do really beleive your continuing to nurse him may be detrimental to your health, an object to me of the highest impor tance. I was in hopes a certain reason why he was not earlier weaned ceased when I came from home. Congress this day resolved itself into a committee of the whole house to take into consideration the state of the nation, 1 objects of more importance never came before an assembly. What will be the re sult god only knows, but unless the Government is reformed I am con fident that what is commonly called accident will determine the state of our future existence. I am sorry my dearest & best beloved, you do not write me more fre quently, because I think it in your power & I am sure I am not mis taken in your goodness of disposition, nor in your affection to me when I say, that you must be ignorant of the happiness I should expe rience in your correspondence, or you would write. Tell me my love, your wishes, your hopes, your fears. Make me your confidant, be as sured that I will be a faithful one. And pardon me, I pray you, when I say that an appearance of distrust or want of confidence in you is the cause of as great pain as my heart can know. You have always been the pride of my heart, & how my love dos that heart exult when it experi ences a reciprocal inclination in yours. There is a very general disposition to uneasiness on account of the profession of the law, in Massachusetts, and I am told T. G d 2 now in Boston is become a vehement paragraph writer on that question. If so & my information is probably well founded I will abandon him without any further exertion to his fate. This ferment is not to me un accountable, Massachusetts has lost every advantage, she as a State ex pected in consequence of independence. In addition to this she feels herself pressed with an almost intolerable burden of taxes. Under these circumstances how easily are her passions agitated even to a de gree of frenzy? the people who are meerly an instrument in these cases are greatly to be pitied, while those who drive them into excess are the proper objects of gibbets, & racks. Mrs. Dwight tells me that when she came from home Dewey and Williams were both absent from my Office, I wish you would be
