June 28, 1786 373 pleased to tell Dewey or shew him this Paragraph that it is my peremp tory direction that the Office shall in no instance be so neglected, & I should not be sorry that it should be further suggested to him that was I as regardless of his interest as he appears of mine his chance of being forwarded in the world would be less than it now is. I am the more surprised as [at] the Conduct of Mr. Dewey because I gave him before I came from home express directions on this subject. I hope however my resentment is without foundation & that Mrs. Dwight is mistaken. Pray dont forget the papers for which I wrote. I am my dearest & ever your Affect. Theodore Sedgwick RC (MHi: Sedgwick Papers). 1 Sedgwick’s statement is particularly intriguing inasmuch as there are no entries in Charles Thomson’s journals of Congress for Friday June 23 or Saturday June 24, 1786. JCC, 30:353—54. On the other hand, Secretary Thomson’s “committee book" indicates that Congress met in “Comee of the whole on the State of the Nation” on June 21, tak ing into consideration ajune 19 letter from the postmaster general, Ebenezer Hazard “respect[in]g paper Money,” on which Congress adopted a resolve the same day. JCC, 30:346; PCC, item 190, fol. 106. It is quite possible, of course, that deliberations on the state of the nation were resumed in committee of the whole on Saturday June 24, or that this letter is misdated, although its dateline is clear and unambiguous and Sedg wick was normally a careful penman. 2 Apparently Thomas Gold, a lawyer of Pittsfield, Mass., and delegate to the Berkshire County convention called to propose amendments to the Massachusetts constitution. Joseph E. A. Smith, The History of Pittsfield, Massachusetts, from the Year 1734 to the Year 1800 (Boston: Lee and Shepard, 1869), pp. 398-400, 437, 504. Charles Thomson to the States Sir (Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress, June 28th. 1786. In consequence of sundry Memorials and Petitions from persons claiming Vessels in the Courts of Admiralty in some of the States, pray ing for hearings and rehearings before the Court of Admiralty, 1 the United States in Congress Assembled have been pleased to authorise and direct the Judges of the court of appeals to sustain Appeals and grant reh[ear]ings or New trials whereever justice and right may in their Op [ini] on require it, and have directed the Court to Assemble at the City of New York on the first Monday of November next for the dispatch of such business as may then and there be before them. I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith enclosed a Copy of the Resolutions, and have to request the favor of your Excel lency to cause them to be published for the information of the Citi zens of your State who may be concerned. With the greatest Respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient and Most humble Servant, Cha Thomson
