July 1, 1786 379 that purpose, the few I have remaining are lent out, I parted with £1,500 of them last winter & this Spring in improvements and provid ing for my fisheries, from which I expected to draw at Least £2,000, specie, and instead thereof I have £50 worth of fish in the whole. I think it but fair and right as matters have turned out that Captn. Cole and myself should be equally concerned with you in the land. Calling upon the Heirs or Executors of Mr. Russell would be attended with great difficulty and delay and would prevent a partition, I therefore think that altho his estate is liable to make good his contract, yet we had better not insist upon it. You may charge me with three times the sum lodged by Captn. Cole. I have considerable expectations that our final settlements will hereafter pay that debt, but that depends upon many contingencies and events. I have at length taken my seat at the great council, 2 and am much distressed to find our affairs in such a situation as makes it more than probable that a very short period will bring about a National Bankrupcy and of course a dissolution of our confederated Union and what effects this may produce God only knows. Congress will be under the necessity in the course of a few months to plainly tell our foreign creditors that they cannot make them any payment, and that they have neither any money nor a power to command any. The for eign demands are now made rather in a threat[en]ing tone and it is to be feared they will take measures to pay themselves. I have rented that pleasant and elegant House known by the name of the White Conduit House on the North river together with the furniture, I have sent home for my servant and expect in a few days to be in a situation to be made happy by a visit from any of my friends, amongst home [whom] in a peculiar degree I place yourself and Mrs. Williams, I flat ter myself you could spend a few weeks here with much satisfaction. Mrs. Ramsey has not yet come on from Philadelphia, I expect her here tomorrow or next day. I shall [be] much gratified by your weekly correspondence. Your friend and Humble servt., Nat. Ramsey 3 RC (MdHi: Williams Papers). 1 Otho Holland Williams (1749-94) had been naval officer of the Baltimore district since January 1783. He had established himself as a merchant in Frederick, Md., as a young man before the revolution, and had had a distinguished military career during the war, rising eventually to the rank of brigadier general in 1782. Ramsey and Williams had seen considerable action together, with the 3d and 6th Maryland battalions, respec tively, from December 1776 to the battle of Monmouth in June 1778. DAU. 2 Ramsey first attend Congress June 26./CC, 30:354. 3 Ramsey also wrote a brief letter to Williams on July 12 asking him to transmit a letter to Baltimore lawyer Zebulon Hollingsworth, who was representing William Washington in an unspecified matter. Williams Papers, MdHi.
