380 July 1, 1786 Charles Thomson to the States Sir Office of Secretary of Congress, July 1st. 1786. Pursuant to order I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency herewith enclosed a State of the Representation in Congress for the Month of June to be communicated to your Legislature. 1 By this and the Statements formerly transmitted your Excellency and the Legislature will perceive that since the first Monday in November last there has only been a Representation of 9 States in Congress for Ten days, of ten States for ten days & of eleven States 7 days, so that during the Space of eight Months there have been only 27 days in the whole when Congress were in Capacity to consider and transact the great Affairs of the Confederacy. I have the pleasure to observe that there is now a Representation of Ten States which I hope will soon encrease and continue. With great Respect, I have the Honor to be, Your Excellency s &c &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Endorsed: “To Rhodeisland and Delaware instead of ‘en crease and continue’ say ‘be encreased by that of your State which still continues unrep- resented. ’ M 1 For this enclosure and the 11 other monthly attendance lists sent to the states dur ing the Congress of 1785-86, see Appendix. RC (NHi: King Papers). 1 Sedgwick remained in Congress until August 22. See JCC, 31:535, 556. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry Dear Gerry New York 2. July 1786 I am sorry that Sedgwick is not elected for the next years Delega tion—he is a virtuous, firm, & sensible man. Mr. Sedgwick thinks that in delicacy he ought to resign for the re mainder of the year, but I hope to dissuade him from this measure. Will you for his information name the Candidates, and the State of the Ballots &c. &c. in the late Election 2 —indeed I wish to know this Election History. Perhaps my future Conduct ought to be governed by it. Mrs. King joins me in compliments to Mrs. Gerry & Miss Kitty. We hope you will be at Cambridge by the 20th instant. Adieu, R Ki n g [PS.] Poor Mrs. Clarkson was put to bed this morning with a fine daughter, at 11 OClock was pronounced out of Danger, and died be fore Two. Mrs. & Mr. Rutherfurd & Mr. Clarkson are distressed in deed. RK
