July3, 1786 383 I beg my return of esteem to Mrs. Washington, and am with unalter able attachment and respect, your most obt servt, Henry LeeJunr RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 For this letter ofjune 18, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 28:459-61. 2 According to Washington, Young had promised to send him “a compleat sett of all his works which included A Six Months lour Through the North of E,ngland. Containing, an Account of the Present State of Agriculture, Manufactures and Population, in Several Counties of this Kingdom, 4 vols., 2d ed. (London: W. Strahan, 1771); The Farmer's Tour Through the East of England, 4 vols. (London: W. Strahan, 1771); A Six Weeks Tour, Through the South ern Counties of England and Wales, 3d ed. (London: W. Strahan, 1772); and A Tour in Ire land; With General Observations on the Present State of the Kingdom... Brought Down to the End of 1779 (London: T. Cadell, 1780). 3 Lee loaned Washington the two-volume Dublin edition of A Tour in Ireland (Dublin: G. Bonham, 1780). See also Lee to Washington, August 7, note 2. Charles Thomson to Patrick Henry Sir Office of Secretary of Congress, July 3d. 1786. Your Excellency’s Letter of the 16th of May was received in due time and communicated to Congress. 1 After mature deliberation thereon, I have the honor to inform you that The United States in Congress Assembled desirous to give the most ample protection in their power to the Citizens of the United States have directed their Commandant on the Ohio to detach two Companies of Infantry to the rapids of the Ohio; and request that you will give orders to the Militia of that district to hold themselves in readiness to unite with the foederal troops in such operations as the Officer commanding the troops of the United States may judge necessary for the protection of the frontiers—And further that Congress now have under delibera tion the Organization of the Indian Department for the purpose of extending to the frontiers regular and certain security against the fu ture designs of the Indians. I do myself the honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith enclosed a Copy of the resolution for detaching the two Companies, and of that on which this Letter is grounded, 2 and am, With the great est respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient & Most huml servt, Cha Thomson RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia.” 1 For Governor Henry’s appeal for protection from Indian attack for Virginia setders in the Kentucky district, see William Grayson to James Madison, May 28, note 7. 2 For these resolutions ofjune 22 and 30, see fCC, 30:353, 381.
