384 July 3, 1786 Charles Thomson to John Jay Dear Sir New York 3d July 1786 I am sorry the Act of the 27 Ult was not entered in your book previ ous to its appearance in the news papers. 1 It was owing to accident and not design and indeed ever since the passing that Act the Clerks in my Office have been so hurried and pressed with a variety of appli cations and business that I can easily account for the omission. I am sorry Mr Remsen has had occasion to remark that such omissions are not unfrequent, it being my standing Order to enter immediately in every book every thing which has the least referrence to or which ei ther directly or indirectly affects the business of the respective Office or board. However I dare hope that in future you will not have occa sion to complain of the want of attention in this Office. I am Dear Sir, With great respect & regard, Your Most Obedt & Most huml servt, Cha Thomson RC (DNA: PCC, item 55). 1 For this “act” reviving the court of appeals, see Thomson to the States, June Zo. lay’s July 3 letter of complaint to Thomson reads: “Dr Sir, I found in the Newspapers of this Day an Act of Congress of 27th Ult. respecting the Court of Appeals. As this Act is interesting to Foreigners as well as to Citizens, and particularly to Mr. Van Berckel s Case of the Sloop Chester, I expected to find it among the Acts of Congress entered in the Book daily sent from this Office to receive such as may affect the Business of it. It was not however to be found in it, and Mr. Remsen tells me that though he has often desired your Clerks to be more particular and accurate, yet that such Omissions are not unfrequent. A gentle Hint from you will doubtless produce more Attention." PCC, item 80,3:1. , Jay’s informant, Henry Remsen, Jr., had been a clerk in Secretary Thomson s office prior to his appointment as an undersecretary in the office of foreign affairs m March 1784, for which see these Letters, 21:760. Charles Thomson to John Thaxter Dear Sir, Office of Secretary of Congress, July 3d. 1786. I have the pleasure of transmitting to you herewith enclosed an act of the United States in Congress Assembled ascertaining your Salary and directing the payment of the balance which may be due. 1 I wish the Treasury was in condition to make you immediate payment. How ever I hope the States will, by complying with the requisitions of Con gress soon put it in such condition, and I can venture to assure you that you will find the Commissioners of that Board disposed to gratify your wishes as soon as it shall be in their power. I am with much esteem &c. C.T.
