July8,1786 391 hearty thanks. I conclude you were disappointed in sending the one you mentioned in a former letter by col Senf, as he never called on me. The one you have now sent is an elegant piece of furniture, if it were not otherwise valuable on account of its usefulness. I am in formed this kind of lamps is coming into use in Philadelphia and made there. I wish I could send you any thing from this country worth your acceptance. But arts here are yet in their infancy; and though Philadelphia begins to imitate yet has she not arrived to the perfec tion of inventing. I have heard much of those Mills near London, which are worked by steam, but cannot learn whether the steam is ap plied as an immediate agent for turning the wheels or raising water for that purpose. I am informed that there is a man in South-Carolina who has invented a machine to raise an immense quantity of water in a short space of time, by which it is said he can flood rice grounds, or draw off the water from drowned lands with great ease and little ex pence. I have not met with any person who could give me an Account of the principles on which it is constructed, how it is worked or what may be the probable expence. The inventor of the steam boat, which is to go against the stream has applied to several legislatures, which have passed laws giving him for a number of years the exclusive privi lege of constructing those boats, but I have not heard that any are yet built and in use. During the course of last week we have had here for several evenings a display of Northern lights. The wind had blown for some days from south west & the weather was warm & dry. As my house nearly fronts the S.S.W. & has a large opening back, I had a full & beautiful view of the lights from the windows of my back parlour, which is raised one story from the ground, the opposite houses only intercepting about four or five degrees from the horizon. As I viewed them on Friday evening the 30 June there appeared just over the tops of the houses a white luminous cloud extending in a horizontal posi tion from NE to N.W. From this cloud, at different places darted up successive streams of light tapering to points, some of them to the heighth of 50 degrees. The stars were bright & the north pole clearly discernable among the streamers, so that by it I could judge of their heighth. Some times the white cloud appeared in places a little dark ened before the stream ascended, in which cases I observed the as cending stream was tinged with red & continued to have a redish hue. Having a lofty steeple in view to guide my eye and direct my judgment I observed two or three of the streamers which rose in the North east & were of this hue, moving with a slow but regular progressive motion towards the North, still continuing perpendicular & very high. From one of them I thought I saw a flash of lightening; but not seeing it re peated I concluded I was mistaken. The light was so great as to cast a shadow from my body and from my hand against a wall. On the fol-
