July 9, 1786 393 whole Earth. But having lately had a cursory reading of an ingenious piece written on the subject by Mr Whitehurst, which I dare say you have seen, I should be glad first to know your Opinion of his hypothe sis & reasoning. And while your thoughts are turned to the subject I wish you to consider what would be the probable effects of a sudden change of the position of the earth, say for instance by an alteration of the poles, an inclination of the axis 23 degrees, or a change in the An nual Orbit. I do not mean by this to divert your attention from politi cal subjects in which I find you have been usefully employed. I have read with much pleasure the two papers containing observations on the transportation of flour, and on Contraband. I am glad they were written and delivered. For though at present the object is not ob tained, yet I am confident if the proper moment is watched & im proved, the arguments there stated will on some future Occasion have due weight & influence. Mrs. T. desires to be remembered to you & to your Daughter. I am with unfeigned affection & esteem, Dear Sir, Your obedient humble Servt Cha Thomson RC (DLC:Jefferson Papers). 1 For thisjefferson letter, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 9:400-401. 2 A similar account of the northern lights is found in the draft of a letter that Thom son wrote to David Rittenhouse on July 2, which is located in the Thomson Papers DLC. r ’ Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry Dear Gerry, New York 9 July 1786 What effects will flow from the Grant of the supplementary Funds by Massachusetts at present is doubtful—indeed the value of the do mestic Debt becomes more and more uncertain. The Advocates for a payment of this Debt upon what they call principles of Justice as ap plied to the purchasers or Speculators; are not confined to Mas sachusetts. The Officers of the late Army have most of them sold their Certificates; and are now clamarous against their Redemption except at a depreciated amount. 1 Mr. Osgood is decided in his Opinion, that the best mode of conduct ing this Business, will be an apportionment of the whole Domestic Debt upon the states or in other words for congress to make a requisi tion for the whole Principal of the Domistic Debt, & leave it to the states to arrange the payment with their own Citizens as they may please. Adieu your’s, R King [RY] I have enquired of Mr. Thomson if he could give any informa tion relative to the failure of Letters &c—he says that a Letter from
