July 15, 1786 401 missions shoud all terminate next December; & that after that all the States should compleat their Settlement with the board of Treasury by an Agent or Agts. from the States. This I conceive will be in favour of our State as the Commissr. appears so untoward. I spoke with him my self upon my arrival here on the Subject of the College, but he told me that his Appointmt. would admit of no claims to be brought in now; so that our only prospect is to obtain a Grant from Congress, & they are so crouded with important Business at present that I fear I shall be able to do little on the subject, tho I mean to make the Exper iment, when I have so paved the way by an Acquaintance with the Members that I may hope to succeed. I am Sensible that the Procrasti nation of the Settlement of the public Accts, is a radical Evil in this Confederacy. How to cure it is a question of no small magnitude. A re duction of the Salarys may have its influence. General Miller has given me a full account of the Politics of Rhode Island, which to use a Par liamentary Phrase, are damned by all I hear speak of them. The Ship of the State in my opinion is caught by a violent tempest but I recollect that you have got an old experienced Sea Captain at Helm. 5 You I con clude construe the late prop to the Law, as extending to all members of the State whether in or out of its Jurisdiction, & of course I must not speak, not to say think against it. Till lately, I had conceived that money included in the Idea of it some thing desireable, & of course the Possession of it was esteemed a great good; & that when any thing ceased to be viewed in that Light it, with Propriety, could no longer be called money. If this way of thinking was founded, perhaps the late paper Emission ought not to be called money now. I most sensibly feel the embarrassments of my friends, but the extreme rigour of the Law, will, I think, defeat itself, & probably the Legislature, at their late Ses sion could not have more effectually subserved your wishes than by the severity of that Act. I am glad Delegates are chosen to meet those of other States re specting the Regulations of Commerce. 6 But find several of the States have made no Appointments, & Maryland for one. Connecticut is also in that number. The Alarms of an Indian War are growing more & more serious; & it appears from recent, & authentic Accounts from the western fron tiers that they must be sacrificed, or we must immediately raise a con siderable Armament to repel, if not extirpate some of those Savage tribes. Great Numbers have already suffered by their barbarous hands. With an exhausted Treasury this is a calamitous event, but possibly this may awaken the lethargic States. I hope you will be able to settle matters agreeably in College. Am sorry Mr Fobes’s Health will not permit him to attend constantly. 7 Ac cept my hearty thanks for your communications & continue them when anything worthy of Notice occurs. Present my best Respects to
