402 July 15, 1786 your worthy Lady & the rest of the family, & believe me to be, With the highest Sentiments of Esteem, Sir, Your Humble Servt, J. Manning RC (RPJCB: Brown Papers). 1 That is, Metcalf Bowler, A Treatise on Agriculture and Practical Husbandry (Providence: Printed by Bennett Wheeler for the Author, 1786), Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 19,522. 2 Nathan Miller took his seat in Congress July 14.JCC, 30:407. 3 For the adoption of the 1786 requisition August 2 and its transmission to the states, see Charles Thomson to the States, August 12, note 1. 4 That is, Edward Chinn, commissioner for adjusting the Continental accounts of Rhode Island. See JCC, 28:447. 5 That is, John Collins, “a minor merchant and sea captain” of Newport, who had been elected governor of Rhode Island in May. Polishook, Rhode Island and the Union, pp. 124-26. 6 Rhode Island had elected Jabez Bowen and Samuel Ward, Jr., delegates to the An napolis Convention scheduled to convene in August, although they failed to attend, learning en route that the convention had already adjourned. Ibid., p. 111. 7 That is, the Rev. Perez Fobes, who had been appointed vice president of Rhode Is land College to preside over the institution during Manning’s absence. Guild, Early His tory of Brown University, p. 426. James Monroe to James Madison Dear Sir New York, July 15. 1786. I had the pleasure to receive yours from Phila. yesterday 1 but so late that I cod. not answer it sooner. I hope you have before this recover’d from yr. fatigue, indeed I advise your prosecution of yr. journey here as soon as possible as the preferable place for that purpose. I shod, be happy you cod. give us as much of yr. time as possible here for reasons more self-interested—of these we shall confer when we meet. I beg of you to make the payment for my advances to Taylor entirely conve nient to yourself. I shall and believe with tolerable convenience wait the time you mention—indeed it will produce no inconvenience. The amt. of land purchas’d of Taylor was 900 acres at 1 & 1/2 dolrs pr. acre—for half of this I have already paid & have his rect. being for 675 dolrs.—1/2 of this you owe me. 2 The balance is to be paid to Taylor sometime in next May. I have no doubt of the preference in favor of lands on the Mohawk to those of the same price at present, in any part of the confederacy—as being equally fertile and more secure in all the other circumstances which can appreciate the value of land— but upon this we will also confer when we meet. 3 We have 12 States on the floor & yet do little or nothing. I postpone however troubling you with any thing of a publick nature at present as you have not perhaps yr. cypher with you & I expect so shortly to see you. I doubt whether it
