July 17,1786 407 RC (Nh-Ar: Executive Records). 1 Sullivan’s letter is in PCC, item 64, fols. 276-79; and Sullivan, letters (Hammond), 3:463. The enclosed New Hampshire act is in PCC, item 74, fols. 33-40. 2 For this return, which was sent under separate cover and which Thomson acknowl edged subsequently, see Thomson to Sullivan, July 26, note 1. Virginia Delegates to Patrick Henry Sir: New York, July 17. 1786. We had the honor to receive your favor of the Sth, on the 15th inst. 1 We immediately communicated its contents to Congress but were at a loss how to act under it, as we had already received and transmitted to your Excellency the decision of Congress upon the report which had been founded on your previous letter, 2 and which we are under the necessity of considering as the answer you now require. 3 We are the more confirmed in this opinion from our having stated to Congress, after the letter was read, that we had already transmitted the decision above alluded to, and submitted to them whether the late one con tained sufficient matter to induce a reconsideration of the subject with different views from those which had influenced them on the for mer occasion, without their taking any measures in consequence thereof. We thought proper to require of the secretary at war informa tion, what measures he had taken to carry into effect the ultimate re solves of congress on the subject, for the purpose of knowing in what light he held that resolution, and what the powers given by it to the commanding officer, and received in answer the enclosure which we have the honor to transmit you. 4 We have to request of your Excel lency to make known to us such measures as with a knowledge of these circumstances you shall think proper to advise, and to be as sured that we shall embrace every measure in our power to carry them into effect. We have the honor to be with highest respect, Yr Excys most obedt servts, 5 Wm Grayson. Ed. Carrington. Jas. Monroe. Henry Lee, Junr. MS not found; reprinted from Henry, Patrick Henry, 3:371. 1 According to Charles Thomson’s endorsement and dispatch book, Gov. Henry’s let ter was received and read in Congress on July 14. Congress did not meet on the 15th. See JCC, 30:409; and James Monroe to Elbridge Gerry, July 14, note 3. 2 See Virginia Delegates to Henry, July 5. When Henry received Charles Thomson’s letter of July 3 and the delegates’ letter of July 5 informing him of the dispatch of federal troops to the Kentucky frontier, he wrote immediately to Col. Josiah Harmar assuring him of the cooperation of the Virginia militia in that district. Henry, Patrick Henry, 3:368. 5 Henry had proposed that Congress establish a system of federal Indian agents to re side among the various tribes to provide state governors with early warnings of intended hostilities against settlers and to take advantage of tribal jealousies by fomenting inter-
