408 July 17, 1786 tribal warfare. Congress took no action on this proposal, however, since it had under consideration an ordinance for the organization of an Indian department, for which see Monroe to John Jay, April 20, note. 4 Henry Knox’s reply to the delegates has not been found. 5 The Virginia delegation was soon joined by Williamsburg lawyer St. George Tucker who arrived in New York on business July 19 and who kept a diary of his five-week visit to the city. Henry Lee “very politely traversed half the town to aid me in search of a good house,” related Tucker. “Met with Col. Carrington—he looks wretchedly—also with Cols. Grayson and Monroe, the latter much improved by matrimony.” Within a week Tucker and his wife accepted an invitation to live with Carrington and Grayson. “They occupy a large house about an hundred yards out of the city, most delightfully sit uated, commanding a fine view of the north river with a number of beautiful Country seats near it.” Tucker’s diary contains descriptions of New York social life, his travels through the surrounding countryside, and occasional character sketches of persons such as the Spanish minister, Don Diego de Gardoqui, and his secretary, Francisco Ren don. Tucker left the city in late August to attend the Annapolis Convention. See “A Vir ginian in New York: the Diary of St. George Tucker, July-August, 1786,” edited by Bet tina Manzo, New York History, 67 (April 1986): 177-97. Theodore Sedgwick to Pamela Sedgwick New York 18. July 1786. Thank you my dearest Pamela for your obliging & affete. letter by J. Edwards. I had just sent you a letter by Eglerton, accompanied with your cloak and a small Bundle of I dont know what to Miss Pynchon. I mention this now because I have not to my recollection given you as I ought this information before. Return if you please my compts. to Miss P. tell her she has my thanks for her attention to the instruction of my children. So far as mental information extends, I always supposed her an excellent in structress. But her Ideas of polite behavior or mine are extreamly ab surd. All formality, and attentive precisions of behavior, as it implicates pain, is to me disagreable, but ease, and unconstraint as it excites an idea of satisfaction causes an agreable sensation. Hence the great dif ference between the well bred and polite, and those who discover a painful oppression from the presence of the company. While I am speaking of the business of schooling permit me to re quest you to speak to the doctor respecting the erection of a school house. To me it is an object of importance. So far is your being pleased at my being left out of the election for the next year, from requiring any apology that I sincerely thank you for it. I have long since been convinced that public life is not a source of happiness, but the reverse. Vulgar applause was never to me a cause of exultation, and I think that I am not degraded in the opinion of the respectable, & virtuous. A consciousness of rectitude and no in considerable share in the esteem of good men will not admit a regret that fools, & knaves are gratified at my expence. I can, and I hope
