July 20, 1786 409 without regret descend, (if indeed it is descending) to private life. I can attend more than of late I have been able to the instruction of my children. I can enjoy more of the company and conversation of my dearest & best beloved. I can make a better provision for my family, and enjoy more of that ease which a long course of unremited labor has rendered eligible, if not necessary. Indeed I am now precisely in that situation which previous deliberation had made the object of my choice. But compulsion and not choice is the cause of my being placed in these circumstances, and you know Shakespear makes Fal- staff say, That, he would not give reasons on compulsion though they were as plenty as Blackberries. 1 I am sorry one of Miss Betsy’s volumes is lost, with great attention I put them in one bundle, Bacon told me he would take particular care of them, and if I am not mistaken he informed me he has put them together with the tea, and I think some thing also into P. Dewey’s chest. Perhaps an imediate enquiry may restore it. I am sorry for poor Williams, he is the child of misfortune. I hope however he will soon recover. I wish my dearest love you could spend not only an evening, but a night at my hotel. O my dearest had I your company, I should enjoy life with much greater satisfaction, than at present falls to my share. Make my Compts. to all my freinds, particularly Mr. Edwards. Tell Harry I say he is a very lazy fellow, or before this he would certainly have wrote me. Give my love to the Doctor, & remember me kindly to all the members of my family. Farewell! & be assurred I pray you of my unaltered, & unalterable affection, Theodore Sedgwick RC (MHi: Sedgwick Papers). 1 Cf. Henry the Fourth, part 1, act 2, sc. 4, lines 242-44. “If reasons were as plentiful as blackberries, I would give no man a reason upon compulsion.” Nathaniel Gorham to John Adams Sir New York July 20h. 1786 This will be delivered you by Mr. James Maury a Gentm. of reputa tion & credit in Virginia. 1 I beg leave to introduce him to your ac quaintance and from the character I have heard of him I make no doubt you will be able through him to derive great information of the state of affairs in this Country. I remain with great respect, Sir your Most Humble Servant, Nath Gorham RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 'James Maury (1746-1840), a Fredericksburg, Va., merchant, was seeking a consular appointment in England and was about to embark for Liverpool. He later served as United States consul at Liverpool, 1790-1830. See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 8:262n.2, 9:86.
