412 July 24,1786 ways brighten my days to hear of your happiness and that of your fam ily, which I beg you will often communicate to, dear sir, Your most obedient humble servant, John C. Symmes RC (ICHi: Ward Papers). 1 Recipient conjectured from the letter’s location in the Ward Papers. Joseph Ward (1737-1812) has been identified in these Letters, 2:345n. 2 For Symmes’ interest in this subject, and his chairmanship of a committee recently appointed to meet with a representative of the Wyandot tribe to promote good rela tions with “the Wyandot, Delaware, Shawanese, and Huron Nations of Indians, seeJCC, 30'382 401-2 414-15 428-29; and Charles Thomson to Henry Knox, July 12, note. 3 Symmes last attended Congress on October 26 (JCC, 31:911, 916), embarking soon thereafter on a new career of western colonization that took him to the Ohio country in the spring of 1787. Subsequently Congress authorized a contract with Symmes for the sale of two million acres in the Miami River Valley, and in October 1788 the Miami Pur chase of one million acres was formally entered into by Symmes and his associates. See DAB; ICC, 34:181-82, 565-66; and John Cleves Symmes, The Correspondence of John Cleves symmes, Bounder of the Miami Purchase, ed. Beverley W. Bond (New York: Macmillan Com pany, 1926). James Manning to Solomon Drowne i New York 26th. of July [17] 86 Yours inclosing a Letter to Mr Otto came to hand, and I handed it to him soon after. You probably have seen the Gentleman himself be fore this, as he is on a Tour to the Eastward, & meant to visit you be fore his return. I find him an agreeable enlightened man. The Business of Congress engrosses all my attention. We are now on the N York Act respecting the grant of 5 per Ct. at the Instance of Congress. We find this an embarrassing business, and indeed I doubt much its ever being granted in such a Manner that Congress can take it up & carry it into effect. The peculiarly embarrassed Situation of the Finances of the federal Government, augurs ill, in my opinion, to its long Existence under its present form; more especially unless the States are more attentive to their several duties to the confederacy. What alterations dire necessity may produce in their line of conduct, it is not for me to say; but the weight of that necessity, will I imagine soon be upon us. Yet “Nil desperandum” I wish to make my motto in a matter so interesting as the preservation of the federal Government of these States. Your friends here are generally well. There is no news here of con sequence, which is public. I mean to set off for Providence about three weeks hence, & I fear I cannot do it sooner. Please to make my best respects to Mrs. Drown and family & all friends who may enquire after, Sir, Your Humble Servt, J Manning
