August 2, 1786 425 With great Respect, I am, Sr, Your obedt humble Servt, Cha Thomson RC (DNA: PCC, item 55). 1 For the congressional order requiring Jay’s attendance, see Rufus King to fames Monroe, July 30. Charles Pettit to Charles Biddle Dear Sir, 1 New York, 2d August, 1786. The requisition for the year 1786, has this day been passed in Congress, so nearly in the form & on the principles contained in the printed copy of the Draught I sent you some time since, 2 that I shall not now trouble you with the mention of the little alterations that have been made, especially as we are yet sitting & in debate of other matters. I will, however, mention some attempts we made (tho’ unsuccess fully & with very little support from any other State) to obtain some es sential alterations in the Estimate, and of course in the sum to be re quired. For this purpose I send you another copy as the shortest mode of explaining what I mean. 3 The Requisition is for money for the ser vice of the year 1786, we therefore moved to strike out the article marked A, 4 as relating to a future year, as providing for a second years Int. on the foreign Debt, when but one years Int. is provided for on the Domestic Debt, tho’ the latter was before, one years Provisions be hind the former; and because it was beginning a Provision for the Pay ment of the Principal of the Foreign Debt, even before it becomes due, without holding out any intention of a Provision for any part of the Domestic Debt, which has been long due; and that this (unneces sary at present,) attempt to anticipate payments, which we have heretofore rested on the Revenue System, recommended by the Act of April, 1783, would be considered as contemplating the relinquishment of that system on the Establishment, which we suppose the public credit so much depends, & that this Idea would have a great tendency to defeat the Establishment of that system now so nearly matured. This being denied, we moved to double the article marked B, in order to make a Provision for the Domestic Debt, proportioned to that made for the Foreign; this was also denied. 5 We therefore thought it our duty to oppose the general question on the Requisi tion as it stands; but is [it] was carried by 9 or 10 States. I am streigtened for time & can say no more at the present mo ment. This may serve as information to Council, though it does not go in official form. I am Dear Sir, your most obedient servant, Chas. Pettit.
