426 August 2, 1786 MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 11:37. 1 Charles Biddle was vice president of the Pennsylvania Council. Pa. Council Minutes, 14:553. 2 See Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 11:22-25; and /CC, 31:964 (item 540). 3 See JCC, 31:461-65; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 11:38-41. 4 This article is not identified in the Pa. Archives text, but for the clause Pettit moved to strike out during debate on the requisition this day, concerning “payment of princi pal and interest, due (on foreign debt) in the year 1787,” see JCC, 31:461. 5 Pettit is undoubtedly referring to the motion he made during the debate of August 1, which is recorded at JCC, 31:455. James Manning to Samuel Jones Dear Sir 1 New York 3d - of Au g ust 1786 Yours of the 29th ult came this day to hand. Am happy that your Journey was so prosperous; and that the School is erected with such flattering Prospects, as well in reference to the Superintendent of the School, as to the promoting education amongst our people there. I am glad you are so highly pleased with the Country as to become a Proprietor; and also that you met with such Attention from the people & compensation for your services. I presume you mean Dr. Stephen Gano. 2 He was ordained yesterday, and is to move next week to Hud son, the new City up this river. I also greatly rejoice at the flourishing state of religion there. I cannot resolve the important question, “Will you or will you not go there.” Nothing can be more ardently wished for, by more than an Interview with you. I had appointed Mr Wilson to be here by the 17th of this Instant, as I meant that day to sail to Providence, & he means to accompany me; and, previously to the re ception of your Letter I had made an Appointment, on Business of Consequence, to be at Tappan the Friday before the 2d Lords day in this month (which I cannot recal) though I wish I could. If Business of the highest Consequence were not now pending before Congress; Business too, that relates immediately to that good land from which you recently came; & Business which I am not at liberty to communi cate, and business which I am bound to attend, I say if these were not facts I should with Pleasure wait on you at Pennepack. But situated as I am, I heartily wish to see you at New York on Wednesday next [if] possible. The reason why I wish this is the important business which I referred to, comes on the next day, on Thirsday; and from what I can conjecture, I expect Rhode Island will probably have a casting voice on that subject. As you are interested in Kentucky, I wish much to see you before that question is decided. Should it not be in your power to arrive here by Wednesday afternoon, In the right of the State, I can have it postponed one day. When you consider my calls from the East-
