August 4, 1786 427 ward; my duty to the federal Government, together with my other at tentions here, you will not think me ungenerous in this Proposal. Were I at my own disposal, I declare that I neither should regard Money, time nor fatigue to meet Mr Jones in Pennsylvania, on this subject; & when my friend recollects that I last October went from Providence to Philadelphia for the sole purpose of promoting this Ob ject, I presume he will not impeach me of coolness in this business. Should your visit to New York, at the time proposed, be impracticable, I would wish to meet you at Mr Van Horns at the Plains, the Thirsday Evening following the time you mentioned, being the 17th Inst; and if I hear nothing from you before I will meet you there; though, should you come to the Plains at the time appointed, I think you might, the Monday following, come over to New York. This I shou’d greatly pre fer; & if you cannot visit York on Next Wednesday, Try to come the Monday following. At any rate I must see you if Providence spares my life, before I return. I expect to return to Congress after Com- mencemt. & Association unless arrangements [. . .] unforseen at Pro[vidence ....] With Sentime[nts...] I am [...] Sir [...] Your [....] RC (RPB: Henderson Manuscripts). 1 The Rev. Dr. Samuel Jones (1735—1814) was minister of the Baptist Church of Pen- nepek (afterwards Lower Dublin), Pa., and proprietor of Jones’s Academy in Philadel phia, which was devoted to the preparation of youths for the ministry. Guild, Early His tory of Brown University, pp. 320-21. 2 For the career of Manning’s nephew Stephen Gano, and his abandonment of medicine for the Baptist ministry, see ibid., pp. 413-14. Charles Pettit to Benjamin Franklin Sir New York 4th. August 1786 In a joint Letter which Col. Bayard & myself did ourselves the Hon our to address to Your Excellency the 26th of last Month, 1 we pro posed at a future Time to state to Your Excellency the Heads of the Arguments used in the Debate on the Report of the Board of Trea sury recommending a Continuation of the Issuing of Indents of Inter est in Pennsylvania. That Statement I have the Honour to transmit herewith. 2 Yesterday a Requisition on the States for Supplies for the Year 1786 was agreed to in Congress; it is now in the Press & will be officially transmitted to the States by the Secretary. 3 I have the Honour to be with the greatest Respect, Your Excel lency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Cha. Pettit
