428 August 4, 1786 ENCLOSURE The Report of the Board of Treasury tendering a Resolve that they “be authorized and directed to give Orders for the Continuation of the Issue of Indents of Interest in the State of Pennsylvania agreeably to the Requisition of the 27th of September last” &c„ being read, it was moved that the same be referred to the Board to take order. This was thought to be the best mode of disposing of the Business, as it would restore the matter to the original footing on which it stood on the first act of the Board acknowledging the compliance of the State with the Requisition and directing the Payment of Interest ac cordingly, without placing on the Journals any Record of the versatile Conduct which had taken Place. And as the Proviso in the proposed Resolution left the Claim of the State, as to the 86,658 Dollars, unde cided upon, and it was thence supposed that little or no opposition would be made to the motion, it was thought best not to invite it by stating arguments in favour of the motion unless they should be ren dered necessary in answer to objections. The motion was objected to as unreasonable, unjust and impolitic. Unreasonable, 1st, Because from the words of the Requisition of the 27 & 28th of April, 1784, it was plain that the one fourth to be dis counted in Certificates of Interest related only to one fourth of the Balance then remaining unpaid of the four millions, whereas the Dis count demanded by the State was one fourth of their whole Quota of the four Millions. 2dly, Because no other State had made a like De mand. 3dly, Because the present debilitated State of the Finances would not admit of such a Deduction from the Specie Claims of the United States. Unjust, 1st, Because it was well known that the Sums which had been paid by the several States on account of the eight million Requi sition previous to the Statement accompanying the Requisition of 1784, had been consumed in the Service of former years, and that three fourths of the Balance remaining of the moiety of the eight mil lions, had been relied upon in Specie, by the assent & approbation of all the States, Pennsylvania included. 2dly, That opening the Loan of fice in Pennsylvania would let loose a Flood of Facilities to inundate the other States, whereby the Citizens of Pennsylvania would derive a Benefit to which they were not intitled till they should have fully com plied with the Requisition. Impolitic—1st, Because if this Discount were allowed to Pennsylva nia, it must of course be allowed to other States in the same Propor tion, which would occasion a Deduction of between three & four hun dred thousand dollars from the Sum in Specie paid into or demandable by the federal Treasury on that Requisition. 2dly, That the meaning of Congress as to this Point, in the Act of April 1784, being plain, and not objected to at any Time since, but by
