432 August 5, 1786 a copy; 1 it is indeed but a copy of the Requisition of the last year. How far the states can or will comply with this requisition God only knows. Worcester, Middlesex, & Bristol, the News papers inform us have been in county convention for the redress of Grievances—the three Counties in Main it is said are to meet in September. What does all this mean? 2 Are our country men incapable of a free Government— or does all originate from the Defect of the federal Constitution. If any person goes to the Maryland convention from our state, I hope you will attend. Farewel, Yours with affection, Rufus King RC (NHi: King Papers). 1 See JCC, 31:461-65. 2 For discussion of the meaning of this “convention” activity, see William Pencak, “The Response to Shays’s Rebellion Reconsidered,” in Gross, In Debi to Shays, pp. 125-27. James Manning to Nicholas Brown Sir, New York. 5th of August 1786 Inclosed I here send you the requisition, which is now through Con gress, & will be immediately sent forward to the Executives of the sev eral States. 1 I sent you a copy of this before, that you might there see the compliance, or not, of the several States, with the last requisition. Of course nothing will be sent forward, of the present Copy, preced ing “In Congress Aug. 2. 1786”. Great opposition to this Requisition were made to it, in its several stages through the House. Every ordi nance which passes Congress requires length of time, & great discus sion; &, I think, much more than is necessary, in many cases. Business very interesting to this Union will detain me here much longer than I expected; & it will be with the utmost difficulty that I can get home to attend the Commencemt. but I mean to leave this by the 20th of this Month for Providence. As to News I have nothing to communicate, except that the Treaty with the Algerines has totally failed, 2 I wish it may not prove highly dis graceful, as well as injurious to the commerce of the United States, apart from the large sums squandered in doing nothing. Mr Samuel Jones has returned well from Kentucky, I had a Let ter from him since his return, & hope to see him in this City be fore I return. 3 Please to make my Compliments to Mrs Brown & Family. With Sentiments of Esteem, I have the Honour to be, Sir, Your Humble Servt., James Manning
