438 August 7, 1786 china, that the same conveyance might take both. If you have an op portunity to convey my Young, 2 (as the books are useless to you) to Mr. R. H. Lee you will oblige me by doing it. The Mississippi business is very important and full of difficulty. 3 In the debilitated condition of the foederal government, it is unwise to risk the offence of any part of the empire, unless to attain great good. My mind has no doubt of the extensive good consequences that would result to the Union from a commercial connexion with Spain, & I am also clear, that in agreeing to the occlusion of the navigation of the Mississippi, we give in fact nothing, for the moment our western coun try become populous & capable, they will seize by force what may have be[en] yielded by treaty. Till that period, the river cannot be used but by permission of Spain, whose exclusive system of policy, never will grant such permission. Then to be sure, we only give, what we cannot use. But the source of all the evils which press those states is the ineffi ciency of the foederal government. This cannot be altered & remedied but by consent of the states. Already in every state the amplification of the powers of the Union have too many enemys. Should therefore a treaty take place between Congress & Spain occluding for a term the navigation of the Missis sippi, in return for advantages very great, but not so great to the whole as to a part, I apprehend it would give such a tent for popular de- claimers, that the great object viz bracing the foederal government may be thwarted, and thus in pursuing a lesser, we loose a greater good. I forwarded by the last post for public information some intelli gence lately received from Mr. Jefferson & I have also sent an extract of a letter from Mr. Randall from Algiers. 4 These two papers compre hend all the news here. I transmit the Gazette of the day. Bills on ten der at 60 days sight fluctuate in their value from six to seven per cent przemium. The cost [of] the china is 150 dollars besides the inciden tal charge of freight to Norfolk, which cannot be much. My best wishes for the health & happiness of Mount Vernon, in which Mrs. Lee unites. Most respectfully yours, H. Leejunr. 5 RC (DI.C: Washington Papers). 1 For Washington’s letter of July 26, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 28:483-85. Lee enclosed with this letter a receipt from the New York firm of Constable, Rucker & Co. for £60 paid by Lee this day for a 302-piece china service. Washington Papers, DLC. 2 Lee is referring to the copies of Arthur Young’s A Tour in Ireland he had loaned to Washington, for which see Lee to Washington, July 3, note 3. 3 The questions of a Spanish commercial treaty and the navigation of the Mississippi River had been brought before Congress on August 3 by secretary for foreign affairs John Jay, for which see JCC, 31:467-84; James Monroe to James Madison, May 31, note 2; Rufus King to Monroe, July 30; and Charles Thomson to Jay, August 1. 4 For this “intelligence,” see Pierse Long to John Langdon, August 6, note 2.
