442 August 7, 1786 With great esteem, and regard, I am Sir, your most obedt. Servt., Theodore Sedgwick RC (NHi: Duane Papers). , T i i >7 1 See Massachusetts Delegates to Duane, July 4, and to John Lowell et al., July 17. James Manning to Nicholas Brown gj r New York August 7th [i.e. 8th] 1786 1 On board the Packet, Capt Warner, are two boxes of Books directed to me, the Donation of the Education Society of Bristol through the hands’of Revd. Caleb Evans, the Principal of that Seminary. These are the Books we have been expecting. I have reed, no Letter respecting them, by the Ship that brought them, though I think it probable there may be Letters to me with the Invoices, which I suppose are included in the Boxes. Should you find any upon opening the Boxes, I will thank you to put them into Mrs. Manning’s hands, that she may send them forward to me, should they contain Intelligence which I ought to know, before my return. Of this she will judge upon opening them. This Morning as I came to Congress, was the first Advice I reed, of this Business, & the Expence of Storage would have been incurred, had I not ordered them immediately to be sent on board the Packet; of course, I have not opened the Books, nor shall I have opportunity to do it. I have urged, as much as possible, an immediate Attention to the Settlement of the Accounts of the Marine Department. We are now going to the Treasury board to urge them to appoint Mr Manly to col lect all the Papers of that Department to the Eastward, that they may be ready to be brought here & adjusted as soon as may be. We have since the above called there & the board informs us that they have or dered the papers & books to be sent for; & We have applied to the Commissioner to appoint Mr Manly as his Clerk in this Business, which he encouraged us to expect he wd. do. 2 Yesterday we passed an Ordinance for the departmt. of Indian Affairs. 3 To day we have passed a Resolve to establish a Coinage for the United States, and have or dered the Treasury board to draw up an Ordinance to carry it into ef fect. 4 A Dollar is made, by this resolve, the Money Unit of the United States. I have inclosed you the Report of the Treasury board, which was adopted, together with the reasonings on this subject. With Sentiments of Esteem, I have the Honour to be, Sir, Your Humble Servt, J- Manning
