August 8, 1786 443 RC (RPJCB: Brown Papers). 1 As Manning writes below of congressional measures passed “Yesterday” and “Today" which were adopted on August 7 and 8 respectively (see notes 3 and 4), it seems clear that he misdated this letter. There is nothing in its physical appearance to suggest that it was written at more than one sitting. 2 John Manley, son of Capt. John Manley (1734-93), was appointed clerk to Benjamin Walker, commissioner for settling the accounts of the clothing, hospital, and marine de partments, on August 22. See PCC, item 141, 1:121. 3 See JCC, 31:490-93. 4 See JCC, 31:503-4. James Manning to Nicholas Brown Sir, New York 8th. August 1786 Inclosed are the Papers of the day—You will see that permission is obtained in France for the sale of 12, or 15 Thousand Hogs-Heads of Tobacco at the same Price Mr Robt. Morris supplies the farmers Gen eral of France. 1 It is a fact which we have just reed, the Knowledge of from Govr Jefferson, our Minister in France. 2 Genl Miller has engaged to transmit, & I believe has done it, a copy of Morris’s Agreemt. &c, 3 to Mr John Brown: & I wish you to have as early knowledge of this Subject as any person, that you may avail yourself of the Information. I have to request you to procure a Certificate at the Custom House, that the Books are landed 8c entered at Providence, that it may be sent back to cancel the Bonds in the Custom House here. Yours &c, James Manning 4 RC (RPJCB: Brown Papers). 1 An item containing this information, taken from a letter written by Lafayette to a merchant in L’Orient May 31, was printed in the August 7 issue of Francis Childs’ New York Daily Advertiser. 2 Jefferson’s May 27 letter tojohn Jay containing this information, from which “The injunction of Secresy [was] taken off’ August 3, is in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 9:582-90. 3 For this agreement, which Jefferson enclosed to Jay, see ibid., pp. 586-88. 4 Manning also wrote the following letter on August 15 to William Holroyd, a Provi dence merchant, apparently regarding the expenses of poor students at Rhode Island College, whose support was the concern of a standing committee of which Manning’s brother-in-law the Rev. John Gano was a member. See Guild, Early History of tiroion Uni versity, pp. 36-40, 366. “Yours of the 5th Inst, came to hand, and 1 handed it to Mr Gano, after reading it, he replied that it was hard for Mr Holroyd to loose the money, but that he himself was £20 out of Pocket in advancing for those Boys. I requested him to write you a Line on this subject. “I am unfortunate enough to be upwards of Thirty dollars out of Pocket, in supplying those Boys; an Account of this I sent forward to their Parents at the close of the war, & requested Payment. My answer was that they had paid what was due, through the Hands
