448 August 10, 1786 the contiguity of the US. & the convenience of their ports & supplies would render the aid of this country peculiarly important in any enter prize against their islands. We also know if any respect is to be paid to the intelligence & communications of Mr Adams your Minister at the Court of London that the Cabinet of GB are at this time turning a seri ous eye to South America. The divesting he says, S. of that country & opening to it a free trade is considered by them as of the first impor tance & if any event should take place, in which even a distant hope of accomplishing this object should offer, there can be no doubt of her availing herself of it. So far therefore from fearing the additional weight of G.B. we are to presume if she suffers her interest and her wishes to prevail, that she will importantly interfere in our favour. The Connections of S. & her influence in Portugal even if they could ever be of much service, which is very doubtful, can be of no consequence at present, as our latest advices from thence warrant a belief that a treaty between Portugal & the US has long since been concluded. 3 It does not appear that any beneficial effects are to be expected from her influence in our favour with the states of Barbary. There is but one mode of obtaining a pacification with them. The price of peace must be paid. You are informed by Mr Jefferson that in a late conversation he had with the count de Vergennes upon the subject of a treaty with the Porte & the aid of his influence to procure a peace with them, the count informed him, that even in that case & notwith standing they owe the Porte a distant tribute, his interference would not procure you a peace a moment sooner, nor a shilling cheaper: 4 In short that a pacification would be as difficult and their terms as extrav agant as at present. If therefore the influence of Constantinople would be unsuccessful, how is it to be expected that the friendship of Spain would be useful? Of no more weight is another opinion which supposes the influ ence of S. will promote our interest with the Italian States. True it is that the king of Naples is the son of the king of Spain, but until a peace is made with the States of Barbary, the friendship of the king of Spain will be but of little protection to your Commerce in the Mediterranean. Effect this and the Italian states will all be ready to re ceive you upon the same liberal terms without treaty which one has al ready offered. Upon investigating the situation of Spain it will be found she has strong reason to be particularly anxious to treat with you at this time. Independant of the knowledge she must have of the intentions of GB, she views with a jealous eye the emancipation of these states & dreads their neighbourhood to her rich and extensive tho’ feeble colonies of South America. She is desirous to prevent an intimacy between them, well knowing the danger of such an intercourse. Hence we find she holds the desarts of Florida as a barrier & wishes to deprive our citi-
