August 10, 1786 449 zens of the use of the Mississippi hoping by these means to postpone an event which she dreads & fears is at no considerable distance. Being acquainted with your situation, the deranged state of your fi nances & the inefficacy of your government she thinks that this is the time to push her demands & supposes your distress will force you into a compliance. But I still trust our inconveniences when compared to hers are but temporary. A little firmness & perseverance on the part of Congress & of recollection on the part of the states may yet subdue all our difficulties. Whereas the Spanish Monarchy carries in its bosom the seeds of its dissolution. Our Situation though unpleasant is not yet sufficiently desperate to force us into measures derogatory to our national honor. Spain has more to risque & more to dread from a rupture than we can fear, and though it is undoubtedly her interest to treat at present, it can only be ours on very advantageous terms. As to the 2d point, Spain consents to treat with us upon what she terms principles of perfect reciprocity. Importation to be freely made in each others vessels. The duties to be paid by each in the ports of the other the same as those paid by the natives: Masts & spars to be purchased of the U.S. for the use of the navy of Spain & paid for in specie, provided they are as good & as cheap as those procured from the Baltic. Permission to go to the Canaries & M Gardoqui has no per sonal objection that we should have liberty to go to the Philippines, his instructions however do not reach this. Her ports in the West In dies & in South America to be shut & the article of tobacco to be pro hibited in her European ports. In return we are to admit her subjects freely into all the ports we have without any exception of articles upon the footing of Natives & to stipulate the forbearance of our right to navigate the Mississippi for a given time. In examining this point it must be observed that though the treaty proposes a perfect reciprocity, this reciprocity will be the more or less advantageous as the commerce of the respective powers is the more or less free in their own ports. The U.S are a free & S. is an absolute gov ernment. It is the policy of the former to promote & encourage their Commerce, hence their duties are but triffling & easily paid. The im positions & fetters of the latter have almost ruined it; And though our merchants are to be on the footing of natives yet it is beyond a doubt they will pay four & in some instances six times as much as their mer chants will in our ports. So that the reciprocity here mentioned does not or cannot exist. The Spanish productions will in most instances be imported here at 2 & if the impost should operate at 5 per cent. 5 The American into their ports in the one case at four times & in the other at double this sum. At present American produce is generally sold in the Spanish ports on board the vessel. The purchaser pays the customs & duties making the necessary deductions, so that though they are large & reduce the
