August 10, 1786 451 as far as your articles are useful & necessary and it is their interest, so far will they open their ports to you, but in the lucrative and truly im portant trade of their islands & other dominions or wherever they are afraid of a rivalship, there you are to be prevented. It is said however that Mr Gardoqui is not personally averse to our going to the Philippines & that from thence in all probability some kind of intercourse will be established with Acapulca. If we are to be lieve Mr Gardoqui, when he says it is an invariable maxim of Spanish politics to exclude all Mankind from trading with their colonies and islands it appears to me that we are rather to consider this as a minis terial finesse, than amounting to any thing like a certainty that per mission will be obtained. But suppose it is. One rich ship sails every year from Acapulca to one of the Philippine islands and returns laden with the commodities of the East Indies. It is not to be supposed it will be very easy to elude the Spaniards whose duty it will be to prevent your interfering with the south American trade. But grant for a mo ment that they connive at it. What great advantages are to be expected from your citizens in this remote and expensive voyage being suffered to participate in the cargo of a single ship? An individual or two may make their fortunes, but surely no solid advantages are to be derived to the Union from this distant & precarious commerce. In short, Sir, as I have observed this appears to me no more than a ministerial fi nesse to which his instructions do not nor ever will reach. But in order to bring the objects of the proposed treaty more clearly before the view of the house, permit me to examine them as they may affect the different states in their Operation. The New England states (in which can scarcely be included Newhampshire & Connecticut, their european commerce being in considerable & Rhode island not extensive) enjoy at present a benefi cial trade with Spain in the export of their fish, lumber and other arti cles, for which they receive valuable returns. Their peltry trade is of no consequence, nor except in the articles mentioned have they any considerable export, that will suit the Spanish European Markets. The Spanish have no fisheries of their own. They consume a great quantity of fish and are always in want of timber. They will therefore find it their policy to keep their ports open to all the nations that will bring them. Spain does not offer to give us exclusive privileges or prefer ences, but leaves herself at liberty to form treaties with whom she pleases. The French in virtue of the family compact are entitled to the privileges of the most favoured nation; and if we examine the treaties of commerce that have formerly existed between G Britain and Spain particularly that of 1667 which is the ground work of all their future treaties and those of 1713 & 1715 we shall find these nations have been in the habits of a commercial intercourse for a great number years. The policy of Europe at present seems to be peace and com-
