August 10, 1786 453 continue to do so—that it would be disgraceful to continue the claim without asserting it—that war is inexpedient and that the best way would be to enter into a treaty with them & consent to suspend the claim for a certain time. The right of the U.S. to navigate the Mississippi has been so often as serted & so fully stated by Congress, that it is unnecessary to say any thing upon this subject, particularly as the Secretary in his report ap pears to be in sentiment with Congress. But if the treaty proposed was of the most advantageous nature in other respects, while it insisted upon the forbearance, I should think the impolicy of consenting to it must be obvious for the following reasons. Because the sale and dis posal of the lands ceded in the western territory has ever been consid ered by Congress as a sufficient fund under proper management for the discharge of the domestic debt: large sums of efficient money have already been expended in quieting the Indians, purchasing their rights of soil and in sending out persons to survey it. The offers which are to be made the purchasers and already established by your resolutions are the protection and support of the Union—the establishment of repub lican governments and the equal enjoyment of all the privileges of citi zens of the U.S. To those in the least acquainted with that country it is known that the value of their lands must altogether depend upon the right to navigate the Mississippi. This is the great outlet with which & with the rivers running into it nature washes their shores—points to them the mode of exporting their productions & of establishing a commercial intercourse with the rest of the world. Inform them you have consented to relinquish it even for a time, you check, perhaps de stroy the spirit of emigration & prevent the accomplishment of the ob ject proposed by the sale. But it is said the Spaniards already oppose us in the navigation and that this will as effectually prevent emigration as our consenting to suspend it. To this it may be shortly replied that while the purchasers know that the US claim & insist upon the right and are negotiating for it—that if the Spaniards refuse to admit us to a participation, the occlusion will be founded in injury, must be sup ported by force and will be resisted whenever circumstances shall au thorise a reliance on the support and protection of their parent state, it will operate as a spur to emigration. 7 To me it appears most extraordinary, that a doctrine should be at tempted to prove, that because we have not at present a government sufficiently energetic to assert a national right, it would be most hon orable to relinquish it. The British government in violation of the late treaty hold by force & garrisoned posts within the territory of the U.S. These posts give them the entire [command] of the valuable fur trade. If they were in our possession as they ought to be, this important commerce would pursue its usual route & become an Article of considerable export to
