August 10, 1786 455 on Spain by using the first opportunity in your power to sacrifice their interest to those of the Atlantic states, can they be blamed for immedi ately throwing themselves into her arms for that protection and sup port which you have denied them for the enjoyment of that right which you have placed it out of your power to grant. Is it not clearly to be seen by those who will see, that the policy of Spain in thus inducing us to consent to a surrender of the Navigation for a time is, that by having a clear & unincumbered right she may use it for the purpose of separating the interests of the inhabitants of the western country entirely from us, and making it subservient to her own purposes? Will it not produce this? It will. Will it not give her influence the entire command of the numerous & extensive Indian tribes within this coun try? It will certainly have this Effect. When once this right is ceded no longer can the U.S. be viewed as the friend or parent of the new states, nor ought they to be considered in any other light than in that of their oppressors. - There is one consideration & of some consequence, which ought to be recollected; that is the impropriety of the US ever acting under the influence of that kind of policy which is calculated to acquire benefits for one part of the Confederacy at the expence of the other. It is con fessed our government is so feeble & unoperative that unless a new portion of strength is infused it must in all probability soon dissolve. Congress have it in Contemplation to apply to the states on this sub ject. The concurrence of the whole will be necessary to effect it. Is it to be supposed that if it is discovered a treaty is formed upon princi ples calculated to promote the interests of one part of the Union at the expence of the other, that the part conceiving itself injured will ever consent to invest additional powers? Will they not urge & with great reason the impropriety of vesting that body with further powers which has so recently abused those they already possess? I have no doubt they will. If therefore the entering into this treaty, which really does not in my opinion hold out any important benefits, and if any, only to a part of the Union, should interfere & prevent the states from assenting to invest Congress with proper power, throwing justice & equal attention to all the members of the confederacy out of view, Ought not policy to induce us to make the lesser yield to the more im portant consideration? If we are prudent it ought. It may be said it is extremely oppressive that the northern and east ern states should be deprived of a treaty, which they conceive an ad vantageous one merely to gratify the Southern in adhering to a claim to navigation, unimportant if in our possession, which we have not power to assert & must therefore submit to be deprived of. But it should be remembered that the cession is the price of the treaty. If you had not this right to grant why should Spain treat with you? Will she derive any other benefits from the treaty? No: All she can expect,
