August 10, 1786 457 prudence not to precipitate ourselves into a measure which we may hereafter repent, without first very maturely considering it. Upon the whole as the present treaty proposes no real advantages, that we do not at present enjoy, and it will always be the interest & pol icy of Spain to allow—as our situation by no means presses us to the formation of new connections; and as the suspension demanded may involve us in uneasiness with each other, at a time, when harmony is so essential to our true interests—As it may be the means of souring the states, and indispose them to grant us those additional powers of government, without which we cannot exist as a Nation and without which all the treaties you may form must be ineffectual, let me hope that upon this occasion, the general welfare of the U.S. will be suf fered to prevail and that the house will on no occasion consent to alter Mr Jay’s instructions or permit him to treat upon any other terms than those he has already proposed. Tr (DLC: Charles Thomson Papers). In the hand of Charles Thomson, and endorsed by him: “Speech of Mr C Pinckney read in Comee. of the whole 10 Aug. 1786." 1 This speech was printed in the modern edition of the journals of Congress (JCC, 31:935-48) from the broadside Pinckney subsequently had printed for the use of friends. It appeared under the caption “Mr. Charles Pinckney’s Speech, in Answer to Mr. Jay, Secretary for Foreign Affairs, on the Question of a Treaty with Spain, Delivered in Congress, August 16, 1786.” Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 19,926. For a reprinting of the copy in the James Madison Collection, Rare Book Division, DLC, see “Charles Pinckney’s Reply to Jay, August 16, 1786, Regarding a Treaty with Spain,” with an intro duction by Worthington C. Ford, AHR, 10 (July 1905): 817-27. The broadside was dated August 16, the date debate over the Mississippi question re sumed rather than the date Pinckney actually delivered this critique of Jay’s August 3 re port of his negotiations with Diego de Gardoqui, as attested by Charles Thomson’s en dorsement on this transcript of the speech. Additional evidence of the speech’s August 10 date is found in the correspondence of James Madison. In his August 11 letter to Madison, James Monroe testified that “we went into a Committee of the Whole yester day” and the negotiations with Spain were “discuss’d fully, by Pinckny & others.” See Monroe to Madison, August 11, note 1. And in a letter to Madison of July 8, 1801, Pinckney himself observed: “From being in New York at the time You must remember the part I took in Congress on the Question of the Misissipi treaty & the share 1 had in preventing the treaty with the Occlusion of the River, from being then adopted.” See The Papers of James Madison. Secretary of State Series, edited by Robert J. Brugger et al. (Charlottesville: University Press of Virginia, 1986-), 1:388. Madison had been in New York in early August to consult with Monroe about their joint purchase of New York lands but the agitation over the Mississippi question prevented Monroe from accompa nying him northward. From New York Madison wrote to his brother, Ambrose, on Au gust 7 before leaving on August 8 or 9 for Princeton, where he conferred with John Witherspoon, and for Philadelphia where he wrote to Monroe on August 11. See Madi son, Papers (Rutland), 9:88-91. Pinckney also later reviewed his role in the Mississippi debate in the following para graph he wrote to George Washington December 14, 1789. “Upon the conclusion of the peace I believe it was the intention of that court to have entered into a treaty of amity & commerce with us—to have been our friends & to have done every thing in their power to have promoted the intercourse—but they mistook the means—for in stead of forming a treaty upon those terms which would have insured a reciprocity of
