458 August 10, 1786 Benefits, they thought the best way to remove every future ground of difference—to prevent our becoming dangerous neighbours—& to keep us at a distance was to pro pose the surrender of a right as degrading to the honour as it would have been ulti mately injurious to the interests of the Union. I happened to be in Congress at the time the proposal was brought forward through the then secretary Mr. Jay. Having more leisure or having more maturely considered the offer, I was requested by the opponents to prepare an answer to the reasons which Mr. Jay offered in support of Mr. Gardoqui’s proposals. This I did, & being afterwards desired by many of the southern members to furnish them with copies, I had a few printed which were confidentially delivered to some of my friends, for their information upon a subject which at that time very much engaged the attention of the public. I have the honor to enclose you one of the few copies I have left.” Washington Papers, DLC. 2 By late May, John Jay had reached an impasse in his negotiations with Diego de Gar doqui and asked relief from his instructions of August 25, 1785, which had left him lit tle room for compromise, requiring that any treaty he concluded must stipulate the right of the United States “to their territorial bounds and the free navigation of the Mis sissippi.” The appointment on May 31 of Rufus King, James Monroe, and Charles Pettit as a committee “to instruct and direct [Jay] on every point and subject relative to the proposed treaty with Spain” did little to advance the negotiations and Monroe’s pres ence on the committee guaranteed that it would not allow Jay to accept Gardoqui’s pro posal that the United States “forbear” use of the river for a period of perhaps 25 or 30 years. Unable to break their deadlock, the committee on August 1 proposed their own discharge and a recommitment of the subject to a committee of the whole. The recom mendation was accepted and Jay was asked to appear before Congress to report on the state of his negotiations, which he did on August 3. See Monroe to James Madison, May 31, note 2; King to Monroe, July 30; and JCC, 31:457, 467-84. Jay’s lengthy brief on behalf of compromising U.S. use of the Mississippi in return for a commercial treaty with Spain led southern delegates to plan a comprehensive re sponse, and Pinckney was selected to answer Jay’s appeal for a relaxation of his instruc tions. Pinckney’s delivery of the present speech on August 10 opened the most divisive debate in Congress’ short history, which reached a climax on August 29 when Jay’s in structions were repealed on a 7 to 5 sectional vote, and ended September 1 when his opponents abandoned their effort to overturn the repeal. The southern argument that nine votes were constitutionally required to make “such alteration and enlargement” of Jay’s powers failed. But in the aftermath Jay realized that any treaty he might negotiate which did not uphold American claims to the Mississippi had no chance of ratification, a realization shared by Gardoqui, and little effort was made subsequently to salvage the negotiations. For surveys of the entire “Mississippi Question” and analyses of Jay’s nego tiations with Gardoqui, see Morris, Forging of the Union, pp. 232-44; and the headnote introducing the forty-odd documents on “The Jay-Gardoqui Negotiations” in Jay, Papers (Morris and Sirvet), volume 3, forthcoming. 3 See Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry, July 6, note 1. 4 For Thomas Jefferson’s May 23 report of his conversation with the comte de Ver gennes, which had been read in Congress on August 2, see PCC, item 185, 3:172; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 9:567-69. 5 The broadside edition of this speech reads: “at two, and two and a half, and if the impost should operate, at five percent.” JCC, 31:939. 6 A reference to either the Amsterdam (2 vols., 1781) or Yverdon (2 vols., 1784) edi tions of Samuel Ricard’s Traite general du commerce. Contenant des observations sur le com merce des principaux Flats de I’Europe. 7 The broadside edition of this speech reads: “and will be resisted whenever circum stances shall authorise; a reliance on the support and protection of their parent state, will operate as a spur to emigration.” JCC, 31:943. 8 The broadside edition of this speech reads: “all she can expect, except the exclusive navigation, she now enjoys, unfettered by stipulations.” JCC, 31:946. 9 See Charles Thomson’s three letters of March 4 to the states.
