August 12, 1786 463 had begun even before my arrival, we have known of his intriguing with the members to carry the point. On 27 of May he address’d a letter to Congress precisely in the sentiment above, stating difficul ties in the negotiation & proposing that “a Committee be appointed with full power to direct & instruct him on every point relative to the propos’d treaty with Spain.” 1 As we knew the object was to extricate himself from the instruction respecting the Missisippi we of course oppos’d it. We found he had engag’d the eastern States in the in trigue especially Mass., that New York, Jersey & Pena, were in favor of it & either absolutely decided or so much so as to promise little prospect of change. The Committee propos’d by the Secretary was admitted generally to be without the powers of Congress since 9 States only can give an instruction for the formation of a treaty. To appoint a Committee with the powers of 9 States was agreed to be a subversition of the govt. & therefore improper. The letter however was referr’d to a Committee who ultimately agreed to report that the Committee be discharg’d & the subject referr’d to a Committee of the whole, & the secrey. ordered to attend. He did so and came for ward fully with the plan of a commercl. treaty condition’d with the forbearance of the use of the Missisippi for 25 or 30 years, with a long written speech or report in favor of it. 2 The project is in a few words this “1. That the merchts. of America & Spn. shall enjoy, the former in the ports of Spn. & the Canaries, the latter in those of the U.S. the rights of native merchts. reciprocally. 2. That the same tonage shall be paid on the ships of the two parties in the carriage of the productions & the Manufactures of the 2 countries. 3. That the bona fide manufac tures & productions of the united States (to be only excepted which shall continue under its present regulations) may be imported in American or Spanish vessels into any of his Majesties ports aforesaid in like manner as if they were the productions of Spain. And on the other hand that the bona fide manufactures & productions of his Majesties dominions may be imported into the U.S. in Spn. or Ameri can vessels in like manner as if they were those of the said States. And further that all such duties and imposts as may mutually be thought necessary to lay on them by either party shall be ascertaind & regulated on principles of exact reciprocity, by a tariff to be form’d by a conven tion for the purpose to be negotiated & made within one year after the exchange of the ratification of this treaty and in the meantime that they shall severally pay in the ports of each other the duties of natives only. 4. Masts & timber shall be bought here for the royal navy pro vided that upon their carriage to Spain they shall cost no more than if they were bought elsewhere. 5. That in consideration of these advan tages to the U.S. they agree to forbear the use of the Missisippi for 25 or 30 years. The term for wh. the treaty shall last.” This treaty inde pendent of the sacrifice I consider as a very disadvantageous one & such as we shod, not accept since it in reality gains us nothing & sub-
