464 August 12, 1786 jects to very high restrictions, such as exist in none of our other treaties altho’ they are in effect bad enough. But they are to be justi fied especially those of France & Holland in the motives which led to them, to bring those powers into the war. The subject was referr’d to a Committee of the Whole on Thursday last who after debate rose & re ported that they have come to no decision & require leave to sit agn. 3 The delegation of Mass, mov’d in Committee that the ultimatum in his instructions respecting the Missisippi be repeal’d, in wh. event he wod have unlimited powers to act at pleasure. 4 This they sd. might be carried by 7 States. We observ’d that without the U[l]timatum the in struction wod. be a new one, and of course 9 States necessary to it. The subject will agn. be taken up in a few days. It appears Manifest they have 7 States & we 5. Maryld. inclusive with the southern States. Delaware is absent. It also appears that they will go on under 7 States in the business & risque the preservation of the confideracy on it. We have & shall throw every possible obstacle in the way of the measure, protest agnst. the right of 7 either to instruct or ratify, give informa tion of to this Mr. Jay & the Spn. Resident so that neither may be de ceiv’d in the business. This is one of the most extraordinary transac tions I have ever known, a minister negotiating expressly for the purpose of defeating the object of his instructions, and by a long train of intrigue & managment seducing the representatives of the States to concur in it. It is possible some, or perhaps one, (in wh. case it will be even) member may change his sentiments; but as he risqued his repu tation upon carrying it, it is to be presum’d he had engag’d them too firmly in the business to have a possibility of their forsaking him. This however is not the only subject of consequence I have to engage yr. at tention to. Certain it is that Committees are held in this town of East ern men and others of this State upon the subject of a dismember ment of the States East the Hudson from the Union & the erection of them into a seperate govt. To what lengths they have gone I know not, but have assurances to the truth of the above position, with this addi tion to it that the measure is talk’d of in Mass, familiarly & is suppos’d to have originated there. The plan of the govt in all its modifications has even been contemplated by them. I am persuaded these people who are in Congress from that State 5 (at the head of the other busi ness) mean that as a step toward the carriage of this, as it will so dis-' please some of them as to prepare the States for this event. I am thor oughly persuaded the govt, is practicable & with a few alterations, the best that can be devis’d. To manage our affrs. to advantage under it & remedy these defects, in my opinion, nothing is wanting but common sense & common honesty, in both of wh. necessary qualifications we are, it is to be lamented, very defective. I wish much your sentiments upon these important subjects. You will necessarily consider this as under an injunction of secrecy & confide it to none in whom the most
