474 August 15, 1786 LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). , , 1 For the enclosed resolve and Congress’ efforts to persuade New York to adopt the proposed Continental impost, see JCC, 31:513; and James Monroe to Chnton, August 16, note 3. See also Thomson to Clinton, August 25. Timothy Bloodworth to Richard Caswell Dear Sir New York, August 16th. 1786. The Ordinance for regulating the Indian Department is now passed, and the secretary will Transmit it to the different states. I am happy to inform you that after repeated endeavours, we have obliged the superintendant for the Southern District to Act in conjunction with the Authority of the State in all matters wherein the Legislative Rights of the States may be concerned, we have also postponed the Choice of the Superintendant for that district, at least for some time when you peruse the Ordinance, please to give advice respecting the Choice of the superintendant I will endeavour to prevent it untill 1 am favoured with a line from you. 2 The Ordinance for regulating the postage is now under Consideration, and hope it will be finished this day no material alterations will take place, except a few cross postes, and the postages to be paid in Hard money. 3 The Temporary Govern ment for the Western Country is yet under commitment, the treaty with Spain Occasions much debate and discontent, the particulars am not at Liberty to mention (as before observed) this Subject is in a committee of the whole House and there is great Divisions in the East ern and Southern Delegates and I fear that no small disquietude will attend the decision Shou’d it terminate against us which their is rea son to fear, the western Country will experience the disadvantage. The Subject of Acquiring more powers to the Confederation, is in the Order of the day, when finished they will be forwarded to you. We have at this time twelve states on the floor of Congress, but I expect they will withdraw as soon as this Grand Subject is fully decided. l am exceedingly anxious to hear of Coll. Blount and Family coming for ward, necessity will press me to return as soon as convemency will admit. The deligates of North Carolina is in a disagreeable Situation for want of Suitable provision. Mr. White has not received any thing from the state, my Naval Stores Yet remains unsold. I am very desire- ous to be relieved in time, and hope to provide better for the Nixt Tower [Tour], We are assured of the Friendly disposition of the for eign Courts, except the barbary powers with whom we cannot Negoci- ate for want of Money, this Treaty will cost at least One Million, what measures will be pursued on this Occasion is yet unknown, the subject is at present under committment. 6 Congress has fixed the alloy o
