August 16, 1786 475 Coin, the Standerd is one eleventh part 7 fine gold or silver, and one part alloy, the Dollar is made the money Unit by which the Decimal Ratio is fixed in the following manner Viz Mills the lowest money of account 1000 equal to the Money Unit or Dollar, Cents the highest Copper piece 100 equal to a dollar, Dimes the lowest silver Coin 10 equal to a dollar. Dollar the Money Unit. By this you will perceive that the mode of Keeping accounts, will be altered which I confess was against my Inclination, as it was contrary to the long Usage. The Silver Coin are a Dime, double Dime, half dollar and Dollar. The Gold coin are an Eagle and half Eagle, and quarter of an Eagle to be stamped with the American Eagle the largest to be equal to ten dollars and so in proportion. That the mint price of a pound Troy weight of un coined Gold eleven parts fine and one alloy shall be two hundred and Nine Dollars, seven dimes and seven Cents. The board of Treasury have it in Orders to draw up an Ordinance for establishing a Mint, when this is Compleated we shall want nothing but Bullion, when this Want will be supplied, it is to me unknown. It appears there is some commotions in the Massachusetts about the Gentlemen of the long robe, 8 which order the populous wish to destroy. They form Commit tees and are Clamorous, Rhode Island is also In Convulsions still about the paper Currency, 9 with which they are like to do Nothing. Some Merchants have moved out of the State, they also form Commit tees to oppose the passage of the Money while one party endeavour to enforce the law for that purpose. I remain your Most Obedient servant, Timothy Bloodworth Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 See Charles Thomson to the States, August 12. 2 For Caswell’s September 24 reply in which he admitted that “1 do not know any per son that I think would accept it, whom I would venture to recommend,” see N.C. State Records, 18:746. On October 6 Congress elected North Carolina delegate James White as superintendent for the southern district, Richard Butler having been appointed to the northern district post on August 14. See JCC, 31:747; and Charles Thomson to Butler, August 15. And in consequence of recent reports of animosities between the Indians and American settlers along the North Carolina-Georgia border, Congress adopted a committee report on October 10 which recommended that White be sent to the area immediately to “investigate the causes of the uneasiness,” seek assistance from the southern governors, and report back to Congress. Should the Indians refuse “reason able terms of pacification,” White was to inform the governors “that Congress are deter mined always to afford the most ample protection in their power to the citizens of the United States.” See JCC, 31:759-60; and PCC, item 190, fol. 127. See also Charles Thom son to James White, October 9, and Thomson to Certain States, October 11. 3 Bloodworth erred in anticipating final action on the Post Office ordinance that had been reported on June 15, as it was not entered on the journals until February 14, 1787, for which see William Grayson to Richard Henry Lee, March 22, note 6. Instead, Con gress responded to a series of initiatives concerning the transportation of the mails and
