484 August 16, 1786 No Argument can be drawn from what passed when Colonies. All that was profitable was confined to great Britain from the obligation to land and reship in that Island. Suppose we had the Advantages of the Spanish Trade when british Subjects which we had not, we lost them by the Revolution. The re gaining them as an independent People is an Object of the proposed Treaty. Canaries. Without a Treaty we may be excluded. Preferential Differences in favr. of U.S. No Nation on earth will treat with us terms of equality—unless we can be give them some thing for it. Commodities of every kind can find no preference but from being cheaper or better. If a Stipulation for equal duties is inserted in a Treaty and one party evades it the Treaty is void. 4 Article wants explanation. 3 The obvious meaning is that of Masts &ca be furnished on equal Terms with Others. America will have a preference. MS (O: St. Clair Papers). In the hand of Arthur St. Clair. 1 This date has been assigned on the assumption that the views summarized here by St. Clair were those articulated by William Grayson in opening the debate recorded by Melancton Smith and Charles Thomson in the following two entries. 2 That is, the reasoning of John Jay, as set forth in his August 3 report to Congress, for which see JCC, 31:467-84; and the preceding entry. 3 For this fourth “article” in Jay’s report, see JCC, 31:478. Melancton Smith’s Notes of Debates [August 16, 1786] 1 Grayson Spain a contemptible friend or foe, and therefore a treaty unimpor tant. The family compact does not extend to a guarenty of the domin ions claimed by Spain in America, as it comprehends only such terri tory as the two powers shall mutually possess at the conclusion of the then war. Nothing can be inferred from the conduct of France dur [in] g the War, as she was then deeply interested in bringing the whole house of Bourbon under engagements to support the independence of the US. It is the Interest of France to open the Missipi, as it will increase the objects of commerce.
