August 16, 1786 485 No danger of Portugal—for the Spaniards consider the monarchs of P. usurpers—in 1760, invaded P.—the present Queen of P., no rela tion to the Spa. market. G. Britain would rejoice at our going to war with Spain—she wishes to emancipate S. America, & would become our Friend & ally. Danger of the rivalry of G.B. in the Fishery, but this Treaty does not provide against it. She can elude it by giving large Bounties. MS (N: Melancton Smith Papers). In the hand of Melancton Smith. 1 This date has been assigned on the assumption that the views summarized here by Smith were those articulated by William Grayson when he opened the debate recorded by Charles Thomson in the following entry. See also the preceding entry. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates Thursday Aug 16. 1786 Congress went into a comee. of the whole. Mr Grayson opened the debate with an extemporary speech. He fol lowed the train of Mr P. 1 laboured to depreciate the advantages to be derived from a commercial treaty with Spain, & argued, That Nothing was offered by the treaty but what might be enjoyed without it, That the sacrifice to be made to obtain this treaty was great & far more than an equivalent—that the occlusion of the river would destroy the hopes of the principal men in the S. States in establishing the future fortunes of their families—that it would render the western country of no value & thereby deprive the US of the fund on which they depended to dis charge the domestic debt—that it would separate the interest of the western Inhabitants from that of the rest of the Union & render them hostile to it—that it would weaken if not destroy the union by disaffect- ing the S States when they saw their dearest interests sacrificed & given up to obtain a trivial commercial advantage for their brethren in the East—That Spain knew her own weakness & would not dare to go to war to secure her unreasonable demands—That if she did, she would not be supported by any of the commercial Nations in Europe—That it was their interest & wish that the trade of S Am. should be open—that although France was connected with Sp. by the family compact & pol icy, yet in case of a rupture bet. The US & S. she would only mediate between them but not join the latter—But in case she did G.B would join the U.S. That she in particular wished to see Sp divested of her S. Am. colonies & to participate in that trade. The interest & policy of the dutch would lead them to the same measures—That the US had noth ing to fear from a war with Sp. That Morgan with 1000 men could pen etrate into the heart of Mexico & emancipate the Sp. provinces—that
