492 August 18, 1786 Ballance is sure to be in our favour and that Ballance sure to be re turned in Gold and Silver. A Trade in which they will not only be their own carriers but the carriers for Spain also. A Trade Sir that at once tends to encrease the Staple of a considerable part of the confederacy, to encourage the Art of ship Building, and to nourish an encreased number of hardy and experienced Seamen. In this View the Advan tages can Scarce be estimated for they go much farther than the mere commercial profit they embrace the political Interests of the Nation and her future consequence with respect to other Nations. Treaties of Amity and Commerce Sir have a most happy Effect upon Mankind. They greatly tend to remove by the intercourse that follows from them that Distrust and Jealousy that distant Nations whose manners & Cus toms are different, who live under different Laws & Governments, and speak different Languages are apt to entertain of each other the inter change of commodities that One has and the other wants begets a friendly disposition disposes them to peace and literaly as the poet has beautifully expressed it binds the round of Nations in a golden Chain. But Sir the proposed Treaty does not offer to America mere commer cial Profit only. It will have and must have political Consequences. The House of Bourbon is closely united by Blood, by Treaty and by Inter est. The Pride, the Arrogance and Folly of great Britain has wrought a great Change in the Sentiments of European Powers. They have seen with pleasure the Union of that House and have been cordially acqui esced in it as the only Security they could have against the boundless Ambition and Rapacity of those haughty islands. We are not only in Friendship but in strict Alliance with one branch of that House—an other holds out His hand to Us, if we accept a closer connection will probably follow—if we reject it may not our Ally suspect it arises from a disposition not very friendly to her? When the seeds of Distrust are once sown they seldom fail to ripen into enmity. Should that happen Is there another power on Earth to which we could look up for that protection we shall yet a long time Want. Yes say Gentn. Great Britain would readily take us by the Hand. Sir I readily believe it would. I be lieve Sir they would move Heaven & Earth to recover that Asscen- dancy in the Affairs of Europe which they have lost for ever, and a connection with it whilst it would consign us to probable ruin, would mark us as the basest and the meanest of Nations that ever inhabited the Earth. But suppose that, with her protection we escaped the Evils we should be justly exposed to, and that with our Assistance she re gained that Ascendancy she has lost, would be then safe? No Sir She would then remember that we were once her Subjects. Her Arms would be turned against us, and with the Detestation of all Mankind we should left suffer the just punishment of perfidy and ingratitude. It follows I think Sir that from such a Treaty the united States would de rive profit and they would derive consequence.
