August 18, 1786 493 Let us now enquire whether the Concess[ions] expected from Us are more than equivalent for if they are the proposal should certainly be rejected. The Proposal Sir is a relinquishment of the right to navi gate the M. below the southern Boundary of U.S. This Sir has been solemnly and I think properly refused and if the Negotiation cannot go on but on that Ground it is at an End. Permit me howevr Sir to lament that at so early period and in my Judgment so unnecessarily that matter has been made Object. The united States thought it se cured to them by the definitive Treaty—had it been suffered to sleep until it became necessary to us it is more than probable there would no difficulty have occurred in the Exercise of it. At present I presume it will not be contended that the Exercise of that Right is of much con sequence—none that can in any degree be placed in the Ballance with the Trade to Spain. An Expedient however is suggested by the Sey. of U.S. by which for a limited time the Benefit of that Trade may be secured, to wit by consenting not to use that Navigation for the same limited time. What Injury will US receive thereby, 1 say none. The only Injuries that I heard suggested are that Emigration to the western Country would cease and consequently the value of the Lands which are depended upon for discharging the domestic Debt be less ened. If it would stop the Emigration to the westward it is an Event de voutly to be wished. That Emigration Sir has injured us much already, most sensibly Sir during the War by rendering the levies more difficult and the means of supporting it fewer. Sir I have been told & I believe it is true that in the Kentucky Settlement there are at this time 6 or 7000 Men able to bear Arms. Will the Gentn. of Virginia please tell what Advantage that State has derived from that great Body of Peo ple—has one Shilling ever come into their Treasury from them? I be lieve not Sir and farther I believe their never will. In one point of View they are absolutely lost both to the States from which they removed and to the Union. In another point of View they may be considered as very dangerous to it—collected together from every part of America with various views and from different causes they find themselves a distinct People that has little connection with and no defence upon any of the Atlantic States. They are fit instruments ready to be laid hold of by their Ennemies. Are the States bordering upon the Atlantic so overstocked with People, that it [A] necessary to encourage a Spirit of emigration? No Man of Observation that travels thro this Country but answer in the negative. He will tell you Sir that the most populous States still want more hands for that Agriculture is still in its Infancy. He will tell you Sir that it cannot be much improved without an acces sion of Hands. He must have seen Sir that there is scarce a hand can be spared for Manufactures and the Arts, nor can these ever arive at much perfection until there are many more People in a Country than
