494 August 18, 1786 are necessary merely for cultivation. I have been informed by very in telligent Gentn. from Virga, that the Emigration from that Country has been felt so sensibly that they will soon be obliged to repeal their Laws agt. the Importation of Africans. Can it be advantageous to any Country to send out industrious freemen to make room for Slaves? It is unnecessary to state the Effects because I think it will not be said the preventing Emigration by concentrating our People by accustom ing them to the wholesome restraint of Laws and requiring from them a more active and well directed Industry would place us in a better Situation for all Events whilst encreased the means of Subsis- tance & the Articles of Comm [er] ce and improved our Manners. Sir I am well acquainted with the Manners of our Frontier People and it was the employment of a great part of my Life to improve and civilize t h em —from the Sparse manner of their Settlement, from the dis tance they generally are from the Center of Power which is weak in proportion, from their Indigence and from the Injuries they are con stantly giving and receiving to and from the neighbouring Indians they accquire a turbulence and ferocity of Disposition that renders them but indifferent Citizens at the best, and the progress of Society may be traced in almost every American State thro all its different de grees—but most unhappily it is a retrograde progression, & Care then Sir should be taken to check this Spirit and if it cannot be checked Government should go hand in hand with it for want of this necessary precaution the united States I have good Reason to be lieve are at this Moment involved in an Indian War. But the value of the Lands will be lessned and the public Credit shaken. I have several times had occasion to mention my Sentiments on this Subject. The Redemption of the Debt by the Sale of those Lands has always appeared to me a Chimera. I believe Sir it will be worse that the Debt will be actually encreased by them. If the public Credit has no better foundation it rests upon the baseless Fabric of a Vision. I have held an opinion however that the public Debt with proper Managers, might be made a public Benefit. I think it might still be made so. All that is necessary is to be honest and provide for the regular payt. of the Interest which is easily within the Compass of the States. In a very little time Sir foregners would invest their Money in our Funds. They would become friendly to Us from a very power ful Motive and the Union itself would be bound more strongly to gether. There was a time when this might assuredly have been done. I will not say if it is not passed but I believe it might yet be done. Mr. Chairman There are yet some other and powerful Reasons on my Mind, suggest themselves why we should agree to the forbearing to navigate the M for a limited time. One is that at present we shall be prevented from it and it is not very necessary to us. There appears
