504 August 20, 1786 conclude a Treaty which they deem of so great Importance to their Possessions on this Continent. I am Dr Sir, sincerely your’s, L Cadwalader RC (DLC: Monroe Papers). 1 Not identified, but undoubtedly one embodying the principles found in the Vir ginia Delegates’ Motion of August 21. 2 For Monroe’s interest in taking these negotiations out of the hands of John Jay and dispatching Thomas Jefferson to Madrid to negotiate with Spain, see Monroe to Jeffer son, August 19, note 10; and the following entry, note 2. James Monroe to George Washington Dear General New York Augt. 20. 1786 May I take the liberty of our former acquaintance to confer with you freely upon the following propositions. You seem’d satisfied with those presented to the view of Congress on Friday by Colo. Grayson 1 viz. that exports be admitted down the Missisippi to N. Orleans as an entrepot—to pay there a duty of 2 per centm. or more if necessary to the crown of Spain ad valorem—to be carried thence in Spn., Ameri can & french vessels to other countries—that imports be prohib ited—in short that any arrangments on this subject be made wh. shall hold up the U.S. to those people, our ultra-montane brethern, as the patrons of their interest, and not give the sanxtion of Con gress to a measure which suspends for a day expressly their just rights—with these objects in view we will go as far as those who are the most anxious to obtain a Spanish treaty & cultivate the good wishes of that branch of the house of Bourbon. The point then upon which I wish particularly to consult you is simply this—the put- ing the negotiation of this treaty in the hands of Mr. Jefferson & Mr. Adams, that the former be instructed to repair to Madrid under the mediation of France for that purpose in character of Envoy extraor dinary. 2 This I presume may be done without giving offence to the gentn. here, either Mr. Jay or Gardoqui, since it is in difficulties of this kind the usage of courts to proceed thus & this line of negotia tion must be particularly respectful to the court of Spain as it will be the highest evidence of our disposition of it as well from the manner as the terms upon which we are willing to make the treaty. Without this believe me I have the most satisfactory evidence nothing will be done. Mr. Jay has within my knowledge since Deer, last been negoti ating with Congress to repeal his instructions (or rather with partic ular members) so as to occlude the Missisippi, & not with Spain to open it. I trust you have sufficient knowledge of me to be satisfied I wod. not make this allegation if I had not the most satisfactory evi-
