August 21, 1786 511 the US to cultivate the friendship of the Catholic King and they are willing, to obtain this important end, to make such concessions on their part as the most essential interests of the several Members of the confederation and their constitutional rights admit of; therefore Resolved That the Charge des Affaires at the court of Spain be in structed to assure his Catholic Majesty of the high regard the US en tertain for his friendship and of their earnest desire to cultivate and preserve always the best understanding between his Majesty and the said U.S. That as an evidence of this disposition they are willing upon the subject of the Mississippi that a treaty be formed upon the following principles. 1. That New Orleans be made an Entrepot for the reception of the bona fide produce of the US brought down the Mississippi by the Citi zens of the US, such produce to be landed at said port for exporta tion; that the said citizens be at liberty to return with their boats empty or with passengers only up the Mississippi to the places from whence they came. 2. That such produce aforesaid shall pay there at the time of the ex portation a duty not exceeding [blank} per centum ad valorem to the crown of Spain. 3. That such produce aforesaid shall be exported thence in Span ish, American or french bottoms; those in the bottoms of Spain under the regulations of Spain and those in the bottoms of America and France under the regulations of the two countries by treaty or other wise. 4. That imports of every kind and country to the said port and up the said river in American and french bottoms be prohibited and that all vessells engaged in transportation of such exports shall come to the said port in balast only. 5. That the US be authorised to appoint a consul to reside at New Orleans who shall be responsible for any violation of the stipulations by the citizens of the US. 6. That American factors be permitted to reside at said port for the management of the business of exportation only. 7. That the said treaty shall continue in force for the term of [blank} years. 8. That as to the boundaries they must insist his Majesty will accede to those defined in their treaty with G Britain. And farther to assure his Majesty that so soon as instructions shall be given to his Minister in these states to this effect the US will autho rise their secretary to conclude a treaty in conformity therewith; but that they cannot enter into any treaty or compact whatsoever with his Catholic Majesty on the said subjects upon any other terms or condi tions whatsoever.
