August 25,1786 525 “I complain loudly of you as cruel, that you have not wrote me on other Subjects, many things must have occurrd. on the Political Theatre, during the summer, which (being described by your pen) must have afforded instructive pleasure to me. “My affairs permitting me this rainy Day to speak to you, suffer me to ask you, not to impute my Silence to an Oblivion of the many Obligations I am under to you, for your kindness and improving Assistance during the last Winter, but to my hurry in agricul tural and domestic Concerns. We hear you have again made out a Requisition upon the States and are preparing an Address to accompany it. I conjecture, your hopes must far exceed your Faith, or your faith would remove mountains. Pray speak plain Language to the states, paint your Situation and your feelings without Disguise, and let them know you are or will soon be, the most contemptible political Body which ever conven’d. “The States have sufficient Ability to do great things, we are fast recovering from the fatigue of the Warr, and like a young Man who by sleep shakes off his Weariness, we are by two or three years quiet, so far recover’d as to run into every kind of Luxury and Ex travagance and not so much by Credit as formerly. New Buildings are erecting in every part of the Country, and no striking Marks of penury appear. “In constant hopes and Expectations that Nw. York and Pensylvania will so far dis cover the Precipice on which the united States as a collective body stand, by reason of withholding the necessary Means for the preservation of our Union, I am the more easy, that the States do not comply with yr. Requisitions, pleasing myself with the tho’ts, that such Discovery will induce such a compliance with the Resolve of C. of April 1783 as will cause the general Impost to operate by next Spring. “The Regulation of Trade is as essential a point to be obtain’d as the Impost, the for mer will eventually include the Latter and ought to be urged with as much pathos. “The English Prints inform us that our Countryman Mr. Lamb has been unsuccessful in his Legation and has returnd. to Europe. “How our affairs in Europe and Africa are, whether a Minister is to be sent to the Hague, whether our worthy freind Mr. Kean is dead or alive, what new Characters you have in Congress, what old members have retired, How our new President wears and a great variety of other congressional Questions, I wish to ask you. “State political Business seems to be asleep, nothing is talkd about but our farming concerns, the Politicians wearied themselves last spring in electioneering for a Gover nor and are not entirely freed of their fatigue to this Day. Nothing is said of Majr. Wyllys’s affair, and what is passing strange! alth’o I have been frequently in Company with the father and Sons, not one of them ever opend. his Lips on the Subject to me. “I know not whether you have as yet receiv’d the Act of Assembly, empowering you to make their Cession to Congress of western Territory. I intend this week to apply to Col. Wyllys for Information and forward it soon, if it has not been sent on. “I wish to know whether Mr. Sturgiss intends to continue in Congress after Octr., tis best the State should not fail of Representation at the Beginning of the new Year. “Our Brethren in the Delegation are part of them practizing Attornies and Genl. Wadsworth is engaged in his new Business, and cannot give Attendance, untill he knows whether he shall continue in Office another Year. “Before I left Nw York, Mr. Shalor was so kind as to lend me some Money, which is not paid; I expected him to send the Receit to Col Wadsworth and it should have been paid e’er this, Col Wadsth. has returnd. without it. I beg you to excuse me to Mr. Shalor, I will send it by the first opperty. or deliver it to Col Wadsworth. “I purchased a Ticket in Philadelphia Lottery No. 828—Class second, which I sup pose has drawn—still I wish to hear, pray you to enquire of Col. Byard and also whether yr. Tickets for 3d. Class are selling. “With many Compts. to all my Acquaintance and especially to Mr. Sturgis, I am with the highest Esteem and filial Regard, Sir Your humbe Sert.”
