August 26, 1786 529 Charles Thomson to George Read Sir, Office of Secretary of Congress, Aug 25. 1786 I received by last post and had the honor of communicating to the United States in Congress Assembled your two letters, of April 9 & Aug. 19th. 1 The latter is referred to the board of treasury with orders to report, so that I am in hopes the grounds of complaint mentioned will speed ily be removed. 2 With great respect, I am, Sr, Your obedt humble Servt LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 The former letter (actually dated April 8), which was Read’s response to Thomson’s March 1 letter to him, is in PCC, item 78, 19:547-50; and William T. Read, Life and Cor respondence of George Read, A Signer of the Declaration of Independence (Philadelphia, J. B. Lippincott & Co., 1870), pp. 407-12. 2 For the receipt of the “latter,” enclosing an unidentified “Act of the State of Delaware,” see JCC, 31:563n. Neither is in the PCC, and no board of treasury report on this “complaint” has been found. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry Dr. Gerry New York 26 Aug. 1786 The Boston papers mention as from authority that the Executive in tend convening the Legislature at an earlier day than that to which it stands adjourned; the object of an earlier meeting being the late Req uisition of congress &c. I cannot judge of the propriety of the pro posed measure with as much justice as you who are on the spot, and know the temper of the People. But I had concluded the distance of the Day of the next meeting of the General Court, as a very fortunate event in the present disposition of the people. The paper money of Rhode Island will have destroyed itself, and left an useful Lesson to the neighbouring States, before the first of February—the sober part of the community will prevail over those tur bulent Characters who are now moving the people for conventions, Reforms &c, &c. If so the conduct of the Legislature will promote more temperance & Wisdom in a remote than in an early meeting. 1 Inclosed you have a report which congress agreed to on the 23 in stant 2 —you will from this observe that we are, as the lawyers say, at issue with New York. The Governor it is said will not convene the Leg-
