530 August 26, 1786 islature. If he does not, I think I dont hazard much in saying, that he is the only one of the thirteen who would under similar circumstances refuse. I presume that I shall not be suspected of any great partiality for this State when it is known that I have not been the last man in urging the adoption of this Measure. My Idea is that congress should do every think [thing] in their power for the public Good. If the mis fortunes attending a want of national Faith & Honor must fall on our country, let the whole world say that Congress stand acquitted. Adieu, Yours with Affection, R King [PS.] I write you currenti Calemo 3 —you will be my Apologist as you are my friend. RC (NHi: King Papers). 1 For the response of the Massachusetts government to the protests and disorders mounting in western iMassachusetts, a regulator movement that came to be associated with the name of Daniel Shays, see Hall, Politics without Parties, pp. 208—13; and William Pencak, “The Response to Shays’s Rebellion Reconsidered,” in Gross, In Debt to Shays, pp. 136-41. 2 See Charles Thomson to George Clinton, August 25. s Cf. “currente calamo. . .With a running pen; hence, of writing, offhand.” Websters Dictionary. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry My Dr. Gerry New York 26 Aug. 1786 I wrote you a line this morning inclosing the Act of congress of the 23 instant relative to the Grant of the impost by N York. This serves to accompany the Report of a Grand committee upon a very important subject—read and examine it. I have just received a copy, and that I transmit to you 1 —it may be unnecessary to remark to you that these reports ought not to be laid before the public, until they have reed, the approbation of congress, but as the Subject is highly important, I possess you of a copy and request your examination and Remarks. I have nothing particular to add—except a peice of information for Mrs. Gerry; Mr. Hindman has been on a visit for more than five weeks at the Manor of Livingston; 2 Shrewd suspicions have been enter tained, that an Affair of the Heart led, and detained, him there. The amour is developed—and the information is authoritative that Mr. Hindman has with all proper, humility, agitation, anxiety, & homage, tendered to Miss Katy Livingston a proposal of a most interesting and passionate nature, and that after such surprize, and disapprobation, as the prerogative of the sex authorises the manifestation of, he has been most graciously heard, smiled upon, and encouraged. The usual ceremonials will not be long delayed. R King
