August 26, 1786 531 [PS.] Married Col. Smith to Miss Adams Majr. Fairley to Miss Gates Col. Barber to Miss Crook — . 12June 86 17 Aug. 86 July 86 RC (NHi: King Papers). 1 See Timothy Bloodworth to Richard Caswell, August 16, note 5. 2 For William Hindman’s visits to Livingston Manor, see also Hindman to Unknown, June 24, 1786. Samuel Livermore to John Sullivan Dear Sir, New York 26th August 1786. In answer to yours of the 14th instant 1 I would first observe that there have been for sometime past 12 States in congress the whole Union except Delaware State. Their attention is taken up partly by hearing and answering peti tions which in our General Court are pretty numerous—but necessary to administer publick justice. Partly by makeing acts or ordinances for the publick good. It is not easy for you to conceive the length of time and debate ocupied in making an ordinance for Indian affairs. Pub lick treaty’s with foreign powers and debates on certain points con tained in them take up much time—every thing under this head is under the injunction of secrecy, until concluded. Requisition—mode of taxation—imports [imposts], additional arti cles to the consideration [confederation] to be recommended to the States for adoption, present powers of congress in respect to certain objects, have taken up much time. Western Territory—Indian war, Indian treaty’s, coinage—com merce &c &c. Our foreign debt or the intrest of it must doubtless be paid in solid coin. But that coin will not be sent from this country as I sup pose. But our produce being sold in foreign countries must raise the cash and that cash be negotiated to discharge our debt. Our cash being collected in this country may be applied to purchase bills of credit from such American merchants as have sent cargoes to Hol land, France and Spain. Spain is doubtless the market for the north ern States to get cash and a treaty—but I must be silent. No doubt you easily see an answer to your question abt NH or any other State paying their quota in produce. Let the produce be sent to market in Holland, France or Spain especially the latter it will raise the cash: that cash will pay the quota. You will ask then, shall a state turn merchant? Perhaps they must in some sort.
