536 August 30, 1786 what will be the opinion of Congress. From the Sentiments of some Gentlemen out of doors, the measure if not acceded to, will be at least countenanced. 1 The operation of this system will raise the price of all public securi ties, which will in some measure defeat the object of our legislature. If it is possible by any means, to procure a Sum of Money, it appears to me, that there is no mode in which it could be so advantageously laid out, as in purchasing our quota of the domestic debt. The State of Pennsylvania has already in her own hands more than her proportion, some other States are nearly in the same condition, all will aim at the same thing, and thereby produce an instantaneous rise on the value of the debt, such a one as will probably require double the Sum that is now requisite to secure the whole of our share of the debt. This is a subject of serious concern to us. I will therefore take the liberty of sug gesting an Idea that has occurred to me, and upon which I have spoke confidentially to a Gentleman in this City. It is his opinion and also my own that by Contract, the greater part if not the whole of our debt, may be obtained at this Time at a very moderate rate. The Credit of the state is good, and if authority was given and confidence reposed in some individual for this purpose the most beneficial effects would be derived from it. Tobacco would be received instead of Money which would greatly ease our people. I expect the full plan from the Gentle man to whom I allude which when received shall be laid before your Excellency. Be so obliging as to let me hear from you upon this subject. I am, Sir, with Sentiments of the most perfect respect & Esteem, Yrs. J Henry RC (MdAA: Executive Papers). 1 This report, which was issued as a broadside, was submitted on August 16 by a com mittee consisting of William Samuel Johnson, Charles Pettit, and Charles Pinckney to whom an August 14 motion by Pinckney “relative to supplementary funds” and the ap portionment of the domestic debt had been referred. See JCC, 31:517-18, 521-23, 966; and PCC, item 190, fol. 115. See also Henry to Smallwood, November 1, 1786. James Monroe to James Madison Dear Sir New York Augt. 30. 1786. Since my last we have been from day to day upon the business wh. engag’d us when you were here. They carried the repeal by 7 States in the Committee of the Whole & afterwards in the house. 1 We mov’d to postpone to take into consideration the plan in conformity with the idea I suggested to you, 2 in which we enter’d into long reasoning upon the Secrys. project, proving if we were well founded, its futility,
