538 September 1, 1786 United States.” JCC, 31:607-8. See also Livermore to Sullivan, August 26, and Charles Thomson to Sullivan, September 2, 1786. Edward Carrington to James Mercer p r gi r i New York Sept. 1. 1786 I have had the pleasure to receive your favors of the 26th June and 25th August, together with the certificates which were the Subjects of them and should have returned you an Answer immediately on receiv ing the first, had it not been for a painful indisposition from which I have since recovered. I will with great pleasure have them adjusted in whatever Offices they may respectively be admissible, as soon as I am sufficiently at leisure to act upon them, with a great number of others sent to my hands by my friends. You may be assured that every thing needful for the proprietors shall be attended to. It is proper that two men who have equally the public good at heart and differed so widely as you and I have done upon a point of policy remaining as yet in speculation, should communicate to each other the reciprocal effects of enquiry and reflection upon it. I mean the emission of paper money, which it seems but too much occupies the views of Virga. I assure you, Sir, I have devoted much of my atten tion to the effects of the experiment in the other States, most of whom have gone into it, and thus stands my information. In Rhode Island, almost in the instant of its birth, it ceased to circulate, except in the payment of debts, for which it was made a Tender, and has convulsed the State nearly to a civil War. In N. York it has but just made its appearance but is not a tender provided the Creditor will not bring Suit, or in other words, it gives a letter of licence until the Debtor can dispose of his property, and run away. There is at present no marks of depredation; but in the decline of Commerce & distress of Merchants, who Dare do no business upon Credit, symtoms of bad consequences are plain. In Jersey, its age is about the same as that of New York, and its operation the same also—its effects must of Conse quence be in concord. In So. Carolina it is in age much older than any of these before mentioned, its operation and effects the same, and is depredated to the degree of 25 per Cent notwithstanding the most oppressive associations for the support of it, such as no Govern ment, much less a free one, should afford occasion for. In No. Car olina, where it had existed for three years a tender, to the banish ment of Commerce into Virga., Goverment has past an Act which eventually acknowledges a depredation of near 100 per Cent—That is to say in directing a quantity of Tobo. to be purchased the price of 50/ per Ct. is allowed, when the specie price is but 25 or 30/. In Pen- sylvania it has been in circulation near two years, and although it is in no sense made a tender, as well as managed with tolerable attention
