540 September 1, 1786 RC (CtY: Betts Collection). Endorsed: “Carrington Colo. Edwd., abt. Fr Thornton’s 8c Jas. Lewis’s Certificates sent him byj Mercer to get allowed for their use.” 1 Recipient’s identity conjectured from the letter’s endorsement. 2 In 1786 Carrington submitted three expense accounts for £213.12.0 for 89 days ser vice, February 1 to April 30; £220.16.0 for 92 days, May 1 to July 31; and £220.16.0 for 92 days, August 1 to October 31. Continental Congress Papers, Vi. Despite his claim of delegate service from February 1, Carrington did not actually take his seat in Congress until March 3. See JCC, 30:93. James Monroe to James Madison Dear Sir New York Sepr. 1. 1786. Sometime since I was appointed of the Committee to attend the Pena. Assembly, contrary to my wishes, & not being able to extricate myself (having apologiz’d in the first instance upon Mrs. Monroe’s in disposition which was not admitted in expectation of her better health) am now under the necessity of attending. 1 The question was not I suppos’d taken upon the whole report of the Committee of the Whole—but upon the subsequent instruction as to the boundaries only. The President Stated it from the chair to be upon the whole, but the next day qualified it as meaning the whole then before the house, the other part being (as to the repeal) decided the day before. We suppos’d the question, having been taken upon the several amend ments, had been, as stated above, afterwards taken on the whole. 2 It is enter’d in the journals as carried in the affirmative as to the repeal. A motion was made is the question carried? & laid aside by the previous question. It has since been made an order that we shall not move in form or substance any proposition which has been set aside by the previous question, unless the same number of States are present—the State of R. Island, being abt. to leave the floor which their delegation accordingly did immediately. 3 I shall sit out for Phila. on Monday next—will you be there on my arrival? Sincerely yrs. Jas. Monroe RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 For Monroe’s and Rufus King’s mission to Philadelphia, see King’s Memorandum, September 13, note 2. 2 Monroe was attempting to clarify a cryptic reference at the close of his August 30 letter to Madison concerning congressional action taken on the report of the commit tee of the whole on the Spanish treaty. Congress had considered the committee’s two resolutions on August 28, repealing on the 29th the ultimatum in John Jay’s instruc tions on free navigation of the Mississippi River. On the 30th the second resolution con taining revised instructions regarding Spain’s recognition of the U.S. boundaries speci fied in the peace treaty was defeated after complicated maneuvering. Monroe had mistakenly assumed that the August 30 vote was on the whole report not just the second resolution. See JCC, 31:609-13, 620-21. s Because the southern delegates continually reasserted the ultimatum on free navi gation during debate August 28-30, Rufus King moved on August 31 the rule of order
