September 3, 1786 541 explained here by Monroe which was adopted this day. See ibid. With the immediate departure of the Rhode Island delegation debate on the Spanish treaty effectively ended until April 1787. Charles Thomson to John Sullivan Dear Sir New York Sept 2. 1786 I have the pleasure to inform you that yesterday 1 Congress passed a resolution recommending to the State of Newhampshire to pay you the sum of 4300 dollars in Compensation for the extraordinary ex- pences to which you were exposed in the separate Commands and ex peditions on which you were employed at sundry times while in the service of the United States. I herewith enclose you a copy of the Act for your private satisfaction. In my public letter which accompanies this I have enclosed a copy to be communicated to the Legislature. 2 With great Respect I am, Dear Sir, Your obedt humble Servt, Cha Thomson RC (DLC: Peter Force Miscellany). 1 Actually the day before yesterday, for which see Samuel Livermore to Sullivan, Au gust 31, note. 2 The text of this enclosure in Thomson’s letterbook reads: “I have the honor of transmitting to Your Excellency herewith enclosed an act passed the 311 of last month by the United States in Congress Assembled, and which I have to request the favour of your Excellency to communicate to the Legislature of the State over which you preside. With the greatest respect, I have the honor &c. C.T.” PCC, item 18B, fol. 90. Rufus King to Jonathan Jackson Dear Sir, New York 3. Sep. 1786 Mr. Cabots information relative to the Spanish commercial regula tions is very satisfactory; I find it corresponds with the best accounts I have been able to collect on the Subject, & Mr. Gardoqui himself con firms it. A Treaty with Spain is at this Time a desirable Event; If the present situation is preferable to a rupture with Spain a Treaty between us must not be long delayed—the boundaries of their and our Territo ries, remain to be ascertained; they claim extensive Tracts of country within the Limits of the united States as fixed by the Treaty of Peace & Freindship with Great Britain; we insist on the right of freely navigat ing the Missisippi from its source to the Ocean. They deny this right and refuse us the navigation where both banks are in the possession
