544 Septembers, 1786 AHR 17 (October 1911): 44-51; Louise B. Dunbar, A Study of “Monarchical” Tendencies in the United States from 1776 to 1801 (1922; reprint ed., New York: Johnson Reprint Corp., 1970); and a forthcoming biography by John M. Palmer, General von Steuben (1937; reprint ed., Port Washington, N.Y.: Kennikat Press, 1966). Krauel had discovered the draft of a letter from Prince Henry, the brother of Freder ick the Great and a patron of Steuben, in the Prussian Hausarchiv in Charlottenburg, undated but written in reply to a missing November 2, 1786, letter from Steuben con cerning fundamental changes that were likely to take place soon in the government of the United States. Speculating on “what could impel Steuben and his friends to such a communication with a Prussian prince,” Krauel conjectured that Steuben had enclosed to the prince a letter presumed to have been written by Nathaniel Gorham—“wherein the latter, according to the memorandum of Rufus King, is said to have invited the prince to come to the United States as king, if the American people should decide to give themselves a constitution according to the English pattern.” King’s memorandum, dated May 10, 1824, actually reads: “Col. Miller this evening said to me, speaking of Mr. President] Monroe that he had told him that Mr. Gorham, formerly President of Con gress, had written a letter to Prince Henry, brother of the great Frederic, desiring him to come to the U.S. to be their King, and that the Prince had declined by informing Mr. Gorham that the Americans had shown so much determination agt. their old King, that they wod. not readily submit to a new one; Mr. Monroe adding that Genl. Armstrong had given him this information and that the papers or correspondence was in the hands of General Hull. “This communication arose from the letter of Monroe to General Jackson, expressing his opinion that among the Federalists of the time of Genl. Washington, were persons in favor of Monarchy,!!!” King, Correspondence (King), 6:643-44. In the 80 plus years since Krauel wrote, no evidence to document this story has been found. The likelihood that President Gorham wrote such a letter is greatly diminished by the fact that no presidential letters of any description by Gorham are known and that his presidency expired within four days of the date of the date of Steuben’s letter to Prince Henry. No discussion of the subject is even hinted in any of the surviving con gressional correspondence and much of the documentation originally used to support Krauel’s conjectures dates from three or four decades after the fact and originates with persons reporting second or third hand information. 2 For Madison’s views on and role in calling the Annapolis Convention, see Madison, Papers (Rutland), 9:115-19. 3 Nathan Dane returned to his seat in Congress September 13. JGC, 31:646, 650, 652. James Monroe to James Madison Dear Sir New York Sepr. 3. 1786. In my last I advis’d you of the point to wh. seven States had brought the business. After repealing the instruction in part, entering the re peal affirmatively, setting aside a motion requiring the sense of Con gress whether the repeal was valid so as to give a new instruction by 7 States, by the previous question, & passing an order to prevent our moving it again untill they shod, have the same number of States on the floor, on their part the thing was complete. I inform’d you also of our propositions & the number of States for them—it was on Friday last that they clos’d the business. 1 It has been propos’d by some of the gentn. on ours to notify Mr. Jay of the opinion of the 5 States but I
