September 3, 1786 545 think we shall not do this. 2 He is possess’d of course of our sentiments in the official way; to communicate them otherwise than thro the journals might have an intemperate & factious appearance. We have as yet done nothing but under the constitution & almost in all cases the rules of the house, nor shall we I apprehend. Some gentn. on their side hinted their determination to withdraw if the question shod, be brought on as to the validity of the repeal. Whether we shall take any other step is undecided. I doubt the propriety of so doing further than moving for permission to transmit copies of the journals to the States for their information & to obtn. instructions to their del egations. 3 I shod, suppose the Secry. wod. not proceed untill he finds himself supported by the States to whom the 7 delegations belong. Upon Jersey & Pena, then it rests. To engage their leading men is now the object. 4 Most probably he has already consulted them but his con sultations & those of his party I doubt not have been founded on par tial representations. To remove their impression a view of the journals may be necessary. I consider the party especially Jay & the principal advocates as having gone too far to retreat. They must either carry the measure or be disgrac’d (as the principal already hath been by the vote of 5 States), & sooner than suffer this they will labour to break the Union. I therefore suspect they have been already (and indeed have too much reason for my suspicions) intriguing with the principal men in these States to effect that end in the last resort. They have even sought a dismembermt. to the Potowmack & those of the party here have been sounding those in office thus far. 5 To defeat the mea sure therefore completely we must follow their mov’ments & counter act them every where, advise the leading men of their designs, the purposes they are meant to serve &c, and in event of the worst ex tremity prepare them for an union with the southern States. I fear some of those in Pena, will have a contrary affection—but it must be remov’d if possible. A knowledge that she was on our side wod. blow this whole intrigue in the air. To bring this abt. therefore is an impor tant object to the Southern interest. If a dismembermt. takes place that State must not be added to the eastern scale. It were as well to use force to prevent it as to defend ourselves afterwards. 6 I consider the convention of Annapolis as a most important aera in our affrs. The Eastern men be assur’d mean it as leading further than the object originally comprehended. If they do not obtain that things shall be ar rang’d to suit them in every respect, their intrigues will extend to the objects I have suggested above. Pena, is their object. Upon succeeding or failing with her will they gain or lose confidence. I doubt not the emissaries of foreign countries will be on the ground. In short I do consider this convention as requiring your utmost exertions, in the change things will infallibly take, as well to obtain good as to prevent mischief. Mr. Randolph will I hope devote himself to the publick
