546 Septembers, 1786 upon this occasion & not suffer himself to be taken off by his profes sional pursuits before the convention dissolves. I write you freely with out the cover of a cypher knowing you have not yours with you. In deed I fear nothing to the publick or myself from a publication, for I am satisfied if the publick were acquainted with the conduct of these unworthy servants their consequence wod. be of but short duration. Prevail I beg of you on Colo. Mason to attend the convention. It will give him data to act on afterwards in the State. Very sincerely I am yr. friend & servt., Jas. Monroe [PS.] I have always consider’d the regulation of trade in the hands of the US as necessary to preserve the union—without it, it will infallibly tumble to pieces—but I earnestly wish the admission of a few addi tional States into the confederacy in the southern scale. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Endorsed by Madison: “Design of the Eastern states, in cer tain contingencies, to dismember the union by the line of the Potomac.” 1 See Monroe to Madison, September 1. 2 For evidence that such an “opinion” had already been drafted, see the following entry. 3 For the failure of Charles Pinckney’s September 28 motion to lift the injunction of secresy on the Spanish negotiations and allow the delegates to communicate with the states, see JCC, 31:697. 4 For earlier attempts to sway New Jersey’s John Witherspoon and Pennsylvania’s Arthur St. Clair and James Wilson toward the southern position, see Monroe to Madi son, August [ 11 ], note 2. 5 Cf. Theodore Sedgwick to Caleb Strong, August 6; Monroe to Patrick Henry, August 12; and Monroe to Thomas Jefferson, August 19, note 11. 6 Monroe’s apprehensions over the intentions of the eastern delegates had their counterpart in French charge Louis-Guillaume Otto’s summary of congressional con flict during the Jay-Gardoqui negotiations. In his September 10 dispatch to the comte de Vergennes, which is in Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres: Correspon dence politique, Etats-Unis, 32:65-71, Otto included the following assessment (in trans lation) of southern motivation in the affair: “The negotiations relating to the treaty of commerce with Spain, of which I had the honor to give you an account in my last despatch, have since been the constant subject of the deliberations of congress. The southern states had vainly flattered themselves that they could detach Pennsylvania and Newjersey from the league of the North; they have, however, proposed the mediation of his Majesty and the plan by which New Or leans is designated as a commercial entrepot for all the commodities of the interior. The only change which they made in it consisted in giving full instructions to Mr. Carmichael to open negotiations at Madrid instead of sending Jefferson there. This project has met serious opposition from the states of the North. As to the navigation of the Mississippi, they remarked that, far from being advantageous to the confederation, it would only serve to separate from the United States all the interior country; that the inhabitants of Kentucky, no longer feeling the necessity of maintaining commercial connections with the maritime states, and having, furthermore, a policy entirely differ ent from that of their neighbors, would only think of rendering themselves wholly inde pendent of congress as of a sovereign body from which they could derive no benefit; that the fertility of those countries would insensibly attract the most industrious inhabi tants of the northern states, who would not hesitate an instant to exchange the arid rocks of Massachusetts and of New Hampshire for the smiling plains of the Ohio and the Mississippi; that a limited population spread over an immense surface would weaken the springs of the government, and that anarchy and discord would inevitably
