September 5,1786 551 Charles Pettit to John Nicholson Sir 5 Septr. 1786 The inclosed Note or Certificate No. 120, signed Benja. Walker & dated New York 31 July 1786 for the Payment of 92 36/90 Ds. from the U.S. to Mary Cawfield, was put into my hands by Mary Cawfield to procure a Certificate from the State of Pennsa. for the like Sum draw ing Intt. from the 1st of Augt. 1783. She grounds her Claim to this Exchange on the following State of her Case which I believe to be true from the Information of Dr. Cochran & others—That she came from Ireland—served her Time with a Person (whose Name I have forgot) at Easton—was then hired & in the Service of one of the Hospital Doctors while the Army lay at Valley Forge—After some Time this Doctor (I forget his Name also) put her into the Service of the Army Hospital, in which service she continued to the End of the War & for which she obtained this Certifi cate, but was discharged in the State of New York. 1 If this intitles her to the Exchange, as I conceive it does, I request you will please to give me a State Certife. for her. I am Sir, Yr. most huml Servt., Cha. Pettit 2 RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 Mary Cawfield’s name does not appear in the surviving records of Congress, but for a suggestive hospital return submitted July 23, 1781, by Dr. John Cochran, Director General of Hospitals, recording the positions of the 36 matrons and nurses “employed at present. . .in the different Hospitals,” see PCC, item 22, fol. 63. 2 Pettit wrote this letter in Philadelphia during an interlude of about five weeks away from Congress, ca. August 18 to September 26. Cf. JCC, 31:520, 535, 687, 690, 696. During this period he also wrote a letter dated “Philada. 12th Septr. 1786” to the Philadelphia printer and publisher Mathew Carey concerning his “personal Acquain tance” with the late Nathanael Greene, under whom Pettit had served as assistant quartermaster general, 1778-80. “His penetration & Judgment were,” Pettit ex plained, “as you justly mention, superior to those of most Men, and his Thirst for Knowledge was very great; but it appeared to me that his acquired Knowledge arose more from desultory Reading and cursory Observation after he became engaged in Business than from Systematic Studies in youth. He was himself sensible of the Defi ciency of his Education in this Respect, but instead of discouraging, it stimulated him to greater Industry & strong Exertions of his natural Talents. His Manner & Address, tho’ abounding in Marks of Benevolence & other essential Qualities of Politeness, shewed little of the polish of the Dancing School or the Ball Room.” Lea & Febiger Collection, PHi.
