September 13, 1786 555 don, that the refusal to seperate the 2 parts of the system 5 endangers the govt.—and that it will most probably induce a change of some kind or other. It is well for the southern States to act with great cir cumspection & to be prepard for every possible event—to stand well with the middle states especially. I sincerely wish you to suffer no anxi ety and to put yourself to no inconvenience upon our private affair. I have no occasion for the money untill abt. the 5 or 10th of Octr. to help to remove me to Virga.—and even then it will be in my power to do without it, with tolerable convenience, if you shod, find it inconve nient to command it. Believe me it will put me to no inconvenience. My engagments are but few & those within my controul. Let me hear from you as often as possible. Remember me to Colo. Tucker & his lady, to the rest of yr. Colleagues & to Mr Stone & believe me sincerely yr. friend & servant, Jas. Monroe. [PS.] Colo. Grayson came with me in the interval to relax from busi ness & meet his lady here. She is with him—but unfortunately he is af flicted with an extry. disease. The phisicians differ in the name. He is often delirious—is afflicted with st[r]ange fancies & apprehensions— in the morning he is better, than in the latter end of the day & night, at wh. time his infirmity rages. It is suppos’d by some to be the float ing gout. Shippen calls it a bilious affection of the nerves. The very close attention he hath lately paid to business with the laborious exer cise of the mind & the want of that of the body I fear hath given birth to it. To day he hath been better than heretofore. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 For .Monroe’s and Rufus King’s mission to the Pennsylvania assembly, see King’s Memorandum, September 13. 2 That is, concerning the repeal of John Jay’s instructions governing his negotiations with Diego de Gardoqui on the navigation of the Mississippi. See Monroe to Madison, September 1 and 3. 3 For information on Madison’s discussion with Clark on this issue, see Abraham Clark to Madison, November 23, 1786. 4 That is, former Maryland delegate Thomas Stone. 5 That is, the separation of the impost from the granting of supplemental funds, the subject with which Monroe began his letter. Edward Carrington to James Monroe Dr Sir, New York Sept. 13. 1786 I had the pleasure to receive your favor of the 10th Instant 1 and im mediately sent to Mrs. Monroe that which was covered for her. Colo. Graysons indisposition gave me, upon the receipt of your letter, some alarm and much concern: both have, however been somewhat allevi-
