558 September 13, 1786 impost, which suspends its operation until all the states shall have granted the supple mentary funds.” King and Monroe were named to this committee on August 14. See JCC, 30:443-44, 31:505n, 508, 511-13, 515. The two apparently left New York for Philadelphia on September 6, the day Secretary Thomson recorded in his journal that Massachusetts was represented only by King’s col league Nathaniel Gorham (JCC, 31:638). A letter from King and Monroe (not found), enclosing a copy of the congressional resolution explaining their charge, was read to the Pennsylvania Assembly on September 11 and referred to a committee appointed to confer with them, and on the following day the assembly ordered that the two be re ceived “tomorrow.” The assembly journal for September 13 reports simply that King and Monroe “made the communication with which they were charged from the Honor able the United States in Congress assembled,” but the following day a committee con sisting of George Clymer, William Findley, Thomas FitzSimons, Robert Morris, John Smiley, Robert Whitehill, and Joseph Work, was appointed “on the several papers rela tive to the mission of the committee of Congress.” The matter was concluded when the assembly adopted the following committee report and proposed resolution on Septem ber 21. “That your committee have paid serious attention to the important facts which have been stated by the Honorable Delegates, and to the reasons and arguments which they have advanced, as well as to the measure recommended by the United States, and after mature consideration they are unanimously of opinion, that it is necessary to the wel fare of these states, that speedy and effectual measures be taken for enabling the federal government to perform their engagements. “That an immediate compliance with the recommendation abovementioned would involve a breach of the faith of this state, pledged to the public creditors, citizens thereof, unless at the same time some further and other funds were provided for the payment of the interest due, and which shall become due to them. “That it is impracticable for this House, now so near the period of its dissolution, to provide funds, or make any arrangements which may be necessary in order to comply with the recommendation of Congress. “Your committee therefore propose the following resolution: “Resolved, That it be, and it hereby is warmly and earnestly recommended to the next House of Assembly, to pay an early attention to the abovementioned resolution of Con gress, and to take such measures as shall to them in their wisdom seem most expedient for supporting the faith of this commonwealth, and enabling the United States in Con gress to perform their engagements.” See Minutes of the Third Session of the Tenth General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, DLC(ESR), pp. 300, 304, 306, 313, 315-16; and PCC, item 69, 2:557-60. 3 One eye witness of this day’s proceedings, Philadelphia County assemblyman Henry Hill, later recorded the following observations on King’s performance before the as sembly. “I lately had the pleasure of hearing Mr. King’s harangue to our Assembly, on the Subject of the Commission with which he & Mr. Monro were charged by Congress. It was truely, to the best of my judgment adapted to insure applause even from an Attic Audience. “Virginia appeared in the most advantageous light. Should her liberal support of the Union be Withdrawn, & Pennsylva. refuse her’s—he represented wth wonderful effect what would become of our State regulations—of the renown of our heroes & patriots— they wou’d all be swept away—and utterly lost! “The impression made on the House in favor of the point ‘supplicated’ was remark ably tho’ tacitly confess’d and had the Members individually been question’d on the Spot whether the impost should be granted without reserve no one doubts it would have succeeded. They chose however on cool deliberation to refer the important busi ness to the next Assembly. Whether or not such a measure is practicable appears very doubtful.” Hill to George Washington, October 1, 1786, Washington Papers, DLC.
