September 15, 1786 559 South Carolina Delegates to William Moultrie Sir, Duplicate New York Sepr. 15th. 1786. Your Excelly. will herewith receive the proceedings of Congress rela tive to the appointment & meeting of the federal court to terminate the territorial dispute between us and the State of Georgia which is fixed to be holden in this City on the third Monday in June next 1 — the reasons which have induced the determination of Congress to so distant a day and our conduct in this business we beg leave to detail. When the second Monday in May arrived, which was the day ap pointed for the agents to meet, 2 we had received no other informa tion than our appointment as agents, and the act of the State under which the agents were appointed; which law also appointed commis sioners for an amicable adjustment of the difference. The agents for Georgia did not arrive until the very morning of the day on which we were to appear. 3 From them we learned, that their legislature had ad journed a few days before the intention of our State for an amicable adjustment was known; but they had no doubt but their State would chearfully adopt the measure. Believing from the law of our State that it would be most agreable to our constituents, we agreed to postpone the business for one week, in hope of receiving further information on the subject, but none arriving & still holding the opinion that it would be most consonant to the wishes of our Legislature to have the matter amicably settled—the Legislature of Georgia being also to meet in July, and having no doubt at that time that they would have coincided in opinion with our Legislature in having the matter deter mined by mutual agreement we consented to a further postponement until the first Monday in September. From this time we have exerted ourselves by every possible means to bring the matter to a speedy decision, by offering the agents of Georgia (first consulting the Council of our State on these points) to appoint the Judges in this City or its vicinity so that they might the sooner be convened, and of entering into an agreement with them relative to the admission of evidence & further offering them, as we could not agree on the day for holding the court, to leave that matter to Congress, as your Excelly. will perceive in the papers No. 1 & 2 4 — but their State having made no arrangement for coming to trial by providing funds, delay became their duty & by not concurring with us in a day & proposing none earlier than May we were obliged having received no instructions on this head to adopt the only mode left us, that of an application to Congress. The reasons which appeared to us to operate with that body to determine as they have done were— 1st. The act of our State appointing Commissioners for an amicable adjustment of the dispute and no official information that Georgia had not agreed to such mode.
