560 September 15, 1786 2d. The unprepared situation of Georgia—for holding this court to be one of the greatest refinements of national policy, they conceived it necessary to give no cause to that State for complaint, as by hurrying them into a premature defence they might do, and thereby bring into dispute the decision of the court. 3d. The little hope there was of conveying information to & receiv ing acceptances from the gendemen appointed, by so early a day as that we contended for. Finding we could not obtain the day we so earnestly contended for we thought it best to get the time now mentioned, because that not only our own courts, but those of Pensylvania and Maryland will be over and as judges of both these States are on the court, there will be a greater prospect of their accepting & by that means bringing the matter to a decision. In prosecuting this business we take the liberty to mention to your Excellency we have not only found it very troublesome & fatiguing but entirely out of that line which our duty as delegates calls upon us to transact—besides we are informed that those persons who have hereto fore been appointed by States having territorial disputes, have always had an allowance made them adequate to their trouble—added to which and it is with sorrow we mention it, the great loss in exchanging the paper of our State into money that will subsist us here has reduced our salarys as delegates so as to render it wholly inadequate to our maintenance—the least loss that we have suffered being 25 pr Cent. Trusting that your Excellency will do whatever is right & proper and that you will be convinced that not only every exertion on our part has been but shall be made in the further prosecuting this matter, We have the honor to be, Your Excellencies Most Obt. hum. Servts. John Kean Charles Pinckney RC (ScCoAH: Governor’s Messages). Written by Kean and signed by Kean and Pinckney. 1 See the following entry. 2 For Congress’ resolution of June 1, 1785, fixing this date, see JCC, 28:408-10. See also these Letters, 22:427n.l. 3 For the appearance of William Few and William Houstoun of Georgia on May 8, see JCC, 30:238. 4 Not found. Charles Thomson to the Judges for the Georgia-South Carolina Boundary Dispute Sir (Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress, September 15. 1786. I have the honor to transmit to you herewith enclosed a Copy of the
