564 September 20, 1786 Georgia Delegates to John Jay Septr 20th 1786 A Controversy now pending, between the States of South Carolina and Georgia, respecting Jurisdiction and territory, which is shortly to be determined by A federal Court; 1 makes it necessary for the Under written Agents of the State of Georgia, to request the favor of the Honble. Mr Jay to inform them, whither he possesses any documents that will show, there was ever A temporary or fixed line admitted as A boundary between Florida and Carolina, by the Kings of Great Britain and Spain in consequence of A Convention agreed on by them the day of January 1739, for that purpose; and also how far, and on what principle Spain extended her territorial claim up the River Mis sissippi on the Southeast side, at any time before the last war, and how far Great Britain expressly, or tacitly, admitted such claim: or whither by any treaties, or other means, before that period, it could be deter mined, in whose right, that territory or tract of land was, which lies be tween A line runing West from the head or source of the South branch of the River Alatamaha to the Mississippi, and the thirty first degree of North latitude. The said Agents, will be extreamly obliged to Mr Jay for any infor mation he may please to give them on these subjects. 2 Wm Houstoun W Few RC (James S. Copley Library, La Jolla, California). Written by Few and signed by Few and Houstoun. 1 See Charles Thomson to the Judges for the Georgia-South Carolina Boundary Dis pute, September 15. 2 This letter was not recorded in the daily journal of the office of the secretary for for eign affairs (PCC, item 127, fols. 23-25), and no record of any response to it has been found in the PCC. Rufus King to Thomas Smith Si r> City Tavern 20. Sep. 1786 Upon farther reflection, I think you will do well to present a formal memorial to the supreme Executive of this State, representing the conduct of their Comptroller Genl, in exact conformity with the Facts as they have arisen, stating that you had fully informed the B. of Treasy. of the whole Transaction, & had reed, thire instructions in no Event to submit the Question in controversy between the U.S. & Pen. to the determination of the Judicial of the latter; that you had also
