September 22, 1786 565 been instructed, in case the process of the C. Genl. shd. be farther urged, to claim the Interposition & Protection of the Executive of this state as an Officer of the U.S. 1 That in obedience to these instructions you did claim & require the interposition & protection of the Executive & laws of Pen. not as a Cit izen of the sd. state, but as an Officer of the US. If you will form or procure to be formed a memorial upon these Ideas, and show it to me I will with pleasure give you my Opinion of its propriety. Yours &c, Rufus King RC (NIC: Noyes Collection). 1 For the context of Smith’s dispute with Pennsylvania comptroller general John Nicholson, see Pennsylvania delegates to Benjamin Franklin, July 26, note 1. In the course of this dispute, Nicholson had laid a property attachment on Smith, Continental loan office commissioner for Pennsylvania, to compel him “to give up to the State the full Sum of 390,000 Dollars in the New Emission of the 18th March, 1780.” See JCC, 31:925-26; and Smith’s correspondence with Nicholson and the board of treasury on this subject in PCC, item 139, fols. 339—40, 351—52, 435-43. Smith had obviously solicited King’s advice on this matter while the latter was in Philadelphia on a special congressional mission to the Pennsylvania Assembly. New York Agents to Robert Yates and John Lansing Sirs, New York, Sepr. 22d. 1786. We have received a Letter, dated the 7th Instant, from the Mas sachusetts Agents, with a Copy of the Act of the Legislature of that State, for determining the Controversy between the two States, other wise than by a Foederal Court, expressed nearly in the Words of our own Law. 1 They are pleased to offer Us New-port, Hartford or New Haven as the place of Conference, but think New-port the most eligi ble. A Voyage by Water in the approaching Season We do not approve and therefore have given them Notice that We consent to hold the Conference on Monday the 6th day of November next at the City of Hartford in Connecticut. We have also assigned Monday the 16th of October next at this City for a general Meeting of our Agents to pre pare for the Conference, when and where We earnestly press for Your punctual Attendance, being of Opinion that it is indispensable that the Period between that day and our setting out should be employed in investigating the Subject, and making up our own Judgments. You will observe that by our Law, the Consent of five, out of the Seven, Agents is necessary to any Compromise which may be pro-
