September 28, 1786 569 a letter from the late General Greene, by which you will percieve that it was the desire of General Greene as well as of Congress, that his let ters and miscellaneous papers containing a history of the most mate rial parts of the southern operations should be transcribed and pre served in this Office. 1 Immediately after the passing of this Act, I conversed with General Greene on the subject; and as it seemed to me proper that the per son employed in this business should possess his confidence, I pro posed to him, and he readily agreed to fix upon a suitable person, and set him about the work. The removal of his family to the south ward, & his other necessary avocations having prevented his execut ing this business, and he being now unfortunately dead, it rests with his Executors to carry into effect, what he intended & wished to have done. I have conversed with Mr Rutledge on the subject, and he refers me to You. I am anxious that this work should be compleated, and that speed ily, because I find, as the General intimated in his letter to Congress, that Officers who served under him have occasion to refer to his let ters & papers, and for this purpose sundry applications have been made to this Office. But there is another motive which operates still more strongly. The regard I have for the memory of a Man who has performed such es sential services to his country makes me most earnestly wish to pre serve those documents which alone will enable some future historian to do justice to his merit, and transmit his fame to posterity. If You will think proper to send the papers to me, I will immediately arrange them, and employ a clerk to copy into books such as relate to the southern operations and You may rely that whatever may be found among them touching his own particular affairs shall be carefully pre served and returned. The favour of an answer as soon as convenient will much oblige, Sir, Your Most Obedt. humble Servant, Cha Thomson RC (Ct:Joseph Trumbull Papers). In the hand of Roger Alden and signed by Thomson. 1 For the congressional authorization to preserve the papers of Gen. Nathanael Greene concerning the southern campaign, see JCC, 25:788-89; and these Letters, 21:138. Rhode Island Delegates to John Collins Sir, New York 28th Septr. [ 17] 86 Permit your Delegates to address your Excellency in your official Character, and give you a short detail of the Business now before Con gress, with some observations upon the present state of the Federal Government &ca., &ca.
