570 September 28, 1786 An important national matter which has for some time past engaged the attention of Congress will, probably soon come into public view. That body have now before them a report of a grand Committee for granting to your federal Government additional powers necessary to render it efficient, this, after the subject has undergone the necessary investigations, will be laid before the respective Legislatures. 1 An ordi nance for the establishing a Colonial Government in the western terri tory is also nearly compleated; 2 as also for the establishment of a Mint for the United States, 3 with many other matters of less magnitude. Your Delegates wish to be informed whether the Accounts of the State against the U.S. are ready for adjustment, Mr Chinn having in formed the Treasury board that they are not ready; nor can they be got ready for a long time. 4 As that Gentleman s Salary still goes on, your Delegates wish to be possessed of such official documents as may set that subject in its true point of view. It is highly necessary that all payments made by the State, to the fed eral Government, whether on Requisitions or otherwise, should be carried to its Credit on the books of the Treasury, therefore all these accomps ought, without loss of time, to be sent forward. Your Excellency will be made acquainted, by Congress, that no paper, emitted by the States, will answer federal purposes. Will not this evince it to be mistaken policy, in our Legislature, to order payments, for the late requisition, in their own paper currency? 5 When Gentlemen reflect, but for a moment, on the exhausted state of the federal treasury; that no monies are expected but what come in from requisitions on the different States; that these are either all stopped, or so slow in their operations, that nothing can be calculated upon with certainty; that the moment is arrived that our Credit with foreign powers is lost, that an enemy on our frontiers stands prepared to take every advantage of our prostrate situation; that an enemy more despicable is embarrassing our most beneficial commerce, and carrying our fellow cittizens into Slavery for life (about thirty at pre sent being in that unhappy Situation) 6 does it require the spirit of prophecy to predict what will, & must inevitably be the consequence. Or will arguments be necessary to draw forth the most vigorous exer tions of every friend to American Liberty, to arrest the sacred Palla dium, & prevent our total ruin as a Nation? Amidst, however, these gloomy scenes, we have the pleasure to in form you that her Majesty of Portugal, has ordered a squadron of 5 Sail of Men of War to cruise at the mouth of the Straits for the protec tion of her trade; & that she has ordered her officers to give the same protection to the American flagg, as to her own; of this her Minister has given official information to Mr Adams at the Court of London. An instance of Magnanimity this, which is worthy of imitation, & de mands our grateful acknowledgemts., as we have nothing better to offer her in payment.
