September 28, 1786 571 While foreign potentates take such an interested part in our favour, does it not call for unanimity & exertions at home, amongst every class of our Citizens to rescue the commonwealth from impending ruin? Should not these considerations reconcile the Mercantile and landed Interests in the State of Rhode-Island & produce a repeal of those penal Laws, which have already convulsed, & still threaten ruin to the State? It is now agreed by all that our federal Government is but a name; a meer shadow without any substance; and we think it our duty to in form the State that it is totally inefficient for the purposes of the Union; and that Congress, without being invested with more extensive powers, must prove totally nugatory. Should it be imagined that your Delegates, as individuals, wish for an increment of power, be assured that we hold ourselves servants of the State of Rhode Island, and in readiness to relinquish the exalted station in which you have placed us, & return with pleasure to the shade of retirement, provided we can see such a degree of energy infused into your federal Governmt. as may render it adequate to the great ends of its original Institution. We need not, Sir, inform you how it wounds our feelings, in every company, as well as in the Gazette’s to hear & see the proceedings of our Legislature burlesqued and ridiculed; and to find that Congress and all men of sober reflection reprobate, in the strongest terms, the principles which actuate our administration of Governmt. We are Citi zens of Rhode Island & are most sensibly affected with every thing which militates to the dishonour of the State. Your Delegates further beg leave to observe that if those measures are continued, which have, for the last six months been pursued, in their opinion they will infalli bly terminate in the ruin of the State; & have no inconsiderable share in the subversion of the Union. We conclude, by observing that the necessary supplies for our sup port are expected, & will be provided by the Legislature, as we greatly need them, while we have The Honour to be, Your Excellency’s Most obedient and Most humble Servts., James Manning Nathan Miller RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Nathan Miller and signed by Miller and Manning. 1 For this report on amending the Articles of Confederation, see Timothy Blood worth to Richard Caswell, August 16, note 5. 2 For the evolution of this ordinance, see James Monroe to John Jay, April 20, note. 3 See Charles Thomson’s first letter to the states, October 21. 4 See James Manning to Nicholas Brown, July 15, note 4. 0 Rhode Island had struggled over various paper money proposals since early 1784 and embarked upon a policy of paper emissions following the 1786 elections which pro duced a political upheaval in the state and a clash with Continental authorities leading to her estrangement from the union. A letter from William Ellery, Continental loan of fice commissioner in Rhode Island, explaining that the state had made paper money re ceivable for Continental taxes in violation of congressional policy, was referred on Fri-
