September 28, 1786 572 day September 15 to a committee whose report was submitted and adopted Monday September 18. Congress accordingly reaffirmed that “no payments, either in bills of credit or in any other mode than those pointed out by the said requisitions, can or ought to be admitted,” and instructed the board of treasury to notify the states and loan office commissioners of this decision. See JCC, 21:662-64, 996. For an excellent discus sion and analysis of Rhode Island’s “Paper-Money Tangle,” see Polishook, Rhode Island and the Union, pp. 119-80, especially pp. 119-29, 173-78. 6 That is, captives of the Barbary States. 7 This information was reported in John Adams’June 27 dispatch to John Jay, which was read in Congress September 26. “The Chevalier De Pinto, the Envoy of Portugal,” Adams explained, “informed me, this day that he had received Instruction from his Court, to inform me, that the Queen his Mistress has sent a Squadron to cruise in the mouth of the Streights with Orders to protect all Vessels belonging to the United States of America equally with those of her own Subjects and that She would continue those Orders as long as they should be agreeable to Congress.” See JCC, 32:16n; and PCC, item 84, 6:307. Charles Thomson to William Hooper Sir, Office of Secretary of Congress, September 28th. 1786 I have the honor to inform you that the Commonwealth of Mas sachusetts having by a petition to the United States in Congress As sembled prayed for a federal Court to decide a matter in controversy between the said Commonwealth and the state of New York Congress were pleased to assign a day for the appearance of the parties by their lawful Agents. Upon their Appearance they were directed to appoint by joint consent Commissioners to constitute a Court for hearing and determining the matter in question. They have accordingly agreed upon you 1 with the Honble. Thomas Johnson, George Wythe, George Read, Isaac Smith, William Patterson, Samuel Johnson, William Flem ing and John Sitgreaves and desired that notice be given you that upon your acceptance a commission may be issued for constituting the Court. I am therefore to request the favour of an answer as soon as convenient, and am, Sir, With great respect, Your’s &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: “Honble. William Hooper Esq, Hillsborough (N. Carolina).” Endorsed: "Dupte. sent 4 October 1786.” 1 Actually Hooper had been named to this position in the place of James Monroe, who had resigned his appointment, for which see JCC, 31:693; Monroe to Nathaniel Gorham, May 15; Massachusetts Delegates to James Duane, July 4, and to John Lowell, July 17; and Theodore Sedgwick to Duane, August 7, 1786. For information on how the protracted effort to name judges for deciding this controversy had already been over taken by other developments, which led to a bi-lateral agreement between the two par ties rather than a federal court decision, see New York Agents to Robert Yates and John Lansing, September 22, note.
