September 29, 1786 573 Timothy Bloodworth to Richard Caswell Dear Sir New York September 29th 1786 The enclos’d was handed to me by the Secretary of Congress with a request to forward it on to Youre Excellency. 1 The publick Business make slow advances, & proceed in a Very Disagreeable Direction. The instr[uc]tion for a negociation with Spain has employd oure time principally ever since the 10th of August Last. The perticulars is confmde to secresy, which gives me great uneasiness, we have (that is the minority) endeavour’d to have the injunction of secresy taken of, so far, as to communicate the perticulars to the Executives of oure States, but could not obtain Leave, 2 & I was oblig’d to suppress a let ter which I had wrote on the subject, in confidence of obtaining Leave to communicate the perticulars to Youre Excellency. This being the situation of affairs & not willing to forfiet my honour in Vi olating the rules of the house, have Long omitted writing any thing. The utmost warmth has appeard on this occation from each party, the Divition are seven states for the measure, & five against, & the Majority appears Determined to carry on the treaty at all events, & the minority as firmly fixt to oppose it in all its Stages, except In structed to the contrary by their Different States. For my own part I think the president [precedent] Dangerous to the Liberties of the southern States. If seven states can barter any part of the Priveledges of the Different States, for any advantage whatsoever, there remains no security for any possession. It is wel known that the ballance of Power is now in the Eastern States, & they appear determined to keep it in that Direction. This to me is evident from all their Con duct, & in the present measure, if carried they will be favoured in their scheme. I shall think it my Duty to attend the assembly & lay the matter before them with the circumstances that attend the measure. 3 All other business appears out of View, & I do not expect any thing of account will be don by the present Congress. We have endeavoured frequently to have som measures taken on the Indian treaties, & have had the subject refer’d to a committee, but they will not report as yet, & I fear no relief is intended, however shall urge it if possible. 4 I am sorry to find Mr Blount does not intend to bring his family, we shall certainly be in want of an able representation the ensuing Year, & those that will give their steady attendance. 5 I Remain with the highest Esteem & Regard, Youre Excellencies Most obedient & Very Humble servant, Timothy Bloodworth
