580 October 2, 1786 [PS.] I shod, write Colo. Grayson but hope he is by this on his way here; if the contrary shod, be the case make my best respects to him self & family. RC (NN). Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Rutland), 9:138-39. 1 There is no evidence in the journals or PCC that Monroe made such a motion. For the October 11 referral of the report to the committee, see Rufus King to James Bow- doin, September 17, note 2. 2 See Timothy Bloodworth to Richard Caswell, September 29, note 2. 3 That is, since Congress alone had responsibility for foreign policy, the delegates feared that the referral of Jay’s instructions to the states would undermine the Confed eration. 4 That is, Henry Lee, who with Nathaniel Ramsey of Maryland, James White of North Carolina, and William Houstoun of Georgia had voted against Charles Pinckney’s first motion of September 28. John Kean of South Carolina was absent at that time. See JCC, 31:696. Charles Thomson to the States Sir. (Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress, October 2d. 1786 Pursuant to Order, I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed a state of the representation in Congress for the Month of September to be communicated to the Legislature. 1 With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 For this enclosure and the 11 other monthly attendance lists sent to the states dur ing the Congress of 1785-86, see Appendix. Rufus King to John Adams Dr Sir, New York 3 Oct. 1786 You will undoubtedly hear much of the tumultuous and irregular conduct of a considerably numerous class of people in the western counties of Massachusetts. The same temper which appears to have collected these illegal Assemblies in Massachusetts, has shewn itself in New Hampshire, but General Sullivan, who is now President of that State, by very proper and decisive Measures has put an End to these unjustifiable proceedings in that country. 1 Perhaps in Massachusetts, considering the prostrate situation of our commerce, the Government have pressed the subject of Taxes, of the direct Kind, beyound what pru dence would authorise; the amount of Taxes laid on the Citizens of that State, in one form and another, and for the purposes of the Union, the State, the counties, & towns, including the support of the
