590 October 11,1786 tions now existing in Massachusetts. This was viewed by Congress, as the most important subject that ever came before that respectable as sembly. Every member considered himself as personally interested in it. He realized his life, liberty and property, as involved in the issue of their decisions. There was a league subsisting between the States of America, to oppose every force that should arise against either of them. The United States would not be inactive on such an occasion. They were concerned—deeply concerned, in the result. If such a bar rier was removed, every other government would eventually be swept away. Let numbers be compared; if government had only a minority, let it be remembered, that they had a majority of every State in the Union, to join them. It ought not to be concealed, that the British Packet had been dispatched a day earlier, merely in consequence of the commotions which had happened with us. Advantages might be taken of the divided state of the people, to bring about measures which otherwise could never be effected by the enemies of our country. When Congress should know this; when they should see government prostrated in the dust, what would be their feelings? They were not authorized to see any government subverted. If the Speaker had been too earnest on this subject, he requested the pardon of the house, as he spoke from a fear least palliatives might be adopted where vigour was required. The Honourable Gentleman then read several private letters from a gentleman in office, at a foreign Court, 8 to confirm the sentiments which he had advanced. Reprinted from the Boston Magazine 3 (September-October, 1786): 405-7, where it ap peared under the heading “Substance of the Hon. Mr. King’s communications to the Legislature.” 1 Date taken from the Journal of the Massachusetts House of Representatives, September 27-November 18, 1786 session, p. 250, DLC(ESR). “The Hon. R. King Esqr. attended the House agreeably to the vote of yesterday, & laid before them his communi cations, on the state of public affairs.” 2 See these letters, 21:319-20. 3 See Charles Thomson to the States, August 12, note 3. 4 See King to James Bowdoin, February 5, 1786, note. 5 See Massachusetts Delegates to Bowdoin, September 20, 1785, note 1. 6 See Charles Thomson to Bowdoin, August 20, 1785, note. 7 See King to Bowdoin, September 17, 1786, note 2. 8 Undoubtedly letters from John Adams. Henry Lee to George Washington My dear Genl Newyork llh. Ocr. [17]86 In the full confidence you receive my letters as testimonials of my unceasing respect, and from a solicitude to acquaint you with all mate-
