594 October 11,1786 trict; The election of Mr. James White to that Office, 1 and an Act di recting him to repair to the States of North-Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia and to investigate the causes of the uneasinesses between the Indian Nations and the frontier inhabitants of North Carolina & Georgia, in which investigation he is to consult with the executives of the three States who are requested to afford him all the aid & protec tion in their powers; 2 also a resolution to inform the Executives of the States whose Citizens are subject to the effects of Indian hostilities that in case the Indians refuse reasonable terms of pacification and evince a hostile disposition Congress will afford the most ample protection in their power to the Citizens of the United States. 3 With the greatest &c., C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: “The Governors of North Carolina, South Car olina & Georgia.” 1 See Thomson to James White, October 9. 2 See JCC, 31:759-60. 3 Ibid., p. 760. James White to Nathaniel Gorham Sir New-York 11th Octobr. [1786] A letter from McGillvery, cheif of the creek nation, which I have taken the liberty to lay before Congress, induces me now to trouble their honble. body. 1 The necessity of some one, on the part of Congress to treat with that nation of indians appears more fully from that letter; & my office of superintendant calls me, I shall be happy in being able to perform the service: 2 but I beg leave to suggest that the sum of 500 dolls, which, by a resolve of yesterday, I ought to receive, will be necessary for to enable me to proceed; that I well know there is no fund in North Carolina, from whence I may expect the money, but from the Tobacco, lately purchased by the state for federal purposes; & the board of Treasury decline pointing out, to the state, that resource, without the express direction of congress. 3 I have the honor to be, Yr. Excellency’s most obedt. servt., James White RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Addressed: “His Excellency The Presidt. of Congress.” 1 Alexander McGillivray’s letter is not in PCC; but for discussion of the place of McGillivray and the Creeks in congressional Indian policy at this time, see John W. Caughey, McGillivray of the Creeks (Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 1938), pp. 27-33. 2 See Charles Thomson to WTiite, October 9, and the preceding entry.
