600 October 16, 1786 South Carolina Delegates to William Moultrie Sir New-York October 16. 1786 Since the delegation wrote you Congress have passed an Ordinance for organizing the Indian Department and taken such measures as will in their opinion extend to the frontiers regular and certain secu rity against the future designs of the indians. Mr. White appointed Su perintendant for the southern district left this on Saturday under their directions to proceed immediately to Georgia in the execution of the duties of his office. The Georgia legislature have laid their pro ceedings respecting indian affairs before Congress, and should They seriously enter into a war with the Creek nation we are to hope none of our citizens will be subject to the effect of their hostility. The Ordi nance has been already transmitted by the Secretary. 1 On the 2d of August Congress passed a requisition for the supplies of the present year in which our state is called upon for 103,015 dol lars in indents and 139,017 in specie—a proviso is made in favour of the state so far as to allow her a partial credit in consequence of her supplies in 1782 & 1783 it is in these words—’’provided that so far as relates to the State of South Carolina, this Requisition be considered as including one million of dollars, being that part of the Requisition of the 30 October 1781 which hath heretofore remained uncalled for, so far as to entitle the said state to the benefit of paying the same in such manner as she was entitled to pay her quota of the said requisi tion.” 2 This will give us a partial, but not compleat credit on the amount of our supplies. Congress contend that the agreement with the Superintendant extended only to our quota of the Requisition of the 30 October 1781 for 8 Millions and that the excess of supplies be yond that proportion, must be carried to our general account. We as serted and endeavoured to establish the whole, but without effect and its settlement must be left to be adjusted between them and our legisla ture. We think the claim founded in justice and that an application to have credit on the requisition might be proper on this occasion. On the 9th of August Congress passed a resolution recommending to the states of North Carolina, South Carolina & Georgia to cede their claims to western territory for the use of the US 3 —if this is done both on the parts of Georgia and South Carolina it will supercede the necessity of a federal court should the present amicable intentions of the two states in accommodating the same by commissioners not suc ceed—the federal court is appointed to meet on the third Monday in June and several of the judges have accepted and agreed to attend at that time. 4 Should an accommodation in the interim take place, your Excellency will be so obliging as to give us the earliest information upon the subject. The agents on the part of our state have already de-
