October 16, 1786 601 tailed their proceedings so fully respecting this business that it is only necessary for us to refer you to their letter of the 14 ultimo. The mode of settling the accounts between the US & individual states being found ineffectual by keeping commissioners in each state at the present expensive establishment, on Thursday last Congress passed an Ordinance erecting a board of three commissioners for this purpose to commence on the first of April next, at which time the power of the present commissioners expires. 5 The authorities of this board will exceed theirs, but are not in our opinion sufficiently equi table and extensive to cover the claims of the southern states arising from their assumptions—but as there seems a disposition to bring these long and complicated accounts to a settlement as soon as their situation will admit, we trust that by the time our accounts are brought before them their powers will be so enlarged as to include such an authority as we concieve alone competent to this end. A copy of this Ordinance is sent by this Opportunity as also of one for establishing a Mint for the US passed yesterday and which will commence it’s Operation as soon as the necessary Apparatus can be prepared. 6 This will be done as soon as it conveniently can. A report has just been made to the house by the Secretary for the department of foreign affairs on the subject of Lord Carmarthen’s an swer to Mr. Adams’s memorial demanding the posts & complaining of an infraction of the treaty by Great-Britain. 7 This report recapitulates the infractions on our part by the acts of the different legislatures re specting debt & recommends such measures as are proper upon the subject in his opinion. This and the treaty with Spain will probably be the subject of much discussion in the new Congress to commence in November, the present being too nearly expired to admit their being discussed at this time. We shall always be glad to hear from you and remain with respect Your Excellency’s obedient servants. John Kean D. Huger John Bull John Parker Charles Pinckney [PS.] The Secretary will always transmit the journals & other proper communications ex officio. Major Pinckney will deliver you the recommendation respecting the paying our officers some months pay in 1782 and 1783 which please to lay before the legislature. 8 RC (ScCoAH: Governor’s Messages). Written by Pinckney and signed by Pinckney, Bull, Huger, Kean, and Parker. 1 See Charles Thomson to the States, August 12. For the election of James White as superintendent of the southern district and the Indian unrest on the North Carolina- Georgia frontier, see Timothy Bloodworth to Richard Caswell, August 16, note 2, and
