October 18, 1786 603 vails more or less, and will certainly break forth whenever the oppor tune moment may arrive. The mal-contents are in close connexion with Vermont—& that district it is beleived is in negotiation with the Governor of Canada. In one word my dear Genl we are all in dire ap prehension that a beginning of anarchy with all its calamitys has ap proached, & have no means to stop the dreadful work. Individuals suggest the propriety of inviting you to our Congress to pay us a visit, knowing your unbounded influence & beleiving that your appearance among the seditious might bring them back to peace & reconciliation. This is only a surmise & I take the liberty to mention it to you that should the conjuncture of affairs induce Congress to make this re quest you may have some previous time to make up your mind. 3 In great hurry & real dystress I am your affect., H. Lee Junr RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Lee is referring to the letter that he apparently wrote October 1, rather than his let ter of October 11, which dealt with the Spanish treaty. 2 See the following entry, note. 3 In his response to Lee’s three October letters, Washington’s advice was explicit: “You talk, my good Sir, of employing influence to appease the present tumults in Mas sachusetts. I know not where that influence is to be found; and if attainable, that it would be a proper remedy for the disorders. Influence is no Government. Let us have one by which our lives, liberties and properties will be secured; or let us know the worst at once.” To Washington the situation called for decision. “Know precisely what the in surgents aim at. If they have real grievances, redress them if possible; or acknowledge the justice of them, and your inability to do it in the present moment. If they have not, employ the force of government against them at once. If this is inadequate, all will be convinced that the superstructure is bad, or wants support.” Delayed action would only increase the ranks of the insurgents. “Precedents are dangerous things; let the reins of government then be braced and held with a steady hand, and every violation of the Constitution be reprehended: if defective, let it be amended, but not suffered to be trampled upon whilst it has an existence." Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 29:34-35. Charles Pettit to Benjamin Franklin Sir, New York 18th. October 1786 I have to acknowledge the Receipt of your Excellency’s Letter of the 10th Instant. Time will not at present permit me to make any Observa tions on the Subjects therein mentioned. The immediate Object of giving you the Trouble of this is a fresh Communication from the Eastward which represents the State of Massachusets as in a most dan gerous & critical Situation; 1 the Danger indeed extends immediatly to all the Eastern States and the Consequences cannot be unimportant to the other States in the Union. Till very lately the Insurrections in Massachusets were considered as the ebulitions of Discontent arising from the transient Inconveniences they suffer from the Stagnation of Commerce & the other usual Effects of changing from the diffusive
