October 20, 1786 607 Term of three years unless sooner discharged. This period corresponds with the Time of service of the troops now on the Ohio—some detail arrangements are wanting to complete this act; I hope they will be ex ecuted tomorrow, and immediately forwarded to your Excellency— With perfect Respect I have the Honor to be Sir, yr. Obt. Servt., Rufus King RC (TxU: Hanley Collection). 1 The congressional decision concerning additional Continental troops that are the subject of this letter, which King declared was “this day resolved,” was adopted October 20. 2 See Charles Thomson to the States (2d letter), October 21. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry Dear Gerry New York 19 [i.e., 20] Oct. 1786 1 I mentioned to you my apprehensions of a very dangerous and ex tensive indian war—on my return here 2 I found my fears but too well founded, Georgia & Virginia are in arms. The protection of the Citi zens of the states bordering upon the Ohio is required of congress. You know that we have entertained well founded expectations of dis charging a large portion of the federal domestic Debt by the sales of the western Lands; the Indians now appear to have united to oppose the survey and Settlement of that country; this combination is most unjust, since we have fairly and bona fide extinguished their claims. The monies expended in Treaties with, and presents to, these very In dians, since the year 1775 will exceed a hundred Thousand specie Dollars. This is too much to lose. To do ourselves justice and protect the Frontiers together with the surveys of the indian Cessions, con gress this day resolved to augment the federal Troops to a legionary Corps to consist of two thousand Men. The cavalry amounting to one hundred and twenty men are quotaed on Maryland and Virginia, the infantry & Artillery are quotaed upon the four Eastern states, viz New Hamp 260 Massa 660 R Island 120 Cont 180 1280 3 The Troops now in service are from Pensylvania, N. Jersey, New York & Connecticut; when these men were raised our Legislature, not being called on for any part of them, passed an instruction to their Delegates that in case any more men should be required, that the Leg islature would choose to furnish their quota. We therefore met the wishes of congress in agreeing that our quota of the Troops now re-
