October 21, 1786 609 For my own part I am only solicitous to see an accomplishment of the salutary work and very regardless of the particular mode, so that the end is answered effectually & quickly. Since you left us 2 a political cloud has risen in the east & portends much calamity to our infant empire. Present appearances justify ap prehensions of an appeal to the ultima ratio requm in Massachusetts, or submission to the mob. The Insurgents are very numerous, inhabi tants of a rugged country well united, and firmly decided in their ob jects—Abolition of debt & division of lands are the cardinal points in view, these are masqued by some ostensible complaints, the redress of which are attainable with ease & certainty in a constitutional manner, but having very different intentions they prefer illegal measures. Back of the Malcontents lyes Vermont—these people are in com mercial connexion with Canada, & are leagued with the insurgents. Thus you see there is a plain road to British Magazines & munitions of war, & I beleive no American can entertain any doubt of the conduct which the British King would pursue, was a civil war to take place among us. Mrs. Lee & Mr A Lee unite with me in most affectionate respects to my cousin & best wishes for Your health & happiness. Adieu, H. Lee Junr. RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 See Rufus King to James Bowdoin, September 17, note 2. 2 Tucker had been in New York on business from July 19 to August 27 before attend ing the Annapolis Convention as a Virginia delegate. See Virginia Delegates to Patrick Henry, July 17, note 5. Charles Thomson to the States Sir, Circular Office of Secretary of Congress, Oct 21. 1786 I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith en closed an Ordinance for the establishment of the Mint of the United States of America and for regulating the value and alloy of Coin. 1 As this Ordinance limits the time after which no foreign copper coin shall be current within the United States, and fixes the value of cop per coin struck under the authority of any particular state in the Union I submit to Your Excellency the propriety of causing it to be published for the information of all whom it may concern within the State over which you preside. With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt and M h S
