610 October 21,1786 LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 For this October 16 ordinance, see JCC, 31:876-78. Charles Thomson to the States Sir, (Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress, October 21st. 1786. I have the honor of transmitting to Your Excellency herewith en closed an Act of the United States in Congress Assembled for aug menting the troops in the service of the Union to the number of 2040 Non commissioned Officers & privates, which was passed by the unan imous vote of the ten States now represented in Congress.' For Your further information I herewith enclose the Intelligence on which the report of the Committee is grounded. 2 With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be Your Excellency’s Most Obedient & Most humble Servant, Cha Thomson LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 For the enclosed October 20 “Act,” see JCC, 31:892-93. 2 Ibid., pp. 891-92. Notwithstanding the official explanation that this troop augmen tation was adopted in response to recent “intelligence of hostile intentions of the Indi ans,” it is clear from the report of the committee to which secretary at war Henry Knox’s October 18 report on the Massachusetts disorders had been referred, that this increase in the military establishment was adopted in large measure in response to the perceived threat to the eastern states posed by Shays’ rebellion, a conclusion reinforced by the distribution of the quotas adopted. The 1,340 “noncommissioned Officers and privates” to be raised were specified as follows: Infantry—Massachusetts, 660; New Hampshire, 260; Connecticut, 180; Rhode Island, 120; Cavalry—Maryland and Virginia 60 each. “... the committee,” the report reads, “think it proper that a body of troops should be immediately raised under the authority of the United States; but as it is not expedient that these causes should be publickly assigned for the raising of such troops, especially as the other Matters referred to the Consideration of the committee afford sufficient ground to authorize the measure, they have thought it proper, in a separate report on the intelligence received from the Western Country, to recommend the Aug mentation of the troops in the service of the United States. "JCC, 31:896. For the secrecy surrounding this decision and the views of the author of this report, see Charles Pettit to Benjamin Franklin, October 18 and 23. Nathaniel Gorham to James Bowdoin Sir N York Oct 22d 1786 The affairs of the Western Country are in such a state as to induce Congress to propose an augmentation of the Troops 1 —a considerable number of which are assigned to Massachusetts—if the General Court should agree to raise them; good Officers will be necessary. I presume your Excellency will have the best information on this head & I wish not
