October 22, 1786 611 to offer my poor advice upon the occasion—but justice to the character of Major North who is going to Boston induces me to mention him to your Excellency as a Gentm. who supports the fairest reputation—and is spoken of—by all the military Men as an excellent Officer. 2 I am with every sentiment of esteam & respect, Your Excellencys most Humble Servt., Nathaniel Gorham RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Addressed: “His Excellency Gover Bowdoin, Boston. Fav by Major North.” 1 See the preceding entry. 2 Maj. William North (1755-1836), who had served with several Massachusetts regi ments during the war and as aide-de-camp to baron Steuben, 1779-83, had been ap pointed, on Steuben’s recommendation, “inspector to the troops remaining in the ser vice and pay of the United States,” April 15, 1784. See JCC, 25:552, 26:230-31; and DAB. Rufus King to James Bowdoin [S]ir, New York 22 Oct. 1786. Major North is a Citizen of Massachusetts, a Soldier, and my friend; I have mentioned to him the act of congress for an augmentation of the federal troops, and that a respectable Quota of the new Levies will be raised in Massachusetts. He wishes promotion in this corps. 1 If a con stant service during the late war will found a claim to future employ ment, the major has unequivocal pretensions; if a continuation in the military Department, from the commencement of Peace till this Time, strengthens these pretensions, he may very properly urge the distinc tion. But if to these just [con]siderations it is added by the unanimo[us] Suffrage of all professional Men, that, with liberal Tal ents, and under the influence [of] the noblest examples, the Major has form[ed] himself upon the most perfect models of soldiership, I confess that I am not acquainted with any person, who has more pure and just grounds to expect military employ [&] promotion: I there fore warmly recomme[nd] him, & his expectations, to your Excel- lenc[y’s] Patronage, intreating you at the same time to be assured, that this letter is not written for the purpose of such an introduction as is of course, and frequently cannot be avoided; but that it flows from a sincere love for our country, & from a firm conviction that the Request it contains may advance the public interest, & promote the national Honor. With the highest Respect I have the Honor to be your Excellency Obt. & very Hble Servt., Rufus King RC (NHi: King Papers). 1 See the preceding entry.
