October 23,1786 613 3 According to the journals, only five states were represented (i.e., with two or more delegates) at this date—Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and South Carolina—although single delegates had arrived from New Jersey (Josiah Hornblower), North Carolina (William Blount), and Georgia (William Few). JCC, 31:928-30. Charles Pettit to Benjamin Franklin Sir, New York 23d. October 1786 I did myself the Honour to write to your Excellency some Days ago on the Subject of the Disorders in Massachusetts. 1 At that Time the In telligence from that Country, and of the hostile Movements of the In dians to the Westward were under Reference to a Committee of which it was my burthensome Lot to be Chairman; and the Business has en grossed much of my Time since. The Acts of Congress on this Occa sion will be communicated to your Excellency by the Secretary; 2 but as the most energetic Motives which called on Congress for Expedi tion & which would probably urge the States to Exertion, could not with Propriety be publickly declared, these Acts may require some Ex planation. I am not at Liberty, however, to give this Explanation with out an Injunction that, while the Reasons for Secrecy continue, it be not published. Your Excellency will, I trust make the proper Use of it for the Purposes intended without hazarding the Consequences in tended to be guarded against by the Caution which Congress have thought proper to use. For the Purpose of giving this Explanation I shall inclose a Copy of a separate Report of the Committee, which has been agreed to and or dered to be entered in the secret Journals. 3 This Copy however is taken from the rough Draught and corrected from Memory accord ing to the Alterations made in the House; it may not therefore be an exact Copy, but it is nearly so. In the present impoverished State of the Treasury we could think of no Method so likely to raise the Money speedily as by a Loan; and we could not ask a Loan without pledging more than a Promise on worn out public Faith for the Repayment. The existing Requisitions were al ready appropriated. We therefore deemed it necessary to make a new Requisition expressly for this Purpose. The Goodness of this Fund will depend on the Exertions of the States. 4 Congress are so deeply im pressed with the Urgency of the Occasion that they have been unani mous in the Measures they have taken. The States however, not being possessed of equal Information may not feel an equal Call to speedy Exertion; hence a kind of Necessity arises of some Confidential Com munications which is now submitted to your Excellency’s Discretion. With great Esteem & Respect, I have the Honour to be, Your Excel lency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Cha. Pettit
