618 October 28,1786 it is unquestionably true that the western settlements prosperity de pends & ought to depend on the prosperity of the Atlantic country & grow in proportion thereto. To push forward the infant at the ex pence of the parent is wrong. Would not our tobacco the staple of Virga fall to mere nothing, if the western country could export that article. What would become of us if we were suddenly deprived of this only advantage we possess. Would not also in this event the western settlers be employed in the culture of tobacco and thereby the crops of grain fall short, from which the emigration would be checked, as subsistence to emigrants would be high & precarious. Would not the interest of our colonys be instantly seperated from our interest, & in some commercial points in direct opposition. These & many other reasons would decide me, had America the power to use the Mississippi. She claims that navigation as her right, Spain denys it. An appeal to the sword or treaty must settle the dif ference. We are inadequate to the first: by the last we shall in a few years obtain in my opinion what may be necessary to our western friends—and at a time & in a manner which will not destroy our selves, while it assists them. But view this subject as it effects the U. States and you will find it pregnant with reasons in support of the conduct of the majority in Congress. The eastern fishery for want of this very treaty is nearly de stroyed, by this commercial connexion certain advantages would be secured to the fisherys which would revive the eastern trade. The sur plus money arising from that trade would circulate among the middle & southern states in purchase of grain, tobacco &c. Thus we should all participate in the advantage which is branded with the name of par tial. But there are many other emoluments secured to our commerce arising from the reciprocity on which the connexion is founded. All these procured for our forbearance for a given term from the use of a river, which we have not the power to use. This is meant for your own special information. H. Lee Junr. RC (DLC: Armes Collection of Lee Family Papers). 1 That is, as governor of Virginia. Edmund Randolph was elected to succeed Patrick Henry. 2 The debate over the navigation of the Mississippi River. Massachusetts Delegates to James Bowdoin Sir, New York 28 Oct. 1786 In obedience to the Resolve of the general Court transmitted to us by your Excellency, we have requested of Congress a prolongation of
