October 28, 1786 619 the Time limited for the Receit of Indents of Interest on the Requisi tion of the 27th of Sep. 1785; this proposition, according to the usual practice in like Cases, has been referred to the Board of Treasury for their Report. 1 Some Time has in this way been consumed, the report however is now before congress; but as the Dissolution of this Assembly will take place in a few days, so few of the States are now represented that no Business of importance can receive a decision. Our request therefore must be postponed till the meeting of the next congress. Although we have exerted ourselves to obtain an act, at this Time, au thorising the Measure we proposed, yet from the condition of this busi ness in most of the States, we can discover no certain inconvenience, which will flow from the want of a present Decision. In Connecticut, New Jersey & North Carolina, the Requisition of Sep. 1785 has not been complied with even by a legislative Act for levying their respective Quo tas upon their Citizens. In most of the other states, which have passed legislative Acts for such Levies, the collection is equally in Arrear with Massachusetts; connecting therefore the views & interest of such states, with those of Connecticut, New Jersey, & North Carolina, there is the highest probability that a large majority of the states must advocate the propriety, and contend for the establishment, of a Resolution of con gress, extending the Time within which Indents upon the Requisition of 1785 may be received. We submit it to your Excellency, to recom mend to the General Court to pass a Resolve prolonging the Time within which the several Collectors & the Treasurer of the Common wealth may receive the Indents payable in discharge of the Requisition of the 27th of Sep. 1785; confiding that the Indents thus collected & re ceived, will by a proper Act of congress be admitted to the Credit of the Commonwealth upon their Quota of that Requisition. With perfect Respect we have the Honor to be your Excys. obt. & very Hbl. Servts, Nath Gorham 2 Rufus King Nathan Dane RC (PP: Carson Collection). Written by King and signed by Dane, Gorham, and King. 1 In compliance with this General Court instruction, the Massachusetts delegates of fered a motion “for extending the time for paying in Certificates beyond the time lim ited by the requisition of Sept 1785,” which was referred to the board of treasury Octo ber 16. The board’s report was read in Congress October 21, but no action was taken as the current session of Congress was about to expire. Nor did Congress subsequently take separate action on the report, for as Secretary Thomson’s endorsement indicates: ‘This matter settled by requisition of 1787.” See JCC, 31:882n, 897-99; and PCC, item 139, fols. 403-9. 2 Gorham also wrote the following brief letter this day to the treasurer of Mas sachusetts, Thomas Ivers. “I have been under the necessity of borrowing some money of a Friend in this place for which I have given him a Bill on you for 300 dollars. He has I find sent it on to Mr. Flint. I must intreat your exertions that it may be paid as I cannot leave this place with-
