November 1, 1786 621 Maryland Delegates to William Smallwood Dear Sir Octr. 31. 1786 We have had the honor of receiving your Excellencys Letter of the 4th Octr. respecting the application of Mr. Charles Lansdale for the cross posts from Baltimore to Port Tobacco. 1 We have not heard as yet of the arrival of Mr. Lansdale at this place, as soon as he does, Your Excellency may be assured that we shall af ford him all the Aid and assistance in our power. If he applies soon and will enter into the necessary engagements, there can be no doubt but he will succeed, as we have not heard of any other person who has applied for this rout. We have the honor to [be] your Excellencys obt and very hbl. Servt, John Henry Will. Harrison Nat. Ramsey 2 RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Henry and signed by Henry, Harrison, and Ramsey. 1 Although Congress considered various aspects of mail transportation from October 23 to November 3, there is no indication in the journals or PCC that Lansdale, who op erated other postal routes in Maryland, applied to Congress for this cross post—such appointments were the province of Ebenezer Hazard, the postmaster general. See JCC, 31:909-12, 918-24; and Md. Archives, 71:122, 283. 2 Ramsey subsequently submitted a claim for £426 in pay and expenses for 142 days service, including travel time, from June 12 to November 1, although he continued to sit until December 4. On November 5 he also wrote to Christopher Richmond, auditor general of Maryland, asking for a ruling on whether he should have deducted from his expense account six days absence from Congress because of illness. Delegate Accounts, nos. 61/67/2, 61/67/6, MdAA. William Harrison to Thomas FitzSimons Si r New York, Novemr. 1st. 1786. Your favor, of the 28th Septr., covering the Order from I. Gover neur Junr., in favor of Hooe 8c Harrison, on Messrs. Haynes 8c Craw ford, and by them formally protested, came duly to hand—but at a time when I was much indisposed, which must apologize for my not acknowledging the reciept of it until now. I have made every inquiry here that I could with propriety, relative to the affairs of Curson & Governeur, and of Governeur alone—and have communicated the result to our friends at Alexandria. 1 It now rests with
