622 November 1, 1786 them to choose, either to come in in common with other Creditors under the Assignment, or to have recourse to I. Governeur himself. Whilst this business is in any way committed to me, should your ad vice or sentiments at any time appear necessary, I shall not hesitate to request them—and am, very respectfully, Sir, your obedt. Sert., Will. Harrison 2 RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 Not found. 2 Harrison apparently remained in New York after the expiration of the present Con gress, although he is not recorded as attending the new Congress until November 24. JCC, 31:928-31. He nevertheless submitted an account on February 10, 1787, to the Maryland treasurer for his delegate allowance from November 1 through December 7 plus “13 itinerant days,” which he thought reasonable since “my distance from N. York is about 300 miles, and considering the season of the year.” Executive Papers, MdAA. Al though reelected to Congress for 1787 and 1788, Harrison never again attended. See JCC, 32:58, 251-52, 34:6. John Henry to William Smallwood Dear Sir. Novr. 1. 1786 Since my former letter to your Excellency I have had a short note from the Gentleman to whom I alluded in my first to you respecting our quota of the domestic Debt. 1 As the object is weighty and as many of the public Securities are now in the hands of the Individual States, which effectually takes them out of circulation, they delay making their proposals untill they can ascertain with some certainty the quan tity that is thus handed up. Your Excellency will receive some important information through Mr Chase and the reason why it did not go immediately to you, which I hope will be satisfactory. I have the honor to [be] Sir with Sentiments of the highest respect & Esteem, Yrs, J Henry RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 See Henry to Smallwood, August 30. Rufus King to John Adams Dear Sir, New York 1st. Novr. 1786 I do myself the Honor of introducing to your civilities Doctor Provost, Chaplain to Congress and Rector of the Episcopal Church in
