624 November 4, 1786 Charles Thomson to David Ramsay Dear Sir New York Novr. 4, 1786 I have received your letter of the 25 of Sept, by Mr Smith 1 with six numbers of the manuscript copy of your history 2 which I have read over with as much attention as my other engagements & frequent avo cations would permit. They are now in the hands of Mr King to whom I communicated your request that he would favour you with his re marks thereon, at least in point of facts. For as to language that must be left to yourself when you come to revise it. As soon as he has done with it I shall commit it to your other friends as you desire, and shall now proceed to give you the thoughts which occurred to me in the cursory perusal I gave it. 3 With respect to language there were some words which did not please such as merged in the Ocean &c and some phrases which seemed too common to comport with the dignity of history, such as feeling the pulse of the people &c. But these are trifles which I dare say you will correct when you come to revise your work. For I perceive this is the first draught. As to matters of fact, the proclamation, which you ascribe to Genl Washington upon his first taking the command of the army, was drawn up by Congress. The consideration of it proceeded pari passu with the petition to the king, and was passed by Congress while the pe tition was engrossing. The truth is there was a considerable opposition to the sending another petition considering the manner in which the former had been treated. But several members were warm in favour of it, the matter compromised & the petition & declaration were both or dered and passed in a manner together. Your description of the works on Bunkers hill are in my opinion too much exaggerated and the fir ing upon the british from the houses in Charleston is a circumstance which is denied. The account you have given corresponds with that of the enemy. To save their honor it was necessary to make the works as formidable as possible and to take off from the Odium of burning towns at that early stage of the war it was thought necessary to repre sent that the Americans fired from the houses. I have conversed with Mr Gorham on the subject and he informs me that soon after the Americans sat down before Boston Genl Gage sent for him and in formed him as an Inhabitant of Charl [es] town that in case the Ameri cans approached Boston on that side he would be under the necessity of ordering that town to be burned; and that he could not be justifi[ed] by the laws of war to suffer it to stand to cover the approach of the Enemy. This Information Mr Gorham communicated to Genl Ward who then commanded the American forces; and as it was made known to the inhabitants of the town, as soon as our troops took pos session of the hill, all the inhabitants of the town instantly fled & left their houses empty & he did not believe there was a single gun fired
