November 4,1786 625 from any of the houses. From this you see it was a premeditated act, justified by the rules of war and not depending on the firing from the houses. As to the works on Bunkers hill, how was it possible such as are described could be erected in the space of three or four hours? The truth is our people marched over the Causeway & took possession of the hill late at night instantly broke ground & threw up some slight redoubts of earth. They were discovered at day break and a detach ment was immediately sent to dislodge them. This detachment landed at a point on the bay at a considerable distance from the town. Upon seeing the number of our troops on the heights they halted & sent back for reinforcements. Upon this our troops immediately pulled up the post & rail fences which enclosed the lots between the town & the bay & set them down again in two parallel rows at a small distance from each other, extending from the earthen redoubt on the right to the town & on the left to the bay, the space between the two lines they filled with hay which had been lately mowed & remained on the lots in cocks. These were the formidable works behind which they shel tered themselves & waited the assault of the Enemy. There are I appre hend other facts mentioned which will deserve examination and as truth & precision will be expected from an American and especially from you who have had so many opportunities of Information I think it would be proper to travel through the several states, to view the scenes of actions & converse with the people who were near them in order to obtain the fullest information & to form a right judgmt. With regard to the account you have given of the manner in which Pensylvania was engaged to unite in the Opposition I dislike it alto gether. The mentioning names is invidious as you have dealt in gen eral with regard to the measures adopted in other states. I have there fore cut them out before I let the manuscript go out of my hands. The story of the German is flat & too low for history & the whole account defective & unsatisfactory. I shall therefore give you a short narrative of what passed without descending to particulars & leave it with you to mould it in any form you think proper at the same time I must earnestly entreat you either to alter that part of your history or to leave it wholly out passing over Pensylvania as you have Delaware & Maryland. Before I proceed to this I would just observe that there are sundry material circumstances omitted such as Gages perfidy in disarming the inhabitants of Boston—And also the manner in which our Army was furnished in the latter end of 1775 with powder, arms, mortars and other military apparatus by the fortunate capture of the two stores ships. There is also another Circumstance which I think ought to be mentioned in order to explain the mode & account for the ra pidity of the news spreading throughout this country. You must recol lect the news of the Boston port bill reached Boston the 10 of May.
