626 November 4, 1786 And in a little more than a month it was not only communicated from state to state but a flame was kindled in almost every breast through out this widely extended though but thinly inhabited Country. This must appear fabulous to a foreigner who is unacquainted with the sit uation of our affairs at that time. Would it not therefore be proper where you are giving an account of this matter to insert a clause to the following effect. “In order to explain the mode by which the flame was so rapidly spread through this extended & thinly inhabited Country it is neces sary to observe that the several Colonies & provinces are divided into counties & these again sub-divided into districts distinguished by the names of towns, townships, precincts, hundreds or parishes. In the New England Colonies the sub-divisions which are called towns were by the law & constitution of the governments corporate bodies, had their regular meetings & might be occasionally convened by their proper Officers. The advantages derived from these meetings by unit ing the whole body of the people in the measures taken to oppose the Stamp Act induced other provinces to imitate the example. Accord ingly under the Association which was formed in opposition to the revenue laws of 1767 & which lasted for upwards of two years, Com mittees were established not only in the Capitals of every Province but also in most of the County towns & subordinate districts. In the com mencement of the present opposition these committees had been re vived, extended and reduced to system; so that when any intelligence of importance which it was necessary the people at large should be in formed of, reached the capitals, it was immediately dispatched to the county committees & by them forwarded to the committees of the dis tricts who disseminated it to the whole body of the people. The ex pence of expresses when necessary was defrayed by private contribu tions. And as the persons employed in this service were animated in the cause their Zeal was a spur to their industry and the news was spread with incredible dispatch.” I shall now proceed to my narrative. 4 The comtt of Philadelphia to whom the public letter from Boston was sent were fully sensible of the state of parties & disposition of the people of the Province. They saw the dispute with G B brought to a crisis and a new scene opening which required exertions different from those heretofore made. The success of these exertions, they well knew, depended on the wisdom with which they were planned & the Union of the whole people in carrying them into execution. They re solved therefore to proceed with the utmost caution & circumspec tion. The letter was publickly read 5 at the coffee house and notice was given that it would be read the evening following at the city tavern in which there was a large room capable of receiving several hundred persons, and it was expected that the citizens would come prepared to give their opinion on the measures necessary to be taken on the pre-
