November 4, 1786 627 sent alarming situation of affairs. At this meeting 6 which was numer ous & composed of leading men of different religious as well as politi cal sentiments, the letter was ag[ai]n read & the subject of the act for shutting up the Port of Boston & the plans of the B. Administration were discussed. Agreeably to a plan previously concerted the debate was conducted so as to sound the sentiments of the people but not to cause divisions or create parties. It seemed to be admitted by all that every Colony as well as Massachusetts was affected by the Act of Parlia ment & that the people of Boston should be considered as suffering in the common cause of America; As to the means of relief the opin ions were various. When the debate began to be warm it was pru dently stopped by simply proposing that an Answer be returned to the people of Boston. This was unanimously agreed to. A Committee was then to be chosen to draft the answer, and two lists of persons were framed one containing such as were averse from, the other such as were in favour of active measures. To prevent disp [utes i] t was agreed that both should stand and thus by prudent management unanimity in appearance at least was preserved and a committee appointed with the Concurrence of all. This had a happy effect in tempering immod erate zeal, giving time to prepare the public Mind and suffering mat ters to ripen gradually. Next day the Comtt met & dispatched an an swer to the people of Boston. The letter was firm but temperate. They acknowledged the difficulty of offering advice on the present occa sion; sympathized with them in their distress, and observed that all le nient measures for obtaining redress should be first tried That if the making restitution for the tea destroyed would put an end to this un happy controversy & leave the people of Boston upon their ancient footing of constitutional liberty it could not admit of a doubt what part they should act—But that it was not the value of the tea, it was the indefeasible right of giving and granting their own money which was now the matter in consideration—that it was the common cause of America & therefore necessary in their opinion that a Congress of deputies from the several Colonies should be convened to devise the means for restoring harmony between Great Britain and the Colonies and preventing matters from coming to extremities. Till this could be brought about they recommended firmness, prudence & moderation to the immediate sufferers, assuring them that the people of Pensylva- nia will continue to evince a firm adherence “to the cause of Ameri can liberty.” The committee also dispatched the news express to the Provinces southward of them with a letter suggesting the necessity of a general Congress of deputies from all the provinces. In order to awaken the attention of the people a series of letters were published well calculated to rouse them to a sense of their dan ger and point out the fatal effects & consequences of the late acts of Parliament & the plan of the british administration. Every news paper was filled with these & other pieces on the subject & with the debates
