632 November 4, 1786 colonies for the purposes of procuring relief for our suffering brethren, obtaining redress of our grievances, preventing future dis sensions, firmly establishing our rights & restoring harmony between G B & her colonies on a constitutional foundation. 10. That although a suspention of the commerce of this large trad ing province with G B would greatly distress multitudes of our indus trious inhabitants yet that sacrifice & a much greater we are ready to offer for the preservation of our liberties; but in tenderness to the people of G B as well as of our country & in hopes that our just re monstrances will at length reach the ears of our gracious Sovereign & be no longer treated with contempt by any of our fellow subjects in England, it is our earnest desire that the Congress should first try the gentler mode of stating our grievances & making a firm & decent claim of redress. The foregoing were passed unanimously 11. Resolved by a great majority That yet notwithstanding, as an unanimity of councils & measures is indispensibly necessary for the common welfare, if the Congress shall judge Agreements of Nonim portation & Nonexportation expedient the people of this province will join with the other principle & neighbouring colonies in such an association of Nonimportation from & Nonexportation to G B as shall be agreed at the Congress. 12. Resolved by a majority That if any proceedings of the parlia ment, of which notice shall be received on this Continent before or at the general Congress shall render it necessary in the Opinion of that Congress for the Colonies to take farther steps than are mentioned in the eleventh resolve in such case the inhabitants of this province shall adopt such farther [steps] & do all in their power to carry them into execution. The following were passed unanimously 13. That the venders of Merchandize of every kind within this province ought not to take advantage of the resolves relating to Non importation in this province or elsewhere, but that they ought to sell their Merchandize which they now have or may hereafter import at the same rates they have been accustomed to do within three months last past. 14. That the people of this province will break off all trade com merce & dealing & will have no trade commerce or dealing of any kind with any colony on this continent or with any city or town in such colony or with any individual in such Colony city or town which shall refuse, decline or neglect to adopt & carry into execution such gen eral plan as shall be agreed to in Congress.
