November 4, 1786 633 15. That it is the duty of every member of this Comtt to promote as much as he can the subscription set on foot in the several counties of this province for the relief of the distressed inhabitants of Boston. 16. That this comtt give instructions on the present situation of public affairs to their representatives who are to meet next week in As sembly & request them to appoint a certain number of persons to at tend a congress of deputies from the several Colonies at such time & place as may be agreed on to effect one general plan of conduct for attaining the great & important ends mentioned in the ninth resolve. Grounded on these resolutions they prepared a set of Instructions which on the 21 July were signed by their chairman and presented by them in a body to the Assembly then sitting. 8 Their instructions were bold animated and pathetic. They not only pointed out the causes of the present uneasiness, & recommended the appointment of persons to attend a general Congress of deputies from the several Colonies for the purpose of promoting and establish ing harmony between G B & the Colonies on a constitutional founda tion, but proceeded to delineate the measures that appeared most likely to produce that effect, and the terms of a compact to be settled between the two countries so as to put a final period to the unconsti tutional claims of the one and to the fears & jealousies of the other. (As this is a curious paper and contains the sentiments which then prevailed in that province it may either be abridged or inserted at full length. I therefore enclose a copy ofit.[)] 9 Deputies were accordingly appointed by the legislature, and thus without tumult without disorder or divided councils the whole province was by prudent management & temperate proceedings brought into the opposition with its whole weight and influence. I shall trouble you no farther at present than just to request you to alter the sentence respecting my appointment to the office of Secre tary & let it stand simply “Charles Thomson of Philadelphia” striking out what is said respecting the part I took in the conduct of affairs of Pensylv[ani]a. I am &c. FC (DLC: Thomson Papers). In the hand of Charles Thomson. 1 This letter, delivered by Charleston merchant Josiah Smith, has not been found, but for another on the same subject see Ramsay’s September 26 letter to Benjamin Rush in Ramsay, Writings (Brunhouse), pp. 105-6. 2 That is, Ramsay’s The History of the American Revolution, which was published in two volumes in 1789. In explaining his progress to Rush, Ramsay stated that he had sent Thomson “nearly the whole of the first volume.” Ibid. 3 For a critical analysis of Thomson’s critique, see Paul H. Smith, “Charles Thomson on Unity in the American Revolution," Quarterly Journal of the Library of Congress 28 (July 1971): 158-72.
