634 November 4, 1786 4 For examples of the uses made by Ramsay of Thomson’s “narrative," see ibid., pp. 166-67; and Ramsay, Writings (Brunhouse), pp. 37-42. 5 Thomson wrote in the margin “May 19.” 6 Thomson wrote in the margin “May 20.” 7 At this point Thomson wrote “here insert them,” and then wrote the following 16 numbered resolves on three separate sheets keyed to this page. 8 These instructions, which were printed in the July 23, 1774, issue of the Pennsylvania journal, have been published in Pa. Archives, 2d ser. 3:551-64. Thomson had been ap pointed clerk at this meeting of provincial deputies. 9 It is unclear what Thomson enclosed. The “Instructions” that were presented to the Assembly included an “argumentative part” which was separately prepared by John Dickinson. This portion, which the author explained “has been written in such haste,” was Dickinson’s “Essay on the Constitutional Power of Great Britain over the Colonies in America,” ibid., pp. 565-622. Charles Thomson to the States Sir (Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress, Novr. 4th. 1786 The 5th of the Articles of Confederation and perpetual Union pro vides that for the more convenient management of the general Inter est of the United States, Delegates shall be annually appointed in such manner as the Legislature of each State shall direct to meet in Con gress on the first Monday in November in every Year. The federal Year now drawing to a close, and few Delegates appearing to take their seats on Monday next, The Congress previous to their rising have commanded me 1 to inform Your Excellency that the present critical situation of public Affairs requires the immediate assembling of the States in Congress, and that it is their earnest desire that Your Excel lency would urge the attendance of the Delegates for Your State with all possible dispatch. In executing this command, I have the honor to be, with the great est respect &c 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 Thomson recorded no such order in the journals of Congress. 2 A copy of the following brief note to James Bryson, the postmaster at Philadelphia, endorsed “Office of Secretary of Congress—Novr. 3d 1786,” is in PCC, item 49, fol. 307. “Mr Thomson presents his compliments to Mr Bryson, and requests that he will give himself the trouble to forward the enclosed letters, by the first Packet that sails from Philadelphia for Charleston.” John Bayard to James Hutchinson My dear Sir New York Novr. 5th. 1786 I received your freindly & polite Letter of Octr 31st informing me of my being left out of the delegation for the present Year. 1 1 confess it
