Novembers, 1786 635 was in some measure unexpected to me, as several Gentlemen had re ceived Letters the post before mentioning that St Clair, Pettit & myself would certainly be continued. I have however this Consolation that I have strictly attended to my Duty while a Member, & endeavoured faithfully to serve my state & Country. My Freinds in this City as well as most of the Members of Congress have in the most freindly Manner expressed their chagrin & surprise at the Conduct of the House in thus treating me, & their wishes that I had been continued. They think the Conduct of the Republicans on this occasion impolitic & un generous—but I wish to harbour no undue resentments, Events of this Nature are peculiarly attendant on republican Governments— they cannot therefore injustice be consider’d as fixing disgrace upon our Characters. As None of the new Elected Members Yet appear, I have concluded at the request of Mr. Pettit to keep my Seat for the en- sueing Week, that is till next Friday when my Commission Expires— on that day I shall sett off for Philada. & expect to be there on Satur day Evening. Present my best respects to Enquiring Freinds & beleive me to be My Dear sir, Your sincere Freind &c, John Bayard RC (PPAmP: Hutchinson Papers). 1 On October 31 the Pennsylvania Assembly elected William Bingham, William Irvine, Samuel Meredith, Charles Pettit, and Arthur St. Clair delegates for the ensuing congressional year.yCC, 31:929-30. John Henry to William Smallwood Dear Sir N. York Novr. 5. 1786 Your Excellency will oblige me, by forwarding the enclosed Letter to the Gentleman who shall be appointed president of the Senate. It re spects myself and I am desirous that it should be received before the legislature shall proceed to the Election of the Delegates to Congress. 1 I have the pleasure to inform your Excellencey that Mr. Barckley has concluded a Treaty with the Emperor of Morocco. We have not yet received it, but are assured that it is equally favourable with any that now subsists with the European powers. 2 I am Sir with Sentiments of the highest respect and Esteem, Yrs, J Henry RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 The enclosed letter has not been found, but since Henry was not among the con gressional delegates elected by the Maryland assembly on December 2, it was probably a request not to be considered for reelection. JCC, 32:57-58. 2 Thomas Barclay’s July 31 letter announcing the conclusion of a treaty with the Em peror of Morocco had been laid before Congress on November 2 by John Jay. Jay had al ready informed Thomas Jefferson on October 27, however, that news of the treaty had
