Illustrations View of Philadelphia endpapers “An East Prospect of the City of Philadelphia; taken by George Heap from the Jersey Shore, under the Direction of Nicholas Scull Surveyor General of the Province of Pennsylvania.” This detail is from an engraving by Thomas Jeffreys based on an etching of the city published in Thomas Jeffreys, A General Topography of North Amer ica and the West Indies. Being a Collection of All the Maps, Charts, Plans, and Particular Surveys, That Have Been Published of That part of the World, Either in Europe or America (London: R. Sayer, 1768). Oliver Ellsworth 100 Ellsworth (1745-1807), a Connecticut native and a student at both Yale and the College of New Jersey, turned early to the study of law and a career that eventually took him to the post of chief justice of the United States Supreme Court. At the outbreak of the American Revolution he represented Windsor in the Connecticut Assembly, but he soon moved to Hartford and subsequently served as state’s attorney for Hartford County, as a member of the Governor’s Coun cil, and as a delegate to Congress for most of the period from October 1778 to July 1783. Thereafter he was elected a judge of the superior court of Connecticut, a delegate to the Constitutional Convention, and a United States senator under the new Constitution, before his appointment to the Supreme Court in 1796. As a delegate to Con gress, Ellsworth was a member of numerous committees, including such standing bodies as the Committees on Appeals, Foreign Affairs, the Marine, and the Treasury. He sat upon the hearing of the appeal in the noted case of Gideon Olmsted and the sloop Active, often labored on committees struggling with problems concerning the sup ply of the Continental Army, and during the period covered by the present volume was particularly interested in the response of the states to Congress’ March 18, 1780, resolution devaluing the Con tinental dollar. Engraving by Albert Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (LC-USZ62-54670). James Madison, Jr. 237 Madison’s years in the Continental Congress, 1780-83, 1787-88, represent only a small part of a long and distinguished career, but they were formative ones that significantly shaped his public life. He arrived in Philadelphia on his 29th birthday in March 1780 just in time to witness Congress’ repudiation of the Continental dollar, the collapse of congressional finances, and the failure of the “in-kind” xxv
