xxvi Illustrations system of state requisitions for provisioning the Continental Army. As a result, he readily became a proponent of vigorous measures for restoring public credit, eventually urging proposals to ensure Con gress a dependable revenue and even offering a motion for com pelling states “to fulfill their federal engagements.” As a member of the Board of Admiralty and of the committee for corresponding with the southern department, Madison gained experience in the Con tinental dimensions of congressional responsibilities, and the per sistent vulnerability of Virginia to British invasion heightened his concern for improving the fighting capabilities of Washington’s army. He also ably defended Virginia’s claims to western lands in the face of efforts of the landless states to secure them in trade for Maryland’s ratification of the Articles of Confederation, and he consistently op posed proposals to relinquish American claims to the navigation of the Mississippi River to curry favor with Spain. One highlight of Madison’s private life in Philadelphia was his courtship of the 16-year-old daughter of New York congressman William Floyd, Catherine, who seemed to have capitulated to his overtures when the couple marked their engagement in 1783 by exchanging miniature likenesses executed by Charles Willson Peale. But “Kitty” soon gave her heart to another, wounding Madison and leaving posterity the Peale watercolor on ivory reproduced here, a reminder of Madison’s youthful appearance at that stage of his ca reer, just four years before his work during the Federal Convention earned him the sobriquet “father” of the United States constitution. Rare Book and Special Collections Division, Library of Congress. Treasury Office tables for the payment of loan office certificates, July 29, 1780 383 Faced with the collapse of the Continental dollar, staff department officers had increasingly turned to issuing commissary and quarter master certificates to pay for military supplies and provisions, and by early 1780 these instruments seemed destined to follow the dollar to catastrophic depreciation. Continental loan office certificates, on the other hand, continued to stand as the “preferred” securities of the United States despite considerable erosion, and to maintain their value Congress pledged on April 18, 1780, to “make such provision for discharging . . . loan office certificates, as that the holders of them shall sustain no loss thereon, by any depreciation.” Accordingly a plan was adopted on June 28 for computing a depreciation rate from September 1777 to March 1780 to enable loan office commissioners to pay “the full current value of the bills when loaned,” and the Treasury Office implemented this congressional plan on July 29 by ordering the publication of a “Table for the Payment of Principal and Interest of Loans” pursuant to the June 28 resolutions.
