Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Huntington Sir, Philadelphia 3d April 1780 I was honored on the 22d of February last, with your Letter in closing a Resolution of Congress of the same Date; & having since been frequently informed by Members of the House, that there was a general Disposition therein, to consider with Candor my Letter of the 19th Feby last, I have patiently waited more than a Month for an Answer to the same. 1 I have also omitted to communicate the Affair to the State which I have the Honor to represent, lest their Harmony with Congress might be interrupted at a Time when the publick. Interest renders it necessary, that every State should support them. But seeing no longer a Prospect of being restored to the priv ilege of a Member, or even of having my Claim to it considered, painful as it is to contend with a Body of which I have long been a Member, or to adopt any Measures which may appear inconsistent with an ardent Desire to promote their Dignity & Honor, I am never theless constrained by a Sense of Duty to my Country and Constit uents, to enter into a full & free Discussion of this Subject, & to close it with Congress. The Decision of Congress “that I was not in order in requiring the Yeas & Nays on a Question of Order” was, as I conceive, clearly against the Rules & Usage of the House, referred to in the Letter last mentioned. 2 Congress have undoubtedly a Right to alter these whenever they think it expedient, but they will give me Leave to deny their Authority, for determining that a Member is out of order, when he conducts agreably to both. Had Congress at that Time thot it necessary, & actually passed a Resolution to discontinue the Yeas & Nays on questions of order, still it is difficult to conceive, that as impartial Judges, they could determine a Member to have been out of order, for using that privilege previous to the passing of such a Resolve. If that Decission was intended as an Act for discontinuing this privilege, it may be necessary to enquire, how the States are to be informed of the Conduct of their respective Members in Congress? or, by what Means the Fountain of the Confederacy is to be kept pure, & Members supported in the faithful Discharge of their Trust? Perhaps it will be said, that the privilege of requiring the Yeas & Nays is still continued, excepting on questions of Order, & is sufficient for the purposes mentioned. But the Answer to this is plain, that the Conduct of Members may thus appear on all propositions decided by Congress; but will be concealed on all Motions by them sup pressed, which is the particular Greivance now complained of under such Circumstances, if a Member makes a Motion, & a Majority are disposed to be arbitrary, they may call him to order, & silence him, 3
