April 5, 1780 13 MS (MDaAr). 1 See the following entry, note 6. Philip Schuyler to George Washington My Dear Sir: Philadelphia April 5th, 1780 On the 3d Instant 1 was favored with Your Excellency’s letter of the 30th ult. 1 I have for ten days Successively deferred writing In hopes that I Should have been able at last to have advised you that public business was closely attended to In this quarter, 2 and that we had adopted Measures to disencumber us from that variety of embarrasment we experience, but alas! We have made little or no advances. Mifflin, Pickering, Jones and General Sherman have furnished the first part of a Voluminous system for the Quarter master department. The Second part is to direct the Commissary General of Issues in the discharge of his Duty, and the third will point at the regulations for the Hospital. I do not mention the purchasing Department be cause that is to be abolished, the States are to do All; As General Sherman roundly asserts this System will strike off four thousand Officers from the Civil departments, as It is replete with absurdity and petiness It will pass into a law, unless It Should be thought proper to Confer with the Commander In Chief on the Subject. There has been some wicked work respecting a Certain appointment which Gen. Greene will advise you of Verbally. 3 The Gentleman I have last mentioned adressed Congress in a letter of the 3d Inst wishing for their Sense on his Genral Conduct in the QMaster department, 4 a Resolution was proposed, that Congress had full Confidence In his Integrity And Ability, and requesting his fu ture exertions—this brought on much debate, amendments were moved, and the house got Into heats, and an adjournment was deemed necessary to give the members time to Cool. A member more zealous for the Generals reputation than prudent, Observed that he was an officer In whom the Commander In Chief had the highest Confidence, that he was the first of all the Subordinate Generals In point of Military knowledge & ability, that In case of an Accident happening to Gen. Washington he would be the properest person to Command the Army, And that General Washington thought so to, an other Observed that, he had a very high Opinion of G. Greens Mil itary abilities, that he believed the General had too, but that he believed no person on Earth was Authorized to say as much as the words above Scored, Implyed. I mention this that your Ex. may guard against any misapprehensions which this may occasion with Your officers. Gen. Greene will Inform you who delivered the Imprudent Speech. 5
