April 6, 1780 15 prised the committee appointed to prepare the letter, wrote the first draft which was read in Congress on April 4, but it was then assigned to a new committee consisting of Thomas Burke, Robert R. Livingston, and John Mathews. This committee sub mitted variant drafts on April 7, 10 and 20, when the letter was referred to still a third committee composed of Abraham Clark, William Ellery, and Ellsworth. On April 21 their draft was debated and then submitted to William Churchill Houston “to re draught the same with amendments.” His version was finally adopted on April 24. It was printed under that date by Gaillard Hunt in the Library of Congress’ edition of the journals. See JCC, 16:312-13, 328, 337, 345-48, 379, 384-87. Congress’ Instructions to the Committee at Headquarters [April 6-13, 1780] 1 In Congress April 6. 1780. Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed to proceed to Head Quarters to confer with the commander in chief on the subject of his letter of the third instant, together with the report of the board of war and the letter from Baron Steuben on the subject of a reduction of the regiments, and the report of the commissioners on the arrangement of the staff departments of the army, and that a committee of three be appointed to prepare instructions for such committee. 2 April 12. 1780. Copy of instructions to the committee appointed to go to camp. 3 Gentlemen You are to confer with the commander in chief on the subjects contained in the resolution for your appointment, and such others as are committed to your charge by the following instructions. 1. You are to consult him about the propriety of reducing the number of regiments: you may with his advice reduce, incorporate or unite to state lines the several additional corps. 2. You together with the commander in chief are to limit the number of horses to be kept by the officers of the line and regimental staff, and to make such regulations with respect to the soldiers em ployed as servants as will, as far as is consistent with the convenience of the officers they serve, enable the United States to avail themselves of their services as soldiers. 3. Together with the commander in chief you are to suggest such measures, and to form such plans for the general advantage of the officers and soldiers with respect to cloathing and necessary supplies as will tend to remove all just ground of complaint, which Congress sincerely lament that there should be any room for, and to adapt them to the abilities & circumstances of these United States, and immediately to lay them before Congress.
