16 April 6, 1780 4. You are to consult with the commander in chief and the com missary and quarter master general about the defects of the present system, the abuses to which it is liable, and the best methods of reforming the same. In doing this you will pay a particular attention to the report referred to you in your appointment and adopt, amend or alter the same in such manner as shall upon full consideration appear to you most adviseable, and you are hereby fully empowered to carry into execution any plan for conducting the quarter master and commissary departments which upon advice with the com mander in chief and the heads thereof you shall approve; always reflecting that supplies are to be drawn forth by the respective states agreeably to the resolutions of the 25th of Feby. last. 5. You are to inquire minutely into the management of the hos pitals and medical departments, & after consulting the commander in chief & director general, you are empowered to discharge unnec essary officers, to retrench expences, to abolish purveyorships, unless when they shall appear absolutely necessary. To contrive modes for checking their accounts, and to limit the number of horses which the officers of that department shall be permitted to keep, providing that they be as few as possible, bearing in mind that the resources of the country are much drained; and that it is more expedient that individuals should feel temporary inconveniencies, than to involve our affairs in general ruin. 6. You are to inquire into the management of the hide department and to reform or abolish the same, substituting contracts in the lieu thereof, if upon advising with the commander in chief it shall appear most salutary. 7. You are to pay particular attention to the department of ord nance and military stores, and after consulting with the commander in chief and the heads of the departments, to lay down such rules for the management thereof as to you shall seem necessary. 8. After the establishment of general regulations you shall visit the different posts as far as you shall judge necessary, in order to see the same carried into execution. In doing of which you are vested with joint and seperate powers; you are at liberty to call to your assistance any officer in the service of the United States, whose exp ences shall be borne by the states. You are to abolish unnecessary posts, to erect others, to discharge useless officers, to stop rations, improperly issued, and are hereby further authorized to exercise every power which may be requisite to effect a reformation of abuses and the general arrangement of those departments, which are in any wise connected with the matters committed to your charge. You are from time to time to inform Congress of the measures you have taken in consequence of these powers and instructions, & to transmit them lists of the names and occupations of the persons
