April 6, 1780 17 you shall discharge and of those new officers, if any, which you shall find necessary to appoint. April 13. 1780 Congress proceeded to the election of the committee to proceed to Head Quarters, and the ballots being taken, Mr. Schuyler, Mr. Matthews & Mr. Peabody were elected. 4 Extract from the minutes Geo Bond Depy Secy. MS (DNA: RG93, M859). In a clerical hand. 1 This is a composite document, copied from the journals of Congress for April 6, 12, and 13, for the use of the committee appointed on the 13th—John Mathews, Nathaniel Peabody, and Philip Schuyler. This committee, referred to at times as “The Committee of Cooperation” or “The Committee at Camp,” was most often called the Committee at Headquarters, the designation used in these Letters. For the origins of this committee, see John Mathews to Horatio Gates, March 14, 1780. For the role of the committee in Congress’ management of the war, see E. Wayne Carp, To Starve the Army at Pleasure: Continental Army Administration and American Political Culture, 1775- 1783 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1984), pp. 191-95; and Edmund C. Burnett, The Continental Congress (New York: Macmillan Co., 1941), pp. 446-65. “ The members of the committee chosen on April 6 to “prepare instructions” were Oliver Ellsworth, Robert R. Livingston, and John Mathews. JCC, 16:332-33. 3 These “instructions” adopted on April 12 had been considered by Congress since the 8th with principal attention focused on the first article describing the powers granted the Committee at Headquarters, in consultation with the commander-in-chief, to reduce the number of regiments in the Continental army. In an initial draft, pre pared by Livingston, the committee was “invested with every power necessary to carry [theplan] into execution.” Livingston Papers, NHi. In Livingston's second draft “every power necessary” was changed to “full powers.” PCC, item 21, fols. 225-26. Although secretary Thomson clearly endorsed the latter document “Delivered April 8, 1780” with “Monday next assigned for the consideration of it,” he did not record its pres entation in the journals. Congress began full debate on the instructions on Tuesday, April 11, when it eliminated altogether the section granting powers, merely directing the committee at headquarters to “consult” with Washington on “the propriety of reducing the number of regiments.” The remaining sections of the instructions, as adopted the following day, do not differ significantly from either of the Livingston drafts. For the debate in Congress, see JCC, 16:350-52, 354-57. 4 For the election of the committee, prior to which Thomas Burke secured passage of a resolve that “no person shall be considered as duly elected to serve on any committee empowered to take order or carry any measure into execution unless he shall have the votes of a majority of the states present in Congress,” see JCC, 16:359- Samuel Huntington to George Clinton Sir, Philada April 6. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 4th Instant by which your Excellency will be informed that Congress approved of the raising a Body of eight hundred Militia in the State of New York for the Defence of that State and that when raised they
