April 11, 1780 31 air since February when it was proposed by John Mathews that Congress appoint “a resident, instead of a secretary to the Minister Plenipotentiary at the Court of Ver sailles,” see Livingston to John Jay, February 10, 1780, note 3. The issue became moot on April 17, however, when Mathews’ motion was rejected by a vote of six to two, with only New York and South Carolina supporting the proposal. JCC, 16:371- 72. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Sir, April 11th. 1780 I have this morning reed your Favor of March 25/30 1 but it is not possible for me to give you a Tenth of the Portion in Return. I will attend to all the Points; but, on Mr. Partridge’s Return and Con versation you will know I have rigid Attendance to perform in Con gress, and to the full as much Duty of the Quill out as ever. Wherefore you are not to expect many Letters from me. I am now standing at a Window to scratch this while Esqr. Burke is speaking. We are about sending a Comtee. to Camp the Instruc tions for them are under Debate. A Reduction will be one of the Points on which they will have discretionary Power, late in the Season as it is; and altho’ we lately put off a Report of the Bd. of War on that Subject till Deer. 1 st —80. 2 A Preparitory Dulcedo was yesterday passed relating to the Staff of the Army, 3 but it was not possible to go into a Detail of Regulations respecting them so as not to throw Money away upon D D D D D’s. But you may depend upon it that every Thing proper will be done for the deserving Classes of the Staff upon the Principles which have governed us as to the Line vizt. Resolved, That when Congress shall be furnished with proper Doc uments to liquidate the Depreciation of the continental Bills of Credit, they will, as soon thereafter as the State of the public Finances will admit, make good to the Line of the Army & the independent Corps thereof, the Deficiency of their original Pay occasioned by such a Depreciation; and that the money and Articles heretofore paid or furnished or hereafter to be paid or furnished by Congress or the States or any of them as for Pay, Subsistance or to compensate for Deficiencies shall be deemed as advanced on Account until such Liquidation as aforesaid shall be adjusted, it being the Determination of Congress that all the Troops serving in the continental Army shall be placed on an equal footing Provided that no Persons shall have any Benefit of this Resolution except such as were engaged during the War, or for three years and are now in Service or shall hereafter engage during the War. Resolved That a Committee of three be appointed to report a proper Compensation to the Staff of the Army in Consequence of the Depreciation of the Currency. Holten, Peabody & Burke.
