April 15, 1780 37 I have the honour to be, with great Respect, Sir, your most obt hbble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. Addressed: “The Honble The President of the Council of Massachusets Bay.” ' JCC, 16:339-41. For the presentation of Massachusetts’ request for compensation for the expense of the Penobscot expedition, see Massachusetts Delegates to the Coun cil, March 20; and James Lovell to Samuel Adams, April 9, 1780. 2 See Huntington to Washington, April 9, 1780. Thomas Burke to Cornelius Harnett Dear Sir Philadelphia April 15th 1780 I have had from you, very lately, a letter which announced to me your safe arrival at your own home. 1 I am very glad that you have surmounted the difficulties of a journey which I have often thought of with very great and severe apprehensions. Your Spirits I perceive are good, and your health, I hope will always continue as well as you can wish it. Mine 1 find declines apace and 1 am satisfied that another year’s close application in Congress would make me a perpetual Cit izen in Philadelphia, and give me a right to the soil from whence nothing short of the Final Judgement of this World could Eject me. Gen. Jones and myself continued at our old quarters until about ten days ago, and had the pleasure of the company of our old agree able friends Mrs. & Miss Viney. But even their Society could not render our Situation any longer tolerable, and we changed our Quar ters formerly occupied by our friend George Ross, which we have taken ready furnished. We live here as comfortable as we can, but not as well as we wish. I will not trouble you with a detail of the proceedings of Congress but will inclose you papers which contain our New Money Act which together with the call for specific Supplies, the Requisition for quotas of Troops, a Resolution for making good the pay of the Army, and a resolution appointing a Committee of three, Schyler, Matthews, and Peabody to go to Camp with powers to adopt and carry into execution any plan respecting the Quarter Masters and Commissary’s Department, constitute all the business of great consequence which has been completed. The last appears to me to be a contrivance to prevent our making any considerable al terations in those departments and to give consequence to a certain Individ. 2 in whose personal qualities and Individual Utility and im portance, Congress have found much business and much alteration [altercation] and embarrassment. 3 Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 Harnett’s letter of February 22, 1780, is in N.C. Stale Records, 15:341-42.
