50 April 18, 1780 at this time, Congress nevertheless resolved this day to “make such provision for [loan office certificates] ... as that the holders of them shall sustain no loss thereon, by any depreciation.’’ Two months would elapse, however, before Congress adopted a sliding scale for adjusting the principal and interest due on loan office certificates and de veloped “proper tables’’ for the direction of the Continental Loan Office commis sioners in the several states. See JCC, 16:374-75, 17:567-69; and Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, June 27, note 1. See also Committee of Congress to the Pennsylvania Council, May 22, 1780, note. For a catalog of objections raised against Congress’ decision this day to protect loan office certificate holders from the effects of inflation, see John Morin Scott to George Clinton, April 19, 1780. The attempts by Congress to respond to the needs of the holders of Continental obligations during the later stages of the war have been placed in perspective and analyzed by E. James Ferguson, The Power of the Purse (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1961), pp. 62-69. Samuel Holten’s Diary [April 18-19, 1780] 18. Tuesday. I wrote to Mrs. Holten (no. 114).' I met the medical committee. 19. Wednesday. It is five years this day since the war commenced. I dined with the president of Congress. MS (MDaAr). 1 Only an extract from this letter to his wife has been found: “don’t think I despair of the great cause—no, not if the army should be disbanded, which many suppose will soon be the case.” The Month at Goodspeeds 31 (May 1960): 196. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia April 18, 1780 1 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed Acts of Congress of the 6th & 13th Instant appointing a Committee to repair to Head Quarters to confer with the Commander in Chief &c and containing Instructions for their Government. 2 Also another Act of the 10th Instant containing Assurances that as soon as Circumstances will admit to make [good] to the Line of the Army and independant Corps thereof the Deficiency of their original Pay occasioned by Depreciation including whatever they may have received as expressed in the Act, and limiting this Provision to such as were engaged during the War or for three Years and are now in Service or shall be hereafter engaged during the War. 3 I have the honour to be, with the highest Respect, your Excelly’s hbble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington.
