52 April 18, 1780 preservation, & had the remedy at that time been applyed, I have little doubt of it’s having proved effectual, let it’s loss fall on those Shoulders, whom, it of right ought to do, & let them, if they can, acquit themselves to the union, to their Allies. The subject is too melancholy to be dwelt on. We have no European news except the affair of taking the Spanish Ships off Gibralter, which you have in the public papers. As to Do mestic, I know of none. A Committee of Congress are appointed—Genl. Schuyler, Mr. Peabody, & myself—to regulate the Staff departments. 1 What success we shall meet with, or whether we shall do any good, time only can shew. That there are abuses, & very gross ones, no body doubts & its high time some enquiry was made into them. I am Dr sir, with much Esteem & Regard, yr. most Obedt. servt. Jno. Mathews RC (MH-H: Sparks Manuscripts). 1 For the selection and mission of this committee, see Congress’ Instructions to the Committee at Headquarters, April 6-13, 1780. Philip Schuyler to George Clinton Dear Sir, (Private.) Philadelphia April 18th 1780. The news papers announce all the foreign Intelligence received by Congress and something more, except that of the Enemy’s In tended plan of operations for the Opening Campaign which we be lieve we are possessed of. I enter not Into a Minute detail, least this letter Should Miscarry; let It Suffice to observe to your Excellency, that I think It will, on their parts, Evaporate as the last did especially to the Northward, If Supplies can be furnished for the Army To the Southward, 1 fear they will make an extensive penetration Into South Carolina, for I have no great hopes that the troops In Charlestown will be able to make Effectuall opposition. I wish they may not be Caged; all was well there on the 21st ult. but a private letter of a later date advises that the Roebuck had passed the bar and would have her Cannon on board In ten hours. If this is fact, we shall soon have some serious Intelligence from thence. The Enemy have published one of my Letters which they took from Mr. Crane at Paramus; 1 one to Your Excellency, another to Mrs. Schuyler & a third to Colo. Lewis have not Yet appeared In print 2 —their view in publishing mine appears to be to announce to their friends that we were under some difficulty with respect to our Finances, for it otherwise afforded them little consolation. Maryland & Delaware continue unrepresented, so that the Ver mont business still hangs by the Eyelids.
