April 20, 1780 59 8 For the resignation of Lt. Col. Pierre Regnier de Roussi, see JCC, 16:372, 376. 9 See JCC, 16:272-73. James Duane to Mary Duane My dearest Polly, Morris Town Head Quarters 20 April 1780. I wrote you two days since 1 from Mr. Lot’s by Doctor Thompson which he promised to dispatch to make you easy on Account of my Journey. I have spent the time since very agreeably with the General & his Family. The Chevalier Luzern Minister of France his Secretary and my old Acquaintance Don Juan Miralles, who all reached Head Quarters on a Visit the day after my Arrival. The Minister appears to be a polite Gentleman of easy manners, very affable & attentive. Monsieur Gerard the late minister, he says, mentiond me to him with particular Regard. The Secretary Monsieur Marebois is a Gentleman of great Knowledge and agreeable address, & every way calculated to please. They with the Don are here merely on a military Visit. There is to be a Review and Ball on Monday for their Entertainment, but I shall stay no longer than to have an Interview with General Schuyler who will be up to morrow with a Committee on Business with the Commander in Chief & be detaind probably a fortnight or longer. I do not wish to go forward till I have some Conversation with him on the State of our publick Affairs: especially as I hear the Chancellor 2 has left Congress with an Intention to return home. We have no news from South Carolina to be depended upon later than the 14t March. At that time the Enemy had made no Impression; but from every appearance they meant to beseige the Town in form. They have a very considerable Land force; indeed they have bent almost their whole strength against that State, and I am not without Apprehensions for the Event. They have shewn their policy in At tacking our weakest side; after despairing of Conquest in the more settled & populous States. With God’s blessing they may yet meet with a second disappointment in their efforts against that remote & devoted State. I shall write to you next week God willing from Philadelphia. In the mean time let me intreat you to make yourself as happy in my absense as possible—and to present my dutiful Regards to our Par ents and my affectionate Compliments to every Branch of the Family; & to Kiss & Bless for me our dearest Children. I need not tell you how much & how sincerely I am—my dearest Polly, Your Affection ate & faithful Husband, Jas. Duane RC (NHi: Duane Papers). ' Not found, although a letter of April 15 from Duane to his wife written while he was enroute to Morristown is in the Duane Papers, NHi. 2 That is, Robert R. Livingston.
