April 21, 1780 63 affairs, but almost put a total stop to all the movements of our armies. Is the Hone, assembly really sensible of our situation & their own danger (I fear not); men, money & provisions, are what is so much wanted, but the two last gives me the greatest concern, for without them, it will be impossible for the army to keep together; I can truly say I have met with nothing like it since the war, but don’t (my worthy friend) think I despair of the common cause, no, not if the army disbands which some think will be the case? My fears are that we shall be reduced to still greater difficulties before the good people will be fully sensible of their danger & exert themselves accordingly; I leave it with you to judge how your Delegates in Congress must feel when in company with the Minister of France and other Gentle men of Distinction from foreign nations, who sees our distress & knows to what state congress are reduced, and at the same time think that it is in the power of their constituents to releive them; you may think an apology necessary for some part of this tedious epistle, but be assured Sir I feel myself sensibly effected. I am, Sir, with great respect & esteem, your most obedet. P.S. I think it must appear evident that if the important recommen dations of Congress of the 18th ultimo are carryd. into effect im mediately, 3 it will soon put a new force upon our affairs. Last evening I saw a news paper from Ireland as late as the 14th of Feby by which it appeared that Lord Norths late acts was far from being satisfactory to that people. Yours as before, FC (PPIn). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 'Josiah Batchelder, Jr. (1734-1809), Beverly, Mass., ship captain, was a member of the Massachusetts General Court, 1775-79. Edwin M. Stone, A History of Beverly, Civil and Ecclesiastical From Its Settlement in 1630 to 1842 (Boston: James Munroe and Co., 1843), pp. 97-98. 2 Not in PCC. ’ That is, Congress’ resolutions on finance of March 18, 1780. JCC, 16:261-67. James Lovell to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia April 21st. 1780 Upon the joint Opinion and Desire of my Colleagues I do myself the Honor to forward at this Time an Extract from one of General Washingtons last Letters interesting to the State of Massachusetts Bay in particular. 1 I am with much Respect, Sir, your very humble Servant, James Lovell RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “Honble. President of the Coun cil, Massachusetts Bay.”
