64 April 22, 1780 ' Lovell inclosed an extract in his hand of General Washington’s April 17 letter to President Huntington setting forth his reasons against another Penobscot expedition. See Samuel Huntington to Washington, April 9, 1780, note 2. Samuel Huntington to Daniel Brodhead Sir, Philada, April 22. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 18th Instant directing that six blank Commissions be sent to you (which will be forwarded by the Board of War) to be filled up with the Names of such faithful Indians of the Delaware Tribe as you shall judge to be deserving of that Honour but no rank to be given any of them higher than Captain. 1 You will further observe by the Act enclosed, Copies of your Letter of the 27th of February (addressed to the Board of War) and the Papers therein referred to are sent to the Governor & Council of Virginia and Pennsylvania, and that Congress have resolved to sup port you in any Acts or Orders which the Nature of the Service and Discharge of your Duty as Commanding Officer at Fort Pitt hath made or shall make necessary. 2 I am Sir &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA:PCC, item 14). 1 JCC, 16:372-73. 2 In his February 27 letter to the Board of War (which is in PCC, item 78, 3:441- 44, and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 8:119-20), Colonel Brodhead had explained that a suit had been filed against him in a Virginia court by two men he had evicted from a house near Fort Pitt while fortifying the site against an expected Indian attack. See also Huntington to Thomas Jefferson, April 23, 1780. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 22 April 1780 Enclosed is an Act of Congress of the 21st Instant impowering your Excellency when properly applied to for that Purpose, to au thorize an Agent or Commissary of Prisoners appointed by the En emy to reside in these United States; and with Powers similar to those granted to a like Officer on behalf of the United States and allowed by the Enemy to be exercised within their Lines. 1 The Extract of a Letter from Genl. Lincoln contains the latest Intelligence I have received from Charles Town. 2 I have the honor to be, with great Respect, your Excelly’s hbble servt, Sam. Huntington President
