April 23, 1780 65 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 JCC, 16:383-84. 2 This extract from Benjamin Lincoln’s March 24 letter to Congress, reporting the tightening encirclement of Charleston by British forces and his dim prospects for immediate reinforcements, is in the Washington Papers, DLC. Samuel Huntington to Thomas Jefferson Sir, Philada April 23. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 18th Instant with Copies of sundry Papers therein referred to No. 1 & No. 2 by which you will be informed that a Suit at Law is said to be instituted in Yoghogania County against Colo Broadhead Commanding Officer at Fort Pitt, in Consequence of Orders given by him to some of the Troops under his Command to take Possession of a House occupied by Edward Ward & Thomas Smallman Esquires which he judged necessary for the Safety of that Post. 1 You will observe that by the Act enclosed Congress have resolved Colonel Broadhead shall be supported in any Acts or Orders which the Nature of the Service, and the Discharging his Duty as Com manding Officer at Fort Pitt hath made or shall make necessary with which I have no Doubt the supreme Power of Virginia will concur, and that proper Measures will be adopted to prevent Colo Broadhead his being unjustly vexed on Account of any Orders or Act by him given or performed, in the necessary Discharge of his Duty as Com manding Officer. I have the honour to be &c., S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 'JCC, 16:373. In addition to this April 18 resolve, Huntington’s enclosures appar ently consisted of a February 27 letter from Daniel Brodhead to the Board of War explaining the circumstances that had led Ward and Smallman to file suit against him in Virginia, and papers related to that suit which Brodhead had sent to the board. Huntington also sent these enclosures with a similar letter this day to Pennsylvania president Joseph Reed. PCC, item 14, fols. 335-36. For Brodhead’s letter, see Hun tington to Brodhead, April 22, 1780. Philip Schuyler to Robert R. Livingston My Dear Sir Philadelphia April 23rd 1780 When you mentioned your Intention to return to our State as soon as Mrs. Livingston should be In a Condition to travel I made no opposition, but Since your departure hence the necessity of your Returning here has so forcibly Struck my mind that I should deem myself Inexcusable and failing in duty to my Country If I did not
