66 April 23, 1780 urge you to lay aside Every thought of leaving us In the present Critical not to say extreamly distressing Conjuncture. The Intelli gence we yesterday receivd from South Carolina the particulars of which Mr Mathews will transmit You, 1 will Evince to you that we ought not to Entertain a Belief that Charles town is even now In our possession. The loss of that place perhaps of that whole state will superadd to the difficulties we already Abundantly experience; In such Conjunctures we have Occasion for the aid of Every man of Abilities In public life, we have Occasion for an uncommon Stock of Wisdon and Vertue and you that know how little of either pervades our directing Council must not quit the Stage and leave the political Ship to the danger of becoming a wreck thro the Incompetency of the pilots. I need not tell you that our affairs are running rapidly to Some violent Crisis, that the present disorders do not seem to admit of remedy In the ordinary Course of things, that a Convulsion now would Indefinitely prejudice our affairs both at home & abroad as It will evince a want of means or a want of Wisdom to apply them, and that either would bring our cause Into discredit, perhaps totally ruin . . . . 2 Let me Intreat you to take a ride to Morris Town the soonest you possibly can. I faithfully executed the Commission you charged me . . . .’ RC (NHi: Robert R. Livingston Papers). In the hand of Philip Schuyler. 1 See the following entry. 2 MS torn; approximately seventeen lines missing. 5 MS torn; remainder missing. John Mathews to Robert R. Livingston My Dear sir, Philadelphia April 24th. 1780 If it is in your power, I should be extremely happy you would meet us at Head Qrs. in the course of two or three days, that we might have an opportunity of confering on some matters highly important to the Interests of these States. 1 If it will not be convenient to you to meet us at the above place, I must take the liberty of intreating your return to Congress, where the exertion of your abilities was never more necessary, than at this time. The loss of South Carolina (which we must every momet look for) will involve in it consequences, truely alarming to the Union. Their extensiveness a few moments reflection will suggest to you. You may suppose my apprehensions arise from local prejudices, & my spirits rather depressed from the loss of the Country to which I belong. Such a conjecture is natural enough, but permit me to Assure
