68 April 25, 1780 Samuel Holten’s Diary [April 25-26, 1780] 25. Tuesday. I wrote to the Honl. Mr. White, to Mrs. Holten (no. 116). 1 Mr. Peabody Sit out for head quarters. I rode out with him 5 miles. 26. Wednesday. Fastday, 2 I attended public worship in the fore noon, Dr. Duffield preached from Lamen[tatio]ns 1 & 20. “Behold, O Lord, for I am in distress.” Stormy weather. MS (MDaAr). ' Not found. 2 For Congress’ decision to set aside the last Wednesday in April “as a day of fasting, humiliation and prayer” throughout the United States, see JCC, 16:252-53 Samuel Holten to Israel Hutchinson My dear Sir. 1 Philadelphia Api. 28th 1780 You have been so kind as to ask me several times when I expected to return, & I think I engaged to inform you. Last evening Colo Palfry arrived here from Boston & informed me I might expect Genl. Ward & Mr Adams here in a short time, if so I shall set out soon after they arrive; Therefore I think it is likely I shall be in Boston some time in June next. I have given my constant attendence in congress from the time I first took my seat having not been absent one day except about a week I was confinded to my chamber by sickness. Some of my best friends have told me that unless I leave Congress 8c do less business with my head 8c exercise more they think I shall lay my bones in this City before another year, 8c I believe they judge prety right; But I am not Sure that 1 could return to private life 8c leave my distressed country in such a Situation 8c be content if I should be as well as I am now; However it lays with my friends at Court to Consider whether my past services justly intitles me to their further notice. 1 never intend to return to Congress. 2 A few days since Congress agreed upon a circular letter to the States which (for want of time) I must refer you for my sentiments upon the state of public affairs. 3 I inclose you the last news paper which contains the intelligence of the day. I am, my worthy friend, with sincere respect, your most obedt. FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Col. Israel Hutchinson (1728-1811) of Holten’s hometown of Danvers, had been Lt. Col. of John Mansfield’s Massachusetts Regiment at its formation, and was com-
