May 3, 1780 75 condole with you on the death of Mr. Muralles 1 at which I am sensibly affected Both on his own account & the particular situation of our affairs. I hope that you have reed, some further light on the subject of his proposals & that Mr. Francisco 2 will be authorized to carry them into execution if they shd be publick in their nature. They never could be offered more seasonably than at present. I have already reed. Letters from Genl Schuyler & Mr. Matthews which break in greatly upon my plans of domestick tranquility, they intreat to go down to Philadelphia or at least to meet them at camp in order to hear their reasons more at large for this request & this last I shall do as soon as I can possibly leave Mrs. Livingston. 3 And from thence if you give me any encouragement I may again be en- duced to trouble you. In the mean time I can only request you to remind my friends with you of the esteem I bear them And to be persuaded that that which I profess for you is preferred with the utmost sincerity. I am, Dr. Sir &c FC (NHi: Robert R. Livingston Papers). In the hand of Robert R. Livingston, and endorsed by him: “Dt. of Letter to Mr. Marebois—3d May 1780.” 1 Don Juan de Miralles, unofficial Spanish agent to the United States, died on April 28 of “a violent biliary Complaint” while visiting Washington’s headquarters at Mor ristown with the chevalier de La Luzerne. For Washington’s report on Miralles’ death to the Governor of Cuba, Diego Jose Navarro, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:316-17. A long discussion of Miralles’ illness, death, and burial, written by his secretary, Francisco Rendon, to Navarro on May 5, is in Procedentes de Cuba, Legajo 1281, Archivo General de Indias, Seville. 2 Francisco Rendon, Miralles’ secretary and successor, served as the Spanish agent in Philadelphia following Miralles’ death until 1785, when he became secretary to the newly appointed Spanish minister to the United States, Don Diego de Gardoqui. Hermonio Portell-Vila, Los “Otros Extranjeros” en La Revolution Norteamericana (Miami, Fla.: Ediciones Universal, 1978), pp. 92-100. 3 For the attempts of John Mathews and Philip Schuyler to convince Livingston that he should return to Congress, see Schuyler to Livingston, April 23, and Mathews to Livingston, April 24, 1780. Livingston, who was in New Jersey to be with his wife (the daughter of John Stevens) during the birth of their child, was wrestling with himself over attending to his duties as a delegate and had voiced concern over the crisis of public affairs in a letter to James Duane written from “Valley Lebanon” the previous day. “By this time,” he observed regarding Duane’s recent return to Con gress, “I may condole with you on the new scenes of trouble and anxiety which have opened upon you—these were sufficient to try the fortitude of any man before I left them, and, if I may judge from Letters which I have received from Schuyler, & Matthews they have not diminished since. God send you that spirit of firmness & decision, which becomes every hour more necessary. I am greatly mistaken if daily experience will not teach you that the bond which ties us together is too weak for the exertion that our circumstances require, and that the confederation even if agreed to, would only prove a nominal union. Greater powers must lodge some where, or our efforts will continue to be what they have hitherto been, weak & disjointed, & as the respect for a powerless body will every day diminish, the evil will every day encrease till the voice of the people shall vest elswhere what Congress are unwilling to trust themselves with. Or some daring genious with necessity for his plea, shall seize what they dare not give. This language would surprize you if you did Evidently discover from the ground on which you are now placed the ineficacy of resolutions, & the
