76 May 4, 1780 inequality of the burthens that are born by the respective states.” Duane Papers, NHi. Whatever his personal inclinations, Livingston soon left his family to confer with Mathews and Schuyler at Washington’s headquarters and was back in Congress by May 16. See Schuyler to George Clinton, May 15, 1780; and JCC, 17:432. James Duane to George Washington My dear General Philadelphia 4th May 1780 We are here in anxious Suspence for the Fate of Charles Town: it is not to be wondered at when we consider the greatness of the Stake, and the Uncertainty and Importance of the Event. The Governour, Council and Magistracy have shut themselves up in the Town de termined to share the Glory of preserving it, or to perish in the Attempt! We understand that this Resolution was submitted to with Reluctance by the principal Officers of the Army, and in my Opinion it is rather a display of Heroism then of deliberate Policy. The In fluence of Goverment would have been well employed, as far as we can Judge at so remote a distance, in preparing against a Disaster and drawing the Internal Strength of the Country to some point for it’s Defence. On the present plan the Loss of the whole State seems to be hazarded with the Capital. We learn from a Mr Cannon who left the neighbourhood of Charles Town on the 12th and parted with General Lincoln on the 9th, that the Garrison and Inhabitants were greatly elated on the Arrival of the Virginia Line; and in full ex pectation of Success: and it is his opinion that if the Maryland Line were near the Scene of Action Sir Henry Clinton woud be glad to raise the Siege. We have endeavourd to learn from Him the Senti ments of General Lincoln on the Fate of the Town: but it appears that he is as reserved in his Conversation as his Letters ’tho his Activity & Vigour inspire the highest Respect and Confidence. These Circumstances do not appear in any Correspondence and I conclude tho’ they are not very material you will not think them too trivial to be communicated. We are exerting every Means in our power to expedite the March of the Reinforcement destined for Charles Town. It is committed to the Joint Efforts of the Board of War and the Treasury and I hope every Obstacle is surmounted. I have but one wish left, that Virginia may on so decisive and interesting an Occasion be able to detach a Body of Militia which in Conjunction with the Continental Rein forcements will be sufficient to support the Communication between the Town and Country and harrass the Besiegers in their Rear. The Reluctance against the Southern Service, tho’ easy to be accounted for, is much to be deplored; and I reconcile myself to the Embar- rasments which our Weakness in that Quarter Superadds to all our other Difficulties.
