78 May 4, 1780 similar act of the Massachusetts General Court was laid before Congress by the Mas sachusetts delegates on May 29. See JCC, 17:422-23, 471. Cyrus Griffin to Samuel Huntington Sir, Philadelphia May 4th. 1780 The appointment of Congress to the Court of appeals does me great honor. 1 I thank them exceedingly for the confidence they re pose in my Integrity and abilities, but as the nomination was unso- lictied and even unknown to me, and being delegated by the state of Virginia to a very different employment I do not think myself justifiable in a peremtory acceptation of the office without the ap probation of my constituents. In the mean time, the state of Virginia being so ably and fully represented without my attendance, if Con gress shall think proper I will undertake the business of a Judge and endeavor to pay that attention which so important and distinguished a commission may require. I thank you, Sir, for the very polite manner in which the act of Congress has been communicated to me, and as I always profess the utmost affection for the dignified and extensive body over which you preside so believe me to be with the highest personal esteem and regard your excellency’s most obedient and very humble servant, C. Griffin 2 RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). 1 See Huntington to Griffin, May 1, 1780. 2 Griffin’s letter was read in Congress this day. See JCC, 16:411. He cast his final vote in Congress on June 13, the same day that he wrote his “last letter” to Gov. Thomas Jefferson “in my oficial capacity,” for which see ibid., 17:507; and Griffin to Jefferson, June 13, 1780. James Lovell to John Adams Dear Sir May 4 1780 The Bearer Mr. Mease is Brother to the late Cloathier General 1 and is intimately connected with an Irish Gentleman here for whom I have great Regard as a zealous Republican & Friend to America. It is more on account of that Connection with my Friend than of any personal Acquaintance that I have been led to introduce Mr. Mease to your Civilities. His Care of sundry Pacquets for you would indeed alone have been sufficient to merit your Attention. I chiefly rely on Them and his Conversation to what ought to be the Task of the Committee of foreign affairs if that Comtee was not a mere Shadow without a Quorum, a Secretary or Clerk. I send regularly
