May 5, 1780 87 MS (MDaAr). 1 Only Holten’s letter to Joseph Palmer has been found. 2 That is, the chevalier de La Luzerne, with whom Holten dined a number of times during his term at Congress. Samuel Holten to Joseph Palmer Dear Sir. Philadelphia May 5th 1780. Four days since I was favored with yours of the 10th ulto. & thank you for the information therein given. To answer your letter fully wou’d be to commit to paper that which I dare not by any means do, & therefore I desire you to consider me as writing under restraint, ‘tho with an inclination to write freely. I consider it as unnecessary to mention to you under what dis advantages we engaged in this war with one of the greatest powers on earth, they can’t but still remain upon a mind like yours? While Congress emited bills & the good people tho’t they were growing rich, there was no great complaints (ownly of the enemies cruelty), but nowithstanding all the endeavours of congress they depreciated to such a degreee & still increasing, that the good people (in these parts) were more alarmed than by the late resolutions you are pleased to mention, & what added to the difficulty was, they tho’t it was in a great measure owing to Congress’s continuing to make paper bills; & therefore petitioned in great numbers to stop the press & tell them what to do & they wou’d exert themselves to the utmost to support the common cause; Notwithstanding, Congress was aware of the dif ficulties attending the stoping the press as well as the dangr. of keep ing it open, and of two great difficulties they chose that which they tho’t the least, & I believe have never repented it; However they took care not to stop it ‘till they were able to finish the last campaign; which they had reason to hope wou’d be the last and upon stoping the press they informed their constituents how long they cou’d go on without taxes being paid in, & let them know what they tho’t wou’d be the consequences if they were not supplied with money according to their recommendations & notwithstanding the good intentions & exertions of the people, they have not been able to supply us? And now, sir, I wou’d ask your attention to take a short view of our distressed & reduced state for four months past; an empty treas ury & a Starving army not paid for some time & poorly cloathed &c, &c, &c; Please to consider our worthy Genl, using his great influence with the exertions of congress to git the good citizens near the army to supply their wants, without which they must disband; view the civil magistrates & Citizens exerting themselves & supplying them even to the last provisions they had, & their families, in consequence thereof, ready to starve around them, coming to Congress for pay
