May 9, 1780 97 is visible in all those who were acquainted with him. The lying genius of Rivington has converted his death into that of the Chevalr. de la Luzerne who he says was obliged to fly to the Army for protection against the vengeance of the people. With very sincere esteem & regard I am Dr Sir [Yr.] Obt. & humble Servt James Madison Jnr. Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:21-22. 1 Not found. 2 Apparently the new subscription rate for John Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet or the General Advertiser, which had changed from a triweekly to a semiweekly newspaper on April 8, 1780. 3 See John Fell to William Livingston, May 7, 1780, note 1. 4 See Philip Schuyler to James Duane, May 6, 1780, note 3. James Duane to George Washington My dear General. Philadelphia 9th May 1780. I Judge of your Excellency’s Anxiety for the Fate of Charles Town by my own. When we have much at Stake Events, tho’ not very important, are interesting: I shall not therefore fail to give you every Intelligence which comes well authenticated from that Quarter tho’ it may probably often happen to be no more than a Repetition of your official Information. The President yesterday receivd dispatches with a Copy of a Letter from Mr Jervais, who is either paymaster or Commissary for the Detatchment of the Army to the Southward, dated the 6t Ultimo; 1 and it appears that our Cavalry under General Huger was surprized by the Enemy & sustaind a Loss of 20 men & 30 Horses: That this Success enabled the Enemy to head Cooper River, and take post on the North side, and that it will eventually compleat the blockade of the Town: That the Injury from their Operations against the Garrison is very inconsiderable; from the Land side having killed only a woman & a Child and two Privates of the Virginia Line; & set on Fire three Houses: from the Water they have made no Attack. It is the Letter writer’s opinion that if the expected Reinforcement from North Carolina arrives in any Season, the Party of the Enemy posted on the North side of the River— separated as they are from their main body—must fall into our Hands, Mr Lawrence the late President, to whom this Letter is ad dressed, observes that what Force cannot, Famine may effect. But if the Town, as it is reported, is Supplied with provisions for a Six month’s Siege, and the Fire of the Enemy shoud not become much more formidable; the danger of a Reduction seems to be very remote. The account adds—and it gives me pleasure—that Governour Rutledge & five of the Council have been prevailed on to quit the
