May 10, 1780 105 in Chief for several days succeeding our arrival. The result of which, was, that the distressed State of the army, in point of provisions, should claim immediate attention, to the arrangement of the two great staff Departments, so as, to adapt them to securing & bringing on the supplies called for from the several States, by the act of the 25th of February last. Systems for both have been attempted, & some progress made therein. We find little difficulty in establishing one for receiving, securing, issuing, & properly accounting for, the ex penditure of supplies to be furnished by the states. But, embarrass ments of a serious nature arose, through a want of money on the one hand, to pay for the transportation thereof, a want of forage on the other, in those States which are not called on to furnish any, & in which the Continental officers are probably inhibited from pur chasing, as they are in this State, & where the quota of that article, is already expended, at the same time, that the State Officers cannot go beyond the quantities assigned them. And yet, a vast land trans portation must of necessity take place, in & through States, under either predicament. The impracticability of conveying Forage from States remotely situated is too evident to require any comments on our parts. Hence, unless the States are requested to repeal so much of their laws as prohibit the Continental Officers from making pur chases, whenever Congress, or some superintending board, or Mil itary Commander, shall judge it necessary, the public service must inevitably be retarded, if not totally stagnated. Nor, should the repeal be confined, to a mere permission for procuring forage, but, be extended to every enumerated article under the restrictions men tioned. For it is beyond a doubt that cases will arise, in which the army will be resupplied in particular States, when the quotas of such States have been expended, And those of others not only so remote, as to afford little prospect of immediate relief, but, too much so, to draw the supplies from thence, on any principle of (Economy, if they could be got at hand, as the mere charge of transportation, would greatly exceed the prime cost. But the repeals We have stated to be necessary, are not alone sufficient, for unless money is immediately furnished to pay for the transportation of supplies from the different magazines in hired carriages, & to redeem the public working cattle which the farmers in every quarter hold in pledge for the payment of their subsistence through the winter every plan of supply must prove nugatory, & all we have done, or can do, relative to the ar rangement of those departments, will be inadequate to the great object. Indeed such are the accumulated distresses of the army at this conjuncture, & such the effects of a repetition of want, that it has had a very pernicious influence on the soldiery. Their patience is exhausted, by being exposed to such frequent sufferings, that they already begin to ascribe to a defect of resources, what they have hitherto been taught to believe arose from accidental impediment.
