106 May 10, 1780 Their starving condition, Their want of pay, & the variety of hard ships they have ben driven to sustain, has soured their tempers, & produced a spirit of discontent which begins to display itself under a complexion of the most alarming hue. If this spirit should fully establish itself, it must be productive of some violent convultion, infinitely to our prejudice at home, & abroad, as it would evince a want of means, or a want of wisdom to apply them. Either of which must bring our cause into discredit & draw in its train, consequences of a nature too serious to be contemplated without the deepest anx iety. Permit us therefore to intreat tbe immediate attention of Con gress to this necessary supply, for the purpose we have mentioned. And, for the payment of the troops, to whom the Paymaster is now greatly in arrears, and the Officers so entirely destitute, that many for want of their subsistance money, with which they made some addition to their single rations, are now reduced to the disagreeable necessity of making it their whole support. On examining into the State of provisions in Camp we find there is not more meat than will last untill the 12th Inst. Collo. Blane is come up, & we learn from him that he has no prospect of an im mediate supply of this article. The only resource we can turn our eyes to, in this exigency is, the State of Pensylvania. If they fail to make instantaneous exertions for the relief of the army—We will not pretend to say, what may be the event! Before we had an opportunity closely to view and examine into the real State of things, we had no conception of the almost inex tricable difficulties, in which we found them involved. We have stated matters plainly. We have been impelled to it by every consideration of duty, by the sincere desire we have to fulfill the views & expectations of Congress, in our appointment, And by the principles of unbounded affection for our Country. These will lead us to every exertion And without a moments delay to lop of[f] every exuberancy which can be effected without material injury. We have omitted observing that the Medical department are des titute of those necessaries, which are indispensable for the sick. They have neither wine, Tea, sugar, Coffee, Chocolate, or spirits. We wish orders may be given for an immediate supply, as the army grow more sickly every hour. Inclosed is a Copy of a letter from the Commissaries Genl, of purchases, & Issues, to the Commander in Chief. 1 We have the Honour to be, sir, with the highest Respect Yr most Obedt. Servts. P Schuyler Jno Mathews Nathl Peabody RC (DNA: PCC, item 39, 1:12-13). Written by Mathews and signed by Mathews,
