May 10, 1780 107 Peabody, and Schuyler. Endorsed: “Letter from the Comee sent to headquarters, May 10. 1780. Read 12. Referred to Mr Ellsworth, Mr Muhlenberg, Mr Houston.” FC (DNA: PCC, item 39, 1:1-11). In the hand of Philip Schuyler and dated “May 9th 1780.” ' Copies of this May 9 letter from Ephraim Blaine and Charles Stewart to Wash ington concerning the “distressing” state of supplies for the army are in PCC, item 3^ 1:14-15, and 3:287-90. The original is in the Washington Papers, DLC. Samuel Holten to Richard Derby Dear Sir. 1 Philadelphia May 10th 1780 Your favor of the 20th ultimo, was delivered me by Mr Millet a few days Since & as he is about sitting out sooner than I expected I can write but a few lines. You may be assured I am fully Sensible that a peace is much to be desired, and as Mr. Adams has full powers & the ultimatum of Con gress, it is to be hoped, that it may not be far off. There was a time since the war commenced that it was disagreeable to me to think of parting with Britain but that particular connection is all over forever & the kindness we have received from the King of France & that nation in General must always indear them to me; However, not as I understand some people say that we are to be provinces to France, for you may be assured, that Congress treat with no King or nation, but as Sovereign & independent, & I am sure never will. I am sorry to hear the trade is embarrassed “in the West Indies”, and I am very sure it is not known to our Good & great ally for if it was, it wou’d soon be removed! You may not be Sensible that the 11th & 12th articles of the treaty of commerce are made null & void by consent of both parties, 2 I tho’t it had been published, but I will make some more inquiry about it. It gives me some satisfaction to hear paper Bills are more in de mand in this part of the country since the 18th of March & that Congress are informed the state of Connecticut has fully complied with their recommendations respecting the currency & supplies for the army; yet I fully agree with you, it must be a peace that will enable us to put all our affairs in order. I inclose you a newspaper which contains the intelligence of the day. As I expect soon to set out for New England I hope to have the pleasure of paying you my respects in person. I am, my dear sir, with sincere respect, your most obedient FC (PHarH: RG 27). In the hand of Samuel Holten. ' Richard Derby (1712-83), Salem, Mass., merchant, and a member of the Massa chusetts Council. DAB.
