110 May 12, 1780 appears to the Committee by an original Acct, furnished by Duff & Co to said Executors that payment of the said bill was made in Cadiz on the 20th Augst. 1779. They further Certify that the said Executors made application to the Committee some Short time after the 27th March aforesaid re questing them to anticipate the payment for the said bills Which some of the Committee declined As the Conditions upon wch. they pur chased the said bills were to pay for them as Soon as they shoud hear of their being duely honored in Europe, at the rate of Nine pounds Currency for One pound Sterling. By Order, James Searle MS (DNA: PCC, item 31). Written and signed by James Searle. 1 For the background and resolution of this case, which originated in a January 27, 1780, petition from the executors of Chevalier’s estate, see Committee of Commerce Certification, March 25, 1780, note. James Duane to Philip Schuyler My dear Friend Philad. 12th May 1780 I need not tell you that I was much disappointed in not meeting with you at Camp. 1 Besides the pleasure of your Conversation I had in view to consult you on business. I am now launcd forth without the Advantage of your late Observations and Experience on the Floor, and must trust to my little Stock. There are two Points which I have much at Heart and which will fall within the powers of your present important Mission. It is reported that a Quantity of Cloathing is arrived or expected from France: 2 you will see I feel the distressed Circumstances of our State Line. Let those worthy Men be provided for, as they are peculiarly destitute: and I have but feeble Hopes that any Measures in the power of our State will afford them seasonable Relief. My Feelings for them were painfully touched at a late Review. I did not indeed want such a Proof of their distress: Nor can you want arguments to awaken your Attention. The other point requires some Investigation before there will be use in communicating it, which I this moment recollect. Thus far I had written when I was honourd with your Favour of the 6t. s I agree with you that the Detention of the party to the Senecas Country affords no prospect of the Success of their Visit. I never apprehended matters were sufficiently ripend for a peace with the Six nations. Present good is their only motive to any Action; & our Enemies have the means of gratifying them. Our Friend Col. Louis’ 4 Remark to me upon this very Subject will be Justified. In substance it was this: The Six nations are fools—they will forget the Loss of their Country in contemplating the Bawbles & Trinkets bestowd upon them by the british Agents. The Oneidas claim our Protection and
