May 12, 1780 111 our Promise of a Residence. As far as I can Judge the Upper Castle will be the most proper. It will be a great discouragement to the Western frontiers if they are drawn down to Fort Hunter & have the Apperance of abandoning the whole county of Tryon as too insecure for the Residence of even the Indians. How far there is the necessary Soil or Accommodation for these our distressed friends at the upper Castle, Or whether they will be contented with such an Assignment I cannot decide. The Marquiss La fayette I presume is with you before this day. From Hints we may expect essential Support from our great Ally in the present Campaign. When we have more authentic Advice it will be worth communicating: but you may perhaps have speedier In formation thro’ the Marquiss. 5 We have nothing from Charles Town since my last Letter to Gen eral Washington. 6 I am pleasd to hear of Mrs. Schuyler’s Intention to visit us: Among other Reasons that we shall have the pleasure & advantages of your Company & Council. Your Publick Letter 7 is referred to a Committee And nothing will be left undone to excite this Government to exert herself for the supply of the Army. Adieu my dear Sir and believe me always, your affectionate & most Obedient Servt, Jas. Duane P.S. Present my respectful Compliments to the General, the Gentle men of the Committee & of the family. RC (NN: Schuyler Papers). 1 Duane had visited Washington at Morristown on his way to Philadelphia, while Schuyler had left Philadelphia for Morristown on April 25 as a member of the Com mittee at Headquarters, but the two had obviously missed one another. 2 Duane had undoubtedly learned that France was sending aid to America from the despatches of William Carmichael at Madrid that were read in Congress on May 11, for which see JCC, 17:423, and Elbridge Gerry to Nathaniel Peabody, this date, note 2. ’ See Schuyler to Duane, May 6, 1780. 4 Probably Col. Morgan Lewis, deputy quartermaster general at Albany, N.Y. 5 Duane’s surmise was correct. For Schuyler’s report on Lafayette’s visit to camp, see Schuyler to Duane, May 13, 1780. 6 That is, Duane to Washington, May 9, 1780. 7 See Committee at Headquarters to President Huntington, May 10, 1780. John Fell to William Livingston Dear Sir, Philada. May 12th. 1780 Being informd by Colo Lowry that the last letter I had the honour to adress to you was agreeable, it induces me to venture again, And
