May 14, 1780 123 cess. To allow six weeks from this, for that arrival is giving Competent time. In that Six weeks how much is to be done, what a variety of necessarys to be procured, what force to be purchased. Indeed my friend so much must be done that Congress cannot In time make even the necessary resolutions unless they reduce them to one, which shall lodge dictatorial powers either In the Commander In Chief, or In him, Conjointly with a Small Committee of Congress. 2 Should the latter be adopted It will be necessary to Chuse men of Abilities and Consideration, but as that Cannot always be done and that there is a necessity of temporizing, would It not be well to put Elsworth on It, as so many Supplies must be drawn from and thro the state he represents;—I wish one of you to be another, and If possible Jones from Virginia, a third. When Sir Harry Clinton receives the Account of the french Force coming to America he will In all probability raise the Siege of Charles Town If he has not taken It, In order to Concentre his force at N York or at any other point against which he may suppose our op erations will be directed. He will do the Same If Charles Town is taken, only leaving a Garrison there. In either case It appears un necessary that the Maryland troops Should prosecute their march to South Carolina as their Services will be lost, would It not therefore be well to hasten them back to this Quarter? America is much Indebted to the Marquis for his exertions In Its favor. I hope Congress will feel It, and hasten that reward so pleasing to a Sensible mind. Adieu my Dear Sir, I am Yours Sincerely, &c &c, Ph. Schuyler RC (NHi: Duane Papers). Endorsed by Duane: “General Schuyler, 13 May 1780. Answerd 21 May 1780.” 1 See Elbridge Gerry to Nathaniel Peabody, May 12, 1780, note 2; and Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 3:11-13, 20-23. 2 For this proposal to vest a “Small Committee of Congress” with “dictatorial pow ers,” see the following entry. Committee at Headquarters Memorandum [May 14, 1780] 1 The Committe deeply impressed with the Necessity of the most immediate and Strenuous exertion to enable the Army to Take the field, to provide for its Support and for affording that Aid of Pro vision which the force of our Ally will probably Need on its arrival in these States—Wish the Gentleman going to Congress to State the Necessity of delegating to a Small Committe or other persons to be appointed, with advice of the Commander in Chief, Ample Powers
