124 May 14, 1780 for Drawing forth the resources of the Country on this interesting ocasion 2 —to make immediate applications to the Several States to repeal any Laws they may have made inhibiting Continental agents or officers from purchasing on this ocasion to invest for a limited time, in Congress or Such persons as Congress may appoint Dicta torial Powers—to pass Laws authorizg Congress or Such persons to impress Carpenters, Caulkers, Teamsters, waggoners, batteau men, horses, Carriages, Vessels, provisions, materials for building and in General whatever may be Necessary to enable our Military force, and that of our ally to operate with Vigour, to intreat the Legislators of the States to give the Strongest assurance to their Constituents that they will Cause payment to be made for Services done or articles furnished for the public use, if the Continental officers Should not be able to make immediate payment—to urge the States to hasten on their respective Quotas of Continental Troops—and to intrust the Supreme Executive Council of each State with full powers to draw forth such & so many Militia as may be deem’d Necessary to act in Conjunction with the Combined force of these States and france. 3 (To get rice from Carolina.} (The reduction of the Regts, absolutely necessary unless immediately fdled up, being totally unfit to take the field in their present State.} (The reduction attended with great loss to the U.S. as they can never be recovered.} {If they are to be reduced a resolution should pass empowering the Com mittee to make provision for the officers.} {The army may possibly be supplied from hand to mouth by the act of Congress, were it stationary, but was it obliged to move e contra—The army must go into State after State, in order to consume the provisions. The teams can’t go through some States for want of forage. The nearer the supplies approach the army the more teams will be required. No two states can furnish sufficient for the purpose. Besides the expence is enormous. Were the whole collected they are insufficient.} {Let the State Supplies go as far as they can, the deficiency must be supplied.) MS (DNA: PCC, item 39). In the hands of Nathaniel Peabody and John Mathews. Endorsed: “Memorandum Delivered to Congress, by Mr. Mathews, May 14. 1780.” 1 This memorandum was undoubtedly drafted on May 14, but it fits chronologically after the committee’s report of May 15, which records the decision to send John Mathews “without loss of time to Congress.” From the journal entries for May 19 and Mathews’ motion of the 20th, it does not appear that the memorandum was actually intended for presentation to Congress, but only to serve as a guide for Ma thews. See JCC, 17:438-40, 442. 2 Although the committee’s original charge of April 12 had been to reduce the number of regiments in the army and reform abuses in the staff departments, it had become quickly apparent to Washington and the committee that the condition of the army, the problems associated with state supply, and the promise of French support
