May 14, 1780 125 pointed to stronger measures. Thus in his May 13 letter to James Duane, Philip Schuyler had called for lodging “dictatorial powers” in Washington or a “Small Com mittee,” composed of “men of Abilities,” specifically Oliver Ellsworth, Joseph Jones, and Duane or Robert R. Livingston. And in letters of May 14 to Jones and to Duane, Washington also found it of “absolute necessity that a small Committee should be immediately appointed to reside near head Quarters vested with all the powers which Congress have so far as respects the purpose of a full co-operation with the French fleet and Army on the Continent.’’ As for members of such a committee, Washington felt that no one could be “more useful” than Schuyler. He also spoke favorably of Mathews’ “understanding and integrity,” but of Peabody he observed that “I should be willing to trust every thing to the goodnes of [his] intentions, if I had not some doubts of his discretion.” Finally, he favored the addition of Duane or Livingston to ensure a “well composed committee.” See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:356- 58. For the frustration of these efforts to shape the composition of the committee and to augment its powers, see Samuel Huntington to Washington, May 20; and Duane and Livingston's letters to Schuyler, May 21, 1780. 5 Remainder of MS in hand of Mathews. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Madam May 14th. 1780 The inclosed Papers will show you how the Business of Mr. A’s Accts, has been conducted with indecent Delay. 1 I presume the Treasury will draw a Bill of Exchange for the Balance. You had all the News respecting Mr. Adams which has yet to come to us. We hear some agreable Things from Mr. Carmichael at Madrid where he was preparing for Mr. Jay’s Reception who remained at Cadiz. 2 It is not necessary for you to send any Extracts to Mr. A of what is here conveyed respecting his Accounts as I have already done it in Cyphers of which I shall make duplicates. 3 I can only add to what I before said about Exchange, that you will certainly do well to get all the continental you can just at this Time. It cannot fail to be a Benefit. Yrs. with Esteem, JL RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:343. 1 For the “inclosed Papers,” consisting of the relevant congressional resolves and report on John Adams’ accounts, see ibid, pp. 343-46. 2 For Carmichael’s “agreeable” reports concerning French aid to America, see El bridge Gerry to Nathaniel Peabody, May 12, 1780, note 2. 3 See Lovell to John Adams, May 4, 1780. James Lovell to Nathaniel Peabody Dear Sir, May 14th 1780 I have reed, yours of the 7th 1 and have made the Enquiry you
