126 May 14, 1780 desired respecting the Syringe. Mr. Charter has been sick, but hopes to finish the Work in a day or two. We have had Letters from Mr. Carmichael at Madrid Feb. 19th. The Intelligence he gives is agreable so far as it goes but it chiefly relates to Florida. France will furnish us with an annual Sum of 3,000,000 Livrs. during the War to enable us to purchase neces saries. 2 Nothing can exceed our Poverty. I have not been able to get a Dollar of hard from Boston nor of Soft from the continental Treasury though I have had a Warrant on the Treasurer many days. I reed, the inclosed Letter for you by Brown the Express. 3 Your joint Information of the 10th to Congress is distressing. 4 It has been just committed to Mr. Houston, Mr. Ellsworth & Mr. Mu- lenberg who are to confer with the Council & Assembly and to cor respond with you. Mr. Partridge got to Boston in 12 days having laid still 3 of them. Our State were in favor of the Proceedings of Congress respectg the Money. I have Nothing material to communicate respecting the Nonesuch or the Stiffnibbed Pen. Yours affectionately J L RC (NhHi: Nathaniel Peabody Papers). 1 Not found; but in a brief May 16 letter Lovell informed Peabody that “I send you what you wrote for to Mrs Clarke to whom I shall pay 20 Dollrs on yr account. “I need not say any Thing of foreign News as you have had the Marqs de Fayette with you. “Every Thing looks well from abroad-, but, Good Lord! how is it at Home? 1 shall miss the post if I do not close.” N.H. State Papers, 17:391. 2 Lovell wrote "Secret” in the margin alongside this paragraph. ’ Perhaps Samuel Livermore’s April 29, 1780, letter to Peabody, which Lovell en dorsed and forwarded. See N.H. State Papers, 17:390-91. 4 See Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington, May 10, 1780. Thomas Burke to Charles Pettit Monday morning [May 15, 1780] 1 Mr. Burke presents his Compliments to Mr. Pettit informs him that he draughted the letter of the 9th Instant from the Board of Treasury, and was one of the board by whom it was unanimously approved. Mr Burke never makes the Privilege of Office a cover for any language & usually speaks his sense in plain direct terms—re gardless of consequences, which he wishes Mr. Pettit to be assured he is on this occasion. Tr (MiU-C: Nathanael Greene Papers). In the hand of Charles Pettit. 1 This document, undoubtedly written by Burke on “Monday morning,” May 15, reflects the difficult and sometimes bitter relationship that had developed in 1780
