May 15, 1780 129 erne; whilst here the Marquis detailed the Contents of the dispatches, of which he was fully advised, to a select few. They evince the most decided determination on the part of France to Support us thro the Contest, and an event will soon take place which will announce to all Europe and America that his most Christian Majesty will not confine himself to mere professions of amity to us or to pecuniary aids. I am not at present permitted to be more explicit; 1 but a common friend of ours 2 has wished me to Communicate thus much, with the Express view that the legislature may not seperate until they hear from Congress on the Subject I have alluded to. If, therefore, there should be a disposition to a speedy close of the session, it may perhaps be proper to signify that I consider it a duty incumbent on me as their servant in Congress, to intreat the legislature may not rise, as there will most assuredly be a necessity of reconvening them at an early day. Mr. Livingston has been here and proposed to do himself the honor to wait on the legislature, but was prevailed on, to return to Congress to afford his aid on the important business which will immediately claim the attention of that body; 3 he has intreated me to mention this to your Excellency that the legislature may be advised of it; altho I am closely engaged with the committee appointed to the arrang- ment of the Staff departments. Yet if your Excellency and the leg islature shall deem my presence necessary at Kingston for the purpose of giving any information they may require, I shall with great alacrity attend. I am, Dear Sir, with every sentiment of Esteem & affection your Excellency’s most obedient Humble Servant, Ph: Schuyler. [PS.] Charlestown safe on the 1st Instant; little Impression made by the Enemy. If it is not reduced before this day, there are reasons to believe it will not be at all. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:708-10. 1 See Elbridge Gerry to Nathaniel Peabody, May 12, 1780. 2 Probably George Washington, who wrote to Clinton in this same vein on May 18. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:383-84. ’ Robert R. Livingston had been prevailed upon to return to Congress to help develop support for overhauling the system for feeding the Continental Army and for the Committee at Headquarters’ proposal to lodge “dictatorial powers” in the hands of Washington or a small committee to insure effective support for the joint Franco-American armies during the coming campaign. See also the following entry; and Livingston to Schuyler, May 21, 1780. Philip Schuyler to James Duane Dear Sir Morris town May 15th 1780 In the letter which I did myself the pleasure to adress you by the
