134 May 16, 1780 from the Army, and liable only to be Calld upon in future in Common with other Citizens, And retire on full pay during the War And entitled to all Emoluments after that period, that are held up by any resolutions of Congress to Officers who Should Continue to Serve in the Army during the War. All which is Humbly Submitted by, Ph. Schuyler Nathl Peabody ENCLOSURE (“No. 4”) Resolved That the executive powers of the States be severally re quired to forward to the Army with all possible dispatch, all recruits already raised towards compleating the Quotas assesed to them re spectively by the Act of Congress of the 9th day of February last. Resolved that the states be severally required to Compleat said quotas by drafts from the Militia to Serve in the Continental Army until the last day of December next Inclusive unless sooner dis charged, On the Estimates of deficiency transmitted them by the Commander in chief. Resolved that the Commander in chief transmit to the executive of the states respectively, returns of all additional deficiencies which have arisen from Casualties since the Estimates mentioned In the preceeding resolution. Resolved that so much of such additional deficiency as is occasioned by death, desertion or discharge of men who were engaged to Serve beyond the last day of September next, or during the war; be made good by the States in the Manner directed by the Second resolution. Resolved that the drafts directed to be made by these Resolutions be delivered on or before the 20th of June next, to the Inspector General or any of his deputies or assistants with the Army or with any detachment thereof, to be annexed to And Incorporated with the line of the States respectively, In such Manner as the Commander In chief Shall direct. Resolved That the Inspector General make Returns to the board of war, and to the Commander In chief from time to time Of all men received by himself or any of his deputies or assistants in virtue of the resolutions of the 9th of February last, and of these; noting the States from whom the men are received, And distinguishing those engaged to Serve during the war, from those engaged to Serve to the last day of December next Inclusive. RC (DNA: PCC, item 39). Written by Schuyler and signed by Schuyler and Peabody. Endorsed by Charles Thomson: “A Letter from the comee. at headquarters, May 16, 1780, Read 22. Enclosed, 1. Return of the Army, 2. Remarks on the return, 3. Resol. for reducing certain regts., 4. Res. for recruiting the army.” Enclosures: MS (DNA: PCC, item 39). For enclosures nos. 1 and 2, which are in a format unsuited for printing, see note
