142 May 16, 1780 we may conclude it was in our hands as late at least as to the first of May. Great apprehensions prevail in New-York of a visit there from a naval force. A packet arrived in a short passage from England the 3d of this month, upon which two dispatch boats in less than 48 hours were sent off to Sir Henry Clinton. New works are throwing up at the narrows, and a large number of vessels are loaded with stone ready to sink in the channel. Lines are also forming across from the east to the north river just without the chain of redoubts, and the militia are continually exercising and on fatigue. Congress have lately received dispatches from abroad, down to the 4th of March. The disposition of Europe never appeared more fa vourable to our cause than at present. The resources of France and Spain will be greatly drawn forth against the common enemy this year; and America, comprehending the West Indies, will be an early and capital object of their attention. Great Britain has received a fresh denial of assistance from Russia; and has by her late insolent and piratical proceedings against the Dutch roused the spirit of that nation also against her. Nor is the like to receive any aid from Denmark, which though armed is armed against the insults of Great-Britain. No troops will be drawn this year from Germany more than to recruit the regiments already in the British service. The claims of Ireland are in a regular train, still advancing; and will probably stop short of nothing less than independence of the British parliament, which is certainly the point they ought to aim at. The conventions and committees of correspondence in England have given so much alarm that spirited measures are taking to suppress them. His majesty has been advised to break every county lieutenant that has given countenance to the late meetings and consultations of the people, which advice he has thought fit to accept, and time must shew with what success. Our agent at Nantz writes that ten thousand complete suits of cloaths for the army would be shipped in a very short time and fifteen thousand stands of arms. Cloth was also purchased for seven or eight thousand suits more. The fund in France for payment of the interest bills of exchange, notwithstanding some evil surmises to the contrary, still remains good and punctual payment will continue to be made. The credit of these States is in no danger of failing abroad, and with prudent manage ment it can never fail at home. MS not found; reprinted from Connecticut Courant and the Weekly Intelligencer, May 30, 1780. Identified by the printer: “Extract of a letter from an Hon. Member of Congress, dated Philadelphia, May 16.”
