146 May 17, 1780 greatest consequence that our friends in Carolina should be imme diately made acquainted with our expectations in this matter, as it may be attended with no Small influence upon their councils. As my Colleague Matthews is on a committee at Camp, 1 I am deprived of his advice with respect to that part of your letter, which hints the expediency of transmitting to Mr. Adams, a Similar commission, to that which you now hold, but have thought it best upon reflection, not to mention any thing about the matter, answering in general terms to all enquiries, that you were at Wilmington, & waiting for a Safe opportunity to embark. Should we be so unfortunate as to lose Charles Town, it will not then be too late to transmit a commission to Mr. Adams, but should our enemies be disappointed, you will in that case, I flatter myself, my dear Sir, be prevailed upon to make the attempt, & may do it with a far greater prospect of Success, if not embarrassed with the interference of another Person. We have had quires of paper from our Ministers abroad, but they contain little else but extracts from French & English Newspapers, except on one head which I have alluded to in the other page of this letter, & which prudence forbids my discussing on paper. Should any thing material take place, I should esteem it a particular favor to hear from you, & will endeavor to deserve it, by giving every degree of infor mation from this quarter. I am, dear Sir, with the greatest respect & esteem, Your most obdnt. & hum. Servant, F. Kinlock [PS.] The Marquis de la Fayette is arrived, & has, I believe, some information to communicate. Governor Morris had the misfortune, to be thrown out of his Phaeton the other day, & has lost his leg by amputation. I enclose the last Newspapers, which I beg you would be so kind as to forward to the Governor. Tr (CSmH: HM 18772). 1 Kinloch, who had been elected to Congress on Feburary 1, 1780, and first attended on March 25, had been South Carolina’s lone delegate since April 25 when John Mathews left Philadelphia for Morristown as a member of the Committee at Head quarters. JCC, 16:285. Mathews returned this day to petition Congress to strengthen the powers of the committee, but left for headquarters soon after submitting a motion to Congress on May 20. The South Carolina delegation was thus depleted until the arrival of Thomas Bee on June 6 and Isaac Motte the following month. Nathaniel Folsom to Meshech Weare Dear Sr. Philadelphia May the 18th. 1780 The Inclosed newspapers under Philadelphia head Contains the Principle Part of the information we had by the last Packet from our
