154 May 19, 1780 wanting in numbers. Nothing respecting our domestick affairs has turned up here Since my last, that deserves your particular attention except inexcused embarrassments, and as to foreign intelligence, I apprehend you collected the chief from the marquis; Such parts as has been tho’t proper to publish you have in the enclosed paper; The “Extracts of several letters from a gentleman of good information, in Europe” were wrote by a person well known to you. 1 The intel ligence from Madrid that we reed, a few days before the dispatches by the Marquis is also agreeable. 2 We have no official intelligence from Genl. Lincoln since about the middle of April, but expect every day to hear important news from that quarter, God grant it may be in our favor. I have this moment heard that private acct, say all was safe at Charlstown the first instant. I wish you always to consider me under some restraint when writing upon our national affairs; But as I hope to have the pleasure of paying you my personal respects in the course of the summer, I will then express my Sentiments to you without reserve. Congress sit about half the last night & I expect before this comes to hand, you will receive the most pressing calls from Congress for money & supplies for we have not a moments time to lose if we expect to reap immediate advantage by the exertions of our ally in our favor. Can’t inlarge, Farewell, my dear Sir, [P.S.] Notwithstanding all our public distresses are we a penitent & reformed people, I fear we are not, & if so, what have we not to fear. FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 That is, John Adams. For the letters received from Adams, see Holten's Diary, May 15, 1780, note. 2 For this intelligence, see Elbridge Gerry to Nathaniel Peabody, May 12, 1780, note 2. Samuel Huntington to Certain States Sir, Circular In Congress May 19th. 1780 Congress have reed authentic information that his most Christian Majesty is preparing to send a powerful Naval & Land force to some part of the Continent of North America. 1 This force generously calculated either to produce a diversion in our favour, or to forward the Operation of our Arms by being directed to the same object, may either by our exertions be made the means of delivering our Country in the course of the Campaign from the ravages of War, or being rendered ineffectual through our supiness serve only to sully the reputation of our Arms, to defeat the benevolent intention of
