160 May 20, 1780 72-76; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:476-78, 515-16, 529-30; and Jay, Papers (Morris), 1:715-16, 737-38. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Dear Sir, Philada. 20 May 1780. On the Receipt of your Excellency’s Favour of 11 March last, I made it my Business to cast about for some Mode in which Colo. Diriks might be employed to better Effect for the Publick and more agreeably to himself, than was the Case at that Time and unfortu nately continues so still. 1 Finding that suitable Expedient was attain able, I informed him in such Manner as to deserve, as far as possible, your Excellency’s recommendation of my Frankness and Candour. Shortly after this some Circumstances turning up which it was thought probable would call the attention of Congress more partic ularly than heretofore to the Affairs of Holland, Colo. Diriks, with the Advice of his Friends, applied for Leave to return thither with a Recommendation to Mr. Laurens for Employment, the means of defraying the Expenses of his Passage, such Testimony in Favour of his Merit as might be thought proper and the Commission instead of the Brevet of a Lieutt Colonel. Congress were not willing to grant the first and last of these requests, lest they should embarrass Mr. Laurens, to whose Discretion they had confided the Employment of such Persons as he should find necessary in managing his Mission; and lest they should make an improper use of Rank in the army, upon which Subject they have for some Time past become very cau tious. The Resolutions which they passed not being satisfactory to the Colonel, they were revoked. He has lately made a second appli cation, which has been referred to a Committee to which I happen to belong. 2 How sucessful our report may be, I am not able to con jecture; but am not greatly sanguine though for some Reasons, not of Moment to detain your Excellency, I advised the Application. It remains only that I do my utmost for a Man who is active, informed, and closely attached to our Cause, and who, I believe, from his Con nections in his own Country, would be very useful to us there. As Mr Laurens has not yet left America, and we have some Circum stances favouring his Return to this Place before he sails the Matter is delayed a little for the present and I have to assure your Excellency that I shall continue to pay due Attention to your Ideas on the Sub ject. I am extremely sorry for Mr Laurens’s Disappointment in not being able to embark from Charlestown, agreeably to his Expecta tions when he went from hence. The State of Affairs in Holland is,
