May 22, 1780 175 three delegates were reappointed a committee to consider “means” for discharging the certificate debt issued by the commissary and quartermaster departments. For their May 24 report and the resolves adopted by Congress on May 26 recommending that the states declare such certificates receivable by collectors of Continental taxes, see JCC, 17:441-42, 455-57, 462-66; and Samuel Huntington to the States, May 29, 1780. See also PCC, item 69, 2:201-4; Pa. Council Minutes, 12:360; and William C. Houston to William Livingston, May 26, 1780. As currency finance gradually disappeared as an option for meeting Continental obligations early in 1780, the issuance of certificates by staff officers, often resorting to force, had become the principal device for meeting the army’s needs. As E. James Ferguson observed of the system, “the line between purchases and impressments was vague and unmeaningful,” and in 1780 a large certificate debt became concentrated in Pennsylvania where procurement efforts to meet the demands of Washington’s army increasingly focused. Pennsylvanians had understandably become alarmed at the trend, and therefore insisted upon legislation for making certificates receivable for taxes levied to meet Continental requisitions. For the work of Ellsworth’s committee and discussion of some of the practicalities and fiscal intricacies debated at this time, see William C. Houston to William Livingston, May 26, 1780. For analysis of Con tinental fiscal policy and the steps taken by Congress in May and in August 1780 to cope with its massive certificate debt, see E. James Ferguson, The Power of the Purse (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1961), pp. 64-68. See also Philip Schuyler to Ezra L’Hommedieu, June 10, 1780. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir, Philada. 22 May 1780 I have the Honour to enclose for the Use of the Legislature a Boston Paper of the 8 inst which I have this Day received by Post, containing the Act of the Legislature of the State of Massachusetts bay on the Proceedings of Congress of the 18 March last, relative to Finance. 1 I think it my Duty to communicate every Thing on this Subject which comes to my Hands, as to me the Matter appears of the most indispensible Importance; but shall not detain further upon it, having already explained myself pretty fully. I only beg Leave to observe, that if I had not thought the Interest of the State deeply concerned, I should not have been so explicit, especially since I have heard that a Variety of Sentiments prevails among those who are certainly capable of judging. This has aroused my Caution, but upon a careful review of the whole Subject, and Examination of all I have read and heard, I must still venture to say, that Something is necessary to be done, and that no Expedient appears to me so promising and adviseable, every Circumstance considered, as the one now in Ques tion. By communicating the several Acts as I receive this I do not expect that the Legislature will be so much influenced by Example, as as sisted in framing a Law on the Subject. It may indeed be Matter of Encouragement that the Measure is elsewhere adopted, but as one
