May 23, 1780 177 1 The “Act of the Legislature . . . relative to Finance” appeared in both the Boston Gazette, and the Country Journal and the Independent Ledger, and the American Advertiser on Monday, May 8, 1780. 2 For Congress’ appeal to Delaware, see Samuel Huntington to Joseph Reed, May 24, 1780, note. 5 See the preceding document. 4 Houston is apparently referring to the events of Friday and Saturday, May 19 and 20, when Congress, responding to La Luzerne’s May 16 memorial apprising Congress that French forces were being sent to America for the coming campaign, passed several resolutions which were communicated to the states in Samuel Huntington to Certain States, May 19, 1780, which is probably “the Letter” to which Houston referred. James Duane to Alexander Hamilton Dear Sir, Philad. 23d May 1780 The Marquiss de la fayette handed me your favour of the 14 Instant which woud have been sooner Answerd had not my Time been fully employd. 1 You will learn the difficulties of constituting a Commitee plenipo. from another Channel; tho’ a little Reflection upon human nature and a republican Government, might have brought them fully to your View without Assistance. What is not committed Congress stand ready to Support by their united Voice and Efforts, being resolved to Act with Vigour and Decision; so as to render the present Cam paign glorious & Successful. The Committee have all the powers Congress can give to render them useful in drawing forth Supplies; & in opening the Necessary Communications with the Civil Govern ments. As to Military operations they must rest solely with the Com mander in Chief; & Congress will not suffer any of their Committees to interfere in the Exercise of his free Judgement. Sometimes advice might be useful, but it is possible it might embarrass; & that Possibility woud have been enough to decide against the Powers had there been no other Objection. The Marquiss I hope is pleased with the respect paid him by Con gress; if it is not altogether agreeable it was not for want of the best and kindest Intentions. He luckily did not think, or at least speak, of the Captain of the Frigate as it must have embarrassed exceedingly from an opposition between the point of Propriety, & a disposition to please a Man to whom America is much indebted & who deserves to be gratified and is in every Respect entitled to my utmost atten tion. 2 I agree with you my dear Sir that the Conjucture is critical and that much Very much depends on our employing it to advantage: Vigour and diligence in Government and Zeal and Liberality in the People must in the embarressd State of our Affairs conspire to give us a prospect of Success and prevent our disgrace. To you who see things in their true Light I shall not enlarge. May Love and Glory unite to make you as happy as I wish & then you will have nothing
