178 May 23, 1780 more to claim your Sollicitude: for I am with real Esteem & Affection, Dear Sir, Your most obed Sert, Jas Duane PS. Present my respectful Compliments to the Family; comprehend ing Miss Schuyler. I have said nothing of Charles Town as Mr Kinloch who has the best Intelligence is careful to communicate every thing to Mr Matthews. The Approaches of the Enemy are Slow but they seem to gain Ground & to maintain it by a decided Superiority. I wish my Judgement & my wishes on this interesting Occasion were better reconciled. RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). ' Hamilton’s May 14 letter to Duane, pleading for the adoption of Washington’s proposal that a small select committee be empowered to manage the American activ ities required for effective cooperation with the French forces enroute to the United States, is in the Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 2:321-22. See also Duane to Philip Schuyler, May 21, 1780, note 2. 2 In his May 14 letter, Hamilton had explained that the marquis de Lafayette desired Congress to adopt a resolution of thanks for Louis Rene Madeleine, comte de La Touche, commander of the French frigate L’Hermione on which Lafayette returned to America. William Ellery to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia May 23d. 1780. Since my letter by the last post 1 I have been informed that Genl. Cornell, who was chosen first delegate by the Assembly, was to set out very soon after the election; so that in all probability the money I requested might be sent me by the first delegate that should come on will not come by him. I have now to request your excellency that it may be transmitted as soon as possible for the reasons assigned in my last. I have applied to my acquaintances for a small sum to pay my washer woman and cannot even get that; so scarce is it and so difficult to be had. One of them told me that he had been offer’d thirteen per Ct. for two hundred dollars. I have a warrant on the treasury which I would sell, and sustain the loss of a discount if I could do it; rather than sustain the reproach of repeated dunning, and of continuing here at the expence of the State without being in a capacity to be useful to it. I am not the only poor delegate here, many are in the same circumstances, and have been obliged to write to their States for a supply of Cash. I hope that this matter may be attended to, and that my earnest request may be complied with. We have no late accounts that may be depended on from Charl estown. Yesterday it was reported that the enemy had attacked the works on the 25th ultimo and were repulsed. This day’s report is that no attack had been made on the 28th, that the enemy had
