May 23, 1780 179 cannonaded them for 15 days with but small effect. That they had invested the town; but our troops were in good spirits and deter mined to hold possession to the last. If they have held out to this time it is my opinion that the enemy will abandon the siege. The letter which your excellency will receive from Congress before this reaches you contains the foundation for this opinion. There is a prospect of an active campaign. I wish we may be prepared to oppose them vigorously with the force which may come to our assistance and compell our enemies to be at peace with us. I am in haste, but with great respect, Your Excellency’s, most obedt. humble Servant, W. Ellery RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Staples, Rhode Island, p. 289. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. ' See Ellery to Greene, May 16, 1780. John Fell to William Livingston Dear Sir, Philada. May 23d. 1780 By Mr. Faish I had the honour of Receiving a Letter from you, inclosing one for Mrs Potts, which you suppos’d came from me, or Mr. Stewart, neither of which was the case, as we neither of us know any thing of it, having never seen it before, and in order that you might have no further trouble about the letter, I have given it to Mr. Bradford the Commissary of Prisoners, which I hope will meet with your approbation. I am much oblidg’d to you for your Particulare care with regard to John Hopper, Your Letter to Congress was Read, I said all that I could on the Occasion, but as I expected, without any Effect. The Letter was Committed but no Report has yet been made. 1 I have nothing new to communicate, And am with the highest Respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt Humble Servt. John Fell RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). ' In his May 7 letter to Livingston, Fell had described the case of John Hopper of Paramus, NJ., and asked the governor for a “Recommendation.” On May 16 Liv ingston appealed to Congress to reimbuse Hopper for the house and mill that had been “burnt by the enemy” while attempting to dislodge an American detachment quartered in the house. The presence of the Continental troops, Livingston explained, not “the Violence of the Enemy according to the common Fortune of War,” had occasioned the destruction, and such losses “should be made good by the Public.” See PCC, item 68, fols. 541-44. Livingston’s letter was read in Congress on May 22 and referred to a committee which reported on May 24. On June 1 Congress resolved that Hopper’s case was “not distinguishable” from numerous others and, until peace was restored, it would be inexpedient to consider “the particular relief of such suf ferers.” Livingston was formally notified of Congress’ decision by President Hun tington on June 3. See JCC, 17:444, 459, 480-81; and PCC, item 15, fol. 14.
