May 26, 1780 195 Cash, and being open to Frauds, Impositions and Abuses of many Kinds, were to be obviated. The same caution suggested the Pro priety of the Oath or Affirmation. I must however observe here, that if the Legislature find they have, in general, passed from the first Holders, and that the Transaction ought to be countenanced, as far as it has proceeded, it is not impracticable to give the Transferrees an opportunity to pay them in, under the Oath or Affirmation of those named in the Certificates, which might not be attended with bad Effects if confined to Transfers already made. In some Cases, indeed, this would be attended with Trouble, and in others it would be impossible; but I should think comparatively few. The Case of Executours and Administratours would also seem to require partic ular Attention. I have not mentioned, what I have often suspected, that where assignments of these Certificates have been made the Purchasers have taken Advantage of the Sellers. Many of them may, perhaps, have been bought with the best Motives; but in such Cases as these the ignorant and credulous are too apt to become the Prey of the de signing, and the far greater Number may have been obtained at a shameful and oppressive Discount. I have heard of Paymasters in the Army who, under Pretence of being without publick Money, have offerred to buy Soldiers’ Dues with their own, at one Half or two Thirds Value, and put the Proceeds of the Negociation into their own Pockets. I do not say that any of the Staff Officers in the civil Departments of the Army have done such Things, or procured them to be done, for I do not know it. I am well assured many of them are too honest to be guilty of such management, but it is not the general Impression of the People that they are all Saints. It will be noted that the Resolutions extend only to such Certifi cates as have been already given; and this will not I suppose, affect our State as the State-Purchasers have now the Business under their Direction, where doubtless a better Superintendence can be exer cised, and more Honesty and Economy will take place. In many Cases the Certificates paid in will be above the Amount of the Tax due from the Person paying them. Therefore that he may have Credit for the Surplus, and have it afterwards discounted, he ought to receive a Voucher as his Evidence from the Collectour, which the Law will particularly check and describe. And by exam ining the Resolutions of 6 October last, and those referred to, as well as of 5 January and 21 May preceding, 4 it will appear a Matter of Consideration, whether the respective State ought not to be charged with the Interest on that Surplus, because an Interest is allowed to the State on the whole Amount paid in, of which this Surplus is a Part. It was necessary to except, as in the Proviso, Orders already drawn, because they are generally, if not altogether for similar Purposes
