198 May 26, 1780 to have the vote of the State entered upon the journals of Congress against its essential interests, if he supposes they have any in this controversy. You will feel with me for poor Morris’ misfortune, & will therefore receive some satisfaction in being informed that he is in a fair way of recovery. Present my compts. to the Genl. & the family & the Marquiss. I need not mention the ladies, for they are of course in cluded in remembrances. I do not know whether you have it still in view to make your preparation towards Canada. If you should an expedient which I mentioned to the Marquiss would give it some complection—The ordering boats to be built to the northward—The sending Arnold to command there since the enemy would naturally conclude that if any thing of that kind is in Agitation he would be employed & if known at Philadelphia they will not long be ignorant of it. If it shd. be inconvenient to him perhaps it might be sufficient to let him be served with an order (with private permission to stay where he is) & in the mean while to make publick preparations for his departure. We have accounts of a very severe engagement between the fleets in the West Indies but nothing from which we can form any other judgment, than that they treated each other very roughly, & made a drawn battle of it. I am Dear Sir, with great esteem, Your Most Obedient & Hum. Servt Robt. R. Livingston RC (NN: Schuyler Papers). 1 See Livingston to Schuyler, May 21, 1780. 2 The report of the committee “appointed to confer with the Minister of France on the subject of supplies,” to follow up decisions reached on May 19 concerning the anticipated arrival of French troops enroute to America, was read in Congress this day. For this report and resolves adopted the following day to implement the com mittee’s recommendations concerning the preparation of Continental ships to be de ployed in cooperation with the French fleet, see JCC, 17:466-69; PCC, item 25, 1:197- 98; and Samuel Huntington to the States, May 29, 1780. ’ For the considerations involved in countermanding the original decision to assign Maj. Henry Lee’s legion to the southern department for the relief of Charleston, see Samuel Huntington to Washington, June 6, 1780, note. 4 See New York Delegates to George Clinton, May 21, 1780, note 4. 5 That is, Nathaniel Folsom. Philip Schuyler to George Clinton D’r Sir, Morris Town, May 26” 1780. Should the State agreable to General Washington’s Request com- pleat the regiments to 504, I conceive it will Suffice instead of a new draft, to Convert the 800 men now raising to that purpose, tho probably the Situation of affairs will require they should remain to the Northward. If so—I would advise the State to inform the general
