May 27, 1780 199 of it, as I shall be on the Spot & will try to remove any difficulty which might arise. Letters from Philadelphia announce a Naval engagement in the West Indies between the two capital fleets in that quarter, in which the French Flag was triumphant and drove the British into port. The particulars are not Stated; corroborating advices have also been re ceived from the Eastward, and both wear the Complexion of truth. A Dangerous mutiny has taken place in a Connecticut Brigade; the Soldiery insist on returning home. 1 It is for the present quelled, but we have too much reason to apprehend that it will shew itself soon and more seriously unless provisions arrive. The Officers live chiefly on bread & water to give the men all they can, and the latter have for ten days past much oftener been without than with any and at no time when that period have they had more than half allowance. Our greatest distress is in the article of meat. I have the honor to be, Dear Sir, most Sincerely your Excellency’s Obedient Humble Serv’t Ph: Schuyler. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:759-61. RC (N:Clinton Papers). Charred. 1 For the mutiny of two regiments of the Connecticut Line at Morristown on May 25, see Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington, May 28, 1780. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Dear Sir, Philada. 27 May 1780 I have the Pleasure to acknowledge your Excellency’s Favour of 24 inst received by the Hands of Mr. Clarke. Mr. Hand has been so obliging as to call on me to-day and will deliver this with mine of yesterday to your Excellency. I have some Reason to believe he will be an Accession to the Affirmative for the Finance bill. Having no particular News I shall not trouble you farther. Am your Excellencys most obedt and very hble Servt. William Ch Houston RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). Samuel Huntington to the Marquis de Bouille Sir, Philada May 27. 1780 I am honoured with your Letter of the 23d of March last by Mr Bingham.
