May 29, 1780 209 2 Schuyler clearly began composing his response to Washington’s questions on May 28 and apparently completed most of it at that time or shortly thereafter. In his June 5 letter to James Duane, he referred to this “answer,” but without acknowledging the surrender of Lincoln’s army at Charleston, the circumstance to which he is obviously referring here. Schuyler undoubtedly drafted these final paragraphs between the time he learned of that event and the “July 7th 1780” date appended at the close of the letter, but probably after he returned to headquarters on July 5, for which see Schuyler to John Mathews and Nathaniel Peabody, July 6. Samuel Huntington to John Bradford Sir, Philada May 29. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 27th Instant directing you to dispose of three Hundred Hogsheads of the Sugar in your Hands as Continental Agent, for Money, and transmit the same to the Continental Treasury without Loss of Time not withstanding any former resolution of Congress to the contrary. 1 I am Sir &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “John Bradford Esquire Agent at Boston.” 1 See JCC, 17:470-71. For the “former resolution of Congress to the contrary,” apparently one adopted December 2, 1779, instructing Continental agents not to dispose of prize goods coming into their hands, except perishables, “without orders for that purpose,” see JCC, 15:1342. Samuel Huntington to the Committee at Headquarters Gentlemen, Philadelphia May 29. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed three Acts of Congress, of the 19th, 26th & 27th Instant, by which you will be informed among other Matters, of the Measures adopted by Congress to obtain the necessary Supplies for the Army, as also to aid & assist our Ally in obtaining such Supplies as they may need, and to facilitate the Co operation of such combined Forces as may be engaged in the ap proaching Campaign. 1 The Act of the 16th 2 would have been forwarded at an earlier Period for your Information and Direction had I not understood that the Honble Mr Mathews was possessed of it before he last left the City. We are yet kept in anxious Suspence respecting Charles Town. I have the honour to be, with Esteem and Respect, gentlemen, your most obedt & hbble servant, Sam. Huntington President 3
