May 30, 1780 211 Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia May 29. 1780 I have been honoured with your Letter of the 19th Instant covering duplicate Despatches for Governor Rutledge, one of which I sent forward by Express the same Hour it came to hand and sent the other by the Post. 1 Enclosed your Excellency will receive an Act of Congress of the 26th Instant submitting to your Discretion the Mode of carrying into Execution the Act of Congress of the 21st of April respecting an Agent or Commissary of Prisoners. 2 I have also enclosed a Copy of the Communication received from the Minister of France of the 16th Instant, which should have ac companied my former Despatches with the Acts of Congress of the 17th & 20th Instant, 3 of which last mentioned Acts I have also en closed Copies, there being an Error committed by the Secretary in the former Copy, which you will please to note, in the Act of the 20th, The Committee at Head Quarters are said to be requested to confer with the Minister of France, on the means of supplying the Forces of his most Christian Majesty &c where as it should be, the Committee who brought in the report as expressed in the Copy inclosed. We still remain in anxious Suspense respecting the Fate of Charles Town. I have the honour to be, with the highest respect & Consideration, your Excelly’s most obedt & most humble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 The journals do not record the receipt of Washington’s May 19 letter and there is no copy of it in PCC. It has been printed from the draft in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:385. 2 See JCC, 17:462; and Huntington to Washington, April 22, note 1. 5 See Huntington to Washington, May 20, note 2. Abraham Clark to William Livingston Sir, Philada. May 30 1780 Last evening and this morning we were Amused in the Town by a Report from Charles Town that the Enemy having made two As saults on the 8th & 9th Inst, had been repulsed with the loss of about two thousand killed & wounded; And that a French fleet was off the Bar & had taken possessn. of Stono & the Shipping there. These flattering Accounts upon enquiry Appears to have but little foun dation; I can find no intelligence to be relied upon more than con-
