May 30, 1780 217 inclose the Gazette and tell you to be cautious about believing the very good Reports from the Southward which will travel on from hence to you. I do not despair about the Safety of the Garison at Charlestown but there is nothing at present to boast of. Your affectionate humble Servant, J L RC (MHi: Adams Papers). James Lovell to Nathaniel Peabody Dear Sir May 30th. 1780 You will, e’er this reaches you, have had many Reports of grand Doings in our favor at Charlestown, but nothing absolute is here known except that Fort Moultrie is in the Hands of the Enemy. We do not venture to assert that there has been a second assault upon the Lines. Col. White & Col. Washington have escaped after being “surprised” 1 by the Enemy. They swam their Horses over Santee River the deepest & most rapid thereabout. I pity poor Lincoln, but really I do not yet give up Charlestown. We must reserve for more laughable Times several Matters which have turned up near Home. Broadhunt is returned, and is going to live at Baltimore. Tr n 2 will not see a Body on the opposite side of a narrow Street—But, I cease. I am running into Tete a Tete Subjects. I have pd. Shield. But I have got not a line from Mr. H 3 nor one Half Joe from Boston. Yrs affectionately J L RC (Nh-Ar: Miscellaneous Revolutionary Documents). 1 At this point Lovell inserted a caret, to which he keyed the following comment in the margin: “The Letter writer should have said overtaken as they were returning with Prisoners and had actually embarked them.” ! Lovell’s meaning is unclear. ’ That is, John Hancock. New York Delegates to Marinus Willett Dear Sir, Philadelphia 30th May 1780 We received your favour respecting the Reduction of the 5th New York Regiment attended by a Memorial from the officers of that Corpse. 1 It will be sufficient to assure you that it had the full Effect you wish; as Congress convinced of the hardship of dismissing mer itorious officers at the Instant of opening a Campaign which promises to be active, have unanimously resolved that it is not expedient to
