218 May 30, 1780 reduce any of the Line. 2 Give us leave to request you to communicate this agreeable Intelligence to the Gentlemen interested in it, and to assure them of our best wishes for their Happiness. With regard to your own Appointment to the Command of the Corps, be pleased to be referred to an Act of Congress passed on the 16th September 1776, 3 by which it is declared that the Appoint ment of all Officers and filling up Vacancies, except general Officers, be left to the Governments of the several States. Congress conse quently have no Authority to interfere. The Legislature of New York will we are perswaded take great pleasure in this opportunity of doing Justice at An officer of your distinguished Merit. If any Intervention of our own coud be proper or Serviceable you may freely command it, for we are with great Regard, Dear Sir, your most Obedient, huml Servants, Jas. Duane Jno. Morin Scott RC (NHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts, Willett). Written by Duane, and signed by Duane and Scott. 1 Lt. Col. Marinus Willett had writen at least two letters to the New York delegates protesting the “reduction” of the “fifth New York Regiment.” In his second letter of May 24, 1780, Willett entered a “caveat against the reduction” of that regiment and repeated his claim to the command of it—“This I am anxious to have compleated as soon as possible because it is my right.” Miscellaneous Manuscripts: Willett, NHi. 2 Congress took this action this day. See Samuel Huntington to the Committee at Headquarters, May 31, 1780. 5 JCC, 5:763. Willett was appointed commander of the 5th New York Regiment on July 1, 1780. Heitman, Historical Register, p. 436. Philip Schuyler to Robert R. Livingston My Dear Sir Morris town May 30th 1780 In my last 1 covering the letter from Governor Clinton I apologized for not having answered your favor of the 21st since which I have had the pleasure of yours of the 26th Inst, which was delivered me last evening. When assurances had been given by Congress to France of an Effectual Cooperation with any force she might send, when not a single Adequate Step had been taken to bring the promised number of troops into the field, or to Supply them properly, when Congress was Informed that the armament from france was Actually ordered hither when they had every reason to believe It would arrive here by the last of June, It seems unaccountable that they should not have taken bold and decisive measures to have preserved the honor and promoted the Interests of this Country. What have they done? They have appointed a Committee 2 with powers not to draw forth the resources but merely to apply to the States for those resources, And
