220 May 30, 1780 neither the one or the other. We cannot Attempt the recovery of Charles town; the french force would be Inadequate; and we cannot make a detatchment because we have no salted meat and the Live Stock cannot be sent, And It would be too Imprudent to depend upon the precarious supply of the Country. Where then can we point our Operations, to Penobscot, that does not seem an Object of Suf ficient Importance, Niagara we cannot approach In this Campaign unprepared as we are, and the Enemy have no other posts, within the united States, and beyond them It seems by the resolutions of the 20th May and those of January, that the General cannot point any oper ations. Is it wise thus to limit him? 4 If we cannot reduce the first Object N York, should we not Attempt the Second? I think we should, the reduction of Canada is Important. It secures the whole chain of fronteer down to Virginia, enables you to Act with more vigour on the sea board, The temper of the Canadians affords you an Almost Certain prospect of Success—five thousand men In addition to the french force would be amply Sufficient, and these, If the States have the Exertion to Compleat their battalions as the General & Com mittee have proposed they shoud, could be spared from an army here to act only on the defensive. Why then If we should discover the Imposibility of operating with any probable prospect of success against N York, should we not adopt the only Alternative which Seems left, If those who think like me on the Subject mean to Attempt an extension of the Generals power? It might be well to point In their arguments at Halifax as an object. This might Induce the East ern members to Join in extending the powers of the Generals. Measures have been adopted to turn the Enemies attention to Canada but they will not succeed for they will obtain the knowledge that our operations are to be confined to these states. The secret cannot be kept, large popular bodies are equally Incapable of Secrecy as of dispatch. Colo Sheburne 5 whose regiment is reduced wishes to go to Hys- paniola as Consul or Mercantile agent. Wether such an Officer is to be appointed or not, It may be well to mention It to General Cornel, he wishes It, and I have promised to mention the Matter. A little Management will attach him to you. Make my Compliments In your own terms to the female Circle of our acquaintance, Alas! I am become a man Emmerzed In business— business, that tax on pleasure, that bane to the system of the laughing philosopher. Adieu my Dear Sir, I am most Sincerely Your affect Friend & Humble Servant, Ph. Schuyler RC (NHi: Robert R. Livingston Papers). 1 Not found. 2 That is, the Committee at Headquarters.
