June 1, 1780 223 Excellency will observe, they deem it not expedient at present to make any partial Reduction in the Army of the United States. This Resolution passed in Consequence of a report from the Com mittee at Head Quarters for reducing some of the New York Bat- tallions, and a Petition from a Number of the Officers in those Battailions, earnestly intreating they might not be constrained to leave the Service now at the Opening of the Campaign. 1 Your Excellencys Despatches of the 27th Instant have been re ceived and laid before Congress. It is painful to reflect upon the Distresses and Difficulties therein mentioned. I presume Congress will not be wanting on their part to do every thing within the Compass of their Power to remove them. 2 I have the honour to be, with the highest respect, your Excelly’s hbble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See the preceding entry. 2 Washington’s May 27 letter pleading the distress of the army “for want of meat,” and reporting the recent mutiny of two Connecticut regiments because of the hard ships they had had to endure, is in PCC, item 152, 8:579-85; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:428-32. See also James Duane to Washington, May 30, 1780, note; and Committee of Congress to the Pennsylvania Council, this date. Committee at Headquarters to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. In Committee of Congress. Sir, Morris town June 1st. 1780. The commander in chief has laid before us letters from General Howe commanding at West point, 1 and from the commissaries at that post and those depending; from those we have the mortification to find that there is not a days provision in the garrison of any kind, that that which had been lodged in the redoubts, and the most pos itive orders given to preserve it for the subsistence of the garrison in case of an attack from the Enemy, has thro’ necessity been also expended. 2 It is exceedingly improbable that the Enemy should be ignorant that the garrison now subsists from hand to mouth, and as they have the highest inducement to attempt a reduction of that post, we ought to suppose they will; (Indeed private intelligence has been received that the[y] contemplate it) as soon as the troops from Car olina arrive, and they are hourly expected. Should they gain it, the consequences would be distressing in the highest degree; permit us to state one. The French force is expected to arrive in an Eastern port, to co-operate with them against New-York or any other point ours must of necessity cross Hudsons river, hence if the Enemy is in
