224 June 1, 1780 possession of the fortresses in the highlands as the quantity of flour east of Hudson’s river is so amazingly inadequate to the supply of such an Army as we ought to bring into the field, we should have to convey it, from the Delawar by the circuitous route of Sussex County in this State, thro’ Orange and part of Ulster in that of New York, thence by a long land transportation to the point of operations, but all the carriage that could be collected, would be incompetent to the business. And if even a sufficient number could be obtained, yet the forage on the rout would be exhausted before the Army could operate offensively. Thus every prospect of makeing an impres sion on the Enemy in this campaign, must vanish—the succour of our ally prove rather a misfortune than an advantage—the disaf fected encouraged, and a spring given to their hopes, if even the result should not be more fatal. It therefore becomes indispensibly our duty not to lose a moment in furnishing that post so amply as that the garrison may maintain itself, until this Army can march to its relief. Your exertions, Sir, and those of the State over which you preside, we are no strangers to, and we note with confidence, that they will be evinced on this occasion, both in a supply of salted and fresh meat, the former cannot be dispensed with in a seige, as cattle cannot be maintained in the redoubts which cover the capital fortress, nor be thrown in if the Enemy should invest them. We have to intreat your Excellency to keep the substance of this letter, as secret as possible, least the Enemy should take an advantage before the supplies can be thrown in. We have the honor to be, With perfect Esteem and respect, Your Excellency’s Most obedient Hble servts. Ph. Schuyler Nathl Peabody 3 RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). In the hand of Abraham Brasher and signed by Peabody and Schuyler. 1 Over a dozen letters from Gen. Robert Howe written in April and May 1780 are in the Washington Papers, DLC. ! For which see Washington’s June 1 letter to Howe, Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 18:463-64. ’ The copy of this letter in the committee’s letterbook, which was created at a later date by secretary Abraham Brasher, also includes the name of John Mathews as a signer of this letter. Brasher probably used Schuyler’s unsigned draft of the letter for the text of his letterbook copy and apparently assumed that Mathews had signed the RC. See PCC, item 11, fols. 198-99; and item 39, 3:81-84. This day the committee officially appointed Brasher as its secretary and Benjamin Brown as his assistant, although it is clear that Brasher had been serving as committee secretary for more than a week. See PCC, item 11, fol. 293. On May 30th, for example, Brasher had responded on behalf of the committee to a request from Joseph Howell, Jr. & Co. for information concerning the terms under which hides and shoes would be delivered to the army, for which see PCC, item 78, 12:33-34; and item 11, fol. 260.
