June 2, 1780 233 but next day feeling better I went again and on a Persumtion that I should continue well, Mr Houston unluckily took a Jaunt in the Country and next day I was very Ill, but thank God I seem now quite Recoverd except a sore face which suppose was occasiond by the fevor, and Prevents my going out yet. I hope your Eyes are got well. Yesterday I had a Letter from Peter, 1 he tells me Mrs. Fell has also got sore Eyes, which she never had before in her Life. However if she has sore Eyes and a sore [Throat] it is not to be wonder’d at, to be in such a [. . .] and miserable situation at Our time of Life. After the late unfortunate affair at Paramus I wrote her and begged her for Gods, as well as for her own, mine and Our Sons to quit Petersfield and come here immediately, but she has more Prudence and forethought then I have, she has desired to know if I can maintain her, to which I must answer in the negitive, as I cannot by my allowance maintain my Self. Then what is to become of the Old Negroe, the Horses, Cattle and furniture [. . .] questions Put so home that I cannot get over them. My Daughter Colden 2 is now with her Mamma and she writes me, she will take a Jaunt in the Highlands If I will meet her there, which I intend to doe as I think it will be a means of Restoreing my lost health in this dead hole. I expect Peter here soon and if I can get him setled here, I shall goe soon after. I find by Mr Clark my absence has been of no bad consequence as they have been the chief of the time on the Vermont Business. I am told there is good Accounts to day of the French Victory over the British In the West Indies. Rivingtons Pompious Acot. [of Captur]ing Charles town I do not beleive one word of. My situation is so truely distressing that am quite out of Spirits. If I have any inquiering friends in your Quarter Pray remember me kindly to them. And believe me to be with great Esteem, Your Sinceare Friend, John Fell RC (NjR: Robert Morris Papers). 1 That is, Fell’s son, Peter. 2 Elizabeth Fell, who had married the grandson of Cadwallader Colden, former lieutenant governor of New York. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir, Philada. 2 June 1780 I take the Liberty to enclose for the Use of the Legislature, The Act of the State of New-Hampshire on the Proceedings of Congress of 18th March last, relative to Finance.On former Occasions I have
