June 2, 1780 235 first will be necessary on the part of Mr. Swan as Jack writes me he had 500 dols. of his money left and his Horse and Saddle &c to dispose of. I am surprised no more Tobacco has come down as the persons owing it promised it should be down as soon as the Roads were in order. I have written to Mr. Jones about it. A Gazett ex traordinary of Mr. Rivingtons was brot. here yesterday giving an acct, of the surrender of Chs. Town on the 12 th ult. But from various circumstances the Truth of the intelligence is much questioned. A day or two will clear up our Doubt. Sr. Jno. Johnson with three Companies of Regulers and a party of Indians are laying waste pt. of the Frontier of New York, having burnt and destroyed many Houses and killed and taken many of the Inhabitants and it is said the Enemy are collecting in considerable Force at Montreal with design to distress our Frontier. 3 It is not improbable the Indians united with some British Troops and Tories may be troublesome this Summer in resentment for Sulivans treatment the last year wch. served rather to provoke than destroy or ruin. The engagement between the Fleets in the W. Indies appears to be indecisive and it depends upon another struggle to determine the Superiority. I will so soon as it shall be in my power make the inquiry you desire abt. the Maryland Certificates but believe you may be sooner informed by application from Mr. Carrol than from me. It will I think be difficult to get any of them here. With Compts. to yr. Lady, I am, D. Sr, yr. most obed. Servt. Jos. Jones RC (ViU: Hunter-Garnett Papers). 1 James Hunter (1721-84) managed the public stores at Fredericksburg and operated a nearby iron works that was vital to the war effort in Virginia. See Mason, Papers (Rutland), l:lxii; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:329-30. ’John Dawson (1762-1814) of Spotsylvania Co., Virginia, a student at Harvard College. DAB. 5 General Washington’s May 27 letter reporting these alarming developments had been read in Congress on May 31. See JCC, 17:473; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:428-32. James Lovell to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia June 2d. 1780 I think it my Duty to forward to you for the Information of the Honorable Council Copies of some Papers in the Office of the Sec retary of Congress necessary to explain a Resolve of that Assembly passed on the 30th of May in Respect to an Officer of the Line of the Troops of Massachusetts who thinks himself aggrieved. 1 Your most humble Servant, James Lovell
