236 June 2, 1780 RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “Honble. President of the Council of Massachusetts.” 1 The “aggreived” officer was Col. John Bailey, the commander of the 4th Mas sachusetts Brigade. For his complaint that he had been repeatedly passed over for promotion, which led him to request permission to resign if he could not be appointed brigadier, see Samuel Huntington to Bailey, June 10, 1780, note. James Lovell to Nathaniel Peabody Dear Sir. June 2d 1780 Though I presume you will not, you cannot now go with Mr. G 1 yet I must renew my Hint to you that you would not go into any domestic confidentials in Regard to what used to be the midnight Subject of our Fam[ily]. 2 You cannot think of all the Reasons I have for renewing this Caution. Yrs. affectionately, J L RC (Nh-Ar: Miscellaneous Revolutionary Documents). Endorsed: “Rec’d June 5th answer’d the 6th, by Master James S. Lovel.” 1 That is, Elbridge Gerry, who was returning to Massachusetts via Washington’s headquarters at Morristown. 2 The “midnight Subject” has not been discovered. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philadelphia June 2d 1780 I have written several private letters to you since my arrival here, 1 which as they contained matters that I should be sorry should fall into other hands, I could wish to know had been received. If your Excellency has written any acknowledgments of them, they have never reached me. Mr. Griffin tells me he has seen several letters just reed, by Mr. Bingham from Martinique 2 which give information that three suc cessive engagements have taken place between the Fleets in the W. Indies, the two first of which were indecisive but that the third was so far in favor of the French that the English had gone into port, and left the former entirely master of those Seas: that they were gone in consequence of it to invade Barbadoes, and that the general ex pectation was that both that Island and St Kitts would speedily be in their possession. It appears from sundry accounts from the Frontiers of N. York and other N. States, that the Savages are making the most distressing incursions under the direction of British Agents, and that a consid erable force is assembling at Montreal, for the purpose of wresting
