June 2, 1780 239 New York Delegates to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia, 2d June, 1780. The Want of a competent Representation in Congress to decide on the Business of the Vermonters still continues. 1 We wish however for some intermediate act to check their Career, and it is in the Expectation of such a Measure that Major Hunt is prevailed on to delay his Journey a few days longer. We had the Honour of writing to your Excellency on the 21st Instant by the post; among other things we mentioned the necessity of our Legislature’s providing some fund for the support of their Delegates, and of a speedy remitance to disincumber us from the debts we have already contracted for our Subsistance. Lest that Let ter may have miscarried we beg leave to repeat that the Inconveni ence of permitting members to draw money out of the publick treasury at their pleasure called for a Check; it was not less improper with respect to the Community than indelicate as it regarded the Applicant. It is true that we gave into the practice but it was not that it ever had our Approbation: general acquiescence only gave it Sanc tion. At present the publick Exigencies are such as to close the Treas ury against the private Wants of even the members of Congress, and we must entreat your Excellency to recommend a suiteable Provision for us without Loss of time. They demand from us £270 Cont. money a week for a gentleman & Servant exclusive even of Table beer, every thing else is in proportion, and exchange 60 for one. We take it for granted that it is the Intention of the Legislature that our Expences should be defrayed and we wish for no more. If we should be asked for an Estimate it is our opinion that the Value of six dollars a day specie will be no more than sufficient. It is indeed a third more than the original Allowance to the delegates of our state: but it must be observed that every Article of Expence to which we are exposed is raised to double it’s former price. We enclose your Excellency a Resolution of Congress to establish the post you recommend; 2 and we hope that it is expressed in the manner you wish and that it will answer the Ends you propose. The general Measures pursued at Head Quarters to oppose the Irruptions of the Indians and British into our distressed state cannot but meet with approbation and produce salutary Effects: But horror and dev astation will always mark the footsteps of those dastardly foes; and while no adequate Defence can be provided against the Assassin & Incendiary we must be exposed to feel with inexpressible Solicitude and regret the reiterated Sufferings of our frontier Feilow Citizens. We are still anxious for the Fate of South Carolina. Rivington by a handbill has made a present of it to Sir Henry Clinton: but the Tale is not credited.
