240 June 2, 1780 We shall have the pleasure of writing again to your Excellency by Major Hunt, probably in a day or two. And remain with the highest respect, Sir, your Excellency’s most Obedient humble Servants, Jas. Duane. Jno. Morin Scott. P. S. Neither of Us have as yet received one Shilling from the Treasury. J. M. Scott has attended ever since the 18th Feby last. J. Duane RC (N: Clinton Papers). Written by Duane and signed by Duane and Scott. Tr (Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:777-79). RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. ' Despite this assertion, Congress did take explicit action on the Vermont contro versy this day, censuring Vermont officials for claiming independent status and en joining them “to forbear and abstain from all acts of authority . . . over the inhabitants of any town or district” claimed by one of the parties to the dispute. Congressional proceedings on the New Hampshire Grants claims were then postponed, but Congress pledged to resume its inquiry into the case “as soon as nine states, exclusive of those who are parties to the controversy, shall be represented.” See JCC, 17:482-85. See also New York Delegates to Clinton, May 21, note 3 and June 5, note 1; and Samuel Huntington to Certain States, June 6, 1780. 2 See Samuel Huntington to Clinton, June 3, 1780. Philip Schuyler to Benedict Arnold My dear Sir, Morristown, June 2, 1780. The letter which I did myself the pleasure to write you on the 11th of May, you had not received when yours of the 25th was writ ten. 1 In that I advised you that I had conversed with the General on the subject which passed between us before I left Philadelphia; that he appeared undecided on the occasion, I believe because no ar rangement was made, for he expressed himself with regard to you in terms such as the friends who love you could wish. When I received yours of the 25th May, I read it to him; he was much engaged; next day he requested to know the contents again. I put it into his hands; he expressed a desire to do whatever was agreeable to you, dwelt on your abilities, your merits, your sufferings, and on the well-earned claims you have on your country, and intimated that as soon as his arrangements for the campaign should take place, that he would properly consider you. I believe you will have an alternative proposed either to take charge of an important post, with an honourable com mand, or your station in the field. Your reputation, my dear sir, so established, your honourable scars put it decidedly in your power to take either. A State which has full confidence in you will wish to see its banner entrusted to you. If the command at West Point is offered, it will be honourable—if a division in the field, you must judge
