June 3, 1780 241 whether you can support the fatigues, circumstanced as you are. 2 Mrs. Schuyler proposes a jaunt to Philadelphia; if she goes I shall accompany her, and have the pleasure of seeing you. She joins me in every friendly wish; please to make my respects to your lady and her amiable sisters. Believe me, with the most affectionate regard and esteem, Yours, most sincerely, &c., &c. Philip Schuyler. MS not found; reprinted from William B. Reed, Life and Correspondence of Joseph Reed, 2 vols. (Philadelphia: Lindsay & Blackiston, 1847), 2:276-77. 1 Schuyler’s May 11 letter has not been found, but Arnold’s letter of the 25th concerning “who is to have the Command of the No. River” is in the Schuyler Papers, NN. 2 For Arnold’s efforts to secure command of West Point and the development of his plan to betray the post to the British, see James T. Flexner, The Traitor and the Spy. Benedict Arnold and John Andre (New York: Harcourt, Brace and Co., 1953), pp. 307-17. Oliver Ellsworth to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia, June 3d. 1780. The Gentleman who will have the honor to wait on your Excellency with this letter is the honourable Elbridge Gerry Esquire, one of the Delegates of the State of Massachusetts Bay, who is returning from Congress after a term of more than three years faithful service. He will be happy in paying his respects to your Excellency and in com municating any information in his power. 1 I have the honour to be, with the highest Respect, Your Excellen cy’s most obedt. humbe. servt. Oliver Ellsworth RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 Gerry, who had been boycotting Congress since February, left Philadelphia this day to return to Massachusetts. Enroute he planned to confer with various state of ficials, especially concerning fiscal affairs, on which he had acquired considerable expertise because of his long service on the Board of Treasury, and with the Committee at Headquarters at Morristown. There he also agreed to undertake an additional mission for the committee, for which see Committee at Headquarters to Gerry, June 11; and Gerry to Robert Morris, June 11, 1780. Gerry’s first stop on his journey home was Trenton, NJ., from which he wrote the following letter to Ellsworth on June 4. “I have only Time to inform you that I have conferred with Governor Livingston this morning on the subject of obtaining Supplies of money by promoting the exchange of the old Bills for new, at the rate established by Congress. He entirely approves of the Measure and is determined to use his Influence for giving it Effect, as the best Means for speedily supplying the Treasury. It now rests with you to expedite this business by sending on the new Bills to the several states with all possible expedition, & you are so well convinced of the Importance & nescessity of this, as to render every argument in favour thereof, unnecessary. The Assembly of this State are considering
