June 5, 1780 253 It is thought most proper, & likely to be attended with least Em barrassments that the french Commissary Monsr de Corny should make his Purchases with the same Currency with which the Conti nental Purchasers procure Supplies for our Army; and that proper regulations be observed to prevent Competitions among the Pur chasers. From the Character this Gentleman sustains I doubt not he will render himself agreeable, and his Conduct acceptable, and take the Liberty to recommend him to the favourable Notice of your Excel lency. I have the honour to be &c &c &c, S. H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “To Governors Livingston, Clinton, Trumbull & Green.” In the original resolve drafted for enclosure with this letter, the executives of New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire were specified. JCC, 17:489. 1 Dominique-Louis Ethis de Corny (1736-90), was the French commissary of war who had accompanied Lafayette to Boston in April to make preparations for the arrival of the French expeditionary force enroute to America under the command of the comte de Rochambeau. Lafayette’s arrival was the first good news Congress had re ceived in some time, and as it coincided with British victories in South Carolina the welcome accorded him was extraordinarily enthusiastic. When it became known that he brought news of the impending arrival of a French army, plans for launching a Franco-American attack against New York City came to dominate Washington’s stra tegic thinking for the 1780 campaign. Such an offensive would require new recruits and an enormous amount of provisions, and Lafayette was at the center of arrange ments that were made during the following weeks to coordinate deployment of the allied forces. In addition to the logistical work of Corny, Lafayette was also aided by the French minister La Luzerne who often intervened in congressional affairs to promote the various measures required by Rochambeau’s arrival. For the work of Corny and Lafayette at this time, see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 3:1-2, 20-24, 28-31, 39-40, 45-49, 55. 2 For La Luzerne’s May 16 memorial notifying Congress of French plans to send troops to America, and Congress’ May 20 resolve for conferring with the French minister “on the means of supplying the forces of his most Christian Majesty,” see Huntington to La Luzerne, May 24, 1780, note 2. For Congress’ resolves of May 27 and June 5 that resulted from conferences held with him for “promoting harmony and forwarding the common views of France and America,” and to ensure the co operation of state officials for Corny’s procurement activities, see JCC, 17:466-69, 487-89. Huntington also sent Congress’ June 5 resolves for cooperating with the French under cover of a brief note to La Luzerne this day. PCC, item 15, fol. 17. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia June 5. 1780 I have been honoured with your Letter of the 31st Ulto covering Rivingtons Gazette extraordinary. 1 I have received no official Intelligence from the Southward of the Surrender of Charlestown.
