254 June 5, 1780 All the Information from that Quarter which is come to hand, I received this Day in a Letter from Governor Nash, covering Copies of a Letter from Govr Rutledge to him, and of an intercepted Letter signed James Simson Copies of all which are enclosed. 2 Your Excellency will observe, that although Govr Rutledge’s Letter of the 16th of May was enclosed in the Letter from Governor Nash of the 25th of May addressed to me, yet he takes the Liberty to doubt whether Charles Town had surrendered; that the Account wants Explanation though I fear it may eventually prove true. I have this Moment received authentick Information that the Span iards have taken Mobile, the Garrison consisting of about 800 regular Troops are made Prisoners, the Articles of Capitulation which are come to hand you will see in the Paper enclosed. 3 I have the honour to be, with the highest respect, your Excelly’s obedt hbble servant, Sam. Huntington RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Washington’s May 31 letter to Huntington is in PCC, item 152, 8:587; and Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:454. 2 Hutington’s enclosures, all in the hand of Charles Thomson, are in the Washington Papers, DLC. They consist of (1) a May 25 letter to Congress from Gov. Abner Nash of North Carolina; (2) a May 16 letter to Nash from South Carolina governor John Rutledge; and (3) an intercepted May 5 letter from James Simpson at British head quarters near Charleston to a Rev. Wickman of North Carolina encouraging the loyalists of the Carolina backcountry to hold themselves in readiness to join their British liberators. Simpson, the last royal attorney general of South Carolina, was an adviser to Sir Henry Clinton on southern loyalism. Although Governor Rutledge had conceded to Nash that he no longer doubted that Charleston had surrendered, Nash avowed that he would not forward such a report until he could “obtain a certainty of the fate of Charlestown.” 3 See William C. Houston’s third letter to William Livingston, this date. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir. Philadelphia June 5th. 1780. This day the President of Congress received a Letter from Gov ernor Nash, enclosing a Copy of one that he had received from Governor Rutledge; Copys of both I have transmitted to you. 1 From Mr. Rutledge’s information, and from a handbill published by Ri vington, I fear Charles Town has fallen, & the Troops made Prisoners of War. This will be a severe blow to us if true & there is but a bare possibility to hope it is not so. I need not have Posted to Phila. in the haste I did, As the business relating to Vermont was the occasion of the Summons. The New York Delegates are impatient to subdue the people setled on the New
