June 5, 1780 257 “of Fryday last” seemed to indicate that they “were given a second reading” this day, a more likely interpretation is merely that the June 2 resolutions were printed over the week-end and received a proof reading this morning before Secretary Thomson certified them with his signature. There is no mention of the subject on the journals of Congress this day. See New York Delegates to Clinton, June 2, 1780, note 1; and Burnett, Letters, 5:192n. See also Nathaniel Folsom to Nathaniel Peabody, this day. 2 See Samuel Huntington to George Washington, this date, note 2. Philip Schuyler to James Duane My Dear Morris town June 5th 1780 My friend General Arnold Complains that he has not received a line from me since I left Philadelphia. I am however not culpable, and my letters must have miscarried, to prevent the like I take the liberty of Inclosing one to him. 1 When the Commander in chief afforded the Committee here a perusal of the resolutions of the 20t ult. the necessity of secrecy on the Contents, was mentiond, and I believe no Communications have been made by any of the Gentlemen, nor by the General or any of his family, And yet I find some people here are advised that the Operations are to be confined to the united States, and that If the Minister of France is not Informed of them, he will soon be; what will be Consequences? I fear more favorable to us, I have already in a former letter 2 Observed on the Impropriety of the restriction, and every reflection I make on the Subject convinces me more and more of It. I could point out to you as I have done to the General In answer to some questions which he stated to me on what ought to be the object of the military operations, 3 that they cannot be pointed to the Southward, except in one case and there is not the most distant probability that that will happen, but to transcribe what I have said on the Subject would require more time than I can at present spare. You {have seen) will see our last letter to the States, 4 and the Estimates which Accompany that to Congress of this date, you will observe how vastly deficient we are in what is necessary to prosecute an Enterprize where such a force is required, as is stated In the letters. Is it probable these can be procured under the present circumstances? I really think not, and that restricted as the General is, little advantage is to be expected from this Campaign, Indeed I wish we may not be Exposed to disgrace and ruin. Webbs regiment wants several Officers, the General will write to Congress on the subject. 5 I wish the promotions may take place, and the General requested to recommend the officers to the vacancy. Capt. Van Dyke who has suffered so much In New York, who under the severest tryals has abided by and maintained his principles has a claim to our Attention. Let me Intreat my Colleagues to aid
