June 6, 1780 269 ommending that Lees corps be ordered immediately to resume its march, no such resolve of Congress was entered on Secretary Thomson’s journal. The issue was moot, however, for even before he received this directive Washington had already decided to order Lee’s corps to return to the main army in consequence of his certainty that Charleston had fallen. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:179, 183-84, 238- 39, 258, 397, 488-89, 19:51; JCC, 17:491-92; and PCC, item 1, vol. 27. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philadelphia Jun 6th. 1780 A Vessel from West Florida has brought to the President of Con gress intelligence from Govr. Galvez of the surrender of Mobile. No other particulars than those contained in the inclosed paper are men tioned, except the verbal report of the Capt. that the Garrison con sisted of about 800 including inhabitants &c. Seven or eight vessels have just arrived from the W. Indies as you will also observe in the inclosed paper but they bring no satisfactory information concerning the late engagements between the two fleets. The Address from the Genl Assembly was yesterday immediately on its receipt laid before Congress and referred to a Special Committee, on whose report it will probably be considered in a committee of the whole. 1 I flatter myself that the arrival of the French Armament which is hourly expected will place our affairs in a less melancholy situation than their apprehensions seem to paint them. There is little doubt but the conquest of the Southern States was the object of the operations of the present Campain, but I can not think the Enemy will pursue that object at the manifest risk of N. York. It is more probable they will leave a strong Garrison in Charleston, and carry back to N. York the residue of their forces. If they should endeavour to extend their acquisitions in the Southern States, it must proceed from an Assur ance from England that a superior naval force will follow the french fleet to frustrate their views on the American Coast. I cannot suppose that however intent they may have been on taking post at Ports mouth, that they will venture in the present prospect to spread them selves out in so exposed a situation. With great respect & sincerity I am Dr Sir, Yr. friend & Servt. James Madison Junr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:39. ' The May 24 “Address” of the Virginia assembly concerning the defense of the southern states was read in Congress on June 5 and referred to a committee whose report of June 7 was postponed for “farther consideration” on “friday next.” The previous day, however, Congress had already made “the state of the southern de partment” an order of the day “on Friday next.” By June 13, the day Horatio Gates was ordered to take command of the southern department, Congress had decided to appoint a second committee “to consider and report a plan for the defence of the southern states.” The committee report of June 7 was subsequently endorsed “Ob-
