June 6, 1780 271 have not been so productive, as, after paying the drafts on the Treas ury to leave any Money in it. If so, surely there must be some capital defect either in the Imposition or Collection of the Taxes which call, loudly call, on theWisdom & Honor of the Legislature for Correction. The Reputation of our State with Congress, with the Army, with the Minister of France stands foremost in the List. For God sake, for the Sake of Liberty & the hitherto immaculate Honor of our State let us maintain that first Rank; let Us continue to be prime inter paresi Let no Means be unessayed, no difficulty unsurmounted. Tho’ I am sorry that there was a Necessity for selling any of the Confiscated Lands so soon; yet I am glad they sold at so good a price. I wish for the future we may be sparing of such Sales; and endeavor to supply our Wants by Taxes. I forgot to mention to You that the Legislature of this State have also passed a Law in favor of our plan of finance; the preamble to which You have in the inclosed paper, 2 as also another for Supplies. Besides this just before they rose they vested the Governor & Ex ecutive Council with most ample powers for rendering the Abilities of this State productive in Supplies to relieve our Army in their present distressed Condition. Their want of Necessaries, as well as the destitute Condition of the posts in the Highlands, are almost daily painted in the most lamentable Colours in Letters from the General & the Committee at Head Quarters. About a week ago two New England Regiments paraded with their Arms, Accoutrements and Packs, and seemed determined to go home or seek a Sustenance by Arms. The Mutiny ran: so high that one of their officers in At tempting to quell it received a Blow. They were however after much difficulty prevailed on to retire to their Tents with a Sulleness & Gloom in their Countenances which clearly expressed that their mu tinous Temper was by no Means subdued. And can any Thing less be expected my dear Friend, from an Army who have for Months past lived almost entirely without Meat and been almost seven Months without pay? It is said they are preparing for the Field. But how are they to take the field, without provisions, without a Suffi ciency of Tents & Camp Equipage, without horses, or a Sufficiency of Forage if they had them? All these are wanting; not because the Country is destitute of them; but because our Credit & our Treasury are both exhausted. There are I believe Members in the Legislature who know I disapproved of the Address of Congress of Sepr. last 3 and was the only Member who opposed the Republication of it. I was displeased with it because it was calculated to cast the Odium of our Calamities on the States, when it justly laid elsewhere-, because it excited most impolitically the Tender Feelings in favor of Widows & Orphans whose Losses should have been provided for in a Special Way, & not by an Appretiation of the whole Currey, to the inriching of Commissaries, Quarter Masters and Speculators at the Expence
