272 June 6, 1780 of the Ruin of the Country, by compelling it to pay a debt of nominal Value, by a Tax equal to Specie; and because Congress thereon pledged their Faith agt. New Emissions on the delusory promises of ample Loans and the equally delusory Expectation of a punctual payment of the Quotas by the States. Hence have sprung all our present distresses. Whereas had Emissions been continued, Depre ciation which grew rapid by stopping the press, would have continued to be gradual; and even had it attained to 120 for one, the Evil might have been as effectually remedied by our plan of Finance as it now can, and we should have had Money to enable our army to take the Field properly appointed. Congress now see this; and are grown Sick of Addresses. I hope they never will in future substitute the Flowers of Rhetorick in the room of plain unadorned Good Sense; or if they should, I hope those painted Shadows will never more so fatally & successfully alleviate the eager Embraces of the States. We have been taught enough by Experience that Handsome Addresses & Resolu tions however agreable they may appear on paper, never make an Army figure in the Field, never vanquish a potent Enemy. They please a while; then vanish, “and like the airy Fabrick of a Vision “Leave not a Wreck behind.” Before I quit the subject of Finance I must tell You, that there is the greatest Reason to believe that the Legislature of New Jersey now sitting will adopt it and that the like will be Done by Virginia whose Legislature is now sitting; that Maryland whose Legislature is to meet in a very few days after having ended their last Session without bring ing the Business to effect, because they unhappily connected it with another Subject of great Contest between the two Houses, deter mined on their parting to separate the two Subjects at their next Meeting, which will be This day week; and that Delaware, tho’ their Legislature broke up without doing any Thing with the plan of Fin- anace, probably waiting to see what the other States would do, will now be ashamed of a Singularity on the Subject. I doubt not but the New Emission will be speedily sent forward to our State. But re- member my Friend that it can only issue in a certain proportion to the Money brought in by Taxes, which from the experienced Back wardness in Collection; & the Substitution of Certificates in the room of Money, in our & some of the other States, & the repeatedly nec essary drafts on the different Treasurys will disable the issuing of the new Money in such immediate large Quantities as our present critical Exigencies require. You ask for my Sentiments on the tender Law. Tho I heartily wish my plan could be adopted as to old debts, I have no great Objection to its being extended to debts contracted since depreciation began. The difficulty with Me on that Head is how a Scale of depreciation can be settled. Depreciation has been some Time stationary, some-
