288 June 10, 1780 of the bills will be Competent, If prudence takes the lead in disposing of the Confiscated property and Oeconomy In the Expenditures. You request my thoughts on a Supply bill. I have not been in bed for three nights past and on horseback much the greatest portion of time since Wednesday morning, hence I feel myself very little in Condition to Arrange my thoughts with propriety on Any Subject. I will however commit myself to your discretion In confidence that your friendship will make every allowance. Beef or pork, flour, hay, and short forrage were allotted to our state as their quota of supplies; of some, or all of these, I suppose considerable quantities have been collected by the Continental offices since the 1st of December last. The deficiencies must be made up at least. To do this I would advise in your act to recite that Quota assigned to you, to observe that part hath already been furnished, and that you now mean to provide, not only for making up the defi[ci]ency, but Also to procure additional supplies for every de partment of the Army, If they should be required. Perhaps It would be proper at this Conjuncture when exertion is so much wanted and when objects of such vast magnitude display themselves, to authorize the Governor to appoint agents, to Collect, purchase, or even If necessary to Impress the supplies which may be wanted, but as you may not have money to furnish the agents with, they should be directed to give Certificates for what they receive payable at one or more pay offices to be Established by the state, and the day of payment fixed to a Certain time after the date of the Certificates. In paying these no regard ought to be had to the prices fixed by Congress. The Currant price should be given whether It be more or less than that, for if the real price of the Commodity (no matter from what cause) was higher than that which the state can charge In Account with the United States, It would be evidently unjust to Confine the Individual to the fixed price, as he would then bear more than his proportion of the public burthen. On the Con trary If the Currant price should be less than the fixed one, the state ought to have the advantage. Otherwise the Sellar would bear less of the public burthen than his proportion. This Method I think should be pursued until the whole of the allotted articles are fur nished—and In order to Determine with competent precision when that is, certificates should as early as possible be procured of all Supplies furnished Since the first day of December last, the Quarter Masters & Commissarys to furnish these certificates. Indeed it is Es sential to the Interest of the state that these should be obtained, as will Evidently appear by having recourse to the act of Congress of the 25th February last. 2 Whatsoever additional articles like those enumerated In said Act, or whatever others may be wanted, should be procured by the same Agents, and In the same Manner together with the transportation, but the certificates on the pay offices should
