290 June 10, 1780 for the New, the treasury would be Strengthened by one dollar in Value equivalent to every forty brought in, and the Credit Estab lished by the Exchange, would not subscriptions for the purpose have a good Effect? Or Would It be too bold a stroke to Call In the Old by act of the legislature, and give in Exchange the new? We have compleated a System for the Quarter Master department, not the best, but I believe as good a one as the times will admit of. This business ought to have been done in November, then a compleat reform might have been made, but had we [lopped off?] of every exuberance at this Critical moment all had been confusion. We were therefore under the necessity of temporizing. The outlines are three Great divisions, the first N. York Inclusive East, and the second thence west to Maryland Inclusive, and the third the remainder of the States. In Each division a Superintendant—one Deputy QM Gen eral In Each State to be approved of by the Executive authority of the State If necessary—with a competent number of assistants—No Forage Masters. I believe Colo. Hay will be the Deputy In our State, and Mr. Cuyler the Superintendant In the Commissary Branch. In the night between Tuesday and Wednesday the Enemy landed at Elizabeth town point with between four & five thousand men and Immediately pushed forward, pointing to this place. Maxwells bri gade supported by the Militia who turned out with alertness and behaved with Spirit, made what opposition they could at every post which promised fair to retard the Enemy. By Eleven the enemy had advanced to the Connecticut farms, about nine Miles on this Eliza beth town point, here a Sharp Contest ensued, the Enemy to gain a passage over the bridge near Springfield, ours to prevent them, the former retired to their main body with Some loss, ours kept the Ground; the troops from hence were put In Motion and Arrived about four on the heights between this and Springfield, from that time until dark was Spent In reconnoitring each other and on their part In burning houses; about Eleven at night they retired to Eliz abeth town. Maxwell and the Militia followed In the Morning. At one in the afternoon on Thursday Our main body began to move forward to the heights the Enemy had left, there to remain until their Strength, position & Intentions could be ascertained; We re connoitred them from Halsteads point which afforded us a good view. Judged their number as has been Mentioned, which was too heavy for us to venture an Attack. On Friday very Early they were rein forced by about three hundred horse and some foot. As our force Including militia was still Inferior we retired to our first position above Springfield. Some Intelligence having been received that they should Attempt the destruction of our stores by turning our flanks with their light horse, the General requested me to repair here, and make a disposition of the troops. Nothing has happened. It is now ten oClock, not a word from the army, whence I conclude that the
