June 11, 1780 291 Enemy are still at Elizabeth town. If they were not well Informed of our weakness they would not remain where they are. If the General had three thousand men more they must be ruined, but his numbers without such a reinforcement are Incompetent. I dare not tell you our Strength or rather our weakness. I have this moment received a line from Mr. Duane, 3 Inclosing a paper he sent me 4 which I have transmitted to the legislature thru Mr. Benson. I have urged much to pay a visit to the legislature but neither the General nor the Committe will Consent that I shall leave this. Pray make my Compliments to all friends. I am Dear Sir, with Sincere Esteem Your friend & very Hum Servt, Ph. Schuyler [P.S.] I find the Enemy were made to believe that If they came out in force, our army would not fight, the Country would submit, and that they would possess themselves of all our stores. They were sur prised to find the Militia so firm—some were heard to Say the Amer icans fight like bull dogs. Every general officer in N. York was out, the Titular Governor came out In his Coach followed by fifty or sixty of the most Capital toadeaters in the town. If the legislature should not approve of making the Quarter Master an Agent under an apprehension that an Improper person might be appointed to that office, If they have no objection to Colo Hay they might appoint him by name, altho I think It may be attended with Inconvenience If sickness or death Should deprive us of his services. RC (Andrew Fiske, Shelter Island, N.Y., 1980). Addressed: “To the Honorable Ezra Lhommedieu Esqr., Kingston.” 1 See Schuyler to L’Hommedieu, May 20, 1780, note 1. 2 See Huntington to the States, February 26, 1780. 5 See James Duane to Schuyler, June 6, 1780. 4 Enclosure not identified. Committee at Headquarters to Elbridge Gerry Sir, In Committee of Congress, Morris Town, 11th June 1780. As you are on your journey to the state of Massachusetts Bay— We embrace the opportunity and intreat you to give such information to the Executive powers of the Eastern States, respecting the dis tressed situation of the Army, as you, from your own observations, and our communications, are enabled to afford. We are happy, Sir, to find your sentiments coincident with our own, on the necessity there is at this important and alarming conjuncture, of the most strenuous exertions of the states. You have been an Eye witness to
