June 12, 1780 301 We have the honor to be, with the greatest respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s, Most Obedt. Hubie Servts. Ph. Schuyler, Jno. Mathews, Nathl. Peabody. Tr (DNA: PCC, item 11). 1 For Washington’s letter of June 11 describing the new British threat in New Jersey and New York and urging the committee to call upon the states “to carry all the recommendations of the Committee into the most vigorous and immediate execution,” especially “completing our battalions by a draft,” see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:504-6. 2 In his June 12 letter to the committee, Washington reemphasized that anything short of “filling our batalions to their full complement” for the coming campaign would “compel us to confine ourselves to a mere defensive plan” and therefore "dis appoint the expectations of our allies and protract the war.” Ibid., 19:2. Committee at Headquarters to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Morris town June 12th. 1780 We have the honor to Inclose your Excellency letters for the Gov ernor of Rhode-Island and the Presidents of Massachusetts bay and New-Hampshire which we beg the favor may be forwarded by Ex press. 1 The Enemy still retain the position they took on Thursday last at Elizabeth town point in this state, various are the Conjectures on what they may have in contemplation. That which prevails most gen erally, is a rapid movement to attempt our posts in the Highlands of New York, as soon as Sir Henry Clinton with the troops from Car olina Arrives. It affords great satisfaction here to find that so con siderable a quantity of Salted meat from your state is on the point of arriving at the Highlands. The Commander in chief has Intreated us to press the states of Pensylvania, Delawar And Maryland for an Immediate supply of flour for that post, without which he concieves he shall not be in Condition to venture the army in that Quarter, even should the Garrison be Invested. If It is possible, we Intreat the Aid of a thousand barrels from your State for that post and that It may be expedited thither. We have the Honor to be, with Sentiments of Great respect And Esteem, Your Excellency’s most Obedient, Humble Servants, Ph: Schuyler Jno. Mathews Nathl. Peabody
