308 June 12, 1780 to draw an Army Into field, such as we have promised our ally— Indeed, Indeed, I fear we shall become a reproch amongst the na tions. You say not a word of the ladies—are they all well, Is, [. . .]‘or where is She, Kiss her hand for me, since you pretend that you dare not Venture on her lips. Adieu. I am Dr Sir affectionately, Yours &c &c Ph. Schuyler RC (NHi: Robert R. Livingston Papers). 1 Schuyler here wrote three or four words which clearly referred to Livingston’s wife, Mary, but they were subsequently lined out and are indecipherable. Oliver Ellsworth to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia June 13. 1780 Tho’ we are yet without official Accounts respecting Charlestown, there scarce remains a dout of it, being taken, & that the Garrison surrendered on terms the 12 of May. The Capitulation, published in New York is in this City, but I have not yet seen it to note the particulars it contains. General Gates is ordered to the Southward to take the Command. 1 The Enemy remain in force at Elizabeth Town point—there object is yet unascertained. I have forwarded by the bearer 120,000 dollars of the new bills for Connecticut & have more on hand to be forwarded in a few days. The State of New Jersey has also adopted the measure recommended the 18t of March. I beg leave to express my sincere condolance with your Excellency for the loss of Mrs. Trumbull. 2 I have the honor to be, with the greatest Respect, Your Excellency’s most obed hum. Servt. Oliv. Ellsworth RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). ' See Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates, this date. 2 That is, the governor’s wife, Faith Robinson Trumbull, who died on May 29, 1780. Oliver Ellsworth to Jeremiah Wadsworth Dr Sr Philadelphia June 13. 1780. I am faverd. with your letter of the 3d of this month with its enclosure—And I herewith transmit you a resolution of Congress respecting the subject of it, which I hope will be so practiced upon as in some measure to facilitate a close of the publick Accts. 1 Tho we are yet without official information respecting Charles-
