June 13, 1780 309 town, there scarce remains a doubt of its being taken; & that the Garrison surrendered in terms the 12 of May. The Capitulation pub lished in New York is in this city, but I have not yet seen it that I can give you the particulars it contains. Genl Gates is ordered to the Southward to take the Command. I can easily beleive you are yet Commissary, Quartermaster &c & I hope, waving all personal considerations, you will continue to be whatever the extreeme exigency of our affairs require. I am, Sir, with much Esteem & Respect, Your obedt. Hbbl. Servt. Oliv. Ellsworth P.S. 14th. I have enclosed to Mr. Lyman a paper of this day that has the Capitulation mentioned on the other page. O.E. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 Ellsworth enclosed a copy of a June 12 resolution for expediting “the settlement of outstanding accounts” by providing additional commissioners of accounts to settle them.JCC, 17:504-5. Nathaniel Folsom to Meshech Weare Sr. Philadelphia June the 13th. 1780 I inclose you two Resolves of Congress one of June the 2d the other of the 8th 1 by which you will See what hase been done with Regard to the Newhampshire grants and the Several Claimants. I find a Very grate backwardness in many of the members of Congress to Proseed on this buisness untill the Conclusion of the war—and the members Continualy Comeing & going it is impossible to foresee what opinion Congress may be off three months hence with Regard to Puting a final end to these unhappy Disputes. I am Sr. with grate Respect your most obedt. Hume. Servent, Nathl. Folsom P.S. The inclosed Papers Contain all the intelligence of importance. RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). ' The resolve of the “8th” was undoubtedly Congress’June 9 resolution postponing action on the New Hampshire Grants question until “the second Tuesday in September next.” JCC, 17:482-85, 499. Cyrus Griffin to Thomas Jefferson June 13th [1780] As this 1 will be the last letter I shall have the honor of writing your excellency in my official capacity—I hope to obtain the governor’s approbation that whilst alone and at the head of the Delegation to Congress I have done my part in making those representations and
