June 13, 1780 315 I have a most painful Finger to manage the Pen which assures you of the Continuance of my great Esteem as yr. humble Servt., J L RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:365. 1 For Abigail’s May 24 letter to Lovell, see ibid., pp. 355-56. 2 The “authentic Resolve” referred to here by Lovell was adopted on May 31, 1780, directing Benjamin Franklin to pay the salaries of John Adams and Francis Dana. The document sent to Abigail, in Lovell’s hand with authenticating signature by Charles Thomson, was forwarded by her to John on July 5. See ibid., pp. 365-66, 370-73. John Walker to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir, Philada. June 13th. 1780 I hoped before I had been here so long, 1 to have had the pleasure of a few lines from you, if it was merely to inform us of your health and that of your Family, in which you know we are so deeply inter ested. My Family is perfectly recovered from the small-pox, which to them was so favorable that they never lay’d by for it. Mrs. Walker had only two pustules & Milly one for each of the united States. We are comfortably enough lodged & but for the exorbitant expences of the place, might do well enough. As there is no provision made by our State for furnishing us with the needful & the Continental Treasury is empty, our situation is disagreeable. I found one Man (Levi Hollingsworth) who agreed to advance me 10,000 dollars for which sum I have taken the Liberty of drawing on our Treasury & hope my Bill will be honored; otherwise judge what will be our Sit uation. We wish our State would fall on some expedient to furnish such Supplys as may be intended for us, as we find it extremely difficult to get Cash here. Genl. Gates was this day appointed to take command in the South ern department. The further arrangements &c for that Quarter are yet unfinished for want of the necessary information, having as yet rec’d no Accts of our Misfortune there, but by way of New York. Is not this astonishing when Chas. Town is said to have surrendered on the 12th Ult? The inclosed paper will inform you of the Enemy’s late incursions in New Jersey, which is the only news here. This & the neighbouring States are making the most vigorous exertions to oppose their op erations. Pensylvania is about to fill up their Continental Line by subscription & I believe they will effect it, so great & laudable is their Zeal. The very Ladi[e]s contributing large sums on the inclosed plan, drawn up by the Minister of France’s Secretary. 2 Virginia’s conduct in rejecting the Scheme of March the 18th Ap-
