320 June 15, 1780 I am dear General with every cordial wish for your Conduct and happiness, Your truly Affectionate friend & humbe. servt. John Armstrong [P.S.] I am much concerned for Major Armstrongs delicate consti tution in that warm Climate, but the Lot appears to be cast & heaven presides. You cannot with any prospect of health to your troops in the warm Months Encamp anywhere near Charlestown. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 Armstrong returned to this subject a few weeks later with the suggestion that his son, and Gates’ aide, Maj. John Armstrong, Jr., receive a promotion by brevet. See Armstrong to Gates, July 21, 1780. Armstrong’s son, John, Jr., also wrote to Gates this day, in the course of which he reported several interesting tidbits of Philadelphia gossip concerning two of Gates’ opponents, delegates Philip Schuyler and Ezekiel Cornell. “[William] Clajon [Gates’ secretary] has I suppose,” young Armstrong wrote, “advised you of the many tricks practised to get Scuyler at the head of the Qur. Mr. General’s Dpt.—& that he has condescended to suggest that if restored to his militry rank—rather than the service should suffer under the resignation of Green—he will accept of the Appointment. Disinterested Man! But it’s too gross an imposition for Congress to go into, or the army to relish. Were it a meer pretension to high Office, & a generous pursuit of fame I could speak of It without acrimony—but when the little, envious vindictive spirit governs the man, a wish to stand between you & [;.£., Washington], I cannot but feel resentments & should not hesitate a moment to decree him an halter. What meanness will not man be guilty of? But I wish not to moralize upon the subject & shall only give you a fresh instance by way of illustration. Cornell you must have heard is in Congress—& certainly in the vulgar phrase, for want of a better. When a late proposal was made to call you down to Philada. upon obvious principles—it was controuled 8c he was among the number who voted against it—nor did he blush to avow that he was determined in his opinion by the probable effects it would have upon General Washington—who could not but interpret an order from Congress that you should be consulted upon the operations of the Campaign, as an instance of too great partiality to your judgment. . . . My Brother [Dr. James Armstrong] will explain the circumstance of Cornell—as he heard him express the sentiment.” Gates Papers, NHi. Thomas Burke to Anthony Wayne Dr Sir Philadelphia June 15th, 1780. I am very Sorry that your Sudden departure for Camp prevented me from the pleasure of Seeing you again after the day I so agreeably Spent with you—and I am Still more Concern’d that I cannot hope to Succeed in having your Abilities engaged in the Command of the department where I am an Inhabitant, and whither I am Just Setting off. 1 I found, on examining the resolution I mentioned to you, that it was entered into on a particular Occasion of disputed rank, 2 and Commissions were cancelled and renewed agreeably to the principle adopted. Had the affair Occurred in the Winter, and a proper Scru tiny taken place, I am persuaded the principle would and ought to
