June 15, 1780 321 have been applied to you; and your Commission would, Conse quently, have been made out So as to give you the indisputable rank. But as that was not done, and the time at present would not admit of Such disquisitions; I despaired of being able to fall on any mode that would Satisfy your Just, and delicate feelings, that forbids your offering the least possible Shadow of Injury to those of others, or of reconciling the wishes of my self and my Colleagues with the General, and more prevailing Considerations of public utility. We were there fore obliged, reluctantly, to forego a favorite object. I received yours, inclosing a Copy of what you wrote to Major Lee on the affair to which my last to you related. 3 We were both peculiarly fortunate in a Mediator who possesses Such a Just Sense of honor and of propriety; and whose friendly regard to both, as well as his peculiar merit engaged our unlimitted Confidence. A different Char acter, most probly, would have perplexed the Misunderstanding still more, and Initated dispositions, of too much Sensibility, to lengths whose Consequences might have been unhappy. As a proof how en tirely I acquiesse in your Sentence, I declare that my Esteem for and disposition towards Major Lee are not in the least impaired by the like Incident. Long life and health are the only things which, your own Merits cannot command, and these give me leave to wish you, Glory, and every thing else worthy your ambition, will always play round with the fondness of an enamoured mistress. Adieu my dr Sir and believe always truly yours, Thos. Burke RC (PHi: Wayne Papers). 1 Burke’s last vote before departing for North Carolina was cast the previous day. He did not return to Congress until December. JCC, 17:514, 18:1154. 2 For the “occasion of disputed rank” and seniority among the senior officers of the Pennsylvania Line to which Burke may be referring, see these Letters, 12:424-25. 9 For the “affair” referred to here, see Burke to Wayne, June 6, 1780. Samuel Huntington to Certain States Sir, Philadajune 15. 1780 Congress repeat their Applications to your State. 1 They would willingly hope that their former representations have not been in effectual, and that the States are pursuing Measures to enable our Armies to take the Field with a Force superior to that of the Enemy, and with such ample Supplies of Provisions as will not only maintain them in Plenty, but enable the Commander in Chief, if necessary on any extraordinary Occasion to avail himself of the Aid of the Militia. But upon these hopes Congress dare not rely. Every Moment presses. It is necessary they should have the most explicit Assurances, not
