June 16, 1780 331 ceived dispatches from General Lincoln, and I am sorry the contents are not so agreeable as we cou’d wish, the enemy are in possession of Charlestown, yet, I have no reason to think but what the General & our little brave army did all that cou’d be expected under their circumstances; for particulars respecting the capitulation, I beg leave to refer you to the printed paper, ’tho’ not published by the authority of Congress (because it did not come to hand time enough to be in this paper) yet, I think the articles of capitulation are nearly the same. By letters lately received from General Washington, I perceive he is under apprehensions that he should be obliged to withdraw the army under his immediate command to the southward of the Del aware for want of supplies; and if that shou’d be the case, the states of New York & N. Jersey will be greatly distressed; and I understand the important posts on the highlands are in great danger for want of provision; But as I expect the bearer of this will bring you another earnest address of Congress, it may be unnecessary for me to add. It gives me sensible satisfaction to hear of the exertions of the state of Pennsylvania, & the citizens here in particular who are contrib uting largely for the relief of the army; I am informed the President of the state is preparing to take the field, at the head of a large number of his militia in case the enemy advance. Congress has directed General Gates to take the command in the southern department. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, Sir, your most obedient servant; S. Holten 2 RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “Honble. the President of the Council of Massachusetts.” 1 See Holten to the Massachusetts Council, June 6, 1780. 2 Holten also wrote the following brief letter on June 17 to the newly elected pres ident of the Massachusetts Council, James Bowdoin: “I had the honor of addressing you yesterday, but this mornings paper contains more authentick intelligence from Charles town, & some other matters which may be worthy of your attention; Therefore I do myself the honor of inclosing it.” Revolu tionary War Letters, M-Ar. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir, Philada. 16 June 1780 Your Excellency’s Favour of the 13th inst. I received the same Day. When you wrote the President of Congress on the 11th inclosing Lord Sterling’s of the 10th, we took the earliest opportunity next Morning to bring the Question for sending a reinforcement of Militia
