332 June 16, 1780 from this State into New-Jersey, under Debate. 1 There is the utmost readiness in Congress to make the requisition, and in the Executive of the State to comply with it, but the Scantiness of Supplies makes it necessary to avoid as much as possible, for this Moment, multiplying numbers beyond what is absolutely essential. However that every Thing might be in the utmost Forwardness for an Occasion, a large Body have Orders to be in momently readiness, and will, I hope, march with alacrity on the shortest notice. By a Letter from New- Jersey received Yesterday, I am informed that the Commander in Chief has dismissed all the militia, except fifteen Hundred for special reasons, which I suppose to be the State of the Supplies and to prevent the improper appearances of dropping off without orders added to the Expediency of their being at Home as much as possible that they may turn out when wanted, with more readiness. The Militia have obtained the highest Credit on this Occasion, every Body speaks in Terms of Commendation concerning them. There remains no longer any Doubt of the Fate of Charlestown. Lt Colonel Ternant arrived Night before last with General Lincoln’s Dispatches. 2 The whole material Substance is published by the Enemy at New-York, and will be found in the inclosed Paper, which doubtless your Excellency will have been informed of before this reaches you. The Numbers are exaggerated, but every Thing else is pretty exact. It appears that every idle Excuse and unfair Contrivance has been used to detain Mr. Ternant, and as to the vessel stipulated to General Lincoln, and in which he comes himself, we have heard nothing of it. Honour and Faith has, I apprehend, been committed in Order to keep us in Uncertainty. But this is not unusual with the Enemy. Whatever Particulars have not yet been communicated will be pub lished as soon as possible officially. It remains now that we make the best of this Disaster, and I am of opinion, that instead of being a Detriment when considered on the general Scale, by proper Attention, we may turn it to Benefit. Deeply is to be regretted the Loss of a meritorious General, a brave Garrison and a large Supply of Stores; but if this arouses us to double Exertions, the Effect will be in our Favour finally. Providence has always appeared most eminently in our Favour, and we have ever exerted ourselves with most Spirit when pressed with Losses and Difficulties, and it is reasonably to be hoped this will soon be repaired. Mr. Woodruft returns to-day. We have procured from the Board of War a Ton of Powder, five Cwt of it Cannon Powder, and also twenty Reams of Cartridge Paper. The publick stores cannot supply us, at this Time, with Lead, but if I am not mistaken we have a tolerable supply on Hand, as much as is equivalent to our Powder with this addition. We have also, I think, Cannon Shot and Flannel for making up the Cannon Cartridges. Besides this the Board of War
