334 June 16, 1780 Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates Si r> Philadelpia June 16. 1780 Since my Letter of the 13th Instant Congress have passed the Acts enclosed of the 14th & 16th Instant. 1 By the latter you will be informed that Brigadier General Weedon, and Colo Morgan are again called into Service in the southern De partment, under your Direction. 2 By the former you will observe thirty thousand Dollars are ad vanced to defray your Expences &c (which the Board of War will forward), and that Warrants are issued on the States of Virginia & North Carolina for 100,000 Dolars each, towards furnishing a mil itary Chest for the southern Army. That you are authorized to call on the southern States from Virginia inclusive for Aids of the Militia & Supplies, and also to appoint a Deputy Adjutant General, Deputy Paymaster General, & all other Staff Officers necessary in the south ern Department. The Measures to be adopted for the Defence of the southern States are left to your Discretion. Since passing the enclosed Act of the 14th Instant I have received Information, that Mr Clay the Deputy Paymaster in the southern Department was not made prisoner in Charles town, and that he has Warrants on Virginia & North Carolina to a large Amount, which it is supposed in whole or in part yet remain unpaid. You will doubt less obtain certain Information on these Matters (which were un known to Congress) and perhaps find it practicable & expedient to retain Mr Clay in the Office of Deputy Paymaster. You will also receive enclosed triplicate Copies of an Act of Con gress of the 14th Instant, which, you will please to transmit, or not, to either, or all the states of North Carolina, South Carolina, & Georgia as from the Circumstances of those States shall appear most expedient. I have only to add, that the Board of War will take all Measures in their Power that shall be deemed necessary for your Support, and will give you the necessary Information of their Proceedings from Time to Time. 3 I have the Honour to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & respect, sir, your most hbble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (NHi: Gates Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. ' See JCC, 17:510-11, 518-19. 2 Huntington’s letter to George Weedon transmitting this resolve, which is in the Myers Collection, NN, is dated June 16, although the presidential letterbook copy (endorsed “The like to Colo D. Morgan”) is dated June 18. PCC, item 15, fol. 32. He sent the same resolve to General Washington with a brief covering note on June 18. Washington Papers, DLC. 5 Two letters to Gates from the Board of War of June 15 and one of June 16 are in the Gates Papers, NHi.
