June 16, 1780 335 Samuel Huntington to Thomas Jefferson Sir, Philadelphia June 16. 1780 I am honored with your Despatches under the 9th Instant, and have laid them before Congress. They are referred to the Board of War & Committee on the Post Office. Due Attention will be given to the several matters contained in those Despatches. 1 Enclosed your Excellency will receive an Act of Congress of the 14th Instant authorizing Genl. Gates to call on the Commonwealth of Virginia, and the more southern States for Aids of Militia & Sup plies &c and recommending to those several States to give every Assistance in their Power to carry into Execution such Measures as Genl Gates shall judge most proper. 2 I have the Honour to be, with very great respect, your Excelly’s most hbble servt, Sam. Huntington President RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. ' See JCC, 17:517; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:425-27. *JCC, 17:510-11. Robert R. Livingston to Philip Schuyler Dear Sir Philadelphia 16th June 1780 The loss of Charlestown & the wants of the army have occasioned a general alarm here, from which I promise myself such exertions as will make us rise superior to the dangers which threaten us. A few days ago Mr. Meredith & Grason being at table with us we went largely into the state of our supplies, when I happened to drop a wish that the Merchants of this place would undertake a temporary supply upon their own credit Congress countersecuring them. Gra son pushed it, Meredith embraced it, & upon its being broke to the Merchants they appointed a committee to consider the proposition & I imagine upon good ground that they will undertake for four million of rations. Should this go thro’ it may not only help to releive our present necessities but put matters in such a train as we may find it convenient to keep them in. 1 As to what you observe upon the propriety of an expedition to Canada in case of N Y. being put out our reach I think it is at least in the present State of our affairs a very disputable point. 2 Should the enimy quit Charlestown with a weak garrison I shd. concieve that we might act with more advantage in that quarter—And thus reen- state our affairs & at least [. . .] the account of prisoners & success. From the measures of the enimy to the southward as far as we can learn them, it seems doubtful whether they do not mean to push
