336 June 16, 1780 their conquests there & rely upon the strength of their navy at home for preventing the force from France from coming over, or for fol lowing them & extending their operations. They have advanced a party to Georgetown nor had any part of them embarked the 26 of May. All seems to be submission in South Cariolina. Govr. Rutledge has dismiss’d his militia least they should be found in arms. But as far as I can understand North Carolina & Virginia begin to shew signs of life. If they rouse and shake themselves they will not fail to appear formidable to the enimy. I am apprehensive for the post in the highlands, how are they commanded? Not I hope by Heath? Genl. Howe I have not the pleas ure of much acquaintance with him. He by no means stands high with his countrymen. For God sake give some attention to this busi ness, it is not less important than a supply of men or provisions. I say nothing of the fair because as you inform me you have no time to think of them & I am much in the same predicament myself. Beside that most of those I love (perhaps I should have said esteem) are out of town. You will easily believe me when I assure you that I anxiously wish it were in my power to execute your commission but alas, Delaware flows between us. Condole for me with Mathews in the misfortune of his country, remember me to Mr. Peabody & at headquarters, I fear [I] should not be able to hold out much longer here and I am, Yours, with the most sincerity & regard, Robt. R. Livingston 3 RC (NN: Schuyler Papers). ' For further information on the Philadelphia merchants’ plan for provisioning the army and Schuyler’s response, see James Duane to Schuyler, this date, and Schuyler to Washington, June 18, 1780. 2 For Schuyler’s observations on prospects for an invasion of Canada, see Schuyler to Livingston, May 30, 1780. s Livingston also wrote the following brief letter this day to his brother John at Clermont. “I wrote to you not long since & have nothing to add but my wishes to see you here as soon as possible. Mr. Morris told me that you had half ruined him by drawing upon him for £4000 when he was in no situation to advance the money, he has got the Bill holders to wait for payment. He says your ship has exceeded all his calculations. 1 wish you may neglect nothing necessary to ensure her success as much of your mercantile reputation will depend upon it. I wish you would send my map or any other of the great patent & I must if possible dispose of a part of it to support myself here & pay my extravagant taxes. Money is uncommonly scarse here & goods very plenty & daily ariving. 1 enclose the papers. Remember me to the family & believe me to be affec tionately, Your Brother, Robt R. Livingston.” bMS Am 1649.5, MH-H. New York Delegates to George Clinton Sir, Philadelphia, 16th June 1780. We do ourselves the honour to enclose the last resolution of Con-
