June 16, 1780 337 gress relative to the New Hampshire Grants. 1 We sincerely wish it had been in our power to proceed at an earlier day, but an exparte hearing would have been of little use to us. And to have pushed it with too much warmth would have answered no other purpose than to expose us to the censure of wishing to take advantage of our antagonists, especially as New Hampshire which has hitherto gone with us, threw its whole weight against us. The loss of Charlestown, & the great scarcity of supplies has ren dered our situation extreamly critical, and calls for the utmost ex ertion. Congress have endeavoured to rouse this by every means in their power, particularly by a circular Letter which you will receive with this. 2 We feel for the situation of our state, threatned on one side & actually invaded on another. We submit it to the judgment of the Legislature whether they should not continue sitting till the storm is overblown. We conceive that not a moment should be lost in sending forward the bill for the adoption of the resolution of Congress of the 18 of March last as considerable advantage may be derived both to the state & the continent from the sums that may be procured by the exchange of their bills. 3 And as the preparing them is a matter which will take some time, & those who send on their laws are to have the preferance, expedition becomes an object of some moment. We have no account from the southward of the enimies having yet embarked any part of their force; they have detatched a body of them as far as Georgetown. The people of South Carolina will give them little opposition, tho’ we have great hopes that the approach of the enimy will rouse N. Carolina to the exertions of which she is fully capable. We forgot to mention, that it would be proper to send up with our law, the name of some person who is to sign on the part of Congress that we may recommend him so that no time may be lost on that account. This we presume will be the Loan officer but it may be well to have a second in case of accidents. We have the honor to be, with the greatest respect your Excellency’s Most Obt. Hum. Serv’ts, Robt. R. Livingston, Jno. Morin Scott, Jas. Duane. P.S. The Secretary informs us that the Resolutions above refered to are already dispatched. Reprinted form Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:837-38. Addressed: “His Excellency Gov’r Clinton; to be opened in his absence by the Hon’ble P. Van Courtland, Esqur., Leiut. Gov’r.” RC (N: Clinton Papers). Charred. 1 The delegates inclosed Congress’ June 9 resolution postponing hearings on the New Hampshire Grants controversy until September. See JCC, 17:499; and Samuel Huntington to Thomas Chittenden; June 10, 1780. ! See Samuel Huntington to Certain States, June 15, 1780.
