340 June 17, 1780 contained in yours to the President, 3 will I doubt not, be immediately comply’d with. Business in Congress goes on better than I expected, each Member appearing willing to contribute all in his power to the good of the whole. This State is making Exertions worthy of imi tation. The Merchants have lately subscribed a sum, which is thought sufficient to fill up their Continental Line, & have moreover advanced £200,000 Sterling upon Loan, to supply the Army with provisions in which they have lately been very deficient for want of Cash. This Patriotic fire ’tis to be hoped will spread both North & South. My Family is perfectly recovered of the small-pox, but we are all unwell perhaps occasioned by our change of Life & want of Exercise. Our affectionate wishes attend you all. Adieu. Jn. Walker [PS.] Please present my respectful Comps to the Gentlemen of your board. RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:454-55. 1 Not found. 2 This letter of the Virginia delegates to the assembly has not been found. 3 Jefferson’s June 9 letter to Samuel Huntington was read in Congress on June 16, for which see JCC, 17:517; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:425-27. For the president’s reply, see Huntington to Jefferson, June 16, 1780. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir. Philadelphia June 18th. 1780. When I had the honour to write your Excellency from Morris town, 1 I wished our Publick affairs, to wear a more Pleasing aspect, before I wrote you again. Which moment hath in some measure arived; tho far from being so "promising as I could wish. The heart felt distress, for the salvation of our Country; hath been visible in the Countenance of all her true Friends. Char[l]estown with all the shiping & stores in the hands of the Enemy, Seven General officers, and near one Quarter part of our Continental Troops; Prisoners of War. General Kniphausen in Jersey, at the head of a Superiour Army, to General Washington, endeavouring to force his way to Morris town: where were all the Ar tilery and stores of the Army, and not one publick Horse to move them. General Clinton hourly expected, and that West point would be his object, in which there was not one pound of provision. Our Army in Jersey only fed from day to day, the Militia could not be called to the field for want of Provisions. This was the Situation of our publick affairs untill within a few days. At present every friend to their Country, both Male & Female appear to be roused (in this part of the Country) either upon the principals of Honour, virtue, or danger, to make an Common defence, which you will see by the inclosed papers, to which I beg liberty to refer
