346 June 19, 1780 pledged capital. See JCC, 17:542, 548-50; and Robert L. Brunhouse, The Counter- Revolution in Pennsylvania, 1776-1790 (Philadelphia: Pennsylvania Historical Commis sion, 1942), p. 86. 5 No letter from the Virginia delegates to Jefferson containing this recommendation has been found. 4 That is, Col. Abraham Buford whose 3rd Virginia Regiment was annihilated by Lt. Col. Banastre Tarleton at the battle of Waxhaws, S.C., on May 29. Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington In Committee of Congress Sir, Morris Town June 19th. 1780 We received your favor of the 15th Inst, inclosing two acts of Congress of the 12th and 13th Inst, which will be duely attended to. We inclose you a Copy of Genl. Washington’s letter to us of this day and of our circular letter to the several States from New Hamp shire to Virginia inclusive,' for the information of Congress. We have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, yr. Excys most Obedt. servts. Jno. Mathews Nathl. Peabody RC (DNA: PCC, item 39). Written by Mathews and signed by Mathews and Peabody. 1 See the following entry. Committee at Headquarters to the States In Committee of Congress, Morris Town Sir, Circular, No. 5 June 19th., 1780. We inclose you a copy of General Washingtons letter to us of this day. 1 We have in our former letters dwelt so forcibly on the several matters contained in the generals letter, that it is now become almost unnecessary for us to say any thing more on them. But when we consider the season for operation wears fast away; the small force we now have in the field, being still fed in a scanty and uncertain manner, the hourly expectation of the fleet and Army of our Ally, on our coast, And that the Commander in Chief, as well as ourselves, are as yet totally uninformed what are to be our expectations on the subject of our former letters; Be assured, Sir, we feel an anxiety congenial with his, you will therefore, we are persuaded, pardon us for being thus solicitous, when we again intreat you in the most earnest, in the most urgent manner, to use every exertion in your power to engage your state, to a speedy and decisive complyance
