June 19, 1780 347 with our former requisitions. The two points we would wish to im press most forcibly on yours, and the minds of the legislature of your state, are immediately forwarding your quota of troops, necessary to complete your batalions in the Continental Army, and of supplies of provision agreable to the estimates inclosed you in our letter of the 2d Instant, at the same time, we would not wish you to consider any part of our former requisitions as become in the least degree un necessary; on the contrary, we are more strongly convinced that they are already as small as the important objects in view, can possibly admit of; we only mention the two first as the most immediately, and indispensibly necessary, for reinforced as the enemy now are, by the return of their troops from the reduction of Charles Town, we mo mently expect an attack will be made on our weak and almost re sistless Army; Should this event happen whilst in this state, we seriously dread the result. From the well known indefatigable attention of your state to the welfare of the United States, we cannot entertain a doubt of its exertions, at this interesting conjuncture, and we most earnestly in treat you to give us the earliest information of the final determination of your state, on the subject of this, and our former letters. 2 We are Sir, with the highest respect, Your most Obedt. Servants, Jno. Mathews Nathl. Peabody Tr (DNA: PCC, item 11). Directed to the 10 northernmost states. 1 Washington’s June 19 letter informing the committee of “the indispensable ne cessity of writing again to the different States” concerning the men and provisions to be supplied for the ensuing campaign, is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:31- 32. 2 The committee’s letterbook contains a further paragraph directed “To the State of Pensylvania.” “We take the liberty of again calling your attention to the urgent necessity of forwarding the flour to West Point. The reasons for this pressing call are fully contained in our public letter of the second instant, to which we beg leave to refer you.” Nathaniel Folsom to Meshech Weare Sr. Philadelphia June 19th. 1780 I received your letter of the 27th of May the day before yesterday, and this day laid the same before Congress. It was referred to a Committee who are to report thereon. 1 Although the requisition was by Several of the members in the Course of the debate allowed to be just, yet all but the delegates of Massachusetts Bay opposed it being granted at Present on account of the Critical situation we are in for Want of money to feed the
