352 June 20, 1780 1 This letter was undoubtedly written on Monday, June 19, a conclusion supported by both the endorsement and the first two sentences of the letter. Committee at Headquarters to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. In Committee of Congress Sir Morris Town June 20. 1780 Since we did ourselves the honor of addressing your Excellency in our Circular letter of yesterday inclosing Copy of a letter of the same date from the Commander in Cheif, He has thought proper to direct Brigadier General Parsons to repair to your state in order to Collect, arrange, and forward the drafts & recruits from thence to the Army, as you will be advised by the inclosed Copy. General Parsons is fully acquainted with the numbers, Situation and wants of our army, and the indespensible necessity for the states immediately filling their Continental Regiments to the number of five hundred & four Rank & file agreable to the Generals proposal, and of forwarding the quota of Militia and supplies allotted to the states, agreable to the requisitions of this Committee. We therefore most earnestly request your Excellency to pay the earliest attention to his representation on these important subjects, and to give him every aid in your power to effect the matters com mitted to his charge by the Commander in Chief. 1 We have the honor to be, With respect & Esteem, Your Most Obt. Humble, servts. Jno. Mathews Nathl. Peabody 2 RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Mathews and signed by Mathews and Peabody. 1 For Washington’s June 20 letters to the committee, to Samuel Holden Parsons, and to Trumbull, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:38, 42-45. 2 Mathews and Peabody also wrote a brief letter on June 21 to Ephraim Blaine, commissary general of purchases, requesting a number of articles needed “for the use of this Committee,” and listing sugar, coffee, chocolate, “milk Bisquet,” tea, mustard, pepper, vinegar, “Oyl,” and “One Quarter Cask of maderia Wine. . . , One Barrel of good spirits & One Barrel of Rum.” PCC, item 39, 2:61. Samuel Holten to John Avery Dear Sir. Philadelphia June 20th. 1780. Your favor of the 1st inst. has been reed. 1 I forwarded a number of blank commissions, &c by the last post; 2 the reasons of my not sending them before was because the form
