June 20, 1780 353 has been altered & it took some time to git them printed, & not from any inattention to your request. You was so kind as to inform me that I was appointed to a Seat in Council; And the Boston papers Announced my being returned with Colo. Hutchinson to represent the Town of Danvers but my letters from my correspondence there do not mention it, neither have you in your letter; Therefore I wish to know whither that is the case. I took notice of the Honble. Mr. Gills compliments & please to return him the like salute; And let him know that I consider it will add to the Honor & pleasure of a seat at the board to be favored with his company. It gave me sensible pleasure to see Genl. Ward here yet, I felt some disappointment in Mr. Adams’s not accompanying him, 3 as I intend to sit out soon after his arrival. For the public intelligence, I beg leave to refer you to the printed paper. I am, with sincere respect, your most obedient P.S. In the Boston papers I took notice of the arrangement of the Honl. Board in which I had not the place that I formerly was honored with; I wish to know whither it was done by order of the Board, but I am inclined to suppose it might be thro’ inattention when the list was sent to the printer, Yours ut supra FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 'John Avery’s June 1 letter notifying Holten of his election to the Massachusetts Council is in the Holten Papers, DLC. This reply was drafted by Holten on the bottom and verso of Avery’s letter. 2 In his June 1 letter Avery had repeated his request for “a Number of Blank commissions for Privateers.” 3 Samuel Adams, en route to Philadelphia, was this day in Hartford, Conn., where he and Elbridge Gerry wrote joint letters to Gen. John Fellows, Gen. Robert Howe, and the Massachusetts Council calling for General Fellows to march his Massachusetts militia brigade to West Point. Adams and Gerry also wrote to Fellows and Howe the next day, June 21, on the same subject. The letters are printed in Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:191-96. Samuel Holten to Jeremiah Sheldon Friend Jere. Phila. June 20th. 1780. Yesterday I was notified of my being appointed to a seat in the Honble. Council of Massachusetts and desiring I wou’d take my seat accordingly; Therefore I have returned an answer by this post that I shall return & take my seat as soon as I can with propriety.' So that you may see I shall sit out as soon as I can after you return, but two things you must mind, one is your own health not to worry yourself but proceed with great moderation, The other is to take
