354 June 20, 1780 the best care of my horses, for if they shou’d be poor when you return, I can’t sit out, but must wait here till they recover which will be a great disappointment. I depend upon your buying me one horse, and I shall not take it amiss if you buy me another before you git to this City if you can make such a bargin as you think will do. I repeat it again do not hurry, the horses will walk. 15 miles in a day & that is full enough this hot weather, & the middle of the days you can feed them; if you buy me a saddle let it be a good one, but common stirrups will do as I shall put my brass ones on it. FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 For his “answer,” see Holten’s diary, June 19, 1780, note. He did not, however, leave Philadelphia until August 2. See Holten to Mary Holten, July 28, 1780, note 2. Charles Thomson to the States Sir (Circular) Secretary’s Office June 20th. 1780. The commissions to private armed vessels of war were heretofore ordered to be attested by the Secretary of Congress, But upon es tablishing a board of Admiralty it was judged proper that they should issue from that board and be attested by their Secretary. Accordingly on the 2d of May last having made some alterations in the form of the commission, bond and instructions for commanders of private armed vessels of war, Congress passed the following resolutions. “Resolved, That the Board of Admiralty be empowered and di rected to cause to be printed so many copies of the said forms as they shall judge necessary. “That the President transmit to the Governors or Presidents of the respective States so many copies of the said forms as the board of Admiralty shall advise.” 1 You will therefore, please for the future to apply to the Board of Admiralty for the commissions, bonds &c which may be wanted in your State, and transmit to the said board the Bonds given by the commanders to be lodged in this office. I have the honor to be, Sir, your Obedient humble Servt, Chas Thomson LB (DNA: PCC, item 18). 1 For the May 2 resolves quoted here by Thomson, see JCC, 16:408-9. For Congress’ decision the following month to transfer back to Thomson’s office responsibility for issuing blank privateer commissions, see Thomson to the States, July 28, 1780. John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dr Doctr. Philadelphia June 21st 1780 I wrote you by the post Fryday last 1 —inclosed you have this days
