June 21, 1780 355 paper. Inteligence from the Jerseys to day is that Clinton had arrived at New York with part of his Army from S Carolina. That he had sent two regiments over to Elizabeth Town point to reinforce the Army there and that it was Conjectured he would Immediately pro ceed up the north River against West Point. He seems to be acting with vigor, but all his Efforts I am persuaded will be ineffectual. Nothing but Exertion on our side was wanting And all ranks of people Seem now to be properly Annimated. The Jersey, York and Pensil- vania Militia are turning out fast. The merchants and other Inhab itants of this Town (to their immortal honour be it spoken), have undertaken to Supply the Army With provisions, and rum for two months at their own present Expense and are sending it forward very fast. They have raised £300,000 hard money. They are hereafter to be refunded by Congress. This is a most Seasonable assistance and will give time to lay in proper Supplys by the time the two months are expired. A patriotic flame is Kindled too Amongst the Ladys. They have raised £200,000 for the encouragement of the officers & Soldiers in the Continental Army, which is to be deposited in the hands of Mrs. Reed the Presidents Lady, to be by her delivered to Mrs. Washington, to be put into the hands of the General. A Delegate to Congress from N. Carolina arrived here last night. 2 He says that General Cornwallace with 5200 men with some field peices is making a rapid March through S. Carolina, that he had defeated Colo. Beau fort who Commanded about 300 men, near Camden, had Killed and taken about 170, that he was expected to penetrate into N. Carolina but that 4000 of the Militia of that State had embodied & with the assistance of the Virginians and the regular troops belonging to the Maryland and Delaware line, they should be able to give a good Account of them which God grant. I think I mentioned to you in my last that General Gates was appointed to take the Command of the Southern Army and that General Weedon and Colo Morgan were ordered into that service. My love to Janey, and am, yrs. &c. J.H. RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). 1 Dr. Philip Thomas (1747-1815) of Frederick, Md., a member of the Maryland House of Delegates, 1777-78, was married to Hanson’s daughter Jane. This letter is the first of some 50 surviving letters Hanson wrote to his son-in-law while attending Congress, but his letter “by the post Fryday last” has not been found. 2 That is, Willie Jones. Samuel Holten to George Partridge Dear Sir. Philada June 21st. 1780. Your favor of the 5th instant came to hand at a luckey moment,
