356 June 21, 1780 Mr. Livingston was making inquiry in Congress whether the members could inform the house what their states where doing at this alarming crises; Therefore I asked leave to read in my place such parts of your letter as were to the point 1 & I am sure it did honor to the State; and you may be assured that I consider the Courts proceedings to be a work of necessity & therefore has my full approbation ‘tho’ done on the Sabbath. That part of your letter which you desired me to speak to the Treasury about, I have caused an Extract to be laid before them. 2 There has been nothing done about the certificates Since you left us, but I expect there will be soon, as there is a report lately Bro’t in. 3 Mr. Laurens is expected here in a few days; Congress have lately instructed Mr Adams to proceed to Holland upon the same business Mr Laurens is charged with, But if Mr. Adams shou’d think it is necessary for him to continue in France Mr Dana is to proceed to Holland with the same powers. As to the prospects of a loan in Spain I can inform you nothing more than I consider you possessed of, By the last intelligence from Mr. Jay We had reason to expect he would be kindly reed, at that Court, but he had not then been acknowledged there in his public character. I have not heard that any state to the Southward of Pennsylvania has come into the new system of finance but I believe they will as I am very sure Congress will insist upon it. Mr. Ellwoth informs me you may have the new bills next week. Connecticut & New Hampshire has had a number. Exchange here I understand is 58 & 60. It is said Sir Harry has returned from the southward & is about moving up the north river to take possession of our posts there. The late letters from Genl. Washington are as pressing as words can ex press for assistance both of men & provisions; Do my Dr. Sir endea vour to impress upon the minds of the honble. Court that they have not a moments time to lose in affording the General every Assistance in their powers; I can’t Suppose the States will leave that worthy man to fall before our cruel enemies for want of their support. I can’t inlarge the bearer is near siting out. I am my worthy friend, with sincere respect, your most obedient FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Holten must have interjected Partridge’s June 5 letter on June 17, when Robert R. Livingston’s motion directing the states to inform Congress about steps taken to provide provisions was adopted, but it is not mentioned in the journals. JCC, 17:525. 2 “I have the honor of enclosing an extract of a letter from one of my colleagues,” Holten wrote to the Board of Treasury this day, “by which you’ll perceive he is desirous you shou’d be made acquainted with the contents.” Holten Papers, DLC. The “con tents” of this extract from Partridge’s June 5 letter have not been discovered.
