362 June 22, 1780 Instant, by which you will observe that they behold with Pleasure the Zeal & Solicitude of the Minister of France to advance the mutual Interest of his most Christian Majesty and these United States; and will also be further informed of their repeated Exertions to put their Forces in a Condition, effectually to co-operate with those of our illustrious Ally; and although from the Nature & Constitution of the several Governments, Preparation cannot be made with that Expe dition which were to be desired, you may be assured Sir that no Endeavours will be wanting on the Part of Congress to call forth the military resources of the Country with all possible Dispatch. 1 I have the honor to be &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 Although he had received assurances in January that the states were prepared to wage a vigorous campaign in 1780 and would be able to provide support for the French forces that were enroute to America to cooperate with Washington’s army, La Luzerne was apprehensive that Congress could not live up to its pledge. He had therefore sent Congress a reminder of its pledge on June 18, hinting that promises to reinforce Washington remained unfulfilled and that prospects for effective coop eration with the anticipated French squadron were dim. JCC, 17:527; and PCC, item 95, 1:100-107. His letter has been printed in Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 8:334-35, and a translation of it in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 8:803-5. La Luzerne’s appeal was referred to committee on June 19, and on June 21 Congress adopted the committee’s recommendations to assure him that they had used “every means in their power to fulfil their engagements of January last,” and that renewed appeals to the states would be immediately delivered to ensure that plans previously made would be fulfilled. For the enclosed “Act” of the 21st and Congress’ renewed appeal to the states therein promised, see JCC, 17:538-40; and the following entry. Samuel Huntington to Certain States Sir, Circular. Philadelphia June 22. 1780 You will herewith receive an Act of Congress of the 21st Instant, which will no doubt be duly attended to. 1 Those Parts of the Act in particular that relate to giving Infor mation to Congress & their Committee at Head Quarters it is most earnestly requested may be attended to with the utmost Expedition & Punctuality. The Time is come when we may expect the Arrival of the Forces of our Ally, and the Plan of Operation ought to be completely formed, & ready to communicate upon their Arrival, which cannot be done without proper & certain Information of the Number of Forces, Quantity of Supplies &c which the States will furnish. Under these Circumstances you will easily perceive, that Congress & the Commander in Chief are placed in a most painful Situation, and that the Interest, Honour & Safety of the States are too much
