June 22, 1780 363 effected to admit of the least Delay, or Neglect, of any & every Exertion which the present Situation of our public Affairs demand. I have the honor to be, with great respect, Sir, your obedt servant. Sam. Huntington President June 23. Since writing the foregoing I have received a Letter from His Excy Genl Washington, an Extract of which is enclosed, together with an Act of Congress of this Day, by which you will be further informed, of the pressing Necessity of forwarding the Supplies of Men & Provisions with the utmost Expedition and the repeated re quest of Congress to transmit to them & their Committee at Head Quarters, the Proceedings of the state over which you have the honor to preside in such Manner that the Commander in Chief may rely, & be enabled to regulate his future Operations thereon. 2 I have the honor to be &c, Sam. Huntington President RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “To the States from New Hampshire to Mary land inclusive.” 1 See JCC, 17:538-40; and the preceding entry. 2 For Washington’s June 20 appeal to Congress for an immediate delivery of pro visions and supplies from the states, see JCC, 17:551; PCC, item 152, 8:615-18; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:34-38. Robert R. Livingston to George Washington Dear Sir Trentown 22d June 1780 My anxiety for the supplies of the army have brought me to this place in order that I might satisfy myself as to the quantity on hand, & the means of forwarding them. Genl. Nox has communicated to me your Excellencys orders on this subject. Nothing short of this would I am fully persuaded be of sufficient force to produce the desired effect—And knowledge of them will in a great measure ren der the execution of them unnecessary—impressed with this Idea, I have been long labouring to bring Congress to assume the power which will enable them to call forth the resources of the States but unhappily without effect. 1 However I hope much from their pressing & reiterated demands. What principally induced me to trouble your Excellency at this time is an apprehention which I, in common with many other gentlemen, entertain of the propriety of leaving the com mand at West point in the Hands of Genl. Howe. 2 Having no personal acquaintance with him I can have no prejudices. But the Gent, from the Southward by no means speake so favourably of him as I could wish. But independent of this I conceive that as he has yet had no opportunity of acquiring a military character—that Confidence which is so necessary to inspire courage especially in militia will I
