June 23, 1780 365 consequences that must have resulted from a defeat, (which would inevitably have been the consequence, had the enemy at first, and still will be, should they even now pursue their object) We are con strained, again to call on you in the most pressing manner, to forward your quota of men and supplies agreable to our estimate of the 2d Instant, and prevent the total sacrifice of the few brave and intriped spirits that at present compose our Army, and avoid the indelible strain that must consequently be fixed on those states, should such an event take place. (Thus far Circular) To the States of Pensylvania, and New Jersey. That part of the Generals letter respecting the state of the stores here, is a matter of such pressing necessity, that we conceive it to be our duty to give the earliest attention to it. The situation of the magazines at this post, is truely deplorable, the enemy are certainly pushing at them, and we are in no condition to move them for want of teams. If they do not effect their purpous at this time, it is evident they mean to persist until the situation of our affairs renders it nec essary for the remains of our Army to move from hence, when there will be no impediment to the execution of their plan. We therefore hope, Sir, you will enable the officers of the department to improve this interval so as to effect their removal to a place of greater safety, by having the teams which are requested of your state immediately sent forward. We have the honor to be, with the highest respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s, Most Obedt. Hble servts. Jno. Mathews, Nathl Peabody. Tr (DNA: PCC, item 11). Directed to the 10 northernmost states. 1 In the enclosed letter of June 23, Washington urged the committee to ask the governors of Pennsylvania and New Jersey to “bring out all the Waggons they can” to prevent Continental stores from falling into the hands of the enemy, who “are now in full force bending their march towards Morris Town,” and to ask all the states to “redouble their exertions to comply with the demands that have already been made upon them.” See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:57-58. This threat to Morristown had also led Mathews and Peabody, the previous evening, to request assistant deputy quartermaster Joseph Lewis “to give every assistance in your power to have the stores removed from this post to night.” PCC, item 11, fol. 261. Oliver Ellsworth to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia, June 23d. 1780. I enclose for your Excellency’s perusal the papers last published here. The Enemy have gained some advantages to the Southward since
