368 June 23, 1780 the left wing of our army toward the North, so as to prevent the Enemy from out flanking him with their Right. This morning Early Genl Kniphausen with thirteen Regts. Con sisting of about 5000 regular troops, exclusive of New levies, Ad vanced upon our Right, which was Commanded by Majr Genl Greene. The progress of the enemy was Slow, at least Six hours moveing from the point to Springfield—did but little mischief on their march—when they arrived were Checked by The Spirited Con duct of a few Continentals and Some Militia who gave them So warm a reception They thought proper to halt—And burn every house except 2 or 3 in the Town of Springfield. 1 6 o Clock P.M. the Enemy retire to Eliza. Town. 11 o Ck Their main body are at the point below the Town. 24th. It is reported that Clinton is gone up the North river with all the force he Can make exclusive of Kniphausens Division And it is thought by Some he will Soon Join. The loss of Kill’d & wounded on both Sides must be very Consid erable. Colo Angels & Colo. Datons Regts, have Suffered much. A Captn. Thompson of Col Lambs Regt. Killd. Further particulars I have not yet been able to obtain And have No doubt but Your Exclly will receive Authentic information of every important Circumstance, more Just and minute than is possible for me to Give at this time. However Concluded, that even these imperfect hints might Not be disagreable. I have the honr. to be with perfect Esteem, Your Excelys Most obedt & very Huml Servt, Nathl Peabody RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). ' For this enemy attack, see also Peabody to Meshech Weare, June 24; and Wash ington's June 25 report to Congress in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:63-65. Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington In Committee of Congress Sir Morris Town June 24. 1780. We inclose you for the information of Congress, copies of the Commander in Chiefs letter to us of the 23d Inst, and of our circular letter, of the same date, to the several states from New Hampshire to Virga, inclusive. Your Excellency will observe those to New Jersey & Pensylvania
