June 27, 1780 379 in directing the same to be sold, and the Money to be deposited in the Hands of Mr W. Bingham, until the Legality of the Capture should be proved. 1 These Proceedings as the Case was then circumstanced, shewed the strictest Attention to the rights of the Claimants and the highest respect to the Opinion of Congress. I have the honor to be &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “The Marquis de Bouille Governor Genl &c at Martinique.” 1 For the context in which Congress adopted the resolves enclosed with this letter, see Huntington to the Massachusetts Council, June 24, 1780. John Walker to George Weedon Dear General: Philadelphia, 27 June, 1780. I received with great pleasure your favour of the 16th Inst, and should have been very happy to have seen you at Fredericksburg. Before this reaches you, you will no doubt have heard of your being called into service. 1 This I am sure will be agreeable to you, and may you render your country that service she stands in need of and that which I know you wish to do. Our affairs ’tis true are critical, but an adverse stroke is now and then necessary to rouse us to action. Our resources are undoubtedly sufficient and we want but exertions to work out our salvation. We are now roused and I hope the work will be finished before we fall into another fit of the lethargy. I think your scheme for recruiting our army an excellent one and wish with all my soul it were adopted. This and the neighbouring States are straining every nerve to bring the present campaign to a happy con clusion; let it not be said that Virginia was exceeded either in zeal or exertions by any one of them. Virginia has so distinguished herself in former times no less trying, that now the more is expected of her. The enemy have burnt Springfield, but were so roughly handled that they thought it prudent to return with a quick step to Elizabeth Town. ’Tis generally thought their next object will be West Point, but should they delay their operations a little longer, I think we shall be prepared for them at all points. Where in the name of Heaven are the Monsieurs all this time? We heard of their sailing from Brest the 9th of April. Wherever the service of your Country may call you, I shall always rejoice to hear from you and shall not fail to answer your letters. I have not yet seen the packet of the day, but intend to inclose you one and to it refer you for the news. Remember me cordially to all friends and believe me to be, My dear General, Your’s sincerely, Jn. Walker.
