380 June 27, 1780 MS not found; reprinted from Thomas Balch, ed., Papers Relating Chiefly to the Maryland Line During the Revolution (Philadelphia: Printed for the Seventy-Six Society, 1857), pp. 111-12. ' See Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates, June 16, 1780, note 2. George Walton to Horatio Gates Dear Sir, Philadelphia, 27 June, 1780 After congratulating you & the Citizens and army in the Southern Department, upon your late appointment, permit me to request in general your care of letters which I shall, for safety, send thro Head- Quarters; and in particular the one now enclosed. 1 Should the Ma jor’s Parole have been extended, and he be out, be pleased to have the letter sealed & forwarded. On the contrary, should he be yet in Charles-Town, that you will send it in by the first flag. I am, Dear Sir, with regard & esteem, Your most Obt. Sevt. Geo Walton RC (MH-H: Sparks Manuscripts). ' The enclosed letter has not been identified. Artemas Ward to Thomas Ward Dear Tommy 1 Philadelphia 27 June 1780 I am at this time as well as expected and hope these will find you and all the family in like health. I have not heard one Syllable from the family since I left it. I have wrote your mother three times, and Mr. Sumner once since I left home. 2 The mair stood the Journey better than the horse, she looked near as well when I arrived at Philadelphia, as when I left home & had more Spirit. The horse lost the most of his flesh by the time I had got to my Journeys end. This may be assigned to two reasons, viz. First to his being too young and secondly to his not having got seasoned to grass, and I don’t know but I may assign a third namely his having had the horse distemper so lately. I have had him blooded, & hope he will recruit. His blood was Exceeding black. I arrived in this place the thirteenth of June about Eleven O.Clock which was the twelfth day after I set out. I rested the horse two days & a half, so that I was travelling but nine days, which was pushing rather too hard for so long a Journey; however I believe I have not hurt the horse. It is well I did not take the other horse for I immagine he would not have held out, Hope he answers for you as well as the
