382 June 28, 1780 inadequate to the great objects in view. Our feelings have more than once been tortured, by seeing the General, with his little army, in volved at a most critical moment in such complicated embarrassments as few Generals would have encountered, when at the same time his sensibility must have been greatly wounded by reflecting that this labyrinth of distress was in a great measure owing to the cruel neglect of those whose indispensible duty it was to have supported their cause by furnishing him with an Army and supplies equal to the exigency of the time; and the importance of establishing their independence, and bringing the war to a speedy and honorable termination; yet we are fully convinced such is his delicacy and candour, such his affec tionate regard to the case and convenience of the state, that he would undergo every species of hardship and fatigue, run every risque that did not with temerity endanger a total loss of the Army; the con sequences, inevitable to such an event, you will readily conceive. In short, that he would sacrifice every thing but his honor and integrity in support of the independence of these States, rather than they should be burthened by any unnecessary requisition. We shall there fore rely with the most intire confidence, that the condition and proposals mentioned [in the gen]erals letter to you, and upon which he was induced to accept the propositions of your state, will be most rigidly observed, and fully complied with on their part. We have the honor to be, with the greatest respect & Esteem, Gentlemen, Your most Obedt. Hble Servts, J. Mathews N. Peabody Tr (DNA: PCC, item 11). ' Jenifer and Beall were president of the Maryland Senate and speaker of the House of Delegates respectively. Beall signed their “joint letter of the 22d” to Washington “Josia Beall.” Washington Papers, DLC. His name is entered as “Josias” in A Bio graphical Directory of the Maryland Legislature, 1635-1789, edited by Edward C. Papen- fuse, et. al. (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1979-84. 2 vols.), 1:123-24. He is variously listed as “Josias” and “Josiah” in Maryland sources. 2 For Washington’s June 27 letter to the committee expressing his pleasure over the Maryland legislature’s intent to raise “an extra [Continental] Battallion in lieu of the Militia required” and asking the committee to inform the assembly “of their approbation of the measure,” see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:76-77. For his reply to Jenifer and Beall, see ibid., pp. 85-86. This day Mathews and Peabody also received a letter from Philip Schuyler, undated but endorsed by Abraham Brasher “Genl. Schuyler to the committee—dated Pompton. . . reed. 28th June 1780,” which indicates that he too had reviewed Washington’s June 27 letter, while on his way from Morristown to headquarters at Ramapo the previous day. “I have perused the letter from the legislature of Maryland, and the Generals answer,” Schuyler explained. “I heartily approve of what the legislature proposed, and think It advisable If you do so, that the letter which Signifies our Approbation Should contain a Compliment on the Exertions of the State. . . . Pray come on soon as you possibly can as the Genl. May want us.” PCC, item 153, 3:531- 32. See also Committee at Headquarters to Washington, June 24, 1780, note 2.
