384 June 28, 1780 Samuel Holten’s Diary [June 28, 1780] 28. Wednesday. I dined with Colo. Pickering. The Honl. Mr. Ad ams arrived here from Boston. 1 A fine rain. MS (MDaAr). 1 Samuel Adams took his seat in Congress on June 29. JCC, 17:571. Nathaniel Folsom to Meshech Weare Sr. Philadelphia June the 29th. 1780 I embrace the eairlest oppertunity to inclose you the Resolution of Congress Respecting loan office Certificates which hase been un der Consideration every opportunety for a long time Past and Post pond and Put off upon Different views and Different motives to this Day, 1 hope it may be agreeable. Alltho not exactly according to my mind, yet it is the nighest to Justice Could be agreed on. As Soon as the treasury Board have Prepared the Proper tabels for the Several loan officers in Paying off the Principal and Interest they will be forwarded to the Respective loan officers. By a letter this Day Reed, from general Washington dated the 24th Instant 2 we are informed he wase on his march for West Point on the North River where he expected to meet general Clinton with all the force he Can muster. Much is Depending on that fortress, and what sittuation they are in on account of Provision we Know not, a large quantity of Salted beef being ordered there from New London but whather arrived Seasonabley we have not been informed. Yesterday I Sent off our Preportion of the new money by Capt. John Brown of Boston who hase ingaged to Deliver it with out loss of time to the treasurer at Exeiter for which he hase Reed, three thousend Dollers in full for the Same, hope it may arive Safe. It wase Some of the first Struck off and as soon as it wase Ready immediatly Sent off. I have the Honour to be with grate Respect, your most. obt. Humle. Servent, Nathl. Folsom P.S. I Shall expect to be Releived in Sepr. as I must then Returne home. N F. RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). 1 The enclosed resolution “Respecting loan office Certificates” was adopted on June 28. See Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, June 27, 1780, note 1, and illustration. 2 Folsom was referring to General Washington’s letter to President Huntington of June 25, which was read this day in Congress. JCC, 17:571.
