June 30, 1780 391 I inclose you a copy of a late resolution of Congress which I tho’t necessary you shou’d be made acquainted with. 2 I took notice that your letter was addressed to me as a member of Congress, but by the contents it shou’d have been to the Chairman of the medical committee and as I may not be here when your next letter comes to hand, I advise (as a friend) to keep your public & private Letters separate. The Hone. Mr. Adams arrived here safe the day before yesterday. I am Sir, with Sincere respect, your most obedient servant. FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Hoken. 1 Holten’s official letter of this date to Foster on behalf of the Medical Committee has not been found, but see the following entry. 2 Holten probably enclosed a copy of the June 26 resolution authorizing the Medical Committee “to take proper measures for carrying on the business of the said de partment” in the wake of the arrest of the director general, William Shippen, Jr. JCC, 17:561-62. Samuel Holten to Nathaniel Peabody Dear Sir. Philadelphia June 30th. 1780. I was favored with yours by Genl. Schuyler 1 & intended to have done myself the pleasure of writing to you by him, but he sit out sooner than I expected. You mention that you have not the last returns. Dr. Brown, I think, made two returns of the Medical Gentlemen not long since, & as I have but one of them I did suppose you had the other, as I tho’t I had some remembrance of your taking of one: the return I have is at this time wanted by the comittee, as they are considering what Gentlemen are most proper to join the Southern Army; but if you stand in need of the return, I will send it or a copy; I inclose you a late resolution of Congress respecting the department: 2 And the com ittee have wrote to Dr. Brown 8 directing him to let them know the state of the middle district, & what stores & medicines are absolutely necessary; Mr. Henry of Virginia is added to the committee, & we are doing all in our power to afford supplies. It gives me concern that the General shou’d be under embarras- ments from a resolution of Congress, 4 & I gave it as my opinion to Genl. Schuyler that it might be removed, but it has not been men tioned in Congress. It is a great misfortune to our country, that when we shou’d have our armies in the field, we have the men to raise & money & supplies to collect, and ’tho’ I am not disposed to find fault with any, yet I think there has been delays, & we must now suffer the consequences. Genl. Lincoln is with us here, and agreeably to the resolutions of
