June 30, 1780 395 the 3d & 4th of this month inform us of the arrival of a Spanish Frigate announcing that 12 Spanish Ships of the line, 4-50 Gunship[s] and six Frigates with abt. 10,000 Troops were abt. 200 leagues to windwd. when the Frigate left them, coming forward to join the French Fleet and forces. The Ct. Guichen was going out with 16 sail of the line to meet them. Upon the junction of their Fleets, the superiority of the Combined Force will be decided, and we may ex pect soon to hear of some important stroke made in that Quarter. It was conjectured their first attempt wod. be St. Lucia if the ap proach of the hurricane months did not discourage the enterprise— then Jamacia and from thence come round and by uniting the whole Forces sweep the Coast of North America. The representation is grand and opens so pleasing a prospect to us I will not lessen your pleasure by a doubt of it being verified. These Letters further inform us that the Armament carrying on at Brest and wch. they expected was for the Wt. Indies is for North America and that it was expected to sail abt. the 15th April. It is said to consist of ten ships of the line and a large Body of Troops—no doubt they will make it as large as they well can as it is evident the War will be principally here and in the Wt. Indies. Between the 12th & 19th of last month Rodney and Guichen have had three engagements, the last a severe action in wch. the Count kept the Sea. For further particulars I refer you to the inclosed paper as well as for the account so far as we are yet informed of the action at Springfield in the Jerseys between our Troops & Militia under Genl. Green and the British & Hessians under Kni- phausen. The Jersey Militia acquired immortal Fame as indeed they do upon almost every occasion where they are engaged with the Enemy. With great respect, I have the honor to be yr most obedt. Servt., Jos. Jones [P.S.] Congress have formed the Scale of Depreciation to apply to Loan office Certificates. from the 1st Sept. 1777 to 1st. March 1778 at 1 3 % Thence to Sept. 1st. 78 - -- -- 78 - - 4 Thence to March 1st. ----- 79 - - 10 Thence to Sept. 1st. ----- 79 - - 18 Thence to Mar. 18th. -----80 - -40 The intermediate time of the respective periods to be calculated in Geometrical proportion. The Resolves will be immediately pub lished. This will reduce the principal of Loans from 46,559,235 to 11,053,573. RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). ' See Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates, June 21, 1780. 2 The Virginia legislature was already reconsidering its “late determination respect ing the Scheme of Finance” and in early July adopted an act redeeming the money in circulation and funding new bills of credit. The legislation would take effect, how-
