July 1, 1780 397 RC (DLC: Gerry Papers, photostat). 1 Although Lovell did not date this letter, he probably wrote it on June 30th, two days after Samuel Adams’ arrival in Philadelphia on June 28, which Lovell states, in his opening sentence, occurred “two days ago.” See Samuel Holten’s Diary, June 28, 1780. 2 For Congress’ adoption of this scale of depreciation to protect the owners of Continental loan office certificates against inflation, see Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, June 27, 1780, note 1. ’ That is, John Adams or Francis Dana. See Committee for Foreign Affairs to John Adams, July 11, 1780. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir Philadelphia. July 1st 1780 I am favoured with your two Letters by Mr McHard and be assured your request shall be duely attended to. Mr. Dickenson is not in Town nor Can I get Any information whether his Coach is yet for Sale. Our affairs it is true have of late worn but an unfavourable Aspect, but we are far from being in the last Ditch, as some are dastardly enough to immagine. Our resources are great, And we are now roused I hope to A proper exertion. The Enemy have met with A Considerable repulse in the Jerseys, And our Garrison at West Point I hope is now in a Condition to Sustain the Attack of the Enemy tho’ [their wh]ole force Should go Against it, as is reported. A Consid erable quantity of provisions has been lately thrown in. And men will not be wanting. No Account of the Arrival of the french fleet. Inclosed you have the last papers to which I refer you for news. Mr McHard had three pounds best Tea for Mrs. Lee which I hope will please. I could not trust my own Judgment but got a Lady to Chuse it for her & Shou[ld] ever you have leisure and Opportunity I hope to be favoured with A line and tho’ I have hitherto been a little forgetful of my promise Shall endeavour to make you Amends in future. My Compliments to Mrs. Lee. With great respect I am my Dr Sir, Your most Obedient Sert, John Hanson RC (CSmH: Emmet Collection). Henry Laurens to the Committee for Foreign Affairs Gentlemen. Philadelphia 1st July 1780. When I addressed you under the 24th February last, 1 I had re ceived the strongest assurances from Capt. Hill, Master of the Ad-
