July 4, 1780 399 Instructions to the Merchants at Cadiz to whom the Indigo is con signed, will explain the intent & meaning of the reserve “subject to the further order of the said Henry Laurens.” contained in those docu ments & also inform you in what manner the Rice inserted in the first Invoice was disposed of, the Plate mentioned in the said first Invoice is coming forward with my Papers. South Carolina being in possession of the Enemy, & nothing, in my view, at the time of the Peggy’s Sailing, that could have prevented a rapid & destructive progress of the Enemy through No. Carolina wrought so great a change on the face of our public affairs & such a reverse of my own fortune, as led me to think it proper & even incumbent on me to present myself to Congress. I arrived in this City last Night & now wait their further Commands. Before I conclude, permit me Gentlemen to observe & to assure you that a constant & steady attention to my Public Duty has been extremely detrimental to my private Interest—by a personal appli cation to the latter I might have saved as many articles in moveables from my Estates as would have yielded me many Thousand Pounds Sterling, these have been since taken or destroyed by the British Troops or are now in their possession & I am at this moment reduced to such circumstances as would be grievos to a Man who had not sincerely devoted his Life & fortune to the service of his Country. I have the honor to be, Gentlemen, Your most obedient & most humble servant, Henry Laurens RC (DNA: PCC, item 89). 1 This letter is in PCC, item 89, fols. 185-88. 2 Not found; but for Congress’ approval of Laurens’ request to be allowed to reship this cargo of indigo to Cadiz “on his own account and risque,” see JCC, 17:583, 587. Samuel Holten’s Diary [July 4, 1780] 4. Tuesday. Anniversary of our independence. Congress attended the public commencement 1 & had a cold collation with a no. of Gent. I wrote to the town of Danvers, to Colo. Hutchinson & to Mrs. Holten (no. 137). 2 A very warm day. No news. MS (MDaAr). ' For a description of the “public commencement,” see the Pennsylvania Packet, July 8, 1780. 2 Holten’s letters to Israel Hutchinson and to the Inhabitants of Danvers follow this entry; his letter to Mary Holten has not been found.
