400 July 4, 1780 Samuel Holten to Israel Hutchinson My dear Sir, Philada. July 4th. 1780. Your favor of the 31st of May came to hand the 29th of June, the reasons why I was so long deprived of the pleasure of receiving it I am not able to say. My being appointed to a Seat in the honble house & soon after in Council are very distinguishing marks of confidence & respect, 1 but what adds to it is the obliging manner in which you communicated the same. The reasons you are pleased to assign for not writing more par ticular, I wish you to consider as opparating the same on my side, as 1 hope to have the pleasure of paying you my personal respects in about five weeks. The reasons of our present embarrassed State of affairs is owing in a great measure to these two great causes the depreciation of our currency, & some of the states not immediately coming in to the resolutions of Congress of the 18th of March last respecting finance. I was happy to hear the State [I] have the honor to represent, im mediately complied with them; I perceive the states are coming in one after another (better late than never) they begin to be sensible that they are now suffering for not complying sooner. I thought when they passd. & have seen no reason to alter my opinion that over all under God in a great measure, depended thereon. Please to make my proper respects to Mrs. Hutchinson. I am, with sincere respect your most obidient P.S. Please to be so kind as to take charge of the inclosed. 2 FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 See Holten’s Diary, June 19, 1780; and the following entry. 2 Apparently the following entry. Samuel Holten to the Inhabitants of Danvers, Mass. My worthy friends Philada. July 4th. 1780. A few days since I was favored with a letter from Colo. Hutchinson, in which he mentions that the Town of Danvers had made choice of me with himself to represent them in the Genl. Assembly the ensuing year; I take the earliest oppertunity to acknowledge the honor done me and to assure you that such repeated marks of your confidance & respect will have a deep and lasting impression upon my mind; & whatever station I may be called to act in, it will always give me
