July 4, 1780 401 satisfaction to think that while I am endeavouring to Serve my coun try in general that I still retain the approbation of the Town that gave me birth & first bro’t me into public view, & which in times past I had the pleasure of Serving more immediately; But I must observe, that previous to my receiving the Colonels letter I had been formally notified by the Honble. Council of Massachusetts that the Genl. Court had elected me one of the Council and desired me to take my seat accordingly, I returned for answer that as soon as my engage ments here wou’d permit & I cou’d with propriety leave Congress, I wou’d return & take my seat at the honorable board, 1 which de prives me of accepting a seat in the honble house to which you was pleased to appoint me; However, I consider it not very material which house I am in, for you may be assured that all matters that particularly respect the Town of Danvers shall be noticed by me. Permit me to congratulate you on the anniversary of our independance this day; and ’tho’ our cruel enemies still continue their endeavours to Sub jugate us, yet I have good reason to hope the time is not far distant when they must give up their unjust pretensions and that we shall then enjoy the blessing of Liberty & peace and hand down to posterity the rights of men inviolate which will be a full reward for our labour & care. I am, Gentlemen, with sincere respect, your most obliged humble servant. FC (DLC: Hoken Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. ' For further information on Holten’s election as a representative from Danvers to the Massachusetts General Court and as a member of the Governor’s Council, see Holten’s Diary, June 19, 1780; and the preceding entry. James Lovell to Benjamin Lincoln Dear Sir, July 4th. 1780 I inclose the Resolves you may need. 1 Last Evening Mr. Turnbull informed me that he is told by a Mr. Livingston of Carolina “to sell the Sloop Nancy & Cargo if she arrives here and to pay some Balance to Mr. Lovell for Genl. Lincoln.” If this is any Business in which I can render you Service please to give me a memorandum. Mr. Turnbull, at present, knows nothing of the Vessel. 2 I am affectionately, Yours, James Lovell RC (PHi; Dreer Collection). 1 Probably Congress’ June 23 resolves calling for an “enquiry to be made into the loss of Charlestown” (JCC, 17:551-52), although Lovell may also have enclosed any number of congressional resolves dealing with the defense of South Carolina.
