404 July 6, 1780 1 Apparently this day’s debate on the quartermaster general’s salary, in which both John Fell and Samuel Holten played an active role. JCC, 17:589. 2 See Livingston to Jay, December 22, 1779, and February 10, 1780. 5 For a discussion of the ciphers used by Jay and Livingston, see Jay, Papers (Morris), pp. 660-66. 4 That is, James Duane, whose last recorded vote in Congress was June 28. JCC, 17:569. 5 That is, Peter Augustus Jay, who was being cared for by his maternal grandmother, Susannah French Livingston. 6 See John Jay to Livingston, February 19, 1780, Jay, Papers (Morris), pp. 735-37. 7 For Sarah Livingston Jay’s “journal” of her voyage to Spain, see ibid., pp. 680- 86. Philip Schuyler to Samuel Huntington Head Quarters near Pasaick falls Sir July 6, 1780 The Commander in chief has suggested the propriety of Investing the Committee here with power to Call any of the Continental ships of war which may be In the Adjacent seas to such points as the exigency of the Service may require; That their aid will be necessary In the prosecution of the Intended operation is beyond a doubt and the delay which must of course take place from a previous application to the Admiralty to direct them to a Compliance with the wishes of the General may prove so detrimental that I conceive It ought not to be risqued. As the Subsistance money to the Officers of the line for the re tained rations has not been paid for some time past, they are reduced to great distress, and have become exceedingly uneasy. Remonstr ances have been on foot and would Already have been transmitted to Congress, had not the prudent Intervention of the General pre vented the Increase for the present, I apprehend the Committee will be under the necessity of directing the Commissaries to furnish them In Actual Service with all the rations they are Intitled to, until the pleasure of Congress is known. Permit me Sir to Suggest the necessity of some decision on the Subject by Congress. 1 I have the honor to be, with perfect respect & Esteem, Your Ex- cellencys Most Obedient, Humble Servant, Ph. Schuyler RC (DNA: PCC, item 39). 1 Schuyler’s letter was read in Congress on July 10, when the paragraph “as relates to the frigates” was referred to the Board of Admiralty. The following day the second paragraph “as relates to subsistance of the army” was referred to the Board of Treas ury. The Board of Admiralty failed to report, but the Board of Treasury recommended on July 18 that “the paymaster general be enabled to pay the subsistance money,” but that it was “inexpedient to permit the commissaries of issues to furnish the retained rations, in lieu of the subsistance money allowed to officers of the line.” JCC, 17:595, 603, 639.
