July 7, 1780 405 Philip Schuyler to John Mathews and Nathaniel Peabody Gentlemen Head quarters Totoway. July 6th 1780 A Slight Indisposition retarded my return from Windsor until Yes terday. Since my arrival at this place the General has made me com munications on some matters which will claim the Earliest Attention of the Committee. I have therefore to Intreat you to repair hither as soon as possible. 1 If you can find any Short forrage at Morristown It will be prudent to bring as much with You as You Conveniently Can as none is to be procured here. I am very Sincerely, Your Obedient Hbl Servant, P Schuyler RC (DNA: PCC, item 153). ' For the movements of Washington and the members of the committee in June and July, see Committee at Headquarters to Washington, June 24, 1780, note 2. Samuel Holten to Benjamin Wadsworth My Dear Sir, 1 Phila. July 7th. 1780 You are my only correspondent that I shou’d have wrote a 3d time 2 to without bearing from him; But being loth to give up a corre spondence which was so agreeable on my side & being sensible that I was much wanting in answering your favors so fully as they deserved ‘tho’ I could plead some excuse, induces me to write once more. I have taken great pains for twelve months past to convince my correspondents in Court of the state to which the depreciation of our currency wou’d reduce us, but I saw it was impossible to convince all of them or the good people in general untill they were brought to feel its effects very fully, which I beleive they begin to do; and now I think the greatest danger in that respect is over, ‘tho’ it will still continue very heavy while the taxes called for are collecting. But I perceive the states are coming into the resolutions of Congress of the 18th of March last respecting finance which will greatly releive them; at the time their resolutions passed, & I have seen no reason to alter my opinion, I considered our all in a great measure under God depended thereon, & it gave me much concern to hear that some of the states did not at first see it. However, the old saying is better late than never. I have not time to add, but bear upon my mind that lumenier morning conversation with you which I hope to enjoy in Augt. next. Please to make my proper compliments to your Lady. I am, Sir, with Sincere respect your most obedt.
