406 July 7, 1780 FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten, and endorsed by him: “Copy of a letter to the Revd. Mr. Wadsworth. July 7th 1780.” 1 Rev. Benjamin Wadsworth has been identified in these Letters, 12:329n.3. 2 No previous letter of Holten to Wadsworth has been found, but Holten noted in his diary that he wrote nine letters to Wadsworth while he attended Congress. Ibid., 10:321n.l. Samuel Huntington to Joseph Reed Sir, Philada. July 7. 1780 By the Act of Congress of the 6th Instant herewith enclosed your Excellency will be informed that they have directed the Board of Treasury to supply the President & Supreme Executive Council of this State with Bills of Exchange drawn on the Minister of the United States at the Court of France to the Amount of one thousand Pounds Sterling for which the said State is to be accountable. 1 I have the Honor to be &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). ' JCC, 17:590. For Reed’s July 6 letter to the Pennsylvania delegates instructing them to request this special issuance of bills of exchange, which he justified on the ground of the large advances of supplies recently provided by the state on Continental account, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 8:392-93. John Armstrong, Sr., to John Davis Dear Sir, Philada. 8th July 1780 For these few days past this place afords but little News. The Enemy remain at Philips’s House on the N. Side of Hudsons River, but have yet made no attempt toward Westpoint. A private letter from Bal timore brings intelligence that a French as well as a Spanish Fleet (of the latter we heard some time ago) is arrived at Martinique, but for what purposes, or exactly of what Size we have not yet learned. The Enemy in South Carolina according to our last advices pos sessed three different Posts whereby they command the principal part of the provisions of that State, One at Camdon, One on the Congaree, and a third pointing toward the disaffected highlanders in North Carolina. Each of those Posts are upward of One hundred miles West of Charlestown. Fourteen hundred of the disaffected in the back parts of South Carolina are Said to have joined the british & their numbers daily growing. On the Other hand Genl. Caswell from North Carolina had Set out with fourteen hundred Militia to be followed by Others in Order to prevent a junction of the Enemy with the highlanders at Cross-Creek. Baron DeCalb, as I understand it, is forming a Circuituous March North West of the Enemy in Order to get betwixt them & Charlote in South Carolina, a place where we
