July 8, 1780 407 have Some military Stores. General Gates appears to have a Sufficient Spot of Work cut out for him, Yet the Enemy cannot exceed four thousand, except what increase they may have through the disaf fected of these States which it’s feared will be many & occasion what more Strictly may be called a Civil War. The Governors of South Carolina & Georgia are both here which is very wrong, but Governor Rutledge will Suddenly return. 1 In a New Plan for the Qr. Masters Department now before Congress It is proposed that only One As sistant Qr. M. Gl., will be allow’d—and he to reside near Congress. One Deputy Qr. Master in each State to procure Carriages &c. he is to be named by the Qr. Master Genl, but must be approved by the Supreme Council of each State & the Board of War—he will have Clerks or assistants, but without Forage or rations. No Forage Master farther to be allowed but with the Army. 2 The pay of this State Qr. Master is not yet fixed. In Pennsylvania he will have much Work. Who will Genl. Greene pitch on for this State? It is not yet known whether he will Serve but as the System is only designed for the Campaign, it’s thought he will. His pay is to be about 15 hundred a year or at the rate thereof in hard money including his pay as Major General. Mrs. Armstrong has wrote me for £150 & I cannot Send her One pound but have refered her to you & said I wou’d write you. I hope you will be able to Oblige her with that Sum or what She may Stand in need of. You have wrote nothing of the Rum whether you got it or not. Does the Old black mare Stumble dangerously when She rides Slow, or does She not? I send you the last News paper in my possession which is better than that of this day. Four thousand hard has been refused for our Works—the Com pany Asked Six. If you See Josey Thornbrogh please to tell him that in my Opinion five thousand is the mark. I lay Sick when Mr. Egye was here, else I believ we Shou’d have dealt. My Compliments to Coll. Magaw &c. I am dear Coll Yours in haste, John Armstrong RC (DLC: Davis Papers). 1 John Rutledge, the governor of South Carolina, had come to Philadelphia with a number of other prominent South Carolinians after the fall of Charleston. Richard Howly, the governor of Georgia, was also a delegate to Congress and had just taken his seat on July 6. JCC, 17:588. 2 For the quartermaster plan “now before Congress,” see Philip Schuyler to Samuel Huntington, June 17, 1780, note 1. Samuel Holten to Francis Dana My Dr. Sir Philada. July 8th 1780 I shall make no apology for this address farther than assuring you that personal respect is my principal inducement.
