July 8, 1780 409 Instant, in Answer to the Note you were pleased to lay before them, By which you will be informed that they have recommended to the State of Maryland, to grant Permission to such Agent as the Minister of France shall appoint to purchase within that State any Quantity of Flour not exceeding three thousand Barrels, and to ship the same to such Colonies of his Catholic Majesty as the Minister of France may direct. 1 This recommendation I have no Doubt will be readily complied with, and that notwithstanding these United States under their present Circumstances, are not in a Situation to admit of any considerable Export of Provision, yet that Congress will from Time to Time afford such Supplies to the Colonies of his Catholic Majesty as their Circumstances may require and the Situation of these States enable them to grant. I have the honor to be &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 The enclosed July 7 resolves were adopted by Congress in response to a June 28 letter from La Luzerne requesting permission to export provisions from the United States to Havana to provide for troops recently sent to Cuba by the Spanish court to make a diversion against British posts in America. La Luzerne’s appeal was referred to a committee consisting of Joseph Jones, Robert R. Livingston, and George Walton on July 1, and the committee reported the recommendations contained in the enclosed resolves this day. See JCC, 17:580, 592-94; PCC, item 95, 1:108-11; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:822. Huntington also sent the same resolves this day to Maryland governor Thomas Sim Lee. Red Books, MdAA. Samuel Huntington to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia July 8. 1780 Enclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of the first Instant by which you will be informed, that in Consideration of the Bravery and distinguished Merit of the late Major General Warren Congress have thought proper in Addition to what hath been already done, to recommend to the Executive of the State of Massachusetts Bay to make Provision for the Education of his three younger Children, and resolved to defray the Expence thereof to the Amount of the half Pay of a Major General, to commence at the Time of his Death, and to continue until the Youngest of the said Children shall be of Age. 1 I have the Honor to be, with great Esteem & respect, Sir, your most obedt servant, Sam Huntington President RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 'JCC, 17:581. For previous efforts to provide for the orphans of Joseph Warren,
