July 10, 1780 419 Exchange of the Troops of the Convention of Saratoga, at such Time, in such Manner and on such Terms as he may think proper. That in any Negociation upon this Subject it be an Instruction to obtain Payment as far as possible, of the monies due for Provisions and Fuel furnished to the said Troops on Account of the United States; and, if the same cannot be fully obtained, to procure, if pos sible, an Assurance that all Differences upon that Subject will here after be submitted to proper Discussion and Settlement, that an impartial Decision thereof may be had. Provided always, That Nothing respecting the said Accounts be made an Ultimatum in any Treaty of Exchange. MS (DNA: PCC, item 167). In the hand of William Churchill Houston. Endorsed: “Proposed as Principles of a Report on Genl Washington’s Letter of 31st March 1780 and Papers of Commissioners on Settlement of a Cartel. W C Houston. NB. Never agreed to by the Committee.” 1 Washington’s March 31 letter, enclosing the commisioners’ report of the March 9 meeting at Amboy, NJ., is in PCC, item 152, 8:483-86, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:188-89. He related that the negotiations had been “as unsuccessful as all the former, and for the same cause.” For “all the former” negotiations, see Samuel Huntington to Washington, January 14, 1780, note 2. Washington’s letter and the commissioners’ report were read in Congress on April 6 and referred to a committee consisting of William Ellery, William Churchill Houston, and John Morin Scott. It is clear from Houston’s endorsement on this proposed report that the committee could not agree on a final version, and was finally discharged, on Houston’s motion, on October 13. See JCC, 16:333, 18:919. That same day the matter was referred to Theodorick Bland, John Mathews, and John Sullivan, the committee considering the spy case of Maj. John Andre. For the extensive report of this second committee, which was read in Congress on November 3 and adopted on the 7th, see ibid., 18:918-19, 1009-10, 1028-31; and Samuel Huntington to Washington, Novem ber 12, 1780. William Churchill Houston to John Jay Sir, Philada. 10 July 1780. The principal military Event which has happened this Spring, in deed since you left us, is the Fall of Charleston, the Capital of South Carolina. No Circumstance very material can be added to the Ac count officially published, and which you have had from the Papers transmitted already and repeated by this Conveyance. It will, I hope be excused in us, that you will probably see this in the European Papers before it reaches you from this City: our Intelligence being over-land, is tedious in it’s Passage; add to this that the Enemy after the Capitulation, interposed every Means by dilatory and frivolous Pretences, by what Candour will probably decide to be a Breach of the Spirit of their Engagements, to delay the Dispatches General Lincoln had stipulated should be forwarded immediately to Con-
