428 July 11, 1780 empowered to undertake that Business; and in Case of his Disability, Mr. Dana is in like Manner commissioned and empowered. 2 We are, Sir, your very obedt hble Servts. James Lovell Wm. Churchill Houston RC (DNDAR: Americana Collection, 2000 X-19). Written by Houston, and signed by Houston and Lovell. Addressed: “The Honble John Jay.” FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). Addressed: “To the honorable Benja Franklin Esqr, the honorable John Jay Esqr.” 1 The “enclosed Resolution” was probably the November 8, 1779, resolve directing the committee to prepare a letter to the American ministers in France and Spain to solicit French and Spanish support for Henry Laurens’ mission to Holland. See JCC, 15:1250; and James Lovell to John Jay, this date. 2 See the second letter of the Committee for Foreign Affairs to John Adams, this date. Ezekiel Cornell to Nathanael Greene Dear Sr. Philadelphia July 11th 1780 I had the pleasure to receive your favour of the 4th Instant this day. You have a just right to tax me with neglect in not writing to you. I have nothing to say in my Justification but will endeavour to do better in future, and at best I am conscious I shall be but a lazy dull correspondent. General Schylers informations was true I was one of the Committee that the System for the Q Masters department was refered to. 1 And I beleive that Gentleman will do me the justice to say that I was of the opinion the Saliries were in general two low. But as they have since Many of them been by Congress and the whole System under gone so much Choping and Changeing that I wish it may never make a publick appearence. 2 You may rest asured you have some friends in Congress at the same time there is a great Clammour against the staff departments (can it be possible you are deceived in your real friends'). It is no wonder to find you think you have been insulted by the Treasury board it is a general Complaint from almost every persen that hath had occasion to do business with them. I hope soon to se the wings of their haughtiness cliped. Congress have been obliged by the numerious Complaints against them to take up the matter and have it now under Consid eration. And I flatter my self if they do nothing more will teach them to make [. . J of a little more Complacency. If my Ideas are not eronious, many of the Army matters are con ducted in a way that will sooner or later prove predejucal to both
