July 11, 1780 429 the Army and the publick but I beleive it more proceeds from Ig norance and Contracted principals then from any evil design. Such are the Ideas of Congress that were you to assert that the late mode of Doing business in the QMG department were such as aught to be continued and prove your assertions by Twenty Carrec tors as well established as that Number ever was that are mentioned Holy Writ it avail nothing. I am dear Sr., your most obedt, Hum Servt. E. Cornell RC (RPB: Rhode Island Manuscripts). 1 Cornell and Philip Schuyler were members of the committee to which “the plan for conducting the quartermaster general’s department” was referred on June 19. JCC, 17:522, 528. 2 For evidence of this “Choping and Changeing,” which on July 6 focused on fixing the pay of the quartermaster general “at 166 dollars, per month, in addition to his pay as an officer in the line,” see JCC, 17:589-90. For the plan that was finally adopted on July 15, see Philip Schuyler to Samuel Huntington, June 17, 1780, note 1. William Churchill Houston to John Adams Sir, Philada. 11 July 1780 The principal military Event which has taken Place for some con siderable Time past, is the Fall of Charlestown, the Capital of South Carolina. No very material Circumstances can, as yet, be added to those officially published, and which the several American Prints have given you, and the British still earlier. The Intelligence from the Southward being overland is very tedious in it’s Passage; and besides this, after the Capitulation the Enemy interposed every Means by dilatory and frivolous Pretences, by what Candour will, in my Opin ion, decide to be a Breach of the Spirit of their Engagements, to delay the Dispatches General Lincoln had stipulated should be sent to Congress. 1 This is in their usual Stile, and we have daily Accounts of Cases in which they pay no Sort of regard to their Promises sa credly pledged in Favour of the Citizens. Rapines, Violences and Abuses of every Kind are committed without Reserve, and with very little discrimination. Their Conduct is of a Piece with what they have held in every similar Instances, uninfluenced by any Principles of Honour, Truth, Humanity or even Policy. In the Hour of Debility and Want of Preparation to oppose them, they have overun a con siderable Part of the State of South Carolina; but as General Gates is collecting a Force to oppose them, and as their Cruelties and Oppressions will probably soon work up the Spirits of the People to Fury and Desperation, they will be expelled from the Country. It seems to be the Ordination of Providence, and, though the Sufferings are severe, it seems to be the Interest of the Union, that
