430 July 11, 1780 each State, in it’s Turn should be vexed with their Depredations and Barbarities. It operates an amazing Change in the Temper and Sen timents of the People, and fixed them in a rooted and resolute De termination to risque the Extreme of Destruction in Preference before Submission. It is clear and undisputed Experience, that in those States where they have made Progress, and from which they have been driven with Arms, or obliged to relinquish with Shame and Disappointment, the Flame of Liberty and Patriotism burns with more Strength and Brightness, and the Exertions of the People are most deciding and irresistible. Every Person who has attended to the Course of our Revolution knows the Meaning of what in Words is a Paradox, that our misfor tunes are our Safety. The Capture of Charlestown is much to be regretted when we reflect that our Soldiers will be starved and scourged into the Enemy’s Service; that the Citizens must suffer Pillagings, Conflagrations and Brutality, but it is obvious to every one that it will promote, under the Favour of Heaven, the general Cause. It has awaked a Spirit superiour to any Thing I have seen since the year 1775 and 6, a Spirit that is fast pervading the whole Comunity, A Spirit which enlivens and increases every Day. Cornwallis commands to the Southward with between four and five thousand men; Clinton has brought back to New-York a Number somewhat larger, and at the Date of this they are encamped from Philipse’s on the North-river across the Country above King’s-bridge. When the News of the Fall of Charlestown arrived, and the Troops were returning from thence, they came out with much Confidence and Triumph into New-Jersey, setting Fire to the Country as they passed. The disaffected strengthened their Expectations of Des pondence and Submission among the Militia, and Dissections from the regular Troops. In every Respect they were more disappointed, than perhaps they have ever been since the Commencement of the war. Scarce a man deserted, or Citizen adhered to them, both reg ulars and Militia, particularly the latter, fought them with the most desperate internecine Fury. The Vengeance due to their former Baseness and Barbarities cannot be forgotten. Manet alta mente re- postum. 2 Considering the Disaster we have met with on a general Scale, we are not in the least dejected by it. We are more apprehensive of the Effect it will have on your Side of the Water, where such Things strike much more forcibly than here. Hope you will take the necessary Steps to prevent any unnecessary, unfavourable Impressions. Nothing but a better Supply of Money is wanting to give decisive vigour to the War; and if we cannot get it we are not going to give up a good Cause for want of it, however essential it may be thought. I am, Sir with great respect, your obedt hble Servant, Wm Churchill Houston
