432 July 11, 1780 Jared Ingersoll to Charles Pettit Dr. Sir, Tuesday 6 o’Clock P.M. [July 11, 1780] If you have any System in your head about the Staff Department, which may be comprized in a few Words, & which is essentially dif ferent from the one proposed by Genl Cornel,' I’ll thank you to state it to me, on paper, I could also wish to know what Sum would be adequate to Genl. Green’s expectations. You may depend upon it, no other use will be made of your Answer but for my own private Information. I am, Sir, Your very hum. servt. Jared Ingersoll RC (PHi: James T. Mitchell Collection). Endorsed by Pettit: “J. Ingersoll 11 July 1780.” 1. Ezekiel Cornell, a member of the committee to which “the plan for conducting the quartermaster general’s department” had been referred. JCC, 17:528. James Lovell to John Jay Dear Sir July H- 1780 By a Letter from Messrs. Gardoqui & Sons of May 3d reed, yes terday I have the Pleasure of knowing you were then well. In a Postscript to one of his former of Feb. 24, the P S not dated, he says he hears of you every Week. 1 This creates a Chagrin as we have none of your Favors later than March 3d. 2 You are not to suppose, however, that I dare to complain. I have read my Bible to better Purpose. I am not entitled to throw the “first stones”. But I have as good a title as anybody to paliate my own faults, and to shift them upon others. There is said to be a Comtee. of forgn. Affairs, each member is loaded with a variety of business, two have amiable Wives near Pen- sylvania. 3 1 miss the Gentlemen therefore frequently. Mr. Livingston is now absent but you have herewith a Letter he sent to my Care a few days ago. 4 The weather is murderous hot and I cannot go up and down to the Offices in search of those authenticated Papers which ought to be regularly forwarded to you and other dignified Officers abroad. You will be pleased therefore to know from me individually and by Way of a Resolve of Congress of June 21st certified by me that Mr. Dohrman of Lisbon is appointed an Agent in Por tugal. The chief View at this time was that the lives of our poor sailors might not be lost in captivity in that Kingdom. Mr. Dohrman has done an infinitude of kind acts already to such as have been carried into Ports near Lisbon. He is a Gentleman of much Influence through his personal Character his Riches & Relations. I have no doubt you will find Advantage from frequent Correspondence with him. He is not yet furnished with any authentic Account of his ap-
