July 12, 1780 435 John Walker to George Weedon Dear General: Philad’a, July 11th, 1780. Your favour of the 4th instant inclosing the Virginia Gazette I received with great pleasure, and rejoice to find that you so cheerfully lay aside every consideration of domestic tranquillity &c. when your country so loudly calls for your services. May they be crowned with that success they so justly deserve. The French fleet, we are informed by the Baltimore papers, has arrived at Martozines [Martinique], I think that by forming ajunction with the other French and Spanish forces in that quarter our re lentless foes may be more suddenly and vitally wounded than on the continent. Their united fleets in the West Indies will not be far short of fifty sail of the line with about 30,000 troops. With such a force as this, what is to prevent their immediately possessing themselves of all the British isles in those seas? This being done, the continental business will not be difficult. On the other hand, should they come immediately here, we shall be found so shamefully unprepared to co-operate with them, that I fear it will serve only to reflect disgrace on us and render us unworthy of their notice in future. The enemy remain quiet in and about New York. They have been ravaging and laying waste the country between the North River and the Sound. In short all their movements prove that they expect a siege at New York. By dispatches just received from Europe our affairs in that quarter wear on the general face of them a very favourable aspect; a little more time and perseverance will assuredly confirm our Independ ence, and unless we are greatly deficient in virtue (which by the bye I fear) will render us a happy and respectable people. My ammunition and time are both exhausted I shall therefore bid you adieu. I have not yet got the last paper, but mean to procure and inclose you one. I am, Dear General, Your Affec’t Friend and humble Serv’t, Jn. Walker MS not found; reprinted from Thomas Balch, ed., Papers Relating Chiefly to the Maryland Line During the Revolution (Philadelphia: Printed for the Seventy-Six Society, 1857), pp. 112-13. Committee for Foreign Affairs to John Jay and John Adams Sir In Committee of Foreign Affairs, 12 July 1780. Enclosed you have Description of the Bills of Exchange concerning
