436 July 12, 1780 which we have written you. 1 The secret Checks accompany it. 2 They are just furnished us by the Treasury-board, and we are sorry that the Paper is so indifferent, but hope it will answer the Purpose of Information. We are assured the Copy is exact; it is however necessary to observe that unless the Impression of the Bills is very fine and clean, it will be very difficult to discover the whole of the secret Checks perfectly. We are, Sir, your very hble Servants, James Lovell Wm Churchill Houston RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Written by Houston and signed by Houston and Lovell. FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). Addressed: “To the Honorable John Jay & To the Honorable John Adams.” 1 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to John Jay, June 16, 1780. 2 In the November 29, 1779, resolution “relative to the drawing bills of exchange on Mr. Jay and Mr. Laurens,” Congress specified “That the bills be prepared under the direction of the Board of Treasury, and with such checks as they may devise to prevent counterfeits.” JCC, 15:1326. For additional information on the use of such bills, see William G. Anderson, The Price of Liberty. The Public Debt of the American Revolution (Charlottesville: University Press of Virginia, 1983), pp. 10, 87-90. Nathaniel Folsom to Meshech Weare Sr. Philadelphia July the 12th. 1780 I this day Reed, your letter of the 19th of June. 1 The money you Request me to apply for to the board of treasury I Sent on by one Captn. John Brown of Boston who left this Place the 29th of June in order to Proseed to Newhampshier which no doubt you will Recive long before you Recive this—and allso a letter of advice by the Post which I Should be glad to Know if it Came Safe to hand. 2 The money you mention Sent by Coll. Dearbon is not yet arrived but it is likely it may in a few days. I Presented the bill Drawn by Thomas Thompson in feavor of Captn. Ladd for Exceptence, which they made Some difficulty abought on account of the Scarcity of money, but Excepted it, Pay able in a month which I agreed to—if Paid I Shall wait the further order of the Court with Regard to it as I Dont Expect to want it all. We have no account as yet in this quarter of the arrival of the french fleet tho dayly Expected. We have a Committee at head quarters ever Since abought the 20th of April my Colleague 3 being one of them hope you will have the necessary information abought the army. I am with Esteem & Respect Sr. your most obt. Humle. Servant. Nathl. Folsom
