454 July 16, 1780 Washington had requested that Greene gather sufficient transportation at New Lon don, Conn., “to receive the arms, Cloaths and ammunition which is expected there by the French fleet” and “to take measures to have them forwarded to the army with all possible expedition.” Greene, however, used this opportunity to air before the committee his differences with Congress and the Treasury Board over the appointment of persons to his staff and the purchase of supplies not provided by the states. Since the Treasury Board had recently decided “to hold me responsible for persons of my appointing in a very different manner from which I ever conceived myself bound,” he had outlined “the degree of responsibility incumbent upon me” in a June 19 letter to Congress requesting clarification, a copy of which he enclosed. He would make such appointments in the meantime only if the committee “agree with me in sentiment upon this subject, and will signify the same.” Greene also complained of his inability to carry out Washington's order “to provide such further supplies as the states are not requested to furnish” given the Treasury Board’s standing order “requiring Es timates to be laid before them.” It was impossible “to conform to their order,” he observed, “without a fore-knowledge of future events.” The committee forwarded Greene’s letter with its enclosures to Congress, for which see Committee at Head quarters to Samuel Huntington, July 18, 1780, note 1. See also the committee’s letter to Greene, July 21. For Congress’ rejection of Greene’s June 19 claims, see Huntington to Greene, July 26, note 2. Philip Schuyler to Jeremiah Wadsworth Dear Sir, Camp Precaniss July 16, 1780 About a fortnight ago I was favored with a Letter from you without date. I was much Indisposed when It came to hand and have Con tinued so until two days ago, this has prevented me not only from answering Your Letter from the additional pleasure I should have had in compl[y]ing with Mr Webbs wish or rather In Striving to get It Complied with. 1 I assign tomorrow for that business and hope the business will be settled to my satisfaction which will Include his & Yours. Divines Observe that In a State of Beatitude we shall reflect with pleasure on the distresses we may have experienced in this life. I believe the position, for I Experience something very like It, with all this Clod of Clay about me, I exult in the reflection that neither Calumny or the variety of Injury I have sustained has ever either In thought or deed Induced me for a single moment to swerve from my duty and as I am too much a man of pleasure to marr It by harbouring resentment, I have long since divested myself of that disagreeable Companion and can with strict truth declare that I en tertain none even against those who from a depravity of heart have attempted to Injure me. If such have not yet learnt to forgive the man they have Injured, which they seldom do, so much the worse for them. I am persuaded you will forgive me this Egotism because you are Influenced by similar principles of which you have given a generous evidence, In the present as In past exigencies to which your Country has been Exposed.
