July 18, 1780 461 Massachusetts Bay has engaged Compleatly to Comply with the requisitions of Congress and this Committee in every article. Rhode- Island has done the like, except as to the militia and the article of Rum on which they have not been explicit. Connecticut has engaged to Comply in the whole, altho the Governor expresses a doubt If the state will be able to furnish all the flour & salt. New York has engaged to Comply in the whole, but the Governor observes that the short forage can not be immediately supplied; but that the whole quantity called for, will be delivered directly after harvest. New Jersey has engaged to furnish the provisions required of them, the horses and waggons to be attached to the Army—to empress carriages for trans portation in the Counties of Hunterden—Burlington—Mont- mouth—Essex and Sussex; To compleat their three Battalions, but do not say to what number—“but they have not vested in any persons such powers as to enable them on the requisition of Congress or their Committee to draw forth the military resources of the state. Delaware, has generally engaged to comply with the requisitions of Congress and of this Committee, and the Governor has given assur ances that he will exert himself to the utmost, but no horses, Wag gons, or forage have yet been delivered. Maryland has engaged to compleat her Battailions to the Establishment of 504 Rank & file— by raising 1469 Men to serve during the War and to raise another battallion for the same term; If by this, she can be excused from furnishing her Militia, “unless in cases of extreame emergency.” The General and the Committee conceiving this an offer favourable to the United states have acquiesed in the proposition, but she has given no assurances on any other part of our requisitions. Virginia, by subsequent Acts of Congress to those of the 19th May being directed to dispose of her supplies for the southern Army, except so much short forage as could be spared for the Army, has given assurances that the greatest quantity possible will be sent. From New Hampshire, we have no official accounts; private information advises that it is exerting itself. Pensylvania, has not favour’d us with a single line, in answer to the various applications we have made; Some horses but a number vastly short of what we required have been sent to the Army—a quantity of Beef whether exceeding or not the quantity required, we cannot say. A little a very little flour, not more than fifty Barrels as the Commissary General informs. A little Rum, no Bacon, no forage that the Quarter Master General knows of, no Waggons, Some recruits for the Army—but we are informed that they do not intend to Compleat their Battallions to the establishment recommended by the General and the Committee. We are ignorant of the measures if any, which they have taken to draw forth the 3465 militia required of them. 2 Thus Sir, have we stated the prospects we have and Congress will perceive that the General & the Committee are far from being able
