July 18, 1780 463 absolutely refusing to go, unless they were immediately paid, altho urged by every consideration which could influence their humanity, or their feelings as Citizens; hence the flour, small as the quantity is, remains in Sussex, the troops at West Point, rapidly increasing in number, and a few days is to bring on, another involuntary fast, in that quarter. General Knox, has likewise been ordered to remove a variety of stores, to Hudsons River, and to apply to the Quarter Master Genl, for the means of transportation, which must be considerable. Inclose you Copy of General Greenes Letters on the subject, marked C. 3 To procure carriages by military aid, on very sudden emergency’s is not only right, but may be eligable on the occasion; but to rely on it, in a serious operation which will probably continue for months, would be precarious, inadequate, and ruinous to the Army, and to the in habitants. We do not mean that it Should be infer’d that this state, which has already greatly exerted itself in this Line, is any degree equal to the transportation of the Stores, which must pass through it in the course of the Campaign. It can afford considerable assistance, but it must be aided by others, and it is impossible to mistake by which. 4 The adjutant General and his Deputies—The judge Advocate and his—The Regimental adjutants, Quarter Masters, surgeons & Mates have requested us to obtain a determination of Congress whether they are considered as Entitled to that justice which has been done to the line of the Army by the act of the 9th of April last—and whether at the Conclusion of the War they are to partake of the bounty of the states in point of Land and other emoluments. 5 Con necticut has setled the depreciation with the surgeons and Mates, in their line, on the original establishment of 1776. Representations have been made us on this head, and they claim it on the subsequent establishment which guided the settlement with the other Officers; We mention this matter that it may be considered in the deliberations of Congress on the subject of this paragraph, and we intreat a speedy determination in order to remove the fears and jealousies which prevail in regard to this matter, and we wish, if possible that the decision should be extended to comprehend such Officers in the civil departments of the Army as have served on daily or monthly pay, in order to prevent that multiplicity of applications with which we are daily perplexed, and to Erradicate this source of discontent. Mr. Schuyler in a letter of 6th Instant (the Committee being absent) mentioned the inconveniency which the Officers labourd under, in not receiving the subsistance money for the retaind rations. 6 In an swer to their applications on this distressing Subject, Assurances were given that Congress would be advised of the matter, and that a speedy decision would be requested. Indeed Sir, the disagreable spirit which is already unhappily too prevalent on this occasion is increasing and
