July 18, 1780 465 him assurances we would recommend that he will receive the same allowance which is, or may be given by the board of War, in the State of Pensylvania, and that we would likewise recommend that he should be furnished with the money he requires, which is “Twenty thousand pounds immediately or five thousand pounds weekly, on account, or he will give loan Office Certificates in lieu to that amount.” We believe he will acceed to this, and hope the Congress approves That measures may be pursued to furnish the money. 9 General Greene has transmitted us Copy of a letter from Mr. Wads worth to him, which we have the honor to inclose marked D. 10 The subject is interesting. General Greene informs us that the forage required from the Eastern states cannot be converted to the use of the french Troops, as there will not be a sufficiency for ours, espe cially since the supply required from Virginia depends on the con tingency of that state being able to spare any without, distressing the Southern Army. It seems necessary that this business should claim the earliest consideration of Congress. Colo. Hazen has presented us a memorial accompanied with other papers marked E. As it is far from being within the line of our duty to decide upon the contents; we transmit them to your Excellency for the inspection of Congress. A Monsieur Garranger has also put into our hands a memorial F which for similar reasons we also trans mit. 11 In our remarks on the requisition made of Pensylvania and in stating what we are advised she has furnished, we took no notice of that generous aid of the associated Company of her Citizens, because we conceived an evident distinction, between the exertions of a state and some individuals of it—nor will that Assistance capital as it is militate against our conclusion “that the military operations in con templation cannot be prosecuted,” without great exertions in the Government of that state. 12 By resolutions of Congress the Commander in Chief is restricted in his operations to the limits of the United States. It would be easy to assign a variety of conclusive reasons, that such restraint may be attended with many disagreable consequences, whilst no[t] a single advantage can possibly result from it. But we wave stating them as we conceive the restriction has arisen from mere accident in wording the resolution, and that barely mentioning it, will lead to a recon sideration. If the General has not conveyed you his sentiments on the occasion, we are inclined to impute it to a delicacy which may not permit him to request an extention of power, rather than to any doubt he may entertain on the propriety of the measure we allude to as necessary. Should the Sentiments of Congress be coincident with ours on this subject, the present posture of affairs will indicate that their decision cannot be too early conveyed to this quarter. 13
