July 20, 1780 473 I have advanced for you to Stilly agreably to the Receipt inclosed. We are as to News from Rh. Isld. as we were from Charleston. “Ships were seen which answered private Signals on the 10th and are doubt less now in Port 1 o’Clock morng. of 11th Providence” reed, three days ago. We shall know in a Fortnight whether the french fleet is arrived or not. Yr. humb. Servt. James Lovell Tr (DLC: Burnett Collection). Copied for Edmund C. Burnett from the original then in the possession of Stan V. Henkels. Addressed: “Honble. Major General Lincoln, Boston.” 1 For General Washington’s reasons for delaying both Lincoln’s court of inquiry and exchange as a prisoner, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:147-50. Lincoln was exchanged for Gen. William Phillips on October 25, 1780. Ibid., 20:243, 315. Committee at Headquarters to George Washington Sir In Committee of Congress, Preakness July. 20. 1780 Since the Conversation we had with your Excellency on the subject of Cloathing the troops, We have maturely considered the matter, and from every point of view, in which we bave revolved it, are fully of Opinion, That to put the army into an entire Uniform, will have a happy influence on the soldiery; and tend to inspire the foreign troops, with a more respectable opinion of ours, than would be en tertained, were they to continue in their present motly dress. These considerations in addition to those which arise from reflecting that it will redound to the honor and Credit of the states, Induce us to advise (if your Excellency thinks it will afford satisfaction to the army) that the Cloathing arrived from france, should be distributed amongst such of the men, as are engaged during the War. That the uniforms now possessed by these, should be given to the recruits, who are to serve to the end of the Campaign. But as this will deprive those who are engaged for the war, of the use of the Cloaths, which must in this case be considered as their own property: We think, If they insist upon it, that appraisment should be made, and assurances given them, that the value will be paid. The recruits who may receive the same to account for the value in such manner as Congress may direct. We have the honor to be, with great respect & Esteem, Your Ex cellency’s Most Obt. Humble servants, Ph. Schuyler Nathl. Peabody RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of Benjamin Brown and signed by Peabody and Schuyler.
