474 July 21, 1780 John Armstrong, Sr., to Horatio Gates [July 21, 1780] 21st. The Court Martial has clearly acquitted Dr. Shipen of all the charges exhibited agst. him except One for Speculation, in Some Ar ticles needed by the publick in his Own line—for which Says the Court he is Reprehensible. The General having thrown the decision of that matter on Congress, we are now tormented with reading the rubish of large bundles of testimony, but not yet come to the Doctors defence which will probably end, indeed must end, in approving the Sentence of the Court Martial. 1 Great Exertions are proposed & expected from the middle & East ern States relative to the Object—New-York. If this shou’d reach you before you leave Richmond please to present my best respects to Mr. R. Henry Lee, and tell him that his old friends here depend on his utmost influence in favour of the Southern Army, not only in regard of the present critical Struggle, but also to resque the reputation of the State in military idea & other matters to which he cannot be a Stranger. Before you are thousands of disaffected men, from whom perhaps for this Campaign you have more to apprehend than from the Common Enemy and how are these to be either re claimed or Subdued but by a Respectable force, at the outSetting— trifling this Crisis can only Serve to make their bonds Strong, and Spread the Contagion farther than at present may be immagined. The promotion of our worthy friend Coll Morgan appears to labour, it will rest chiefly with the Govt. & delegates of Virginia. I wish him as I do my own Son for the present to travel on in the line of duty, which when wisely and Succesfully performed will Secure it’s honors distinct from those arising from Rank. The Board of War have yet reported nothing in the Other instance, nor is their determination yet known to me, but Shall Soon be able to find it, and then write. What wou’d you think of a Brevet, if at present nothing else cou’d go down? I can not by this Post write Major Armstrong, but have procured the Articles for which he wrote me. They will in a few days go on with Mr. Clajong & the Medicins by Water to Richmond. Doctors Brown & Johnston go to you. I have forwarded Coll. Cusin- scoes letter but have not yet heard from him. I am dear General with perfect respect your Affectionate friend & humbl. Servt. John Armstrong [T.SJ The heat here has left me but able to breath, it is now abated. I shall write the Major fully as soon as I can. Governor Rutledge tells me his more Speedy or leisure return depends on a letter from you. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). A continuation of Armstrong to Gates, July 15, 1780. 1 The proceedings of the court martial of Dr. William Shippen, Jr., director general
