484 July 22, 1780 Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia July 22d 1780 The Journals of Congress for June last are Printed and will be forwarded to your Excellency in the usual Channel together with such Copies as are ordered Immediately. It is with Concern we observe the Exigences of the Public have been such as obliged our State to Issue large Emissions of Paper Bills which with what will Issue in Pursuance of the Resolutions of the 18th of March last may Endanger the Public Credit. The only Way to avoid this Evil is speedily to Draw in those Bills by Taxes and not Suffer them on any Account to Re-Issue. Paper Money does it’s Office when it goes out in Payment and ought to be among the People as a Medium of Trade no longer than to find it’s Way into their Pockets, and like private Security should be destroyed when Returned into the Office it Issued from, This is doing Business in Sight of the People and Every Man who Pays his Tax knows he does it Discharge of much of his Public Debt. But to Re-Issue Bills taken in by Loans & faxes Accumulates the Public Debt in a Way not open to the Inspection of the People. They see the Bills are not Redeemed and are told they never will be. The Credit of the State is Scrupled and Depreciation Ensues. The People loose their Confidence in Government, The Laws are Enervated, Military Opperations Prevented, Justice Impeeded, Trade Embar- rased, the Morals of the People Corrupted, Men of Integrity in Office Abused and Resigning whilst Peculators Ride in Coaches. These Evils and the Sources from whence they arise, so lately Experienced all serve to Point out the Way to avoid them in future. The Design of Congress in Limiting the Amount of Circulating Bills within the United States will be Wholly Defeated by Emissions from Particular States unless their Amount is Limited within the Bounds and Issued in Lieu of the Quotas Assigned by Congress, and be in Fact drawn in before the General Currency Issues. Congress have Established a new Regulation of the Quarter Mas ter’s Department, 1 it’s now in the Press and will be Transmitted to your Excellency as Early as Possible, it is Expected this new arrange ment of that Department will save great Expence to the Public. We are with the greatest Respect, your Excellency’s Most Humi Sevt, Roger Sherman Benj Huntington RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Sherman and signed by Sherman and Benjamin Huntington. 1 See John Armstrong to Horatio Gates, July 15, 1780, note 2.
