July 22, 1780 487 and by them referred to a Committee, of which Judge Sherman tells me he was one, and the necessary Orders taken thereon. I have received official Intelligence, that all the States north of Virginia, except Delaware and Rhode Island, have adopted the Res olutions of the 18th of March, and by my last from Govr. Greene, he expected that State would adopt them in a few Days and the same is expected from Virginia. I hope Connecticut will with the greatest Expedition in their Power call in the Quota of Continental Bills required of them, the sooner they are got out of Circulation and sunk the better. Had all the States adopted the resolution of the 18th of March, and acted thereon with the Wisdom and Decision Connecticut has done, we should have been extricated out of our Embarrassments in a great Degree and almost insensibly. We have no later Intelligence of Consequence from the southern Department than what you will receive in the Paper inclosed. I have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of respect and Es teem, your Excellency’s most obedt humble servant, Sam. Huntington RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. Endorsed: “reed. 30th inst. Per Brown.” 1 For Trumbull’s three July 10 letters to Huntington, which were read in Congress on July 18, see PCC, item 66, 2:63-74; Trumbull, Papers (MHS Colls.), 3:57-64; and JCC, 17:638. 2 See Huntington to Certain States, June 29, 1780. James Lovell to Nathaniel Peabody Dear Sir Sunday 22d July. 80 I called again the 30th time upon yr. Syringe-maker and he told me that he had “quite forgot all about it;” without even renewing his old Lye that he would set to work upon the next day. I blessed his Impudence, and thus have dropped the affair. The Bearer you doubtless know—Doctr. Cochran. A Thought struck me from seing his Behavior to the Family of Bethlehem, partic ularly to the Virgin, that he is quite capable of gross anecdotes that may be depended on. There are easy Moments in which you may put Questions founded in a Pride of your own Judgement and without any Expectations of ever having again any thing to do with them. I wish to know all I can before I quit-. An agreable Plan is formed, an House only is wanting, when that is obtained we shall move. In the mean Time—Tace is the Parole of our Party. My newly arrived Col leagues are out of all Patience at the Situation in which they found
