July 22, 1780 489 RC and enclosure (PHi: Potts Papers). Written and signed by Samuel Holten. 1 Jonathan Potts, purveyor of the hospitals in the middle department, has been identified in these Letters, l:316n.l. 2 Potts’ letter is not in PCC; and the “several resolutions’’ of the committee enclosed by Holten have not been identified. 3 For Congress’July 21 order appropriating $200,000 “for the use of the hospitals in the middle district, to be applied as the Medical Committee shall direct,” see JCC, 17:648. Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia July 22. 178[0] Your Excellency’s Several Letters to the President of Congress of the 10th Instant were received and publickly read. 1 No measures have Yet been taken by the Board of Treasury, for Sending Com missioners to Settle accounts in the Several States, which they are fully authorized to do by a late resolution of Congress. As I am at present a Member of that Board I Shall do every thing in my power to forward that Business, which has been too long delayed. Your Excellency’s Letter of the 8th of June last was referred to a Com mittee who reported thereon the 6th of July. “That all the Crediters of these united States who have not been paid their just demands, Shall be intitled to recieve in the present money, to the full value of the Sums due to them respectively, at the time they ought to have been paid.” When the report was taken up in Congress there was no objection to making just Allowance for the depreciation, but that it was Necessary to point out Some mode for the adjustment of the Sums due, and therefore it was recommitted—and will I suppose be again reported on very Soon. 2 Congress Seem disposed to do justice in every Case as far as is practicable. Our affairs have been considerably retarded and Embarrassed for want of money, and for want of proper Arrangements of the Staff departments. A New Arrangement of the Quarter Masters Department has lately been Established, which provides for the receiving, Safe keep ing and transportation of the provisions and other Supplies to be purchased by the Several States, pursuant to the resolution of the 25th of February last, and for procuring other Supplies. All the officers Employed will be on Salary & not Commissions, issuing posts in the Country are to be discontinued, I believe it will be a means of Saving considerable expence if duly executed, tho’ not So much as could be wished. New arrangements are also ordered for the com missary’s and Medical departments, to be made by the Committee at Head Quarters, & reported to Congress.
