490 July 22, 1780 We are Informed that Admiral Graves has lately arrived at New York with Six Ships of the Line from 60 to 80 Guns. General Wash ington writes that his arrival will make no alteration in his Plan of operations. We have had Accounts of the Arrival of the French Fleet at New port, on the 10th Instant, but no particulars, in what force or in what condition. We hear from New York, that one 74 Gun Ship of Graves’s fleet was Sunk by the French fleet, and that the French fleet is much Shattered. The people in the Several States Seem to be animated to Vigorous exertions; 3 A few months or weeks may be productive of very important events to this Country. May the Om nipotent disposer of all events overrule them for tbe best good of these States. I understand that of late the Army have been well Supplied with provisions. I am Sorry that the State of Connecticut have had occasion to emit So large a Sum in Bills of Credit previous to their being furnished with the Bills prepared by order of Congress, 4 but am Glad to hear that they have laid So large a Tax to be paid in the New Bills, I esteem that to be a very wise measure, to introduce the Bills into circulation with full credit, and ought to be imitated by all the other States. I am fully perswaded that no way can be devised, in our circumstances to Support the value of a paper currency but by taxing to the full amount of our expenditures, after having emitted a Sufficient Sum for a Medium of trade which is limited by the resolution of Congress to ten millions of dollars for the thirteen States, and if the particular States extend their emissions beyond their quotas of that Sum, it will in my opinion give a fatal blow to the Credit of the whole paper currency, and involve us in worse evils than we have heretofore experienced. Therefore I think that No Supposed necessity, or other consideration Whatsoever Should in duce any State in the least degree to exceed the limit fixed by the united States by the resolution of the 18th of March last. I am sensible that it was Necessary to make Some State emissions before those Bills were prepared, but then I think they Should be considered as part of their quotas of the ten Million dollars. The resources of this Country are great and may be drawn out in So equable a Manner by the Wisdom of the Legislatures of the Several States as fully to answer the exigencies of our affairs, without being very burthensome to the people. It may be necessary to run in debt for Some foreign articles, but I think not for any that are to be procured in this Country. I Shall return home by the middle of August So as to attend the circuit if relieved by the arrival of another Delegate. Mr. Root writes me that he dont expect to come ’till the beginning of October. I have wrote to General Wolcot 5 but have not yet received an Answer. The bank Set up here for the Supply of the Army I hope will be attended with Some good effect—they purchase flour delivered in
