July 23, 1780 491 this City at £80 Pennsylvania currency, in continental Bills, per Ct, which at 60 for 1 is equal to 21/4 lawful money of Connecticut. Of the New Bills have been Sent to Connecticut about half their quota, to New Hamshire their whole quota, to Massachusetts including what is now Sent by Brown 540,000 dollars. The quota for N. York is done, but not Sent forward, the quota for New Jersy will be printed next. Eight States have Adopted the Measure, and we hear that Vir ginia has, which will make nine. Delaware has not yet, and we have No Account from N. Carolina. South Carolina is Not in a condition to do it at present. Gates will be able to Collect such a force as to re-establish Civil Government there. I am with great respect and Esteem, Your Excellency’s Obedient humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers); Tr (DLC: Force Papers). RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 See Samuel Huntington to Trumbull, this date. 2 Governor Trumbull’s June 8 letter, which is the object of Sherman’s concern, was read in Congress on June 15 and referred to a committee of Oliver Ellsworth, James Henry, and Thomas McKean. That committee rendered its report on July 6, which was considered on July 13 and referred to a new committee chaned by Sherman. Despite Sherman’s clear interest in securing settlement of the accounts of Conti nental creditors in Connecticut, the committee did not report until August 24. Two days later Congress approved resolves affirming that Continental suppliers were en titled to receive “the just value of the sums due to them. . .compared with specie at the time the money became due’’ and providing a local means of settling accounts. See JCC, 17:515, 591, 774, 784-86; PCC, item 66, 2:59-62; and Trumbull, Papers (MHS Colls.), 2:50-53. ’ This same view was expressed by Jared Ingersoll the following day in a brief letter to William Temple Franklin at Paris, whose assistance was being solicited for the care of books Ingersoll had left behind him in England in 1776. “The French Fleet arrived at Newport the 10th Inst,” Ingersoll noted in conclusion. “Admiral Greaves is also at New York, without the Hook. We are making all possible preparations for an Attempt against that place—1 expect we shall have a very vigorous Campaign. Benjamin Franklin Papers, PPAmP. 1 See Connecticut Delegates to Trumbull, this date. 5 Not found. Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington Sir, In committee of Congress, Preakniss, July 23d, 1780 We have the honor to inclose your Excellency copy of a letter from the General officers to us, No. 1, and copy of their memorial to Congress, No. 2, which we received on the 20th instant. 1 It is certain that the fortitude and perseverance with which the officers and sol-
