July 25, 1780 501 hint to yourself, as you love your Country; verbum sat sapienti. 2 The Tories will propagate, and, I will suppose, do believe the contrary; I hope they will gain credit for a time. Notwithstanding the res ardue domi, 3 and appearances abroad you see I have some consolation in being a member of Congress; and if I had not now and then these grateful animating cordials yet I [will] not quit the Helm in the midst of a storm. I cannot conclude without informing you, that Delaware at present stands high in the Opinion of Congress, and that if they had revised and altered the tender law, and adopted the plan of discharging the national debt of the 18th of March last (for which omissions they are alone censured) they would have stood higher than any State in the Union. Please to present my compliments to Chief Justice Killen, & your Brother. I am, dear Sir, Your most obedient humble servant, Tho M:Kean P.S. When you see Mr. Dickinson, be so kind as to remember me affectionately to him. RC (NN: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 McKean probably enclosed a copy of the just published, Laws Enacted, in the Third Sitting of the Fourth General Assembly, of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania . . . (Philadel phia: John Dunlap, 1780). 2 A word to the wise is sufficient. 3 Difficulties at home. John Armstrong, Sr., to John Davis Sir, Philada. 25th July 1780 I have reed, your favour, and think it not improper you shou’d be in town at the time you mention—but inform you that Congress have yet received no answer from General Green whether he accepts the Office under the New Regulation or not. We Suppose he will, & if so he must immediately nominate deputys for the approbation of the Supreme Council in every State. Your friend Mitchel I presume is soliciting, 1 having told me he wou’d Serve without any regard to pay. This day Mr. Charles Pettit was Chosen D. Qr. G. of these, there is to be but One. The French Fleet & transports Arived at R. Island on the 12th Inst, consisting of Seven Ships of the line, a Bumbketch & three Frigates with five thousand infantry Near the Same day Arived. Adml. Graves at N. York with Six Ships of the Line, which together with the former Naval force, gives him at present a Superiority. On last Thursday he Sailed with 21 Ships of force from the Hooke, but whether to attack our Allies, or to the West Indies we cannot tell.
