502 July 25, 1780 We are not without reason to expect a farther reinformcement and Soon, but this you must take as private Opinion. 2 Inclosed is a letter to Coll. Watt &c. 3 of which if you think there may be any necessity on our Side the Hills you will please to take off a Copy for Coll Gibson & Coll. Buchanan. Seal the letter, and Send it off with what dispatch you can. I can neither write Mrs. Armstrong nor Coll MaGaw as I had intended by the present conveyance. Genl. Wayne at a Block House of the Enemy near Fort Lee, has been repulsed with the loss of about 70 of our line Killed & wounded. The Enemy were underground So that our Troops cou’d not get at them. This 1 fear was a wanton exertion of bravery/ He got a parcel of Cattle & Some Tories—it’s said the Cattle was the Object of his going out, but attacked the other on his return. I am Sir, your resepctful, humbl. Servt. John Armstrong [P.S.] Coll. Blain is at Camp. RC (DLC: Davis Papers). 1 That is, Col. John Mitchell, deputy quartermaster general. 2 Armstrong also wrote a brief letter this day to Horatio Gates relating this same intelligence regarding the French forces at Newport and Admiral Graves’ arrival at New York. Gates Papers, NHi. 3 Not found. 4 For Anthony Wayne’s unsuccessful attack on the blockhouse “near Fort Lee,” see Freeman, Washington, 5:184. John Hanson to Charles Carroll of Carrollton Dear sir, Philadelphia July 25th. 1780 I am favoured with yours of the 19th and am much obliged to you for the information it Contains. I have received of Mr McCarty the money you drew for, which Shall be Sent by a Safe hand in a Short time. Should it be in my power to render that Gentleman Any Service in the affair you mention be assured I Shall do it with pleasure. We have official Accounts of the Arival of the french fleet at Rhode Island, on the 10th Instant Eight Ships of the line and Several frigates with 5000 land forces. I wish we were ready for Co operation. Re inforcements Come in very Slowly, every State greatly deficient in their Quotas of men, much therefore must depend upon the Militia of the New England, New York, Jersey, and Pensylvania States. We are told by the Delegates from those States, that men will not be wanting. I wish it may turn out so. Our Magnanimous Ally is making most noble Exertions in our favour, and it will be degrading indeed Should we fail in doing our part. The want of money is very Em barrassing, and unless the Treasury is Speedily Supplyed, it will be very difficult to put our army in motion, and keep up the necessary
