July 25, 1780 503 Supplies of provisions. Of the one million two hundred and odd thousand Dollrs. required of Maryland, 200,000 only has been Sent in, And the other States are equally Deficient. So that you will readily guess at the State of the Continental Treasury. There has been lately an embarkation of Troops at New York, and a fleet of Several Ships of War, and other Vessels, to the Amount of Sixty one or two, Sailed from the Hook Wednesday last, Steering as far as they Could be Seen, about a South East Course. Various are the Conjectures re specting their destination, some are of opinion they are gone to the West Indias, to reinforce Admiral Rodney, who it is reported has lately met with a Severe drubing from the Combined fleets, haveing lost four Ships in the engagement, a 74 Sunk and three taken, and the rest drove into St Lucia, Some in a Shatered Condition. Others are of opinion (and 1 think with greater probability) that their object is Rhode Island. Their Superiority at Sea, and the number of Troops they may Spare from New York for so Short an Expedition, may induce them to attempt Something before the french fleet and Army Can be reinforced. A few days will Clear up our Doubts, when you Shall hear further from, Dr sir (with Compliments to Mr Carroll and the Ladies) your most Obedient Servant, John Hanson RC (MdHi: Carroll Papers). John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee Dear sir Philadelphia July 25th 1780 I am favoured with yours by the last post. Be pleased to present my Compliments to Mrs Lee, and tell her her Commands Shall be Executed—tho the best Kind of Chariots was made a month or Six weeks ago, for £150 hard money, the price is now from 200 to 220. If you are willing to give this price be pleased to let me Know and 1 will engage one of the best Kind immediately, and you may probably get it by the middle or last of September. There is a Second hand Coach to be Sold for £200 hard. I understand it has run near Six years. I have examined it, the wheels are allmost new and the Harnass altogether so, the Body is very good, And every part of the Carriage appears to be Strong and in good order. The lining is a green Silk Damask. The Cushings are a good deal worn, but the man will engage to furnish new ones of the same, with the lining, it Apepars to be rather heavy, And the Shape of the Body not altogether in the mod ern tast, tho’ it looks well, being genteely painted. But I would rather advise your having a new one made or a new Chariot, rather than Purchase this. You will then be Sure of a good one and Agreeable
