July 25, 1780 507 Massachusetts Delegates to Thomas Cushing and Timothy Danielson Gentlemen, Philada. July 25th. 1780. We have been disagreably betrayed into a Neglect till now of an swering your Letter of May 16th.' This is doubly mortifying to us, because the Reasons which we must give for our Delay will tend to condemn others. We expected that a Business so reasonable as the one relative to drawing Monies out of the Hands of the Deputy Paymaster general in the eastern Department by Warrants signed by some other than a General Officer would not have required any Debate; and we thought day after day that we should be able to inclose to you the Determination of Congress on that Head. A Prop osition delivered in by us was once and again withdrawn for the Sake of conciliatory Amendments, and on the 23d of June was referred to the Treasury who reported not till Yesterday what is herein for warded. 2 Due Attention shall be paid to the other Parts of Business on which you wrote and the most favorable Times watched for the Accom plishment of them. A more speedy Acknowledgement shall also be made of your future Favors as a corresponding Committee. We are, Gentlemen, Your very humble Servants, James Lovell S Holten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Lovell, and signed by Lovell and Holten. 1 The May 16 letter of Thomas Cushing and Timothy Danielson, the committee appointed by the Massachusetts General Court to correspond with the state’s delegates in Congress, is not in PCC. For Lovell’s explanation of their delayed response to the committee, see Lovell to Elbridge Gerry, July 24, 1780. 2 On July 24 Congress authorized the “supreme executive” of Massachusetts, in the absence of a general officer, to draw warrants on the deputy paymaster general for paying Continental troops serving in Massachusetts and Rhode Island. JCC, 17:555, 655. A copy of this resolve was officially transmitted to the Massachusetts Council under cover of a brief letter from Pres. Samuel Huntington on August 5. Revolutionary War Letters, 203:15, M-Ar. Nathaniel Peabody to Meshech Weare Sir, Camp Preakness July 25. 1780. The 22d instant I was bond by the Rect. of your favour of the 2d instant acknowledging the receipt of my letter of the 24th ulto. You
