522 July 29, 1780 P.S. A pair of boots Shall be Sent for Roberson as soon they Can be procured. I can find none in the Stores in or near this place. RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Addressed: “Honble. Ph. Schuyler & J. Mathews Esqr., Comtee. of Congress, Head Quarters.” 1 A July 28 letter to Peabody from committee secretary Abraham Brasher, Jr., requesting his assistance in processing some supplies, is in N.H. State Papers, 17:397. 2 Not found. 3 That is, 10 thousand. Committee at Headquarters to Moore Furman In Committee of Congress Sir, West Point 1 July 30th. 1780 General Greene has represented to us that you cannot procure carriages to transport the provisions and other Stores which are in- dispensibly necessary for the Army, nor forage to subsist the Cattle. 2 At this important Juncture when the Army cannot be put into a state of activity without those supplies, we are decidedly of opinion that you ought not to hesitate to procure carriages or forage by impress or in such other mode as will be best calculated to promote the public service. 3 We are Sir with respect, Your most Obedt. Servts. Ph. Schuyler Jno. Mathews RC (Nj: Stryker Collection). In a clerical hand and signed by Mathews and Schuyler. FC (DNA: PCC, item 39). Written by Schuyler and addressed: “In Com Congress, Robinsons house, July. 30. 1780.” 1 The committee had risen early this day, sent a letter to Samuel Huntington from Paramus, NJ., at “3 O Clock in the morning” (see the following entry), and moved with Washington’s army to the vicinity of West Point where the commander in chief established his headquarters in the house of loyalist Beverly Robinson. 2 In his letter of this day to the committee, Greene recounted his repeated warnings about the mounting problems that Furman faced in transporting supplies in New Jersey because of lack of forage, the inability of state contractors to fund purchases, and the New Jersey prohibitions against direct purchase. Unless the committee found “some speedy and effectual mode to remedy this evil,” Greene warned, “I am pir- suaded the Army must starve or disband.” PCC, item 155, 1:419-20. See also William Churchill Houston to Furman, July 14; and Samuel Huntington to Furman, July 25, 1780. 3 Although the committee strongly suggested that Furman resort to impressment to supply the army, the actual order to do so came from the commander-in-chief in his letters to Greene and to Furman of July 30 and 31, for which see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:280, 286.
