528 August 1, 1780 must be supported by the force of Milatary Law, or disband, untill the new Bills is put into circulation, when that will be I know not. I have the honour to be your Excellencys most obedient Humble Servant, Ezek. Cornell RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 Proposals to give General Washington dictatorial powers, particularly in matters of supplies for the army, resurfaced and gained strength with the imminent recall of the Committee at Headquarters and the repeated failure of states to meet their supply quotas. The subject probably arose, at this point, during discussions over lifting re strictions on Washington’s operational authority—a decision reached the next day, August 2. See Philip Schuyler to Robert R. Livingston, May 30, note 4; Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington, July 18, note 13; and Huntington to the Committee at Headquarters, August 3, 1780. See also James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry, September 5 and November 20; and John Mathews to Washington, September 15, 1780. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee Dear sir, Philadelphia August 1st 1780 The two Letters directed to the Delegates were yesterday laid before Congress. 1 That relating to our Troops to the Southward was referred to the Board of War and am in hopes the wants of our Troops will Speedily be relieved especially as General Gates is in vested with ample powers to appoint Officiers and to do every thing that may be necessary for the Support of the Southern Army. The other Letter respecting the protection of the Maryland and Virginia Trade is referred to the Board of Admiralty and tho Congress are disposed to do every thing to Comply with the requisition yet I fear it is not in their power to yeild Any protection at all at present. 2 I think we have only four frigates and those are to Join the french fleet at present much inferior to that of the British which is now off Rhode Island. Troops are Sending off from New York by way of the Sound and in Consequence General Washingtons Army is in motion towards the north River. Have inclosed you the packet and am with usual Esteem & regard, Dear sir, Your most hble Servt, John Hanson [PS.] I hope We Shall be able to forward our new money in about a fortnight. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). ' JCC, 17:682. For these two letters, and a third from Lee addressed to President Huntington, see PCC, item 70, fols. 403-18; and Md. Archives, 43:235-36, 238. * For Congress’ response to this appeal from Maryland for the deployment of a Continental frigate to the Chesapeake for the protection of the state’s trade, see Samuel Huntington to Lee, August 10, 1780.
