530 August 1, 1780 ister of France. When the letters were read yesterday, Congress man ifested the Strongest desire to comply with the request of the State and I believe would have unanimously done it had it been in their power. If the conjuncture of affairs should put it in our power to urge the Matter with propriety our endeavour shall not be wanting. You are not uninformed that the number of our Fleet is reduced to four or five Frigates and one of them in Europe and another (the Confederacy) in this harbour, and where from the reduced State of our finances she has been obliged to lay. She will however soon be at Sea. The British Fleet is off the harbour of Rhode Island and they manifest an Intention of sending land forces up the sound from New- York; should this be the case G. Washington has taken the necessary Measures to give them all the aid in his power. Walsingham has joined Admiral Rodney in the West Indies, and both Fleets are at Sea; the combined Fleets it is supposed are destined for Jamaica. You have not been kind enough to answer my two former private letters. 3 I should be always very happy to hear from you, and to receive such information as you may think proper to communicate; Your letter read yesterday in Congress respecting the Flour gave great pleasure. Give my Compliments to Mrs. Lee and such of the Ladies as hold me in remembrance and believe me to be with the most perfect Attachment, your Excellency[s] friend and hble. Servt. J. Henry. Junr. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 See the preceding entry, note 1. 2 See the preceding entry, note 2. 3 Not found. Henry Laurens to Richard Henry Lee Dear sir. Philadelphia 1st Augt 1780. Had I at any time since my arrival here been possessed of a scrap of good News I should have attempted to allay your hungring & thirsting. In the 31 days which I have been sauntering away about the City & Congress Chamber, I have heard nothing pleasing to the mind, seen nothing but melancholy accomplishments of the last Year’s predictions, such circumstances as I could wish to communi cate in a shady retreat, but cannot venture to display upon Paper. The Body Politic is sick, Sick indeed! The Servants of the House are more & more riotous & unless relief be immediately administred by wise exertions of the better branches of the family a dissolution or violent convulsion will infallibly be the consequence. What a picture
