536 August 3, 1780 from John Adams to Congress, for which see Samuel Huntington to Adams, July 30, 1780, note. ’ In a letter to Congress of March 24, 1780, John Adams had reported that the British government was considering a bill to end pensions and salaries for American refugees. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:572-73. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philadelphia Augt 3d 1780. I receivd your favor of the 13 th of July by Yesterdays Post. On my Journey I met Mr Gerry at Hartford, where we were unexpectedly engagd in publick Business with Governor Trumbull. 1 I utterly forgot that 1 had your Letter to him, but since you have empowerd me to open it, I find, it wd have been of no Advantage to you to have deliverd it to him there. I waited upon the only Gentleman of the Committee of Commerce now in Town, 2 who told me your Account was not settled. 3 I urgd it, and will continue to do so as a Matter which ought not to be delayd. When this is done, 1 will pursue the Step which you request. I do not like the Situations of the two Fleets. The English appears to be the superior, and while they lie before R Island, they may serve two great Purposes, the intercepting the 2d Division from France, and the giving their Cork Fleet an Opportunity of arriving at N. York. If our Privateers were cruizing off the Hook at this Juncture it might be advantageous to them as well as to the Publick. I am sorry to find that the Trumbull & the Dean are to run a double & I think a needless Risque of falling into the Enemies Hands; but if this be an illjudgd Measure, you are not accountable for it. The Doctor is this Moment going, 4 which prevents my adding to this Letter. I refer you to him for Intelligence. Adieu my dear Sir, and be assured that I am, your affectionate, S A. RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Papers). 1 For the “publick business” transacted by Adams and Elbridge Gerry at Hartford, see Samuel Holten to John Avery, June 20, 1780, note 3. 2 According to the journals three members of the Committee of Commerce—John Fell, Timothy Matlack, and Edward Telfair—had voted in Congress on August 2 and therefore were available to be consulted at this time. JCC, 17:638. 3 The Committee of Commerce did not report on the settlement of Warren’s ac counts until November 28, at which time the Board of Treasury was ordered to pay the money “certified” by the committee to be due him. JCC, 18:1100. 4 That is, Samuel Holten. John Armstrong, Sr., to William Irvine Dear General Philada. 3d August 1780. I cannot pass so favourable an opportunity of answering your kind
