August 4, 1780 541 from him (if need be) in which his Excellency mentions having advised you to make Sale of those Sugars, which you may have already done in Consequence of his Advice. I am Sir, with great Respect, your most obedient Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (CtHi: Wadsworth Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 In a letter of May 1, 1780, Connecticut governor Jonathan Trumbull had appealed to Congress to authorize Wadsworth to sell a quantity of sugar remaining in his hands, the proceeds to be applied to Connecticut’s account. This action was necessary, Trum bull advised, because the Continent was greatly in arrears in its payments to the state, and money was needed immediately to pay Connecticut suppliers who were threatening to withhold provisions from market because payment promises had not been honored. The letter had been referred to a committee consisting of James Duane, Nathaniel Folsom, and James Madison on May 11, whose recommendations were reported and adopted on July 29. See JCC, 17:423, 680; PCC, item 66, 2:41-44; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:51-52. Huntington also sent a copy of the enclosed “Act” of the 29th under cover of a brief letter to Governor Trumbull this date. Trumbull Papers, Ct. John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear sir, Philadelphia August 4th 1780 I intended to have wrote you fully by Lieutenant Davis, but his Setting out this morning a day sooner than I expected, obliges me to Curtail a little. I may perhaps make you Amends by the next post. I have received yours of the 16 ult. I am greatly distressed on account of yours and Janeys Ill State of health, but hope your next Account will be more favourable. You ought and I hope will especially during this intemperate Season, be very Careful of your self. Doct. Shipping thinks Janeys Case is not dangerous and that Dyet and Exercise will relieve her. The Account you have given me of my plantation affairs, and the plentiful Crops in general, is very pleasing, the harvest throughout the Country as far as I have heard is very great. No danger of our Armys wanting Bread in future, if Cash Can be found to pay for it, but there lyes the great difficulty, the States must principally be depended on, And they are Extreamly backward in their payments. The want of money will I am afraid embarrass our affairs Exceed ingly. Our Army is in motion. A vigorous offensive Campaign in Conjunction with our generous Ally is intended, and little or no money in the Treasury to Carry on its operations, this may retard, but Still I trust we Shall be Enabled to get Along. A million of Dollars is Coming on from Massachusetts, and I hope the other States will be forwarding theirs. In my last I mentioned the Sailing of the British fleet from New York, and that I thought their destination was Rhode
