542 August 4, 1780 Island, the event has proved, I was not mistaken. They are now lying off Block island, in Sight of Rhode Island, waiting it is Supposed, from the Troops Sent from New York through the Sound, to Co operate with them. Whether they will be able to Effect their Purpose, which must be the destruction of the french fleet and Army at Rhode Island, time will Shew. General Washington moved with his Army on Fryday last towards the north River, it is probable he has Crost it before this time. The Militia to the Eastward are in motion, the Pensylvania Militia, Commanded by President Reed are under Marching orders, those of this Town are to March the 10th Instant, and I trust the Troops from Maryland are on their way—in all prob- abillity the Campaign will be Bloody. God Send it Successful. Sammy Expresses a desire of going into practice and Settling at Leesburgh where he thinks there is a very good opening occasioned by the Death of . Let me have your Opinion and if you think it will be to his advantage, you will be Kind Enough to assist in making out a list of Such Medecines as May be immediately necessary with their probable prices and I will purchase them if possible and Send them to Baltimore from whence they may be transported to Fred erick. My love to Janney hope the little ones are well and be pleased to present my Compliments to all friends. With great esteem, yrs. John Hanson RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates Sir, Philadelphia August 4. 1780 I have just Time to acknowledge the Receipt of your Letter of the 20 Ulto. with the Despatches therein referred to, this Moment re ceived by Express. Congress some Time since appointed a Committee to take into Consideration the State of the Southern Department to whom your Despatches are referred. 1 You may be assured Congress will take every measure in their Power to aid that Department, and place the Army under your Com mand in better Circumstances, as fast as the deranged State of our Finances and the Circumstances will admit. I have the Honor to be, with very great regard, sir, your most obedient servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (NHi: Gates Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 JCC, 17:677, 691. The committee had been appointed on July 28. Gates’July 20 letter, discussing his efforts with the governors of Virginia and North Carolina to reconstitute a Continental force in the southern department and requesting "the
