August 4, 1780 543 immediate re-establishment of a Military Chest in this Department,” is in PCC, item 154, 2:214-17. For Congress’ response, see Huntington to Gates, August 10, 1780. Samuel Huntington to Thomas Jefferson Sir, Philada August 4. 1780 By return of the Express who has just handed me your Despatches of the 27 Ulto 1 I have the Honor to inform your Excellency that the several States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania & Maryland have adopted the Act of Congress of the 18 of March and transmitted their Laws on that Subject to Congress some time since. These are all absolute except Pennsylvania, which contains a Proviso similar to that of Virginia now received. The new Bills have been already forwarded to several of the States at their request, and a Letter from the Governor of Rhode Island informs me the Act of that State on the same Subject will probably pass & soon be forwarded to Congress. I have the Honor &c, &c, &c, S. H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:508-13. For Virginia’s response to Congress’ March 18 resolves on the Continental currency, see also ibid., pp. 531-32, 565-66. John Mathews to Benjamin Lincoln Dear sir, Head Quarters Peak’s kill, August 4. 1780 I was extreamly mortifyed in being disappointed of the pleasure I had promissed my self in seeing you before your return to the Eastward. However, when I consider my loss in this instance, is pro duced by your earlier return to those, who had so much better claim to the enjoyment of your agreeable society, I feel a disposition to submit the more cheerfully to my disappointment. As to news of various kinds, I conclude that is regularly hanted to you, by the number of correspondents you must have this way, there fore any thing from me on this head, must be mere repetition. I took the liberty of inclosing several letters for Miss Wragg under cover to you, whilst to the southward, I should be much obliged to you to know, whether you received them, & whether you ever had any opportunity of conveying them to her, As they were of some importance to my private affairs there. I most sincerely congratulate you on your return to your family & friends, after so long an absence.
