544 August 5, 1780 I am Dr. sir, with much Esteem & respect, Yr. most Obedt. servt. Jno. Mathews RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1649.15). Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates Sir, Philadelphia August 5. 1780 By the Act of Congress of this Day herewith enclosed you will be informed of their Designs to concert a Plan for expelling the Enemy from their several Posts in South Carolina and Georgia as soon as Circumstances will admit, which will depend much upon the Event of the intended Operations against the Enemy at New York this Summers Campaign. 1 You will also observe that the Recruits raising in Virginia for their Quota of Continental Troops are ordered to join the Southern Army. 2 I have the Honor to be, with very great Respect, sir, your most obedient, humble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (NHi: Gates Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 JCC, 17:699. Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve this day to South Carolina governor John Rutledge. PCC, item 15, fols. 67-68. 2 Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve this day to Virginia governor Thomas Jefferson. PCC, item 15, fol. 68. Samuel Huntington to Timothy Pickering Sir, Philada August 5. 1780 Enclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of this Day by which you will be informed that General Greene has refused to act as Quarter Master Genl under the new Arrangement of that Depart ment and that you are elected Quarter Master General.' I am perswaded that in this critical Conjuncture the Cause of our Country will overrule every other Consideration and incline you to accept this Appointment, and undertake the important Service with out Delay. Congress being under the Necessity of making a new Appointment their Minds have unanimously fixed upon you, and they have judged it proper & expedient on this extraordinary Emergency, that not withstanding your Appointment you should be continued a Member of the Board of War, with only a Suspension of your Powers & Pay during such Time as you shall continue Quarter Master General; and you have the Rank of Colonel with the Pay & Rations of a Brig-
