August 5, 1780 545 adier, over & above the Pay and Allowances of the Quarter Master General under the new Arrangement. I have the Honor to be &c &c. S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 For Nathanael Greene’s refusal to continue as quartermaster general “under the new Arrangement” and Pickering’s appointment to the post, see JCC, 17:680-84, 686, 690-92, 697-98, 700, 702. Pickering’s August 7 letter accepting the appointment is in PCC, item 192, fols. 17-19. Huntington also sent notice of Pickering’s appointment in a brief letter to the Committee at Headquarters this day. PCC, item 39, 2:124. For Pickering’s appointment and conduct of his duties as quartermaster general, see Gerard H. Clarfield, Timothy Pickering and the American Revolution (Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1980), pp. 65-84. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia August 5, 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed two Acts of Con gress of this Day. By the one you will be informed that Colonel Pickering is appointed Quarter Master General. The other respects the Southern Department.' You will please to observe it is the Sense of Congress that the Land and naval Forces, as well of his most Christian Majesty, as of these United States, or such Part thereof as the Commander in Chief shall think necessary, be employed in the Manner, and at the Time that shall appear to him most convenient, for the Expulsion of the Enemy from their several Posts in the States of South Carolina & Georgia, and that your Excellency concert with the Officers commanding the Fleet and Army of his most Christian Majesty, the proper Measures for this Purpose, and carry such Measures into Execution, so as not to interfere with any Plan of Operations formed against the Enemy, as the more immediate Objects of the present Campaign. You are also fully authorized, if you shall judge it necessary, to concert with the proper Officers and Ministers, such Plans of Op eration to be under taken by any other of his most Christian Majestys Forces, or by the Forces of his Catholic Majesty, in the West Indies, or Louisiana, or elsewhere, as may either immediately, or in their Effect, facilitate, or assist the proposed Enterprize. 2 Congress will, so soon as they receive proper Information, make the necessary Requisitions from the States, for Supplies, and afford every other Aid and Assistance in their Power, for promoting, and effectually prosecuting the Undertaking. I am sensible that this proposed Enterprize, from our present Cir cumstances will in your Opinion very much depend on the Event of the intended Operations of the present Campaign.
