546 August 5, 1780 By this Act you will also observe, that the Recruits now raising in Virginia for filling up their Quota of Continental Troops are ordered to join the Southern Army. I have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of Respect & Esteem, your Excellency’s most obedient servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See Huntington’s letters to Timothy Pickering and to Horatio Gates, this date. 2 JCC, 17:699. See also Huntington’s first letter to La Luzerne of August 12, 1780. John Mathews to Samuel Huntington Sir, Head Quarters Peekskill Augt 6. 1780 By a private letter I this day received from a Member of Congress, 1 I am informed that a report of a Committee then lay before Congress, in which it is recommended to accept the Quarter Master Generals resignation. 2 Convinced from long experience that the decisions of Congress are not very rapid, tho on matters of the last importance, I am induced to address myself to you on this subject, hoping it may reach you before the final decision of this business. Although alone (necessarily so by Mr. Peabody’s indisposition and absence at Morris Town, and General Schuylers call to Albany on his private business) yet I conceive it my duty to give every infor mation to Congress where, in my opinion, the interest of the United States, is intimately concerned. That it is so in the present case, must be evident to every unprejudiced man, who will take the trouble to think a little. The late movement of the Enemy towards Rhode Island, rendered it necessary for our army to move. How could this have been effected, without the immediate, and particular superintend ence of the Officers of the Quarter Master Generals department? Circumstances have rendered it necessary for this Army again to take post in the Jerseys. The same question again arises—But allowing that on the resignation of the head of this Department, another Officer was ready to step into his place, is it reasonable, is it consistant with Common-sense, to suppose that in a Department so complex, so diffuse as this is, a man can be found capable of acquiring a com petent knowledge of the business in a days time (for there is not a day, in the present situation of affairs, but it is indispensibly necessary) so as to be enabled to discharge this great trust, either with honor to himself, or to the interest of these states. I believe human genius is incapable of such an exertion. It may be said, it is not the whole Department that is meant to be displaced, but only the head of it, and there are other Offices now in it, well acquainted with the busi ness, some one of whom, may be induced to take it up, and go on
