August 6, 1780 547 with it. But I think I can with some degree of confidence assert, that for the same reasons the present Quarter Master General offers to quit it, no other officer now in it, capable of the trust, will accept it; on the contrary, no other reason induces such to continue in it; but a continuance of the head of the Department; Add to this, the ap parent suspension of the system of the 15 th Ult. [let it be remembered that in this department, is included the forage, the Waggon, and the artificers] annihilate it, and I would be glad to know, how your Army is to march one mile? Without a head a body is an useless trunk. That this whole department must be thrown into the most irreclaim able confusion (1 mean for this Campaign) and rendered totally use less for the remainder of it, should Congress either accept the resignation of the present head of it, or persist in its being conducted under the system of the 15th Ult, I will undertake to pronounce with the most decisive confidence. It may be asked, whether Congress are to be dictated to, by their Officers? I answer without hesitation, that on the present occasion they must; necessity compel them to it, and it is a duty they owe their constituents, not to suffer punctilio, to militate against their essential interests. If there are men in the great council of this nation, capable of such a conduct—I will not say what I think are their deserts. I have mentioned that displacing the Officers in the Quarter Masters Department at this time; must militate against the welfare and interests of these states—as thus—The Eyes not only of our Country, but of all Europe are turned on America, and im patiently wait the Issue of the present Campaign. The consequence resulting from its being a successful! one, on the contrary, every member fit to hold a seat in Congress, may easily enough determine, from the flattering expectations held up to this country, of rendering the present—With the divine support—a decisive Campaign. The states have been called on to make very extraordinary exertions. Almost all of them have gone great lengths, and are still pursuing the most vigorous measures, to attain this very desirable end. Some of them under considerable disadvantages, so much so, as will greatly debilitate them, and render their future exertions extreemly difficult. Under these circumstances, suppose our army was to be arrested, at the place of their next encampment, and not be in a capacity to move from thence, during the remainder of the Campaign, for the want of proper Officers to put it in motion? (That this will be the case appears to me beyond a doubt, if it is to depend on a new sett of Officers). How then, are the people of this country, to be recomp- enced for the extraordinary burthens they have subjected themselves to? Who will undertake to satisfy their discontent, the natural result of so grevious a disappointment, and caused by so impolitic a meas ure? Thus it evidently appears to me, Sir, that an adoption of the Report I have alluded to, will produce a total derangement of this Department, consequently put an end to the Campaign—render us
