August 6, 1780 551 Sir, in particular. However it is now time to begin my letter. I have been in Camp from the latter end of April last, till since Mr. Emery retur’d home, 5 during which time the Army underwent Several Changes; They know what it is to want, but Not to abound. I have seen them inviron’d in almost every Species of distress. Though things begin to look a little more favourable. The Army increases fast, and a tolerable prospect, all Circumstances Consid ered, of Supplies. But I am not without Great Anxiety for the Event of this Campaign. There are many contingencies on which the fate depends. Beside which there are, generally found, men in the Councils of every Nation, And People, who find means under some plausible pretext or other, to render the best Concerted plans Abortive. Can we suppose the councils of America more virtuous, or, her plans less vulnerable than those of other Nations? Whenever anything decisive, And important is set on foot; de signing men will always find out a Diana, or some other favourite Goddess, in danger, And under her banners, with Great Zeal, Alarm even the honest and well meaning among the Citizens, and excite them violently to appose the Measure. Such envious Zeal, and Ma levolent practices, ensure to the authors great Confidence and ap plause, not only from the devotees to the invaded Goddess, but many well meaning Citizens who Suffer themselves to be led blindfold— by their Machinations! This my friend is a Lamentation, And Shall be had for a Lamentation! Johnsons Golden shrines, may have made proselites to his Master.’ Who knows the power of Gold? You, and I, my friend, have not had the Chance of knowing by Diabolical experience—if we had, I will Venture to assert, it would not have influenced us in the manner, I have but too much reason to believe it has some others— in whose power it is to do us much harm. America has it in her power speedily to put an End to this Cruel, & bloody War. If it is not done, ought there not to be an enquiry who has been the means of procrastinating, the happy hour of peace & Independence? I once read of a people, who were at times led by a Cloud; And I have known of a people whose Grand Multiform’d Sanhedrin, were often times in the midst of a Fog. You will Judge how dissimilar their Situations. I see a Fog, or Cloud, rising with a fire in the midst, which, if not soon dispeld, and extinguished, Will in all probability greatly distress the Army, if not totally mar the proposed operations of this Campaign! The only object we can now have in view, must be to raise and Establish an Army, for the Wm. Which must be done upon a permanent basis. The terms must be both honourable, and profitable.
