554 August 7, 1780 1 Not found. See Bartlett, Papers (Mevers), pp. 281-82n.4. 2 Peabody’s “two very long letters” have not been found. 3 See Peabody to Meshech Weare, July 25, 1780, note 4. 4 An allusion to the attempts of George Johnstone, a member of the Carlisle Peace Commission in 1778, to bribe influential American leaders. Committee of Congress to the Board of Treasury Gentlemen Monday [August 7, 1780] The Committee to enquire into the causes of the uneasiness &c. in the department of the Treasury, purpose to meet on that Business on Thursday morning next at nine o’Clock in the State House, where they request your attendance. 1 Tr (DNA: PCC, item 62). 1 This committee had been appointed on July 10 to consider charges made by the treasurer of loans, Francis Hopkinson, against the commissioners of the treasury, William Denning, Ezekiel Forman, and John Gibson. The committee had just sub mitted recommendations to Congress to resolve an older dispute between Hopkinson and the commissioners of several months duration, and Hopkinson’s July 6 letter to the committee containing these new “Complaints” represented a considerable esca lation of the dispute, which now took on a more formal character, and dragged on for months. Furthermore, the response of the commissioners to this routine letter was far from ordinary, for they refused to appear at the inquiry and hinted that the committee was not authorized to undertake such an investigation. This surprising refusal seems to have hinged on two points: “that they [the commissioners] have never been served with any resolution of Congress setting forth any uneasiness &ca to be enquired into,” and that any such investigation would have to be conducted at the board’s quarters rather than at the committee room in the State House. Not surprisingly the committee pressed on with their work, and on Thursday morn ing the tenth sent the following second notice to the commissioners: “The Committee of Congress, to whom is referred the Letter from the Treasurer of Loans respecting the Board of Treasury and the uneasiness & ca in that department, inform the Com missioners of the Treasury, that they are now met in the Committee Room of Congress at the State House on that business, of which timely notice has been given to all the parties concerned. In case the Commissioners do not attend, the Committee must proceed ex parte.” In view of the commissioners’ obstruction of the committee’s work, it is little wonder that the committee subsequently recommended that Forman and Gibson be replaced, as well as the treasury board’s secretary, Charles Lee. However, when its report was taken up on September 9, a motion was adopted to have it recommitted, and eventually the committee proceeded to hold eight hearings in October and four in November before finally concluding that nothing less than placing the direction of the treasury under the direction of a single executive officer would be required to eliminate the “Demon of Discord” that pervaded the department. The committee had originally consisted of Samuel Holten, William Churchill Houston, and Thomas McKean, but on July 31 Timothy Matlack and John Walker were added “in the room of Mr. Houston and Mr. Holten, who are absent.” See JCC, 17:585, 597-98, 683-84, 779-80, 18:814, 1091-92; and PCC, item 62, fols. 375-80, 395, 450-51, item 78, 12:39-44. For the
