August 8, 1780 559 have considered the matter and I Doubt not wod. have made the necessary alteration. But the manner of these demands made in such peremptory terms—at the moment of action when the Campaign was opened, the Enemy in the Field and our ally waiting for Coop eration has lessened Genl. Greene not only in the Opinion of Con gress but I think of the Public—and I question whether it will terminate with the acceptance of his refusal only. On Saturday Col. Pickering was appointed to the Office of Quarter Master General with the Rank of Colonel & the pay and Rations of a Brigadier Gen eral and to hold his place at the Board of War without pay or right to act while in the office of Quarter Master General. This Gentlemens Integrity, Ability and attention to Business will I hope not only pre vent the evils to be apprehended from a change in so important a Department at this time but will I hope be able to reform some of the abuses crept into that Business and lessen the amazing expend itures of the Department. He must if he accepts have a disagreeable office in the present State of our Finance but we must support him all we can. The promotion I lately mentioned has not taken place though if we take up the Business I suppose it will be done as M. 3 is the oldest Colonel and Gates is the only Major General belonging to Virga, and the State has a right to two but I see no occasion of stiring in it at present as if taken up it must be upon the general principle of promotion and then not only Virga, but Maryland and other States will expect to partake of the same privilege of bringing forward their officers—when I believe there are few States whose lines are so full as to justify the promotions. I am, Dr. Sr., Yr. aff hum. Servt, Jos. Jones RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 This undated letter was probably written on Monday, August 7. Although Congress received Timothy Pickering’s acceptance of his appointment as quartermaster general this day, which Jones was unaware of when he wrote this letter, Jones refers to Pick ering’s August 5 appointment as having taken place “on Saturday,” rather than “yes terday”; and the intelligence from Martinique mentioned by Jones was apparently received by President Huntington this day, for which see the preceding entry; and JCC, 17:702. 2 For Washington’s letter to Benjamin Harrison, speaker of the Virginia House of Delegates, see Jones to Washington, July 18, 1780, note 2. 5 That is, Daniel Morgan, whose promotion to brigadier general is discussed at ibid., note 1. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Sir Philadelphia August 8th. 1780. I had the honour to receive your Excellencys letter, of the 22nd Ulto., by yesterdays post. I immediately, communicated the contents,
