560 August 8, 1780 to Congress. It was refered to the Board of Treasury, for them to consider, and report what, could be done, As they are supposed, to be masters, of our Finances. I shall do every thing in my power, to obtain a spedy determination. 1 And as soon as obtaind I shall loose no time, in transmiting the same to you. It is with concern I inform you, I have it not in my power, to give you any encouragement, that you will receive any releif from Congress. 1 can only add they have it not in their power, to grant releif on any one application for money, let the sum be ever so small. I mentioned to you some time since, that general Greene, had declined serving as Q M General, which was accepted after near a weeks altercation. And Colo. Pickering, was appointed to that place, with the rank of Colo., and pay of Brigd. General. I have been alarmed for Several days past, by a prevailing report, that Sr. Harry Clinton was gone to Rhode Island, with a formidable land force, to attack that place. The alarm hath now ceased. General Washington informed us yesterday, that Sr. Harry with the Troops under his Command, had returned to N. York; after waiting several days, in Huntington Bay. 2 I have nothing further to acquaint you with worthy of your notice. Congress has not passed any Resolutions, of any considerable con sequence except that respecting the QM Genl, since I wrote you last. To enter into a detail, of all the difficulties and embaresments, that attend all our publick measures for want of Money, would only Serve to hurt your feelings. A line from your Excellency at every convenient opportunity would be gratefully acknowledged by him who hath the Honour to be your Excellencys most obedient and most Humbl Servant, Ezekiel Cornell P.S. Since writing the above, an Express hath arived from General Gates, in North Carolina. The accounts from that quarter, are not so favourable as I could wish. The want of money, is equally the same there as here. The want of Provisions is extreamly great in the southern Army, even to that degree that they are with out either Flesh or Bread, living on Vigetables. We are endeavouring to fix, on ways and means, to make more Ample provision, for their suport. I fear you will think I delight, in informing you of only the gloomy, side of our publick affairs. I assure you I should be exceeding happy if truth would justify a different language. The Enemy by the best accounts are in full possession of South-Carolina, and Georgia, with a small part of N. Carolina, beyond Pedee River. Congress is en deavouring to put the Army under General Gates in a situation to be able to confine them to the limits the Genl shall fix. E. Cornell RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors).
