572 August 13, 1780 (Economy. I must confess I more fear his want of abilitys, than the want of (Economy. At the same time I wish him success. Before this will reach it is more than probable you will hear that Congress have recalled their Commee. from Head Quarters. 2 The Measure was become necessary, for Several reasons, Some states were dissatisfied, many members of Congress were displeased with the letters they wrote. The situation of our finances, is such as to make, every thinking man shudder. The New money, ordered into Circulation, by the Resolution of the 18 of March meets with so many obstructions, I almost dispare of the Credit, it will have in the states that shall Comply with the resolution. If that should fail, good God what will be our fate, without money or Credit at home or abroad? We have not one farthing of Money in the Treasury, And I know of no Quarter, from which we have a right to expect any. Yet we go on Contented, pleasing ourselves with the sanguine hopes of reducing New York. I have seen many new sceens, before I came to this place, But what I have ex perienced since exceeds any thing I have ever seen before. 1 never before se a set of men that could quietly submit to every kind of difficulty that tended to the ruin of their Country without endeavour ing to make one effort to remove the obstruction. I beleive they wish their Country well but suffer their time almost wholy to be taken up in business of no Consequence. I am dear Sr., your Humbl. Servt. RC (DLC: Greene Papers). In the hand of Cornell, though not signed. Endorsed: “From Genl Cornell, Philada. 13th August 1780.” 1 See Cornell to Nathanael Greene, August 1, 1780. 2 See Samuel Huntington to Committee at Headquarters, August 12, 1780. Samuel Huntington to Alexander McDougall Sir, Philada. August 13. 1780 I have the Honor to lay before you the enclosed Act of Congress of the 12 Instant, by which you will be informed of their Proceedings on the Memorial from the General Officers. Some further Matters were under Consideration for the Benefit of the General Officers their Widows and Children, which are re committed and I trust will be speedily determined. 1 I am Sir, with Sentiments of Esteem & respect, your most obedient Servant, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 Although Congress had previously responded to a number of army grievances
