574 August 14, 1780 aught not to be fixt at all, Puts it out of my Power to give you Satisfaction on this Subject. 1 Suppose you will expect I Should Say Something abought our Public affairs in general as they appear to us who are on the Spot where information of every Kind is most likely to be had. Much, Very much my good frind is Depending in my opinion on this Camp- paine—as the exertions of the Several States are very grate, unless Some important Blow is Struck or Something Decisive is done. I am affraid of the effect it may have on the People at large if Cald upon for the like exertions another year—and the disadvantages we may be laid under if a negotiaton for a Peace Shood take Place is obvious. I Can informe you our genneral Spirits and expectations are Riseing, and allso that we expect every day to hear of the arrival of the 2d Division of Ships of War from France—on which Depends in my opinion all our offensive opperations. Yesterday I heard Coll. Peabody was unwell at Morristown. 1 Shall Set out for home the 20th of September at farthest if I Shood live so long and am able—and Shall expect Somebody to Relieve me by that time or the State will be unrepresented. The intence hot wather we have had here for a long time Past and Constant Confinement hase brought me Some what low a Ride to the northward I hope will be of Service to me. Be So good as to informe President Weare that there hase bin no Publication of the Prises Drawn in the last lottery as yet, as Soon as there is any I will forward it to him. Sr. I am with Respect your most Obt. Humbl. Servent, Nathl. Folsom RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 'Josiah Bartlett’s May 13 letter to Folsom is in Bartlett, Papers (Mevers), pp. 280- 81. 2 Explaining the impact of the March 18 congressional Fiscal resolve in New Hamp shire, Bartlett had reported that “paper bills will not buy more than half or at most two thirds as much as before that Resolve Came to hand and many people will not take them on any account whatever.” Ibid., p. 280. Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates Sir, Philadelphia August 14. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 12 Instant, ordering General Moultrie to make Return of the Com missary of Prisoners that he shall appoint in Charles Town to you for your Approbation. 1 You have also enclosed a Letter to General Moultrie with several
