578 August 15, 1780 Congress instructions on the Mississippi and the West they had received from the Virginia Assembly. The September 2 report of this committee was adopted on October 4, and two days later still another committee was appointed to draft instructions for Jay that were approved on October 17. See JCC, ll’.TZT, 754-55, 802, 18:900-902, 908, 935-47; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:127-36. See also James Lovell to Henry Laurens, August 15; and Whitmell Hill to Thomas Burke, August 20, 1780. ’ Congress had appointed committees on “ways and means’’ (Ezekiel Cornell, Wil liam Churchill Houston, Timothy Matlack, John Morin Scott, and Sherman), and on salaries for officers of congressional boards and the court of appeals (John Hanson, Houston, and Sherman), on August ll. JCC, 17:721, 723. 4 For these August 12 resolves, see JCC, 17:726-27. Ezekiel Cornell to Nathanael Greene Dear Sr. Philadelphia August 15th. 1780. I had the pleasure to receive your favour, of the 9th Instant yes-, terday. I am sensible of the difficultys, the Army labour under, for want of proper supplys, in the QM. Genl department. But 1 fear a greater difficulty, if possible is near at hand, I mean a general fast through the Army, and that for want of a Supply of provision. That matter now under consideration of a Committee of which I am one, 1 we meet this morning at eight o’Clock, I fear the difficultys are of so stubbern a nature, as to baffle all our efforts. They arise from a complication of Blunders, as well as unforeseen accidents. I think you have now nearly adopted the opinion, I was of, when at Moristown, concerning publick life. And the more I see, of publick life the more I despise it. The Zeal I shew against adopting the New plan, for regulating the Q.M.G. department, caused the Majority of Congress to treat me with great Coolness, for a considerable time. It hath now intirely subsided, 1 am now treated with the greatest politeness, and enjoy as great a share of their Confidence, as I can expect, Which leads me to beleive they are sorry they have carryed the matter so far, but their pride will not permit them to retract. I can say no more than that it hath appeared to me from the first, that some thought it necessary to sacrifice, one for the Salvation of the whole, But upon the whole it is my opinion some particular piques, and predujucies excepted, Congress that is every Member, wish well to their Country. But their being so many members and so many different sentiments and to that may be added want of ablity or general knowledge & in attention to business, that it cannot be won dered at, if difficultys arise in carrying on our publick affairs. By the inclosed letter, 2 you will be informed the Committee are recalled. It is there mentioned as a necessary measure. I believe it to be so, to keep harmony among our selves. Some members were against their appointment, they have never failed to blow the Coal on all Occa sions. The Committee have at some times wrote plainly to us, and
