August 15, 1780 579 pressed our difficultys Close upon us, which is another matter many of us cannot Bear, altho founded on the greatest truths, For my own part I se nothing to charge the Committee with in point of Conduct, some of their letters, were in a stile rather warm but that I imputed to Schylers Zeal and the Warm Climate of Matthews Nativity. Con gress were not so angry at the Memorial of the General officers as you imagined. We are not apt to be angry at any thing we can evade. The memorial wase Committed to five members of Congress to con sider & report upon, which hath been done, but in such a manner, If I may be allowed to judge from the little knowledge I have of the sentiments of the Army, As to give little or no Satisfaction. 3 These letters are wrote intirely in confidence. My Complimints if you please to Harry Knox and tell him there is a report that his Honour & your self posses[s] the Most uneasy disposition of any two general officers in the Army. Much hath been lately said about some letters that certain Gentlemen wrote to Congress when they Sett at york Town. 4 I am dear Genl with every Sentiment of Esteem your most obedient and most Hum Servant. RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). In Cornell’s hand, though not signed. Endorsed: “From Genl. Cornel, Philada. 15th August 1780.’’ 1 Cornell is probably referring to the committee of five appointed on August 11 “to make an estimate of the expence . . . and to provide ways and means for such further supplies as may be necessary,” for which see the preceding entry, note 3. 2 Not identified. 5 See Samuel Huntington to Alexander McDougall, August 13, 1780. 4 Perhaps an allusion to some of the criticism directed at General Washington during the autumn and winter of 1777-78 associated with the intrigues of Gens. Thomas Conway and Thomas Mifflin, for which see these Letters, 8:314n.5, 330-31. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Sir Philadelphia August 15th. 1780. 1 had the honour to receive your Excellencys letter of the 25th Ulto. by yesterdays post. 1 It gave me great pleasure as it in a great measure, enabled me to give Congress, the information they have often called on me for, and that from good Authority, and in such a manner, as was perfectly agreable to them, And you may rest asured the State, (tho small) stand high in the opinion of Congress, which tends to make this delegate, as happy as our distressed Situation, will admit. He hath the vanity, to think he hath both the Confidence and respect of congress as much as tho he represented a state much larger. At the same time I have a particular pleasure, to find the state have passed, a law, for funding the money ordered to be emited, by a Resolution of the 18th March. 2 As it was the only means, that ap peared to be left to Supply the want of money (and of the most
