582 August 15, 1780 1 That is, Jacques Necker, French director general of finances. 2 The enclosed August 3 letter from the comte de Rochambeau at Newport is in the Carroll Papers, MdHi. For Congress’ response to the French general’s commu nication, see Committee of Congress Report on Rochambeau’s Letter, August 17, 1780. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia August 15th 1780 I received your favour by the post. Our Army Continues at Dobbs’s ferry. It is very great and daily increasing. Men I am persuaded will not be wanting to Carry into execution any enterprise our worthy General may have in Contemplation, but the feeding them is the difficulty. The daily Consumption of the Army is now 100 Barrells flour and Sixty Bullocks &c. This great as it is might be procured had we money, but our Treasury is empty, and no Supplies expected from the States in any Sort equal to the demand. Our embarrass ments are great, and exceedingly distressing, and the State of our finances is Such as would require the abillities of a Necker to put it into proper order, yet I hope by the assisstance of the new Bills, Certificates, and Sale of Bills, we Shall be able to Keep the Army together. The British fleet is Still off Rhode Island. No accounts yet of the Arrival of the Second Division of the french. Mr Jay is arrived at Madrid and yesterday Mr Laurance Sailed from hence for Holland. I have agreed with the Coachmaker for a Charot for you of the best Kind at £210 Gold or Continental at the exchange, to be finished by the first week in November—if you have a Coachmans Seat to it you Can have for the money 2 Setts of Harness only. If it is made without, four Setts will be furnished. Be pleased to let me have your Instructions in this matter by the next post. My most respectful Com pliments to Mrs. Lee, her Commission Shall be attended to. Am Sorry I cant Send her the Slippers by this post, the man has disappointed me. I am with very respectfully, your Excellencys most humble Servt, John Hanson [P.S.] My finances begin to run low and I believe my Colleagues are not much better—pray Save in Some Cash, it must be in Continental old money, yrs, J.H. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). John Henry to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir Philadela. Aug. 15th. 1780. A letter was yesterday received from Mr. Jay dated the 23d of May
