584 August 15, 1780 Department of the Comissary General of Issues. 2 1 have marked some Places with an Index. As the Issuing of rations every where through the Country is, I know, disagreeable to you, and produces the utmost Distress to the Army by consuming the Provisions purchased for them, I hope you will give strict Orders in Conformity to the Res olutions referred to. They are, I observe, published in the New-Jersey Gazette; but I do not think they are generally known; and perhaps the Deputies at the different Posts may wait your Orders. It is a great Object and calls your immediate Attention. I should not suppose your Orders had not been given, but that I called at Trenton, and Mr. Paxton informed me he was at a total Loss what to do. This led me to think you had not seen the Resolutions. I am, dear Sir, your very obedt hble Servant, William Ch Houston RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1243). 1 That is, the new regulations for the quartermaster general’s department, which had been adopted by Congress on July 15. JCC, 17:615-35. 2 Colonel Stewart was the commissary general of issues. Joseph Jones to James Hunter Dear Sr. 15th Augt. 1780 Col. Chs. Carter sometime ago wrote to me to procure him a Bolting Cloth. I then enquired and found several in the possession of one person only for sale, the price for the finest £4 hard money Per yard the second size £3. I inform’d the Colonel of this and have not since heard from him. Want of Cash prevented my buying for him and will do the same for Mr Voss if any of the Cloths are left wch. is very doubtfull as they were I understood in great demand. We have nothing new worth mentioning. The Court of Spain are disposed to enter into the alliance and nothing but our pretensions on the Missisippi can I believe prevent it. Our Operations are for the present Suspended in expectation of a reinforcemt. to the French Fleet at this time inferior to the British. We shall when they arrive be in condition to Cooperate with them as our Army is much streng then’d and is daily encreasing. Our only fear is provision to feed them. I thank you very kindly for your offer respecting Mrs. Jones but shall visit Virga, the first of next month. Some privateers have taken the Mercury Packet for New York with nine or ten Officers, some Ladies & Servts. who are now here. Adieu, yr. aff Sev. Jos. Jones RC (ViU: Hunter-Garnett Papers).
