August 15, 1780 585 James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin Honorable Sir. Philadelphia 15 Aug 1780 Though I cannot procure the Signatures of the Committee of Foreign affairs at this moment, nor the resolve of Congress respecting Bills to be drawn on you for One hundred Thousand Dollars, passed two or three days ago,' the Bills payable at 90 days sight, yet I should be blamable if I did not thus far notify you. The breach upon our Taxes at the Southward, by the possession which the Enemy have there, made this disagreable step necessary for the express purpose of supporting General Gates in that Department. Notwithstanding the mention made in our Journals long ago, of giving you a Secretary, no vote has lately been taken for the purpose. The Honorable Mr Laurens will be able on any questions from you, in corresponding, to give you whatever the Gazettes do not convey. I am Sir your most humble Servant, Signed James Lovell P.S. 22 Aug 1780. I now add the resolves. FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). 1 This resolve, which authorized the preparation of bills of exchange to be drawn on Franklin for $100,000 in specie for the military chest in the southern department, was actually adopted on August 9, although additional resolutions concerning the emission and distribution of these bills were adopted this day. See JCC, 17:712-14, 733-34. Lovell had doubtless obtained copies of those of the 15th as well as of the 9th when he added the postscript to this letter on the 22d. James Lovell to Henry Laurens Dr Sir. Augst. 15th [1780] Majr. Young could not tell me particularly any thing that you requested, but only that “you mentioned my Name” and he hoped I would know for what Purpose. I imagine “to know whether there was any News or any Letters for you.” Mr. Bee reed, a single one for you from the Eastward and probably when the Post came after wards from the southwd.—as to News—We yesterday had a Nar rative of 40 Sheets from Mr. Jay dated Madrid 26th of May. 1 There is a great deal of interesting matter in it. I will give you a Sketch. On Apr 27 he reed, a Letter from the comtee. of for. Affairs dated Dec. i 1 inclosg. the Resolves of Nov 23 & 29 for drawing on you and him for cash. Apr 29th He wrote to the C[om]te Florida Blanca very well on the Subject, but stuck too closely to the System of the address of Sepr. last which was his own Child. The Count in
