586 August 15, 1780 Reply said He could have easily answered the Demand last year, but Spain is like Tantalus—her Revenues in America [mock her?]—it is still his Majesty’s Intentions to give the Congress all the assistance in his Power—at the end of the present year or the beginning of the next it would be in his Powers to advance £25, 30 or 40,000 Stg. in the mean Time should the Bills be presented “He would take such Measures as would satisfy the owners of them.” He would also en deavour to send Cloth. As to a Treaty a long string of previous Questions were asked by the Spaniard and answered very wisely by the American. Mr. F. 2 is the Stick. The King is bent upon having it to himself Jay is stiff but thinks that a media Via such as a contraband Treaty may be stipulated specially in regard to that Navigation to prepare the Way for the great Negociation of Amity. Mirailles had informed the Count that our Congress had relinquished the River and afterwards made an essential Point of it. The King had not got the Intelligence he wanted from Havannah in regard to local Circumstance which must be ob tained previous to a Treaty. N.B. I think that you may get such Information of Capt. Pickles and otherways as to be able to write a very useful Letter to J. con cerning present local Circumstances in the Miss. Quarter. His con clusion is that Congress will adhere to their free navign. but that Regulations respectg. contraband articles and not inconsistant with that Idea and may be a means of closing the Business Amicably. He told the Count that many of the States were bounded by that River & were highly interested in its navigation but were willing to enter into amicable Regulations to prevent Inconveniencies in Regard to Contraband & other objects which might excite the Uneasiness of Spain. Sir John Dalrymple appeared in Spain the 9th of April in his Way to England thro France, his wife not being able to bear the Sea from Portugal. He is endeavoring to revive a Plan of Ld. Rochforts fab ricated before France was allied to America. It is for a General Con federacy between England, France, Spain & Portugal to guarantee each others Possessions: “it is not yet too late Says Sr. John to save a million of Christians from becoming Widows & orphans”. The most material Proviso of the Confederacy is that a War in Europe shall not be a War in America. Major Young calls. The Spanish Minister treated Sr. John “properly” and gave the strongest assurances of the King’s “Firmness” to Mr. Jay. (Ministers of Holland and the northern Powers) “I have reed, nothing more than common Civility from any of them except the Ministers of Holland & Sweeden, and indeed not much more from them. Perhaps they have been rendered more than usually cautious by an Extract of a Letter from Madrid published in the Leyden Gazette respecting Mr. Carmichael’s Reception and the At tention he reed, from forgn. Ministers.”
