588 August 15, 1780 was occasioned by Genl. Washington’s Movements, or by contrary Winds, which delayed him so long that he had no prospect of sur prising the French Commander, we know not: however it is greatly lamented that he did not persevere, for he must have failed inevitably at Rhode Island, the French being nobly supported by the New Eng land Men, and Genl. Washington very probably would have carried N. York in his Absence. In Consequence of Clintons Return, Genl. Washington repassed the North River. Admiral Graves’s Fleet lies at Anchor between Block Island and point Judith, so as to block up the French Fleet completely. The preparations for attacking New York are still going on with the greatest Vigour. Genl. Washington I conjecture has now with him near 20,000 Men, exclusive of a strong Garrison at West Pt.; the Militia of this State 3,500, march this day under the Command of their Governor; the Jersey Militia are or dered to be ready at an hours Warning, and other Reinforcements are yet to join the Army from the Eastward, all which will probably make an Army of at least 30,000 Men. Should the French Fleet be reinforced so as to give us a Superiority on the Water in time, I think N. York will certainly fall; otherwise I fear it will be impracticable to reduce it; nor do I know that Genl. Washington, without this Contingent, will make the attempt. Congress have been under the greatest Difficulties ever since my arrival arising chiefly from want of Money. There is not one Shilling in the Continental Treasury. The New Money for some of the States will soon be thrown into Circulation; we hope that will relieve us. Congress appears willing to do every thing for the Support of the Southern army and the Recovery of Georgia & So. Carolina. Genl. Washington is empowered and directed to form a plan for the latter purpose, but not to interfere with the immediate Operations agt. N. York: 3 The Govr. of Virginia, is ordered to transmit a considerable [. . .] 4 and of the Military Chest. Nothing remains to be done to complete this Resolution but to fix the price of the Bills, which is to be done this Morning. Governor Rutledge I believe will take with him all the Resolutions on this Subject, and a part or the whole of the Bills of Exchange. 5 I reed, your Letter yesterday, and immediately enquired of the Clothier Genl, respecting our Cloathing, who tells me has nothing belonging to us. I will apply to the Board of War, and do every thing necessary, if there [. . .] 6 Carolina; the Vessel was chased in the Bay and obliged to run into some Creek, where the arms were put on Shore, and left we fear in very bad Condition: however a Member of the Board informed WJ. some days ago that they had taken proper Steps for recovery of the arms and transporting them to No. Carolina agreeable to Order of Congress. 7 We had Dispatches yesterday from Mr. Jay, our Minister at the Court of Spain. Nothing decisive had been done when he wrote; but the Spanish Court appeared friendly, and seemed disposed to second
