August 15, 1780 589 our Operations against Great Britain. We fear the Navigation of the Missisippi will prove a stumbling Block; but we hope the Difficulty will be surmounted. The Inteligence you communicate in your Letter gives us the high est Satisfaction, as well on Account of the vigorous Exertions made by our State against the Enemy, as of the Humanity displayed in relieving our Gallant Officers and Soldiers at Charlestown. We know your present Situation, and are sincerely sorry that you have so many Difficulties to encounter; but we trust that perseverance will in the End surmount them all, great and numerous as they are, and we rejoice that the Genl. Assembly of No. Carolina had Wisdom to elect a Man who was equal to the important Occasion. You will oblige us exceedingly by giving us from time to time the Situation of Affairs in No. Carolina. The Accounts we get are so contradictory, that it is impossible to develop the Truth. The Conduct of the Virginians is execrated here. 8 We are with the most sincere Esteem, Dear Sir, Your most obedt. Servts. Willie Jones Whitll Hill FC (Nc-Ar: Legislative Papers). In the hand of Willie Jones. RC (Nc-Ar: Governor’s Papers). Written by Jones and signed by Jones and Whitmell Hill. Both texts damaged. ' That is, Willie Jones. 2 Not found. 5 See Samuel Huntington to Washington, August 5, 1780. 1 Approximately one-half page missing at this point. 5 Jones is undoubtedly referring to Congress’ August 7 resolve to provide a “Military Chest” for the southern department, for which see Huntington to Horatio Gates, August 10, note 3, and the sale of bills of exchange drawn on Benjamin Franklin under its August 9 resolve to obtain the needed funds, for which see James Lovell to Franklin, this date. 6 Undetermined amount of manuscript missing at this point. Remainder of text taken from RC. 7 For the arms ordered for North Carolina in June, see JCC, 17:486, 492. 8 In the absence of Nash’s “Letter,” Jones’ reference here is unclear, but he is probably referring to Virginia’s failure to mobilize troops for the ensuing campaign, for which see the following entry. John Walker to George Weedon Dear General: Philadelphia, August 15, 1780. The French fleet and army are still blocked up at Newport by Greaves, but in perfect security. Rochambeau heard Clinton was mov ing that way and applied to Heath for a few militia. They began to flock in so that in a few days they amounted to 20,000. Clinton immediately returned, but the brave Yankees could scarcely be pre vailed on to go home before the land was purged of those pests to
