590 August 15, 1780 society. How contrary is the conduct of Virginia? I am ashamed of my native country and almost determined to renounce it. Would to God the second division were here and a junction with the first formed, in that case I think New York would quake. Our army is already getting very numerous and I think any number might be raised for the siege. The derangement of our finances—the resignation of the Quarter Master General—Shippen’s trial &c. &c. perplex us beyond measure, yet I hope all will be well with us. Pickering is appointed Quarter Master General and much is expected from his diligence and fidelity. Prizes innumerable are brought in here. Yesterday was sent up the June packet, nine weeks from Falmouth with a cargo of officers and ladies. Your old friend M’Clanahan is principal owner of all the prizes, he fits out the Enemy’s vessels as he takes them and in a short time will have a formidable squadron. The Packet mounted 20 guns, and he daily expects a copper bottom mounting 26 guns from the West Indies. Well done Blair.' When do you set out for the Southern Army? I hope things will soon begin to wear a better face there. Our scheme is to take New York with the fleet and army there before winter sets in, and then to send you sufficient succor to the south. As soon as matters begin to draw towards a point at New York, I intend to visit my friends in camp and expect to see a glorious sight. I am greatly hurried and my paper out, therefore bid you adieu. Jn. Walker. MS not found; reprinted from Thomas Balch, ed., Papers Relating Chiefly to the Maryland Line During the Revolution (Philadelphia: Printed for the Seventy-Six Society, 1857), pp. 115-16. 1 That is, Blair McClenachan, a Philadelphia merchant. Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington In committee of Congress, Sir, Camp, Tapan, August 16th, 1780. I inclose copy of a circular letter to the States, also copy of a letter from the commissary general to the committee, for the information of Congress. 1 With all deference, I beg leave to approach that august body over which you preside, and if the subject should not be thought “too important” and one of those that in the opinion of Congress “ought not to employ the time and attention” of this committee, and our interference in which, will not have a tendency to retrench too much
