August 16, 1780 591 from the high prerogatives of that body, 2 I would humbly submit to their consideration, a letter from Coll. Stewart, copy of which is inclosed. In consequence of a resolve of Congress, Coll. Stewart is intitled to the value of the horse, on an appraisement, but being a favorite horse of his, he would prefer having him returned, rather than the money. 3 I must beg the favour of your Excellency, to have the dispatches Southward of Pensylvania, forwarded to the respective States. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, Your Excellency’s Most obedient servant, in behalf of the committee, Jno Mathews RC (DNA: PCC, item 39). In the hand of Abraham Brasher and signed by Mathews. 1 See the following entry. 2 Mathews is here paraphrasing Congress’ August 2 resolves rebuking the committee for its interference in behalf of Nathanael Greene and its attention to memorials that were the primary concern of Congress, for which see the Committee to Huntington, July 18, 1780, especially notes 11 and 14. Since Congress had already dismissed the committee, this retort was merely read in Congress on the 21st with no action taken upon it. See JCC, 17:749; and Huntington to the Committee, August 12. Mathews’ sarcasm here reveals feelings he had long been expressing, for he had been denouncing congressional incompetence in personal letters to friends since his early days in Con gress in 1778, for which see these Letters, 10:236, 682-83, 11:70-71. 5 On July 17 Col. Walter Stewart of the 2nd Pennsylvania Regiment appealed to both Philip Schuyler and the committee to honor his claim for return of his “Grey Horse” captured at Monmouth. The horse had since been sold by the British and acquired by Major Henry Lee’s Corps, leading Stewart to conclude that because the horse was “now in Possession of the Publick, I have again a right to him.” Although the letter was read in Congress, no action was ever taken. See JCC, 17:749; and PCC, item 78, 20:519-22. Committee at Headquarters to the States Circular. Sir. In Committee of Congress, Tapan, August 16, 1780 Inclosed you will receive copy of a letter of the 15th Instant from the Commissary General. 1 Circumstanced as our Army at present is, the information con tained in this letter becomes truly alarming. It requires the utmost attention of the Officers, together with all the necessaries, and even comforts of life, to render the service acceptable to recruits, and as the greatest part of the Army, at present consist of that class of men, if the time should unhappily arrive when we will be reduced to the necessity of putting them on half allowance of provisions, or probably have none to give them, the consequence must be, that those men unaccustomed to endure this species of distress, and not brought to that state of discipline, which can give their Officers that controul
