August 21, 1780 611 Genl. Washington’s army including the Garrison at West point & Militia already with him, or in Motion so as to join at short Notice must at this time amount to about 30,000 Men. The french Force now at Rhode Island is 5,000 Land Forces, under Count De Ro- chambaud and 8 Ships of the Line under Admiral Ternay and three or four Frigates. G.W. commands the whole & the Officers are di rected by his M. C. Majesty to pay him all the honours due to a Marshal of France. Admiral Graves with 10 Ships of the Line & seven or eight Frigates lies between Block Island & point Judith & com pletely blocks up the French Fleet. An additional French armament of Line of Battle Ships and Land forces is expected; should they arrive in time and give us a Superiority on the Water, N.York in all human probability must fall; without this Superiority I fear it will be impracticable to reduce it, nor do I know that Genl. Washington will make the attempt. Congress have empowered and directed Genl. Washington to form a plan for recovering So. Carolina and Georgia; but so as not to interfere with the immediate Operations agt. N.York. The Regular troops raising in Virginia are ordered to join Genl. Gates, and Congress have voted 100,000 Dollars in Specie, in Bills on France, to supply the Military Chest in the Southern Department. Governor Rutledge, I believe, will take the Bills on with him in a few days. We have been and still are exceedingly embarrassed for Money, most or all of the States having failed to comply fully with the Money Requisitions made by Congress.The New Money is ready for some of the States and will soon be thrown into Circulation, I hope this will give us some Relief; but I tremble for the Event. We have Intelligence from Mr. Jay our Minister at the Court of Spain. Nothing decisive was done there; but it appears that the Span ish Monarch is friendly to us & inclined to second our Operaitons agt. G. Britain. I inclose you a paper which will give you some Idea of the Dis traction prevailing in England. A London paper of June 12 came in the Falmouth packet; this paper is smuggled by some of the Tories; we are told it contains this Intelligence, that Matters had grown worse & worse, an Attempt had been made by the Mob on the Bank of England, a good deal of Blood spilt on the Occasion, Lord George [Gordon] sent to the Tower, Martial Law declared [. . .] a Million of Money granted to the King for his Tryal & for bringing other Of fenders to Ju[stice] and to defray the Damage done by the Mob. 2 I must request the favour of you to relieve me if you can without great Inconvenience, about the last of October. I am heartily tired of this place & wish to be at home as soon as possible; add to this that it will be very disagreeable to travel if the cold Weather should set in before I take my Departure, and will make it difficult for me
