616 August 22, 1780 By letters this day read in Congress from Head Quarters, 2 there is neither Bread or Flesh on hand, sufficient to serve the Army two Days, to which let me add the state of the Treasury. I must then beg liberty to refer my feelings on the Ocasion to your own Judgment. I can not help mentioning these Occurencies to you, perhaps it may be two much Occasioned by an Overheated Zeal for the Cause we are ingaged in. I can assure you it arises from no ill design; and must beg you & the Honl. Genl Assembly, to pardon me in what ever is over prompt, read in private what they shall think necessary, and expunge what ever shall appear superfluous in this & my former Lett. I take the liberty to mention one other malencolly circumstance among others that at this time present themselves to my vew on relateing this. The Torys in the lower County of Deleware grew mad at paying Taxes; about 300 of them flew to Arms and bid defiance to all authority. The Militia of the state was called out & have Quelled the rioters, but not without the loss of a Number Killed and wounded on both sides. I have not yet been able to obtain all the particulars but this is certain. Since my last, Congress have receivd. a letter from Mr. Jay, dated Madrid the 30th of May, 3 by which it appears a difficulty is likly to arise in Settling a Treaty with the Spanish Court. The King of Spain by his minister demands as one Article in the Treaty, The free, Intire and absolute Navigation of the River Missisippi, Which measure Con gress will not willingly agree to. 4 I have the Honour to be your Excellencys Most obedt and Most Hume Servant, Ezek Cornell NB. Sine writing the above Mr. Housten one of the Delegates of the State of N. Jersey Delivered me a Schedule of the Acts of their General Assembly and wishes one of ours in return May be Sent. I have inclosed the one I Rd. and should one be Sent I shall take Care to se it delivered. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). ' That is, July 29. JCC, 17:678. 2 Cornell is almost certainly referring to letters of August 17 and 19 from General Washington and from the Committee at Headquarters, which were read in Congress on August 23. JCC, 17:759-60. Because no letters “from Head Quarters” were read on August 22, Cornell may actually have completed this letter on August 23. ’Jay’s May 30 letter was read in Congress on August 21. See JCC, 17:749; PCC, item 110, 1:182; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:742. 4 It is undoubtedly no coincidence that on August 22 the delegates of Virginia chose to lay before Congress “instructions from their constituents” concerning the navi gation of the Mississippi, which were read and “referred to the committee on the extract of Mr. Jay's letter, of 26 May.” JCC, 17:755. They are, however, not in PCC, but in the Continental Congress Miscellany, DLC. They are endorsed by Charles Thomson: “Instructions to delegates of Virginia Nov. 5. 1779. Read Aug 22, 1780. Referred to Mr Jones, Mr Walton, Mr McKean.”
