624 August 26, 1780 collected under the command of Genl Gates and were extreamly successful in a variety of skirmishes with them surprizing & cuting off most of their posts when Gates advanced with his main body consisting of about 900 continental troops & 2000 militia to within 7 miles of Cambden where he was attacked by Cornwallis with his whole force. The militia being surprized fled at the first fire & Genl. Gates in order to raly them quited the ground while our regulars remained fighting nor did he stop till he reached Hilsborough which is near 200 miles from which place on the fourth day after the battle he writes to us but as he knew nothing of what passed after he left the place and we had reason to conclude from his account that all the continentals were cut of[fj—But by better advises we learn that they maintained the battle with great spirit after the flight of the militia had enabled the enemy to turn their flanks that they retired in such order as totally to destroy the enimies horse which attacked them on their retreat and it is even said they have brought of^f] their cannon. Genl D’Calb is dangerously (some say mortally) wounded. No other Officer of distinction as we have yet heard is mising. As we are in hourly expectation of some further information I hope to receive it before I am under a necessity of closing this. We have long been flattering ourselves with a prospect of recovering New York & giving by the assistance of france a descisive blow to the enemy, for this purpose we took measures to augment our army under the com mand of Genl Washington to 30000 men but our prospects grow more & more faint every day. The first division of the french fleet has been & still continues to be blocked up by a superior fleet at Rhode Island. The second have not yet sailed that we can hear. The militia tired out are returning home. Our Magazines are exhausted & our finances before sufficiently deranged have been still more disordered thereby. Your Old friend the Confederacy is still here owing to our inability to procure the necessary means of fitting her for sea. However I believe that obstacle will be removed in a few days. Our privateers have been uncommonly successful. Every day sees new prizes enter our ports, among others no less than 29 of the Quebeck fleet richly laden have been brought in by the Boston & Salem privateers & twelve more are said to have been taken by a french ship of the line & the remaining 8 fearful to proceed because of the privateers that were cru[is]ing in the gulph of St. Lawrence have put into Halifax. The combined fleets in the West Indies have separated & thereby lost a noble opportunity of taking Jamaica which is in a manner defenceless as Govr Balling with the greater part of the troops from that Island is said to be upon an expediton to the Spanish settlements in the main. I write you occurences without order just as they arise in my mind because I know that in your situation facts are of more importance to you than deductions from them. But as in proportion to a mans distance from home is his avidity to hear
