636 August 30, 1780 take a Puke for the better Operation of the Bark—Wrestling a little for the General Officers & the Army brought on a Slight fever fol lowed by a Sick Stomack & want of appetite, which the fruit of the Vine failed to recover. There is a Capital Question respecting our Western extent & free Navigation on the Missisippi Suddenly to come on, in answer to a late letter from [Mr.] Jay s if this were dis cussed, I hope to be at full liberty to retire, especially as Mr. McClane now attends—three good members at once in the House is sufficient. We hear that rather than return any of your Militia, the Genl, wishes you to Supply them from the County of Bucks. He mentions the middle of Sepr as the latest period for commencing the investiture of New York. If Competant numbers should appear to fail, what do you think of private intimations thro’ some channel or other, for a certain distribution of plunder, under Some limitations? I am Dear Sir with every cordial wish to you & the Young Gentle men of your Family—Your most respectfull, humbl. Servt. John Armstrong [P.S.] I have yet heard nothing of Genl. Potter, nor of the back Militia. 31st. Before this reach you, some person in better health will inform you of the total defeat & dispersion of Genl. Gates’s Army by Corn wallis, 4 Mr. Burke writes that Gates was Obliged to fight or disband for want of provisions—my fever is now risen So high that I cannot add—only that Genl. Potter is come & I have advised his Stay a few days to get Some necessaries. RC (NHi: Reed Papers). 1 Reed’s letter from “Trentown” is not in PCC, and “the Subject of which [he] wrote” can only be conjectured, but Armstrong may be referring to Congress’ August 25 resolution concerning the rank of state executives when acting in the field, which was the product of a motion by John Henry. See JCC, 17:777-78; and Samuel Hun tington to the States, September 3, 1780. 2 A reference to Washington’s letter to Congress of August 20, for which see Samuel Huntington to Washington, August 28, 1780, note 2. ’ See Roger Sherman to Oliver Wolcott, August 14, 1780, note 2. 4 See Samuel Huntington to Washington, August 31, 1780. Samuel Huntington to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philada August 30. 1780 Enclosed your Excellency will receive a resolve of Congress of this Day recommending to the President & Privy Council of Delaware to permit Wm Murray Master of the Schooner Betsey & Nancy of Ber mudas to export in the said Vessel to the Value of the present Cargo of Salt by him imported into that State; in Flour, Indian Corn or other Produce for the Use of the distressed Inhabitants of the said
