August 31, 1780 637 Island, taking Security from him that the same shall not be applied to any other Use. 1 I have the Honor to be, &c, &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). ' See JCC, 17:780, 792, 795. Capt. Murray’s August 25 petition requesting per mission to exchange a cargo of salt for flour and corn in Delaware is in PCC, item 41, 6:191—94, along with the report of the committee to which it was referred on the 26th. Nathaniel Peabody to Richard Bache Sir Morristown 30th Augt. 1780 I have Just reed a letter from the president of the State of New Hampr Complaining exceedingly, that Nothing is yet done with re spect to establishing a post office in Exeter and directing the Post rider that way. 1 He observes that he had Lately Seen Mr Hazzard but obtaind nothing further than only that Mr. Flagg condesended to promise that the presidents Letters Should be so put up, as to be left at Hampton falls!! I leave You Sr. to Judge whether this was all the State had reason to expect from what had passed between you & me upon that Subject. And now Sir I have only to ask a particular favour that You must be so very obliging as to inclose to me your explicit determination upon the promises that the State may know what to rely upon And take other measures accordingly, for unless something is done that State will immedeately remonstrate against paying one farthing for the Support of the office. You will pardon my being thus, unjust upon this occasion, as it is a duty I owe to the State, I am censured for not haveing the matter Sooner Settled. The presidents Letter is very long & upon a variety of important Subjects or I would have Sent it to you, The Honble. Mr. Mathews who will deliver this Letter will Take Charge of any answers you shall be pleased to give. I have the honr to be Sir FC (Nh-Ar: Miscellaneous Revolutionary Documents). In the hand of Nathaniel Pea body. ' The FC of Meshech Weare’s August 8 letter containing this complaint is in the Weare Papers, MHi. See also Peabody to Weare, July 25, 1780. John Armstrong, Sr., to George Washington Dear General Philada. 31st August 1780 Since my return to Congress in the latter end of May, few Weeks
