638 August 31, 1780 have passed in which I did not intend the pleasure of writing you— Yet can the fault of Omission I now acknowledge be imputed to no other cause that the progressive langure and infirmity produced by an attention to business often perplexing in it Self, and a tedious debate with the dissolving heat of this City. At present I know of nothing new, but an account Yesterday brought by a Vessel from the West Indias, that some British Ships of force has lately gone into the road or Port of St. Martins & there captured & carried off Several American Vessels—by Steps of this Sort the Dutch may at length be led to more than mere neutrallity. Little did I expect a few minutes ago that the nex[t] paragraph Shou’d convey you the melancholy intelligence which it contains, nothing less than an entire defeat & total loss & dispersion of the Southern Army—being confined to my Room I have not Seen Genl. Gates’s letter, a Copy of wch. no doubt the President will Send you. 1 Mr. Burks Letter puts the misfortune wholely on the want of a Mag azine of provisions, by saying in effect that Genl. Gates must either risque that battle or disband his troops, to which he adds there were favourable prognosticks by a Series of success in the Scirmishing way. Genl. Cornwallis was at the head of three thousand or more with a great Superiority of Horse. The advance guards began in the Night both Armies on the March & both it’s said wishing to gain the Same ground—at day break the line was formed—the Virginia Militia sup ported by Armong [Armand’s] Corps on the Left, N Carolina Militia in the Center—part of the Maryld. troops on the right & the residue as reserve near the Center. The left wing Militia & Center Suddenly fled & cou’d not be rallied & left the few Continentals Surrounded by Horse & foot. Genl. Smalwood is Said to be killed, Baron DeCalb wounded & a prisoner—Genl. Gates said to be pursued fifteen miles—Coll Armong pursued twenty five miles & killed thro’ the failure of his Horses. Dismal as the best Story may be yet a little time will furnish a more accurate & perhaps better account, as when the express came off there was not a Shadow of an Army any where, nor any Magazines to repair to. I intended adding a few thoughts on the Objects of the Campaign and on the recall of the Committee from Camp but find my fever increasing & must desist—with respect to the last, take not the recall as matter of discouragement, but ask what your own consideration may dictate as necessary either of Con gress or of a particular State, and if it can be had I think you will receive it. I have with perfect respect the honor to be, Your Excellencys Af fectionate, humbl. Servt, John Armstrong RC (DLC: Washington Papers). ' See Samuel Huntington to Washington, this date.
