Illustrations View of Philadelphia endpapers “An East Prospect of the City of Philadelphia; taken by George Heap from the Jersey Shore, under the Direction of Nicholas Scull Surveyor General of the Province of Pennsylvania.” This detail is from an engraving by Thomas Jefferys based on an etching of the city published in Thomas Jefferys, A General Topography of North America and the West Indies. Being a Collection of All the Maps, Charts, Plans, and Particular Surveys, That Have Been Published of That Part of the World, Either in Europe or America (London: R. Sayer, 1768). Philip Schuyler 35 An aristocratic Albany, N.Y., landlord, Schuyler was one of the more controversial figures to mount the congressional stage during the Revolution. Named commander of the northern military department in June 1775, one of the three general officers Congress drew from its own ranks when creating the Continental Army, Schuyler soon demonstrated greater aptitude for supplying the army than for field command, in part because a major element of the northern army con sisted of New Englanders, who took a dim view of his aristocratic pre tensions. Although he skillfully organized the invasion of Canada led by Gen. Richard Montgomery in 1775, he did not escape censure for its failures, and the chronic problems that continued to plague the northern department throughout 1776 conspired to reduce still further his stand ing both in and out of Congress. New England delegates who longed to replace him with Horatio Gates listened sympathetically to rumors that he had mishandled public funds and even harbored secret sym pathies for the British. Schuyler’s own intemperate letters to Congress played into the hands of his opponents. By early 1777 it appeared that his congressional support had evaporated when he was admonished for criticizing Congress and Gates was granted an independent command in the northern department. But in April Schuyler thwarted his critics by resuming his seat in Congress, where he narrowly won vindication of his conduct and regained undisputed command over the northern department. His victory was only temporary, however, and scarcely three months after his departure from Philadelphia—where he had also served briefly as military commander of the city while in Congress—he was superseded by Gates for ineffectively opposing xxi
