Illustrations xxiii survives in the form of the correspondence of the Committee for Foreign Affairs of which he was a member. Returning to South Carolina, he served as a captain of artillery in the state militia and was taken by the British in the capture of Charleston in 1780, remaining a prisoner for over a year. Reentering public life after his release, Heyward served South Carolina in both legislative and judicial capacities until he retired to private life in 1789. Because so little of his correspondence survives, a characteristic that he shares with many delegates from the southern colonies where climate and events have wreaked havoc on the historical record, Heyward’s contributions in Congress are diffi cult to assess. Engraving by J. B. Longacre from a miniature. In John Sanderson, Biography of the Signers to the Declaration of Independence, vol. 4 (Philadelphia: R. W. Pomeroy, 1823). Henry Marchant 298 A Newport lawyer who had attended the College of Philadelphia and read law with the noted Massachusetts lawyer Edmund Trowbridge, Marchant was connected with one of Rhode Island’s most prominent political families through his marriage to a daughter of Samuel Ward. The breadth of his intellectual and personal interests was attested to by his long friendship and correspondence with the well-known scholar-divine Ezra Stiles. Marchant entered Congress in 1777 imbued with a strong belief in the wisdom of the people, which was at times reflected in his stand on issues that came before Congress. Thus when he opposed Philip Schuyler because the New York general lacked popular support, the secretary of Congress noted in his record of the debates that Marchant “has a great Opinion of the Judgment of the people. It is generally pure, uncorrupt and well founded.” He was indefatigable as a committeeman during his tenure in Congress (from 1777 to 1779), devoting his greatest energies to the demands of the Marine Committee and the Board of Treasury. Although reelected to Congress in 1783 and 1784, Marchant declined to attend and instead devoted himself to the Rhode Island General Assembly, where from 1784 to 1790 he distin guished himself as a defender of Rhode Island’s commercial interests and an exponent of the federal constitution. After ratification of the new constitution, Marchant was appointed a United States district court judge in Rhode Island, an office he held until his death in 1796. Etching by Max Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Li brary of Congress. George Clymer 349 Clymer was a Philadelphia merchant who played an active role in
