xxiv Illustrations Pennsylvania politics during the decade of prerevolutionary ferment and was elected to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety in 1775. He served as one of two Continental treasurers in 1775-76 and was one of the men Pennsylvania elected to Congress in July 1776 to replace her four delegates who had opposed independence. He therefore became a signer of the Declaration of Independence, although he was not present to vote for its adoption. As a delegate he drew several special assignments that exploited his business acumen. He was named to make an inspection tour on the supply and condition of the northern army in October 1776, and he was a member of the executive committee that remained in Philadelphia when Congress fled to Baltimore during the winter of 1776-77. Subsequently he was engrossed in the business that came before the Board of Treasury and the Board of War, and in July 1777 he was named to the Committee to Camp to inquire into the state of the army and “the causes of the complaints in the com missary’s department.” After he withdrew from Congress he spent four months at Fort Pitt as a commissioner to report on conditions on the western frontiers, but he returned to Congress to serve two additional terms in 1780-82. He was a member of the federal convention in 1787 and was elected to the first federal Congress, but after serving briefly in two appointive capacities during Washington’s administration he retired from public life in 1796 and devoted himself to private interests until his death in 1813. Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, July 26, 1777 381 Students of the American Revolution often find Secretary Thomson’s journals of Congress more tantalizing than satisfying. His principles for recording congressional proceedings have come down to us in the following statement, published in 1827, three years after his death. “With respect to the taking the Minutes: what congress adopted, I committed to writing; with what they rejected, I had nothing farther to do; and even this method led to some squabbles with the members, who were desirous of having their speeches and resolutions, however put to rest by the majority, still preserved upon the Minutes.” That he nevertheless sometimes recorded the substance of debates in greater detail is apparent from his notes that survive for July 24, 25, 26, and 28, 1777. Two pages from those of July 26—sparked by a motion to appoint Horatio Gates to the command of the northern department in the place of Philip Schuyler—have been reproduced here to under score the fragmentary nature of the official journals of Congress, which contain not a word on the subject recorded in the notes illustrated here. Charles Thomson Papers, Manuscript Division, Library of Congress.
