xxvi Illustrations to Lancaster, leaving Howe to occupy Philadelphia unopposed on the 26th. From An Impartial History of the War in America (London & Carlisle, 1780). Brandywine Defeat Broadside, September 11, 1777 648 After a summer of uncertainty, Congress learned of Gen. William Howe’s intentions when on August 22 word reached Philadelphia of the British invasion of the Chesapeake. Moving to impede the march of Howe’s army north from Head of Elk, where it had been disem barked, Washington took up positions on Brandywine Creek early in September, but Howe’s assault on General Sullivan’s position above the main American army collapsed Washington’s defenses. The day after receiving letters from Washington and his military secretary Col. Robert H. Harrison describing the defeat at Chadd’s Ford, Congress ordered a broadside published to alert the public to the dangers that now faced them. The defeat left Philadelphia open to Howe’s continued advance and within a week Congress evacuated the Pennsylvania capital for Lancaster. Rare Book and Special Collections Division, Library of Congress. William Williams 658 The son of a Lebanon, Conn., Congregational pastor, Williams was educated for the ministry but turned from his father’s path as a young man to become a merchant. He was an active opponent of British measures before the Revolution and held several local positions before he was elected to Congress in 1776. Although he did not reach Philadel phia until three weeks after the Declaration of Independence was adopted, he did take his seat in Congress in time to affix his signature to the engrossed document, the deed responsible for much of the attention since accorded him. He served on several committees charged with meeting the needs of the army and was appointed to the Board of War in October 1777. His congressional service is known largely through his correspondence with his brother-in-law Commissary Joseph Trumbull and his father-in-law, Gov. Jonathan Trumbull. Although that correspondence reveals him as one of the delegates most pre occupied with the “awful Frown of divine Providence,” he repeatedly reaffirmed his faith that God would ultimately save the American cause. Returning to Connecticut in December 1777, Williams held a number of state and local offices, including a long tenure in the Windham probate and county courts. Portrait by James J. Sawyer, 1873, after John Trumbull, Indepen dence National Historical Park Collection.
