4 May 1, 1777 RC (DLC). Addressed: “To Elias Boudinot Esquire near Baskenridge.” En dorsed : “Reed. May 5 & Answd. same day.” James Lovell to Horatio Gates Sir May 1st 1777 You will see by the resolutions sent to you at this time that new Ideas are taking place here in regard to the western side of Tycon- deroga. 1 I apprehend you will be better informed than we are what expecta tions you can form with confidence about the number of eastern troops and the exact time when they will arrive to a certain necessary amount for your plans. An absolute order to relinquish the western Lines & fort was pushed for, but you find did not prevail. You certainly have not such a predilection for them as to run great risques of losing yr. Reputa tion in their defence with a few troops, if only a few can be had. Nor are you of such a disposition as to leave them without much considera tion, if they appear to be highly essential to our defence, and you receive according to yr. wishes troops & military stores. If, after the liberty which is given to you, stores to a considerable amount and a number of men should be taken from you on the western side you will never hear the last of it. On this, I speak strongly, not fearing that I shall deter yr. Judgment & Spirit from deciding justly according to circumstances on the spot of deliberation. But, another matter besides the foregoing will be upon yr. mind, on which you will expect to hear from me by this bearer. The affairs to the northeast are in a critical situation for the state of N. York in particular. Disaffection, as you see, is greatly prevalent; and those who profess well to our cause judge & say that there is but one single man who can keep their subjects united against the common enemy; and that he 2 stands on our books as commandr. in chief in the middle, or, as it is sometimes called, the northern departmt; that his presence is absolutely necessary in his home quarters for their immediate succour & service as well as that of the united states necessarily con nected; that if he returns, he is a Genl, without an army or a Military Chest; And, “why is he thus disgraced”? It is said that it is nonsense to give you the command of the northern army at Tyconderoga and confine you to that fort and mount Inde pendence where you cannot have an extensive idea of the defence of the frontier of the eastern states, but only of one spot where the enemy are not obliged to confine their operations, and, as it were knock their heads against a single Rock. And if you are not so confined you intirely destroy the idea of their Chief to whom they profess devotion un-
