May 1, 1777 5 bounded. How this matter will be untangled I can not now exactly determine, but I suspect not intirely agreable to yr. sentiments. I wish to have these explicitly & minutely by the first opportunity after the receipt of this. I wish some course coud be taken which would suit you both. It is plain that all the northern army can not be intended for the single Garison of Ty. Who then has the distribution of the Numbers? This must depend upon one opinion or their can be no decision in the defence of the northern frontiers. It is an unhappy circumstance that such is the altercation at the opening of this campaign so early by the foreign enemies of these states. In every condition I wish you health, prosperity and honor, being sincerely Yr. friend & humb Servt. J. Lovell RC (NHi). 1 See John Hancock to Horatio Gates, April 29, 1777. 2 Philip Schuyler, who was at this time attending Congress as a delegate from New York. For further information on the reinstatement of General Schuyler to the northern command, see Philip Schuyler’s Memorial to Congress, May 6; and Lovell to Gates, May 22, 1777. Marine Committee to Aquilla Johns Si r May 1. 1777 A Resolution of Congress this day passed has suspended the Com mand of Captain James Nicholson in the Continental service for a limitted time, and we think it necessary to inform you thereof, requiring you to act in all things necessary on board of the Virginia Frigate during this suspension. 1 You are to discharge immediately on receipt hereof all such Men as have not received the Continental bounty and suscribed the Articles, you are to preserve strict discipline on board the ship and keep all the people belonging to her not included in the above discription constantly on board, employing them in such services as may be necessary for preparing her for Sea and in all matters that Occur we expect you to perform the duty of an Active Attentive Officer, vested with a temporary command until further orders from this Board. We are sir, Your Friends & Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Ad dressed: “Lieut. Aquilla Johns, commanding officer of the Frigate Virginia.” 1 See following entry.
