10 May 1, 1777 Benjamin Rumsey to Thomas Johnson Sir 1777 May 1. Philada. I promised the Officers of our State passing thro’ this Town to write to you on a Subject that gives them much Concern. They have no Commissions and they say Government engaged to send them to this Place and if they are taken without they will be treated as private Soldiers. I could wish they might be satisfied. 1 Congress being informed to Day by Genl. Schuyler that 100 Men of Colo. Richardsons Men were now in this City have ordered them up to Camp and given You a Power to detain 100 or as many out of any other Men of any of the weaker Battailions in Maryland as are here of that Battalion. 2 An Act of Parliament has to Day been received making it Felony for our Men to fight on the Ocean agt the King of Britain. I have not seen or heard it. Mr. Smith has but does not remember it well enough to give a particular Acct. The Enemy are landing their Cannon &c on Staten Island supposed to be for an Attack on this Town. This Dr. Witherspoon hath this Day received Advice off. I am afraid the 2000 Arms will not be granted. 3 By a Letter from A. Lee of the 20th Feby from Bordeaux in his Way to Paris Burgoine with 10,000 Germans & 3000 British Troops are to attack Boston, How Philadelphia, Carlton the back Settlements &c. Yet we will take every favourable Opportunity We can to procure them. This will be from Carlisle I imagine. I need not apologise for the Delay of the Express. My Colleague and myself have done all We could to send him off sooner but the House have been 3 Days squabling abt. what might have been done in three Minutes. I am Sir, your Excellency’s most humble Servant, Benjamin Rumsey RC (MdAA). 1 Although the correspondence on this subject apparently does not survive, Governor Johnson had responded to this plea for Maryland officers’ commis sions by May 13 when Rumsey’s fellow delegate William Paca acknowledged receipt of the commissions requested. See William Paca to Thomas Johnson, May 13, 1777. 2 See JCC, 7:284-86, 319. 3 See Maryland Delegates to Thomas Johnson, April 28, 1777, note 2. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings May 1st. 1777. Issued two drafts on the Conti. Treasurer, Michl. Hillegas Esqr.
