14 May 2, 1777 Magistrates of States, and must treat them with the most profound respect. I never had more hopes of Congress than I have now. All seem sensible that the honour and dignity of the Magistrates of the States ought to be preserved sacred and inviolable; whether for applying the force of the States, or restraining abuses, and suppressing ambition. Your Excellency knows enough of my political creed to believe that this disposition is exceedingly pleasing to me. I have not time to add more, but that I have the honor to be, Your &c, Thos Burke Tr (Nc-Ar). 1 This “intelligence” concerned the recent British raid on Danbury, Conn. See Burke to Caswell, April 30, 1777. 2 On May 1 Congress read an April 30 letter from Washington to President Hancock containing numerous enclosures describing the Danbury raid and di rected the committee of intelligence “to publish such extracts from them as they judge proper.” Later, however, Congress rescinded this order and erased it from the journals. See JCC, 7:319; PCC, item 152, 4:121—45; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:493-94. 3 James Nicholson. Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris Gentlemen No. 1 In Committee for Foreign Affairs The former of those Letters will serve to shew that at the Time of writing them we had nothing material to inform you of, and are now sent rather for your Amusement than instruction. Philadelphia May 2d. 1777 Your dispatches dated Paris Feby 6th & 8th were safely reed about the middle of April. 1 We observe your Remarks on the Timerousness of the French Merchants respecting the forming Trading Companies which you say is occasioned by the change and fluctuation of News. That the Spirit for trade will always be governed by the rise or fall of Military strength is a maxim always to be admitted in the first attempts to establish a Commerce between any two Nations, because success in War is supposed to give Security or Protection to it; But this timidity ceases naturally as soon as a trade is opened for losing or gaining after that equally produces a Spirit of adventuring farther; Therefore, we wish to enter into a Commerce with them as soon as possible because as nothing can abridge or prevent their Profits but the Enemy making Prizes of their Vessels, the consequence will be, that they will either be en couraged by the gain, or aggravated by the loss to come to a Serious understanding with the Court of Britain. We advise you to be con-
