May 2,1777 15 stantly holding up the great advantages which the Crown and Com merce of France would receive by possessing themselves of the West Indies, and We Trust to your Wisdom in making all the use possible of the English Newspapers as a channel thro’ which to counteract the Tide of folly and falsehood of which you complain and rest assured that every Material Circumstance either for or against will be dispatched to you with the utmost expedition. By Information from N York it appears that the more discerning part of the English Generals begin to give up the thought of Conquest, and of Consequence the fear of totally losing the trade of America must accompany the despair of Arms, therefore we conceive that the English Papers are calculated to deter the French merchants from beginning to taste the sweets of our Trade. Their falsehoods rightly understood are the Barometers of their fears, & in Proportion as the Political Atmosphere presses downward the spirit of Fiction is obliged to rise. We wish it to be understood that we pay too much respect to the Wisdom of the French Cabinet to suppose they can be influenced by such efforts of Visible despair, and that We have too much reverence for the Honor of the American Congress to prostitute its authority by filling our own Newspapers with the same kind of invented Tales which characterise the London Gazette. We observe that General Howe in his Letter to administration printed in London Gazette of Deer. 30th apologizes for not having written to them since his taking possession of New York (nearly three months). Here is the proper field to speculate on Silence, because his business is conquest, ours, defence and repulse, and because likewise he has the sea more open to him than we have, had he any thing to send that would please; therefore silence on his part is always to be understood as a species of good news on ours. The Congress highly approves your dividing yourselves to foreign Courts, and have sent Commissions for that Purpose and likewise Commissions for fitting out Privateers in France. 2 The Mercury from Nantz is safely arrived at Hampsh., the Amphitrite and Seine we are yet in hopes of. 3 We shall Notice the Conduct of Nicholas Davis. We have presented Marshal Maillebois Sentiments on the Mode of War to Congress who are greatly pleased therewith and entertain a high respect for the Author. 4 Our last Accounts gave you the State of News down to March since which nothing material has happened. The Enemy wearied and dis appointed in their Winters Campaign still continue in a State of dor mancy at N York and Brunswick. The Congress is Returned to Philadel phia, Genl Washington remains at Morris Town and occupies the same Posts as when the last dispatches were sent you. The Principal object now is the Recruiting Service which has been greatly promoted by some late Resolves of Congress. Our Troops have been under inocula-
