w May 2, 1777 Battalion now remaining in your State. 2 I have the Honour to be with great Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sert. J.H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See Marine Committee to James Nicholson, April 29, 1777 note 2 See JCC, 7:284-86, 319. Marine Committee to Benjamin Dunn [May 2, 1777] We are now at the second of May and as you have been detained here so long for want of Men it may probably be too late to take in Stores at the Mole and return to the Continent, therefore you may deliver the flour to Mr. Dupuy and immediately proceed on a Cruize which you may continue to the 10th day of July and then open the sealed Instructions given you herewith 1 by which you are to be governed after that time and if during your Cruize you fall in with the Randolph, Captain Biddle, or Andrew Doria, Captain Robinson, you must receive orders from them to Cruize in Concert. You have Signals enclosed to know them by and, We are, sir, Your hble servants. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). A continuation of Marine Committee to Benjamin Dunn, April 19, 1777. 1 See Marine Committee Instructions, April 29, 1777. Marine Committee to Isaiah Robinson [May 2, 1777] We are now at the second of May and as you have been detained so long for want of Men and may probably be some time longer before you get out to Sea we now direct that you embrace the first opportunity to push out and proceed for Cape Francois delivering the Letters given you herewith to Mr. Ceronio, also the Cargo, after which you need not take in any Stores nor attempt coming back to this Coast, but pro ceed from the Cape soon as possible on a Cruize which you may con tinue until the 10th day of July and then open the sealed Instructions 1 which are to govern you from that time. Should you fall in with the Randolph, Captain Biddle, you must receive Orders from him and Cruize in Concert. We are sir, Your obed servants P.S. We expect Captain Biddle to proceed to the Cape and he is directed to Convoy from thence the Brig Anne, Capt. Garrigues, and
