May 3, 1777 21 John Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philadelphia April [i.e. May] 3. 1777 Yours of April 3d I reed. 1 I must confess that I am at a Loss to determine whether it is good Policy in Us to wish for a War between France and Britain, unless We could be sure that no other Powers would engage in it. But if France engaged, Spain will and then all Europe will arrange themselves on one side and the other, and what Consequences to Us might be involved in it, I dont know. If We <jould have a free Trade with Europe, I should rather run the Risque of fighting it out with George and his present Allies, provided he should get no other. I dont love to be intangled in the Quarrells of Europe, I dont wish to be under Obligations to any of them, and I am very unwilling they should rob Us of the Glory of vindicating our own Liberties. It is a Cowardly Spirit in our Countrymen, which makes them pant with so much longing Expectation, after a French War. I have very often been ashamed to hear so many Whiggs groaning and Sighing with Despondency, and whining out their Fears that We must be Subdued unless France should step in. Are We to be beholden to France for our Liberties? France has done so much already, that the Honour and Dignity and Reputation of Great Britain is concerned to resent it, and if she does not, France will trifle with her forever hereafter. She has reed our Ambassadors, protected our Merchant Men, Privateers, Men of War and Prizes—admitted Us freely to trade—lent Us Money and Supplied Us with Arms, Ammunition, and Warlike stores of every Kind. This is notorious all over Europe. And she will do more, presently, if our dastardly Despondency in the midst of the finest Prospects imaginable does not discourage her. The surest and the only way to secure her Arms in this Cause is for Us to exert our own. For Gods Sake then dont fail of a single Man of your Quota. Get them at any Rate, and by any Means, rather than not have them. I am more concerned about our Revenue than the Aid of France. Pray let the Loan officers do their Part, that We may not be compelled to make Paper Money, as plenty and of course as cheap as Oak Leaves. There is so much Injustice in carrying on a war with a depreciating Currency that We can hardly pray with Confidence for success. The Confederation has been delayed because the states were not fully represented. Congress is now full—and We are in the midst of it. It will soon be passed. God prosper your new Constitution. But I am afraid you will meet the Disapprobation of your Constituents. It is a Pity you should be obliged to lay it before them. It will divide and distract them.
