May 3, 1777 23 get off unhurt? Considerable reinforcements are coming forward, near 2000 are now marching from hence. Great exertions will be made against us this campaign, our exertions must be proportioned; but I am sure it will not avail us much to have numbers in the feild, if they are not under proper discipline, of which I almost despair, so very shamefull has been the conduct of our Officers for some months past. Unless the Generals take extraordinary pains & examine minutely into every particular relative to the troops, disease & despondency will make them an easy prey to the Enemy. Clean liness in lodging & diet, just payments, and martial exercises will make them invincible. Tis true your troops are at present raw; but you may remember that Epaminondas soon bro’t his disheartend Country men to beat the best troops, then in the world; by his excellent dis cipline, & frequent judicious skirmishes. I know I incur the ridicule of the Orator who discoursed of war before Hanibal but I cant help it, the subject lies too heavy upon my mind. The stake we play for is not a common one. Tis a pity so many of our stores were laid up in that nest of Tories at Danbury & its environs; the loss will not easily be repaired, & the dis grace is injurious. These things hurt us exceedingly with our own people, & have a bad influence abroad. God send you may soon give us something to put on the other side of the Account. The Lottery managers informed me, they had sent Tickets to camp, so that I suppose you are supplied. May the genius of Liberty attend your steps & render you victorious over all its Enemies. Farewell, Francis Lightfoot Lee RC (PPRF). Benjamin Rumsey to Thomas Johnson Sir Philada. May 3d. 1777 I take the Liberty to inclose to your Excellency a Letter written by Major Forrest to Col. Ramsey on the Subject of the Officers Com missions. 1 Many of them have passed thro’ this Town in their Way to Camp and are exceedingly uneasy at not having them, they continually wait on the Delegates agreeable to the Expectations hinted at in the inclosed Letter and are greatly disappointed and much dejected at marching up without Commissions as they say they will be used but as common Men without them if they have the Misfortune to be taken by the Enemy. Another Source of Discontent arises from the giving those Commis sions Dated the 9th of April last to whom Commissions were before
