May 6, 1777 31 James Duane to the New York Convention Honourable Gentlemen, Philad. 6th May, 1777. Nothing of sufficient moment has happen’d since our last Letter to deserve your Attention. The Troops from the Southward are filing down towards General Washington, tho’ not in such Numbers as cou’d be wished. He will however be soon at the Head of a respectable Force able to meet General Howe if he does not receive a very considerable Accession from Europe or from the disaffected among ourselves. Much as it might gratify you, there is not a sufficient Certainty to justify a Conjecture of the General’s present Strength. When it can be done you shall be advised. The Accounts from our Commissioners (or if you please Ambassa dors) in France, Justify an Expectation that as well that Court as Spain will support the Americans in everything (at least) on this side of a Declaration of War. The Commissioners have procur’d very great Credit And for such Sums as leave it unquestionable that the Court of Versailles is at the Bottom their real Friend and privately supports their Applications. You may rely upon it that vast quantities of Artillery, Arms, Ammunition and Cloathing have been purchased on Credit for our use; no inconsiderable part of which is actually arrived. At the same time the French will in my Opinion be cautious of entering into an actual War till they find some decisive Advantage. When that approaches all Reserve will be laid aside. Great Brittain is at present in such humiliating Circumstances that she will bear every Insult rather than provoke a declaration of War. It was too great a condescention to hear the just Complaints of injur’d Americans! It was Treason against their Dignity to examine into their own Abuse of Power, to rectify their own Errors! What is the Conduct of this haughty nation at this Period of her disgrace? From her natural and inveterate Enemy she must bear every thing inflicted upon her, and dares hardly to complain. Mr. Livingston and Mr Duer Join me in our most respectful Compli ments to the Members of your honourable House. I remain with the utmost Regard, Honl Gent., your most Obedient, humble Servant, Jas Duane RC (NjMoHP). Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:943. Salutation, place, and dateline supplied from Tr. William Duer to the New York Convention Sir, Philadelphia, May 6th, 1777. I have received your two favours of the 23d and 25th April, 1 the
