32 May 6, 1777 first relative to the accounts of teamsters, &c. in Westchester county, and the other in answer to mine of the [17] April. I should have immediately sent off all the accounts in my possession by an express, but as Genl. Schuyler then thought of returning in two or three days, with the advice of my colleagues, I thought best to defer it, it being judged a much safer opportunity. Several letters have of late been opened on the road, and persons seized by the disaffected; should these accounts have met with such a fate, the public must have suffered extremely. I am extremely sorry that the unavoidable delay of Genl. Schuyler has occasioned the detention of these papers, but should he not be able to leave this place in three days from this time, which he now expects, I shall convey them in the safest manner possible. The present opportunity not being considered by Mr. Duane and Mr. Livingston, as altogether safe, I think it is not advisable to write on any matters of importance. I shall content myself with observing that we have surveyed our ground, and that we have no doubt but we shall make a successful attack on the points recommended to us. 2 The papers which I enclose you, will give you an insight into the news stirring here. The accounts of the arrival of the ship loaded with 52 field pieces and other ordnance, &c. may be depended upon. Her name is the Amphitrite, a 20 gun ship, chartered in France by Mr. Silas Deane. Mr. Livingston and Mr. Duane, both of whom are now busily engaged, desire me to present their respects to the Honourable Convention. I am, sir, with great respect, Your obedt. hble. servt. Wm. Duer. Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:936. Addressed: “To the Honble. Pierre Van Cortlandt, Esqr.” 1 These letters are not in Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong. 2 “The points recommended,” which were instructions adopted by the New York Convention on April 7, required the New York delegates to oppose the admission to Congress of any representatives from Vermont, to protest against Congress’ appointment of Seth Warner—a Vermont leader—as commander of a regiment in New York, to send the convention all congressional resolutions that “may impliedly or expressly infringe the rights or jurisdiction of this state,” and to withhold their consent from any plan of confederation until it had first been examined and approved by “this Convention or the future Legislature of this State.” Ibid., 1:868-69. Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry Dear Sir, Philadelphia May 6. 1777 Having written to you so lately by Express this chiefly serves to convey my wishes that another Delegate might be hastened here, for
