34 May 6, 1777 RC (NjMoHP). 1 Thomas Nelson’s attendance in Congress in late April and early May 1777 cannot be ascertained precisely. Burnett credits him with attendance from April 30 to May 8, while a biographer recently suggested that Nelson arrived in Philadelphia around April 25 and eight days later suffered the stroke that hastened his return to Virginia. Burnett, Letters, 2:lxxii; and Emory G. Evans, Thomas Nelson of Yorktown (Williamsburg: Colonial Williamsburg Foundation, 1975), p. 64. Although Congress did not grant Nelson leave “for the recovery of his health” until May 8, it seems unlikely that he attended after his stroke, which probably had occurred before Page wrote this letter. JCC, 7:335. Further more, Nelson’s entry under April 1777 in his account with Virginia included charges “to travelling to and from Phila” and “to attendance 8 days in Congress,” suggesting that his services had been rendered primarily in April. Emmet Collec tion, NN. At any rate Nelson was at his home in Hanover County, Va., on May 16 when he wrote to Speaker George Wythe requesting to be replaced in Congress. “A total inability to at[tend to business] having oblig’d me to quit the Congress, I beg leave, thro’ you, to acquaint the Assembly with it, that they may appoint another Delegate; and I will take the liberty to advise, that this be immediately done, because Congress are now engag’d in forming the Confederation, in which Virginia is deeply interested. “Nothing but necessity could have induced me to leave Congress at this critical time, & I hope I shall stand excus’d.” Executive Communications, Vi. On May 22 George Mason was selected to relieve Nelson, and when Mason declined to serve, Richard Henry Lee was elected on June 24 to fill the vacancy. 2 For details about making a seal for Virginia, see Thomas Jefferson to John Page, July 30, 1776. Philip Schuyler’s Memorial to Congress To the honorable the Continental Congress The Memorial of Major General Schuyler Humbly sheweth Phila. May 6th. 1777 1 That sundry Resolutions passed in your honorable House on the 15th Ultimo [i.e. March], conveying a severe Censure on your Me morialist for a supposed Contempt of the House deeply affect his Feel ings both as an officer and a Citizen. Your Memorialist with great Submission begs Leave to observe that these Resolutions appear to him to have been founded on a Misappre hension of his Letter to Congress of the 4th February, 2 and this he hopes to evince to the Satisfaction of the House. He trusts that a Candor, rendered necessary on the principle of Self Justification will not give offence, so long as he confines himself within the Bounds of that Decency and Respect which are due to the grand Council of the united States. For the Sake of perspicuity he begs Leave to recite the passages of his Letter on which the Resolutions of Congress were founded.
