May 6, 1777 39 Matter of Compliment, and not from Impatience or Curiosity, but with a View to obviate that Gentleman’s Complaints, he flatters him self that the Expressions on which the first and second Resolutions were founded will not appear in that unfavorable point of Light, in which they have hitherto been considered. Conscious he is (and he must again repeat) that he did not mean to wound the Dignity of Congress, or to dispute their authority. Your Memorialist begs Leave to tresspass on the patience of the House, whilst he proceeds to the third Resolution which is founded, as he hopes to evince, on Missapprehension. 7 The Commissary General in a Letter to a Member of Congress, which was accidentally made public, had accused your Memorialist with detaining the Commission of Deputy Adjutant General of the Northern Department which had been directed to be made out for Colo. John Trumbull, the Commissary’s Brother. An Imputation so injurious to the Honor of your Memorialist could not be passed over in Silence: to vindicate himself became a Duty, and the only Means by which it could be effected were in the power of Congress because their hon orable president must have known, and from his Candor & Regard for Justice, been ready to declare, that the Commission had not at the Time of writing that Letter been transmitted. Your Memorialist entertained not the most distant Wish that Con gress should interfere in the Dispute between him and Commissary Trumbull, though the third Resolution is founded on such a Sup position. He applied only for their Testimony of the Fact, whether the Commission had been transmitted to him or not: and very far was he from apprehending that this could have given Offence or Displeasure, even now he cannot but flatter himself, that upon a Revision it will not appear to have been a presumptuous or unreasonable Request. Without this Evidence how would it have been possible to convince the World that the Suspicion was ill founded, or to have brought Colonel Trumbull to a Court Martial for slandering his superior Officer? Had this Mode been deemed by your Memorialist consistent with the public Good. Candor however obliges your Memorialist to confess, that, ignorant as he was of the Sense of Congress in this point, he should not have thought it a Transgression of the Bounds of his Duty, if he had directly applied to them as a mediating power. May he be permitted to refer it to their Consideration whether the Exclusion of an appeal to Congress in Disputes between the great officers of the army, might not, in many Instances, be attended with unhappy Effects? What, he begs Leave to ask, must have been the Consequence, had your Memorialist immediately arrested Major General Gates when, on the Retreat of the Army from Canada, he disputed his Command? Might it not have been greatly detrimental to the Service, especially
