May 6, 1777 41 MS (DNA: PCC, item 41). In the hand of John Lansing, Jr., and signed by Schuyler. Lansing was Schuyler’s military secretary. 1 General Schuyler prepared this memorial as part of his campaign to vindicate himself against what he regarded as unjust treatment by Congress. On March 15 Congress had reprimanded him for a sharply critical letter he had written to President Hancock on February 4, and on March 25 it had made Horatio Gates commander of the army at Ticonderoga, thereby removing the largest military force in the northern department from Schuyler’s control. Yet these actions were also the result of long-standing dissatisfaction with Schuyler among several delegates—particularly the New Englanders—who were discontented with his military leadership and inability to get along with New England troops, resented the hectoring tone of some of his letters to Congress, and believed rumors that he corruptly mishandled public funds. Thus several factors had conspired to lower Schuyler’s prestige and lead many delegates to want General Gates appointed commander of the northern department. In order to answer his critics and regain control over the northern department, Schuyler, who was technically still a New York delegate, returned to Congress early in April, resolved either to win vindication or resign from the army. The immediate result of this move was a striking series of short-term successes for the much harried general. Ably supported by his fellow New York delegates, Schuyler secured the appointment on April 18 of a committee to examine his “conduct . . . since he has held a command in the army of the United States.” Next, he submitted his accounts to the Board of Treasury, which on May 3 cleared him of the charge of financial irregularities. And after he presented the memorial printed here, Congress expressed satisfaction with his explanation of his offending letter to President Hancock. Finally, on May 22 Congress granted Schuyler’ main wish by confirming his command over the northern department, stipulating that it included “Albany, Ticonderoga, Fort Stanwix and their dependencies,” thus making Gates his subordinate. Yet these resolves did not signify that Schuyler had won Congress’ unreserved confidence. Those of the 2 2d passed by only a narrow margin—six states to three, with two divided and two absent, according to William Duer; five states to four, with two divided, according to James Lovell. It was not surprising, therefore, that after the fall of Ticonderoga in July, Schuyler’s congressional support evaporated and Gates was made commander of the northern department on August 4, 1777. For information on congressional dissatisfaction with Schuyler before April 1777, see Edward Rutledge to Robert R. Livingston, September 23, 1776; John Hancock to Schuyler, March 18, and to Gates, March 25, 1777; Benson J. Lossing, The Life and Times of Philip Schuyler, 2 vols. (1873; reprint ed., New York: Da Capo Press, 1973), 2:153—82; and Jonathan G. Rossie, The Politics of Command in the American Revolution (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1975), pp. 107—53. Schuyler’s mission to Philadelphia may be followed in JCC, 7:279, 326-27, 333-34, 336, 364, 371, 8:375; Schuyler to Richard Varick, April 16, 26, and to George Washington, May 18; James Lovell to Horatio Gates, May 1, 22, and to Oliver Wolcott, June 7; New York Delegates to the New York Convention, May 9; and William Duer to Robert R. Livingston, May 28, 1777. John Lansing, Jr., to Richard Varick, April 26, 1777, NNPM, indicates that Schuyler composed his memorial with the help of James Duane, William Duer, Philip Livingston, and Lansing himself. That Schuyler began work on this document in April is also indicated by the reference in the very first paragraph to a March 15 resolve as one of the “15th Ultimo.” For General Gates’ dramatic reaction to Congress’ May 22 resolves on the northern department, see Horatio Gates’ Notes for a Speech in Congress, June 18, 1777.
