May 7, 1777 43 Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings May 6th. 1777 Come. met. Present, Morris, Lee, Whipple, Livingston. Issued the folg. drafts on the Auditor general in favor Arch. Mercer & Philip Moore for 5333 24/90 dlls, being the valuation of their ship Polly charterd & insurd by the Come., said ship being carried in by the Seamen to Hallifax, as appears by the Captns protest, taken before G. Nutting, Notary public, on the 25th Feby. last. Do. in favor of Blair McCleneghan for 13,333 1/3 dlls being the valuatn. of his ship Ad venture taken in this bay & destroyd by the Enemy, 1 as appears by the Capts. protest, sd. ship being charterd & insurd by the Come. MS (MH-H). 1 The Adventure, William Jones, master, returning from Hispaniola with salt, was burned by H.M.S. Phoenix on January 27, 1777. Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1047. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia May 7. 1777 We have no News here, except what We get from your Country. The Privateers act with great Spirit, and are blessed with remarkable Success. Some Merchant ships are arrived this Week from Maryland. They were first chased by Men of War, in attempting to get into Cheasapeak Bay—they run from them and attempted Delaware Bay— there they were chased again. Whereupon they again shifted their Course for Cheasapeak and got in safe in spight of all the Men of War could do. Thus you see We can and will have Trade, in spight of them. .. ? And this Trade will probably increase fast. It requires Time for The Stream of Commerce to alter its Channell. Time is necessary, for our Merchants and foreign Merchants to think, plan, and correspond with each other. Time is also necessary for our Masters of Vessells and Mariners to become familiar with the Coasts, Ports and Harbours of foreign Countries—and a longer Time still is needfull for French, Spanish, and Dutch Masters and Mariners to learn our Coasts, and Harbours. Yours, ever, ever yours. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:234-35. 1 Suspension points in MS.
