May 7, 1777 45 LB (NN). 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:11-12. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 7th May 1777 Your favor of the 21st UI to was handed me by Mr. Campney who was sent Express by G.W. Langdon with the dispatches that came in the Amphitrite. 1 This ship has been so long from France that she can bring nothing new. Another ship with a Similar cargo is arriv’d at Martineco after making several unsuccessful attempts to get into some of our ports. Some others are still expected, I wish they may not fall into the Enemies hands. It gives me Pleasure that a discovery is made of the Vilaneous money making scheme, for Heavens sake dont let the Villains escape the halter. 2 Sure I am they richly deserve it. Lenity to them will cost the lives of Thousands. It therefore is an indispensable duty to the Public to make examples of them. I beg leave to suggest whether it wod not be prudent to call in the money that is counter- fited immediately. In Expectation that this plan will be adopted, I will endeavor to obtain an order on the loan office, to enable you to execute it. I have desir’d the Treasury to forward Proof sheets of every Emission which they promise me shall be done. Large quantities of Conterfit money has been sent out from N. York but I have not heard that any body has yet been deceiv’d by it. I am told its badly done. Genl. Lee did not mention any perticular business. The copy of his letter which I sent you conveys every thing that I know respecting that matter. 3 The latest advices from France confirm me in the impropriety of his request, as the conference last summer was improv’d greatly to our disadvantage, that was a considerable means of prevent ing our having the stores last faul, that are now coming. Colo. Thornton set out the 3d inst. 4 I endeavor’d to perswade him to tarry ’till Mr. Frost arriv’d, but without success. I hope I shall be excus’d if I leave this very soon after Mr. Frost arrives, for I assure you I am almost wore out. It has not been in my Power to mount my horse since I arriv’d from Baltimore, nor not more then twice while there. Without relaxation, & exercise, my constitution (’tho a very good one) will not stand this climate. I think it absolutely necessary that the state shod be as fully represented as possible, therefore hope a second Person will soon be sent after Mr Frost. I agree with you, that we have many Difficulties to Encounter but doubt not we shall be able to surmount them all. Our internal & Secret Enemies embarrass us much more then is in the Power of all the force that can be rais’d by Great Britain, & nothing but the most
