46 May 7, 1777 vigorous exertions of civil authority can free us from those difficulties. The Laws shod be severe & executed with Rigour. This measure properly persued will surely have a very salutary Effect. The whip, Pilory, & Gibet shod be exercis’d freely, & those that the Laws will not hang should be immediately Banish’d & their Estates Confiscated, for keeping them among us will still subject us to the inconveniences arrising from their wicked Machinations. It is no time now to trifle. We must know who is for & who is against us & seperate the goats from the sheep. I inclose you a paper that has the test establish’d by S. Carolina. I think it a good one & wish, that, or something like it was adopted by our state. The Southern States are all acting vigourously, even Maryland, are takeing very decisive measures to rid themselves of their internal Enemies. And for the Honor & safety of New Hamp shire I hope She will persue such measures as will frustrate the evil designs of the Enemies of America. Hoping soon to rejoice with you on the Successes of our arms, & a fair Prospect of establishing Happi ness on the most permanant Basis Concludes me Your very affectionate Friend & Most Humi Sert. Wm. Whipple RC (NNPM). 1 Josiah Bartlett’s April 21 letter to Whipple is in the Josiah Bartlett Papers, NhHi, microfilm. 2 The New Hampshire Assembly passed a law on June 25, 1777, that forfeited the property of fugitive counterfeiters to the state and prevented its transfer to other persons. N.H. State Papers, 8:603, 613. 3 For further information on Gen. Charles Lee’s proposal for a conference with members of Congress to discuss British reconciliation overtures, see Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debate, February 21, 1777. 4 Matthew Thornton had received permission from Congress to return home on May 1. ]CC, 7:321. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Philadelphia May 8th 1777 Inclosed is an Extract from a Letter written to the Committee of Correspondence by Arthur Lee Esqr. One of the Commissioners em ployed by the Congress at the Courts of France & Spain. 1 By this Extract the Necessity of destroying the British &c Forces on Rhode- Island before they may be reinforced fully and strongly appears. Bos ton it seems is to be attacked. Which Way it is to be attacked, if at tacked, is unknown. The Distance from Providence to Boston is about forty six Miles—Two Days March only. It hath been and still is my Opinion that, if the Enemy intend to penetrate into New England, One of their Routes will be from the Head of our Bay or near it. If the Assembly should agree with Me in this Sentiment, no Arguments will
