May 8,1777 47 be wanting to them, to comply with the Recommendation of Con gress. 2 But should this not be the Case most certainly every possible Advantage ought to be taken of the divided State of the British Army to crush and destroy it. In a late N. York Paper was published an Act of Parliament lately passed for apprehending, and imprisoning within the Realm of Britain, until January 1778, all Pirates & Traitors. 3 If I should be able to pro cure the Paper or a Copy of the Act before I close my Letter I will transcribe & transmit it to you. We must retaliate, and confine all the Prisoners We take. I fancy before the Campaign is out We shall be able to ballance Accounts with the Enemy. Recruits have come forward from the Southward very cleverly of late. I hope recruiting goes on in the Eastern States brisker than it did. The Quota of our State must not be deficient. The common Cause and our Reputation depend upon our Activity. The Enemy have used and are still using every Artifice they can, to increase Toryism, promote Desertions, and depretiate continental Dollars. Persons are employed in every State to propagate the first, Twenty four Dollars is offered for every Soldier that will desert and carry with him his Arms, a Less Sum for a Deserter without his Arms, to promote the Second; and to depretiate our Money it seems they have counterfeited large Sums and [dispersed] their Emissaries to spread their counterfeit Dollars [through] the States. I have seen a thirty Dollar counterfeit Bill. It was badly executed. We ought to be, methinks, as industrious to defeat as they are to con trive. It is high Time to treat Tories with proper uniform Severity, & to watch Strangers and perhaps One another with a jealous Eye. The Enemies of our own House, are more dangerous than external Foes. But it is my Business to inform not to direct. I hope the Genl. Assembly will attend, if they should not have already done it, to the Letter which I wrote them desiring the earliest Information after the Appointment of Delegates. Our State is not repre sented in Congress now, and will not be until I shall have received au- thentick Advice of my being chosen, or another Delegate shall have arrived. Therefore let me intreat that it may be done, that the new Delegates may come forward immediately. The Circumstances of my Family require that I shall return as soon as possible to make some suitable Provisions for it, and my long constant attention in Congress demands Relaxation. 4 Our Loss at Danbury turns out to be less than we imagined, and We have killed more of the Enemy; but We have not certain account of either. Every Thing in the Jersey statu quo. I congratulate your Honour on the Arrival of the Field-Peices. We shall take the Field under greater Advantages this than the last Campaign. Heartily wish ing that the Success of it may be at least proportioned to our superior Advantages, that we may give our Enemies such convincing Proof of
