48 May 8, 1777 their Folly, Injustice and Cruelty as may induce them to drop the Contest, and thus this be our last Campaign, I am with great Respect, Yr Honor’s most Obedt. hble Servt. William Ellery RC (RHi). 1 Lee’s letter to the Committee of Secret Correspondence is dated February 18 in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:272-T3, but the extract enclosed in Ellery’s letter is dated February 20. See William R. Staples, ed., Rhode Island in the Continental Congress, 1765—1790 (Providence: Providence Press Co., 1870), pp. 139-40. 2 See John Hancock to Certain States, April 16, 1777. 3 See Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry, May 6, 1777, note 2. 4 Not until May 31 was Ellery able to present to Congress the credentials certifying his recent reelection to a one year term as a Rhode Island delegate. See ]CC, 8:408-9; and Ellery to Cooke, March 30, 1777, note 4. Ellery’s previous term had expired on May 4. John Adams to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir Philadelphia May 9. 1777 Yours of the 2d Instant came duely to hand. 1 The Indifference of the People about recruiting the Army, is a Circumstance which ought to make Us consider what are the Causes of it. It is not merely the Melan- cholly arising from the unfortunate Event of the last Campaign, but the Small Pox, and above all the unhappy State of our Finances, which occasion this Evil. There are other Circumstances which are little at tended to which contribute much more than is imagined to this un favourable Temper in the People. The Prevalance of Dissipation, Debauchery, Gaming, Prophaneness and Blasphemy terrifies the best People upon the Continent, from trusting their Sons and other Rela tions among so many dangerous snares and temptations. Multitudes of People, who would with chearfull Resignation Submit their Families to the Dangers of the sword, shudder at the Thought of exposing them to what appears to them the more destructive Effects of Vice and Impiety. These Ideas would be received by many with scorn. But there is not the less Solidity in them for that. It is Discipline alone that can Stem the Torrent. Chaplains are of great use, I believe, and I wish Mr Leonard might be in the Army, upon such Terms as would be agreeable to him, for there is no Man of whom I have a better opinion. But there is so much difficulty in accomplishing any Thing of the Kind, that I wish G. Washington would either appoint him, or recommend him to Congress. The Utility of Medals has ever been impressed Strongly upon my Mind. Pride, Ambition and indeed what a Philosopher would call Van ity, is the Strongest Passion in human Nature, and next to Religion, the
