54 May 9, 1777 Ship at the latter place, they will also render you any Service you may Stand in need of. You will naturally suppose we do not remove you from the Ship you were so lately appointed to for the Sole purpose of making this voyage in the Amphitrite, we have other veiws and is only adopted as part of our plan which we expect will afford you an Opportunity of doing some Mischief to our Enemies and some good for yourself and the Country you have engaged to serve. We hope you may make many Prizes and thereby lodge Funds in Europe that will assist in executing the other part of our veiws. We are advised by our Commis sioners at the Court of France that they can procure us some fine Frigates and as we have a desire to gratify you with the command of a fine Ship in firm dependance that you will make good use of her to serve and promote the Interest of America, we send you to France in the Amphitrite for these two purposes, first, to avail of her Guns & men to make a Cruizing voyage to France, and then to Obtain One of the Frigates mentioned. When Amphitrite arrives in France you will dispose of your Officers & Men so that they may remain in Safety at the Port whilst you proceed for Paris with the enclosed letter which you must deliver yourself. The Commissioners will procure you A fine Ship and the Officers and Men you take with you will assist towards manning her. The Commissioners will inform you what Port to repair to for this Ship, and whom you are to apply to for Supplies of every kind. We expect you will exert yourself to the Utmost to get the Ship they may appoint for you equipped, manned and fit for Service with the ut most expedition. We desire the Commissioners if they have any particu lar service for you to perform in Europe to give you the needful instruc tions, and if any Such you receive it is your business to execute their orders to the best of your power. Such Services as they may point out being performed, or if they order none, you will then enquire of them and of our Commercial Agents Wm Lee & Thomas Morris Esqrs. at Nantes or Bourdeaux if it be Necessary for you to receive on board any Stores or supplies for this Continent, and take in Such as may be ready. We hope you may obtain a fine Ship well equipped in every particular and that you’ll be able to get her Officered & Manned. These things done you will steer for America making it your constant Study to take or destroy as many of the enemies Ships as possible during the Voyage. If you receive any dispatches from the Commissioners at Paris or the Commercial Agents for this or any Committee of Congress you must be very carefull of them and always have them ready to be Sunk if too heavy A Ship should attack you. You will get into the first safe Port in these States that you can, with the dispatches if any you have. All prizes are to be addressed and give us notice immediately of your Arrival and Send an officer to the Continental Agents here, and to such persons in Europe as the
