May 10, 1777 57 In this business we beg you will assist all in your power. Herein you have twelve Blank Warrants for Petty Officers and you may fill them up with the names of Such Suitable persons as agree to go with Jones in the Several Stations wanted taking care that none but Suitable Men are engaged. Any Blanks that remain transmit them to the Honorable Benjamin Franklin, Silas Deane & Arthur Lee Esqrs American Commissioners at the Court of Versailles, committing the Packet to Captain Jones Care, with A Charge to Sink it if accident renders that precaution necessary. It is possible Mr Fautrel may object to this Plan, for we dont See by the Agrement that he is bound to comply with it, and in that v case you’l Send us back the Warrants and tell Captain Jones he must return to the command of the Ship he left, but this we don’t expect will happen. On the Contrary we think Monsr. Fautrel will gladly fall in with our views & that Jones will go the Voyage. In this case you will supply him with Provisions for himself and Officers and Men during the Voyage, advance what money may be needful agreeable to resolves of Congress and transmit Accounts thereof to the Marine Com mittee with Captain Jones Receipts. You must charge that Committee with the advances made Captain Jones and his men on this Occassion. The advances made Monsr. Fautrel and the Captain of the Mercury must be Charged to the Secret Committee. We doubt not your exertions to concur with our views and if any dificulties arise to remove them, and remain, Sir, Your Obedt Servants, Robt Morris Wm. Whipple Richard Henry Lee Phil. Livingston P.S. Shou’d Capt Fautrell think the third of Prizes which we have offered him too small a share for the use of his Ship, You may agree to allow him half & let him & Capt Jones Sign in Writing to fix the bargain, but if he will accept a third you’l say nothing of the half. 2 RC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). In a clerical hand and signed by Lee, Livingston, Morris, and Whipple. 1 See JCC, 7:335-36. 2 See JCC, 7:346-47. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia May 10. 1777 The Day before Yesterday, I took a Walk, with my Friend Whipple to Mrs. Wells’s, the Sister of the famous Mrs. Wright, to see her Wax work. 1 She has two Chambers filled with it. In one, the Parable of the Prodigal Son is represented. The Prodigal is prostrate on his Knees,
