May 10, 1777 59 4 Adams’ letterbook contains a fragment of a letter dated May 10 that he may have intended to add to this letter to Abigail. “We have at last accomplished a troublesome Piece of Business. We have chosen a Number of additional Ambassadors. Mr. Ralph Izzard of S. Carolina, a Gentleman of large Fortune, for the Court of the Grand Duke of Tuscany, and Mr. William Lee, formerly Aiderman of London, for the Courts of Vienna and Berlin.” See Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:237. John Adams to Nathanael Greene Philadelphia May 10. 1777 Yours of the 7th was brought me this Morning. 1 My Meaning was that if the Conduct of our Army had depended on me, I should have taken more Pains to have obtained exact Information of the Enemies Numbers, and our own, and should have considered every Inclination of the Enemies Intentions of coming to Philadelphia more particularly. Altho there is no doubt that Congress have authority to direct the military operations, yet I think they would be unwise to attempt it. This must be left to the General officers. We have not the Information that you have respecting our own Force. There is not a Man in Congress who knows what Force you now have in N. Jersey. We have had no Returns a long time and the opinions of Gentn who come from Camp are very various. My Con stituents have a Right to expect that I give my Council whenever it may be usefull; and my Constituents shall not be disappointed. If you knew how many dozens of my opinions are rejected where one is adopted, you would not think they had much Weight. But enough of this. My opinion last Summer was very consistent I believe, with that in my last Letter. A Man may be humble before the Enemy, and proud before a Friend. Some who think too little of their Powers and Forces against the Enemy, think too highly of their own Importance, among their Friends, and treat the latter with less Delicacy than they would the former. For my own Part I care not how haughty Men are, to the Enemies of their Country, provided they have Regard to Truth & Justice, nor how humble they are among its Friends. If by the finer Feelings of the Gentlemen of the Army, are meant their Moral Feelings, no Man detests more than myself, the Idea of hurting them. But if Vanity, and Pleasure is meant, I think, no Harm would be done by mortifying it. I am much mistaken and much misinformed, if the nice Feelings, the Pride, the Vanity, the Foppery, the Knavery and Gambling among too many of the officers, do not end in direct Endeavours to set up a Tyrant sooner or later, unless early Endeavours are used to controul them. I dont mean by this, any General Reflections upon the officers, most of whom I believe
