66 May 10, 1777 RC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). In a clerical hand and signed by Lee, Livingston, Morris, and Whipple. 1 See the resolves of March 31, JCC, 7:211-12; and Secret Committee to Langdon, April 2, 1777. Secret Committee to Jeremiah Powell Sir, In Secret Committee. Philadelphia May 10. 1777 Your favour of the 21st Ultimo came duely with the pleasing Ac count of your having received from Mr Bingham a parcell of Muskets part of the Ship Seins Cargo landed in Martinico. The Continent are now happily pretty well provided for the Campaign and Men Seems the only thing wanting, a circumstance never expected at the com mencement of the present War. The Board of war will give the Neces sary Orders respecting these Arms, and thanking you for your attention to the publick Interest, We remain Sir, Your Obedt hble servants, Robt Morris, Chair Man of the Secret Commee. RC (M-Ar). In a clerical hand and signed by Morris. Addressed: “The Honor able Jer. Powell Esq President Massachusets Bay.” William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 10th May 1777. Your two favors of 21st and 22d were handed me the 3d inst by Mr. Champney. The arrival of the Amphitrite gives me double pleasure as she has been long expected and I had in my own mind given her over for lost. This ship has been so long from France that no intelli gence can be expected from her. A packet is daily expected with dis patches from that country. A ship with a similar cargo to the Amphitrite is arrived at Martinico after unsuccessfully attempting to get into some of our ports. However we are now well furnished with materials to carry on the war, men only are wanting to use those materials. It grieves me that New Hampshire’s quota should be so backward, though perhaps not more so than some other states, but it would be my pride to hear that her sons were first in the field. I think you did right in delivering arms and clothing to the troops. The cloth ing General tells me he has given orders for clothing all the troops. When I urged your sending your accounts quarterly I did not mean the accounts of those ships that were building; that I know is impossi ble. What I had in view was the prizes and those ships fitted out by order of the Secret Committee. I have applied to the Clerks of the Committees for accounts of the money sent you which I shall forward so soon as obtained.
