May 13, 1777 75 their Attachment to it, the Congress have requested you will consider their Case, and adopt and carry into Execution, at the Expence of the United States, such Measures for their Relief, as you may think pru dent & practicable. 2 I beg Leave to refer your Attention to the Resolve, and have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Gentlemen, your most obed Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (M-Ar). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 7:313, 330-31. 2 See JCC, 7:313, 348^9. Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry Dear Sir, Philadelphia 13th May 1777 The inclosed infamous Act of Parliament is taken from the New York Gazette and its authenticity therefore not to be doubted. 1 The question upon this is, whether every State will not pass acts appointing places of security where the prisoners they take may be safely kept as pledges for the good usage of our people, or as objects of punishment in the way of retaliation? In proportion as our enemies loose the hopes of subduing us by open force, they endeavor more strenuously to sap us by corrupt influence and by the wicked machinations of their Tory friends. To put an effectual stop to the proceedings of the latter, will it not be necessary so to provide by law, as that every Tory may be precisely in the same situation if we succeed in this war, that we un doubtedly shall be if the enemy prevail. And what this latter will be, the inclosed Act of Parliament very plainly declares. The point is, how to distinguish previously the Whigs from the Tories. I believe, by a strict Test, and by appointing a General and a County board of Com missioners, with small but compitent funds to carry on quick corres pondence with each other, and to search into the conduct of suspicious Residents, and of all unknown Passengers or Travellers. As you may rely upon it, that Tory machinations are now more wicked than ever, and their correspondence with each other, and their injurious com munications not to be doubted. I wish some of the most sensible Whigs in our Assembly would take under consideration what I have here suggested the propriety of. The necessity of completing our Batallions is so obvious, that I suppose the Assembly will adopt the plan of drafting recommended by Congress, 2 and if they do, will it not be highly proper to have discreet recruiting Officers at every place where the Militia is assembled for the draft, who by clearly pointing out to the young Men the advantages of bounty, annual clothes, and land for those that voluntarily engage, may procure a sufficiency on the willing plan. Nor is it a bad argument with them to shew how safely and
