76 May 13, 1777 easily they are carried thro the Small pox at the public expence, by the present plan of inoculation. Above all things my dear Sir, let us secure the credit of our money by a vigorous Taxation. Maryland has done so, and so have the Eastern States, and all must do it to procure public confidence in our funds and the stability of our currency. Our Army is approaching the enemies lines and promises soon to be active. We have no late intelligence from France, tho we have reason every day to expect it. Capt Weks in the Continental Ship Reprisal of 16 guns & 100 & odd men has taken & sent into Port L Orient a Lisbon packet of equal force to himself, with three Ships that were under her Convoy, and the provisions we have taken at Sea, more than compensate for the Danbury loss, since the latter was only 1700 barrels of Meat with some flour & grain, and we have brought in 5000 barrels of Meat bound to N. York. Colo. Nelson is gone home ill, so that we three are here fixed to hard service. We deserve compassion and relief. I have no objection to a service however irksome, if it is so contrived that a reasonable relief may now and then be interposed, so as to ease the Individual, without injury to the public. We learn lately, that the account of General Carletons approach to Ticonderoga was premature, and in the mean time a considerable reenforcement has arrived from the Eastward, so that we are no longer in pain for that Post. I am, with much esteem, dear Sir, Yours sincerely, Richard Henry Lee RC (ViHi). 1 See Lee to Henry, May 6, 1777, note 2. 2 For the April 14 resolves on recruiting, see JCC, 7:261-63. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Purviance, Jr. Dear Sir, Philadelphia 13th May 1777 It gives me great pleasure to hear of Capt. Nicholsons reconciliation with the Government, altho it is not yet announced to us in form. 1 The Tories I hope will not long have occasion to rejoice. They must either change their conduct, or abide the consequences shortly. I have not yet received the letter containing my brothers observations on Tobacco. I remember generally that observing on the different To baccos that suited different Markets he said that what grew on both sides of Potomac was the kind most used in France, and he thought it would not be prudent to send the finer kinds of Tobo. to France, but immediately to the markets that consumed it. As Holland, the Baltic &c.
