78 May 13, 1777 Said Inlets where you can with most convenience heave down the Sloop and send an Officer or an Express to inform us where you are, when you can be ready to Sail again, and what Stores and Provisions you will want for a three months Cruize when we shall send fresh orders and take measures for your being supplied. We are sir, Your hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Medical Committee to Thomas Johnson sir 13th May 1777 The Director General of the Continental Hospitals is much in want of Spanish Flies and Suggests that the State over which you preside has a considerable Quantity of them in Store. He has requested the Medical Committee to apply for Such part as the State may Spare and Accordingly we take the Freedom to request your Excellency to give the Necessary orders for furnishing him with so much of that Medicine as the particular Demand of your own Medical Departments will admit. Whatever Quantity shall be delivered to the Director General or his Order shall be replaced from the Continental Stores as soon as possible, meantime it will be proper to charge it to the United States. We doubt not that Your Excellency will Comply with this request if not prevented by some very particular Circumstances, and we have the Honor to be, Your Excellency’s very Obedt Servts. Signed by Order of the Medical Committee, Jonathn. Elmer RC (MdAA). William Paca to Thomas Johnson Dr Sir. 13 May 1777. We reed, yours by the post & shall fill up the Commissions as you request. 1 There is Nothing new since my last. A heavy firing was heard yesterday near Bonam Town. There is no Doubt but a smart Skirmish has been had with the Enemy. By General Washingtons Return last Evening which I saw at the Presidents he had 6891 Men Eight hundred of them sick but general Mifflin says the most of them with the small Pox and so far recovered that about 500 of them would be able to turn out & fight on an Emergency. Over & above these on their way from Bristol we have above twelve hundred more. The above are regular
