84 May 15, 1777 don’t know but Mrs. Adams Native Genius will Excel us all in Husbandry,” see Warren-Adams Letters, 1:320. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. May 15. 1777. I do myself the Honour to enclose you sundry Resolves of Congress, 1 accompanied with a Commission for Monsr. Armand, which I am to request you will order to be delivered to him, as he is now at Head Quarters. 2 Ever since the Appointment of Brigadiers I have been waiting to be informed of the Dates of their respective Commissions in Order to settle their Rank in making out new ones. But as there is no Proba bility of my receiving this Information, & the Gentlemen themselves will be at Head Quarters, I must request you will give Commissions to them and ascertain their Rank by the Dates of their original Com missions. I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLG). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 These were resolves of May 10 and 12—14 on certain French officers, the appointment of brigadier generals, postal service, Nova Scotia, Maj. Richard Campbell, and the quartermaster’s department. JCC, 7:346-49, 351-52, 355-59. 2 In regard to Armand, see Robert Morris to Washington, May 10, 1777. Philip Schuyler to William Livingston Dear Sir Philadelphia 15th May 1777. Last Evening I was honored with Your Excellency’s Favor of the 13th instant. The Papers which it inclosed evince Lee to be a dangerous Character and as he was taken near the Enemies Lines and as he has been, as Mrs. Thompson declares, with them, he will fall within the Cognizance of the Military. Your Excellency & the Council of Safety will therefore please to send him to this Town, his Confession to Major Tayler makes it neces sary that the Major should attend with him, together with Thompson & his Wife. And you will please to order such Other persons to Attend as may be necessary. 1 I am Dr. Sir, with Every Friendly Wish, Your Excellency’s most Obedt. Humble Servt. Ph. Schuyler LB (NN). 1 Governor Livingston’s May 13 letter to Schuyler discussed the case of a
