May 16, 1777 85 certain John Lee, alias Brown, who had been caught near the British lines in New Jersey with a petition to General Howe. Lee claimed that he was appre hended as he was returning to the American lines to report what he had learned about the British forces, but Livingston scoffed at this story and asserted that Lee “is undoubtedly one of Hows Recruiters.” Schuyler Papers, NN. Livingston’s May 15 reply to this letter from Schuyler is in the same collection. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dr. Papa, Phila. 14th [i.e. 16th] May 1777 1 Inclosed you have the Pena, evening posts of Tuesday & Thursday. We this day received intelligence of a vessel arrived at Egg harbour with Cloths & between 3 & 4 thousand stand of arms from France. This vessel has brought English prints as late as the latter end of February & letters from our Commissioners in France dated sometime in March & one from Doer. Lee dated 23d March from Burgos in Spain. 2 The news brought by these dispatches are favourable. The King of Portugal is dead, & troops were filing off from the frontiers of Spain towards Portugal. Capt Weeks had brought into Port 1’Orient 5 prises, among which was the Falmouth packet bound from that port to Lis bon. These vessels Weeks disposed of tho’ not without difficulty at Port 1’Orient. From the affected orders given him to depart, & the excuses made by him for delaying his departure at and last admitted with great seeming reluctance, it is plain, the French court wants to temporise & to gain time. The vessel which carried the dispatches from Congress to France of our Successes in the Jersies was just arrived at Nantes: no doubt the good news would encourage the French court to continue their assistance. To judge from Dor. Lee’s letter Spain also is well inclined. By a letter from London of the 14th March to that gentleman the Ministry have altered their intended plan of operations. Owing to the difficulty of raising foreign mercenaries, they have de termined to order the greatest part of their forces to fall down the St. Laurence & join Howe. If so, no attack will be made on Tionderoga this year. This piece of news corresponds with intelligence lately brought by some Indians from Canada, of which I advised you in my last. G. Arnold is in town. He says two officers who have lately come out of N. York & were well acquainted with some English officers were informed by them that their loss in their expedition to Danbury amounted in killed, wounded & prisoners & missing to 500, if so they have paid dear for the destruction of our magazine at that place. All is yet quiet in the Jersies. I believe the enemy will attempt nothing of importance till they receive reinforcements. Gen. Washing ton disapproves of the inlisting servants & convicts in his letter of the 13 instant. 3
