90 May 17, 1777 I should hope for the Exertion of your Influence on an Occasion so important to the public Weal, If I did not entertain the fullest Confi dence that a Request so reasonable in Its Nature and affording to the Friends an Oppertunity of evincing their Humanity and Patriotism would meet with a cheerful Compliance. From a Total Want of personal Acquaintance with any of the Friends, I am induced to look up to You as a public Character, having seen Your name submitted to a Testimony of Friends at a Meeting of Suffertorys held in this City on the 20th of November last. Please to Favor me with an Answer as soon as possible. I am &c. &c. Ph. Schuyler LB (NN). 1 John Pemberton (1727-95) was a Quaker preacher in Philadelphia whose opposition to the war with Great Britain led in September 1777 to his arrest and imprisonment in Virginia. DAB. Schuyler enclosed this letter in a brief one of the same date to John’s older brother Israel, one of Pennsylvania’s most prominent Quaker merchants and philanthropists. “Inclose You a Letter,” wrote the general to Israel, “which by its Direction You will see designed for Mr. John Pemberton. But being informed that he is out of Town & not likely to return soon, I beg You will read It, and communicate Its Contents to the Society of Friends in this City, of which I am advised You are a Member. You will please to signify to me Whether I may expect an Answer or not.” Schuyler Papers, NN. For the refusal of the Quakers to comply with Schuyler’s requests, see Schuyler to Israel Pemberton, May 22, 1777. For additional information on the plight of the Pembertons and Pennsylvania Quakers as they became engulfed in the revolu tion, see also Theodore Thayer, Israel Pemberton, King of the Quakers (Phila delphia: Historical Society of Pennsylvania, 1943), pp. 210-32. 2 Schuyler also wrote a brief letter on this day to Quartermaster General Thomas Mifflin asking him to send 1,000 tents to the army in the northern de partment. Schuyler Papers, NN. Philip Schuyler to George Washington Dear Sir Philadelphia 18th May 1777 I do myself the Honor to inclose your Excellency a Return of the Troops in the Town. We have not a Blanket to cover them with. The Quakers refused to furnish any to the Committee appointed to collect from the Inhabitants. I have written to John Pemberton on the Subject and am determined if they do not voluntarily afford us a thousand, to make Use of coercive Measures. This Jesuitical Set do us much Injury. The Board of War have reported to Congress that I ought again to be invested with the Command in the Northern Department, and that General Gates should continue to serve under me, or join your Excellency. This occasioned a warm Debate which will be re newed to Morrow. 1 I am Dr Sir, with the greatest Respect and Esteem, Your Excellency’s most obedient hble Servant, Ph. Schuyler
