May 19, 1777 91 RC (DLC). In the hand of John Lansing, Jr., and signed by Schuyler. 1 See ]CC, 7:366, 371, 8:375; and Schuyler’s Memorial to Congress, May 6, 1777, note. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings May 19th. 1777. Committee met. Present—Morris, Lee, Whipple. Order on the Audi tor genl, in favor of Ja. Wallace, for 3200 dlls being the value of his Brige. Polly, Capt. Lacy, taken by the Enemy’s frigate Orpheus, on the 4th July last, as appears by the Capt’s protest, sd. Brige. being charterd & insurd by the Come. 1 MS (MH-H). 1 For information relating to the chartering of the Polly, see Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, March 27, 1776, and June 4, 1777; and Secret Com mittee to Philip Lacey, May 14, 1776, note. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir Piladelphia 19 May 1777 My last was by Mr. Champney since which I have not had the Pleasure of any of Yours. Mr. Frost arriv’d the 15th inst, by his Cre dentials I find I am superceeded, he tells me that was not the intention of the Court. 1 I also find by Your letters that it was there wish that I might tarry some time after Mr. Frosts arrival which I shall do, if I can with propriety, tho I wish to be on my way home before the weather is uncomfortably warm. A ship arriv’d a few days ago from Nants. She brings letters of the 20th March but no dispatches of very great importance, those are expected by a Packet which was to sail in two or three days. Perhaps she is already arriv’d, at some distant port. This ship is landing her Cargo at Cinnapucksen, several of the Enemies ships being still, in Delaware Bay; her cargo consists of Arms & Cloathing. The Reprisal has carried in to France five Prizes since the two she took on her passage from hence one of them a Packet from Falmouth for Lisbon. Capt Weeks writes he is cleaning his ship at ’Grant & has wrote to the Commissioners for leave to come home so he may be soon expected. By a letter from Dr. Lee dated at Burgos in Spain (he being on his way to Madrid) large Quantities of Cloathing are prepareing in that Kingdom for this Country. 2 Some are already sent to the Havanna. This is done without application, he also says the King of Portugal is dead & that a large body of Spanish Troops are marching to the
