94 May 20, 1777 sums than are necessary to forward their march to head-quarters.” JCC, 7:368. It should also be noted that in his letter Hudson acknowledged the receipt of Hancock’s “favour of the 7th Inst per Post . . . Covering a Warrant of Congress for Twenty Thousand Dollars.” This “favour” has not been found, but see also JCC, 7:328; and Hudson to Hancock, May 1, 1777, in PCC, item 78, 11:149. For further information on Hudson, particularly concerning his private versus public transactions, see Robert Morris to Jonathan Hudson, this date. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. May 20th. 1777. This will be delivered to you by Mrs. Graydon of this City, a very worthy Lady, whose Anxiety to see her Son Captain Graydon, now a Prisoner with the Enemy, is so great, that Congress have been induced to consent to her having an Interview with him. I am therefore to request your Attention to the enclosed Resolve on the Subject, and that you will give Directions for having it carried into Execution in such Manner as you may think will be most proper. 1 I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 7:367. Alexander Graydon, a captain in the Third Pennsylvania Battalion, was captured by the British at Fort Washington in November 1776, paroled in July 1777, and exchanged in April 1778. In his memoirs he vividly describes his mother’s trip to New York to intercede personally with General Howe to obtain his parole and President Hancock’s chagrin at her success be cause of his fear that it might cast a favorable light on the British. Alexander Graydon, Memoirs of a Life, Chiefly Passed in Pennsylvania within the Last Sixty Years (Harrisburg: John Wyeth, 1811), pp. 241-63. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Phila. May 20. 1777 We are this moment informed here, that some evil disposed people (no doubt hired for the purpose) have industriously propagated among the N. Carolina Troops, and among the recruits of Virginia in the upper parts, that the plague rages in our Army. In consequence of which, it is said, the recruiting business stops, and desertions are fre quent. 1 There never was a more infamous and groundless falsehood. The Army is extremely healthy, and the wise[st] methods are pursued to keep them so. I mention this dear Sir, that some adequate plan may be adopted to stop the progress of such wicked lies as are now, with industry circulated thro the Country. Force having failed our enemies,
