May 20, 1777 97 to you at Baltimore & if you are gone I depend that those who Act for you will send it after you to the care of Benjn. Harrison Junr Esqr. I sent your letters to General Washington & the pay Master General the day after they came to my hands. I am satisfyed with your Shipping the flour on our joint Account & will receive the Net proceeds of what you have ordered to be sold to be applyed in pay ment of such bills as you may draw on me for your own Account to the extent of One Thousand pounds. I shall honor your drafts on me to the Extent of Two thousand five hundred pounds on any Account, however I now mean to alter these arrangements provided what I shall now propose be agreed to by Carter Braxton Esqr. in Virginia. It seems he has also determined on sending to Carolina to purchase Goods and invites me to be Concerned. I will therefore send this letter enclosed to him and propose that he shou’d join us & let this Specu lation be in thirds. If he agrees to this you may extend the purchase to Twelve or fifteen thousand Pounds this Cury provided the Goods can be obtained on reasonable terms, and you must hurry them back soon as possible for I believe so many People will go on this plan as to raise prices in Carolina & fall them on their return this way. If this is agreed to Mr Braxton must supply you with some money to carry with you. I think five thousand pounds which I believe he can readily do & the letters herewith will enable you to procure the Remainder for drafts on me or on him but unless you can buy the Goods cheap & bring them safe I think you had best not go so deep. I shall desire Mr Braxton to meet you at Williamsburg & for that purpose I alter my first design & enclose this letter open to him instead of sending it to Baltimore. Draw your bills at as long sight as you can & advise me regularly of your proceedings. I am, Sir, Your hble servant, Robt Morris RC (PHarH). 1 Jonathan Hudson (d. 1786), who had been appointed by Congress on January 18, 1777, deputy paymaster at Baltimore, was a merchant frequently associated in commercial transactions with the firm Willing, Morris & Co. See JCC, 7:48; and Robert Morris, The Papers of Robert Morris, 1781-1784, ed. E. James Ferguson, et al., (Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1973-), 1:414. Virginia Delegates to George Wythe Sir, Philadelphia May 20th 1777 We are favored with yours covering a resolve of Assembly to which we shall pay due attention. The first Volume of the last edition of the Journal of Congress, is now published, and shall be forwarded to Williamsburg by the first opportunity. 1 This Volume reaches no
