112 May 23, 1777 The new Delegation transmitted by the Secretary has reached us. Rest assured that our most zealous Efforts shall be strenuously exerted to promote the general Good and Happiness of the united States, as well as the Honor, Interest and Security of our more immediate Con stituents. General Schuyler is fully reinstated in his Command, every point being adjusted entirely to his and our Satisfaction. This Business with which more than the Reputation of our State was so closely connected required Address and great attention for Reasons which the General, who de livers this, can explain. We shall now have Leisure to turn our Thoughts to the Subjects of our Instructions, 1 which we shall diligently pursue and flatter ourselves with the wished for Success. The Revolt in our State cannot but be considered as a dangerous and alarming Example. Every Country is plagued with profligate and ambitious Men who in Times like the present may find it their Interest, or be led by their Passions to bring on Revolutions. Good Policy must therefore dictate to all the Necessity of discouraging this factious and turbulent Spirit, and of securing to every State its proper Rights and Jurisdiction, as well against internal as foreign Enemies. We fear the Consideration of the Boundaries of New York has, thro’ the Multiplicity of Business, been deferred. If so, we submit to your honorable Body, whether it ought not now to be dispatched, especially as the Convention, by one of their Letters, 2 stood pledged, to give Congress full Information on that Subject, and we can assure you it is expected. General Schuyler, one of our Brethren, will take an opportunity of conferring with your Honorable Body, on some other points which materially concern our State; the Discussion of them here must be therefore unnecessary. Permit us only most earnestly to press you to pursue the plan of manufacturing salt in the Interior parts of our State, with unremitting Vigor. As long as the war continues we must, from the exposed Situation of our Sea ports, be distressed for this necessary article of Life, if we trust to a foreign Supply. A temporary Relief we shall endeavor to procure, tho’ it must be at a most enormous Expence. We are confident that Congress will chearfully interpose every good office to assist us. We are with the utmost Regard, Honorable Gentlemen, Your most obedient, humble Servants, Phil. Livingston Jas. Duane P.S. Mr Duer is Stept out & the General mounting which prevents his Signing this Letter. RC (NHi). Written by William Duer and signed by Duane and Livingston, with a postscript by Duane.
