118 May 24, 1777 should send on Board for the Purpose of making the Enquiry. These Resolutions would have passed unanimously but Mr. Lewis coming up and assuring us of his having Conversations with our Council who declared they would be satisfied with the Concessions which were con tained in Nicholsons first Letter and which were satisfactory to the Governor and Mr Lewis further assuring us that Capt. Nicholson had wrote a second Letter in Consequence thereof and discharged every man who did not chuse to remain, we have been induced from these assurances to postpone doing any thing in the matter till we hear further from you on the Subject. Mr. Lewis further says that Capt. Nicholson is about joining the Virginia arm’d Vessels with an Intent to attack the Man of War in the Bay. I can with pleasure inform you the Congress shewed a determined Spirit to give full Satisfaction on both points and I am confident they would have dismiss’d Capt. Nicholson without Hesitation if we had not proposed to restore him on his explicit disapprobation of his Letter which was the Satisfaction you in your’s to him demanded: you may be further assured Capt. Nicholson had not even an Intimation from Congress or Committees to impress. I am surprised that Mr. Rumsey who was on the Marine Committee approved of the Explanation they gave the Resolve to dis charge the impress’d men. Mr. Middleton who was also a member of that Committee told Congress he opposed it in the Marine Committee as an illegal assumption of Power. As the Question was agitated there how could our friend Rumsey suffer such a thing to be done? You’ll be pleased to let us have a Line from you as soon as possible. Generals Schuyler, Arnold & Miflin are in Town and propose to accompany us down to the expected Engagement. Our Army begins to make a very formidable Figure. They were well [. . .] and handsomely uniformed in their D[. . . .] They are dress’d Soldier like from [. . .] to Shoe. I am Gent, Yr. most obed hb. st., Wm. Paca [P.5.] A fellow in this State was detected in inlisting men for the Enemy. He had actually carried five to Brunswick. He has been tried by a Court Martial and condemn’d to die. I am confident there are such villains in every State. We must next assembly make some Laws on this Subject. RC (MdAA). 1 For two other letters Paca dated May 24 but undoubtedly wrote at later times, see Paca’s letters to the Maryland governor and council printed below under the dates May 27 and May 29, 1777. 2 For the council’s May 12 letter to the Maryland delegates inquring about the allowances made to printers of Continental money to which Paca is responding, see Md. Archives, 16:248. 3 For the Nicholson affair, see Marine Committee to James Nicholson, April 29, note, and the Marine Committee, Maryland Delegates, and Robert Morris letters to Thomas Johnson, May 1, 1777.
