124 May 26, 1777 have preferred the interest of New England to that of Virginia. Indeed I am at a Loss to know wherein their interests clash. The guilt of New England is that of a fixed determination against British Tyranny, & such I believe is the crime of Virginia in the eye of their common enemies. Most of the rest have entitled themselves to some hopes of pardon from the Tyrant, by weak, dividing, irresolute and pernicious conduct. One thing is certain, that among the Middle and Southern states Virginia had many enemies, arising from jealousy and envy of her wisdom, vigor, and extent of Territory. But I have ever discovered, upon every question, respect and love for Virginia among the Eastern Delegates. Folly and ingratitude would have marked the Representa tives of Virginia had they shown disesteem for the latter, and attach ment to the former. I have served my Country, Sir, to the best of my knowledge, and with fidelity and industry, to the injury of my health, fortune, and a sequestration from domestic happiness. I shall rejoice to find that others are employed, who will do the business better than I have done. It will always make me happy to reflect, that those Malig- nants who would represent me as an enemy to my Country, cannot make me so. I am ready to give my enemies credit for more address than I thought they possessed—I mean the use they make of a good principle under cover of which to wound me. For this purpose the Delegates time of service is to be so limited as to reward a three years painful employ by dismission. The plan is precisely fitted for my ease, and thus the most malicious, groundless, and infamous slander is likely to succeed against an absent Man, who has labored to deserve a better fate. You will make what use you please of this letter. The business of war re mains as when I wrote you last, except that the American Army is daily increasing, whilst that of the enemy is only added to by a few Tories as yet, tho they will I expect in a month or so be reinforced with 8 or 10,000 men from Europe, which will not make them so strong as when they began the Campaign last year, whilst our Army will be far more formidable. Gen. Washington has now about 10,000 regular Troops with him, and his numbers daily increasing. As far as we are able to learn the enemy have not now in Jersey so many as 5000. By accounts just from New York we hear of the death of Governor Tryon of the wounds he received in the expedition to Danbury, and also of the death of Colo. Woolcot from the same cause. 4 This was the Colonel that made such indecent observations of Gen. Washington’s proposal in exchange of prisoners. Tis said that the Officers in N. York look very grave and say all hope of conquest over America is now gone, unless they can succeed in dividing us. The inclosed resolve of Congress is intended to prevent injury' to the recruiting business and other public service in the absence of a General Officer from Virginia. 5
