128 May 26, 1777 of Seven thousand Dollars, or an order on the Loan office of your State for that sum. As you have in the latter part of your Letter given us reason to hope that you would shortly forward to us compleat Ac counts of the two frigates built under your Inspection, accompanied with proper vouchers we think it will be more regular to wait the ar rival of these Accounts before we advance any further sums. We as sure you that when the said Accounts have passed this board the bal ance shall be punctually and speedily remitted to you. We are Gentlemen, Your very hble servts LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Mann Page to John Page Dear Brother Philadelphia, May 26th 1777. In your Letter to me you refered me to Colo. Nelson for News, he has left us for some time, 1 and as I was anxious to hear particularly from Virginia, I took the Liberty of opening your Letter to him, which I now enclose, that you may know its’ fate. We have no News here, except a Report which is well founded, that Genl. Tryon and Lieutt. Colo. Wallcot are both dead of the Wounds which they reed, in their expedition against Danbury. I shall be much obliged to you to send me weekly the Journals of our Assembly, tho’ I do not expect to stay long to read them; for I understand there is to be an entire change in the Delegation from Virga. I wrote you my sentiments upon that Head by the last Post. 2 One thing I would wish you to urge to your friends in the Assembly, which is that every person who is appointed a Delegate to Congress should decline all foreign Commerce in which he may be then engaged, & be bound during the time of his Delegation not to enter into any foreign commercial Business, either directly on his own Acct., or indirectly by joining in Partnership with any person what ever. The necessity we are under of making Returns in our Produce to Europe for the Supplies which we have imported from thence for the Use of our Army renders this Caution proper. This is generally pur chased- by Agents who are usually nominated by the Delegates of the respective States. If the merchant Delegate should want a little honesty, & should have Interest to get one of his Partners, who may be as little scrupleous as himself, appointed an Agent, they may apply the Money advanced for the public Service to their own Uses, & the Agent by purchasing certain Commodities which his Partner the Delegate may inform him will shortly be wanted by the Public, & afterwards by sell ing to the public at an advanced Price, they may replace the Money which ought to have been laid out for the public, & by that means make great Profit to themselves upon the ruin of the Continent. Again,
