May 26, 1777 129 if the Person who exports the produce to foreign Ports or the Delegate should be concerned in Trade, they may manage their Affairs so that every Cargo which is taken by the Enemy will belong to the public, & everyone which arrives safe will be private Property. Neither is it possible to detect the Villainy, for the confidence placed in the Dele gate, & the Opinion entertained of the Agent who has the Recom mendation & Support of the Delegate will prevent all Suspicions; but if they should arise, & an Enquiry into the Matter be insisted on, they may by many artful ways evade a Settlement ’til they hear the Fate of the Cargoes which they have shiped. I do not know whether any thing of the Sort has happened, but it is best to guard against the worst. As to the Seal I fear it cannot be made here; the Man who was employed about it is in Prison for [Tompson?]; Colo. Nelson promised to carry the Print to Virga which was left in the Care of Mr. Purviance at Baltimore when we came from thence. Please to give my Love to my Sister. I am dear Brother, Your’s affectionately, Mann Page Junr. RC (ViW). 1 See Mann Page to John Page, May 6, 1777, note 1. 2 Page’s letter to his brother on this subject has not been found, but he had not been included in the Virginia delegation appointed by the assembly on May 22 and announced in Purdie’s Virginia Gazette on May 23, 1777. Daniel Roberdeau to George Washington My dear General Philada May 26th. 1777 1 I have known nothing but Affliction ever since I had the honor of seeing you last and was a Subject of your great humanity and polite ness, for which you have my most sincere thanks, when I was reduced to the lowest Ebb of Life in New Jersey, but the affliction I suffered in my own person and all the Sorrows of my whole life accumulated, are not to be compared with that awful stroke of Providence which de prived me of my Dr. Mrs. Roberdeau. I know your generous Breast feels for my distress with which I do not intend to take up more of your precious time than to offer it as an apology that I have not presented my acknowledgement sooner. Congress has this day made a new arrangement of the Chaplains department by reducing that part of the Staff to one for each Brigade to be recommended by the Brigadier and appointed by Congress, with the pay, rations and Forrage allowed to Colonels. 2 This new and honorable Establishment is designed to suppress the horrid Sins of Cursing, swearing and other Vices with which I am sorry to say our Army Vies with the most abandoned of the English Troops; to strengthen the Officers hands by publick and private exorta-
