130 May 26, 1777 tions to obedience of General and Regimental Order; to discourage Disertions by recommending the Service, to encourage Enlistments, to recommend cleanlyness as a virtue conducive to health, and to repre hend the neglect of it. These and other valuable Ends with the Gountinance and concurrence of General Officers by the blessing of heaven I doubt not may be answered by a careful choice and recom mendation of pious Clergymen zealously attached to our glorious Cause who will not begrudge the exertion of every nerve of the Service but if Drones induced by the loaves and Fishes should creep into the Army, the designs of Congress will be entirely defeated, to prevent which I frankly confess has induced me to step out of my line on this Occasion, and I beg you will not look upon it as an impudent intrusion on you, when I assure you the honor of God, my Countries welfare, your Comfort and that of every sober Officer and man in the Army are my only motives. With submission I think an early recommendation to Congress will be best in every view, particularly to prevent the ap plication of such as would mar instead of promoting the Service, and as I know you may have what influence you please with the Genl. Officers in this measure, for these Reasons permit me to mention at the foot of this some Gentlemen who would be of great Service in our Army, as probably you are not as well acquainted with that order of Gentlemen, zealously attached to our Cause, as I am. The Names that have oc curred to me are chiefly of the Church I belong to, but believe me no partiallity has influenced to this but my greater knowledge of such is the occasion. The four last mentioned Gentlemen I am not personally acquainted with but all the others I speak of from my own knowledge as persons well qualified to serve the valuable purposes already men tioned. I plead no right to this freedom much less Do I presume on my publick Character but solely from the motives I have professed above and free from every solicitation. Congress has this day refered to you the nomination of any of the General Officers already appointed to the command of the horse. I fear your censure of my freedom but relying on your candour I re main with unfeigned regard and profound Respect, Dear General, Yr. much obliged & obt, huml Servt. Daniel Roberdeau Dr. John Livingston of the Dutch reformed Church of New York Dr. John Rodgers Presbyterian of N.Y. Mr. Elihu Spencer do. of Delaware Mr. Alexr. McWhorter do. of New Jersey Mr. James Caldwell do. do. Mr. Geo. Duffield do. of Philada. Mr. Stillman Baptist of Boston Mr. Wm. Gordon Presbyterian Jama. Plains Mr. McRoberts political character unknown, but popular of Virginia
