134 May 26, 1777 memory of General Wooster. Major General Arnold is here. Congress has ordered an elegant horse properly caparisoned to be presented to him. I am with great Esteem & Regard, Your Honrs. Obedient humble Servant, Roger Sherman P.S. I Saw an account in the New Haven paper that one Griswold was executed as a traitor and Spy by the Sentence of a Court Martial. 4 If he was an Inhabitant of the State & not of the Army, I think he ought to have been tryed before the Superior Court. The resolution of Congress for the punishment of Spies respects only persons who are not inhabitants of any of the United States, or under the protection of their laws. We cant be too careful of Military incroachments. It is easy to accuse any person with being a Spy & So put his Life in the power of a Court Martial if that is allowed. The Case of Molesworth who was tryed and executed in this City was approved by Congress, but it was from necessity, because there was no Civil Courts established in this State. 5 R-S. RC (Ct). 1 See Sherman to Trumbull, May 14, 1777, note 2. 2 See Sherman to Trumbull, May 16, 1777. 3 Joseph Trumbull had been in Philadelphia since April 22 conferring with a congressional committee on the reorganization of the commissary department. For a discussion of developments leading to the adoption of new commissary regulations, see Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull, April 19, 1777, note 1. 4 See Sherman to Oliver Wolcott, May 21, 1777, note 1. 5 See John Hancock to Horatio Gates, March 31, 1777. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dr. Papa 27th May 1777. Pha. There is nothing new Since my last. I have yours of the 20th instant from Annapolis. Altho’ the law making the currencies a legal tender is certainly unjust, yet when the debtors tender no more than the interest, I would not write to them about the injustice of tendering the interest money at par. When they tender more than the interest, it would be proper to expostulate with them on the injustice of the preferred payt. You say Lewellen’s Son did not tender the money. I wish you may not bring yourself into trouble about that law, altho it is unjust, it hath passed, & we must submit to it, or take the consequences of a refusal. The Congress is under a necessity of emitting 5 million more of Dollars. We are in hopes we shall not be obliged to put this whole Sum in circulation, as the Loan offices & lottery will supply us with nearly money sufficient to answer the remaining expences of this campaign.
