May 27, 1777 135 I am in hopes we shall be able to negotiate a loan in Europe among those nations which are diposed to favour our cause. If this could be done to any considerable extent, it would supersede the necessity of any farther emissions; and if the several States would tax highly, those taxes together with the monies that might be borrowed on interest, would probably nearly answer the expences of next campaign, which I think will not be so expensive as the present, as our army & its different de partments will be put on a more economical footing. This State is in a very languid condition. The Govt, is feeble beyond conception, & yet a better, I fear, will not soon be established; nothing but an actual invasion can make Pena, exert itself with becoming vigour. It has great resources, but in the present State of things they lie dormant; a collection of blankets is now making from the Quakers. They refused to give voluntarily even on payt. so that a Seeming force has become necessary to procure that much wanted supply. I shall write again by next Saturday’s post, if there should be anything worth writing. All is quiet in the Jersies. Wishing you a long continuance of your health I remain, yr. affectionate Son, C. Carroll of Carrollton RC (MdHi). Elbridge Gerry to Unknown My dear sir Philadelphia 27th May 1777 Being now in Congress I am unable to reply to your last Favours, & have only Time to inclose You a Warrant on the Loan office for the Money due to You in Consequence of an Error attending the last Adjustt. of your Account. I suffer much from Want of Exercise & Relaxation, shall however not leave Congress while I am able to attend the Business, as I wish much to see several Matters compleated, par ticularly the Confederation, before my Return. I am much in Haste sir your assured Friend & huml. sert. E Gerry RC (MB). John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. May 27th. 1777. I have the Honour of transmitting at this Time sundry Resolves, to which I beg Leave to refer your Attention. 1 From them you will learn, that Congress have ascertained the Limits
