May 28, 1777 139 Course which the regular State Physicians are either not adequate to, or unwilling to attempt. A Spirit of this kind under the Name of Joyce Junr. has made his Appearance in Boston. 2 I should not be surpris’d if he was to travel Westward. It would be attended with these good Effects: it would either supply the Want of Vigor in the present Government or it would induce those whose duty it is to act with Spirit and Vigor. What think you of an Episcopalian Clergyman in this City praying last Sunday for the Lords Spiritual and Temporal—or rather what think you of the Congregation which heard him with Patience? If in the midst of your Political Business you can now and then drop me a Line I will esteem it as a favor, and (if not regularly) I will by Starts when there is any thing worth communicating write to you. A Word in the Ear of a Friend. When I was sent here I had some Idea that I was entering into The Temple of Public Virtue. I am disappointed and Chagrined. Genl. Schuyler will communicate my Sentiments and his own at large. The Chaste Colo. Lee will I am credibly informed be left out of the new Delegation for Virginia which is now in Agitation. The mere Con templation of this Event gives me Pleasure. My mind is full, and I wish to unburthen it; but Prudence forbids me. 3 I condole with you on the Loss of your Aged Mother or rather should I not congratulate you that she is arrived in a secure and pleasant Haven from a Storm, which she was little calculated to bear? This Reflection I beleive has alleviated your Distress. May we be as Virtuous as your Parents should we live to be as old! From the rapid Increase of Villainy both Moral and Political, it is to be feard that we shall not increase in Virtue, as we may in Years. Remember me to all my Freinds, particularly to my Fellow-Labourors in the Council of Conspiracy. 4 Adieu, and beleive me Yours with much Esteem and Affection. W Duer [P.5.] I have deliverd Genl. Schuyler a Letter from your Friend Mr Dean in France. 5 I have had it some Time by me, but waited a safe Mode of Conveyance. RC (NNC). Addressed: “To The Honble. John Jay Esqr, Chief Justice of the State of New York.” 1 The New York Convention had adopted a state constitution on April 20. 2 Joyce, Jr., was the pseudonym used by a Boston mob leader whose real identity has never been established. Taking his name from an English officer who had arrested Charles I in 1647 and allegedly taken part in his execution two years later, Joyce, Jr., first appeared in Boston in 1774 as chairman of a committee of tarring and feathering. After disappearing during the British occupa tion of Boston, he returned to public view in April 1777 as the leader of a mob which drove five loyalists out of Boston and threatened to kill them if they set foot in the city again. R. S. Longley, “Mob Activities in Revolutionary Massa chusetts,” New England Quarterly 6 (March 1933) : 126-28. 3 Richard Henry Lee had opposed General Schuyler’s reinstatement as com-
