May 28, 1777 143 an order was drawn for that sum, on the Auditr. genl, in favr. sd. Owners. In consequence of a letter from Messrs. Hewes & Smith of Edinton, datd. 20th March last to Robt. Morris Esqr. The Come, have agreed to ensure the value of the Brige. Patty wch. they mention in sd. letter to have purchased & loaded on public Acct, for Nantes, at the Sum She cost, viz: 8,500 dlls for the voyage & to take sd vessel at the above sum & allow a Comn. for purchasg. & pay any charges that may have accrued. Bill of Exchange drawn by Messrs. Clarkson & Dorsius of Charles-town, S. Carolina dated 29th March last favr Jas. Nelson or order on Mr. Morris as Chairman of this Come, for £5712.12.0 Peny. Curry was presented & an order drawn by the Presidt. of Congress on the L. Officer of this State in favor of Jabez Perkins for 15,233 54/90 dlls to be pd. in Certificates being amt. of sd. Bill. MS (MH-H). William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir, Philadelphia 28th May 1777 Your favor of the 9th inst came to hand Yesterday. 1 I am extreamly sorry you shod be under the necessaty of filling up the Regiments with eight & twelve months men as it appears to me there will always be a difficulty in replacing them. I can conceive of no reason for an abate ment in the spirits of the People unless it is that those miscreants who are aiming at the distraction of their Country, are not treated with that just severity which their Crimes deserve. What purpose will it answer to fill the Goals? These Villains have all friend, & while they remain with you ’tho they are in Goal they will be raising their parties, whereas if they are under Ground or out of the Country they will soon be for got. The necessaty of the Case will surely justify the most severe & decisive measures, I am always for persueing lenitive measures, when such will answer the purpose, but experience has tought us others must be adopted. I am fully sensible of the necessaty you are under of a supply of Military stores & shall do everything in My power to obtain them. I wish to know what Concurrent circomstances leed you to appre hend a speedy attackt. The Enemy certainly have no troops to spare from N. York; nor can they have a considerable reinforcement from Europe very soon, however there is no doubt its best to be prepared at all points for which purpose the most Vigorous exertions shod be use’d. It will by no means do to dispond because a few scatering Clouds pass between us & the sun, proper Exertion will soon dispel them. We shod never suffer Gloomy reflections to incomber the path, but look forward
