May 29, 1777 145 confessedly, was not laid for the Value of the revenue, but to form a precedent for exercising the Power when and to what Extent they pleased. The Representatives of the People in their general Assemblies Com plained of those Doings as violating the Rights of their Constituents. They knew it was their distinguished Privilege to give and grant their own Money, and to Consent to all Laws which they were bound to obey. Soon as the Governors perceived the Assemblies were in Deliberation on this Subject they dissolved them. Other Representatives were chozen and those Extravagant Usurpations Still presented themselves as the greatest Grievance. When they entered on the Consideration of them they were again dissolved. This mode was pursued until the People every where became Sensible that no Opportunity would be given them ever to Complain. Necessity pointed out to them that they must have recourse to other Methods of representing their wrongs and requiring redress. Nature pointed out to them the mode they Adopted, and they were so reluctant to do any thing which might even appear a Deviation from Established Form, that they long forbore assembling in Towns and Counties and did not at length yield to the Necessity until they found every hope of redress any other way was lost. When obliged to take this first Step the People proceeded with the utmost Caution. No tumult or disorder appeared, every man was im pressed with an awful Sense of the Necessity he was under of Exer cising that Right which Nature gave to every Man, and which the British Constitution expressly Assented, that of Consulting and re solving Concerning his Safety and Happiness, and each was determined to Exercise it no farther than the Necessity pressingly required. In the most humble manner they declared their attachment to the Established Government, and even affection to the person of the Prince, they Complained of Wrongs which they modestly supposed to have arisen from no ill Intention or design in the Prince or Parliament, and they determined to Communicate their Sentiments to their Neighbors in Conventions of representatives Chozen and Instructed for this pur pose. The same Necessity pressing at the Same time in every Colony, the same Sense of Wrong being every where felt, and Simple Nature every where Suggesting the same Expedient the meetings were every where held nearly at the same time, and they produced Conventions nearly at the Same time in every one of the present United States. In structions from the People were nearly the Same in every Town and County, and they all Breathed {nearly) the same Spirit of humility, Moderation and Loyalty. All pointed out the Propriety of a Common Communication between the Different Colonies, and of Joint Supplica tions to the Throne for redress of Wrongs and Protection from Usurpa tions.
