May 29, 1777 153 Committee of Congress to Joseph Trumbull 29th May 1777 In Consequence of the preceding Resolution we request the favor of you to furnish us with the Papers therein mentiond. 1 We are Sir, with due Respect, Your Obedt. Hble. Servt. Wm. Duer A. Middleton RC (Ct.) Written by Duer and signed by Duer and Middleton. 1 This note was written at the foot of a page below a resolution of this date appointing Duer, Middleton, and Thomas Burke as a committee to estimate the number of teams needed to carry supplies to Washington’s army and calling upon Commissary Trumbull to provide them with “a particular state of all the magazines of provisions already laid up.” JCC, 8:395. William Paca to the Maryland Governor and Council Gentn. Philad. 24.[29?] May 1777 1 We were much disappointed in our Excursion on Saturday last. The Enemy would not come up, they lie still low down the river. We have no Intelligence from Camp other than that Genl. Wash ington has moved to Boundbrooke and there encamped. There was a firing heard yesterday Morning, we suppose a Skirmish at the outposts. I shall write you by every Post for I take it for granted you are anxious to be informed of every Event. Tryon it is said and the Im pertinent Lieut. Col. Walcot are both dead of the wounds they got in the Danbury Affair. I am Gent., yr. most obd. hble Set. W Paca RC (MdAA). 1 Although Paca clearly dated this letter “24 May 1777,” it was obviously written at a later time. The reference to “our Excursion on Saturday last” is to an event that occurred on the 24th; and General Washington’s move to Bound brook, mentioned in Paca’s second paragraph, was explained in Washington’s letters of May 28 to President Hancock and to Robert Morris, the first of which was read in Congress on the 29th. See William Paca to the Maryland Governor and Council, May 24, 1777; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:131—34, 134n.l6; and JCC, 8:395. For another letter Paca misdated May 24, see his letter to the Maryland governor and council printed under the date May 27.
