154 May 30, 1777 Board of War to George Washington Sir War Office May 30th. 1777 By Order of the Board I do myself the Honour of troubling your Excellency for Information on the Subject of our Prisoners who are with the Enemy. I am directed to enquire whether a Commissary has been sent in to supply them or in what Situation that Business now is & what Steps have been taken which have fallen within your Observa tion for the Relief of their Wants. The Board are desirous of collecting every necessary Information that they may be enabled to form a proper Judgment of that Part of General Howe’s Letter which as they appre hend groundlessly throws upon Congress an Imputation of Neglect of proper Attention to their Officers & Soldiers in Captivity. 1 The enclosed Letter from Genl Forman I am directed to transmitt to your Excellency as the best Judge of the Expediency of the Measure therein recommended. 2 Should you approve of it the Board will en deavour to comply with the Request. The Board have been frequently applied to by Complainants against a certain Captain John Doyle of an independent Company raised in this State who is indebted but every where for almost all the Neces saries with which his Company were supplied. Enclosed is a Letter from a Gentleman to whom he owes a large Sum to pay which he has re ceived Money from the Treasury. If this be not an Object unworthy of your Attention amidst your present more important Concerns it would be well to weed out of the Army a Person who has conducted himself so unbecoming the Character of a Gentleman & a Soldier. I have the Honour to be with the greatest Respect, Your very obedt & most humble Servt, Richard Peters Secy RC (DLC). 1 Apparently Peters is referring to Gen. William Howe’s May 22 letter to Washington in which he complained about the mistreatment Col. Archibald Campbell was suffering during his imprisonment in Massachusetts. Although Congress had more than two months before ordered better treatment for Camp bell, who was being held as a hostage to guarantee good British treatment of Gen. Charles Lee, Howe was still dissatisfied with the conduct of the Massa chusetts authorities. In response, Congress ordered Washington on June 10 to inform Howe that it “most sincerely laments the necessity to which they are driven by the cruel policy of their enemies, of entering into any resolutions which have any appearance of severity towards those prisoners of war who have fallen or may fall into our hands; but, there are not other means in our power of inducing our enemies to respect the rights of humanity.” See JCC, 8:449-50; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:131-33; Howe to Washington, May 22, Washington Papers, DLC; and John Hancock to the Massachusetts Council, March 26, 1777. 2 Brig. Gen. David Forman’s May 27 letter to the Board of War, a copy of which is in Washington Papers, DLC, asked for some artillery pieces so that he could prevent British incursions into Sandy Hook. Washington declared in a
