156 May 30, 1777 already sent you a commission for and now send you a duplicate of the same) for tho’ we conceive the Credit of America to be as well founded at least as any in the world, having neither Debt nor Taxes on her Back when she began the War, yet she represents a Man who with a Vast Capital all in Property is unable to make new Purchases till he can either convert some of it into Specie, or borrow from hand to mouth in the mean Time. Britain is now fighting us, and the Greatest part of Europe negatively, by endeavouring to stop that Trade from us, to France, Spain &c which She has most effectually lost to herself, & we wish those Courts saw their Interest in the same Clear point of View, which it appears to us. We have little or no doubt of being able to reduce the Enemy by Land and we likewise believe that the united Powers of France, Spain and America would be able totally to expel the British fleet from the western Seas, by which the Communication for Trade would be openned, the Number of Interests reduced which have hitherto distracted the West Indies, and Consequently the Peace of all this Side the Globe put on a better foundation than it has yet ever been a Mutual Advantage as we Conceive to France, Spain and these States. That Britain was formidable in the West Indies last War is true, but when it is Considered that her power there arose from her Possessions here or that she was formidable chiefly thro’ us it is impossible to sup pose that she can again arrive to the same pitch. Here she was assisted by Numberless Privateers—Here she supplied and partly manned her Navy, recruited and almost raised her Army for that service, in short, America last War represented Britain removed to this side the Atlantic. The scene is changed, and America now, is that to France and Spain, in point of Advantage, which she last War was to Britain. Therefore putting the Convenience which we might receive out of the Question, by their making an Attack on the West Indies, We are somewhat sur prised that such Political Courts as France and Spain should Hesitate on a Measure so alluring and Practicable. We do not mention these Remarks because we suppose they do not occur to you, but to let you know our thoughts on the matter, and to give you every advantage by conveying our minds to you as well as our Instructions or Informations. This Packet brings you compleat Setts of the Philadelphia News Papers filed in order for 17 Weeks, to which we refer you for account of little skirmishes &c. We are Gentlemen, yr Obt. Hble Servts, Benja Harrison Jno Witherspoon Robt Morris Thos. Heyward Junr. James Lovell RC (PPAmP). In the hand of Witherspoon and signed by Witherspoon, Harrison, Heyward, Lovell, and Morris. The FC in PCC, item 79, 1:61-64, is signed by Richard Henry Lee, Harrison, Heyward, and Lovell, but not by Morris or Witherspoon.
