May 31, 1777 159 Europe. In a variety of skirmishes lately we have beaten them, and in some of these, their best Troops have been foiled. By this opportunity Congress sends you a particular Commission as their Representative at the Court of Spain. 1 In my judgement, and it is an opinion founded on the most accurate information, the Independence, and security of N. America, cannot be said to be certain until an Alliance with Spain & France is procured, and in consequence, the British Arms, and Arts not solely employed for our ruin. You may be assured that this is of infinite consequence to your Country and therefore you will conduct yourself accordingly. And for the assistance of our finance, an extensive loan is indispensable. If any untoward accident should have befallen our brother the aiderman, in which case I have desired my letters to him to be sent you for your perusal, the management of my boys must rest entirely with you and in that case, at all events, you will see the neces sity of sending them both immediately to me. Farewell my dear Brother. Richard Henry Lee P.S. It will be of great consequence that I hear from you frequently & fully. If your letters come anywhere to the Northward of Virginia, or if they go by the West Indies, let them be directed to the care of our brother Doctor Shippen in Philadelphia. R.H.L. I believe Tryon is not dead and we have not heard more of Colo Wolcot. 1. Letr to Committee March 8th 2. March 16th 3. March 29th 4. April 8 5. April 19 RC (ViU). A continuation of Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee, April 20, 1777. 1 Although a draft of Arthur Lee’s commission was read in Congress this day, it was not approved until June 5. ]CC, 8:409, 420. New York Delegates to the New York Council of Safety Sir, Philada. 31st May, 1777. We transmit you the resolution of Congress, of 23rd May, 1777, rela tive to the manning and fitting out two galleys for the defence of the North river. 1 We wish that Mr. Morris who was desired by Convention to write on this subject, had transmitted his letter to the board of war through us, as we then should have been able (in all probability) to have obtained a resolution for fitting those gallies at the Continental ex-
