160 May 31, 1777 pense. 2 For want of previous information, the resolution enclosed was passed without that attention which might otherwise have been paid to it. We by no means are of opinion that there is any similarity betwixt the State of New-York and other States who have fitted out vessels of this nature. The use of these vessels in Hudson’s river is chiefly to protect the chain near the forts in the Highlands, and by that means keep up the communication betwixt the southern and eastern States. In other States they have been built for the purpose of protecting their own harbours and towns. The purpose, therefore, for which the vessels on Hudson’s river are intended, being Continental, the expense ought, in our opinion, to be the same. If the Council of Safety should be of the same opinion with us, and write to Congress on this subject, we shall procure a reconsideration of this resolution, and exert ourselves to make the fitting and manning these vessels a Continental charge. In the mean time, we think it will be for the interest and safety of the State to exert themselves in equipping and manning these vessels with the utmost despatch. 3 We are directed by Mr. Lewis to inform you that the accounts of the sloop Montgomery will be forwarded in two or three days, to gether with the share of prize money due to the captors. 4 We are, sir, with great respect, Your obedt. hble. servts. Phil Livingston, Wm. Duer. P.S. Capt. Cook having no money to carry him out of town, we have furnished him with a loan of seventy dollars, for which we enclose you his receipt. Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:958. Addressed: “To the Honble. Pierre Van Cortlandt, President of the Council of Safety of the State of New-York.” 1 See JCC, 8:383. 2 Gouverneur Morris’ May 13 letter to the Board of War requesting “your Assistance in procuring Men for two Gallies in Hudson’s River” is in PCG, item 78, 15:197. 3 In accordance with this advice, the council of safety wrote letters on June 17 to President Hancock and to the New York delegates, protesting Congress’ failure to assume the cost of manning and outfitting the two galleys. However, the delegates decided to withhold these letters from Congress and not raise the issue of Continental financing because of their belief that Congress felt it had recently devoted too much of its time to New York affairs. See Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:966; and New York Delegates to the New York Council of Safety, July 8, 1777. 4 See Francis Lewis to the New York Convention, January 16, 31, and March 12, 1777.
