166 June 2, 1777 month. I shall do all in my power to procure a supply of arms &c, but dare not be very sanguine in my hopes of success, as there is not a sufficient quantity arrived to furnish the army proposed to be raised. I am in hopes of leaving this in about a week as I am now waiting only to get some matters done in the Marine Department, which I wish to have done before my departure. There is not the least probability of your obtaining liberty to appoint a Deputy, if you should have an opportunity and be disposed to go in the army, as no man will be allowed to hold a place in a civil depart ment and a commission in the military at the same time. I have at last paid Messrs Wharton 585 dollars which they suppose to be about the balance of your account but they would not make a final settlement as their books were out of town and the mahogany you shipped them still unsold. I have their receipt for the sum paid them which I shall take with me; there now remain in my hands $960 which I hope to have the pleasure of delivering you in person. I had wrote thus far when your’s of the 16th ulto was handed me. I thank you for your good opinion of me and must defer saying any thing more on the subject of your letter till I have the pleasure of taking you by the hand which will be about the last of this month; in the mean time be assured I am with all due respect, Your friend and humble sevt Wm Whipple Tr (DLC). John Adams to John Sullivan Dear Sir Philadelphia June 3. 1777 I regret with you the Loss of Coll Stark, of whose Experience and Bravery, I have often heard the best accounts. 1 I knew not the Man but some Gentlemen represented him as unequal in Abilities to the high Command of a General officer. I am extremely sorry to learn that you have been so great a Sufferer in the Loss of your Baggage &c upon several occasions. But in answer to your first Question I can only say, that Congress have hitherto re fused to grant any Compensation to Sufferers of any Kind. Falmouth and Charlestown have both petitioned and been civilly refused. 2 Several officers Widows, in deplorable Circumstances, have petitioned and been refused. Several other officers have applied and been refused particularly Lord Sterling. So that I can give you, but cold comfort, respecting your Losses. As to your Second Question, I can give no possitive Answer, how Congress consider your Post. The Resolve of Congress in Words extends only to a Major General commanding in a Seperate Depart-
