June 4, 1777 167 ment. 3 But I believe General Gates was allowed for his Table under it, and I see no Reason why you should not. What shall I say, about raising the Pay of General officers! Our Revenue! sir, our Revenue! What will become of it, and of us! With the Greatest objects in View that any Society ever beheld, the greatest evil to be avoided, and the greatest good to be obtained: with the fairest Prospects of Success that a fond, Sanguine Imagination could wish, We are in the utmost danger of Ruin, by a Failure in our Finances. 4 RC (DLC). 1 John Stark, colonel of the First New Hampshire Regiment, had resigned on March 22, 1777. N.H. State Papers, 8:518-19. 2 See John Adams to Abigail Adams, May 17, 1777, note 1. 3 On June 16, 1775, Congress had resolved that when any major general should “act in a separate department, he be allowed, for his pay and expence, three hundred and thirty-two dollars per month” beyond his regular pay of $166 per month. JCC, 2:93. 4 For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Sullivan, June 8, 1777. John Adams to Abigail Adams June 4. 1777 I wish I could know, whether your season is cold or warm, wet or dry, fruitfull or barren. Whether you had late Frosts. Whether those Frosts have hurt the Fruit, the Flax, the Corn or Vines, &c. We have a fine season here and a bright Prospect of Abundance. You will see by the inclosed Papers, in a Letter from my Friend Parsons, a very handsome Narration of one of the prettiest Exploits of this War—a fine Retaliation for the Danbury Mischief. Meigs who was before esteemed a good Officer has acquired by this Expedition a splendid Reputation. 1 You will see by the same Papers too, that the Writers here in Oppo sition to the Constitution of Pensilvania, are making a factious Use of my Name and Lucubrations. Much against my Will, I assure you, for altho I am no Admirer of the Form of this Government, yet I think it is agreable to the Body of the People, and if they please themselves they will please me. And I would not choose to be impressed into the service of one Party, or the other-—and I am determined I will not inlist. 2 Besides it is not very genteel in these Writers, to put my Name to a Letter, from which I cautiously withheld it myself. However, let them take their own Way. I shant trouble myself about it. I am growing better, by Exercise and Air. I must write a Letter, in Behalf of Mr. Thaxter, to the Bar and Bench in Boston, in order to get him sworn, at July Court. 3
