168 June 4, 1777 Will my Brother, when the Time comes, officiate for his Brother at a Christening? If it is a young Gentleman call him William after your Father—if a young Lady, call her Elizabeth after your Mother, and sister. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:255-56. 1 Gen. Samuel H. Parsons’ May 25, 1777, letter to General Washington de scribing the destruction of a British foraging party at Sag Harbor, Long Island, was published in the Pennsylvania Journal, June 4, 1777. 2 Benjamin Rush, using the pseudonym Ludlow, had cited John Adams’ Thoughts on Government in a newspaper article criticizing the new Pennsylvania constitution’s unicameral legislature. Pennsylvania Journal, May 28, 1777. Sup porters of the constitution then counter-attacked Adams’ pamphlet, spurring a reprint of it in the Pennsylvania Gazette, June 11, 1777. Rush’s was apparently the first public revelation of Adams’ authorship. See John Adams to John Penn, [March 19-27?, 1776], note 2; and Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2 * 256n2 3 Adams’ letters to the Suffolk County Bar Association and the Suffolk County Court of Common Pleas have not been found, but see Abigail Adams to John Adams, August 27, 1777, ibid., p. 331. Board of War to Horatio Gates Dear General War Office June 4th. 1777 Congress have received your Letters of the 29th April, May 2d & 24th. The several Matters have been attended to & what was thought immediately necessary was done. 1 The Paragraph relating to Light Horse mentioned in yours of the 29th April & your Reasons enclosed for your Opinion that the Enemy’s Plan will be to go up the North River & endeavour to effect the old Scheme of a Junction with Carlton, were sent to General Washington for his Consideration & Directions were given that he should send the Horse if he could spare them. Enclosed you have Copies of the Regulations as to Chaplains & a Resolve respecting the Appointment of an Ajutant General for the Northern Army. 2 General Mifflin has forwarded one thousand Tents which it is hoped have before this reached you. The Part of your Letter relative to Money is referred to the Treasury Board who will no Doubt report a Supply. 3 Your Request as to Capt. Whitcombe’s Corps being indulged with a Bounty equal to that given by the Eastern States cannot be complied with on Account of the Precedent. 4 I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Regard, your very obedt S erv t Richard Peters, Secy
