June 6, 1777 171 I wish, if you are not hurried out of your senses, that you would endeavour to convey to me some hint whereby an Accommodation should take place as to Mons Du Coudray and Genl. Knox. The Officers of our Army must have a hard struggle in reconciling themselves to that monarchical devotion which is necessary in the adop tion of Du Coudray’s Command, as it appears to have been regulated in Mr Deane’s Compact. I have but a poor Idea of that Gentleman’s ability to guard against French finess and flattery. I believe the Arrival of Doctr. Franklin will'be an Advantage to Mr. D. Yr Frd and Servt, J L Reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 2:379. 1 Not found. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Papa, Pha. 7th June 1777. By a letter from General Poor, who commands at Tionderoga, dated the 27th past we are informed that the vanguard of the enemy’s army was then within 50 miles of his garrison, which was weak & not well supplied with provisions. If the enemy push on with alacrity Poor must evacuate the lines at Tionderoga & retreat into mount Independance, where he may possibly hold out till our an army can be collected & march to his relief. Perhaps it will be impossible for him to save his military stores, cannon &c which are in the lines. However I have some faint hopes the enemy will proceed with their usual caution & delay. I wish our stores & troops at Tionderoga & mount Independance (oppo site to Tionderoga) were removed to Fort Nicholson, called Chessire’s in my journal. It is the common opinion, and of General Washington also, that the enemy will soon march to this city thro’ the Jersies. Some of their preparations indicate such an attack, but I can not help thinking they will only make a feint of marching this way to draw G. Washington from his strong camp at middle Brook, & then endeavour to force him to a battle before he regains his present advantageous post. If they fail in this scheme, Howe will probably turn his arms agt. the Province of N.Y. & in conjunction with Carleton endeavour to subdue it. The Enemy it is said have received about 1900 new recruits from Europe. Much depends on this campaign. I wish Gen. Washington’s army was stronger & better provided than it is. Most, if not all the States, are very deficient in their quotas. I think the People grow tired of the war. I wish you would look over the list of bonds, & get such renewed as are very near expiring. I wrote to you in my last for a supply of cash. I fancy there are frequent opportunities from Baltimore Town, I mean
