172 June 7, 1777 such as you might trust to. Simpson has sent me a pair of shoes for Molly. I shall get those for which she sent up the silk made immediately for 30/ a pair. Simpson asks 45/ & no dependance on him. Every thing is most exorbitantly dear in this city, in short the continental currency seems daily to depreciate. However I hope we shall surmount this the greatest, & all our other difficulties. What cannot wisdom, perseverance, & virtue affect? Yet we abound not in either. I have more confidence of success, from the blunders of our enemy than our own good conduct. My love to Molly & Mrs. Damall. I wish you health & a long con tinuance of it. I am, yr affec Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton RC (MdHi). 1 For a copy of Gen. Enoch Poor’s May 27 letter to Horatio Gates, which Gates had enclosed in a letter to Washington of May 30 and Washington had forwarded in a June 2 letter to President Hancock, see PCC, item 154, 1:228-30. See also Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:168, and JCC, 8:417. 2 A reference to the journal he kept while on his mission as a commissioner to Canada in 1776, for which see Richard Smith’s Diary, February 14, 1776, note. Francis Lewis to the New York Council of Safety Gentlm Phila. 7th June 1777 I have at length obtained a decree from the Commissrs. of Appeals relative to the Brign Minerva & Cargo, who have confirmed the sen- tance of the Admiralty Court at Baltimore, by which the Vessell & Cargo is restored to the Claimants. I shall set out for Baltimore on Monday next, collect the Registers Bill of cost &c there, when shall furnish you with all the accounts relative to the Montgomery’s prizes. 1 Should you think my attendance necessary at Kingston or elsewhere, please to advise me. The Cross cut Saws & Cinnamon are here, I shall leave them under the direction of Mr. P Livingston, who advises me to dispose of the Cordage at Baltimore where it still remains, rather than send it to you as the transportation is at present hazardous. The 500 bushells of salt lately arived here, has been refused your Delegates by the Committee of Congress, 2 it being much wanted here, and at Ten dollars per bushell, your Delegates purpose to move the Congress for an applycation to the state of Virginia for what salt they can spare you, which, if can be obtained, may be forwarded by water (except twelve miles of land carriage) to Trentown if no interuption from the enemy, in the mean time it shall be my endeavor to procure salt, wherever it can be purchased untill I receive your orders to the contrary. 3 I have the honor to be, Gentlm, Your Obedt Huml Servt, Fra Lewis
