June 12, 1777 185 erecting at Billingsport for the defence of the river Delaware, it being of the utmost consequence that the fortifications at that place should be completed without delay. 1 By order of Congress, John Hancock, Prest. Reprinted from Selections from the Correspondence of the Executive of New Jersey, from 1776 to 1786 (Newark, N.J.: Published by order of the legislature, 1848), p. 63. 1 See JCC, 8:451-52. Hancock’s letter to Governor Livingston is taken almost verbatim from this June 11 resolve. Secret Committee to Oliver Pollock Sir, J une 12 th 1777 Your Letters of 4th & 5th May addressed to Andrew Allen & Robert Morris Esquires were laid before the Congress by the latter whereby we are informed that your new Governor Don Bernard de Galvez is much disposed to favour the Commercial Interest of the United States of America, and as we are appointed by the Honorable Congress to superintend the Management of such Trade as is necessary to be car ried on for public Account we do ourselves the Honor of addressing a Letter to his Excellency on this Subject, it is here inclosed and you will please to deliver and if needful translate the same for him. 1 The good Disposition you discover to our Cause and the Character you bear has determined us to employ you as our commercial Agent in New Orleans 2 in full Confidence that your Conduct in our Affairs will be such as will intitle you to our Approbation and future Favours, and should it at any Time be your Misfortune to fall into the hands of our Enemies as you have suggested, you have Liberty to claim the Protection of the United States of America as their commercial Agent resident at New Orleans and may depend that Congress will redeem you by Exchange or retaliate any Injuries or Indignities that may be offered you, and they have always a sufficiency of Prisoners in their Power to do this with Effect if our Enemies dare to treat ill those Persons that are entitled to our Protection. Thus much we have said that you may produce if ever it becomes necessary, and now for Business of another kind. We learn from Capt Le Mere and his Passenger that there is Plenty of Blankets, Strouds and other dry Goods in New Orleans suitable for the Use of our Army. The Difficulties we meet in our attempts to import a sufficiency of those Things induces us to look for them in every Quarter and we have engaged Capt Le Mere to return directly back to New Orleans with this Letter and to return from thence for this Coast with a Cargo of such Goods as you may ship by him for our Account. You will find
