190 June 13, 1777 in the militia; Cadwallader is sent for, & will no doubt follow Mere dith’s example; in five days, General Mifflin this day to be one, there would be 5 thousand militia collected at or near this city. 1100 met on the Common this day. Gen. Mifflin made them a spirited harangue, which was received with great applause. No Forces will be suffered to act as a neutral part, all must bear arms except Quakers, Monr. de Coudray, who was present at the review this day, spoke to me in high strains of compliment about the militia; he says they are the best Militia he ever saw. He is not a man of compliments, tho’ polite, and therefore I lay the greater stress on his praises, as I believe them justly due. He farther remarked that Mifflin’s harangue, great part of which he under stood, called to his mind the times of Ancient Greece & Rome. I really am pleased with this gentleman, his address, tho’ a Frenchman, is not elegant & easy, yet you may plainly see he has frequented & even been intimate with the Polite & Great. He seems to have studied more the arts & sciences than the Graces; yet his plain & unaffected manner, his good sense, & sweetness of temper gains upon us daily. Saturday morning o’clock 14th June About 1 o’clock last night I was awakened by an express to General Arnold, who lodges in this house. The express came from Bristol, & brings an account that the alarm guns from Rocky Hill & Princetown to Trenton were fired about 10 o’clock last night, a signal of the approach & movement of the enemy, and to alarm the militia of the Jersies, who have agreed to turn out & harass the enemy on their march. I can not help thinking it a false alarm, for I cannot persuade myself the enemy will hazard a march thro’ the Jersies & an attack on this city, till they receive reinforcements either from Canada or Europe, and not above 1500 have yet arrived, and they are said to be sickly. Monday’s post will bring us interesting intelligence, which you may depend on being communicated to you by the post which will set off from this city next Tuesday. Please to present my complts to the Messrs. Howards & Capt. Ireland. I am, yr. most affectionate Son, Ch Carroll of Carrollton P.S. Do not forget to go over the list of bonds & examine which are near expiring. RC (MdHi). Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris Gentlemen Philadelphia June 13th. 1777 Though the Dispatches prepared some Time since are not gone, 1 we
