192 June 13, 1777 is a just & true but very small Sample of their Proceedings. We are your most obedient, humble Servants, Benja Harrison Jno Witherspoon Robt Morris Ths. Heyward Junr James Lovell RC (PPAmP). Written by Lovell and signed by Lovell, Harrison, Heyward, Morris, and Witherspoon. . . 1 The last letter of the Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris was that of May 30, 1777. John Hancock to George Washington gj r; Philada. June 13th. 1777. You will perceive from the enclosed Resolves, the fixed Determina tion of Congress to retaliate (as nearly as lies in their Power) on our Enemies, should they think proper to send any of their Prisoners to Great Britain, or to any other Part of the British King’s Dominions beyond Sea. This Resolution you will please to convey to Genl. Howe as soon as possible, as it is of the utmost Importance. 1 If the sixteen additional Battalions are not all provided with Com manding Officers, the Congress, in Consequence of a Letter from Govr. Caswell (an Extract of which I enclose you) have recommended Colonel Abraham Shephard to the Command of one of the said Bat talions, and doubt not you will honor him with the Appointment. I beg Leave to refer your Attention to the whole of the Resolves here with transmitted. Enclosed you have the Observations of Monsr. De Coudray on Billingsport and the other Fortifications in this River, which I forward for your Perusal. 3 Every possible Measure is taking to render the Forti fications compleat. 4 I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See JCC, 8:449-50; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:131-34, 182-83. „ 2 See JCC, 8:450. The extract from North Carolina governor Richard Cas well’s April 20 letter to Thomas Burke is in Washington Papers, DLC, and the full text is in N.C. State Records, 11:456-57. Washington agreed to give Colonel Sheppard command of a battalion to be raised in North Carolina, but Sheppard failed to raise it in the alloted time and thus did not receive the appointment. See JCC, 8:475; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:475. 2 Hancock also enclosed resolves of June 7 through 11 on regimental pay-
