June 13, 1777 193 masters, Apollos Morris, Benedict Arnold, the commissariat, ranking of officers, and the defense of the Delaware. ]CC, 8:426-28, 432-48, 450-52. 4 After this sentence in the LB Hancock’s secretary Jacob Rush first wrote and then deleted: “Your sevl. Favours to the inst have been duely reed, and immediately laid before Congress.” Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings June 13,1777 Come. met. Present Morris, Livingston, Whipple. Letters were re ceive! from Messrs. Fautreuil Commander of the French ship Amphi trite at Portsmouth, from J. Langdon Esqr. Conti. Agt. & from Capt. Jn. Paul Jones. Monsr. Fautreul hath declind the proposition made to him by the Come, of taking Capt. Jones on board his ship as Com mander but is willing to proceed to Charles town on certain assurances be given him as per his sd. letter. Resolved That the sd. Letters be laid before Congress & that it is the opinion of this Come, that Capt. Fautrel shoud have the assurances given wch. he requires & be orderd round to Chs. town for a loading of Rice. 1 On considerg. the terms of agreemt. made with the Owners of the ship Mary & Elizabeth lying in the Inlet of Sinepuxent, the Come, finds that by Charter party, She is to be deliverd at this port, & is at the public risque until that time, & as it is now impracticable so to do (the enemys ships being so numerous in this bay) think best to charter her for a new voyage & have agreed with the Owners as follows. Sd. Ship is to be ballasted by the Owners & proceed when the Come, may direct to Virga, where She is to take on board 200 hhds of tobo. on public Acct, for any port in France, where She is to deliver the same, & bring back from thence any goods, wares & Merchandize, Arms & Ammunition that may be shippd on board by the Agents of the Come, to any safe port in these States when the voyage shall expire. The Come, are to insure that vessel, for sd. voyage, at £2700 Curry. & to allow 4 g[uinea]s per hhd. freight for tobo. & 2/6 sterlg. per foot, for the goods &c brought back. 2 An order was drawn on Mr. Morris in favor of Ann Stewart wife of Jas. Stewart for £25 as a reward for his havg. taken up an Anchor & Cable belongg. to the ship Olive branch in this bay on the 7th Augt. last, wch. She was obligd to leave on the approach of the Enemy’s ships of war, sd. ship being then charterd & insurd by the Committee. 3 MS (MH-H). 1 There is no mention of this matter in the journals, but for details on the committee’s proposal, see Secret Committee to John Paul Jones, May 9, 1777. 2 On September 3, 1777, committee members Robert Morris and Richard Henry Lee agreed to grant Capt. Peter Young of the Mary & Elizabeth a re ward for having “faithfully & successfully performed a voyage to France & back
