200 June 16, 1777 suing, for the Article of Salt, unless timely Provision be made, have passed the Resolves inclosed. 1 We doubt not, the most fixed and speedy Attention will be paid to Them; The last Resolve You will be pleased to communicate to the Continental Agent, and request him to com municate it to any Masters of Vessells fitting out of Our State on the Continental Account (if there are any such). The first Vollume of the Journals of Congress are printed, and twenty Copies ate ordered for each State, but as yet we have no Opportunity of sending them. 2 A General Movement of Lord How’s Army to attempt, as was by most People conceived, this City hath caused a general Alarm thro this State and the State of New Jersey. We have the Pleasure to inform You that the Militia in both States turn out with Spirit, And from every Informa tion Congress hath received we entertain a hopefull Prospect of the Event. The Enemy we doubt not, are without the least Hopes of a Re inforcement of any Consequence this year. That the present Appear ances may induce the States of New-England, with united Efforts and Spirit to extirpate the Vermin which have too long infested Our State, is the most ardent Wish of all; Beyond Expression must such an Event be to those who feel most for the Honor of New-England and the Peace, Welfare and Happiness of that State we have the Honor to represent. May that Event soon coincide with the Desires of, Gentlemen, your most Obedt, humble Servts. William Ellery Hy. Marchant P.S. I expect to set out for Providence in a few Days. W Ellery RC (R-Ar). Written by Marchant and signed by Marchant and Ellery, with a postscript by Ellery. Addressed: “The Govr. & Compy. of the State of Rhode Island.” 1 See JCC, 8:461-62. 2 On June 2 Congress had resolved that “twenty copies of the volume of journals be delivered to the delegates of each State, for the use of their respective States.” JCC, 8:432. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philade June 17, 1777 I am disappointed in not receiving a Letter from you by yesterdays Post. The Fears you expressd in your last of the Arrival of Burgoin gave me Uneasiness. We receivd Advice from our Friends in France which gave us some Reason to apprehend the Intention of the Enemy was to attack Boston, and we thought it necessary to give timely Notice of it. I hope the People there will always be so much on their Guard as to prepare for the worst, but I think you will not be in Danger this Summer. This City has been given out as their Object.
