June 17, 1777 203 have not yet heard from the Boston fleet. Genl. Gates arrived here yesterday. Every thing is in a very good way in the north. He is ex- treamly offended with our proceedings towards him, & will certainly leave the service. Your packet for France is not yet gone, & God knows when she will. I wish you wou’d have some measures fallen upon, to prevent the rascally tory Jew engrossers of this City & Baltimore from buying up the Salt & other necessaries imported into Virginia. None of the importations shou’d be allow’d to be exported, but by public agents of some State in distress & they shou’d purchase only under regulations made by the Governmt. Roman de Lyle talks of offering his services to Virginia, & depends upon you for an introduction When he arrives there. What troops shall hereafter come from Virginia, shou’d bring arms with them, for we are exhausted by the militia. My best complimts to the Govr & other friends. Yr. afft. bror. & friend, Francis Lightfoot Lee RC (PHi). 1 Washington’s June 13-15 letter is in PCC, item 152, 4:253-58, and Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:239-44. Marine Committee to Samuel Chew Sir, In Marine Committee Philadelphia June 17. 1777. The good recommendations we have had of you as being well quali fied for a command in our Navy, has induced us to appoint you a Captain therein, in full faith that it will be your chief duty to contribute all in your power to the Interest of the United States and the Honor of their Flag. 1 We now think proper to direct that you repair directly to New Lon don where you are to Take the Command of the Brigt Resistance lately purchased by Nath. Shaw jr Esqr our agent at that place. That Gentle man will assist you in fitting and manning that vessel, and we expect your best endeavors will be united with his, to have this done with all possible expedition. We have directed our said Agent to make the necessary advances of the money that will be required in this business, and to put on Board sufficient provisions for a four month’s cruize, therefore as soon as ready for the Sea, you are to proceed immediately on a cruize against the enemy choosing such stations as you think will be most likely to in tercept their Merchant or Transport Ships, and you are to take, sink, Burn or destroy as many of their vessels of every Kind as may be in your power. The prizes you may' take you will send into the most convenient and safe Ports in these States addressed to the Continental Agents, and you
