June 17, 1777 205 chased by Nathaniel Shaw jr. Esquire our Agent at New London and have appointed Captain Samuel Chew to command her. We now in close you some Blank Commissions which we must trouble you to fill up with the Names of such persons as you think proper for Lieutenants and Other Officers on board this Brigantine. In doing this we wish the preference to be given to the Officers that are in our Service at Rhode Island who may be unemployed or are deserving of promotion, this we leave to your discernment and requesting that you will transmit a List of the names of those you appoint, we remain Sir, Your very hble servants P.S. We give you this trouble in consequence of your being Appointed a Member of the Navy Board of the Eastern Department. 1 LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 John Deshon, a New London, Conn., merchant and sea captain who had extensive business dealings with Nathaniel Shaw, Jr., the Continental prize agent in Connecticut, had been appointed a member of the navy board in the eastern department on May 6. See JCC, 7:331; and Frances M. Caulkins, History of New London, Connecticut. From the First Survey of the Coast in 1612, to 1852 (New London: Published by the author, 1860), pp. 505-6. For Deshon’s deal ings with Shaw, consult the indexes in Morgan, Naval Documents, vols. 4-7. Marine Committee to Nathaniel Shaw, Jr. Sir, In Marine Committee, Philadelphia, June 17, 1777 We received by Captain Chew your letter of the 29th 1 ultimo ad vising your having purchased a Brig suitable for an armed Cruizer in our Navy. On recuring to our letter to you of the 22d August last we find our orders were expressly that you should purchase & fit out the schooner taken by Commodore Hopkins in his return from the New Providence expedition and sent by his fleet into your Port. Our principal induce ment in giving those orders was, that a vessel of that kind was then wanted for an expedition we had planned, & Commodore Hopkins recommended that schooner as suitable for our purpose. If on examina tion you found that vessel to be defective, you certainly did your duty to decline the purchase of her, but we cannot consider that you were authorized by the orders we gave you, to buy a Brig eight months after, without first having consulted us on that head. Commodore Hopkins has never been invested with any authority from us to order the purchase of vessels for our Navy, and we beg leave to recommend in future an observance of our orders only; advising us when you think any altera tion of them will be of service to the puhlick. From what we have thought proper to say on this subject, you will
