June 18, 1777 207 ments in the Jersies last Week indicated a design on this place. The Militia were called out & business laid on side. I shall soon be able to tell you whether to send any thing here & what articles will answer best. I cannot write to Virginia about the Salt, but if they do stop it, I will interfere on a proper representation thereof from you. I hope the Pilot Boat you bought may answer expectation but I think with Mr Braxton that she has too many Owners. I hope you’l be able to furnish me with Goods or Money in time to pay the whole or greatest part of the bills drawn & to be drawn upon me for this concern & I am Sir Your obedt hble Servt. Robt Morris RC (NHi). 1 Morris had written a brief letter to Hudson two weeks earlier explaining that in order not to miss “good bargains for want of Money or Credit I agree to pay Your drafts on me to the extent of five or Six thousand Pounds this Curry, or even for one or Two Thousand pounds more provided you allow a reasonable time between the times of drawing so that I may not be put to inconvenience & as fast as you make purchases send up the Goods that I may be reimbursed soon as possible.” Robert Morris to Jonathan Hudson, June 3, 1777, Fogg Collection, MeHi. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia June 18. 1777 We shall have all the Sages and Heroes of France here before long. Mr. Du Coudray is here, who is esteemed the most learned Officer in France. He is an Artillery Officer. Mr. De la Balme is here too, a great Writer upon Horsemanship and Cavalry. He has presented me with two Volumes written by himself upon these subjects, elegantly printed, bound and gilt. 1 Mr. De Vallenais is with him, who speaks very good English. 2 The inclosed Papers will give you all the News. You get Intelligence sooner and better than We. We are under no more Apprehensions here than if the British Army was in the Crimea. Our Fabius will be slow, but sure. Arnold, You see will have at them, if he can. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:267-68. 1 Augustin Mottin de La Balme (1736-80) had written Essais sur [’equitation (Amsterdam and Paris: 1773), and Elemens de tactique pour la cavalerie (Paris: 1776). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:268n.l. On July 8 he was commissioned a colonel and inspector of cavalry. JCC, 8:539. 2 On July 8 Joseph de Valnais was appointed an aide to Colonel de La Balme. JCC, 8:539.
