208 June 18, 1777 Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philade June 18 1777 This Letter will be deliverd to you by my worthy Friend Colo Whip ple a Delegate of the State of New Hampshire. He is a Gentleman of Candor, and I wish he may have an opportunity of conversing freely with some one of Influence in the Massachusetts Bay upon Matters which concern that State particularly. I know of no one to whom I can recommend him on the Occasion with more Propriety than to yourself. He will be able to give you such Information of Persons & Things as one would not chuse to throw on Paper in this precarious Time, when an Accident might turn the Intelligence into a wrong Channel. I observe by the Boston Papers last brought to us, that you are again plac’d in the Chair of the House of Representatives, with which I am well pleasd. Mr Pain Speaker pro Temp, Mr Hancock first Member of the Boston Seat and Mr T Cushing a Councellor at large. I have the Honor of knowing but few of your Members. I hope my Countrymen have been wise in their Elections, and I pray God to bless their En deavors for the Establishment of publick Liberty, Virtue and Happiness. You will hear before this will reach you of the Movements of the Enemy. It has been the general Opinion for some Months past that Philadelphia is their Object. Should they gain this Point, what will it avail them, unless they beat our Army? This I think they will not do. My Wish is that our Army may beat them, because it would, in my opinion, put a glorious End to the Campaign, & very probably the War. I confess I have always been so very wrong headed as not to be over well pleasd, with what is called the Fabian War in America. I conceive a great Difference between the Scituations of the Carthaginian and the British Generals. But I have no Judgment in Military Matters, and therefore will leave the Subject to be discussd, as it certainly will be, by those who are Masters of it. I cannot conclude this Letter without thanking you for your Care in carrying a Matter in which I was interested through the General As sembly, of which I have been informd by our Friend Mr J A. I wish to hear from you. Adieu my Friend, S A RC (MHi). Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Dr Sir Philadelphia June 18th 1777 Having just heard of an opportunity, I inclose you the Resolution of
