June 18, 1777 209 Congress relative to Colonel Sheppard’s Battalion. 1 I have written a letter which I left at my lodgings, 2 and have not now an opportunity of getting it, but I think it right to take advantage of the present con veyance for communicating to you the Resolution. You may expect the other by post. Mean time, having not one instant more time, I am with respect, Your obed. Sert, Thos Burke Tr (Nc-Ar). 1 See JCC, 8:475; and John Hancock to Washington, June 13, 1777, note 2. 2 Not found. Abraham Clark to James Caldwell Dr. sir, 1 Phila June 18h. 1777. It was with pleasure I heard of the Enemys moving this way and am sorry they came no further. As matters are now Circumstanced I fear we shall have an Idle Summer—fighting is at this Time Necessary to keep up the spirit of the Forces—without it our Militia will be dispirited and not easily called out at another Time. Caution may forbid such a measure, Upon a supposition we can Support an army for years to come, but this I fear will not be easily Accomplished. The dear ness of all the Necessaries of life makes the Support of An Army exceed ing expensive, and their pay must be proportiona[lly. . . .] I take no pleasure in sheding blood, but at this time I think a little of it is requisite. Inactivity, if practised, will ruin our Army if not our Cause. We have many Spirited officers who I dare say wish for an Opportunity to Signalize themselves and I wish their Ardour may not be suffered to cool. We have no late News from Europe other than in the Papers. All seems to go on well for us there, and our Cause in the main may be said to appear prosperous. I take this opportunity by Mr. Arndt just to remind you, that if you have forgot, you are not forgotten by Dr Sir, your Humble Servt, Abra. Clark RC (PHC). 1 The endorsement on the verso of this letter—“From Abm. Clark Esqr, June 18”—appears to be in the hand of Rev. James Caldwell, one of Clark’s regular correspondents. See also Clark to Caldwell, August 1, 1776, note 1. Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris Philadelphia June 18th 1777 In this we send you an Account of the most Material Matters which have happened in the Military department.
