June 18, 1777 211 The Enemy about ten weeks ago sent a large Party and destroyed some Continental Stores lodged at Peeks Kill the value not Great, and retreated immediately after. They afterwards made an Attempt to sur prise M. Gen. Lincoln at Bound Brook which He vigilantly escaped with the loss of about 60 Men. Mr. Tryon who is made a Major Genl, was sent with about 2200 Men to destroy the Stores at Danbury in Connecticut. Notice was received time enough to remove the Most Valuable while Genls. Arnold and Woorster raised the Militia and at tacked the Enemy in their Retreat with Good Success. The New-York Paper which may be Considered as Genl Howes Gazette makes their loss in Killed and Wounded 104, we may give them Credit for twice the Number. The loss we Sustained in Stores was chiefly in Salt Provisions and Rum and We had the Satisfaction of learning that the Cargoes of the Prizes brought in the same week amounted in the first Article to double the Quantity lost. Genl. Woorster who behaved Gallantly was mortally wounded and is since dead. Scarce a Week have passed with out Skirmishing in which we have been very fortunate. General Washington has removed from Morris Town to some ad vantageous Ground near Bound and Middle Brooks within eight Miles of Brunswick and the following is a Regular State of Intelligence re ceived here since the 11th Inst. June 11th At a Meeting this day in the State House Yard Genl Mifflin dis patched for that Purpose from Genl. Washington informed the In habitants that from the late preparations of the Enemy, he had reason to believe their design was by a forced March to endeavour to possess themselves of Philadelphia, it was then Proposed and unanimously as sented to, to turn out agreeable to the Militia Law. 12 th A Letter from Genl. Sullivan at Princeton received about 9 this Eveng informed that the Enemy at Brunswick had began to move the Proceeding Night but was prevented by the Rain. 13 th The Alarm Gun in this City fired at three this Morning answering the Alarm Guns up the River. Several letters by Express from Bristol men tion the hearing Alarm Guns Towards Trenton and Princeton, but that no Express had arrived there from Genl Sullivan at Princeton. 14th Express from Genl Arnold at Trenton informs, that the Enemy had moved in the Night from Brunswick; that Genl Sullivan had likewise moved from Princeton to some Part on Rocky Hill, with an Intention to harrass the March of the Enemy and thereby favor the approach of
