June 19, 1777 223 referrd you for all the Intelligence of which Congress was possessed; and I hope you had the pleasure of an Interview with him. We have since had the Prospect of an Invasion at this [place] from General Howe, but I own I never believd he coud have reachd so far had the Attempt been made. He was I believe of this Opinion for he never attempted it; detered, as I presume, from seeing the whole Country flying to arms to oppose him. In Jersey the militia it is said turnd out to a man; & the Pensylvanians laying aside their animosities, to defend their adord City, were preparing to follow the Example. And by these preparations, certain of meeting with powerful opposition in the front, and of being p[ressed] in the rear by a respectable Body of continental Troops, not inferior to the British Army in numbers, Ap pointment, or Courage, General Howe instead of advancing forward has intrenched himself on very strong ground at Millstone near Somerset Court house; and the two armies are contemplating each other with great Composure. In the mean time General Washington is drawing to gether a large Body of Eastern Troops to reinforce his Army, and several Battalions are daily expected from the Southward for the same purpose. Mr Howe is very civil giving the fullest Time & opportunity for the Slow movements of the new Levies who have all undergone the small Pox. Perhaps he scorns to take the Advantage, or wishes to make an End of America by one great and decisive Blow when all her strength shall be assembled, or perhaps he is not without Apprehensions of a Check which may prove fatal to him, and therefore waits the Arrival of Succours from Europe or Canada. Be this as it may People here seem universally easy holding the Enemy and their maneuvres cheaper than I wish they did; for to despise your Foes leads to Indolence & neglect, and often to Ruin. You may Judge of General Washington’s Ideas from his mentioning in a Letter rec’d this day that he intended to discharge all the militia except 2000. 2 This will enable you to form a better Judgement of the two armies than any uncertain Conjecture of Mine. Since our Arrival here things with respect to our State have taken a most favourable turn. General Schuyler is thro’ our Exertions reinstated fully & honourably in his Command. The Commissary General’s De partment is reformd and establishd on a wise and salutary plan. Mr Jacob Cuyler is appointed Deputy Commissary General of purchases in the northern Department, notwithstanding all the opposition of our Eastern neighbours who being in possession strenuously endeavourd to maintain their ground. A Recommendation has passed from Congress to the united States to facilitate and encourage the supplying New York with Salt and other European and West India Commodities and which not only holds her up in a very honourable Point of Light, but reprobates in effect the commercial Regulations kindly passed by our Eastern Brethren to compleat our Calamities by effectually excluding
