June 19, 1777 225 period which made me quite easy as it assurd me that your perservance woud surmount every difficulty; and I knew Perseverance to be, if not your Fort, at least one of your strong Bulwarks. General Gates arrivd here I think last and immediately de manded an Audience of Congress. He was unfortunately for himself admitted. Discomposd, chagreend and Angry he recited all the great things he had effected at Albany; even the Suppression of Toryism he took to himself. He then pointedly called upon me and proceeded to a personal familiarity which was altogether unparliamentary. He was not very unguc ded in his Expressions (for what he deliverd was from a written paper) 1 but he shewd very plainly that he singled me out as the Author of his disgrace—for so he termd it. For this personal Ad dress I called him to order; many members interposd, even to a Clamour and insisted that he shoud withdraw and he with marks of Reluctance was obligd to submit. After he retird he was censurd by several members very freely for his Personality and it was directed that he shoud be informd that it was the pleasure of Congress that if he had any thing to offer they expected to hear it by way of memorial only. I have no doubt but the General has heard very minutely what part I took with respect to him. I do not repent it. The Interest of the Con tinent, the Honour of Congress, & the dictates of Justice requird it; and I must put up with the General’s displeasure, Which I find myself disposd to do with great Resignation and Philosophy. I have since been in his Company. We were civil, but rather reserved. He has heard from several candid Members that only one or two Justified his Claim to the Command and that the rest declard that there was no room for his supposing it ever had been invested in him. He ought to feel more pain and Resentment from this Circumstance than from any thing which fell from me. I am apt to think he does, for he has made no Representa tion to Congress, and instead of resigning talks of going to Genl Wash ington’s Camp. If I might guess he expects that you will be elected Governour of New York, and resign your military Honours, and that then he will be reinstated in the possession of what he has much at Heart, the Command of the Northern Department. 2 I do not feel at all pleasd with the latter part of this Reflection: but I hate to anticipate disagreeable Events. There are several Ifs in the way—as If it shoud be attempted—If it can’t be prevented &c. If I cant be reconcild to it &c &c, which renders it unnecessary to be at present much Concernd. I feel with you for the weakness of my Country in falling into a party at this time. Scott I hear is much to blame. Unhappy Gentleman how often has he provd the Occasion of civil discord! I am informd he charges the Loss of his promotion in the Judicial Line upon Mr Liv ingston, Duer & myself in Concert with the Chancellor, Chief Justice & Mr Morris—whom he describes as a faction & tools to a Family Interest. 3 You know Sir how totally contrary this is to Truth; how
