226 June 19, 1777 entirely I disapprove! of these Appointments knowing the Envy & dis content they must encite; & how ardently I wished the instituting the Governmt might be deferred untill the End of the Campaign. When I left Kingston all this I fully expected and strenuously advised. This Calumny falls doubly hard on Mr Livingston who if he was elected Govemour & accepted it, woud do it with a reluctant and aching Heart, and only for fear of injuring the common Cause by withdrawing from a conspicuous office in the Hour of Danger. These declarations are now too late I fear to appease the Spirit of faction & party; or I woud press you to communicate them with my Renunciation of all offices of Hon our, Trust or Profit as far as I may be an Object of public Regard or Conversation. All I ask of my Country is its Esteem, which I will ac cept in full discharge of all my little Services and great Losses, since I had been honourd with Publick Confidence. Let the ambitious divide the rest among them so as they do not by contending for the Loaves & Fishes injure the Common Cause and loosen the Bans of Friendship & Union among those Virtuous Whiggs who when Terror overwhelmd many a noisy patriot stood firmly in the Defence of their Country with out shrinking & wavering. But enough of this disagreeable Subject. The Plan for regulating the Commissary’s department is compleated. If out of the press I shall enclose it with these dispatches. You know in what Situation you left this affair. Trumbull is appointed Commissary General of Purchases, four Deputy Commissary Generals of purchases are elected. We had a delicate Card to play & which requird much Address to get this office into the hands of a fellow Citizen for the Northern Department. Our Eastern neighbours were in possession & worked hard to maintain their Ground: But it was of moment to our state who was to govern their markets & by the disposal of immense sums to influence their Policy; and it greatly concemd the Continent that prices shoud be Judiciously regulated & the Army well supplied. I therefore labourd assiduously & we were crownd with Success: our Friend Jacob Cuyler Esqr. obtaind the office, & I am persuaded will execute it with Integrity and Ability and do Honour to my Recom mendation and that of my Colleagues. 4 I enclose you another set of Resolutions with respect to our state which will give you pleasure as it proves the favourable Light we stand in here. You on recollecting the Commercial Regulations lately passed by our Eastern neighbours, so ungenerous & distressing to New York cannot but be pleasd with the Reprobation of their Conduct evidently implied in the first of those Resolutions: and you may wonder at our good fortune in getting it passed [without Cavil] or opposition. The stroke was too delicate & refined to be readily perceived on a Cursory reading; but I think it will be felt where I wish it to be fully understood. 5 Present my respectful Compliments to Mr Secretary Lansing & let him know that I have not been unmindful of my promise to you & him,
