June 19, 1777 227 Congress having at my request raisd his salary to 60 dollars a month. 6 Tell Him I am a little distressd in my mind on this Occasion as my Regard for him warped me to solicit a Salary which he himself will condemn as extravagant and I am not without Apprehensions that some honest members will yet get it reduced to 50 and expose my Partiality. I thank you for your*Attention to my Bam & Crop & hope in your next you will gratify my Curiosity by informing me of the state the former is in as I have not a Line from Jemmy Ellice. I forgot to mention that I find some difficulty in getting leave for you to appoint a third Aid de Camp. The Example seems to be dreaded. You know my Rule is never to push a point till I am sure of Success; nor to loose sight of one which is worthy of pursuite; so that you must not conclude that it is unattainable, because it is not already accom plished. I beg you’l make my respectful Compliments acceptable to Mrs. Schuyler & the young Ladies & to all the Albany Gentlemen who pos sess my Esteem & give me a place in theirs, and that yo’l beleive me to be, Dear Sir, with great Consideration & Regard, Your most obedient & very humble Servant, Jas Duane RC (NN). 1 See Horatio Gates’ Notes for a Speech in Congress, June 18, 1777. 2 Schuyler was defeated by George Clinton in an election for governor of New York held at the end of June. 3 On May 3 the New York Convention had elected John Jay as chief justice and Robert R. Livingston as chancellor by margins of four and six votes respec tively over New York radical leader John Morin Scott. Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:910. 4 See JCC, 8:434-48, 477. 5 See Congress’ June 14 resolution on the supplying of salt to New York in JCC, 8:465-66. See JCC, 8:475. William Duer to the New York Council of Safety Sir, Philada. June 19th, 1777. When General Schuyler left this place, I requested the favour of him to apply in my name to the Honourable the Council of Safety for per mission of absence for six weeks, and that they would be pleased to order Mr. Morris to attend in my place. As I have not yet received leave of absence, I am to impute it to Genl. Schuyler’s neglect in making the application to the Council of Safety, which I requested him. I have therefore, sir, to request the favour of you to solicit the Council of Safety to grant me leave of absence for six weeks; as my presence is absolutely necessary not only to arrange my private affairs, which are
