234 June 19, 1777 P.S. Be pleased to forward a copy of the resolution for making a present to Mr. Tilghman. 4 Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:980-81. 1 See JCC, 8:465-66. 2 See JCC, 8:433-48. 3 See JCC, 8:477. 4 On March 26 the New York Convention had resolved to compensate Col. Tench Tilghman for a sum “not exceeding the value of eighty pounds, for his services in corresponding with a committee of this House, at their request, re specting the military operations last fall and winter.” Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:851. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Papa, P.M. 20th June 1777 The inclosed copy of G. Washington’s letter 1 & sketch of the situation of both armies together with the newspapers will give you the best in formation respecting the late movements of the enemy. About 10 o’clock this morning an express arrived from Fourland Hills with an account that the enemy were retiring again into Brunswick; it was conjectured they had set Fire to Somerset & Middle Bush Villages by the smoak & fires that were seen at a great distance. I imagine the enemy will next move up North River & attack our forts in the highlands. I wrote to you last Tuesday to send up my horses by some trusty person. I hope you have found out such a person, if so I desire you will send me £60 or £80 continental money. I want my horses much to ride out & take exercise, & I shall want them to return home, when I do next return; I have not yet fixed the time of my de parture & while the weather continues so pleasant I think I shall remain in Congress. 21 June A.M. 8 o’clock I have just reed a letter from Col. Fitzgerald dated yesterday evening containing very good news of which the following are extracts. “You are pleased to ask my opinion of Gen. Conway. I assure you I think him a strict disciplinarian and an able & experienced officer & possessed of many requisites to render his Services very essential to us. Desertion has not of late been so prevalent amongst our troops. Our army grows in numbers and discipline, and will in a short time be able to bid defiance to Mr Howe on any ground; deserters come to us daily & by what we can understand, despondency & disaffection reign through out the British army. I think this campaign must give a final cast to the complexion of public matters. By a letter from his Excellency to Congress you will see an account of the precipitate departure of their army yesterday to their old Post (Brunswick) where I think they are
