June 20, 1777 237 with them. The other Goods will also sell well & the proffits on these adventures when they do arrive equal ones most sanguine wishes, but the danger of Capture is now greater than ever. I shall place to your credit half the Cost of Goods per the Independance the Arnot, of what you supplied Capt Young & also Arnot of what you shipped for Mr Hogeland But you dont mention what this last Sum is. It is well you did not get room for any Goods onbd. Mr McClenaghans Brigt as she is taken & carried into New York. I am very well satisfyed with my Brothers letter to you & with many he has wrote myself but still a little embarrassed about him. He has been very wild in Europe, but since he has had business to do it appears that he has been very attentive to it, the Captains lately arrived from Nantes assure me that he minds his business very steadily and every body agrees that he is exceedingly Capable. Others who I have some reason to believe rather envy his employment say he has such a taste for pleasure that he cannot apply closely to business. I am rather fearfull this may be the case & am Em barrassed between a desire to serve him & my doubts if he will serve himself and do honor to my recommendations of him. A little more time will convince me one way or other. We will quit all thoughts of further Connection with the very Cautious Mr Delap & apply to those that may be willing to risque a little for the chance of gaining a little. We must however remit Mr Cathalan & I shall point out the means of doing it, indeed I have bills by me that I wou’d remit but they Cost 300 per cent that is £300 Cury for £100 Stg. which is too high a rate to pay for these Goods in & for that reason I shall prefer Your remitting from Martinico. I hope before long to receive the medicines & Muskets sent out by Mr Cathalan if you do but meet some good Conveyance for Sending them to the Inlets on the Coast but if You send ’em direct for this Port they have little chance. That same Mr Nichs Davis is a Rascall of the first Stamp and I wonder you wou’d run the Risque of trusting him or any other person with so much Money. It is not approved off. I will take care to have this passed in your Accounts but advise you to be extreamly cautious how you post with Public Money in future, or you may suffer loss of the money & be charged with want of discretion. I expect Monsr Schwieghauser will have money of ours in hand to pay for our half of the Goods he ships to you, if some Tobo Consd. him arrives safe, but you had best remit him your half or perhaps the whole from Martinico when you can, as the Exchange we must charge if we pay for them is too high & disadvantageous. The same may be said of Mr. Limozin & all others in Europe from whom you import Goods. It is a great pity the Hornet did not arrive safe as her Cargo wou d have helped to relieve your Necessitys, we are horridly plagued to make remittances & the S. Commee. are now deeply indebted to you, to Mr. Curson at St. Eustatia & to Mr Ceronio at the Cape, have ves-
