242 June 23, 1777 not be given up—however I think it better to confederate even on these terms than not to confederate at all. Our affairs at Tionderoga do not go on as well as in the Jersies. The garrison is weak, the militia going off, provisions scarce, & the works not compleated. The enemy are preparing to cross the lake with 10000, but I rather think 7000 under Burgoyne. If they should be delayed untill the middle of next month I hope that our northern army will be in a condition to oppose them & that provisions will be procured thro’ the activity & influence of Schuyler, & the works at Tionderoga, if not entirely compleated, at least rendered very respectable. Gen. Washing ton has ordered 4 regiments to join Schuyler. The militia of N. York & the eastern States will turn out to save their own dwellings from fire & plunder, & their wives & daughters from dishonor; surely the noble ardor of the Jersies will communicate itself to those States. If we can support the expence, I have little doubt of success in the end, altho’ we may meet with very severe rubs before we compel the enemy to give over their wicked project. I must again request you to be cautious with respect to the tender law—neither write nor speak agt it, but when business requires You to remonstrate with your fraudulent debtors, for such I esteem all those who will take advantage of an unjust & dishon orable law. 24 June 1777. 1/2 past 10 o’clock. The inclosed copy of G. Washington’s letter will give you the best intelligence. My love to Molly & Mrs. Darnall & complts to Mr. & Mrs. Ridout if with you. I am just going to Congress & have only time to assure you that I am, yr. affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton P.S. Please to forward the inclosed. It comes from Col. Fitzgerald, there fore give it a quick passage. RC (MdHi). Board of War to Elias Boudinot Dr Sir, War Office June 24th. 1777 I was duly favored with yours of the 20th instant on the Subject of Prisoners, & communicated the Contents to the Board, whose Feelings are in no small Degree roused by the Picture you give of the Sufferings of our unfortunate Friends in Captivity, who are not only smarting under the common Circumstances attendant on Persons in the Power of their Enemies & separated from their Friends, but oppressed with every Species of Insult & Cruelty their Captors, who are but too ingenious in Barbarity, can invent. Measures for their Relief would have been more
