June 24, 1777 243 early & more industriously attended to, but a Remembrance of what Britons once were lull’d us into an Inattention to what they now are. We saw their Prisoners with us, treated with every Degree of Humanity & Indulgence, & supposed ours with them equally well used. By Order of the Board I inclose you several Resolves of Congress em powering you to open a Negotiation for the Relief of our Prisoners, 1 which you will no Doubt manage with the Address requisite to be used with an artful disengenuous Enemy. If they insist upon supplying their People in our Possession with Clothes, under an Idea of their being able (as they certainly are) to do it at a lower Rate than we can, you need not make a Point of it, but agree to their doing it. If you can bring about the Measures mentioned in the first resolve, it would be much the most eligible, but, rather than suffer our Fellow Citizens to remain longer in such deplorable Wretchedness, you will consent to the Plan contained in the last. This is giving in to the Arts & uncandid Demands of the Enemy; but the Necessity of the Case must plead in Excuse. Let it however be the last Resort. Their Conduct would justify the severest Retaliation, but our People would in the mean Time have their Sufferings prolonged & that, if pos sible, with more poignant & diversified Cruelty. If we in this Instance yield to the unreasonable Demands of our Enemies it is because we have finer Feelings than those whose Inhumanity imposes the ungenerous Alternative of a Compliance with unwarrantable Requisitions or certain Destruction to many & the severest Distress & Want to all of our cap tivated Brethren. One Consolation of the first Water will however cheer us in this Business as well as in all our Transactions of a military Nature. Their Power to injure us is rapidly passing away & the Day is fast ap proaching when British Arrogance & Despotism will be levelled to the Ground & American Happiness & Independence rise & be firmly estab lished upon their Ruins. As a Prelude to this enviable Period let me most heartily congratulate you upon their Lexingtonian Flight from Bruns wick & to assure you that, I am with the greatest Regard, your very obed Servt, Richard Peters Secy RC (DLC). 1 For these resolves, which Congress passed this day to guide Commissary of Prisoners Boudinot in his dealings with British officers, see JCC, 8:494-95. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston My dear Friend Philadelphia 24t June 1777 Tuesday I reed your obliging Letter with very great pleasure as it is a proof that I have one Friend left who thinks my Correspondence worth cul tivating; for as to Mr Jay, Mr Morris and Mr Yates to whom in Con-
