June 24, 1777 245 this Subject which is already transmitted to the Council of Safety. It’s operation, tho’ obvious, was not perceived by those whom it most con- cemd and the House warmd by a pathetic description of our Distresses, our Perseverance, and our merit, were disposed to give us every pos sible Indulgence; of which the partial Grant of 2000 bushels of Salt when that Commodity is so very scarce and dear, is no contemptible Proof. 3 Indeed I flatter myself we shall be able to give an agreable ac count of every Business in which our State is immediately interested. The disposition of Congress is in my opinion strongly inclind to Honour, Justice and the publick good—I speak of the Body—and I am confident we shall never wish or ask any thing inconsistent with either. Before this reaches you the Intelligence of General Howe s retreat must have undergone your Scrutiny. His motives, if any he had but the apprehension of Ruin, none can tell. But all seem fully persuaded that if he had perseverd in his Resolution to attack Philadelphia, his whole Army must inevitably have been destroyed. The Militia of New Jersey were ready for action; & the Pensylvanians suspending their civil Dis cord were preparing to Join them. Indeed if their Association had re- taind it’s former Vigour they might long since have supplied General Washington with 6000 militia, a Reinforcement which must have given him such a decisive Superiority that the British Troops coud not have escapd. General Washington thinks this a very brilliant and important Event for America; in common it is spoken of as a flight from Superior Skill, Courage, & Strength. But may not the Project of his joining the Canada Army be resum’d? May he not have rec’d Intelligence of Burgoine’s preparations to pass the Lakes; & this have been the motive of his precipitate and disgraceful Retreat? If so the troubles of our state which I hope woud have been respited for this Campaign, will be re newed with double weight. 4 RC (NHi). . 1 Joseph Hewes of North Carolina, whose failure to retain his seat in Congress is discussed in Hewes to Richard Caswell, March 30, 1777, note 2. 2 See ]CC, 8:477. 3 See JCC, 8:465-66. 4 For the continuation of this letter, see Duane to Livingston, June 26, 1777. John Hancock to Joseph Trumbull Sir, Philada. June 24th 1777. You will perceive from the Inclosures that Congress have compleated the Business of the Commissary’s Department on a new and more ac curate Establishment—and that you are appointed Commissary General of Purchases. I enclose you also a List of the Commissaries both of Pur chases & Issues; and have only Time to refer your Attention to the
