June 26, 1777 253 RC (PPAmP). In a clerical hand and signed by Harrison, Heyward, Lovell, Morris, and Witherspoon. 1 General Washington’s letters conveying news of the British retreat from New Jersey are in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:269-72, 281-83. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston My dear Sir June 26th [1777] Thursday What preceeds has lain by me for want of a good Conveyance. This day came on before a Committee of the whole Congress the Case of our Revolters on which we were heard with great Attention. 1 Some of our Eastern Friends unluckily for them drew on the merits of our Title, tho’ the Congress had only to do with the Exercise of Jurisdiction. Thus challengd I £eizd the opportunity of explaining the Subject at large which I happen’d to understand much better than any of my Opponents tho’ one of them boasted that he had expended two Quires of paper upon it. 2 I had the pleasure of observing that I made a suit able Impression, & out of the House rec’d the Compliments of several of the members for the light they were pleasd to say I had, with per spicuity and Candour thrown upon a dispute which to that time had remained in utter obscurity. This Explanation closd the debate: & the members of our state are desir’d to prepare for consideration such Resolutions as we think will be satisfactory to New York and become the Justice, Dignity and Impartiality of Congress. Unless an opportunity offers of sending forward these dispatches you will probably know the Event before they are clos’d. 3 RC (NHi). A continuation of Duane to Livingston, June 24, 1777. 1 According to the journals, Congress began to consider the controversy between New York and Vermont on June 25. JCC, 8:497. Congress’ handling of this dispute is discussed in William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett, April 7, 1777, note 2. 2 Duane’s expert knowledge of this “subject” stemmed from the fact that he had received substantial land grants from the government of New York in the territory claimed by Vermont. See Edward P. Alexander, A Revolutionary Con servative: James Duane of New York (New York: Columbia University Press, 1938), chap. 5, and especially the map facing p. 70. a For the continuation of this letter, see Duane to Livingston, June 28, 1777. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentln. Philadelphia June 26th 1777 We have the pleasure to transmit you herein a Resolution of Congress appointing you A Navy Board in the Eastern Department to Conduct and manage the business of such part of the Continental Navy as may be Built, bought or fitted from Time to Time in the Four New England
