254 June 26, 1777 States. 1 You are considered by this appointment as a Board of As sistants to the Marine Committee and subject to their Orders & direc tions in all such things as are not particularly provided for by Orders or Resolutions of Congress, and we have now under our consideration a Set of Instructions adapted to the Nature of your business, and the extent of the Powers you are to be Invested with. 2 In the mean time we desire you will meet together soon as Possible, fix on the most con venient place for opening your office, which we suppose will be at Boston, appoint your Clerk, and get all things so arranged as that you may be ready to enter on the Execution of your Duty without delay and should any business Occur to you as necessary to be done previous to the receipt of the intended instructions, we hereby Authorize you to do all such things in the Naval department as in your opinion will promote the Service and conduce to the true Interest of the United States of America; taking care however that you do nothing that is Contrary to, or inconsistent with the Rules, Regulations, Orders, or Resolves of Congress, which you are in all Instances and on all occasions invariably to pursue and Obey. We are Gentln., Your Obedient Servts. Geo. Frost Phil Livingston Benj Harrison George Walton John Hancock Robt Morris Henry Marchant Roger Sherman Tr (RNHi) Addressed: “To Wm Vernon, James Warren, Jno Deshon Esq., Navy Board, Eastern Department.” 1 Congress had created the Eastern Navy Board on April 19 and appointed John Deshon, James Warren, and William Venon as its commissioners on May 6. JCC, 7:281, 331. The origins, functions, and history of the board are described in Charles O. Paullin, The Navy of the American Revolution: Its Administration, Its Policy and Its Achievements (Chicago: Republican Printing Co., 1906), pp. 96-115. There is also much correspondence relating to the work of the three commissioners in “Papers of William Vernon and the Navy Board, 1776— 1794,” Publications of the Rhode Island Historical Society, 8 (January 1901): 197-277. 2 Bor these instructions, see the Marine Committee s letter to the eastern board of July 10, 1777. Marine Committee to Thomas Grenell and John Hodges Sir, 1 In Marine Committee, Philadelphia, June 26, 1777. As it is the opinion of the general officers, directed by his Excellency General Washington, to take the most effectual measures for securing
