June 26, 1777 255 the command of the North river, that the Continental frigates will be of essential service in defending the chain and obstructions in said river; and as by your letter of the 9th inst. we find you entertain a similar sense, we now think proper to direct that you have the frigate under your command put in as good a state of defence as can be admitted of, and follow such orders as may be given you by his Excellency the Gen eral or the commanding officer appointed to direct the operations in that quarter, using your best judgment in the execution of such orders as you may receive. We now send forward, to the Council of Safety for the State of New- York, a sufficient number of blank commissions and warrants for your officers, who are to be appointed temporarily only, until such time as their characters and qualifications are sufficiently evinced and made known to us. Therefore, we wish you to join with the Council in having those commissions filled up with the names of men of merit, whom you can recommend freely for a permanent establishment. 2 We recommend your taking great care of the frigate, her materials and stores, and keep us constantly advised of your proceedings. Being, sir, Your most h. servts. (Signed) John Hancock, Geo. Groet [Frost], Robert Morris, Phil. Livingston, Hy. Marchant, Nichs. Van Dyke, Roger Sherman, Benjamin Harrison, Geo. Wielton [Walton]. P.S. Congress have allowed pursers for their ships, whose pay dollars per month, and we send you herewith a pay list and the rules and regulations of the navy, for your government. Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 2:512. 1 Grenell and Hodges were captains respectively of the Continental frigates Congress and Montgomery. JCC, 6:861. 2 Shortly after receiving this letter, Grenell and Hodges wrote to the New York Council of Safety, insisting that they alone had the right to appoint officers for their ships. They supported their contention by citing letters to Grenell of July 2 and August 22, 1776, from Francis Lewis, who was at that time a member of the Marine Committee. The council of safety referred this claim to the Marine Committee on July 25, but there is no evidence that the committee ever ruled on the matter. See Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:1015, 2:504; and the Marine Committee’s letters to John Barry, July 2, note 3, and to Esek Hopkins, August 22, 1776, note 2.
