256 June 26, 1777 Marine Committee to the New York Council of Safety Gentlemen In Marine Committee. Philadelphia June 26. 1777. We are informed by a letter from the captains of the continental frigates in Hudson’s river that the General officers sent by his Excellency General Washington to view the fortifications and obstructions in said river, were of opinion that the frigates would be serviceable in defend ing and covering the same, And we find by an extract from your minutes enclosed in said letter that you were of the same opinion. In consequence whereof we have now given orders to the said captains to have the frigates put in as good a state of defence as can be ad mitted, and to follow and obey such orders as they may receive from General Washington or the commanding officer who may direct the operations in that quarter. We must beg your assistance in getting the ships fitted, and we now take the liberty to enclose a sufficient number of blank commissions and warrants for the lieutenants and other officers, who are to be appointed temporarily until such time as we are sufficiently informed that they are well qualified for the stations in which they may be put. Therefore you will please to fill up the commissions with this proviso: and we have required the captains to join with you in your researches for men of good character whom you can freely recommend for a permanent estab lishment in our navy, we must further beg leave to trouble you to send us a list of their names, stations and qualifications and have the honor to be, Gentlemen, your very obedient servants. John Hancock George Frost Robt. Morris Phil. Livingston H. Z. Marchant Nichs. Van Dyke Roger Sherman Benj. Harrison George Walton Tr (DLC). Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell D r Sir, Philadelphia June 27th 1777 I have at present time to do little more than inclose you the paper which Contains a Letter from General Washington shewing the posi tion of each army, and giving some particulars relative to the Enemy s retreat from Brunswick. I wrote to you last post and by a Man who
