258 June 27, 1777 to my friends, by indisposition arising from the climate, & peihaps an attention to business, & am now to acknowledge the receipt of your several favors of March 26th, April 27th & May 5th which contain many articles of useful intelligence. Your suggestions, relative to the Friendship of France, are undoubtedly well grounded, & the policy of that Court induces her to avoid a declaration of War, as long as pos sible. Well knowing that whilst G. Britain is daily exhausting her re sources, & growing feeble, France is encreasing in strength, & will be more able to give a severe blow. But her measures of late, have been so unreserved, that the British Court cannot avoid a declaration of War, If they possess but the shadow of that spirit, to which they have made such pretensions. Would this take place, Spain & Portugal will be in evitably engaged in the War, & the subduction of the latter, will be an object of great attention, with the house of Bourbon. The Porte & Russia, are already involved in a dispute, & probably will join in alli ance with other powers, which will make the War general. This at present is but speculation, but the practice, has, for some time past, appeared to me, to be unavoidable. The spirit shown by the Jersey Militia, upon the movement of Gen eral Howe, is a favorable circumstance to our affairs, & greatly tends to intimidate our enemies. He marched with but part of his army, to Somerset Court House, about ten miles from Brunswick, in hope of tempting our General to immediate action. But this being avoided, until a body of troops that were posted at Peeps Hill [Peekskill] could rein force our Army & the Militia be collected, Wm. Howe, then thought it not for his interest, to risque a battle, but retired to Amboy. Had General Washington left his post, to have attacked General Howe, the latter might have slowly retreated, towards Brunswick, until joined by the residue of his troops, & then the combat would have been nearly with equal numbers on each side, & might have been hazardous. But when reinforced, as before mentioned, I think General Washington had a promising prospect of defeating the enemy. An attack may be expected on Ticonderoga. I hope the New Hampshire battalions have their complement of men, or that their deficiency is applied with Militia, as the carrying that post may give spirit to the enemy, & bring the War nearer to our doors, although I really think, it would not be much injurious to our cause. A Navy board is established for the Eastern District, by which we may expect to see the difficulties relative to the Navy in some measure removed. My compliments to friends & believe me to be, Sir, with esteem your friend & hum Servant. (Signed) E. Gerry. MS not found; reprinted from The Collector 24 (June 1911) : 87-88.
