260 June 28, 1777 posted at Amboy. They had sent off & were sending their baggage on board their transports which lie at the wartering place & Princes land ing. If the express that carried orders to Gen. Maxwell to march to head the enemy had not been intercepted it is probable their rear would have been cut off. What the enemy intend doing next is uncertain: most people conjecture they intend going up north river to coopperate with Burgoyne, who may be expected at Tionderoga by the middle of July. The Enemy are too strongly posted at Amboy to be attacked; they possibly may be there waiting for reinforcements, which when they re ceive, they may endeavour to penetrate again into the Jersies, & force Washington, if possible to a battle; this is certainly their interest; it is a desperate game, but their situation obliges them to run the risk. The same reasons which urge them to risk a battle dissuade us from ven turing on one. Gen Washington will not hazard our cause by a battle, unless the odds are in our favor 100 to one. I have seen extracts from the English prints as low as the 8th April. I do not find that any very considerable reinforcements are coming out. The critical situation of affairs in Europe, & the difficulties started by the German princes, have prevented the British Ministry from obtaining recruits, at least as many as they expected. I do not believe they will be able to send over this year more than 7000 at the outside: if I should be right in my conjecture, their army will not [be] near so formidable this year as the last, & ours on a much more respectable footing. Perhaps they hope to worry us out by the expence of the war. I hope your leg is better, & that you continue to enjoy your health. My love to Molly & Mrs. Darnall. I am, yr. affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton RC (MdHi). 1 Washington’s June 25 letter to President Hancock is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:297—300. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston June 28th [1777] Saturday Yesterday, tho’ assigned for concluding the Business of our Revolters was taken up in other Cares, for we thought it impolitic to be too urgent for a preference tho it was a Right we might have maintaind. Experience has convincd me of the Propriety of such Condescensions at seasonable junctures. This morning the House In a Committee of the whole chearfully resumd the debate; and the Resolutions passed almost unanimously, for you’l observe they go upon general Principles highly interesting & important to every State which yet directly apply to our case. The only contest was on Young’s address, 1 & that was ostensibly grounded on his death in the midst of the Debate; Compassion to his
