262 June 28, 1777 again. On the other hand Col. Richd H. Lee is displaced. 2 Mr Hooper has resignd, Mr Hughes was not reelected. From that State Doctor Burck & Mr. Penn attend; Mr. Harnett is expected. From South Caro lina Mr Middleton (an intimate Friend) and Mr Hayward. From Georgia Col Walton with whom we stand on the best footing. From Virginia Mr Francis Lee, Mr Page & our Friend Harrison. Maryland our old Friend Paca & Mr Cariyl, the latter I believe you know to be an amiable Gentleman & with whom we are very Sociable. From Dela ware Mr Van Duyck with whom we have made an agreeable Ac- quaintence. Pensylvania our Friends Morris & Wilson and Clymer: & Mr Jona. B. Smith & Genl Roberdeau. We have not the pleasure of any Intercourse with the Gent, from Jersey except Dr. Elmore who merits particular Esteem. The other members are the revd Doctr. Witherspoon, Mr Jona. Serjeant & Mr Clarke. The Gentlemen Eastward from New York are your Neighbours & you know them: Except Mr Marchant from Rhode Island who appears to be a Gentleman of good Sense and Candour, and has hitherto sustain’d an independant Character, often joining in Sentiments with your Delegates, and that even in the Busi ness of the Revolt. Please to have Patience & turn over once more. 3 RC (NHi). A continuation of Duane to Livingston, June 26, 1777. 1 Dr. Thomas Young’s “address” is described in Duane to Certain Members of the New York Convention, April 19, 1777, note 4. 3 In reality Richard Henry Lee had also just been vindicated and reelected to serve another term in Congress by the Virginia Assembly on June 24. See Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry, May 26, 1777, note 1. 3 For the continuation of this letter, see Duane to Livingston, July 1, 1777. John Adams to Abigail Adams My dearest Friend Philadelphia June 29 1777 The enclosed Newspapers will communicate to you, all the News I know. The Weather here begins to be very hot. Poor Mortals pant and sweat, under the burning Skies. Faint and feeble as children, We seem as if We were dissolving away. Yet We live along. The two Armies are now playing off their Arts. Each acts with great Caution. Howe is as much afraid of putting any Thing to Hazard as Washington. What would Britain do, surrounded with formidable Powers in Europe just ready to strike her if .Howes Army should meet a Disaster? Where would she find another Army? How are you? I hope very well. Let Mr. Thaxter write, let the Children write, when you cannot. I am very anxious, but Anxiety at 400 Miles distance can do you no more good, than me. I long to hear
