June 29, 1777 269 where the Captain was selling the Cargo at a considerable advance. Mr Bromfield left that Ship at Cape Francois & came to Virginia in a small Sloop from whence he set out by Land for Carolina. You seem to rely much on this Gentlemans prudence but I have Conceived a very indifferent opinion of it, for he has not only done what I have already mentioned respecting my Brother, but he has told to every body the Concern you & I had in the Union Cargo with many circumstances that I know little about. Colo Harrison who happened to be in Virginia when he arrived says all the People in that Country are acquainted with the whole Concern & from hence it is not improbable but they may conjecture by & by that private gain is more our pursuit than public good, for such unworthy suspicions are frequently taken upon less grounds. However I shall continue to discharge my duty faithfully to the Public & pursue my private Fortune by all such honorable & fair means as the times will admit of and I dare say you will do the Same, but we are not much indebted to Mr Bromfields discretion. Neither can I think myself under any great obligation for a Credit so limited & guarded as this Cargo by the Union seems to be. Capt. La Roche writes for my opinion & advice but takes care to let me know, he is to remit the entire Net proceeds to his owner Monsr La Ray du Chaumont. Now altho I have no real objection to his doing so, yet it carries an air of distrust that I dislike. Enclosed you will find copies of what I wrote to Mr Bromfield in answer to his letter from Virginia before I knew how very communica tive he was, also Copy of which I wrote Capt La Roche by which you 1 see I offer to pay him for your & my part the Cost of the Cargo in Good Bills of Exchange and receive our share of the Net Proceeds, rather than consent to his shipping back Indico on our account. 5 That article is very dear & I know must entail a heavy loss on us, whereas if the remittances are confined to Rice, Tobacco, Furrs, Skins, Flour &c a handsome proflfit will result from what does arrive safe and if he will wait to make returns in these articles I have no objection to the whole going back as I have no inclination on occasion to finger any of the money arising from the sales of this Cargo, therefore it was quite unnecessary to be so guarded against its coming into my hands. In short I shall rest satisfyed with this Concern because I have run my share of the Risque but there is a certain degree of Indignity in the terms that I will not submit to again, to hold an Interest in a Cargo addressed to a Captain & Super Cargo with orders for them to have the sole Management, receive the commission & remit the entire Net Proceeds back, so that had they come here I must have had the trouble, been their adviser & looked on whilst she carried back any share to France altho’ I was ready to pay down the Cost. This will never do, and I desire not any further Concern on such terms, therefore I will not give you any more trouble about interesting me in Commercial matters, in what is done on our joint account previ ous to the receipt of this letter I hold myself bound and will make good
