June 30, 1777 271 refer you to public letters for this & other Subjects being Dr sir, Your Obedt hble servt. Robt Morris RG (CtHi) 1 Deane’s December 4 letter to Morris is in NYHS Collections 19 (1886): 399-402. 2 See Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:248. 3 Not found. < „ 4 For the steps Morris had taken to put his brother Thomas in Deane’s “power, see Morris’ letters to Silas Deane, to Thomas Morris, and to John Ross, January 31, 1777. See also Morris to William Smith, December 17, 1777. 5 See Morris to Captain LaRoche, June 18, 1777. For his most recently dated extant letter to Bromfield, see Morris to Thomas Bromfield, May 20, 1777. 6 Not found, but for Deane’s December 3 letter to the Committee of Secret Correspondence, which also discusses problems encountered in making remittances from France, see NYHS Collections 19 (1886) : 392—95. Samuel Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Philade June 30 1777. I have the pleasure of receiving your friendly Letter of the 16th Instant, 1 and have little more than time enough barely to acknowledge it. There is an unaccountable Uncertainty in the conducting the Post office. About a month ago I remonstrated to the Post Master General that the Time allowd the Eastern Delegates to answer the Letters they receivd (being on the Monday between the Hours of 9 & 2) was alto gether spent in Congress, and requested that we might have one Evening for the purpose. He granted it and the Post has been since detaind till Tuesday Morning. But I am now informed that the former Regulation is revivd, for what Reason I know not, and our Letters must be ready at two o’Clock. I do assure you I should hardly forgive my self, if I could reflect upon my having once neglected to write to so valuable a Friend as you. You wish to hear “how our Confederation goes on.” I do not wonder at your Anxiety to have it completed, for it appears to me to be a Matter of very great Importance. We every now and then take it into Consideration, but such a Variety of Affairs have demanded the At tention of Congress, that it has been impracticable hitherto to get it through. There are but two or three things which in my opinion will be the Subjects of further Debate, and upon these I believe most if not all the Members have already made up their Minds. One is, what Share of Votes each of the States which differ so much in Wealth and Numbers shall have in determining all Questions. Much has been said upon this weighty Subject, upon the Decision of which depends the Union of the States and the Security of the Liberty of the whole. Perhaps it would be more easy for a disinterested Foreigner to see, than for the
