272 June 30, 1777 united States to fix upon the Principles on which this Question ought in Equity to be decided. The Sentiments in Congress are not various, but, as you will easily conceive, opposite. The Question was very largely debated a few days ago, and I am apt to think it will be tomorrow determind that each State shall have one Vote, but that certain great and very interesting Questions shall have the concurrent Votes of nine States for a Decision. Whether this Composition will go near towards the Preservation of a due Ballance, I wish you to consider, for if your Life and Health is spared to your Country you will have a great Share in the Determination of it hereafter. You have Advices from abroad later than ours. Our last Intelligence I gave you pretty minutely in a Letter which I sent & suppose was deliverd to you by Cap Collins. 2 I find by the Newspapers that the General Assembly under the De nomination of a Convention are formins; a new Constitution. This is a momentous Business; I pray God to direct you! Shall I be favord with your own and others Sentiments upon it. I am greatly afflicted to find that angry Disputes have arisen among my dear Countrymen, at a time especially when perfect good Harmony should subsist and every Heart and Tongue and Hand shd unite in promoting the Establishment of publick Liberty and securing the future Safety and Happiness of our Country. I am sure you will cultivate Harmony among those who love the Country in Sincerity. With Regard to others, I will say in the Aposto- lick Language “I would they were all cut off” (banishd at least) “who trouble you.” Will it too much infringe upon your precious Time, to acquaint Mrs A that I am in good Health and Spirits; and have not opportunity to write to her by this Post. I am with the most friendly Regards to your Lady & Family, very affectionately, yr Freind, S A RC (MHi). 1 Warren’s June 16 letter to Adams is in Warren-Adams Letters, 2:449. 2 See Samuel Adams to James Warren, June 23, 1777. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Papa 30th June 1777. I just write to inclose you a copy of Gen. Washington’s last letter to Congress & acknowledge the receipt of yr. letter of the 25th past, which I shall answer more fully by Johny, whom if Sam continues to mend, I shall send off in 3 or 4 days from this day. Sam is out of all danger, but not well enough to wait upon me yet. I hope Molly will excuse my de taining him here, tho it may possibly prevent her going to Miss Carroll’s wedding. I refer you to the inclosed newspaper for eastern news. It
