July 1, 1777 279 James Duane to Robert R. Livingston July 1 [1777] Tuesday Yesterday the Committee of the whole House finished their Proceed ings concerning our Revolters and reported them to the House. An unexpected Field of Debate was open’d and some of our neighbors (R.S. 1 in particular) discoverd an Earnestness and Sollicitude that did not belong to a Judge between a State and it’s discontented members. But it was of little avail to object to what had been agreed to by the Committee of the whole House on the most solemn Argument and Debate of which I have been witness. The enclosd Resolutions were finally agreed to by Congress. The two first unanimously, all the rest by a considerable Majority. What was most keenly opposd is the last Resolution respecting Young’s address; because it brought all the pre- ceeding home more pointedly to the Case of New York. 2 This appears to us to be a happy Decision for our State which if not neglected must produce very salutary Consequences. I shoud think it ought to be instantly circulated by handbills throughout every part of the State; and that Commissioners shoud be sent into the three Counties to announce the Resolutions and induce the People to conform to the new Government and avail themselves of its Blessings. We did not think it necessary to press for a Recommendation of Congress to these people to submit to our Jurisdiction; nor for the dismission of Warner’s Regiment. We thought we had obtained what was sufficient for the pres ent. It will depend on the Impression these important Decisions may make on that Regiment & the disaffected at large, whether the former shall be dischargd; & the latter enjoind more directly to a peaceble Conduct. If either shoud be turbulent and be guilty of Acts of Violence or Hostility I presume on proper Application Congress will interpose. A motion came from the southward that the power of the Continent shoud be employd to suppress these Insergents. Another from the same Quarter that Warner’s Regiment shoud be dismissed: but it woud not have been wise to hazard either of them; & a spirit of candour & moderation, which on this occasion distinguishd your Delegates, was of no little Service in the other Points which after the first Debate we saw the finest prospect of obtaining. As I said before these Requisitions are kept in Reserve for a proper Season if they shoud become essential. I beleive the fine Politicians who have workt up this System of Inde pendance have quite enough to digest. It was offensive to Congress in the highest Degree. If I have time I will send you a Copy of these Resolutions by this Conveyance: they go to the Council of Safety. This is a very incorrect Letter. I wish it was transcribed; but have no Leisure to attempt it. If you think any part of it worth communi cating shew it to Jay, Yates, Morris or any other of our Friends; and particularly to my Father in Law whom I hope you sometimes visit.
