July 2, 1777 283 doubt our strength, and fear our return to the former connection. The unre mitting care of the Court of London hath been to cherish and support this way of thinking. It is our business to counteract their plan, by the most frequent & most authentic transmissions of our State & of events here. The first of August I hope to see you in Philadelphia.” Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 1:310—11. 2 On July 1 Congress approved commissions and instructions for William Lee as commissioner to the king of Prussia and the emperor of Germany and for Ralph Izard as commissioner to the grand duke of Tuscany. JCC, 8:518—22. Jonathan Elmer to George Washington Sir Philadelphia, 2d July 1777 I am extremely sorry that the circumstance of affairs & Gen Howe’s unreasonable demands have hitherto prevented the final settlement of the Cartel for a general exchange of prisoners. I flattered myself when I had the honour of waiting upon your Excellency in March last at Morris Town, on account of my Brother-in-Law John Gibbon, who has long been a prisoner of war in New York, that this matter would, before now, have been fairly compromised, & our prisoners released from their barbarous confinement. At present I see no prospect of so desirable an event taking place. I am therefore, at the earnest request of Mr. Gibbon’s wife, under the necessity of mentioning his name once more to you, & of earnestly solliciting your Excellency, if possible, to procure his exchange or releasement upon parole. If no favourable opportunity is like to offer for accomplishing either of these ends, would it be inconvenient for you to admit his wife & some one of his friends to go to New York to see him, & carry him cloaths & other necessaries? He must undoubtedly stand in great need of them as he has been a prisoner upwards of six months. If Mr. Gibbon cannot be released upon any other terms, his wife begs me to acquaint you that she has engaged a man to go & remain a prisoner in his room, until an exchange can be effected. This to me is a new expedient, of which I can form no Judgment at present. If your Excellency conceives it probable that such a thing could take place, or any other more eligible mode of relief adopted, Should esteem it a singular favour to be speedily informed of it. I have the honour to be, Your Excellency’s most obedient & very Hble Servant, Jonathn. Elmer RC (DLC). Washington evidently forwarded this letter to Elias Boudinot, the commissary of prisoners, because it is now part of the Boudinot Papers at DLC.
