286 July 2, 1777 procured copies, and having obtained leave of absence, is already set out on his journey to the eastward. What may be his views with respect to our dispute, we know not, but to his enmity and officiousness you ought not to be strangers. We have the honour to be, with the greatest respect, honourable gentlemen, Your most obedient humble servants, Phil. Livingston, Jas. Duane, Wm. Duer. Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:998. 1 The council of safety had requested an account of these prisoners in a June 19 letter to the New York delegates. See Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:968, 970; and New York Delegates to the New York Council of Safety, July 8, 1777. 2 The June 30 resolves on the dispute between New York and Vermont. JCC, 8:509-11. New York Delegates to Joseph Trumbull Sir, Philadelphia, July 2d, 1777. The Congress have been pleased in consideration of the peculiar situation and distress of our State, to favour us with the grant at the current price of about 2000 bushels of the public salt, which is stored at Plymouth, in the Massachusetts government, and is under the care of Thomas Mumford, Esqr. of Groton, Connecticut. The more effectu ally to relieve our suffering fellow citizens, they have been pleased to direct you, if it can be done without injuring the public service, to ex change for that salt an equal quantity nearer to the borders of our State. This we flatter ourselves will be in your power; and in that case, we beg that you will be so obliging as to forward without delay, an order to the Council of Safety of our State, to authorize them to receive the salt; and in return they will give you an order on Mr. Mumford, to vest in you the property of the salt in his possession. 1 The President has wrote to you on this subject. We beg to be in formed of your resolution. And are, sir, your most obedt. servants. Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:1000—1001. Addressed: “To Joseph Trumbull Junr. Esqr., Commissary-General.” 1 On this point, see John Hancock to Joseph Trumbull, July 5, 1777, note 2.
