July 3, 1777 287 James Wilson to Arthur St. Clair My dear General Philada. 3d July 1777 Doctor McKenzie sets out for Ticonderoga. I embrace, with Pleasure, the Opportunity of writing to you by him. Some Time ago, the Enemy advanced from Brunswick as far as Somerset Court House. It is probable that their Design was to push for Philadelphia. This, at least, was believed; and the Belief produced the best Effects. The Militia of New Jersey turned out with the greatest Rapidity; and to a Man The Citizens of Philadelphia agreed to suspend their Disputes about the Constitution and to join unanimously in every Measure proper for repelling the Enemy and defending the State. General Washington kept his strong Encampment at Middle Brook. The Body under General Sullivan, consisting of Militia and Reinforce ments of Continental Troops from the Southward, was increasing very fast at Correll’s Ferry. General Howe thought it proper to retire from Somerset to Brunswick, from Brunswick to Amboy; and lately from Amboy to Staten Island. These different Movements have produced frequent Skirmishes, with the Advantage generally on our Side; once on that of the Enemy, so far as gaining three Field Pieces from us and losing, according to the best Accounts, a much greater Number of Men than we lost, can be called an Advantage. Concerning the future Views of the Enemy, the Sentiments expressed here are very different. Some think they mean to push up the North River; others, that they will make an Irruption into New-England; others, that they will come round by Sea to Delaware; others, that they know not what to do. In deed I think it probable that their Plan for the Campaign, if they had a Plan, is very considerably deranged. We hear of no Reinforcements worth mentioning being arrived from Europe. As to the Politics of Pennsylvania—they are not in the Situation I would wish. If a regular System were formed between General Howe and the Friends of our Constitution, his Motions could not have been better timed for them than they have been in two different Instances. When an Opposition has been twice set on Foot; and has twice pro ceeded so far as to become formidable; He has twice by his Marches towards Delaware procured a Cessation. The Assembly have twice taken Advantage of it to promote their own Purposes. Though those in the Opposition generously, and like true Patriots, suspended it while the Approaches of the Enemy were dreaded; the Assembly, just before their Adjournment, and just after this laudable Instance of Conduct was ex hibited, have branded them, in a public Address to the People, with carrying on their Opposition in a Manner improper under any Govern ment. They have agreed, however, at last, to take the Sentiments of the People with Regard to a Convention. What will be the Event, I am uncertain. They have one useful Quality. It would be a Virtue if exerted
