July 4, 1777 289 thence has I think afforded sufficient Proof that he has not been able by Arts or Arms to conquer even one of our smaller States. What his next step will be is uncertain, perhaps he may embark his troops for Philadelphia, or more probably he may attempt a Junction with Bur goyne. If the first, has he to expect more Laurels or better Success than he gaind in Jersey? or, if the latter should be his Choice judge what must be his Prospect. Burgoyne who it is said can not muster more than 7 or 8 thousand will be opposd by our Northern Army & I hope over- whelmd before they approach Albany. How will be followd close by the Army under the immediate Command of G W, at present more than equal in number, in high Spirits, full of the Idea of Victory and daily increasing. Under these unpromising circumstances should he ever com plete a Junction, he will then have to begin an attempt of the most arduous Business of conquering the whole Army of the united States to gether with the numerous, hardy & stubborn Militia of New England. These are my Views of the present State of our military affairs and I am perswaded, when I reflect on the Spirit & Valor discoverd in my Countrymen of Georgia, So & No Carolina, Virginia & Jersey to say nothing of Lexington & Bunker Hill in my own dear native State, Great Britain will ever show herself feeble in her Efforts to conquer America. I beg you to write to me full as often as you can find Leisure, and for my own part I feel a disposition almost to persecute you with my letters but I must conclude with congratulating you on the first Anniversary of American Independence and assuring you that I am unfeignedly and very affectionately, your Friend, S A FC (NN). 1 See Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams, April 1, 1777. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. 4th July A.M. 7 o’clock. We had yesterday advices from Gen. St. Clair, who commands at Tionderoga, as low down as the 26th ultimo. 1 The Enemy were ap proaching: their fleet was on the lake, part of it at Crown Point, but uncertain whether they had landed any forces there. They had landed Borne on Chimney point opposite to Crown Point. They had an en campment at Gilliland’s Creek 45 miles below Crown Point: several of our People have been killed or taken by small parties of Indians within a very small distance of our lines at Tionderoga. Our garrison is weak, not exceeding 2500 effectives: however if they defend themselves well, time may be given to collect a force sufficient to prevent the place from falling into the enemy’s hands, but the garrison is badly armed & cloathed. If the Enemy [waste?] away their time & delay their attack
