July 5, 1777 293 The Merit of Br. Genl, Knox is great, and he is beloved by his Corps. How then could it be conceived that Mr. Du Coudrays treaty should not create the greatest confusion among our Officers of Artillery? But these are not the only ones disgusted. Numbers of our Major Generals are injured by an antidate. The 4 Engineers who have arrived this Week disavow in the most preremptory manner being under the Com mand of Mr. Du Coudray who is not of the royal Corps of Engineers. Nor is it usual or convenient that those two Parties should be under the same Guidance. . Mr. De la Balme may be Inspector Genl of Cavalry without umbrage given to any of that Corps. B. Genl Conway resigns upon finding De Borre ranking above him. The first might be ten thousand times more useful to us than the last. Mr. Holzendorf is a fresh Embarrassment in all respects. I much fear that an Instruction, formerly passed in Congress respect ing Foreigners who do not understand our language will be construed as a patent for those who do. It was not intended for that end I assure you. Nothing is more dreaded than such a Construction. 1 I will not multiply words, but conclude by assuring you of my most sincere Esteem as, Sr., Your Friend & very humble Servant, James Lovell RC (PPAmP) 1 Lovell was referring to Congress’ March 13, 1777, resolution directing the Committee of Secret Correspondence “to write to all their ministers and agents abroad, to discourage all gentlemen from coming to America with expectation of employment in the service, unless they are masters of our language and have the best recommendations.” JCC, 7:174. Franklins October 7, , rep y Lovell is in Franklin, Writings (Smyth), 8:65-67. John Adams to Abigail Adams 2d My dear Daughter Philadelphia, July 5th, 1777 Yesterday, being the anniversary of American Independence, was celebrated here with a festivity and ceremony becoming the occasion. I am too old to delight in pretty descriptions, if I had a talent for them, otherwise a picture might be drawn, which would please the fancy of a Whig, at least. . The thought of taking any notice of this day, was not conceived, until the second of this month, and it was not mentioned until the third. It was too late to have a sermon, as every one wished, so this must e deferred another year. Congress determined to adjourn over that day, and to dine together. The general officers and others in town were invited, after the President and Council, and Board of War of this State.
