July 5, 1777 295 Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell D r Sir Philadelphia July 5th 1777 Your several favours of 10th & 11th ulto have come to hand, 1 and you may rely on my best attention to all your commands. Mr Penn is arrived, and has brought the papers necessary for obtain ing the money, but the Treasury being very nearly exhausted of all former emissions I fear we must wait some time before we can procure a sum from one lately voted adequate to the demand. We have however obtained an order of Treasury for three hundred thousand dollars to be delivered at Baltimore where the press and Signers are, and the Board of War are properly instructed to forward it without delay. 2 I observe the Resolve of the Assembly directs the Delegates to send forward 250,000 dollars and the residue of the 500,000 not drawn for under this Resolve, or previous thereto. Two difficulties occur. Are the 250,000 to be considered as part of the 500,000, or are they to be an additional demand? Are the Delegates to send this money at the risque of the State, and not in the usual way under the direction of the Board of War? The latter I can not think to have been intended by the Assembly, and therefore I have ventured to advise its being sent at the risque of the Continent in the usual way. In this Mr Penn concurs with me. The former question I can not decide upon, but until it is more clearly expressed must suppose it is intended as part of the 500,000 dollars. We know not what sums have been drawn for by the Treasurers. Mr Johnston did indeed always advise me of his draughts, but Mr Ash did not, and want of information on this head obliges me to retain two hundred thousand dollars to be applied in payment of all the bills drawn heretofore by the treasurers. I perceive Mr Penn had a bill from Mr Ash in his own favor for sixty odd thousand dollars, on what account this is, I know not, or under what authority Mr Ash has drawn it. But I shall take no notice of it as a public transaction until I see some Resolution of the Assembly which gave rise to it. Your bill in favor of Mr Ellis has been paid, the others are not yet arrived. Nothing material has happened since I wrote you last, except the celebration of the fourth of July (the Anniversary of the declaration of Independence). You will see it at large in the enclosed paper, but one thing is remarkable, this day, and the 28th of June, memorable for the defence of Sullivan’s Island, were both celebrated here, and at both a Hessian band of music which were taken at Princetown performed very delightfully, the pleasure being not a little heightened by the reflection that they were hired by the British Court for purposes very different from those to which they were applied. 3
