300 July 5, 1777 Marine Committee to John Young Sir July 5th. 1777 It is expected that the Continental Sloop Independence under your command is now ready to proceed to France agreeable to the directions sent you a few days since. 1 You will receive herewith sundry dispatches from the Committee of Foreign Affairs and Secret Committee 2 respect ing which you will obey such orders as they may give. You are to. proceed in Said Sloop from Senepuxent for the Port of Nantes in France where you must apply to William Lee and Thomas Morris Esquires Commercial Agents of the United States and they will supply you with Money to defray the expences of your Journay from thence to Paris and back. Whilst you are on that journay your Lieutenant must employ the Crew in heaving down, Cleaning and refitting the Sloop, and in getting all such things done to her as may be necessary. The Agents will supply the Money and other articles proper on this Occasion for amount whereof you must grant them receipts. You must give directions also to your Lieutenant and other Officers to engage as many Seamen as possible that you may return full manned—the more the better only taking care to lay in a Stock of Provisions proportioned to the number of men you get. You are to receive from the Honorable Docter Franklin and the other Commissioners at Paris all Letters and dispatches they have to Send, and to wait any time they may think proper to detain you. You are to receive from the Commercial Agents any goods they have to send out by the Sloop and bring from [them] also all Letters and Packets they have to send. Should the Honorable Commissioners think it necessary to detain you any time for their dispatches, it may probably be an eligible plan for you to make a Cruize on our enemies Trade from which you may return at an appointed Time for their dispatches & then also take in such goods as may be ready. This you may propose to the Commissioners and to the Agents. If you are fortunate enough to take any Prizes you will send them to Address of said Agents, who will receive the Continental Share and divide the other as it ought. When you are dispatched from France you must make the best of your way for this Coast and get into the first safe port you can, im mediately bringing to us all the dispatches and Letters, which both going & Coming have always ready Slung to a weight sufficient to Sink them, and if you perceive an inevitable misfortune put them into the Sea for they must not on any Account fall into the enemies hands. You must duely observe the Instructions of the Navy Board, preserve strict discipline but use your Officers & men well that they may be fond of the service—treat Prisoners with humanity and in All things
