July 7, 1777 307 Liberty. But there was not one Member of Congress who dared to justify the Letters, very few who could say a Word in Mitigation or Excuse. It was universally considered as betraying the Liberties of the People to pass them by unanswered. Some were more for dismissing all three of you instantly from the service, others for ordering you to Philadelphia, under arrest to answer for this offence. The Resolution expresses an Expectation that some Acknowledgment or Apology will be made. I sincerely hope it will, for I think that in a cool Reconsideration of those Letters, the Impropriety and Danger of them must be manifest. I would be far from dictating to you, or giving Advice unasked, but I really think, that a Declaration that you had no Intention to influence Congress, to contemn its authority or infringe the Liberties of the People or the Priviledges of Congress, a Declaration that you have the fullest Confidence in the Justice of Congress and their Deliberations for the public Good, is the best that you can do, provided you can do this with Truth and sincerity, if not I think you ought to leave the service. LB (MHi). 1 Letters to Congress from Greene and Henry Knox, who threatened to resign if Du Coudray’s contract was honored, were read in Congress on July 5. Con gress had already received a similar letter from Gen. John Sullivan on July 3 and immediately resolved to accept his resignation if it were formally tendered, condemning his letter as an unwarranted attempt to “control” Congress, but as this entry has been deleted from the journals it seems apparent that Congress decided against treating Sullivan’s case separately and reopened it when the letters from Greene and Knox arrived. JCC, 8:527-28, 531; PCC, item 155, 1:35 and item 78, 13:439; and Sullivan, Letters (Hammond), 1:403. On July 7 Congress forcefully denounced the three generals’ threats to resign as “an attempt to influence their decisions, and an invasion of the liberties of the people, and indicating a want of confidence in the justice of Congress.” JCC, 8:537. See also Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, and James Lovell to William Whipple, this date; and James Lovell to General Washington, July 25, 1777. Du Coudray was ultimately authorized to serve as a volunteer with the Con tinental Army, but before he could assume his duties he drowned in the Schuylkill River on September 15, 1777. JCC, 8:740, 751, 845. According to James Lovell, Du Coudray had only been appointed a brevet captain. Lovell to William Whipple, September 17, 1777. For a subsequent summary view of the problem of foreign officers, see Com mittee for Foreign Affairs to the American Commissioners at Paris, December 1, 1777. John Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philadelphia July 7. 1777 Yours of June 22d reed only to day. We have no Thoughts of leaving
