312 July 7, 1777 feasibility of the petitioners’ request. For the printers’ responses, one of which is dated July 10, 1777, see PCC, item 46, 1:155-73. The committee eventually reported against the petitioners’ recommendation because of the expense and difficulties involved in procuring the proper types and paper for such an edition of the Bible, and Congress instead adopted the committee’s recommendation to “order the Committee of Commerce to import 20,000 Bibles from Holland, Scotland, or elsewhere.” JCC, 8:733—35. As this decision was not reached until September 11, the day of the battle of Brandy wine and only one week before Congress was forced to flee from Philadelphia, no action was taken to implement this order. Another document related to the committee’s work in the summer of 1777, bearing the heading “Regulations proposed for the Printing of a Bible for com mon Use under the Direction & by the Authority of Congress,” is also located in PCC. See item 46, 1:163-64. It consists of 15 articles pertaining to the pro duction of an American edition of the Bible to be carried out under the “In spection” of Congress and essentially endorses the proposals embodied in the petitioners’ memorial. Indeed it may have been drafted as the committee’s original report, although the report finally read in Congress on September 11 rejected the practicality of executing such an American edition and recom mended instead importing 20,000 Bibles. It has been printed in William H. Gaines, Jr., “The Continental Congress Considers the Publication of a Bible, 1777,” Studies in Bibliography 3 (1950-51): 275-76, where it has been mis identified as the petition of the Presbyterian ministers. It was not until 1782 that the first English language American edition of the Old and New Testaments finally appeared. For information on the circumstances that led to the publication of Robert Aitken’s edition of the Bible, which ap peared with an official congressional endorsement of September 12, 1782, see Margaret T. Hills, “The First American Bible, as Published by Robert Aitken,” Bible Society Record 113 (January 1968): 2-5; and JCC, 19:91, 23:572-74. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir Philadelphia July the 7th 1777 I wrote you a few days agoe by Coll. Stewart which hope you have Recievd. We have in the Course of a few days recieved some Very Unpolite letters from two or three Gentn of high rank & Esteem in the Army Viz Genlls Green, Sullivan & Knox. If they had prudently wrote the same Matter to any particular friend Member of Congress & he had divulged it to his brethren no offence would have been taken & it might have Answered every valuable purpose, but to write to Congress as a Body while they had a matter under consideration (I mean the affair of the Command of Monsr. de Coudre) to dictate to or Influence their Conduct is looked upon by many as the highest Insult and Indignity & which they cannot pass by without the severest Censure, or Otherwise must give up their own dignity & superiority to a few Gentn of the Army, & who will Assume for the future to dictate & Influence all their measures, or if Congress do not at once Yield they will resign their Com missions, break up the Army & leave their Country to the total desolation & Subjection of the Enemy. This is the Construction many
