July 8, 1777 317 not settled the matter or General Washington would have rec’d the Resolves. If they chose to take it for a thing done why did they not ask leave to retire without any ifs. There is as much pulling and hauling, about rank and pay, as if we had been accustomed to a military estab lishment here 150 years. That same Mr Nicholas Davis who got the money of our Commis sioners and then drew a Bill of Exchange upon them in France, and afterwards imposed upon Bingham, is now here. He turned an evidence against the Seine to condemn her; and yet has had the impudence to come hither. He is a meagre, smooth tongued, sly chap and I believe will go unpunished for he has nothing but dress; and to make him rot in jail will not regain the money. I have much to scrawl in the morning both public and private, and it is now past one o’clock as a noisy chap tells me from the street. But I will not take his hint till I have presented my affectionate compliments to your Lady, your brothers and sisters, and any others who love you and do not hate me; further you need not go, for you know I never pretended to the sublime pitch of loving my enemies. Tell thy African I miss him and his many willing services. I reckon his full joy at getting away from Philadelphia may have intoxicated his former philosophic resolutions, so far as to make him risk becoming the author of a Slave in the early hours of his return to Portsmouth. Messrs Dyer, Williams and Law have been here 10 days, so that father Sherman is by this time, like your Honor, vigorously serving his country in connection with his nearest dearest friend. Good night, say morning, Tr(DLC). 1 Benjamin Harrison was not named to the Committee of Commerce when it was reconstituted as the successor of the Secret Committee on July 5, 1777. JCC, 8:533-34. 2 For a discussion of the complaints against Richard Henry Lee, see Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry, May 26, 1777. 3 Lovell is simply alluding to his correspondent William Whipple. 4 The Committee for Foreign Affairs dispatched the sloop Independence. See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Arthur Lee, August 8, 1777. 5 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Commissioners at Paris, July 2, 1777. 6 The references are to Elbridge Gerry and Samuel Adams, James Duane and Jonathan Elmer. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia July 8. 1777 Tuesday Yours of June 23d have received. I believe there is no Danger of an Invasion your Way, but the Designs of the Enemy are uncertain and
