324 July 8, 1777 John Hancock to Joseph Trumbull Sir, Philada. July 8th. 1777. 1 I inclose to you sundry Commissions for Officers in your Depart ment, which I must request you will please to deliver to them. The Congress being informed, that the Price of Cattle in this State is very exorbitant, think it adviseable that as few should be purchased therein as may be; and have come to the enclosed Resolve, directing you to give your Agents Instructions to govern themselves accordingly. 2 Your Favour of the 7th I duely received and laid before Congress. 3 I am, with Respect, Sir, your most obedt Servt. John Hancock Presidt. RC (Ct). 1 Trumbull also received yet another letter written by a delegate this date. The following brief note from James Lovell is in the Joseph Trumbull Papers, CtHi. “I have yours of the 5th. The order is certainly forwarded. Mr. Bates disap pointed both the president and Coll. Dyer by his sudden departure. You will see by the Dates of my scrawls, that I do write. Tho’ as I depend on others to forward, I suppose you find some of them mouldy. I will be longer by the post.” 2 This resolve had been passed on June 27. JCC, 8:504—5. 3 See Hancock to Joseph Trumbull, July 5, 1777, note 2. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. July 8th. 1777. I have the Honour to transmit at this Time Copies of three Letters from Generals Sullivan, Green, and Knox, to Congress, the Receipt of which, as the Contents were highly derogatory to the Honour and Justice of Congress, could not fail to be extremely displeasing. They have therefore come to the enclosed Resolve on the Subject, 1 to which, as it clearly expresses their Sense of the Impropriety of the Conduct of those Officers, I beg Leave to refer your Attention, and to request you will make them acquainted therewith. Your Favour of the 7th Instant I this Morning received, and in a few Minutes shall lay it before Congress. 2 I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Sir, Your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt P.S. 5 O’Clock P.M. Since writing the foregoing, the enclosed Resolu tions of this Day have been passed, 3 which I transmit for your Informa tion. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 For a discussion of this resolution, which reprobated the threats of Generals Greene, Knox, and Sullivan to resign in protest against Philippe Du Coudray’s
