July 8, 1777 325 contract and ordered their offending letters to be sent to Washington, see John Adams to Nathanael Greene, July 7, 1777. 2 This letter is in PCC, item 152, 4:327-28, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 8:366-67. 3 These resolves pertained to Delaware River defenses, the appointment of certain French officers, and Gen. Horatio Gates. JCC, 8:538—40. For the resolve pertaining to the use of Virginia and North Carolina troops on the defensive works at Billingsport, which was initiated at the request of the Pennsylvania delegates on instruction from the Pennsylvania Council, see also Pa. Council Minutes, 11:236, 242. New York Delegates to the New York Council of Safety Honourable Gentlemen, Philadelphia, 8th July, 1777. Since our last letter of the 4th instant, 1 the President, at our request, has written to Commissary Trumbull, on the subject of the exchange of the salt appropriated to our State, and we hope this formality will give weight to our own solicitations. We transmit you the secret committee’s order in our favour, on Mr. Mumford, their agent for the salt at Plymouth, and our transfer to you. A copy of our letter to Commissary Trumbull, 2 we also enclose, from which last you will be pleased to observe, that for the sake of despatch, we have requested him to correspond on the subject immediately with yourselves. Salt continues to be very scarce here and to the southward, the coast being closely watched by the enemy’s ships. Mr. Lewis writes from Baltimore the 23rd of June, that two small vessels had arrived there with that article from Virginia, purchased by a private trader, who asked for it no less than £5 a bushel. As we cannot at present expect to get it delivered at this place for a less price, we must request your di rections, whether we shall proceed to purchase, and what quantity? With these despatches we forward a calendar, returned to us by the jailer, of the prisoners sent from our State to Philadelphia, and the time and manner of their discharge. 3 Sutton, whose name you will not ob serve, never was committed to prison, but left at large, and finally re leased on his parol at General Morris’s intercession, who, it seems, enter tained an opinion of him much too favourable. Finding that our constitution was published on very mean paper, without any marginal notes of the contents, we thought it would not be disagreeable to our State to have an impression struck off here, and we took the same opportunity to have printed the resolutions of Congress respecting the independent government attempted to be established within our jurisdiction; we now forward them to be disposed of as you shall direct. 4
