326 July 8, 1777 If our State is likely to be pressed both from the north and the south, which, however rash and desperate, is an enterprise which the enemy once seriously contemplated, and now seems at least as practicable as the conquest of Pennsylvania, you will have but little time to apply to domestic concerns, however urgent; and this may possibly induce you to wish that the publication of the decision of Congress respecting our revolted subjects, may for some time be deferred. From these considera tions, we shall refrain from communicating a single copy; but it must be remembered that Mr. Roger Sherman, who is gone to the eastward, was furnished with one, and there is too much room to apprehend that he may forward it to his friends in New-Connecticut. We have taken the liberty to retain your letter to Congress, of the 17th of June, and the several enclosures. Already have we employed so much of their time on the affairs of our State, that good policy strongly urges us to give them some respite; and as the subject matter of those despatches though of some moment to our State, requires no immediate decision, we flatter ourselves that you will not be displeased with our reserve. The reasons you assign to show that the defence of Hudson’s river ought to be a Continental charge, appears to us to be very cogent; and they must always have great weight; and we therefore make no scruple in recommending that all the expenses be charged to the account of the Continent, comprehending even such as may accrue subsequent to the late resolutions of Congress pointing out a discrimination; for, had the transaction been fully explained, we cannot think those resolu tions would have passed. 5 We have the honour to be, with great respect, Honl. gentlemen, Your most obedient humble servants, Phil. Livingston, Jas. Duane, Wm. Duer. Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:999-1000. 1 Not found. 2 See New York Delegates to Joseph Trumbull, July 2, 1777. 3 This item is printed in Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:1000, under the heading “A List of the York Tories lately confined in the State Prison, Phila- dephia.” 4 Full bibliographical information about these two publications is given in Evans, Am. Bibliography, nos. 15474, 15673. 5 The council of safety’s June 17 request for congressional funding for the defense of the Hudson is discussed more fully in New York Delegates to the New York Council of Safety, May 31, 1777, note 3. North Carolina Delegates to Richard Caswell Sir Philadelphia July 8th 1777 We have obtained an order of Congress to the Treasurer, who has
