July 10, 1777 331 We have the Honour to be, with great Respect, your most Obedient huml Servants, Jas. Duane P.S. Mr. Livingston and Mr. Duer are attending Congress, and Mr. Child going off, which prevents their subscribing this letter. RC (MeHi). Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:1000. RC damaged; dateline and postscript supplied from Tr. 1 This “new and extraordinary Declaration,” approved on June 4 by the “General Convention” of the “State of Vermont,” is in E. P. Walton, ed., Records of the Governor and Council of Vermont, 7 vols. (Montpelier, Vt.: J. & J.M. Poland, 1873-80), 1:54-57. 2 Congress’ June 30 resolves on Vermont appeared in the Pennsylvania Even ing Post on August 7 and in other Philadelphia newspapers during the following week. The Vermont Convention’s June 4 declaration was not printed in any Philadelphia newspaper, nor have any “Observations” on it by Duane or the New York delegates been found. See JCC, 8:508-11. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Assembly Gentlemen, Philada. July 10th. 1777. I do myself the Honour to enclose to you Copies of sundry Papers, transmitted to Congress by the State of North Carolina, accompanied with the Resolution of Congress founded thereon. From this you will learn, that a Brig belonging to two Gentlemen of that State, Mr. Smith and Mr. Hewes, was some Time ago captured by a certain Brazilla Smith Commander of the Privateer Eagle, said to be owned by Mr. Elijah Freeman Payne of the Town of Boston. The Congress therefore have recommended it to the State of Massachusetts Bay, to enquire into the Matter, and unless the Master and Owner can shew sufficient Cause to the contrary, to order full Restitution to be made, and the Offenders to be punished. I beg Leave to refer your Attention to the Resolve and also to the Papers. 1 Mr. Hewes, who is the Bearer hereof, and one of the Owners of the Brig, was a Member of Congress for a considerable Length of Time in the Representation from the State of North Carolina. From the en closed Memorial you will perceive, the Sense his Constituents entertain of his Merit—to which I shall only add, that his Conduct as an in flexible Patriot, and his Liberality as a Gentleman, justly entitle him not only to their Protection, but to the Notice and Protection of every good Citizen, and Friend of America. I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (M-Ar). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 For a fuller discussion of the case of the Joseph, see William Hooper to Joseph Hewes, January 1, 1777.
