July 10, 1777 333 turns shall be made, not contrary to any that may be, or have been directed by Congress or the Marine Committee you are hereby required to keep fair books of all expenditures of Publick Moneys for the Navy within your department which Books shall at all Times be subject to the Inspection & examination of Congress and the Marine Committee or of such Persons as they may Authorize and appoint for that Purpose and you are to render Accounts of your disbursements Annually or Oftener if required. You are hereby empower’d to order Courts Martial in all Cases where the Commanding officers shall refuse, or neglect the same and it shall appear to you requisite; and (in the absence of the Commander in Chief) in all cases where the Commander in chief only is Authorized thereto by the Resolutions of Congress. When any Continental Ships of War comes into any port within your District, you are immediately to give Notice to the Marine Committee of her Arrival and the time it will require to fit and equip her for Sea again in Order that Instructions may be sent by said Committee for such Ships future destination. By order of the Marine Board, John Hancock Presidt. Tr (RNHi). Addressed: “To William Vernon, James Warren, & John Deshon Esqrs.” 1 See Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, June 26, 1777, note 1. Robert Morris to John Langdon Sir Philada. July 10th. 1777 I have your favour of the 16th Ulto. and find Ships have got up beyond their Value with you as well as in other places therefore must wait for a better time to execute my plan, 1 but whenever you see an opportunity of buying a good Vessell fit to carry a Cargo of Rice from Georgia to Europe, and can get her on reasonable, terms I request you will do it and send her to Mr Wereat as mentioned in my letter of the 20th May, 2 and I also confirm what is said in mine of the 18th Ulto. respecting the Sugars. With respect to the plan of Importing Goods from France in French bottoms as you propose there is but one objec tion, & that is, You must load the Vessell & thereby make the Concern too Valuable (unless you take in a good many partners) and by ex perience I know that it is difficult to Charter Vessells in France on reasonable terms, for I have made the attempt without Success. Now if you can find in any of the Ports of France Ships really bound to Miquelon that will take in freight, we might order more or less Goods out as shou’d best suit us, and that wou’d depend a good deal on the Remittances we might get safe to Europe for I wou’d not wish any Goods out but what we paid ready Money for. If you & Colo. Whipple
