July 13, 1777 339 John Penn to Richard Caswell Dear Sir, Philada. July 12th 1777 Having been informed that the Troops belonging to our State could not part with the money they brought with them, but at a very great loss, Doctor Burke and myself thought it reasonable to exchange with the Men, by giving them an equal number of Continental dollars, which Mr. Blunt at our request did, amounting in the whole to 2485 1/2 dollars agreeable to the inclosed list—we hope the money will be of use with you, indeed it was lost to the Soldiers here. We have Imployed Lieut. John Allen to Conduct the money from Baltimore and have requested Mr. Helligrass to dispatch him as soon as possibly he can. You will receive the above quantity of dollars be sides the 300,000 sent by the Congress, the whole is to be Conducted at the expence of the Continent. It is still uncertain what General Howe means to do as he remains between Staten Island & New York. Genl. Burgoyne is in the Neighbor hood of Ticonderoga, his force is not known. I am afraid we shall not be able to keep that Fort. Your son is very well, our Troops are near this City waiting for Genl. Howe’s movement. With great respect, I am, Dear Sir, Your ob. Serv. John Penn [P.5.] Doct. Burke was out of the way so could not sign this letter. MS not found; reprinted from N.C. State Records, 11:736. John Adams to Abigail Adams My dearest Friend Philadelphia July 13. 1777 We have a confused Account, from the Northward, of Something Unlucky, at Ticonderoga, but cannot certainly tell what it is. 1 I am much afraid, We shall loose that Post, as We did Forts Wash ington and Lee, and indeed, I believe We shall if the Enemy surround it. But it will prove no Benefit to them. I begin to Wish there was not a Fort upon the Continent. Discipline and Disposition, are our Resources. It is our Policy to draw the Enemy into the Country, where We can avail ourselves of Hills, Woods, Walls, Rivers, Defiles &c. untill our Soldiers are more inured to War. How and Burgoine will not be able to meet, this Year, and if they were met, it would only be better for Us, for We should draw all our Forces to a Point too. If they were met, they could not cutt off the Communication, be tween the Northern and Southern States. But if the Communication
