340 July 13, 1777 was cutt off for a Time, it would be no Misfortune, for New England would defend itself, and the Southern States would defend themselves. Coll. Miles is come out of N. York on his Parol. His account is, as I am informed, that Mr. Howes Projects are all deranged. His Army has gone round the Circle and is now encamped on the very Spot where he was a Year ago. The Spirits of the Tories are sunk to a great Degree, and those of the Army too. The Tories have been elated with Prospects of coming to this City, and tryumphing, but are miserably disappointed. The Hessians are disgusted, and their General De Heister gone home, in a Miff. 2 RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:281. 1 On July 5—6 Gen. Arthur St. Clair evacuated Fort Ticonderoga after Gen. John Burgoyne’s maneuvers had rendered its defense untenable. Don Higgin botham, The War of American Independence (New York: Macmillan Co., 1971), pp. 189-90. See also John Hancock to Philip Schuyler, July 14, 1777. 2 The recall of Lt. Gen. Leopold Philipp, Freiherr von Heister, commander of the Hessian troops in Sir William Howe’s army, was apparently arranged by Howe after the 1776 New York campaign, although von Heister did not leave the army until June 22, 1777. Edward J. Lowell, The Hessians and the Other German Auxiliaries of Great Britain in the Revolutionary War (Williams town, Mass.: Corner House Publishers, 1970, reprint ed.), pp. 113-15. Henry Marchant to Nicholas Cooke Honored Sir, Philadelphia July 13th. 1777 I wrote the Governor and Company by the last Post and enclosed Them an Order of Congress upon the Loan Office State of Rhode Island &c for 190,000 Dollars which I hope will come to Hand. I now enclose Your Honor the Resolves of the Marine Comee. passed March the 25th 1777, 1 respecting the Contracts made by some of the Officers &c of Commodore Hopkins’s Fleet when in Deleware River. As the Complaints in Consequence of that Contract have still continued notwithstanding those Resolves were forwarded long ago to the Con tinental Agents; by order of the Marine Comee I sent a Copy of them to the Agent Mr. Tillinghast by the last Post, supposing it possible They might have miscarried before. 2 And as I never heard of Them before I left the State, for that Reason I have enclosed them to your Honor. Our Accounts from the Northward are very unfavourable, but at the same Time so confused that no certainty can be collected. Yet we are very apprehensive that Ti is in the Hands of the Enemy, with all the Cannon & Stores, if not the Garrison. To what Causes this Misfortune must have arisen Time only can unfold. If the Case is so, We are not to dispond but rise with new Vigour and manly Fortitude. Let New Eng land now shew Her Prowess, Her Vigilance and Her every Virtue. Let
