July 14, 1777 341 us rise at Once, as tho’ collected into One Soul. Let us meet the Enemy where their Ships cannot avail Them—upon equal Ground, and by the Blessing of Heaven Success, Victory and Honor must attend us. Let not the Jersey Militia have the only Honor of riding Their Country of the Enemies of Mankind by a United, brave Effort. I only wish New- England may maintain that Character She hath hitherto entitled Her self to. I have the Honor to subscribe myself your Honors most Obedient, humble Servant, Hy Marchant RC (R-Ar). 1 For these resolves, see Marine Committee Examination of John Grannis, March 25, 1777, note 8. 2 No letter from Marchant to Daniel Tillinghast has been found. John Hancock to Certain States Gentlemen, Philada. July 14th. 1777. The enclosed Resolve of Congress recommending it to your State to send such Reinforcements of Militia to the Armies under Generals Washington or Schuyler, as may be requested, comes with such peculiar Force at this Juncture, that I am persuaded any Arguments to induce you to comply with it will be unnecessary. 1 From the Continental Bat talions not being compleated agreeably to the original Plan, there is indeed an absolute Necessity for adopting the Measure in our present Situation. Give me Leave therefore most earnestly to request your Com pliance with this Requisition of Congress as the only effectual Mode of checking the Progress of our enraged & cruel Enemies. I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Servt. J.H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed to the convention of New York and the assemblies of Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Rhode Island. 1 See JCC, 8:549. The passage of this resolve was precipitated by the arrival of a July 10 letter from Washington enclosing a July 7 letter from General Schuyler containing the first news of the evacuation of Ticonderoga. PCC, item 152, 4:337-39, item 153, 3:222; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:376— 78. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir Philada. July 14th. 1777. I have the Honor to transmit you sundry Resolves, to which I beg Leave to refer your Attention. The Congress have strongly recommended it to the State of New
