342 July 14, 1777 York and the Eastern States to send such Reinforcements of Militia to your Assistance and also to the Assistance of General Washington, as may from Time to Time be requested and I have accordingly addressed them on the Subject. Your several Favors of the 8th & 9th, 14 and 25th of June and 5th Instant have been duly received in the order of their Dates. Last Night I was honored with Copies of your two Letters of 7th & 9th Inst, to Genl. Washington. 1 Their interesting Contents shall be immediately laid before Congress. I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect Sir, Your most obedt & very humble Servant, John Hancock Presdt. [P.5.] As soon as Congress have come to a Determination on your last Letters you shall be acquainted with the Result. I have paid the Bearer for his Detention here. Tr (NN). 1 With the exception of the last, these letters are in PCC, item 153, 3:144-224. The one of July 9 to Washington is in Washington Papers, DLC, and PCC, item 152, 4:345—46. Only the letters to Washington deal with the American evacuation of Ticonderoga. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. July 14th. 1777. You will perceive from the enclosed Resolve that there are at present about fourteen Hundred Men at Philada. and Billingsport who are ready to march, and wait only for your Orders. 1 The Congress have recommended it to the State of New York and to the Eastern States to send such Reinforcements of their Militia to your Assistance, and also to the Assistance of Genl. Schuyler as may, from Time to Time be requested; and I have accordingly addressed them on the Subject. P.S. 6 O’Clock P.M. Since writing the foregoing, your Favour of the 12th Inst came to Hand, and Congress have issued Orders to Genl. Nash to march immediately to Head Quarters with all the Carolina and Virginia Troops under his Command. Similar Orders have likewise been issued to Colo. Proctor to March with his Regiment of Artillery, which was raised for the State of Pennsylvania, but has been since taken into Continental Service. 2 I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt [P.5 1.] A Comme. of Congress are Sent to Head Quarters to Consult respectg the Commissary’s Departmt. 3
