July 15, 1777 343 RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and second postscript by Hancock. ’See JCC, 8:549. 2 See PCC, item 152, 4:341—44; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:551. 3 See Committee of Congress to Washington, July 16, 1777. Samuel Adams to Samuel Cooper My dear sir Philade July 15 1777 Before this reaches you, it is probable you will have heard of the un toward Turn our Affairs have taken at the Northward. I confess it is not more than I expected when Genl Schu[yle]r was again intrusted with the Command there. But it was thought by some Gentlemen that as he had a great Interest & large Connections in that Part of the Country, he could more readily avail himself of Supplys for an Army there as well as Reinforcements if wanted upon an Emergency, than any other Man. You have the Account in the inclosed Paper, which leaves us to guess what is become of the Garrison. 1 There is something droll enough in a Generals not knowing where to find the main Body of his Army. Gates is the Man I should have chosen. He is honest and true, & has the Art of gaining the Love of his Soldiers, principally because he is always present and shares with them in Fatigue & Danger. We are hourly expecting to be relievd from a disagreeable State of Uncertainty by a particular Relation of Facts. This Account, as you are told, is related upon Memory, & therefore some Circumstances may be omitted, others misapprehended. But the Post is just going, & I have time only to acknowledge the Receipt of your favor of the 12 of June & beg you would write to me often. 2 I am affectionately, your freind, S A FC (NN). 1 Probably the July 15 issue of the P ennsylvania Packet containing extracts from Gen. Philip Schuyler’s July 7 letter to Washington announcing the retreat of the American army from Fort Ticonderoga. 2 Cooper’s June 12 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, NN. Samuel Adams to Richard Henry Lee My dear Freind Philade July 15 1777 I wrote to you a Fortnight ago in so great Haste that I had not time to transcribe or correct it, and relied on your Candor to overlook the slovenly dress in which it was sent to you. You have since heard that
