July 15, 1777 345 I rejoyce in the Honors your Country has done you. Pray hasten your Journy hither. 1 Your very affectionate, S Adams RC (NN). 1 For Lee’s July 27 response to this letter, see Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 1:313—14. Board of War to George Washington Sir War Office July 15th. 1777 I have the Honour of your Letter of the 12th instant which I have communicated to the Board. 1 General Sullivan has written concerning an Hudson Burr condemned at Sourland by a Court Martial as a Spy but says your Excellcy would not ratify the Proceedings desiring that the Man might be sent to Philada. where he is now under Confinement, that the Board might discharge him if they knew Nothing against him; but as they are not certified properly of the Proceedings of the Court Martial they cannot with Propriety take Notice of the Matter. Mean Time the Man is suffering in Prison & therefore I am to request that your Excellency will be pleased to write them on the Subject 2 that Burr may be discharged on Security being given for his good Behavior & the public be eased of the Care of him, as his Friends here who are numerous are constantly applying to see him in Prison & solliciting for his Release. His Con nexions are among the Quakers & so far wrong, but he is not capable if ever he intended it to do much Harm. I have the Honour to be, Your Excellency’s very obed Servt, Richard Peters Secy [P.S.] I have the Honor of transmitting the enclosed Return of Tents furnished by the Quarter Master General for your Excellency’s Inspec tion with a Request from the Board that if you can spare any Tents you will order a Number to General Schuyler. 3 RC (DLC). 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:387-89. 2 For Washington’s response to this request, see ibid., pp. 494-95. 3 On the following day Peters wrote a brief note to Washington introducing Mr. Dupre, an armorer with a North Carolina brigade, and requesting on be half of the board that Washington “give Orders for Mr. Dupre’s being employed as Superintendent of the Armoury attending the Camp, or in any other manner you may think proper, as his Abilities will render him exceedingly useful.” Wash ington Papers, DLC.
