346 July 15, 1777 Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir Philadelphia July 15th 1777 Recievd your favr. of the 9th Instant, yours to Congress was recievd at the same time and the Matter Immediately taken up in Congress. There is so many fond of their New plan that it is difficult to make them attend to the Objections against and cannot bare so soon to throw up What they have entertained so great a fondness of but however they soon agreed to send a Comtee of Congress to goe to the Army and see and hear and report. 1 The Congress is very thin and most Gentn. had a Very great Aversion to goe on this business. Except Mr Gerry I think there could scarce been one more unsuitable. Mr Livingston was chose one principally because he was gone that way before and would be in the way. I much fear the Consequence arising from this New Regulation but hope for the best. Every thing must be Endured before the Army must fail. It is said in Congress by some that you must goe on your Old way till the New one gets into a proper regulation and employe pur chasers as formerly. I know not what or how to advise you only in General to do the Utmost in your power to advance and promote the general good and service. 2 Am sure I should at once advise you to quit if I did not apprehend the worst Consequences would follow and if you do not it may possibly be as bad unless Congress should place the pur chasing Commissy. business in the same line as formerly. If the Comtee should report favorably that way it may possibly be done. If you had the appointment of your Depty Commiss of purchasers and to allow Wages according to their Merrit I see no difficulty in carrying on your part but fear it will be hard to bring them back to that mode unless the Genii, and Comtee should recommend it. The News we have recievd from Ticonderoga is truly Alarming. Fear it will throw the New England States into the greatest Consternation. Expect the Enemies ships are all along the sea coast giving the alarm there to divert them from giving aid to other parts where they may be wanted. Expect every hour to hear Genii. How has pushd up the North river. God grant he may meet with a repulse there. I fear the late suc cess of the Enemy will again oblidge us to call of Our Militia as last summer and now in this most Critical season. There ar about 15 hundrd. or two thousand Southern Troops now forwarding from this place to join Genii. Washington. I want much to hear from our Country if you have Any Accounts from there, especially of our family you will be so kind as to let me hear. I Am with sincere regards, Yrs Elipht Dyer. RC (CtHi). Burnett, Letters, 2:414-15. 1 For the work of this committee, see Committee of Congress to George Wash ington, July 16, 1777, note 2. Trumbull’s July 9 letter to Hancock and his July 22 letter to the committee are in PCC, item 78, 22:255, 273.
