July 18, 1777 351 Cannon, Ammunition, Stores, Baggage, Cloathing &c. &c. &c. &c., for Armies, who give them all away to the Enemy, without firing a Gun. Notwithstanding the Mortification arising from such Considerations, yet I can truly say that this Event is a Relief to my Mind, for I have a long Time expected this Catastrophe, and that it would be aggravated by the Loss of the Garrison, which it seems has been happily saved. My only Hope of holding that Post, has been a long Time founded in a Doubt whether the Enemy had Force enough in Canada, to attempt it. The Design of the Enemy, is now no doubt to attack poor New England on all sides, from Rhode Island, New York and Ticonderoga. But I believe their Progress will be stopped, for our Army is pretty numerous, and Discipline, upon which alone We must finally depend, under Providence, for Success, is advancing. Howes Army is in a miserable Condition, by the best Accounts We can obtain. My Mind runs upon my Family, as much as upon our public Con cerns. I long to hear of the Safety and the Health of my dearest Friend. May Heaven grant her every Blessing she desires. Tell my Brother Farmer, I long to study Agriculture with him, and to see the Progress of his Corn and Grass. Sister too, does she make as a good dairy Woman as your Ladyship? RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:284-85. James Duane to Elias Boudinot Dear Sir Philad Treasury Office 18 July 1777 You’l observe by the enclosed Memorandum 1 from a Member of Con gress that a difficulty arises at the Treasury board in ascertaining the pay due to Prisoners both Officers & Soldiers, living and dead. It woud be an Act of equal Justice and Humanity if the several Commanding officers who are Prisoners coud by proper payrolls ascertain the money due to their Captive Corps; and the Board of Treasury recommend this Business to your Consideration and that it may receive all possible Dispatch. I am, Sir, your most huml servt, Jas. Duane RC (DLC). 1 Not found.
