352 July 18, 1777 John Hancock to the Delaware and Virginia Assemblies Gentlemen, Philada. July 18th 1777. I have it in Charge most earnestly to entreat you will immediately send a sufficient Number of Members to represent your State in Con gress. 1 The Advantages resulting from a full and constant Representa tion of every State, by giving Weight to the Councils of America and promoting Union and good Correspondence thro’ the United States, are extremely obvious—but a full Representation is more especially requisite at this Juncture, as the Congress for Want of it, are under a Necessity of putting off the Consideration of several important Matters, and particularly the Confederation of the States, one of the grandest Objects that ever came before a Human Assembly for Discussion. The United Wisdom of America should be collected on this Point, in order that the most firm and permanent Foundations may be laid for the future Glory and Happiness of our Country. I flatter myself therefore you will immediately comply with this Requisition of Congress. 2 I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. Serv. J.H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). i See ]CC, 8:559. 2 After several false starts, Congress finally resumed sustained consideration of the Articles of Confederation on October 7, 1777. JCC, 8:760, 9:778. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir Philada. July 18t. 1777. I have Nothing in Charge from Congress at this Time, but to trans mit the inclosed Resolves for your Information and Direction, to which I beg Leave to refer your Attention. 1 The Loss of Ticonderoga still remains a very mysterious Affair for Want of proper Information nor have we as yet received any Account of the Fate of the Garrison under the Command of General St. Glair, only from Report, which is of such a Nature as to increase our appre hensions without removing our Suspence. I am therefore to request you will favor us as soon as possible with the best Intelligence you can procure, as Congress are extremely anxious to hear the Event, together with the particulars. P.S. July 22d. Since writing the foregoing, Congress have received a Letter from General St. Clair of the 14t Instant inclosing a Copy of the proceedings of a Council of War, with the Reasons for evacuating
