July 21, 1777 357 Quarrell which was now begun by the Stamp Act would never be rec onciled, but would terminate in a Separation between the two Coun tries. Ingersol was surprized at the Prediction and asked why and how? I cant tell you how says he, but if you want to know why, when you return to London, enquire at the Booksellers for Bentivoglios History of the Wars in Flanders, read it through, and you will be convinced that such Quarrells cannot be made up. He bought the Book accordingly and has now lent it to me. It is very similar to the American Quarrell in the Rise and Progress, and will be so in the Conclusion. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:286-87. 1 For citations to this work and to editions of works mentioned below which were a part of Adams’ personal library, see ibid., p. 287, nn.l—4. 2 Joshua Steele (1700-91), a member of the Irish gentry and friend and correspondent of Benjamin Franklin. DNB. James Lovell to William Whipple Dear Sir, Philadelphia July 21st 1777 I shall only acknowledge the receipt of your pleasing favor of the 8th and enclose you a newspaper. I am not at leisure, and scarcely in a temper, to make reflexions upon the vile situation of our affairs at the Northward, which before this reaches you will be the main topic of conversation. Believe me this is the first day that we have had any thing from St Clair. We had a line from Schuyler of the 9th, a scrawl without head or tail, and an artful one of the 14th rec’d this day. 1 Busy as we are this matter must be searched to the bottom. A most uncommon composure has appeared in Jemmy Du and his colleague D. 2 Uncle Phil 3 is at Camp with Geary and Clyman [Clymer] to try to patch the Commissary’s department, as the issuers will have their own price & customs. An attempt will be made to throw the whole fault in the Northern Department upon the New England States, whose Delegates ought to be furnished with the exact quota of our troops sent forward prior to the disaster. Genl Folsom arriving yesterday may possibly give a true history of your part. 4 I find by a line from Dr Gardner that he had not the pleasure of seeing you in Town. I wish Mr[s] L 5 had been made happy by a second visit, though I might consequently have been a sufferer by your rogueries. You will see I did not wait to hear of your being at Portsmouth before I took occasion to give you assurances of my esteem. I will not be backward to add proofs, whenever I think I can do it agreeably by furnishing you with any interesting intelligence.
