July 24, 1777 367 turns, but if there be more Propriety in their coming thro’ your Hands, you will be pleased to give the necessary Orders concerning the Matter. 1 General Knox informs me your Excellency has not received the Resolves of Congress relative to the Invalid Corps. I thought I had sent them. But least I should not have done it, I enclose them. Your Ex cellency will excuse their being sent in a News Paper as we are much hurried. 2 I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, your very obed Servt. Richard Peters Secretary [P.5.] Colonel Lewis Nicola is appointed to the Command of the In valid Regiment. 3 RC (DLC). 1 Israel Putnam’s July 16 letter to the board which was enclosed with this letter along with the July 19 resolve requesting his returns, is in Washington Papers, DLC. For Washington’s response, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:495. 2 For the resolves respecting a corps of invalids of June 20 and July 16, the latter of which had been published in Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet on July 22, see JCC, 8:485, 554-56. 3 Three days later Peters sent Washington a brief letter pertaining to $200,000 “for the Use of the Northern Department.” “But as the State of the Country is not certainly known,” Peters explained, “it is thought safest to direct Robert Dinwiddie, who accompanies it, to call on your Excellency for Advice & if neces sary Assistance. The Money is guarded by a Party under the Command of Lieut. who it is supposed cannot proceed to Albany & therefore that your Excellency will furnish another Guard if you shall think proper.” Washington Papers, DLC; and see JCC, 8:572. James Lovell to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 24th July [1777] So long ago as Deer. 2d 1775 direction was given by Congress to the committee of secret correspondence to procure from Europe four good Engineers. This was not however accomplished till the 13th of last Febry., when the bearer the Chevalier du Portail, with Mr. La Radiere, Mr. Gouvion and one other Officer who is left sick in the West indies, was engaged by Doctor Franklin & Mr. Deane to come over to America. 1 I beg your Excellency to observe well that these are the only Officers, of any species, who have been procured from abroad by express direction of Congress. And this I do because I am about to furnish you with several circumstances peculiarly within my knowledge relative to a point of equity well worthy of your Excellency’s attention. The corps of Engi neers is very honorable in France; and officers from it are sought by different European Powers. These Gentlemen who are come over into our service made an agreement with our Commissioners to rise one
