368 July 24, 1777 degree from the rank they held at home, upon a supposition that the practice of Europe had been regarded here. But, when they arrived, they found instances very different with respect to officers in all other corps. It was their mishap also to see a Major of artillery affecting to be exalted four ranks, as a Chief in his proper line and theirs also. They made a representation of these circumstances & appealed to the Equity of Congress. But, they had arrived at a time when the Infatuation of some here and the wild conduct of one abroad had rendered a spirit of reformation absolutely necessary as to the point of rank. The In genuous, however, must own that there is singular hardship in the case of these gentlemen. The only officers ever sent for by us—procured by the real political agents of Congress—coming out with the good wishes of the French Ministry—being of undoubted rank & ability in their profession, find themselves in the Dilemma of becoming the first examples of our new reforming Spirit, or else of going home during a Campaign, which their high sense of honor will not allow. But, tho’ the Chevalier du Portail was not made a Brigadier, yet it appeared too gross to expose him to be directed in his peculiar line by such as will readily acknowledge his pretensions by regular education & discipline to be greatly superior to their own. His commission prevents this, and enables him so to distribute, in work, the others who came with him, as to prevent them, who have been within a few months as long in service as himself, from being interfered with by such as never belonged to the royal corps of Engineers in France or perhaps but a very short time to any other. Your Excellency cannot but wonder at the strange manner of wording the commission. I shall explain it with the greatest freedom. Mr. Du Coudray being employed as a good artillery officer to examine the arsenals in France to see what cannon &c could be spared from them acted with great Industry in that employment and much seeming regard to America. In the course of his .transactions between the Ct. de St. Germain & Mr. Deane, he was not blind to perceive that he might take occasion to serve himself. Besides being paid for his trouble & Expenses in France he procured an agreement from Mr. Deane wch has already been shown to yr. Excellency, and has affected you, doubtless, with the same surprize & indignation which it has excited in others, almost without a single exception. I shall omit any remarks upon that treaty, or a long too-ingenious memorial presented to Congress with it, except such as are strictly connected with the occasion of this letter. Mr. Du C. having erected himself to the Command of Artillery and Engineers per suaded Mr. Dean that it will be impossible to get any from the military corps of Engineers now called royal because their Demands would be so exorbitant; and that it would be also unnecessary, because we ought not to build fortified Places in America to serve as secure Holds to our Enemy when once taken from us; and that therefore, a few Bridge & Causeway-makers would answer all the ends of military Engineers.
