July 24, 1777 371 Marlbrough, and yet I am led by you to think they might have given provocation for it. 2 With truest vows for your prosperity, I am, Your Excellency’s Obliged Friend & humble Servant, James Lovell RC (DLC). 1 See JCC, 3:400-401; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:269-70; and Samuel Adams to Richard Henry Lee, June 29, 1777, note 2. 2 Lovell’s meaning in juxtaposing the vigilance of Scipio or Marlborough with the occasional “nod” or lapse to which even Homer sometimes succumbed is obscure. The reference to Homer is derived from Horace Ars Poetica 359. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates Report of the board of War 10 July 1 July 24. 1777 Mr. Harrison for it. 1. Because it will injure the enemy in their trade, in their connexions with the indians. in their fame. 2. It will benefit the states by supplies gained from it &c. 3. It will be agreeable to the Spaniards. Mr. Duane agst. it. 1. Because we want men. 2. Money. 3. Cannot retain it, if we succeed. Mr. Burk on the same side. Addit. reason. Too late to undertake it this ensuing fall & winter. Mr. Duer for it. Answered the Objections. Mr. Burk spoke again, said nothing new. Mr. Wilson for it. Points out more at large the advantages of under taking it. Much to be gained; tho’ no attempts made agst. Mobille and Pensacola. The importance of the settlements on Mississippi & of taking post at Messhack. 2 What sort of men shd. be employed? 2 reg[iment]s & 400 militia. Great proba[bi]lity of succeeding; no great ill conse quences, because of safe retreat Mr. Clarke declares for it but wants farther time to consider. Men tions the many objections agst. it. The danger of delaying, on account of the rapid encrease of inhabitants. Mr. Morris for it. States the force of the enemy at present not more than 300. Requires little advances of money to procure provisions or military stores. Explains the nature of the country. Now is the time. Danger of delay. Mr. Duer spoke again. Another argumt. This country may be made to contribute greatly to the expence of the war. Mr. Harrison spoke again. Enlarged on the reasons he first offered, obviated the objections. Mr. Middleton moved to put of[f] the determination. Mr. Duane seconded the motion to postpone & strengthened his first
