372 July 24, 1777 Objection with this consideration that it cannot be undertaken without gold & silver. Question put. Carried to postpone till to Morrow. 3 MS (DLC). In the hand of Charles Thomson. 1 This report consisted of two parts, the second of which was the subject of a resolve Congress had adopted on July 19. The first section of the report, which was the subject of debate on July 24 and 25, reads as follows: “That an Expedition be undertaken against Pensacola & Mobille in West Florida, to facilitate which, that Colonel George Morgan be sent to New Orleans with Power to negotiate with the Governor of that Place, and endeavour to gain his Interest & assistance in the Business; and, that One thousand Men will be necessary for this Service, & the Command of the Expedition be given to General Hand.” For the board’s report and supporting papers from George Morgan and Benedict Arnold, see PCC, item 147, 1:251—71. The proposed West Florida expedition attracted considerable support at the outset, but the arguments of its critics, especially Henry Laurens, quickly eroded support for the plan. The journals indicate only that after debate of the report on July 25, its “farther consideration” was postponed and immediately thereafter Congress resolved “That a committee of five be appointed to take into considera tion the state of Georgia.” See ]CC, 8:566-67, 578-79; and Henry Laurens’ letters to Lachlan McIntosh and to John Rutledge, August 11 and 12, 1777. Although Congress temporarily dropped consideration of an expedition against West Florida at this time, the idea was subsequently revived and implemented in the “raid” conducted by James Willing in the Natchez district on the Mississippi in 1778. See John Caughey, “Willing’s Expedition down the Mississippi, 1778,” Louisiana Historical Quarterly 15 (January 1932) : 5—36; and Robert V. Haynes, “James Willing and the Planters of Natchez: The American Revolution comes to the Southwest,” Journal of Mississippi History 37 (February 1975) : 1—40. 2 Apparently Fort Massac, located near the mouth of the Tennessee River. 3 See Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debate, July 25, 1777. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais Dear Sir 1 Philadelphia 25 July 1777. The inclosed News papers contain all the Public Intelligence known in this Place except that Genl. Washington was three days ago at a Place call’d Clove where he had march’d to watch the motions of the Enemy. The Sailing of the Fleet will put him also in motion, but in what Di rection? is the important Question. Conjectures are as upon all such occasions various. Some look towards the Capes of Delaware and others say New England is to be attacked on all sides. Chesapeak Bay is talk’d of, and there are [those] who think Carolina or Georgia as likely to be an Object notwithstanding the Season of the Year, as any Place. Be that as it may, when so important an Armament is on the March I think every State shd be alarm’d and therefore I proposed yesterday morning to my Colleagues to send an express Messenger for that purpose to Charles Town but they were not of my opinion.
