July 25, 1777 373 I catch this opportunity by mere accident, pray present my Compli ments to the President, to Mr & Mrs Manigault, to Mrs Gervais and to every body you think proper. I arrived here the 20th. J. Laurens will begin his Journey to the Army this morning. J. Ball, his Man and my George were innoculated for Small Pox the 21st. Pray communicate this with my Respects to his Father and Brother. I shall in two or three days have another opportunity of assuring you &c. I should have excepted of Public Intelligence that our Fleet of Zebeques and Galleys lie ready in the River for a concerted Expedition below, upon which they wd have sail’d before this time but for an improper Demand of Increase of Wages made by the Lieutenants 12 in number. The Congress orderd them immediately to be dismiss’d the Service under a Resolution rendring them incapable of serving in any of the States in any Capacity, civil or Military. This Resolution pro duced humble Petitions from the whole. They are now reinstated and I suppose Business will go forward again. 2 A Combination of Sargeons in the fleet treated in the same manner. 3 LB (ScHi). 1 John Lewis Gervais (1741—95), a Huguenot who emigrated to South Carolina in 1764 and became a successful planter and merchant, had once been Laurens’ business agent in the South Carolina backcountry and was now looking after some of the delegate’s affairs during his term in Congress. Raymond Starr, ed., “Letters from John Lewis Gervais to Henry Laurens,” South Carolina Historical Magazine 66 (January 1965): 15—17. 2 On May 15 Congress had referred to the Marine Committee a petition from twelve Continental naval lieutenants asking for the same pay and allowance as Continental military captains. After waiting in vain for Congress to act.on this petition, the officers informed Capt. John Barry on July 21 that they would not perform their naval duties until their grievances had been redressed. Upon learning of this news, Congress dismissed them from office on July 23 and sought to prevent them from engaging in any further state or Continental service. In the face of these harsh measures, however, the naval officers relented and therefore Congress restored them to duty on July 28, which was probably when Laurens added the foregoing paragraph to this letter. See JCC, 8:573—74, 578, 584; and PCC, item 42, 4:114-16, 146. 3 Congress’ only recorded action on naval surgeons in 1777 was a July 16 resolve raising their pay and subsistence to the same levels as those “of the lieu tenants of the vessels to which they shall respectively serve.” JCC, 8:554. This was hardly comparable to the treatment accorded the twelve naval lieutenants, and as it took place before Laurens arrived in Congress, perhaps he simply mis understood its import. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates Resumed the consideration of report. July 25. 1777 Sergeant. Desires to know whether the country thro wch. the troops are to pass is healthy. Till he knows this cannot give his voice.
