July 26, 1777 377 the first favourable oppurtunity to try them again & do every thing in our Power to accomplish so desirable an end. I am not without hopes of obtaining a grant for Mr. Phillbrook as at Present I have heard no objection to it. 2 The Loss of Ticonderoga considerably alarmed Congress as they were informed but a Little Time before by General St. Clair that it wase in a good State of defence. An Enquiry into that affair is thought necessary. By Intelligence from ouer Guards near New York, we learn that Lord & General Howe Sailed from that place with the most of the army on Wensday the 23d Inst., it is generaly thought fore Some part of New England. I am Sir, with the greatest Respect, yr. most obedt. huml. Servnt. Nathel. Folsom RC (MeHi). 1 Folsom took his seat in Congress on Monday, July 21. JCC, 8:568. 2 The petition of Joseph Philbrick was read in Congress on July 24 and referred to the Board of Treasury. JCC, 8:577; and PCC, item 42, 6:166. Phil brick’s house had burned, consuming 538 Continental and 130 state dollars. The petition asked for the replacement of the money on the grounds that its destruc tion was equivalent to saving the treasury an equal sum. The New Hampshire government had already agreed to compensate Philbrick for the New Hampshire money. N.H. State Papers, 8:600. John Hancock to William Barton Sir, Philada. July 26th. 1777. It is with the greatest Pleasure I transmit the enclosed Resolve of Congress, expressing the Sense of that Body, on your successful and hazardous Enterprize agt. Genl. Prescot; and I must request you will be pleased to communicate to the Officers & Men under your Command this distinguished Mark of the Approbation of their Country. 1 As an Acknowledgmt. of your Services on this Occasion, the Com missary General of Military Stores is ordered to present you with an elegant Sword in the Name and on Behalf of the United States of America. 2 I am, Sir, your most obed Ser. J.H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Lieut Colo. Barton, Rhode Island Govt.” 1 On July 10 Lt. Col. William Barton of the Rhode Island militia led a small raiding party that seized Brig. Gen. Richard Prescott just outside Newport. Washington learned of this daring coup on the 16th and immediately conveyed the news to Congress. At the same time he decided to arrange an exchange of Prescott for Gen. Charles Lee, who, Americans feared, was about to be sent back to England and tried for treason. Congress subsequently approved Wash ington’s decision, but not until April 1778 was he able to complete this ex change and secure Lee’s release. See JCC, 8:565, 579-80, 9:1050—51; PCC, item
