384 J ULY 26, 1777 2 “CM” appears here above the line, perhaps signifying that Gates was especially popular in Connecticut and Massachusetts. 3 A reference to Schuyler’s defeat by George Clinton in New York s recent June 1777 gubernatorial election. 4 Continued July 28, 1777. John Adams to John Quincy Adams My dear Son Philadelphia July 27. 1777 If it should be the Design of Providence that you should live to grow up, you will naturally feel a Curiosity to learn the History of the Causes which have produced the late Revolution of our Government. No Study in which you can engage will be more worthy of you. It will become you to make yourself Master of all the considerable Characters, which have figured upon the Stage of civil, political or military Life. This you ought to do with the Utmost Candour, Benevolence and Impartiality, and if you should now and then meet with an Incident, which shall throw some Light upon your Fathers Character, I charge you to consider it with an Attention only to Truth. It will also be an entertaining and instructive Amusement, to com pare our American Revolution with others that Resemble it. The whole Period of English History, from the Accession of James the first, to the Accession of William the third, will deserve your most critical Attention. The History of the Revolutions in Portugal, Sweeden and Rome by the Abbot de Vertot, is well worth your Reading. 1 The Seperation of the Helvetic Confederacy from the Dominion of the House of Austria, is also an illustrious Event, that particularly re sembles our American Struggle with Great Britain. But above all others, I would recommend to your study, the History of the Flemish Confederacy, by which the seven united Provinces of the Netherlands, emancipated themselves from the Domination of Spain. There are several good Histories of this great Revolution. Sir Wil liam Temples is short but elegant, and entertaining. Another Account of this Period was written by Puffendorf, and another by Grotius. But the most full and compleat History, that I have seen, is one that I am now engaged in Reading. It is intituled “The History of the Wars of Flanders, written in Italian by that learned and famous Cardi nal Bentivoglio, englished by the Right Honourable Henry Earl of Monmouth, the whole Work illustrated, with a Map of the seventeen Provinces and above twenty Figures of the chief Personages mentioned in the History.” Bentivoglio, like Clarendon, was a Courtier, and on the side of Monarchy and the Hierarchy. But Allowances must be made for that.
