July 27, 1777 385 The first Cut is of Guido, S.R.E. Cardinalis Bentivolus. 2. The Emperor Charles the 5th. Prince of the low Countries. 3. Phillip the 2d. King of Spain, Prince of the low Countries. 4. William of Nassau, Prince of Orange. 5. Margarett Dutchesse of Parma and Piacenza, Daughter to Charles the 5th. Govemesse of the low Countries. 6. Elizabeth Queen of England, France and Ireland. 7. Anthony Perenott Cardinal Granvel, Councillor of state to Margarett of Parma. 8. Peter Ernest Count Mansfeldt Governor of Luxemburg. 9. William Lodowic Count Nassau, Governor of Frisland. 10. John Lignius, Count Aremberg, Governor of Frisland, General at the Battle of Hilligal. 11. Ferdinand of Toledo Duke of Alva, Governor of the Low Coun tries. 12. Sancho Avila Governor of the Fort, at Antwerp, General at the Battle of Mooch. 13. Chiapino Vitelli Marquiss of Cetona, Camp Master General. 14. Robert Lord Dudley Earl of Leicester, Governor of the united Provinces. 15. Maximillian Hennin Count Bossu, Governor of Holland and Utrecht. 16. Lodovico Requesenes, Great Commandador of Castile, Governor of the Low Countries. 17. Phillip Croy Duke of Areschot, Knight of the golden Fleece, Governor of Flanders. 18. Don John of Austria, son to Charles 5th. Governor of the Low Countries. 19. Mathias, Archduke of Austria, Duke of Burgundy and Gov ernor of the united Provinces. 20. Alexander Farnese, Prince of Parma, Governor of the low Countries. 21. Francis Hercules De Valois, Duke of Anjou, Alencon, Brabant and Protector of the Netherlands. 22. Phillip Count Holach, Baron of Langenberg, first General of the united Provinces. 23. Maurice of Nassau, Prince of Orange, Count Nassau, Governor of the united Provinces. 24. Adolphus Solm Count de Meurs, Governor of Gelderland and Utrecht. There are three most memorable Seiges described in this History, those of Haerlem, Leyden, and Antwerp. You will wonder, my dear son, at my writing to you at your tender Age, such dry Things as these: but if you keep this Letter you will in
