386 July 27, 1777 some future Period, thank your Father for writing it. I am my dear son, with the Utmost Affection to your Sister and Brothers as well as to you, your Father, John Adams RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:289—91. 1 For citations to the editions of these works in the personal library of John Adams, see ibid., p. 292n.l. John Adams to Abigail Adams My dearest Friend Philadelphia July 28. 1777 Never in my whole Life, was my Heart affected with such Emotions and Sensations, as were this Day occasioned by your Letters of the 9, 10, 11, and 16 of July. 1 Devoutly do I return Thanks to God, whose kind Providence has preserved to me a Life that is dearer to me than all other Blessings in this World. Most fervently do I pray, for a Con tinuance of his Goodness in the compleat Restoration of my best Friend to perfect Health. Is it not unaccountable, that one should feel so strong an Affection for an Infant, that one has never seen, nor shall see? Yet I must con fess to you, the Loss of this sweet little Girl, has most tenderly and sensibly affected me. I feel a Grief and Mortification, that is height ened tho it is not wholly occasioned, by my Sympathy with the Mother. My dear little Nabbys Tears are sweetly becoming her generous Ten derness and sensibility of Nature. They are Arguments too of her good sense and Discretion. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:292. 1 On July 11, Abigail had given birth to a stillborn daughter. See ibid., p. 282. Samuel Adams to Paul Revere My dear sir Philade July 28 \.TH I receiv’d your favor of the 26th of June and also one from Col Crafts of the same Date. 1 I wrote to him by the Return of the Post & desired him to communicate the Contents to you. 2 I conversd with Mr. J A upon the Subject of your Letter, and we venturd, both of us, to step out of the Line of strict order in a debate in Congress, the other day, to bring your Regiment of Artillery into View. It occasiond a Conversation in the House in which we had an opportunity of acquainting the Members of the long Standing of that Regiment & the Seniority of its Officers. But still it was considerd as a Regiment raisd by a State & not by the Con tinent. And though we caused the Merit of it to be well understood &
