July 30, 1777 395 Howes Fleet has been at Sea, these 8 days. We know not where he is gone. We are puzzling ourselves in vain, to conjecture his Intention. Some guess he is gone to Cheasapeak, to land near Susquehanna and cross over Land to Albany to meet Burgoine. But they might as well imagine them gone round Cape horn into the South Seas to land at California, and march across the Continent to attack our back settle ments. Others think them gone to Rhode Island, others think they mean only a Deception and to return to the North River. A few days will reveal their Scheme. . . ? We have now before Us, the Months of August, September, October and November, for the Operations of the Campaign. Time enough for Mischief. G Washington is so near this City, that if the Enemy come into Delaware Bay, he will meet them before they can come near this City. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:296—97. 1 Suspension points in MS. Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Dr Sir Philadelphia July 30th 1777 Altho. I expected by this time a very active Eventful scene yet I have scarcely anything to communicate to you worth your attention; for near a week past the enemy have been expected here, and preparations are made for effectively opposing them, but there is yet no appearance of them. What gives rise to the apprehension is that a fleet of Men of War and Transports amounting to upwards of two hundred sail departed from Sandy Hook on Tuesday Last, and steered southeast, having on board Troops, horses, artillery &c in great quantity. This appearance has convinced all who deemed this City their peculiar object, that their destination was for the River Delaware, and even such as have always thought otherwise feel their opinions now wavering: they can see no other probable object, and are therefore constrained to admit that it must be Philadelphia. For my own part, I am still of opinion that they will co-operate with their Forces from Canada in endeavouring to effect a junction and establishing a line of communi cation between the sea and the Lakes, so as to divide the Continent, and bar all succours from one part to the other, while their operations are carried on against either. But why should I trouble you with my conjectures? Time alone can discover what they intend; and as neither we nor they can govern events, there is no foreseeing what they will do. No new accounts have arrived from the Northern Department since my last. Our affairs there give us great uneasiness. The loss was cer-
