July 31,1777 397 Notice; Excuse my troubling you with them. Cunning Politicians often make use of the Names of Persons, & sometimes of the Persons them selves, who have not the least Suspicion of it, to serve their own designs. When I mentioned five out of Eleven I should have explaind my self. There were five States for the Measure, four against and two divided. 3 Had not the State of Rhode Island been at that Juncture accidentally unrepresented, there would have been an equal Division, and the Measure would have been prevented. The most important Events may sometimes depend upon small Circumstances. Some Gentlemen of the State of N Y are exceedingly attachd to G Schuyler. They represent him as Instar Omnium in the Northern Department. After all that has been said, I concieve of him, as I have for a long time, excellently well quali fied for a Commissary or Quartermaster. The N E Delegates were (per haps one excepted) to a Man against his having the Command of that Army. But of this I will write particularly in another Letter. I am not willing to prejudge, but I must say, it is difficult to recon cile the sudden Evacuation of Ty. with the previous flattering Letters of General St Clare. In one of his Letters written but a few days before he says “My People are in the best Disposition possible and I have no Doubt about giving a good Account of the Enemy if they shall think proper to attack us.” He has been esteemd here a good officer and in his Letter he bespeaks the Candor of the Publick till he can be heard. Pains will be taken to lay the Blame upon the N E States, for not furnishing their Quota of Men. I wish therefore you would procure for me an authentick Account of the Number of Men, both regular and Militia sent to the Northward from our State, and how they were cloathd and armd. You may remember that Congress recommended to the Eastern States, some time I think in December last, to send a Rein forcement of Militia to Tionderoga to remain there till they could be replacd by Continental Troops then raising. I have never been informd of the Effect of that Recommendation, or if I have I do not recollect it. 4 Pray put it in our Power to state Facts precisely as far as they re gard our State. It is agreed on all sides that a Fault lies some where. I hope the Truth will be thoroughly investigated, & to use the homely Proverb, the Saddle laid on the right Horse. We are looking every moment for the Arrival of the Enemy in this River. Two hundred & 55 Sail were seen on Wednesday last steering from the Hook South East. Seventy Sail were seen from the Shore near Egg Harbour about 20 Leagues from these Capes on Saturday last steer ing the same Course. The Wind against them. They could not come here at a better time. Genl W. is drawing his Troops into this Neighbor hood. Some of them are arrivd. But as the Enemy has the Advantage of us by Sea, it is too easy for them to oblige us to harrass our Troops by long and fruitless Marches, and I should not wonder to hear that they have tackd about and gone Eastward. I hope my Countrymen are pre-
