400 July 31, 1777 John Hancock to George Washington Sir Philada. July 31t. 1777. 5 O’Clock A.M. An Express this Moment arrivd with a Letter from Genl. Rodney a Copy of which I enclose agreeably to your Request in your Favour of yesterday which came to Hand last Night. 1 The Enemy by this In telligence are in the offing of the Capes, and the Wind was fair yester day for their coming up this Bay. I shall send likewise to Lord Sterling a Copy of the enclosed immediately. I am, Sir, with the greatest Respect, your most obd Set. J.H. Presid. [P.5 1.] The enclosed I just reed, from Genl. Mifflin. t LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 This enclosure was a July 30 letter from Caesar Rodney to Hancock, which was written at Dover, Del., and stated that “two hundred and twenty Eight of the Enemies Ships have appeared in the offing.” PCC, item 78, 19:101; and Rodney, Letters (Ryden), pp. 201-2. This letter was endorsed by Rodney “Per Thomas North Express who must be furnished with a Horse wherever he stands in need” and by Gen. Thomas Mifflin “Received at 10 Minutes after 3 O Clock at Chester and forwarded at 30 Minutes after Three.” John Adams to Abigail Adams My best Friend Philadelphia August 1. 1777 The Fleet is in Delaware Bay, 228 of them were seen, in the Offing, from Cape Henlopen, the day before yesterday. They come in but slowly. G Washington, and the light Horse came into Town last Night. His Army will be in, this day—that is the two or three first Divisions of it —Greens, Sterlings and Stevensons [Stephen’s]. The rest is following on, as fast as possible. General Nash with about 1500 North Carolina Forces, has taken Post on the Heights of Chester, about 15 miles below this City on the River. The Fire Ships &c. are ready. I really think that Providence has ordered this Country to be the Theatre of this Summers Campaign, in Favour to Us, for many Rea sons. 1. It will make an entire and final Seperation of the Wheat from the Chaff, the Ore from the Dross, the Whiggs from the Tories. 2. It will give a little Breath to you in N. England. 3. If they should fail in their Attempt upon Philadelphia, it will give Lustre to our Arms and Disgrace to theirs, but if they succeed, it will cutt off this corrupted City, from the Body of the Country, and it will take all their Force to maintain it. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:297-98.
