August 1, 1777 401 Samuel Adams to James Warren Dear sir Philad Augt 1. 77 I wrote to you on the 30 Ulto. by Mr Bruce, who did not leave the City on that day as I expected. His Stay gives me the oppty of ac quainting you that an Express who left the Capes yesterday informs us that the Enemies Ships all went out to Sea in the morning steering ENE supposd to be going to Hudsons River, Rh Island or Boston. Mr Bruce will give you as particular an Acct as I can, I therefore refer you to him. This is what I expected. I trust you are upon your Guard. Congress have orderd that an Enquiry be made into the Reasons of the Evacuation of Tyonderoga and Mount Independence & into the Conduct of the General officers who were in the Northn Departmt at the time of the Evacuation. That Schuyler, St Clair, Poor, Patterson & Roche de Fermoy repair to Head Quarters & that Genl Washington order such Genl officer as he shall think proper immediately to repair to the Northern Department to releive Schuyler in his Command there. A Come is appointed to digest and report the Mode of conducting the Enquiry. 1 It appears to me difficult to account for the Evacuation of those Posts even upon the Principle of Cowardice. The whole Conduct seems to carry the evident Marks of Deliberation & Design. My utmost En deavors shall not be wanting to have the Matter searchd to the Bottom. If we are vigilant, active, spirited & decisive, I yet flatter my self, notwithstanding the present vexatious Situation of our Affairs at the Northwd, we shall humble our Enemies this Campaign. I am truly mortified at their leaving this place, because I think we were fully prepared for them, and I believe the cowardly Rascals knew it. May Heaven prosper our righteous Cause. Adieu. S.A. RC (MHi). 1 Congress voted on July 29 to conduct an inquiry into the evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence, and the next day recalled Gen. Arthur St. Clair. On August 1, Congress appointed a committee to report a method of conducting the inquiry, recalled the three other brigadier generals involved, and ordered Washington to appoint a replacement for Gen. Philip Schuyler. See JCC, 8:585, 590, 596; and Hancock to St. Clair and Schuyler, August 5, 1777, note. The following day, several New England delegates also wrote to Washington urging him to appoint Gen. Horatio Gates to replace Schuyler, but Washington asked to be excused from making the appointment, whereupon Congress pro ceeded to appoint Gates to command the northern army. See New England Delegates to Washington, August 2, 1777; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:8; and JCC, 8:600-601, 603-4.
