August 5, 1777 415 we were obliged to apply to General Nash for an Officer to take Charge of the money when delivered by the Treasurer. The officer received from us his Instructions on the 11th July and we have Since heared nothing more of him but presume he has before this arrived in your State with three hundred thousand Dollars and some proclamation which Mr Penn charged him with. 3 From Mr Penn’s having with him the resolve, and from some other Circumstances, I concluded he was chiefly Expected to transact this Business. This however did not prevent me from giving the most dilligent attention to it, and I can assure you that no unnecessary delay happened after his arrival here, for altho he undertook to do that part of the Business which respected the Treasury, and I what respected the Board of War, yet I gave the strictest atten tion to Both, nor did I perceive him in the least remiss. In short Sir if you knew how heavily money Business proceeds here you would not wonder at the delay. As the Post is Just going out I have not time to add any thing more to this letter, except that we have been for some days under Expecta tion of an Invasion of this State. The Enemys Fleet Sailed from New York, as you will see by my last and they soon appeared off the Capes of Delaware. After hovering there several days they steered away but it is not agreed what Course. General Washington is here and great part the army Encamped in the Neighborhood. The Movements of the Enemy have disappointed both whigs and Tories. The latter wished for them in order to their Subduing us, and the whigs wish for them in full Confidence that we should give them a very warm reception, and an Effectual Check. It is now pretty generally thought that they have no design on this City, and that their principle object is to Establish a Communication by way of Hudsons River, between the Sea and the Northern Leaks. A Gloom still hangs over our affairs in the Northern Department, and we are using our best Endeavours to remove it. Nothing Interesting has transpired thence since my last. You shall have the earliest Intelligence of every thing that is worth your attention. I have the honor to be, your Excellency’s very obedt Servt. Thos Burke RC (Nc-Ar). 1 Governor Caswell’s July 15 letter to Burke is in N.C. State Records, 11:737-39. 2 See JCC, 8:450, 475, 544, 567; John Hancock to Washington, June 13, note 2; and Burke to Caswell, July 7, 1777, note 1. 3 See Burke to Caswell, July 5, note 2; and North Carolina Delegates to John Allen, July 11, 1777.
