416 August 5, 1777 Nathaniel Folsom to Josiah Bartlett Philadelphia Agust 5th. 1777 I arrived here in good Health the 20th of July. On my joining the Congress. I found them worried with Petitions from a Great Number of French gentlemen for Commissions to Serve in our Army and Con tinue to Plague us to this day. Saterday Mr. Bass Came to Congress from Portsmouth and brought Letters from ouer agents in France up to the 26th of May, by which We aire informed that ouer Effaires bair a feavourable aspect all over Europe, that a fund is Establishing in France and Spaine Suffishant to Support the Cradit & Pay the intrest of ouer Continental money—and that if We Can hold ouer owne this year a War will most Sertainly take Place before the Comemencement of annother; and we aire further informd by them that it is the opinion of the ministers of the Last menshoned Corts that thay Can be at Present of more Servise to us then thay Could be if thay ware to Declare war against Briton. The Loss of Ticonderoga hes given grate unEasyness. Generali Schyler and Sant Caire aire orderd to head Qurters in order for an inquirey, into thaire Conduckt. The other Generals that Sat in Councel aire to Stay at thaire Departments till General Washington thinks thay Can be Recald with out hurting the Servise. General Gates is orderd to take the Comemand in the northen Department. Congress have Past a Resolve that New Hampshier, Massachussetts, Connecticut, New Jersey and New York & Pennsylvania Raise & march as many of the militia to Serve in the northen Department till the fifteenth of November as General Gates Shall think Suffishent for the Defence of that Part of the Cuntrey. You will See by the Paper Inclosed that the Enemys fleet have been hovering abought the Capes of the Delleware amounteing to 228 Saill Till Fryday Last & have Since Disapeaird. It is Prity Generaly thought thay aire bound up the North River or to Rhode Island. General Washington is incampt at Garmantown with abought foure Thausend troops but I beleive will in a day or two march to wards the North River. I am with Respect your Humbl. Servent, Nathll. Folsom RC (NhD). John Hancock to Philip Schuyler and Arthur St. Clair Sir, Philada. Augt. 5th. 1777. The Congress haveing come to a Determination to enquire into the Reasons of the Evacuation of Ticonderoga & Mount Independence, as
