420 August 5, 1777 Strokes I have no Objection to. With the lower Class of Soldiers and Seamen I would contrast American Humanity against British Ferocity, but if a Douglas or a Jordan could be handled some Atonement should be made for the Blood of Burke and others who have sufferd under their Barbarian Hands. It does not appear that Genl Howe has received any considerable Reinforcement the present Year, perhaps a few hundred, at most 2000 chiefly Anspachers. These we are well inform’d refused to march and by a Letter from a Friend at Rotterdam 6 we are assured that most of them were sent down the Maes tied Neck and Heels. The foreign Troops on the Spot are much disgusted and among Bourgoynes a Mutiny lately happend in which eighty Lives were lost. We are assured from good Authority that this City is the grand Object of the Campaign. It might have been so while Reinforcements were expected, but the late Movements of the Brothers mark the Imbecillity of the Generals Army which we think cannot exceed 8000 & General Washington seems to be certain that Bourgoyne has not above 6000. To them some recruits may have been added from among the mal Contents on his late rapid inroad. You will see in the News papers we have taken the Liberty to hang two of General Howes re cruiting Officers on North River. If those Generals can form a junction, no doubt an attempt will be made to penetrate the Country & we may hear of them in front & Rear before October. On the other hand Spirited measures under General Gates who will go out this day (the 6th) to Command the Northern Department will keep them asunder & may prove the ruin of their Campaign. General Putnam commands at Peeks Kill. He will have his hands full & if not Speedily & well supported we shall lose our frigates on North River, the Country will be laid open & Thousands of Tories & property Men join the Enemy. Exposed to Similar dangers I find we are at Providence, where we have also two Frigates & much other Valuable Shipping. These the Enemy are at this time attempting to destroy to complete the Conquest of Rhode Island Government & open an easy passage to Boston. Not one of these projects could be executed if the people were anxious to defeat them, but there seems to be an universal langour, except in the article of Money. Zeal & animation to make as much of that as possible & by all possible ways & means are very visible among all Classes. While this Spirit Governs nothing more can be expected than base defensive action, but tis clear if we were united & would act with vigour only three Months no British Troops would remain on this side the Lakes but such as were protected by Men of War or confined by prison Walls. The New Yorkers & some others blame New England, the Yankees retort & upon a fair hearing it appears that the latter have given more Men in proportion than any
