August 5, 1777 421 other State. But Say the Southern States they are able to do more, they are attentive only to privateering & making Money. New England replies we furnish our quota ascertained by your Selves, we have a large frontier to defend both by Land & Sea, our Country is barren & affords bare Subsistence in return for hard Labour. Ye enjoy fertile fields, live in Luxury Without the Labour of your own hands, Ye are Rich in Money & Products & can better afford to pay. I believe New England is at this time, unless the British Army is actually gone there, in happier circumstances than any Southern State, but we should remember three things. They bore the first & Severest attack—what they now enjoy they have gained by their address & their industry— their gains have greatly distressed the common Enemy & in so far we participated I may add, they are still the grand object of British revenge. We have the best assurance that the port of Havanna is open to American Vessels, that the Caribs in the Island of St Vincents have reasserted their rights, obtained Supplies of Arms & ammunition from Martinico, made Several Successful inroads upon the planters, taken many of their Negroes, destroyed vast fields of Cane & Grain, that the Governor at the head of the Militia had marched against them. If I remember right seven British Regiments were fully employed to bring those half armed Savages to a treaty & a drawn game in 1773. Lord North has now cut out work enough to employ Seventy Regiments. 7 The late flood of French Men rushed in upon us under argeements with Mr. Deane has reduced Congress to a painful dilemma. If we employ with all his unwarranted Contracts, many of our best Generals will be grosly affronted; if we do not, the United States will be exposed to the reproach & probably resentment of Men who have been de ceived & ill used. Some of them have been very clamorous & we shall be obliged to make pecuniary Satisfaction for their disappointment of Rank, Some of them by the by prove to be rank Cheats, nevertheless they have Credentials from our agent Deane & must be provided for in Some way. Holzendorf being a long time upon hand, I interposed on his behalf, obtained his Commission of Lt. Colonel according to agree ment, but he is not employed. 8 This so far looks well as it Shows these people we are not altogether dependent upon Frenchmen. The Cheva lier Faliat [Failly] who in his passage from Charles Town to Virginia had been taken by the Daptine M.W. [H.M.S. Daphne] arrived here a few days ago. The recommendation of Doctor Franklin Seconded by that of Monsieur de Coudrie has ensured him a Majority, a Commission only but no employment at present. 9 A Commission of Major General is granted to the Marqui de la Fayette the young nobleman who lately came from Charles Town. He required no pension, no Special Command; the honour of fighting
