422 August 5, 1777 near General Washington & having rank in the Army was all he coveted except opportunities to shew his Zeal for the glorious cause of American Freedom either in the Field, or at Court when it shall be judged he can be more Servicable at Versailles. This illustrious Stranger whose address & manner bespeak his birth will Serve a short Campaign & then probably return to France & Secure to us the powerful Interest of his high & extensive connexions. 10 General Howe has published by proclamation an extraordinary regulation of Trade in New York, calculated as they pretend to Starve the Rebels. 11 Except the necessary article of Salt we abound in good things although we pay abundantly for them. Salt is excessively dear, 16 Dollars per bushel. Nevertheless the Enemy’s men who are pur chased & fed at much dearer rate will be all defunct or banished be fore our whole Stock of Salt is exhausted. From the Same quarter we learn that the Inhabitants of that City & its environs are very unhappy infinitely more so than their old friends whom they infamously forsook. I have seen & read English News papers up to the 13 May & Letters from France late as June. England is truely distressed on all hands. She has Suffered by Captures made by the Americans & Frenchmen Americanized far beyond my former apprehensions. The number of Privateers Maned by Frenchmen under English Captains & Congress Commissions is astonishing. These have destroyed the English West India & African Trade & are daily making prizes in the Channel from Scilly to the German Sea. To such insults do the British Ministry Tamely Submit—-while on the other hand they meanly threaten Hol land only for having connived at illicit Trade with us. You have seen Sir Joseph Yorkes memorial presented at the Hague, I will Send you the Dutch Envoy’s humble answer & we learn from undoubted au thority that a Mr. Vanbibber our Commissioner or Agent was lately imprisoned at St. Eustatia for having caused an English Vessel to be taken in Sight of the Island. 12 Tis however Said this is the effect of policy. I will not take upon me to comment but you may depend upon it we have now a Vessel for War building in Amsterdam which will be equal or is intended to be, to an English 64 Gun Ship & that the States of Holland are as anxiously concerned to establish our Independence as the French are, & that in order to be ready for defense they are augmenting their Navy. Our Agents in France have contracted with proper persons to dis patch an advice Boat together with 30 Tons of Merchandize if re quired once a Month to Congress. The first arrived at Portsmouth a few days ago & brought us the accounts which the News papers & This have retailed to you together with Some of a more private nature. The Second Sailed as I suppose the latter end of June or beginning of July & on this Instant learn she was taken within Six hours of her
