426 August 5, 1777 Scyler & St Clair are ordered down to head Quarters in order that an Enquiery be made into the Conduct of the northern Department. General Gates is ordered to take the Command there & to call on the neighbouring States for Militia. Have not time to add but that I am, Your humble Servt, Rich Law RC (CtNIHi). Addressed: “Mr. Nathel Shaw junr, Mercht, New London, Connecticut.” Law began this letter to Shaw at the foot of a copy he had made of Samuel Mifflin’s petition to Congress. 1 Mifflin’s May 8 petition requested the assistance of Congress in prosecuting an appeal against the capture and condemnation of his brig Sally at New Bem, N.C. A second petition which he submitted to Congress on December 24, 1777, a draft resolve recommending that Mifflin appeal to the North Carolina assembly for a new trial, and Mifflin’s May 8 petition are in PCC, item 42, 5:59-62, 65, 67-68. James Lovell to William Whipple? My Dear Sir [August 5, 1777] Matters remain here much as when I wrote you last, except some alarms caused by a report that a very large fleet appeared off Cape Ann on the 31st UI to. The time agreed very well with the accots we previously had of the fleets sailing from N.Y. As we supposed The Town was the Enemies object, all hands were preparing to go thither when on a sudden the Fleet vanished in a fogg & we have heard noth ing of it since, but its still a matter of great speculation where this invincible Armada is Bound. It is reported as Gen’l Washingtons opinion that Virginia is the object but those who have not the most favorable opinion of that Climate think they know better than to go there, that this is only a finesse and that they will return immediately & push up Hudsons River. Others will have it that they are certainly coming this way. The last opinion I endeavor to support, not because I realize it, but because I wo’d have everybody in readiness, if that sho’d be the case. The enemies ships are so thick on the coast that it is almost impossible to escape them, one of them chased a ship on shore a few days ago within 6 or 7 miles of this. She proved to be a West India man which had been taken by a Connecticut Privateer but unfortunately for the captors the tide was rising & the enemy soon took her off with them. It was reported yesterday that we had gained great advantages in a Battle on Wood Creek & that the Enemy had left Skeenborough & Castletown but we have no acco’ts from that way that can be depended on. I wish I co’d Know from the fountain of intelligence how matters stand with the Northern Army and to what the late extraordinary disaster is owing. Here the general Cry is treach ery and some go so far as to name the sum given, however these re-
