August 5, 1777 429 was probably North Carolina. See North Carolina Delegates to John Allen, July 11, 1777. 2 The Rhode Island Assembly adopted Marchant’s proposal during its August 1777 session. John R. Bartlett, ed., Records of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations in New England, vols. 8-10 (Providence: Cooke, Jackson & Co., 1863-65), 8:290-91. 3 These were July 31 resolves on Continental Army recruits and deserters. See ibid., pp. 298-300; and ]CC, 8:593—95. President Hancock also sent a copy of them to Governor Cooke in a brief letter written on August 6: “I am just now so much Engaged that I have only time to Cover you a resolution of Congress for promoting the Recruiting Service to which I beg leave to Refer your Attention.” American Manuscripts, RPJCB. Robert Morris to John Langdon Philada. August 5th. 1777 Dear Sir I have yours of the 21st July and am sorry to find every part of this poor Continent so exceedingly fettered in their Trade and convulsed about their Constitutions & Governments. We must have patience & let things take their Course. I will not at this time give any orders about the Sugars but if the Enemies Fleet which lately paraded to our Capes & back shou’d go your way I depend that you will do the need- full to secure my property & remain Dr sir Your Obedt hble Servt. Robt Morris P.S. The bearer has been detained longer than was agreable to him, but the Committees have not time to dispatch business as fast as they coud wish. I pray you to put the letters enclosed herewith into the mail & give the Captain of the Packet strict orders to throw the Mail over if needfull, as no Public dispatches shou’d fall into the Enemies hands if it can be avoided. I am always yours &C, 1 RM RC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1974). 1 This day Morris also wrote the following brief letter to St. George Tucker at Williamsburg, Va., on behalf of Willing, Morris & Co. “Your favour of the 25 th Ulto. came by the Post yesterday & we are sorry to tell You that soon after the Commencement of the present War with Great Britain the Underwriters in this City declined the business & that it never has been taken up again so that all the Commerce carried out from this port is at the sole & entire risque of the adventurers. We shou’d have been very happy to serve You on this occasion as we shall also if future opportunities puts it in our power.” Tucker- Coleman Papers, ViW. New York Delegates to George Clinton Philad 5 Aug 1777 Sir We wrote to your Excellency Yesterday 1 and have now only to
