August 7, 1777 435 Samuel Adams to John Langdon My dear Sir, Philade August 7. 1777 Major Bass will be kind enough to deliver to you this Letter. He brought me a very friendly Message from you for which I return you my hearty Thanks. If I had Inclination or Leisure to write a Letter of Complement, I am sure you would not be pleasd with it. The Times are very serious; our Affairs are in a critical Situation. The Enemy, after long promising a Visit to this City, made an Appearance last Week near the Capes of Delaware. But they have not been seen these six days past. The Hounds are in fault and have lost Scent of them. We shall hear where they are gone, I dare say, before long. It belongs to the military Gentlemen to penetrate their Design. I think they could not have come here in a better time, because we were well prepared for them. General Washington had drawn his Forces into the Neighbor hood of this Place and I verily believe the people here, divided and distracted as they are about their internal Government, would have joynd in sufficient Numbers to have given a good Account of them. The shameful Defeat of our Forces at Ticonderoga is not more distressing to us than it is vexatious. A thorough Scrutiny into the Causes of it must and will be made. For this Purpose Schuyler and St Clair are ordered to Head Quarters. I confess I cannot at present account for it even upon the Principle of Cowardice. There seems to me to be the evident Marks of Design. Bad as our Affairs are in that Quarter they are not desperate. Gates is gone to take the Command. He is an honest and able officer; always belovd by his Soldiers because he always shares with them in Fatigue and Danger. This has not been said of his immediate Predecessor. I hope the N. England States will once more make a generous Exertion, and if they do I am deceivd if Burgoyns Prosperity does not soon prove his Ruin. Our Intelligence from Europe is very flattering to us. The virtuous and sensible there universally wish well to our Cause. They say we are fighting for the Liberty and Happiness of Mankind. We are at least, contending for the Liberty & Happiness of our own Country and Posterity. It is a glorious Contest. We shall succeed if we are virtuous. I am infinitely more apprehensive of the Contagion of Vice than the Power of all other Enemies. It is the Disgrace of human Nature that in most Countries the People are so debauchd, as to be utterly unable to defend or enjoy their Liberty. Pay my respects to Colo Whipple. He promisd to write to me. I hope he will soon have Leisure to fulfill his promise. A letter from you would oblige me much. Adieu. FC (NN). Addressed: “To J Langdon Esqr Portsmo N H.”
