436 August 7, 1777 Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris No. 7 In Committee for Foreign Affairs Gentlemen Philadelphia Augt 7. 1777 Inclosed are duplicates of Commissions and Instructions for Willm. Lee and Ralf Izard Esqrs. and Triplicates of Letters No 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Since our last No. 6 1 a variety of Circumstances in the Military de partment have happened, many of which are so intricate and unfinished as not to enable us to draw any just Conclusion therefrom. Immediately after the unsuccessful attempt made by Genl Howe to cut off a division of our Army under Lord Sterling as mentioned in No. 6 The whole Body of the Enemy retreated to Staten Island, em barked on board their fleet and on the 23 of July put to Sea. On the 27th they were off the Capes of Deleware. Genl Washington with the Army arrived at German Town the 29th. The 31st the Enemy s fleet stood out again to Sea. They made a Second appearance at the Capes, but did not attempt to come in, since which we have heard no Account of them. As this Packet goes from the Eastward you will probably be furnished with something from that Quarter before she sails. Our Worst News is, we have lost Ticonderoga; whether by Neglect or necessity, Cowardice or good Conduct will appear afterwards. Con gress have ordered Genl Gates to that Department and have directed that Genls Schuyler and St Clair appear at Head Qrs. that enquiry be made into their Conduct of this Mysterious Affair. In the Phila delphia News Papers of July 16th & 23 and Augst 5th & 6th you will see Genls. Schuyler’s & St. Clair’s Letters, and the resolves of Congress. We have been fortunate enough to take and unfortunate enough to lose again the Fox Frigate, she was made a Prize of by Capts Manly and McNeal but a 40 and 64 being in Sight when she struck she was afterwards retaken by them. Major Genl Prescot who Commanded the Enemy’s forces at Rhode Island was seized and made Prisoner of by a Small Party under Lt . Col Barton, see Genl Washington’s Letter to Congress in a Philadelphia News Paper July 23d. Congress have presented the Col with a Sword, and Likewise Lt Col Meigs with another who performed a Gallant exploit on L Island bringing off near an hundred Prisoners and de stroying a Large Quantity of forage. Were it not for the Ticonderoga Affair we should have nothing but good News to write, and even that may in the End be as lucky a Circumstance to the general Cause as their attempting to march thro’ the Jersies last Winter. We have a fine healthy Army anxious for noth- ing so much as to meet the Enemy. Surely! it must appear a ridiculous
