August 7, 1777 437 thing in Europe that Genl Howe should be thus shunning the Army he came to conquer, and wasting his time on running up and down the Coast with his whole fleet at this hot season of the year, when the ministry in England and perhaps Ld Stormont at Paris have given out that he has penetrated an hundred Miles or more up the Country. We are with the greatest Respect, Gentlemen, yr. most Obt humble Servants, Benja Harrison Robt Morris James Lovell P.S. Please to forward the Letters directed to Arthur Lee Esqr and M. Dumas, paragraphs of which relate to you. 2 RC (PPAmP). “Duplicate” copy in a clerical hand. 1 That is, Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris, July 2, 1777. 2 Probably the committee’s August 8 letters to Arthur Lee and Charles W. F. Dumas. James Lovell to William Whipple Dear Sir August 7th 1777 By the delay of Mr Bass here without any good purpose being answered, you will find things go much after the old sort. Indeed, I do not think if he had been earlier dismissed, any thing could be sent by the packet boat which brought the dispatches from France for she must have sailed before he got here. I still think General W’s march to this City will give Howe and Burgoyne full swing in New England and New York. There seems to be no more moving here than if there was no other spot in America where it could be expected the British army could be tempted to land. I ought to own to you that General Gates is quite of opinion that the enemy will make themselves Masters of Chesapeake and Delaware Bays for it—then will come up this river to attack the Cheveaux making Wilmington head quarters. I do not know whether I tell his story right for I did not believe what he said enough to fix it in my memory. My greatest anxiety is, to have him gone to stop Burgoyne’s army which we hear is at Saratoga. Mr Du Coudray has put in a memorial and petition wherein he requests that I may be dismissed from any Committee relative to his affairs and that no attention may be paid to any thing I may have said relative to his treaty with Mr Deane. Even his most enamored advocates did not think proper to support his petition. It was dis missed. 1
