August 8,1777 439 town, and John at Trenton. I go this morning to Princeton, and shall return next week. My kind love to Mr. and Mrs. Smith and all friends. I am, dear David, Your affectionate father, Jno. Witherspoon. MS not found; reprinted from Christian Advocate 2 (October 1824) : 445. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia August 8. 1777 I have concluded to run the Risque of sending Turner Home. It will save me the Expence of his Board and Horse. The Moment he arrives, I hope you will send his Horse to Boston to be sold at Vendue. If he rides the Horse let him be sold immediately. If he rides the Mare, you may keep her if you chuse to do so and sell the old Horse, provided the Mare will go in a Carriage which must be tried, because I dont know that she ever was in one. We have heard nothing from the Enemys Fleet, since they left the Capes of Delaware. They may intend for Philadelphia yet, which makes me a little irresolute about sending away my Man and Horse without which I should be puzzled to get away from this Place, if it should be invaded. I believe I shall delay his Journey for a few days. Perhaps We shall hear more within that Time. This day compleats Seven Months, since I left all that I delight in. When shall I return? Not untill the Year is out, provided I can keep myself tolerably well. Our Accounts from the Northward are still gloomy. Gates is gone, and I hope will restore some degree of Spirits and Confidence there. Burgoigne is laying himself open to destruction, in that Quarter, every day. It is strange that no Check is given him. These vile Panicks, that seize People and Soldiers too, are very difficult to get over. But at last they turn to Vigour, Fury and Des peration, as they did in the Jerseys. I suppose a few Tories in New York, in the Grants and in Berkshire and Hampshire will join Bur goigne, but they will soon repent their rash Folly, and be sick of their Masters. For indeed they will find that neither Burgoigne nor Howe, nor their Master are kind Masters. The longer We live, the more clearly We see, that nothing will serve our Purpose, but discipline and Experience. Discipline—Discipline, is wanting and must be introduced. The Affair of Ti. will introduce it. The Public calls for Justice, and will have it. This Demand does Hon our to the People and is a sure Omen of future Success and Prosperity. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:303-4.
