442 August 8,1777 You could not at the time of writing, have been certified of the arrival of some interesting despatches from Congress to your Colleagues in France on the 10th of that Month, which might have occassioned a very considerable alteration in the Politics of the Court of Versailles, which would consequently influence those of the Court of Madrid. The intellegence contained in your last is a most pleasing confirma tion of the hopes which you had given us, of pecuniary aid from Spain. Whatever tends to establish the value of our paper currency is most highly important to us. Congress will immediately go into a Con sideration of the several hints for this purpose given by you and Messrs Franklin & Deane. The unpleasing events in the Nothem Department has so far engaged the attention of all public bodies, that it has been impossible for Congress to write upon the Subjects mentioned to them by you early enough for us to forward their determinations by the present opportunity. 2 By our several Letters dispatched in the armed Sloop Independence, from hence, or by Duplicates and Gazettes sent by Mr McCreary from Baltimore, you will know by way of Paris, the history of our Military affairs in a regular detail. We are at this time altogether uncertain as to Mr Howes destination, his Fleet not having been seen since the first of this month. Indeed we shall leave you for the most part to get information of our opperations from the gentlemen at Paris, to whom we shall have the most direct opportunities of conveyance. We wish you Success on the Embassy you are now engaged in, and we are pleased that you are so agreably connected with Mr Sayer, whose attachment to the cause of Liberty and this Country has been Mani- fisted. We are with much regard Sir your Friends & hum. Servts, Signed— Benj Harrison Rob Morris James Lovell FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). 1 Arthur Lee’s March 18 and May 13 letters to the committee are in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:292—96, 319—20. 2 For the actions taken by Congress in response to the commissioners’ advice that money was available in Europe, see Elbridge Gerry to Unknown, September 10, 1777, note; and Henry Laurens to John Rutledge, September 10, 1777, note 5. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia August 8th. 1777 Your favour of yesterday’s Date, with its Inclosures from General Schuyler I duly Rec’d, & laid before Congress; 1 We have no kind of News, nor have I any thing in Charge from
