446 August 9, 1777 of Charles Town in Assembly & the State of So. Carolina in General Congress at the Same time according to your present practice except in the event which I have premised. Possibly to morrow may produce important intelligence from the Eastward. In that case you will [be] troubled with a postscript to a Letter already enormously long, & may prove much ado about nothing as you will probably have heard all its contents before it reaches you. Be that as it may, you will acknowledge I have laboured to say some thing. I will conclude with what I always repeat with pleasure, my best wishes to you, to Mrs. Gervais & the Children. LB (ScHi). A continuation of Laurens to Gervais, August 5, 1777. 1 General Schuyler’s August 4 letter to President Hancock, which was read in Congress on the 11th, is in PCC, item 153, 2:230-32. 2 Maj. Gen. Valentine Jones, the British commandant of New York City, issued a proclamation on July 23 forbidding, on pain of death, any travel from the city to New Jersey between sunset and sunrise. New-York Gazette: and the Weekly Mercury, July 28, 1777. Henry Laurens to Robert Howe Dear General Philadelphia 9th August 1777. About the 22d July I had the honour of delivering Severally your Letters to Congress & to the New England Delegates. The former was instantly committed to the Board of War & their Report followed by a confirmation of your appointment to Colo. Eveleigh & Mr. Purcel, but for your fine polite Commercial story which must have cost you Some labor to learn & given you much pleasure to relate no more notice was taken than of the particular kind of jpaper upon which the tale was told. I am sure I thought it a very clever thing when I read it at Mepkin & Sealed it up so nicely. 1 What sort of writing in this World goes for nothing. In that class your other Letter touching Rank may possibly be found, & it will if one may judge from our determination two days ago upon an application from an old & valuable Servant M[ajo]r Genl Arnold whose prayer to be restored to his rank was rejected notwith standing the acquiescence of Officers whose dates are, as they admit, improperly prior to his. 2 But good General draw no hasty conclusions. Another unexpected vote may turn up & be in your favour. 3 When I am a little older in Congress I’ll try hard at a reformation in that article of Rank, persevering in the present mode which is arbitrary & often Subject to caprice will not promote the welfare of our Army. The evacuation of Ticonderoga & concommitant circumstances have excited public clamour & resentment. Burgoynes advance & Schuyler’s retreat to the very threshold of Albany fills the minds of some with the most direful apprehensions, others say he will be checked & his retreat cut off. Everybody wonders what is become of your name sake Sir
