August 9, 1777 447 William who abandoned his Jersey garrison early in July, embarked his Troops, Horse & foot about the middle, paraded with 228 Sail off the Capes of Delaware the latter end & vanished the 1st August. The Second maneuver drew great Washington [. . .] to this City by a fatiguing Countermarch of upwards 120 Miles, his Letters regularly intimated his opinion that the whole was a calculated feint. We shall probably soon hear of Ld. Howe’s appearance at Rhode Island or farther eastward, he cannot be so mad as to leave Burgoyne to Struggle with the united force of New York & New England. We have received most shocking ac counts of scalping & mangling by Burgoyne’s Indians. He carries fire, Sword & terror with him. The Six Nations are heartily disposed to be our friends, or it appears so by a Talk which they lately Sent in & those who know best say they certainly will be, if our people will fight & give them prospect of conquest. Generals Schyler & St Clair are ordered to head quarters. General Gates gone to take the command of the Northern department. ’Tis agreed the New England Men will chearfully follow him, although they had abandoned Schuyler in whom, rumour reported, they had no confidence. General Fermoy one of the subscribing Council of War at Ticonderoga has written a Letter to Congress disclaiming any part of merit arising from the Surrender of the Fortress without an at tempt to repel the Enemy or to Save the Stores. I have seen added in a Letter from a Man of Character that one hundred head of fat Cattle were driven & left within the lines the very morning the fort was evacu ated. A deep & impartial enquiry will bring out the truth. Till that event I will neither join those who censure nor those who condemn Mr. St. Claire. The principal charge against Schuyler in the public mouth is his residence at & attention to his own Estate, which ought to have but which never had been at the head of his Troops in Garrison. A few days before the Surrender General St. Clair expressed as you will read in one of the News papers strong hopes of making such a defence as would, if not destroy the Enemy, at least cripple him & Spoil his Campaign. The question anxiously asked by those who have a right to demand, is, what happened between that date & the Surrender & Shameful flight? Shame ful no doubt, when Mr. Schyler himself writes that our people were panic struck. 300 of them had fled from a party of fifty Indians. If we learn any thing farther of the British Fleet or from Albany you will be troubled with a postscript. General Washington lay last night at Correls Ferry or Trent Town, he means as I am informed to encamp on the old ground in Morris Town & await events. Possibly in the enemy’s absence he may attempt another Christmas Coup. Intelligence from our Agents in France is much in our favour—but we have got a Thousand difficulties to Struggle against, if we persevere we shall break smooth ground for our Successors. Adieu, I am &c
