August 11, 1777 449 Horse & foot Sailed out of Sandy Hook & made a parade with 228 Sail of vessels off the Capes of Delaware. From thence he disappeared about the 1st Inst. & may now be in the Moon for aught we know, but he is probably gone to New England & will Strive to join General Burgoine who found Ticonderoga evacuated & the Road clear for him down to Albany. Perhaps he may receive a check there; otherwise we shall be in a troublesome situation. Articles of every kind are exceedingly dear here. A Breast of Veal 55/ to 65/ our Currency. Butter 22/6 to a Dollar— meaning our Currency. Fire Wood when laid in the Cellar upwards of £22 a Chord. Horse feeding & Standing at Stable upwards a Dollar per day & every thing in proportion. It will cost me more to maintain 3 people here than it did to keep House & entertain Company at Anson- burgh. I hope we shall make something at home to ease this enormous weight. I fear all that my plantations will make will not support it. I thank Mrs. Loveday for her remembrance & desire my Compliments & good wishes to her & am &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 John Loveday (d. 1804) was a Charleston merchant who was helping John Lewis Gervais care for Laurens’ business affairs during his service as delegate to Congress. Raymond Starr, ed., “Letters from John Lewis Gervais to Henry Laurens, 1777-1778,” South Carolina Historical Magazine 66 (January 1965): 17n.2. John Hancock to George Washington Sir Philadelphia August 10th [1777], 5 oGlock P.M. I was this moment called out of Church by the arrival of an Express, with a letter informing of a large fleets being seen off Sinapuxen. 1 Copy of the letter I enclose you per Express, should I hear any thing further I shall immediately advise you of it. I have the honour to be, with sincere respect & esteem, Your most obedt. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In a clerical hand and signed by Hancock. 1 A contemporary copy of Zadoc Purcell’s August 7 letter stating that this afternoon there appear’d off the bar of Sinapuxon a large fleet of shiping to the amount of two-hundred & some odd sail, all bearing to the southward with the wind about South East which it is imagined that their intention is for the Cape of Virginia,” is in the Washington Papers, DLC. John Adams to Abigail Adams Aug. 11. 1777 Your kind Favour of July 30 and 31 was handed me, just now from the Post office.
