452 August 11, 1777 learned and exact Translation of Thucidides, which will be usefull to you. But there is another Translation of him, much more elegant, intituled “The History of the Peloponnesian War, translated from the Greek of Thucidides in two Volumes Quarto, by William Smith A.M. Rector of the Parish of the holy Trinity in Chester, and Chaplain to the Right Honourable the Earl of Derby.” If you preserve this Letter, it may hereafter remind you, to procure the Book. You will find it full of Instruction to the Orator, the Statesman, the General, as well as to the Historian and the Philosopher. 1 You may find Something of the Peloponnesian War, in Rollin. I am with much Affection your Father, John Adams RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:307. 1 For a list of some of the various editions of Thucydides’ works still surviving in the Adams libraries, see ibid., p. 3O7n. Samuel Adams to Roger Sherman Dear Sir Philada. Augt 11. 1777 I duly receivd your obliging Letter of the 11 July by the Post. 1 I thank you for the favor and beg you to continue to write to me as often as your Leisure may permit. The Rumor you mentioned has since appeared to be a serious Fact. We have lost Ticonderoga and as far as I can yet judge shamefully. I was going to add vilainously, for indeed I am not able to account for it but upon the worst of Principles. The whole ap pears to me to carry the evident Mark of Design. But I hope & believe it will undergo the strictest Scrutiny. The People at large will not, they ought not to be satisfyed until a thorough Enquiry is made into the Causes of an Event in which their Honor & Safety is so deeply interested. The only Letter receivd by Congress from St Clair you have seen pub- lishd under their Sanction. Schuyler has written a series of weak & contemptible Things, in such a Stile of Despondence which alone is, I think, sufficient for his removal from that Command. For if his Pen expresses His true feelings of his Heart it cannot be expected that the bravest Veterans would fight under such a General, admitting they had no Jealousy of Treachery. In a Letter reed this Day, 2 dated the 4th Inst at Stillwater he writes in a Tone of perfect Despair. He seems to have no Confidence in his Troops nor the States from whence Reinforcements are to be drawn. A third part of his Continental Troops he tells us, con sists “of Boys, Negroes & aged Men not fit for the field or any other Service.” “A very great Part of the Army naked—without Blankets—ill armed & very deficient in accoutremts without a prospect of relief.”
