456 August 11, 1777 now and will I expect be for sorrie time impractical if at any time it shod mend, on acct of the high bounty given by the Militia exempts, a mode of raising Men very hurtfull I conceive to the recruiting Business. I wish Gapt Monroe could have made up his Company on his own accot. as well as that of the Public but I am satisfied any further Prose cution of the attempt will be equelly unsuccessful with his past en deavours. It is probable I may have the gratification of seeing you in this City as I cannot think the Enemy mean to carry on their operations to the Southward—a few days will I expect open their design. Very respectfully I am, Dr Sr yr aff. Sev. Jos. Jones RC (DLC). 1 Undoubtedly Jones’ nephew James Monroe. Henry Laurens to Lachlan McIntosh Dear Sir, Philadelphia 11th August 1777. Some where on my journey hither your favour of the 30th May over took me, at my arrival I put it into the hands of Colonel Walton. The very Morning after I reached this City I took my Seat in Congress where I had intended to have remained a silent auditor at least until I should have perused the Journals for some Months back, gained a clue to business & an acquaintance with Members & their manners, but I was soon provoked to break through the prescribed bounds & to oppose a random scheme for a Western enterprize which had been proposed to the House as equally practicable & advantageous & which to my amaze ment the whole House appeared to have adopted, nothing remained to do on their part but to vote Men & Money. 1 I saw in that business destruction of a number of honest fellows whom we want exceedingly for better employment, disgrace to our Arms & a vast increase to our general debt already swelled to an alarming heigth & felt that I should rise a criminal if I forbore to say every thing in my power which might tend to avert such evils. I delivered my sentiments & was successful, the question had scarcely an affirmative. I took occasion to report the value & at the same time the precarious & dangerous state to which Georgia was reduced, wished if so many Men as had been talked of could be spared from this quarter, they might be immediately ordered to that Colony, as well for its protection as for laying the foundation of an enterprize nearer home which at a proper time might be carried into execution with success & which would work half the Conquest of the other place without marching a foot towards it. Before I sat down I moved for a Committee to consider the State of Georgia or wished to second the Delegate from thence in a motion to that effect. In conse quence of these suggestions a Committee was appointed whose report
