460 August 11, 1777 look after & see her finished. I fancy the prices of Goods here must be full as high as they ought and if yours come up you will be satisfyed with what you get for them. Our people shall give any assistance wanted from me or them on the occasion and whatever comes shall be taken care of. I am glad you have got your Iron again & that things will go on as they ought and it is well that Mr. Vashons Goods are to be disposed of by others, if they are put into good hands, it is not much matter who the persons are, they will get high prices. I will send your advertizement to the press & am ready to do you any service therein that I can. I have told Mr Braxton that I was content he should execute the plan proposed by Mr. Dorsius as long as he found it wou’d answer but I think we shou’d attend carefully to avoid confusion in Accounts by mixing them & extending our Conf. . .] too far or letting them run too long without settling accounts and I cou’d wish for this reason that the Accounts of your Voyage shou’d be settled soon as possible. I am sir, Your Obedt hble servt. Robt Morris RC (PHarH). John Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Phila. Aug. 12. 1777 I see by the Papers, our assembly is called, and conclude it is now Sitting. The Letters we receive from G. Schuyler, are enough to frighten any Body who does not know him. G.W. Says that all the Regiments from N.H. & M.B. are at the Northward and yet, Schuyler tells Us he has not above 4000 Men. I hope this Matter will be investigated. I believe Gates will find greater Numbers. If not I hope they will be sent him. 1 Burgoyne is treading dangerous Ground, and proper Exertions will ruin him. Those I hope will not be wanting. I rejoice to see such a Spirit arise upon the Loss of Ti. and such determined Calls for Inquiry. The Facts must be stated from the Returns and other Evidence, and the innocent will be I hope acquitted—the guilty meet their Deserts. I see no Medium, I confess, between an honourable Acquittal and capital Punishment. What is become of Howe? The Jersies are very happy, relieved from an heavy Burthen. What Fears were propagated in Boston last January, that the Jersies were lost. Not a Single Village has revolted. We have still Accounts of part of Howes Fleet, coasting between the Capes of Delaware and those of Cheasapeak. What this Mans design is, can not be conjectured. It is very deep or very shallow. Washington has been here with a noble Army, very obedient, and orderly.
