August 12, 1777 461 Our News from France, is agreable. Trade, Friendship, Assistance underhand, and Loans of Money for the present—other Things by and by. I am &c RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 The second session of the Massachusetts General Court began on August 5, one month earlier than scheduled. The session lasted only until August 16, but the general court acted strongly to reinforce the northern army with men and equipment. The Acts and Resolves, Public and Private, of the Province of the Massachusetts Bay . . . 1177-1778 (Boston: Wright & Potter Printing Co., 1918), pp. 85-109. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philadelphia Augt 12 1777 The inclosd is an attested Copy of General Schuylers Letter to the President of the Congress. 1 It needs no Comment. How far the Massa chusetts State deserves the Strictures therein made, you can tell. I send it to you for the Perusal of the Members of your Honbl House. If they have sent into the Army, Boys, Negroes & Men too aged to be fit for any Service, they will lay their Hands on their Mouths. If not, I hope some decent but keen Pen will vindicate them from that & other Aspersions. This, like all his other Letters, is written in such a desponding Stile, that it is no wonder that Soldiers decline fighting under him, though they may be under no Apprehension of Treachery. But he has by this time receivd his Quietus, at least till he can give a good Account of his Con duct. Gates has gone to take the Command and our Affairs in that Quarter, I dare say, will soon wear another Face. The Enemies Fleet have been again seen, 200 Sail, off Sinipuxin about 15 Leagues South of the Capes of Delaware. I think I have now a just Demand upon you for a Letter. I shall be disappointed if I do not receive one by the next Post. Adieu my Friend. S A RC (MHi). 1 The enclosed August 4 Schuyler letter to Hancock is in W arren-Adams Letters, 1:352—53. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Benjamin Franklin Douhoragen, 1 Anne Arundel County, 12th August 1777. Encloses letter to William Carmichael, left open for Franklin’s perusal “as it relates principally to public concerns. When you have read it, please to seal it. No doubt the Secret Committee will give you a full & true ac count of the present situation of our affairs, & of our wants; they may
