August 12, 1777 463 might be speedily raised by the sale of such bills, particularly if ad vantage were taken by the Public of the Exchange.. . . “We have not yet confederated, but almost every member of Congress is anxious for a Confederacy, being sensible, that a Confederacy formed in a rational Plan will certainly add much weight & consequence to the united States, collectively give great Security to each individually, and a a credit also to our paper money: but I despair of such a confederacy, as ought, & would take place, if little & partial interests could be laid aside: very few, & immaterial, alterations will be made in the report of the Committee of the whole house; this is only my opinion, for we have made but very little progress in the house in that important affair; im mediate & more pressing exigencies having from time to time postponed the consideration of it to this day, when, I am informed, it is to be again resumed. If this war should be of any considerable duration, we shall want men to recruit our armies: could we engage 5 or 6 thousand men, Germans, Swiss or the Irish Brigade? I have mentioned this matter to several members of Congress, but they did not seem to relish the intro duction of foreign mercenaries; I own it ought to be avoided, if possible. Handycraftsmen would be very Serviceable to us, such as black Smiths, nailors, Shoemakers, weavers & persons skilled in the management of Hemp & flax. One of the greatest distresses we have yet felt is the want of salt, but, I hope, we shall not be in so great want of that essential article for the future, as we have been: a bushel of salt some months ago was sold at Baltimore Town for £9. Necessity is said to be the mother of Invention, it surely is of industry among a civilized People. Many private persons on our Seacoasts & Bays are now making salt to supply themselves & neighbours; these private, and the public salt works together will in a few months, I hope, yield a tolerable supply to our People and at pretty reasonable rates compared with those, which have obtained for some time past: perhaps the private Saltmakers may afford to sell salt at 30s. per bushel; the undertakers of the public salt works in this State are under contract to sell what salt they make at 5s. We are casting salt pans: but they cost £100 per Ton, and are subject to cracks: when our plating mills get in full works, it will be better to make the pans of plate iron, altho’ they will come considerably higher: a large importation at this time from Europe of salt pans would be very service able: they would sell high. The necessaries of life, except wheat flour, are risen to an amazing nominal price, owing to an encreased demand, & great depreciation of our currencies: wheat sells at 6/6 in this part of the country; the market for flour is very dull at present; the price of live stock of all kinds is prodigiously advanced; a cow, for instance, which a year ago would have sold for £6 only, would now sell for £18, or 20: cloths, linnens & woollens are excessive high; I have a coat on, the cloth of which is not worth more than 10s. a yard & would not have cost more 18 months ago, which lately cost me £4.10.0 a yard. Rye
