468 August 12, 1777 1000 or 1200 Men just taken from the Mountain Air & Water sent in the latter end of October & November to lie in any Cove of brackish Water & near Salt Marshes would Sicken & die very fast. Even upon the fresh Rivers where such men were exposed to night dews huddled to gether & lived upon Salt food, the list of dead & non affectives would increase every day. It was vain to hope for Secrecy of an enterprize which had been often talked of in different States & long Suspected by the Enemy. Finally that vast expence of money & Men & further disgrace on our Arms would be the result of so mad an enterprize, into which it seemed Gentlemen had been hastening merely because they could not see their way. Your Excellency will not be displeased with the detail of this affair if you think the termination without a serious question, a fortunate event & that if the Expedition had been attempted & failed as most undoubtedly it would, that our Enemies would have been furnished with strong argu ments for moving the Creek & other Indians to act offensively against So Carolina & Georgia. From the above circumstance & Sorry I am to Say, more than a few others which I have been witness to in short three Weeks I can hardly forbear concluding that a great Assembly is in its dotage & that happily for us our Enemy is at the Same time very infirm. I came here with great reluctance diffident of my abilities to serve my Country effectualy—from the same apprehensions heightened by what I have already Seen I wish ten thousand times more I had never come as a delegate. Mr. Middleton tells me he is to leave us in October & Mr. Heyward expects soon to follow him. Your Excellency will perceive the necessity for pressing the House of Assembly to Send as able Men in their Stead & to fill up immediately the number of our delegacy. General Howe’s movements from New York, his parade in Sight of the Jersey Shore off the Capes of Delaware, pretences of coming within the Bay, then vanishing & now appearing again on the Coast of Maryland are all enigmatical & give rise to various guesses & conjectures. A few Men celebrated for penetration & Sound judgement persist in their opinions that this City will be his first object—granting so much as I will praise him for being even more indulgent than Sir Peter Parker, 6 had he come up the River immediately after his appearance off the Bay what was there to have withstood him. Billings Port was in no preparation for defence nor Fort Island & all the work which has been Since bestowed on the former is now to pass for nothing—General Washington having in person made a survey of the River & adjacent Lands & by advice of a Council of Engineers & able Navigators recommended to abandon the former for the present & to make Fort Island our Hope. 7 Our Fire Ships & wrafts are numerous but the effect of such engines always uncertain,
