August 12, 1777 469 in a word our Safety if we are even now safe rests in the weakness & distraction of the Enemy. General Washington after a most fatiguing Countermarch contrary to his own opinion encamped his Troops near German Town from whence two days ago he Marched them again to Shamony where he means to wait for intelligence of Sir William who will probably be heard of from some part of New England & we shall then know that their Ships have been Coasting a fortnight or 3 Weeks for amusement. My Son is now of the General’s family & has I presume acknowledged his obligation to your Excellency in the Letter which will accompany this. I wish he had made a choice for his outset in Life in a sphere in which he might have been more extensively useful to his Country, the mark of your Excellency’s good will to one so nearly connected with me nevertheless demands & will ever have my grateful thanks. General Burgoyne who made a most extraordinary form of a proclama tion 8 the Harbinger of his Entrance into the territories of the United States Seems to bear down all before him or more properly to be march ing on without opposition. A Letter the 4th Inst, from General Schuyler depicts our circumstances in that quarter in the most gloomy colours. The Public Voice is clamorous against that Officer & more so if possible against his Sub. General St. Clair. These are remanded to headquarters & orders given for an enquiry into their conduct. General Gates is gone to take the Command of the Northern department, now the immediate post of honour & ’tis generally expected that his popularity in New Eng land will recollect those of the Militia who had by thousands forsaken his precedessor as well as bring in thousands more & that he will soon be in a condition to give Mr. Burgoyne a Check & many hope, to cut off his retreat. From the tenor of a Proclamation issued by Sir Wm. Howe at New York restricting & regulating Imports & exports & the whole commercial department, & of another Proclamation issued by Major General Jones Commandt. of that City arranging the police & threatning Military ex ecution upon offenders, one would think the power & authority of Mr. Tryon very slender emanations from our late King’s despotic Representa tives & that the Tory inhabitants lead the Comfortable Life of Camp followers. A late determination in Congress relative to the rank of a good old Servant General Arnold will probably deprive us of that Officer & may be attended by further ill effects in the Army. 9 The reasoning upon this occasion was disgusting. He was refused not because he was deficient in merit or that his demand was not well founded but because he asked for it & that granting at such instance would be derogatory to the honour of Congress. It would be tedious to relate all the particulars but a curious anecdote will arise from them. Our proceedings have also been injudicious toward many of the French & other foreign Officers too
