August 12, 1777 471 fore of the Farmer & labourer must be in frugality. Nothing but great frugality can save the Suspended Merchant & Money lender from ruin, & your poor distressed Delegates must fly to economy or be conducted to Gaol. These advanced prices do not arise I say from combination but are genuinely the offspring of necessity. I will prove this by an observa tion founded in fact & which I think will contain an answer to all that ever has been & all that ever can be said to the contrary. I had occasion lately to purchase a Gold Watch for a young friend. The article had cost in London 25 Guineas. The Merchant here demanded 300 Dollars not a farthing less. I asked how many golden Guineas will you take— answer 19. In the first case near 3 times the original price was de manded, in the latter the Commodity was offered at 25 per Cent less than prime Cost. Square Dollars would have borne only their nominal value in the purchase of domestic articles. Guineas will slide to a post where Advertisements of Just imported fill Columns of the News paper & purchase articles there which may be returned here & establish the price of the Watch at 500 Dollars. For a pipe of Madeira Wine was demanded of Mr. Heyward & Self £320—£180 Stig ordinary per—yet my Bill upon London for £54 will pay for the Wine. The power only that can stop Delaware may attempt to stop the Channels of Exchange & Commerce among a free people, but these are at this time serious & alarming considerations & cry aloud for our utmost exertions to open a foreign Trade which is not so impossible as the next alternative the Sup pression of Idleness & Luxury. Tis true our advices from our public Agents in France & at Martinique are very flattering but ’tis equally true that nothing they have Said in consequence of French promises can be depended upon & we ought to be & continue jealous of the French & Spaniard until they recognize the Independance of the States & enter into a formal Treaty. Every thing short of that point awakens my apprehensions that the original plan of partition & mutual guarantee may be revived. 11 The very loan which is made to us is insidious. The French under all their pretensions to kindness have the best Security in the World. They may receive their Capital with large Interest at the Bank of England when they please, or may compel us to pay it upon worse terms than their pitiful offer of a Livre per Acre for 300 Miles Square or 57,600,000 Acres. I have not the least doubt of the good wishes of all the Trading & other people in the middle Life that our Independence may be estab lished, tis probable they hold themselves Interested in the event & that many thousands already anticipate happiness in a Land of Liberty. The more this Spirit appears or is even suspected, the more artfully will the movements respecting us be conducted at Versailles. One of our Agents, 12 I mean no offence, has not discovered competency to the immense work in hand. The other 13 is on the verge of Life & judging from the ordinary course of nature must soon drop. I have urged Congress to appoint a
