August 13, 1777 477 World for this Money which they may receive with large Interest when they please at the Bakk of England, or may compel us to pay four fold in Land which they Seem to aim at but touch the Subject cautiously. The British Ministry in order to tempt them to abandon us have already made one concession by an offer to enlarge their bounds of Fishery on the banks of New Foundland, probably they wait to hear what further offer those abandoned wretches will make, & at length when both Britain & the United States are nearly exhausted to carve for themselves. Our Cause is good, I am Satisfied we shall under all disadvantages support it. Our Harbours in these middle States having been long locked up by British Cruizers every Specie of foreign Goods is become Scarce & the prices greatly enhanced. The Farmers & Labourers have enhanced their demands nearly but not altogether in proportion—consequently those who have no Trade, or farm are greatly oppressed. I am one in that Class & you will judge of the vast expence I [am] at to live even Spar ingly from the following Specimen: Butter 5/to a Dollar per pound. Beef & other Butchery 1/6 to 2/. Fire Wood 13 to 14 Dollars a Chord. Brown Sugar one, & Loaf Sugar three dollars a pound. A pair coarse thread stockings 4 1/2 Dollar to 6 Dollars. Shoes 4 to 5 Dollars a pair. Rum 7 1/2 dollars & Wine 9 Dollars a Gallon. A Fish not sufficient for one Man’s meal a Dollar & upward. Coarse brown Linen 3 to 4 Dollars a Yard. A Beaver Hat 20 to 24 Dollars. Eggs a Doz 1/2 of a Dollar & upward. These extravagancies hurt a few but do not tend to ruin the Country as many people er roneously assert. We are overrun with French Men, Marquis’s, Counts, Barons & Chevaliers in Search of Commissions & the honour of fighting in the cause of Liberty are living here at a very dear rate & we have no em ployment equal to their expectations. I say nothing of my affairs at Sante under your protection. I have nothing to say because I am confident you will do all for me that is necessary. I beg you will assure Mr McCullogh of my desire to be his friend & also to Burnet & Martin. I expect you will favour me with a Line of intelligence when occasions require & I beg you will beleive that I continue with great regard LB (ScHi). 1 Christopher Zahn, South Carolina assemblyman and planter, was one of several South Carolinians keeping watch over Laurens’ manifold business affairs during his service in Congress. Raymond Starr, ed., “Letters from John Lewis Gervais to Henry Laurens, 1777-1778,” South Carolina Historical Magazine 66 (January 1965): 26.
