August 14, 1777 479 Thermometer, against a Post which had been heated by the Sun, and the Spirit arose to an 100, but removing it to another Place, and sus pending it at a distance from any warm Object and the Spirit subsided and settled at 94. How we shall live through these Heats I dont know. If Howes Army is at Sea, his Men between Decks will suffer, beyond Expression. Persons, here, who have been at Sea, upon this Coast, at this Season of the Year, say, the Heat is more intollerable, on Shipboard than on Land. There is no Comfort to be had any where, and the Re flection of the Sun Rays from the Deck, are insufferable. I wish this Wiseacre may continue to coast about untill an equinoctial Storm shall overtake him. Such a Thing would make fine Sport for his Fleet. The Summer is consuming, and there is not Time enough left, for accomplishing many Things. If he should land tomorrow, it would take him three Weeks to reach Philadelphia. On the Jersey Side of the Dela ware, is an ugly Road for him—many Rivers, Bridges, Causeys, Morasses, by breaking up of which, a Measure which is intended, and for which Preparations are made, his Army might be obstructed, puzzled and con founded in their March. His Army cannot proceed without many Horses, Waggons, and Cannon with their Carriages, for the Passage of which he must make new Bridges and Causeys, which would consume much Time, besides that he would be exposed, to the Militia and to the regular Army. On the other side the River there are several Streams and one large River to cross—the Schuylkill. And We have many fine Fire ships to annoy his Fleet. It would be happy for Us if he should aim at this Place, Because it would give Us an Opportunity of exerting the whole Force of the. Continent against him. The Militia of the Jerseys, Pensilvania, Delaware and Maryland, would cooperate with Washington here—those of N.Y. and N. England with Gates. Writing this Letter, at Six o Clock in the Morning in my cool Cham ber has thrown me into a profuse and universal sweat. 1 RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:315-16. 1 In his next letter to Abigail the following day, Adams resumed discussing the consequences of the heat in Philadelphia but in a postscript ecstatically reported the arrival of thundershowers giving relief. Ibid., pp. 316-17. John Hancock to Horatio Gates Sir Philada August 14th 1777 The enclosed Resolve, which I have the Pleasure of transmitting, I hope, will find you safely arrived, at the Head of the Army, in the De partment committed to your Care. From the Want of Discipline, and other Disorders, too apt to prevail
