482 August 14, 1777 & retails his own opinion. Some who pretend to be deepest say Phyladel- phia is certainly the object in view. I reply, if it is, Sir Willm. Howe is more indulgent than ever Sir Peter Parker. In order to be quite right in my guess I declare I know not where they are gone nor whither bound. A few days probably hours will inform us. The evacuation of Ticon deroga has raised universal complaints against Generals Schuyler & St Clair who are both remanded in order to answer an Enquiry which will be made into their conduct respectively. General Gates is gone to relieve Mr Schuyler & to assume the Command of the Northern department which is now the very post of Honour. Tis said the Eastern people who detested his successor 2 adore him & will join him with alacrity. In this view me thinks he is in a delicate Situation. I wish him Success; upon that I may Say almost depends the Cause of America. If he gives Bur goyne an effectual Check the British Campaign will be over & Gates will Stand next to Washington; this will ever have the lead in America & an illustrious character in future history. General Burgoyne announced his Entry upon the territory of the United States by a pompous proclamation in which in very affected language he is lavish of friendly promises to Tories & property men & not less profuse in denunciations against those who dare treat him as Junius did set him at Defiance. 3 Unhappily already for many who had confided in his promises of protection, they have fallen a Sacrifice to the ferocity of his gentle Allies the barbarian Indians. These even in presence of the British Savages have murdered & scalped some men & many women & Children who in obedience to the proclamation had remained quietly at home & removed none of their effects. Innocent young girls whose parents thought them in perfect safety & indeed under the pro tection of the British Commander have been taken as they were amusing themselves in the fields & inhumanely Butchered. I hope General Gates will stop their progress. Gentlemen who are better acquainted with the Country than I am, say if the New England Militia are in earnest Mr. Burgoyne may not only be checked but his retreat cut off. In the meantime the number of auxiliaries which he may have collected from among Tories is altogether uncertain. We have lately received very flattering intelligence from our Agents at Paris & in the West Indies. The French Court have lent us a round Sum of Money at an easy Interest, have reiterated assurances of keeping their ports open to our Ships, Commercial & Warlike, but are extremely shy with respect to recognizing our Independence & entering into a formal Treaty. Until they do both I will have no confidence in them. Every thing else is consistent with their own Interest & may be calculated & made use of hereafter to our further distress. For the Money lent they have the best security in the World & may raise the amount with large Interest at the Bank of England whenever.they please, or may compel us to pay four fold in Land, which by one of their movements though cau-
