486 August 15, 1777 to our great Surprize we learned that the Same fleet was seen off Sinnepuxent on the Coast of Maryland. This advice has been con firmed by different Expresses, the last added that they had been seen steering Southerly with a Wind about South East. General Washington has marched his Army & is encamped about 21 Miles hence on the North Road where I suppose he will wait for further intelligence. ’Tis true Soldiers march quicker on Ships than we can on Shoar, but those various movements clearly demonstrate the difficulties which the British Generals have to encounter in their present dispute. The loss of Ticonderoga has occasioned an universal clamour. Gen eral Schuyler & St. Clair are remanded in order to answer at a Court of Enquiry & General Gates sent by Congress to the Command of that department. He is said to be a favorite with the people of New England & that thousands who had abandoned Mr. Schuyler will immediately join him. General Burgoyne who sent a very pompous proclamation as his forerunner towards Albany had met with very little opposition & had advanced within 25 or 30 Miles of that City the 4th Inst. He had marked his progress with the blood of many Innocent people chiefly Women who had been butchered & scalped by his Indians in Sight of British Troops, these unhappy people had remained quietly on their Lands in obediance to Mr. Burgoyne’s proclamation. Every body hopes his cruel progress will be Stopped by General Gates & those who are well acquainted with the Country say his retreat will be cut off. He is a bold enterprizing Officer inclined rather to be rash, if he is as foolish in his Marching as he is in his writing I have no doubt but he will soon meet with a Check. Time must show the event. This Month will be marked with blood. Our Accounts from France are all very flattering but methinks I perceive great artifice in the whole behaviour of that Court. We have in my opinion been much too forward in our offers of Treaty. The British Court on the other hand has made a proposition to them of some concession in the New Foundland Fishery. They are waiting to see who will bid most or possibly where they can make most, in the meantime benefiting by our trade & insulting the Flag & Commerce of poor old England in a degree which must gall that high Spirited nation. Tis very true France has lent us a large Sum of Money but I do not pass that to the Credit of friendship. She has the best Security in the World for principal & Interest & may raise both at the Bank of England whenever she pleases, or may compel us to repay upon her own terms. The midle rank of people & many of higher degree are panting for our Success in full prospect of participating Liberty. Nothing more
