August 15, 1777 487 natural than this, but how the King & his Court enjoy the prospect of losing thousands of their Subjects is a question which time must Solve. Upon the whole I have no confidence in France that she will take one Step for us but such as lead to her own Interest & Security. This would lead me into an hours conversation. The Consequence of having all our ports blocked up is scarcity of such articles as were wont to be imported from abroad & advanced prices. These are met by advances nearly equal on the part of the Farmer & Labourer-—a schedule of which I will inclose. People there fore who are not concerned in Merchandize or Farming & hold no profitable Office under Government bear the weight of this extra ordinary charge. I find myself in this Class, if I live half as well as I have been accustomed to at home fifteen hundred pounds Sterling will not pay one years expences exclusive of Clothing. My Son John is now one of General Washington’s family. I have no doubt of his being very happy there & am persuaded he will be very useful to the General. Our Seperation at the hour of parting weighed down my Spirits more than I had suspected it would. I felt it as the greatest disappointment I had ever Suffered nor could I forbear the intimation to himself. I wish he had made a choice for his outset in Life where he might have been more extensively useful to his Country where he might have been the long expected Support to mine & the builder of his own family. If I had suspected the contrary I should have—what should I have done—whatever is best, because nothing is but by the direction of Supreme wisdom & goodness. ’Tis the Duty of Man to bear Seeming misfortune & reason himself into con viction that there is no real misfortune & ever to be Thankful for the good which he has enjoyed. Adieu My dear sir. My good wishes are ever with you & yours. I beg ypU to present my respectful Compliments to Mrs. Mannigault, Mr Joseph & the young Ladies & to accept the repeated assurance of being, your much obliged humble Servant LB (ScHi). 1 Gabriel Manigault (1704—81), wealthy South Carolina merchant and planter and occasional business associate of Laurens, was noted for the fact that he lent more money to the revolutionary government of his state than any other South Carolinian. Walter B. Edgar et al., eds., Biographical Directory of the South Carolina House of Representatives (Columbia: University of South Caro lina Press, 1974—), 2:428-31. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge [August 15, 1777] 15th. Mr. Penn & Mr. Chew have been introduced by motion in
