490 August 16, 1777 able purpose. I wish however my three Daughters & grand Daughter were here or at the Town which I lately left. I would endeavour to make them all happy. The presence of one of them however might tend to lead that Gentleman into a way in which he might be more ex tensively useful to his Country, be the promised Support of mine & the builder of his own family. I am to presume he consulted you no more than he had Studied my inclinations. He was determined & there fore ’tis to be Supposed he would not hazard a question. Indeed I thought it incumbent upon me to intimate my Sentiments, he heard them & persued the dictates of his own mind. Let us hope, my Dear Sir, that the measure which he is pursuing will have happy effects. He is in Gen. W’s family, I am persuaded he will be very useful to that good & great Man & that he will be as happy as circum stances in that course of Life will Admit of. Believe me we are happier here than you can conceive. If Some great Men had known this Country, this vast beautiful populous Country as well as I did, my advice in the Years 1773 & 1774 3 would have Saved a Nation which I dearly Love & therefore am Sorry to fight against immense Sums of Money & Streams of Blood the Loss of which they carefully conceal from you, would have Saved her from disgrace perhaps from ruin. Nothing was wanting on their part but knowledge. They abandoned themselves to lying imposters who de ceived them & they their Master. If they had been capable of receiving the truth we should have been in union a happy people for Ages to come. The time is past for union. Treaty may yet make us happy friends. God grant Wisdom to some on your Side to propose terms which we on this, dare accept. As terms hitherto, depend upon it, have been offered truth on this important point has likewise been concealed from you. 4 LB (ScHi). Endorsed: “Per Mr. Morris to be forwarded from Sinepuxent, had not time to proceed as I had intended nor even to sign the Letter.” 1 William Manning, a London merchant who often served as Laurens’ banker, was also the father-in-law of Laurens’ son John. David D. Wallace, The Life of Henry Laurens (New York: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1915), pp. 464-67. 2 John Laurens. 3 Laurens had lived in England during these years. 4 This day Laurens also wrote a letter to Philip Minis of Savannah, Ga., the only part of which that has been found is the postscript Laurens entered in his letter book: “Your Petition is before the Board of Treasury. I hope to get your prayer granted & your demand paid out of Money voted to be sent to Mr. Clay now Deputy Pay Master General in that district.” Laurens Papers, ScHi. Congress finally resolved on October 28, 1778, to pay $6,919 to Minis, “it being so much advanced by him to the late Mr. Kennon, deceased, acting pay master and commissary to the Virginia and North Carolina troops in the State of Georgia.” JCC, 8:630, 12:1071-72.
