August 17, 1777 493 The Plan you have adopted and recommended for the Defence of the River Delaware, is ordered to be carried into Execution. 3 As soon as Congress shall come into any Resolve on the Subjects of your several Letters, the Result shall be immediately transmitted. I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Esteem, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt, John Hancock Presid t 4 RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. i See JCC, 8:649. 2 This letter is in PCC, item 152, 4:485-88, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 9:72-75. For a list of the enclosures, see ibid., p. 75. 3 Washington set forth this “Plan” in his August 10 letter to President Han cock, and on the following day Congress ordered the Board of War to put it into effect “with all possible despatch.” JCC, 8:630; PCC, item 152, 4:469—75; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:45-53. 4 On August 16 Hancock had written a letter to Gen. William Heath in Boston, asking him to forward the baggage belonging to Philippe Du Coudray “& his officers.” Heath Papers, MHi. Henry Laurens to Elias Ball Dear Sir 1 17th August 1777 The News paper which I shall Send with this will give you a pretty distinct Account of the State of the War in this quarter. I may add that we have begun to give General Burgoyne’s Savage Allies a Check. An attack was made on Fort Schuyler by a detachment from Burgoyne’s main body aided by Tories & Indians. Colonel Gansevor Commander of the Fort made a Sally from within & took 4 pieces of Cannon & 2 Royals. General Harkimer of New York Militia had an engagement with them, in which he suffered considerably but kept the field & counted after the Action 50 Indians lying dead. This will give that Tribe some kind of check & we hope a more effectual one will Soon to be given to the head Savage Burgoyne himself. Who can forbear calling him Savage when he boasts of Sending them to Murder In nocent Women & Children, which they have done to a shocking extent & even to many who had taken Shelter under his proclamation. The last Account we heard of the Grand New York Fleet was their Steering southerly from the Coast of Maryland. The Season of the year would seem to forbid it but I am not without apprehensions of a sudden attack on the land side upon Sullivants Island—where else but there or Georgia can that fleet be destined. I am not free from deep feelings for you all. Your Brother John lodges at Doctor Bond’s for the benefit he says of taking advice & Medicine for a pain in his Side, he went happily through the Small Pox & left on about the 11th Inst, in a manner not Satisfactory to me, I had taken as much care of him as if he had been
