August 17, 1777 495 of Delaware the 28th to the 1st August, then vanished, appeared again upon the Coast of Maryland the 7 & 8th Inst. & was last day seen Standing Sotherly. If we do not hear to morrow of their arrival in Cheasapeek Bay many people notwithstanding the forbidding Season of the year will be anxious for Carolina & Georgia. General Burgoyne according to the menace in his extraordinary proclamation has given Stretch to his Savage friends. 5 We received advices yesterday from Colo. Morgan of many murders committed by Indians on the western frontiers of Virginia & Pensylvania, with these Butchers a few Canadians & British are joined. Where they murder they leave Proclamations from the General & say all the Savages on the frontiers of the United Colonies are to attack in that Side while 100000 British Troops are to enter Pensylvania, Virginia, Charles Town & Georgia from the Sea Side. General Hand who Commands at Fort Pitt & Colo. Morgan seem to be under no apprehension of being routed. They intimate that Britain will have the Glory of Murdering many helpless Innocent Men, Women & Children & bring on the destruction of their friends. In preparation for this purpose they recommend to carry the War directly into their own Country & the most Speedy measures are adopted for that purpose. 6 If any thing above mentioned will be acceptable to Mr. Wells please to give it him or to Mr. Timothy if his Gazette is to come first out. I need not Say I dont wish to appear as a News Correspondent. I never write News without good grounds apparently & I believe now every word I have written to be true but to morrow may contradict or vary all that does not proceed from authority. I beleive that nothing less than the mode of a parliamentary enquiry into the Conduct of the Officers in the Northern department will con tent the people. For the purpose of answering Gen Schuyler will be in or near this City in a few days. We hear not a word from Genl. St. Clair nor do we know where he is—probably with the advanced Army. My Compliments to Mrs Gervais & all friends & believe me with great affection & regard &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 Laurens’ August 16 letter to Gervais has not been found. 2 Doubtless the committee to consider a method for investigating the evacua tion of Ticonderoga, which submitted a report to Congress on August 19. ]CC, 8:596, 653, 659. 3 This letter is in PCC, item 153, 3:242-43. 4 See JCC, 8:649. 5 In a proclamation dated June 20, General Burgoyne had called upon Americans to submit to royal authority and warned them not to take any com fort in being remote from his army because “I have but to give stretch to the Indian forces under my direction (and they amount to thousands) to overtake the hardened enemies of Great Britain and America.” Paul Lewis, The Man
