August 17,1777 497 Seperate fleet transported to Rhode Island or even as far as Boston we must have heard of it before this day. &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 Laurens objected to a proposal to raise this money by drawing bills of ex change on the American commissioners at Paris. See also William Duer to Robert R. Livingston, May 28, 1777, note 3. Henry Laurens to William Thomson Dear Colonel 1 17th August 1777. I made my journey pleasant enough by taking the Mountain Road which furnished Cool Air, fine Water & plenty of provision for Man & Horse. I reached this place the 21st July. Your application for leave to arm half your Regiment with Smooth bores & bayonets lies before the board of War—where a multiplicity of business may keep back a report many days. In the mean time I am well assured Congress will have no objection to your arming agree able to your desire provided His Excellency the president shall judge the variation to be for the good of the Service. Make your application here or possibly with propriety to the General Commanding in the Southern department. From thence also you must expect to be supplied with Arms. There has been I am informed great waste made in this quarter & there is now an universal Cry for Muskets for the Militia. 2 I have employed a proper person to enquire for a Bolting Cloth for you—the article is become very scarce & the price at least four times doubled of the former rate. I mean such as I have yet discovered, if I can find none cheaper I must Send you one by next opportunity. Tis an article which I suppose you cannot dispence with. News as in Mr. Gervais’s last Letter dated 17th Inst. 3 The time is teeming with some grand event. The British Forces in this quarter Seem to be Struggling their last. If they do not conquer tis probable they will withdraw but tis hardly possible they should do so without one more attempt upon Sullivants Island if they make it sud denly by Land. I think more than is necessary to be Said to you on that Subject; you know what must follow. This River is blocked up by four Men of War, every article of Life is amazingly dear. My Compliments to Mrs Thomson & the young Ladies & be assured I am with great regard &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 William Thomson (1727-96), a South Carolina planter, military officer, and political leader, was currently serving as colonel of the Third South Carolina Regiment. Walter B. Edgar et al., eds., Biographical Directory of the South
