August 18, 1777 503 Henry Marchant to Nicholas Cooke Honored Sir, Philadelphia Augt. 17th [i.e. 18th] 1777 1 I have done myself the Honor of writing frequently to the Govr. and Company of the State I have the Honor to represent in Congress; The Contents of some of those Letters I apprehend were of Conse quence; yet I have not been so happy as to receive an Answer to any one of Them. Nor have I had a Line from the Come, appointed to correspond with Their Delegates. Congress this Day received the Resolutions of the Committee of the Eastern States, transmitted to Them by the Honb Stephen Hopkins Esqr. President of that Com mittee; those Resolutions have been read, but not yet considered. 2 I now Sir enclose you a Resolve of Congress of the 15th Instant re questing you to transmit to Congress Accounts of all Monies advanced and Expences incured by Prisoners of War &c. The Resolve points out to you the Necessity of an immediate Attention thereto. 3 An Expecta tion of a general Exchange of Prisoners soon to take Place occasioned that Resolve, As without those Accounts an Exchange cannot well be made. We have no certain account of the Fleet since they were seen off Maryland. It is strongly suspected They are gone either to Virginia or So. Carolina.' The latter is rather in my Judgment the Place of Their Destination. Now then is the Time for New-England to exert Them selves, by sending forth a formidable Body of Militia to the Northward; and by making a Desent upon Rhode Island. Our State in sundry In stances have of late done much Honor to Themselves. I hope they will continue on, and with the assistance of Their neighbour Sisters will fix their Character for Fortitude and Bravery to be transmitted as unequaled to the latest Posterity. I have the Honor to be Honored Sir, Yours and the States, most obedient and humble Servant, Hy. Marchant RC (R-Ar). 1 Congress read the “Resolutions . . . transmitted . . . by . . . Stephen Hopkins,” which Marchant mentions below, on August 18 and did not meet on the 17th, a Sunday. 2 In response to a proposal by Massachusetts, representatives from that state, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Connecticut, and New York met at Springfield to discuss measures to deal with the problems of currency depreciation, price inflation, and military supplies. At this meeting, which lasted from August 1 to 6, the conferees agreed to urge all state legislatures to redeem most of the paper money in circulation and pay for the war by taxation instead, to curb inflation by regulating prices, to prevent engrossing and provide military supplies to soldiers at reasonable prices, and to remove most restrictions on interstate com merce. In order to add force to their appeal, they also decided to ask Congress to express its approval of these recommendations to the states. PCC, item 78, 11:207-22. Congress read the proceedings of this meeting, together with Stephen Hop kins’ August 6 covering letter, on August 18 and referred the issue to a com-
