August 19, 1777 511 Stark, who had resigned from the Continental Army when Enoch Poor was promoted to brigadier general, told him that “by his Instructions from that State, it is at his option to act in conjunction with the Continental Army or not” and that he did not intend to join the Continental Army unless he was restored to his position of seniority in the army. As a result, Congress resolved on the next day to transmit a copy of Lincoln’s letter to the New Hampshire government with the admonition that “the instruc tions which General Stark says he has received from them, are destructive of military subordination, and highly prejudicial to the common cause at this crisis; and therefore that they be desired to instruct General Stark to conform himself to the same rules which other general officers of the militia are subject to, whenever they are called out at the expence of the United States.” The New Hampshire delegates sent a copy to Meshech Weare with their August 22 letter. Frost, however, sent Bartlett a separate copy with these com ments: “The foregoing letter was sent by Genl. Lincoln to Genl. Schuyler and by P. Schuyler to Congress which is very alarming to Congress. Genl. Starkes should take occasion to Resent any supposed affrunt by Congress to him when his Country lays at stake. At the same time woud take notis that we shall loos the benifet of our troops being put in the Continental! pay Except the measures are alterd, and woud also observe he dont refuse to put him self under Genl. Schuyler who is Recarled from that Command and Congress has given the Command of that Armey to Genl. Gates, wch I suppose Gl. Starke knew not of at that time, as to the promotion of officers in the armey the Congress went on a new plan agreed on in Baltimore (at the Raising the as it called standing armey) that Every state should in some measure have their propotion of Genl, officers according to the Troops they Raised by which Reason som officers was superseeded or as they call afronted.” Bartlett Papers, NhD. But before any of these actions could take effect, General Stark had already led the New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Vermont militia forces to victory at Bennington on August 16. When news of Stark’s victory arrived on August 21 criticism of him all but disappeared, and on October 4, 1777, Congress voted its thanks to Stark and the New Hampshire militia and appointed him a brigadier general in the Continental Army. See JCC, 8:649, 656—57, 9:770—71; N.H. State Papers, 8:662-64; New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare, August 22; and John Hancock to the New Hampshire Assembly, August 25, 1777. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge Dear Sir, 19th August 1777. I had the honor of writing to your Excellency besides the enclosed of the 12th, the 17th Inst, by Colo. Sumpter with News papers & I now add one of this date. Congress has on the Table a plan for negotiating a Loan for Ten Millions of Dollars, if they go no further it may not quite ruin us. I am as averse from this measure as I was from that of the Western expedition 1 but have no hopes of Succeeding against a confirmed Majority. The mischief will be done but not without a modest dissent on my part. General Howes appearance in this quarter & the sotherly Course
