512 August 19, 1777 steered by the Fleet the 8th Inst, has raised an uncommon anxiety in my mind for the Safety of my Country & my friends if an attack is made there, the interposition of Heaven may save them & give your Excellency Glory & happiness. I sincerely wish it being with great esteem & regard &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 See Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, July 24 and 25, 1777. Henry Laurens to John Wells Dear SW 19th August 1777 The day before yesterday I wrote to you by Colo. Sumpter. 2 Tis probable you will know more of the Coasting Fleet than I shall when this reaches you. I begin to be confirmed in my opinion founded upon their leaving Synnepaxent that a Coup was intended at Sullivants & James Island & I know if successful what must follow if this conjecture be right we are indebted to the abjuration Act & to Major General Grant who knows better than to be discouraged from a great Stroke by common opinions of the Season of the year. In this prospect I feel an anxiety for my Country & my friends which never finds a place in my mind from appearances or small circumstances. The News papers which I shall Send to Colo. Gervais or you will shew you how affairs generally stand in the Northern department. Than followed English News & Concluded as follows Nothing of this may be News to you as I see (not by advice from you) a Brigt from London has been taken about 20 July by Capt Seymour & carried into George Town. Be that as it may you will accept the Labour & endeavour of &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 John Wells, the publisher of the South-Carolina and American Gazette. During the British occupation of Charleston Wells became a loyalist and was forced to flee to the Bahamas when the British left the city in 1782. Arthur M.,— I 05. 1 "® 01 ’ P re l u de to Independence: The Newspaper War on Britain 1764- 1776 (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1958), pp. 238, 290. 2 In his letter book, Laurens simply noted that on August 17 he had written a “Letter Containing Sundry News &ca” to Wells. Laurens Papers, ScHi. The letter has not been found. Richard Henry Lee to Landon Carter? My dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia 19th Augt. 1777 As it is always with pleasure that I obey your commands, so it is per-
