516 August 19, 1777 Robert Morris to Jonathan Hudson Sir Philada. August 19th. 1777 Yours of the 16th is with me and I will deliver the list of Cordage &c to the Navy Board here, but whether they can supply you or not I really do not know. I believe this Brigt must be put under their di rection untill compleated. I have not heard any thing of the mobs you mention at the Head of Elk & having lately had some Goods up from thence I hope you have been misinformed. It is well you will be so clear & distinct in your Accounts, we have therefore nothing to do but make money fast as we can & wishing your honest endeavours may be crowned with success I am sir, Your Obedt hble servt, Robt Morris RC (PHi). William Paca to Thomas Johnson Dr. Sir, Phila. 19 Aug. 1777 I enclose you Genl. Washingtons Letter and doubt not you will make a proper Enquiry into the Arrest he complains of. 1 I wish the Artillery Corp & the 16 Regts, had been apportioned on the States that each State might have known what was it’s Quota and the present difficulties in filling up those Corps prevented. We have no Intelligence of Howe’s Fleet. The Army we know for a Certainty is embarked. We begin to be apprehensive they have gone to South Carolina. The Militia of Tryon County have had a very smart Engagement with Johnson & his Indians & a Body of British Troops. It is said the Militia consisted of 700. We lost about 100 men some of which are the most active leading Whigs in that County. The Enemy were de feated & lost fifty or sixty Indians and some of their best Officers. There was another Brush by a Party under Capt. Willet who drove another Party of the Enemy and took a considerable Booty. Genl. Schuyler writes that the van of Burgoyne’s Army he is informed has moved forward to Saratoga. I wish our affairs in that Quarter bore a more pleasing Aspect. The New England States disgusted with Schuyler & his officers have been very slow in giving him Assistance. Gates perhaps will please them & get them to exert themselves. S.C. 2 says he has wrote you fully and therefore I need not be more particular in my Intelligence. Pray what Success have we with our Salt Works? Wishing you every Success and Happiness, I am, dear sir, yrs aftly. W Paca
