518 August 20, 1777 Wine was Ten Dollars a Bottle, I would have one Glass a Day, in Water, while the hot weather continues, unless I could get Cyder. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:320-21. 1 Suspension points in MS. Benjamin Harrison to George Washington Dear General Philad. Augst. 20 1777 I remember well a Conversation’s passing betwixt you and I on the subject of the Marquis de la Fyattes Commission, & that I told you it was merely Honorary, in this light I look’d on it, and so did every other member of Congress. He had made an agreement with Mr Deane, but this he gave up by Letter to Congress, not wishing as he said to em barrass their affairs. Mr Duer who presented this Letter assur’d us he did not wish or desire Command, but gave us to understand his chief motive for going into our Service was to be near you, to see Ser vice, and to give him an Eclat at home, where he expected he would soon return. These you may depend on it were the Reasons that in duced Congress to Comply with his request, and that he could not have obtain’d the Commission on any other terms; The other Day he sur prised every body by a letter of his, requesting Commissions for his officers, and Insinuating at the same time that he should expect a Command as soon as you should think him fit for one. Depend on it Congress never meant that he should have one, nor will not countenance him in his applications, I had it not in my power yesterday to get their opinions on the subject, but will do it soon. 1 Where can Howe be gone. We begin to be under great Apprehensions for South Carolina, and think he must have been heard off if he had taken any other course, can not a blow be given Burgoyne in his ab sence? If something can not be done in that quarter soon, N York will certainly be lost. Our eastern Friends have behaved most shamefully. Where the Devil is Gates, why dos he loiter so on the Road. The weather has been hot it is true, and so is the Service he is going to. I am my Dear Sir, your affect Hble Servt, Benj Harrison RC (DLC). 1 In his August 19 letter to Harrison, Washington had requested clarification of the conditions under which Lafayette had been granted a commission as major general on July 31. See JCC, 8:592-93; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:95-96. For Lafayette’s August 13 letter, which had been re ferred to the Board of War, see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:103.
