August 20, 1777 519 Henry Laurens to Joseph Clay 20th August 1777 I had determined to have done my self the pleasure of giving you 1 a general State of our public affairs in this Central part of the United Colonies but have been so much & so often interrupted I have not time by the present opportunity. I must therefore beg you will be referred to the News papers which I shall put under cover with this. Since my arrival here I have done every thing in my power to impress upon the mind of Congress the value & importance of Georgia & to recommend it to their particular protection which your Delegate will do me the justice to confirm. I apply in politics St. Paul’s remark, if one member Suffers all the Members Suffer. The loss of Georgia or South Carolina or even their distress will be Sensibly felt by all the northern States. I think this important truth has not hitherto been properly considered. I moved for a Committee to take the State of Georgia into con sideration. 2 This produced certain determinations of which you will be advised fully by Colo. Walton to whom I also took the liberty of mentioning your name for Dep pay Master General & you will find you are accordingly appointed. 3 You must not refuse to Act. Tis an Office honourable & genteel, an Office requiring the knowledge, diligence & integrity of a Clay, therefore for your Country’s Sake & for the honour of human nature I intreat you to act. The Office of paymaster has too generally been an Office of plunder. Your Accounts will shew that there are Men who can act with accuracy & Strict justice even for the public. This will induce an endeavour upon every occasion to Seek for such Men to serve the public & counteract the assertion of designing Men who when they mean to thrust a favorite or dependent into place Say that all Men when in Office are alike, & too often find it easy to refer to proofs in Support of so dangerous a doctrine. If Security Should be required I beg you will permit me to be one. Indeed I have already in order to Shew my Sentiments of your valuable Character made an offer to that purpose. Had you been near I would first have consulted you, in our present circumstances I trust you will not censure me for being too forward. If I can render you any Service during my Stay in Philadelphia I beg you will give me Some opportunity; & believe me to be with great regard &ca. 4 LB (ScHi). 1 Joseph Clay (1741-1804), a Savannah, Ga., merchant, was chosen as a delegate to Congress in 1778 but did not attend. DAB; and Bio. Dir. Cong. 2 For the August 1 resolves Congress adopted on the basis of the report of this committee, of which Laurens was a member, see ]CC, 8:579, 590, 596-98. 3 Congress made this appointment on August 6 and Clay informed Laurens
