August 22, 1777 525 we pass a precious opportunity. One of the schemes is built upon cer tainty; the other upon chance with the highest probability of ill conse quences. The principal of the Tickets is to be paid here upon our plighted faith. If they do not obtain currency in Europe we shall be disgraced immediately; for, the face of the Paper shows our views & expectations. If they do pass freely, we shall have a sad after-reconing. If fresh en couragement to lenders, by bills of Exchange for their interest as it be comes due, does not give an immediate spring to our Loan business, we must emit directly, till a tax can supply. We should consider that we have only gone two years into our annual income; we can bear much more; and our circulation is most amazingly extended, so as not to leave the depreciation a charge against the quantity of Bills, by any means so strong as the prevalent opinion. Other causes have a more powerful in fluence. If Silas 2 and his York connexions could have a good opening to transfer their whole property to the other side of the water it is not im possible that they would gladly do it. Sir 22d Augst Since scratching an attendant half Sheet we have had several sorts of intelligence that may produce changes very considerable in our domestic plans. In the first place there has been a proper council of war and de termination as things then stood. We have in the next place information that on the 15th the Enemy’s fleet was at the Capes of Virginia. The Genl. & Council had thought Sth. Carolina or the eastern States the Object of Howe’s pursuit. 3 I still believe that Virginia is visited thro meer necessity, if the present appearance of the ships is any thing more than an allarm. On the 5th of July the Troops went on board; they sail’d from Sandy Hook the 23d, appeared at the mouth of the Delaware the 31st, at Sinepuxent the 8th of Augst. and within the Capes of Virginia the 15th. It was said they had 40 days forrage on board, which must now be expended. Suppose Virginia is to be ravaged in part, some negroes and tobacco stolen, and a few stragling houses burnt; this is not forrage, or that conquest of America which is desired by Britain. It will furnish the Soldiery with plunder and revive their spirits a little. In the mean time, . But, I leave that matter to futurity. Starks & his militia have made even Genl. Chase willing to overlook a foolish rashness about rank. The Bennington affair may spur up to general vigour in the northern Department. Schyler has been petitioned by the Genl. Officers to tarry & influence the militia, and he has con sented to do it. If he is not a valliant man, he certainly knows how to use the world; he is far from a foolish man. He advises to send other indian Commissioners because Mr. Woolcot &c. are so far off. I will give you the extract. This also is not foolish. 4. Clock P.M. Yesterday & this day we adjourned to dine. We were particularly
