August 22, 1777 529 such officers. That the Preservation of the lives of the inhabetints on ouer frunteers and the cause in which we weire all engaged mad Such orders at that critical time absolutely necessary. That we ware not abought to justify general Stark for making a demand of Rank in the army at that Critical time but we well know that he hase a great deal to Say for him salf on that head, and that he had been in allmost all of the engagements to the northward and distinguished him Self while others ware advanced [over?] his head. Yesterday a motion wase made by Maryland and seconded that a Resolve of Congress might be Paste to Censure his Conduct in Refuseing to submit to the Rules & Regula tions of the armay on which a large debate insued in which we ware Suported by all the Newengland Delegates and some of the Ver- ginians. On motion being made it was agreed it Should lie on the table and carried by a grate majority. 2 We informd Congress that a motion of that Sort came with a Very bad grace from Maryland who only of the thirteen United States had Seen fit to make laws Diracktly in oppersion to Congress, by Refuseing that thaire militia Should be Subjacted to the Rules and Ragulation of the army when Joynd. And we informd Congress that we had not the lest Doubt but the first batle thay heard of from the north would be faught by Stark and the troops he Comanded, notwithstanding that Some gentleman in thaire warmthe had Said Some things Disrespectfull of them and that I Should not be affraid to Risk my honer nor my Life thay wood do as much towards the defence of that Part of the Cuntrey and the Coman Cause as the Same number of any of the troops in that department. I will leve you Sr. to Judge of ouer feelings when the Very naxt day we had a Con formation of what we had asserted by an Express from general Schuyler Giveing an account of the Victory obtained by general Stark and the troops under his Command. We beleive this Curcumstance only will make those Easy who have been trying to Rase a dust in Congress. We have this day an account by express from Maryland of the arivel of a hundred Saile of Hows fleet in Chesepeek bay and a hundd. moore tumeing into Said bay. It is the opinion of Congress thaire design is to attack this City as it is but abought fifty miles a Cross from whare thair Ships are at anchor to this Place. General Washing ton is incampt abought thirty miles to the northward of this Place with abought half of his army the Rest Chefly on Hudsons River. The above information no Doubt will turne his attenshon this way. As the enemy are within two Days march of this Place orders are given to the In- habetents to drive back thaire Stock that they may not fall in to the enemys hands. General Gates Reacht Albany the 17th Instant in order to take the Command in that department. The Congress are not in the lest discoraged and have not the lest doubt but ouer effairs will bare a more favourable aspect in the north and had rather How should
