August 22, 1777 531 ***< v 'W4T v • ! ' WIIbADELPHIA, A^ujl 22, 1777. ■ '- ** By an Exprefs arrived laft Evening from General Schuyler co Congress, we have the following imporcanc Intelligence. Van Schtick's {fland, in tbi mouth of the Motawk River, Auguft i Ktb, i777. S I R, I have tbe tonof to congratulate Congreft on a JignalVitfcry obtained by General Stark-, an account whereof is contained it tbe followin' Letter from General Lincoln, wbicb I have this moment had the batyinefr to receive, together with General BuRaorNa'a in- fruitions to Dtutenant-Colond Bxrm ; Copy whereof is inclofed. Bennington, Augujl i^tb, tyjy, “ Dear General, I( fT*' H £ l»'e lienal fuccefs of a body of abont a000 troop*, moftly Militia, under the command I of Brigadier-General Stark,io thia part of the country, on the i6ch inft. over a party of 8 about 1500 of the enemy, who came out with a manifeft defign to poffe’a themfelrei of this town, at will appear by the endufed, it an event happy and important—Our troops behaved in a very brarwand heroic manner ; they polhcd the enemy from one work to another thrown op 00 advantageous gtound and from diffarent poh». with fptrit and fottitode until they gained a compleat victory over them. » The following b the belt lift 1 have been able to obtain of the prifoners, their killed and wounded, viz. One Lieut. C<’lut>el, 1 Major, 5 Captain*, 12 Lieutenants, 4 Enfigns, 2 Comets, 1 Judge Advocate, 1 Baron, 2 Canadian Officcu, and 3 Surgeons, 37 Britifh Soldiers, 398 Hcfluns, 38 Canadians, and 151 Tories taken—The number of wounded fallen into our hands, exdu&ve of the above, are about 80.— The number of their flain has not yet been af- certained, as they fought on the retreat for fcveral miles tn a wood, but fuppofed to be about x ^q, Thtir artillery which conliftcJ of 4 braG field pieces, with a confidcrablc quantity of baggage Lkewife fell into our hands. We have heard nothing of Burgoyne or his army for thefc two davs paft. The prifoners are Cent into the State of MalDchuictu-Ba^ except the Tories ■, fhall wait your directions refpcdling them, as moft of them belong to the State of New-York. 1 am, dear General, with regard and eilecm, your very humble Servant, B. LINCOLN. N. B. We had about 20 or 30 killed in the aflion, and perhap 50 wounded." Cofy °f Orders from Lieut. General 3V R G O Y N E, to Lieut. Colonel BERN. Dated near Saratoga, Auguji 14, 1777. S I R, The accounts you have given me are very fatisfaAory, and I doubt not every proceeding under your direction will be the fame. 1 beg the favour of you to report whether the route you have marched would be pra<Bicable for a large corps with cannon, without repair, or with what fort of repair. Toe deferable circumftance at prefent for your corps is to poflefs Bennington, but fhould you find the enemy too Rrongly potted, and maintaining fuch a countenance as would make a coup- dc-main too hazardous, 1 with you to take fuch a poft as you can maintain till you hear further from me, and upon your report, and other circutnttastces, 1 will either fuppoi t you in force, or withdrawyou. Will you pleafe to fend to my camp, as foon as you can, waggons and draft cattle, and likewife fuch other cattle as ate not neccffary for your fubfittance ; let the waggons and carta bring off what flour and wheat they can, that you do not retain for the fame purpofe. 1 will write to you in full to-morrow, in regard to purchafing horfes out of the hands of rhe favages > in the mean time let them be allured that whatever you fclcft from them fit to mount the dia- goom, ihall be paid for at a proper price. 1 have the honor to be, with great efteem, Your's, he. Lieut. Col. B E R N. J. BURGOYNE, Lieut. General. 1 tn in hopes that Coogrefs will very foon have ike fatiifa&ioa to learn that General Arnold ba* ratfed the fiege of Fort Schuyler: If chat takes place, I believe it will be pollrble to engage two or three hundred lodians to join this arny, tad Congrcf* nay reft stored that my heft endeavors (hall not be wanting tn accomplish it. I am informed tbit General Gates arrived at Albany yefterday. Major Livingftoo. one of my Aids, will have the honor to deliver you this dcTpaich. 1 aa, Sir, with every feotimeoc of refpeA, your mutt obedient humble femnt, PHILIP SCHUYLER. ^be Hmcrabbe John Hancock, Efquire. Publifbtd by Order of Cor.^refi, JOHN HANCOCK, Prefidenn. Printed by JOHN DUNLAP. Bennington Broadside, August 18—22, 1777
