534 August 23, 1777 2. Because it would employ nearly the whole of his Force to keep Possession of this Town, and the rest of the Continent would be more at Liberty. 3. We could counteract him here better than in many other Places. 4. He would leave N. England and N.Y. at Leisure to kill or catch Burgoine. In all Events I think you may rejoice and sing, for the season is so far gone, that he cannot remove to you. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:326-27. Samuel Chase to Thomas Johnson My Dear Sir Philada. Augst. 23rd. 1777. I received your Letter of the 17 th by Thursdays Post. Yesterday Noon I received an Express from Mr. W. Bordley, informing that the fleet were off Rock Hall. The Intelligence was immediately communi cated to his Excellency Gen. Washington, by whose Answer, received last Night, we are informed that he has ordered the Division under Gen. Nash, about 1500 & 300 artillery at Trenton, to march directly to Chester; that Sullivanes Division, now at Morris Town are also ordered down & the Army under his Command, at Nashameny, about 20 Miles from this, are to march this Morning. You will receive, by Express, a Requisition to call out 1250 of the western, and 750 of the Eastern Shore Militia. They are desired to collect at Baltimore & Harford & George Town on Sassafras. Virginia is desired to march from her back Counties about 2000 to Frederick Town. The Intention is to cover our Country from the Incursions & Depredations of the Enemy, & to hang on the Rear of the Enemy. Gen. Washington never intends to join our or any Militia with his Regulars, but in Case of an absolute Necessity. Orders are sent to remove the prisoners and Stores from Lancaster, to prevent their Loss by a Coup de Main of Gen. Howe. This City is certainly the great object of Gen. Howe, & I believe he will not only be disappointed in that Design, but totally ruined, if the Militia turn out. I greatly lament your Want of Arms. I hope you will be able in a little Time to render those lately arrived, fit for Use. Genl. Smallwood & Colo. Gist are directed to repair to our State to arrange, march & command our Militia. 1 The places of Rendezvous were named, that provisions might be conveyed to some certain Place. I sent you by Express going to Virginia the Intelligence of a victory gained over a Body of Genl. Burgoynes army. I beg you to give Notice to my Family if any Circumstances should
