August 23, 1777 535 render their Removal necessary. My Compliments to the Gentlemen of the Council. Your affectionate Friend, S Chase RC (DNDAR). 1 See JCC, 8:667-68. James Duane to Philip Schuyler My dear General Philad 23d Augt 1777 I am now to thank you for your kind and confidential favour of the Instt. 1 With the papers transmitted me by Mr Jay they have and shall be seen by those whose good opinion deserve your Solicitude. Your Conduct in my Judgement wants no Apology. Instead of Censure it merits thanks. Your Friends in Congress echo this Senti ment freely. Your Enemies relentless and bent on your Destruction woud willingly involve you in the Odium of loosing Ticonderoga. The Change of Command was not however founded on this principle but merely on the Representation of the Eastern States that their militia suspicious of your military Character woud not turn out in Defence of New York while you presided in the Northern Department. So Con fident were they in these Assertions and such from your Own repre sentations was the gloomy Aspect of our Affairs there, that the Southern members were alarmed, and we thought it prudent not to attempt to Stem the Torrent. It was however agreed and declard, as I hinted before, that the Eastern prejudices against you were the only motive to your recall, and it was understood that you might take your time in coming down. Indeed to have ordered otherwise, at so critical a Time, wou’d have been inhuman considering your family, fortune and Influence in that Country. Your Resolution to stay & exert yourself while she remains in such imminent danger is worthy of a Virtuous, brave and patriotic Citizen. All your Friends wish that fortune may put it in your power to give some signal Proof of the only military Talent which you have not Evidenced in the Course of your Command for want of an Opportunity. They all pronounce that this woud put your Enemies to Silence and to Shame and elevate you to the highest Rank among the American Commanders. The Application from the Eastern Generals for your Continuance in the Department, and the respectable Reinforcement from New Hampshire which so palpably contradict the Assertions which were the Basis of your Removal are no small Occasion of Triumph to such of us as predicted that you woud be supported, and will not readily be
