546 August 25, 1777 tions. Could Genl. Conway be spared to go there? I believe Baltimore might be defended. 1 RC (DLC). 1 For Washington’s August 27 response to this letter, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:137—38. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia August the 25th. 1777 Since ours of last Monday when it was apprehended Genii. How was gone for South Carolina he has appeard with his whole fleet as it is supposed entering Cheesepeek Bay & by the last Accounts was up as far as where the river Elk enters the Bay. It is Conjectured he In tends landing at a place called Charlestown, from whence it is probable his first design may be upon Lancaster where we have large Stores & some hundreds of Prisoners. On Notice of the fleet coming up the Bay Immediate Orders were sent to Lancaster to remove the Stores & Prisoners from thence to some place of Safety but Philadelphia may yet be his principal Object as he will have but about fifty miles March to this place. If this is his design the only reason of his Changing Delaware for Cheesepeek must be the Concern he had of the Fire ships & rafts of which we had large Numbers in this river. Genii Washington with his Army had lain about 20 miles from this City towards the Jerseys untill Thursay last when Supposing Genii Howe to have gone far Southward beyond his reach had determined to push up the North River & Indeavour A total rout of the Enemy Northward if possible, at the same time to have attempted dislodging the Enemy from New York & have drove them in their detached parts from all their posts in the Northern & Eastern Department. Providence seemed to point out this season when How was at so great a distance, to Accomplish all this before his return but having that day received Intelligence of the Fleet pushing up Chesepeek altered his rout & is now on his March to Meet the Enemy wherever he may find them on this side Cheesepeek. He marched thro this City yesterday morning about 8 oClock with his whole Army which made a very respectable appearance. The Militia from this State, Delaware, Maryland & the nearest Countys in Virginia are ordered to join him. It is rather thought that Genii Washingtons forwardness to meet him in this quarter & especially if the Militia join him as is expected will again discourage Hows attempts this way but if not have the greatest hopes with the blessing of Heaven that here he may receive his final Overthrow. And we are yet in hopes Notwith standing Genii Washingtons being Diverted from the Northward And Eastward Yet if New England (on the present divided State of How
