August 25, 1777 547 & Burgoins Army) will properly exert themselves And rightly Improve the Advantages put into their hands they may by the blessing of Heaven Effect a most happy close to the present warr before this Year expires. We hope Burgoins Success (however blame worthy the Genii officers in that quarter may have been) will by the disposals of Providence prove his ruin & destruction. Congress have done what lay in their power to remove the Complaints of the People, recalled the Officers concemd, ordered the Strictest Scrutiny & are making every prepara tion for a full, fair & Impartial Tryal. They have sent such Officers to Command in their room in that Department as they thot most Accept able to the people & in whom they might confide both for skill & fidelity, that we shall have no excuse for ourselves or the people whom we represent if they should now fail to offer themselves readily & Chearfully in the Cause of their bleeding Country. We hope, we trust, they will no longer drouse or Sleep untill the Tommohawk awake them in their own dwellings & habitations. The Notable Affair of Genii Stark with his party, seems to open a happy prospect of future success in that quarter if properly followd & pursued which God grant. This, with the Success of Coll Herkemer & Willet near Fort Stanwix & the distruction of so large a Number of the Savages at their first onset are most season able Interpositions of Providence in our behalf when every thing looked gloomy in that quarter. The great & weighty affair of our Confederacy, the Supplies of our Treasury giving Credit & Stability to our depreciat ing Currency are Objects which we trust will very soon be attended to, tho we have been unhappily diverted therefrom by other matters tho not so Important yet Necessary to be done. We have the honour to be with the greatest Esteem & regard, your Honors most Obedt Hble Servts. Eliphalet Dyer Richd. Law Wm. Williams [P.5.] By the best Computation we can make Genii Washington Army of Continental Troops amount to between Ten & Eleven thousand fit for Duty, expects to be joined by about 7 or 8 thousand Militia. RC (Ct). Written by Dyer and signed by Dyer, Law, and Williams. James Duane to George Clinton Sir Philad 25t August 1777 We have the Honour of your favour of the 10th Instant and shall on all Occasions worthy of your attention, or of Importance to the publick, communicate to you our Sentiments with the utmost Freedom
