550 August 25, 1777 I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed & very hble Sert. J H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 This issue is discussed in George Frost to Josiah Bartlett, August 19, 1777, note 2. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Phila. August 25. 1777 It will not perhaps be disagreeable to you in your retirement, some times to hear the events of war, and how in other respects we proceed in the arduous business we are engaged in. Since the loss of Ticonderoga (into the cause of which, and the conduct of the commanding Officers, Congress have ordered inquiry to be made) and Gen. Burgoynes speedy march to Fort Edward, our affairs in that quarter begin to wear a favor able appearance. In addition to Burgoynes force, another Body of Men came down the Mohock river, by way of Oswego, and laid seige to Fort Stanwix, or Schuyler, as it is now called. At this place a battle ensued with the Tryon County Militia, in which the enemy were driven from the ground with the loss of more than 200 Indians and several regulars. Colo. Willet making a Sally from the Fort did great injury to the enemy and took from them a great quantity of baggage with 2 or 3 field pieces. However, the Militia having lost many Men in this Action and their best officers having been killed or wounded, they retired and left the enemy to return and lay Seige to Fort Schuyler, which the Gar rison was bravely defending, when Gen. Arnold was detatched with a body of men to relieve the place. We expect every day to hear of his success. To the northward of this, in the N. Hampshire grants, Gen. Stark with 2000 Militia attacked Colo. Baum and 1500 Regular Troops behind works, and with Cannon. The consequence you will find in the inclosed Hand bill. 1 This was an important victory, well timed, and will probably occasion Mr. Burgoyne to retire very quickly. If he does not, I can venture to Augur his destruction. He is at Saratoga and Fort Ed ward, with our main Army a few miles in his Front at the mouth of Mohock river. I expect Generals Lincoln and Arnold will presently be in his rear, after which, his chance of returning will be very small. Gen. Gates has joined the Northern Army and now commands in that quarter. Putnam with 5000 men commands on the heights of Hudsons river above N. York, in which place Gen. Clinton is left with about 3000 men. After Gen. Howe had long raised the curiosity of this part of the world, to know what could be his view in embarking his Army and coasting it for 5 weeks in a most oppressively hot season; at length,
