August 25, 1777 553 [P.5.] We hear of a pretty little invoice from Bilboa at Portsmouth-— naval stores &c. Tr (DLC). 1 John Adams, Henry Laurens, and Richard Henry Lee were named to this committee on August 28. ]CC, 8:688. 2 Although Lovell’s enclosed map has not been found, for a similar map, which he sent to Abigail Adams a few days later, see Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:262, illustration 9. James Lovell to Oliver Wolcott [August] 25th [1777]. I have not got the Extract 1 hinted at but it is not matereal. The Enemy’s fleet continues at the mouth of Elk, and is known now to have troops on board, which was doubted yesterday. We have army enough to swallow Howe and all his troops including his Horses as well as their Riders. The militia turn out with alacrity, better armed than those of any other State, I dare say. I desire to be known with Affection and Respect, Sir, Your humb Serv, James Lovell [RS 1.] I hear regularly from Coll. Whipple, who is well. A Quantity of Cordage, some anchors, Broad Cloth, Sail Cloth and Shirting has arrived at Portsmouth by the Friendship of Spain. RC (CtHi). A continuation of Lovell to Wolcott, August 21-22, 1777. 1 A reference to passages in an August 15 letter written by Philip Schuyler to Congress, from which, in his August 21-22 letter to Wolcott, Lovell promised to send an extract. Marine Committee to John Stevens Sir August 25th 1777 Your Letter of the 18th June advising your arrival at Charles Town with 500 stand of Arms has come to hand, and we are pleased with your success. The Commercial Committee has now given Orders to the Agents to load your Vessel with a convenient Cargo which you must receive and proceed therewith to the Island of Martinico where you are to deliver the same as the said Agents shall direct. 1 When this is done you must again return to Charles Town where the Agents will employ your Schooner agreeable to orders now given them, therefore you must follow such directions as they give you in future ad vising us when you arrive. We doubt not you will be extreamly cautious to prevent your Vessel from falling into the hands of the enemy and that
