August 26, 1777 557 any thing to the Commercial Committee on that Head, but shall men tion it this morning & doubt not that they will be fully Satisfie. P.S. I think it will be best to order the Goods from Portsmouth by Land as the Distance is not great & Roads good. FC (MB). . 1 Warren’s August 9 letter to Gerry has not been found, but his August 13 letter to Gerry asked for orders regarding a shipment of supplies that had just arrived in Portsmouth, N.H. C. Harvey Gardiner, ed., A Study in Dissent. The Warren-Gerry Correspondence, 1776—1/92 (Carbondale: Southern Illinois Uni versity Press, 1968), pp. 76—77. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson D r sir Philadelphia Augt. 26. 1777 I am really surprised that you will not give me one line. I fear some terrible Accident has happened in my family I have not had a line from Mrs. Harnett since I left Cape Fear. For Gods sake write me by every Post. This is the last you may expect to receive from me unless you Comply with your promise of writing to me Often. I am anxious to hear from My family as well as my friends. I refer you to the N. Papers in closed, for News. I am. Dr Sir, Your sincere friend &c, Coml. Harnett [P.S.] The Post just Setting off. RC (ICHi). Endorsed: “Reed, the 19th of Sepr. 1777.” Robert Morris to Jonathan Hudson Si r Philada. Augt. 26th. 1777 Having reed, yours of the 19th Inst 1 & growing a good deal anxious for the fate of the Bacon, Pork &ca. you had at the Head of Elk, I determined to accept an offer made me by the Commissary & sold him the same. Pork for £12 per barrell & the Hams &c 18d per lb. This Price was not so high as I might have got had the Circumstances of these Goods been more favorable. I have since reed, a letter from Mr. Irwin mentioning his having sent these articles forward but fancy he will be Stopped therein by the Commissary who now must take charge thereof & these will ease you of all trouble & risque on this Score. I am, Sir, Your Obedt. hble Servt. Robt Morris P.S. As the Enemy are landed near Elk its plain they mean this way which will give you time to sell your other Goods.
