August 27, 1777 559 vent any succours to the Northward, & so leave in Burgoynes power to accomplish his Rage, which Howe might have ravaged & desolated our Country & reduced Us to amazing distress & effected more than the conquest of this city. But We know not what certainty what is before Us, & may be sanguine. But this is certain N England has vast Occasion to bless & praise the Lord, for his wonderous Mercy in our Deliverance from the dreadful Scourge. The distress had been beyond all discription had our Enemy invaded them in so critical a Moment. O that there was an heart in our Countrymen. May God in infinite Mercy pour out his Spirit upon Us, I hope & trust is the earnest Cry of all that Love his Name. I am glad to See a Day of Fasting is appointed in Contt & Massa. May We no longer mock the Almighty with deceitfull Words from feigned Lips. The Time is elapsed & the Post on the point of Setting out. With Compliments to the Gent, of your Councill & tender remember- ance to my dear Friend I am & shall ever be with great respect & highest Esteem Your most dutiful & Obed Son & Servt. W Williams [P.5.] I hope you reed mine by Sa. Hunt. 2 RC (Ct). 1 Not found. 2 Williams’ letters to Trumbull of August 2. James Duane to Robert Livingston My dear and honourd Sir Philadelphia 27h Augt. 1777 Mr Thorne deliverd me your favour of the 15t Instant. I participate in the Distress & Anxiety you must have felt at the prospect of Genl Burgoine’s Approach attended by murdrous Savages and no less cruel European Troops. That gracious Being who has hitherto protected us will I trust disappoint the destructive Projects of our Enemies. To him let us look up for Protection; and our Efforts for our own self preserva tion will be blessed with Success. The signal Victory gained at Benning ton; the severe blow given to the Indians by our Tryon militia, and the Courage and Perseverance of the Garrison at Fort Schuyler, join’d to General Burgoine’s Temerity, and Genl Howes great Distance which must effectually prevent his giving 1 any Succour in Season; Above all the present Security which the Eastern States derive from the remote Situation of General Howe—which leaves them at full Liberty to em ploy their whole Strength to the Northward—All these Circumstances united will probably give a happy turn to our affairs, and oblige Mr Burgoine to retreat with more Rapidity than he advanced. We have Reason to hope that General Arnold will raise the Siege of Fort Schuyler as he writes that the militia of Tryon support him with the
