566 August 27, 1777 Army & contend with Mr. Howe’s at much less risque than we could have done if the two had united in any part of the Jerseys or on the Pennsylvania Shore any where within the Capes of Delaware. Mr. Burgoyne’s ill success will damp Mr. Howe & I hope in a few Weeks you will learn that these blustering Heroes have ended the Campaign by escaping with fragments of their pretended omnipotency. The present hour is teeming with the fate of our Union. Thank God, notwithstanding some things in the Cabinet as in the field, look unto ward, I feel confident of a happy event. You must expect in Carolina a brush from the tail of this Comet & should be upon guard. Dear Sir, I repeat my good wishes to yourself & Daughters & am with great regard &ca? LB (ScHi). Addressed: “Solomon Legare Charles Town.” 1 Laurens’ letter books also contain copies of two routine letters he drafted on August 25 and 26. The former, directed to his brother James, consisted simply of instructions to draw on his account for £150 to the order of William Steppie; the latter, to South Carolina merchant and planter John McQueen, explains the expenses he had incurred in looking after “Your Man Martin” during Martin’s recent brief stay in Philadelphia. Laurens Papers, ScHi. Marine Committee to James Maxwell and Paul Loyall Gentlemen August 27th. 1777 The Honorable the Marine Committee has ordered me to com municate their apprehensions for the safety of the Frigates now building by you for the Continental service, 1 should the enemy attempt to destroy them on their return or during their continuance in Chesapeake Bay. They request that you will give your opinion on this head, and should you think it Necessary to form any plan for the preservation of those Vessels wherein their interposition or assistance will be required please to inform them thereof. I am Gentlemen, Your obedient Servant, By order of the Committee, John Brown Secy LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Maxwell and Loyall had been appointed in January to superintend the con struction of two Continental frigates at Gosport, Va. Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1065-66. Robert Morris to George Washington Dear Sir Philada. August 27th. 1777 I cannot withstand the solicitations of Monsr. Epiniers the nephew
