August 29, 1777 567 of Monsr. Beaumarchais (whose Services to America I fancy you are not unacquainted with), but take the liberty to introduce this Young Gentn. to your Excellencys patronage & protection. He has just ob tained from Congress a Captains Commission, and seems to possess an Active Mind with a large fund of Good Nature that will not fail to recommend him to those who have an opportunity of observing his Conduct. 1 I shou’d be very unwilling to trouble you on any occasion but the present is indispensible. I have the honor to remain, Your Excellencys Most obedt. & very hble servt. Robt Morris RC (DLC). 1 For the August 21 resolve granting a captain’s commission to Augustin F. Des Epiniers, see JCC, 8:663. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia August 29. 1777 My dearest Friend Fryday The Newspapers enclosed, will give you, all the Intelligence, of any Consequence. General Washington with a very numerous Army, is between Wil mington and the Head of Elke. How will make but a pitifull Figure. The Militia of four States, are turning out, with much Alacrity, and chearfull Spirits. The Continental Army, under Washington, Sullivan and Nash, besides is in my Opinion more numerous, by several Thou sands, than Howes whole Force. I am afraid that He will be frightened and run on board his ships and go away, plundering, to some other Place. I almost wish he had Philadelphia, for then he could not get away. I really think it would be the best Policy to retreat before him, and let him into this Snare, where his Army must be ruined. However this Policy will not be adopted. In a Letter from good Authority, Mr. Paca, we are informed that many dead Horses have been driven on the Eastern shore of Maryland. —Horses thrown overboard, from the Fleet, no doubt. Price current. £4 a Week for Board, besides finding your own Washing, shaving, Candles, Liquors, Pipes, Tobacco, Wood &c. Thirty shillings a Week for a servant. It ought to be 30s. for the Gentleman and £4 for the servant, because he generally eats twice as much and makes twice as much trouble. Shoes five Dollars a Pair. Salt, 27 dollars a Bushell. Butter 10s. a Pound. Punch twenty shillings a Bowl. All the old Women and young Children are gone down to the Jersey shore to make Salt. Salt Water is boiling all around the Coast, and I
