August 29, 1777 569 Issues (supposed for the Eastern department) . 2 I sent you a printed Copy of the New Regulations in the Commisy Department tho the sad Wages are since raised, yours to 100 doll per month, your Deputy I think 75. You have the sole Appointment of all who are to Act under you in the Various posts Eastward of Hudsons River. There will be one or two wanted at Providence & near there. Mr. Phillips who used to Act under Mr Trumbull suppose will not Act. Mr. Stelle of Providence (who Married Huldah Crawford) is now here. Came to see the Commissy Genii Trumbull but missed of him in his way. He tells me he has Acted Under Mr Phillips is used to the business. I know him to be a Gentn of Carracter & fidelity. I can heartily recom mend him for your appointment as one of your Deputys if he Inclines which suppose he will as it will be About his Home. I should like to have Oliver that way if there wants another, that is if he Chooses it unless there is some post in Connecticut you can place him at. I hope John White will be provided for at some proper place for him. I wish you would write to me, I think you have been a little Negligent in not writing me. I begin to fear you have not received mine. The post comes from your quarter every week. I sent you one to the care of Majr Gray. I wish you would let me hear from Oliver. From your loving Kinsman, Elipht Dyer [P.5.] Mr Stelle can acquaint you with News this way, have not time to add. RC (NhD). 1 Not found. 2 Dyer’s brother-in-law Samuel Gray (d. 1787) served as Windham, Conn., town clerk and treasurer, 1755-86, and had been performing commissary func tions in Connecticut for some time before he was elected deputy commissary general of issues for the eastern department on August 6. Ellen D. Larned, History of Windham County, Connecticut, 2 vols. (Worcester, Mass: C. Hamil ton, 1874-80) 2:47, 186, 213, 227; A Historical Collection, from Official Rec ords, Piles, &c., of the Part Sustained by Connecticut, during the War of the Revolution, comp. Royal R. Hinman (Hartford: E. Gleason, 1842), pp. 410, 413, 432, 439; and JCC, 8:617. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Dear Madam Philada: Augst. 29th. 1777 It is probable that Genl. Howe will waste the fall of this year be tween Chesapeak Bay and Delaware River. I send you a copied sketch of part of the country to which the Gazettes will frequently refer; 1 as I know You give singular attention to the interesting concerns of America in the present struggle.
