570 August 29, 1777 This knowledge is only part of the foundation of my affectionate esteem of you. Nor will I mention the whole. I shall rather apologize for what there is already of Gallantry in my manner of conveying this little Present to your hand. I could, it is true, have delivered it to your Husband. But, I could not with delicacy have told him, to his face, that your having given your heart to such a man is what, most of all, makes me yours, in the manner I have above sincerely professed myself to be. James Lovell RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:333. 1 For this manuscript map in Lovell’s hand, see ibid., illustration 9, following p. 262. Robert Morris to Matthew Irwin Sir Philada. August 29th. 1777 Mr. Lawrison informs me that you are like to disapoint him of the money he came after notwithstanding the long time he has waited & the heavy expence of his journey. I apprehend you have no doubt of Mr Watson being in advance & if so I think you shou’d certainly send him some money to relieve his present wants & I am confident if you apply at the Treasury Board & represent that an advance is necessary to support the Public Credit they will not let you want. Mr Watson is strongly recommended to me by Colo Hooe in whom I place the most unlimited Confidence & you may shew this note at the Treasury if you think fit. 1 I am sir, Your Obedt Servt. Robt Morris RC (PHi). 1 Congress advanced $50,000 to Commissary of Purchases Matthew Irwin on September 1, “to discharge contracts he is engaged in for provisions,” but it is not known whether that advance pertained to the recommendation Morris made to Irwin in this letter. See JCC, 8:702. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia August 30th: 1777 My Friend Saturday A Letter from General Washington, was received last Night by the President, which I read. It is dated the 29th Yesterday. 1 The Enemy are in Possession of the Head of Elke, a little Town, at the Head of the River Elke, in which they found a Quantity of Corn and Oats, belonging to the States. Waggons were so universally
