576 August 30, 1777 that the majority never mean to hurt themselves, labour by good ex amples & seasonable advice to lead them into a better way. We ought to look with the most watchful attention in order to dis cover if there be any, our most rooted Enemies blazing in the guise of enthusiastic patriotism. Such, when found out, are easily removed with out blows. The prescription by one of the early Christians for marking out a vain Religionist, will apply extremely well in detecting a Sinister patriot, but we must not be too hasty in our conclusions. All Men are liable to Err, & often we see the best become dupes of their own policy. Our freind General McIntosh will remember my Sentiments upon his very favorite Constitution & acknowledge that the best Rules may not only lose their efficacy but even become pernicious perhaps destructive by misapplication. ’Tis more essential to know how to apply with ad vantage, than merely to know, I foresaw that a Stark-naked democracy which might have been in times of tranquility a happy form of Govern ment in Pennsylvania, would be a rueful project for the conservation of a handful of Men of dissiminated affections & attachments within, en gaged at the same time in a public & violent War which demanded the purest wisdom to contrive & the utmost vigour to execute means even for Self defence, & now with great grief & concern I learn of the bad effects. But for all this we must not dispair, we must not turn our backs & conclude that all is lost. Every honest Man, indeed every discreet Man who means to promote his own, as well as the welfare of the Community, when he discovers that neither Men nor measures have a tendency to that point will exercise all his powers to effect a happy Resolution. Perhaps after a little time even your present form of Govern ment may be made happy. God forbid you should Sink under the present convulsions. Of all the Mad Schemes you have been pestered with that of uniting the opposite Shores of Savanna within one State appears to be most frantic & no doubt has been the provocative to that frenzy for indiscriminately mixing the best friends & most bitter Enemies of Georgia & attempting to rob the former of their unalienable property. Severe & unjust as the attack is upon me in that Incident I will not abate of my Zeal for the Interest & happiness of that branch of the thirteen United Independent States of America. I am of opinion that when the Ruling powers & people of Georgia in general have reflected on the evil consequences which must follow the execution of the “Act for opening a Land Office & for the better Settling & Strengthening the State” in its full extent they will hasten to make Such alterations & exemptions as justice & Sound policy shall dictate. 2 I can hardly indulge my Self in thinking it necessary to prompt them on this occasion, never theless that I may not be charged with remissness of Duty to my Country & to my Children I shall make a proper representation & every Suitable effort to deprecate greater evils. I beleive Congress will interpose a recommendation if I ask for it. If
