578 August 30, 1777 heart, a Heart which never deliberately consented to an uncharitable or Cruel Act, but which had ever fortitude enough to blame a criminal friend, without fearing consequences of resentment, & I have detained you so long on this painful topic because from that Source I am per suaded much of the Evil complained of in Georgia has Sprung. All may be rectified & made Smooth again by prudent & wise exertions on the part of those who have given offence to the public & furnished such Characters as you have depicted in the Sequal of your Letter with op portunities of figuring in the Language of public Spirit. For the Sake of a bleeding Country I hope the General will reflect on these circum stances in an hour of composure. If he does I am sure his good sense will prompt him to do what he must know will be right. I will take the liberty of inclosing with this a few News papers. You will learn from them many particulars relative to the Belligerent powers in this Neighborhood. In general I may say & with much Satisfaction we are Stronger & the Enemy much weaker than the parties respectively were nine or even two Months ago. Our Army is better than ever it was, theirs is worse. Our finances are streched, theirs are broken to pieces. The present hour is big with the fate of America, the proximity of Armies within 50 Miles so. west & two hundred & fifty North East of this Center shew me that our grand dispute is drawn to an important Crisis. I feel confident it must be from an assurance which has never failed me that our Cause is good. I remain with great truth, Dear Sir &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 John Wereat (1730—99), Savannah, Ga., merchant and conservative patriot leader, was a Continental prize agent in Georgia. George R. Lamplugh, “ ‘To Check and Discourage the Wicked and Designing’: John Wereat and the Revo lution in Georgia,” Georgia Historical Quarterly 61 (Winter 1977): 295-307. 2 Laurens owned extensive tracts of land in Georgia, and consequently he objected to this act because it contained a clause designed to deprive absentee landowners of their property in the state. On October 16, 1777, however, Joseph Clay, another of Laurens’ Georgia correspondents, wrote and informed him that the Georgia legislature had recently repealed this offending clause. Collections of the Georgia Historical Society 8 (1913): 47-48. 3 The case of George McIntosh, who was accused of illegally trading with the British in East Florida, is discussed in John Hancock to Archibald Bulloch, January 8, 1777, note. 4 George McIntosh’s brother, Gen. Lachlan McIntosh. John Adams to William Gordon Phil. Augt. 31, 1777. 1 The loss of Ty is in a train of serious enquiry. Altho’ this disaster for the present is grievous, yet I think it has put Burgoyne into our power,
