September 1, 1777 579 and I hope he will not be suffered to slip out of it. Mr. Howe has planned his operations in such a manner, as to give us a vast advantage, both of him and Burgoyne. He is at the head of Elke about 55 miles from this city. Genl. Washington is at Wilmington, about 15 miles on this side of him, with a noble army of continental troops, and a large body of militia, which is constantly and rapidly increasing. Whether the General will be compelled to depart from his Fabian System or not time will discover. A general action, successful to us is destructive to them, and even if they should be successful and keep the field, they will loose so many men, as to be crippled after it. Whereas I think we should be able speedily to reinforce our army, notwithstanding the panic and con sternation which would follow a defeat. MS not found; reprinted from “Letters of the Reverend William Gordon, His torian of the American Revolution 1770-1799,” Proceedings of the Massachu setts Historical Society 63 (June 1930) : 364—65. 1 William Gordon included this extract, which he identified as a letter from John Adams, in a letter to an unknown recipient. Ibid., pp. 360-65. John Adams to Abigail Adams My dear Philadelphia September 1. 1777. Monday We have now run through the Summer, and altho the Weather is still warm, the fiercest of the Heats is over. And altho the extream Intemperance of the late Season has weakened and exhausted me, much, yet I think upon the whole I have got thro it, as well as upon any former Occasion. A Letter from General Washington, dated Saturday, informs that our light Parties have brought in four and twenty Prisoners, more. 1 So that the Prisoners and Deserters, since Mr. Howe landed is near an hundred. The Question now is, whether there will be a general Engagement? In the first Place I think, after all that has past it is not good Policy for Us to attack them unless We can get a favourable Advantage of them, in the Situation of the Ground, or an Opportunity to attack a Detach ment of their Army, with superiour Numbers. It would be imprudent, perhaps for Us, with our whole Force to attack them with all theirs. But another Question arises, whether Mr. Howe will not be able to compell Us to a General Engagement? Perhaps he may: but I make a Question of it: Washington will maneuvre it with him, a good deal to avoid it. A General Engagement, in which Howe should be defeated, would be ruin to him. If We should be defeated, his Army would be crippled, and perhaps, We might suddenly reinforce our Army which he could not. However all that he could gain by a Victory would be the Possession of this Town which would be the worst Situation he could be
