584 September 1, 1777 & has the Command there, that I fear Mr Burgoyne will be on the Retreat, before he can be brot to Action. In Consequence of the Movement of General Howe to Cheesepeak Bay, I shall be glad if You will order one of the Salt Vessels (which I desired You to load for my Account), to Boston or any Port between that & Portsmouth, & the other to North Carolina consigned to Messr. Hughes & Smith of Edenton. I remain Gentlemen with much Esteem, Your very hum Sert. E G. N.B. In the publication of the Extract I have somewhat deviated from the Letter, but have endeavourd to retain the Speech of the Original. Tr (British Museum, Additional Manuscripts 24322). 1 Not found. 2 On Gerry’s complex business relations with Joseph Gardoqui & Sons, in both his private and public capacities, see George A. Billias, Elbridge Gerry, Founding Father and Republican Statesman (New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1976), pp. 125-29. 3 For complications arising from this shipment of “Russian Duck,” see Gerry to James Warren, June 30, 1777. 4 For Gen. John Burgoyne’s June 20 proclamation, see Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais, August 17, 1777, note 5. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. Septr. 1st. 1777. Your several Favours to the 30th ulto. (inclusive) I have had the Honour of receiving in the Order of their Dates. From the enclosed Resolves you will perceive, the Congress have appointed a Committee to collect and arrange the Evidence relative to the Evacuation of Ticonderoga, which will be afterwards transmitted to you, that a Court Martial may be thereupon instituted for the Trial of the general Officers who were in the Northern. Department when the Evacuation took Place. 1 The great Demand for Arms to equip the Militia who are called into Service, has induced the Congress to pass the enclosed Resolve, directing that a Number of Workmen (conversant in the Business of repairing Firelocks) should be immediately detached from the Militia to be em ployed in repairing the Arms in this City there being between two and three Thousand that in a short Time may be rendered fit for Use. 2 I have the Pleasure to congratulate you on our farther Success in the Northern Department in raising the Seige of Fort Schuyler. The Enemy, on the Approach of Genl. Arnold, fled with the utmost Precipi tation, leaving behind them their Tents, Ammunition, Provision, &c. As I forward herewith several Letters for you from that Quarter which
