September 1, 1777 585 I make no Doubt contain an Account of the Matter, I beg Leave to refer you to them for further Particulars. 3 I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Sir, your most obed & very hble Serv. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 8:684-86; and Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5 ,1777. 2 See JCC, 8:698. 3 Gen. Horatio Gates’ letters to Washington of August 25 and 28, 1777, as well as Gen. Benedict Arnold’s August 24 letter to Gates, are in Washington Papers, DLC. See also Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:154-55. Henry Laurens to Lachlan McIntosh Dear sir. 1st Septem 1777. Since my last of the 11th Ulto. by Capt. Hornby our affairs in the Feild have acquired a more pleasing aspect. General Howe who we apprehended had been gone Eastward in order to form a junction with the foppish Burgoyne, has been floating round to Chesepeak Bay in a fleet of thirty Men of War & 280 Transport Vessels. The tediousness of his Voyage, hurt his Cavalry very much & ’tis not to be doubted that his Troops must also have suffered by sickness. About a Week ago he effected a Landing on the Banks of Elk River some 50 to 60 Miles distance from this spot upon which his Eye is fixed. The Horse were turned into Com fields where many of them finished their Campaign by improper food. The Troops were stretching their Legs. Some of these also, perhaps upwards of ninety, have finished their Campaign, by Cap ture or voluntary desertion—among the latter about 15 seamen who unanimously report that the fleet is very sickly, not above half Manned, the Men exceedingly discontented & only waiting favorable opportuni ties to get off. General Washington at the head of a large well appointed Army 10 to 12 Thousand regulars, a fine train of Artillery & an un certain but very numerous collection of Militia lie stretched along from Head Quarters at Wilmington to an encampment near the Enemy’s Van watching & waiting for their motions. Our light Horse are em ployed in galling their flanks & seizing straglers in which they have been very successful. It appears to me this circuitous fetch by Mr. Howe must have been made in consequence of Burgoyne’s rapid En trance through the Country on this side Tyconderoga & in confidence of the “Stretch of his Arms” which he so much boasts of. 1 You will read in the News Papers our successes against that Brute who pays ten Dollars for the Scalp of an Infant. The Check which he has received will undoubtedly leave Mr. Howe to play all the future game in this Quarter without his Partner. This places us in a situation much less to
