594 September 2, 1777 Perhaps it may be worthy of consideration too that I am now upon Duty in the Service of the thirteen United States, unable to quit my Post without permission. In these Circumstances I request your friendly interposition to shield me against a damage which would on one hand be intolerable & on the other would Subject the State of Georgia to the charge of injustice & ingratitude. Perhaps the rigour of that Law in the particular Instance of my property might be eluded by Sending an overseer & a few Negroes to dig a Spade full of Earth & build a hut alternately on each Tract—but this is not what I aim at nor what I wish for; I have never in any part of my life practiced Jockeyship nor do I owe to dishonest artifice one farthing of my Estate. I mean to claim the protection of the State in which my property lies, where, while I held it, my con stant practice was to make it as far as possible Subservient to the good of the State, & which I did not abandon until it was impracticable for the State to afford me a defence against the threatned attacks of a contiguous Enemy. I intreat you to take proper Counsel & to make proper Addresses by Remonstrance, Memorial or petition to the Governor & his Council & to the House of Assembly & obtain a reasonable Suspension of the impending Escheat or an explanatory Act of Assembly establishing such exceptions as shall to the House seem consistent with Justice & good policy, I may say consistent with the happiness & well being of the State. From your friendly Offers of Service & from your attach ment to the Interest of your Country as well as from your known love of justice, I flatter my Self in a dependence upon your exertions in the premises & therefore I will not take upon another moment of your time upon this head, but to say that for the honour of Georgia I trust there will be a discrimination between its wannest friends & most in veterate Enemies. Our Arms in the Northern department have lately been Successful. Mr. Burgoyne has failed in every attempt except in too many acts of infamous Butchery upon Women & Children by his Indian Allies, since he made the halt at Fort Edward by a moderate computation he has lost Two Thousand Men killed & taken prisoner. The loss of Indians proved too heavy for them to bear—in order to prompt them to action they were made Drunk & Mad—the Survivors therefore when they soberred returned mourning & murmurring to their re spective Countries. This Circumstance added to the great loss before Fort Schuyler & the total defeat of Colonel Baum has obliged the fop who boasted of extending his Arms far to contract his remaining forces within the compass of a strong-post, where he has hedged himself between a River & a Woody Mountain, on the defensive he will soon from necessity be obliged to remove in three or four Weeks. The
