September 2, 1777 595 Season & the want of provision & necessaries will compel him. Our Troops will in the mean time make his Situation extremely incom- modius, & will hang on his Skirts in a retreat. The evacuation of Tyconderoga will probably prove a profitable event. No thanks by the bye are due to those who should have defended it. The Check which the puffing Burgoyne has received will probably operate as a Check upon Mr. Howe who no doubt had been taught to expect that his Coadjutor would before this day have been Marching through Jerseys towards Philadelphia & have facilitated his own from Elk River. The Road is now Thorny—many a bruised head & wounded heel will there be if he Should make the attempt. I hold it impossible that he Should finesse & embark without a tryal, but there are wiser Men of a different opinion. His force is computed at 10,000. General Washington’s regulars exceed that number & the Militia are innumera- able. They are very many daily increasing & very willing to come to action. We are drawing to a Crisis, probably while I am writing the Fate of 13 United States is in decision. Delay will be pernicious to both, but most to the Enemy, however they have many resources & advantages. Our trust is in the Righteousness of our Cause which is intitled to the favour of providence. I will enclose with this 2 or 3 latest News papers. Believe me to be &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 This issue is discussed in Laurens to John Wereat, August 30, 1777. New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare Dear Sir, Philadelphia Sepr. 2d. 1777 Genl. & Admirel Howe with their fleet arrived in Elk River on the 22d Ulto. and was wel Informed by two Intelligent salors (one be longing to Boston, 1 deserter from the Admirels Ship) that their fleet Consist of 280 Sail five of which is 64 guns 1 of 50. 1 of 40. Three frigets and a Number of tenders such as Brigs, Sloops & Schooners, that the Salors are Very Sickley with the scurvey, Spotted and yealo feavours, and that they lost many of their horses on the passage, that many of them has died Since they landed them, by turning them into Cornfeilds. The 25th they begun to land their Troops, it is uncertain what numbers they have, is Suposed to be about 10,000, that many of them has deserted and those deserters Says that all the Hessians will desert if they have an Oppetunity. The place were they now are is in the midst of their Countrimen and it is Said good Wiggs. The Congress has chosen a Committee to Collect what Evidence they can for the triel of Officers at Ticondaraga, as you’l see more at large by the news papers, and how fer the State of New Hampshire is concerned in that
