September 3, 1777 599 numbers will not be wanting. People appear here to be in perfect security—not a family has movd. The Conjecture is that General Howe will not risk a Battle. His situation, whatever may have been his Hopes, is certainly much worse than when he was at Somerset Court house, & ours infinitely better on every Account. He has issued another Pro clamation to try the Affections, or, as Ld North expressed it, to sound the Country. 6 It has no Effect. Nothing but a superiority in Arms will now serve his purpose. John Dickinson is once more in the feild & with George Reade accompanies Caesar Rodney the General of the Delaware Militia. The want of Horses & Desire of securing a Retreat by Lines or Forts are supposed to detain General Howe which gives General Washington immense advantages; as he has not yet all his regular Troops assembled. Present my affectionate Regards to Mrs Livingston and all our Friends at both Mannors & believe me with the utmost Respect, Dear Sir, Your affectionate & most obed huml Servant, Jas Duane P.S. Col. Wilson, Mr Morris, Mr Duer, the President &c &c present their Respects to you. RC (NHi). 1 Duane probably wrote this letter on September 3, the day Congress ordered the Board of War to consider suitable rewards for the American officers dis cussed in the second paragraph. It is virtually certain that Duane did not write it after the third, the day the Pennsylvania Journal carried the news of the death of one of these officers, Nicholas Herkimer, whose death Duane was obviously unaware of as he wrote. 2 Duane meant of course to write “ought not.” 3 On October 4, 1777, Congress resolved to ask the governor and council of New York to erect at Continental expense a monument to Nicholas Herkimer, a brigadier general in the state’s militia who had been mortally wounded at the battle of Oriskany. JCC, 9:770. 4 In recognition of the officers’ role in the defense of Fort Schuyler, Congress resolved on October 4, 1777, to make Col. Peter Gansevoort “colonel com mandant” of that post and to give “an elegant sword” to Lt. Col. Marinus Willet. JCC, 9:771-72. 5 On October 4, 1777, Congress resolved to thank Gen. John Stark for his part in the battle of Bennington and to make him a Continental brigadier general. JCC, 9:770-71. See also George Frost to Josiah Bartlett, August 19, 1777, note 2. 6 See Henry Laurens to Lachlan McIntosh, September 1, 1777, note 2. John Hancock to Israel Putnam Sir, Philada. Sepr. 3d. 1777. Your Favour of the 27th ulto. 1 I have been duely honored with, and immediately laid it before Congress.
