600 September 3, 1777 From the enclosed Resolves you will percieve that Provision has been made for Major Generals while they act in a seperate Department— and as Congress consider you as acting in that Line for the present, the same Pay is to be extended to you from the Time you took the Command at Peeks-Kill, until it shall cease. 2 The Congress have been induced from your Recommendation of Rose & Ackerly to consent that you should pardon them both. The Manner in which you propose to employ them appears to be ex tremely proper. 3 Every Resolve of Congress relative to the Department under your Command shall be forwarded with all necessary Dispatch. I beg Leave to refer your Attention to those transmitted herewith. I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Serv. J.H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “The Honble Major Genl. Putnam. Peeks-kill.” 1 This letter is in PCC, item 159, fols. 75-76. 2 See JCC, 8:704. Putnam, who had been placed in command at Peekskill by Washington in May 1777, needed the extra pay allowed the commander of a separate department in order to meet his expenses. PCC, item 159, fols. 75—76; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:50-51. 3 See JCC, 8:704. In his August 27 letter to President Hancock, Putnam ex plained his request for clemency for Amos Rose and Lemuel Ackerly—both of whom had been sentenced to death by a court-martial, the former for having fired his musket at a superior officer and the latter for having been a British spy—and stated that he wished to have them “Secured & employed on board the Ships in the north river where they are wanted.” The records of their courts-martial are in PCC, item 159, fols. 79—84. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. September 3d. 1777. I have Nothing in Charge from Congress at this Time, but to trans mit the enclosed Resolves, to which I must refer your Attention. General Sullivan’s Expedition on Staten Island having ended in the Loss and Defeat of a considerable Number of the Troops under his Command; 1 the Congress have directed a Court of Inquiry to be in stituted relative to the Expedition. 2 You will please to order Colonel Richardson’s Battalion on such Duty as you may judge most proper. 3 Your two Favours of the 1st inst. 4 I have been duely honoured with. I forward herewith a Number of blank Commissions for the Use of the Army in two Bundles and have the Honour to be, with the utmost Respect, Sir, your most obed & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt
