602 September 4, 1777 of August, whereby we are appointed and authorized to correspond with public Bodies, or private Persons in order to collect the clearest and fullest Evidence of the State of the Army in the Northern depart ment, and also of the State of the Troops, military Stores and Pro visions at those Posts, before and at the Time when the Evacuation was determined on. 1 As this Event is of much Importance to the united states and has So greatly, and So justly excited the public Attention, it is necessary that the most effectual Measures Should be Speedily taken, in order to obtain an impartial State of the Facts. To which End, We have the Honour to request of you, sir, to lay this Letter with the enclosed Copy, before your Assembly, if Sitting, if not, before the Council, for their Aid in procuring Evidence from Records and Witnesses, relative to the Several Objects of Inquiry, enumerated in the Resolution. The Testimonies of Witnesses, Should be in Writing Subscribed by themselves, and authenticated in Such manner, as you shall think proper: their Places of abode also should be pointed out. Justice to the Public, as well as to the officers whose Conduct is to be inquired into, requires, that all the Dispatch, which is consistent with the Nature of the Business, Should be made. When your Inquiries shall be finished, We have to request that you would transmit the Result of them to the Chairman of this Committee by Express, or at least by a quick and safe Conveyance. We have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obedient and most humble, Servants, 2 Henry Laurens Richard Henry Lee RC (NjMoHP). Addressed: “The Honourable the President of Council of the State of New Hampshire.” Written by John Adams and signed by Laurens and Lee. The committee sent identical letters to Connecticut governor Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., on this day and to New York governor George Clinton on Sep tember 8, copies of which are in the Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., Papers, Ct, and Sparks MSS, MH-H, respectively. 1 See JCC, 8:684-86, 688; John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5, note; and Henry Laurens’ Heads of Inquiry, August 27, 1777. 2 On September 5 the committee sent the August 27 resolve to Joseph Trumbull with this brief note: “We request you to transmit to us by the earliest good opportunity the fullest intelligence in your late department of Commissary General & you will further oblige us by adding any further infor mation properly authenticated relative to the enquiries which we are ordered to make.” Joseph Trumbull Papers, Ct. Extracts from the committee’s Sep tember 5 letter to Richard Varick, deputy muster master for the northern department, and his October 10 response are in Autograph Letters and Docu ments Relating to the History of America from the Private Collection of Mr. & Mrs. Philip D. Sang (Iowa City: State University of Iowa, 1956), pp. 18-19.
