606 September 5, 1777 3,000 New Jersey militiamen to reinforce “the army under General Washington, the said militia to rendezvous at Bristol, with as much despatch as possible” JCC, 8:712. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais Dear Sir, 5th September. 1777. I sit down this Morning with a design to trouble you with a very long Letter, God knows whether I shall be permitted to accomplish. The Main body of the Enemy were within thirty Miles of us yesterday morning & about four or five from our Army. We expect every moment to hear of an important clashing, but what I think most prob able, admitting General Howe to be so Strong as he is reported to be 18000 men or even 15 thousand, is, that he will keep General Washing ton at Bay with one part & March the other by a different route to this City. These & a thousand as Idle conjectures employ the con versation of Men at this distance. The time is big with fates, Some what very important will be brought forth before we are three days older. Congress has not yet determined to adjourn from this City but I am taking time by the forelock. James is gone to get the Horses Shod, will have our little All packed up to day & be ready for a March in case of need. Before the meeting of the House I will endeavour to say the needfull in reply to your very kind Letters of the 26th & 29th July- 1 All that you had done or had intended to do respecting my Brother’s affairs, appears to be extremely proper. The House in which Mr. McKay lives ought to be repaired. Mr. Motte should be at one half the expence & pay that half in Cash, but I doubt whether he will do so. He does not use my Brother well, he refuses to pay the Interest on his Bond under a pretence that my Brother receives the whole Rent of that House, although he knows the latter has not been for a con siderable time past equal to the former & I have reason to beleive it never has been quite equal after deducting Repairs & Taxes. I wrote to my Brother on this head Some time ago; ’tis probable we shall hear from him. In the mean time Mr. Motte Should advance money for his part of the expence to be incurred by Repairs. Betty is very troublesome & it appears by a memorandum of her Masters she has been always so. To hire her in a family will certainly be best. If she does not behave well in that Station & Ishmael still absent I think it will be best to send her in the Country. I believe while Ishmael was at home he maintained her & paid the principal part of her Wages. She is very Idle. In a Letter which I wrote to you Somewhere on the Road to this place or perhaps since my arrival, I requested you not to part with
