September 5, 1777 607 the Gold, but to keep it as on my Accott. which I now repeat & I will improve it for my Brother agreeable to his desire by assigning him a proper Sum to be received in London. I shall be obliged by your opinion what the Exchange ought to be. The circumstance of March at Wright’s Savanna shocks & effects me exceedingly, nor is it less amazing because he was ever a man of placid & obliging disposition & always as far as I knew a good & faithful servant until he unhappily became connected with Mary. He has since that Union been guilty of Robbery. It was for such a Crime he was really shipped by Morgan. I am really grieved for the poor fellow. It appears to me best to send Mary to Georgia & order her to be Sold there, she has very great abilities & when she is cut off from her old acquaintance she may find it her Interest to exert them. If you will take the trouble to correspond with Mr Clay on this matter & he gives hopes of obtaining £200 Georgia Money for her, order her to be sent to him. As to March I think the mode of punishment which you propose is due to the public, otherwise from the reluctance I feel, I believe he would escape. When his wound is healed he must be kept at such work as he is capable of performing & from the necessity of the Case great rigour Should be exercised upon him until he gives proof of humility which will soon be, after he is Seperated from that wicked Devil. Casper seems to be held in contempt by the Negroes & I am afraid of Some fatal accident. I shall write to him by this conveyance & submit my opinion to yours. My Dear Sir, it makes me very unhappy to give you so much trouble as I am in my present circumstances obliged to do. It is extremely unreasonable in my Country Men to compel me to this useless Service, if they had only considered how much of my time had been devoted to theirs & how very little to my own affairs I think common gratitude would have induced them to give me a moments respite. Did they know how their delegates are now mis spending time I am sure they would recall them or give them very Special orders. Congress is not the respectable body which I expected to have found. To be particular on this point would be improper, but I mention so much from that feeling which is irresistible. I see my own private affairs going to Wreck, I am helping forward the heavy loss by most amazing expences here. I am adding to the load of trouble which my friends must have from attending to their own concerns & am render ing my Country no intrinsic Services. This latter consideration grieves me most. I think I have been instrumental in averting two pernicious schemes & except these my time 5 or 11 hours every day has been Squandred. The most necessary work we have to do at present is that of Confederating—& that of making a State of past Expences, to be
