608 Septembers, 1777 fully informed of the application of those Millions already Issued to govern our future proceedings by wiser measures & to fill our ex hausted Treasury by means least likely to involve us in difficulties. My attempts to accomplish these great purposes have hitherto proved fruit less & I have too much reason to fear, from a discovery of the cause, will ever prove so—unless very particular Instructions from some of the States should be charged upon their Delegates to demand of Congress an adjustment of Accounts. I wish we were half an hour together. I - would say many things to you, as an Assembly Man, in favour of our little honest State. What I have Said you may think of in that Char acter but as being said to your Self only. I have wandered into this digression of hints from a reflection which Suddenly took place in my mind, of the vast trouble which an atten tion to my business has already occasioned to you while I my Self am detained in a State of worse than Idleness. I shall write to the president requesting His Excellency to obtain leave for me to return to Charles Town if my health Should fail me as I fear it will when the Cold weather comes on. In such case even attempts to Serve must fail & therefore I request your aid if a question should be made in your House. Mr. Middleton will leave us in October. You should really send us two or three Men of business & Spirit, if I am to stay here, Maugre all the disadvantages that your absence from Carolina will work to my Estate I wish you may be one—but come who will the Assembly Should in common justice allow them to live at least half as well as they had been accustomed to at home & pay their bare expences. Pray what is the present allowance? I have lived in a very humble style compared with the humble style of Ansonburgh yet including travelling expences (not Carriage & Horses) have already nearly exhausted 2300 Dollars. Mr. Middleton tells me he lives upon public money & offered me a supply but I will have none, I never touched any in my life. Admitting Gen eral Howe is so complaisant as to allow us to remain here the Winter expences will be Still more enormous. Judge from this one item, James tells me I must pay four Dollars for a pair of Strong coarse Shoes for George, & this, paid a Taylor for making a Single coat. I found the Cloth 24 Dollars—every article in proportion but to return to your Letters from which I have strangely wandered, my mind is rended with Ideas which March out with all the regularity of Militia Soldiers. It is scarcely possible to make an exact arrangement when one expects every moment an alarm. James is now packing up in order to be in readiness for a move. I must go to the House of Idleness, Shall prob ably not see this table again till 4 or 5 oClock P.M. after having been witness to the transaction of business which would require no more than half an hour judiciously applied. I know where the defect lies & may tell you by & by. At 5 oClock I returned from Six hours Session
