610 September 5, 1777 I owe Mr. Nephew something but dont know how much. Himself only is to blame that I remain in his debt. I had Money with me in March 1775 for cancelling his Account, he appointed a day to meet me at Boston Island, I waited for him one or I beleive two days extra ordinary for no other purpose, but he did not come. There were some questions to be asked which would not have been pleasing to him—at my return to Charles Town I was ordered into the Chair of the General Committee, soon after into those of Genl Congress & Council of Safety. You know the burthen which the people laid on me how diligently I applied my whole time to public & how totally I neglected my private concerns, my Books & papers were in so disorderly a State when I left Mepkin I was ashamed to show them even to you. I have therefore no regular Idea of the State of Mr. Nepher’s Account but there is among my papers the ground work for building a just & fair reckoning between us. I should be sorry to keep from him one farthing that is due & as I hope he will not demand more I shall have no ob jection to Mr. Clay’s paying him on my Account Seventy Pounds Georgia Currency taking from him a proper Stipulation promising to account with me. I Say Georgia Currency because I beleive our agree ment was so, if he Shews the contrary, then I would pay him £400 Carolina Money, I mean to do him complete Justice but I remember there are one or more large charges againt him & he will acknowledge the delay which has happened was owing to the disappointment above mentioned. I now recollect he was to have called on me on a Tuesday. I had intended to have left the Island on Wednesday or Thursday according to the arrival of an expected boat from Sunbury, but I did not leave it ’till Saturday. Payment of Mr. McCulloghs order to Byers, of Parkinson’s Note & Balance I believe are very right & so may be the £5 to Mamma Narvo. I dont exactly remember the Old Womans last version but judge your payment will fully cancel it to the midle of September, from whence her Stipend may recommence at 40/ per month. In the mean time I beg you will give her as from me £4 & shall I request you also to give to Mr. Joseph Roper Fifty Pounds & Twenty five pounds to Sam’s Wife or if he has behaved well I would wish to add some in- dulgencies to bare necessaries for himself. The prize which you mention to have been made by Seymour was an excellent favor of fortune, the more valuable by the Capture of so inveterate an Enemy as Lofthouse. As a rooted Enemy to our State & by no means from any resentment for his imprudence to me I hope you will not part with him before you obtain an adequate Exchange. Pray what is become of Bishop. If he is at large in Augustine ’tis high time he Should fulfill his promise of remitting by Gold or Bill the money I advanced for him of which he has the Account.
