September 5, 1777 611 If Mr. Arthur comes here he will probably have cause to regret a fruitless journey. Your Letter to Fosdick is very good, but since Jimmy Debatt’s marriage into the Noble family he is turned a Sad Rascal, if I had been at home I would have sold him & so I would Doctr. Cuffee & Montezuma, & I earnestly request you to do so by all or any of those Villains, ungrateful villains if they give farther cause for complaint. The two last mentioned, if they are not carefully watched & kept low will Slip further off than Wright’s Savanna when ever an opportunity presents. If they know as much of my intentions towards them as I do, my Negroes would esteem a change of Masters to be the heaviest punishment that could be inflicted upon them. I hope Mr. Clay will very Soon inform me the State of my affairs under his protection, therefore I do not trouble him on that Subject, nevertheless his long delay induces me to request you will acquaint me with all you can learn from Bailey or to procure from him a Letter. I propose to leave all the Letters under your Cover open for your perusal. You will be so good as seal & cause them to be delivered as Soon as possible. One to Mr. Legare will shew you some thing of my poor James Air’s Account. From those to Mr. Wereat & General McIntosh you will learn my Sentiments on the Georgia Land Act in addition to what I have Said to Mr Clay as well as on Colo G. M’s Case. 7 The general has been very pathetic in a late Letter on this Subject, but concerning my Land he touches so Slightly I should not have understood his meaning without the aid of the other Gentleman who has taken a very friendly part. The little which my old friend has said seems to have been postulated more to impress upon my mind a harsh opinion of the prevailing party in Georgia than for my Service. In each of these Letters you will gather some fragments of intelligence, more you will collect from the News papers which will accompany them & upon Monday Morning when I intend to dispatch this Mes senger you Shall be informed of every material branch of intelligence which shall in the mean time come to my knowledge relative to our Armies on Delaware, the middle & Northern departments. I feel a Strong disinclination to plague you with minute directions on any parts of my Estate. I am confident you will give in general & in Special proper orders together with such attention as your health & leisure will admit of & I will prefer great losses to the cruelty of pressing an overload upon you, but what a load do you think I have been contriving & were you here, if it should from Love of the Cause we are engaged in even cost me two thousand Guineas, you should bear it, I am sure you would be requested' to undertake it. It is necessary to recal Mr. Deane from the Court of Versailles, his conduct has not given Satisfaction. I do not know a man in America nor have we yet employed one according to my opinion so equal to the Task in all
