616 September 5, 1777 “Our Treaty of Commerce is not yet proceeded upon. Their plan is not to have any transactions with us which shall acknowledge Ameri can Independency but to make us more easy they tell us we enjoy all the advantages which we propose by such a Treaty.” Strange. “Capt Cunningham is imprisoned at Dunkirk & the prizes which he took will be restored, this will serve to lull the British Ministry & then Cunningham & his Vessel will be released through favour, but we must put up with the loss of his prizes. This is a matter of Triumph to our Enemies which we Suffer them to enjoy for the present while we have the most Substantial proofs of the friendship of this Court & of Spain which will Soon be manifested to the World.” Substantial proofs indeed! “Feeling our Selves assisted in other respects we are induced to let them take their own time.” Aye! & their own time they will take! “Mr received the same professions of good Will at Madrid but was refused the Character of Ambassador or to be received or acknowledged openly.” Manifested to the World! “We applied for the naval aid you require & received a possitive refusal. 3 ’ “Also for the two Millions Sterling on Loan & was told it was impossible to lend so large a Sum.”—“but are promised certain quarterly payments to make good the payment for Interest on 10 Mil lions of Dollars if you should borrow so many.” (I beleive it is ex tended even to the Interest of 20 Millions at 4 to 6 per Cent.) This may be in the whole about two hundred & seventy thousand pounds per Annum if we should borrow so much as 20 Millions Dollars per Annum. This of 20 Millions is grounded only upon "we hope” how long any part of it is to last we have no assurance. The change of a minister would put an immediate Brake [. . .] 13 other demands which will absorb the greatest part if not the whole of the first intended grants for paying the Interest of the hoped for 20 million Dollars & farther that tis expected we shall enable the Court to collect by Duties in Tobacco which we have engaged to Send to the Farmers General, great part of the proposed Loan.” Immense friendship!. Enable me, & I will lend you a Sum of Money. Will you believe it, upon this Slender Basis a bold attempt has been made to draw plumply & immediately for ten Million of Dollars, next for five Million; the former equals £2,250,000 Sterling, the latter £1,125,000. Did I say Slight basis? Are we not told in the Strongest language it is impossible to lend us any such Sum? Is this going hand over head? Is it governing 13 United States by random Strokes of policy? or did it spring from sinister mo tives? I cannot suspect the latter. Yet Such projects were the megrims of Men who hold themselves of the first rank & first importance in our political system. I told you I had been Instrumental in averting two pernicious schemes. This is one of the Instances. The other was a proposed mad expedition, 14 but I have not succeeded to my wish. Far
