618 September 5, 1777 France for no more Money than is absolutely necessary to purchase & pay for articles essential to our defensive War. That we should contract our expences public & private, recommend Taxation in each Colony, borrow at home upon the best terms, clear the States of Enemies, Sell vacant & forfeited Tracts & other Estates, encourage manufactures, strive more ardently to improve our marine force & do a Thousand other things which we know to be necessary which we ought immediately to engage in & which we would do, if Luxury & Avarice were discounten anced & banished. If we have not virtue enough to save our selves, easy access to the Treasury of France will only hasten our ruin. These Sir are very serious considerations. I have suffered much distress of mind on the occasion, I have been told that my arguments were very pretty for theoretic writers but I appeal to experience, it is from experience I draw my reasoning. I do not contend for a further Emission of paper Money, I wish to avoid it. I am sure we may avoid it if we please. I contend against the most dangerous of all Emissions drawing Bills on a foreign Court, but if we must emit for domestic purchases & Services, of two Evils I would choose the least. Many other arguments I have at different Stages introduced, too many to trouble you with, I hope my endeavors will be acceptable to my Constituents, I am void of under standing if my reasoning will not bear the test of experience & sound judgment. The subject is as familiar to me & as clear as that Indigo in such circumstances as we have been reduced to for the three years past is a preferable Commodity for exportation to Rice & Lumber (uncom mon Cases excepted). Had we been so wanton as to have drawn for 10 or 5 M[illion] Dollars, the purposes of those whom we have no reason to befriend might have been Served; Tories would have thrown back your paper money if they had any faith in your Bills of Exchange & taken leave of you, a few Merchants would have attempted to in troduce a flood of French articles which we may & ought to do without. In fine we should have incurred a solid ponderous debt without the benefit of one Solid article in return. 18 LB (ScHi). 1 An extract of Gervais’ July 29 letter to Laurens is in South Carolina His torical Magazine 66 (January 1965): 17-19. 2 Perhaps a reference to the committee investigating the evacuation of Ticon deroga. See John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5, 1777, note. 3 In the July 29 letter to Laurens cited above, Gervais explained that the government of Georgia had recently offered a reward of £100 for the appre hension of Chief Justice William Henry Drayton of South Carolina because of Drayton’s efforts to bring about the annexation of Georgia to South Carolina. There are a number of contemporary sources relating to this episode in Robert W. Gibbes, ed., Documentary History of the American Revolution, 2 vols. (New York: D. Appleton & Co., 1855-57), 2:75-87. 4 See Laurens to John Wereat, August 30, 1777, note 2.
