September 6, 1777 621 are allowed by the Establishment, which appears to be attended with many Difficulties, & have therefore confined our Views to the Removal of the Inconveniences complained of, 1 being with much Esteem sir your very huml. Servts. Richard Henry Lee Nathel. Folsom E. Gerry RC (DLC). Written by Gerry and signed by Gerry, Folsom, and Lee. 1 On August 11 Washington’s August 9 letter to President Hancock and the enclosed report of a board of general officers concerning rations had been referred to a committee composed of James Wilson, Jonathan B. Smith, and William Smith, but there is no indication in the journals that this committee ever reported. On September 4 Folsom, Gerry, and Lee were appointed to consider under what regulations and restrictions regimental officers shall, for the future, receive their rations,” and almost simultaneously a Board of War report recommending that Washington “be empowered, if he thinks proper to order regimental officers to receive their rations in messes was tabled. The second committee’s report recommending that regimental officers “be empowered to divide themselves, as often as they shall think proper, into messes was submitted to Congress on September 11. See ]CC, 8:629, 710-11, 732—33; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:38-39. John Hancock to George Washington Si r> Philada. Septr. 6th. 1777. You will perceive from the enclosed Resolves, that Congress, desirous of reinforcing the Army at this critical Period, have recommended to the States of Pennsylvania and New Jersey to order out immediately a considerable Part of their Militia; and I have no Doubt of their Com pliance. 1 I have wrote to Govr. Livingston on the Subject, 2 and informed him that should he think proper to appoint Genl. Dickinson to the Com mand of the three Thousand requested from that State, it will be extremely agreeable to Congress. That Gentleman has, I understand, signified his Readiness to act whenever called upon; and as he possesses the Confidence of the Militia, and has Talents equal to the Task, I am persuaded the Appointment will give general Satisfaction. Your Favour of the 3d Inst, and likewise of yesterday by the Hands of Genl. St. Clair I have been duely honoured with. 3 The latter I shall lay before Congress this Morning. I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See ]CC, 8:711-12. Hancock also enclosed resolves of September 4 on the
