622 September 6, 1777 resignations of Capt. Jacob Bower and Adjt. Charles Seitz and of September 6 on clothing for the army. ]CC, 8:710, 715-18. 2 See Hancock to William Livingston, September 5, 1777. 3 These letters are in PCC, item 152, 5:25-27, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:172-73, 186-87. Marine Committee to John Paul Jones Sir In Marine Committee Philadelphia Septemr. 6th 1777 As soon as these Instructions get to Hand, you are to make im mediate Application to the proper Persons to get your Vessel Victualled and fitted for Sea with all Expedition. When this is done you are to proceed on a Voyage to some Convenient Port in France, on your arrival there, apply to the Agent if any, in or near said Port, for such supplies as you may stand in need of. 1 You are at the same Time, to give immediate notice by Letter to the Honorable Benjamin Franklin, Silas Deane & Arthur Lee Esqr or any of them at Paris, of your arrival, requesting their Instructions as to your future Destination; which In structions you are to obey as far as it shall be in your Power. 2 If, however, in the Course of your Voyage a favourable opportunity should offer, of doing Service to the States by taking or destroying any of the Enemys Ships, you are not to omit taking advantage of it, but may go out of your Course to effect so good a Purpose. In this we trust to your Zeal & Discretion. You are to take particular Notice that whilst on the Coast of France, or in a French Port, you are, as much as you conveniently can to keep your Guns covered & concealed, and to make as little war like appearance as possible. Wishing you A Successful and happy Voyage, We are sir, Your Friends. In behalf of the Marine Committee John Hancock Presidt P.S. On your arrival in France send one of your officers with the Letter you are to write to the Commissioners at Paris, to prevent its falling into improper hands. John Hancock Pt. RG (DNA: PCC, item 168). In a clerical hand and signed by Hancock. Ad dressed: “John Paul Jones Esquire, commander of the Continental Ship Ranger, Portsmouth, New Hampshire.” This day identical letters were sent to Elisha Hinman and to Thomas Thompson, copies of which are in C.O. 101, PRO; and PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book, DNA. 1 Due to difficulties in outfitting the Ranger, Jones did not put to sea until November 1. Thompson, commanding the frigate Raleigh, accompanied by Hin man in the Alfred, had already sailed for France and arrived there in early October. See Gardner W. Allen, A Naval History of the American Revolution, 2 vols. (Boston: Houghton, Mifflin Co., 1913), 1:223-30, 249, 278; and Wil liam J. Morgan, Captains to the Northward: The New England Captains in the
