September 7, 1777 625 I can excuse you, upon your first meeting with your lovely Amelia, for that descriptive Sketch which you have given me of your Happiness. But I charge you in future to avoid even Hints about dear domestic Joys. Consider that my Duty has fixed me in unsocial Philadelphia; and do not heedlessly make me the Victim of Envy which is its own severe Tormentor. As to Journals—be persuaded that no Expence or Industry has been wanting on the Part of Congress to get them up to the present Time. The Flight of Printers & the Want of paper has impeded the Work till now, when we have a good prospect. We are up to Octr. 25th. and shall very shortly have the Year —76 in a Volume. 1 When the main Army is at our Elbow, and while we are situated in the Capital of such a State as Pensylvania we shall never want ten thousand Interruptions to the Settlement of the Articles of Confedera tion & the Establishment of our Currency. As to losing the Confidence of the people, I shall be sorry for their own Sakes; But, by Way of Scare Crow to an honest Heart, I value it as little as any other natural Phenomenon of Nature. There is a majority in every State of the Union, and in every great Assembly, which can be depended upon, at this Day; But there are also heavy Clogs in each. The Cause of the people is safe. But their Patience must have full Exercise. Virtuous themselves they cannot be ruined by their present Assailants. Had there been due Vigour in this Government, Congress would not have been obliged to have pointed out Individuals of this State for Arrest. But the Safety of the Union called for it. And you may depend upon it every step we have taken can be handsomly defended. Freely did old Israel and the Tribe in general turn out armed when scandalous Oppression had stirred up the Paxton Boys. Read the hypocritical Cant of these Days. Hear the Appeal to the Freemen of Pensylvania, and Quotations from the Bill of Rights of this Independent State, from Wretches who will not affirm themselves faithful Subjects of it; and who since the Declaration of Independency complain, in the Registries of their meetings of Sufferings, that they are forced to aid in a War against Government. I will suppose Coll. Dyer has written on the Subject of giving a Spring to the Loan Offices, therefore I shall omit that Topic at this Time. Before this reaches you, a Number of New England Shippers will be about you, who have left their Vessels at the Head of Elk. There has been a most horrid Delay in the Management of the Persons to whom they were consigned. I have written to Coll. Aylett 2 to desire he would confide the Settlement of his private Accounts as well as public to you so far as concerns the 6 Captains particularly Taylor my old Fellow prisoner & Perkins my half LandLord. You can empower Tracy or
