September 8, 1777 629 receives the feild pieces, at least not to proceed near the enemy. Gen. Washington I am sure will not hazard a general battle. We this day had a full view from stony point of the Enemy’s fleet lying from the mouth of Elk to Sasafras, but chiefly about the mouth of Sasafras. If Mr. Smith should be desirous to return home, as it appears he is by a letter of his I this day saw written to Col. B. Rumsey, I shall proceed to Congress, & not return to join Smallwood’s brigade of militia. 2 Indeed I already find this kind of sauntring life extremely disagreeable & fatiguing & hard lodging & irregular hours of eating begins to disagree with my puny constitution & habit of body; but perhaps I shall soon be. more inured to & better able to support the fatigue of a campaign. I heartily wish you well & am yr. affectionate friend, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton 1 Carroll’s September 8 letter to his father is in the Carroll Papers, MaHi. 2 Carroll was still with Gen. William Smallwood (at “Nottingham”) on Sep tember 14, at which time he appended the following brief note to Johnson at the bottom of Smallwood’s letter of that date to the governor. “I shall proceed with General Smallwood till he joins the main army and shall then on this go to Congress or return home. I am well and desire you will inform my father thereof by the first opportunity.” Brown Books, MdAA. George Frost to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir, Philadelphia Sept. 8th. 1777 I Reed, your favr. wrote in Kingstown Augst Wherein you say you were just returned from Springfield and the result of the Commis sioners from the several states laid before Congress which we have Reed, but have not as yet acted on it. 1 The. Avarice, Venality and disipation prevaling among all Ranks here in this quater and Increasing more & more in the Eastern states I fear it will be impractable to addop the Measures Recomended by your Committee, altho I think with you that it is Very Alerming and fear it will be Attended with Very ill consequences. As to the support of the Credit of our Money I can conceive of but two ways. First our Commisrs. in France & Spain has procured for us a loan to pay the Interest of all the Money we shall borrow by our loan office certificates at the rate of five livers France for every Dollar Interest which we sopose will give great en- courragement to the Monied Men to lend the United States. The Other is that all the States go Immediately into large Taxation by which Means we shall be able to pay our Armey &c but if those two Measures should fail and we are obliged to Emit more Money (which I hope that wont be the case), it will sink it Very low indeed. As to the Northern affairs they have been Very Alerming but at present through
