630 Septembers, 1777 the Goodness of God I trust they are at present Very favourable. You’l see more perticuler by the News papers and that Congress has adopted measures for Inquirry in that Affair. We Could have wished Borgoyne had pushed his armey lower down then he has that we might have marched an Armey in his Rear as well to Attack him in the front, we hope however that our brave Starke will be able to perform the former wile Genl. Gates attacks their front. Genl. Howes armey is some weare nigh Caskeen bridge, and Genl. Washingtons head quarters at Wil mington whose Advance parties has had several scermishes (as they are Called) according to fortain of war some times they gitt the better and sometime we have the better of them, we dayle Expect to here of a General Battle. I have not seen the Map you mention but am Informed by Good Judges its a pore one. 1’1 make further Inqy. and see it. If I think it will answer your Expectation will send it you by first good oppetunity. (We have been greatly perplex’d with a number of French officers. Some came over under Extradany Contracts by Mr. Deane and others to seek Rank & service in our Armey no les then five or six Majr. Generals, Briga. Genls, Cols. &c &c. To have plas’d them all we must have superseeded nigh half of our Officers, trust we shall send’m for the greater part Back to France. I should be glad to be informed wether our Troops has Reed, their Clowes as we are Informed Clothing at the Northen Armey is scarce. You’l see by the papers Inclosd. what Situation we are in With regard to some principel quakers &c. I fear we shall meet with a great Deale of trouble with them. Am, sr, With great Esteam, your most Obt., Humble Sevt. Geo. Frost RC (MiU-C). 1 See Henry Marchant to Nicholas Cooke, August 18, 1777, note 2. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais [Septembers, 1777] It is now Monday Morning the 8th. We have nothing yet from the Camp except that both Armies seemed to be preparing for Serious Action. General Washington had approached the Enemy within three or four miles of Contact, had issued a very sensible animating public order a Copy of which I have seen & will endeavor to send you, 1 by this it would seem as if he meant to attack. General Howe on the other hand has sent on board the fleet all his Sick & wounded & ordered as [o/] the 6th Inst four days provision to be Issued. This comes by a deserter who came in to General Washington yesterday morning, if this be true Mr. Howe expects to dine here on Wednesday, I hope we shall disappoint Sir William here as we did Sir Peter at Charles Town. The wounded arrived from the Skirmish the other day in which some of the
