Septembers, 1777 633 open to your Ships. In a little time such virtuous Resolution will render you Independent both of France & England. I must have tired you good Sir & yet I have not minuted here one half that I thought myself obliged to say & repeat upon this important business in the Course of 5 or 6 days debate & adjournment. Many good men see into the danger of contracting a debt with France but they do not see clearly. They say “what shall we do, the Treasury is Empty.” This shews our Error in having neglected so long a business which is one of the main pillars of our Independence. It shews our folly too in the wanton terms pro posed for Treaty last year—there the Court of Versailles has again made puppets of us & treated us with the Contempt we deserved. God Grant Mr. Washington, that brave & virtuous, that disinterested, Pa triotic Hero, success in a Conflict which is probably now in agitation & we shall have further time to retrospect our proceedings & to mend what shall appear to have been amiss. If he fails a New Scene will open. Nothing but virtue then can Save us. We never shall call in her aid until we feel Severe distress. Tis time to attend Congress, maybe when I return I may tell you more of the Quaker affair & trouble you with another Sheet, but before I go let me suggest a danger which we seem to be drawn into. A whole week is passed & nothing is said or done further for replenishing our Treasury, if the proper means are neglected until that is nearly or more nearly exhausted, we may be frighted into a measure big with ruin, that of drawing for five or ten Million Dollars for doing which we have neither permission nor en couragement. If this shall happen remember I have foretold it to you & other my Constituents who are concerned in the event. I am happy in having Mr. Middleton exactly coincide in Sentiments with me altho he has not . spoke to the point. Mr. Hfeyward] differs but I would not have it taken notice of for whatever his opinions may be, he is a Man of Candour & Integrity & I wish not to name any Body. 9th September. I did not return from business yesterday till the Sun had Set, eat a Scanty dinner & was obliged to go out again upon business. When I came home I felt a much stronger propensity for the Bed than the writing Table. It was mortifying to sit from 11 oClock to 1/2 past 6 without respite, spend four hours of that time wrangling a point which I think had employed us five days before—receive & pocket a well timed & spirltted reprimand from the Council & end the business relative to the Quakers & other self disaffected, where it might have been ended & in the manner in which it ought to have been ended in five minutes from the very outset, by recommending to confine at an appointed place Stanton in Virginia, all the mischeivous & active ones who shall refuse to take the Oath or affirmation of Allegiance to the State. I will not say the business is quite ended, for
