September 10, 1777 641 Elbridge Gerry to Unknown My dear sir Philadelphia Sepr 10 1777 I have only Time to inform You, that my next will probably hand You an Account of an important Event, which is hourly expected to take place between the Armies of Generals Washington & Howe. The particulars of their present Situation, with a Newspaper containing the proceedings of Congress on the Tory quakers & a manly Address of General Washington to his Soldiers, I have sent to our Friend Doctor Cooper who will undoubtedly communicate the same if requested. I am sir in great Haste yours sincerely, E Gerry [P.5.] The Enemy are about 27 Miles from this City; The Army & in habitants in high Spirits. The Measure relative to paying the Interest of Loan office Certificates that shall hereafter be issued in Bills of Ex change is adopted by Congress. Whether those already issued will be on the same Footing, I cannot yet determine. 1 RC (ViU). 1 See Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, September 7, 1777, note. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. Septr. 10th. 1777 The great Desire of Congress to be informed of the Movements and Positions of the two Armies as early as possible, at this critical and important Period, has induced them to pass the enclosed Resolve, to which I shall only refer your Attention. 1 Your Favour of yesterday I was honoured with last Night. 2 With warmest Wishes, that Victory and Success may attend you, and that the Campaign may terminate in such a Manner as to encrease your Fame and Glory, I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Sir, your most obed Servt. 3 John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 This September 9 resolve requested Washington “to appoint a proper person at head-quarters to write to the president twice a day, or oftener if necessary, advising the position and movements of the armies,” and directed the Board of War to appoint “proper persons for conveying the said letters.” JCC, 8:726—27. In keeping with the latter directive, the board’s secretary Richard Peters had sent Washington the following note on the ninth. “The Board have it not in their Power to provide suitable Persons for the Purpose or they would not lessen the Number of Combatants in the Army, but are obliged to request your Excellency to appoint a sufficient Number of Expresses out of either Blands or Sheldon’s Regts of Horse & to carry into Execution the Resolve of Congress with all convenient Speed.” Washington Papers, DLC.
