642 September 10, 1777 2 This letter is in PCC, item 152, 5:33, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 9:197-98. 3 This day Hancock also wrote a brief letter to Gov. Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., of Connecticut, acknowledging receipt of his September 1 letter and informing him that it had been “laid before Congress, and is now under the consideration of a Committee—as soon as a determination is had, the result shall be com municated to you.” Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., Papers, Ct. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge Dear Sir, 10th September 1777. I had the honour of writing to Your Excellency the 12 & 15 August by Colo. Sumpter. A very important question varied in different branches of borrowing Money from the Court of France has been Since agitated in Congress, I have been uniformly against the measure & think it my duty by the earliest opportunity to inform Your Excellency the grounds of my dissent. The first question was for drawing Bills on our Commissioners for Ten Millions Dollars—which passed in the Negative. A proposition was then made & a question put for drawing for five Millions of Dollars—passed also in the negative. Yesterday by the most extraordinary motion & irregular proceeding that I have ever been Witness to in any other Assembly a Question was carried for drawing Bills of Exchange on our Commissioners at the rate of 5 Livres of France for a Spanish Dollar for payment of Interest at 6 per Cent per Annum of all Money already brought into the Loan office & that shall be brought in before the 1st March next. 1 It is expected that upon this encouragement Money holders will bring Supplies to the Loan Office & that we may without another Emission of paper raise before the 1st March 20 million Dollars, the Annual Interest of which will be about £270000 Sterling besides the risques of loss & delay by Remittances. ’Tis true the Commissioners have given Congress assurance of Money received & promised Sufficient to pay the Interest of five Million Dollars annually & added “we hope” also to find Sufficient by subsidies to pay the Interest of 20 Million if we should be obliged to borrow that Sum. At the Same time they inform us, that upon application to the Court of France to borrow two Million Sterling they were told it was “impossi ble” to Spare Such a Sum. That they had been Strongly pressed & that the Minister was “anxious” to contract for the delivery of 20,000 Hogsheads of Tobacco as a ground for raising Money by Taxes. That they had actually engaged to deliver 4000 Hogsheads & had received a very considerable advance on the Stipulation & “earnestly intreat” Congress to enable them to comply with their part of the agreement, which while our ports are Stopped will be impossible. 2
