654 September 13, 1777 Troops are in high Spirits. We have Intelligence that Genl. Howe has sent for to N York & Rhode Island for an immediate Reinforcement of 4000. We have ordered 1500 from Peaks Kiln. The Jersey assembly have voted & preparing & will send in three Days 4000 of their Militia. They give a Bounty of £4 a Man. In a Captains Pockett was found a Copy of Mr. Howes orderly Book & Gen. Washington says he collects from thence, that Howe’s force is between 8 & 10,000 Men. Mr Howe has no Tents, none but officers. We had before the Battle 14,000 Regulars including officers & 5,000 Militia, We are encreasing. Yesterday Noon Mr. Howe was not removed from the Place of Battle. Congress have given Brevet Commissions to the officers who came with Mr DuCoudray. Two of them Monsieur Auguste Le Brun, an able Engineer, and Monsieur Pierre a skilful artillerist will be sent to You to give You their advice & assistance in Defending our Towns and teaching our Artillery. 1 They are both Gentlemen & experienced offi cers. I doubt not You will give them a Polite Reception. Would it be amiss to get some Person Master of their Language to be generally with them & attentive to their wants & to prevent their being imposed on? They complain of Disrespect & Imposition here. Would it not be proper for some of our young Gentlemen to endeavor to learn their art? Would it not be proper to have an accurate Survey & Plot of the Harbours & Grounds near Balt. & Annapolis? Adieu. Your Friend, S. Chase [P-S.] Where is Smallwood & Gist ? Where Nat Gist with his Indians ? RC (NjP). 1 There is no mention in the journals of commissions for Captain Pierre and Captain Augustin Le Brun, but for Chase’s previous efforts to secure an engi neer and artillery officer for assistance in preparing the defenses of Baltimore, see Chase to Johnson, August 30, 1777, note. The two were among the several officers who received money from Congress in November for their expenses to return to France. See JCC, 9:875-77. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. Sepr. 13th. 1777 In consequence of some information Congress have received respect ing the Conduct of brigadier general Borre, they have come to the inclosed resolve, which I do myself the honour to transmit you, & am to request you’l be pleased to pay immediate attention to it. 1 I have the honour to be, with the greatest respect, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. 2 John Hancock Prest. RC (DLC). In a clerical hand and signed by Hancock. 1 On this day Congress ordered Washington to investigate the conduct of Brig.
