September 13, 1777 655 Gen. Philippe Preudhomme de Borre, whose brigade had collapsed under the weight of the British flank attack at the battle of Brandywine. De Borre offered his resignation to Hancock this day and Congress accepted it on the 14th. Shortly afterward, however, de Borre complained to Congress that he had been unfairly condemned before he could be heard in his own defense and asked to be promoted to the rank of major general. Congress turned down his request on October 4 and informed him that it had no further need for his services. JCC, 8:740, 760; and PCC, item 78, 2:265, 279. 2 This day Hancock also wrote a brief note to Washington, transmitting a resolution calling upon him to complete “the defences of Delaware river.” Wash ington Papers, DLC; and JCC, 8:739. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dear Sir Philadelphia Sepr. 13th 1777 I received your favour of the 26th August, that of the 15th is not yet come to hand. The arrival of Cap Merredith with his Prize gives me pleasure. I am in hopes this will be a saving Voyage perhaps a Profit able one. This is the 5th letter I have wrote you since my Arrival and you have not acknowledged the receipt of one of them. I every time Inclosed you the Last papers. You have them again now, by which you will find we have had a Battle at Shad’s ford upon the Brandywine, and Our brave troops Obliged to leave the field entirely owing to a mistake in the intelligence received. Our Army however are in high Spirits & very desirous of having another Brush with the Enemy who by the last Accounts still remain on the field. By the best Accounts as yet received of the Loss sustained by us is about 400 killed & wounded, and a gentleman who was lately near the field of Battle was informed by the inhabitants of that part of the Country who had viewed the Dead that there were at least three to one killd of the Enemy. It is supposed Genl. Howe will, as soon As he recovers from the late fatigue, proceed to the Sweeds ford upon Schoolkiln about 16 Miles from this City, where they will meet with (as I hope) their Deserts. I have Often requested that you would send me every Intelligence you can meet with relative to the Southern Colonies, surely you may now & then meet with a So. Carolina paper. I must beg you will let Mrs. Harnett know when the Post sets off that I may have the pleasure of one Letter from her which I beg you will Inclose to me. Let me know if you have received any intelligence of our Other Brig. It is amazing to what a price every Necessary & Convenience of life is arisen to. Such a Still as we last purchased would now sell for £2000 this Currency—Common rum 32/6 per Gall, Jamca. Spirits 60/ & every other Article in proportion, a Common riding horse £150. Altho’ the Enemy’s Army are so very near this City, Congress have
