656 September 13, 1777 not determined to remove neither will they, unless they are forced. In hast, I am, D Sir, Your most Obed Servt. Cornl. Harnett RC (NcU). Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry My dear Sir, Phila. Septr. 13. 1777 On the 11th instant at Chads ford on the Brandywine about 10 miles above Wilmington we had a most bloody battle with Gen. Howes whole Army which ended after 4 hours engagement in the enemies keeping the field and our Army retiring. But Gen. Howe may say with Pyrrhus, such another victory will ruin me. Every account of Officers and Country people who have been in the field since the Action say the enemies loss in killed & wounded must be between 2 & 3000. Nothing proves this more strongly than their remaining yet upon the field of battle, when every interest called upon them to push. Our loss in killed & wounded scarcely comes up to 500. The Militia were never engaged, nor was a strong division of our Army much in battle. The Virginia Troops have gained immortal honor. No capital Officers are lost and none wounded except the Marquis Fayette in the Leg & Gen. Woodford in the hand, but neither badly. Our Army is now the greatest part between Darby & Schuilkill—Two Brigades on this side—All in high spirits and wishing for another trial with the enemy. We are col lecting reenforcements with all diligence and hope yet to give a good account of Gen. Howe. Gen. Smallwood with 1500 Maryland Militia is coming fast upon the enemies rear. Farewell dear Sir, Richard Henry Lee RC (MdHi, Middendorf deposit). Robert Morris to John Ross Dear Sir Philada. Septr. 13th. 1777 Genl. Howe is now aiming to possess this City and as my worthy partner Mr. Willing is determined to remain here at all events, it is probable he may be in Want of money. I have therefore desired him to draw on Messrs, Geo. Clifford & Teysett of Amstm. the amount of Five hundred pounds Sterlg & have wrote them to pay such drafts, but shou’d you have taken the Funds out of their hands I beg you will confirm this Credit and provide them with the means of paying his bills which will only be drawn as his occasions may require. 1 I depend
