September 14, 1777 661 ing the Flank of Mr. Howes Army. How much longer Congress will stay here is uncertain. I hope We shall not move untill the last Neces sity, that is untill it shall be rendered certain, that Mr. How will get the City. If We should move it will be to Reading, Lancaster, York, Easton or Bethlehem, some Town in this state. It is the Determination not to leave this state. 1 Dont be anxious about me—nor about our great and sacred Cause—it is the Cause of Truth and will prevail. If How gets the City, it will cost him all his Force to keep it, and so he can get nothing else. My Love to all Friends. Yours, John Adams RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:342. 1 Congress convened in an unusual Sunday session this day and resolved to meet at Lancaster if it were obliged to leave Philadelphia, and after adjourning for the day on the 18th intelligence arrived “which intimated the necessity of Congress removing immediately from Philadelphia; Whereupon, the members left the city, and, agreeable to the resolve of the 14, repaired to Lancaster.” JCC, 8:742, 754. John Hancock to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Philada. Septr. 14th. 1777 Should the Information Congress have received of the British Troops having left Rhode-Island be true, it is the Request of Congress that you will immediately order a Battalion of your State to march to Peeks Kill, armed and equipped in the best Manner you are able; And in Order that they may march with the greater Expedition, you will disencumber them of all Baggage, such as Tents &c which may be sent after them. 1 I beg Leave to request your Attention to the Resolve and have the Honour to be. Sir, Your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (R-Ar). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 This intelligence about the British evacuation was false. The journals do not mention its source. ]CC, 8:742. John Hancock to Philemon Dickinson Sir 1 Philada. Septr. 14. 1777. Sunday In Congress I was this morning honour’d with your two Letters of yesterday’s Date, which I laid before Congress. 2 I inclose you a Letter from the General, & one from him to Genl Putnam, one to General McDougall & one to Major Murray, 3 which when you have perused you will please to Seal & forward with all dispatch by Major Putnam, but
