666 September 15, 1777 James Duane to George Clinton Sir Philad. 15th Septr. 1777 You have undoubtedly before this heard of the late Battle between the grand armies under General Washington & General Howe. General Washington’s Account is enclosd. 1 I was in hopes to have had it in my power to collect a more particular Account of this sharp & bloody con flict founded upon satisfactory Evidence. But as the Enemy were last masters of the field of Battle my Expectations have hitherto been dis appointed. Several Countrymen have viewd the Field, before the dead were buried, who, according to their Report, amounted to 1500 at least, more than two thirds of them British & Hessian. There can be no doubt but the Loss was very great as the Enemy have not Attempted to im prove their Advantage. Their main Army now lies between Namun’s Creek and Wilmington about 24 miles from this City. General Wash ington has repassed the Schuylkil & gone towards them. A large Body of Militia, the Light Infantry Corps, & Light Horse are hanging about them. If I may be indulged a conjecture I presume that General Howe will strongly fortify the Camp he now occupies & wait the arrival of the Fleet which is expected up the Delaware: if not of the Reinforcement which it is said he has orderd from New York and Rhode Island. I am sorry to inform your Excellency that my only Colleague here, Mr. Duer, is sick & has been incapable of attending Congress for about 10 days during which time the state has had no Vote. Mr. Duer is better this morning & probably will go to Bristol for a few days To reestablish his Health. I beg your Excellency to pardon this hasty scrawl. I have several Letters to write and detain a private Express. I am with the greatest Regard, Sir, your Excellency’s most Obedient, humble Servant, Jas Duane RC (NN). 1 This enclosure was a John Dunlap broadside containing September 11 letters on the battle of Brandywine by Washington and Col. Robert H. Harrison. Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 15636. Richard Henry Lee to Mann Page Phila. Sept. 15, 1777. Reports on the battle of Brandywine. “Gen. Washington marched his army here after the battle and having re freshed his men with a little rest &c he yesterday recrossed the Schuylkil and was this morning about 16 miles from hence and about 12 from the enemy. Our army is in very high spirits and eagerly wish to attack the enemy 1 ... we every day expect another battle ... We have sent
