September 15, 1777 667 for a reenforcement of 2000 men from Peeks Kill 2 ... we shall be ready quickly to give Mr. Howe a third battle, if the second shoud not content him. We have strengthened our Army ... by the addition of two able foreign Officers, Baron Kalb & Count Polesky. The former a Brigadr. General of great experience . . . the latter, a Nobleman of Poland who has commanded 18000 men in his own Country ... he is arrived here to fight the battles of liberty over again. He is at the head of our Cavalry. 3 Gates writes us that he is strong & has got up to Stillwater very near to Burgoyne, and that a few days, perhaps hours, will shew whether the British General chooses to fight or fly 4 ... I hope by next Post to congratulate you on a glorious victory over Howes whole force, & perhaps Burgoynes fate may come about the same time . . . Gen. Washington was this morning within 6 miles of Howe, and ... we should have had a battle e’er this if the heavy rain now falling had not prevented it . . . We just now hear that the enemy having collected their force from Rhode Island, N. York &c &c were pushing thru the Jersies with 4000 men under Gen. Clinton. The Jersey Militia are collecting under Gen. Dickinson to oppose them, and 2000 men are ordered from Peeks Kill to cross the North River and come on their rear . . .” MS not found; abstracted from extract in Charles Hamilton Autographs Catalog, no. 6 (1955), item 73. 1 Ellipses here and below in Tr. 2 On September 12 Congress had ordered 1,500 Continental troops from Peekskill, N.Y., to reinforce Washington’s army. JCC, 8:736. 3 This day Johann de Kalb was appointed major general and Casimir Pulaski, brigadier general in the Continental Army. JCC, 8:745—46. 4 Horatio Gates’ September 10 letter was read in Congress on the 14th and is in PCC, item 154, 1:256. New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare Worthey Sir, Philadelphia Sepr. 15th. 1777 No Doubt but that you’l here of the battle of the 11th Instant (before this Reaches you) which begun at Chads ford on Brandiwine River. Vearious and Uncertain are the Accounts of the loss on both sides. Several Members of Congress was present at the battle who Reports as their oppinion that our loss did not Exceed 400 and by Information this day by a man who lived nigh the field of battel who says he was called on with some others by Genl. Howe to bury the dead that they buried of the Enemy on that part where our Right wing was Ingaged 1274 and that in said place we lost but 200. What numbers was Slain on our left wing were the battle first begun is not as yet Asertained. They have lost a great many officers, and a very great many wounded, one hundred waggen loaded with sd. wounded went off the field togeather, on the
