668 September 15, 1777 whole they ware so sore that they have continued in their Camp ever since the battle haveing full Imployment to take care of their wounded and to bury their Dead. Altho we lost the field with Six peices of Can non another such Victory would ruin Howes Armey. General Washing ton has Collected his Armey and (in high Spirits) taken an advantages post about five Miles from the Enemy and as soon as the reinfostment from Pekskill of 2500 Joynes him to Attack the Enemy. We have Obtained an order from Congress for one hundred thousand Dollars one half on the loan Office in Boston, the other half on the loan Office in our State. Mr. Frost being in a pore State of Helth Desires leave to Return home and proposes to Set off from this place next week and bring the Orders on Sd. Office’s with him. 1 We are with great Respect, Sr., Your Most Obt. and Most Humble Servts. Nathel. Folsom Geo. Frost RC (Nh-Ar). Written by Frost and signed by Frost and Folsom. 1 Frost was granted leave of absence by Congress on September 17. JCC, 8:753. John Adams’ Diary 1777. Sept. 16. Tuesday. No Newspaper this Morning. Mr. Dunlap has moved or packed up his Types. A Note from G. Dickinson that the Enemy in N. Jersey are 4000'strong. How is about 15 miles from Us, the other Way. The City seems to be asleep, or dead, and the whole State scarce alive. Maryland and Delaware the same. The Prospect is chilling, on every Side. Gloomy, dark, melancholly, and dispiriting. When and where will the light spring up ? Shall We have good News from Europe? Shall We hear of a Blow struck by Gates? Is there a Possibility that Washington should beat How? Is there a Prospect that McDougal and Dickinson should de stroy the Detachment in the Jersies ? From whence is our Deliverance to come? Or is it not to come? Is Philadelphia to be lost? If lost, is the Cause lost? No—the Cause is not lost—but it may be hurt. I seldom regard Reports, but it is said that How has marked his Course, from Elke, with Depredation. His Troops have plunderd Henroosts, dairy Rooms, the furniture of Houses and all the Cattle of the Country. The Inhabitants, most of whom are Quakers, are angry and disappointed, because they were promised the Security of their Property. It is reported too that Mr. How lost great Numbers in the Battle of the Brandywine. 1
