670 September 16, 1777 am informed by a Letter from Mr. Wells from Albany, that Gates has above 7000, and Lincoln 5,000. Mr Smith sends to Dr Boyd an [account?] received from Gen. Dickenson of Howe’s force which he got from N York. Mr. McHenry waits. Adieu. Your Friend, S Chase P.S. Would it not be proper to publish the Substance of what Intelli gence I send you ? Send to Paca—no Conveyance to him from thence— his Son is well, & all his Relatives here. Genl. Deborre was recalled & resigned. Genl. Sullivane was recalled but G.W. is unwilling to part with him. RC (MdFreHi). James Duane to George Clinton Sir Philad. 16th Septr. 1777 I had the Honour to write to your Excellency Yesterday. Every moment is now become interesting and the Prospect of a general En gagement on which much depends cannot be contemplated without the utmost Anxiety. The British Army since the late bloody Engagement moves with the utmost Caution. They are now at Dilworth Town not far from the late field of Battle. Our main army about 12 miles distant from them stretches between the Enemy and the Sweeds ford on the Schuyl-kill. The Light Infantry under General Maxwell & 2000 Pen- sylvania militia are gone on some Enterprize I imagine in the rear of the Enemy. Col. Gest with about 700 Maryland militia lies at Christiana about Twelve miles above the Town of Wilmington, Genl Smallwood with about 1100 at Oxford 9 miles South of the field of Battle. There are other parties at different places. I suppose General Washington will soon bring on an Action to deprive General Howe of the Advantage of cooperating with his shipping for which he is very probably waiting; tho’ the bloody battle of the Brandywine undoubtedly demanded for the Survivors some Repose. A few days will decide the Fortune of the two Generals, & probably the Fate of this City; so far as respects its being either consigned to Plunder, or delivered from that dreadfull Calamity: for that General Howe shoud be able to hold it with an Army of not 10,000 men when they left New York woud be too extra ordinary to admit of serious Apprehension unless we can first be per- swaded that the Patriotism and the promises of the Southern states were meer Puffs and Delusions. I look, Sir, to the North with the ut most solicitude. Pleasing as are the Prospects I await the important Event with the utmost Impatience. Good news from thence woud
