674 September 16, 1777 disadvantages. Ten days more will bring forth the most momentous events. Congress in the present Situation of affairs think it necessary to prepare for adjourning to Lancaster about 66 Miles West. Perhaps before Sun rise to morrow I shall be on my journey. Some of us are already gone. I will continue here as long as most of the Company, but as I have ever loved free air & exercise & hate to be confined to a Small room, I will not stay the very last Man. When we are restored to tranquility wheather here or elsewhere you shall hear again from &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 George Galphin, a South Carolina Indian trader, was serving as a Con tinental Indian commissioner for the southern department. James H. O’Donnell, III, Southern Indians in the American Revolution (Knoxville: University of Tennessee Press, 1973), pp. 20-24. 2 On April 4, 1777, Congress had approved Galphin’s plan to meet with the Creek Indians in order to discuss a peace treaty and instructed him to send some Creek leaders to Philadelphia at Continental expense. Galphin met with the Creeks in Georgia in June, and although the Indians signed no treaty and sent no representatives to Philadelphia, they did indicate their intent to main tain peaceful relations with the United States. Ibid., pp. 59-61; and ICC, 7:223-24. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge Dear Sir 16th September [1777] Since my arrival at this place I have had the honour of twice ad dressing Your Excellency, the 12th Ulto. by Capt. Hornback & the 10th Inst, by Doctor Houston. 1 The present is intended by the Revd. Mr. Holmes who calls late in the evening to acquaint me of his intention to begin his journey to Carolina early to Morrow Morning, tis probably the last trouble I shall give your Excellency from this Station, it may be the last I shall ever give. As my Colleagues have been Some days absent, gone with their families to a place of Supposed Safety & as I may find it necessary to leave Town this very night I think it my duty to devote a few minutes to transmit a brief State of our affairs at the present Instant. Colonel Horry who went away yesterday & who will probably be with you before this, will inform Your Excellency in general & in many particulars the rise & progress of last Thursday’s battle. I will there fore only add on that head, that by accounts which Congress has re ceived this day we are confirmed in beleif that the loss of the Enemy was very great, not less than one Thousand killed & probably as many or more wounded, had it been otherwise tis not to be doubted that
