September 16, 1777 675 General Howe would have improved the advantage which one unlucky mistake on our Side had afforded him & have been in possession of Philadelphia upon Friday. I Speak from appearances & accounts which deserve Credit. General Washington as Speedily as circumstances would admit of recollected his forces, recrossed the Schuylkil Sunday the 14th. This morning he informed Congress of his being within a few Miles of the Enemy, that as his Troops had been hard Marched he had halted & given them an opportunity of refreshing themselves, that the British Commander had discovered a “violent inclination” to get again on his right & intimated the Signs of an approaching Second battle. He strongly recommends the immediate removal of all public Stores from hence & the most Speedy efforts to Supply his Troops with Blankets & Clothing. The recommendation to remove Stores is construed by many Mem bers of Congress to imply their own removal, which they Suppose & Some have Said he wishes for, although he may not think plainer terms becoming from this circumstances. If we do not learn Some event very favourable to us, the Representatives of the 13 United States will be Scattered to morrow & proceed in hopes of reuniting at Lancaster or York Town. General Washington commenced his last March determined against waiting to be attacked. The nearness of the two Armies therefore puts it beyond a doubt that a Second general battle, provided the Enemy is not averse, will happen to morrow if the Weather Shall not forbid. At this moment it rains tremendously & the air does not promise to favour Gunpowder in a few hours. For my own part I feel under all dis couraging appearances confident of Success. I have learned from Offi cers who were in the heat & the hottest of that heat of the 11th Inst, that our Men are firm, that they showed no fear of Superior power of Cannon nor of fixed Bayonets. They are gone out now determined to recover the honour lost on that day by the Shameful misconduct of Some of the Officers. These I flatter my Self will behave better & be doubly anxious to bury in oblivion the remembrance of their Crimes. ’Tis much to be lamented as a part of those Crimes we cannot obtain returns of our late loss nor of the present State of the Army. The latter from the best guess accounts I compute to be nine to ten Thousand Continental & five to Six Thousand good Militia if any Militia besides those under General Starks can be called good. From an orderly Book found in the pocket of a Slain Captain of the 49th British, General Washington had computed General Howe’s whole force embarked at New York to have been under 9000, & from an authentic Account which we have obtained from New York of the whole forces under his Command, a Copy of which I shall here inclose, Your Excellency will beleive it could not have been greater.
