676 September 16, 1777 Yesterday Congress was informed of the landing of 2000 Troops from Staten Island & New York at Elizabeth Town & this day General Dickinson has advised that the number landed there was 4000, in con sequence of which he was that minute going to Assemble all the Militia who had been otherwise intended as auxiliaries to General Washington. We have also advise of nine Ships of War being as high up the River as Reedy Island, of a very dangerous plot concerted in this State & part a Neighbouring Colony extending from Fort Pitt to the Enemy’s Army & that some of the chief conspirators were apprehended & Com mitted to Gaol. 2 If Townes Evening post comes abroad this Evening Your Excellency will find also inclosed an extraordinary history of Correspondence be tween the invincible Burgoyne & General Gates from whence it ap pears that our affairs are in a pleasing State in the Northern depart ment. 3 All the Stores, Sick & wounded which had been removed hence to Trenton are now ordered to be carried to Bethlehem. The New Frigates & some other Navigation are as high at Burlington if the Enemy should penetrate so high these will form funeral pyres. Other Frigates, Fire Ships & Wrafts, Gallies, Gondolois & Gun Boats are below. What defence or destruction these will make is very uncer tain but as Billings port is abandoned & Fort Island not in a full posture of defence, I am apprehensive the Enemy’s fleet will meet with no great resistance from them. The land battle will decide their fate. General Caudre unfortunately drowned this morning in Schuylkill. Baron duKalb yesterday appointed a Major General his Commission if he accepts to be dated one day anterior to that of Marquis delafayette who lies wounded in his Leg at Bristol where If I am obliged to run I mean to call for him. 4 We are drawn to an 'important Crisis. If we are blessed with Success, my native Country will probably enjoy another Winter unmolested; on the contrary, she must expect a Severe attack before Christmas. It will be her wisdom to prepare immediately without hesitation or waiting for events to increase her honour & military fame. I must now go through the weather to learn if any thing momentous has happened Since I came home & if necessary at my return a post script shall be added, mean time I beg leave to Salute your Excellency with repeated assurances of being with respect Esteem &c. LB (ScHi). 1 Laurens had also written to President Rutledge of South Carolina on August 17 and 19. 2 Laurens may be referring to the episode described in John Hancock to Wil liam Livingston, August 30, 1777, note, but see also JCC, 8:745-46. 3 These letters are listed in JCC, 8:741. 4 See JCC, 8:745—46. At de Kalb’s request, Congress later erased from the journals its resolve antedating his commission to Lafayette’s and decided on
