September 17, 1777 677 October 4 that both men should hold commissons as major general from the same date. JCC, 9:769; Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:145-46. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philada. Sept 17. 1777 Your kind Letter of the 29th of August is now before me. You therein take a very proper Notice of the signal Success of our Affairs at the Northward. I hope my Countrymen are duly sensible of the obligation they are under to Him from whose Hand, as you justly observe, our Victory came. We had a Letter from General Gates yesterday, from which we every hour expect another great Event from that Quarter. The two Armies this Way had an obstinate Engagement last Thursday. The Enemy have gaind a Patch of Ground but from all Accounts they have purchasd it as dearly as Bunkers Hill. Two or three more such Victories would totally ruin their Army. Matters seem to be drawing to a Crisis. The Enemy have had enough to do to dress their wounded and bury their dead. Howe still remains near the Field of Battle. Genl. Washington retreated with his Army over the River Schuylkill through this City as far as 1 [Germantown]. There he recollected his Forces and [recrossed] the River again & posted himself [. . .] the Enemy. Our Soldiers [. . .] eager for Action and we are every day expecting another Battle. May Heaven favor our righteous Cause and grant us compleat Victory. Both the Armies are about 26 Miles from this City. I am pleasd to hear that Col Crafts invited Mr Thacher to preach a Sermon to his Regiment. He discovered the true Spirit of a New England Officer. I dare say it was an animating Discourse. Religion has been & I hope will continue to be the ornament of N England. While they place their Confidence in God they will not fail to be an happy People. I am exceedingly rejoycd to hear that Miss Hatch is in hopes of recovering her Health. Remember me, my dear, to my Family and Friends. I am in good Health & Spirits and remain with the warmest Affection, your SA RC (NN). 1 MS tom; approximately ten words from four lines missing. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philade Sept. 17 1777 I receivd your favor of the 1st Instant. I have not Time at present
