678 September 17, 1777 to give you a particular Account of our Military Movements in this Quarter. I suppose you will have it from our Friend Mr J A. There was an obstinate Engagement last Thursday. The Enemy were left Masters of the Field, but by all Accounts the Advantage was on our side. Howe & his Army remain near the Field of Battle. They have had much to do in dressing their wounded & burying their dead. Gen eral Washington retreated over the Schuilkil to Germantown a few Miles above this City, where he recruited his Soldiers. He has since recrossed the River and is posted on the Lancaster Road about 12 Miles distant from the Enemy. His Troops are in high Spirits & eager for Action. We soon expect another Battle. May Heaven favor our righteous Cause & grant us compleat Victory! Both the Armies are about 26 Miles from this Place. A Wish for the New England Militia would be fruitless. I hope we shall do the Business without them. I have a favor to ask of you in behalf of my very worthy Friend R. H. Lee. He supposes that Mr Gardoque of Bilboa has sent him some Jesuits Bark. I wish you would inquire of the Captains from Bilboa & forward it to him, if any is arrivd, by the first safe oppor tunity. I have requested the same thing of Capt John Bradford, not knowing but the Multiplicity of publick Affairs might render it im possible for you to attend to it, although I am sure you will oblige so good a Patriot as Mr Lee if it may be in your Power. We are told that the Enemy have landed in the Jerseys, 4000 strong. You can tell whether they have left Rhode Island. I have Reason to hope that an equal Number of spirited Jersey Militia are musterd under the Command of General Dickinson, Brother of the late Patriot. These were designd for a Reinforcement to the Army here. If the Re port be true, these Militia joynd with 1500 Troops from Peeks Kill (un doubtedly now in Jersey) under the Command of Brigd General McDougal, will be sufficient to give a good Account of them. I think our Affairs were never in a better Scituation. Our troops are victorious in the North. The Enemies Troops are divided & scatterd over a Country several Hundred Miles. Our Country is populous & fertile. If we do not beat them this Fall will not the faithful Historian record it as our own Fault. But let us depend, not upon the Arm of Flesh, but on the God of Armies. We shall be free if we deserve it. We must succeed in a Cause so manifestly just, if we are virtuous. Adieu my Friend. S A RC (MHi). Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Dr Sir Philadelphia Sept 17th 1777 I wrote you a few Lines from Head Quarters on Brandywine near
