September 17, 1777 683 mentioned in your Letter. 2 The Circumstances of Capt Harris’s Con duct have also been mentioned to Congress, & no objection was made to the proposal of his continuing in the Command of his Vessel, which will probably be ordered to Carolina for a Load of rice. Duplicate Receipts being taken for all the Articles delivered, one of each may be forwarded to the Committee. Inclosed are printed Copies of two Letters from General Washington & his Secretary of the 11th Instant wch. may serve to give You some Idea of the Battle of the Brandywine, wch happened on that Day. 3 This Creek empties into the Delaware about 26 Miles below the City, & runs a considerable Way into the Country. At the Mouth on the other Side is Wilmington, & it is there crossed by a fine Bridge. About twelve Miles from the Bridge into the Country is Chads Ford, & 5 or 6 Miles from thence higher up is Jones’s Ford, at & near which was fought the Battle. General Washington was a few Days before posted on the Heights of Chrystine Creek, about 8 or 10 Miles on the other Side the Brandywine, but General Howe declined giving him Battle on that Ground & passed him on the Right, which left the Delaware in his Rear, the Brandywine on his Right Wing & White Clay creek on his left, with the Enemy to the Westward & in Front. This occasioned the Removal of our Army to the N E Side of the Brandywine, on the Banks of which opposite Chads Ford they posted themselves. The Enemy approached this Ford on the Morning of the 11th, abt 3/4 after 8, & began a Cannonade, which We distinctly heard at this place & wch was returned by our Army untill 11, when it ceased for the most part. Here General Maxwell twice crossed with about 1000 of the con tinental Troops, which were picked from the several Brigades & formed into a Corps of light Infantry. The first Time he advanced about a Mile or two, & as the Enemy came on retreated to a pass or Defile, where he formed a Kind of an Ambuscade & poured on them a very heavy Fire. This did considerable Execution, as is agreed on all Sides, & their Loss is by the General’s Computation which by far is the most modest, above three hundred killed & wounded. The second attack of Maxwells, by the Secretary’s Letter left 30 of the Enemy dead on the Spot, & of Course the wounded were double the Number. Mean while General Sullivan, who was posted on the Right to guard Jones Ford, was informed by some Scouts that the Enemy were marching up the Country, but discredited it from the Information of a Farmer not having seen them, could not confirm the first Account. Lord Stirling & Stevens with their Divisions, who in the Afternoon were posted near to Sullivan, on hearing the Account that the Enemy had crossed the Creek marched towards them, & soon meeting them formed for Battle. Sullivan also marched, but by the best Information to be had, was attacked before he could form. Whether it was owing to Chance or Misconduct, I must leave You to judge. A very warm engagement
