September 17, 1777 685 Our Affairs at the Northward, by late Advices looked very favour able, & e’er this reaches You I think something important may happen in that Quarter. With respect to foreign News, We have none, save a Continuance of the friendly Disposition of the Courts of France & Spain, so far as it respects their assisting us by Supplies; I think their Conduct in not im mediately recognizing our Independence, to wch the former early pro fessed to be a Friend, shews that they so far regard their own Interest as to run as little Risque as possible. Indeed if the Credit of our Cur rency is established, wch We are in a fairer Way of accomplishing than We have yet been in, I think We can oppose Great Britain without their declaring War; but this will not justify their Conduct in the Matter, when they well know that the power of G Britain was suffi cient to overcome their united Exertions during the last War. We have however the strongest assurances from some of our Commissioners that War will be declared before the next Campaign, if the present is at tended with tolerable Success. The Confederation will I hope be finished before the Winter comes on, but this also depends in some Measure on the Success of our Arms. I can only add that with much Esteem I remain sir yours sincerely, E Gerry P.S. As I have not Time to write to my Freinds at M[arble]head, I shall be much obliged to You if a Copy of the Letter relative to the Action of the 11th can be taken by your Clerk & sent to Mr Gerry. RC (ICarbS: Elsie O. and Philip D. Sang deposit, 1971). 1 James Warren’s August 31 letter to Gerry is in C. Harvey Gardiner, ed., A Study in Dissent: The Warren-Gerry Correspondence, 1776-1792 (Carbondale: Southern Illinois University Press, 1968), pp. 78-80. For further information on the disposition of the Spanish cargoes of these ships, see Gerry to Joseph Gardoqui & Sons, September 1; Warren to Gerry, September 15 and October 5, 1777, ibid., pp. 81-85; and JCC, 8:748. 2 JCC, 8:749. 3 See John Hancock to Washington, September 12, 1777, note. John Hancock to Dorothy Hancock My Dear Philada. 17 September 1777 Nothing could have happened more fortunate, than your leaving this City at the time you did, for in a very few days we were much Alarm’d, & proceeded to Pack up all our publick Papers, to be ready in case we were under the necessity of Removing, & indeed most of the publick papers are remov’d, mine still Remain here, tho’ I Expect Congress wil this Day Adjourn to Lancaster, unless we should hear of General Wash ington’s gaining a Victory. The Enemy are within 26 or 30 miles of us,
