686 September 17, 1777 & an Action Expected as soon as the weather clears up. It is said 4000 of the Enemy from New York have landed in the Jerseys, with what design is not known. I hope we shall Rout Genl Howe’s Army, & that will put a fine face on our affairs. I was much pleas’d to hear that you got safe over the North River, I wish this may find you all well. I have but a moment to spare. Mr Bant will inform you all the news. Remember me to all Friends. I will write you as often as I can. Take care of yourself. Poor Monsr Du Coudra was yesterday Drown’d in the Schulkill, he Rode on his horse into the Ferry Boat, & the Horse jump’d out with him. Let me hear from you as often as you can. The Inclos’d Letter is for Mr Rees the Waggoner. 1 Send back the Waggons as quick as you can. Take care of the Box of plate & all the things. I am greatly hurried. I am, your affecte Husband, John Hancock [P.S.] Give Mr Rees the waggoner the Inclos’d pass. RG (DLC). 1 Not found. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. Septr. 17th. 1777. I have the Honour to transmit the enclosed Resolves, conveying the most extensive Powers to you, in Order that the Army under your Command may be more effectually supplied with Provisions and other Necessaries; & that the same may be prevented from falling into the Hands of the Enemy. The Congress have likewise empowred you to suspend all Officers for Misbehaviour, and to fill up all Vacancies in the Army, under the Rank of Brigadier General, until their Pleasure shall be known. 1 In Consequence of your Letter advising that the Provisions in this City should be removed to some Place of Safety, & requesting a Supply of Blankets, the Congress came to the enclosed Resolves, which were immediately communicated to the Executive Council of this State. In obedience to the Order of Congress, I enclose you a Copy of their Answer on the Subject, 2 and have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt. P.S. In Consequence of the Resolution of Congress transmitted some Time ago, two Thousand of the Virginia Militia have rendevouzed at Fredericksburg, where they wait only for your Orders, to march as you shall think proper to direct. 3
