September 17, 1777 687 This Morning, Genl. De Coudray, in attempting to cross the Schuyl kill, was unfortunately drowned; and was this Afternoon interred at the public Expence. 4 RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 8:751-52. 2 See JCC, 8:747-48; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 5:630-31. 3 See Hancock to George Gibson, September 12, 1777. 4 This day Hancock also wrote a brief note to Washington enclosing letters of the 16th and 17th by Gov. William Livingston and Gen. Philemon Dickinson on New Jersey affairs. Washington Papers, DLC. See also Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:236. James Lovell to William Whipple My Dear Sir, Philadelphia Sept 17. 1777. Your favor of double date the 25th and 30th is before me. That same “military check” will justly rank for its consequences with the most capital blows given to the enemy this war, while in circumstances of bravery it not only exceeds them but the actions of any modern cam paign. It has been proposed as a stimulus in General Orders to the Continental Army in this quarter. As to the affair at Brandywine last Thursday I doubt whether you will even accurately know whether fortune alone is to be blamed, or whether Sullivan and the Chief should not share with her in the slanderous murmurs. Knowledge of the enemy’s intentions on the right wing of our army was certainly wanting. General Washington and some good military men especially the highest officers do not charge the want to Sullivan. But as he was under the order of Congress for a Court of Enquiry as to Staten Island the Maryland officers in his division, the delegates of that State, the great Burck, the friend of St Clair and the connexions of Schuyler accomplished to cast such reflections upon his want of capacity to direct a wing of our army in this critical day, that a majority, after first demolishing old De Borre affected the Resolve to recall Sullivan till his conduct should be enquired into as per former order. You are to take with you that an attempt to send St Clair to join the Army had been baffled. Agreeable to the prophecy of the Minority the Commander in Chief has written in the most pressing manner for a suspension of the Order of recall which being carried Ch e moved that a direction might go to put the Maryland troops under some other M. G[enera]l which would have been in effect throw ing out S n, for the soldiers of other divisions would be unwilling to serve under a man discarded by the Marylanders if the Generals would consent to exchange. R d joined and had the Delaware inserted with Maryland. 1 But these States were the only yeas which agreeable
