690 September 17, 1777 had left Rhode Island, but I doubt it. Congress have requested, if the Fact be true that One of your State Battallions may be forwarded to Peekskill, that we may be able to draw the Continental Force from thence as Circumstances may Require. 3 A Requisition of the like kind is gone to Connecticut, 4 And will I presume to Massts. I hope some Expedient will be found for getting Our Vessells out of Providence River, And that One or two State owned Vessells will be employed to go to France for Arms, Blankets and other Cloathing ballasted with Salt. They may very probably clear the whole Adventure by Prizes. I have offerd this Hint before; I hope my Zeal for the Good of my Country will plead an Excuse for those or any other Observa tions I have made and am with great Truth, Your most obedient and humble Servant, Hy. Marchant RC (R—Ar). Addressed: “The Honorable The Govr. & Company, State of Rhode Island.” 1 See JCC, 8:730-31. 2 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:230. 3 See John Hancock to Nicholas Cooke, September 14, 1777. 4 This action is not recorded in the journals. Robert Morris to Abraham Whipple Sir Philada. Septr. 17th. 1777 The Attempt Genl. Howe is now making to get possession of this City has caused me to remove my Family, Books, Papers &ca. to a place of Safety. Consequently I can not attend closely to my Corre spondents till something decisive is done & this is all I have to offer in extenuation for my not answering by this post your favr. reed, by yesterday’s, Time not permitting me to add any thing more than just to assure you that indeed I am, Sir, Your Obedt. hble Servt. For Robt. Morris, 1 John Swanwick RC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). In the hand of John Swan wick. 1 Swanwick also wrote a similar letter this day for Morris to John Langdon. See PMHB 23 (October 1899): 401. North Carolina Delegates to Richard Caswell Sir Philada. Septr. 17th. 1777 On the 11th Instant there was a very severe Ingagement between the Armies of General Washington and Howe, on the Brandywine twelve Miles above Wilmington. The enemy made the attack at 8 oclock; it
