September 17, 1777 691 lasted with little intermission untill dark. The officers say the fire from the Cannon and small arms was the hottest they ever heard of, they kept the ground but paid dearly for it having from the best accounts we have had, lost upwards of 2000 men, one General & several Field officers killed & wounded supposed to be their best men. Our loss is said to be 700 killed & wounded tho’ the greatest part of the latter were brought off. Only one field officer was killed a Major Bush. The enemy got seven pieces of Cannon from us. General Washington retreated over the Schuylkill but the next day marched towards the enemy, taking an upper road. He soon got near the place where the late action was, the enemy having been the whole time busily imployed in burying their dead & taking care of their wounded. The armies have been manuvring for two days, we expect there will soon be another action. It is with pleasure we can inform you that our officers & soldiers are in good spirits anxious for an oppor tunity of obtaining revenge. You will observe from General Washington’s letter to Congress 1 that our loosing the ground was owing to some mistake as to Intelligence relating to the movement of the enemy. Our affairs to the Northward are in a promising situation. General Burgoyne has met with such a check as will make him more attentive to effect a retreat to Ticonderoga, than any thing else, as Genl. Gates has nearly the double of his force & a large body are getting into his rear. General Howe is making his last effort. If he meets with a defeat, he is undone, as he is a considerable distance from his ships, his situa tion is truly critical. We hope soon to be able to give your Excellency the agreeable news of the success of the American arms. The North Carolina Troops were not ingaged in the late action. Inclosed are some papers for your amusement and are with due respect, Sir, Your most obt. Servts. Thos Burke J. Penn Gomi. Harnett RC (PHC). Written by Penn and signed by Penn, Burke, and Harnett. 1 See John Hancock to Washington, September 12, 1777, note. William Williams to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Hond. Sir Philadel the 17 Sepr. 1777 Wed. Morn I have nothing material to add, since my last by Morris, no impor tant movements of the Armys have taken place since the late action of BrandyWine. Genl Washington is encamped, I cant describe where as
