692 September 17, 1777 Places have no names here. I take it about 15 Miles westerly, or south westerly from this, at the crossing of sundry Roads, & the way is open for Howe to Us. I take Washingn intends to attack them on the rear, on his attempt to get here. Howes main army the last we heard lay near the place of Action, being doubtless much galled & probably to wait reinforcements, which they have sent for before the action, from R Island, N Y &c & their Ships, We have no certainty about any being in the River, tis said they are & that they have per York or S. Island invaded Jersey agn with 4000 men & they destitute of Amunition, & were supplied from hence yesterday. Probably they hope to penetrate thro to Us or however it will effectually answer their great End of stoping their Militia from Washns assistance, otherwise their Genl Dickinson says he shod have brot 4 or 5000. Tis Confidently said, but we have not sufficient Evidence, that the Enemy buried 1070 at the upper ford, beside what were killed at Chads. Report this morning is that a Skirmish happened yesterday between advance or picquet Gards of the two Armies, but that the rain parted them. The last was an ex ceeding rainy night. Somthing very important will soon take Place. May every Heart & every Soul be lift up to God for Mercy & De liverance. Tis most ardently to be wished but alass, alass, how little to be expected, by appearances here, I pray God it may be otherwise in Connecticut! Congress remain here, but begin to talk & have indeed voted to move to Lancaster if They are obliged to remove. It is about 60 miles west of this. Tis sorely against my Will to move that Way, & as the Time is very nearly expired that I intended to Stay I have some thoughts of returning home but less Ill Nature shod call it Timidity, beleive I shall not. The two last Posts brot me no Letters, which was very greivous. If my Freinds have all forgot me, I must bear it. Intended to have wrote largely about Mr Erkelens, with whom I have had much Conversation, I am fully convinced he is a firm, solid, principled friend to America, & his Stay & manufactures in our Colony wod be a most valuable Acquisition. He is determind if he cant go on there to move to this, the Center & cherisher of all Manufactures, to their immense advantage, (the Wethersfd Peace Maker carries on a great stroke here). The Crops are very large here & thro the Country there is no possible Danger of the arrays suffering for want of Bread & I shod think the Spirit for them wod be of very great Importance. They want it exceedingly in this Army. I hope we shall be too wise to loose so valuable a Business, but He wishes most heartily & he mut be rid of the Tory Shaler if it shod be discouraged, for a Time, to make Shaler sell out to him, possibly it wod promote it. But also what is all this, if God is pleased to give us up to Slavery & Destruction, but I hope in his Mercy, let us not faint nor be discouraged,
