September 18, 1777 1 693 but wait patiently for the Lord, & he will not fail them that trust in him. They begin to be alarmed here so as to run out with Effects &c but not so much to fight as I cod wish. With tender Rembrance to yr dear Daughter &c &c I am most respectfully yours &c, W. Williams [RS.] This minute I hear in Congress that the Enemy certainly carried 100 waggon load of Wounded to Wilmington. One Genl officer killd &c. They say our army is intirely cut to pieces. Brandy Wine emties into Delawar, between Wilmington & New Castle, not below, as I believe I have wrote, some time since. RC (NN). John Adams’ Diary 1777. Septr. 18. Thursday. The violent N.E. Storm which began the Day before Yesterday con tinues. We are yet in Philadelphia, that Mass of Cowardice and Tory ism. Yesterday was buryed Monsr. Du Coudray, a French Officer of Artillery, who was lately made an Inspector General of Artillery and military Manufactures with the Rank of Major General. He was drowned in the Schuylkill, in a strange manner. He rode into the Ferry Boat, and road out at the other End, into the River, and was drowned. His Horse took fright. He was reputed the most learned and promising Officer in France. He was carried into the Romish Chappell, and buried in the Yard of that Church. This Dispensation will save Us much Altercation. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:263. John Hancock to John Armstrong Sir, Philada. Septr. 18th. 1777. 10 O’Clock P.M. I have the Honour to enclose you a Resolution of Congress for the Removal of the printing Presses in this City (except one) which you will please to carry into Execution in the Manner you may think most proper. 1 1 beg Leave to refer your Attention to it. Should you receive any Intelligence of the Movements of the Enemy, I must request you will immediately forward it to Congress, that they may have all possible Information of their Views and Intentions. I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Sir, Your most obed. & very hble Servt. J- H. Presid.
