xxxii Illustrations pected loyalists but was released after taking an oath to the state, and was employed as Connecticut counsel during the hearing of the Susquehannah Company land claims before the federal court at Tren ton in 1782. He was a delegate to Congress, 1785-87, and played a major role in the proceedings of the Constitutional Convention. Elected one of Connecticut’s original United States senators, he re tired in 1791 when Congress’ removal from New York to Philadelphia made it impossible for him to carry on that work and his duties as president of Columbia simultaneously. In Congress, Johnson contin ued to work on behalf of Connecticut’s claimants in Pennsylvania’s Wyoming Valley and sought acceptance of Connecticut’s western land cession and recognition of her claims to a western reserve. He was also a proponent of augmenting congressional power, especially over trade, and supported John Jay’s negotiations with Gardoqui, arguing that Americans would gain greatly from Spanish trade concessions and give up little in return since they would have slight use for the Mississippi River in the immediate future and ultimately would force its reopening through population pressure. Etching by Albert Rosenthal from a painting by Gilbert Stuart. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress. LC-USZ62-54684. Richard Dobbs Spaight 436 Spaight (1758-1802) was born into a prominent North Carolina family with Irish roots, the nephew of royal governor Arthur Dobbs. He was orphaned at the age of eight, however, and was sent to Ireland to be educated. He studied at the University of Glasgow before return ing home in 1778 to become an aide to Gen. Richard Caswell. During his public career he was a member of the North Carolina House of Commons from 1779 to 1782, a delegate to Congress, 1783-85, a dele gate to the Constitutional Convention in 1787 and to the North Car olina ratifying convention in 1788, governor of North Carolina, 1792-95, and a member of the Fifth and Sixth Congresses from 1798 to 1801. In 1801 he was elected to the North Carolina senate, but shortly thereafter he died from wounds suffered in a duel with John Stanley, his successor in Congress. In the Confederation Congress, young Spaight advocated a stronger Continental government, op posed efforts to limit slavery in the territories, and sought to prevent the appointment of members of Congress to other Continental posts during congressional terms for which they had been elected. He was also a member of the Committee of the States that convened when Congress adjourned from Annapolis in June 1784, of the Grand Com mittee on the requisition for 1785, and of the committee appointed to draft an ordinance for the government of the western territories. In-
