James Monroe to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Trenton Novr. 1. 1784. Two days since I arriv’d here after performing a tour up the north river by fort Stanwix, down the wood-creek, thro’ the Onida, Ontario, & (by the Niagara falls) part of lake Erie, thence back by Niagara thro the Ontario by Carlton Island thro the St. Lawrence to Montreal & from Montreal over lake Champlain by Albany to N. York again. You find I have taken a rout different from the one I intended, as my ob ject was to take in my view the practicability also of a communication from lake Erie down the Potowmack. But from this I was dissuaded by an accident wh. happen’d to some of the party, upon lake Erie, with whom I came from fort Stanwix to Niagara. I had seperated from them by accident three days before the event. They landed near some Indian huts (a Mr. Teller from Schenactady with four men in a bat- teaux) & were fir’d on by those Indians, Mr. Teller & two men kill’d, & a 4th wounded; the latter, with the 5th made their escape. The Indian chiefs highly reprehended the act & were at the earnest instigation of the gendemen of the Brith. garrison, endeavoring to detect & bring the villains to justice. Upon advice of this disaster Colo. Depeister, 1 commanding at Niagara, sent an Express to me just entering upon lake Erie advising my return, with wh. I complied & took the above rout to this place. My excursion hath been attended with great per sonal exposure & hardship & much greater expence than I had ex pected. It hath however I hope been advantageous to me in some re spects. I have ascertaind I believe with some accuracy the different degrees of difficulty from Michelemackinac down the grand river to Montreal, thro the lakes to Montreal and by the north river. {The pref erence is at least 20 percent in favor of the north river}. 2 The first lea- sure time I have I will take the rout of fort Pitt to lake Erie & form some estimate in that direction. {Canada, I find from individuals, [thirty] miles below Cataraqui to Montreal much richer than I had ex pected, although) I am of opinion Ld. Shiffield’s expectations are vi sionary in his calculation that it will supply the Islands with flower & lumber. 3 {Still I think it has great resources, in those articles but the best timber) is high up the river, wh. together with the difficulty of get- ing it down the rapids & thro’ the gulph of the St. Lawrence to the west Indies must make it an expensive trade to them, more expensive I am told than that from the Baltic. If I were to estimate the present, or the probable future value of Canada to the Brith. Dominions, con sider’d in a commercl. light, {and compare it with expences neces- 3
