Novembers, 1784 7 Archives record a flurry of activity at the end of October to prepare the “long room” of the tavern for Congress, including the purchase of twelve tables (£4.10.0), carpet, cur tains, and green covering for thirteen tables (£1.18.7), fireplace tools (£2.2.6), and “Lime and White-Washing two Large Rooms for Congress twice over" (£0.10). See “Pa pers of the Continental Congress at Trenton, N.J. in 1784,” Nj-Ar; and Edwin Robert Walker, et al., A History of Trenton, 1679-1929, 2 vols. (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1929), 1:185-92. 2 Gov. George Clinton’s October 18 speech opening the new session of the New York Assembly, reporting on Massachusetts’ claims to lands in New York and “the necessity of appointing agents to manage the controversy on the part of this state,” is in New York, Messages from the Governors Comprising Executive Communications to the Legislature and Other Papers..., ed. Charles Z. Lincoln, 11 vols. (Albany: J. B. Lyon Co., 1909), 2:217-20. Hugh Williamson to Thomas Ruston Dear Sir 1 Trenton Novr. 2nd 1784 The Pamphlet 2 you was so good as send by Mr. Lawrence with the Packet of Papers came safe to Hand. Mr Lawrence is now here with us. I am much obliged to you for the Pamphlet from which I reed much useful Information. Once as you know I thought it worth while to sign a Paper for the Inspection of the British Parliamt and Ministry in hopes of correcting their Conduct by unanswerable Proofs that they were in pursuit of bad measures. 3 Was argument of any use? no cer tainly, unless to make them desperate the sooner. For many Years I have laid it down as indisputable that the Br. Nation is not to be con vinced except by the Argumentum a necessitate. Uniform and consistent nation, where individuals are generally persuaded & yield to the Argu mentum ad Crumenam 8c the People at large to the Argumentum plumbeumA A late Report of the Council 5 is in proof that Arguments which I thought unanswerable have made no Impression. If we do not find some means of putting a stopper on the present demand for British goods in this Country I am greatly mistaken. In truth I am not grieved at the present Madness of your Rulers, it was needed and will be of use for our Instruction in mercantile & political Wisdom. I had been in North Carolina 3 months during the adjournmt of Congress and arrived at Philada. from that state seven days ago where I found your Letter of the 6th Augt. Had it come to hand before I left Home I should certainly have visited your Farm, At present I can form no Esti mate of its Value because the Lands adjoining the great dismal are very unequal, some of them being very good and others thin and sandy. I shall write however to a friend in that neighbourhood for a correct History of the Tract You have described. There are two Com panies to whom the whole of the great Dismal belongs, including the Lake. The boundary line passes through that great Desart. Genl Wash ington and nine other Gentlemen have taken up the Part that is in
