8 November 2,1784 Virginia, about 100 Thousd Acres. Another Company, of which I am one, hold all that part of the Dismal which is within N Carolina, about 50 Thousd As. I consider our Part as by far the most valuable acre for acre on Accot of the vast Cyprus forests it includes. This is the Timber generally call’d Cedar of which Shingles are made. We now have a Party of men employ’d in that manufacture. In Mitchels Map or the American Atlas I forget which you will find a tolerable Draught of that sunken Tract calld the Dismal. In all parts that we have try’d there are 2J4 feet to 3 feet deep of black soil, under which there is a stiff blue Clay. After the Timber is removed, such land cannot be exhausted by Agriculture. From the Head of Pasquetank River which is within the Lands of our Company into Drummonds Lake the distance is about 5 miles. The water is at least 4 feet deep & without any falls to the Place calld the Head of that River. From Drummonds Lake the Distance is hardly two miles to the deep & stagnant water of Tucker s Mill dam. The Tide water, in the West Branch of Elizabeth River, on which Nor folk stands, rises to the very back of Tuckers mill dam; from this you may calculate the necessary length of a Canal to pass large Boats from our Rivers to those of Virga, to carry off our Lumber and to carry off our redundant waters so as to drain our low ground. Genl Washing ton, who has view’d the Lake and the Virginia Tract carefully assures me that a Canal 4 feet deep may convey Boats of sufficient Magnitude from the Lake to any of the contiguous Rivers. The Virginia Company seem desirous of beginning the Canal immediately & our Company are equally desirous to forward a work that must treble the Value of that Estate, but as they seem to have considerably overrated my Judge ment on subjects of this kind they have signifyed to me that they wish for my assistance in putting that Business in a Train. On the next sum mer I expect that some thing will be done. If your Enquiries arose from any desire to purchase into the Virga. Company I think such purchase would be impracticable. Several Gentlemen have told me that they had attempted in vain. There is a kind of agreemt. among them that if one sells the others shall have the refusal. I was told about 4 weeks ago that a Gendeman who owns 1000 As. in our Company is willing to sell that, and that he was willing to take three quarters of a Dlr per Acre. How long he may retain that mind I cannot guess. During the late war the Virga land office continued open for the sale of Land at a given Price, when the mony was greatly depredated. People took out Warrants for vast Quantities of Land (for the real Price was a perfect Trifle, whatever the nominal one might be). The custom was to issue a Warrant for so much Land to be taken up where you could find it on the East side of the Ohio. I believe the good Lands are universally taken up & there are still as many Warrants un- sadsfy’d as would cover all the Rocks & Mountains, which are many, Three Times over. There may chance to be among the skirts of the mountains some little Plains of 2 or 300 As. hitherto unexplored; But
