November 12, 1784 15 Charles Thomson to Richard Phillips Mr. Phillips, Trenton November lit. 1784 You are to proceed with all dispatch to Annapolis and bring from thence all the furniture and Utensils belonging to the Presidents House-hold. On your return with them to Philadelphia you are to stop there, and wait for the Orders of Congress taking care, if it be necessary to load the Goods, to have them safely lodged & secured. You are to engage a proper person to go down with the Horses and bring up the Coach. You will deliver the enclosed Letter to Mr. Jennifer 1 and receive from him two hundred Dollars out of which you will defray the ex- pences of yourself and the Coachman and for freight & removal of the Goods and furniture rendering an account to the President of Congress on your return. I am Sir, &c, C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). 1 See the preceding entry. John Francis Mercer to James Madison Dear Sir Trenton Novr. 12. [17]84. Altho’ I shoud have blush’d to have met you, after having so long delay’d repaying the money, you kindly advanc’d me, 1 yet the sincere pleasure I felt in the expectation of again taking you by the hand ef faced every other impression & my dissapointment was real when I learn’d that you had return’d to the South without my meeting you. After you left me in Congress—I was subjected to the inconve nience—I may indeed say misfortune—of committing money to the care of four different friends, whose necessities were so urgent as to make them forget mine. This added to my expences in attending an itenerant Congress, surpassing infinitely the appointment from the State, has given a very unfavorable complexion to my conduct to you. At this moment I am unable to restore the whole of the money you loan’d me & the mode I have taken of remitting you 400 Dollars (whilst I hope it will answer perfectly your purpose) discovers my in ability to adopt any other. You will be so good as to shew the enclos’d order to the Treasurer & consult with him. Inform him that I only de sire the money to be paid you, at the time I might draw it myself, con sistently with the Law of the State. Therefore if the forms of the Office require delay untill a quarter’s salary has accumulated—notwithstand-
