20 November 15, 1784 business to make provision for taking possession of them in the Spring. {The minister) whom we may order to that {Court) to obtain an answer upon this head & cultivate its good wishes toward us, will we trust inform us by the Spring that the {western posts) will be given up & the troops whom we may raise for that purpose will of course be ap plied to the garrisoning of them. Many of the {western posts) I have seen & think 1200, the smallest number we shod, think of. But yet we have no Congress nor is the prospect better than when I wrote you last. All my associates are here except Grayson. I beg of you to write me weekly & give me your opinion upon these & every other subject which you think worthy of attention. A motion will certainly be made as soon as we have a Congress for its removal hence, to wh. shall we give the preference {N. York) or {Philad.}. We know not whom we shall have for {the President of Congress). The {Deligates} of {So. Carolina) think of {Mr. Laurens), but if I may venture a conjecture from what I have observ’d, with respect to {Mr. Laurens’s) intentions I shod, sup pose his object was to attain the appointmt. to the {Court of Great Britain); the rule heretofore adopted in the election of {the President of Congress) will I think be deviated from, 6 if this shod, be the case it is not improbable {R. H. Lee) may be elected. I have heretofore ad dress’d my letters to Mr. Jones to Richmond but fear from the ac counts I have of his health he hath not left home. Is this the case? I am with great respect & esteem Dear Sir yr. fnd. & servt. Jas. Monroe 7 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 See Monroe to Madison, November 7. 2 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Monroe in cipher. 3 For the context of Monroe’s observations and his exchange with Madison concern ing the conflict between Congress and New York over treaty making with the Six Na tions, see J. David Lehman, “The End of the Iroquois Mystique: the Oneida Land Ces sion Treaties of the 1780s,” WMQ, 47 (October 1990): 523-39; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 8:156-59. 4 That is, the case ofjulien, chevalier de Longchamps, who had assaulted the French consul general in Philadelphia in May for which he received a $200 fine and two years in jail. See Thomas Mifflin to the Chevalier de La Luzerne, May 31, 1784. 5 See Monroe to Benjamin Harrison, October 30, 1784. 6 That is, the practice of rotating the presidency among the state delegations; no member from New Hampshire, Rhode Island, North Carolina, or Georgia had yet held the office. Richard Dobbs Spaight addressed this point in a November 6 letter to John Francis Mercer from Philadelphia: “On talking with the gentlemen who have returned from Trenton, I find they do not approve of the plan of having a President for the Week, they wish to have him for the year with the Table as Usual, but incline to break thro’ the rule, which seems to have been tacitly consented to by Congress, that is, that each State should have a President, before any One should have two: After it has gone thro’ all the States Except four, I think it would be treating them with particular indignity to throw them out, unless Con gress thought it was necessary to place the presidency upon a different footing, such as the mode you propose, or some other which would materially alter it. The South Car-
