November 18, 1784 21 olinians in case this should take place, are for putting Laurens in the Chair. I don’t know the gentleman, or what his abilities are, but this I think, that his conduct during the time he was a prisoner in England was not such as to intitle him to the honor of being a second time Elected President—besides if the rule is broke thro’ other States have men in their Delegations whom they would wish to bring forward and with as much propriety I am sure as So. Carolina can Mr. Laurens.” Roberts Collection, PHC. 7 The preceding day Monroe had written a letter to Wilson Cary Nicholas of Virginia, describing his trip to western New York and Canada, an extract of which appeared in the Collector, 68 (January-February 1955), item n. 61. “Those observations I had an op portunity to make respecting the movements of the Brith. government in Canada, I communicated to the Executive who have I suppose handed them to the Assembly. Un till the absolute declaration there is, it is true, no certainty of war, but I am fully per suaded it wd. give them pleasure, I mean the ct. of London, that we shod, give them an opportunity to quarrell with us. The whole nation are dissatistfied with the late peace, & are if I am well inform’d restless for an occasion to retrieve the publick honor & loss. On our part if we have reason to be satisfied with it, we shod, comply with all the condi tions of it with a religious truth.” Monroe went on to observe that John Francis Mercer was “desirous of being ap pointed in the Executive.... I think him better qualified for that than the office wh. he holds. His talents certainly qualify him for either but from his particular warmth of temper or prejudice against characters or states a conduct similar to that must be injurious here.” Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Adams My dear Sir, Trenton in N. Jersey Novr. 18. 1784 The same cause that deprived me of the pleasure of hearing from you sooner in answer to my former letter, has in great degree pre vented me from sooner acknowledging the receipt of your favor of Septr. 23d 1783; which I received in the following winter, when labor ing under a long continued, severe illness, that had nearly ended my days. I thank God that I am now pretty well recovered. Insomuch, that I have been prevailed on, once more to take a seat in Congress; my brothers three years having ended with this federal year. I am much grieved my dear friend, to observe the wonderful lassitude that pre vails in public affairs. It is now eighteen days since Congress ought to have assembled here, and as yet we have but five States. It surprises me that these five are all Southern. None but the worthy Dr. Holten from your State being yet arrived from the eastward; whence, formerly we used to derive most punctuality, alacrity, and judicious dispatch of public business. Yet there are many subjects of great importance, that demand the speedy, temperate, wise, and firm discussion of Congress. We have seen here the late report of a Committee of the Privy Council in G. Britain upon the petition of the W. India planters and Mer chants, soliciting an open and liberal trade with these United States. In this report, all the illiberal & senseless principles of commerce that are scattered thro Lord Sheffields book, are taken up and recom-
