22 November 18,1784 mended. The report was laid upon the Table of the House of Com mons—But it seems that the Parliament is prorogued without touch ing the subject of their Commerce with us. So that it remains on the old ground of proclamation, interdicting our Trade with the B. West Indies, but thro the medium of British Vessels. It is not difficult for an attentive and diligent enquirer to discern the old Leaven working in the British councils. The same men still rule in secret, the same mea sures are wished to be practised upon. Nor does it signify much whether a Pitt or a North comes forward upon the Stage. The Nation too, like a strong, proud, & sullen Man angry from unexpected de feat, and imputing misfortunes to Casualties, would seem not averse to a second trial. I remember when once I detested the moderate character. At this moment I think that moderation, wisdom, firmness, and attention, are the principles proper for our adoption: and highly becoming the dignity of our successful situation. Being always pre pared for the worst, the best events will not be unpleasing. It is observ able that great hopes are entertained beyond the waters from the ex pectation of discord, disunion, & apathy on our part. I sincerely wish that they may be disappointed. We understand that Silas Deane & Arnold are in frequent conversation with the British M[iniste]rs—And it is said that the former composed part of the book adopted by Lord Sheffield. Indeed, the principles of that book are precisely the same with those contained in one of Mr. Deane’s intercepted letters in 1781. What kind of conduct are we to expect from G. Britain, when its councils are mixt with gall, and when the acrimony of blasted ambi tion and avarice is permitted to insinuate itself? I shall be extremely happy to be aided by your counsels during my residence in Congress. Our letters may, in this direct line of post, be secure—especially as the times are not quite so inquisitive as formerly. I beg that my best re spects may be presented to Mrs. Adams, and remember me, if you please, to Gen. Warren, to Mr. Gerry & Mr. Lovell. I am dear Sir most sincerely and affectionately your friend, Richard Henry Lee RC (NN: Samuel Adams Papers). Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Lee Shippen My dear Cousin, 1 Trenton Novr. 19. 1784 This mornings post put into my possession your favor of the 17th in stant, and I thank you for it with great sincerity. I am very happy to hear that Mr. Reed is in your delegation, 2 and I should have been much more so, if your worthy father had been there likewise. It greatly
