November 19, 1784 23 smooths the rugged paths of politics, to travel them with men of abil ity, integrity, and candor. We are as remote from having a Congress, as we were 19 days ago 3 —with the southern delegates at Philadelphia, and those of your State inclusive, we have but Six States and an half represented. But one delegate as yet from the eastward, whence for merly proceeded the most industrious attention to public business. I do not like this lentor, this strange lassitude in those who are ap pointed to transact public affairs. I am here placed in the house of a Mr. Howe, where I have a good warm bed chamber, and other conve niences to my satisfaction. The streets of the Village in this rainy sea son, are most disagreeably wet & muddy. How long we shall remain here, it is not in my power to say. Mr. Woolcot, one of the Commis sioners for the Indian treaties has come here with a Treaty concluded very satisfactorily with the Six nations. 4 He says that the other two Commissioners are gone to Pittsburg to treat with the Western Indi ans, and he apprehends that they will accomplish their business on that quarter with facility. I am a good deal distressed about my horses—if they go to vendue, they will sell for nothing. If they remain unsold, they will eat more than they are worth. At this place I think they would not sell, because here are so many for sale. If they were in Virginia, I should have no doubt of being able to sell the two for 40 or 50 pounds. In this state of things I can devise no mode of proceeding but the following, which by your friendly offices may perhaps be ac complished. My namesake Mr. Lee of the Indian Queen, is a goodna- tured, obliging person, and I understand that he has something to say with the Stage that goes to Virginia. But tho this last should not be the case, his interposition with Twinings Stage may obtain what I want; which is, that my horses be received to work their way to Alexandria in Virginia so as not to injure them, but only to travel them reasonable distances at a time and giving them due rest & food—which will at once ease their Cavalry, and accomplish my purpose of getting my horses to Virginia. At Alexandria they are to be deliverd to Mr. Fendall (with the inclosed letter) who lives about half a mile from the Town and is well known there. If Mr. Lee will undertake the affair for me, I shall certainly succeed, & my horses will not be injured in going back—Which latter may happen by overdriving—not properly resting & properly feeding. Will you be so kind as try your talents at negotia tion with Mr. Lee? Julius Caesar shewd his ambition as much when he preferd being the first man in a small Village to the second in Ronur, as when he grasped the Imperial purple. So evidence may be given in small negotiations of superior fitness for great affairs. I will inclose you a letter for Mr. Fendall to go with the Horses, upon a presump tion that your address will be surely successful. I am glad to know that Mr. Quanier promises well, and I expect he will remember that the promises of a Man of honor are sacred.
