26 November 20, 1784 The United States of America give peace to the Senecas, Mohawks, Onondagas, & Cayugas, and receive them into their protection upon the following conditions. Article 1st. Six Hostages shall be immediately delivered to the Commis sioners by the said nations, to remain in possession of the United States till all the prisoners, white & black, which were taken by the said Senecas, Mohawks, Onondagas and Cayugas, or by any of them, in the late war, from among the people of the United States, shall be delivered up. Art. 2d. The Oneida and Tuscarora Nations shall be secured in the possession of the Lands on which they are settled. Art. 3d. A line shall be drawn, beginning at the mouth of a creek about four miles east of Niagara called Oyonwayea or Johnsons landing place upon the Lake named by the Indians Oswego, and by us Ontario. From thence Southerly in a direction always four miles east of the Car rying path between Lake Erie and Ontario to the mouth of Tehosero- ron or Buffaloe Creek on Lake Erie. Thence South to the north boundary of the State of Pennsylvania. Thence West to the end of the said north boundary. Thence South along the west boundary of the said State to the river Ohio. The said line from the mouth of Oyon wayea to the Ohio shall be the western boundary of the Lands of the Six Nations, so that the Six Nations shall and do yield to the United States all claims to the country west of the said boundary, and then they shall be secured in the peaceful possession of the lands they in habit East and North of the same, reserving only Six miles square round the fort of Oswego to the United States for the support of the same. Art. 4th. The Commissioners of the United States in consideration of the present circumstances of the Six Nations, and in execution of the humane and liberal views of the United States, upon the signing of the above articles, will order goods to be delivered to the said Six nations for their use and comfort. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Enclosure endorsed by Lee: ‘Treaty at Fort Stanwix be tween the United States & the six Nations. October 1784.” 1 Oliver Wolcott had reached Trenton the preceding day with the treaty signed on October 22 by himself and his fellow commissioners, Richard Butler and Arthur Lee, and by the sachems and warriors of the Six Nations. The treaty fixed the western boundary of the Indian domain and secured the Oneidas and Tuscaroras, who had sided with the United States during the war, in the possession of their lands, while it compelled the hostile Senecas, Mohawks, Onondagas, and Cayugas to give up six hostages pending the release of all hostages. Wolcott submitted the treaty to Congress on November 30, the day after it first convened a quorum, along with an October 22 speech of the Oneida chiefs and an October 26 letter from the commissioners which were referred to committee. When Congress considered the committee’s December 2 report on the 3rd, it postponed action, resolving only to transfer the troops at Fort Stan wix to West Point. The treaty itself was not approved until June 3, 1785, when it was taken up in conjunction with the January 21 Treaty of Fort McIntosh negotiated by But ler and Lee. See JCC, 27:659-60, 723, 28:423-24; and PCC, item 56, fols. 137-40, 309-16, item 135, fols. 172-74, item 174, fols. 1-3, item 186, fol. 167. See also Thomas Mifflin to the Indian Commissioners, March 22, 1784; and the following entry, note.
