November 20,1784 29 I have the Pleasure to inform your Excelly. that on Wednesday last Mr. Woolcott one of the Commissioners of the United States for nego tiating peace with the Indians arrived at Trenton with the Treaty con cluded on or about the 24th of October (I am not pointed as to the date) with the Six Nations. 5 Our Commissioners have gained a most advantageous Line of division of Property from those people & have secured effectually all the carrying places to & between the Lakes as well as proper Territory round the Posts that may hereafter be neces sary to be fix’d by the united states for protection of the settlements of the Country & the security of the Traders. As all our foreign Advices remain under the seals with which they have come to hand, I cannot speak authentically of any European Transactions. We have heard of the arrival of Mr. Jefferson one of the Commission ers for negotiating Commercial Treaties in Europe &c in Paris & that he was well received by the French Court; & the Minister of the United Netherlands in a Conversation yesterday seems to think the differences between the Emperor & their High Mightinesses will be compromised without a War. This Opinion is also confirmed by Monsr. de Marbois Charge Des Affaires of the Court of France to Congress. It gives me great pain to find Colo. Laurens is under the necessity of leaving the delegation at this time. He is upon the Point of setting out by Land from this place, having left Trenton on Wednesday last. 6 His great abilities & thorough Information in our European Affairs are highly necessary in Congress at the present which I believe is gener ally admitted to be a most critical Period to the United States espe cially to the Commercial Interests of the Union. I am with the greatest respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedt. & Most huml. Servt. (signed) Jacob Read Tr (ScCoAH: Governor’s Messages). 1 Not found. 2 At about this time Read also queried James McHenry about the failure of the Mary land delegation to appear. “As to your question,” McHenry responded on December 5, “it can only be answered by the slowness of government in making appointments, and the general disinclination in men to leave their own business, which is generally more profitable, than serving in Congress. This State I believe will soon fix upon their delega tion, but when we shall be represented I cannot say.” Sol Feinstone Collection, no. 851. DLC microfilm. The Maryland delegation—Samuel Chase, John Henry, William Hind man, McHenry, Luther Martin, and Gustavus Scott—was actually selected on December 4 and 17, but did not attend in Trenton. McHenry joined Congress when it reconvened in New York on January 12, Hindman on February 8, and Henry on March 11; the oth ers did not attend. See JCC, 28:3, 47-48, 136. 3 Richard Dobbs Spaight did not join Hugh Williamson until November 29. JCC, 27:642, 645-46. 4 See Charles Thomson to Certain States, November 11. 5 See Richard Henry Lee to James Madison, this date, note 1. 6 Henry Laurens had arrived in Philadelphia in August hoping to report on his Euro pean mission and to urge Congress to negotiate a commercial treaty with Great Britain.
