30 November 21, 1784 His abrupt departure on November 24 thwarted the plans of the South Carolina dele gates to elect bim president. See David D. Wallace, The Life of Henry Laurens (New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1915), pp. 420-21. Samuel Hardy to Benjamin Harrison Sir. Trenton 21st. November 1784. The last week has given birth to nothing of material Consequence. The Assemblies of most of the states to the Eastward of this being now met, their members have not yet attended, and we are of course without a Congress. When we consider the important Objects which demand the most early Attention of the foederal government, & the un favourable impression which this inattention must produce both here & in Europe I cannot but lament it as a most unfortunate Circumstance. General Woolcot one of the Commissioners whom we appointed for Negociating treaties with the Indians arrived here three days ago. He brought a treaty concluded with the six Nations at fort Stanwix. 1 The Commissioners have guarantied to them all their land within the state of New York except the Posts of Oswego & Ni[a]gara with the carrying place, & four Miles along the lake from Niagara to Buffalo Creek which empties into lake Erie. The six Nations in return have ceded to the united states all their claim westward between lakes Erie & the Ohio. The other two Commissioners are going to fort Pitt for the purpose of holding treaties with the Indians in that quarter. From the ad vanced season & an aversion which I am told the Indians discover to treating seperately I fear Nothing great will be effected. With great respect, I have the honour to be, Your Excellencies Mo. Obedt. hum ble servant, S. Hardy RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). 1 See Richard Henry Lee to James Madison, November 20, note 1. Charles Pinckney to Benjamin Guerard Sir Trenton November 22d. 1784. I did myself the pleasure of writing your Excelly. on the 2d Instant 1 by Captn. Strong—since this Mr. Bull, Mr Read, Colo. Laurens & my self have been waiting the Meeting of Congress until Wednesday, when Colo. Laurens left us for Philadelphia on his return to Charleston, where he expects to arrive by the Middle of the next Month. 2 Mr. Read says he will take his seat for a few Weeks, but that he will certainly return with his Mother & sister (who are at present in Philadelphia) in the course of the next Month, & expects to be in
