32 November 23, 1784 We are here much in the same state, respecting making a Congress, as when I addressed your Excellency last, there not being a member from New England but myself, & only Mr. Jay from New York, the southern states, in general, are represented. I can’t but observe, that the first Monday in Decemr. next, is the day assigned by Congress for the appearance of the states of Massachusetts & New York, by their agents. I expect we shall make a Congress before that day, & I understand Mr. Jay & Mr. Duane, is to appear in behalf of New York. 2 I must suppose the Gentlemen from Masstts., who was ap pointed by the honorable Court to manage that matter, 3 will attend to the same; but if they should not arrive in season, I shall be altogether at a loss for reasons to assign for their not appearing. I have, with the greatest respect, the honor to be, your Excellency’s most obedient servant, S. Holten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). 1 See Richard Henry Lee to James Madison, November 20, note 1. 2 As well as both Robert R. and Walter Livingston, for which see New York Agents’ Journal, December 4—9, note 1. Egbert Benson, the fifth New York agent appointed, was not expected to appear. 3 That is, John Lowell and James Sullivan, in addition to the regular Massachusetts delegates expected to attend Congress this session, Elbridge Gerry, Rufus King, and George Partridge. George Partridge to Elbridge Gerry Dear Sir Trenton 24th. Novr. 1784 I am at length arrived at Trenton after a tedious passage of almost three weeks, occasioned by Storms & Contrary Winds. Only four States are represented here viz Georgia, South Carolina, Virginia & Masstts. The Delegates of North Carolina & Pensilvania are expected this evening, which with New Jersey will make a Congress. Who will be President, a few Days will probably determine. For my own part I dont know who is thot of. Mr. W n 1 (noted for his Brav ery) probably thinks of himself, but he is generally singular in his op pinion. R. H. Lee is here, whose Character rather intitles him to his Country’s Notice. Colo. Mercer is also here, who talks much of going on with the publick Business, with temper 8c good humour!!! I wish that you would inform me where the papers of the Delegates were deposited. If you took them home with you, I hope you will come soon & bring them, or at le[a]st, I hope you will be here at the time you talked of. I am with the highest esteem your friend & humbl Servt, Geo Partridge [PS.] I expect an effort will be made to remove Congress to Phila.
