December 2, 1784 41 my mind, however, I wish you to take particular care that there is milk in plenty for the children, & also take care of your fires. I have wrote to your brother at Gorham since 1 have been here. 3 I would ask you to inform me how you all do, but I know your en gagements, but will you inform Mrs. Holten that a short letter di rected to me & sent to Mr. Dana’s on Friday evening will come very safe to me. My health is better so that I have been out several days. My duty to mother, love to Mrs. Kettell & all the dear little ones. Yours with affection, S. Holten RC (IMunS: Continental Congress Collection). 1 John Kettell has been identified in these Letters, 14:510n. 2 Not found. 3 Not found. Charles Thomson to the States Sir, Trenton Novr. 30 1784 I have the honor to inform you that eight States being met the United States in Congress assembled have this day proceeded to the choice of a President & have elected for the ensuing year his Excelly Richard Henry Lee. 1 I have the honor to be, Sir, Yr most Obed & most h serv LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). 1 See JCC, 27:649. Lee’s election, according to Richard Dobbs Spaight, was achieved “after seven or eight ballottings” (Spaight to Alexander Martin, December 6), or “after a dozen different ballottings” (Spaight to Edward Hand, December 28). Charles Pinckney to Benjamin Guerard Sir Trenton in New Jersey Deer. 2d. 1784 I have the pleasure to inform your Excellency that Congress assem bled at this place on Monday, & on Tuesday proceeded to the election of a President when the Honorable Mr. Richard Henry Lee of Virginia was appointed. We have now nine States on the floor, & a Gentleman from each of the States of New Hampshire & Connecticut attending. The Delegates from the States of New York & Maryland are hourly ex pected, so that in the course of the Month we have no doubt of having a very full & compleat representation of the Union. From the appearance of things I am of opinion we shall enter upon the many & important Affairs before us with Unanimity & De cision. There seems to be a determined spirit in the present Con-
