December 10, 1784 57 The List proposed by Massachusetts was taken into Consideration.! They name Gentlemen from Virginia alone from from It was observed that while we have given them scope in our List for a Choice from each of the States they have in theirs confind us to States only. That Virginia by her Constitution founds her territorial rights on the ancient Charter to which comprehend a very great part of the Country of the Six Nations. That the Claim of New York Covers the Country of the 6 Nations and consequently a great part of the jurisdiction reserved by Virginia in her late Cession to the United States: and that it cannot be a pleasing Office to the Citizens of that State to pass a Judgement which might interfere with the Con stitutional Claims of their Country. That With respect to Connecticut there is such a similarity between her Claim against Pensylvania & the Massach. Claim against New York that her Citizens cannot be presumed to be free from some Degree of Prejudice. That New Hampshire has an existing Controversy with New York which has been brought to a formal hearing before Congress: That upon the whole only Mr Harrison 2 of all the Gent, proposed by Massach. Can be agreed to consistent with the Duty which we owe to our State. It is therefore unanimously agreed that a new proposition be made to the Mass. Agents (to wit) That the Agents on both sides respectively name two Gent, from every State excepting New York & the Massach. which will make the number 44 and the Agents alternately strike out one till the number shall be reduced to 22 And that from these an Attempt be made to constitute Judges by Consent. And Mr Duane is appointed to communicate this proposition. Mr Duane accordingly made The said proposition to the Gentle men of the Massach. Saturday the 11 th A M Mr. Duane reported the Answer of the Masss. Agents to the above proposition (to wit) That they expected that the Agents from New York woud furnish them with a new List of 13 Gent, according to the first Agreemt. That they woud take it into Consideration and if it produced no Ef fect they woud make us a Proposition. We thereupon formed a new List of the following Gent and Mr Duane at the request of the Agents deliverd it to the Mass. Agents. 3 Nathaniel Green Rhode Island Cone & 1 xt t e Smith I New Jersey
