66 December 12, 1784 We have before us a serious remonstrance from the Spanish Agent against our navigating the River Missisippi, they deny the right under our Treaty with the Court of London, and say that any american vessel which may come into that River will be confiscated. 3 This is a subject that alarms the Southern States, and will require a con siderable degree of delicacy and firmness to be conducted with safety. No account from the British Court favors the idea of a cordial amity towards the united States, and the detention of the Posts on the west ern frontier is probably under positive instruction. I wish very often to be with you; I leave in your Town connections very dear and valuable to me; pray write me every thing respecting your self and other friends, which you think I may desire to be in formed of. I inclose you a Philadelphia Gazette, pray direct Mycall to send me weekly by post his paper. 4 With esteem & friendship, Your R King RC (NNC: King Collection). Addressed: “Daniel Kilham Esqr., Newbury-port, Massachusetts.” 1 Dr. Daniel Kilham (1753-1841), an apothecary and selectman of Newburyport, Mass., had graduated from Harvard College with King in 1777. Austin D. Kilham, comp., Notes on the Descendants of Austin and Alice Kilham and Related Families (Char lottesville, Va.: Bailey Printing, 1970), p. K 7. 2 This December 10 motion, “by the State of South Carolina, seconded by the State of Pensylvania,” was merely for Congress “to adjourn from their present residence,” al though had it passed it doubtless would have been followed by one for reconvening in Philadelphia. See JCC, 27:678, 680-81. 3 See Samuel Hardy to Patrick Henry, December 5, note 3. 4 That is, the Essex Journal and the Massachusetts and New-Hampshire General Advertiser published byJohn Mycall at Newburyport. Robert R. Livingston to the Chevalier de La Luzerne Dear Sir, Trentown 12th Deer 1784 The unaccountable negligence of a Gent to whom I intrusted a Let ter long since written in answer to your favor at parting has prevented your receiving my acknowledgments & my regrets on a subject on which it would be too painfull for me to toutch did I not know that your departure from us restored you to friends & connections that have nearer & dearer claims upon you. Permit me to offer you my congratulations upon your safe & happy arrival among them without attempting to lessen the pleasure it affords you by reminding you of the sorrows of those you have left behind. We are now at Trentown suffering under all the inconveniences of cold rooms, hard beds, worse fare & want of society without the conso lation of knowing when these evils are to end as we can not agree on
