December 14, 1784 69 you full information on the subject. I think he is (and has reason to be) convinced that the attachment of America to him has not been abated by the peace, and that we are now as little disposed to break friendship with France as we were during the war. This is a most favourable season for her to relax the severe commercial restrictions which oppose our trade to her islands. Her liberality would be con trasted to British ill-humour, and unavoidably produce correspondent impressions. The present Congress promises well. There are many respectable members here. Federal ideas seem to prevail greatly among them, and, I may add, a strong disposition to conciliation and unanimity. Your letter on the subject of leave to return is, with a variety of foreign papers, referred to a committee. They have as yet made no report, and, therefore, I can give you no satisfactory intelligence on that head. 1 I lately saw Mrs. Bache in good health and spirits at Philadel phia, and I am persuaded no less anxious for your return than you can be. Mrs. Jay and our little family are at Elizabethtown, and her last letters inform me they were all well. Be pleased to make my compli ments to your grandsons. I am, dear sir, Your obliged and obedient servant, John Jay. MS not found; reprinted from Jay, Correspondence (Johnston), 3:136. 1 Franklin’s request to return to America, which had been conveyed to Congress by Henry Laurens, had been referred to a committee on December 1, which reported on December 23, but its recommendation to accept Franklin’s resignation was not brought up for debate until January 21. As Congress was torn over making a decision on the shape of the postwar diplomatic establishment abroad, acceptance of Franklin’s resig nation was held hostage to agreement on how to fill diplomatic posts at London, the Hague, and Madrid, as well as at Paris, and not until March 7 was a resolution adopted permitting his “return to America as soon as convenient.” See JCC, 28:13-14, 122; and PCC, item 186, fol. 167. Richard Henry Lee to William Duer Sir, Trenton Decemr. 14th, 1784 Your letter of the 10th Inst, was this day received and laid before Congress—no immediate Order was taken upon it. If I may be permit ted a conjecture, I would suppose that the enclosed resolve upon the subject of your letter was considered as the sense of Congress on that point 1 —should this not correspond with your idea, you will please to signify your opinion upon that point in a subsequent letter. I have the honor to be, Sir, Your most obedient and very humble servant, Richard Henry Lee
