72 December 14,1784 imports & exports are before them. I think recommendations to that effect will pass. A distinction will be made between the revenue & the regulation; the former unless ceded by the State to go to the State. As yet we have heard nothing from you except in a letter from on b[oar]d ship to Mr Hardy on the Committee of the States. It will give us pleasure to hear from you as well for the information you will give us of our affrs. abroad and what we shod, do here, as to be assurd of your health & welfare. The Marquis of Fayette will know every thing which I have not mention’d of the affrs. of the Union in every part wh. will supersede the necessity of my detaining you longer for the present. Short hath I hope join’d you. I very sincerely hope you are all well & am with my affectionate wishes that you may remain so yr. friend & servant, Jas. Monroe RC (DLC:Jefferson Papers). 1 See Monroe to Jefferson, November 1, 1784. 2 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Monroe in cipher. 3 That is, Jonathan Blanchard who was succeeded by Pierse Long. 4 David Howell and William Ellery. 5 See Jacob Read to Benjamin Guerard, November 20, note 2. 6 For Monroe’s December 1 appointment as chairman of a committee to consider the Spanish court’s refusal to recognize the right of the United States to navigate the Missis sippi River, see Samuel Hardy to Patrick Henry, December 5, note 3. The following day Monroe made a motion in Congress concerning the failure of Great Britain to honor article 7 of the peace treaty respecting the northwest posts which was immediately as signed to a five member committee chaired by Monroe. The committee proposed De cember 3 that a representation be made to the British court requiring that all British troops “be withdrawn from every post and place within the territory of the U.S.,” but left a blank in their report for the future assignment of a person to make that represen tation. On December 9 another committee recommended “that a Minister be ap pointed ... to reside constantly at the Court of London”—a proposal that Congress adopted on January 31, electingjohn Adams to that post on February 24. In the mean time, John Jay, as secretary for foreign affairs, reported on February 7 instructions for the minister to be sent to London that pertained to possession of the Northwest posts, recovery of Negroes transported abroad, British restrictions on American trade, and re payment of debts to British merchants, which were adopted on March 7. See JCC, 27:657-58, 660-61, 675, 28:25, 45-46, 98, 123; and PCC, item 186, fol. 169. 7 See Richard Henry Lee to Benjamin Franklin, December 11. James Monroe to James Madison Dear Sir Trenton Deer. 14. 1784. I have reed. yr. favor of the 27 of Novr. 1 in answer to mine of the 15th. My last gave you the state of the representations here. The busi ness of importance is still before committees or if reported not yet acted on. It seems to be the Genl, sense of Congress to appoint a min ister to the Ct. of London & to give him instructions upon many sub-
