December 14, 1784 73 jects & particularly those wh. arise in the conduct of both parties under the treaty, but whom they may appoint is incertain, indeed I fear that the difficulty of obtaining a vote for any person will obstruct this measure for a length of time. Franklin hath thro’ Mr. Laurens & the Marquis of Fayatte solicited permission to return home; 2 this will no doubt be assented to as soon as taken up. An appointment must therefore be made in his place to that ct.; I think there will be little difficulty in obtaining it for Mr Jefferson, for the opinion of all the members seems to concur in the propriety of it. The first question will be whether we shall or not add other ministers to those in office & annex them to the cts. of London & Madrid, or depend on those for the manag’ment of all our business in Europe. 3 Connecticut hath I hear authoriz’d Congress to carry into effect the impost with the assent of 12 Suites only. She hath also laid a duty of 5 pr. centm. upon all goods imported from a niegh’boring State. This affects R. Island very sensibly. The question must soon be decided whether this State will accede to this measure, or the other States re cede from it for it is sd. N. York & Georgia will join in it. Have you been able to carry the point in fav[or] of the delivery of such citizens as may be guilty of the offences you describe, to the power, in whose territory & agnst, whose subjects they are committed. 4 This is certainly in strict conformity to the laws of nations but I believe not the com mon practice, except between those with whom particular treaties stipulate it. With us it will be beneficial as it must serve not only politi cal but in the instance of the Indians (if the latter are comprehended in it) very humane purposes. I wish the same regulation cod. take place throughout the union but especially on the frontier next the Brit[is]h. But how are you to ascertain the fact or what evidence wod. you require of it? Or do you mean it shall operate without the concur rence of the other States? I expect Mr Jones hath left Richmond be fore this but if he hath not be so kind as make my best respects to him as also to Mr Stewart & believe me with great respect & esteem, yr. friend & servant, Jas. Monroe RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 8:156-58. 2 See John Jay to Benjamin Franklin, December 13, note. 3 For the resolution of this question, see Samuel Hardy to Patrick Henry, December 5, note 3; and the preceding entry, note 6. 4 Madison had expressed great interest in a bill before the Virginia assembly for extra diting western settlers who committed crimes within Spanish territory. “It has been pro posed to authorize Congs, whenever a satisfactory proof shall be given to them by a for eign power of such a crime being committed by our Citizens within its jurisdiction as by the law of Nations call for Surrender of the Offender, & the for[e]ign power shall actu ally make the demand, that the Executive may at the instance of Congs, apprehend & deliver up the offender.” For the extradition law actually passed by the assembly, see Hening, Statutes, 11:471-73.
