December 18, 1784 75 main in Trenton until this question is again agitated which may not be for some time. I must request You to present my best respects to the Gentlemen of the Council & remain, with great respect & esteem, Your Excellency’s Most obedient & very humble servt. (signed) Charles Pinckney Tr (ScCoAH: Governor’s Messages). 1 In February 1785 the South Carolina assembly extended to November of that year the terms of the delegates elected in February and March of 1784—Pinckney, John Bull, and Jacob Read—and added John Kean and David Ramsay to the delegation See JCC, 27:646-47, 28:87, 90, 183, 351-52, 392. Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry Dear Sir: Trenton Dec. 18, 1784. We are placed now, I think, pretty nearly in the same political rela tion under which our former correspondence was conducted; if it shall prove as agreeable to you to revive it, as you were then pleased to say it was to continue it, I shall be happy in contributing my part. The intelligence from hence cannot now be so interesting as formerly, be cause important events can be expected to occur but seldom in these times. It is, however, not unpleasant to know how things are going, and likely to go, in the world; that part of it at least in which we are in any manner interested. The courts of Spain and London do not seem to be upon such cordial principles with the United States as we might wish, the former seeming to be intent upon possessing, with a strong hand, the exclusive navigation of the Mississippi, and the latter has ac tually encroached already upon our peace boundary on the river St. Croix, and they detain the western posts; assigning, for reason, that we have violated the peace by not repealing the laws that impede the re covery of British debts; the court of London seems also willing to in jure its own possessions in the West Indies, rather than not wound our commerce with British Isles. Much of this mischief arises from the want of a proper understanding of each other, and from the active in dustry and acrimonious misinformation that the exiled tories and refugees are constantly inculcating and asserting, without much dan ger of contradiction in having the truth fairly displayed. A well in formed gentleman, in our ministry abroad, therefore, lately wrote us, that we could much better have dealt with these people among our selves, than we can counteract the evils now resulting from their con duct abroad. 1 This temper of the two courts will, however, produce the necessity of sending to each a well informed minister to negotiate commencing difficulties, and thereby prevent the evils of renewed
