76 December 18, 1784 war. It seems yet to be a matter of much doubt, whether the imperial determination to open the long closed navigation of the Scheldt, and restoring Antwerp to its former splendour as a commercial city, will not light up a general war upon the continent of Europe. I hope that our dispute with Great Britain may be previously settled. Our commis sioners have concluded a peace with the six nations, and are now on their way to Cayahoga, on Lake Erie, to meet the western nations and to make a treaty with them also. I present you the compliments of the approaching season and assure you that, I am with great regard and esteem, Dear Sir, Your Most obedient and very humble Servant, Richard Henry Lee. MS not found; reprinted from Henry, Patrick Henry, 3:247-48. 1 In a letter to Congress of April 24 Henry Laurens had observed that “If all the peo ple called Loyalists were scattered in America they would not do so much mischief as they do here. We could manage them best at home.” See PCC, item 89, fol. 352; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:797. James Monroe to James Madison Dear Sir Trenton Deer. 18th. 1784. Yours of the 4th inst. I have reed. 1 Congress are now closely engag’d in very important business. Reports upon our affairs with (Great Britain, Spain) 2 & our foreign affrs. in general have been presented & alternately acted on. To adjust the points of {variance) between us & the former {Court} it seems to be the general opinion that a (minister) shod, be sent there, that it would tend to conciliate the disposition of either to the other, effect the setdement of those points & avert the evils wh., if things remain long in their present state, threaten both parties, that it is more honorable to both that they shod, be adjusted in one of our capitals & that we owe that respect to the elder party. We have had no official communications but those with wh. you are al ready possess’d on the subject. (Dr. Franklin) hath thro’ {Mr. Laurens) & {La Fayette) desir’d permission to return home which will of course be granted. 3 The claim of (Spain) to the exclusive navigation of the Missisippi &ca had been presented to our view before the instructions from (Virginia) arriv’d, in a note from (Mr. Marbois) covering a letter from Rondon with the extract of a letter from Don Galvez. 4 {Mr. Mar bois) assures us of the pleasure with wh. (the King of France) will see measures taken to co[n]solidate & maintain a good understanding be tween {U. States) & {Spain) altho’ the letter & the extract were from people unknown to us still the manner in wh. they came entitled them to our attention. I mean the contents. At the same time therefore that it was thot. necessary to make a polite return to the note it seem’d to
