78 December 18,1784 Gerry) & {Mr. Mercer) by a delegate from Georgia. In a late ballot Os good had 6 votes, {Mr. Mercer), 5 votes & {Arthur Lee) two, Virginia votes for {Mr. Mercer) & seem’d inclin’d to suffer {Arthur Lee) to re tire from the publick service in the opinion it will be advantageous to the publick. 5 It is propose’d to recommend it to the States to invest Congress with the power to regulate the commercial intercourse of the States with other powers, without wh. it is thought impracticable to comply with our ingagements in treaties or derive any advantage from them as a nation, to regulate the duties upon imports & exports, by wh. if wise regulations are adopted, we may take some share in the carrying trade by giving priviledges to our own citizens in the exporta tion wh. may encourage the merchants of the U.S. to employ natives as navigators as well as the merchts of other countries to take in part nership those of the States. To enable us further to act in concert in the measures wh. may be found necessary to counteract the policy of the powers with whom we have not treaties of commerce: propositions to this effect are before a committee. 6 The regulation & revenue are seperated from each other, the latter will go to the States unless con ceded to the U.S. for particular purposes by each particular State. As a citizen & a lawyer I am pleas’d with the regulation taking place in the judicial department. I am yrs very sincerely, Jas. Monroe P.S. I heartily wish we had a better cypher, as it is dangerous to trust those subjects upon wh. I wish most confidentially to correspond with you thus to chance & the curiosity of vicious or idle people. In this place I cannot procure a scribe, can you in Richmond? RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 8:175-76. 2 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Monroe in cipher. 3 See John Jay to Benjamin Franklin, December 13, note. 4 See Samuel Hardy to Patrick Henry, December 5, note 3. 5 Despite these nominations, Congress could not reach a decision on the makeup of the treasury board while in Trenton, but elected John Lewis Gervais, Samuel Osgood, and Walter Livingston on January 25 after reconvening in New York. Arthur Lee was eventually named on July 27 after Gervais declined. See JCC, 27:649, 660, 665, 677-78, 685, 698, 28:18, 232n, 29:582. 6 Monroe’s December 6 motion for giving Congress “the general regulation of trade” was referred to a committee consisting of John Jay, Elbridge Gerry, Monroe, Richard Dobbs Spaight, and William Houstoun which was renewed January 24 with Monroe be coming chairman and William Samuel Johnson replacing Jay. The committee recom mended on February 16 a fundamental revision of article 9 of the Articles of Confeder ation giving Congress “the sole and exclusive right and power...of regulating the trade of the States, as well with foreign Nations, as with each other, and of laying such imposts and duties upon imports and exports, as may be necessary for the purpose.” On March 11 Congress instructed the committee “to report a circular letter to accompany the rec ommendation proposed in the report.” Both the report and the letter were submitted on March 28 when they were ordered printed. See JCC, 28:17n, 70n, 148n, 201-5, 29:919; and PCC, item 186, fol. 170. For the fate of the committee’s report, see Monroe to Thomas Jefferson, April 12, 1785, note 4.
