December 22, 1784 81 very large sum is due, who will find means to compel them to extend that justice & generosity to them by reprisals on our trade & possibly by harsher measures. I say nothing of the breach in our federal gov ernment, this appears to have but too little weight, and I fear much that public calamity and a sad experience of the evils that will result from disunion will alone convince us of the advantages resulting from a federal government and the necessity of preserving it. I am pleased with the arguments of Council except, those which glance at a distinc tion between the holders of public securities. There is a political as well as moral Justice. If the latter demands of government a discharge of public debts, policy likewise requires from it support of its honor, its dignity, its existence and for the preservation of public credit and internal peace and harmony that there be no distinction made be tween the holders of similar evidences of the debt. Government is not accountable for the inequalities that arise among its citizens by their mutual contracts & mercantile transactions or dealings nor is it bound to equalize them, except where the fundamental maxims of its consti tution requires an equal division of landed or other property. Esau sold his birthright for a mess of potage, but Jacob inherited the cave of Macphelan & the field adjoining,2 nor do we find that Isaac an- nuled the contract. The Arguments of Council are in my opinion conclusive against the law for appointing additional comrs. to settle the public accounts. The Assembly may be assured that the other states in the Union will not agree to be bound by their settlement, I am persuaded the Assembly themselves would have been among the first to complain had the same measure been taken by any other State. Time will not admit a farther Answer. I shall endeavour to take a copy & send the first sheet of your letter back by this conveyance, if I cannot get the copy compleated before the stage sets out I shall send it by tomorrow’s post. I am, Sir, Your obedient humble Servt. Cha Thomson 3 RC (PPL: Logan-Dickinson Collection). 1 December 20 letters from Dickinson to the Pennsylvania delegates and to the presi dent of Congress, enclosing Pennsylvania resolutions of December 1 and 16 concerning “the Claims of Individuals of this Commonwealth against the said United States,” are in Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 10:369—71; and PCC, item 69, 2:479-86. Distressed at the slowness of the settlement of the Continental claims of many Pennsylvanians, the Assembly had au thorized the appointment of two additional claims commissioners by the state to speed up the work, although under Continental regulations such commissioners were solely in the appointment of Congress and could not be citizens of the state to which they were assigned. Dickinson recognized that the Assembly’s act violated such regulations, and consequently called for a joint conference between the Assembly and Council to address the impasse. Pa. Council Minutes, 14:280. The following day, December 16, the Assembly resolved simply “to request the United States ... to appoint two or more Com missioners, in addition to the one already appointed, for the purpose of setding and properly certifying the claims of citizens of this State against the United States.”
