82 December 22, 1784 For the context of the political struggles that marked this session of the Assembly, which were sharpened by the recent return to power of the Constitutionalists, see Robert L. Brunhouse, The Counter Revolution in Pennsylvania, 1776—1790 (Harrisburg: Pennsylvania Historical Commission, 1942), pp. 169-72. 2 Cf. Genesis, 49:29-30. 3 A transcript of the following letter from Thomson to the portraitist Robert Edge Pine, dated ‘Trenton 16 Deer 1784,” is located in the James Duane Papers, NHi. “I have the honor of introducing you to the acquaintance of Mr. Duane who is going to Philadelphia and proposes to call and view your paintings. “He was one of the Delegates in the Congress of 1774, was one of those who were pre sent at the declaration of Independance, attended Congress thro all the difficulties of the war, had a principal part in forming the Confederation of the States, and is a princi pal Character in the Revolution. “He has it in view to recommend a Subject for your Genius.” Elbridge Gerry to James Warren My Dear Sir, Trenton, Dec. 23, 1784. It is fortunate that we arrived here as we did, 1 for otherwise con gress would by this time have been in Philadelphia and the treasury in such hands as you and I could not approve. There was a stronger party formed against us than I remember to have seen, but I think it will subside and matters be in good train again. We have carried two great points to-day by passing an ordi nance, 1st. to appoint three commissioners to lay out a district on the branch of either side of the Delaware, within eight miles of this place, to purchase the soil and enter into contracts for erecting suitable buildings. 2 2dly. To adjourn to New-York and reside there until suitable build ings are prepared. This I consider a fortunate affair in every respect but one. It is so disagreeable to our worthy secretary 3 that there is rea son to apprehend he will resign his appointment. We have been so happy also as to remove some objections on the part of Mr. Jay to the acceptance of his office, and he yesterday took the oaths and entered on the business of his department. 4 A report is now before congress for arranging the war office, and I think general Knox will be appointed secretary of war. Be assured I am on every oc casion, Your’s sincerely, E. Gerry. 5 MS not found; reprinted from Austin, Life of Gerry, 1:469-70. 1 Gerry and Rufus King had taken their seats in Congress on December 6. JCC, 27:661. 2 See JCC, 27:699-704. 3 That is, Charles Thomson. 4 John Jay took the oath of office as secretary for foreign affairs on December 21 be foreJustice Isaac Smith of the New Jersey Supreme Court (Red Book, 9:86, MdAA), and on the 22d sent the following official dispatch, his first, to the French charge d’affaires
