92 December 28, 1784 RC (MiU-C: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 Joseph Pennell, formerly paymaster in the marine office, had been appointed by Robert Morris commissioner for settling the accounts of the marine department. Mor ris, Papers (Ferguson), 3:23. 2 That is, the confrontation between Joseph II and the Dutch over the closing of the Scheldt. Massachusetts and New York Agents to James Monroe Sir New York December 28th 1784 Before this shall reach you, your appointment as one of the Judges to hear and determine a cause of great consequence and expectation be tween the States of New York and Massachusetts will be notified to you in form by Congress. 1 As both parties are desirous of the attendance of all the Gentlemen in the appointment, the Subscribers Agents for the contending States have conceived it to be their duty to ask the favour of the presence of all the Judges upon the Trial. We are urged to this by an ardent desire of preserving an harmony and cultivating a good under standing between the respective States which in this matter we repre sent: for should a cause of this magnitude be decided by a bare quorum of the Federal Court it would not probably give that satisfaction and contentment which might otherwise be expected. A Federal Court is the only method of deciding controversies on real property between the States, & should Gentlemen of the first rank in point of ability decline the Office this institution however use ful and necessary must sink into disrepute and be rendered incapable of yeilding that advantage which the union expected from it. Though we consider a pecuniary compensation as the least induce ment to your attendance yet we do assure you that it shall be such as will give you the most intire satisfaction. The first Tuesday in June next is agreed on for holding the Court. 2 Please to direct an answer to the President of Congress. 3 We are with sentiments of esteem and re spect, Your most Obedient humble Servants, J Lowell J Agents Jas. Duane "1 Agents James Sullivan > for John Jay > for R King ) Massachusetts Walter Livingston ) New York RC (NN: Monroe Papers). In a clerical hand, addressed by James Duane, and signed by John Lowell, James Sullivan, Rufus King, John Jay, Walter Livingston, and Duane. FC (NHi: Duane Papers). In a clerical hand and endorsed by Duane: “Letter from Agents of Massachusetts and New York to the gent, nominated Judges of the federal Court. Cir cular 31st Decern 1784. Separate Letters signed as above addressed to the honorable Robert Hanson Harrison, John Rudedge, George Wythe, William Grayson, James Mon roe, Thomasjohnson, George Reade, Isaac Smith, William Patterson.”
