January 11, 1785 105 neous. On the 23d of April Mr Reed who was of the Committee brought in a report stating to Congress that Capt. Carbery was in Bal timore Town and concluding with offering a Resolve requesting the Executive of Maryland to arrest him, I suggested the Propriety of transmitting the proof against Capt. Carbery which was in the posses sion of Congress to the Executive of Maryland, without which I was apprehensive the Executive might be under some difficulties in carry ing into effect the request of Congress. It was thought this would take up some time—the Governor was out of Town and it was not known whether there were Members of the Council in town sufficient to make a board. Congress seemed very desirous that a Man who it was thought had a principal hand in causing them to remove from Philadelphia, should be immediately arrested and secured & after some debate on the Subject referred the Matter to the Committee to take order therein & I was added to the Committee in the place of Mr Lee who was absent. The Committee met after the adjournment of Congress, and determined to issue a Warrant to Mr Henry Gas saway to arrest Capt Carbery and bring him before a Judge of the General Court of this State to be dealt with according to Law in Con sequence of which a Warrant was issued and signed by all the Commit tee—Copy of which is herewith sent, and Capt. Carbery was arrested and brought before the honorable Mr Goldsborough & the commit tee laid before him such proofs as were in possession of Congress, and made the report of their proceedings as stated in the printed proceed ings of Congress of the 28 April herewith transmitted. What was done in Consequence of the Arrest and Proceeding of Congress is not for Me to say being altogether unconnected with the Point which I mean to submit to the Legislature. The several affidavits herewith sent—the knowledge of the fact by Members of Congress & some of the Com mittee—the Riot at Philadelphia and it’s Consequences be notorious & public, were the Evidence upon which the Committee proceeded. The Principle upon which the Warrant was issued was that in Cases where Crimes of high and dangerous Nature had been committed and there was knowledge or proof of the Commission it was not only lawfull but the duty of every Citizen and body of Men independent of all possitive Authority to take the most effectual Measures for arrest ing the perpetrators and bringing them before the Constitutional Ju diciary power for examination and Trial, and that if such a power could not be exercised, the assembly of the united States might at any time be broken up or destroyed before an adequate remedy could be applied. I believe it was not considered by any Member of the Com mittee of what State Capt Carbery claimed to be a Citizen but it was thought none could justly be offended by his being arrested & his Case submitted to a judicial determination according to the Law of the Land. The Committee called on Mr Gassaway to execute their
