108 January 12,1785 soon to retire to my little cottage. I shall do it with a chearful mind & a clear conscience as to my official conduct: but not without great anxiety for the fate of my Country. Avarice, ambition or the lust of power & all the baser passions are so much more active & prevalent than the virtues, with which they stand contrasted, that it is not strange to see the Government of this World commonly in the hands of the vilest men in it. “There is, says an excellent writer, in every human Society an effort continually tending to con fer on one part the height of power & happiness & to reduce the other to the ex treme of weakness & misery, ” And whoever contemplates the different Kingdoms, Empires & States throughout the World, the nature of their governments, & the condition of the people will be affected, if capable of feeling, with the wretchedness of his fellowmen & will be con strained to drop a sympathetic tear over the ruins of human nature! “Ye Gods! What havoc does ambition make among your works?” The U. States furnish the World with a rare instance of Freedom— and a wise System of political Constitutions happily calculated to se cure it. But alas! How restless are many of our rulers to engross more power? How easily are the people imposed upon & duped out of their rights? What artifice, what chicanery, what management have already taken place in our public affairs? I cannot, however, close this dull & gloomy letter without making one consolating remark—& in that I am warranted—that the seasonable & firm stand made by Rhode Island against the all grasping hand of power, in the case of duties, has saved the U. States! And I should be wanting, as well in duty to the State, as to my own feelings, if I should neglect to inform them that they have the thanks of thousands of the wisest & best men in the Union for their Conduct. The Journals of our proceedings at Trenton are not yet printed. I hope the Ordinance, which has been published in the Newspapers, es tablishing the permanent residence of Congress near the falls of Delaware; & the temporary residence in this City will meet with the approbation of the State. Should the Commissioners to be appointed to erect the foederal buildings make an advantageous purchase of Soil, the Sale of Lotts, it is expected, will reduce the Sum appropriated to that use. As I voted against the resolution of Congress, which puts all the Let ters received from our Foreign Ministers under an injunction of Secrecy, 1 by the yeas & nays, which, by the way, are not published in our journals, I have a right to offer that as an Apology to the State for not sending forward an account of the contents of such Letters as have been received since I left Congress last Summer. Such parts of them, however, as are thought necessary to answer certain purposes will be sent forward to the States—but under the strictest injunctions of Secrecy. I pray your Excellency to be assured of my constant attention to the
