114 January 14, 1785 may at least wish that Congress be fully informed of the late as well as the former proceedings of the Executive and Legislative of Penn sylvania respecting those Susquehanna Claimants I have taken the liberty of giving You the above information as I cannot cease to feel myself interested in the Peace and Reputation of a State which gave me Birth. 3 I have the honor to be with the utmost Regard Sir, Your most obedi ent and very humble Servant, Hugh Williamson. Tr (PHarH: RG 27). 1 Gov. Matthew Griswold’s letter, the October 20 memorial of the Wyoming Valley set tlers, and two copies of the entire resolve of the Connecticut assembly, part of which is quoted below, are in PCC, item 66, 2:276-79, 282-89. See also Susquehannah Co. Papers, 8:123-26, 139-41, 161n.2. These latest submissions in the Yankee-Pennamite struggle in the Wyoming Valley fol lowed the failure of Congress the preceding June to act on a committee recommenda tion to postpone the June 28 meeting of Connecticut and Pennsylvania agents for se lectingjudges to determine the private right of soil or to consider Zebulon Butler’s May 7 petition concerning the harsh treatment of Connecticut settlers by Pennsylvania offi cials. See Committee of Congress Report, January 21; Roger Sherman to John Franklin, February 21; Sherman to Zebulon Butler, June 15; and Edward Hand to Catharine Hand, June 29, 1784, note 2. 2 In fact, Tuesday the 25th, when the committee of the whole postponed further ac tion on Griswold’s letter. Not until August 19 did Congress set aside September 15 for further consideration. For discussion of this Connecticut effort to secure a trial to determine private right of soil in the Wyoming Valley, which was apparently quickly reconsidered when it ap peared that Pennsylvania was better prepared to present its case to Congress, in part be cause of Williamson’s alert to Dickinson, see Susquehannah Co. Papers, 8:xxii-xxiv. 3 For Dickinson’sjanuary 18 reply, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 10:397. Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare Sir. New York 15th January. 1785. In the Letter of Yesterday which I had the honr. to address to your Excellency, I forgot to acknowlege the receipt of your favor of the six teenth of Decemr. It did not come to hand untill my arrival in this place, and I imediately enclosed it to the Deputy Pay Master at Philadelphia, 1 requesting him to furnish me as early as possible with the information which you were pleased to desire: I shall forward it without loss of time on the receipt. I have the honr. to be with respect Your Excellencys Obedt Servt, Abiel Foster. RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Foster to Joseph Howell, January 10, note 2.
