116 January 16,1785 they can engage for. I have not the highest Opinion of Benjamin, per haps not so good as he Merits. If therefore the other Vessell be as good, & the Captain Clever, I sho’d prefer that. But make full en quiries upon the subject, for very much in every respect depends upon your Captain. Woosters being himself on Board would help much to secure you good treatment from him, as well as be Company for you. Write me particularly by the Stage or Posts, how you are in point of Health, & I will also if I have Opportunity advise further with Dr. Bard upon the subject, that I may be able to give a more decisive Judgment with respect to it. 1 Advise also if you please with Dr. Nicoll, but after all your own Judgment & feelings must deside, & God grant we may determine right, & do that which is best for you in every re spect. I am happy that Nancy is so Comfortable. Heaven grant it may continue. With tenderest Love to her & all of you, I remain, Yr. most affectionate Father & Friend, Wm. Sami. Johnson RC (CtHi: Johnson Papers). 1 Johnson did indeed have an opportunity to consult with Dr. Bard “upon the sub ject,” and returned to it again in letters to Billy of January 20 and 30, which are also in the Johnson Papers, CtHi. “With respect to your proposed Voyage,” he wrote on the 20th, “I have since seen Dr Bard Junr. who also, after all, leaves the Question without an absolute determination. He says That your Case, in common with all Complaints of this Nature, sho’d be early attended to—that Voyaging & change of a colder, for a warmer, Climate have been found very useful in such Cases, but whether it sho’d be done imme diately in your Case, was a Question of expediency which it was difficult absolutely to decide. It might be a very useful precaution, tho’ not perhaps absolutely necessary. But, tho’ he left it thus uncertain, he seemed to think it rather adviseable to go, in Case your hoarseness & other Symptoms continued in any considerable degree. And what better Opinion is it possible for me to give, as I have said in a former Letter, without seeing & conversing with you. It seems necessary therefore for me to leave it to you & your Mama to determine it with such Advice as you have upon the spot, upon considering your par ticular Symptoms & appearance at the time I have mentioned before, all the Objections there are against it, but believe I have already said, & I repeat it, they are nothing, & ought to have no manner of weight if your health requires you to go. Besides consider my dear Son, if I sho’d give a possitive opinion either way, without fuller means of Judg ing, than thus absent I can be possessd of, & it sho’d turn out Illy, & especially, if I sho’d determine against your going, & your Health which is so precious to me, sho’d not re vive soon after having lost this opportunity, how extremely unhappy it would make me to have prevented in any degree a measure which might have been of utility to you. Consider therefore, I beseech you, for yourself, consult your own feelings, situation, & Inclinations (for if you have a strong Inclination to go, & think it would be beneficial to you, I would by no means prevent it, even if I tho’t it less expedient than I think it may be) advise with all around you, & then determine for yourself; & be assured I shall not only cheerfully acquiessce in it, but believe you have determined right. It is an event which not only regards your present health, but which may give an entire new turn & stroke to yr. whole future life & business, which is an additional reason why it sho’d rather be eventually decided by you than by me. Having said all that occurs to me upon the subject, Whether you go or stay you have my Approbation, because I have no doubt you will decide agreeably to what appears best upon the whole, & I shall continually pray God to lead you to a right determination.”
