January 19,1785 121 observe by the indorsement—but suppose it will not be attended with difficulty to get it Postponed Untill the papers can be received. I hope your Excellency and the Council will see the necessity of forwarding all the information in your power upon this subject since the decree at Trenton as soon as possible. Mr. Henry is not yet arrived—shou’d he not have left Philada Coun cil will have it in their Power to avail themselves of giving him every Verbal information and of a safe conveyance by him. I have the Honor to be, your Excellencys and Councils Very humble Servt, Jos. Gardner RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 For the transmittal of these documents to President Dickinson by North Carolina delegate Hugh Williamson (a native Pennsylvanian) because Pennsylvania was unrepre sented when they were presented to Congress, see Williamson to Dickinson, January 14. Charles Thomson’s Memorandum Book January 19-29, 1785] 1785 New York Januy 19th. Sent to the Mayor of this City—Copy of Resolve of Congress of 18th Inst, accepting of the City Hall for the holding their sessions &C. 1 20th. Sent to Mr. Provost his Appo[intmen]t as Chaplain to Congress. 2 24th. Sent to the President to be forwarded 13 Copies of resolve of 20 Inst, covering 3 —each a Copy of Mr Adams’s Letter of 3d Novemr. 1784 & Extract of joint Letter from our Ministers in Europe directed by s[ai]d Resolution to be sent to the several States under injunctions of secresy. Sent to the Agents for Massachusetts & New York—Notification that Williamsburgh in the Commonwealth of Virginia in the place ap pointed by Congress for holding the Court for determining the Con troversy between sd. States. 4 26th. Sent to Mr John Lewis Gervais, Mr Samuel Osgood & Mr Wal ter Livingston each, a Copy of their Appointt. as Commissioners of the Board of Treasury—covering Copy of the Ordinance for putting the Department of Finance into Commission. 5 27th. Sent to the Secretary in the War Office, Copy of Resolve of 26th Inst, directing Continenl. Treasurer to furnish P. Audibert D. Paymaster with 359 12/90 Dollars being the Amot. of subsis [tenc]e to Officers in service for the month ofjanuy. 6 Deliver’d Mr. King Copy of Memorial of Agents of New York ob jecting to Williamsburgh as a place proper for holding the Court for determining the Contro[vers]y between sd. State & Massachusetts. 7
