124 January 20,1785 its delegates in the Congress of the United States. What will France & Holland think of our national faith, our honor or our gratitude, or what will the other nations of Europe think of them, if they see the states attending solely to their own citizens without paying any regard to those who generously stepped in to our relief, succoured us in the hour of extreme distress & rescued us from impending ruin? & will not this be the case in every state if Pensylvania sets the example? Eng land represents us as a rope of sand & delays to comply with her en gagements in the definitive treaty and to evacuate the posts she holds within our territory which were to be given up with all Convenient speed. France, which on the Eve of being involved in Another War, is jealous that we mean to leave her embarrassed not only with the ad vances she made to us herself but with the engagements she entered into to procure us pecuniary aid, when her own finances would not admit of further supplies. The individuals in Holland that trusted our faith & honor pledged are now looking with anxious expectation for a compliance with the engagements entered into. The other nations in Europe are waiting to form an opinion of our public character by the evidences we shall give of national honor, faithfulness and gratitude not merely to our own citizens but to the Nations with whom we have contracted engagements & more especially to whom they are under obligations. And how short sighted a politician must he be who does not see of what importance it is to establish a good character & repu tation among the other nations of the earth? The loss of this oftimes occasions oceans of blood & millions of treasure. But you will in a few days have some important communications from Congress which will I hope engage the attention of the Assembly and induce them and every other legislature in the Union to pursue different measures from those they seem to be disposed to do at present. If they do not produce this effect, I must confess the hopes I have entertained of our future happiness & prosperity will be greatly dashed, & we may learn to our cost of how much importance it is to maintain national faith & honor. I have not time to examine the reply with a critical eye and give you any farther thoughts on it nor even to copy this, as you desire to have it returned by the 25. You will therefore excuse this scral & these loose thoughts. Please to present my Love & respects to cousin Dickinson & Sally, & be assured of the affection and esteem with which I am, Dear Sir, Your obedt. humble Serv, Cha Thomson RC (PPL: Logan-Dickinson Collection). 1 The Pennsylvania Assembly’s December 24 “message” to President Dickinson and the council is in Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 10:379-84. For Dickinson’s reply to this fiscal policy statement, which he did not deliver until the opening of the new session of the Assem bly on February 1, see Pa. Council Minutes, 14:328-42.
