January 24, 1785 127 not however, we imagine, be much longer postponed—indeed they must not. Upon the former all-important Subject your Excellency al ready has, or very soon will receive some very stricking Communica tions from his Excellency the President^ upon which it is equally un necessary and improper for us to make any Remarks. In Consequence of your Excellencys Representations in behalf of the Wyoming Sufferers an early day has been assigned to take up that Subject in a committee of the whole House: 3 but no Agent from those People having appeared here (though it seems one was prematurely present at Trenton) nor any of the Papers arrived, it will be necessary for us, if possible, to have it postponed, as it will be impossible for us, unfurnished as we are with either Evidence or Exhibits to present it in a proper manner to the Committee, or execute in any effectual man ner, the trust reposed in us by the Act of Assembly in favour of those People. Pensylvania will, we find, contend, & that warmly too, that they have done their Duty & more than their Duty, towards them; and that it is owing to their own Negligence, Tergiversation, or Obstinacy, that they have not long since had a complete redress of all their Grievances. Indeed that it is intirely their own fault that they ever suffered any; but how this Matter will appear upon Investigation we know not. The Act of Assembly impowering Congress to impose the five Per Cent Duty in Consequence of the Assent of twelve States to the Mea sure should we conceive, be forwarded, if it be not already done; as it will, no doubt, be of material Use when that Subject is taken up. Great hopes are given us that the State of Georgia will soon accede to the Measure; and the like is expected from the Assembly of New York who are now convening. We have the Honor to be with great Respect and Esteem, Your Ex cellency’s most obedient & most humble Servants. Joseph P Cooke Wm. Sami. Johnson RC (CtY: William Griswold Lane Collection). Written by Cooke and signed by Cooke and Johnson. Addressed: “His Excellency Governor Griswold.” FC (CtHi: Johnson Pa pers). In the hand of William Samuel Johnson. 1 Matthew Griswold (1714-99), Yale College graduate and Lyme, Conn., lawyer, had succeeded Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., as governor of Connecticut in 1784. DAB. 2 See Richard Henry Lee to the States, January 21. 3 See Hugh Williamson to John Dickinson, January 14, note 1. Samuel Holten to Thomas Cushing Dear Sir. New York 24th. January, 1785. I have reed, the letter you did me the honor to write the 12th in stant; the sudden determination of Congress to remove to this City
