134 January 25, 1785 If Mr. Gervais should decline this appointment we shall be much obliged to your Excellency to recommend some gentleman of our state qualified to discharge the duties of this important office and who will, if elected, accept the appointment. We mention this because we conceive it the most important department in the federal govern ment, and as two gentlemen are already elected from the eastern and middle departments, we wish that our state may furnish a Commis sioner well acquainted with the resources of the southern states, and who may be able to give the board the fullest information upon every subject that may come within the line of their appointment. For all intelligence of a public nature I refer your Excellency to our public letter and remain with respect Your Excellency’s most obedient humble servant, Charles Pinckney RC (ScCoAH: Governor’s Messages). 1 From the evidence in the first paragraph it is clear that this letter was written on Jan uary 25 after the South Carolina delegates had drafted their joint letter to Guerard early in the morning, for which see the following entry, and after the election of three new commissioners to the treasury board later that morning, for which see JCC, 28:18. 2 Although Samuel Osgood and Livingston accepted their appointments, Gervais de clined and was eventually replaced on July 27 by Arthur Lee. See JCC, 28:134n.2, 223, 232, 241—42, 29:582, 593. See also Charles Thomson to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer, November 11, 1784, note 1. South Carolina Delegates to Benjamin Guerard Sir No. 1. New York 25th January 1785. The Ship Philadelphia, Captain Bass, which sailed from Philadel phia on the 19th Deer, last Carried in separate letters advices from the Delegation 1 upon all Such Subjects as they had in their power to give any Intelligence to your Excellency for the Information of the Legisla ture—among the most Material was the Conclusion of a treaty of peace with the Six Nations a Copy of which Mr Read of our Delega tion had the pleasure to inclose in a private letter to your Excellency. 2 After the sailing of Captain Bass’s Ship we had the pleasure to receive Your Excellency’s dispatches by Captain Allibone. They are the latest advices with which we have been favoured from Carolina. The very Strait’ned Situation in which the delegates in Congress found themselves in Trenton rendering it impossible to continue their Session at that small Village it was thought prudent to adjourn to some larger Town till buildings in a federal City Can be provided for the accomodation of that body and the public Officers. Every one ap pears at present to reprobate the Idea of an Itinerant federal Council and to be Convinced of the necessity there was to repeal the Votes of Congress passed at Princeton in 1783 respecting an alternate resi dence in Annapolis and Trenton. 3 That plan had its advocates when
