138 January 26, 1785 pointed to inform the southern tribes of the territory ceded to the United States by Great Britain and to make peace with them, “receiving them into the favour and pro tection of the United States.” They were to secure the release of all prisoners and property—including Negroes—held by the Indians. They were also to give notice of the time and place of their treaties to Virginia, the Carolinas, and Georgia, each of which could send one representative to the negotiations, and to request up to 150 militiamen for protection. Congress allotted $9,000 for the commissioners’ salaries and expenses and up to $4,000 for presents for the Indians. On March 21 Congress added two more commissioners, electing Benjamin Hawkins, Daniel Carroll (de clined; replaced on May 16 by Lachlan McIntosh), William Peery, Andrew Pickens and Joseph Martin, any three of whom would form a quorum. On March 21 Hugh Williamson moved that the commissioners meet at Charleston on May 16 to decide upon times and places for negotiations. See JCC, 28:118—20, 136-39, 159—62, 183-84, 195-96, 362, 29:917; and PCC item 186, fol. 173. See also Charles Thomson to Certain States and to the Indian Commissioners, March 24, 1785. William Samuel Johnson to Jonathan Sturges Dr. Sr., 1 N Yorkjanry. 26th. 1785. The inclosed Copy of the Resolve of Congress upon the subject of Officers Widdows will answer the principal Question in yr. favr. of the 21st—and I am informed that N York have Acted pursuant to it in the Case of Mrs. Montgomerey & New Jersey in Case of Mrs. &c &c. So that I do not apprehend there can be any difficulty in the Case of Mrs. Dimon. 2 I heartily join with you in yr Congratulations with our Coun- trymn. that our Ship is yet above Water, & very sincerely hope she may soon be so Equiped as to meet in tolerable security any future Tempests she may have to encounter. Much however it must be confessed is necessary to be done to accomplish this very desire able purpose. Good dispositions do not seem to be wanting here but the Embarrassts. are so many & great & the forms of business so slow that nothing very great is yet Effected—much is in Train but how it may terminate no one can foresee. One thing is in Con- tempn. Agitation 3 here upon which I wish I knew the sentiments of you Politicians in Connectt. that is to Ask of the States to invest Congress with the Power of regulating their Trade as well with for eign Nations as with each otherA The first is conceiv’d necessary in order to carry into effect the Treaties made & to be made with for eign Powers, the other to prevent Dissentions between State & State which might indanger the Union. The latter might probably overturn the System Connt. has adoptd. as relate to NY which it is said she will counteract by regulats. of her Assembly now conven ing. The Idea of many seems to be that the Comm [ere] e between S. & S. shou’d be absolutely free.
