140 January 26, 1785 of the place for holding the Court should be submitted to the Honor able Congress. That it is with extreme Regret that they learn that Congress have been pleased to determine that Williamsburgh in Virginia shall be the place for holding the said Court; and they flatter themselves that im pressed as they are with the dangerous Tendency of that Resolution to the Rights of their Constituents, they shall be pardoned for earnestly entreating the honorable Congress to reconsider the said Resolution. 2 And here your Memorialists beg leave to Remark 1st. That in a Contest of the utmost Moment, and which must de pend for its Elucidation on a Recourse to ancient Records as well as living Witnesses, it must at the first View appear essential to Justice, that the parties should be placed in such a Situation as to be able to avail themselves not only of every proof which the Adverse Claim im mediately may point out; but of every proof which an Investigation of the Merits of the Question in any period of its progress may render Necessary. But will this Justice be secured if the parties must be drawn away to a remote Tribunal at the distance of four hundred Miles from the Archives and the Witnesses on which they rely for their Defence and their Safety? Surely not. lid. This Observation will apply with singular force to the Case im mediately under Consideration. The Claim of the Massachusetts is Vague and indefinite, comprehending ancient Settlements for which the Massachusetts confessedly do not mean to contend. The Nature and extent of that Claim remains then to be ascertained at a future day when the Court shall be Assembled: And it is therefore of the last Importance, that when it shall be thus ascertained, the Agents for the State of New York should be in a Condition to avail themselves of such Records and Testimony as Circumstances may require. Hid. Precedents ought to have their Force and where they have been Uniform, it will be presumed that they are founded in Reason and Justice. The only Controversy which has been decided under the Foederal Compact was the Claim of Connecticut against Pensylvania, and then the Court was held at Trenton in New Jersey—a Situation convenient to both the contending parties. Before the Revolution the Controversy between New York and New Jersey was determined in this City altho one of the Judges, the Honorable Mr. Randolph was a Citi zen of Virginia. The Controversy between Massachusetts and New Hampshire was determined at Rhode Island. In Appointing each of these Places, the Conveniency of the parties and Witnesses appears to have been the principle Object. IVly. But if only the Convenience of the Judges is to be considered, it will—we speak it with the greatest Submission—appear that Wil liamsburgh is not a suitable Appointment.
