January 26, 1785 141 First. The Cause is to be Tried in the Summer, and if Health is any Object it must be allowed, that a more Northern Climate is in that Season preferable. Secondly. Let the situation of the respective Judges be reviewed. We may venture to Appeal to the Southern Delegates, that it cannot be more disagreable to the Honorable Mr. Rutledge to perform a Voyage to the Delaware than the Chesopeek; and that there is no reason to suppose, that in the Summer he would undertake the Journey by Land. This Honorable Gentleman seems then to be out of the Ques tion. Of the three remaining Southern Gentlemen, the Honorable Mr. Munroe is already in this City, and the Honorable Mr. Grayson, daily expected. If—for tho we do not presume to dictate, we are Obliged to Name a place for the sake of Computation—//the Court should be held at Wilmington the distances to be Travelled would stand thus— By the Honorable Mr. Wythe 292 Miles the Honorable Mr. Harrison 164 the Honorable Mr. Johnson 134 the Honorable Mr. Reade 6 the Honorable Mr. Munroe 120 the Honorable Mr. Grayson 120 the Honorable Mr. Smith 60 the Honorable Mr. Patterson 87 Total 983 On the other hand, should Williamsburgh be adhered to, the Hon orable Mr. Wythe would indeed be at home, but Mr. Harrison must perform a Journey of 130 Miles Mr. Reade 286 Mr. Munroe & Mr. Grayson each 400 800 Mr. Smith 352 Mr. Patterson 379 Mr. Johnson 200 Total 2147 The difference then to the Court collectively considered and we conceive it to be our duty to consider them collectively and with an equal degree of Attention and respect would be in favour of Wilming ton as 983 Miles are to 2147. Thirdly. Add to this the Attendance of Agents, with the Records and Proofs which must be brought to view in investi gating the Ancient Transactions with which this Contest is con nected—and can it be conceived that the Cause ought to be carried down for Trial to so remote a City as Williamsburgh? Fourthly. The Law Agents for New York who have been appointed because they are best acquainted with the Controversy are in public Stations, which they cannot abandon without Public Detriment, to say
