January 28, 1785 145 Tuesday last Congress appointed commissioners of the treasury— Mr. Jarvais of Charleston, Mr Osgood of Boston and Mr Walter Liv ingston of this City are the Gentlemen appointed. We have the Honor to be, your Excellys Very Humble Servts, William Henry Jos. Gardner RC (PHarH: RG 27). Written by Joseph Gardner and signed by Gardner and William Henry, i President Dickinson’s January 18 letter to the Pennsylvania delegates is in Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 10:398-99. For the list of “the proceedings... relating to the Wyoming dispute,” see Pa. Council Minutes, 14:318-20. 2 Pennsylvania’s appeal for the appointment of two or more additional commission ers for the settlement of the claims of her citizens against the United States had been communicated in a December 20, 1784, letter ftom Dickinson to Congress, which is in PCC, item 69, 2:479-86. It was referred to committee on December 23, which submitted a report January 26 that was recommitted on the 28th, and resubmitted February 11. The committee’s recommendation to appoint one additional commissioner each for Pennsylvania and Virginia, and that they be appointed by the Continental comptroller of the treasury and not by officials of their respective states, was adopted February 23. See JCC, 28:20—21, 24n, 61—63, 73-74, 92-93. See also Pennsylvania Delegates to Dickin son, February 7, 1785. William Ellery to Christopher Ellery Dear Brother: Trenton, [January 28? 1785] 1 In my letter, dated Jan. 1st, I presented to you the compliments of the season, and particularly wished my amiable cousin Betsey, who I suspected would before the close of the year form a new and impor tant connection, a happy new year. By a letter from Mr. Channing I find that event took place about the time I wrote; upon which accept my congratulations, and be pleased with my regards to your son-in-law and married daughter to tender to them my best wishes that they may enjoy all the felicity that the marriage state can afford.... I could wish to know how our brother is. This I think is the time of year in which he used to be attacked by the asthma with the greatest fury. It is indeed a pity that a man who enjoys such a fine flow of spirits, and who so well loves to talk, should not be able to breathe freely; but the human con stitution is subject to disorders, and he is the happiest who is the least oppressed by them. Thank God, I enjoy a pretty good state of health, but I have been for some days afflicted with an inflammation, princi pally in my right eye, which obliges me to be temperate, and debars me from the amusement of reading. I hope it will go off soon, and that I shall not long suffer by my attempts in writing to convince my friends that I hold them in the most grateful and pleasing remembrance. I have declined several invitations to dine on this account, but if hereby I have lost any pleasure, I have saved constitution. The gentle-
