152 January 29, 1785 shall make of it. We have had but one dinner yet wh. was only tolera ble. But we live at ease, are quiet & well situated for business. The lady of whom we hire them 8c who occupies the remdr. is very aged 8c a quaker. Some letters from our foreign ministers being read in Con gress were referr’d to a committee. 3 The committee reported the day after we reed, a letter from Mr. Jay containing this paragraph. “I have reason to believe that I have come into the office of foreign affrs. with Ideas of its duties 8c rights somewhat different from those wh. seem to be entertain’d by Congress. If that shd. prove to be the case, I shall certainly think it my duty either to execute it on the plan most agree able to theirs, or retire from it with as much acquiescence 8c respect as I accepted it with confidence in their delicacy, & gratitude for the honor they did me.” 4 This was also referr’d upon wh. Mr. Jay pro duced to the committee a report drawn by himself for them to adopt 8c hand into Congress, part of wh. is as follows. “Your committee are of opinion that whatever intelligence from abroad Congress may think proper to transmit to them or others (meaning the govrs. of states) shod, be by the Secretary of foreign affrs. & that all foreign Letters 8c papers wh. may be laid before Congress shod, in the first in stance be referr’d to him. ” 5 Of this committee I am the chairman, the other members are Platt, Read, Hardy 8c Spaight, and I will candidly own to you, that I consider the servants of Congress in a different point of view from that in wh. Mr. Jay holds them: I wod. consult or not consult them at pleasure 8c make them respectful 8c obedient to the orders they receive. As you tell me nothing from the ladies I am to believe the ladies think not of me. I might apply the same reasoning to yourself but will attribute it in both instances to more interesting in- gagments, wh. in your case is pardonable. I am yr. friend, Jas. Monroe P.S. Remember me very affectionately to my friend Genl Gates. Sug gest to him that I feel it will be difficult to have the arrang’ments we wish’d & wh. the interests of the union require carried into effect; that if any difficulty shod, appear in placing him at the head of the war department I shall have him withdrawn. Make known to him also the delicacy of my own situation in that instance. Believe me there is not a woman in this town half so hansome as Miss Ch. P.S. I have inform’d Stone we withdrew you from the nomination 8c my other correspondents, so that it will appear as if you were not in competition. RC (DLC: Monroe Ephemera). 1 The election had actually been held January 25. See JCC, 28:18. 2 Congress had attempted to select commissioners on December 3, 14, and 22 while sitting in Trenton, but could not reach a decision. The votes were not recorded in the journals. See JCC, 27:649-50, 660, 665, 677-78, 685, 698.
