154 January 31, 1785 which were not then forwarded—and that they would go by a Vessel to Portsmo. as she sail’d much earlier than I expected they could not then be had. The secretarys office at that time was not removed to this city—but they will be transmitted by the first safe conveyance. Congress have received some important advices from their Minisrs. at foreign Courts—which are preparing to be sent to the different states but at this time I am not at liberty to communicate. 1 You have no doubt seen the resolves of Congress to build a federal Town near the falls of Trenton. As our finances at present are not in a condition to enable us to carry them into execution I trust they will remain on paper only, till we are better able. We are now but Just emerg’d from a long and expensive war—many debts contracted in the course thereof—and at present unpaid—and till we can see our way clear for the payment thereof I think Congress may be content with such ac- commidations as we now have—And with a people who seem disposed to shew us every civility. Mr Foster & myself and some other members of Congress are at present averse to the measure—& unless we are in structed to the contrary—shall oppose the motion every time its called up. Could a plan be set on foot to buy a tract of land that’s every way suitable for the purpose—and such a part thereof be sold as would be sufficient to defray the expence of erecting the buildings then we could have no objections to the same—and I have no doubt in my mind, but in a little time it may be done for wherever a federal town is built, land will consequently rise in value—as many people will wish to settle where Congress has a permanent residence. I hope that happy time will come, as in my opinion in [it] will cement the union more & more & keep it pure to generations yet unborn. Nothing but our poverty makes us averse to the present mode. Mr. Foster wrote your Excelly. a few days since & now presents his most respectful com pliments. We expect soon to have matters of consequence to commu nicate—which will be dispatched Jointly. In the interim I am with sen timents of Regard & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obded. & Very Huml. Servt. Pierse Long RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Richard Herry Lee to the States, January 21, 1785. James McHenry to Benjamin Rush Dr. Sir New York 31 Jany 1785 Mr Howel, Mr Henry & myself are the committee to report on your application. 1 We have agreed to report that the buildings at Carlile be let to the trustees of Dickeson College at a reasonable rent in Con tinental liquidated certificates; but previous to giving in the report to
