February 1,1785 155 Congress we thought it necessary to enquire of Mr Hodgson commissary of military stores whether the buildings could be spared. His answer of course may influence the report. I need not add that I shall always feel myself happy to promote the interests of learning or oblige you. I have the honor to be Dr. Sir, Yours, James McHenry RC (PPL: Rush Papers). i For this “application,” a January 16 petition of the trustees of Dickinson College that was written and signed by Rush, see David Howell to Rush, January 28, note. Grand Committee to Robert Morris Sir, New York 1st Feby 1785 1 The Grand Committee of Congress of Which I have the honour to be Chairman havg receivd an order to report a requisition on the States for the Current expenses of the Year, 2 I Inclose you this resolve pointing out What Information they Want from your late department to enable them to perfect this Work. Among a Variety of other sub jects with which the Committee are charged are the Letters from the Ministers of the U S at foreign Courts some contracts of which & also Copies of Two Letters one from the Comte de Vergennes & the other from Mr Grand the banker at Paris are also enclosed. I beg leave to observe that the very different Idea entertained by Myself & other Members of Congress of the State of our Mony Matters in Europe (& Which we imbibed from Conversations with Yourself) seems to render a pritty general reference on these matters to you necessary, in order that Congress or the Committee may from you have a Clear & full statement of the real situation of our Money Concerns on the other side the Atlantic. I thought my self Authorized from your Information to say that a pretty Considerable sum of money was actually in Hol land at the disposal of the U S & yet Mr Adams says your Bills will be protested if you shall have drawn on our Bankers there. 3 Mr. Grands Letter says he can pay no more & that he is greatly in advance and the joint Letter of the Ministers shews their situation to be truly distressing. 4 I will further just remark that your Letter of 17th August last enclosing one from Mr Marbois of the 15th, & your Answer of the 17th of same Month are also among the papers now before the Committee 5 & seem to Authorize the Idea we entertained of provision having been made for payment of the Interest due in Novr last on the Dutch loan guaranteed by his Most Christn Majesty. On this Matter this Committee wish the fullest information, their resolve is full to this point. In consequence of a former Reference to the Comptrolers office I receivd from him, the following Accounts Which will render any Con taining the same information unnecessary vizt. Estimate of the “ar-
