158 February 1,1785 of view, consulting him when necessary & refering or declining to refer to him, at pleasure, any of the subjects before them, is yet to be determin’d. 7 I am very respectfully yours, Jas. Monroe P. S. Mr. Mercer was in the nomination for the treasury but we with drew him. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 Not found. 2 See Monroe to Patrick Henry, January 1, 1785, note 1. 3 For this election, see Maryland Delegates to William Paca, February 11. 4 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Monroe in cipher. 5 See Samuel Hardy to Patrick Henry, December 5, 1784, note 3; and Monroe to Thomas Jefferson, December 14, note 6. 6 See John Jay to Benjamin Franklin, December 13, 1784. 7 See Monroe to John Francis Mercer, January 29, note 5. William Samuel Johnson to Benjamin Gale Dr. Sr,l NY Feby 2d. 1785 I have just now reced yr. favr. of the 20th for whh I thank you as well as for the long one some time ago & every other of yr. favors. I [...] for for when I desired you to write I told you I could not. It is really true my right hand has in this respect forgot its burning. At least I am obliged to write to You that in order it be legible to anyone but myself but it is impossible for me to raise up any correspondance which re quire much writing. Add to this that I find myself so much engaged here either in Business & company, of the latter of which I am obliged to see much more than I could wish that it absolutely take up the whole of my time & leave me very few Moments except necessary so keep to myself. I can therefore at present at least only very briefly Answr. yr. Quests. Nobody I have seen here seems to doubt but the Pamphlet you have so justly remarked upon was written by the Author whose Name it bears 2 but it is a Book not much read & less regarded. The general observat[io]n of those who have seen it is that he was not sufficiently informed upon the subject he undertk. to say much to the purpose upon it. And there Is I believe no danger of his making any Ill Impressions here. You need be under no apprehensions at present I believe of any Aristocratic Chains but may yet ride (I hope long & se curely) upon the Democratic Wave. Not that there are no Democratic Tyrants here but the Principles & Vices of Democracy are yet preva lent & will I think continue to have the [...] a superiority. The great est Danger in that regard that [...] in seems to arise from that Strong propensity we have to run into [...] Lunacy & dissipations of every kind. The fatal tendency of which [...] to overturn our Constitutions
