February 2,1785 159 our Countrymen do not seem to be sufficiently aware of. You ask how I like Congress & how they like me [...] of me they have had so little arg[um] ent that as yet I dare say they have [...] formed no expressed Opinion upon the subject. Nor can I have had sufft. knowledge of them to form a decidedly just Judgmt of them. In general I can only say there is much ability discovered in the discussion of affairs & uni versally good dispositions to do the best they can for the general Weal. But they do not always readily agree in what is [...] that [...] they must with in [...] & [got at?]. All I have to find fault with at present is that discussion appears to me, on many occasions to be too much pro tracted, & of consequence the business makes but slow progress. Yet it seems to be unavoidable in an Assembly of this Nature. I am glad Dr. Chauncey is pleased with yr. Papers & hope you will send them to him as he proposes. FC (CtHi: Johnson Papers). In the hand of William Samuel Johnson. 1 Benjamin Gale (1715-90), Connecticut physician and political writer, and one of Johnson’s oldest friends, who shared with him a disdain for many forms of enthusiasm, political and religious. See DAB; and George Groce, William Samuel Johnson: A Maker of the Constitution (New York: Columbia University Press, 1937), pp. 11, 66, 104, 127. 2 Perhaps the second of Alexander Hamilton’s “Phocion” letters attacking New York’s punitive loyalist legislation, which appeared in the second Philadelphia edition under the title Colonel Hamilton’s Second Letter, from Phocion to the Considerate Citizens of New-York on the Politics of the Times, in Consequence of the Peace: Containing Remarks on Mentor's Reply (Philadelphia: Robert Bell, 1784). Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:530n. No other refer ences to the work, however, have been found in the correspondence of Johnson or other congressional delegates. Charles Pinckney to Benjamin Guerard Sir, New York February [2-6] 1785 1 An official Letter from our delegation containing a state of the transactions of Congress & a subsequent one from me containing an account of Mr. Gervais election as one of the Commissioners of the Board of treasury were transmitted by a Vessel that sailed on the 24th Ultimo. 2 Since this we have been employed in adjusting & establishing such an arrangement of our Foreign Ministers, as may best consist with the present state of European politics, & as this is a matter of very great consequence, it will be sometime before we shall be able to form such a System as will meet the approbation of a Majority of Congress. After a great deal of debate & discussion, we determined on Mon day last to send a Minister to the Court of London, & as soon as the Secretary of foreign Affairs furnishes his instructions & they are rati fied by the house we shall proceed to elect a Gentleman to represent Us at that Court: our Delegation have nominated Mr. John Rut-
