174 February?, 1785 Mr Henry’s arrival with the copies of the Proceedings of the state in this affair has anticipated My request that you wou’d furnish us with them. The Council having done this fully except such as relates to the proceedings of the last Supreme Court at Northumberland & Easton, these may be necessary at least so far as they were published in one of the Philada. papers about one month ago. A few days after the arrival of Mr Henry this Matter was taken up as the order of the day when we without difficulty had it postponed Sine die And hope it will give time to the Legislature to deliberate in such a manner as will give Mutual Satisfaction to the parties and do complete Justice. By all that we can learn from the delegates of Connecticut she has no serious intentions of prosecuting this dispute as a state any more than Merely to Patronize her Cityzens (the Wyoming Settlers) in their Claim of Soil and even that feebly as Dr Johnson has told us that he neither wishes nor can proceed in the dispute till he receives further instructions and that he expects An agent or agents from the Settlers and not the State. How far the decree at Trenton has decided the right of Soil as well as Jurisdiction is a question that professional Lawyers may differ in Very much. We think that both have been determined fully. There is evidently two parts in the decision Vizt the lands in dispute and Juris diction both Judged to be in Pennsylvania by the Court at Trenton. If this Matter comes to be seriously debated in Congress you must see the Necessity of having an agent or agents of professional knowledge of Law to combat Dr Johnson. Hitherto we have not been able to finish the business of appointing the additional Commissioners for settling and liquidating the Publick accts. 3 altho’ a report has been on the table many days agreeable to the intention of the law which we hope will be compleated in a few days. The report is a general one comprehending every State having large unsettled accts, with the Publick and when resolved upon we will take the earliest oppertunity of forwarding. If it don t arrive in time I wish the operation of the Law could be suspended a few days longer, that we may have the Credit of being Federal in our measures. A Brittish Packet arrived at the Hook Thursday last but the mail was not brought to the City ’till Saturday evening last, a report prevails that the Dutch & the Emperor have Settled their dispute—no particu lars nor is it generally believed—but it is probable that the winter may afford an oppertunity of negociating & perhaps terminating them. We lodge together Since Mr. Henry’s arrival and ’tho not the most com fortable, or at a Very high rate, which together with fuel, candle and liquors &c amount to more than we had any reason to apprehend. We have the honor to be, Sir, your Very hble & obedient Servts William Henry Jos. Gardner
