February?, 1785 175 RC (PHarH: RG 27). Written by Gardner and signed by Gardner and Henry. Addressed: “To John Bayard Esq., Speaker of the General Assembly, Philadeiphia.” RC damaged; missing words supplied from Pa. Archives, 2d ser. 18:643-44. 1 Not found. 2 For Connecticut’s revival of the Wyoming Valley dispute, see Hugh Williamson to John Dickinson, January 14, note. 3 See Pennsylvania Delegates to John Dickinson, January 27, note 2. Pennsylvania Delegates to John Dickinson Sir New York Feby 7th. 1785 The Wyoming dispute rests at Present and we hope will do so for some time, we have seen Mr Wilson and reed by him some addi tional papers to them brought on by Mr Henry relating to that un happy dispute. 1 The report of a Committee upon your Excellency’s letter with the inclosures relative to the appointment of additional commissioners for Settling and adjusting the accounts of the Cityzens of Pennsylvania against the United States remain undetermined untill a report is brought in to prevent frauds supposed to be practised by some per sons having unsettled accts, and Stated to Congress by Mr. Denning commissioner in this State, which we hope will be made tomorrow. 2 The first report as brought in and which we have reason to believe will pass, comes up fully to the Idea of the legislature as expressed in the act and we hope they will see the propriety of a further suspension of the opperation of that Law rather than suffer the State to be re proached with an Unfoederal Measure especially as the objects of it can suffer very little by a delay of a week or ten days and perhaps not half that time. We are with due respect, your Excellency’s Very humble Servts. William Henry Jos. Gardner RC (PHarH: RG 27). Written by Gardner and signed by Gardner and Henry. Addressed: “His Excellencyjohn Dickinson Esqr. President of the Council, Philadelphia.” 1 James Wilson was in New York at this time not as a delegate to Congress but to con fer with Gardner and Henry on Pennsylvania’s strategy in response to Connecticut s at tempt to reopen the Wyoming Valley controversy. He also wrote the following letter to Dickinson on February 26. ‘The Controversy respecting the Settlements at Wyoming depends before Congress in a very disadvantageous State of Suspence. 1 think that both the interest and the Honor of Pennsylvania require, that a speedy and explicit decision should be had upon the Complaints and representations which have been made against her. As far as I can learn those who style themselves Claimants under the State of Connecticut have not ap pointed or instructed any person to advocate or support their Pretensions; and no at tempts have been lately made to bring them forward. While matters continue in this un determined Situation, those People may flatter themselves and represent to others, that
