February 9,1785 177 or elsewhere, not specially appropriated? This is all the account I am able to give of the State of the Treasury, excepting that the State of Vir ginia, in the course of the last year, as I am informed by her delegates now in Congress, have paid into the Treasury of the U. States more than four hundred thousand dollars in real money. I hope this will at least justify an opinion heretofore advanced that the delinquency of the States was not so much owing to want of energy in the federal govern ment, as to want of energy in the government of the particular States 8c a real want of resources, or of the power to render them productive. The happy return of peace & plenty to the States will, it is hoped, produce similar effects throughout the Union & restore public credit. The Hon. John Lewis Gervaise, of So. Carolina, the Hon. Samuel Osgood, of Massachusetts, & the Hon. Walter Livingston, of this State, have been elected Commissioners of the Board of Treasury. The latter is present & ready to accept. The two former have not had time, since the notification of their Election, to return an answer. Congress have ordered all their public Offices to be removed from Philadelphia to this City. The Portraits of the King & Queen of France are also to be brought here. The City-Hall has been given up to the use of Congress & their offi cers by the Corporation of the City, excepting the room in which the Mayors Court is holden 3 —And I presume it is unnecessary to men tion that the members can be accommodated in the best manner— but that the expences of living here are greater than at any other place where I have attended in Congress. We wait with impatience the result of the negotiations opened with the Indians—as the Western lands are in great demand, & frequent applications are made for grants. It is expected that Congress, before they rise, will be enabled to open their Land-Office, & to establish Some government in the Western wilderness. I am sorry to observe that the Southern States do not seem dis posed to cede their claims over the mountains to Congress. No. Car olina has even repealed her act of cession, after the example of Con- necticutt. Happily it is out of the power of N. York & Virginia to repeal theirs. The Agents for Massachusetts & N. York have agreed on the Judges to constitute a foederal Court to decide on their interfering claims to Vacant lands. 4 This Court is to be holden in the City of Williamsburg in Virginia, next June. The N. York land-office is open to all the citizens of the U. States. Forty two petitioners are to have six miles Square at one Shilling per acre to be paid in any kind of Securities for liquidated debts due from the U. States, or from the State of New York. Their land-office, their Impost, their confiscated estates, &c. will enable this State to establish funds sufficiently productive to pay all their debts. I am informed, &
