178 February9,1785 that in a manner satisfactory to me that the Bill for granting an Im post to Congress will be rejected by a Majority in the Legislature of this State which is now in Session. 5 As this measure has not been adopted by the State of Georgia & as the supplementary funds, the only Security in the System for the do mestic creditors, have not been effectually complied with in more than one or two States, I have given it as my opinion here that our State would not resume the consideration of that Subject ’til all the other States should have substantially complied: And indeed, in that event, of which I see no probability, it might perhaps be for the Honor of the State to fall in with that measure, last of all & only on the most vi olent compulsion. In consequence of a motion made in Congress by an advocate for a revenue in the hands of Congress, a Committee has been appointed to report the measures necessary to be taken on the Subject of the recommendations of April 18, 1783, for the Impost, &c. As Congress have been pleased to appoint me Chairman of this Committee & to join with me two members who are not friendly to the revenue Sys tem, it would seem that a change of the fmanceering System may not be far off: But as this Subject has not been drawn into discussion in the present Congress I have no authority to announce the probability of such an event. 6 I have transmitted to my good friend Governor Bowen News-papers containing a bill published by the Legislature of Pennsylvania for funding their quota of the national debt on State funds. Such a mea sure was adopted by New Jersey long ago; & I am told that other States are taking the hint. Sure I am that State funds may be established on as safe grounds 8c prove as productive as funds in the hands of Congress. Can it be said that the particular States are unable to draw from the people as much money as they can, or ought to pay? Will not State-laws operate with greater energy 8c safety than fcederal Ordinances? But I have almost involuntarily run into a Subject I intended to have avoided when I sat down to write this Letter, as it has been already ex hausted 8c the bare mention of it has become ungrateful to the ears of some of my good friends. Congress have resolved to send Ministers Plenipotentiary to repre sent the U. States at the Courts of Madrid & London; & their Election is made the order of the day. In consequence of the earnest request of Dr. Franklin it is in contemplation to permit him to return to this his native Country, where he wishes to lay his bones. The return of this venerable Patriot under these circumstances must give pleasure to all his friends, or let me say to all the friends of this Country 8c of free dom. Governor Jefferson, who is peculiarly acceptable to the Court of Versailles, will probably be appointed his Successor at that Court. I observed in my last/ that the resolution of Congress putting all the Letters from our foreign Ministers under an injunction of Secrecy,
