February9,1785 179 was my apology for not making more ample communications on the Subject of our Foreign Affairs. It is in contemplation, at least with some Gentlemen, to recom mend to the States an Alteration of the Confederation on the Subject of Commerce. The motion under commitment aims to vest Congress with power to regulate both foreign & coast wise trade—And to ascer tain & regulate the duties to be paid in the importation of foreign merchandise: 8 provided that the assent of at least nine States in Congress shall be necessary to all their ordinances on these Subjects—And provided also, that all such Ordinances shall receive the approba tion of the Legislatures of nine States before they shall take effect. provided also that such ordinances shall continue in force only years. provided moreover that the Legislatures of the particular States shall relinquish all power to lay imposts against their neighbouring States—And lastly, provided, that all such imposts shall be collected under the Author ity, & accrue to the use & benefit of the particular State where they shall be paid. I have thought proper to lay these outlines of the System proposed before the State; Should it be thought proper to act on this Subject, or any other by way of altering the Confederation, I am clearly of opinion that the Bill for the purpose ought to be published for the consideration of the people at large & that every town should be re quested to give their deputies special instructions on the Subject. I trust in the Wisdom of the public councils to devise a System of commercial regulation which will answer every reasonable object of the mercantile part of the community, without endangering the Liber ties of this Country: But if I am called on either to part with my free dom, or foreign commerce, I shall want no time to deliberate. The proceedings of the Committee of the States at Annapolis last Summer are printed & to be sent forward to the several States. 9 Since the assembling of Congress in this City some of the Southern States have discovered great uneasiness under the Ordinance passed at Trenton respecting the residence of Congress & It yet remains very uncertain whether Foederal buildings will be erected any where soon. On this Subject, however, it is considered that the eastern States have possessed themselves of the advantage ground. The question of the Independance of Vermont has not been re sumed—nor have their delegates made their appearance as yet. The delegates would be happy to receive particular & pointed instructions on the Subject of commerce. How far will the State consent to part with its power to regulate commerce? How far will it be safe to vest Congress with power relative to ascertaining & regulating duties, &c. As it is our earnest wish (for I believe I may also speak for my Col-
