February 11, 1785 181 ever reasons opperated with them it is Very evident that Congress have lost that influence at home and respectability abroad which are essentially necessary to conduct with advantage the concerns of a great Nation and which can never be r[e] gained while they are once or twice a year Moving from place to place. Princeton, Anapolis and Trenton have been Visited in order & in the Very hour of expectation each have experienced disapointment. New York is now the tempo rary residence untill a permanent one is provided and if this should fail Perhaps this City in turn will feel her share of Chagrin by another removal—in short Sir there appears no end to removals but in the erection of a permanent federal House in which each State will have an intrest and in some degree find themselves at home. We gave a Cheerfull assent to the ordinance at Trenton convinced of the advantage and necessity of the Measure and believing that it woud meet the approbation of our constituents who have generally stood first in executing every thing that appeared calculated to pro mote the Honor and happiness of the federal government. The Place proposed in the ordinance whether on this or that side the Delaware is Very favorable to Pennsylvania. Much of the money expended there will finally center in our State—this deserves atten tion. The offer made by New Jersey of thirty thousand pounds and ter ritorial Jurisdiction give rise to an enquiry which we have frequently heard What will Pennsylva. do? To this we cannot answer but as the Legislature are now sitting we state these things to you in order that they may have it in their Power to favor us with their instructions upon this point as soon as convenient. Wednesday nixt is appointed for discussing the report of a commit tee respecting the appointment of additional commissioners of accts and we have reason to hope it will fully answer the intention of the house—a compleat Copy of the Laws and resolutions of the legisla ture since the revolution are Very necessary for us, therefore we re quest that we may be furnished with them as early as convenient. 2 We have heard nothing of the Wyoming Business since we last wrote you. We have Honor to be Sir, Your Very hble Servts Jos Gardner [PS.] This letter was intended a Joint One but Mr Henry is out there fore wants his Signature. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 See the following entry. 2 Speaker Bayard laid this request before the Pennsylvania Assembly on February 18 and the following day the house ordered that its delegates in Congress be furnished with a copy of the laws of the commonwealth. Minutes of the first Session of the Ninth Gen eral Assembly of... Pennsylvania, pp. 145, 148, DLC(ESR).
