188 February 12,1785 copies of all the papers, and wait their instruction what answer touch ing the same we should return to him. The extracts from the Letters from the foreign ministers communi cated by the President of Congress to his excellency the Governor, 15 are of a nature, and importance, that require no observations from us: the Legislature must feel the force of the remarks which they contain. We hope the establishment of the board of Treasury and the late appointment of commissioners named in the inclosure No. 10 will have a happy effect on our money affairs, 16 and remove all jealousies on that subject in every part of the union. We are constrained to point the attention of the Legislature to a no tification, in the Boston Gazette printed by Powars & Willis, which has been reprinted in the Gazettes of other States, announcing Mr. Richard Soderstrom as consul of the Swedish nation (duly commis sioned,) at Boston in the commonwealth of Massachusetts. 17 The sixth of the articles of confederation declaring that no state without the consent of the United States in congress assembled, shall enter into any conference, agreement, alliance or Treaty with any King, Prince or State and the Ninth of the said articles vesting the sole power of entering into Treaties and alliances in the United States in Congress assembled, it hath been heretofore supposed that the au thority in the first instance of passing acts of recognition of the quality and character of consuls was exclusively vested in the United States in Congress assembled. The Exequatur of the quality of Mr. Soderstrom, published by the authority of his excellency governor Hancock (Mr. Soderstrom not having been announced to, or recognized by, the United States in congress assembled, in any quality, or character, of consul) has been remarked on here, as a procedure adverse to the principles of confed eration; and may induce some act of congress upon that subject. It therefore becomes our duty to inform ourselves of the sentiments of the Legislature upon this subject in good season, lest our private opin ions should lead us to concur in measures that might be in opposition to the sentiments of the state we have the honor to represent, & whose determinations when known must constantly govern our conduct. We shall continue to make such communications to the Legislature, from time to time, as our Duty shall point out, & their interest require. We have the honor to be, with the highest consideration, Gentle men, your very humble servants E Gerry Geo. Partridge I Delegates of S. Holten R. King ) Massachusetts RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Rufus King and signed by King, El bridge Gerry, Samuel Holten, and George Partridge. Addressed: “The Hon’ble the president of the senate, & the hon’ble the Speaker of the House of Representatives of Massachusetts.”
