190 February 13,1785 When the question was first brought forward for erecting, a federal town it was the wish of our delegation to decline a decision on it for the time, and pursue the business of the union, either where we were; at Philadelphia; or in New-York; to either of which places we were will ing to adjourn. But in pursuit of this course, we had not the assistance of a single State, the delegation of Maryland being absent. The two ends of the Continent had heretofore, upon this subject, been drawing in different directions, the eastern and middle States in favor of the Delaware, and the southern in favor of the Potowmack. The division upon this question, since they left Philadelphia, had in duced the unsettled and vagrant system which has taken place; a sys tem so destructive of confidence among the citizens of the Union, and dishonorable to the federal councils throughout the world. The contest had now come to a point; whether this should continue to be the case, and the Congress move alternately to Annapolis, and Tren ton annually, and carry on the federal buildings at both places at the same time, or no buildings at all, under the resolution of Princeton; or come to other resolutions, changing those arrangements, were the questions before us; questions too which were forced upon us, from every quarter of the Union. The only prospect for obtaining a deci sion in favor of Georgeton had depended on the support of the Southern States, and we soon had the mortification to find, that they had given it up. By them it was urged that the object of the southern Gentlemen was, when they left their States, to move to a northern cli mate; that they generally visited N. York, N. Port and Boston; that by water, their passage was as easy to either place, as to the Chessapeake: that they had no object to serve by a situation on the Chessapeak, and that they perceived no great federal end, which could be attained by it for the present, at least none to occasion a longer delay, or that would counterbalance the injury arising from the present state. This was the language of Georgia, South-Carolina and one of the members from North-Carolina (there being but two on the floor), and of all the States eastward of Maryland. There were then nine States in Congress, eight of which held this opinion, and New-Hampshire and Connecti cut were daily expected. In this situation it was proposed “as inexpedi ent to erect for the present more than one federal town” and to this we agreed. It was then proposed “to appropriate 100,000 dollars to this purpose,” and for this eight States were decidedly in the affirma tive. The situation then became more interesting to Virginia. The only question before us was, shall we frustrate what the sense and voice of the union require, frustrate it too only for a few days, for upon the ar rival of Connecticut or New-Hampshire, it will be carried without us, or accede to a measure which they all think so necessary for the gen eral interest? And we conceived that the great principles upon which we entered into the confederacy, a respect for the harmony and inter-
