February 14,1785 195 Madrid, informs us that the court of Spain has appointed Mr. Gar- doque, to come here as their minister and we expect him daily. 3 His purpose is to treat of commerce, and territorial limits. Our ministers at Paris are generally proposing treaties of amity and commerce, with all the European commercial powers, and they receive answers very civil, but as yet no treaties formed, except such as you have seen noti fied from Congress. As you have been pleased to desire my reflections upon the state of affairs, I will give them freely, as they appear to me. The courts with which we are most immediately concerned, are Spain, England, France, and Holland; the two first, because we border on them, and because we have with each most pressing difficulty; the two last, because we are indebted to them both on the score of money lent, and friendship in other ways conferred. Spain is proud, and ex tremely jealous of our approximation to her South American terri tory, and fearing the example of our ascendency upon that country, is grasping forever at more territory, by way of security; and hoping to derive benefit to her system, from our want of system, our discord and inattention. Hence we may expect from Mr. Gardoque, an apparent firm demand of the exclusive navigation of the Mississippi, with some tempting commercial offers, to procure our assent to the loss of this very valuable navigation. But probably, the apprehension of a quarrel with us, and the effect of it upon their South American possessions, may secure to us, if we are wise and firm, the free navigation, to be fi nally agreed to by Spain; with Great Britain, our difficulties will be greater; equally proud with Spain, and much more powerful, with fewer reasons to fear a rupture with us, and more to hope from a suc cessful one; she remains sullen after defeat, and seeming to wish for just provocation to renew the combat. The passions of states, and of individuals, are not very different; for what are the former, but a com pound of individuals, and of course carrying into the composition, those leading principles that characterize the parts. In private life, a wise and fortunate victor, over great strength, would, in all his conduct with the vanquished, show a respectful civility, avoiding every display of supposed superiority, and carefully shunning every appearance of giving cause for fresh offence. It seems to me, that if the conduct of America, had been founded on such principles our magnanimity must have been confessed, and that the seeds of future discord, would not have been so effectually sown as I fear they are. Both countries have been to blame, and transgressions against the terms of peace were on each side coeval, so that whilst we charged them with remov ing the slaves from New York, they pointed to the violence with which their friends were everywhere treated, with the detention of their debts, and with actions here brought against those who possessed houses in this city, whilst it was in their power by the fortune of war. This again is followed by their detention of the western posts, by their
