196 February 14, 1785 encroachments on our north-eastern boundary about St Croix, and by their unfriendly interruption of our commerce, and lately by arresting in London a merchant of Philadelphia for debt, because his privateer had taken, during the war, a vessel belonging to the complainant. This is an unpleasant state of things, and if temper and wisdom are not em ployed on both sides, it is not difficult to foresee a renewed rupture ere long. The principles of republics being virtuous, and their con duct therefore squaring with justice, they rather negotiate differences than fight them. Monarchies depend too much upon the ultima ratio regum. When we have acted fully up to our principle, we shall be upon strong ground to combat theirs. But the cause of virtue, without proper means to support it, must often fail. These considerations lead me to wish most sincerely that my country may quickly cease to give the smallest cause for just offence, and that our rulers would engrave upon their minds, the wisdom of the inscription upon the arsenal of Berne in Switzerland—That people happy are, who, during peace, prepare the necessary stores for war. It is in vain for us to expect this from the United States—to be se cure, each state must provide amply for itself; and whenever Great Britain shall find us just, temperate, and prepared, she will be ex tremely cautious of hostile aggressions, or of unjust treatment of us. If this reasoning is right, how will your excellency’s administration be marked for wisdom, if effectual attention be paid to the collection and preservation of military stores; I have here been informed, by an officer of rank in the continental artillery, at the surrender of York, that several pieces of our artillery were retaken from the enemy, and that they are now at Philadelphia; it deserves to be considered, whether these are not subject to be returned to us, upon demand of the state: there were also several pieces of our artillery, thrown into Pamunkey river, near New Castle, in 1781, and some other pieces fixed in the ground, and in vain attempted to be destroyed by the enemy. Baron Steuben lately sent us the enclosed letter, which I have now the honour to transmit; his published plan, is only an outline, but the details by which that plan is to be executed, he professes himself willing to communicate, when the state of Virginia shall call upon him, for them. The sum of this, (I fear, too long digression, upon our relative situation with Great Britain), is, that being secure of having done right, we should be fully prepared to meet aggressions from that quarter; a sentiment founded upon an attentive consideration of the correspondence, between the British generals, during the late war, by which it is not difficult to discover, that experience had instructed them in this truth, that a war against the United States, had better be pushed in full force at first against Virginia. I have before observed to your excellency, that Mr. Adams thought we might expect a compro mise between Holland and the emperor, from the negotiations of this
