February 14, 1785 197 winter; it is certain, that every influence of France, will be used to ef fect the compromise, for reasons very obvious: but, whilst the em peror demands a preliminary, that the Scheldt shall be opened, and Holland as peremtorily says, that it must not, it remains possible, but not probable, that an accommodation may take place: if it does not, the powers on the continent will be engaged in a most expensive war, whilst, as it seems, Great Britain will remian neuter, and by peace, preparing herself for war, render her hostile views, more dangerous to us. The apprehension of this difficulty, on the part of our friends, has probably produced the strong intimations that we must be exact in the payment of our interest upon the foreign loans; and the same rea son does indeed call upon the United States, in the strongest sense, to be punctual in their payments, that those who have assisted us, in the day of our distres, may not suffer for their generosity. The attention of Congress, has been applied to our western con cerns, as your excellency will see by the treaties made with the Six Na tions, and the western Indians; 4 in the latter, the Shawanese are not included, but their being prevented by some active British emissary, from coming to the latter treaty, will probably not be attended with ill consequences, as they are very much under the control of the Six Na tions, and of the Wyandots, their powerful neighbours. The spring will open further treaties with the more southern tribes, north-west of the Ohio, and also, on the south-eastern side upon ours, and the fron tiers of North and South Carolina, and Georgia. 5 Judging from myself, I suppose your excellency will be tired with the length of this letter, and if you will pardon it, I promise you, that I will not again transgress in the same manner. I have the honour to be, with sentiments of esteem, respect, and regard, sir, your excellency’s most ob’t serv’t, Richard Henry Lee MS not found; reprinted from Memoir of the Life of Richard Henry Lee, 2:56-60. 1 Governor Henry’s letter of January 9, rather than December 9, is in Henry, Patrick Henry, 3:265-67. 2 Henry explained that delegate William Grayson, who intended to leave Richmond on January 10, had agreed to deliver the governor’s letter. Grayson, however, did not present his credentials to Congress until March 11. JCC, 28:135. 3 William Carmichael had notified Congress of the appointment of Don Diego de Gardoqui as minister to the United States in a letter of October 12, 1784, which had been read on February 10. Its enclosures—copies of Spanish foreign minister Florid- ablanca’s October 2 letter to Bernardo de Galvez and his October 7 letter to Carmichael—were referred to John Jay for translation. The translations were read this day and all three documents referred back to Jay who reported on the 15 th a draft of a letter to Carmichael instructing him to notify the Spanish court that Gardoqui would be received “with all the Distinction and Respect which the Dignity of his Sovereign and the Nature of his Commission may demand; and that the great Business he is sent to ne- gociate with the United States, shall be conducted on their part with the greatest Can dor and Frankness.” Congress approved the letter immediately and directed Jay “to take order.” See JCC, 28:55n, 64n, 67n; PCC, item 81, 1:13-16, item 88, fols. 388-93, item 97, fols. 17-21; and Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783-89, 3:287-90, 292.
