198 February 14,1785 4 For the treaty negotiated with the Six Nations at Fort Stanwix in October 1784, see Richard Henry Lee to James Madison, November 20, note 1. Two of the commissioners who negotiated that treaty—Richard Butler and Arthur Lee—were joined by George Rogers Clark in meeting with western tribes at Fort McIntosh on the Ohio River in De cember and January. By January 21 they had reached an agreement with the Wyandots, Delaware, Chippewas, and Ottawas which they enclosed in a January 28 letter from Fort Pitt announcing that all Indian claims to land “as far west as the great Miami on the Ohio, and the Miami or Omi which empties into the lake Erie” had been extinguished. They recommended, however, that they continue negotiations with the tribes even far ther to the west at Fort Vincennes in the spring. Congress referred the letter and treaty this day to a committee consisting of William Samuel Johnson, James McHenry, David Howell, James Monroe, and Hugh Williamson which reported March 7 that such a treaty should be held and recommended certain conditions and a meeting date of June 20. The report was issued as a broadside for the delegates’ consideration, amended on March 17, and adopted the 18th after Rhode Island successfully blocked a move to refer the report to the committee considering the ordinance for “ascertaining the Mode of locating lands.” See JCC, 28:66n, 125-26, 169, 172-73, 178-81, 29:917; and PCC, item 30, fols. 271-76. See also Charles Thomson to John Dickinson, March 26, note. Both the Treaty of Fort Stanwix and the Treaty of Fort McIntosh were entered on the jour- nals June 3. JCC, 28:423-26. 5 For the appointment of commissioners to negotiate with the southern Indians, see South Carolina Delegates to Benjamin Guerard, January 25, note 8. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear Sir, New York Feby. 14th 1785 In reply to your favor of December the 14th I had the honor to write to you from Trenton, 1 and I mentioned an enclosed letter from you for the Marquis Fayette, which coming to hand after the Marquis had sailed, I wished to know your pleasure, whether I should forward it to France or return it to you. I have not been honored with your commands upon that point. Soon after my arrival in this city, I sent you one of the few pamphlets addressed to the President of Congress by Doctor Price—it will give me pleasure to know that you have re ceived it.2 The commissioners for treating with the western Indians did yesterday present to Congress the Treaty that they have made with the Wyandots, Delawares &c. A copy of the Treaty I have now the honor to enclose you. 3 The Shawanese, you observe, are not there—it seems that persons, disaffected to us, prevented them from meeting the Commissioners. The Wyandots being stated as their superiors may perhaps prevent any mischief from the Shawanese not being included in this Treaty. Another Treaty will be held with the more Southern In dians in the spring or first of the summer. 4 The policy seems to be a good one, of enclosing as it were, the Indian nations within our ac knowledged territory. It will probably tend to civilize them sooner, and by preventing intrigues with them, render them more certainly our friends.
