February 20,1785 207 of the heterogeneous materials of which that State is so remarkably com posed, and will I doubt not eventually lead to the increase of knowl edge & Security of freedom. 2 My last official Letter to the State contains all the information I can give. 3 With best regards to all friends, I am, &c, David Howell P.S. If you approve of the Sentiments in this pamphlet you may let it circulate. Tr (DLC: Burnett Collection). Copied for Edmund C. Burnett from an original “MSS of the late William D. Ely of Providence,’’ ca. 1934. 1 That is, Rush’s Considerations upon the Present Test-Law of Pennsylvania: Addressed to the legislature and Freemen of the State (Philadelphia: Hall and Sellers, 1784). Evans, Am. Bibli ography, no. 18,770. 2 For this “great ferment” in Pennsylvania’s politics, and the context of Rush’s argu ments against disfranchisement of the state’s citizens through test oaths, see Brun- house, Counter-Revolution in Pennsylvania, pp. 166-69. 3 See Howell to William Greene, February 9. James Monroe to John Francis Mercer Dear Sir N. York Feby. 20. 1785. Yours of the 9th from W[est] river I have reed. & very sincerely con gratulate you both on an event wh. I doubt not & very sincerely wish may make you both happy. 1 We will do every thing in our power to procure you the accomodations you desire but fear we shall not such as you wish. A letter addrssd a week before you sit out will be in time for this purpose wh. will advise us with more certainty of your inten tions. At length with infinite difficulty I have carried thro’ a commit tee of 5. Gerry, Spaight, Johnson, Houston & myself under my origi nal proposition at Trenton, a change in the 9th article of the confideration, strengthening the powers of Congress in the direction of commerce; investing them with absolute controul of it with foreign nations as well as with each other & of laying (in the first instance) the imposts & duties upon imports & exports wh. may be necessary for the purpose. 2 I have had infinite labor indeed in effecting this busi ness even with the committee & expect to have it renew’d in Con gress, tho’ I hope there to find aid. If the recommendation takes place for this change it is propos’d to write a circular letter to accom pany it to the States. The more I consider this subject the more fully impress’d I am with the necessity of this measure, for upon it depends the strength & duration, in a great degree, of the confederacy. Hardy is in favor of it & will give his assistance. Yesterday we attempted to
