February 23,1785 211 Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Hodgdon Dear sir N York 21st Feby [17] 85 On revising [reviewing?] the Journals, I find the Commissioners of the Treasury are directed to lease to the Trustees of Dickinson Col lege for a Term not exceeding ten Years, the Buildings at Carlisle, or such part as are not wanted for public Stores. 1 Yours in Haste, E Gerry RC (DNA: RG 93, file 29,961). 1 For the adoption of this February 7 resolution, see JCC, 28:18n, 44; and David How ell to Benjamin Rush, January 28, note. Rufus King to John Lowell andjames Sullivan Gentlemen New York 23d. Feb. 1785 The controversy between Massachusetts and New York is of a nature that excuses me in remarking to the agents of the former, such obser vations as I may obtain here relative to the same. The New York title will depend on their possessory right, directly, or impliedly, acknowledged by Massachusetts, and other states. 1 They will prove a possession prior to the first Massachusetts Charter, and pro duce ancient maps to shew that the whole country west of the Hudson was laid down at that time as nova Belgia; then argueing from the mu nicipal principle, that a possession of a part, inures to all the benefi cial purposes of a possession of the whole Territory claimed, attempt the establishment of their title by possession. Perhaps in obviating this doctrine, the old Dutch records of New York might furnish some useful information, but how they are obtain able I am at a loss. Pennsylvania used translations of these records in her Trial with Connecticut; but since, contrary to the practice of all other courts, the parties withdrew the papers used as evidence in that trial, it would depend on the good will of those, who wish us no pros perity, whether we can obtain the same Translation, or any other. New York will introduce such parts of these records as they may find proper for their object. Smith in his history of New York cites an old author, whose name I don’t remember, who considers the Territory west and north west of Albany as Terra incognita, by looking into Smith’s history probably you may find something that will serve us. 2 The Gentlemen of New York speak of some public acts, laws, procla mations, or opinions of Massachusetts, declaratory of their idea of the
