216 February 24,1785 them. It is nevertheless my Duty, as a Friend to my Country, to your self, & to the Cause of Virtue, to give You confidentially this Informa tion, that Your publick & private Letters may not be in future abused to such unworthy purposes, indeed I think Cave is applicable, as it re spects some of your Correspondents high in office at Massachusetts. These You must be sensible are Communications, which nothing could induce me to make, but, the Necessity of your co-operating with those who are determined to support You on this side the Atlantic, in putting a Stop to, or at least in checking such ruinous Intrigues. We are determined to obtain if possible an Act of Congress, that they will not elect any person to publick office, whilst a Member of Congress, nor untill six Months after he shall have been a Member. I wish You Success in all your Negotiations & remain with the sincer est Esteem your real Friend & humble Sert. E Gerry N.B. Your Election was finally carried by nine States. Congress have re solved, that each appointment of a Minister, Secretary to a Legation or Charge des Affairs, shall be for a Term not exceeding three years; but this Restriction does not render them incapable of being re-elected. RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 Gerry had not mentioned Chancellor Robert R. Livingston in his February 14 letter to Adams, but according to Charles Thomson’s register of nominations Livingston had been nominated on January 31 with Adams and Rudedge, but his name was apparently “withdrawn,” “renewed,” and again, “withdrawn” before the final selection of Adams was agreed upon this day. See PCC, item 190, fol. 1. 2 None of these votes was recorded in the journals, but see James Monroe to John Francis Mercer, February 20, note 3. 3 At this point in the margin Adams wrote: “These are too gross Ar[ti]fices to conceal, a Secret Influence, to require much Attention. ‘Neckar est vain et glorieux’ may destroy the greatest Financier and best Minister in France, But Something more will be neces sary, than ‘il abond trop dans son Sens,’ to destroy the Small Man here aimed at.” 4 For a previous use of this passage to call attention to Adams’ vanity, see these Letters, 20:707. 5 For the maneuvering that preceeded the adoption of this February 18 resolution, see JCC, 28:75-77, 83-84. Elbridge Gerry to Thomas Jefferson My dear sir, New York 25th Feby 1785 I am this Day favoured with yours of the 11th of Novr, 1 & am un happy to hear that the Flames of War have burst again in the eastern World, & that there is too much Reason to apprehend, they will rage, at an early period, in the western Hemisphere. Nevertheless, if Britain is so much under the Influence of a weak passion, as to indulge it in renewing Hostilities amongst Us, & We shall meet her with cheerful Hearts, well knowing We have Resources, & being fully assured, We
