February 25,1785 217 shall by some effectual plan be able to draw them forth in sufficient quantities to humble her pride & correct her inimical Disposition. Having given Mr. Adams Information of the proceedings of Con gress since their Meeting at Trenton, & desired it may be communi cated to Yourself, 2 I can only add on this Head, that Mr R. Morris, General Dickinson & General Schuyler are elected Commissioners to erect the federal Buildings on the Deleware, & that the two former have accepted the appointment. Nothing further is done respecting a Land office, but I presume it will be soon taken up, as the Indian Commissioners have made con siderable progress in their Negotiations. A Report is made to raise 1500 Men, but what Number will be agreed on & in what Mode, Time must determine—the proposition is to raise them for three Years. Another Report is made for recommending to the States an alter ation of the Confederation, so as to invest Congress with the power to regulate the Trade of the united States, as well with foreign powers as with each other. & whilst I am on this Subject give me Leave to en quire, whether it will not be better policy to form our Treaties on Terms of Reciprocity with each Nation rather than on the principles it has adopted with the most favored Nations? If we provide in our Treaty with each Nation, that whatever may be the Average of its Du ties on Imports & Exports, We will lay similar Duties, they may impose what Duties they please, & We shall have power without embarrass ment, to reciprocate this commercial Tax & thus avoid being what We otherwise inevitably must be, their Tributary—for if on the other Hand, We are to be on the same Footing as the most favoured Nation, & this on an average pays 15 Per Ct. on Imports & Exports, whilst the most favoured Nation on our part pays but 5 Per Ct., is it not evident that this Rule would operate to tax us 10 Per Ct. as a Nation, on Im ports & Exports from such a Treaty? This favoured Nation system ap pears to me a system of Cobwebbs to catch Flies. Attend to it as it re spects Restrictions, prohibitions, & the carrying Trade, & it is equally distant from a Rule of Reciprocity, which is the only equitable & bene ficial Rule for forming Commercial Treaties. Mr. Adams is appointed to the Court of London, & a Report for ac cepting Doctor Franklins Resignation is before Congress, who will probably pass it, & appoint yourself to the Court of Versailles. You will certainly have all the N England Interest in your Favour. Doctor Lee having just arrived from the Indian Treaty, informs me that a Cession is obtained from the Savages of about thirty Million Acres of Land, bounded by the great Miami, Lake Erie &c; & that an other Treaty is to be held, in which a further Cession is expected more to the Southard. I am impatient for opening the Land Office. Nothing further occurring at present, give me Leave Sir to assure
