224 February 27, 1785 appears to me, that Georgia is the most likely State in the Union to close with her Ladyship, if the latter argument mentioned in Congress should not prevent it. I am sorry to hear that you are so interrupted by applications that ought not to be made. I hope however that you will not suffer them so to prevent your necessary exercise, as to injure your health. The investigating and opening our western navigation is an object of great importance and well worthy of your patronage. I be lieve, as I hope, that it will be found by experience to be of great util ity both to the public and to the private adventurers. Very little has yet been done in Congress respecting the Western Country—but a very full discussion of that business will soon come on when it is to be ex pected that our affairs in that quarter will be put under better regula tion than hitherto they have been. The mischief that experience & reason both join in proving to flow from the Sessions of Congress being held in our large Citys, produced the necessity of determining on some place of easy retirement for the federal government, and the unhappy neglect of attendance on the part of the Southern States has furnished an opportunity for a Majority in Congress to fix on a spot too excentric. My wishes would have been to have gone further south, but of two evils it was best to choose the least, and therefore we thought it better to fix somewhere in retirement than to continue wandering, or to fix in the midst of dissipation. 3 We had but just determined upon sending a Minister to the Court of London (Mr John Adams) when this day 28th Feby., we receive a letter from our Commissioners, for making treaties &c. at Paris, the copy of a letter from the Duke of Dorset, Minister from London to Versailles, to our Ministers, in answer to a proposition from them for making a treaty of Commerce with G. Britain & for settling other points of difficulty arising from the late peace—In which his Grace de clares the determination of his Court to be ready to settle all these af fairs upon terms of equal & lasting good to both countries whenso ever the U. States shall send to their Court a Minister properly authorised for the business. 4 This looks well at least—and we shall shortly make the experiment of their sincerity. The King of Prussia thinks that there will be no war between the Emperor & Holland, and indeed it does now seem probable that his judgement will prove right. I have sent the letter you committed to my care for the Marquis on to France by the packet. I have the honor to be, with the highest esteem and regard dear Sir Your most obedient & very humble servant, Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Washington’s February 8 letter is in Washington, Papers (Abbot), Confederation Se ries, 2:330-33. With it he enclosed the originals of a December 20, 1784, letter from Sir
