February 28,1785 227 Two of the commissioners appointed by Congress to superintend the building of their federal town have accepted (viz.) Messrs. Morris & Dickinson, Genl. Schuylers answer has not yet come to hand; so that if Congress had money enough, I should expect to hear of a number of elegant buildings being erected in a short time. 2 I have the honor to be, with the greatest consideration, your Excel lency’s most obedient servant, S. Molten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). 1 This February 24 vote was not recorded in Secretary Thomson’s journals. See JCC, 28:98. 2 For Philip Schuyler’s refusal to accept this appointment and the difficulties experi enced in trying to obtain the consent of a third commissioner, see Charles Thomson to Philemon Dickinson, et al., February 14, note 2. For the ultimate collapse of the vision of a federal town on the Delaware, largely because Congress did not in fact have “money enough” for the project, see Kenneth R. Bowling, The Creation of Washington, D.C. The Idea and Location of the American Capital (Fairfax, Va.: George Mason University Press, 1991), pp. 69-70. Samuel Holten to David Sewall Dear Sir. New York February [28], 1785 I have receiv’d the letter you did me the honor to write the 19th ul timo; it will always give me pleasure to comply with your wishes, the states that are “deficient in granting the Impost of 5 pr. Cent”—are Rhode Is land, Georgia, & N. York, this latter has it at this time under considera tion; I sensibly feel with you, respecting the state of our finances, and they are now under deliberation of a grand comee. of Congress. The affairs of Vermont, or New Hampshire grants respecting being admitted into the union are, I conclude in the same state they were in some years since, not having heard them mentioned in Congress for a length of time; and I can only add, as my opinion, that there is little prospect of their being considered as a State by Congress at present. “Old continental paper money,” is to have another hearing in Con gress in a short time, but what determination it will produce, I con sider as uncertain, as when the state of Vermont, so called, will be ad mitted into the union; however, I am sure the delegates from Masstts. will carefully attend to the same for they are sensible how much their constituents are interested in the matter. As to there being a commercial treaty with G.B.: I consider our com missioners in Europe fully authorized to treat upon the subject, but the prospect of success may be but small. Whether Congress are “au thorized to regulate trade,” I must beg leave to refer you, to the arti cles of confederation, which you are so well acquainted with, however, Congress have it in contemplation to propose to the several states ad-
