228 February 28,1785 ditional powers to be vested in them For a certain time, at least re specting this matter. I am fully in sentiment with you respecting Congress’s sitting in a large commercial city, but we are to have a federal town erected, & two of the commissioners to superintend the same have accepted their appointments (viz) Messrs. Morris & Dickinson, however, I con sider it uncertain when the buildings, &c, will be ready For the recep tion of Congress, as some money will be necessary to compleat the same, & where are we to procure it, & pay our other just debts. The consideration of an appointment of a minister to the Court of London, & who should be the person took up considerable time, but at length it terminated in Favor of the Honorable John Adams, being elected by nine states out of Eleven that were present. The fortresses on our northern frontiers being still in the hands of the British, the navigation of the Mississippi, as it respects the Court of Spain, the settlement of our western Country, added to the state of our finances makes great attention of Congress necessary. The affairs of the Emperor & their high Mightinesses must be im portant in their nature, & serious in their consequences; but as winter is the time to negotiate, possibly it may be settled. I have, with perfect respect, the honor to be, your most obedient FC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). In the hand of Samuel Holten and endorsed by him: “Copy of a letter to the honorable David Sewall, February 28th. 1785." John Sitgreaves to John Gray Blount and Thomas Blount Gentlemen New York 28th Feby. 1785. My last to you was written early in January just before my Departure from Phila. for this place. I have long flattered myself with a Hope of hearing from you, but have not had that pleasure yet, this perhaps may be attributed to the interruption the post has suffered from the severity of the season & to the negligence & irregularities of that es tablishment. I have at last received some Letters by that Conveyance from my Friends in Carolina that were the immoderate time of 40 days on the road, from this Circumstance I doubt whether all the Let ters I have written you are yet come to hand. I hope this Evil will soon be remedied. Congress disapprove of the Conduct of the Officers who have the superintendance of this department & will very soon take Measures for their better Regulation. 1 Not long since I was favor’d with a Letter from your Brother Mr. Wm. Blount stating the propriety
