230 February 28, 1785 RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). Addressed: “Messrs. J G & T Blount.” 1 For the committee report on the Post Office submitted to Congress this day, which recommended “That a Committee be appointed to prepare an additional Ordinance for the better regulating of the Post Office,” see JCC, 28:7n, 109, 158n. North Carolina Delegates to Alexander Martin Sir, New York March 1st 1785 Congress since their meeting in this City have chosen three Com missioners of the Treasury in lieu of those Gentlemen who were ap pointed at Annapolis last Year, who have declined accepting that ap pointment. The Gentlemen now chosen are Mr. John L. Gervis of South Carolina, Mr Samuel Osgood of Massachusetts, and Mr Walter Livingston of this state. 1 General Schuyler, Mr. Robert Morris & General P. Dickinson are ap pointed Commissioners to carry into effect, the ordinance of the 23d December last respecting the foederal Town. 2 This ordinance was transmitted to your Excellency by the Secretary of Congress. We have reed, accounts of a Vessel belonging to Alexandria in Vir ginia, being captured by one of the Barbary Corsairs & carried into Algiers. By the last accounts the Vessel was not condemned, and as she was only in ballast bound from Cadiz to Madiera, perhaps they may give her up. The depredations of those pirates unless speedily put an end to by making a treaty with them, may prove very injurious to the Commerce of the United States, Congress have taken such steps as they think will accomplish this desireable end. 3 The British Court having taken no steps to comply with that article of the treaty which respects the delivery of the Posts on our Western frontiers, but on the contrary it is said, that they have reinforced the Garrisons, and are repairing the fortifications: And every account from Europe convincing us of the unfavorable disposition of that Court towards us, it was thought necessary to send a Minister to that Court, to insist on the delivery of the Western Posts, and a compensa tion for the negroes that were carried away in open Violation of the Definitive treaty of Peace, and to prevent matters from getting to that pass, which might again involve us in a War with that nation. Mr. John Adams is the person elected for this purpose. 4 Congress have directed that the Comptroller shall, until the board of treasury are organised, appoint Commissioners to settle the ac counts of the states, against the United States. 5 As soon as the Dele gates find a proper person for that purpose, they will have one ap pointed for the state of North Carolina. Our Commissioners have concluded a second treaty with the Indi ans at fort McIntosh, but as Congress have not yet either ratified the
