238 March 1, 1785 The Massachusetts delegates on March 7 recommended the “weekly Gazette" of “Messieurs Adams and Nourse of Boston.” Ibid., p. 177. The Rhode Island delegates on March 7 recommended the Newport Mercury pub lished by Henry Barber. Ibid., p. 183. The South Carolina delegates, on March 7, recommended “Mr. Miller printer to the State of South Carolina,” but on April 14 changed the recommendation with the follow ing explanation to Thomson: “Mrs. Timothy having been lately appointed Printer to the State the delegates of South Carolina think it their duty to request that the papers from that state be in future furnished from her for the use of Congress.” Ibid., pp. 207, 213. The Maryland delegates on March 30 recommended “Mr. Goddard of Baltimore Town.” Ibid., p. 199. Joseph Gardner, in behalf of the Pennsylvania delegates, on March 31 recommended “Messrs. Dunlap and Claypoole of the city of Philadelphia. Ibid., p. 195. And John Vining of Delaware on July 8 recommended “Mr. Jacob A. Killen in Wilm ington.” Ibid., p. 215. No recommendation from the Virginia delegates has been found. For the New York delegates, see the following entry. Charles Thomson to the New York Delegates Gentlemen March lst - 1785 ’ The United States in Congress Assembled having been pleased to direct me to take order “that they be supplied every day on which a News paper is published in the place of their residence with a copy for each member and three copies to be filed of such paper as may be recommended by the Delegates from the State,”1 I have to request the favour of you to give me the titles of the several News papers which you will be pleased to recommend, that I may proceed to carry the above order into Execution. 2 With great Respect, I have the honor to be, Gentlemen, Your most obedient and most humble Servt. C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). Addressed: “The honorable The Delegates for the State of New York.” 1 See ICC, 28:108; and the two preceding entries. 2 For the recommendations of the New York delegates, whose March 3 response to Thomson is in PCC, item 59, 1:189, see Thomson to Samuel Loudon, Shepard Kollock, and John McLean, March 3. Charles Thomson to John Jay Dear Sir, Office of Secy, of Congress, March 2. 1785. I have reed, your favour of the 1st and in answer thereto beg leave to observe that by the 26 Article of the treaty with Sweden and the 29 Article of the treaty with France “the two contracting parties grant mu tually the liberty of having each in the ports of the other Consuls, vice
