March 2, 1785 239 Consuls, Agents and Commissaries whose function shall be regulated by a particular agreement.” 1 No agreement has yet been entered into for this purpose with either of those Courts. But it has always been thought necessary for foreign Consuls to make known their appoint ments to Congress, who thereupon order the Commissions to be reg istered and an Act of recognition to be sent to the States who are called upon to furnish the said Consuls respectively with an exequatur or notification of their quality. See 7 Septr. 1781. 2 Till this is done it has not been usual for any state to acknowledge any Consul from a foreign power. On the 3d of Deer, last Mr Charles Hellstedt produced a Commission from his Swedish Majesty dated the 22 Septr. 1783 ap pointing him Consul. This Commission is registered & acts of recogni tion have been sent to the States. 3 But I do not find that Mr Richard Soderstrom is known to Congress as consul of Sweden for any of the States in the Union. With great Esteem and regard I am, Dear Sir, Your most obedt Servt Cha Thomson FC (DNA: PCC, item 59). In the hand of Charles Thomson. 1 Jay had asked “whether it has not hitherto been the practice, and considered as made necessary by the Confederation, for foreign Consuls to make known their appoint ments to, and obtain the approbation of Congress, previous to their assuming that char acter in any of the States. If that be the case, be pleased further to inform me whether Mr. Richard Soderstrom is known to Congress as Consul of Sweden, in the State of Mas sachusetts.” PCC, item 120, 1:20; and Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783-89, 3:797. Soderstrom, after unsuccessfully trying to present his commission to Congress at Trenton in November, had subsequently presented it to Governor John Hancock of Massachusetts, who had accepted and proclaimed it on February 13. Jay viewed Han cock’s action as “premature” and was collecting evidence for a report to Congress, which he submitted this same day, recommending “that a Letter be immediately written to the Governor of Massachusetts, informing him of what has hitherto been, and ought to be, the Practice in such cases; remonstrating against his Deviation from it, and insist ing that the Powers delegated to Congress, by the People of the United States, be not exercised by any other than the foederal Government.”Jay also heatedly advised that he be authorized to write a letter “to the Minister of Sweden, stating the disrespectful and unprecedented manner in which the said Richard Soderstrom has endeavoured to enter on the Execution of his Commission, and requesting that he may be forthwith dis missed, with such Marks of his Majesty’s displeasure, as may discountenance the like Liberties in future.” PCC, item 80, 1:89-92. Jay’s recommendations were referred on March 4 to a committee consisting of James McHenry, Samuel Hardy, and Charles Pinckney. Jay continued to investigate the matter himself, however, partially in response to the demands of the New York mercantile firm Sears & Smith which charged that Soderstrom had obtained Massachusetts’ recognition of his consular status to shield him from a legal action by the firm, and eventually sub mitted a new report withdrawing his previous recommendations when he learned that the charge was erroneous. In this the Massachusetts delegates to Congress had been in strumental, writing a number of letters to their constituents to ascertain the facts of the case and to avoid a confrontation between Congress and Massachusetts. These efforts succeeded on May 25 when they secured the adoption of a motion for recognizing Soderstrom’s consular status by Congress and recommending that his commission be registered at Boston. See JCC, 28:121n, 361n, 393; PCC, item 81, 1:219-21; and Rufus King to Jay, April 8, 1785. The entire story has been told in Gary D. Olson, “The Soder-
