246 March 4,1785 farther examination into the Accounts of that State and of the inhabi tants thereof, is prevented by the Resignation of Mr. Turner the late Continental Commissioner and that Mr. Andrew Dunscomb who has been appointed to succeed him cannot enter into the execution of his office until he shall have received from the Superintendant of fi nance, or board of treasury his Commission and his instructions; and they have instructed them to urge the qualification of the New Com missioner to enter upon and prosecute that Business. This being com municated to Congress they have directed me to apply to you for in formation, first respecting the appointment of the said Andrew Dunscomb, to succeed Mr. Turner, and secondly respecting his char acter and to what State he belongs. Your answer as spedily as possible will oblige me, who am with much Respect, Sir, Your most obedient and most humble Servt. C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). Addressed: “R Morris Esqr. late Superintendant of Finance.” I Morris’ March 7 reply, explaining Dunscomb’s qualifications and enclosing copies of Zephaniah Turner’s resignation, Dunscomb’s application for the post, and Morris nomination of him to Virginia, is in PCC, item 137, 3:845-47. For Virginia s instructions of December 30-31, 1784, to her delegates to obtain the appointment of a commis sioner to resume work on the settlement of the state’s Continental accounts, which had been referred to committee on February 16, see PCC, item 71, 2:419-22; and JCC, 28:70n. The committee’s report, submitted February 23, merely recommended that Dunscomb be issued a commission by the Continental comptroller and proceed in the business with all suitable dispatch,” but Congress decided that Morris should be heard from before taking action on the recommendation and Thomson accordingly sent the present query. The matter was settled March 10 when Congress ordered the comptroller (James Milligan) to notify Dunscomb of his appointment and to furnish him with his commission and instructions. JCC, 28:97-98, 133-34. See also Virginia Del egates to Patrick Henry, April 2, 1785, note 1. Elbridge Gerry to John Adams My dear Mr Adams New York 5th March 1785 Since my last, 1 informing You of the Circumstances of your Ap pointment to the Court of London, Congress have elected Colo Smith of this State, Secretary to the Legation.2 Several Candidates were pre sented to Congress, & my Friend & Collegue Mr King of Newbury port (whom I shall hereafter speak of, & whom I wish to introduce to your Confidence & Friendship) was of Opinion with myself, that it was indispensibly necessary to support such a person only, as might be re lied on for supporting the Dignity & preserving (by an Attachment to & Respect for the principal) the Tranquility of the Embassy. We there fore previous to the Appointment, conferred with Colo Smith on the Subject, & candidly informed him, that confiding in his Integrity & Honor, & on his prudence in avoiding every Thing that might savour
