248 March 6, 1785 was mov’d that those instructed to form commercl. treaties be in structed &ca. It was argued on the other hand that our affairs with these courts stood on their own ground respectively and that negotia tions with each seperately & at their respective capitals wod. be more eligible & likely to produce success. It was at length mov’d by (Mr. How ell) that a {minister) be appointed to represent {U. States) at the {Court) of {Great Britain) and carried. Adams, R. R. Livingston & Rutledge were put in nomination. It had been previously, with the ill-founded expecta tion of facilitating this measure, mov’d, by Mr. Pinckney “that the com missions to foreign ministers unless renew’d by Congress shod, con tinue in force only for three years.” This was negativ’d; but being agn. renew’d by the mover & press’d upon Congress from other quarters was at length carried. 2 Upon several ballots Adams had 5 votes, Liv ingston 4 & Rutledge 2, Jersey at length voted for Adams, having previ ously nominated & voted for Livingston, upon wh. Virga. & Maryld. joined in favr. of Adams & gave him his appointmt. Mr. Smith lately an aid to the general hath been since appointed secry. to the legation. A Mr. Trunbull of Connecticut was his only competitor. 3 Had this affr. come on upon the first meeting of Congress at Trenton the event must have been the same. 5 States, the 4 Eastern & Pena, were decidedly in favr. of Adams in preference to any other person, Jersey was at first dis pos’d to commit our for. business to Adams & Jefferson only, and wod. therefore have voted Adams to the above {Court). He wod. of course had the majority in Congress & the expedience of the measure wod. have superseded any difficulties with respect to the man. I suppose {Mr. Jefferson) will shortly be appointed in the room of {Dr. Franklin) to the {Court} of {France). Carmichael writes that some person in the charac ter of Charge des affrs. will shortly be sent from Spn. instructed &ca. so that the affrs. with Spn. will sleep till we hear further on the subject. I have reed, letters from Mr. Jefferson of the 10th of Novr. & 11 of Deer. last. 4 In the former he considers war betwn. the Emperor & the Nether lands with their respective associates, the Empress with the Emp. & France, Prussia & the Porte with the Nether, as unavoidable. He consid ers the intermediate negotiation as an art only of the Imperial Courts to enable them to commence the campaign on better conditions; in the last he says the genl, opinion is there will be no war but that he sees no reason for it, except the indisposition of the Empress upon whose health the projects of the Emperor must depend. He believes that if it takes place Engld. will keep herself out of the scrape for the following reasons, [“]1. because she cannot borrow money to take part in it, 2. Ireland is likely to give her disturbance, & 3. because her disputes with us are not settled by a full execution of the articles of the treaty and the hatred of her people towards us has arisen to such a height as to pre pare their minds for a recommenc’ment of hostilities shod, their govt.
