March 13, 1785 269 able amount. Mr. Stone will excuse me for not writing him by this post. It does not he may be assured proceed from any other cause than want of time. With great esteem & regard, I am Dr Sir, Your obt. James McHenry RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 McHenry’s letter is without address, but was undoubtedly a response to a letter of February 17 from Jenifer which opened: “I shall be very much obliged to you to for ward the enclosed letters by the March Packet.” See Steiner, James McHenry, pp. 89-90. 2 McHenry explained his plans for visiting Philadelphia in the following terms when he wrote to his wife on March 13. ‘Your silence by Fridays post has led me to think that you had calculated on my being on the way to Philadelphia, and thus it is, perhaps, that both have been disappointed. It must however, as I have mentioned to you, be at least three weeks before I can venture upon the journey. I know not why it is but ever since I have been joined by Mr Henry, I am more anxious to see you and more uneasy at being here, than if he had continued away, notwithstanding his being here puts it in my power to see you much sooner than if he had not arrived. You must my love comfort me with your philosophy, which I ac knowledge is gready superior to mine; You must convey to me what never fails to exhili- rate my spirits; what alone can render the shortest absence even tolerable, those kind letters; those continued proofs of unabated affection, which tell me that I possess all that my heart can desire.” McHenry Collection, MdHi. 3 Apparently the report on a requisition on the states for 1785 under debate in grand committee, which was submitted March 31. See JCC, 28:15, 214-20. 4 The quotas of all the states had been in arrears for years, and in recognition of this fact Congress had proposed for 1785 that the states be called upon only to “make up one half of their original quota, "JCC, 26:306. The 1785 quota of $3 million proposed by the committee was calculated as “three quarters of the remaining moiety” of the previ ous unpaid requisitions. JCC, 28:217. William Samuel Johnson to Ann Johnson My Dearest, 1 New York Sundy Eveng. Mar. 13th. 1785 I arrived here Thursday Evening in good season, 2 tho’ the Roads & the Weather were both disagreeable. I caught no material Cold this Journey, & continue in good health, hoping that I shall soon have the pleasure to hear the same of you. Our Friends here are well, except Mrs. Verplank who is however about House, & recovering. I send you by the Stage 12 lb. of Coffee, for which I gave two Dollars, the Quan tity abated the price otherwise sho’d not have sent so much; I wish it may be good. Betsey will find a small Box of Black Wafers, which she desired to have, & Charles, in a separate bundle, the shoe Brushes he wanted. The Miss Van Dam’s know of no proper Servant for you at present. The one that offer’d means to be an Housekeeper, rather, I fancy, above the Stile you would chuse. Others may perhaps offer soon. Mr. Buchanan has one Girl, or rather Woman (for just as the Ship sail’d she Married one of the Men who was coming out, & had paid his Passage) who he says is likely, & has two Years to serve for
