270 March 13, 1785 £8.0.0 sterling, or £10.13.4 our Money. He thinks her Husband might be engaged to serve with her at moderate Wages. I have not seen them, nor shall engage them without your Orders. He expects an other Ship with a Cargo of Servants, in a Month or six Weeks, perhaps you may then have a better choise. 3 I thus state all the Chances, that you may Judge for yourself, & leave the whole to your determination, in which I shall acquiesce. That Ship is to return to Scotland, & by her Mr. Buchanan proposes to write to his Friends about Mrs. McCoys Children. I shall do all in my Power to find them out, & with tenderest Love to all the Family remain, Yr. most affectionate Husband Wm. Sami. Johnson RC (CtHi:Johnson Papers). . . i Ann Beach Johnson (d. 1796), to whom Johnson had been married since 1749. Eliz abeth P. McCaughey, From Loyalist to Founding Father: The Political Odyssey of William Samuel Johnson (New York: Columbia University Press, 1980), pp. 32-33, 260. 2 Johnson had returned March 10 from a wrenching trip home to bury his daughter Nancy He had received word from Ann of her approaching death on February 28, and set out for home the same day. The following entries from his diary for February 28 and March 1 record the drama. “Set out at 5 O’clock in the Stage with Betsey & Mr. Ellison. At 27 M [ile] Stone broke down &c. Came in Sled to East Chester. Then in a Waggon to Rye. Lodged at Havilands.... [March 1] Set out at 6. in the other Stage which met us here. But the Roads were so bad & the Horses so feeble that we did not arrive at Strat ford till after 8. O’clock at Night when I found my Dear Daughter had expired about an hour before.” Johnson Diary, CtHi. 3 Johnson returned to this theme in his next extant letter to Ann, encouraging her to replace a slave girl she had found troublesome. “I was very sorry to find [.,.] gives you so much trouble,” he wrote on April 10, “but there is certainly no reason nor occasion whatever for you to keep her to be only troublesome to you. If therefore you are fully satisfied that you can make nothing of her, 8c determine to try her no farther send her to me by the first Boat that comes down. I can no doubt let her out or sell her here at worst to some of the Southn Gentn., but it may be best not to mention much at least of this Latter Method of disposing of her. I beg you will by no means let her be a vexation to you but rather send her to me immediately. Let me know by return of the Stage what price 1 shall set upon her, mean time I will be diligently looking out a Market for her. I cannot bear the thots of your having a Mom[en]ts uneasiness about her. Johnson Pa- pers, CtHi. Rufus King to Henry Knox Si r New York 14th March 1785. Before this comes to hand you will have received official notice of your appointment of Secretary at war; with this notice you will un doubtedly be informed that the salary is fixed at twenty four hundred and fifty Dollars.! This sum is too small, but in the existing situation of affairs it was not practicable to obtain a larger sum. The Office is cer tainly a very honorable one; and the U.S. will not suffer the head of so very respectable a department to remain unsupported. The ordinance for erecting federal buildings on the Delaware, makes provision for
