March 14, 1785 271 the secretary at War—the salary of that Officer has been determined on, since the passing of the Ordinance relative to federal buildings; a future congress would probably be of opinion that House Rent should be allowed to the Secretary at War exclusive of his salary, until the fed eral buildings are completed. Add to this, if the contingent expences of the Office, including the ex pence of travelling to and from the various Posts and Magazines are al lowed to the secretary, the salary would be more adequate to his support. In fact; when congress shall be convinced by a particular statement of expenditure that the salary is insufficient, they certainly will not refuse to increase it: the present Sum therefore I hope will not be an objection. If the wishes of your particular friends, and the entire Satisfaction of the states would be an inducement to your acceptance, you cannot refuse. I could not excuse myself, did I not make these observations to you; the present wasting condition of the Department requires the hand of a master; if you decline, I fear we shall be driven into an election, that will neither aid the Dignity, nor preserve the interest, of the Union. I wish you to understand me to communicate the sentiments of an individual friend, and which carry with them no manner of public Obligation. I write as one Citizen anxious for the public wellfare, to another capable of promoting it. Please to present me with respect to Mrs. Knox, and believe me to be with perfect consideration your Obt. Servt. Rufus King RC (MHi: Knox Papers). 1 See Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Hodgdon, February 7, note 2; and Charles Thomson to Knox, March 9, 1785. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Adams My dear Sir, New York March 14. 1785 Your favors (for I am always favored when you are pleased to write to me) by Mr Walker of the 9th, and by Captain Landais of the 10th of December were duly delivered to me by those gentlemen, and without loss of time I laid them before Congress. Their applications have been referred to very good Committees, 1 so that there is reason to expect that these Gentlemen will receive just and satisfactory determinations from Congress. Your very friendly and sensible letter of the 23d of the same month 2 deserves my sincerest thanks and approbation, which with great cordiality I present to you. My ill health (with much busi ness and the necessary attention to the ceremonies of my office) pre vents me from being so punctual a correspondent as I wish to be—but I well know that your goodness will excuse me. It is the part of a friend to advise, and of a well disposed mind to profit from good counsel. I
