March 18, 1785 275 who fail to comply with that resolution from any future settlement. We thought it our duty to oppose it, as we conceive the time allowed is too short for the Citizens of North Carolina living in the western parts of the State, who are Creditors of the United States. 2 There being no Commissioners in the State will, however, extend the time a Month or two Longer. Mr. Jefferson is appointed to succeed Doctor Franklin at the Court of Versailles, who has leave to retire agreeable to his repeated re quests. Mr. John Brown of Providence is elected a Commissioner for carrying into effect the Ordinance of the 23d December last, in the place of Genl. Schuyler who has declined accepting that appointment. Nothing more of Consequence has occured that we are at liberty to Communicate. We have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s most obedient and most humble Serts. Richd. Dobbs Spaight. Jno Sitgreaves RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). Written by Spaight and signed by Spaight and Sitgreaves. 1 See South Carolina Delegates to Benjamin Guerard, January 25, note 8; and Charles Thomson to Certain States, March 24. 2 See JCC, 28:167-68; and the following entry. Charles Thomson to the States Secretary’s Office March 18th. 1785 Sir, (Circular) LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). 1 The enclosed resolution had its origin in a February 23 motion by Elbridge Gerry for expediting the settlement of unliquidated claims and a motion of the same date by David Congress being impressed with the necessity of limiting a time for all persons having unliquidated claims against the United States to bring in such Claims as well for the purpose of ascertaining with the utmost expedition the amount of the national debt, as to prevent or detect the attempts that are making to defraud the public, have passed the resolution which I have the honor to enclose. 1 As it is of importance to the Inhabitants of your State, who have just claims against the United States to be informed of this as speedily as possible I trust your Excellency will excuse the liberty I take in ad dressing this resolution to you and requesting that you will be pleased to give the necessary Orders for making it known to all concerned, by causing it to be printed and dispersed through the different Counties and districts of your State or in such other way as you shall judge best. With great respect & Esteem, I have the honor to be &c. C.T.
