March 19, 1785 277 of the leaders in the house are determined to give it every opposition in their power. Our Grand Committee of ways and Means have not yet reported but it is probable that a requisition will be made of three Millions dol lars or thereabout nearly upon the Same principle as last year’s for ex igencies of the Current year 3 —facilities as they are called or in other words notes for intrest will be received in payment of two thirds cer tainly, and more if the intrest of the publick debts due in the State mounts higher. The late Indian treaty has put the U.S. in possession, according to several calculations which I have Seen and Made, of near twenty five Millions acres of land in the Western Country. Congress wish soon to avail themselves of this fund to extinguish as much as possible of the domestic national debt. The arrangements for disposing of this prop erty has been some days ago committed to a grand Committee of one from every state. 4 We have met frequently upon this business but have concluded nothing. Many important questions arise upon this Sub ject. How large are the States to be? how bounded, whether by natural Marks or parallels of latitude? Is it to be granted regularly one Joining upon another where lands not arable don’t intervene? or are the pur chasers to be suffered to roam at large (as in Pennsylvania) and to take up as much and where they please? If the tracts are fixed how large ought the largest and how small the smallest to be? How much shou’d the price per hd. acres be? Or shou’d there be different prices according to the Value of the lands? Shoud there be any reservations of hundreds or Manners for the use of schools or other publick uses? Salt Springs and licks and what has usually been called royal Mines how ought they to be disposed of? The land Speculators already Smell a rat and expect fine picking. Many of them are here and waiting with anxiety the event. There will be a scram[ble to] the land offices in this new Country, Many hav[e al] ready applied. Another treaty will be held this Summer in June per haps at Post St Vincent both for Peace and purchase. If this shou’d succeed as is expected thirty or forty Millions more will be added. We are informed all the Indians in that country are disposed to sell and many of them mean moving over the Missisipi. The question upon Mr L has not been mentioned for some time. We reed your pam phlet. 5 We have kept it agoing with those who understand french. Nothing is said of the Wyoming affair, do the Assembly mean to take it under consideration? We wish to know in order that we may govern ourselves accordingly. The representation is generally compleat Georgia alone unrepre sented only one attending. I am &c. Jos. Gardner
