March 20, 1785 279 est manner; and if the idea of leaving behind us good and favorable impressions is a pleasure, you have undoubted right to enjoy it. Congressional Affairs are nea[r]ly as you left them. Mr. Jefferson was unanimously elected for Versailles, and Tomorrow most probably Mr. Rutledge will be appointed to the Hague. Your motion for limiting the period within which the public Creditors should be allowed to ex hibit their Claims, has passed into a resolve and will be transmitted to the respective executives. 1 Story returned on Friday. 2 Mr. Wythe accepts. Grayson has been here some Days, and as Monroe and he are informed of the period within which an answer is expected, they will probably give their an swers tomorrow which is the last day. No other answers from any of the commissioners except Mr. Harrison & Mr. Johnson, have been re ceived. 3 You understand the Situation of this business, and its impor tance. The Agents must attend to it. Willson is here for this with other business. I have not the original second Agreement, & without it noth ing farther can be done. Two letters from Osgood to you came to hand the day you left us. I knew the character, and supposing, as in fact was the case, that they might be on the subject of his appointment, I opened them, found his objections to the extent of the bonds and procured an explanatory Resolve, that places the business in the train, that corresponds with my own opinion. 4 I inclosed the Resolve to Mr. Osgood last Post, 5 & hope it will be satisfactory. The situation of the Treasury requires his immediate attendance here, provided he accepts. I inclose you his two letters with others received since your depar ture, and am with perfect sincerity your friend R King This is evening. Nelly has inquired Ten Times in the course of the day whether I had any Letters from you—but although this is post day yet the Post is not in—and indeed I hardly expect to hear from you till next post day. The General Court I suppose has risen before this day; I hope they have done what was necessary relative to the Letter of the Delegates, and also touching the object [of] a western Cession. New York have added our little friend Mrs. Laurence husband and two other Gentlemen who I am told are in the Stile of Judge Platt to their Delegation in Congress, Delaware will be on the floor Tomorrow, and Georgia it is said will very soon be represented, that will give us a com plete representation. For God’s sake return soon. RC (NHi: King Collection). 1 See Charles Thomson to the States, March 18. 2 That is John Story, whom the Massachusetts delegates had dispatched to Virginia and Maryland to deliver notices to William Grayson, James Monroe, George Wythe, Robert Hanson Harrison, and Thomas Johnson of their appointment as judges for the trial of the Massachusetts-New York western lands dispute, for which see New York Agents’Journal, December 4-9, 1784, note 7.
