March 22, 1785 283 tution and to the latter because in so important a connection they thought the free subjects of the state ought to be left to their free choice. Mr Paine was on the side of the Council, being one of that body and he conducted his part of the conference just in his own way, with some degree of wit, a great deal of sarcasm with scraps of Scrip ture & strokes of wit & humour some of them it is true low but all de livered with so many contorsions of the face and original attitudes and gestures, as to divert the audience & render his opponents ridiculous. It was really a high entertainment and sufficient to make one even risque a cold to hear it. However as I had heard him so often before I did not stay till the conclusion. Next day my hoarseness came on, and I have not since ventured abroad except just to Congress and home again. I am now got pretty well. The arts of Mrs. M & her daughter are very amusing. They discover too much and not enough. They seem like the girl in the pastoral who meeting with her lover affected to run away from him but with the fond hope of his pursuing and overtaking her or as the poet expresses it The wanton laughed and seemed in haste to flie But often stopped and often turned her Eye. Plain dealing after all is best. The honest friend came sooner to his point and obtained his end who addressed his fair with “Off or on Martha.” I was much amused with the adventures of the blind philosopher and the poet. The doctor I presume did not know that the Poets study is the Street or did not recollect that bards mounted on Pegasus fly too high to observe such groveling objects as gutters, lamp posts or bundles of skins. You have twice asked me what sort of Quakers we have here. I really cannot tell as none of them have called on me and I have visited none but such as have. I last evening asked Mrs Depeyster who knows every body. She informs me they are a very good sort of people, kind, civil, obliging and friendly and more liberal in their sentiments than your Pleasants & Fishers. She told me of one of the principal men whose daughter lately married one Capt Willet. The friends went to deal with him for giving his consent, and he told them freely that he left his children to the exercise of their own judgment & prudence and that in a matter of such consequence on which their peace and happi ness so much depends they ought not to be too much restrained. She could not tell me whether the girl was read out or disowned. I have not heard of any complaints among the Members except what arises from the dearness of living. Delaware is come on, so that we have now 12 states represented. My love to Jon, Rob, Am[elia] & Charles & compliments to all friends. With sincere affection I am, Dear Hannah, Your loving hus band, Cha Thomson 3
