284 March 22, 1785 RC (DLC: Thomson Papers). 1 Not found. 2 The paucity of commentary on the subject of antislavery in the surviving congres sional correspondence is striking. Not only is Thomson s the sole reference to this New York debate, but no comment at all has been found on the subject of a January 26, 1785, Quaker petition against slavery, which was apparently read in Congress sometime in February but simply ignored. It is endorsed: “Address sign d by Appo[intmen]t of a meeting of the Representation of the people called Quakers & dated at Philadelphia 26 January 1785. Read.” PCC, item 43, fols. 347-50. The petitioners made a modest appeal to the conscience of the delegates “to exert their Influence and Endeavours to discour age and Prohibit” the slave trade, calling attention to their previous unanswered peti tion to Congress of October 8, 1783, and enclosing for “each Delegate in Congress" a copy of the pamphlet The Case of our Bellow-Creatures, the Oppressed Africans by the late An thony Benezet (London; Philadelphia: Reprinted by J. Crukshank, 1784). Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 18,353. For the earlier petition to Congress, see Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare, January 8, 1784, note 3. 3 Thomson also wrote a note this day requesting the Philadelphia bookbinder Ben jamin January to deliver to the Rev. George Duffield “two volumes of the journals of Congress, one commencing the first Monday in November 1782 the other commencing the first Monday in Novr. 1783.” PCC, item 78, 13:375. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry Dear Gerry New York March 24th. 1785 I this moment received your’s written the morning after your arrival at Boston. 1 I am pleased with the acceptance of Genl. Knox and hope that the measures adopted by Congress after you left us will induce Mr. Osgood to come forward without delay. I have once and again written to the Agents of Mass, on the subject of the controversy be tween us & N.Y.2 but as the Gentlemen make me no reply, I shall de cline farther communication. Wythe, Johnson, & Monroe accepted within the two months, Grayson & Harrison declined—no answer from any of the other gendemen. New York are moving for an Alter ation of the place of trial—I will oppose my feeble strength to them, but I shall regret your absence. Delaware is represented so that there are now Twelve States on the floor, and a full representation is daily expected by an additional Delegate from Georgia. We have by the last Post a very rugged instruction from our Legislature. We will manage it as well as is in our power, consulting the gentle Demeanour of my col league the Doctor, who I hope will now come up to what you and I be lieve our Duty on the subject of the federal buildings. 3 I thank you for the Politics you give me; the Rh. Island Act for an impost had reached us before your Letter. 4 New York have been you know upon the Sub ject of Imposts, and yesterday the question upon a Bill, copied from the Mass. Act, was lost in the Senate, there being only Eight in favor, and Ten Against, the measure. 5 The business of Congress proceeds with great facility by so full a representation—Congress have agreed
