March 24, 1785 285 on a treaty to be held at Post Vincent in June with the Indians North West of the Ohio, and also to a Treaty South of the Ohio. This Treaty was opposed by the circumscribed states because it might cover the states of Georgia, So. & No. Carolina in purchases of Indian Rights of Soil within the boundaries of those States. It was well answered that the U.S. are bound to procure Peace to all the Citizens of the Union, and that the Citizens of the Southern States had a right to require the U.S. to establish peace with the enemy within their Country. The ob ject of the Treaty is confined to peace only; and the Commissioners restricted upon the subject of a boundary of Property between the In dians and the several States. The Commissioners for this Treaty are Mr. Perry of Delaware, Mr. Carrol of Maryland, Mr. Hawkins of N. Carolina, Mr Martin of Virginia & Mr. Pickins of So. Carolina. Our family are all happy, and remember you with a cordial affec tion. We all hope you will soon despatch your private buisness, and re turn to us. Believe me to be with sincere esteem, Your’s, R. King RC (NHi: King Papers). 1 For this March 14 letter, see King, Correspondence (King), 1:73-74. 2 For the only such letter that has been found, see King to John Lowell andjames Sul livan, February 23, 1785. 3 The Massachusetts General Court had incorporated lengthy instructions to its con gressional delegates in a resolve of March 8, 1785. The third of these called for the com pletion of the public buildings authorized by Congress’ December 23 resolution provid ing for a new federal residence at the falls of the Delaware—“as it can never be for the interest of these States, to have the permanent residence of Congress in any great city." For “Doctor” Holten’s opposition to an appropriation for this purpose, see Samuel Holten to Samuel Adams, April 11, note 2. These “rugged” instructions also directed the delegates to prevent Congress from ap pointing its members to public offices, and to require the annual election of the secre tary of Congress; to secure the free navigation of the Mississippi River, the eastern boundary of Massachusetts, economy in Continental salaries, the redemption of “old continental money,” and reimbursement for expenses incurred by Massachusetts in the Penobscot expedition and for enlistment bounties; and to oppose ratification of the proposed consular convention with France, and the appointment of ministers to for eign countries except “on special occasion.” Resolves of the General Court of the Common wealth of Massachusetts, January 19-March 18, 1785, pp. 131-33. Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 19,089. 4 For Rhode Island’s adoption of the Continental impost amendment with limita tions, see Bartlett, Records ofR.1., 10:87-88. For the impact of the economic crisis on the state and the assembly’s reversal of its confrontational policy with the Continental gov ernment, which had been led by David Howell and reached a high-water mark with its unanimous rejection of the impost in November 1782, see Irwin H. Polishook, Rhode Is land and the Union, 1774-1795 (Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern University Press, 1969), pp. 107-11. Gerry’s letter to King had included the following explanation: “Rh. Island have passed an import Bill, which I think a most extraordinary one indeed. I read it cursorily, and as well as I recollect it provides certain Duties, to be raised by officers of their own appointt.; applies 8000 Dollars of this Revenue to the order of Congress for the Interest of the Foreign Debt; the surplus is appropriated by the State to pay the Interest of Loan
