March 24, 1785 287 Charles Thomson to the Indian Commissioners Sir Secretary’s Office March 24th. 1785. I have the honor to enclose you an Act of the United States in Con gress assembled passed the 15th Instant for Negotiating a treaty of peace with the Southern Indians, and a Commission empowering you with four other gentlemen therein named to transact this business. 1 As it is of importance to the peace of the Union and the safety of the frontier settlements, that the treaty be commenced as speedily as possible, I have it in command to inform you that it is the pleasure of Congress that the Commissioners appointed to Negotiate with the Southern Indians meet at Charleston, South Carolina on the 16th day of May and there fix on the time and place for holding a treaty or treaties with the said Indians, take the proper steps for giving due No tice thereof to the several Nations and tribes concerned, and make the Necessary preparations for executing the further duties of the Commission, with all possible and convenient dispatch. With great Respect I have the honor to be Sir, Your most Obedient and Most humble Servt. C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). Addressed: “To Benjamin Hawkins, Daniel Carroll, William Perry [Peery], Andrew Pickens & Joseph Martin Esquires.” 1 See the preceding entry, notes 1 and 2. Charles Thomson to John Dickinson Dear Sir, March 24. 1785 I received by Mr Penticost your letter of the 19 February. The sub ject of establishing a new state to the westward is now under the con sideration of Congress, but not yet brought to a conclusion. 1 As Mr Penticost has had an Opportunity of conversing with the members and the information he has given has afforded light and satisfaction, I think it not improbable that his services will be wanted and that he may be employed. I shall not fail to communicate your recommenda tion of him at the proper time. 2 I understand your assembly have passed the funding bill under cer tain restrictions & limitations. 3 I have not yet seen the Act. I wish it may be productive of the benefits expected and not attended with the evils apprehended. I confess I have some fears and am sorry there is
