March 25, 1785 289 [PS.] Pleas to forward the inclosed to Mrs. H. RC (PHi: Bryan Papers). 1 See Joseph Gardner to Bryan, March 19, note 4. 2 See Henry to Bryan, February 26, notes 2 and 3. Charles Stewart to William Livingston Sir New York 25th March 1785 When I took the liberty of naming your Excellency as Minister to the Court of Uni [ted Neth]erlands it was from a full assurance that the mfeasure?] was so proper that it must succeed. ![...] it attract the attention of every person on the Floor of Congress, and that the Gen tlemen who had previously named Mr. Harrison & Mr. Rutledge re turned but faint if any hopes of success & Mr. Harrisons friends hinted they would withdraw his name. I did not quite like your An swer; & therefore shewed it only to Mr. Beatty, under an injunction not to give out that it was a refusal, & left it with Mr. Jay. I did not look on it as a positive refusal and [am inclined] not to withdraw Your name, or suffer it to be done, unless I have your express Orders so to do. 1 Your ex cuse about Old Age and Abilities are needless to Me, I guess at both, and compare them with Doctor Franklins powers when He went last to Europe. Permit me to deal plainly with you. I know there are per sons in the State who would wish you abroad to make room for a new Governor. And I see there are others who wish you not to go, for [...] were sure You were too Old, and I am sure they are sorry they did not name You old as You are. As to myself I named You because I thought you chalked out by God Almighty as the Most proper person to be Our Minister at the Hauge & without any design to compliment or flatter you. And I repeat with great confidence that there can be very little doubt of Your being Elected, therefore I beg you to consider of this matter untill next Monday And if I do not hear from You by that time, I shall conclude You will Accept th appointment & [am] with proper Respect Your Excellencys most Obedient Servant, Chas Stewart RC (MHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Despite opposition to maintaining a substantial diplomatic establishment abroad, Congress had resolved on March 7 to appoint a successor to John Adams as minister to the Netherlands after his election as minister to Britain on February 24, although the ap pointment was not finally made until June. See James Monroe to Thomas Jefferson, April 12, note 6. Stewart had previously proposed Livingston’s appointment in a now missing letter which Livingston had rebuffed on March 21, pleading his age. Seeing a ray of hope in Livingston’s explanation that “was I twenty years younger than I am, I should make no excuse,” Stewart nonetheless persisted, but to no avail as the governor promptly declined the appointment when it was made on June 23. See JCC, 28:98, 122, 474, 481; Livingston, Papers (Prince), 5:179-82; and Charles Thomson to Livingston,June 23, 1785.
