290 March 26, 1785 Abiel Foster to Thomas Jefferson Sir. New York 26th March 1785. The Honble. Mr. Cook a Member of Congress from the State of Connecticut, from the good opinion he has concieved of Capt. John Lamb, wishes me to enclose a Letter of recommendation address’d to me by my worthy friend Genl. Parsons, at the time Mr. Lamb pro duced his other credentials to Congress. The Honble. Mr. Jay has so fully stated the opinion of Congress to the Commissioners respecting those other credentials, that I need say nothing on that head. 1 You have my warmest wishes for the success of your negotiations, and for your personal health & prosperity. I am, Sir with sentiments of esteem & respect, your most obedient & very humble Servt., Abiel Foster RC (DLC:Jefferson Papers). ’ John Lamb had offered his services to assist in negotiating a “treaty of amity and Commerce with the States of Barbary” in a memorial that Congress had referred to the secretary for foreign affairs on February 9. Secretary John Jay’s report on the memo rial—“that Mr. Lamb might probably be employed by [the American plenipotentiaries] to advantage as an Agent in the Business”—was adopted February 15. See PCC, item 42, 4:368-71, item 81, 1:5-8; and JCC, 28:54n, 55n, 64, 67. The enclosed January 1 letter of recommendation to Foster from Samuel Holden Parsons is in the Jefferson Papers, DLC. For Jay’s official instructions to Jefferson concerning Lamb and prospective negotia tions with Algiers, Morocco, Tripoli, and Tunis, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 8:19-22, 610-24, 9:8-9. William Samuel Johnson to Samuel Holden Parsons Dr. Sr. New York March 26th. 1785. I have receiv’d, I imagine all your favors down to the 10th Instt. & thank you, as I am obliged to do other Friends for them all at once— as well as for those which I hope to receive for I can write but little in deed. It is not, I assure you, any aversion I have contracted to it, much less any neglect, but of real disability of writing a legible hand unless so slowly as it cuts me off from any extensive correspondence. Besides, between Business, which I will not neglect, & Company, which I can not avoid, you cannot concieve how few Moments I have left in which I could write. I attend however, to all yr. Intimations & endeavour to make a good Use of them. I have not been able to serve our Friends Capts. Lamb 1 & Harding so effectually as I could wish. The Case of the latter was Reported upon against him, & in Consequence he is in Goal. 2 I will not yet say unfortunately, because I have made that the ground of a second warm Application to Congress in his behalf, which
