March 26, 1785 291 has produced a recommitment of his Petition, & I have hope may cause something to be done for him. How hard is our Fate, that the brave & deserving Servants of the Publick must lie in Goal, & be sub jected to a thousand hardships for want of that Money which their services have merited, which we acknowledge we owe & wish to pay them! It is not however the inattention or negligence of Congress that occasions This, but their inability alone. They Pity, but cannot relieve And it is with great Concern I acquaint you, that all the flattering hopes we had formed of soon seeing a remedy for this enormous Evil are now Dash’d by the refusal Yesterday of the Senate of New York to grant the 5 per Cent Impost. The Bill for that purpose was rejected by a Majority of two. I have been perfectly attentive to your particular In terest, but With it to little purpose other than that of laying founda tions which may perhaps be built upon hereafter. You have no Idea, at least I could form none, of the innumerable pressing & even vehe ment solicitations here for Office & Emolument, nor of the assiduities & Arts which are applied to give success to them. I have much more to say to you on this & several other subjects than it is possible or proper for me to write. I hope I may have the happiness to see you sometime in May, & give you the detail. In the mean time be assured that your Interest will at no proper moment be remov’d from the Mind of, Dr. Sr., Your very affectionate Friend & most obedient, humble Servant, Wm. Sami. Johnson RC (OCIWHi: MS Collection 3204). Addressed: “Majr. General S. H. Parsons Esqr., Mid dletown.’’ 1 Parsons had also recommended John Lamb to New Hampshire delegate Abiel Fos ter, who enclosed Parsons’ recommendation with his letter of this date to Thomas Jef ferson, for which see the preceding entry. 2 A memorial from Capt. Seth Harding, seeking reimbursement for expenditures he had made in outfitting the Continental frigate Confederacy, had been referred on March 4 to a committee which reported March 14. The report was referred on March 24 to a committee consisting of William Grayson, William Ellery, and Johnson, which recom mended on April 4 that Harding be allowed $1,200. The committee’s recommendations were referred the following day to the commissioner for settling Continental marine ac counts, Joseph Pennell, who reported that he could not act on the claim because Hard ing had never submitted required vouchers. After debating Pennell’s report, Congress postponed further consideration of the issue on April 19, although it had in the mean time approved a partial payment to Harding of $500 pending final settlement of the claim. See JCC, 28:121n, 154-55, 197n, 228, 232n, 238n, 243-44, 269, 276n, 279. William Samuel Johnson to Jeremiah Wadsworth Dr Sr, N York Mar. 26th. 1785 I rec’d yr. favr. & must return you my best thanks both for that & by anticipation for the many others which I hope to receive from you.
