March 31, 1785 297 RC (NHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). In the hand of Abiel Foster; signature clipped. 1 Undoubtedly Jonathan Blanchard, who had been Foster’s colleague in Congress March to June 1784, the subject of Foster’s third paragraph. 2 Probably John Francis Mercer of Virginia. 3 This committee report was read in Congress the following day, for which see JCC, 28:214-20. William Hindman to William Paca Dear Sir New-York March 30th. 1785 The British Jany. Packet arrived here on Monday last, having had eleven Weeks passage, and of Course brings no News. The Senate of this State at their now sitting brought in a Bill for the Purpose of laying a Duty of 5 per Cent agreeably to the Recommenda tion of Congress, which was rejected; 1 there were eight Members in Favor of the Bill & eleven against it; the other Branch of their Legisla ture have not taken that Subject up since their present Session: it is said a large Majority of that House are opposed to the Measure; the Friends to it flatter themselves a new Assembly will adopt the Recom mendation. Rhode-Island has passed the Shadow of a 5 per Cent Im post, a Copy of which Law was in one of the Papers I transmitted You. The Weather of this Month has been remarkably bad—very few Days here without Snow, most of which I presume has been Rain with You. I am, most sincerely Yrs. &c, Wm. Hindman RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 See Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry, March 24, note 4. James McHenry’s Draft Committee Report [ante March 31, 1785] 1 The committee to whom was referred several motions on the sub ject of facilities beg leave to report— That the several legislatures be admitted so to model the collection of the sums to be called for that one half of any sum being paid in ac tual money the other half may be discharged by the interest arising on loan office certificates, the army debt and other liquidated debts of the U.S. That to ascertain the evidences of the interest arising on certificates of the aforesaid description receivable in taxes in lieu of money the holders be at liberty to carry the same to the loan office of the State of
