298 March 31, 1785 which he is a citizen, or if a foriegner to (the) any loan office (of the State in which they were issued) in the U States, and to have the interest due thereon settled and certified to the last day of the year 1783. That the board of treasury cause to be made a bank paper, and thereon to be struck a form of a certificate which shall specify the in terest due as aforesaid, and transmit to the several loan offices a cer tain number of said certificates with proper blanks (and under such cau tions as they may judge necessary to prevent frauds or counterfeits of the same). That the board of treasury transmit to the several loan offices such checks and instructions from time to time as they may judge necessary to prevent counterfieted evidences of debts from obtaining a settlement of interest, and to the continental receiver in each state such checks and instructions as may enable the same to detect counterfieted evi dences of interest receivable in taxes as aforesaid. That the certificates of interest be receivable from the bearer in lieu of money either in the State in which they issued or in any other State in the proportion before stated. That the State receiving such certificates in the aforesaid proportion and paying the same into the public treasury have credit therefor in the aforesaid proportion, which payment by the State be considered as a discharge of the interest due on the domestic debt in the proportion that each State avails itself of the aforesaid evidences, and should any State pay into the public treasury a greater proportion in actual money than one half of its quota that the same be applied according to the es timate giving preference to the discharge of the expences of internal government and the interest due upon the foreign debt. MS (DLC: Peter Force Miscellany). In the hand of James McHenry. 1 McHenry apparently drafted this report as a member of a subcommittee of the grand committee that was instructed January 24 “to report a requisition on the states.” JCC, 28:15. Issues related to setting the requisition for 1785 were assigned to a number of subcommittees, some with overlapping concerns, and portions of McHenry’s report echo recommendations found in the report of the subcommittee on the memorial of “Holders of Loan Office Certificates,” for which see Grand Committee Minutes of Pro ceedings, January 29, note 10. When McHenry composed the present report cannot be determined, but a major portion of it was incorporated almost verbatim into the grand committee report submitted March 31, for which see JCC, 28:217—18. The origin of the term “facilities” to describe discounts or credits to be allowed to the states for interest payments on loan office certificates made to their own citizens is somewhat obscure. The states had been under pressure to assume responsibility for loan office interest payments since the suspension of such payments by the Continental loan offices on September 9, 1782, and Pennsylvania had led the way in March 1783 in issuing certificates or indents in payment of interest to public creditors. Over the oppo sition of the superintendent of finance, the state designated $180,000 of such interest payments for its 1783 Continental quota, and other states had followed her example. Faced with this fait accompli, Congress could do little but attempt to set the percentage each state would be allowed as a credit on its quota for such interest payments, and in the debates on the 1785 requisition proposals for setting the limitation at one-half and at two-thirds were offered. The former figure was incorporated into the grand commit-
