300 March 31, 1785 Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry Dr Sir, NY. 31st March 1785 I this moment reed, by post a short line from you with out date in closing the Edict of the French King regulating the commerce of the W. Indies 1 —you mention that you have repe[a]tedly written me since your leaving us, but the Letter by this post is but the second that has come to hand. The Post goes at one OClock & I will add a few words whilst the House are settling the duties of the Secretary of Congress, in a second Reading of the ordinance. 2 New York yesterday renewed their proposal to write to Mr. Wythe, proposing to him to come far ther northward than Williamsburgh to hold our federal Court. I re main in the same Opinion on this subject as when the proposal was before made—and if we agree on the form of a Letter, my Colleague & I shall join. It will not be possible for the Court to be held so soon as was expected. The business of a requisition for monies for 1785 is soon to be de termined on; 3 the amount will be Three millions of Dols. After some considerable opposition the G. Comee. agreed to a payment of one Half only in real money and the other Half in Facilities. The appor tionment was made by the G. Comee. conformably to the former ap portionment of the 1,500,000 Dol. This is conceived to be hard on Virginia & New Jersey—too light on N York, Pennsylvania, North Car., South Car., & Georgia—if any alter ation takes place, I shall urge the peculiarity of the situation of Mas sachusetts, considering her former advances, her punctual redemp tion of the old money, her loss, by the want of that punctuality in other States—her exhausted condition in relation to real specie—the want of a Staple & the languishing appearance of her commerce. And hope that the statement may be such as rather to exonerate her from the proposed Apportionment, than hold her forth as able to bear a part of those States burdens who may conceive themselves overloaded. Best farewell, Yours RK RC (NHi: King Papers). 1 See King, Correspondence (King), 1:74. 2 For the adoption of this ordinance, see Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson, April 3, note 2. 3 The report of the grand committee on this subject was submitted this day. JCC, 28:214-20. See also Charles Pinckney to Benjamin Guerard, January 2, note 4. William Houstoun to Samuel Elbert Sir, New York 2d April 1785. I a few days ago did myself the honor of forwarding to you the Jour-
