310 April 5, 1785 a college, University or public seminary of learning in our respective states a Set of the Works of Thomas Wilson, D D. and late Bishop of Soder and Man presented to Congress by his son Doct Wilson pre bendary of Westminster. 6 David Howell, State Rhode Island, &c. Wm. Sami. Johnson, Connecticut. Charles Pinckney, South Carolina. John Sitgreaves, North Carolina Richard Henry Lee, Virginia John Beatty, State of New Jersey. Gunning Bedford junr, Delaware. Abiel Foster, New Hampshire. John Lansing Junr, New York. David Jackson, Pensylvania. Rufus King, Massachusetts. John Habersham, Georgia. Sent Mr. Joseph Wright under cover of a Letter from the Secrey. of Congress Copy of resolution of 5th inst. granting him the sum of 233% Dollars the amount of his Account for modeling and compleating a Bust of Genl Washington with the Presidents Warrant subjoined. 7 8th. Sent Mr Milligan Copy of the Ordinance for regulating the Of fice of the Secretary of Congress—Passd March 31st. 1785. 8 Letter—Pelion in behalf of Du tour stating debt due to him from the United States—with some Continental money reced April 8th. 1785 is loged in the Iron Chest. 9 18th. Transmitted to the War Office a Letter 2d March 1785 from Col. J. Harmar enclosing Return of Troops at Fort McIntosh. 10 19th. Transmitted to ditto Two Petitions of Job Whipple and [Josiah] Converse with Copy of an Order of Congress of yesterday re ferring them to the Secy at War &c. n Transmitted to the Office of the Bd. of Treasury a Memorial of Udney Hay referred to s[ai]d Board to report. 12 Ordered that the papers which were in the hands of the grand Committee for their information in making the requisition for the present year, be transmitted to the Board of Treasury. 20th. Agreeable to the above Order the said papers were transmit ted and a receipt taken for such part of them as the said Board thought proper to detain. 13 22. Transmitted to the Executives of the several States from Newhampshire to Georgia inclusive 2 Copies of the proceedings of Congress from the 1st February 1785 to the 7th April inclusive. 14 Delivered the following Members each one Copy of the above, Viz Mr. Ellery, Mr. Cook, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Smith, Mr. McHenry, Mr. J Henry, Mr. Hindman, Mr. Williamson, Mr. Sitgreaves, Mr. Spaight, Mr. Monroe, Mr. Bedford, Mr. Gardner 2 Copies, Ditto 2 Copies Commit tee of the States.
