April 8, 1785 317 RC (NHi: Duane Papers). 1 See Massachusetts and New York Agents to George Wythe, April 9. 2 In his reply to Livingston of this date, Duane wrote: “You mistook in supposing that the Instructions for obtaining papers from England were to be prepared by Mr Benson & myself. Col. Wilson promised to examine his Brief and note down such Hints as he thought necessary. I then concluded the Agents woud have met, and adding such Mate rials as they thought useful, woud have perfected them. Mr Benson engaged indeed to get us a Credit in England but failed.” Ibid. Walter Livingston to Richard Henry Lee Sir, New York April 8. 1785 I learn with pleasure that Mr. Osgood has accepted of the appoint ment of one of the Commissioners of the Board of Treasury. 1 The confidence I have in this Gentlemans Character has deter mined me to add my best endeavours in rendering every service to the Public, in the arduous Department, to which the Suffrages of the United States have been pleased to call me, which the present state of the Revenue will admit of. Your Excellency will therefore be pleased to Signify to Congress for my acceptance of the Honorable Trust reposed in me, and to assure them that I enter into the Execution of the Office, with a diffidence which nothing can alleviate but a well grounded hope that the Mem bers of Congress will give every support to the Department, which its present Situation, and general importance claims: and that they will use their influence with their Respective States, on whose exertions all must ultimately depend, to comply chearfully and without delay with such requisitions as the United States shall judge necessary. I have the honor to be, Your Excell’s Most Huml Servt Walter Livingston RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). 1 See Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry, March 20, note 4. Charles Thomson to George Goodwin and Barzillai Hudson Gentlemen, Secretary’s Office April 8th. 1785. The Delegates for the State of Connecticut having been pleased to supersede the recommendation of which I notified you in my Letter of the 3d March, it is become my duty to countermand the request
