April 9, 1785 319 state of the Dispute, which you desire—but hope nevertheless they will be sufficiently obvious on the trial to authorise a decision at the Time. With the highest consideration, we have the honor to be Your obe dient servants, Jas. Duane J Agents for J two of the r> ■ f . „ S. Holton / . Robt. R. Livingston > the State \ Agents of tut 1 pkt 1 Rufus King (John Jay J of New York 6 ) Massachusetts FC (NHi: Duane Papers). Drafted by Rufus King; place and dateline and close and sig natures added by James Duane. Endorsed by Robert R. Livingston: “Dr of Letter to Mr Wythe. Agd upon & signed.” 1 For the selection of Williamsburg as the site for convening a court for determining the western land dispute between Massachusetts and New York, see New York Agents’ Journal, December 4-9, note 7. New York’s January 26 protest of the selection of Williamsburg had greatly complicated the process of obtaining judges to serve on the court, and the agents of the two states were engaged in a compromise effort to deter mine if other sites might be agreeable to the judges who had already accepted appoint ment. As Wythe was the southernmost of these, and had already signified that his accep tance was conditional upon the court’s convening at Williamsburg, the location of his residence, the success of any effort depended upon first obtaining Wythe’s consent to a change of site. An earlier undated draft of this letter, which is also in the Duane Papers at NHi, is suggestive of some of the differences which separated Massachusetts and New York on this issue and the limits of the compromises available. In the hand of King, and en dorsed by Robert R. Livingston “Proposed Dr of Letter to Mr Wythe,” it reads: “Altho the agents on the Part of Massachusetts and New York had proceeded with great Harmony in the nomination of their Judges, and other Matters relative to the Controversy between them; yet not being able to agree in the Place for holding the Court, they referred it to the Majority of the States then in Congress, who were pleased to name Williamsburgh. “The great uneasiness which that Circumstance has occasioned to the Agents and Legislature of New York, and the friendly Desire on the part of Massachusetts to pro mote concord and good will between the two States, have produced an agreement be tween us to write a joint Letter to you, and to request the favor of you to attend at Wilm ington in the State of Delaware. “We forbear Sir to enter into a particular Enumeration of the objections made to Williamsburgh—as they arise merely from its Situation, and Distance from the Resi dence of the other Judges and the Parties they need not be particularized. “Both Parties Sir will esteem themselves obliged by your consenting to come to Wilm ington. If however you should be so circumstanced as not to be able to comply with this Request, we will then without further delay endeavour to convene and hold the Court at Williamsburgh.” 2 Wythe’s April 23 response to this letter is in the Duane Papers, NHi. “I am obliged to reject all the four places proposed," he apologized, explaining that his affairs re quired that he remain in Williamsburg and suggesting that if his previous acceptance of the appointment was causing difficulties another judge should be appointed in his stead. That New York had already agreed to accept the Williamsburg site if Wythe re jected those proposed here is clear from Rufus King’s letter to John Lowell of April 14.
