320 April 11, 1785 Samuel Holten to Samuel Adams Dear Sir New York, 11th. April, 1785. I have been honored with your address to myself & colleague. Having been upon the committee, respecting the late treaty with the Indians, I had conceived a favorable opinion of Mr. Kirkland, in addition to some acquaintance I have had with him for several years; & I am more happy to find that your sentiments in his favor are so agreeable to my own. 1 It will give me pleasure to assist Colo. Allan, & additionally so as he comes noticed by you. I will attend to General Putnams letter, & if he has made a mistake, I shall be sorry it was not rectified before it came here. Congress are generally imbarrassed, by daily demands upon them; & how we are to support the public credit, is a matter that requires great consideration: under these circumstances, I can’t but say, it would have been as agreeable to me, if we had not received the in struction from the honorable Court respecting the proposed foederal buildings,2 which must require an additional requisition from the states, if the resolutions respecting them, are to be carried immedi ately into effect. A large western country now considered to be within the line of the U.S. & not within the boundaries of any one state, has taken up con siderable time in Congress & is likely to take up much more; however, I am of opinion, that if it is managed well the sale of the lands will pay a considerable part of our national debt, but it will take up much time before it can be done; & the public creditors press so hard, there is not much pleasure in being a member of Congress, unless a man can bear duning very well. The late Financier has informed Congress, that he has caused his accounts while in office to be printed and bound, & that 500 copies are nearly compleated, however, I think they ought to be approv d by Congress, before the good people, consider them as the state of their finances. 3 I wish you very happy, & have the honor to be, with perfect consid eration & respect, your friend & humble servant, S. Holten RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 For Samuel Kirkland’s petition to Congress, see Richard Henry Lee to Adams, April 7, note 2; and William Samuel Johnson to Roger Sherman, April 20, note 9. 2 See Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry, March 24, note 3. 3 For Robert Morris’ publication of these accounts, see A Statement of the Accounts of the United States of America, During the Administration of the Superintendant of Finance... (Philadelphia: Robert Aitken, 1785). Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 19,333. For the committee report read in Congress this day concerning them, and the resolution
