April 12, 1785 323 with that court, upon that of the posts & other subjects, is a con sideration wh. inclines me to decline for the present bringing it to the view of Congress. The restrictions on this intercourse can only be car ried into effect by possession of the posts and the more disadvanta geous to them their surrender will be, the longer they may delay it. I enclose you the report of a committee in favor of a change of the first paragraph of the 9th of the articles of confideration for the pur pose of investing Congress with almost the entire regulation of the commerce of the Union, in exclusion of the particular States. 4 I am inclin’d to think it will be best also to postpone this for the present. Its adoption must depend on the several Legislatures and to carry it with them the preferable way perhaps may be to let it stand as it now is. It hath been brought so far without a prejudice agst it. If carried farther here prejudices will take place, at least I fear so, & those who oppose it here will in their St[ates]. The way then will be to present it to them in its present state, wh. may be effected by obtaining the permission of Congress for each delegation to take copies for that purpose. If this shod, be its course I shall have time for your answer & opinion on it. A committee is appointed to revise and report what alterations if any are necessary in the instructions to the comrs. authoriz’d to form com- mercl. treaties. 5 What will be the result I know not, but the object of the appointmt. was, to change the principle upon wh. those existing were form’d. To instruct them to make the best bargain they can with each power, such an one as the advantages wh. they respectively derive from a commercl. intercourse with us, intitle us to expect. If the con venience & advantage of the trade of either of these powers with us is equal, the condition upon wh. it is conducted for commercl. & other national purposes, shod, be equal also. The object is to connect us [to] each power independently of other powers, & to extricate us from the complicated system with which their connections with each other is involv’d, a system which they well understand, have been long accustom’d to the exercise of, & to turn to their particular advantages by every possible means of fraud and chicane. I doubt much the ad vantage of forming treaties for the present with any of the powers with whom you are authoriz’d to treat (the piratical States excepted), for what advantages can we give here in consideration of advantages there, or rather in consideration that they remove some of the re straints wh. now exist, which they do not at present possess, or possess ing that we can deprive them of. The more I investigate this subject the more I am confirm’d in this opinion. But all these embarrass ments in the restrictions laid upon us by other powers, will I am per suaded have a good effect. They will operate more powerfully than the utmost force of argument cod. do for the strength’ning our govt. From Spain we expect a Mr. Gardoqui in quality of charge des affrs. All our measures with that court have of course ceasd untill his arrival
