324 April 12, 1785 wh. is weekly expected. Whatever we leave to transact with the ct. of G.B. is committed to Mr. Adams, the formation of a commercl. treaty only excepted. Upon his removal from the Hague it was resolv’d to ap point a minister in his room: Mr Rutledge & Mr. R. H. Harrison, C. Justice of Maryld. are in nomination as is likewise Govr. Livingston of Jersey; it is not known whether either will serve. 6 My first letter will ad vise you of our embarrassment respecting a particular affr. upon which you wrote me as you left Phila., an attention to which falls now within your province. It is unfortunate upon this acct, your cypher wod. not expose it to you. You will please write me as soon as possible upon this subject. 7 You will receive instructions respecting the pirati cal states of Barbary. 8 I fear from the information you give me they will not obtain fully the objects which they have in view. From what I have been able to collect here a treaty commencd on our own ground independent of any European power, will be most successful, since I am told they disregard the most powerful among them as much as they do us, & in that instance we might plead ignorance of the pre sents or amount, which would be acceptable to them. It is agreed to raise 700 men for the purposes of guarding the publick stores & giv ing security to the frontier settlements of the States. At Annapolis Mr Gerry protested agnst. the right of Congress to require men in time of peace; his conduct was approv’d by his State & the delegation in structed to oppose & protest upon all occasions agnst. the exercise of the power. It is agreed that by requisition men cannot be rais’d upon a few States or less than the whole but under particular circumstances of some, & then under a particular modification. It was thought in this instance necessary to have them in the field, in a short time, to protect the surveyors of the land & as this consideration superseded the propriety of a requisitn. on the whole it was agreed to recommend it to the States, most contiguous, to raise them. 9 The land office is not yet open’d. A report drawn principally by Colo. Grayson will be deliver’d in in a few days. It devia[tes] I believe essentially from the one at Annapolis, but in what points I cannot say as I have not compar’d them together. The object of this is to have the lands survey’d previous to the sale, & after the survey to have the lots drawn for in the right of the States & sold in each by the Loan officer at publick vendue for specie or certificates. 10 I shall transmit you the journals of Congress as far as they are printed. They will give you at least the resolutions which determine the erection of buildings at the falls of the Delaware & our intermediate residence here. Our depen dence for their erection at Georgeton had been on the southern States & as soon as Congress conven’d we found they had given it up. All further opposition we therefore considerd as useless One hun dred thousand dolrs. are appropriated to it. Between Phila. & this place we were indifferent as a temporary residence; we consider’d our
