April 12, 1785 325 State as no otherwise interested than as it might respect the delegates attending in Congress; upon fcederal principles that this shod, have the preference. It must have a good appearance for the fcederal govt, to pay attention to the part, wh. hath suffer’d most, from the depreda tions of the war; add to this the province of Canada in possession at present of the fur-trade—the first exertion of the States must be to draw it thence & afterwards it may take its direction thro’ the Po- towmk. or whatever channel is open’d to it. But the 100,000 dolrs are upon no fund. Whether they are to be requir’d from the States or not will become the question. It wod. be fortunate if a delay cod. take place. The conduct of our delegation at Trenton was founded upon an acqu[i]essence with the voice of the majority of the Union. We acted together & voted unanimously upon every point respecting these mea sures. Grayson only was absent. Be the event of this town as it may I think the proportion wh. will fall to our State will be well dispos’d of if [it] annexes the Idea of stability to our councils & measures. I cod. wish no more movements untill we take our final position. I send you this by Colo. Smith Secry. to the legation for London. Mr Trumbull only was his competitor. He was formerly an aid de camp to Genl. Washington. He is desirous of being known to you & as I hear from every person who knows him a fair & respectable charac ter, I take the liberty to present these circumstances in his favor to your knowledge. Be assurd I shall pay particular attention to that circumstance which is more personally interesting to yr. self mention’d in your first letter. What can or will be done is incertain but satisfied of the justice of the measure, I shall with the utmost pleasure seek the attainment of it in a manner wh. will be most delicate & honorable to you. Indeed I think all our ministers shod, have at least 5 or 600£ stirg. more annually. I thank you for subscribing for me for the Encyclopedia. I have not at present the money but will send it as soon as possible. I sincerly wish it were in my power to join you this summer but it is impossible. The next I have it in contemplation & shall then be under no necessity to hurry myself so quickly back, & I cod. wish to rem[ai]n in Europe if I ever visit at least 12 months. Colo. Smith hath my instructions not to send this by post but some safe hand provided he doth not deliver it himself. Whether Congress will or not adjourn during the summer is incertain. I think they shod, not, but the fact is our application to business hath been so close during the winter that we wish a relax ation. I think Congress shod, sit untill our affrs. with every for. power were finally & most amicably settld; and untill the commerce of the Union was properly regulated. The Confidracy might then stand se cure & not be expos’d to injury or danger. Mr. Butler, Walcot & A Lee were on the Indian treaty at fort Stanwix; the State of N. York also held a treaty. They quarrell’d with the comrs. of N. York & disgusted
