326 April 12, 1785 the State. This is attributed to one of those gentn. only. Mr. Mercer hath been absent since we left Trenton & hath married Miss Sprigg. Mr. Read hath been less active than at Annapolis—he is sd. to be engag’d to K. Van horne of this place. He left this for So. Carolina 2 months since, it is sd. to prepare matters for this event. A Mr. Carbon- neau from the Kaskaskias petition’d Congress to take the people under their protection; a committee hath reported wh. is so far adopted that a comr. be appointed to repair thither instructed &ca. Mr A Lee is in nomination. 11 The three comrs. of the treasury elected at Annapolis declin’d serving, in consequence of wh. Gervais, Osgood & a Walter Livingston were elected. Gervais hath declin’d & Mr. A Lee who hath upon every occasion been a candidate is agn. in nomina tion. Mercer & himself were in nomination at Trenton & we gave the former the preference. The fact is we can get none better than Mr. A. L. & shall upon this occasion vote for him. 12 Your letters still contain doubts of the event of the interfering claims between the Emperor & the Netherlands. Mr. V. Berkel hath presented a full & able statment of those of the U. Net. & of the progress of either party to the commenc’ment of the winter in sup port of their pretensions. A war between them cannot be injurious to us; provided our merchts. have enterprise. As we stand on neutral ground, they may turn it to theirs & the genl, advantage. Believe me to be dear Sir your affectionate friend & servant, Jas. Monroe 13 P.S. The alteration wh. this report proposes in the whole system of our govt, will be great. It is in fact a radical change of it. [I] beg of you to write your sentiments fully on it. If it is car[ri]ed it can only be by thorough investigation and a conviction carried to the minds of every citizen that it is right. The slower it moves on therefore in my opinion the better. RC (DLC:Jefferson Papers). 1 See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:508-23, 562-65. 2 This cipher is in the Jefferson Papers, DLC. See ibid., p. 279n. 3 That is, his letter to Jefferson of November 1, 1784. For Monroe’s “propos’d instruc tion,” see Monroe to Jefferson, December 14, note 6. Monroe also made a second mo tion on February 11 regarding duties on British goods imported into the United States through Canada which was assigned to a committee, chaired by Robert R. Livingston, that was already considering Livingston’s February 1 motion for obtaining possession of the northwest posts. The committee, of which Monroe was a member, recommended on February 21 that Congress raise a force of 1,500 men and assign it to posts “as near as may be to those now occupied by the troops of his Britannick Majesty" and that the ministers negotiating a commercial treaty with Great Britain “be left at liberty to lay such restraints as they may respectively deem expedient on the commercial intercourse between these States and the inhabitants of Canada." See JCC, 28:30, 59-60, 88—89. 4 For Monroe’s initiative in the preparation of this report, see Monroe to Madison, December 18, 1784, note 6. The report and circular letter were assigned for considera tion on April 5 but southern delegates, who feared northern monopoly of the carrying
