332 April 13, 1785 this the Quota assigned N. Jersey stands at 166,716 Dollars. 3 The Ne cessity of the States taking Measures for immediately carying this Act into Effect is so apparent, that I should forbear saying anything on this head; were it not for some circumstances, which Your Excelly. or at least the Legislature cannot be acquainted with. The Minister of France and since his return to Europe; the “Charge des Affaires” has in a Number of Instances represented to Congress the Uneasiness of his Master, the most Christian King, on the Subject of his Loans to the U. States; That he finds no Effective Funds have been provided, for ei ther securing the Principal, or discharging the Interest accruing, & al ready accumulated thereon: That an injurious discrimination has been Made by some of the States, between their own Citizens, and the subjects or Citizens of France holding Loan Office Certificates; in the partial payment of Interest arising on this debt. This has Created dis gusts & discontents among that Class of Creditors; which may eventu ally prove pernicious to the good Understanding prevailing between the two Nations. Mr. Morris, in a letter of the 23d Feby last informs us, “That he had not been in a Capacity to make any payments due in France, the last Year.” This Circumstance, will not abate their Jealousy, but rather heighten their Demands; more Especially when they learn, That the Funds, on which they principally relied, for discharging, as well [the] Interest as the Principal of the National Debt. “Viz. By the Establishment of Certain Imposts and providing Suplementary funds for a given Number of Years, as recommended in the resolutions of the 18th April 1783” are (if not wholly frustrated) procrastinated to such a period; that their Hopes are but very slender, with regard to the preservation of our Faith and the Establishment of a National Credit. Your Excelly. must have learned with pain, That the states of New York & Georgia have wholly rejected this proposition, and that Rhode Island have acceeded to it, under such limitations & restric tions as are antifoederal & cannot of Course bind the other states: In deed I almost dispair of seeing a Continental Impost Established or rather the duties resulting therefrom, going into a Common Treasury: Certain I am it will not be Conceeded upon the present System. Under this State of things, it is apparent, that other Measures must be resorted to, for the purpose of discharging the growing Interest— That on the Foreign Debt, as also the Supplies for the Services of the present Year (the latter amounting to near Half a Million of Dollars) can be discharged with no other than real Money. Facilities may be made use of, by the States in discharge of the Interest arising on the Domestic debt; so far I observe the State have already made provision, and anticipated the Views of Congress, by their Revenue Act, passed in the close of 1783; 4 and altho it is not exactly in the Train, which they may recommend, yet still substantial Justice is done thereby to the Creditors within the State. The Necessity of the Measure then, I
