April 13, 1785 333 trust is undeniable; but how far the State is able to bear this additional Tax, is a question I am not able, nor is it my duty to Answer. I am well aware of the great Exertions of N. Jersey during the War, and of her consequent impoverished state on the return of Peace. I am not in sensible too, of her Situation, between two great Commercial Citys, which not only cut her off, from every Benefit resulting from Trade, but also necessarily subjects her to Contribute to their Wealth & Rev enue, in a Ratio proportionate to her Consumption of imported Arti cles and under this impression I had prepared a Motion (a Copy of which I inclose Your Excelly.) which I intended to have Made in Con gress, with a View to alleviate in a small degree, the present sum de manded of the State—finding however little or no probability of its being adopted; I have for the present laid it aside; well hoping, that our Legislature will conceive it an Object worthy of some attention since the Idea of an Impost for Foederal purposes, seems almost wholly Extinguished & the Mode of raising Money by Requisition & for Quo- taing the National Debt, may continue for some Years to Come. Before I conclude this long letter, I must beg Your Excellys. further Indulgence, w[hile] I mention one other Circumstance, that may have some weight in calling the Legislature together Earlier, than the time to which they are adjourned; I mean the representation of the State on the Floor of Congress. I hope I shall be believed by Your Excelly. & the State, when I assure you, it is with the utmost reluctance, I relin quish the very Honorable Trust, they have been pleased to repose in Me; but Necessity and Candor obliges me to declare I cannot longer serve them in Congress. Not born to an Affluent fortune; and my little Patrimony, gradually Mouldering; from a Want of that attention which my Engagements in public life, since the Commencement of the Rev olution has prevented; I am Constrained by the Dictates of Humanity & the duties I owe to a dependent family, to retire to a private life & to provide by my Industry for those, who have a right to require it of my Hands. I feel myself extreamly flattered & gratefull, for the appoint ment the State have Conferred on Me; but I must say, the Salary they have been pleased to Anex to it, is not more than barely sufficient for my single Maintenance while attending on the Duties of it. Mr. Hous ton Informed me he should certainly decline. I have wrote Mr. Dick, pressing his attendance. He is silent on the subject, and I am inclined to believe does not mean to attend. Mr. Cadwallader is absent for the present, but Expects to return in May. 5 Mr. Stewart assures me it will not be in his power to Continue much longer. In this dilemma we now Stand, and I greatly fear the State will not Continue to be represented, Unless further appointments are Made. I hope your Excelly. will ex cuse me for this particular detail and attribute it to a sincere Wish I have, that these Vacancys May be supplied & the reputation of the State preserved.
