334 April 13, 1785 With sentiments of the Most perfect respect and Esteem, I have the Honor to be, Your Excellys. most Obedt. Hum Servt. Jno Beatty RC (MHi: Livingston Dapers). 1 Not found. 2 See Charles Thomson to Certain States, April 12. 3 See JCC, 28:217. 4 For this December 20, 1783, New Jersey act, see Livingston, Papers (Prince), 5:188n.8. 5 Lambert Cadwalader returned to his seat in Congress July 25, 1785. See JCC, 29:570, 572. John Sitgreaves to John Gray Blount Dear Sir New York 13th, April 1785. I had the pleasure to write you about a fortnight ago 1 by the Brig Capt. Hollister for New Bern in which I thanked you for your favour of the 14 Ulto. which is the only one I have Received from you since I came here. I find from Mr. W. Blounts Letter to Mr. Spaight by S. Tinker that it is supposed I was then on my return home, it was this supposition I presume that induced them not to write me by him. From the pressing necessity for my return home I have submitted to the inconvenience of paying a very exorbitant Interest per Month for Money to enable me to pay my Expences here & on the road, (for I propose avoiding the sea hereafter as much as I possibly can) the sooner therefore that remittances can be made me for repaying this Money (which will be something more than 200 £) the sooner shall I get rid of an intolerable peice of Usury, I am sure my dear Sir this hint to you for a Necessity for Money is wholly useless, I know that without it you wou’d do whatever was in your power but it is a subject which engrosses so much of my Attention that I cannot begin a Letter to you without touching on it. Give me leave to observe to you that remit tances will be more advantageously made to Philadelphia in (I beleive) any kind of No Carolina produce than to this place, Trade here is very confined & stagnate. 4 or 500 Barrels of Naval stores will any time reduce the price of them here 25 or more per Cent. There will be no difficulty in transferring Money from Phila to New York & I think it is pretty certain that Markets are generally better at that place than at this. But shou’d you find it more convenient or proper to ship to New York on my Account I will beg the favor of you to address & consign the same to Messrs. Stevens & Hubbell, Water Street No. 145. Inclosed are the two last papers one of which contains an Edict of the King of France which no doubt is interesting to every American Merchant to know. 2
