336 April 14, 1785 become a precedent and there, one commission only was made nam ing all the Judges, an attested copy whereof was put to each Judge, the original commission delivered to the Court, and returned by them to Congress with an indorsed certificate that they had executed the Trust. By the second agreement between M. & NY. provision is made for supplying Judges in the place of such of those originally named as shd. decline—two have declined, and no answer received from a third. Two Delegates can not supply these Vacancies—a commission therefore cannot issue—from the situation of the cause it will be diffi cult, and uncertain whether you will be able, to try it in June. Dotr. Johnson is of this opinion—the Agents of N York propose to defer the Trial until the fall. I do not see how it can be tried in June—pray inform me of your sentiments. With great consideration, Your Obt. servt. R King RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1582). I For the responses of the ‘Judges of the federal Court,” see Massachusetts and New York Agents to James Monroe, December 28, 1784, note 3. 2 See Massachusetts and New York Agents to George Wythe, April 9. Richard Henry Lee to John Adams My dear Sir, New York April 14th. 1785 The desire of paying my respects to an old and excellent friend compels me under all the pressures of ill health and much business, to avail myself of Colo. Smiths secure conveyance to take up my pen. It is long since I have written to you, but much longer since I have had the honor of hearing from you, and I am perfectly satisfied that both these effects have been produced by causes not fairly within our con- trou l—perhaps the same obstructions may not so fully prevail here after, and if they do not, I shall be happy. Whilst I congratulate you on being appointed sole Minister to so eminent a Court as that of London, I cannot help congratulating my Country at the same time, for the just expectations that may be formed from the wisdom, patriotism, and diligence of its Minister. The untoward circumstances in which both countries are found to be placed, may have arisen from a neglect of decent and proper respect having been heretofore paid by each to the other. And if so, this ad vance on our part, may lead to the establishment of better conduct and happier consequences. That it may be so, may God, of his infinite mercy, grant. So far, I think that I pray devoutly for the honorable suc cess of your Mission. Colo. Smith can give you so accurate a state of things here that it seems not necessary for me to enlarge on them—
