April 14, 1785 337 but with respect to this Gentleman, and his appointment, permit me to observe, that his established reputation is that of a Man of honor, of sense, and of very tried attachments to the success of our Union. His appointment (I mean the Office) Seems, as far as I have been able to investigate it, from a wish to shew respect to the Court of London, by an exact observance of all forms in such cases practised. I believe that Congress will adjourn (leaving a Committee of the States) in June next. So that when you find leisure and inclination to honor me with a letter, by sending it to the house of Wallace, Johnson & Muir, my Correspondents in the City of London, they will forward your letter safely to me. I heartily wish you every honor and success in life that you can wish yourself. Your affectionate friend. Richard Henry Lee RC (MHi: Adams Family Papers). Hugh Williamson to Thomas Hutchins Sir, New York 14th April 1785 The grand Committee have reported the Ordinance for the Land Office. It was reported on Tuesday, obtain’d its first Reading on its Passage to day and may probably obtain its second & third during the next Week. 1 The Order for raising Troops, 700 men, has passed. 2 The Plan proposed in the Ordinance, now on its Passage, is to have a Ge ographer for the U S and thirteen or more Surveyors under his Direc tion. No other Officers are proposed. The Treasury & Officers of the Loans in difft. States are to mannage the Mony matters. The Geogra pher is to see that the Surveyors execute their Work with some degree of accuracy & to make out a Map of the Country from their Works. It is very doubtful how we shall agree to have the Surveyors appointed, whether Congress will do that Business or leave it for you. We certainly shall wish that the Work be entered on as soon as may be. Is it true that you are setting out for the Western Country? If you have Business that calls you to the Westward, would it not be proper to signify to Congress, by a formal application your desire of going; 3 for in that Case if they conceive that they have immediate occasion for your Services, they will so say. Should you be wanted in 8 or 10 days it would be inconvenient to send for you to Fort Pit & the National Busi ness at a stand during that Space. I have mentioned this because I have just seen a Paragraph in a News Paper mentioning that you was in a few days to set out to run the Line of Pensylvania. Mrs. Romayn requests me to give you her Compliments. I am, Sir, Your hble Servt. Hu Williamson
