338 April 14, 1785 RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). 1 See Joseph Gardner to George Bryan, March 19, note 4, and the following entry, note 1. 2 See Charles Thomson to Certain States, April 12, note 1. 3 Geographer Hutchins had written to Congress on March 7 announcing his return to New York following the completion of his work in running the southern boundary line between western Pennsylvania and Virginia, and that he was awaiting their further command. Since then the Pennsylvania Council had named him along with Dr. John Ewing a commissioner “to run and mark” the western boundary of Pennsylvania, and had instructed its congressional delegates to determine whether Congress wished to nominate any other commissioners to cooperate in this survey. Apparendy in response to this letter from Williamson, Hutchins wrote a letter to Con gress on April 21 asking whether they “have any Objection to my assisting in the above Work,” which was referred to the same committee appointed to report on the Pennsyl vania Council’s query. The committee immediately recommended against Hutchins’ proposed work for Pennsylvania, but the matter was not acted upon until Congress reached a decision on a western land ordinance and whether Hutchins’ appointment as Geographer of the United States would be continued, which was decided on May 27. At that time Congress resolved that Hutchins continue in office “for a term not exceeding three years, and that he be allowed ... six dollars per day, for his services and expenses,” and named nine surveyors to assist him in implementing the new land ordinance. See PCC, item 60, fols. 177-84, item 69, 2:491-94; and JCC, 28:291, 398. William Grayson to George Washington Dear Sir, New York Api. 15th. 1785. I did myself the honor of writing to you by Post the iOth of March last in answer to your favor of the 22nd of January, & I hope my letter has before this got safe to hand. On my being appointed one of the Commee. for draughting the Ordnance for ascertaining the mode of disposing of lands in the West ern territory, the President was kind enough to furnish me with an ex tract of your letter to him on the subject of the back Country, which now induces me to conclude it will be agreable to you to be informed of the farther progress of this important business. 1 The Ordnance was reported to Congress three days ago, & ordered to be printed, & I now take the earliest opportunity of sending you a copy; The idea of a sale by public Vendue, in such large quantities, ap pears at first view eccentric, & objectionable; I shall therefore mention to you the reasons which those who are advocates for the measure offer in it’s support; They say this cannot be avoided witht. affording an undue advantage to those whose contiguity to the territory has giv’n them an opportunity of investigating the qualities of the land; That there certainly must be a difference in the value of the lands in different parts of the Country, and that this difference cannot be as certained witht. an actual survey in the first instance & a sale by com petition in the next.
