April 18, 1785 343 8 That is, the March 31 “Ordinance for the regulation of the Office of the Secretary of Congress,” for which see JCC, 28:212-14. Charles Thomson to the States Sir Secretary’s Office April 15th. 1785 I have the honor to enclose an Act of Congress passed the 13th, em powering the States which shall have settled with their respective lines on the principles of the Act of the 1st June 1784, of which I also en close a Copy, to charge the United States with the payments made, provided the services shall not have been settled for by the paymaster General. 1 With great respect I have the honor to be Your Excellency’s &c. C. T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). Addressed to the governors or presidents of the states from Rhode Island to Georgia. Cf. the preceding entry. i See JCC, 28:261. William Hindman to William Paca My dear Sir New-York April 18th. 1785 When Leisure & Inclination will admit I should be made very happy in hearing from You, were it only to inform Me of Your’s and our Friends Hea[l]ths, & what are the Pleasures and Amusements of the Ladies in Annapolis. Mr. Harrison Secretary to the President 1 re quests Me to say unto You that He is in the Land of the Living—He tells Me that He hears Miss Plater & Miss Lloyd are going to be mar ried to the two Mr Lownes’s. I very much doubt the Truth of it. You will herewith receive the Report of the Committee on the Lands belonging to the United States, as this is the only one I am at present possessed of, must beg the Favor of You to shew it to Mr. S. Chase, having promised to transmit him one. Should You choose to become an Adventurer in that Country, the most advisable Method will be to purchase Final settlement Certificates, they are to be got here at 2/9 in the pound, and think it probable they will not immedi ately rise, as the Senate of this State on an Addition of two new Mem bers made a second Attempt to carry the 5 per Ct. Impost recom mended by Congress, which was rejected by a greater Majority than before, these two being against it. I expect Congress will take up the Land Report in a few Days. They are at present engaged in the Report on the Requisition for Supplies,
