April 18, 1785 345 [PS.] I inclose you the New York Paper of this Date—you will find this state have opend a Land Office to sell the Territory in Dispute be tween them & us. 4 It is a very unfair mode of procedure. If the Legis lature of Mass, was now sitting I should advise to the passing a Resolve directing the Govr. to issue a Proclamation stating the dispute be tween the two States, and declaring that in case Mass, recovered the territory she would not hold herself bound to quiet such persons in their Titles as shd. purchase after such Notice. I have it in contemplation to move congress to pass some Resolve on the Subject—if passed or negatived I could publish it, and this would prevent a rapid sale. RK RC (NHi: King Collection). 1 That is, Catharine Macaulay’s History of England from the Accession offames I to that of the Brunswick Line, 8vols. (London: J. Nourse, 1763-83). 2 See these Letters, 16:584n.l. 3 For an analysis of this election, “the first really contested election for governor” of Massachusetts since 1780, see Van Beck Hall, Politics Without Parties, Massachusetts, 1780-1791 (Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1972), pp. 132-38. 4 The April 18 issue of Loudon y s New York Packet printed the “Act to facilitate the Settle ment of the Waste and Unappropriated Lands within this state” adopted by the New York Assembly on April 11. Samuel Loudon changed the name of his paper to The New- York Packet with the May 16, 1785 issue. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear Sir. New York, April 18, 1785. I should before this have thanked you for your favour of March 15th, 1 if I had not been in daily expectation that the arrival of the packets would bring us some intelligence from Europe worth commu nicating to you; the February packet has but just come in after a pas sage of eight weeks, and neither she or other vessels in short passages, bring us any thing interesting. War or peace in Europe, hangs yet in doubtful balance; both parties arming with assiduity, and nothing de termined upon. Mr. John Adams, is sent plenipotentiary to the court of London, and Mr. Jefferson is the minister at Versailles, Dr. Franklin having leave, at his own request, to retire. Returning appearances of good humour, and a proposition first made by the British court, to treat of our differences in London, has induced hopes of an amicable adjustment of disputes. Mr. Gardoque is not arrived, but expected about the last of this month from the Havana, to which place he went from Spain previous to his coming here. If the commenced bickering between Madrid and London on the Musquito shore should go on, we may probably have easier work with both courts in our business with them. I have the honour to enclose you the report of a respectable
