346 April 18, 1785 committee on the subject of selling the western lands, which has not yet been acted upon, though it speedily will. 2 What changes may be made in this plan before it finally passes, cannot yet be told, but prob ably there will be some. Your idea of settling a state at a time, would most certainly be the wisest and the best, if the excessive rage for tak ing lands there could be possibly restrained. But really it seems that ei ther Congress must sell quickly, or possession will be so taken as to render doubtful this fine fund for extinguishing the public debt. It has been impossible to get a vote for more than seven hundred men to garrison all the posts to be fixed in the trans-Alleghanian country, from north to south; a number very inadequate, I fear, to the purpose of even suppressing illegal trespasses upon the western lands. Our friend the Marquis La Fayette, arrived after a short passage, but I be lieve it was a very boisterous one. Your letter for Mr. Lee I sent after him to Virginia, 3 whither he was returning before I received it. My best respects attend your lady. I have the honour to be, with the truest esteem and regard, dear Sir, your most obedient and very humble servt. Richard Henry Lee MS not found; reprinted from Richard Henry Lee, Memoir of the Life of Richard Henry Lee, 2 vols. (Philadelphia: H.C. Carey and I. Lea, 1825), 2:63—64. 1 See Washington, Papers (Abbot), Confederation Series, 2:437-38. 2 See William Grayson to Washington, April 15, note 1. 3 Washington’s March 15 letter to Arthur Lee is in Washington, Papers (Abbot), 2:436-37. William Samuel Johnson to Roger Sherman D r. s r. New York April 20th. 1785. I am sorry to hear by Genl. Woolcot, that you are not coming to N. York, as Capt. Wooster gave me to expect you would, about this time. I extremely want your Opinion & Advice relative to the pursuing Mrs. Woosters Petition before Congress. 1 The difficulty is this. Congress have very lately, upon the Petition of Genl. Thomas’s Widdow of Mas sachusetts, fully explain’d the Doubt there was, whether he was enti tled to Bridagiers or Colonel’s Pay, deciding it in favor of the former. Thus, one of the grounds of Mrs. Wooster’s Petition is effectually remov’d. What remains, is, only that the State of Connecticut will not pay it, tho’ the Requisition of Congress is as full as they can make it, if they sho’d take up the subject again—And is it to be presumed that Congress will take it upon themselves, merely because Connecticut will not do what she ought? Nay will the Finances of the United States admit of such a measure? Yet more, can they do it when the other
