April 20, 1785 349 something must be determined upon soon, for the reserved Territory will be included in the Sale proposed by Congress, except that part of it reserved by the Indians. The runing the Western Line of Pensilva- nia, which is to be done this Spring, will give us clearer, & more deter minate Ideas of that Country. The Case of Vermont has not been bro’t before Congress, owing to its having been depending all Winter be fore the Legislature of this State, under a general Expectation, which had taken place, that they would declare them Independent & request Congress to receive them into the Union. It appears now, within a few days, that it will not be done this Session, & why Vermont is not here to pursue the matter in Congress I know not. We have pretty certain Intelligence that the Western Inhabitants of Virginia; & of North Carolina, are Erecting themselves into seperate & Independent States. This renders it extremely Necessary that the United States sho’d take immediate Care of their Western Territory. Seven hundred Men are Recommended to be raised for this, & other purposes. 8 I wish this Number may be sufficient. Mr. Kirkland has just now been with me. He appears to be a worthy, & well informed Man, & I sincerely wish he could be reestablished among the Indians. I shall certainly do all in my power to give facility & effect to his applications to Congress. 9 But the feeble Finances of the United States give a check to every liberal & enlarged Idea. They damp the Ardor of the generous, & are an effectual screen for the illiberal & contracted. I do not despair, however, that something may be done. Coll. Cook leaves us tomorrow. 10 I beg your Influence to send on some other Gentle men in the Delegation, as well to supply his place, as to relieve me that I may, about the middle of May, attend the Genl. Assembly, where I have business of Importance, for a few days, after which, if it be tho’t expedient, I will without hesitation, return here again, & am with the sincerest Esteem & Respect, Dr. Sr., Yr. most obedient humble Ser vant, Wm. Sami. Johnson RC (MHi: Miscellaneous Bound Collection). Addressed: “Honorble. Roger Sherman Esqr. New Haven. Honrd by Coll. Cook.” 1 The March 14 petition of Mary Wooster, widow of Gen. David Wooster, which was re ferred on May 3 to a committee consisting of Johnson, William Grayson, and David Howell, is in PCC, item 78, 24:511-13. For Congress’ adoption of the committee’s rec ommendation “That it be recommended to the State of Connecticut, to settle with and pay the widow of the late Brigadier General D. Wooster, the seven years half-pay of a Brigadier General,” see JCC, 28:334. The Connecticut legislature did not comply with the request, however, and on July 8 Congress directed the board of treasury to compen sate the widow from requisition funds for 1784 and 1785 received by the commissioner of the loan office in Connecticut. See PCC, item 42, 8:334-40; and JCC, 29:499n, 519. 2 That is, by the rejection of the Continental impost by the senate of New York. 3 Sherman’s letter is in the Johnson Papers, CtHi; and Lewis Henry Boutell, The Life of Roger Sherman (Chicago: A.C. McClurg and Co., 1896), p. 345. 4. This denunciation of the Georgia Assembly had been largely the work of former Georgia delegate George Walton, chief justice of the state’s superior court. The follow-
