April 22, 1785 353 ments from which future historians will derive light & knowledge. I consider it as a most fortunate circumstance that through all your dangers and difficulties you have happily preserved them entire. And although the adjournment which took place last Summer and the sub sequent removals since the meeting in November have prevented Congress from adopting the measure I wished, yet I trust they will at a convenient time attend to the subject, and take proper steps for pre serving so invaluable a treasure. I am now busily employed in preparations for the removal of my family to New York. If there be any thing in which I can serve you I hope you will command me. Mrs. Thomson joins in respects to Mrs. Washington. With the most sincere Esteem, I am, Dear Sir, Your affectionate Friend & humble Servt. Cha Thomson RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See the preceding entry. Charles Thomson to George Washington Dear Sir Philadelphia April 22. 1785 Mr Pine 1 who will be the bearer of this is lately from London and has distinguished himself by sundry pieces of history painting. Early in our late contest he gave a display of his genius as well as of his at tachment to our cause by a piece which he designed, executed & pub lished under the title of “An Appeal to Heaven.” Animated with a de sire to give further proofs of his abilities he determined to select, for his subjects, some interesting scenes in our late revolution, & with this view is come to America that he may gain a personal knowledge of the principal actors. I need not mention his extreme desire to be introduced to you who have borne so distinguished a part and as he is pleased to think my in troduction would recommend him to your particular notice I could not refuse to gratify him, especially as it gives me an opportunity of re newing the assurance of the sincere esteem & respect, with which I am, Dear Sir, Your most obedient & Most humble Servt, Cha Thomson RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 That is, Robert Edge Pine (1730-88), the English painter, who had come to Amer ica in 1784 to undertake a series of historical paintings illustrative of the American Rev olution. See DAB; and Washington, Papers (Abbot), Confederation Series, 2:508-9.
