April 27, 1785 359 William Grayson to Timothy Pickering Dear Sir, N. York 27th Apr. 1785 I receiv’d your favor; in consequence of which I shall write to Mr. Graham for the receipt which you desire. Indeed I should have done this sooner, but I have been a little indispos’d till within these three days; Before I arrived at this place, Genl Knox was elected Secretary at war; 1 he has since come here, and is now acting in his office; from what I can learn he has accepted of the appointment under a supposi tion that his house rent will be paid. Poor Carlton is in a distrest situa tion; he will shortly be out of pay and un-pensioned; I am striving to get something allowed him by way of compensation though I am afraid no great matter can be affected, as it is not among the vices of republicans to be prodigal in the article of rewarding for services which are past. 2 Since my arrival I have been busily engaged in assisting about fram ing an ordinance for the disposal of the Western territory; I think there has been as much said and wrote about it as would fill forty Vol umes, and yet we seem far from a conclusion, so difficult is it to form any system, which will suit our complex government, & where the in terests of the component parts are suppos’d to be so different. I made a motion for Amendmts. three days ago, 3 which has nearly divided the Continent into equal moieties; the object of it was to double the quan tity of surveying, & to sell the lands in townships & sections alter nately; this I did under the impression that it would accomodate both the Eastern & Southern States. However this has been strongly ob jected to, & both sides adhere to their opinion; so that here we stick, witht. any movement either retrograde or progressive. I inclose you the draught of the Ordnance as it stands; which you will be kind enough to keep in your hands in such a manner as to prevent it from being published this being against rule. I believe it will pass ultimately in a shape very like this, at least none of the great principles except perhaps the one alluded to will be changed. By it you will observe that there is no office created by it worth your acceptance. If in the ar rangement of the Post Office or any other matter any thing occurs which may be worth your notice, I will do myself the pleasure of in forming you of it; and I can assure you with great truth it will give me real satisfaction to do every thing in my power towards accomplishing any object which you may have in view. I am with my complimt. to the family, yr. Affect, frd. & most obed serv, Willm. Grayson NB I shall thank you to inform me whether you have had any news of the bills on [...]& what there fate has been. Mr [...] is now here & I think it incumbent on me to comply with all his contracts. W G.
