360 April 27, 1785 RC (MHi: Pickering Papers). 1 For Gen. Henry Knox’s March 8 appointment and the condition of the war office when he assumed this post, see Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Hodgdon, February 7, 1785. See also Charles Thomson to Knox, March 9. 2 Joseph Carleton, secretary in the war office, had never been adequately compen sated for his seven years of service despite the considerable responsibility he bore, espe cially during his sole conduct of the office following the resignation of Benjamin Lin coln in November 1783 when he received only $1,000 a year, the same as the secretaries in the other departments. Promising Congress that he would continue his duties until the newly-appointed Henry Knox could find a suitable replacement, Carleton appealed to Congress on April 23 for “a just and reasonable compensation” for his added respon sibilities as his deranged finances “prevent my returning with decency to private Life.” Carleton’s letter and supporting documents were referred on the 26th to a committee chaired by Grayson which recommended on June 7 that Carleton receive $1,500 a year, less what he had been paid, “for the whole of the time he was engaged in the public ser vice untill the arrival of General Knox,” but on September 27 Congress granted him only $1,000 in consideration of his “extra services.” In the meantime, Knox had reap pointed Carleton as secretary on May 17. See JCC, 28:23, 363n, 374, 453-54, 29:771; and PCC, item 60, fols. 129-32, 139-59. See also James Monroe to Carleton, November 26, 1784, note 2. 3 This motion was not recorded on the journals, but for subsequent efforts on May 3-5 to require the sale of western lands “in townships & sections alternately,” see JCC, 28:328-29, 335-40. Samuel Holten to Moses Gill Dear Sir. New York, 28th. April 1785. Soon after my arrival at Trenton I desired the Presidents attention in procuring payment of the bill drawn by Mr Wm. Lee in your favor; & he now informs me that he is ready to pay the same with interst, but thinks it necessary that I should have an order from you to receive the money, or that you should endorse the bill; as neither of the other bills of the same tenor and date have yet been presented: he farther mentions that he must pay it agreeably to the continental scale of de preciation, & whether that will be more or less in your favor than the scale of Masstts. I am not able to say. I will enclose the bill, & shall wait to be farther honored with your directions respecting the same. I am farther informed that the only reason that has prevented the bill being honored was its not being presented. I am desired by the President to inquire after Doctr. Isaac Foster, or his Executor, & to let him know that the horse Mr. William Lee had of him (about the time you let him have the money) will be paid for if he sends forward the bill, or note that was given for said horse; with an order to receive the money: but as I am sensible Dr. Foster is deed. & have no knowledge of his Executor; I submit it to you (knowing your disposition to oblige) whether you can’t make said Executor ac quainted with this matter, & if he should desire my assistance I will at tend to the same.
