364 April 30, 1785 dred and eighty five & 40/56 more to be deposited in the Philadel phia bank. Since which I have drawn for One hundred in favour of S House for two hundred in favour of James Hallett, two hundred in favour of Verdine Elsworth and two hundred and twenty in favour of William Samuel Johnson, in all seven hundred & twenty. As I shall not be able to go to Philadelphia for a considerable time you will oblige me by transmitting me by the post a State of my account with the bank. I am sorry to give you this trouble but as I wish to know exactly I hope you will oblige me. I remain with respect Your most obedient, Charles Pinckney RC (PHi: Illustrated History of the Bank of North America) ' Tench Francis (1730-1800), a Philadelphia merchant, was cashier of the Bank of North America. Morris, Papers (Ferguson), l:109n.l5 William Grayson to James Madison Dear Sir. N. York May 1st. 1785. I am afraid my silence since I came to this place has giv’n you some reason to suspect me to be impregnated with that vis inertiae, which has been so often attributed to me: 1 the only apology I have to make, is that I wish’d to have some thing to write to you worth your accep tance. However as there would be some danger in risquing a farther delay, I shall give you what I have in the manner. The New England delegates wish to sell the Continental lands, rough as it runs; what I miss in quality I will make up in quantity. All our attentions here have been for some time turned towards the hostile preparations between the Emperor & the Dutch; as it was thought the event might have a considerable influence on the affairs of the United States. The packet which arrived yesterday has brought different accounts of what is doing respecting this business; however I take the following to be nearly the truth of the case: 2 That the Em peror has only made the opening the Schelde a pretext for marching his troops into the low Countries while he has been underhandedly treating with the Elector of Bavaria for an exchange of his territories in the low Countries for Bavaria: That France has not only been privy to the negotiations but has actually countenanc’d them; While no other power has entertain’d the most distant suspicions of what was going forward: That the prince de Deux Ponts presumptive heir to Bavaria, on recieving the first notice of it, made application to the King of Prussia, supposing that old Statesman Would exert himself to the utmost, to prevent Bavaria from becoming part of the domains of the House of Austria. It therefore seems to be probable that all those who wish to preserve the proper ballance of power in the Germanic
