MayI, 1785 365 body will unite with the Prussian Monarch against this accession of weight to the Austrian scale; Should this confederacy take place in its fullest extent, it will be very formidable, & in all likelyhood produce a bloody contest before the matter is finally decided. War therefore seems to be as probable as ever although the ground of the contest may be altered. For my own part I cannot clearly find out from any in formations wch. I have had, what have been the views of the Court of France; they seem to have departed from their antient principles in as sisting the Austrian family to increase their power; ’tis true they adopted this system in the last reign, but then the French Statesmen say, that nothing done during that period ought to be quoted from their history. If the Queen of France has drawn in the Ministry to countenance the measures of her brother it is an evidence of her great influence in the Governmt. but from what appears at present, it is no proof of the cridence of the public-councils as it is obvious if France keeps up large standing armies, she must neglect her marine by which she will risque her foreign possessions whenever she hap pens to be engaged in a war with G. B. The Parliament has so lately sit, that little has yet transpired; the Minister is to bring forwd. a plan for a Parliamentary reform, which it is thought will require all his interest & ability to support. The Wallachians who were so oppress’d as to be drove into a state of open resistance are on the point of being subjugated; they are in num ber about seven hundred thousand; & I heartily wish they were all here. Congress are engaged in ascertaining a mode for the disposal of the Western territory; I send you the first draught as reported by the Grand Commee. also a second edition with amendments in Congress. 3 The matter is still under consideration, and other alter ations will no doubt take effect. An amendment is now before the house for making the Townships 6 Ms. Sqe. & for dividing those town ships by actual surveys into quarters of townships, marking at every in terval of a mile (in running the external lines of the quarters,) cor ners for the sections of 640 acres; Then to sell every other township by sections: The reservation (instead of the four corner sections,) to be the central section of every quarter; that is to say the inside lot, whose corner is not ascertained: 4 Whether this will be carried or not I can not tell, the Eastern people being amazingly attached to their own customs, and unreasonably anxious to have every thing regulated ac cording to their own pleasure. The construction of the deed of cession from Virga, has taken up four days, & at length it is agreed not to sell any land beween the little Miami & Scioto untill the conditions respecting the Offs. & soldiers are complied with. 5 Some Members of Congress think they have a right to have the land laid off for the Offs. & soldiers in such manner as they please & by their own Surveyors, provided they give good land
