366 May 1, 1785 & square figures: others are willing it shall be laid off in the same manner as the rest, & the Offs. & soldiers to chuse by sections. If the State insists on the right of surveying agreable to their own laws I shd. suppose that Congress could have no objection to appointing Commrs. for deciding that question as well as all others that might arise respecting the Compact. Mr. King of Massachusets has a resolution ready drawn which he re serves till the Ordinance is passed for preventing slavery in the new State. 6 I expect Seven States may be found liberal enough to adopt it. Seven hundred men are voted for protecting the settlers on the frontiers, for guarding the public stores & for preventing unwar rantable intrusions on the lands of the U.S. 7 I inclose you a plan for altering the 9th article of the confeder ation, 8 also a newspaper informing what the people of Boston are about. 9 The requisition for the present year is before Congress; one article to wit 30,000 dollars for foederal buildings at Trenton, I ob jected to, & was supported by the delegates of Maryland, Delawar, & New Hamshire. N. Carolina was divided. Unfortunately for me the rest of the delegates for our State do not think as I do; (This is entre nouz). I shall notwithstanding do every thing in my power to frustrate the measure. We shall in all probability get it struck out of the requisition, because nine States will not vote for it; I understand however that it is intended to get seven States to vote for the sum out of the loans in Holland supposing that as a hundred thousand dollars were voted at Trenton by nine States, generally, that seven can direct the particular appropriation. This matter I have not yet considered, neither do I know how it will turn out on investigation however I hope I shall find means to avoid it for the present year, & I hope by the next the South ern States will understand their interests better. 10 Congress have refused to let the State discount any part of the monies paid for the Western territory, out of the requisitions for the prest. year, & I believe if they don’t help themselves, they will never find Congress willing to discount. 11 In the mean time they will sell the lands. A treaty is directed to be held with the Barbary States to pur chase their friendship. Treaties are also to be held with the Chero kees, Chickesaws &c—also, with the Western Indians shortly. I am sure you are surfeited—therefore conclude with great sincerity, Yr. Affect, friend & Mo. Obed. Serv. Willm. Grayson RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 That is, hypochondria. 2 A February 9 dispatch from the joint commissioners with seven enclosures was read in Congress on May 2. The five enclosures referred to Secretary John Jay for translation on May 5 were returned and read that day. See JCC, 28:324n, 341n; PCC, item 80, 1:157, item 116, fols. 160-63, item 185, fols. 123-24, item 190, fol. 36; and Diplomatic Correspon- dence, 1783-89, 1:545-53, 3 See JCC, 28:251-56, 298-302; and Grayson to Washington, April 15, note 1.
