May 1, 1785 369 By the bye, the Secretary has given me no Notice of my appoint ment as one of the Agents. I don’t understand the reason. Should I choose to attend the trial, I have no authority. I observe by the papers that Dalton is not included in the list of Senators for Essex—what is the reason? Did he decline? Your Letters I believe have all come to hand, but the badness of roads detained them long on their way—their number I cannot ascer tain now, Mr. Seymour is out with my keys, and I cannot come at my Letter files. I hope you will soon be with us—indeed I earnestly wish you back; I should have a little respite was you here, as well as very great pleasure in your society. Never in my Life have I been so closely confined as since I have been in this City—you know very well my situ ation—constant watching fatigues the strongest & most experi enced—what must then be my condition? Our family are all well. Nelly wishes your return—Mrs. M. & Grace request it as soon as you can consistently. Mr. Jefferson inclosed to Monroe the Pamphlet that I now send you, 4 with an observation that you was in his Debt a Letter or two. Adieu my dear friend—believe me affectionately your, R King RC (NHi: King Papers). 1 American merchants were finding themselves increasingly unable to compete with their British counterparts since the restoration of peace, in part because the latter had unrestricted access to American markets while British navigation acts severely limited American trade with the former mother country. At a meeting at Faneuil Hall on April 16, the merchants of Boston resolved to seek the “immediate interposition” of Congress for their relief, and to appeal to merchants throughout the states to work in behalf of augmenting the power of Congress to regulate trade. A petition signed by 15 prominent Boston merchants was consequendy dispatched to Congress on April 22. According to Secretary Charles Thomson’s endorsement, it was read May 11 and ordered “to lie til Congress shall take into consideration the report of comee. on An Application to the States for enlarging the powers of Congress.” PCC, item 42, 1:346-50. The petition was signed by Jonathan L. Austin, Joseph Barrell, Samuel Barrett, Samuel Breck, Caleb Davis, John Hancock, Stephen Higginson, Charles Jarvis, John Coffin Jones, Perez Mor ton, Samuel A. Otis, Edward Payne, Joseph Russell, Thomas Russell, and William Tudor. The resolves adopted at the April 16 meeting were printed in a number of Boston pa pers, appearing in the April 18 issues of the Boston Gazette and the Independent Ledger, and the April 21 issue of the Continental Journal and Weekly Advertiser. For a discussion of the orchestration of a merchant response to the trade restrictions being experienced in a number of states, see Gouverneur Morris to John Jay, Septem ber 25, 1783, headnote, Morris, Papers (Ferguson), vol. 8 (forthcoming). 2 Although “the Marquis" was identitfied as Lafayette in Edmund C. Burnett’s Letters, 8:108 (whose text was taken from King, Correspondence [King], 1:93), King is undoubt edly referring to the protest of the French court concerning the assault of Charles Julien Longchamps on the marquis de Barbe-Marbois, for which see Thomas Mifflin to the chevalier de La Luzerne, May 31, 1784, note 2; and William Henry to George Bryan, February 26, 1785, note 2. 3 See the following entry.
