May 5, 1785 379 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Although Grayson left the day of the month blank, this letter was probably written on May 5 after Congress, which was considering the land ordinance, agreed that “one half the land is to be sold by sections or lots, & the other half by entire townships,” but before Congress took up the following day one of the amendments that Grayson told Washington “I still mean to move for.” Moreover, Grayson’s motion to reduce “the di mension of each township... to six miles,” which had been defeated on May 3, had been incorporated into the approved second reading of the ordinance on the 5th and was part of the language of the ordinance when Grayson offered his May 6 amendment. Thereafter the land ordinance was suspended from active consideration until May 18. See JCC, 28:327, 335-39, 342-43, 365. It is also probable that Grayson wrote this letter the same day he penned the following brief May 5 letter of introduction to Washington: “Mr King one of the delegates of Massachusets bay, & a gentleman of great worth has particularly requested me to introduce to you, Mr Prince & Mr Darby, the former a Clergyman of amiable character, the latter the son of a respectable Merchant: They are travelling to Virginia & have a desire of calling at Mount Vernon.” Washington, Papers (Abbot), Confederation Series, 2:539. See also note 6 below. 2 For which see ibid., pp. 519-21. 3 That is, on April 15. 4 Grayson honored his commitment with a brief letter on May 27: ‘The Ordinance for the disposal of the Western territory was pass’d three days ago, & I take the earliest oppertunity of inclosing you a copy.” Washington Papers, DLC. The ordinance had of course passed on May 20, not “three days ago,” but the 500 copies run off byJohn Dun lap were not available until May 26. See JCC, 28:375—81, 29:923. 5 See Grayson to James Madison, May 1, note 10. 6 John Sitgreaves, who carried this letter and two from Pres. Richard Henry Lee, last attended Congress on May 6, apparently leaving New York on the 9th. See JCC, 28:343-44; Lee to Washington, April 18 and May 7; and Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry, May 8. ’ See JCC, 28:201-5. Samuel Holten to Thomas Cushing Dear Sir, New York, 5th May 1785. I have rec’d your kind & polite address you did me the honor to write the 13th ultimo. The Assembly of N.Y. are up without grantg the impost and I have no reason to think, that Congress being in this city, has had a tendency to obtain it or I might have said, that some of their members being here, has not been a means of forwarding a compli ance. You signify a wish to be informed whither a commercial treaty be tween the U.S. & G.B. is likely to take place; I can only say that we have persons in Europe fully authorized to treat upon the subject, & that I think it most likely they are now at the court of London for that pur pose; yet I have doubts whether such an event will take place at pre sent. The late proceedings of the good people of Boston gives us some concern here, 1 least they may carry the matter too far, I wish they could be prevailed upon to wait ’till the several states shall have given Congress powers to counteract the British in their commercial plans; which you may be assured Congress would attend to immediately.
