398 May 21, 1785 seem to require; Yet I conceive, My Duty obliges me to declare gener ally as to his Situation so far as my Information Extends. 1 During the Year 79 and part of 80, while I was at the Head of the Department; This post being established by the Comr. in Chief as the only Communication with New York, the Nature of my office often de manded my being present there, both in the Exchange of Prisoners & for the Purpose of holding Conferences with the British Corny on that subject: At these times I have always observed, and I believe some times remarked to the Major, the great Expence that Post subjected him to, not only in the Common Civilities necessarily due to Prison ers, (as well British as American) but in his Actual Charitable distribu tion of provisions among them: And what Contributed greatly to heighten this Expence was; its being a Post, only occasionally occu pied by our Troops & of Course seldom any Rations Issued; And from its Vicinity to New York, the provisions to be purchased were extrava gantly dear 8c only to be procured with Specie. The Finances of the United States, not admitting any disbursements at that time in Specie to My Deputies (as but a scanty pittance could only be obtained for the Prisoners in Actual Confinement) I was led to Enquire from whence these Supplies came, and learned with pain, that the Majr. was dependent on his Friends for them. Injustice to the Merits and sufferings of this Gentleman, I am sorry I cannot be more particular, but I am Confident in declaring, that he always discharged his Duty in the office, with great punctuality & Fi delity & that I verily beleive his present Embarrasments in a great Measure arise, from the sums of Money he was Necessitated to bor row, while Acting as Depy. Corny, at that Post. With sentiments of great Respect & Esteem, I have the Honor to be, Sir, Your most obedt. & very Hum Servt., Jno. Beatty. RC (DNA: PCC, item 138). i A March 31 appeal from Maj. John Adam for reimbursement for extraordinary ex penses incurred since 1779 as deputy commissary of prisoners at Elizabethtown, NJ., “a thoroughfare for the Exchange of Prisoners,” had been referred on May 17 to a com mittee chaired by Beatty, himself commissary of prisoners during 1779-80. According to Secretary Thomson’s endorsement on the memorial, Adam’s appeal was referred on May 19 to the secretary at war, Knox, and the committee was discharged. A June 3 re port on the claim by Joseph Carleton, Knox’s secretary, was referred on June 4 to a sec ond committee consisting of Samuel Dick, William Grayson, and David Howell, whose recommendation that the case be referred to the board of treasury was adopted by Con gress on June 13. Although the treasury found in favor of Adam’s claim in a report sub mitted July 6, its recommendation was rejected by Congress on July 15. See JCC, 28:427-28, 440n, 462, 517, 540n. Adam’s memorial and a number of supporting docu ments are located in PCC, item 138, 1:41-74. For the background of this case and Adam’s previous attempts to obtain compensation for his claims, see Robert Morris Diary, November 5, 1783, note 3, Morris, Papers (Ferguson), vol. 8 (forthcoming).
