404 May 27, 1785 a Line at what Discount it may be Exchanged for Gold or Silver. I have inclos’d an Ordinance for the Disposal of our new Western State which has been the produce of our [u]nited Labours for some Weeks past. I wish It may Exhibit in the Execution Marks of Wisdom propor- tiond to the Time and Expense it has and will Cost. I made a Saunter ing Journey to this City, having spent Eight Days on the Boat from Philade. Tho very agreeably. Permit me D’r S’r to hope for the Con tinuance of Care in forwarding my homeward bound Letters and put- ing those addressd to me into the Office. Present my best Respects to Mrs. Hall and Inform Mrs. Thompson (for whose Speedy Recovery I would Expend a few prayers if I thought they would avail anything, But a Country Air and Exercise are in finitely preferable) that I deliverd her Letter at Mr. Douglases. That Gentleman was Just Recovering from a Severe and Long fit of Illness. The frequent Intercourse between you and this City leaves me no Op portunity of writing any thing by way of News, But shall gladly Em brace the first of Communicating whatever may occur worthy Your Notice and if nothing More, of Repeating that I’m with much Respect and Esteem Yours, Sami. Dick Tr (DLC: Burnett Collection). Copied by Edmund C. Burnett from “Original in the possession of Mr. Charles Mecum of Salem, N.J.” 1 William Hall (1752-1831), son of the Philadelphia printer David Hall (1714-72), was one of the proprietors, with his brother David, Jr., and William Sellers, of Hall & Sellers’ Pennsylvania Gazette. Rush, Letters (Butterfield), l:349n.3, 2:689n.3. Samuel Dick to Thomas Sinnickson Dr Sr 1 New York May 27th 1785 My Attendance in Congress was very seasonable as they had ad- journd several Days for want of a Sufficient Number of States to pro ceed to Business. I prevaild on Col. Beatty that my Attendance might not be Ineffectual, to Return to New York tho’ He had Arrangd his Af fairs for retiring totally from Congress. 2 The Inclosd is the only finishd Business which I can now transmit, as it differs materially from the for mer Mode of Disposal of western Territory proposd at Annapolis and may be of Service to some of our Citizens Request you will make it as publick as you can conveniently. You have no doubt heard of the Arrival of the Empress of China and as much of the Mercantile Import of the voyage as I can give— some of her owners being in Philada. Pray Inform me if you have any Accot of the Briggs Arrival in Ireland & any other Intelligence you may Think proper. In my next I may probably send A Copy of the In-
