May 28, 1785 407 but to smuggle a very considerable quantity to the West Indies. I could heartily wish to see the merchts. of our State engaged in this business. Don’t you think an exemption from duty on all goods imported im mediately from India in Virga, bottoms to our State might have a good effect? RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Grayson’s hand; signature clipped. 1 See Grayson to Madison, May 1. 2 See JCC, 28:375-81. 3 For this May 4-5 compromise, that “one half the land is to be sold by sections or lots, & the other half by entire townships,” see JCC, 28:335-39. Samuel Holten to John Avery My dear Sir, New York, 28th May, 1785. I have been honored with your attention of the 12th instant. We are now wishing to hear who is Govr. of Massachusetts, & how you have compleated your Elections. Messrs. Lowell, Sullivan, & Parsons are with us, or more properly might be said, have been with us for Messrs. Lowell & Parsons, are gone to Phila.; and nothing more will be done, I conclude, at present, respecting the fcederal court than filling it up & agreeing upon a time to meet as several of the Gentlemen that were appointed have de clined accepting. The ordinance respecting the western territory may come to hand officially before this, however. I will do myself the Honor of inclosing a copy. I have lately been informed, that it is given out with you that this is the last year that Dr Holten has a right to sit in Congress if elected. Surely this must be a mistake, And some persons may be willing that my friends, at court, may consider me in this light; however I beg you not to think, that I am seeking to be elected, when I assure you, I only wish that the members of the court may not be deceived. I remain, with perfect respect, your most obedient. FC (MHi: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. Samuel Holten to Elbridge Gerry My dear Sir, New York, 28th May 1785. I have been honored with your attention of the 22d ultimo: it seems you were then waiting “to hear it announced, who is our Gov ernor,” which is the case now with us; I am at a loss how to form a
