May 28, 1785 409 tention of the 23d instant, and have forwarded the same to Mr. Shelden; when I receive his answer, I will endeavor to make you acquainted with the same. Please to make my re spects to Mrs. Bergen, & be assured that it will give me pleasure to render you services.” 2 Holten had employed Sheldon intermittently as a personal servant during his terms in Congress since 1778. See these letters, 15:311n. An instance of the nature of the work expected of Sheldon is set forth in the follow ing “instructions to Jerry” drafted by Holten “June 27th,” printed in the Danvers Histori cal Society Collections 20 (1932): 50. “You are to proceed to Philadelphia and send on by water or land the chest left there, and the articles therein, if they can be sent on reasonably if not, to dispose of the same, and account with me for the money. “You are to apply to the bank and present two small bills for 30 Dollars, and procure me the money. “You are to apply to Mr. Martin and procure my clothes and the thirty dollars you paid him, as you must account with me for the money you let him have. “You must pay my bills for keeping the horses, and mind that they are right cast. “You are to pay Mr. Sword for my part of the beer. “You are to pay all such other accounts in Philadelphia as you know I ought in jus tice to pay. “You are to get my shoes of Mr. Brown if they are made, and if you think they will suit. “You are to proceed with great moderation and consult your own health, and return by water or land as you find it most convenient.” Richard Henry Lee to John Adams Dear Sir, New York May the 28th. 1785 I had the honor of writing to you by Colo. Smith, which letter I doubt not but that you have, or will in due time, safely receive. 1 My hopes are great, that your wisdom, and the good sense of the British Administration, will extinguish the mischievous discord that has been so artfully and industriously fomented by the enemies of both coun tries to the essential injury of both, and in violation of the best princi ples of humanity. A set of acrimonious disappointed people, who meaning the gratification of their own malice and self interest, are poisoning the minds of men with plausibilities, and theoretic reason ings, that are opposed to the true state of things; and whose counsels if pursued, will tend only to plant dissention and distress, where mu tual good & common happiness should be cultivated, and will flour ish. The enclosed ordinance will shew you the measures that we are taking to dispose of western lands for the extinguishment of the pub lic debt. It seems probable that this will have very powerful operation in effecting the end designed by the System. For the country is fine beyond description, both in soil and climate—Abounding with all those primary and essential materials for human industry to work upon, in order to produce the comfort and happiness of mankind. Don Diego de Gardoque has just announced to me his arrival at Philadelphia in quality of Plenopotentiary from his Catholic Majesty,
