414 May 29, 1785 LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). Addressed: “Mr. T. Hutchins, Geographer of the United States.” 1 See JCC, 28:375-81, 398; and the preceding entry. New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare Si r New York May 29th, 1785. We have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency copies of the late Indian treaties as also sundry resolutions of Congress for entering into a treaty with the Cherokees and all the other Indians southward of them within the limits of the United States for the purpose of mak ing peace with them and receiving them into favour and protection and removing all causes of future contention quarrels 1 —and at the same time enclose the ordinance opening a land office in the several states which passed the 23d instant2 by the unanimous voice of all the States present—and we flatter ourselves is so adjusted as to give satis faction to the State we have the honor to represent and at the same time we have the most confident expectations that in its operation it will considerably diminish the domestic debt by absorbing a great number of the public securities. The general opinion of the goodness of the soil in this western country & of the happy temperature of the climate, has been increasing with every new investigation of it, and we think it beyond a doubt that many of the creditors of the United States in the middle and southern parts of the Union have fixed their attention to this as a fund from which they shall soon be able to pay themselves. We submit it to the citizens of New Hampshire whether as sociations may not be formed for the purchase of townships in this territory for future settlements or dispositions with advantag the dis tance notwithstanding. It was the inclination of the eastern states in conformity to the usual mode of locating lands in that part of the country by townships—to have adhered to that method throughout the whole country to be disposed of by the ordinance but as a differ ent method had always been adopted to the southward—it became necessary to agree to alternate by lots and townships on the principle of compromise. The design of a surveyor from each State was that by going into the country they might be able to communicate information to the state for which they were appointed of the quality of the lands, and such other circumstances as may direct the citizens in making their pur chases. We have nominated Mr Nathaniel Adams of Portsmouth as a surveyor who is unanimously chosen, we wish he may accept his ap pointment, 3 but should he decline we ask the attention of the legisla ture to this subject—and that they would send forward some suitable person who would undertake the business and we doubt not his im-
