May 30, 1785 417 2 Pickering’s June 1 response to King is in King, Correspondence (King), 1:104-5. 3 Pickering took up these subjects in a letter to King of June 4. Ibid., pp. 106-7. 4 King also wrote the following brief letter to Mercy Warren this day. “Madam, Mrs. [Richard] Montgomery [Janet Livingston], who has been some weeks absent from this city at the manor of Livingston, where she will pass the summer, hath done me the honor to cover to my care the accompanying Letter, with a polite request, that it might be forwarded to Milton. “I comply with this injunction of Mrs. Montgomery with the most entire Satisfaction; since it furnishes me with an occasion, which I have long desired, to express the very great veneration and Respect, with which, I have the Honor to be, with the highest con sideration, madam your very obedient servant. Rufus King” Richard Henry Lee to James Madison Dear Sir New York May the 30th 1785 Two days ago, and not sooner, your favor of March the 20th 1 was deliverd to me, so that you find it has been more than two months travelling thus far. It seems to me that our Assembly were influenced more by the letter than the spirit of the Confederation. The conse quence will certainly be, if our meetings are slow as usual, that Vir ginia will be unrepresented for some time after the federal year com mences. 2 Tho no great mischief arises from this, the appearance is not so handsome as it should be; besides that it partakes too much of that too common inattention to the great Council of the U. S. upon the wise conduct of which so much depends. I am very happy to see by the Newspapers that the business of open ing Potomac goes on so well. Tis certainly an object of great conse quence to extend our internal navigation. Concerning James river I have heard nothing. 3 When I was in our Assembly it appeard to me rather to be the wish, than otherwise, that Kentucky should apply for separation—And I should suppose that if, when they found them selves compitent to the business of Self Government, they properly ap plied to our Assembly, no good objection could be made to a separa tion—For they have, & will remain for a long time, if not always, more expence than profit to the rest of the country. 4 Washington County seems to be stimulated by a troublesome person who for self aggran disement appears willg. to dismember that part also, & join with the Revolters from N. Carolina. This last seems to merit the wise 8c firm at tention of Government & the Legislature. 5 We have, after much de bate indeed, & great waste of time, at last pass’d an Ordinance for dis posing of such part of the Lands N. W of the Ohio as belongs to the U. S. & have been purchased of the Indians. If this proves agreeable to the public, it will extinguish about 10 Millions of the pub debt. And the remaining lands, going southward to the Mississippi, will nearly discharge all the domestic debt—Besides the probable prospect that
