June 4, 1785 429 RC (Vi: Anderson-Latham Papers). 1 Maj. Alexander Parker had just been elected by Congress on May 27 as surveyor for Virginia under the new land ordinance. Col. Richard C. Anderson had been commis sioned by the governor and council of Virginia as “principal surveyor, on behalf of the Continental Line” in January 1784. See/CC, 28:398; and Journals of the Council of Slate of Virginia [1776-1791], 5 vols. (Richmond: Virginia State Library, 1931-82), 3:322. Samuel Holten to James Warren Dear Sir New York, 4th June, 1785. A few days since, I had the honor of forwarding a letter addressed to you, by Mr. Sullivan. The enclosed was brought into Congress yes terday from the post office here; I observed it was not sealed, & took charge of it immediately, & you may be assured it has not been un folded since. Messrs. Lowell, Sullivan, & Parsons are still with us, but nothing more, at present, I conclude, will be done, respecting our foederal court than filling it up, 1 & concluding upon a place to meet, as several of the gentlemen that were first appointed did not accept. We are waiting to hear who is appointed Governor of Masstts.; & by the list I have seen of the honorable court, I should suppose Mr. Bow- doin will be the man. I conclude before this comes to hand, you will have seen the late or dinance, respecting the western territory, which took up much time in Congress, but passed unaniminously at last: I wish that the persons that are so sanguine in their opinions, that the sale of the lands will extinguish so great a part of our national debt may not be disap pointed. I remain, with perfect consideration & respect, your most obedient, S. Holten 2 RC (MHi: Warren Papers). 1 See New York Agents to Massachusetts, June 7. 2 Holten also wrote the following brief letter this day to the Rev. Isaac Story. “I have been honor’d with your polite attention of the 9th ultimo, & immediately attended to the contents. The certificates enclosed will inform you of the state of your notes: & please to be assured that if I have rendered you services it gives me pleasure, & that I wish to be honored with your commands, whenever you think proper.” Holten Papers, DLC. David Jackson to George Bryan Dear Sir New-York June 4th 1785 I have to crave your pardon for not answering your obliging favor of the 30th April Ult before this time—my apology however I hope will be sufficient to account to you for the delay; for some weeks after your
