430 June 4, 1785 favor came to hand, I was tormented with the ague & fever in such a manner every other day, that I had scarce life 8c spirits left to attend to any thing & when I had in some measure recovered, I found you had set out on the Western circuits, so that I waited your return from thence. I will now promise a punctual correspondence & shall thank you very kindly, whenever leisure will admit, to give me a detail of the principal political & domestic occurrences that happen at Phdada. There are very few of importance which escape your observation—to me they will be particularly amusing & instructive & I will promise in return a detail of the same nature from hence. You have seen the Land ordinance. 1 It was but little in the house untill it was ready to pass—it does not please me fully—it was a com promise between the prejudice of education (if I may use the expres sion) in the eastern 8c middle states with respect to their original mode of locating their lands—the eastern people contending for the propriety of locating by townships, 8c the middle 8c some of the south ern folks being in favor of a division in small tracts, so as to suit the circumstances of all classes. I think also that the price is fixed two high—we attempted on the day of passing to reduce it to two thirds of a dollar per acre, but it was carried in the negative. I will thank you for your candid opinion on this ordinance. You have heard of the North Carolina cession of western territory to the United States in June 1784—they gave Congress untill the first of June 1785 to except of the cession; but previous to that time revoked the act of June 1784 8c for bid their delegates in Congress to execute the deed of Cession agree able to that act. The people of that western part of No Carolina which was included in the act of cession have since declared themselves an independent State by the Name of Franklin & plead the act of Cession as aforesaid for so doing & have sent a memorial to Congress praying to be received into the foederal union. 2 This naturally brot the act of cession of North Carolina on the floor, 3 indeed I cannot conceive why it had not been accepted before the act revoking made its appear ance; it was contended by almost all the gentlemen of the law that the act of cession was still good (the act revoking notwithstanding) provided Congress accepted within the time limited in said act, 8c that the exe cution of a deed in form by the delegates of that State, which they then refused to do, was not necessary to vest the title in the United States, for that this was done by the act itself fully 8c completely. It was therefore moved that Congress now accept the cession as aforesaid, this was overruled on the score of policy, that as Congress had delayed to accept the Cession untill the term limiting the acceptance was on the point of expiring & that as it had not been taken up at all, untill a memorial had made its appearance in Congress from a part of that state (stiled by some in rebellion) praying to be admitted into the fed eral union—that taking the matter up at this late hour & as things
