432 June 4, 1785 been directed to come to New-York—from the present disposition of Congress, he will find it absolutely necessary either to come to N. York or resign. 6 With much esteem, I remain Dear Sir, Your Obdt Servt, David Jackson RC (PHi: Bryan Papers). i For the transmittal of this May 20 ordinance, see Charles Thomson to Certain States (first letter), May 28, note 1. 2 See Richard Dobbs Spaight to Richard Caswell, June 5, note 1. 3 See ibid., note 2. 4 See William Grayson to James Madison, May 1, note 10. 3 That is, Charles Pettit and James Wilson. 6 For the difficulties encountered over Michael Hillegas’ reluctance to move his trea surer’s office to New York, see Rufus King to Timothy Pickering, June 17, note. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Lee Shippen N. York June the 4th. 1785. Explains to his nephew why payment for his “Sword Cutler” has been delayed, provides direction for the ship ment of his chaise or “Chair” from Philadelphia to New York by water, and thanks his brother-in-law, Dr. William Shippen, Jr., for procuring his servant who has “just arrived.” As for dining in New York: “The Black fish, Sheepshead, & Sea Bass are now numerous & fine. I wish most sincerely that we had our good Brothers your father company here to assist in the discussion of some of them. Besides, the Cham paign, Claret, Madiera & Muscat are good. I know that your philoso phy is above temptation—Yet I cannot help wishing now that the in ducements might so far prevail as to give us the pleasure of your company a while. It will be unfortunate for us if Mr. Gardotjue should not be a Smoker and so not be provided with Havanna Segars. The most worthy Don Juan Miralles used to supply us so copiously that he has occasioned us to loose all appetite for other smoking.... His most Chn. Majesty has just announced to Congress the birth of another Son called Duke of Normandy.” 1 RC (DLC: Shippen Family Papers). I This March 27 announcement from the French king was read in Congress June b and referred to secretary for foreign affairs John Jay who drafted a congratulatory reply for Congress which was approved June 14. See JCC, 28:433n, 457-58; and PCC, item 190, fol. 44.
