448 June 9, 1785 As the condition of many of these unfortunate Men, who have a claim not merely on the humanity but on the gratitude & Justice of their Country, demands immediate attention. I have the firmest Con fidence that the State of will take the earliest opportunity of making the provision recommended in the enclosed Act. With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most obedt & Most humble Servt 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). 1 For the enclosed June 7 resolve, recommending “to the several States, to make pro vision for” these disabled veterans, see JCC, 28:435—37. 2 To his letter to Pennsylvania president John Dickinson, Thomson added the follow ing paragraph concerning the state’s quota of troops for garrisoning frontier posts: “Having received no answer to my letter of the 12 April last covering the acts of Con gress of the 1, 7 & 12 of that Month relative to the raising a body of troops for the pur poses therein mentioned I must continue my request that your Excellency would be pleased to communicate to me the steps taken by the State of Pensylvania for raising the quota assigned, that I may be enabled to make report to Congress.” PCC, item 28, fols. 94-95. And his letter to Connecticut governor Matthew Griswold opened with the following paragraph on the same subject: “Your letter of the 4th with the Resolution of the gen eral Assembly of Connecticut for raising the quota of troops required by the Acts of Congress of the 1, 7 & 12 April last has been duly received and communicated to the United States in Congress Assembled.” Ibid., fol. 94. See also Thomson to Certain States, April 12, 1785. Richard Henry Lee to Unknown My dear Friend, New Yorkjune 10. 1785 By Mr. Alexander White of Frederick, I had the honor of writing to you from Trenton before Christmas last, 1 but I have not had the plea sure of hearing from you in return, which causes me to doubt your having received that letter. Our intelligence from Europe is not very interesting. The Ministry & Parliament of G. Britain seem to be ab sorbed in the dispute about the Commerce of Ireland, a subject of im portant discussion, & which will probably produce great discontent whichever way determined. Congress has sent Mr. John Adams Plenipotentiary to the Court of London for the settlement of our re maining disputes. Upon the Continent of Europe their differences ap pear to be settling without bloodshed—The Emperor having yielded (so far as we are informed), his claims upon the Scheid. A Plenipoten tiary from Spain has arrived at Philadelphia and is daily expected here. We shall soon learn from him whether or not his Master is dis posed to consent to our free use of the navigation of Mississippi with Spain. You will see in the public papers the Congressional ordinance
