452 June 13,1785 RC (DLC: Shippen Family Papers). 1 Not found. 2 See JCC, 28:13-14, 122, 189-90. 3 In a postscript to a June 22 letter to Shippen, Lec-eonfirmed that “I have spoken with Mr. Secretary Jay and he assures me that he sent by the first Packet that sailed after the Act of Congress passed a Notification to Dr. Franklin that he had leave to retire— How causeless then, & how improper was a censure placed on me in whose department it was not, and when he in whose line it was, had actually done it?!” Shippen Family Pa pers, DLC. Lee, Leiters (Ballagh), 2:375. Richard Henry Lee to William Short Dear Sir, New York June the 13th. 1785 I am much obliged by the goodness with which you have been pleased to remember, and to comply with my request that you would write to me, and I am thereby encouraged to hope that your corre spondence will be continued. It may always be safely conveyed, even when I am away from Congress, by enclosing your letter to the Vir ginia delegates in Congress. It is a point of much uncertainty whether Congress will adjourn or not this Summer—but if they do, it will prob ably not be before the middle of August. When they adjourn I shall go home, but if they do not adjourn, I shall of course be detained here until the end of the federal year, the first Monday in November. The very great uncertainty to which the conveyance of letters is exposed under the present System, discourages exceedingly all free communi cation of sentiments. And upon this occasion, as Mr. Mazzie will prob ably visit you at Paris, he will render unnecessary much writing on my part respecting Virginia; as he has come from that State long since I left it. The principal topics of discussion there at present are, An Act for a General Assessment—A Circuit Court Law—And a plan for opening the interior navigation of Potomac, James, & Elizabeth rivers. The two former were favored by the last Assembly, but meet with much opposition since the recess. The latter of these measures was also a favorite with the last Assembly, and the Legislature of Maryland has joined ours in the Potomac business. How they succeed in the South I know not. But already £40,000 has been subscribed for clear ing Potomac. A Corporation for the purpose is ligitemated, and Gen. Washington is President of the Society. You well know his persevering spirit, and attentive character. These qualities promise success to the Potomac plan. Congress has just finished an Ordinance for surveying & selling that part of the Land N.W. of Ohio that has been lately pur chased of the Indians, for the purpose of discharging our public debts. This will present about 10 Millions of Acres for sale at one dol lar an Acre of Liquidated Certificate debt. Subsequent treaties to be held with the Indians will extinguish their claim to about 20 millions
