June 16, 1785 463 of the requisition of 8,000,000 as was that of the last year. The amt. necessary for the current year abt. 3,000,000. 1. for the interest upon the foreign debt & expences of govt. & 2. the domestic debt. For the latter purpose facilities are propos’d to be admitted. I must confess 1 doubt the propriety of pressing old requisitions & think it wod. be bet ter to ascertain what had been pd. by the several States upon that req uisition, & upon the apportionment under it, what claims those pay ing most had on the others, and then begin anew making also a new apportionment; this wod. be more simple & better understood. I am also rather doubtful of the propriety of doing anything whatever in the domestic debt. Several of the States, Pena, in particular hath ap propriated her money to her own citizens only. From her & the other States, taking the same course, we shall have no support. It appears then better to recommend it to the States to take on themselves the debts of the U. S. to their citizens respectively, let them be pd. by State operations & then after liquidating the whole, and the quota of each is ascertain’d, of the proportion of expences, of the late war, let the balance which either shall have advanc’d beyond its proportion be paid it by the union. This is a new idea nor do I know that I shall sug gest it further, but perhaps may hereafter more especially if it shall ap pear founded in justice and expedience. During the recess of Con gress last year No. Carolina made a cession of territory to the U. S. authorizing her Delegates to make the deed. Before Congress con ven’d she repeal’d it. Lately a motion was made & a report upon it ac cepting the cession supposing the acceptance conclusive on the State. 7 I was surpris’d to find it had so many advocates, there being six States in favor of it. I suspected it wod. have again been taken up but was agreeably disappointed. The act gave Congress a year to accept it in & uses the term at the end of it “provided it shall not be accepted within that term it shall revert to the State.” Yet I wod. not conceive it obligatory on the State untill accepted by U. S. and of course untill that event within the controul of the State. The people within the said territory had seperated themselves from the State & declar’d them selves an independent state under the name of Franklin; their agent was also here at the time upon that subject. 8 He reed, no countenance whatever, and all that was done relative to it was to renew the recom mendation to the State to make a 2d cession. It is in contemplation to send a committee to No. Carolina and Georgia upon the subject of western land & of finance to press their attention to those subjects. 9 But of this as well as of the other objects to which their attention may be turn’d I will write you more fully in my next. The great points which will be before the Union as well in those lines as that of com merce will perhaps have taken their ultimate direction here in a few months or in the course of the year and then the several legislatures will be the theatre of investigation. Committees of Congress may per-
