484 June 27, 1785 1 Although John Langdon had been elected president of New Hampshire on June 8, Long probably assumed he was still addressing Meshech Weare, who had served contin uously since his election as president of the New Hampshire Council in 1776. The dele gates’ letter of July 24 is explicitly addressed “Excelly. Jno. Langdon Esqr.” 2 For Edward Dowse’s nomination and appointment as Continental surveyor for New Hampshire in the place of Nathaniel Adams, see Charles Thomson to the Continental Surveyors, May 28, note 2; and New Hampshire Delegates to John Langdon, July 24. Virginia Delegates to Patrick Henry Sir, New York June 27, 1785. We do ourselves the honor to transmit to your Excellency the copy of an ordinance for surveying and disposing of the lands northwest ward of the Ohio, with the acts of Congress regulating the govern ment of the new States previous to, and the conditions upon which they shall be admitted, into the confideracy. 1 The resolution of the 18th of March last directing a treaty to be held at post St Vincents for making peace and obtaining an additional cession from the Indians, being found insufficient in the means necessary to carry it into effect, upon resuming the consideration of it, it was found expedient to ap propriate additional sums of money for the purpose and to extend the powers of the Commiss’rs as well in the objects of the treaty as to the other important duties which have devolv’d on the Union respect ing that territory. The acts of Congress upon these subjects we here with transmit to your Excellency. 2 It is with concern we find the motives which induc’d us to request from Congress an additional Commiss’r to settle the accounts of the State against the U.S. hath not been sufficiently understood, arising we suppose from our not having sufficiently explain’d them to you. 3 The duty of these commiss’rs by the resolutions of the 20th of Feby. 1782 is to settle the claims of States, and individuals within each, against the U.S. up to the 31 of Deer. 1782 upon principles which had been previously agreed to. Under these resolutions he is only to give publick notice of the time and place at which he will proceed in dis charge of these duties, but by those of the 3d of June 1784, he is in structed to remain stationary or move from county to county as the Legislature or executive of each State may advise. He is also at liberty to appoint what number of clerks he may find necessary to assist him. All the duties and rights which belong’d to one are extended to both. In several states they move, we have been inform’d, from place to place for the convenience of the people; how far this may be neces sary in ours we submit to your Excellency and the Council to deter mine. Dispatch in the settlement of these accounts was our only ob ject; we presum’d the Executive might direct one to settle with the State, and the other with individuals, or if the former are already set-
