June 28, 1785 487 proper places & I hold myself much obliged to you for them. 1 I beg the favor of you to continue them & to suggest any thing that occurs which ought to be altered, added or suppressed. Your suggestions hitherto have given me pleasure & I am sure they will add to the na ture of the work. I have the honor to be your very humble Servt David Ramsay RC (Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres: Correspondance politique, Etats- Unis, vol. 30). 1 Marbois informed the comte de Vergennes on July 15 that he had proposed nearly one hundred alterations in the manuscript, most of which Ramsay had accepted, for which see ibid., 30:138-41; and Ramsay to Marbois, June 7, 1785, note 1. Charles Thomson to the Commissioners of the Treasury Gentlemen, Office of Secretary of Congress, June 28. 1785 I have it in charge to inform you that it is the pleasure of Congress that the frigate Alliance be sold for specie or public securities of the United States and that it be left at the option of the purchaser to pay in either; 1 I need not mention the necessity of altering the tenor of your advertisement to make it correspond with the sense of Congress. I have therefore only to assure you that I am, with the greatest re spect, Gentlemen, Your most obedt & most humble serv. CT. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). 1 For Congress’ June 3 decision to sell the Alliance, and the modification made this day in the terms to be offered the purchaser, see JCC, 28:228, 390, 422, 484. For the original recommendation of the former superintendent of finance Robert Morris to sell the Alliance, and Congress’ resistance of nearly two years to Morris’ recommendation, see Morris to the President of Congress, September 1, 1783, Morris, Papers (Ferguson), volume 8 (forthcoming). Charles Thomson to William Malcom, John Dyer Mercier, and Isaac Roosevelt Gentlemen, Office of Secry of Congress, June 28. 1785 The contractors for supplying the garrison of West point and its de pendencies having by a memorial stated a failure on the part of the late Superintendant of finance and that they have been aggrieved by that failure, the United States in Congress assembled have been pleased to pass the enclosed resolution empowering you to enquire into the particulars and to determine what damages, if any have been
