488 June 28, 1785 sustained, from that failure or from the Superintendant’s withdrawing the Contract and make report to Congress. 1 I am, Gentlemen, Your most obedt & Most humble Servt, CT LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). Addressed: “J.D. Mercier, W. Malcom, & Isaac Roosevelt Esqrs. ” 1 For the enclosed resolution, see JCC, 28:481—83. The contractors for supplying the garrison of West point,” Comfort and Joshua Sands, had submitted a memorial to Con gress on June 13 similar to one submitted by Sands & Co. (in conjunction with other partners) in February concerning “the supply of the moving Army for 1782” which had also been referred to Malcom, Mercier, and Roosevelt. For the disposition of both memorials, and the protracted efforts made to ascertain the damages due the petition ers for the nonpayment of their rations contracts, see Thomson to Malcom, Mercier, and Roosevelt, May 31, note 1. A copy of the enclosed resolution was also sent by Thomson this day under cover of the following brief letter to “Messrs. C. &J. Sands.” “I have the honor to inform you that in consequence of your Memorial the United States in Congress Assembled have been pleased to pass the enclosed resolution a copy of which I have transmitted to the gentle men therein named.” PCC, item 18A, fol. 104. Charles Thomson to James Milligan Office of Secretary of Congress, June 28. 1785 The late Contractors for the moving army and the Contractors for supplying in the year 1782 the garrison of West point & its dependen cies, having stated to Congress a failure on the part of the late Super- intendt of finance & that they have been aggrieved by that failure, Congress have been pleased to appoint the three gentlemen men tioned in the enclosed resolution 1 to enquire into the particulars & determine what damages if any have been sustained from that failure or from the Superintendant’s withdrawing the contract; And that the gentlemen may obtain full information. Congress have as you will see by the enclosed resolution directed you to attend on behalf of the United States, & have empowered you to employ Council if necessary. I am, Sr, Your most obedt & most humble Servt. CT. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). Addressed: “MrJ. Milligan, Comptroller.” 1 See the preceding entry. John Habersham to George Washington Sir, New York, 29th June, 1785. I do myself the honor to inclose you a letter from Miss Ruthey
