494 July2,1785 both the Man & Woman used to Mowing, Threshing &c at 40 Guineas for 4 or 454 Years. The sister of this Woman, a likely Girl about 16, also at 15 Guineas, 3^ Years. If Mamma wishes to obtain any of them, you will let me know, & if they are not gone I will endeavour it, but must in that Case hope for some Money from Stratford, as I Imagine I shall hardly have a sufficiency for that & other purposes here. It is with pleasure that I see you have receiv’d some of Noble. The Servants are I think rather dear, especially as they cannot speak a Word of English, & it will be sometime before they can be made useful.” 1 RC (CtHi: Johnson Papers). 1 Johnson also wrote to “Billy” on July 11, expressing concern over the state of Mrs. Johnson’s health and concluding with the following postscript on the disappearance of their family slave. “Present absconded last Night in Compy. with a free Negro, a tall Fel low. It is probable they are yet about Town. You need take no Notice of it, but if she sho’d appear in yr. Quarter, will mention it to me.”Johnson Papers, CtHi. Charles Thomson to Thomas Hutchins Si r Office of Secretary of Congress, July 2d. 1785. I have the Honor to enclose you an Act of Congress, by which they have been pleased to empower you to employ three or four Indians to accompany you in surveying the western Country. 1 I am, Sir, Your Most obedt humble Servt., CT LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). I For this June 30 resolve to assist the geographer of the United States in surveying western lands, see JCC, 28:488. James McHenry to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer D r gjj. Philadelphia 4 July 1785. I have been on a visit to this place for a few days. Mr. J. Henry is to leave New-York to-morrow whither I return with a great deal of reluc tance and much inconvenience to my private affairs. 1 It is absolutely necessary however that our State should be represented—the requisi tion for 752 having not yet passed the old-paper-money being still be fore Congress—besides many other important questions in which we are peculiarly interested. But altho’ I return immediately to New-York I do not conceive that it will be in my power to continue beyond the latter end of August. I have drawn upon you accordingly for two months which I presume will be the last. In the mean while I hope it will suit some other gentleman to come forward.
