502 July 12,1785 before. I cannot promise any thing but the continuation of my es- teeme for you & of my attachment to the freedom of these States: However, if health should be perfectly restored, I may yet comply with your wishes on the subject you mention. The period will doubtless arrive when the Liberties of this Country will face a sacrifice—but I hope, in God, that is not nigh. The power giving-System is not abandoned, I find, by its advocates in this City & State; I hope the Rough-Hewer will, therefore, continue to stand with his loins girt & his ax in his hand.- With great respect I remain, Dr Sir, Your sincere friend D. Howell. RC (NN: Yates Papers). 1 Howell was unable to attend Congress May 6 to 25. See JCC, 28:339, 341, 389, 391, 405. 2 Yates, the Continental loan officer of New York, “wrote frequendy and eloquendy, sometimes under the pen names ‘Rough Hewer’ and ‘Rough Hewer, Jr., in defense of the sovereignty of his state and in opposition to Congressional aggrandizement. DAB, 10:598. James Monroe to James Madison Dear Sir New York July 12, 1785. I enclose a copy of the journals so far as they are printed. They con tain nothing you will find respecting the requisition nor the commer cial interests of the union. The former upon the report of a commit tee hath been frequently before Congress of late and as often recommitted, in which state it now lies. As the principal part of the debt which in other States forms a part of the present estimate, for the payment of whose interest the requisition is in that degree made, contracted by Qr. Masters, commissaries &ca with individuals in the liquidation whereof the commissrs. of the U S. with those of each State are now engag’d was contracted in ours by State impressments and of course consider’d and provided for as a State debt, we thought it our duty to propose “that in all cases wherein claims of individuals by payment of the principal or other satisfactory compensation have been transfer’d to the States of which they are citizens, the sd. States shall be consider’d as Standing in the place of the individuals and en titled to all the benefits which wod. otherwise have belong’d to them.” Two thirds of the amt. requir’d will be necessary to discharge the in terest upon the domestic debt, & this may be so modified in the col lection as to admit certificates of interest in discount upon the liqui dated debt. Our object therefore was to extend this facility to the State to obtain for her a discount of so much as she paid to her citizens of those debts due them by the U States, and thereby prevent the pay ment of double her proportion, for the discharge of similar debts
