July 12,1785 503 within other states while she was exhausted by making it to her own citizens. To complete the facility to the States whose accts, were unliq uidated, we also propos’d, “that for that reason and as each State sup pos’d she had advancd her federal quota and requisitions upon a contrary principle, untill they shod, be liquidated, might be injurious to those with whom it shod, be the case, so far as they applied to the domestic debt that the requisitions might be so modified in their col lection as that the States might pay in their quotas in either the princi pal or interest of such accts, as shod, be liquidated.” We presum’d the U States wod. be benefited by a State’s availing itself of this facility, as it must always be the interest of the debtor to diminish the principal in preference to the interest of a debt where the engagment is not to pay interest upon interest. Lastly we propos’d “that dolrs. shod, be de ducted out of the requisition in payment of that amt. of the advances of the State for the expedition to the Kaskaskias &ca.” These proposi tions were not reed, in the most favorable manner. 1 As to the first they said “that the assumption on the part of the State & payment to its own citizens of the debts due by the U S. were voluntary acts, that such advances therefore must be consider’d as State-advances and to be taken into consideration upon the final liquidation of State accts, when the advances of all the States and their respective quotas were ascertain’d and apportion’d. That these advances also were in dis charge of specific requisitions to which the State had given its assent in a motion by her delegates when the detachment of Wayne was marching southwds.” We answer’d that the failure in specific requisi tions (and we would grant we had absolutely fail’d which however was not the case) was like failures in all other requisitions, that if we paid less in that than other States we had exceeded in equal degree in other instances, that these payments or failures under requisitions stood on the same ground & were to be settled on the same princi ples. That the resolution respecting Wayne was confin’d only to the troops under his command and untill he shod, reach the Marquis of Fayatte, or if extended to all the regular troops then in the State or during the campaign it had no connection with the Militia and State impressments for militia & regular troops; or if extended to the whole in either instance and untill the payment of the whole requisition, for the extra-advance there shod, be some consideration. In opposition to the 2d proposition it was urg’d “that here is the estimate of the pub lick debt for the payment of whose interest a requisition is to be made; how can the interest be paid upon the estimate when the money necessary for it is to be applied to the discharge of the princi pal in some of the States.” Upon the 3d proposition we had previously taken the sense of Congress but we thought proper to bring it again to their view that we might know what they intended doing in it. They were all three committed after several days debate & the opinion of
