506 July 13, 1785 David Jackson to George Bryan Dear Sir New York July 13th 1785 A little excursion for a few day on long Island prevented my atten tion before this time to your two last favors of the 7th & 9th Inst. I am sorry to find the Wioming people so very obstinante in their resis tance to the laws of Pensylvania, they must have secret abetors from some interested persons in Connecticut, otherwise ever since the de cree of Trenton I should have thought it their interest peaceably to have submited. They have it is true many of them been cruelly treated by interested citizens among ourselves, but when the legislature inter fered in their behalf & afforded them every relief, they were bound at least in gratitude to an acquiescence to those laws which gave them such liberal protection. Mr Wilson when here last week showed us the Report of the Committee of the Assembly to Council on this Wioming business 1 —it is not very favourable to those people, as the assembly meets in August next, it was thought best not to move in this business here untill their sentiments was known on the subject in consequence of the Report of their Committee—accordingly Thursday the 15th of Septr next is fixed by the delegates of this State with the approbation of those of Connecticut, to introduce the business in Congress—in the mean time the sentiments of our Legislature will be obtained. I should suppose the previous question when the matter comes to be agitated in Congress will be, whether those people are entitled under the articles of confederation to a federal court, to determine the pri vate right of soil? 2 Should this question be determined in the nega tive, then the Legislature & the Executive of the State would be at full liberty to adopt such measures as to them should seem meet to bring those offenders to justice, but before this point is settled, coercive measures on the part of Pensylvania would probably be premature. The buildings at Fort Pitt solicited to be given up I believe were built principally during the war; I am told they are somewhat remote from the old Fort; they seem to me to come fully within the acct, of 28th Feby 1780, but I think it rests with the United States to judge whether they are necessary to be retained or not. 3 I do not know that any Quarter Master or other officer of Congress has any concern in the matter. There is however something mysterious in this subject. The delegation a few days ago received a letter from President Dick enson in Council, desiring them to procure directions from Congress to the commanding officer at Fort Pitt, that on his removal from that place, he deliver up the possession thereof to John Ormsby, Michal Huffnagle, John Proctor, Thomas Galbraith & Robt Galbrath Esquires or some of them citizens of the State—no reasons are assigned to us why the measure becomes necessary. The business of appointing com missioners to investigate the accounts of the late superintendant of
