July 13,1785 507 finnance, has been for sometime at a stand, because suitable charac ters seem difficult to be found. I confess myself at a loss on the sub ject—the influence of the great man is so extensive in Philada, that few probably of the citizens there properly qualified could be found perfectly free from bias—Can you point out any persons either in Pen- sylvania or elsewhere which you would suppose fully qualified? I be lieve there is not much to be feared, provided General M. should as cend the Presidential chair in Pensylvania 4 —he has not steadiness sufficient to pursue any plan long enough to render it very mis chievous, provided he was so disposed—great as the honor may be, yet the seat will be irksome & the tax heavy on the score of peace of mind. I perfectly coincide with you in opinion that the test laws may now rather be of a mischievous tendency & that there is not so much danger to be apprehended from their repeal as is generally supposed; but the great difficulty is to persuade the real Whigs of this truth—it will require some delicacy & perhaps a little management to make this mat ter agreeable to their feelings, & indeed considering their sufferings & services in this revolution they ought not to be wantonly offended. The famous Dr Chandler formerly an episcopal clergyman at Eliza bethtown in New Jersey, 5 but who absconded early in the contest, ar rived here a few days ago from Shelburne, I do not understand that, in consequence of his sufferings for his royal master, his head is adorned with the Mitre, notwithstanding it is generally supposed to have been his most anxious wish—his parish is still vaccant at Eliza bethtown, & it is supposed by many here, they will be disposed to re ceive him again with open arms. Will this conduct be justifiable even on the score of policy? if we cease to punish obnoxious characters, surely it is as much as can be expected, but why reward & court them. I remain Dr Sir, Your Obdt Servt, David Jackson RC (PHi: Bryan Papers). 1 This May 17 committee report is in Susquehannah Co. Papers, 8:241-43. James Wil son’s congressional attendance is difficult to document. Although Edmund C. Burnett listed Wilson as attending July 5 to August 3, this sentence clearly suggests that Wilson was not in New York at this time, and the next roll call votes for which he is recorded are for July 28-29. Cf. Burnett, Leiters, 8:xcv, and JCC, 29:524, 571, 587, 589. 2 For the context of this issue and a discussion of the efforts of the Connecticut set tlers in the Wyoming Valley to obtain a Continental hearing to their “right of soil” rather than merely submitting to the laws of Pennsylvania, see Susquehannah Co. Papers, 8:xxvi-xxvii; and Hugh Williamson to John Dickinson, January 14, 1785. 3 See Jackson to Bryan, July 1, note. 4 Notwithstanding jackson’s expectation, it was Benjamin Franklin not Gen. Thomas Mifflin who succeeded John Dickinson in the presidential chair in October. 3 Thomas Bradbury Chandler (1726-90), an outspoken Anglican clergyman and au thor of a spirited pamphlet attack on Congress in 1775, What Think Ye of Congress Now, had just returned from exile, but failing health prevented him resuming clerical duties in America although offered the episcopate of Nova Scotia in 1786. DAB.
