July 14, 1785 509 1 The enclosed letter from Dominique L’Eglise “offering information touching the claims of Canadian refugees” is not in the PCC, but for Congress’July 12 order referring it “to the commissioner for settling the accounts of the State of New York,” see JCC, 29:531. 2 This day Congress also directed that a memorial from Marianne McClure concern ing tools confiscated by the Continental Army be referred to Barber, which Thomson forwarded with a brief cover letter dated July 15. See PCC, item 18A, fol. Ill; and JCC, 28:195n, 459n, 534. Elbridge Gerry to John Adams My dear Sir, New York 14th July 1785 I have lately returned to this City after four Months Absence, & am favoured with your several Letters of the 31st Jany, 9th of March & 13th of April, 1 in neither of which is any Mention of several Letters I wrote to You in Jany, Feby & March last. You wish to be informed when “You are to be one of Us”? the Answer is easy, when You please. I have enquired of my Friend King whether any Order is taken for enabling your Colleagues to draft Money, & he informs me, that while I was absent the Matter was committed to the Board of Treasury, & he thinks they have made the proper Arrangements. With Respect to the Money which You have borrowed & applied to discharge Mr Morris’s Drafts, three Commissioners are to be appointed to examine his Ac counts & if You can transmit to the Board of Treasury a State of the payments to Mr Morris, they will deliver it to the Commissioners. The States begin to act with Spirit respecting Commerce. N Hamshire & Massachusetts have by legislative Acts prohibited the Ex portation in british Bottoms of any kind of American produce, & laid heavy Imposts on british Manufactures, especially such as can be car ried on in those states. Congress are considering of the best Mode of obtaining additional Commercial powers for the Regulation of inter nal & external Trade, but the Measure is embarrassed & they have come to no Conclusion at present. The Department of foreign Affairs under Mr Jay, of the War Office, under General Knox, of the Treasury under Mr Walter Livingston & Mr Osgood, with a third Commissioner to be elected who will proba bly be Mr Eveleigh of So Carolina are well administered. Mr Gardoqui has had an audience & Mr Jay will probably be appointed to negotiate with him. Governor Rutledge is appointed Minister to the Hague. Congress have passed a land ordnance which having been printed in all the papers You have undoubtedly seen. I think the price at a Dollar an acre too high, but the Lands properly managed may be a good fund for sinking the greatest part of the national domestic Debt. Mr Jay has made an excellent Report respecting the Consular Convention signed at Paris, which You may be assured (I think) will not be ratified.
