510 July 14, 1785 Our Finances are a little embarrassed but I conceive the Way is clear for retreiving of publick Credit. The Debt of the public as I men tioned before may be greatly lessened by the sale of Lands, if properly managed. A short Time will I conceive increase our Staples; which have been greatly lessened by the War, so as to exceed our Imports, which happily for Us are daily decreasing. A Ballance of Trade must then ensue, which will supply Us with Bullion, & facilitate the pay ment of Taxes, to which We are now competent, if We had but a Medium—to be very honest with You, I think America will by being pressed by public & private Creditors, be brot to her Reflexion, & dis cover that she has acted like a foolish young Heir who with a great Fortune has embarrassed himself by Imprudence & Extravagance; & after this Discovery she will retrench her Expences, adopt a System of (Economy, discharge her Debts, & then subsist independently & with Dignity on her own Means. You know I am no Friend to gloomy Phi losophy, the brightest suits me best. Adieu My Friend & be assured I am yours sincerely on every Occasion, E Gerry [P.S.] We have a Report before Congress for establishing a Mint.2 RC (MHi: Adams Papers). i These letters are in Adams’ letterbooks, Adams Family microfilm, reel 107, fols. 323-25, 340-42, 356-57. Those of January 31 and March 9 are also in Austin, Life of Gerry, 1:464-67, 474—77. 2 See JCC, 28:354-58; and William Grayson to George Washington, July 25, note 5. Samuel Holten to Nathaniel Gorham Dear Sir New York, 14th July, 1785. Since I had the pleasure of addressing you last, I have taken notice of your appointment as a delegate in Congress & a judge of the court of common pleas, & permit me to congratulate you on the Acct. I feel myself embarrassed how to conduct with propriety, for if I should leave Congress immediately, it might look as if I had taken some exceptions, at my not being noticed in the late elections & on the other hand, I should not be willing to tarry here, if I had reason to believe that my immediate return would be most agreeable to my constituents: it has been mentioned here that the honorable court considered me not eligible, but, I think, I hinted that matter to you in my last, 1 and you being present, I make no doubt, gave the house in formation if it was a question there: your opinion upon the matter would lay me under renewed obligations. I remain with great consideration & respect, your most obedient
