July 19, 1785 517 ought always to govern between the manufacturer & purchaser, for it is as much the interest of the one to vend his manufactures, as it is of the other to purchase them. Mr. Pettit left this last week for Philada— his private affairs called him off from Congress for a few days—as for Mr Wilson, we need not expect him again before September & proba bly then he will make no more than a flying visit. Most respectfully, I am your Obdt Servt, David Jackson RC (PHi: Bryan Papers). 1 These two New Hampshire acts, adopted June 23, 1785, are in PCC, item 74, fols. 25-32. 2 See Massachusetts Delegates to James Bowdoin, August 23, note 5. Lambert Cadwalader to Charles Stewart Dr Sir Trenton 19 Aug. [i.e.,July] 1785 1 I have reed, your Favor 2 by Capt Dick and am obliged to you for the Sketch of Politicks you have given me. I am to call on Houston this Morning to converse with him on the same Subject. You know the Em barrassment to which Persons are liable on their first coming to the House. It is some Time before you find the Clue of Politicks, and as I am not fond of the Trouble of searching for it (in which too there is always some Risk of being deceived) I am very glad to receive Infor tion in a Way that I can depend on. It has ever been my Determina tion if the N York Delegates should play us false, to give my Vote for Philada. It would be treating this State with an Indignity wh. I could not well bear, & would really place our Delegates in a Point of Light to the World which would expose them to Contempt & Derision. I never was of Opinion Gr. Livingston would accept—he has acted just as I expected—he has had the Merit of recg. the Offer and the Opportunity of giving his Refusal. 3 As to the Requisition I’m really apprehensive it will not take Place this Session of Congress. I’m very anxious to have our Trade put on a respectable Foot, otherwise I’m afraid all our fine Crops will not carry us thro’ our Difficulties. As to the Ordinance for the Western Terri tory it seems to me the Indians will have much to say to it—they have I am told effectually done away the Force of it for the present by taking up the Hatchet against our Settlements. I shall leave this Tomorrow or next Day at farthest for N York. Yours &c LC RC (NCooHi: Stewart Collection). Addressed: “Honble. Charles Stewart at the Union Farm. ” 1 Cadwalader apparently wrote this letter on the 19th of July rather than of August. He concludes with the observation that he is about to set off for New York, and it is
