July 19, 1785 519 first Money that sho’d be brot in to that use.” I shall probably be at Stratford in the course of next week, where I shall hope to receive a remittance from you, which may enable me to return to my Duty here. Or if it cannot be done immediately, I beg the favour of a Line from you acquainting me when it may be expected, that I may arrange my affairs accordingly, & am with the greatest respect & Esteem, Dr. Sr„ Your most obedient, humble Servant, Wm. Sami. Johnson 1 RC (CtHi: Hoadley Collection). 1 At the foot of this letter, Johnson’s colleague Joseph P. Cooke also appended the fol lowing letter to Lawrence, the treasurer of Connecticut. Sir, I should at this time have been in the same Predicament with Docter Johnson had I not lately procured a little Money from my Freinds at home, which will enable me to tarry a few Weeks longer. But as that will soon be spent I could wish to be informed when I may expect any Remittance of the Sum lately granted by the Assembly, after the Doctor shall have been supplied: for unless he be enabled to return in a short time it will be of little Consequence for me to remain here.” Richard Henry Lee to John Jay $' r > Presidents House 19th July 1785 The letter from his most Christian Majesty mentioned in yours of the 18th instant is to be received in the same manner as the late letter from his Majesty was—And I have the honor now to inform you that I shall be ready to receive Mr. De Marbois here tomorrow forenoon at half an hour after ten oClock. 1 I am, with much esteem and regard Sir your most obedient and very humble Servant, Richard Henry Lee RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). 1 Jay had enclosed ajuly 18 letter to him from the French charge d’affaires, the mar quis de Barbe-Marbois, asking instructions on “when and in what Manner” he was to de liver a May 10 letter from Louis XVI to Congress acknowledging Congress’ letter to him of December 11, 1784. And Jay had continued “I presume that this will be received as the last Letter [of March 27, announcing the birth of a prince] was, and therefore re quest the Favor of your Excellency to inform when it will be most convenient for you to receive Mr. Marbois for that purpose.” See PCC, item 120, fols. 372-76. For the original letter to the King, see JCC, 27:682-83; and Lee’s letters to Benjamin Franklin and to the marquis de Lafayette of December 11, 1784. For Congress’ re sponse to Louis XVI’s March 27 letter, see Charles Thomson to Jay, June 14, 1785. Charles Thomson to John Dickinson Dear Sir, New York July 19. 1785 I have received your letters of the 12 and 16, but am greatly at a loss how to answer them. It must be allowed that the federal government
