520 July 19, 1785 is weak and inefficient. But the question is to what cause is this owing? To an imperfection in the Confederation or to a defect in the consti tutions of the several States? to a want of energy in the executives or a disinclination in the people to submit to such regulations, restrictions & government as are necessary for the general defence, tranquility & glory of the Confederacy? Will the vesting greater power in the fed eral council conquer the aversion which the people too generally seem to have to a strict government? Will it reconcile them to a more punctual payment of taxes? Or rather, taught as too many have been of late to think & speak disrespectfully of Congress, will not an At tempt to exercise power, should it be granted, render the federal council odious, & in case of a failure, contemptible? Notwithstanding all this I am clearly convinced that it will be im possible to manage the general interests of the United States and to give dignity, respect, security & tranquility to the Confederacy, unless more power is entrusted with the national council. Great caution however should be used in conferring this power. I am not for unnec essarily overturning foundations already laid; nor for attempting to give at once all that may be necessary. For this reason the power “of punishing the officers of the confederated republic in some pre scribed manner of proceeding’’ may be deferred for some time. The granting a power “of adjusting the quotas of all charges & expences by an equitable & certain Mode” would in my Opinion be useless, until the states shall have done their part & furnished the proper data, which will lead to that equitable & certain Mode. There are three rules for adjusting the quotas of the several states; One by the value of property, another by the number of inhabitants, & a third by a compound ratio of the two former with a due attention to the quantity of money in circulation. The Confederation has fixed on the first. Whether this would be a just and equitable mode cannot be determined on as the States though repeatedly called on seem not to be disposed to take any measures for ascertaining the value of prop erty. The difficulty I know is urged against entering on the task. But as some rule is necessary to guide the judgment in adjusting the quotas it ought to have been attempted. The Confederation directs that the number of land forces, which each state should be called on to fur nish, be in proportion to the number of white inhabitants in such state, and yet though it has been recommended to the states to make returns of the inhabitants, few have complied. If the states will not fur nish either returns of property or of inhabitants, how would it be pos sible for congress to exercise the power of adjusting the quotas? I wish therefore that the states would in the first instance turn their atten tion to this Matter and adopt some regular plan, dividing their terri tory into districts, for obtaining once every five years as exact an Ac count as possible of the quantity of land & number of inhabitants in
