July 19, 1785 521 each district, the state of agriculture, the staples for commerce, the distance from Market, the means of communication with that Market, the number of towns or villages, the price of commodities foreign and domestic &c. This being done & regular communications thereof made to the federal Council, it may then be proper, if the mode pointed out by the Confederation be found inadequate, to empower Congress from the documents and information given to adjust the quotas of the several states according to their best judgment. A due observance of the law of nations is undoubtedly necessary; but whether it will be proper to entrust Congress with the power of enacting laws for punishing the infractions of it is a matter of doubt; nor do I see how it could be done without entrenching too much on the sovereignty of the several individual states. Before this is moved I would wish to see a law drawn up by Congress and sent to the several states for their adoption, providing for the expeditious, examplary and adequate punishment of all violators of the law of Nations. This would give dignity & respect to the states as well as to the Union. The end would be answered and the sovereignty of each state preserved. When Congress come to have a fixed & permanent place of residence it will no doubt be proper for them to have an exclusive jurisdiction over a small district by which they may be enabled to provide for the security of their own immunities as well as those of foreign Ministers in the place of their residence. As to the power “of imposing and col lecting certain defined internal duties to be applied only as a sinking fund,” considering the present temper and disposition of the people it would be in vain to propose it. It would only tend to awaken jealousy & might enable designing men to divert the people from what a con currence of circumstances seems to be preparing them to grant; and which if granted would in my opinion answer our present purpose; give weight to the federal council and dignity to the nation, and would relieve us from the embarrassed & humiliating state under which we now labour: I mean the power of regulating commerce and of imposing duties at least on importations for the purpose of raising a revenue. The conduct of our late enemy since the peace has done a great deal towards preparing the minds of the people to grant this. The urgent calls of the public creditors and the difficulty of levying taxes to satisfy those just and reasonable call concur in facilitating it. The opportunity therefore is favourable & ought to be improved. There is a tide in the opinions as well as affairs of a people which if carefully watched and improved facilitate great events. If to this were added a power of raising a revenue from the post office, public credit would soon be restored and the nation placed in a respectable light. But whether it would be prudent even to mention this latter at pre sent is doubtful. I am rather inclined to think it would not. I believe it will be best to follow the maxim of DeWitt 1 & do one thing at a time. I
