July25,1785 531 the account of the excessive importations made on credit, and the mismanagement of the importers in the Sale of their merchandize. Congress it is said must have additional powers or commerce will be totally ruined; do those who make this observation, know the difficul ties of effecting what it only costs them a breath to express? Have they considered the mode of effecting their wishes? Do they know that one third of the States are individually interested in opposing any com mercial treaty, or regulation whatever? Have they heard the Southern States remark, that their countries yielded a plentiful and valueable export in their Indigo, Rice, Wheat, & Tobacco, that the freer the Trade the more valueable to the states possessing these Staples—that the more numerous the nations are who come to their countries to buy their Produce, the greater the competition among the purchasers, and consequently the higher the price at which the produce will sell; whilst the quantity of Goods in different hands suitable for their market may be purchased at a lower price than if the laws of trade restricted any power or nation in their intercourse. These are some of the Difficulties which will authorise an opinion that litde can at present be expected from Congress; the eastern states will consent to vest powers in Congress competent to a regulation of foreign commerce, but the Southern States will never consent to regu lations which will effect what the northern States desire. I wish I could meet you, we would converse more freely than we can write. I am convinced of your friendship, and desire you to beleive mine pure and inviolable. The last clause in your Letter gave me un easiness, could I consistently leave congress at this Time I would see you, but at present it is out of my power. Write me frequently—I shall hear from you with peculiar pleasure. Adieu your’s affectionately R King Supplement Mr Adams was received with the usual Ceremonies & Honors at the British court on the first of June. We have dispatches from him in forming only of his reception &c &c his private interview with the King must have been curious. 1 What he will negotiate time must mani fest. Young Mr. Adams 2 arrived here a few days since having left his fa ther about the middle of May on his Departure for London—as late as the last of May the Drought had continued to be most severe, the Corn will be short in Europe, the Herds are greatly diminished for want of forage, and the apprehension is great as common in populous Countries that the human race will suffer from famine. This remark may be drawn from this information, that if the United States had energy sufficient to prevent the supply of provisions to the W. Indies, and Wheat to Europe, we should be able to negotiate com mercial Treaties on more advantageous terms than at present.
