August 1,1785 539 ready to persue their true interest. This perhaps may be as good a rule as any by which to judge of the propriety of giving time for payment of the debts due from the U.S. to G.B. previous to the War. Now it is cer tain that the most knowing Merchants Creditors upon that ground here, have expressed the greatest willingness to consent to receive pay ment by regular instalments, allowing reasonable time between—the reverse of this, & a rigorous demand of payment as quickly as law pur suits would enable them to recover, they are well aware would be much less conducive to their interest than the first method that I have stated—And this seems to be the plan generally agreed upon, by in stalments I mean. Permit me Sir to animadvert a little upon the strange objection taken up in G. Britain by some ill informed writers, whose mistakes appear to have affected even Government itself. It is, that Congress have not power to make effecient Treaties of Com merce. You know Sir that the Confederation has obtained the solemn legal sanction of every Legislature in the U. States; and is therefore a compact as binding as can exist among Men. What then does the Con federation say? By the 9th Article Congress have a clear right to make whatever treaties of Commerce they shall judge proper, subject only to two limitations. One, that foreigners may be compelled to pay as high duties & imposts as the people of any state pay. The 2d that any State may in Toto prohibit the export or import of any particular species of Goods. With respect to the first limitation, is it not one that all states upon earth ought to possess & do actually (I believe exercise). And can a British Minister be serious in refusing to make a Commercial Treaty with Congress because they have not power to permit the Sub jects of G.B. to Trade with the U.S. under less oppressions than the Citizens of the States pay? Or Can it be supposed that if Congress pos sessed this power that so unequal a system would ever be agreed to by Congress. It is not a supposable case, & therefore this limitation can be no true or just ground of objection. The second & only remaining one, seems to have no little force, because a State must be evidently insane that will in toto prohibit any species of export or import unless its very existence depends upon such prohibition. And in that case, the power and the exercise of it is indispensable, and reaching to Self preservation must for ever & will for ever be exercised. ’Tis evident that the interest of States will effectually prevent any such total prohi bition unless in the extremity above stated—And interest is the surest principle forjudging how Men & States will Act. Now then, I say again, that these two limitations excepted (which for the reasons already as signed are no just objections to the making a treaty of Commerce with Congress for want of power) Congress have a clear & unquestioned right to make any treaty the[y] choose. And it is remarkable that ex cept some factious writers in G. Britain, the objection exists not. You
