540 August 1,1785 know that very discerning Nations have treated with us under perfect knowledge of our Confederation, without producing any objection of this kind. When therefore the people here are informed of such an objection from G.B. they conclude universally that the objection is too feeble to be real, & that the true cause is something else. That some thing they are not at a loss to discover, and therefore the general out cry now is, let such regulations be instituted as will put the Trade of G.B. with us under such restraints as may satisfy them that they are mistaken in the supposition that their share of our Commerce will be large as they please, & therefore that no Treaty is necessary. Let us give decided preferences to the Ships not only of our own country, but to those of the nations with whom we have Commercial Treaties. It is very evident that these measures will take effect if Britain does not soon depart from her present System, and take up one more liberal. To be sure, the consequence least prejudicial to them, but which is yet very important, must inevitably take place under their present plan— to wit, a very contracted use of British Manufactures, because their regulations prevent the means of paying for them & of course will greatly limit the use & the purchase of them. I lately wrote to you concerning my friend Mr. Thomas Steptoe in India 2 —have you received my letters, and have you had it in your power to do any thing for him? I wish much to know. Congress have taken measures for exposing to Sale Several Millions of Acres on the N.W. side of the river Ohio, a part of the late cession from Virginia, for the purpose of paying off a considerable part of our domestic debt. The Soil & Climate of that Country is incomparably fine, and I have no doubt will be greedily purchased with the public Securities. If this plan succeeds, our debt will soon be removed. Be so kind as present my respectful compliments to Doctor Price, and tell him that I received his packet of pamphlets 3 distributed them among the Members of Congress who received them very thankfully, and with the respect due to so great & able a defender of the liberties of Mankind and rights of human nature. I shall always be happy to hear from you, and am, with the highest esteem and most affectionate regard Yours, Richard Henry Lee. RC (MHi: Adams Papers). I For Adams’ April 29 letter as well as his September 6 reply to this letter, see Richard H. Lee, Memoir of the Life of Richard Henry Lee, 2 vols. (Philadelphia: H. C. Carey and I. Lea, 1825), 2:140-41, 143-44. 2 See Lee to Adams, May 28, note 3. 3 See Lee to Washington, January 16, note 2.
