August 3,1785 545 are the produce of the Country. The Decrease of our Imports, & In crease of our Exports, afford agreable prospects, & must in Time make the Scales preponderate in our Favour; more especially when by Treaties of Commerce, We shall be able to carry our Staples to the best Markets, & purchase what We Want of those who sell cheapest; When in short We shall be able to make the European Merchants bid on each other for our Exports, & undersell each other to have the Ad vantage of supplying Us. The Requisition is before Congress: but We can do nothing with it at present. I have not Time to give You a Detail of this Business & with my best Respects to the Ladies of your Family & Colo Smith must con clude by assuring You that with the highest Respects I remain yours E Gerry 5 RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 Adams’ drafts of these two letters, delivered by John Quincy Adams, are in Adams’ letterbooks, Adams Family microfilm, reel 107, fols. 366-70, 382-84. The former is also in Austin, Life of Gerry, 1:427-31. 2 See Gerry to Francis Dana, July 22, note 1. 3 See David Jackson to George Bryan, July 27, note 2. 4 Gerry was undoubtedly the chief congressional opponent of the Society of the Cincinnati, but he was wrong in his prediction that the dangers it posed to America would be taken up in Congress. The closest the issue came to congressional debate con cerned a report submitted by Secretary Charles Thomson on the petition of a French officer seeking compensation for his wartime service in which his expectation of being awarded membership in the society was noted incidentally. See JCC, 29:700-701; and Thomson to the Board of Treasury, September 9, and to John Jay, October 6, 1785. See also Massachusetts Delegates to James Bowdoin, September 3, note 2. 5 This day Gerry’s colleague Samuel Holten also wrote the following note to the trea surer of Massachusetts, Thomas Ivers. “Please to pay unto Capt. Peter Landais, one hun dred dollars, for which I will be accountable, as a delegate in Congress from the Com monwealth of Massachusetts.” Holten Papers, DLC. James Monroe to William Stephens Smith Dear Sir 1 New York Augt. 3d 1785. I enclose you a letter to my brother 2 which you will be so kind as commit it to Colo. Forrest. Inform him I have reed, his by the last packet & thank him for his kind attention to the request of mine by you. I shall write him by the next. Your arrival with Mr. Adams’s at the same time was fortunate for you both. The kind reception he hath met with at that court is particularly grateful to Congress. It is earnestly hop’d on their part that every jar ring circumstance between us will be amicably adjusted. His letter was previous to his entering on business. What hath been the event of his application upon the points of his instruction—how are they dispos’d with respect to the posts &ca &ca. You write by some private safe hand
