546 August 3,1785 for otherwise it will be improper to trust it by the mail except in cypher & that between us is too-confin’d for a liberal correspondence. I expect your friends of this city will give you more domestic informa tion than I possess. Let me hear from you believe me yr. friend, Jas. Monroe [PS.] Whether Congress will adjourn in the course of the year is in certain, I believe not. A variety of very interesting objects engage their attention. Among these are the commercial affairs of the union. It may be necessary to observe to you that the formation of a commer cial treaty with G. Britain was not in the expectation of Congress (nor do I believe it is at present) when Mr. Adams was sent to that court. We think Congress have been premature in their treaties, at least in the principles upon which they are form’d, “that of the right of most favord nation,” and that all treaties are subservient or shod, be to in ternal regulation. My opinion is it will be better that not a word be sd. to the ministers of this court upon the subject, that the anxiety shewn on our part to obtain these treaties hath injur d our reputation & that all we have obtain’d have put shackles on us. I have not time to dilate upon this subject or would with pleasure. Mr. Philips a gentn. well rec ommended to me will deliver you this otherwise I shod, have feard saying so much on the subject. FC (DLC: Monroe Papers). In the hand of James Monroe. 1 Although Monroe did not indicate the recipient of the letter on this draft, it was un doubtedly written to William Stephens Smith, who had recently been appointed secre tary to John Adams in London. At the opening of his second paragraph, Monroe notes the simultaneous arrival of Smith and Adams in London, an observation that coincides with the following passage from Smith’s June 15 letter to Pres. Richard Henry Lee. “I was so fortunate as to meet Mr. Adams here on the day after I got to this City—25th ulto. & ... to present him with your Excellency’s Dispatches and orders of Congress. See PCC, item 92, fol. 9; and Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783-89, 3:8. 2 Not found, but the letter was undoubtedly written to Joseph Jones Monroe (1770-1824), a student at the University of Edinburgh. As Joseph’s guardian, James had sent his brother to Scotland in 1783 for his education. See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 16:110-11; and Harry Ammon, James Monroe: The Quest for National Identity (New York. McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1971), p. 85. Charles Thomson to Certain States Office of Secretary of Congress, Aug 3. 1785 Enclosed is a duplicate of my letter of the 28 July which accompa nied an Act of the United States in Congress assembled passed the 27, and to which I hope to be honored with an Answer as soon as conve nient. 1 I embrace the present Opportunity of forwarding two copies of the Continuation of the journal of Congress to the 29th July, one for the legislative and the other for the executive branch of Government.
