550 August 5,1785 Charles Thomson to John Rodgers Sir Office of Secretary of Congress, Aug. 5. 1785 The United States in Congress Assembled having this day appointed You one of their Chaplains, 1 I embrace the earliest Opportunity of giv ing you the information, and am, with the greatest respect, Sir, Your Most obedt & Most humble Servt, Cha Thomsons RC (NjHi: Revolutionary Era Collection). Addressed: “The Revd. Doct. Rogers.” i See JCC, 29:613. Rodgers’ August 8 reply accepting this appointment is in PCC, item 78, 19:507-10. 2 This day Thomson also wrote to Mark McCall acknowledging receipt of his August 1 acceptance of appointment as one of the Continental surveyors, for which see Thomson to the Continental Surveyors, May 28, note 3; and to Thomas Hutchins, August 15, 1785. David Ramsay to John Eliot Dear Sir, 1 August 6th 1785 Your favor of the 21st of July came safe to hand by Doctor Gordon. For your friendly sympathy in my late bereavement I am much in debted to you. 2 It has been an awful admonition to Me of the uncer tainty of human happiness. When I thought myself at the summit of enjoyment both in public & private life to be tumbled down into the depth of distress was insted a trying dispensation; but it came from that hand which wisely governs the Universe & directs all things for the best. I sincerely rejoice with you in your domestic happiness. May it be lasting. May it never or not till late in life be your lot to drink of that bitter cup which I have been twice obliged to drain off to the last dregs before I had completed my thirty fifth year. Model my compli ments in the most agreeable manner to Mrs. Elliott & assure her that it would give me pleasure to see the amiable partner of the happiness of my friend. I feel with you the declension of our public virtue. Liberty which ought to produce every generous principle has not in our republics been attended with its usual concomitants. Pride, Luxury, dissipation & a long train of unsuitable vices have overwhelmed our [coun]try. The noble spirit seems to break forth as usual in the north. The Press, the pulpit & all the powers of Eloquence should be exerted to coun teract that ruinous propensity we have for foreign superfluities &: to excite us to the long neglected virtues of Industry & frugality. I see by the papers that you celebrate Independence with an an niversary oration. That is a practice I much applaud. To the many obligations you have already laid me under you would add a very con-
