August 8,1785 551 siderable one by sending me a copy of the performances on that occa sion. On the tenth instant I sail for Charleston in South-Carolina there to reside the months of September & October. I propose to be in New-York next November & to spend the winter here. 3 There or here I shoud be happy in your correspondence & rejoi[ce at] every opportunity of evincing that I [am], with great respect & es[teem], Your very humble servt & sincere friend, David Ramsay. RC (MHi: Andrew-Eliot Papers). Addressed: “Revdjohn Elliot in Boston.” 1 Eliot was previously identified in these Letters, 18:647n.l. 2 Ramsay’s second wife, Frances Witherspoon, daughter of former New Jersey dele gate John Witherspoon, had died in December 1784. Ramsay, Writings (Brunhouse), p. 23. 3 Ramsay resumed his seat in Congress on November 22, 1785./CC, 29:875. Samuel Holten to Nathaniel Gorham Dear Sir, New York, 8th Aug, 1785. I have been honored with your attention of the 28th ultimo. As to coining of copper, 1 several persons have been making propos als, but Congress have not yet determined any thing farther upon the subject, than what I perceive you are acquainted with; Whether they will contract to have it done, or cause it to be made themselves, is un certain, & to give an opinion upon a matter that is to be determined, by such a body as Congress, you must be sensible is a little uncertain: however, proposals given in, I conclude, will be taken up & attended to, when that part of the business comes under consideration; but I rather incline to think, by what I have heard said, by the members, that Congress will cause it to be made themselves: 2 notwithstanding, you may be assured of my attention to the same, if it should come under consideration while I tarry, as it would give me sensible plea sure to render you, or your friend, services. I consider my self under renewed obligations for your intelligence & kind expressions respecting my not being re-elected, 3 & I have not the least doubt, after what I have heard, but the court proceeded in the choice upon the idea you mention; and I am as well informed, that pains were taken to make the members believe it was so, when it was well known, to persons concerned, that I was not only eligible to March next, but for one whole year from the 1st Monday in Novem ber next; however, I will observe to you (as a friend) that had the true reason been known why some persons wanted me out of Congress next year, it would have been most likely to have secured my election, and I submit it to you, whether it was not additionally unjust & unkind to hint that Dr. Holten had once agreed to remove from Trenton to
