552 August 8, 1785 Phila. & with an expectation of being appointed President; but I will only say that it had not the least foundation in truth altho it has an swer’d the purposes intended; & having had some intelligence of what was doing against me, before the elections came on was the reason of my hinting it to you in a former letter. I have now determined to give my constant attendance in Congress as usual, untill the time for which I am elected expires, that the same persons may not have it in their power to say, I left Congress on ac count of my not being reelected. With perfect respect, I have the honor to be your most obedient FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. I The following extract from Gorham’s letter, which is in the Edmund C. Burnett Col lection, DLC, contains the passage to which Holten is responding. “If you remember when we were at Congress togeather a Mr. Bridges [Edward Bridgen] of London a wor thy man and good Friend to America made an offer to Congress to supply them with suitable quantity of copper coin.” For the receipt of this offer, see these Letters, 20.18n. 2 For Congress’ response to the report on coinage that was read in Congress on May 13, see William Grayson to George Washington, July 25, note 5. s That is, as a delegate to Congress when the Massachusetts General court elected a new slate of delegates June 16, 1785. Gorham was at this time speaker of the Mas sachusetts House of Representatives. David Ramsay to Thomas Jefferson Sir, New-York August 8th 1785 In conformity to my promise I continue to send you my history as it comes out. 1 The notes of the first volume though necessary to strangers are well known to Americans who have been in public Sta tions. I flatter myself the second volume which you will next receive will be more worthy your attention than the first. It contains the bril liant campaigns of 1780 & 1781 which were superior in materials for history to any that preceded them. Mr De Marbois has flattered me with an assurance that the work would be acceptable in France & that a translation of it would be de sired. He transmits copies of it with a view to this to the Chevalier de Chatellux. Should an European edition and a translation be thought advisable I have taken the liberty of suggesting a few alterations & hints. I leave this matter wholly to yourself & Mr Marbois correspondent to determine. Perhaps you will not be so well able to decide on it till you see the whole text which I hope you will by the next packet. If there is any merit in the work it is in the chapters that are now striking off. Whatsoever you shall do in the matter shall meet my approbation. If a translation is thought proper you shall not in any event lose by it: if it is not I shall have the pleasure of furnishing you with the reading of the first copy of my work that crossed the Atlantic. I shall be absent from
