August 11, 1785 557 it and that this country shall be a fundamental article in the Act of parting; as well as that they shall be a component part of the Federal Union. The Contract should be Tripartite; the parties, our State, Con gress, & Kentucky. 3 Mr. Jay is commissioned to treat with Mr. Gar- doque, but as yet nothing has been done. The exclusive navn. of Miss’ipi will be earnestly contended for by Spain, who to quiet us on that head will probably grant large commercial benefits. But if we re main firm, I incline to think that the Navign. will be consented to. As yet we only know Officially that Mr. Adams has arrived in London, re ceived his Audience & delivered his Credentials. The next packet will probably inform us of his feeling the B [ritish] pulse & how it beats at the subjects that he is to try them upon. I think with you that there is not great room for hope of Commercial advantages from a Nation whose Appetite for Commerce has ever been ravenous, and its wishes always for Monopoly—And the more especially as we have no com pensation to make. I believe that we may dispose them to be reason able, by a very careful, and considerate restraining of their Trade, in all cases where we shall not injure ourselves more than them by the re straint. But it seems to me clearly beyond doubt, that the giving Con gress a power to Legislate over the Trade of the Union would be dan gerous in the extreme to the 5 Southern or Staple States, whose want of ships & Seamen would expose their freightage & their produce to a most pernicious and destructive Monopoly. With such a power 8 states in the Union would be stimulated by extensive interest to shut close the door of Monopoly, that by the exclusion of all Rivals whether for the purchasing our produce or freighting it, both these might be at the Mercy of our East & North. The Spirit of Commerce thro’out the world is a Spirit of Avarice and could not fail to act as above stated. What little diffculty there would be in drawing over one of the 5 to join the 8 interested States must be very discernable to those who have marked the the progress of intrigues in Congress. In truth it de mands most careful circumspection that the Remedy be not worse than the disease, bad as the last may be. I could say much on this sub ject, but it is not necessary, for I am sure that your good sense reflect ing calmly on the subject will sufficiently discern the danger of such an experiment. Nor do I believe it necessary, being perfectly satisfied that a well digested system of restraint being properly laid before the States by Congress would be universa[l]ly adopted by the different As semblies. I think so, because it will be most evidently the interest of all to do so. It is true that the price of our Staple has been for some time greater at Phila. & here than in Virga. But it is as true the European price did not warrant the price at these two places as the great losses & bankruptcies of the Adventurers plainly prove. Indeed this excess of price at P. & N. Y. was occasioned by sinking Speculators, who to swim a while longer, would go any lengths to keep up appearances by mak ing some remittance to their Creditors aboard. But this business is
