572 August 18, 1785 write their Sentiments on the Subject: and their Letter of the 3d Sept, containing those sentiments, which they desire might be laid before the General Court, the Council could not consider, as there was no meeting of the Council after the receiving of that letter.” i That is, Bowdoin’s letter of August 8 concerning British naval captain Henry Stan hope that was laid before Congress August 15, for which see Charles Thomson to Bow- doin, August 20. 2 For the Massachusetts delegates explanation of their motives in delaying to act on the assembly’s instructions to propose a revision of the Articles of Confederation, see their letter to Bowdoin of September 3. The enclosed July 1 resolves of the General Court, which the delegates had declined to submit to Congress as instructed, read as follows: “Resolved, That it is the opinion of this Court that the present powers of the Congress of the United States, as contained in the Articles of Confederation, are not fully ade quate to the great purposes they were originally designed to effect. “Resolved, That it is the opinion of this Court that it is highly expedient, if not indis pensably necessary, that there should be a Convention of Delegates from all the States in the Union at some convenient place, as soon as may be, for the sole purpose of revis ing the Confederation and reporting to Congress how far it may be necessary to alter or enlarge the same. “Resolved, That Congress be and they are hereby requested to recommend a Conven tion of Delegates from all the States at such time and place as they may think conve nient, to revise the Confederation and report to Congress how far it may be necessary in their opinion to alter or enlarge the same in order to secure the primary objects of the Union.” They were later endorsed by Rufus King: “Resolutions of Mass, of July, 1785, for calling a federal convention to revise the Con federacy. These resolutions with the circular letters to the Governors of the several States were transmitted by Gov. Bowdoin to the Mass. Dels, in Congress, viz, Gerry, Holten & King, who doubting the expediency of the measure, suspended it till the next session of the Genl. Court, wrote to them (3rd of September) their reasons for their conduct, and the Genl. Court resolved that the same should be suspended until further notice.” King, Correspondence (King), 1:58-60. For a discussion of the legislative context of this issue and the General Court’s ulti mate acquiescence in the delegates’ decision not to submit these resolves to Congress, see Van Beck Hall, Politics Without Parties, Massachusetts, 1780-1791 (Pittsburgh: Univer sity of Pittsburgh Press, 1972), pp. 161-65. For an analysis in the general context of the movement for revising the Articles of Confederation to strengthen the union, see Mer rill Jensen, ed., The Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution (Madison: State Historical Society of Wisconsin, 1976-), vol. 13, Commentaries on the Constitution, Public and Private, ed. John P. Kaminski and Gaspare J. Saladino et al. (1981), pp. 28-43. Charles Thomson to Richard Henry Lee Sir, Office of the Secretary of Congress, August 18th. 1785 I have the honor to forward for your signature two Notifications of the appointment of Diederik Leertouwer Consul of their high Mighti nesses the States general of the United Netherlands, one for the State of Newhampshire, the other for Massachusetts. 1 I hope your Excellency will receive benefit from a change of air, ex ercise and a relaxation from business. 2 I heartily wish you a speedy re covery, and have the honor to be with great respect, Your Excellency’s
