August 20,1785 573 Most Obedient & Most humble Servt. C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). i See JCC, 29:631. 2 For President Lee’s “indisposition” and absence from Congress August 17 to September 29, see ibid.; and Lee to Thomson, August 16. William Samuel Johnson to William Judd Dr. Sr. Stratford Augt. 19th. 1785 I receiv’d yr. favr. of the 30th July 1 here where I have been this fort night impatiently expecting those supplies from Hartford without which I cannot return to N York, & where I am sensible it is of much importance I sho’d be, not so much for any particular service I can personally render as to make up such a representation as may enable Congress to proceed on business of Conseq[uenc]e which is now delay’d for want of a fuller Representation. I am glad to find you are Appointd. Agent in the Susq [uehanna] h Business & wish you may be able to procure some Money which is so extremely necessary for the dispatch of Affairs. As to the preparations, all the Pap [er] s I have re ceiv’d being in N York, I can only say that everythg. will be wanted that maytend to shew the Approbation of the State either of their own Claim or of the proceedings of the Company. Particularly I think there was an Act of Assembly enabling the Compy. to sell or locate their Lands or something of that Nature which I Imagine might be very serviceable, but do not now remember to have found it among the Papers transmitted to me. 2 You will I hope be able to procure it as well as whatever Else may be useful, & be at N York at farthest by the time you mention where I shall be glad to see you & am FC (CtHi: Johnson Papers). In the hand of William Samuel Johnson. 1 For which see Susquehannah Co. Papers, 8:252. Johnson drafted the present letter on the verso ofjudd’s letter to him. 2 For this October 1773 Connecticut act, see ibid., 5:176-77. For the background of this issue, see also Hugh Williamson tojohn Dickinson, January 14; and David Jackson to George Bryan, July 13, notes 1 and 2. Abiel Foster to Unknown Sir. New York 20th. August 1785 I received yours dated Providence July ninth, and agreeable to your desire have made enquiry respecting the pay of the Men who served on board Alliance, Capt. Barry. 1 The Board of Treasury now perform the duties of the Agent of Marine and it is their business to pay the
