574 August 20,1785 Men who have not received their wages. I have laid your Letter before them, & have been informed that they have not at present Money for the payment. When the state of the Treasury will permit they will make payment in New York, but are at present of the opinion, that it will not soon be in their power. If the Delegates from New Hampshire for the next year should have an order they might perhaps obtain, & transmit it to the persons to whom it is due. I am Sir your very humble Servt. Abiel Foster RC (PHC: Roberts Collection). 1 Foster’s correspondent has not been identified, and no 1785 documents bearing upon this case have been found in the PCC, but for the abortive mutiny against John Barry that erupted in November 1782 over the navy’s failure to pay overdue wages to the crew of the Alliance and the captain’s subsequent correspondence with the superin tendent of finance on this problem, see William Bell Clark, Gallant John Barry, 1745-1803 (New York: Macmillan Co., 1938), pp. 280-85; Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:180-82, 643-46; and Morris to the President of Congress (second letter), May 22, 1783, ibid., vol. 8 (forthcoming). Samuel Holten to John Witherspoon My dear Sir, New York 20th Aug. 1785. I have been honored with your attention of the 16th in answer would observe, that I make no doubt Dr. Gordon delivered the pack age agreeably to my mind, for it was my intention not to stand upon small matters with you, and as you are pleased to leave it with me, as to what abatement I will make of the 70 dollars, I will therefore name 65 at being less than I should have been willing to have taken of any other person. I expect to return about the last of Septr. or first of Oc tober, and must leave it wholely with you to remit me the money in such way as you can do it with most convenience. The letter enclosed in yours addressed to Mr Wilson I delivered to Dr. Rodgers. With the most perfect consideration & respect, I have the honor to be, Sir, your most obedient servant FC (MHi: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. Addressed: “Rev. Dr. Witherspoon.” Rufus King to Thomas Ivers 5i r> New York 20th August 1785 Mr. Avery wrote me some weeks since that he had a warrant in my favor on your Office, but that from the embarrassments of the Trea sury, you was uncertain when it would be paid.
