576 August 20, 1785 proper to transmit these papers to the Minister of the United States at the court of Lon don” for communication to the British ministry, along with assurances that the United States wished to avoid increasing animosity and to promote mutual goodwill between the two countries. Jay’s report was adopted by Congress on August 18, with the additional order that it “be transmitted to the Executives of the several States” together with copies of Bow- doin’s and Stanhope’s letters. See JCC, 29:626n, 637—47; PCC, item 65, 2:281—94; Diplo matic Correspondence, 1783—89, 2:387—96; and Thomson to the States, August 22. William Grayson to James Madison Dear Sir New York Augt. 21st. 1785. Your favor of 1 has come to hand; I am sorry to hear the doc trine of paper money begins to rear up it’s head in our State. This sub ject has been so well investigated at different periods that I can hardly think any reasonable man can advocate it, unless for the purpose of advancing some object of interest; I remember in the old Government that our exchange rose to 65 Per Ct. This alarmed the merchants so much that the King determined to give his assent to no more paper money bills. Agreable to your request I have made inquiry respecting the paper money of Pensylvany; I understand from Colo. Biddle that it is in a state of depreciation. It will however buy goods, under the in convenience of an additional advance; almost every body says it is mighty good, yet nobody will part with ready money for it at an equal exchange. As I go through Philada. on my return to Virginia I will make the most minute investigation into the matter and furnish you with the result of my inquiries in time for the meeting of our Assem bly. We have done very little since I wrote you last; the States have been so irregularly represented, that it has been impracticable to act upon any matter of consequence; the requisition is still before Congress, and I expect will pass as soon as a sufficient number of States are upon the floor. It rests however at present on principles which are not intirely advantageous to our State; 2 although from a disposition which has lately appeared I think the State will be able to get better terms. I agree with you intirely as to the necessity of a requisition at any rate. Otherwise the public Creditors might be so clamorous, as to render the Govermnt. in some degree odious. The Mint is still before Congress, and it is uncertain whether any thing will be done in it this year.3 The Post Office is also under consid eration, and I am apt to believe the following alteration will take effect. To transfer the transportation of the Mail to the Stages; & to oblige all Sea Captains to deliver in their letters to the Post Office before they are admitted to an entry. The first alteration will furnish three mails a week through our State, & with much more expedition.
