August 21,1785 577 A Post to Canada from New York is talk’d of, also one from Alexan dria to fort Pitt. 4 The change of the 9th article of the confederation hath been the subject of debate for two day’s, & I expect will be taken up shortly again; there appears to be a variety of objections to the change, & I imagine the Members will not even consent to a recom mendation witht. previous instructions from the legislatures. A commission has pass’d Congress to negotiate with & Mr. Gardo- qui, under the direction of Congress; nothing has as yet transpired, neither can I form any idea of what will be the result. There has been no other information from Mr. Adams, except that he hath been re ceived according to the established forms. Mr. Marbois has withdrawn the application for Lonchamp. A nephew of mine has been here & giv’n me an account of the Con vention at Kentucki: from which I conclude an application will be made to our legislature to grant them independance. 5 This matter has been the subject of conversation here, & an opinion begins to prevail that a State has no right to dismember itself witht. the previous con sent of the U. S. Indeed this doctrine appears to me to be founded on the nature of things, & to require no comment to support it. Should our legislature take up this opinion I presume the negotiation will be carried on through Congress, when an admission into the confedera tion may be stipulated at the same time the actual dismembrement takes effect. I do not know that it will be for the interest of our State to withhold independance from them although asked at an unreason able time for themselves, yet it surely is a matter of consequence to her, that at the time they cease to be a part of Virginia, they become a part of the fcederal Union; The different States can have no other in terest in this event than that of dismembering the State of Virga, of whose magnitude they are jealous: They are then gratified with a sim ple dismembrement witht. admitting the new State into the Con- foederation; Will it not therefore be proper to make the dismembre ment & admission into the Union Co-existent acts & mutually dependant on each other. There seems to be another reason why this mode should be preferred; the conditions for the security of property & other matters will be more likely to be observed, if the pacta con- venta are tripartite, & the U. S. as one of the dramatis personae can be induced to guaranty them; indeed if the new State is to take upon it self the payment of any part of the public debt I should think it proper the U. S. should admit it to become debtor pro tanto & the old one exonerated in the same proportion. These are thoughts at first new, and I do not doubt but ideas on this subject much more proper have suggested themselves to your mind. The foederal buildings at Trenton seems rather to lose than to gain ground. A third Commissioner is wanting without whom the other two are useless & a sufficient number of States has not yet been found to
