August 22,1785 583 David Howell to William Greene Sir. New York Aug. 22. 1785. I have the honor to enclose a certificate from the Secretary at War by which it appears that the Widow & children of the late Colonel Christopher Green are entitled to seven years half-pay under the reso lution of Congress of Aug. 24, 1780, to commence from the 14th day of May 1781, the time of his death. The same resolution also recom mends to the State to make provision for paying this allowance on ac count of the U. States; as by reference thereto will fully appear. 1 A regard to the memory of that worthy officer has induced me to make this communication—what measures it may be proper for the Hon. the General Assembly to take on this Subject is submitted, with great deference, to their justice & wisdom, by Your Excellency’s most obedient & very humble Servant, David Howell RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). i See JCC, 17:773. Massachusetts Delegates to James Bowdoin Sir, New York 22d August 1785 In the Letter which We had the Honor of addressing to You the 18th Inst., We acknowledged the Receipt of your Excellency’s Letter of the 8th, & have now the Satisfaction of inclosing You the proceed ings of Congress on the Subject of Capt Stanhope’s disrespectful Con duct towards your Excellency. Congress, conceiving that there would be a manifest Impropriety in entering on their public Journals those proceedings, untill their Effect shall be known, have ordered them for the present to be placed on the secret Journals, & at the same Time, to manifest their Abhorrence of Capt Stanhope’s Insolence, & their firm Intention to support to the utmost of their Abilities the Dignity of the Governments of the several States, they have ordered a Copy of your Excellency’s Letter & Inclosures to the Delegates, with the pro ceedings of Congress thereon, to be transmitted to each of the Execu tives for their Information. 1 We submit to your Excellency’s Consideration the Expediency of or dering Depositions to be taken & transmitted without Delay to Mr Adams our Minister at the Court of London, touching the Conduct of Capt Stanhope in exchanging his Ensign as he passed the Castle—the assaults being made on him by a Sailor who having been a prisoner of Capt Stanhope’s during the War, complained of his abuse whilst in
