August 29,1785 605 joining Parsons, depending upon which post he accepted. See Johnson to Samuel William Johnson, September 21, note. Rufus King to Thomas Ivers Sir, New York 29th. Augt. 1785. Mr. Osgood goes from this city tomorrow for Boston, and will re turn after a few weeks. I profit from this opportunity of requesting you to oblige me in paying to Mr. Osgood the balance of a former warrant in my favor being 100 Dollars—together with the amount of a late warrant for 200 L My. 1 I am induced to think that you will not decline this request if you have it within your power to comply; it is almost improper to mention to you, that in the public employ, the support should be at the public expence, and not upon the private funds of the servant of the State. With great respect your obedient servant Rufus King RC (ICU: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 Apparently Lawful Money. Jacob Read to James Madison Chamber of Congress Sir New York Monday 29th August 1785 An Opinion prevails in South Carolina that the principal holders of Slaves in Your State wish to divest themselves of that kind of property And that tollerable good purchases might be made on good Security being given for payments by Instalments with a regular discharge of the Interest. 1 Under the Impression of this opinion the Honorable Mr. J. Rut ledge of So. Carolina has addressed a Letter to me wishing to become engaged in any purchase I may be able to make, & to make a Joint Concern. You know his Validity & I do not mean to deceive you when I say I am possessed of a property that will fully Authorize me to en gage in a Considerable purchase. My present application to you is to request you to Inform me if you know of any Such persons As may wish to Sell a gang of Hands & the Terms on which they might be had—on Receiving intelligence of the Name & Residence of the party I’d write myself to such person more particularly. Excuse the Liberty I take in troubling you on this Subject and be assured that if any occa sion shall offer in which I can be at all Serviceable to you or any of your friends it will give me great pleasure to Receive your Commands.
