606 August 29, 1785 Congress is thin & I am Sorry to say the States seem averse to do any Act that has in prospect to assert the Dignity of the federal Gov ernment. We Debate—make & hear long & often spirited Speeches but when the Moment arrives for a Vote We Adjourn & thus the feel ings of Individuals & the Welfare of the Union is trifled with. We have not yet got through a requisition for the Expences of the Current year—our Treasury is exceedingly low. We have in short noth ing Pleasing in prospect & if in a short time the States do not enable Congress to act with some Vigour & put the power of Compulsion into the hand of the Union I am free to Confess I think it almost time to give over the force of what I cannot consider as an Efficient Gov ernment. We Want! Greatly want!! the Assistance of your abilities & experience in Congress. I wou’d not be thought to derogate from the Merit or abilities of the present delegation but one cannot help draw ing Comparisons between the Language of 1783 & 1785. It will be al ways pleasing to me to hear of your Health & Welfare. I beg the favour of a Speedy Answer & I am Sir With very great respect and regard, Your Most Obedient & Most Humble Servant, Jacob Read RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 Methodist-led antislavery sentiment in Virginia, which had recently culminated in a petition to the House of Delegates for a general emancipation, contributed to a widespread belief outside the state that slavery in Virginia was declining. See Albert Matthews, “Notes on the Proposed Abolition of Slavery in Virginia in 1785,” Transactions of the Colonial Society of Massachusetts 6 (1899-1900): 370-80. Charles Thomson to Certain States Sir, Office of the Secretary of Congress, August 29th. 1785. On examining the files in this office, I find that only five States, namely New-Hampshire, Massachusetts, New York, Maryland, and Vir ginia have transmitted their laws, passed in pursuance of the recom mendation of Congress of the 30th April 1784. 1 It is suggested that other States have complied with the recommendation, though their laws have not been forwarded. I therefore take the liberty of enclosing the act, and request the favour of your Excellency to inform me what your Legislature have done, and if they have complied, that You would be pleased to transmit me a copy of their Act, that I may report the same to Congress. With great respect, I have the honor to be Your Excellency’s Most obedient & Most humble Servt. 2
