September 3, 1785 609 Rufus King to John Lowell Dear Sir New York 3d. Sepr. 1785 I received your obliging favor by Captain Walden, and he has done Mr Gerry and myself the favor of conferring with him upon his proj ect of introducing from Sweden coined copper to the amount of £100,000 Stg. 1 We called upon Mr. Livingston of the Treasury board, Mr. Osgood being absent, and introduced Captain Walden to him. We were induced to this measure because a Letter written by Capt. Walden to Congress before he left Boston had been referred to the board, who have under their consideration the whole subject of a mint. From the conversation that passed, and the proposals of Capt Walden as I understood them, I am induced to conclude that his plan is of that kind that would by no means advance the interest of the States—the profit on the coinage of copper is very considerable in Great Britain and in most other nations of Europe. The value of coppers or British Half pence is nearly thirty per cent above their intrinsic value; the difference between this excess and the price or value of the Labor employed in the coinage, is a clear profit to the coiners. Very little profit can be made on the coinage of silver, less upon that of Gold, but take the copper coinage in connection with that of Gold & silver, and the mint will support itself. The United States have Eighty Tons of copper in their magazines; a company are here who brought with them from England the various machines & implements necessary for a coinage, and have rendered their services—a coinage in our own Country is more pleasing than one abroad. Nevertheless Capt. Waldons proposals may be beneficial. Mr. Osgood will inform you fully of our situation relative to a fed eral court & other things. We have sent private Letters; and the Secretary has sent duplicates, and Triplicates, to Mr. Flemming & Mr. Sitgreaves, but no answer has come to hand. I hope we shall not be obliged to negotiate farther for Judges. 2 Doct. Johnson prays you would oblige us with a Statement of the claim, 3 the points to be made in the cause &ca. &ca. Mr. Parsons had a brief, 4 will he not send us a copy? I wish it may be in his power. With great respect your most Obed. Servt. Rufus King RC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 For Frederick H. Walden’s copper coinage proposal, see Elbridge Gerry to James Bowdoin, September 5, note 1.
