610 September 3, 1785 2 That is, for judges to hear Massachusetts’ claim to lands in western New York, for which see Charles Thomson to William Fleming, et al., June 9, and to Thomas Johnson, et al., June 21, 1785. 3 That is, Connecticut delegate William Samuel Johnson who had been advising the Massachusetts agents in this case. 4 That is, Theophilus Parsons, who with Lowell and James Sullivan was one of the Massachusetts agents in this cause, along with the state’s delegates to Congress, King, El bridge Gerry, and Samuel Holten. Massachusetts Delegates to James Bowdoin Sir, New York 3d September 1785 We have deferred a Communication of the Reasons which urged Us to suspend the Delivery to Congress, of your Excellency’s Letter to them for reviewing & altering the Confederation, & to each of the Ex ecutives of the States on the same Subject; in Expectation of an Answer to the Letter which We had the Honor of addressing to You the 18th of August last: 1 but lest any Inconvenience should result from a longer Delay, We now beg Leave to suggest our Sentiments on the Subject. It may be necessary previously to observe, that many are of Opin ion, the States have not yet had Experience sufficient to determine the Extent of powers vested in Congress by the Confederation; & therefore, that every Measure at this Time, proposing an Alteration, is premature. But admitting the Necessity, of immediately investing Con gress with more commercial powers, it may be expedient to enquire. First. Whether good policy does not require, that those powers should be temporary? In determining this question, We are led to consider, the commercial Evils to be remedied: the Efficacy of tempo rary powers for this purpose: and the Disposition of the several States touching the Subject. The Evils principally consist, in the Impositions, Restrictions, & prohibitions of foreign powers on our Commerce; & in the Embarrassments resulting from the commercial Regulations of our own States. How far temporary powers can remedy these Evils, perhaps Time & Experience can only determine. Thus much may nev ertheless be suggested, that as the several Treaties which are now ne gotiating by our Commissioners in Europe, are not to exceed the Term of fifteen Years; if the commercial powers to be vested in Con gress should be of a similar Duration, they may remedy the Evils for that Term: & at the Expiration thereof, a new commercial Epoch will commence, when the States will have a more clear & comprehensive View of their commercial Interests, & of the best Means for promoting the same; whether by Treaties abroad, or by the Delegation & Exercise of greater commercial Powers at Home. Whatever the Disposition of the States may be, it can only be known by their Acts: but the different Views which they have had of the Subject give Reason to suppose, that
