September 3, 1785 611 some Legislatures will think temporary commercial powers elegible under present Circumstances; & should this be the Opinion of but one, an attempt immediately to delegate perpetual commercial pow ers, must fail, & may prevent a delegation of temporary powers—for in politics as in private Life, by aiming at too much, We oft-times ac complish nothing. Secondly. If the States are unanimously disposed to increase the com mercial powers of the Confederacy; should not the additional powers, be in the first Instance temporary; & the Adoption of them as part of the Confederation, depend on their beneficial Effects? This is a Ques tion on which We propose not to venture a decided Opinion; but Ex perience teaches Us, that in the Formation of Constitutions & Laws, the wisest Men have not been able to foresee the Evasions & Abuses, which in the Operation have resulted from vague Terms & Expres sions; latent Inconsistencies, artful Constructions, & from too full & unguarded a Delegation of powers. Whether the Subject of Com merce, & the Danger to which the States may be exposed by a Surren der to the Union of their commercial Authority, are so fully under stood as to justify the Consideration of an immediate Alteration of the Confederation, is a Matter that the Legislatures alone are competent to determine—any of them, who may not be clear with respect to ei ther of those points, will probably (as in the other Case), be in the first Instance in Favour of temporary commercial powers, & if ap proved by Experience, of adopting them as part of the Confederation. But should all the States be in Favour of an immediate Alteration of the Articles, will it not be expedient for them, previously to consider? that, however great the abuse of this Trust may hereafter be; however greivous to a considerable part of the Union; the powers, once dele gated in the Confederation, cannot be revoked without the unanimous Consent of the States—that this, may be earnestly sought for, but never obtained?—that the federal & State Constitutions, are the great Bul warks of Liberty—that if they are subject, on trivial or even important Occasions, to be revised & re-revised, altered & re-altered, they must cease to be considered as effectual & sacred Barriers; & like land Marks frequently changed, will afford no certain Rule for ascertaining the Boundaries, no criterion for distinguishing between the Rights of Government, & those of the people. And therefore, that every Alter ation of the Articles, should be so thoroughly understood & digested, as scarcely to admit the possibility of a Disposition for a Reconsideration. Thirdly. Shall any Alteration, either temporary or perpetual, be pro posed in a Way, not expressly pointed out by the Confederation? The thirteenth article provides, “that the Articles of this Confederation shall be inviolably observed by every State, & the Union shall be per petual; nor shall any Alteration at any Time hereafter be made in any of them: unless such Alteration be agreed to in a Congress of the
