Septembers, 1785 617 All possible care has been taken to give these Gentlemen notice, and it is very extraordinary that neither of them gives any answer. With sentiments of great respect and Esteem, Your Obliged humb. Servt. R. King Tr (NHi: King Papers). Endorsed: “copied verbatim el literatim. ” 1 For Congress’ attempts to control the counterfeiting of Continental certificates, see Abiel Foster to Joseph Howell, January 10, note 2; and Charles Thomson to Certain States, March 28, 1785. 2 See Charles Thomson to William Fleming et al., June 9 note 2; and Elbridge Gerry and King to John Lowell, et al., September 29. Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Adams My dear sir, New York 5 th Sepr 1785 I am much obliged to you for your Favour of the 27th of Augt in closing the proceedings of the Legislature respecting the Institution of the Cincinnati. 1 Congress have been ever tender of the Reputation of their military officers, & as far as I could collect the Sentiments of the Members at Annapolis, were in Expectation of a voluntary Aboli tion of the Institution. It was then conceived, that all the officers might have been mistaken with Respect to its fatal Tendency, & that many certainly were; but that seeing the Sense of their fellow Citizens & of some of the Legislatures on the Subject, no Time would be lost in putting a period to so obnoxious a Measure. In this Congress have been mistaken, for so far have the Cincinnati Congress been from an Abolition, that in my opinion the plan is worse on the last Establish ment than it was on the first. My Reason is this, that in the first case it was too glaring to escape the Observation of any one, & in the last it may lull some into a Security untill the Cincinnati Nobility have so es tablished their Influence as to control our republican Governments & then they may reassume their first Shape & bid Defiance to Opposi tion. I am not sure that Congress will take the Matter up; but sure I am, that if the Delegates of Massachusetts return their Health & Seats in Congress, they will put on the Journals some propositions that will sound a fcederal alarm: being firmly persuaded this Institution must be abolished soon, as it will destroy our Liberties. We have by this post, given his Excelly Governor Bowdoin, our Reasons for suspending a Delivery of his Dispatches for a general Revision of the Confedera tion, which I presume he will officially communicate to his Council & I wish to have your Sentiments on the Subject. 2 My Compliments to your Lady & be assured I am Sir on every occa sion your Friend & very hum Serv E Gerry
