618 September 5, 1785 RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Adams’ letter is not in Adams, Writings (Cushing). 2 See Massachusetts Delegates to James Bowdoin, September 3. Elbridge Gerry to James Bowdoin Sir, New York 5th Sepr. 1785. I was honored with your Excellency’s Letter by Capt. Walden, & have received from him some general propositions respecting Copper half pence, which he offers to supply to the Amount of £100,000 ster ling. 1 Previous to his Arrival the Business of a Mint had been under the Consideration of a grand Committee, whose Report I inclose, 2 with a Request that You will not impart it to any one, as it is not usual to send out such Documents untill they are passed by Congress. In deed the Board of Treasury have the Matter, pursuant to order of Congress, under Consideration, & Mr. Osgood being absent, & Mr. Lee not arrived, I introduced Mr Walden to Mr Levingston the only Member in the City, & to Mr Duer the Secretary, who will examine minutely into the propositions, point out what part of them is admiss- able, & what not; & give Mr Walden an Opportunity of soon determin ing whether there is a prospect of his entering into such a Contract as Congress will probably consent to. I do not think there is such a prospect, because one Condition will perhaps be, that the Money shall be coined, in the U States, another in the Mint of the Confederacy, a third that the Coiner shall be on Wages & the profits which are esti mated at about 30 per Ct shall accrue to the publick. Capt Walden thinks the profits will not exceed 28 per Ct, & supposing this to be the Case £22,000 sterling, the advance on £78,000, would be no trifling Sum in the foederal Chest, at this Crisis of its Evacuation. However thus much Capt Walden will be sure of, plain dealing & a preference if his Terms, amongst other proposals are entitled to it: or a polite Re fusal, if they are not. The papers inclosed contain some particulars respecting Mr Adams Negotiations, which do not vary from the Truth, because they have not in the minutest Degree my Relation thereto. Pray present my best Respects to your Lady & Miss Temple & be as sured that I am Sir on every occasion your Excellencys most obedt & very hum ser, E Gerry RC (NN: Emmet Collection, no. 4161). 1 Governor Bowdoin’sjuly 16 letter to Congress, and one of the same date from Fred erick H. Walden, “a Swedish Gendeman,” enclosing a proposal for the “coinage of Cop per half pence & farthings,” are in PCC, item 65, 2:257-60, item 78, 24:527-33. They were read in Congress July 2H.JCC, 29:587n. 2 See JCC, 28:354-58.
