Septembers, 1785 619 William Grayson to George Washington Dear Sir New York. Sepr. 5th. 1785. I had the honor of your favor by Post. 1 The hounds you allude to ar rived here in the midst of a hot war against their fraternity: they were however not friendless: your Acquaintance Doct. Cochran took very good care of them while they remained at their place & has sent them by Capt. Packard’s Sloop to Mount Vernon. I make no doubt that they have got there safe. We have little news from Europe or elsewhere. Mr. Otto came over in the last packett as charge des affaires in the room of Mr. Marbois who goes to the West Indies. 2 We are informed the Chevalier de La Luzerne is to be here shortly in quality of Minister. 3 The demand of the body of Longchamps is withdrawn. For some time past there has been very few States on the floor, of course very little has been done. I am happy to hear that after inspection, you are of opinion the ob structions on the Potowmac, are not greater than you had supposed them to be. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, Yr. Affect, frd. & Most Obed servt, Willm. Grayson RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 For this letter of August 22, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 28:232—34. 2 Louis-Guillaume Otto had been introduced officially by the comte de Vergennes in a letter of June 20 to the secretary for foreign affairs, John Jay, and more informally by Thomas Jefferson, who had come to know him in Paris before his departure for Amer ica. Thus Jefferson had written to James Monroe on June 17: “This will be handed you by Mr. Otto who comes to America as Charge des affaires in the room of Mr. Marbois promoted to the Intendancy of Hispaniola, which office is next to that of Governor. He becomes the head of the civil as the Governor is of the military department. I am much pleased with Otto’s appointment. He is good humoured, affectionate to America, will see things in a friendly light when they admit of it, in a rational one always, and will not pique himself on writing every trifling circumstance of irritation to his court. I wish you to be acquainted with him, as a friendly intercourse between individuals who do busi ness together produces a mutual spirit of accomodation useful to both parties. It is very much our interest to keep up the affection of this country for us, which is considerable. A court has no affections. But those of the people whom they govern influence their de cisions even in the most arbitrary governments.” Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 8:228. Otto’s career as charge has been treated at length in Margaret M. O’Dwyer, “Louis-Guillaume Otto in America” (Ph.D. diss.. Northwestern University, 1954). For one facet of his work in the United States, see Paul G. Sifton, “Otto’s Memoire to Vergennes, 1785,” WMQ22 (October 1965): 626-45. 3 There was no truth to this speculation, but the source of it had already been noted by Otto himself—Vergennes’June 20 letter of introduction of the new charge to John Jay, which contained the following passage. “Les ennemis de M. Jefferson comptoient profiter de cette occasion pour faire rapeller ce Ministre et pour ne laisser en France qu’un Charge d'affaires ou du moins pour nommer M. Jefferson Ministre a Paris et a la
