620 Septembers, 1785 haye en meme terns. Mais la lettre dont Vous aves bien voulu me charger pour M. Jay a pleinement leve cette difficulte puisqu’il y est dit expressement que je ne serois Charge des affaires de S. M. qu ’en attendant le retour du Ministre Plenipotentiaire. ” Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres: Correspondance politique, Etats-Unis, 30:258. For Vergennes’June 20 letter to Jay containing the observation that Otto’s ap pointment had been made “en attendant le retour de M. le Chev. de la Luzerne,” see PCC, item 96, fol. 368. Samuel Holten to James Bowdoin New York 5th Sepr. 1785. Sir, I have received the letter that you did me the honor to write me on the 18th ultimo, which adds to the obligations I am under to your Excellency. Very few days that there has been nine states represented in Con gress since I had the honor of addressing you last. The reception Mr. Adams met with at the court of London can’t but be agreeable to every friend to this country, I would mention particu lars were I at liberty, however, no judgment is to be formed, how that court will be disposed to favor the important affairs he is charged with. I will enclose a pamphlet lately come to hand from the bank at Phi- lada. which was thought of so much importance as to be forwardd. to each member of Congress. 1 Mr. Dowse called on me yesterday & requested that I would forward the inclosed to your excellency. I enquired of him whether he had reed, a letter from the delegates of N. Hampshire, which, at their de sire, I inclosed to you; 2 his answer was that he had not, having left Boston before it came to hand. So long & constant attention to business in Congress, I find injures my health, & unless the President should return, I expect Congress must appoint another person to the chair. With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, your Excellency’s most obedient servant. FC (MNS: Hiram Putnam Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. i See Rufus King to Timothy Pickering, August 31, note 1. 2 See Holten to Bowdoin, August 25. Samuel Holten to George Williams Sir, New York 5th Sepr. 1785. Two days since, Mr. Gardner called on me with a note from you, re questing my attention to a bond, 1 supposed in the treasurers office,
