624 September 6, 1785 Charles Thomson to Richard Caswell Sir Office of the Secretary of Congress. Sept. 6th. 1785. I have reed the letters You did me the honor to write on the 20th & 23d of July and on the 4th of August. 1 I have now the honor to transmit to your Excellency herewith en closed two copies of the continuation of the Journal of Congress from the 29th of July to Augt. 25th, One for the Legislative, & the other for the executive branch of Government. Although the Journal contains a full account of the representation of Congress, Yet for the further information of the Legislature, I enclose agreeably to the Act of the 17th, a list of the States represented and of those unrepre sented, and of the members who have appeared in Congress during the Course of last month. 2 Your Excellency will perceive that your State continues to be unrepresented. When I consider of what impor tance it is to the Union, as well as to each individual State to have a full and compleat representation in Congress, I cannot but flatter my self that You will use your best endeavors to press the attendance of the Members from your State 3 —and here I would observe, that great inconvenience arises from a bare representation by two Members— for in case of the indisposition or casual absence of either of them, the State is unrepresented—and in case of a difference in opinion between them it loses its vote. With great respect, I have the honor to be, &c LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). 1 These letters are in PCC, item 72, fols. 201-12. 2 See the preceding entry. 3 For Governor Caswell’s unsuccessful efforts to get Timothy Bloodworth, William Blount, and Charles Johnson to join William Cumming in New York, see N.C. State Records, 17:270-71, 516, 522-23, 533, 538, 540. North Carolina continued to be unrepre sented in Congress until May 3, 1786, when Bloodworth, Blount, and James White fi nally attended. Charles Thomson to Certain States Sir Office of the Secretary of Congress, September 6th. 1785. I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed two copies of the continuation of the Journal of Congress from the 29th July to Augt. 25th, One for the Legislative and the other for the Executive branch of Government. Although the Journal contains a full account of the representation in Congress, yet for the further in formation of the Legislature, I enclose agreeably to the Act of the
