September 6, 1785 625 17th of Augt, a list of the States represented, and of those unrepre sented, and of the Members who have appeared in Congress, during the course of last month. 1 On this occasion, I beg leave to submit to the consideration of the Legislature two inconveniences which necessarily result from a State being represented by only two mem bers—1. by the sickness or casual absence of one of the members, the State is unrepresented and, 21y, by a division of sentiment the State loses its vote. With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be &c LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). Addressed: “To the Governor of New Hampshire, Connecti cut, Delaware & Maryland." 1 See Thomson to James Bowdoin, this date. The texts of this letter that were addressed to the executives of New York, Pennsylva nia, Virginia, South Carolina, and Georgia end at this point. PCC, item 18A, fol. 137. The RC’s of those to Georgia and Virginia are, respectively, in the Keith Read Collec tion, GU, and the Continental Congress Papers, Vi. That addressed to New Jersey gover nor William Livingston concludes with the following sentences: “By this the Legislature will see, that the State still continues to be unrepresented. A Voice in the federal Coun cil having been earnestly contended for, and considered by every State in the Union es sential to its Sovereignty, I hope Your Legislature will adopt effectual measures to avail itself of this right.” PCC, item 18A, fols. 143-44. Charles Thomson to William Greene Sir Office of the Secretary of Congress Sept. 6th. 1785 I have reed the letter You did me the honor to write on the 24th Augt, 1 and have now the honor to transmit to Your Excellency here with enclosed, two copies of the continuation of the Journal of Con gress from the 29th July to Augt 25th, One for the Legislative, and the other for the executive branch of Government. Although the Journal contains a full account of the representation in Congress, yet for the further Information of the Legislature, I enclose agreeably to the act of the 17th a list of the States represented, and those unrepresented and of the members who have appeared in Congress during the course of last month. By this the Legislature will see, that tho the State has two members in Town, yet by the indisposition of one of them, it has not been represented since the 3d of Augt. 2 “Public oeconomy,” it must be granted, “is an object of great importance” and highly com mendable in every Government, and especially in young republican States—but there are expences so essentially necessary, that a State cannot avoid them, without a sacrifice of its honor and dignity; such expences ought to be considered as consistent with the greatest cecon- omy. A voice in the foederal Council has always been considered by
