Septembers, 1785 627 come, of qualifications, respecting the gentlemen from Rhode Island: said report is in their favor. I have with perfect respect, the honor to be, your Excellency’s most obedient & very humble servant. FC (MNS: Hiram Putnam Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Not found. 2 Holten had been elected chairman to preside over Congress during Lee’s illness and sojourn to Philadelphia for the recovery of his health, for which Holten to William Gordon, August 22, note 4. Charles Thomson to John Jay Sir, Office of Secretary of Congress, Septr. 8. 1785 On the intimation contained in Your first letter of the 2d, Congress have been pleased to pass an Act of which the enclosed is a copy, vest ing you with the necessary powers. 1 It is the desire of Congress that this be kept as secret as the nature of the case will admit, for which reason I have not entrusted it to the inspection of any of the young men in my Office. 2 In consequence of a report which I this day made, Congress have di rected me to return to you the letter of 25 Aug. from Mr De Marbois. 3 When I last had the pleasure of seeing you I explained to you my ideas on that subject. I stated the same to Congress, & they were approved but I did not wish them to be formally agreed to lest Congress might seem to give an Opinion on the question. With great respect I am, Dr. Sr, Your humble Serv, Cha Thomson RC (NNC: Jay Papers). Endorsed: “From Mr. Cha Thomson, 8 Septemr. 1785. (private).” 1 The “intimation” referred to from the concluding paragraph of the first of jay’s four September 2 letters to Congress reads: “Permit me Sir, also to hint, that there may be Occasions when it would be for the Public Interest to subject the Post Office to the Or ders of your principal executive Officers.” See JCC, 29:680. Congress had accordingly adopted the following enclosed “Act” on September 7. “Re solved, That, whenever it shall appear to the Secretary of the United States of America for the department of foreign affairs that their safety or interest require the inspection of any letters in any of the post Offices, he be authorized and empowered to inspect the said letters, excepting from the operation of this resolution, which is to continue for the term of twelve months, all letters franked by or addressed to members of Congress.” JCC, 29:685. For the renewal of this authorization October 23, 1786, see JCC, 31:909. 2 In keeping with Congress’ determination to keep this decision secret, Thomson en tered this resolution (and the 1786 renewal) only in his Secret (Domestic) Journal, for which see PCC, item 3, fols. 225, 229. 3 For Thomson’s report on the enclosed letter from the French charge d’affaires, the marquis de Barbe-Marbois, see JCC, 29:688; and PCC, item 120, 1:420-22. Marbois had asked Jay “whether french Subjects can purchase and hold real Estate in the United States,” and Thomson had reported that it was unecessary for Congress “to give any
