September 16, 1785 633 Soderstrom’s request be referred back to Jay. The recommendation was apparently not acted upon until October 4, when Soderstrom’s letter was referred to Jay to report, which he did October 6. See JCC, 29:691, 702, 796n, 807n, 812-13; and PCC, item 78, 21:435-38. Charles Thomson to the Indian Affairs Commissioners, Southern Department Office of the Secretary of Congress Gentlemen, September 14th. 1785 I have the honor to send you herewith enclosed an Act of the United States in Congress Assembled, empowering you to draw upon the Trea sury of the United States for such balance of the sum to which you are limited as it may not be in the power of the Executives of the States to furnish, on which you were formerly authorised to draw. 1 With great respect, I am, Gentlemen, Your most Obedt & Most hum servt, C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). 1 For this September 12 resolve, see JCC, 29:690-91. William Grayson to James Madison Dear Sir. New York 16th Sepr. 1785. I opened your letter directed to Colo. Monroe in the first instance, 1 & forwarded the inclosed letters to France, in the public Mail, as I could not hear of any private gentlemen going to whom I could with propriety intrust them. I have recieved your letter from Philada. 2 & I heartily wish it may suit your Convenience to visit this place, as it will give me particular satisfaction to have the pleasure of seeing you. Exclusive of this I could wish to consult you on some particular Matters respecting the State. The requisition is now in the last stage: it is formed on princi ples to suit only the Eastern & some of the Middle States; There seems also to be a radical unwillingness to allow us for our assumptions, al though the debt was created for Continental uses; and a proposition (wherein the interest was dropped for the present) has been nega tived by a considerable majority. 3 The Delegation is strongly im pressed with the necessity of supporting public credit; they notwith standing as well as the delegates of some other States, hesitate to pass the requisition in it’s present form. They could wish it was made con formable to the different interests of the Union, & that certain princi ples might be adopted to facilitate the settlement of the general ac-
