634 September 16,1785 count. With respect to myself I never admired the idea of facilities: 4 the word implies a payment less than the thing itself: an inundation of a kind of paper money is also to be feared: but for the sake of peace I have been willing to consent as far as one third which is more than the Southern States can ever derive any advantage from. We have lately recieved a letter from the Governor inclosing one from Solicitor Wood furnishing a melancholy picture of the situation of the public accounts. 5 The Continental Comm, objects to every thing; says he can’t proceed witht. fresh instructions & I fear it is not in our power to obtain such principles as will enable us to bring for ward our Accounts. There is also a heavy party here for obliging the States to settle by a particular day, or to pay interest to those who do. I every day discover more & more the impropriety of remaining longer at this place. It is clear to me that it has an undue influence on our proceedings. Some of the Southern States begin at length to per- cieve this, & I hope it will not be long before the whole will view it in the same light. My best complimts. to Mrs. House and Mrs. Trist: her arrival among her friends has given me the most sincere satisfaction. In full expectation of seeing you, I remain yr. Affect, frd. & Most Obed Sert. Willm. Grayson. 6 [PS.] 5 Copies sent of the tryal. 7 Nothing from Adams. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 Not found. 2 Not found. s For the disallowal of these “assumptions,” see James Monroe to Madison, July 12, note 1. 4 For an explanation of “facilities,” see James McHenry’s Committee Report, ante March 31, note. 5 For Patrick Henry’s August 12 letter and the report from Solicitor Leighton Wood, Jr., see Henry, Patrick Henry, 3:314-16; and Cal. ofVa. Stale Papers, 4:48. 6 On August 14 Grayson had sent an order on his account to Virginia treasurer Jacquelin Ambler for £30 Virginia currency in favor of Alexander Dalrymple Orr. On September 8 and 12 he also sent Ambler orders for £140 in favor of Col. Josiah Parker and £40 in favor of William Herbert, Esq. Account Vouchers, Vi. 7 Not identified, although the editors of Madison’s papers speculated that Grayson had obtained the trial proceedings in the Longchamps-Marbois affair. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 8:365n.7. William Hindman to Christopher Richmond Sir New-York Sept. 16th. 1785 Inclosed is the Discharge of a Soldier belonging to the State of Maryland, which He has requested Me to transmit You for the Pur pose of obtaining a Certificate for the Depreciation due him thereon.
