September 17, 1785 635 You may issue it either in his Name or mine as most agreeable to You—it is the Wish of Mr. Ingram that it might be issued in my Name. 1 I shall thank You to inclose Me the Certificate as soon as You conveniently can, as it is uncertain how long I may remain here, & send it by the Post to this Place. I am, Most respectfully, Yr. very humble Servt., Wm. Hindman RC (MdAA: Executive Papers). Addressed: “Christopher Richmond, Esqr., Auditor- General, Annapolis.” 1 In his September 26 reply, Richmond enclosed Sgt. Abraham Ingram’s account and a certificate for his depreciation requesting the account be returned with Ingram’s re ceipt, but informing Hindman that he could not “issue the Certificate in your Name, because the Account and it will not compound.” Besides, “it would not look so well to see your Name stand as a Soldier of the Maryld. Line.” Ibid. On October 10 Hindman returned Ingram’s receipt and thanked Richmond “for the genteel & proper Rap given Me, in requesting the Cert to be issued in my Name. I doubted its Propriety, but was led to it from a Gentleman’s telling Me, He had purchased Soldier’s Rights & would have the Cert issued in his Name as Assignee.” Ibid. Rufus King to Nathan Dane My dear Sir, New York 17th. Sep. 1785. You are sensible that I have been too intimately acquainted with your political industry, and information, not to be well satisfied with your appointment to Congress—you must therefore accept my cordial con gratulations with full belief of my sincerity. I pray you to re-examine the motives of the Legislature in recommending to congress, to pro pose to the several States a convention of Delegates for the express purpose of a general revision of the confederation, and to communicate to me the result of such investigation. It is true, that additional commercial powers vested in congress, under proper restrictions, and for a limited Time, is an object greatly to be desired; but it is, and I believe will continue to be, the reflected opinion of many, of the most republican, and best informed men, in this country that such delegation of power should be for a limited Time. If the measure upon experiment is found to be good, it may then be incorporated with, and become a part of the Confederation. The commercial Treaties formed, and forming, between the states, and the powers of Europe, are limited to the Term of fifteen years— the expiration of that Term will give a new commercial Epoch—a del egation of powers to congress for that term would be therefore highly proper. If the confederation is generally submitted to a revision, I foresee many and important Difficulties. The report will certainly be a confederation less republican than the present one. The larger States when the present confederation was adopted, objected to the
