September 20,1785 641 for the 1785-86 term as well. Journal of the Massachusetts Senate, 1784—85, p. 3; ibid., 1785-86, p. 3. DLC(ESR). 2 Benjamin Goodhue had represented Salem in the Massachusetts House of Repre sentatives in 1784-85 and had been elected to the Senate for Essex County in 1785-86. Journal of the Massachusetts House of Representatives, 1784-85, p. 2; Journal of the Mas sachusetts Senate, 1785-86, p. 3. DLC(ESR). Rufus King to Daniel Kilham My dear friend, New York 19th Sep. 1785 I am uneasy that you do not write to me more frequently, I fear you have embraced some erroneous sentiments concerning your own Af fairs, which embarrass you more than you ought to allow them to. If this is the case, the conduct is unworthy of you—from the Stile of your letters, my knowledge of your Disposition, and the unimportant dis agreement which you was party to last winter, I apprehend you are not content in your present situation. I requested you to write to me with the utmost freedom, perhaps it may be beneficial—if you entertain any discontented sentiments, com municate them to me—by preserving them uncommunicated in your own bosom, be they ever so false or erroneous, you are takeing the proper methods of giving yourself all possible unhappiness. I wish most sincerely that I could converse with you, was it only for a few moments; but I apprehend this event is not so near as we both could desire. The remark of my dear, and particular friend, is very just; and as El egant as her thoughts always are—give for Me the strongest assurances of unchanging attachment to unequalled merit. I suffer in sepera- tion—and that Distress is aggravated by the declension of their Affairs. I have only time to add assurances of my friendship and Respect, Adieu, R King RC (NNC: King Collection). Massachusetts Delegates to James Bowdoin Sir, No 5 New York 20th Sepr 1785 We are honored with your Excellency’s Letter of the 10th Instant, inclosing sundry papers relative to Encroachments made on our east ern Boundaries, & have communicated the same, 1 together with the paragraph of your Letter that respects Capt Stanhope, 2 to Congress. Their Attention to the Requisition, in Consequence of a fuller Repre sentation, has so absorbed their Time, as to have hitherto prevented
