September 21,1785 643 unprovided with Conveniencies as you must unavoidably be, & that it may rather prejudice than benefit you in point of Health, or at best that the Tour must be attended with much fatigue. If you see the mat ter in this light (for I only suggest circumstances to be consider’d of, & after all wish you to determine as shall appear most agreeable to yourself) & the General sho’d call upon you, you will decline going on with him in the Execution of this Commission, but, as far as may be consistant, reserve a right to attend him in Virginia, whenever you shall be inform’d of his enterring upon that business, which I pre sume you would incline to unless you adopt the Burmuda plan. But I do not know that it will be necessary to acquaint him at present that you have the latter at all in Contemplation. I throw these things out for consideration, in great haste, lest you sho’d see the Genii, before I do, & am with the tenderest Love to all, yr. most affectione. Father, Wm. Sami. Johnson RC (CtHi: Johnson Papers). 1 Samuel Holden Parsons was elected commissioner “to negotiate with the western In dians” this day, having been nominated previously by Johnson, and he accepted the post October 10. See JCC, 29:576n, 725, 816. Charles Pettit to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir, New York 21st. Septr. 1785 The inclosed Letter from Mr. DeBerdt came under cover to C. & A. Pettit at Philada. & has been sent to me to forward to you. I presume it advises you of the noting & probability of Protest of the Bill you re mitted for £180 Sterlg. and of Payment or Acceptance of the smaller Bill of £116. Having relied on these Bills as an effective Remittance for monies due to him before their Arrival, Mr. DeBerdt is rather impatient on the Occasion, especially as the London Merchants trading to America are really hard pushed on Account of the Disappointments they expe rience in Remittances. From these Circumstances & his Connection with Mr. Reed’s Family, 1 I am particularly desirous to replace the Money as early as may be, & especially as we shall yet owe him a far ther Balance. I must therefore beg your Attention to this Matter as early as may be, for tho’ we pay him Int[eres]t for the Delay, it is urged that this is far short of a Compensation for the Shock it gives to Credit. I am therefore persuaded you will give it no unnecessary Delay. Dr. Franklin’s Arrival in Phila. seems to give general Joy. 2 I know of no one who has, politically, more real occasion for rejoicing than I have, as an opinion had generally prevailed that I was to be a Candi date for an Office which he will probably obtain by general Consent. And tho’ I had been explicit with my Friends in refusing to approach
