September 30, 1785 651 perhaps we had better proceed to Trial with this court than wait the hazardous event of a full court. Mr. Duane is absent from the City, and no Gentleman of the New York Agents is here excepting Mr. Jay. What the Opinion of the Agents of New York would be, we are ignorant; but think it not improbable that they would embrace the Idea of deciding the controversy by a court of seven commissioners—an immediate decision upon this point is necessary. If the Cause is to be tried in November the commis sion should immediately issue; if not, Notice without delay should go to the Judges of the disappointment, least they should incur the trou ble and fruitless Expence of meeting at Williamsburgh. As soon as possible we will obtain the Sentiments of the Agents of N.Y and transmit them to you; we intreat that you would not delay communicating your determination upon this Subject. With great esteem and Respect your obt. servants, E Gerry Rufus King RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1582). Written by King and signed by King and Gerry. i See JCC, 29:776-77. 2 That is, Thomas Johnson of Maryland. 3 That is, Samuel Johnston. 4 See Massachusetts’ Agents’ draft letter to Congress, October 20. Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Adams My dear Sir, New York 30th Sepr 1785 I am much obliged to you for your Hint relative to what may take place with Respect to the Cincinnati, in our Delegation of the next Year. 1 We shall before the adjournment endeavour to fix on the Jour nals something that may operate to cripple, if not mortally to wound that unconstitutional Monster. I am happy to find that We unite in Sentiment in the Necessity of vesting Congress with more commercial powers: & flatter myself We shall not differ in making them in the first Instance temporary, & in opposing a general Revision of the Confederation.2 It is difficult to de termine on a good Expedient, to remedy our present Evils, but We shall attempt it, if Time will permit. Doctor Franklin has, as You will perceive by the Pennsylvania pa pers, been puffed at a great Rate, & will probably be in the Chair of that State. His Grandson came to this City last Evening, but his object I cannot yet ascertain. I confess to You, I have a jealous Eye on the Doctor: he is devoted to the Court of Versailles, & should he come to Congress as a Delegate & obtain the Chair, he may do more Mischief
