October 1,1785 653 The Committee met yesterday the first time, and have Ordered, that each Member in behalf of his State, exhibit in Writing the gen eral heads of the Claims of that State against the Union. I am unpre pared to make this Statement barely upon my recollection, therefore I take the earliest Opportunity to ask your Advice and Assistance as soon as convenient. I do suppose that Pennsylvania was very careful to have a large pro portion of her expenditures for the Common defence covered by res olutions for the express purpose to guard against disputes upon a final Adjustment, her proximity to the Seat of Congress enabled her to have this done. Nevertheless, there are within my own knowledge many very considerable Charges for which I think she has an un doubted right to obtain a Credit upon the Books of the Treasury. I will just take the Liberty to subjoin such claims as occur to me at present, which if they meet the Approbation of your honorable Board, will compose part of the Claims stated upon the part of Penn sylvania, vizt. Building and sinking Chevaux de Frize. Building Gallies, floating Batteries, fire rafts &c for defending the passage of Delaware. Arming, manning, feeding, paying &c the Officers and Seamen be longing to the aforesaid fleet. Fortifying Mud Island—red bank and Billingsport. Recruiting, paying, Cloathing &c the three State regiments com manded by Messrs Miles, Broadhead and Adee. Militia Service for the defence of the State, particularly the fron tiers. Ranging Companies upon the frontiers. I would only beg leave to add, that it is only necessary at present to mention the heads and not the Amounts of the Claims. 3 I refer you for further information to the Honorable Charles Pettit, who will be in Philadelphia before this is handed to You. I am Sir, with due Respect, Your Excellency’s very humble Servant, Jos. Gardner NB. I find I have left the Report alluded to this Letter at my lodging, therefore defer sending until next post. Tr (PHarH: RG 27). 1 For the appointment of this grand committee September 28, see JCC, 29:779; and PCC, item 190, fol. 69. For the board of treasury report on “measures for expediting the settlement of the accounts, subsisting betwixt the several States and the United States,” called for by a David Howell motion of July 7, submitted July 12, and read in Congress July 14, see JCC, 29:516, 536-39; and PCC, item 139, fols. 37-40, item 140 2 31 2 See JCC, 29:538. 3 Little progress was made on this subject for nearly a year. The board of treasury re sponded October 19 to a query from the grand committee to which Gardner had been appointed for the dates of congressional resolves “that have relation to the Allowances to be made to the States in Settling their Accounts” (PCC, item 140, 1:59), but not until Oc-
