656 October 3, 1785 William Hindman to William Paca My dear Sir New-York Octr. 3d. 1785 I herewith send You the Requisition for Supplies, which has at Length obtained a Passage thro’ Congress. Mr. Harrison says You have not fullfilled your Promise in Writing to him. He is well & desires his best Respects. Mr. McHenry is lately gone to Philadelphia on a Visit to his Lady, so that Maryland is at present unrepresented. 1 There are at this Time ten States in Congress. The president is lately returned from Philadelphia whither He went for his Health & is much mended. Who will be your Successor? There is no News here. I am, most affectionately, Yrs. &c., Wm. Hindman RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 See James McHenry to John Hall, September 27—28, note 1. Samuel Holten to William Gordon My dear Sir, New York 3d. Oct. 1785 I have been favor’d with your kind address of the 21st ulti. The req uisitions are at length passed, & I will enclose a copy. 1 You are pleased to mention your intention of promoting a particular sentiment, “among the trusty”; I am sure your conduct & sentiments will be founded in the greatest propriety; Mr. Gerry goes out constitutionally, Mr. King, I conclude attends the federal court, to be holden at Williamsburgh, about the middle of November, and as to myself you know I am out of the question, & therefore, it will be necessary for two gentlemen (at least) to be here by the first Monday in Novr. You have been pleased to honor me with your “proposals for print ing by subscription,” 2 & requested my “free honest thoughts upon them.” Therefore, I shall give them with pleasure, the sd. proposals are like your performances, very well done, but I will submit to your consideration my thoughts upon two parts, 1st whether after the words “the late Commander in chief’; the following words might not be added with propriety, of the American army; my reasons for it, I con sider unnecessary to be mentiond. to a mind like yours. 2nd; the para graph respecting the works, being done in Europe, will, in my opin ion, prevent many subscribers in America, how far that can be dispensed with is for you to judge. My health is really better, & your friends are again made happy by hearing from you.
