October 6,1785 665 it became necessary for me to retire from Congress for the recovery of my health, and that circumstance deprived me of the pleasure of writ ing to your Excellency by a more early conveyance. The appointment of Mr. Gardoque gave great satisfaction to the United States, and I flat ter myself that the manner in which he was received, and will con tinue to be treated, will be perfectly agreeable to his Catholic Majesty. Be assured Sir that it is the sincere wish of this Country, not only to be on good terms with, but to cultivate the friendship of the Spanish Monarchy; and I am warranted to add, that the United States will chearfully join in concerting and concluding such friendly and com mercial connections with his Majesty, as by properly settling territorial questions, and regulating the intercourse of the two nations on princi ples of reciprocity, may produce and perpetuate mutual harmony and good will between them. I pray God to bless your Excellency with long life, health, and happiness. With every consideration of high esteem and respect I have the honor to be Sir your Excellencies most obedi ent & most humble servant, Richard Henry Lee. P. FC (PPAmP: Lee Papers). In the hand of Richard Henry Lee. 1 For Lee’s receipt of this letter and referral of it to Congress and to the secretary for foreign affairs, John Jay, see Lee to Jay, September 11. Upon receiving Floridablanca’s letter from Congress, Jay drafted a response which he submitted to Congress October 6. The present text, which is the one copied into the presidential letterbook (PCC, item 16, fols. 322-23), varies only slightly from Jay’s draft. Cf.JCC, 29:809. Charles Thomson to Ebenezer Hazard Sir Office of Secretary of Congress. October 6th. 1785 In answer to your letter of the 9th of Sepr. I have it in Command to inform you that the words “accustomed route” mentioned in the reso lution of the 7th day of Sepr., last relate to the Stage carriages, and that you are to establish Cross posts where the same shall thereby be ren dered necessary. 1 I am, Sir, your obdt. huml. Servt., CT LB (DNA: PCC, item 18A). Addressed: “E. Hazard Esqr. Postmaster general.” 1 Upon receiving Congress’ September 7 resolution “respecting the Conveyance of the Mails by the Stage Carriages,” Hazard had inquired of Thomson whether the words of the resolution “according to the accustomed Route” were meant to refer “to the Route by which the Mails are now statedly carried, or to that of the Stages.” See JCC, 29:684-85; and PCC, item 61, fols. 235-38. His letter was referred on September 12 to a committee whose October 3 report, adopted the 5th, contained the clarification con veyed here by Thomson. JCC, 29:694n, 807-8.
