October 7,1785 667 2 For the enclosed letter from Joseph Hardy on Le Sieur Barre’s naval service, see PCC, item 55, fols. 389-92; and Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783-89, 1:309-10. Samuel Holten to James Bowdoin Sir, New York, 7th Oct. 1785. In a few weeks, by the leave of providence, I shall have compleated the time for which I was elected to a seat in Congress, & two years since the confederation took place. When I arrived at Congress on the first Monday in November last (or the place where it was expected Congress would be assembled) I found only four states represented, & that I was the only person at tending from the eastward of New Jersey; the next day I informed the then Governor of Masstts., & the honorable court by letter, the situa tion we were in, and signified my fears that the public business would be delayed, unless we had a full representation: I conclude your Excel lency & the honorable court will be convinced, that my fears were well grounded, as Congress have been together more than ten months, and a very considerable part of the public business, yet, remains un finished principally owing, as I conceive, to the states not keeping up a full representation; but Congress having so fully expressed their sen timents, to the several states, upon the subject, it is unnecessary for me to add further. I am fully sensible, that there is several instructions from the honor able court to the delegates of Masstts., upon important subjects, which they have not been able to get a determination of Congress; but, surely, this is not for want of attention & exertions of the honorable gentlemen, that I have been joined with in the delegation, & injustice to myself, I may be permitted to say, that I have given my constant at tendance: My particular situation, at this time, I hope will apologize for this address, when it is considered, that it is unknown to me in what light my conduct may have been considered by the honorable court. I shall sit out on my return, as soon as I can with convenience after the first Monday in November, & hope to have the honor of making your Excellency and the honorable court my personal respects & shall (if required) be ready to give a further account of the state of our na tional affairs, & of my particular conduct. With the most perfect consideration & respect, I have the honor to be, your Excellency’s most obedient & very huml. servant FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. Addressed: “His Excellency Governor Bowdoin to be communicated to the honorable court.”
