October 10, 1785 677 gress from the Consuls of these nations. 5 However, as these laws were probably the product of haste & inattention, I have no doubt but that they will rectify the evil upon a proper representation from the federal head. So essential is the difference between the Northern & Southern productions and circumstances relative to Commerce, that it is not easy to adopt any general System that would well accord with all; and the Staple States shoud be feelingly alive to the proposed plan of vest ing powers absolute for the restraint & regulation of Commerce in a Body of represen [tatives] whose Constituents are very differently cir cumstanced. Intrigue and coalition among the No Staple States, tak ing advantage of the disunion & inattenti[on] of the South, might fix a ruinous Monopoly upon the trade & productions of the Staple States that have not Ships or Seamen for the exportation of their valu able productions. You know Sir that the Spirit of Commerce is a spirit of Avarice, and that when ever the power is given the will certainly fol lows to monopolize, to engross, and take every possible advantage. I am free therefore to own that I think it both safest & best to give no such power to Congress, leave it to that Body to point out what is fit to be done in this [line] and founding their plans on principles of mod eration and most accordant to the actual state & situation of the dif ferent States, to recommend their Systems for the general adoption. I am persuaded that this plan would be successful to every good pur pose. A contrary one would, I verily believe, be more hurtful, much more hurtful to us, than even the crabbed selfish system of Great Britain. Mr. Adams, in a late letter to me from London, writing of Britain he says “the Nation must be made to feel—but this is a work of time, and it is dangerous work, because it may in such inflammable circumstances provoke War. ” 6 Indeed our proceedings with that Nation should be well considered, and cautiously practised upon. I am very fearful of the proceedings of our approaching Session— Breach of Treaty—Paper Money—Violations of public faith—are all, I am informed much talked of. Either of the three will be sufficient to injure us greatly, as well as the U. States. And I assure you Sir, from the best authority, that such things as those have already deeply & essen tially injured the American character in Europe generally. Mr. Adams says in the same letter “I hope that per[sons] & property in America will be held sacred.” On the 8th of next month I shall return to Virga, after thirteen months absence from my family. With very great respect & esteem I have the honor to be dear Sir your most obedient, and very humble servant, Richard Henry Lee. RC (MHi: Washburn Collection). 1 The recipient was clearly a fellow Virginian, probably a member of the assembly. 2 That is, for the recovery of his health. See JCC, 29:631.
