October 12, 1785 681 New York Agents and Massachusetts Agents to George Read, et al. ’ . New York 12th October 1785 Certain Circumstances have occurred, which render it doubtful whether the Agents of Massachusetts and New York will be ready to meet the federal Court appointed to decide their Controversy so soon as the 15th Day of November next. We therefore think it our Duty to apprize you of this, and to request that you will postpone set ting out for Williamsburgh until you hear further from us. We have the Honor to be, Sir, Your most Obedient and Very hum ble servants, 1 E Gerry S. Holten R King 1 Agents of Massachusetts Jas Duane JohnJay Agents for New York RC (DLC: Read Family Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Gerry, Holten, King Ditane and Jay. The FC of this letter in the Duane Papers, NHi, is addressed by Duane o Read, New Castle, Del., Samuel Johnston, Edenton, N.C., James Monroe, Fredericks- b ur g> Va„ William Paterson, Brunswick, NJ., Isaac Smith, Trenton, NJ.John Sitgreaves New Bern N.C., and George Wythe, Williamsburg, Va. Rufus King’s role in obtaining signatures for and posting the various letters is illustrated in the following note he wrote to John Jay the previous day, which is also in the Duane Papers, NHi. “Mr King returns the Letters this morning recieved from Mr. Jay with the Signatures of the Agents of Mas sachusetts If Mr. Jay will procure the Signature of the Agents of New York, and return them to Mr. King, he will seal and forward them.” 1 A ™Py of thls l etter was also enclosed under cover of the following note of this date r ° m X! g tO the Massach usetts agents John Lowell, Theophilus Parsons, and James Sul livan The accompanying is the form of a Letter signed as you will observe relative to the federal Court between Massachusetts & New York—and directed to each of the Judges, who have accepted their appointments, excepting Mr. Johnson of Maryland.” Charles Thomson to Richard Butler Slr > Office of Secretary of Congress, Octr. 12th. 1785. I have the honor to inform You that Your letter of 24th Sept last has been received, and laid before Congress, who have thereupon passed a resolution—a copy of which is herewith enclosed, touching the post ing the troops attending the Commissioners, after the conclusion of the treaty. 1 With must [much] respect, I am Sir, Your most Obedt. &ca LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 General Butler, one of the Indian affairs commissioners for the middle department, had reported optimistically from Pittsburgh on the prospects for peace on the Ohio
