October 14, 1785 coc b85 Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Lee Shippen New York October the 14. 1785 1 hope my dear Cousin has returned to Phila. brim full of health and Law. But say, is it law, or is it the study of law alone, that is incon sistent with the duties of friendship? There must be something in the way, or it never could have happened that I should not have received a letter from you in so great length of time. My silence could not be the cause, as your humanity would readily find an apology for me in mv very ill state of health. The Holker cause was not tried it seems, but the Election strife is over, and I wish to know the event, as well in r t r aS Phlla ’ N ° r Wil1 " be unen tertaining to know something of the Manoeuvres of the contending parties. Curse & doubly curse the Algerines for these Pirates I fear have too certainly made war on our Commerce. Paul Jones from L’Orient informs us that Monsr. Soulanges letter was there & its contents believed. 1 These Infernals having put all the Commercial nations of Europe under contribution except Portugal—The trade of Portugal with Ours, is all that remains for them to Plunder. Several years ago, your worthy Father sent me a Dutch Fan to Virginia, and now the Skreens of it are all worn out. I shall thank you exceedingly for getting a new Sett of the different fi nesses made for me by the best hand according to the enclosed mea sure; that I may take them with me to Virginia as I pass thro your City ° n tn 6 ! 111 * 1 ° r of next month. My Mrs. Lee writes me that she must & will have a handsome Bread Tray for serving bread to Table, also a Basket proper for holding clean plates, and one for foul plates. Now you must be informed that this demand comes from too high Author ity for me to venture neglecting it—therefore I must again put your friendship to Work to find these out, genteel ones, and that they may be ready to go by Mr. Crump who I expect will return to Phila. early in next month by Water. I hope to see my Gun & Pistols here hand somely repair’d before the 5th of next month. My best love attends the whole family & that at German Town—And I pray God to have you in his holy keeping. Farewell, Richard Henry Lee 2 [•RS.] Put the Doctor in mind of my Gum rubrum astringens Gambi- ense 3 —for it is the Sheet Anchor of my health. RC (DLC: Shippen Family Papers). 1 See the following entry, note 1.
