692 October 17, 1785 me communicated to your delegates. 2 In my absence Congress deter mined to send the papers to Mr Adams in order to place the matter before Capt. Stanhopes Superiors. It is certainly very difficult to judge of Courts & Courtiers, because hypocrisy, simulation, and dissimula tion reign throughout—but so far as we may judge from the civilities shewn to Mr. Adams, and the professions made to him, we may sup pose that the behavior of Capt. Stanhope (which seems to have been a complication of folly & insolence) will not be approved at St. James’s. We do not find however, that the civil appearances about the Court of London have as yet produced any solid good effects—for still they hold the Posts, still they encroach on our Eastern boundary, and still their Commercial regulations continue crabbed, and hurtful to them selves & to us. Perhaps time may heal the wound that yet rankles in the National breast. I fear it is too true that the Algarines, these Hostes humani generis, have commenced war upon our Commerce, and if we are not lucky enough to purchase a peace from these Bar barians before they taste the sweets of plundering our Commerce, it may be long before we can quiet them, and be most difficult to ac complish. As for warring with them, as some propose, thro choice I say that it is a very crude & strange opinion. In such a War we shall have every thing to loose and nothing to gain. Is it possible that G. B. can have been so wicked as to have stimulated this War for Commer cial purposes, and in revenge for our separation? If it were not that all things are possible with the corrupt Politicians of this day, I should say that they could not be so base. I think it seems probable that Ireland will not receive the British regulation of their Commerce, and if they reject the propositions with proper spirit, it may terminate not only in relieving Ireland, but also in disposing the haughty Britons to be more reasonable in the Commercial system with us. I beg that my respectful compliments may be acceptable to Mrs. Adams, and that you may be assured of the perfect esteem and regard with which I am your friend and affectionate Servant Richard Henry Lee My compliments, if you please, to Gen. Warren. I shall write to him soon. R.H.L. RC (DLC: Samuel Adams Papers). 1 Adams’ letter is in the Lee Family Papers, ViU, and on the Lee Family microfilm. 2 For Capt. Henry Stanhope’s “misconduct,” see Charles Thomson to James Bowdoin, August 20, note.
