694 October 17,1785 a bribe to prevent the settlement of our Accounts and consequently prevent the payment of our own Citizens who are at least as large Creditors of the U. States as the Citizens of any other State. I shall be very happy to see you at Chantilly before you leave Vir ginia to return to Congress. I am dear Sir, your friend and servant, Richard Henry Lee P.S. Poor Hardy is to be buried in the evening of tomorrow under the directions and Auspices of Congress—for his funeral we are ad journed two days. 4 R- EL Lee RC (DLC: Monroe Papers). 1 Not found, but see Lee to Unknown, October 10, note 4. 2 Forjohn Adams’ letter of July 15, see ibid., note 6. s For which see James McHenry’s Committee Report, ante March 31, note. 4 See Virginia Delegates to Patrick Henry, October 24, note 1. Massachusetts Delegates to James Bowdoin gj r New York Oct. 17th. 1785 We have the honor to inclose to your Excellency two acts of con gress one of the 12th and the other of the 13th instant, the former ap plies to a Subject that becomes more and more important every day, the magnitude of it’s object cannot have escaped your Excellency s Observations. 1 The latter concerns the same Subject as that of the for mer, so far as it relates to a preservation of the entirety of the Territo ries of the Confederacy. This Act is an instruction to a foreign minis ter, and is considered by congress as under the Obligation of Secrecy: we have the permission of congress, to trans [mit] to your Excellency, for your information, and that of the Legislature, under an injunction of Secrecy.% We hope the fullness of the powers delegated thereby to Mr. Adams, when joined to his good dispositions, will effect such an adjustment, as shall be satisfactory to the commonwealth. It has not been in our power at an earlier day to accomplish this business with any degree of Satisfaction to ourselves but the Train into which this business is now thrown, leaves us nothing farther rela tive thereto, to hope or expect from Congress. Should there remain with your Excellency any documents or evi dences on this subject, we submit the expediency of their early trans mission to Mr. Adams. With perfect respect and esteem, we have the Honor to be your Ex cellency’s obedient servants E- Gerry. Rufus King
