October 18, 1785 695 [P.S.] Mr. Holten’s being on L. Island prevents his Signature. RC (ViU: Davis Marshall Autograph Collection). Written by King and signed by King and Gerry. 1 Congress had resolved to appoint a grand committee “to report what measures are proper for Congress to adopt, to prevent the ill consequences of a particular district in any State, setting up and claiming the right of independent government,” an issue long associated with the aspirations of the separatists of Vermont, but more recently also with those of Kentucky, Franklin, and the Maine district of Massachusetts. See JCC, 29:822-23; Massachusetts Delegates to Caleb Davis, October 27; and Richard Henry Lee to Thomasjefferson, October 29, note 5. 2 See JCC, 29:828-29; and Massachusetts Delegates to Bowdoin, September 20, note 1. Charles Thomson to the Board of Treasury Gentlemen Office of Secretary of Congress, October 17th. 1785. I have the honor to inform you that in consequence of your Letter of the 12th, 1 the United States in Congress assembled have proceeded to the election of Commissioners of the Continental loan Office and have been pleased to appoint Mr James Ewing for the State of New Jersey Mr James Tilton for the State of Delaware Mr Edward Blake for the State of South Carolina & Mr Richard Wylly for the State of Georgia.2 I have sent you herewith enclosed Certificates of their appointments that you may transmit them with the Act specifying their duties and such instructions as you shall judge proper. With great respect, I have the honor to be, Gentlemen, your Most Obedient & Most humble Servt, C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 The commissioners’ letter is in PCC, item 140, 2:107-10. 2 See JCC, 2:834-35. William Samuel Johnson to Thomas Chittenden Sir. 1 New York, 18th October 1785 I beg leave to mention to you that the bearer Mr. Kelly and all the Gentlemen of N. York who have Patents under the late Province of New York for Lands in Vermont which had not been previously Granted by New Hampshire exerted themselves extremely last Winter to serve the people of Vermont and obtain their Independence. For this purpose they presented a Petition to the assembly of this State, praying that they would pass a Law to enable their Delegates in Con-
