696 October 18, 1785 gress to Apply for and Consent to the Sovereignty and Independence of Vermont, In consequence of which a Bill was brought into the House of Assembly to that effect, a Certified copy of which you have here inclosed. 2 Mr. Kelly has laid before me a Letter of Instructions and power of Attorney from the Gentlemen who presented the said Petition direct ing him to offer their Lands to the persons now residing thereon upon such Terms as upon the best examination I have been able to give the subject appear to me reasonable and Just. I am induced therefore to request that you will recommend a Compromise to those Settlers, for if they sho’d not avail themselves of this favorable oppor tunity of securing an indisputable title to their Farms the New York proprietors will probably er’e long raise the price of said Lands which they alledge they had lotted out antecedent to the late War and actu ally Sold some parts thereof to persons who Setded thereon and who in some instances executed Bonds and Mortgages for the Considera tion Money and in others entered into written agreements for the purchase of them & yet afterwards took Grants from Vermont for the same Lands. Be assured Sir these Sentiments are dictated by the principles of Humanity and friendship for the Settlers (my Situatuion as a Member of Congress will not admit of my being more Explicit on this Occasion) 8c a sin cere desire to prevent expensive & ruinous Controversies which so liti gated a subject may occasion to both Parties. Give me leave to mention upon this occasion, that I sho’d be ex tremely happy in an Opportunity to renew our former Acquaintance & friendship, & to Converse with you or any of yr. Friends upon the general affairs of yr. State as relative to the United States, which have lately been the subject of much conversation here. I have the Honour to be with great respect & Esteem, Yr. Excelys. most obedt. hume. Servt.3 FC (CtHi: Johnson Papers). In a clerical hand, with interlineations and concluding paragraph by William Samuel Johnson. 1 Vermont governor Thomas Chittenden has been identified in these Letters, 13:17n. 2 Enclosure not found, but for Johnson’s support of Vermont independence at this time, which came before Congress on October 7 and 13 in the form of a motion by David Howell for amending the Articles of Confederation to permit the admission of new states on the vote of nine states in Congress, see JCC, 29:811-12, 827-28; and George C. Groce, William Samuel Johnson. A Maker of the Constitution (New York: Columbia University Press, 1937), pp. 167-68. For John Kelly’s claim and Johnson’s and Kelly’s subsequent interest in Vermont statehood, see also John C. Williams, ed., The Public Papers of Governor Thomas Chittenden (Barre, Vt.: Secretary of State, 1969), pp. 693-94, 697-98, 767-68. See also Richard Henry Lee to Thomas jefferson, October 29, note 5. 3 Johnson also wrote the following letter to Chittenden on October 19 concerning an- other Vermont grant.
