October 20, 1785 697 “Mrs William Smith of this City states to me that after the death of Sir Henry Moore a Patent passed the Seal of the late Province of New York to certain persons therein named for a Township called Moore Town situate[d] on the west side of Connecticut River to the Southward of and adjoining to Newbury. That the Grantees of that Town ship conveyed the whole thereof to Mr, Smith who held the same in Trust for the Fam ily of Sir Henry Moore except three thousand Acres which he conveyed to the persons who were settled thereon agreeable to an Order of the then Council of New York. And that some years after a Mr. Plenderleath Son in Law to Mr. Smith purchased the Town ship for valuable Consideration of the Heirs of Sir Henry Moore. Mrs. Smith has been lately informed that Vermont had not regranted the same but that General Hazen and others have applied for a Grant thereof under an Idea that Governor Benning Went worth had promised him a Patent for that Tract of land. Under these Circumstances I conceive it would be improper to Grant those Lands to Genl. Hazen and his Associates at least not without Notice to Mr. Plenderle[at]h who is in Europe & giving him a full opportunity to be heard on the subject. Not to mention that a measure of this kind would seem to be but too similar to the Conduct of the late Province of New York in re granting the New Hampshire Townships. I beg yr. Frien[d]ship upon this occasion to Mrs Smith & her connexions as far as may consist with the honour of yr. Character." Johnson Papers, CtHi. For Moses Hazen’s challenge to the Mooretown grant to William Smith, see The Pub lic Papers of Governor Thomas Chittenden, pp. 637-38; and E. P. Walton, ed„ Records of the Governor and Council of Vermont, 8 vols. (Montpelier, Vt.: J. &J. M. Poland, 1873-80), 3:63, 65. Rufus King’s Proposed Letter to Congress New York 20th. Oct. 1785 To the honorable the United States in congress assembled—the Subscribers, Agents of the States of Massachusetts & New York beg leave farther to represent— 1 That the hon’ble Thomas Johnson who had accepted as one of the commissioners to constitute a federal court in pursuance of the Reso lution of congress of the 10th day of December last hath declined that appointment, and that no answer hath been received from the hon’ble William Flemming concerning his appointment as one of the said Commissioners, in consequence whereof it hath become imprac ticable to hold the said federal court on the third Tuesday of Novem ber next conformable to their joint Act certified to congress on the 9th day of June last. Whereupon the said Agents pray that farther day may be given to them for appointing by joint consent, commissioners in the places of the said Thomas Johnson and William Flemming, and that the said federal court be held at the City of Williamsburgh in the State of Virginia, on such future day as they the said Agents may here after jointly agree upon, and certify to congress, any thing in their joint act of the 9th of June aforesaid, to the contrary notwithstanding.
