October 29, 1785 707 ought to be tenaciously retained by the particular States. But, tho’ our Ministers may not succeed on this head agreeably to our wishes for want of power to make effectual Stipulations on our part, or to give a quid pro quo—we have the Satisfaction to receive repeated proofs of the good disposition of our friends in Europe, 8c of a growing esteeme & respect for the U. States throughout the World. The hope that I should return in time to attend the present Session of Assembly has prevented my writing before (8c I now write in great haste) and indeed the uncertainty of continuing in our Seats since May has constantly held up to us the probability of a return—and, to gether with the want of materials, rendred my communications less frequent & less copious than usual. The ultimate point of time to which the present delegation extends will arrive this day Se’nnight; and I must be excused for pressing the necessity of sending forward a delegation to represent the State in the next Congress at an early day. I shall avoid entering at present on several interesting Subjects; & content myself with the prospect of making known my Sentiments fully thereon at the next Session of Assembly, when I hope to be pre sent: But as this will probably be my last official Letter I cannot con clude without offering my most sincere thanks to the State for the re peated proofs of their confidence in appointing me at three successive Elections to the elevated Station I now hold in their Ser vice—and to your Excellency, and to his Honor the Dep. Governor for the many instances of your attention & friendship to me. I must rely on the candour of my Constituents to cast a friendly veil over the errors & mistakes, if any, I may have committed, 8c to impute them to my want of experience, if not of abilities too, in political affairs—while I assure them that to the extent of my capacity I have pursued the in terest of the State, which honoured me with its commands & if the U. States, without consulting my private interest, or that of my particular friends or becoming subservient to the sinister view of any man, or of any faction. And I now call upon my enemies, if such I have, as well as my friends, to charge me, if they can, with having solicited, during my official Existence, either directly or indirectly for an office for my self either under Congress, or under the State. It is to me a pleasing prospect that I can now retire from office to the humble condition of a common citizen, with clean hands 8c a clear conscience. I do not hold myself personally responsible to the public or to indi viduals for the propriety or success of such measures as I have for warded in pursuance of the views of the State; Yet I must observe, in justice to my own feelings, that time & investigation have convinced many of their propriety 8c given them success, 8c even that success, a powerful argument, has removed the doubts of others, & removed too from my Shoulders a load of ill will which otherwise might have fol lowed 8c oppressed me even in a private Station.
