718 November 3, 1785 cut should make out his account for the time he served with the vouchers to support it. I have not been so happy as to see Mr. Simpkins, & did not know but he had returned to Boston. Please to assure Mr. Walcut, if there was any further services I could render him it would give me pleasure. I remain, with perfect respect, your obliged friend & humble ser vant, S. Holten RC (MWA: Thomas Wallcut Papers). i For the resolution about which Thomas Wallcut was mistaken, seeJCC, 29:776; and Holten to Wallcut, October 3, note. Rufus King to Caleb Davis Dear Sir, New-York 3d. Nov. 1785 It gives me pleasure to learn that the Report of Mr. Jay concerning certain clauses in the navigation act of Massachusetts came to hand seasonably, to throw some light upon that Subject. 1 I will not pretend to give an opinion relative to the policy or wisdom of the law—if the principle is good, the small errors pointed out by Mr. Jay, may be eas ily rectified. The extract you was good enough to inclose me corre sponds with the uniform official communications of the writer. There is nothing more evident than that not only Great Britain, but France are jealous of the commerce, enterprize, and probable naval impor tance of the United States; and notwithstanding the apparent opposi tion between these two countries, it would not be surprizing if they united in advancing each the commerce of the other, if thereby they could suppress or injure the commerce of America. England is less jealous of France than of America. The twenty propositions of the Minister Mr. Pitt for a union with Ireland bear strong features of a Jealousy of America. Ireland now enjoys a free trade. She can admit at her pleasure the Ships, Products and manufactures of America and of Other Countries. England is eagle-eyed upon the subject. She wishes to make Ireland a part of Great Britain, and to regulate her trade—for the twenty propositions are to be fundamental Articles; they are to form a constitution, which is to remain superior to any future laws of either Country. Ireland evidently sees through the Policy— and I hope will effectually defeat the System which is more a combi nation against America, than A plan of commercial advantage to Ire land or England. What ought to be the line of conduct in America is not difficult to discover: but what will be her Conduct is wholly conjectural. If Amer-
