Illustrations XXV in Baltimore. His congressional career ended when Congress adjourned to Philadelphia at the end of February, and in April he was appointed surgeon-general of the middle department, where he remained until January 1778. His feud with William Shippen, Jr., director general of hospitals, and subsequent criticism of Washington’s leadership, in a famous letter to Patrick Henry, brought his military and political career to a close, whereupon he resumed his medical practice in Philadelphia and through his medical lectures and writings became perhaps the most widely known physician of his generation in America. Mezzotint by St. Memin, 1802. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress. LC-Z62-64712 Abraham Clark’s Motion on Washington’s Proclamation 412 Abraham Clark was a radical political leader from New Jersey who throughout his career in Congress abhorred the growth of military authority and encroachments on state sovereignty. To Clark, General Washington’s January 25, 1777, proclamation—which required all those who had recently declared their fidelity or sworn their allegiance to the king to take an oath of allegiance to the United States or else withdraw themselves and their families behind British lines—was a threat on both counts. He therefore offered this motion to rebuff an extension of military jurisdiction in New Jersey, the area most affected by Washington’s action. A committee of Congress sharply disagreed with Clark’s assessment of Washington’s proclamation, arguing that “considering the situation of the Army [it] was prudent and necessary,” but Congress tabled the committee’s report in order to avoid a potentially divisive debate. Undeterred by the committee’s rebuke, Clark remained concerned about encroachments on individual rights from whatever the source. As he explained to the Speaker of the New Jersey Assembly: “We set out to Oppose Tyranny in all its Strides, and I hope we shall persevere.” Papers of the Continental Congress, item 36, 1:4, National Archives and Records Service. Thomas Burke 426 Thomas Burke, who served as a North Carolina delegate to Congress from 1777 to 1781, was one of the foremost defenders of state sovereignty during the era of the American Revolution. An Irish immigrant who came to North Carolina and prospered as a doctor and lawyer, Burke anticipated by more than a century the Actonian dictum that power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely. “The delusive intoxica tion which power naturally imposes on the human mind,” he once warned, “inevitably leads to an abuse & corruption of power, & is in my humble opinion the proper object of political vigilance & jealousy.” In the Dickinson draft of the Articles of Confederation, Burke perceived great
