Illustrations xxvii tion of Independence, thereby becoming the delegate whose name appears last on the document. A physician in Londonderry, N.H., he was one of four doctors and eight foreign born delegates who signed the Declaration. After six months of inconspicuous service in Congress, Thornton returned home to sit on the bench of the New Hampshire Superior Court until 1782, after which he served a two-year term in the state senate. Painting by N. B. Onthank. Courtesy of the New Hampshire Historical Society. Resolves of Congress on Pennsylvania’s Defense 580 Congress again became alarmed for the safety of Pennsylvania in April 1777 when Gen. Israel Putnam, reporting on recent movements of General Howe’s forces in New Jersey, suggested that the British might be contem plating the capture of Philadelphia. A committee was therefore appointed to confer with Pennsylvania officials, but since many delegates were con cerned about the possible collapse of the state’s government and the deter mination and ability of its citizens to resist invasion, steps were also taken to insure that Pennsylvania’s paralysis did not fatally undermine the defense of the middle colonies. Accordingly, Congress, asserting its “indispensible duty” to intervene and declaring the executive authority of Pennsylvania “incapable of any exertion adequate to the present crisis,” published a series of resolves of April 14 and 15 exhorting “the good people of Pennsylvania chearfully to submit” to whatever emergency measures Congress and the Pennsylvania Council jointly deemed necessary. Rare Book and Special Collections Division. Library of Congress. LC-USZ62-66968 Benjamin Rumsey’s April 17, 1777, letter to Thomas Johnson 605 Benjamin Rumsey was born in Cecil County, Md., and educated at the College of New Jersey. Active in Maryland’s struggle against British authority, he served as a member of the Maryland Convention and the Council of Safety in 1775 and 1776, and held a colonel’s commission in the Harford County militia. He was elected a delegate to Congress in the autumn of 1776 and almost simultaneously was appointed a commissioner to encourage the reenlistment of Maryland soldiers. In Philadelphia he attempted to compromise a dispute between Maryland and Congress over the terms his state wished to offer men to reenlist, and he frequently busied himself with the details of supplying Maryland companies marching through Philadelphia en route to join Washington’s army. He attended Congress only a few days during his sojourn in Baltimore but resumed his seat after the delegates returned to Philadelphia before leaving in May, when Maryland seemed to be threatened from another quarter. Concerned over the state’s ability to pacify three eastern shore counties where loyalists threatened the stability of the new state government and encouraged a
