8 January 1, 1777 resolves to avenge the Injury done you and to prevent the repetition of such unjustifiable depredations. Morris is not here, but I have requested him in a letter which I wrote him yesterday enclosing yours to correspond with me upon the subject and exert his utmost endeavours to interest Congress in favour of your Application, by a publick epistle to our Hon ours. This is all which can be done at present, when I hear more particu larly from you I shall prosecute every expedient to improve such informa tion to your benefit. 1 The Congress upon Part of G. Howe’s Army advancing within 9 Miles of Cooper’s ferry, by the advices of Mifflin and Putnam removed to this dirty infamous extravagant hole, where with all possible ceconomy we live at the rate of 50/ per day, Every necessary of life being double what they cost us in Philadelphia, & before we left that every thing was enormous. In a letter which accompanies this I send you an account of the signal success obtained at Trenton. It has already had a fine effect upon our recruiting service, one Reg’t whose term of Enlistment was expired having reenlisted to a man since that Event. It has operated the contrary effects on our Enemy—as from what we can learn they are Pannic Struck. Cer tain it is that 2000 which were at Bordentown moved towards Princeton with great Precipitation and carried off all their Stores with them. The State of General Washingtons Army is pretty nearly as follows. Of Lees detachments brought from the East Side of Hudsons River about 2300 effective men Other continental Regiments 2700 Genl Cadwallader with 1200 Militia 1200 Genl Ewen perhaps as many 1200 Militia come in & coming in very fast since the battle will make perhaps 2600 10000 With these Genl Washington will I imagine again enter the Jersies and attempt to drive the Enemy back to New York. Should he succeed Your cause is safe, and my apprehensions about Philadelphia at an end. Howe has about 12,000 in the Jersies, Headquarters at Brunswick & the principal part of the army collected there, most of the outposts are called in, they have a small force at Princeton. Genl Washington is at Newton in Bucks County, where a plot was formed against him and his family, happily defeated by an early discovery of the Tories Intentions. Lee’s Capture surprizes us all. He was taken about 2 miles from his army where he had stopped to write answers to dispatches. A man in the neighbourhood immediately rode off to Brunswick 25 Miles distant, gave information, 80 or 90 light horse were immediately dispatched under the command of Col Harcourt who arrived about 10 oGlock in the morning and surprised Lee and his Aid de Camps, 6 in number, at the writing table. A guard of 10 men which men unfortunately at a little distance from the house were cut off from communication with the Genl. Lee was
