January 1, 1777 11 “1. He appointed his own apprentice who had not been with him 3 months, Apothecary General at 50 Dollars a Month, pocketted the whole & charged the youth for his board. “2. He had 8 or 10 mates at 3/9 a day & charges the continent 7/6—they are quite ignorant. “3. From 50 to 100 sick are entirely trusted to these boys. “4. There always have been a great abundance of Stores locked up & with great expence removed from place to place greater than the first cost, & the sick perish for want of them. Hundreds in Hackinsack lying in straw in cold barns with nothing but Beef & bread to eat. “5. He makes money of the Tallow, by making candles & selling them to the hospital, therefore nothing but Beef given them, this I have from his Q Master Who was to have part of the proffit. & I am told he pockets all the retained rations— but this I cant prove. Nor should I choose to be called upon to prove any thing. I have my information from the united voice of his own officers.” Lee Papers, PPAmP. Although Morgan was dismissed as director general on January 9 and Shippen’s plan for hospitals was transmitted to Congress by General Washington in February, it was not until April that Congress adopted new regulations for military hospitals based largely on Shippen’s recommendations and appointed Shippen as director general. JCC, 7:24, 161-64, 231-37, 244-46, 253. For a discussion of the assistance Shippen received in the preparation of his plan from Dr. John Cochran, who subsequently became physician and surgeon general of the army in the Middle Department, see Morris H. Saffron, Surgeon to Wash ington. Dr. John Cochran, 1730-1807 (New York: Columbia University Press, 1977), pp. 28-39, 213-17. ! This is a quotation from Juvenal Satires 6. 292-93, which may be translated: “A heavier burden than the arms of war, Luxury lies like an incubus upon us, avenging the world that Rome has conquered.” Marine Committee to John Baldwin Sir 1 January 1st. 1777 Mr. Patterson is now going down to Egg Harbour to take the care and management of your Prizes in that place, and as its probable you may return there from your present Cruize, you are hereby directed on receipt of this Letter to send up immediately a return of the Provisions and Stores that will be wanted to compleat the Wasp for a three months voyage. Send also a List of your men and an account of what Slops and clothing may be necessary if you should be ordered to proceed to Europe. You may heave down the schooner & get her in good order against the return of the Express by whom you make these returns and if you are ordered on the service mentioned all things necessary shall be sent you. Keep this to yourself until further orders. Mr. Patterson will supply you with money for such expences as arise on the Vessel at Egg Harbour and if more is wanted write us for it. I am on behalf of the Marine Comee., Your hble Servant, R Morris V. P.
