January 1, 1777 13 I have not been favoured with one letter Publick or privat Since I left my own House. I would take it as a great Honor, to Receive a letter from you, or any worthy friend. 1 My Worthy College Col. Whipple is well. Pray Sir take the trouble to present my Compliments to the Honble Council & House & Except the Same from Your Most Obedient, & Sir, your Hble sert. Matthew Thornton RC (MeHi). 1 Meshech Weare’s December 16, 1776, letter to the New Hampshire delegates did not arrive in Baltimore until January 19, 1777. See William Whipple to Weare, February 3, 1777. Oliver Wolcott to Andrew Adams? Sir, 1 Baltimore, 1 Jany. 1777 Your Favour of the 30 Novr came to hand last Evening for which I most sincerely thank you. I wrote to you the 15 Nov. which I hope you have reed. 2 Your observations of the Necessity of establishing a respecta ble Army are in my Judgment Very Proper. Congress have empowered Genl Washington to raise 16 Battalions in addition to those already granted and 3,000 Cavalry. Also have given the Genl a Power for six months to conduct at his Descretion the operations of the War, establish magazines, call upon the Militia when necessary, regulate every Depart ment in the Army, Displace and appoint any officer below the Rank of Brigadr. Genl. &c. In a Word the Whole of the Military Department is put into his Hand for six Months. Upon this that the Preservation of the Civil Liberties of the People, at the present Time, depends upon the full Exertion of the Military Power. An Embargo for six months is laid upon salted Provisions. 3 For other matters of publick Intelligence referr you to the enclosed I hope We may obtain further advantages agt the Enemy in the Jersys. The Congress is this moment going off. I have only to say that We must have an Army, to carry on a War without one is a New Peice of Business. That they ought to be provided for in the best manner, and that without discipline they will not be serviceable and that if We can once bring one into the Feild, they will be much better provided for, disciplined and governed than they have hitherto been. In a Word I be lieve if We can get an Army it will be a good one—more happy themselves and more Beneficial to the Publick than any we have yet had. Great Complaints are made that the Assemblys have appointed great Numbers of Very insufficient officers and have neglected the most apparent Merit. Your kindness for me particularly exacts my Gratitude. I wish I was less sensible of the Injury I have reed. Any but those who have exercised Power to answer sinister Purposes to my Injury I can easily forgive, but
