14 January 1, 1777 these men I hope may deserve not only my Forgiveness but that of their Maker. I am at no Loss as to what they deserve. But God forbid that the Villany shall ever induce me to relax my Endeavours to serve my Country as farr as I am able. I saw the Baseness of these Mens Design and the Ef fect of my own undertaking in a good Degree contrary to my own Opinion I undertook, and therefore ought to suffer. I am generally tho’t to be pritty inflexible in my own Opinion. I certainly will study to be more so. My Compliments to Mrs. Adams and with Candor Accept this hasty Sketch from Sir, your most Obedient, humble Servant Oliver Wolcott RC (N). 1 Andrew Adams of Litchfield, Conn., with whom Wolcott maintained a steady correspondence, was the probable recipient. The subjects discussed here are similar to those discussed in other letters to Adams; and the contemporary endorsements on this and three other of Wolcott’s letters to him—“Coll. Wolcott’s Letter,” on this and one of March 22, 1776, and “Genii. Wolcotts Letter,” on letters of March 22 and April 9, 1777—appear to be in the same hand. 2 Not found. 3 See the resolve of December 30, 1776. ]CC, 6:1054. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear Baltimore 1 Janry 1777 I Wrote to you the 25t and 13t last, Since which Nothing material has Occurred, except the Battle at and near Trenton, in which the Amer ican Army took 918 Prisoners, killed 20 or 30, took 4 Colors, 6 Brass Feild Pieces &c, the particular acco. of which you will have. I hope We may flatter ourselves that further Advantage will be soon obtained in that Quarter. I have not yet heard what the Troops which went to R Island are about but I hope there Designs will be frustrated. Nothing of consequence from the Southward. How long the Congress will continue here will depend on Contin- gences. For myself I wish it might not be long for it is infinitely the most dirty Place I was ever in. No One can Walk about here but in Boots. The Air and Paths are in the same Condition that they are with us the latter End of March and beginning of April. This Weather I Suppose will continue near Two Months. The Place is said to be healthy but I am sure it is extremely uncomfortable. By the Blessing of God I am well Otherwise than my having a Cold which I hope will pass off before long. My best Regards to my Family and Freinds whom I hope God will Protect and Bless. Take Care of your Health, make the Cares of Life Easy. Prosperous and happy Times I trust will Return to our Country, and that God will grant us the Peace and Happiness of former Days, A
