January 2, 1777 19 Executive Committee to William Palfrey Sir January 2nd 1777 Your letter to Congress of yesterday is now in our Office, and which we shall dispatch to Baltimore by Express. As we concur with you that the engagements with the Soldiry Should at all times be complied with, we Shall recommend it to Congress to Send you a Sufficient Supply of Money. In consequence of a request from his Excellency the General, We yesterday sent him Fifty Thousand Dollars for the purpose of Paying the 10 Dollars bounty you mentioned so that we hope the Army will suffer nothing untill you get a Supply. We are Sir, Yr. mst Obt Serts. [P.5.] We send you Six Sticks of Sealing Wax. LB (DNA: PCC, item 133). Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir Baltimore 2d Jany 1777 Your Favour of the 23d Deer is just come to Hand & inclosed are the Orders of Congress for emporting Flower & Rice. I should have wrote by your young Gentleman, but he stopped at Philadelphia. Capt Doughty will go off the 4th or 5th with 400000 Dollars, & the Loan Office Certifi cates will either be sent by Express or under his Care to each of the New England Commissioners, who will also receive the necessary Directions. I will move in the Morning for a Warrant on the Loan offices of Con necticut & Massachusetts for 300000 Dollars, in your Favour, which answers all that is mentioned in your Letter relative to Business. 1 I am informed that in the New York Paper is the Copy of a Letter from the C. G. to a Memr of Congress wherein Colo Reed is censured; I have not seen it, or heard to whom it is directed—but shall not be surprized if to myself. 2 I congratulate You on the Success of our Arms at Trentown; Our Men embrace every favourable oppertunity to give Tests of their Courage, & should be ever indulged in their martial Inclinations. The Regiments in the Detachment that attacked the Enemy were Reeds, Poor’s, Starks, N.H.; Glover’s, Sergeant’s, Hutchinson’s, Patterson’s & Graton’s, M.B.; Durky’s, Ct.; Varnum’s, R.I.; Stone’s, Maryd.; & Reads, Weadons, Lauson’s, Scot’s & Buckner’s, Virga., making in the whole 2500. The public should be apprized hereof, that by doing Justice to the brave, they may Excite them to nobler Acts & raise a laudable Emulation, free from Envy & Boasting, thro out America.
