20 January 2, 1777 The Lexington a Continental Frigate of 14 Guns arrived here this Morning from Cape Francois after having about ten days since been captured by a thirty two Gun Frigate. The officers were all taken out & about twelve or fifteen Men put on board her by them but the Wind being high they lost one of their Boats & were unable to add to this Number, in Consequence of wch. the Crew of the Lexington retook the vessel & arrived here with the following Cargo: 1400 Ells Cloaths & Coatg., 500 Ells Flannel & 300 of Oznab., 1 bbl. Salt petre, 200 thousand needles, 636 thousand pins, 366 reams paper, 386 Blankets, 12 3/4 Tons Sulphur, 5000 Flints, 500 stand arms with Bayonets, 7 1/2 Tons Lead & 8 Tons powder. 3 I remain sir with much Esteem your Friend & humble serv, E Gerry Jany 3d. The Order proposed in the first part of this Letter having passed Congress is now enclosed. I think it will be necessary to inform yourself from the Loan Office Commissioners who of them is or may be best sup- plyed with Money & inform the Treasurer that he may send an order accordingly. In the Evening. I am just come from a Visit to our good Friend General Gates who is on the Recovery, which will doubtless give You pleasure. I suspect that a mercenary party at Albany have endeavoured to gravel you in supplying the Army, & find that at certain Times when there should have been two Months (or six Weeks at least) provisions in the Garrison, there has been only a Supply for the same Number of Days. This is a Matter of serious Concern, as the Enemy by investing the Garrison at such a Time, would oblige it to give them Battle upon their own Terms or re treat by the way of the new Road to the N E States. Pray inform me whether You can establish a Magazine of provisions at Bennington for an Army of 10000 Men three Months & keep up the usual Supplys not- withstandg opposition & without the assistance of the Albany Gentle men ; & if not, whether it would be a good plan to direct a certain Quantity to be provided in or near Albany by the York Convention or General Schuyler to supply the Militia that may occassionally come in, or answer any other Demands that may be found necessary during the next Cam paign? & also what Quality of provisions & Quantity should be thus or dered? I think your powers & connections may render this needless, but as it can be done without interfering in your Department, if You think there is the least Chance of it’s being necessary & advise thereto [it] shall be adopted. The Bearer brings the Certificates to the Commissioner of the loan offices in N England. RC (Ct). 'For the results of Gerry’s action, see the January 3 postscript of this letter and 7CC, 7:12.
