January 2, 1777 21 2 Commissary General Joseph Trumbull’s letter of November 18, 1776, to Wil liam Williams was captured and printed in the New York Gazette; and the Weekly Mercury, December 9, 1776. It is also in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3 :1497-98. 3 For further information on the capture and recapture of the Continental brig Lexington, see Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:534, 836. John Hancock to Ebenezer Hancock Dear Brother Baltim[or]e. 2 Jany. 1777 This will be handed you by Coll. Stewart a Friend of Mine, & a Gentle man of an Amiable Character, & Spirited officer. 1 1 Desire your particular Attention to him, & the exercise of every Civility in your power, & that you will Accommodate him with a Bed in your house during his Stay in Boston, & in short I beg you do every thing in your power to Render Col Steward’s Abode in Boston as agreeable as possible. I have wrote Mr Bant. 2 Introduce Col Stewart to all my Friends. I wish you happy & am, Your’s affectionately, John Hancock RC (PHC). Addressed: “To Ebenezer Hancock Esqr, Dfeputy] Paymaster Gen eral, at Boston.” 1 See Committee of Congress to Walter Stewart, December 31, 1776. 2 Not found. John Hancock to Robert Morris Sir, Baltimore Jany. 2d. 1777. I am to acknowledge the Receipt of your several Favours to the 20th. ulto. all which were immediately laid before Congress. The enclosed Resolves will inform you of the Measures Congress have taken relative to the Northern Army, a Copy of which I have forwarded to Genl. Schuyler. 1 1 transmit to you a Copy of the Circular Letter which Congress ordered to be sent to all the States, in Consequence of their vesting the Commander in Chief with the large and extensive powers I enclosed to you in my last. 2 I am this Minute informed by Captain Boyce of the Marines, who was on Board the Lexington, that she was taken by the Pearle Frigate off the Capes of Delaware. The Weather proving extremely bad, only seven Hands were put on Board. In Consequence of which the Lexington’s Crew rose; and having taken Possession of her, have brought safe into this Harbour. She is loaded with Powder, Arms, & dry Goods. I shall order her to be immediately unloaded, & dispatch her as fast as possible. I must ask the Favour of you to send me by the next Express, Half a Ream of good Writing Paper, two Pounds of the best Sealing Wax, a Box
