January 3, 1777 25 Harpsicord, which I am told was the best that ever came to America. You Have little chance for the Tellescope. Old Weatherspoon has not escap’d their fury. They have burnt his Library. It grieves him much that he has lost his controversial Tracts. He would lay aside the Cloth to take revenge of them. I believe he would send them to the Devil if he could, I am sure I would. Thus endeth the postscript. RC (DLC). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:3-4. 1 See Benjamin Rush to Richard Henry Lee, December 20, 1776, note 3. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen, Baltimore Town, Jany 3d 1777 Congress have received no Letters from General Washington since the 29th. We are informed by private Letters, that all our forces, about 10,000, are in the Jerseys, and that the Enemy are retreating. It is certain, that Genl. Heath has retaken Hackensack and some Prisoners. Mr. Shearman, Delegate from Connecticut, informs that the Enemy are in Possession of New Port, Rhode Island, and that about 10,000 are collected to oppose them. The enclosed Petition was put into my hands. Your Board will make proper Enquiry and grant Redress. Captain Yates delivered Me the enclosed. Mr. Carroll informs Me, that an Application was heretofore made to Congress relative to the Case of Milne and Jenkins & declined Giving any opinion. I have given the State of their Case to the Georgia Delegates, I will write You further on this Subject. 1 General Smallwood will communicate to You his Directions from Con gress; I shall procure Money from them as soon as it can be signed, and shall forward the General with a Sum to enable him to expedite the new Levies. I doubt not the ready Concurrence and assistance of your Board. On the Success in procuring a New Army depends our all. I wish You would give a Line to any Officer, who may apply to You for Money & signify what Sum I shall advance. I think it would be proper for You in a full Board to consider the Propriety of Convening our general Assembly. Our State is as yet un represented. I am, Gent, with Respect and Regard, Your Most Obedt. Servt. Sami. Chase RG (MdAA). 1 See William Paca to the Maryland Council of Safety, December 7, 1776, note 2. See also Chase to the Maryland Council, January 19? 1777.
