January 4, 1777 31 that Philadelphia was the dearest Place that ever I knew. Baltimore ex ceeds it. On this Account, on Account of its Distance from the Scene of War, and on Account of its being the dirtiest Place I ever saw, I most sincerely wish myself back to Philadelphia, which I left with great Re luctance. By a Letter which I receiv’d from Newport on the 6th of Dec. I am led to hope that my Wife and Children have escaped from Newport. If they should be Prisoners I hope you will promote their Freedom. I am with great Respect Yr Honor’s most obedient, humble Servant, Wm Ellery s. RC (MdBJ-G). Addressed: “To The Honorable Nicholas Cooke Esqr, Governor of the (Colony) State of Rhode Island & Providence Plantations.” 1 See Ellery to Cooke, December 31, 1776. Secret Committee to John Langdon Sir, In Secret Committee Baltimore 4th Jan 1777 We some time ago desired you to purchase two or three ships and send them to Virginia, or South Carolina, since which we have not had the pleasure of hearing from you, but hope that business is in good forward ness. 1 We have now to desire you to purchase another ship and send her to France if a cargo can be procured at your place suitable for that mar ket. No doubt masts will answer very well and perhaps some other arti cles of greater value may be procured—however of this you are a much better judge than we can be. Our wish is that the cargo may be valuable and that the ship may be dispatched as soon as possible. Many articles that are much wanted in the army, we imagine may be obtained at the Islands, St Peters, Newfoundland. We therefore desire you would charter two small vessels (which should be very fast sailers) if cargos can be procured proper for that market 2 and order from thence canvas for tents, or any sort of woolen or linen goods suitable for soldier’s clothing. Your drafts on this Committee will be duly paid, for whatever sums you may want for the execution of this business at the Islands of St Peters and Meguelon. We are with great respect, your most humble servts, Richard Henry Lee F Lewis Wm Whipple Tr (DLC). 1 For Langdon’s progress in this regard, see his January 23 letter to Robert Morris in Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1020. 2 For Langdon’s response to this request, see his January 23 letter to William Whipple, ibid., pp. 1020-21.
