36 January 5, 1777 Richard Henry Lee to Adam Stephen Dear General 1 Baltimore 5 January 1777 Nothing could have happened more opportunely than the drubbing you have given the Hessians at Trenton. God grant the blow may be fol lowed up until you expell these Robbers from the Jersies at least. If they do not get severe castigation for their late maneuvres in Jersey, they will sophisticate all Europe with lies. The genius of America seems now to be awakening from profound sleep. Let the moment be improved for making a vigorous and decisive impression. We have had several valuable arrivals lately with powders, woolens and arms. More are daily expected. But you seem now to have got into a shorter and surer method of obtaining these things by stripping the enemy. I heartily approve the plan. I am still of opinion that the Spring torch will light up a general war in Europe, but still we should be prepared to receive the enemy in every quarter. Both in public and in private as little should rest upon externals as possible. Will you please to tell our Major Parker that I will forward his com mission by the first good opportunity. Congress has adopted the European plan in offering six Hessian field officers for Gen. Lee. If it is not accepted, I hope a noble feud will take place between these foreigners and their British Allies. I am, as of old, your affectionate friend, Richard Henry Lee RC (CtY). Addressed: “Brigadier General Stephen in the Jersies. Favored by Colo. Hartley.” 'Adam Stephen (1730?-91), who had been promoted to the rank of brigadier general in September 1776, was promoted to major general on February 19, 1777, but was dismissed from the service later in the year for being intoxicated on duty. Appleton’s Cyclopaedia of American Biography. Board of Treasury to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety Sir Baltimore Jany 6th 1777 Capt Doughty, who has taken charge of the Loan Office certificates for the Eastern States, will be in want of a guard to escort him as far as Hartford in Connecticut. 1 I am therefore desird to request the favor of you to order one for that purpose, which we think ought to consist of six Horsemen, who will expedite the conveyance of these certificates. Capt Doughty will be in Philadelphia on the 10th Instant. I am, on behalf of the board of Treasury, Sir, Your obedt Hbe Servt, Thos. Nelson jr. RC (NN). Written and signed by Thomas Nelson. 'See JCC, 7:17-18.
