38 January 6, 1777 notwithstanding their Fatigue and he understood that Genl Heath was at Morris Town with a considerable number of Troops and was to join Genl Washington on Saturday, when they were to Surround Brunswick & attack it in all quarters. This is nearly the substance of Mr Browns account. You may fully depend that what he relates is exactly what he has seen & heard being a Young Man of Veracity. Capt James Nicholson has also just returned from Trenton again, he confirms all the above particulars having heard them at Trenton from other persons that had come in there. He adds also that an Express was come down from Genl. Washington to Genl. Putnam & pushed on from Trenton to Bordentown where he expected to meet him yesterday, & by the enclosed letter from Genl Putnam you will perceive he Crossed yesterday to Burlington & the Force he has with him; more are following constantly. Capt Nicholson further says that the Enemies Troops that lodged in Trenton on Thursday night, pushed for Prince Town soon as they missed our army, that they were greatly fatigued & harrassed & that the Country between Trenton & Prince Town was full of Stragglers that cou’d not get on fast enough, that they generally quitted the Road, got into the Woods and lost them selves & were divided into small parties of threes & fours, some of which came into Trenton & surrendered whilst he was there & the Country Militia having begun to rise was picking them up & bringing them in very fast. Those that surrendered said great Numbers of their Countrymen wou’d come in if they knew how well they wou’d be treated. It is now said that Ld Cornwallis Commands the Main Body of the Enemy consisting of between 4 & 5000 that was at Trenton & that Genl Howe is at Brunswick with about 3 or 4000. Genl. Washingtons Force we do not know but it was judged by Mr Brown to be 12,000. We think that is impossible, however he says the Country is undoubtedly rising & that he will gather Strength every day. Genl Heath is said to have from 3 to 7000 but we have no Certainty respecting him. The bearer of this who came express from Boston says he heard Genl. Heath was at Pecks Kill. Upon the whole, we are in a state of much uncertainty & anxiety, but hope soon to be agreably relieved from it, our Militia come in daily. Colo Flemings Battalion is near at hand, part of Cooks is already here, the Jersey Militia turning out and our army will grow too formidable for the Enemy be the Event at Brunswick what it may. We know Congress will be anxious & soon as we can give it, they shall have information of what happens. We opened the dispatches from Boston but finding our interposition unnecessary we send on the Express with these dispatches & this letter. You will find enclosed the Copy of a letter from Major Hubley & thereby learn the success of Major Mifflins expedition. You have also enclosed a letter from J. Trumbull, D. paymaster Genl, at Albany. Capt Hallock & his officers will go down to day to the Lexington but they must not go
