40 January 6, 1777 Jany.7th. We have an imperfect Acct, by the Post of the Engagement at Trenton—and are anxiously waiting for Particulars. In Hopes of receiv ing them, I have detained the Express till this Morning. The Resolution sent you some time ago respectg the Magazine at York, is superceeded by the subsequent Resolve ordering one at Carlile. 3 RC (DNA: PCC, item 58). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and two portions of postscripts by Hancock. Addressed: “Robt. Morris Esqr. & others of the Come.” 1 See JCC, 7:12-13; and John Witherspoon to David Witherspoon, March 17, 1777. 2 Foregoing paragraph written by Hancock. 3 See JCC, 6: 1033, 1044. Foregoing sentence written by Hancock. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Baltimore Jany. 6th. 1777 The enclosed Resolves, which I have the Honour of transmitting, call for your immediate Attention; and I am to request you will take Measures in Pursuance thereof, as soon as possible. 1 Genl. Lee’s Situation seems to to be extremely dangerous and critical; and from Genl. Howe’s Behaviour to him, it is highly probable, he will be brought to a Trial for Desertion. Genl. Lee, it is said, by Mr. Eustace his Aid de Camp, having addressed two Letters to Genl. Howe, received them both back again unopened, and enclosed under a Cover directed to Lieutenant Colo. Lee. I hope the Flag which Congress ordered to be sent to make Enquiry into the Manner in which he is treated, has been dispatched, and a Remonstrance in Conse quence of it, should the Information you have received of his Treatment, have rendered that Step necessary. You will please to propose an Exchange of the six Hessian Field officers for him, & at the same Time make Enquiry whether the Report which Congress have heard of Mr. Stockton’s being confined in a Common Jail by the Enemy, has any Truth in it, or not. 2 By a Letter which Congress yesterday received from Mr. Morris we are informed that Genl. Cadwallader, with the Troops under him, had joined your Army—that the Enemy were at Trenton.—that the two Armies were divided only by a Creek, and that a General Engagement was hourly expected. In the mean Time, Congress are infinitely anxious to hear the Event; and humbly hope, that Victory has declared in Favour of those, whose sacred Cause should inspire them with Ardour on every solemn appeal to that Being, who hateth all Injustice, Tyranny, and oppression. I have the Honour to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt P.S. If the Desire of Congress to procure Genl. Lee’s Exchange cannot be effected, and the Enemy, preferring the Gratification of Revenge to the
