January 6, 1777 41 Civility they owe their Hessian Auxiliaries, determine to keep or to abuse him, it will be very agreeable to Congress that their Determination, with the enclosed Resolve, be made known to the Hessians as fully as possible. To secure Genl. Lee as effectually as maybe from personal Insult & Injury, Congress have come to the present Resolution; 3 which you, Sir, are desired to convey to Genl. Howe with all convenient Dispatch. 4 It will be very agreeable to Congress that the Hessian Field Officer intended to be ex changed for Colo. Ethan Allen be sent to notify it to Genl. Howe, taking his Parole to return in a fixt Time, if Colo. Allen is not returned in his Place. It will fall within the Wish of Congress if Colo. Rohl, or one of the Hessian Officers, should be also sent with the Flag proposing the Exchange of Genl. Lee; but the propriety of it is submitted to you. Jany. 7th. We have had an imperfect Acct, of the Engagement at Tren ton, and anxiously wait for further Particulars. It was in Hopes of receiv ing them that I detained the Express till this Morning. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 In addition to the resolves about General Lee and Richard Stockton discussed in the body of this letter, Hancock also sent Washington some resolves passed between January 3 and 6 about provisions for American prisoners, the exchange of Ethan Allen, reinforcements for Washington, and pay for seamen. JCC, 7:12, 15, 16. 2 See JCC, 7:10, 12-13; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:501-2. 3 See JCC, 7:16. 4 The preceding two sentences were evidently taken from a partial draft of the postscript prepared by Richard Henry Lee, a member of the committee appointed on December 20, 1776, to inquire into the condition and treatment of prisoners of war. Lee also apparently drafted the resolves concerning Ethan Allen and Charles Lee enclosed by Hancock in this letter. His drafts of these resolves and the postscript of this letter are in the Lee Family Papers, ViU. Robert Morris to John Hancock Dear Sir Philada. Jany 6th. 1777 I am favoured with yours of the 2d Inst and had much joy indeed, when I found the Lexington was arrived, because She wou’d be a mischievous Enemy, altho a very good Friend in proper hands. I have directed the Captain & Officers to proceed down to Baltimore immediately judging they will be wanted in fitting her out again. Gap Hallock can also distinguish the Goods that are for Account of the Public from those on Other Account. I thank You for the promised care of those that are for me which I suppose to be the property of Mr. Ceronio at the Cape. I wou’d have them delivered to Mr. David Stewart to whom I give orders respecting them. Gapt Hallock & his Officers are under parole and
