January 6, 1777 43 in my name & then pass them for their money, [. . .] my Dr Sir I will promote this business by all means in my power. I am perfectly satisfyed to have Aiderman Lee joined with my Brother in the Continental busi ness being convinced it will promote the Public good but at the same time such Commission or Compensation shou’d be allowed as will be sufficient for two instead of one, and I am confident they will both earn what they are to receive. The quantity of Tobo we shou’d ship to France ought to have no limit & sorry I am that the Vigilance of our Enemies, the Scarcity of Ships & Seamen with many other Causes keeps us from making the nec essary progress, but our difficulties in this respect are almost insurmount able. I think we shall be in debt in every quarter, We must owe money in Martinico, St Eustatia & Cape Francois and I wish to remit to these places instantly if possible. We must be heavily in debt in old France if Mr Deane succeeds & whether he does or not we shall otherways be in debt if the Goods ordered are shipped. As things are now Circumstanced the Chance of getting out Merchant ships is against us, but I wou’d propose sending the Lexington & all our small Cruizers into the West Indias with orders to Carry their Prizes into the French Islands & send proper Powers to Mr Bingham &c to sell these in all cases that are clearly within the Laws of Congress, and in all probability these vessels will pay of your Debts & provide fresh Funds for further importations. If you approve of this Idea get the Congress to grant Mr Bingham a Commission or to empower the Marine Committee to give him instructions suited thereto, it may be very usefull & cannot hurt us in any shape. I am now at the 7th & have reed the letter from the Secret Committee of the 4th and Congratulate you on the safe arrival of Capt Welsh, whom I had given up as taken by the Enemy. Capt Vicary who sailed with him is carried into New York. I am called upon by all the agents I have em ployed in the purchase of Tobacco for more money and must send it to them, but I think it is much better it shou’d be sent from Baltimore than that I shou’d send it from hence where money is so much wanted & daily called for, the purchase is considerable & really amounts to a great deal of Money and if we can but get the Goods to Market which in due time I hope we shall, it will make our affairs easy. As I judge it will be too trouble some to the Committee to divide this money amongst my Correspondents I propose sending down an Order in favour of Mr David Stewart & then I will give him directions to send by express the Sums necessary to each & I immagine it will require 80 to 100,000 Dollars to compleat the orders I have given them at different times which amot to several thousand hhds of Tobo. the particulars of which I cannot ascertain here as my papers are out of Town. I will write to the Secret Committee on this Subject when I draw the bill & am in haste, Dr Sir, Your Obedt hble servt. Robt Morris
