January 7, 1777 47 changed for Boger, & as he is said to be a very good officer, has been Ill used and suffered a good deal, we dare say your Excellency will demand his release by the First Flag. We have the honor to be, Sir, Your Excellencys Obedt Servts. Robt Morris Geo Clymer Geo Walton RC (DLC). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Clymer, and Walton. 1 Hugh Gaine was printer of the New York Gazette; and the Weekly Mercury, a loyalist newspaper. 3 Capt. William Gamble, a Pennsylvania naval officer, had been in command of the schooner Colonel Parry when it was captured by the British in November 1776. Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:877n.2. 3 On January 13 Washington wrote a letter to Lord Howe, enclosing Captain Gamble’s “paper” and criticizing British treatment of American naval prisoners. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:3—5. Francis Lewis to the New York Council of Safety [January 7, 1777] I lately wrote you by an Express, wherein I informed you that the State of New York was not represented in Congress, nor indeed has it been for several months past, except at some small intervals. 1 I am at present the only Delegate for New York at this place, and the Members are continu ally urging me to request you would compleat your representation in Con gress, as business is now multiplying upon their hands, and so many mem bers detached upon Committees &c that the business in Congress is re tarded, add to this that our state sometimes suffers for the want of a Vote in Congress, which I beg you would speedily remmedy. 2 I have the honor to be respectfully, Gentlem, your very Humble Servt, F. Lewis RC (NN). Endorsed: “Baltimore Jan. 7th 1777.” See also Journals of the N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:776, 782. 'See Lewis to the New York Committee of Safety, December 27, 1776. 3 On January 22 the committee of safety read a report on Lewis’ letter offering suggestions for improving attendance among the New York delegates but deferred action on it until the New York Convention met. Journals of the N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:776, 782; and Calendar of Historical Manuscripts relating to the War of the Revolution, in the Office of the Secretary of State, Albany, N.Y., 2 vols. (Albany: Weed, Parsons, and Co., 1868), 1:605-6.
