January 8, 1777 49 Samuel Adams to James Warren Dear Sir, Baltimore Jany 8th 1777 I have several times referrd you to a Hint which I gave you in a Letter not long ago, and which I have not thought it prudent to repeat, lest by an Accident my Letter should be intercepted. 1 I have still the same opin ion of the Importance of this Affair; but having conversd with General Gates who is now in this Town, upon that and other Matters, we have concluded upon a more sure Way of effecting it, than that which I pro posed to you. I wish therefore, if you have already communicated it to any of our Friends, you would injoyn them to close Secrecy, and that it may be even forgot by them till the Event of it shall be known to the World. I am much pleasd to find that the New England Troops have so great a Share in the Honor of the late Action at Trenton. Genl Gates speaks very highly of the Militia you sent him the last Fall. He applauds greatly their Zeal for the Gause, and particularly their Readiness to tarry in the Service after the Expiration of the Term of their Inlistments in Novem ber, and he tells me he gave them an honorable Discharge. I have not the Pleasure of knowing Genl Brickett, but he mentions him to me as a worthy good officer. We have further good Accounts from our Army, which are credited although they are not yet authenticated. I verily beleive that the Incursion of the Enemy into the Jerseys will in the Event be much to our Advan tage, and that this Campaign will end gloriously on our side. I never will be sanguine in my Expectation, for I know the Events of War are un certain; but there seems to be an enterprizing Spirit in our Army which I have long wishd to see, and without which we may not expect to do great Things. The same enterprizing Spirit also takes Place here. We have done Things which I would not have flattered myself with the least Hope of doing a Month ago. This Express will carry to the Council a Resolution which I presume will be communicated to you of Course. 2 Hereafter I will give you a very particular and good Reason why it is not communicated to you in this Letter. We understand that by the Enemies Treatment of General Lee there is a Design to try him as a deserting officer and take away his Life. Con gress have directed General Washington to acquaint General Howe, that if this is his Intention, five of the Hessian Feild Officers now in our Hands together with Lt. Colo Campbel will be detaind and sacrificd as an atonement for his Blood, should the Matter be carried to that Ex tremity; and this Resolution will most undoubtedly for my opinion be executed in full Fate. Your second and last Letter which was very short, was dated the 2d of Deer. I am disappointed every Post in not receiving your favour. Adieu my Freind, S Adams
