58 January 8, 1777 would be again returned to us, but alass I have been totally mistaken in him, he was ever mark’d, you know I must mean A.A. 3 O that if of yours, if we are but Honest in Publick Councils & ca; look at the Paragraph mark’d thus X and find it answered. I most sincerely thank you for your kind wishes to see me again at the Hills, I generally appropriate some moments on Sunday to that Place let me be where I will, but in this infernal Sink I scarcely think of any thing else, there is not even a Tavern that we can Ride to for Exercise and amusement within 15 miles of the Place, I mean such as a Gen tn can dine in with Comfort. My Compliments to Walton. I have Reed his two Favors 4 and would write to him but really have nothing to say that can either give him pleasure or amusement. I have a wish that his Country was Represented, but alass it is not, you may as soon change the Devil into an angel of Light as a C 1 man into any thing else. He should not if I could help it stay where he is if he could be of Service here, but as he can not I leave him to assist you and to Toy away a Leasure Hour now and then with his Fille de Joy. I am much oblig’d to my Friend Mease for the Sugar and for geting the Chairs, how we shall get them I know not without he can prevail on his Good Friend Jonathan Mifflin to take them on board one of his Shallops. I am, Dr Sir, your affect Hble Servt, Benj Harrison P.S. Ben seems to wish himself clear of his Place. Will his Resigning it be any Prejudice to his Commission Business; if not I shall approve of his doing it, he will be able to attend the latter more closely. Two Troops of Horse are come in from Virga, they will move on briskly to-morrow, the whole six will be with you by Wednesday, order stables for them, they want a great Number of Carbines. RC (MdBJ-G). 1 Morris’ January 2 letter to Harrison has not been found. 2 See Morris to Harrison, December 29, 1776. 3 Andrew Allen. 4 George Walton’s letters have not been found. Robert Morris to Silas Deane January 8, 1777 I am now arrived at the 8th of January 1777 without having had any oportunity of dispatching this Letter, as there are constantly 6 or 8 sail of the Enemies ships cruising in our Bay and off the Capes where they have taken many of our inward bound vessells & effectually blocked up all those we have in this Port. This detention affords me the pleasure of giving you a detail of what has passed since the 20 Deer, when the above was written & thank God the picture will be more pleasing to you as the
