January 8, 1777 59 Reality has been to me. You’ll observe in my former narative I left the Enemy posted at all the little Towns & Villages in New Jersey that afforded them good quarters, ready however to form an attack agst this place whenever the Ice should afford them a Bridge across Delaware. I then gave it as my opinion, this was a favorable disposition to attack them in. It seems Genl. Washington thought so too & meditated a heavy blow agst. them—such it would have proved had this plan Succeeded intirely & such has proved that part in which he did succeed. Orders were given to Genl Cadwallader (posted at Bristol with this City’s asso ciations) to Genl. Ewing with a body posted at Trenton Ferry, to cross Delaware on Christmas night when Genl. Washington himself crossed about 9 miles above Trenton with about 2400 & instantly marched them down for this place in two Divisions by different Roads. His design was to Surprise the Garison in this place before daylight, but the weather being extremely Cold, the Ice in Delaware retarded his boats & they did not reach the Scene of action untill 8 oClock but as they were attended by a most severe No. East Storm of hail, Rain, Snow & wind, the Surprize was compleat. There was 4 Regimts of Hessians commanded by Colonel Rholl stationed here. Their advance guards made some Resistance to our advance parties & alarmed the main body time enough for about 3 or 400 & 70 Light horse that were here also to get over Trenton Bridge & make off. The remainder had drawn up, but both Divisions of our army coming on them at the same time by different Roads they Sur rendered, there was 918 Prisoners that thus Surrendered with the Colours of the 4 Regimts., 6 field pieces and Considerable Bagage & stores, those that made off by way of the Bridge would have been taken by Genl. Erwing could he have Crossed at the Ferry, but the Ice made so fast & that place is so dificult when there is Ice that it was not possible as he did all that Men could do to get over, therefore some, but not the whole of the flying party did escape, many have been taken since & our Pris oners from that Expedition amounts to 1100 or 1200. Colonel Rholl died of his wounds & some other officers were Killed with about 40 privates, we did not lose a Man & had only Capn. Washington & two Privates wounded. General Cadwallader got over about 1000 men of his party but the Ice made so fast on him that he could not get over the artillery nor the Remainder of his Force & was obliged to bring back those that had Crossed. His object was to have Surprized the Posts at Mount Holly & then to have marched up the River whilst Genl. Washington marched down that they might Surround all the Troops Cantoned at Burlington, Bordentown & their Vicinity. This plan was well Laid & had not the Ice prevented would have been well Executed. Genl Washington finding those material parts frustrated & knowing the Enemy’s Strength to be vastly superior to that with him at Trentown recrossed Delaware & brought off the Hessian Prisoners, field pieces, Stores &ca. However he
