January 9, 1777 63 John Witherspoon to David Witherspoon Dear David, Baltimore, Jan. 8, 1777. Three days ago I received your favour of the 20th past, with pleasure. I must tell you a trifling circumstance. When I cast my eye on the back of it, I thought it was somebody that wrote very distinctly and neatly, and did not think of you, till I saw with satisfaction your name at the bottom. There are, however, still some small inaccuracies—be ambitious of im proving every day. Just about the time I received your letter, I had given to Col. Nayler letters for Mr. Smith and Fanny 1 and yourself, all wrapped in a parcel for Mr. Smith. In my letter to him, of a sheet of paper, I gave a very full and particular account of our flight from Princeton, and the situation of your mother as well as myself. She is at Pequea—I hope well, but I have not heard from that place since I left her. We carried nothing away of all our effects, but what could be carried upon one team. Benjamin Hawkins drove your mother in the old chair, and I rode the sorrel mare, and made John Graham drive the four young colts. This I write least the letter should miscarry, but have not time to repeat the whole detail. In the close of that letter, I had the pleasure of writing that General Washington had gone over the river at Trenton, surprised and taken a great number of Hessians. Since that time he has been in the Jerseys, and though we have not a letter directly from himself, yet letters from Philadelphia have made us believe that on Thursday night last he deceived the enemy at Trenton, made a forced march, met Lord Howe at Stonybrook, defeated him, took about 700 prisoners, and afterwards took Princeton, and is still pursuing the enemy towards Brunswick. 2 If before this letter is sent off a further account comes, you shall have it. . . , 3 J. Witherspoon. MS not found; reprinted from Christian Advocate 2 (October 1824): 445. 1 Witherspoon’s letters to his son-in-law, Samuel Stanhope Smith, and his daugh ter, Ann, have not been found. 3 See Executive Committee to John Hancock, January 3 and 5, 1777, which were read in Congress on the 6th and 8th respectively. ]CC, 7:14, 18. 3 Ellipsis in Tr. Samuel Adams to John Adams My dear Sir Baltimore Jany 9 1777 I have every Day for a Month past been anxiously expecting the Pleas ure of seeing you here, but now begin to suspect you do not intend to give us your Assistance in Person. I shall therefore do all that lies in my Power to engage your epistolary Aid. You will by every Opportunity receive my
