January 9 2 1777 73 Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry Dear Sir, Baltimore 9th January 1777 I have no doubt but that Mr. President inclosed you with his last dis patches the printed account of General Washingtons success at Trenton. The number of Hessian prisoners there made, do not fall much short of 1100. Since that event we have had no regular account from the army, but from a Committee of Congress at Philadelphia we have the accounts brought into Philadelphia by a number of persons and believed there, in substance as follows. The British forces stationed at Brunswick, Trenton, and other places in New Jersey, hearing of the success at Trenton, col lected and marched towards that place to attack our army, now strengthened by the junction of all its detachments and by several corps of Militia. Gen. Washington ordered two Brigades to advance on the Princeton road and interrupt the enemies march. About 3 miles from Trenton they met the enemy and being attacked by a much superior force, were compelled to retreat, which they did slowly keeping up a retreating engagement until they joined the main body drawn up on the heigh grounds on this side a bridge that divides the village of Trenton nearly in two parts. The enemy attempting to force the bridge were received by Gen. Mifflin with the Philadelphia militia and a number of Field pieces, who drove them back with great loss, and some batteries being now opened on the heights commanding the enemies part of the Town, they were soon obliged to quit it with loss. The armies still con tinued posted opposite each other until midnight, when Gen. Washington (having received certain intelligence that Gen. Howe was on his march in person, with a large reinforcement to join his army) having pre viously directed large fires to be made to deceive the enemy, decampt, made a forct march that night to meet Gen. Howe, met with him at a place called Quakers bridge, gave him battle and routed his troops, taking from 6 to 800 prisoners. Pursuing the fugitives he entered Princeton where a number of Officers, 6 or 7 field pieces, and the 40th Regiment were taken. The British army that remained at Trenton knew nothing of General Washingtons design until they heared the firing next morning, and then, having possessed themselves of the heights for some time, they retreated towards Brunswick along the Pennytown road, a circuitous, western way, leaving the place of engagement on the right hand a good distance. This extraordinary motion denotes panic, because their direct rout to the scene of action was along the road to Princetown, as thus 1 The account goes on—That our Army was pursuing from Princeton to Brunswick, where the enemy had large Stores kept. We know that Gen. Heath with above 3000 men is about Hackingsack and Colo. Ford with 1500 Jersey militia is before him in the way to Trenton. This is the posture we understand things to be in, and we wait in hourly expectation of re ceiving authentic intelligence of the total rout of the enemies army in
