74 January 9, 1777 Jersey and their disgraceful evacuation of that State. Thus we bid fair to derive great advantage from what we once apprehended would injure us extremely, the dispersion of our army. The enemy knowing we had no army, and trusting to their Tory intelligence that no forces could be col lected, had divided their troops in such a manner as to expose them to ruin from Militia only, or chiefly so; for excepting about 1500 Eastern troops, the same number of Virginians, about 200 of Smallwoods Mary landers and a broken Pennsylvania regiment, the rest of Gen. Washing tons army is Militia. Another valuable consequence will result from this success, it will prove to our enemies that America, without an army, is formidable in its militia. For sudden exertions, the Militia certainly do well, but they cannot bear the continued discipline of camps and cam paigns. This certainty makes it of the last importance that our regular Army should be assembled with all possible dispatch, and such you will find to be the sense of Congress by their requests to the several States for this purpose. Our wicked Enemy to Freedom & all its friends, are actually preparing to try Gen. Lee by a special Court Martial. For it seems, that in order to be aided by a court martial that Gentlemans resignation of his commission was not accepted. We have sent to remonstrate with Mr. Howe on this subject, to demand Gen. Lees enlargement on his parole, and to assure that the same infliction exactly that is applied to Gen. Lee, shall directly be applied to 5 Hessian Field officers and Colo. Campbell their favorite Engineer who shall be reserved for that special purpose. We have offered 6 Hessian field Officers in exchange for Gen. Lee. I heartily wish you the compliments of the season, and am with great esteem dear Sir your most affectionate and obedient servant, Richard Henry Lee [P.5.] Be pleased to let the scheme of lottery be published in our papers that people may be prepared against the Tickets are sent. RC (Vi). William Wirt Henry, Patrick Henry, Life, Correspondence and Speeches, 3 vols. (New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1891), 3:36-39. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 At this point Lee drew a diagram of the Trenton-Brunswick area, showing Washington’s line of march and the British army’s retreat. See ibid., p. 38. Robert Morris to Nicholas Cooke Sir. Philadelphia January 9th 1777. I have the honor to transmit you herewith a letter from the Honb Mr Ellery who desires me to give you an account of the battle of the 3 inst. which he supposes to have been fought at Trenton. 1 Common fame had been too busy and magnified the transactions of that day by private in-
