January 10, 1777 81 very impatient for his money & hopes the bills will be returned for pay ment immediately. The 9th Virginia Battalion is nowhere & in want of a paymaster. The Colo recommends Mr Robt Foreman to that office as you will see by the enclosed Note. The Colo wants money to pay off their arrearages but seems embarrassed for want of a paymaster. We shall advance him the Sum of Ten Thousand Dollars which is Short of what is due to the Regiment & he must be accountable for the same. We have also advanced Colo Antill one Thousand Dollars for the recruiting serv ice, he wants more, and the New Jersey recruiting officers all are in Want. These officers all agree that Men enlist very fast and we hope there will soon be a respectable army, but we must have more money or quit the Committee room. It seems Genl Mercer was put under parole by a Sur geon of the British army & therefore Considered as a prisoner. Colo Biddle now here tells us he heard just as he left head quarters, that 100 Prisoners & 30 Waggons had been taken by a Scouting party of ours. We are Sir, very respectfully, your Obedt Servts, Robt Morris Geo Clymer Geo Walton RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Clymer, and Walton. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Council Gentlemen, Baltimore Jany 10th. 1777. I have it in Command to forward the enclosed Resolve, and to request you will bestow that Attention to it which its great Importance demands. To you, the Congress have submitted the Propriety of making an Attack on the Province of Nova Scotia with a View to destroy the immense Quantities of military Stores that are there deposited to be employed against us. 1 I need not particularize the vast Advantages, or the Glory, resulting from this Expedition should it be happily carried into Execution. Nor need I suggest Motives to stimulate you to undertake it. Being fully con vinced that if shall appear to you practicable and calculated to advance the Interest of America, you will most certainly adopt it, I shall only add, that the Destruction of above Half a Million of Stores must be a Severe Blow on the Enemy, and may possibly prove a principal Mean of ridding our Country of those cruel Foes, who, with impious Hands have been spreading Ruin and Desolation over it, to the utmost of their Power. I have the Honour to be with great Respect, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Serv. J. H. Presid
