82 January 10, 1777 LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). ‘See JCC, 7:20; and Elbridge Gerry to John Adams, January 8, 1777, note 4. John Hancock to the States Gentlemen, Baltimore Jany 10th. 1777. The Necessity of filling up the Army with the utmost Expedition, has induced Congress to direct me to request that you will as soon as possible inform them what Success the recruiting Service has met with in your State, towards raising the Troops required by a Resolve of the 16th of September which was formerly transmitted to you. 1 I am therefore most earnestly to entreat your Compliance with this Resolve as speedily as possible. 2 I have the Honour to be, your most obed. & very hble Serv. J. H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). ‘See JCC, 5:762-63, 7:25; and Hancock to Certain States, January 9, 1777, note 2. 3 Hancock added the following sentence to the letter he sent to Virginia: “I am particularly to request you will order Colo. Woods & the West-Augusta Battalions to march immediately to join Genl. Washington, & that you will pay all necessary Attention to the Execution of the enclosed Resolves relative to the State of Virginia.” These resolves dealt with the defense of the Virginia frontier and were passed on January 8 in response to a letter of the 4th from George Morgan that is not in PCC. See JCC, 7:14—15, 21-22. Richard Henry Lee’s draft of these resolves is in Lee Family Papers, ViU. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Baltimore Jany 10th. 1777. The enclosed Resolves will inform you of the Proceedings of Congress since my last. 1 I have wrote to the Council of Massachusetts Bay on the Subject of the enclosed Resolve relative to an Attack on Nova Scotia, the Propriety of which the Congress have submitted to that State. You will please to inform Doctor Morgan and likewise Doctor Stringer of their Dismission from the Service of these States. 2 I am so extremely hurried in the Execution of the Resolves of Congress, that I have only Time to request your Attention to the enclosed. The late Movements of our Army have filled us with the most anxious Expectation and we are impatient for the Event. I have the Honour to be with perfect Esteem & Regard, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Sert, 3 John Hancock Presidt
