January 11, 1777 83 RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 In addition to the resolves on Nova Scotia and on Doctors Morgan and Stringer mentioned in the text of this letter, Hancock also sent Washington resolves about the exchange of one of General Lee’s officers, magazines of pro visions in Georgia and South Carolina, state recruiting, and supplies of salted meat. JCC, 7:18-20, 24-27. 2 Washington did as Hancock asked on January 18. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:28. ’Hancock also wrote a brief letter this day to Robert Morris, enclosing some resolves of Congress that have not been identified, acknowledging receipt of the Executive Committee’s January 6 letter, and asking him to forward Hancock’s letters of this date to Washington and to the states. Vail Collection, NHi. Robert Morris to Silas Deane Dear Sir Philada. Jany 11th. 1777 I have written you a long letter on the present State of public affairs 1 & intend this on Commercial matters. Your favour dated Paris 30th Septr. last is the only one I have from you 2 and from the tenor of it I judge that several of yours to me & mine to you must have miscarried. I have long been aware that you wou’d suffer vexation for want of remittances & have often told the Committee so, yet such has been our Situation & Circum- stances it was not possible to mend the matter. In a former letter I told you of the several Captures of ships & Cargoes intended for different parts of Europe to provide you with Funds. Our Ports were shut the greatest part of the Summer & now again when we expected them certainly to be open, the Enemy are Cruizing at the mouths of our Bays and along the Coast with more industry than ever. I have told you in my other letter that the Eastern States had little fit for exportation to Europe, their Fish- erys being prevented there is no Oil, Fish, whale Bones &c as formerly, they are not employed in making Pot & Pearle ashes as usual & in short there is nothing for an European Market but Masts & Spars from New Hamp shire, some little Bees’ Wax & Flaxseed in Connecticut & Rhode Island. The Secret Committee gave orders to Mr Langdon to Ship Masts & Spars on the Public Account & to John Bradford Esqr. at Boston to purchase such Prize Goods as wou’d serve for remittance. They Commissioned Mr Shaw at New London to buy Flaxseed &c but all to little purpose. Mr Langdon has done something the rest have not. At New York nothing cou’d be done you must be sensible, indeed Genl Washington was obliged to stop for the use of the Army some Cargoes that Mr. Livingston & Mr Lewis had shipped there. Here we were blocked up the best part of the Season and lost several Valuable Cargoes intended for you. Indeed the principal part of our Trade was obliged to be carried on in small Vessells & these Were hardly sufficient to pay for the necessarys we im ported from the West Indias. In Maryland & Virginia we have been buy ing much Tobacco & as fast as Vessells cou’d be got to carry it to Market
