90 January 12, 1777 the bills shall be punctually paid but if that will not do I will furnish you with money from hence from time to time the sums you may write for. I am Dr Sir, Your obedient humble servant, Robt Morris Tr (DLG). 1 Morris’ letter containing “proposals for speculating in prize goods &c” has not been found, but see Langdon’s letter of November 19, 1776, to Willing, Morris & Co., in Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:205-6. John Hancock to Richard Bache Sir, Baltimore, Jany 13th. 1777. The Danger of employing Persons in the Post Office Department, either as Riders or Deputies, whose Principles are unfriendly to the American Cause, being both great and obvious, the Congress are anxious to prevent it, if possible. With this View they have passed the enclosed Resolve, 1 in Consequence of Information that some Persons have been engaged in that Department, whose Disaffection might probably lead them, either to betray the Dispatches committed to their Care, or to pay so little Attention to their Duty on the Road, as not to arrive in due Time. From this Cause it must have happened, that the Post who should have arrived at Baltimore last Thursday, did not deliver his Dispatches till Sunday Afternoon. The Congress, therefore, that they may be fully able to judge of the real Characters & Principles of the Persons you have employed in the Post office, have directed that you immediately transmit a List of their Names, together with the List of those who recommended them to you and likewise that you assign Reasons why the late Resolves of Congress for regulating your Department, have not been complied with. 2 I am, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. J. H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Richard Bache Esqr, Post Master Genl., Philada.” 'See JCC, 7:29-30. 2 Bache’s January 18 reply to Hancock is in PCC, item 61, 1:1-4. John Hancock to Robert Treat Paine My Dear Sir, Baltimore Januy. 13th. 1777 The very constant Attention I have been oblig’d to give to Business since my Arrival here, and my unsettled Scituation even to this moment not family necessaries about me, tho’ I give £25 per mo. this Currey, for my house only two rooms, one floor, have prevented my being able to set down in a quiet manner to write to you, which I fully intended long be-
