January 13, 1777 91 fore this, but this Day having Rec’d your Friendly Letter of Deer 23d from Middletown, I could not avoid Stealing time to Acknowledge the Receipt of it, and to Thank you for your very kind Remembrance of me & mine, and to assure you that it will at all times afford me much Satis faction to hear from you, & to know what is passing in your Quarter, & you may Depend in Return every thing from me that passes in my De- partmt. worthy being Communicated. Colonel Steward who was with you in the Jersies gave me an Accott. of your Scituation, & of the loss of your fine horse, I really pitied your Case, but knew your Fortitude and the prospect of a speedy Union to your Family would induce you to Sur mount all Difficulties, and to press forward to the Goal with unremitting Diligence, and wish this Letter may meet you safe at home enjoying the Felicities which you have long been a stranger to, & which I am very Confident you there found equal to your wishes, as I Trust you found your Family happy in health, & doubly so on your Arrival. I Beg my best Respects to Mrs. Paine, & to all Friends with you. My Scituation upon Leaving Philada. was really distressing, you well know the State of my Family at that time, a Wife but Nine Days in Bed, a little Infant just Breath’d in the World, a large Family & considerable Effects, all to take Charge of, in the Winter Season, cold Houses to put up at, & such a Number of passengers on the Road, doubtful whether I should even obtain Shelter, & among Strangers too. All these Circum stances with many others, needless to mention, plac’d me in a Scituation truly distressing, & indeed is what I cannot Describe tho’ I severely felt it. But by the Kind hand of Providence I pursued my Journey and arriv’d at this place without any accident, & my wife & little one & indeed all of us bore the Journey far beyond my Expectation. On my arrival I had no house prepar’d, Mr Purviance was so obliging as to Take us in, & we Remain’d there Ten Days, & we were Treated by him & his Lady with the utmost Civility, in short I never met with more Civility in my life, free from Ceremony, & Desirous of making our Stay Agreeable. Mrs. Purviance a Polite, agreeable Lady, I Respect the Family much, their Civilities will ever endear them to me. I at length got to housekeeping; but the Change was disagreeable enough; from Mr. Purviance’s in a good part of the Town & among Friends, to my own & the only one I could get, in a Remote place among Whores & Theives, I had not been Forty eight hours at my house before it was Rob’d, the Theives took out a Trunk with Linnen, Books, papers, some hard Money &c, but the Money was Recover’d & part of the things, that I am oblig’d to keep a good watch lest they should Take every thing out of the house. I long to Return to Boston, I think it my next Turn; I have just Rec’d the new Delega tion; some of you must Come on here, for three are oblig’d to be con stantly present or the Representation is Destroy’d. I brought your Trunk safe here, & have it with my things in my own house, subject however to be stolen with mine; I will Embrace the first good oppory. to Send it to
