January 13, 1777 93 I have insensibly carried this Letter to an immoderate length, that you will Censure me I believe, but I will promise you my next shall be more concise, nor will I trouble you with so long a letter, till I Receive a longer one from you. Mrs. Hancock, Miss Katy, and (Mr & Mrs Hillegas who are now with me & going to sup here) beg to be Remembered to you. Mrs Hillegas asks when she shall Teaze you again. We are all well. My Respects to all Friends. In all Scituations I shall be fond of Rendring you every Service in my power, & Command me at all times. Rest assur’d that I am with Real Sentiments of Esteem, your Friend & Servt. John Hancock RC (MHi). Addressed: “To The Honble Robert Treat Paine Esqr. at Boston or Taunton. Recommended to the Care of the Honb. Thom. Cushing Esqr. who is desir’d to deliver it to Mr. Paine if in Boston, if at Taunton, he is desir’d to for ward it to that place from his Humb Servt. John Hancock.” 1 Hancock is probably referring to the proposed expedition to Nova Scotia. See Hancock to the Massachusetts Council, January 10, 1777. s A reference to several angry letters Paine had written to political leaders in Massachusetts the previous January denouncing John Adams’ disparaging com ments on Paine’s service in Congress. Adams had recently returned to Massachusetts where he had many opportunities to relate his view of the long-standing differences within the Massachusetts delegation. Hancock undoubtedly saw Paine’s recent return as a chance to explain their position to the Massachusetts General Court. For Paine’s “very particular letters” and a discussion of the divisive issues concerned, see Paine’s four letters of January 1, 1776, especially Paine to Joseph Hawley, note 1. See also Hancock to Thomas Cushing, January 17, 1776, note 1. Thomas Nelson to Robert Morris Dear Sir Baltimore Jany 13th 1777 I would apologize to you for the trouble I give you, did I not know your readiness to countenance every person, who steps forth to relieve America from the distresses that threaten her. This will be deliver’d to you by Capt Thos Nelson who is going up to join his Regiment under General Washington. He is Brother to the young Gentleman whom I rec ommended to you the other day. To the honor of this family be it spoken that there are but three Children, Sons of aged Parents, and they are every one of them in the Regular Service, and are now on their march to the Jersies. This Gentleman may perhaps want a supply of Gash some time hence; You may render him an essential service by answering his drafts, which will be punctually paid at sight. I shall have occasion to trouble you again, when the other Brother passes thro this Town. In the mean time I beg leave to assure you that I am, with great sincerity. Your obedt Servt, Thos Nelson jr. RC (MdBJ-G).
