94 January 13, 1777 William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir Baltimore 13th Jany 1777 Since my last we have had accots of many Skirmishes in Jersey in which our Troops have been Victorious. We lost about 20 men at Princetown on the 3d inst among which was some Brave officers. I don’t recollect their names except Coll Hazet of Delaware & Major Morris of the Phila Militia. Genl. Mercer was said to be among the slain but it seems he was only wounded & like to do well. He had 5 Bayonet wounds. About 100 of the Enemy were killed in this action & 3 to 400 taken. We have kill’d & taken more than 2000 since Chrismas. Our loss since that time does not exceed 40. The last accot from the Genl, was the 7th inst. He was then at Morristown & the Enemy no where to the westward of Brunswick. I am inclin’d to think that the Humain Mr. Howe is sick of his Winter Campaign & I fear will escape with the Remains of his Army into York. The Ravages committed by the Enemy have had a most excellent effect on the people of Jersey. The Militia now turn out with great spirit & Harrass the Ravagers of their Country in every quarter. I fancy the Tyrant of Britain has been Premature in confering the Dig nity of Knighthood on his Humane Dispenser of Pardons. His Popeship seems to be in a fair way to lose all his Lauralls. The Hessian Officers com plain much that they shod be distinguished as Plunderers, when, they say, the British Troops Plunder more than they do. I believe the truth is they both endeavour to excel in what they know will recommend them to their Commander in chief. I am really at a loss to account for my not receiving any intelligence from N. Hampshire. I am as great a stranger to what is doing in that state as to what’s doing in the moon. How goes on your recruiting service? What officers have you for the new army? It is of the last importance that the new Leavies should be Compleated without loss of time. The greater our exertions the sooner we shall put an end to this destructive war. Business goes on with spirit since we have got out of the Putrid air of the Sodom of America. Several Prizes have lately arriv’d here. The Dela ware is again clear of the Enemies ships. I suppose they were call’d in for the protection of York, for it seems the Present inhabitants of that City were exceedingly alarm’d at our late Success. I shall set out for home in about a fortnight unless I am reelected. In that case I shall have no objection to continuing here till the coming season will admit of traveling with more comfort then at present. We have various reports from Rhode Island but no authentic advices. My Colleague 1 is well & desires his Compliments to you. We agree very well in sentiment, but, Inter nos, N.H. is oftener div d than she used to be. My Regards to all Friends & be assured that I am with every Sentiment to Esteem, Your Friend &c, Wm. Whipple
