96 January 14, 1777 very pleasing to Congress as it has been to us. We recommended Mr Weiss to preserve in his translation the Spirit of the original if possible. The Convention of New York if we remember right desired 300 Copies in Dutch. We mean to send you 2 or 300 Copies to be Circulated amongst the Germans of Virginia & Maryland & the rest to be dispersed amongst those in this province & altho the Convention may publish it in their State, yet few of their publications may reach the rest of America & we wish for orders to publish it here either in News papers or in a pamphlet as may be judged best. You have herewith a letter from Genl. Washington of the 9th, 1 there are later accounts in Town & every day brings fresh intelligence of the Capture of Prisoners or bagage &c. However it is cer tain the Enemy are Collecting their Force at Brunswick & we must not expect they will close the Campaigne in the disgracefull Style it now wears for them, if they can help it, & we are of opinion they are meditating some blow against Genl. Washington or this place. This opinion is Corobo- rated by the Account Capt Thos Bell gives us. He was taken at Sea & carried into New York, and after some time got leave to go onshoar where he had an opportunity of seeing & hearing what passed. He says the affair at Trenton came on them totally unexpected and alarmed ’em exceedingly. They ordered all their troops from Long Island except those under Command of Oliver Delaney & about 500 under Govr. Montfort Brown that they nearly swept all away from N York as he does not think there is 1000 left in that place. He left that place last Wednesday & that day a Gentn who had no suspicion of his coming away (for he ran away) told him they were collecting all their Force at Brunswick on purpose to route & brake up Genl. Washingtons army. He learnt also from the Master of a Transport that formerly used this place, that he with many other Transports was ordered up the Sound to Rhode Island to bring down 5000 Troops from thence & he saw the Ships go up the sound. I have sent this Intelligence to Genl Washington informing him that Capt Bell is a Man of Veracity & certainly heard what he relates, but does not aver it of his own knowledge. I send you herewith a Newspaper brought by Capt Bell who says most of the Men of War are out Cruizing and he understood were to keep our Coast all Winter, they have taken many Prizes & we fear will do us much mischief. You have herewith a letter Capt Bell brought from a French officer (to RM) who he says is a Count, a very Gentleman like man that was taken in a Sloop bound from Bourdeaux with Powder. This Gentn had dis patches from Mr Deane which he threw overboard, there is a translation of his letter also. This Gentn thinks himself extreamly ill used by Ld Howe, resents it highly & carrys himself very high when he sees anybody belong ing to him.
