January 14, 1777 97 We enclose herewith a kind of Memorial from the Chevalier Deverni- jou, a Young Gentn that was with General Lee when taken. He signalized himself at that time by the resistance he did make & the strong desire he shewed to defend the General. We ordered him a months pay advance as Capt of Horse to which Genl Washington has appointed him in those now raising in Connecticut. Congress will please to direct whether any Com pensation must be made for his losses and this matter deserves serious attention as there will be other applications of the same kind. The French officers alledge that their Monarch makes good the losses his officers meet with in Battle. Genl Gates no doubt will be able to give good Council on this Subject, our officers shou’d be encouraged, but the States must be taken care of. We are told Colo Houssicker is in New York wearing a black Cockade, here he wore a red one. There are bad reports & Suspicions respecting him. We are sorry to inform you of the Death of Genl. Mercer, which Major Morris (Genl Lees aid du Camp) says happened as he came through Prince Town. We have daily reports of partys taking Prisoners & baggage in the Jerseys. The Militia of that State are certainly turning out, but we hear such of ours as have been out six Weeks talk strongly of returning. We are daily obliged to grant Money for the recruiting service as well as for other public purposes & unless a fresh supply is sent up to Mr Mease we fear being run aground. We have given him another order on the Loan office for 50,000 Dollars, but believe they are not all there yet. With the greatest respect we remain, Sir, Your obedt. Servants, 2 Robt Morris Geo Clymer Geo Walton P.S. Colo Fleming of the 9th Virginia Regt, wants a paymaster & enclosed is his recommendation of a person he has employed to act in that Station untill one is appointed. RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Clymer, and Walton. 1 Washington’s January 9 letter to Hancock is in PCC, item 152, 3:449, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:486-87. 2 This day Morris also wrote to Leonard Jarvis, a deputy Continental prize agent in Massachusetts, acknowledging receipt of letters from Jarvis to the Marine and Secret Committees and stating that “You will doubtless have heard that Congress are removed to Baltimore, & I am left here, Chairman of a committee appointed to conduct the Continental business at this place, all which I mention that you may know I am fully empowered to give directions in the marine & mercantile affairs of the Continent.” Lee Family Papers, MH-H.
