January 14, 1777 103 We expect soon to hear the determination concerning the Friendship, and remain with esteem, Sir, Your most obedient and very Humble servants, Richard Henry Lee Francis Lewis Wm. Whipple P.S. A Waggon now going to Philadelphia with goods Mr. Snowden, will be returning empty, perhaps the Indigo may be cheaply sent that way. Tr (NN). 1 See Secret Committee Summary of Proceedings, March 6, 1777; and Robert Morris to John Hancock, January 6, 1777. James Wilson to Robert Morris Dear Sir Carlisle 14th Jany 1777 Congress see, at last, the Propriety of distributing the executive Busi ness of the Continent into different Departments, managed by Gentle men, not Members of Congress, and whose whole Time and Attention can be devoted to the Business committed to their Charge. Measures were adopted, when I left Baltimore, for making the necessary Arrangements. 1 There is an Office, which, I believe, would be of considerable Use to the Public, if properly discharged. I will describe to you my Ideas of it. The Duties of the Officer should be—to manage all Admiralty Causes, on Behalf of the Continent, in the Courts of Admiralty and Appeal, where the Congress sits—to conduct all Enquiries and Prosecutions in stituted by Congress—to give his Opinion upon such Questions in the civil and maritime Laws, and the Law of Nations as shall be stated to him, for that Purpose, by Congress, the Board of Admiralty, the Board of Com merce, or the Committee of secret Correspondence—to draw, or reduce to Form public Instruments, when required by Congress, or the Boards, or Committee aforesaid. Several other Duties will naturally fall to his Share, which cannot be enumerated, nor comprised under any general Head. The Propriety of the first Article is obvious. I shall suggest one advan tage, that will probably result from it. It will be of Importance that the Laws and Practice of the Courts of Admiralty should be brought, as soon and as well as possible, into a System. By the Intervention of Juries, which are unknown in the Admiralty Courts of other Countries, this is rendered a Matter of much Delicacy and Difficulty. The uniform Practice of one, whose Duty and Business it would be to make this Subject his particular Study, wou’d be of considerable Use. All conversant in Courts know that they receive a Tincture from the Practioners as well as from the Judges.
