104 January 14, 1777 The second Head of the Duty of this Officer is, in my Opinion, abso lutely necessary. Enquiries must be had into the Management of public Affairs: Prosecutions also must be instituted against public Officers, who are accused of mal-conduct. When a Committee is appointed for such Purposes; it is every Body’s Business to manage Matters—you know the Consequence—it is no Body’s Business. The Friends of the Person accused think themselves, and are thought by others, justified in doing every Thing in his Behalf. It is troublesome—it is disagreeable, without having an official Obligation and an official Justification, to undertake the Task of Prosecutor, to manage the Examination of Witnesses who appear, to direct others to be sent for, who, from the Course of the Testimony, are discovered to be capable of throwing Light upon the Subject, and to take many other Steps, without which the Matter cannot be sifted to the Bot tom. The Result is, that Things are Superficially passed over, without Satisfaction to the Public, to those who make the Enquiry, or him, con cerning whom it is made; provided he has been innocent. An Officer, ap pointed to manage Enquiries and Prosecutions, on Behalf of the Public, would prevent these Mischiefs. The third Branch of the Duty of this Officer is by far the most im portant. I hope the United States will never be involved far in the Maze of European Politics, but it is incumbent upon us to know something of them, even to steer clear of them. Every Letter from our Commissioners at foreign Courts—almost every Resolution of Congress about foreign Affairs will bring into View some Principle of the civil or maritime Law, or of the Law of Nations. It is impossible for Members of Congress, how ever enlarged their Genius, and however extensive their Knowledge may be; accurately to investigate Subjects of this Kind amidst the Hurry of so much other Business, which likewise demands their Attention. Treaties are considered, in Europe as a Kind of Science. In our Transactions with European States, it is certainly of Importance neither to transgress, nor to fall short of those Maxims, by which they regulate their Conduct to wards one another. All States as far as I know, have an Office similar to that which I have described. It includes Part of the Office of Advocate General, and Part of that of Attorney General in England. If your Sentiments upon this Subject correspond with mine, you will mention it to Congress. If they agree to institute the Office; and no one offers for it better qualified, in your Opinion, than myself; I will be ob liged to you for proposing me. My Reading and Course of Studies have been such as, in some Measure, to prepare me for it. One Thing I can engage—that no Pains nor Industry shall be wanting on my Part, to qualify myself as fully for it as possible. I have expressed myself with all the Openness of a Friend to a Friend. I would not mention the Subject, if I did not think it of Consequence. I would not mention myself, if I did not think I could be of Service in this
