January 14, 1777 105 Line. I have not been so unsuccessful in private Life, as to be obliged to obtrude myself upon the Public. You will make such Use of what I have written as your Judgment and your Friendship shall tell you is proper. I am, Dear Sir, Your very humble Servant, James Wilson P.S. I presume you are now at Baltimore: if at Philadelphia I will be obliged to you for a few Lines on the Subject of this Letter. 2 Direct your Letter to the Care of Mr. William Null Mercht in Baltimore. If I should be still here when it comes to his Hand, he will forward it to me. 3 RC (NjHi). 1 Wilson was a member of the committee that had been appointed on December 26, 1776, “to prepare a plan for the better conducting the executive business of Congress.” JCC, 6:1041-42. ’ See Robert Morris to James Wilson, January 31, 1777. 3 This day Wilson also wrote the following letter to Arthur St. Clair. “It is long since I have had the Pleasure of hearing from you; but am sensible that you have as good, if not better Reasons for not writing than ever I had. The active and glorious Scenes in which you have lately bore a Share are a sufficient Apology to your Friends for not being favoured with your Letters. It comforts me to hear of you, when I cannot hear from you. “I have enjoyed nine Days at Home; and, in that Time, have seen my Family encreased by the Addition of a fine young Boy. The Situation of public Affairs is so interesting that I find myself incapable of fixing upon those tranquil Pleasures in my Library of which I have often formed such fond Ideas when perplexed and distracted with Business. While I cannot forbear thinking of the Public, I believe it will be best for me to continue acting in it (provided that can happen with Propriety) and return to Baltimore as soon as I can leave Mrs Wilson. “I feel very sensibly for General Mercers Misfortune, and for the Loss the Serv ice will sustain in being deprived, for some Time, of his valuable Talents. I hope however, he will recover and do well. “Colonel Mackay and Major Butler will inform you of the very extraordinary Proceedings of the Captains and Subalterns in the Westmoreland Regiment. They have gone so far as even to suspend the Major. You know his Worth and Char acter. From all the Accounts I have had from Gentlemen upon whose Judgments I can rely, I am satisfied, that he has had great Merit as an officer; and that his Merit has been the Cause of the Persecution raised against him. But I need not stimulate your own Friendship for him. “These Committee Appointments play Vengeance. If the Captains and Sub alterns succeed in this Stroke against their Major, I have no Doubt but that the next one will be aimed at the Head of the Colonel. Indeed I have good reason to conclude that this is Part of the Plan originally laid.” St. Clair Papers, OHi. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Baltimore 14t Janry. 1777 As I have Wrote to you so lately as the It and 5t instant, I have little more at present to acquaint you with, than that by the Blessing of God I am well. To hear from me I well know will be a Satisfaction to you, tho I
