114 January 16, 1777 quantity of these need not be very considerable because the movement in Slays will be very rapid & the sole object of this expedition shou’d be to burn all the Enemies Vessells in the Lake which we apprehend may be effected with ease & when once done, let them return. The Surprize of the Enemy will prevent their following. We hope this matter may deserve attention & if the plan be adopted some Sea officers might be found here that wou’d be usefull. Congress will excuse us for troubling them with our thoughts, we shoud do it were we with them. We have the pleasure to inform you of the safe arrival of the Sloop Sachem, Capt James Robison, from Martinico, but the letters are not yet come up, so that we know not what stores or advices she brings. You shall be informed soon as possible. The Men of War having been chasing her about the Coast for ten days past, but she slipt in at last & we believe is got into Morris’s River from whence we shall order up her Cargo in Waggons. You have herein the Copy of Capt Jones’s Acct of his last expedition in the Alfred, he is a fine Fellow and shou’d be constantly kept employed. If the Congress please I will propose to him one or two expeditions & leave him to take his Choice of them. The Enlisting business goes on firmly but we fear the fitting out of Militia will drain all our Magazines & distress us again when the new Army get together, however we have the pleasure to enclose you Copy of a letter from Messr. Abm Livingston & Mr Turnbull two young Gentn sent by the Secret Committee to procure cloathing in the Eastern States, also one from Mr Otis, which are pleasing. The originals we deliver to Mr Mease as the General has appointed him Cloathier General. We have the honor to remain, sir, Your Obedt hble servts, Robt Morris Geo Clymer Geo Walton RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Clymer, and Walton. ’'Unless this is a reference to the committee’s January 14 letter, the letter in question has not been found. 2 See ]CC, 1-A9. Francis Lewis to the New York Convention Sir Baltimore 16h Janry. 1777 I was favoured with your letter of the 1st Inst together with sundry resolves of the Honbl the Convention, and their printed Address to their Constituents, all which I have communicated to Congress and they highly approve of your measures. 1 I am directed by Congress (at their expence) to get a sufficient number of those Addresses reprinted here, in order to be disspersed through this, and the southern States, as also a number to be struck off in the German
