January 16, 1777 115 languge, 300 Copys of the latter to be forwarded to the honbl Convention at Fishkills. As there is no Press with Types for the German languge in this Town, I have this day sent one Copy to the Council of safety at Phila. requesting them to get it translated into that languge, and when printed to send the first 300 Copys to you, the rest to be disspersed through that, and the neighbouring States. 2 Permit me Sir to repeat my sentiments on the necessity of having the State of New York fully represented in Congress, which has not been the case for many months past, and tho’ Congress in their collective capacity has ultimately the public good in view, yet such is the depravity of human nature, that partiality will often (and perhaps impreceptably) influence the minds of individuals when the interest of a particular State is im mediately concerned. I have the pleasure to inform you that Congress has seriously considered your late application relative to Cloathing the Troops raising in your State, and they have promised to exert their utmost abillities to effect that necessary business. In September last Congress requested the legislatures of the several States to appoint in their respective States a Commissary for the purpose of purchasing all necessary Cloathing and in November the Secret Committee sent of! two Agents (one of them Mr Abm. Liv- j ingston) with instructions to confer with those Commissaries in each State, as far eastward as New Hamshire, to assist in the purchasing & procuring said Cloathing, to make returns of the quantity & quality both to Congress & Genl Washington, to be distributed to such Troops as shall be inlisted upon the new establishment but we have not as yet received any advice from those Gentlemen. 3 On the 12th last month when I left Phila., there was in the hands of Mr. Hayman Levy, purchased by order of your Commissary Mr. Cur- tenius, shirts, stockings, &c, amounting to upwards of £11000, with orders to send them to Mr VanElvendorph at Esopus, but such was the confusion among the Citizens of Phila. in moveing their Effects, that it was impos sible for me to procure Waggons. I therefore obtained a press Warrant from the Council of safety, & delivered it to the Waggon Master Genl., & I have been since informed they were met with upon the Road to Min- nisynk, should be glad to know If they arived. I have the honour to subscribe myself, Sir, Your most Obedt Humbl Servt, Fras Lewis P.S. On the 15th Capt. Rogers arived here in the Armed Vessell Mont gomery belonging to your State, with two Prizes vizt. a Brigt. & Schooner, the former with 3000 bushels salt from Anguilla, the latter with a valuable Cargo of salted Beef, Pork, Hams, Linnens, Woolens, sail Cloth, Cheese, Shoes, spices, Port in hampers, Beer, Pease &c bound from Hallifax for Nw York. The Salt is claimed by a person of this Town as his property, said to be on freight. Upon Capt Rogers’s applying to me for advice, I immediately employed a Proctor to file a Libell & prosecute to Condemna-
