January 21, 1777 125 RC (MdAA). 1 This letter was undoubtedly written on January 18 or 19. The subject of the letter is the petition of Capt. James Campbell which Chase laid before Congress on January 18. And on the verso of Chase’s letter Capt. George Cook wrote a letter on the same general subject to the council dated January 19. See JCC, 7:49; and Md. Archives, 16:62-63. 2 Not found; but for Campbell’s petition to the Maryland Council of Safety praying for the exchange of his former officers and crew held prisoner by the British at New York, see Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1003-4. 3 See William Paca to the Maryland Council of Safety, December 7, 1776. 4 For the council’s January 25 order to Capt. George Cook “to confine all such Prisoners belonging to this State that were taken by the Ship Defence that will not enter into the Service of the State or on Board of some of the private Ships of War,” which was apparently issued in response to this letter from Chase, see Md. Archives, 16:75. Executive Committee to Mark Bird Sir 1 January 21st 1777 We have occasion to send four Tons of Nail Rods to Genl Schuyler at Albany for the Continental service 2 and are informed by captain Joy that you can readily Supply us. We therefore request that you will im mediately employ Waggons with honest carefull drivers and send away that quantity immediately to Albany writing to Genl. Schuyler that you do it by our direction and that it is for Continental use. These rods are much wanted there and you will render an essential service to your Country by complying with our request immediately. We will pay the cost to you or your order, whenever you please. Should you find any dificulty in getting Waggons and it Should become necessary we do hereby Authorize you to empress so many as may be neces sary for this Service and if needfull you may call any continental Officer or Troops in the vicinity to your Assistance, they being hereby directed to do in the premisses what is needful to effect this business and this shall be their or your Warrant for so doing, We being fully empowered by Congress to order and conduct all Continental business in this State. But altho we empower you to impress Waggons we would prefer hiring them by agreement with the owners, and you may Assure them of being dis charged at Albany, writing to General Schuyler that you have done so and he will comply therewith. We are Sir, Yr. hble Servts. LB (DNA: PCG, item 133). Addressed: “Colo. Mark Burd.” 1 Mark Bird was the owner of an iron furnace and foundry in Berks County, Pa. He was a colonel of the Berks County militia, chairman of the Berks County Com mittee, and a delegate to the Pennsylvania Provincial Conference, 1776. PMHB, 31:48, 58:312, 326, 328. 3 See ]CC, 7:33.
