January 21, 1777 127 forms Mr. Purviance that it is the desire of the marine committee that he, with Mr. Stewart, would immediately give the necessary directions for cutting timber, and agreeing with persons for building the two frigates here. 1 Mr. Hancock being much engaged in forwarding despatches, pre vented his sending him the regular resolution, but he shall have them in the morning. 2 MS not found; reprinted from Robert Purviance, A Narrative of Events which occurred in Baltimore Town during the Revolutionary War (Baltimore: Jos. Robin son, 1849), pp. 209—10. 'See JCC, 6:970. 2 On the preceding day the Secret Committee sent Samuel and Robert Purviance the following note over the signature of Richard Henry Lee, Francis Lewis, and William Whipple: “Please to deliver Mr Francis Lewis a Member of Congress One pair of Blankets out of the Continental Stores, he to be accountable for the same.” Robert Purviance, Narrative of Events, p. 209. Marine Committee to Esek Hopkins Sir, In Marine Committee. Baltimore Jany 21t. 1777..As we are informed that the Enemies Fleet and Army have Orders to leave Rhode Island, if this proves true, you are hereby directed to fit for Sea the Continental Frigates, Warren, and Providence, with all possible Expedition; and order them to proceed, forthwith, to cruise upon the Enemies Ships of War that are now interrupting the Commerce of the United States from the Harbour of New-Port to the Capes of Virginia. And they are to take, bum, sink, or destroy all such of the Enemies Vessels as they shall fall in with. The other Continental armed Vessels, that are in your Port, you will order to proceed to Sea, and do their best Endeavour to intercept Supply Ships that may be coming to the Enemy at New York. You will please to see that the Wages are duely paid to the Seamen, and that the Prize Money due to them, be paid to them by the Agent as punctually as Circumstances will admit, to prevent Murmers among the Seamen. We have heard some Complaints for Want of Attention to the Seamen, which induces us to mention it to you. We wish to hear from you as often as possible, 1 and are Sir, your hble Servants. By order of Marine Come. John Hancock Chairman RC (RHi). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. Addressed: “To Esek Hopkins Esqr. Commanding the Continental Navy at Providence or Else where.” 1 Hopkins’ February 28 reply to this letter is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1319-20.
