128 January 21, 1777 William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Baltimore 21st Jany 1777 Last Sunday I rec’d your favor of the 26th ulto by Mr Betten. I assure you it was a great rarity—you refer me to several letters which have not come to hand which I suppose is owing to some defect in the Post Office. The postmaster has lately had a rap which I hope will produce good effects. I have obtained an order in favor of the State of New Hampshire for 100,000 but as there are large demands on the Treasury at this time I don’t think it possible to send Mr Betten away in less than a week, if so soon. 1 By him I shall send the money you desire. I have rec’d no directions from you to pay Mr Wharton. I enclosed you Capt Smith’s receipt for 2700 dollars for the schooner Friend’s Adventure—he happened at Phila delphia in a very unlucky season, Congress being then about adjourning to this place and I was so exceedingly engaged in the business of Marine and Secret Committees that I could not pay that attention to Capt Smith that I should otherwise have done, however I hope he arrived with you safe. I wish to be infomed particularly how you go on, both in the Marine and Commercial departments. I was in great hopes you would have had guns from Connecticut for the Raleigh, but you say you have no prospect of them. No answer has been received from Governor Trumbull on that subject though I have long expected it. I am doing every thing in my power to procure them here and if my endeavors had not been so often baffled should think I had a fair prospect of success. I hope you are going on with preparations for the 74. Our removal hither has disconcerted matters, so that I have not been able to procure the dimensions but expect them from Philadelphia every day. In the mean time I hope the timber will be Procured and every other necessary that you can collect and I hope by the time this reaches you the vessels I mentioned in some of former letters will be on their passage here for iron &c. We are in hourly expectation of some interesting intelligence from the army; by the last advices they had nearly surrounded Brunswick where the enemy were confined to a very small compass and much distressed for fuel and forage; it is also reported that Howe has ordered his troops from Rhode Island. It’s said Cornwallis was going to carry the intelligence of the ravages they had made to the Tyrant and actually had his baggage on board when the news of the surprize of Trenton arrived at York. This and what has happened since puts a very different complexion on their affairs and I suppose will stop their Herald. Excuse this scrawl as I am in very great haste, yours &c, Wm Whipple [P-S.] I shall write by Betten. Tr (DLC). 1 Congress appropriated $100,000 for New Hampshire on January 20, in response to Meshech Weare’s letters of December 16 and 27, 1776, to President Hancock
