130 January 22, 1777 My kindest Love to my Children and Freinds and be assured that I am yours with the tenderest affection, Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi). Board of War to Charles Thomson Sir. War Office 22d Jany. 1777. Colonel Frank Lee informs me that to the best of his remembrance the Congress on receiving General Lee’s Letter with respect to Coll. Muyhlen- berg’s Regt., entd. into a Resolve that the Officers of that Regt, shou’d take Rank from the day they marched out of the Province. 1 As I am about writing to the Colonel I shou’d be glad you wou’d inform me, and if possible send me a Copy of the Resolve. I am sir, with the greatest Respect, Yr. most obt. Serv. Joseph Nourse, Is. Clerk, Bd. war RC (DNA: PCC, item 147). 1 In a letter to the Board of War written on August 2, 1776, Gen. Charles Lee had discussed the complaints of Col. Peter Muhlenberg about reports that his Eighth Virginia Battalion would not be accepted into Continental service until it was up to full strength. Congress read Lee’s letter on August 29, but, contrary to Francis Lightfoot Lee’s recollection of events, Muhlenberg’s unit had already been taken into Continental service on August 16. ]CC, 5:649, 716; and NYHS Collections 5 (1872): 183-84, 187-93. Executive Committee to John Hancock Sir, Philada. Jany 22d. 1777 We have just received the enclosed letters from the General. 1 They came to hand within half an hour of one another. On this occasion we cannot help expressing how sorry we are to observe the weak state of his Army and as Genl. Putnam most certainly has a large Body of Men at Prince Town, it leaves us in doubt whether a proper communication of intelligence be kept up between them or not. Capt Jno Nicholson left Genl Putnam on Monday & says he has not less than 6000 Men with him, more or less are sent off from hence every day, here are 3000 in this City now and Genl Gates & Ld Stirling propose marching with them tomorrow or next day soon as they can be fixed with arms & blankets which are much wanted. There are Muskets in this State but they all want repairs & no body is left to do it, therefore if the City Militia come back it will be a general benefit to the service. The General in his letter to us 2 recom mends the removing of the Public Stores which is attended with great loss,
