132 January 22, 1777 Robert Morris to the Committee of Secret Correspondence Gentn Philada. Jany 22d. 1777 The Sachem after going up the Bay & meeting with Ice went down to Cape May from whence the enclosed packet was sent to me by express. I had before reed an Acct, of the Piratical Conduct of Capt Patterson. 1 Such things ought to be taken in time or we shall acquire a similar charac ter to the Inhabitants of Barbary. I hope you will urge Spirited Measures on this Occasion & it will lay the foundation for Calling some other de linquents to a severe Account. I am extreamly hurried but always your most obed servt, Robt Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Addressed: “To The Honble Benjn. Harrison Esqr. Chair Man of Commee of Correspondence Baltimore.” 'Morris enclosed William Bingham’s December 6, 1776, letter with supporting documentation alleging piracy against Capt. William Patterson of Maryland. For the subsequent responses of Congress and Maryland, see Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety, January 29 and February 6; and Committee of Secret Correspondence to William Bingham, February 1, 1777, note. George Walton to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia, 22d January, 1777 Mr Randolph, who came last night from some expedition towards Black-point, informs me, that, at different times within these few days, he saw three several persons who were directly out of New-York; and who all agreed in this, That there were but very few troops in the city, and that patrol duty was performed by the inhabitants in rotation; That there have been many secret movements in the night-time of stores and heavy artil lery, and that, on Tuesday last six heavy peices of Artillery were carried from New-York over to Staten Island down opposite to Perth-Amboy. These, no doubt, are intended to cover a Retreat that way, if they should be necessitated to make one. I have not troubled your Excellency with this trifling intelligence with any view of its being materially useful to you: but as good information in war is as the optics of man, the most trifling may sometimes be of ad vantage. I wish you health, and am, with great respect, Sir, Your Most Obedi ent Servant, Geo Walton RC (DLC).
