January 24, 1777 143 MS not found; reprinted from extract in Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1031-32. 1 For the case of Capt. William Patterson alluded to here, see Morris to the Com mittee of Secret Correspondence, January 22, 1777, note. a For the incident involving the capture of Hewes & Smith’s brig Joseph, see Wil liam Hooper to Joseph Hewes, January 1, 1777, note 1. Benjamin Rush to Julia Rush My dear Julia, Baltimore Jany. 24. 1777. I had rode but a few miles before the badness of the roads, the difficulty of the ferry, and the lazyness of Diamond convinced me that you had acted very wisely in determining not to accompany me to Baltimore. But upon my arrival here I was thankful that you did not share with me in the trouble I met with in procuring tollerable lodgings. At present I am accommodated in a room lately occupied by Mr Sergeant which I must abandon as soon as he returns which will be in a few days. The rain which fell yesterday has rendered the Streets so very muddy that they are impas sible to women. No ladies are seen abroad but in carriages. It will be eno’ of the expence of living here to tell you that Mr. Middleton After keeping his family at a tavern for a while at the rate of £100.0.0 a week was obliged for want of agreeable accommodations to send them to Annapolis thirty miles from this place. I have been told since my arrival here that our Assembly intend to leave me out in the next appointment of delegates as a punishment for opposing their new government. 1 Welcome this storm of popular rage! I shall kiss the rod that Smites. I never was so weary of public life, & never languished more for the Sweets of domestic life than since I parted last from you. You wished me a great deal of pleasure and frolicking at Baltimore when you bid me farewell. Alas! my heart sickens at the sound of what is commonly called pleasure. In this State of banish ment from home & you, the music of Coralli would serve only to encrease my melancholly. To exchange a whole house for a single room, to request instead of commanding when the most trifling favor is wanted, and above all to give up a most affectionate wife for the society of strangers. To lay aside freedom, ease, and unbounded confidence in conversation for con stant restraint, and formality, are circumstances that illy agree with a man of my age & disposition. My brother 2 lodges in a tavern and perfectly harmonizes with me in complaining of Baltimore. My next letter I hope will be written in a better humor, and contain an agreeable acct, of the people to make up for the badness of the place. They are said to be very kind to strangers. Adieu my dear girl. Much love to Mrs. Montgomery & the family. Leave your letters to me at Dowdle’s tavern at Christiana bridge and they will- come safely by the post. Yours—yours—my dear Julia.
