January 28, 1777 153 Klose: “I am of opinion the within Cloaths & Tools being proved to be the property of the passenger as mentioned Shou’d be given up to him.” PCC, item 41, 5:60. In that petition Klose, “a Native of Silesia and late Missionary from the United Brethren to the Negroes in the Island of Jamaica,” requested the return of the effects which had been taken from him when the ship on which he was returning to England in December 1776 was captured by the Continental brig Andrew Doria. Congress granted this request on February 5, but unfortunately for Klose, the Andrew Doria’s prize had already been retaken by the British. Ibid., fol. 59; Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1017; and JCC, 7:89. 2 The postscript to the LB contains this additional sentence: “You have herewith a Specimen of the translation of the address of the Convention of New York to their constituents and we will send 300 Copies by the first good conveyance to the Convention and 300 to Congress, the remaining 400 we will deliver to the Council of Safety here to be distributed.” Executive Committee to George Walton and George Taylor Gentlemen, January 28th 1777 The annexed writing is a Copy of a Resolve of Congress respecting your treaty with the Indians at Easton. 1 It came to hand this Morning & we Send it forward that you may act agreeable thereto as the presents are already provided. It is not necessary for us to send you the Thousand Dollars, but if you want any part of them, you can take up so much money from some person or other that may want to make payments and we will pay your drafts for that amount. We have not one word of news Since you left us, except bare report of a Skirmish or two in the Jersies with Forageing Parties. We are sir, Your hble Servts LB (DNA: PCC, item 133). Addressed: “To Geo. Walton & Geo. Taylor Esquires, com. of Congress at Easton.” 1 See JCC, 7:62-63. Elbridge Gerry to the Executive Committee Gentlemen Baltimore Jany 28th 1777 The Commissioners of the Treasury have directed Mr Starret, who has the Care of superintending the Manufacturer of the Loan Office paper in Chester County, to deliver three thousand Sheets into your Hands at Philadelphia & request You to order it to be packed inclosed in a Case & sent by a safe Conveyance to them in this place, as soon as may be after your receiving it. The Necessity of giving Dispatch to the
