January 28, 1777 155 Arthur Middleton to Samuel Purviance, Jr. Tuesday Evening, January 28, 1777 Mr. Middleton presents his Compliments to Mr. Purveyance, & requests the favour of him, if convenient, to order the Blankets to be delivered this Evening to the Bearer. If it is not convenient, A. M. will send for them Tomorrow morning. A Note of the Cost will oblige A. M. who will send the money Tomorrow. 1 MS not found; reprinted from C.F. Libbie & Co. Catalog, November 15—16, 1889, item 872. 1 On the verso of Middleton’s letter is the following note, written in Baltimore on January 27 and addressed to Robert and Samuel Purviance: “Gentlemen, Deliver to Arthur Middleton esquire on order, eight blankets from the Continental Store and charge them to Mr. Middleton. We are Gentlemen your humble Servants, Richard Henry Lee, Fra. Lewis, Wm. Whipple.” Ibid. The signers of this note were members of the Secret Committee. Robert Morris to the Committee of Secret Correspondence Gentn. Philada Jany 28th. 1777 I have this day rec’d the enclosed letter from Mr. Bingham, & as our River now promises a speedy opening I shall send him a supply of News papers & intelligence. 1 It may also be proper that you do it from Baltimore and if you approve taking a person into pay for the purpose of Collecting News, News papers, Political Publications & writing a Diary of Public transactions I will try to find a fit person & engage him in this Work, so very necessary; for we find by experience it is impossible for Members of Congress to do these things regularly & constantly whilst they have so many other dutys to mind. I have reed the Copy of a letter from Mr. Deane that was taken but was preserved without the Captors ever coming at the Contents, it is as follows 2 — “Dr Sir Bordeaux Septr. 17. 1776 “I shall send you in October Cloathing for Twenty thousand Men, thirty thousand Fusils, one hundred Tons of Powder, Two hundred Brass Canon, Twenty four Brass mortars with shell, shot, Lead &c in propor tion. I am to advise you that if in Future you will give Commissions to Seize Portugueze Ships you may depend on the Friendship & alliance of Spain, let me urge this measure, much may be got, nothing can be lost by it. 3 Exercise at all events your Navy, I will procure if Commissioned any quantity of Sail Cloth & Cordage. A General War is undoubtedly at hand in Europe & consequently America will be Safe, if you baffle the Arts &
