156 January 28, 1777 Arms of the two Howe’s through the Summer, everyone here is in your favour. Adieu. I will write again next week.” I beleive this was wrote at Paris altho dated Bourdeaux for a blind, but am not sure. I am a good deal of his opinion respecting the Portugueze. The only doubt is whether, that Kings declaration & shutting up his Ports against us, will justify us in the Eyes of the World or in other Words, whether he has given us sufficient cause to declare War on him & his Subjects. If he has we shou’d not hesitate, the bait is tempting & that insignificant Nation can do us no harm. Our River is now nearly clear of Ice and I propose pushing out Captn. Biddle. 4 I do think we cannot employ him & the small Vessells better than to send them to Martinico for the Stores mentioned in Mr Ds letter, and I will send out the Indico now here as a remittance towards paying our Debts in that Island. I have engaged a proper person to carry your dispatches to France & send him out in a French Ship that if she once gets out to Sea will appear as if She had loaded in Martinico & she is actually French property, which gives a fine chance of going safe. J have wrote a full Account to Mr Deane of all that has happened to our Armies since the taking of Fort Washing ton to this day, but think you had best do the same, that is Continue from the date of your last letter to the present time. I am very respectfully, Gentn, Your obed Servant, Robt Morris P.S. Here will be several opportunities both to Europe & the West Indies soon. RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Addressed: “To The Honble Benjn. Harrison Esqr. Member of Congress Baltimore. For Committee of Correspondance Rob Morris.” 1 The date of Bingham’s letter has not been determined. 2 This is Silas Deane’s September 17, 1776, letter to Morris. For the response of Congress, see Committee of Secret Correspondence to the Commissioners at Paris, February 2, 1777. 2 Congress had cautiously adopted a resolution on December 23, 1776, calling for explicit information on the actions of Portugal. Committee of Secret Corre spondence to the Commissioners at Paris, December 21, 1776, note 7. On May 1, 1777, Congress appointed a committee “to inquire into the laws and customs of Nations respecting neutrality, and to report their opinion whether the conduct of the King of Portugal, in forbidding the vessels of the United States to enter his ports and ordering those already there to depart at a short day, is not a breach of the laws of neutrality, and will justify acts of hostility against the subjects of the said King.” But no further action of Congress appears in the journals. JCC, 7:318. * Capt. Nicholas Biddle, commander of the frigate Randolph, was ordered to convoy several merchantmen out to sea. Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1064—65. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Baltimore Jany 29th. 1777 Yesterday I had the Pleasure of receiving two Letters from you by the same hand, dated the 9th and 22d of December. And just now a Letter
