January 29, 1777 157 is deliverd to me from my Friend Mr Bradford, dated the 13th of this Month, wherein I am informd that you was then in good Health and Spirits. If you had not told me that you had written to me Six Letters since I left Boston, I should have suspected that you did not keep a good Look out for Expresses which come this Way. I have now receivd only four of them. The others may possibly have fallen into the Hands of the Lords Protectors of America. There is one Way in which you may prob ably make up the Loss to me, and that is by writing oftener. I assure you, it would not be troublesome to me to receive half a Dozen Letters from you at one Time. You tell me you was greatly alarmd to hear that General Howe’s Army was on the March to Philadelphia. I have long known you to be possessd of much Fortitude of Mind. But you are a Woman, and one must expect you will now and then discover Timidity so natural to your Sex. I thank you, my dear, most cordially for the Warmth of Affection which you express on this Occasion, for your Anxiety for my Safety and your Prayers to God for my Protection. The Man who is conscientiously doing his Duty will ever be protected by that Righteous and all powerful Being, and when he has finishd his Work he will receive an ample Re ward. I am not more convincd of any thing than that it is my Duty to oppose to the utmost of my Ability the Designs of those who would enslave my Country; and with Gods Assistance I am resolvd to oppose them till their Designs are defeated or I am called to quit the Stage of Life. I am glad to hear that the Winter has been in a remarkable Degree so favorable in New England, because it must have lessend the [. . .] 1 been increasd [. . .] 2 the Poor, is in holy Writ coupled with him who oppresses them. Be you warm and be you cloathd, without administering the neces sary Means, is but cold Consolation to the miserable. I am glad you have given Shelter to Mrs A. who had not where to lay her Head. She deservd your Notice, and she has more than rewarded you for it in being, as you say she is, grateful. Whenever you see a poor Person grateful, you may depend upon it, if he were rich he would be charitable. We are not how ever, to seek Rewards in this Life, for Deeds of Charity, but rather imi tate the all merciful Being, of whom, if I mistake not, it is said in Scrip ture, that he doth Good to the Evil and unthankful. There is indeed no such Thing as disinterrested Benevolence among Men. Self Love and social, as Pope tells us, is the same. The truly charitable Man partakes of the Feelings of the wretched wherever he sees the Object, and he relieves himself from Misery by relieving others. I am greatly grievd for the Loss we have met with in the Death of Mr Checkley. From the Account you give me of the Nature & Extent of his Disorder, I conclude he must have died before this Time. He was indeed a valueable Relation and Friend. Have you lately heard from your Brother at St Eustatia?
