160 January 29, 1777 John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Baltimore Jany. 29th. 1777. You will perceive from the Resolves herewith transmitted, that the Letters which Congress have Received from Genl. Fermoy & several other French Officers, are referred to your Consideration, without a particular Recommendation in Favour of either of those Gentlemen. 1 I do myself the Honour to enclose their Letters. A Representation to Congress from Colo. Kermovan, I transmitted this Morning by the Colonel. I have wrote to the Govr. of Virginia on the Subject of the enclosed Resolve. Your Favour of 22d inst. I had the Pleasure of receiving, and this Day laid the same before Congress. 2 I have the Honour to be, with perfect Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. Serv, John Hancock Presidt [P..?.] As some Steps have been Taken with Respect to the Magazines at Brookfield & Carlile, the Congress judge it best they should be Erected there in preference to the other places mention’d by Genl Knox. 3 RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 1 In addition to the resolve about the French officers referred to here, Hancock also sent Washington resolves of January 28 and 29 about stores in Philadelphia, two Virginia battalions, and money for Gen. Thomas Mifflin and the state of Connecticut. ]CC, 7:65-66, 68-70. Hancock must not have dispatched this letter until February 1 because he also enclosed a resolve of that date about Capt. James Scott of Virginia. ]CC, : 82. 2 This letter is in PCG, item 152, 3:489-94, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 7:48-52. 3 See ]CC, 6:1044. Knox had recommended the establishment of magazines at Hartford, Conn., and York, Pa. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:23. Robert Morris to Silas Deane [January 29, 1777] I am now at the 29th Jany. without [having] had an oportunity to send away this very long Letter, our River having been full of Ice since the 9 or 10th Instt, however there is now an appearance of its becoming free again & several vessells will be pushing out altho the Men of war still Keep hovered above the Capes & I fear will do us much mischief [by] taking inward bound vessells—but this we cannot [help] unless France will send us a fleet of Line Battle ships & then we will teach him better manners. Genl. Washington still remains at Morris Town with his Troops cantoned or rather posted round Brunswick in such a manner as to teaze and [har- rass] the Enemy extremely. They possess no other [parts] of New Jersey at this time, then Brunswick, Amboy & the Comunications between
