January 30, 1777 161 them. When they want forage they are obliged to send out very large parties and always meet some Loss, in short never a Day passes but we take some prisoners, kill & wound some of their Men and our people have taken from them a Number of Wagons, horses, Cattle, sheep, Bagage &c. It is a sad thing to depend on [Militia] for the defence of a Country as we find by experience] our people go out but for a short time & [by this means] Genl. Washington’s army is eternally shifting some Joining and some Leaving him so that it is [hard for] him to know his own Strength and he must remain in this disagreeable Situation until the new enlistments are Compleated. Thank God they are going on very [fast] now, as our late Successes have given [new] springs to the Service. Genl. Howe has about [7000] Men at Brunswick & he has ordered a Reinforcement from Rhode Island where the New England Militia are collected ready to attack the Guards he shall leave there. Genl. Heath has marched down towards New York with this body of Militia & some few Regulars & taken Fort Inde pendence with 400 Prisoners. We have reason to fear more he has retaken fort Washington and that we probably may expell the Enemy from New York. In short the face of things is totally changed, the spirit of the Whigs is up, the tories hide their heads, the money is regaining its Credit but not so essentially as it ought. This can only be effected by your procuring us the assistance of a fleet to protect our trade, and when we get plenty of goods the money will rise in volume as the prices decline. I have deter mined to send Capt. Thomas Bell to France for the purpose of delivering you a Letter from the Committee of Correspondence & this Letter also, the Newspapers for a Considerable time back. By him I write a Letter to my brother respecting the mode of employing Capt Bell after he has delivered his dispatches in which I hope for your Concurence & that you will become a party concerned. I have [. . .] reed, a Copy of your Letter of 17 Sepr. to J. J. and shall be very anxious for the safe arrival of the Stores. Adieu Dr. Sir &c, Robt Morris Tr (MH-H). A continuation of Morris to Deane, January 8, 1777. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Baltimore Jany. 30th 1777. The Time of Congress, since my last, hath been principally taken up in devising Ways to prevent the Depretiation of the Continental Money, and to provide for the future Army. The Resolves ordered to be trans mitted to the several States must have reached you before this, which renders it unnecessary to give the Substance or transmit Copies of them. 1 Govr. Trumbull hath transmitted the Doings of the Committee of the New-England States to Congress. They will be taken up to Morrow, and I don’t doubt approved. 2
