January 31, 1777 171 John Hancock to the States Gentlemen, (Circular) Baltimore Jany 31t. 1777. As there is not a more distinguished Event in the History of America, than the Declaration of her Independence—nor any that in all Proba bility, will so much excite the Attention of future Ages, it is highly proper that the Memory of that Transaction, together with the Causes that gave Fuse to it, should be preserved in the most careful Manner that can be devised. I am therefore commanded by Congress to transmit you the enclosed Copy of the Act of Independence with the List of the several Members of Congress subscribed thereto—and to request, that you will cause the same to be put upon Record, that it may henceforth form a Part of the Archives of your State, and remain a lasting Testimony of your approba tion of that necessary & important Measure. 1 I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Servant, J H Presidt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See the January 18 resolve on this issue in JCC, 7:48. Hancock sent each of the states a broadside copy of the Declaration printed by Mary Katharine Goddard of Baltimore. Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 15650. Francis Lewis to John McKesson Dear Sir, Baltimore, 31st January, 1777. I have received your favour of the 17th instant, and am concerned to find that the appointment of Colo. Warner should give umbrage to any gentlemen in our State. 1 When it was moved in Congress, several objec tions were made to the motion; it was at length put to the vote, when a majority appeared to be for the question. This I can venture to assure you, that in all debates of this kind, Congress seems determined to put all disputes between individuals, and even between States, about property, out of sight; as debates of this kind the last year, between the States of Con necticut and Pennsylvania, took up the whole attention of Congress, to the great detriment of the service, and to but very little effect. I am well satisfied in my own mind, that Congress has not the least idea, as a collec tive body, of suffering any State to be dismembered, whatever the secret views of individuals may be. But permit me to say, that to leave our State so long unrepresented in Congress is a fault; when I observe to you that the four New-England States always keep a full representation; when, in some debates, those States may be injured who are not represented; Con gress has often complained to me of this neglect, and indeed urged it in
