January 31, 1777 179 destroy all the letters we give you as well as these orders which we would not choose shou’d fall into their hands on any account, but you must carefully avoid all vessells at Sea & then we hope you will make a safe & successful voyage which we most sincerely wish & are sir, your obedt hble servts, Robt Morris, Jacob Winey.” Notwithstanding Morris’ injunction to destroy “these orders,” “shou’d it be your misfortune to fall into the hands of the Enemy,” Geddis obviously failed to do so. Morris’ and Winey’s January 30; 1777, letter to Geddis is in High Court of Admiralty Papers, 32: 391, pt 2, PRO. Robert Morris to Thomas Morris Sir Philadelphia J any. 31. 1777 All the Letters I have written you since we parted to this Date have been in that stile of Affection, which I was in hopes you would ever merit. Sorry I am indeed to suppose there is any Cause for Changing it & the only alleviation I can have of the trouble you now perplex me with, will be to find that your Conduct will be less blameable than at present I have reason to suppose. Your friend Mr. James Duff writes me the 1 7th Novr. that you had Corresponded with him regularly from the time you arived in Europe until your arival in London, but from that Period you had never answered his Letters, altho some of them were on business of Consequence respecting the Brig. Grenada Packet, Voyage which for aught I Know remains in that Port to this hour waiting for your Answer. He says also that you had nearly expended his Credit in your favour on Messrs. Herries & Co. for one thousand Pounds sterling & that they hinted to him you had beside other resources. These Circumstances & your total Silence to me, give me the most horrid presages of what I am to expect. Nevertheless it is possible that my friendly Letter, & the unlimited Confidence I repose in you, may have drawn forth the virtuous part of your Constitution into Exertion, & you may have stepped forth & done your Duty to the Public & to your friends; happy will it be for us both if you have but when I look the Contrary way the Picture shocks all my feelings & I cannot bear it. Your follies as a boy I always forgave, expecting one day to see you despise them, & reap the fruits of your Abilities; but if you have introduced them into the European World in the Character of man and a merchant, I fear it will all be over & that your future prospects must be Gloomy indeed. This goes under Cover to my friend Mr. Jno. Ross, whom I have requested to join you immediately after the recipt of it, to examine strictly into your Conduct & if he finds you have either abused or neglected your Duty in the Public or Private Trusts I have reposed in you, that he should imme diately receive from you all the Public & Private Letters you have received from me, from our House, from the Secret Committee, or from any other Persons in consequence of the business you have been charged with and I now strictly Charge & injoin you to deliver them all up to him & to grant him a Power of Attorney to act & do what may be right in all those affairs
