January 31, 1777 183 is a subject that will not do for a Public letter. When I shall join the Congress, or when they will return here is quite uncertain but this you may assure yourself that my judgement approves the plan & my Friend ship prompts me to comply with your wishes and if it ever lies in my power I will most readily convince you of this truth. I think Hooper wou’d be a proper hand to broach this plan and if Jay & Johnston attended the Congress they shou’d back it. This may happen before long and I shall rejoice to see it, for I am told our assembly do not intend you shall be in the New List of Delegates. 1 I am too busy to attend or I wou’d Contest the matter warmly altho I well know, that the Honesty, merit & ability which you possess in so eminent a degree wou’d not be sufficient pleas against the previous determination of a Strong party for that I am told is the case. However you will enjoy your Family & Friends at home if you are deprived the opportunity of Continuing those Services to your Country which she so much needs & which if I mistake not she will feel the want of, untill better Men in better times shall call you forth again. I am Dr sir, Your obedt hble servant, Robert Morris RC (PHi). 1 Wilson was indeed dropped from Pennsylvania’s list of delegates when the assembly named a new five-man delegation on February 5, but he was reappointed on February 22. See Page Smith, James Wilson, Founding Father, 1742—1798 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1956), pp. 99-102; and Benjamin Rush to Julia Rush, January 24, 1777, note 1. Benjamin Rush to Julia Rush My dearest Julia, Baltimore Januy 31 1777. This is the 4th letter I have written to you since my Arrival in this place. I have received One from You which gave me great pleasure. In my former letters I gave you a general Acct, of my Situation. I shall now add to it, that after spending a week in the house of a Mrs. Orrick in a room formerly occupied by Mr Seargeant I was obliged to look out for other lodgings upon Mr. Seargeants return. I am now very comfortably situated with a Mrs Payne. Mr Seargant was so much pleased with my landlady and the accommodations which her house afforded that he has left his old quarters, and now lodges with me. There are a number of boarders in the family. One of them is a young French Officer. His his tory in one particular is very remarkable. He is one of one & twenty chil dren, 18 boys & three girls. They were all bom of the same father & mother, and are all now living. Happy family! I shall be better satisfied if the same can be said [o/] me as was said of the prophet of old “That I walked in the fear of the Lord, and begat sons & daughters,” than if it were inscribed upon my tombstone that I governed the counsels, or com manded the arms of the whole continent of America.
