184 January 31, 1777 Every article of provision—cloathing and the common conveniences of life are 100 percent higher in this place than in Philadelphia. I pay 50/ a week for my board, and 2/6 a day for my horse. I cannot reconcile these prices with the plenty of provisions for man & beast with which this part of the country abounds. The market contains besides the ordinary pro visions found in the Philada. market a great variety of fish and wild fowl. The town of Baltimore contains about 1000 houses—most of them large & built with brick. It is divided into two parts distant from each Other about % of a mile. Both divisions are situated upon Petapsco river about 15 miles above Chesapeak bay. The water of the river is a good deal Brackish, and even the water of the pumps & wells in the town is not wholly free from a Saltish taste. The town used to contain near 5000 inhabitants before the present war. You will be surprised when I add to this account of Baltimore that the first house in it was built not more than 30 years ago. It has for some years past vied with Philadelphia in commerce, and bids fair for being the most wealthy spot on the continent. I expect to set off tomorrow to pay a visit to Dr Howard an old fellow student of mine in the College of Edinburgh]. 1 He lives 15 miles from this place. I have as yet contracted no acquaintances with the inhabitants of the town. I associate only with delegates, & attend only to the business of the congress. I forgot to inform you before that when the acct, came to the congress of your Papa’s harsh treatment by General Howe, they immediately ordered General Washington to remonstrate against it, and to threaten to inflict similar indignities upon some tory prisoners. My pen and paper are intollerable. I hope to write to you more fully by the next post. Love to all Mr Montgomery’s family. Adieu my dearest— yours—yours—yours, B Rush RC (MdHi: Middendorf deposit, 1972). 1 Undoubtedly Ephraim Howard of Elkridge, Anne Arundel Co., Md. See Rush, Letters (Butterfield), 1:132—33. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Baltimore Feb 1st 1777 The Proceedings of the Committees of the four New England States have been read in Congress, and are now under the Consideration of a Committee of the whole. They are much applauded as being wise and salutary. 1 I had heard that one of your Delegates at that Convention had written a long Letter to his Friend and Confident here; and hearing it whisperd, that the Massachusetts State had disapprovd of those Proceed ings, I was led to ask the Gentleman who had receivd the Letter, con cerning it. 2 He confirmd it; and said, that not only the Trade, but the
