February 1, 1777 185 Landed Gentlemen in the House of Representatives were sanguine against it. I beggd him to let me see his Letter; but he ref usd in a kind of Pet, telling me it was a private Letter. I was left to conjecture, whether I had been really impertinent in asking a Sight of his Letter, or whether the Contents of it were such as it was not proper for me to see. You will easily conceive what a Scituation one must be in here, who having receivd no Intelligence himself, of the Sentiments of his Constituents, is obligd in vain to ask of another, upon what Principles they have disapprovd of a Measure (if indeed they did dissapprove of it) upon which he is called to give his own Opinion. But it is difficult to account for means peevish humors, and it is generally not worth ones while to attempt it. You see, my Friend from this Instance, the Necessity of your writing to me oftener. When I was told upon the forementiond Occasion, that I would be inti tied to see the Letters of Another; whenever I should be disposd to communicate those which I receive my self, I could have said truly that I had scarcely receivd any. Two only from you in the Space of near four Months. But I have no Claim to your Favors, however much I value them, unless perhaps upon the Score of my having not neglected to write to you by any opportunity. Your omitting of late even to acknowledge the Receipt of my Letters, I might indeed construe as a silent Hint that they were displeasing to you. But I will not believe this till I have it under your own Hand. While I am writing, your very acceptable Letter is brought to me by Mr Lovell. 3 You therein speak, as you ever have done, the Language of my Soul. Mr Adams tells me you are President of the Board of War; I am therefore induced to recall what I have just now said, which you may construe as an implied Censure for your not having written to me oftener. I am sure you must have a great Deal of Business. I am not sorry for it, for a Reason which I need not mention. I pray God to preserve the Health of your Body and the vigor of your Mind. We must chearfully deny our selves Domestick Happiness and the Tranquility of private Life when our Country demands our Services. Give me Leave to hint to you my opinion, that it would be a Saving to our State in the Way of Supplys, if the Board of War would consign the Cargoes which they order here to a Mercht of good Character rather than to the Masters of the Vessels. Possibly there may be some Exceptions. But I have Reason to think that a Cargo which arrivd about a Fortnight ago, consisting as I am told, chiefly of Rum and Sugar which were scarce Articles, was sold at least 30 per cent under what it would have fetchd, if it had been under the Direction of a Person acquainted in the Place, and Flour is purchasing by the Person who bo’t the Cargo, and I suppose expects an Allowance therefor, at an unlimitted Price. I am perswaded, if you had by a previous Letter directed a Cargo to be procured, you might have had it 20 per cent cheaper. If the Board should be of my Mind, I know of no Gentlemen whom I would more freely recommend than Mess
