186 February 1, 1777 Samuel and Robert Purviance. They are Merchants of Character, honest and discrete Men and warmly attachd to our all important Cause. But I get out of my Line when I touch upon Commerce. It is a Subject which I never understood. Adieu my dear Friend. Beleive me to be yours, S A P.S. I forgot to tell you that, a fair occasion offering, I movd in Congress that the Eldest Son of our dearest Freind Genl Warren might be adopted by the Continent & educated at the publick Expence. The Motion was pleasing to all & a Come is appointed to prepare a Resolve. Monuments are also proposd in Memory of him & Genl Mercer whose youngest Son is also to be adopted & educated. 4 But these things I would not have yet made publick. 5 RC (MHi). 'See John Hancock to Jonathan Trumbull, January 30, 1777, note. 2 It cannot be determined with certainty to whom Adams was referring, but John Hancock may have received such a letter from Thomas Cushing. Cushing, Azor Orne, and Tristram Dalton were the Massachusetts delegates at the Providence meeting. 3 Probably James Warren’s December 31, 1776, letter to Samuel Adams, in Warren-Adams Letters, 2:441-44. ‘ On January 31 Congress appointed a committee “to see what honors are due” Gens. Joseph Warren and Hugh Mercer, who had been killed in action. On April 8 Congress voted to erect monuments to them and to adopt and educate Warren’s eldest son and Mercer’s youngest son. JCC, 7:79-80, 243. 0 Adams also wrote a letter to his wife Elizabeth about this time, but only an undated fragment has been found. “Yet I would even by willing this Letter should fall into the Hands of General Howe, that from the Quotations I have made from yours he might see the unconquerable Spirit of a Boston Female. His deceasd Brother, I am sure would have honord you for it; and if we could suppose it possible that so truly good a Nobleman as he was, could for a Moment be engagd in so unrighteous a Cause, as his surviving Brothers have undertaken to support, your Sentiments would have causd the Weapon to drop from his un-nerved Arm. “We have the Speech of George the Third. I send it to you as the Printer has been pleasd to give it to us. “I am exceedingly rejoiced to hear that Mrs March has recoverd her Health. Tell her I heartily congratulate her Friend upon so unexpected a Change in their Favor.. .. “I have movd in Congress that the eldest Son of our worthy deceased Friend Dr. Warren may be an adopted Child of the Continent and educated at the publick Expense. The Members were pleasd with the Motion & a Committee is appointed to prepare a Resolve for the purpose. Communicate this only to a few Friends till you hear further of it.” Adams Papers, NN. Board of War to James Scott Sir, Board of War Baltimore Feby. 1st. 1777. I Reed, your Favor by Mr. John Barker and deliver’d yours to the Presi dent to be laid before Congress. They readily complyd with your Request
