190 February 1, 1777 be apprehended to be ineffectual, the Congress on your representing the Matter to them, will readily order any additional Assistance that shall be thought necessary. 1 I have wrote to Genl. Smallwood to call on such Continental Officers and Troops as he shall judge proper and necessary on your application to him for this Purpose. It will be a very fortunate Point, and contribute greatly to the Tran quility of that Country, should you be able to apprehend the Leaders of this Faction, and secure them agt. any similar attempts for the future. The Flames of Rebellion may be easily extinguished by spirited & timely Exertions at first—but if suffered to spread, the Work will be come more difficult and hazardous. It is therefore highly necessary that your Movements should be as quick & as secret as possible; and from your Zeal in Behalf the American Cause and the Repose of your Country now disturbed by the Insurrection of her Enemies, I have no Doubt of your exerting yourselves in a becoming Manner on this Occasion. I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Servt. J. H. Presidt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 'See ]CC, 7:79, 82—83; and Ronald Hoffman, A Spirit of Dissension: Eco nomics, Politics, and the Revolution in Maryland (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1973), pp. 194-97. John Hancock to William Smallwood Sir, Baltimore Feby. 1st. 1777. The enclosed Resolves of Congress I transmit to you, 1 and am to in form you that it is the Order of Congress you should call to the Assistance of the State of Maryland such Continental Officers and Troops as you shall judge necessary on their Application to you. 2 The dangerous Tend ency of the Insurrection of the Tories in the Counties of Somerset and Worcester, requires the most vigorous & immediate Measures to suppress it. You will therefore hold yourself in Readiness, to execute such Orders as you shall receive from the Assembly of this State for this important Purpose. I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obed. Servt. J. H. Presidt LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 'William Smallwood (1732-92), a native Marylander, had been appointed a Continental brigadier general by Congress in October 1776. DAB. 2 See JCC, 7:82-83.
