February 3, 1777 199 suspected, abjuring the authority of the King & Parliament of Britain or any other power not deriv’d from the People. When these measures are taken & the Laws faithfully executed we shall soon have things in a good way. Affairs abroad wear a very favorable aspect, we are in daily Expec tation of very interesting Intelligence from our Commissioners at the French Court & I hope it wont be a great while, before we hear from those at some other Courts, but these are matters that you must be very carefull who you trust with for the Present. Measures are taking by Con gress & I hope will be taken by every state to give stability to the Cur rency. Congress seem more firmly united than ever, & I am sensible the Removal from Philadelphia has a very good effect, ’tho I by no means approv’d of it at the time. I think on the whole our affairs look well, the Principle object is to raise the new Army, that being compleated & proper measure taken for the Security of our Trade, we shall be in a scituation, under the Smiles of Heaven, to Establish Liberty, & Happiness. J. L. writes that he shall put some Business into your hands, which I suppose he has done before this time. 2 Dr. Brackett has favor’d me with a letter (which I receiv’d only a few days ago tho it is dated 2d Deer) which I shall answer soon but believe shall not be able by this opportunity. Give my very affecte Regards to all Friends & perticularly commend me to our Mother who I hope injoys as much health & Happiness as her advanc’d age will admit off. I am You very Affecte Bror. 3 Wm Whipple RC (MH-H). ’On December 10, 1776, the New Hampshire Assembly had resolved “that a General Embargo imediately take place and continue, till the further order of this Court, on all vessels of every Denomination (excepting such as may be fitted out by order of the United States, or either of them, or by the Board of War in behalf of this State or such as may so continue from one harbor in this State to another, or such as may be permitted by the Genl Assembly, or in the recess thereof by the Council or Committee of Safety of this State).” N.H. State Papers, 8:412-13. 2 John Langdon appointed Joseph as his deputy prize agent for New Hampshire. Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1021. 2 For the continuation of this letter, see Whipple to Joseph Whipple, February 8, 1777. John Adams to Abigail Adams Baltimore Feby. 3. 1777 This Day has been observed in this Place, with exemplary Decency and Solemnity, in Consequence of an Appointment of the Government, in Observance of a Recommendation of Congress, as a Day of Fasting. I went to the Presbyterian Meeting and heard Mr. Allison deliver a most pathetic and animating, as well as pious, patriotic and elegant Discourse. I have seldom been better pleased or more affected with a sermon.
