February 3, 1777 201 other Looks. If the Mercury rises, there, it will rise in every other Part of the Continent, if it falls there, it will fall every where. By all that I can gather, the British Ministry have Sollicited for Cos sacks. The Swiss is doubtfull, But it is the opinion of a Man in England whose Intelligence has heretofore proved extreamly exact, that the Minis try will be able to obtain near Twenty thousand Recruits in England, Scotland and Ireland and Germany. If this Conjecture is right there is great Reason to Suppose that they will not Venture upon so dangerous a Step as that of procuring Siberians. Their late great Successes will in their opinion render them unnecessary. But in all Events, it is our Wisdom, our Prudence, our Policy, our Cunning, our Duty, our every Thing to destroy, those who are now in America. They are compleatly in our Power and if We do not embrace the opportunity, We shall not only in dust and ashes repent of our sloth, but it will be but Justice that We should Suffer the wretched Consequences of it. I am Sure, our brave New Englandmen can break the Force of Newport—and even the main Body at Brunswick May be imprisoned. But an Army is wanting. Dont let it be wanting long. Congress will do and have done what they can—but if the States will not execute the Plans and Resolutions of Congress what is to be expected? New England, I find is now in higher Estimation than it has been. Our Troops have behaved nobly, and turned the Fortune of the War. Pray let us keep up our Credit, as I am sure We can. Adieu my dear Friend. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. John Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Baltimore Feb. 3. 1777 It may not be a Mispense of Time to make a few Observations upon the Situation of some of the States at this Time. That Part of New York which is yet in our Possession is pretty well united, and pretty firm. The Jerseys have recovered from their Surprize, and are lending as much assistance as can well be expected from them. Their assembly is now Sitting, and are Said to be well disposed to do what they can. The Assembly of Pensilvania, is also Sitting. They have abolished the oath which gave so much Discontent to the People, and are gradually acquiring the Confidence of the People, and opposition has Subsided. The Delaware Government have formed their Constitution, and the Assembly is now Sitting. Maryland has formed its Constitution and their Assembly now Sitting in Consequence of it, are filling it up. There is a Difficulty in two of the Counties, but this will last but a little while. In Virginia Governor Henry has recovered his Health, has returned to Wil liamsburg, and is proceeding in his government with great Industry. N.
