202 February 3, 1777 Carolina have compleated their Government, and Mr Caswell is Gov ernor. In Virginia and North Carolina, they have made an Effort for the Destruction of Bigotry which is very remarkable. They have abolished their Establishments of Episcopacy so far as to give compleat Liberty of Conscience to Dissenters, an Acquisition in favour of the Rights of Man kind, which is worth all of the Blood and Treasure which has been and will be Spent in this war. S. Carolina and Georgia compleated their Governments, a long time ago. Thus I think there are but three States remaining which have not erected their Governments, Massachusetts, N. York and New Hampshire. These are good Steps towards Government in the State which must be introduced and established before we can expect Discipline in our Armies, the Unum necessarium to our Salvation. I will be instant and incessant, in season and out of season, in inculcat ing these important Truths, that nothing can Save Us but Government in the State and Discipline in the Army. There are so many Persons among my worthy Constituents who love Liberty better than they understand it that I expect to become unpopular by my Preaching. But Woe is me if I preach it not. Woe will be to them, if they do not hear. I am terrified with the Prospect of Expence, to our State, which I find no Possibility of avoiding. I cannot get an Horse kept in this Town under a Guinea a Week. One hundred and four guineas a year for the Keeping of two Horses, is intolerable, but cannot be avoided. Simple Board is fifty shilling a Week here, and Seven Dollars generally. I cannot get boarded under forty shillings, i.e. five dollars and a third a Week for myself and fifteen for my servant—besides finding for myself all my wood, Candles, Liquers and Washing. I would send home my servant and Horses, but Congress is now a moveable Body, and it is impossible to travell and carry great Loads of Baggage without a servant and Horses, besides the Meanness of it, in the Eyes of the World. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. Committee of Secret Correspondence to the Massachusetts Council Honble Gentlemen, Baltimore 3 Feby. 1777 The number and vigilance of our enemies hath prevented us hitherto from sending the enclosed Despatches through these southern ports And since it is of the last importance to the American Cause that these letters should reach their destination with all possible dispatch, We beg the favor
