208 February 4, 1777 Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Sir Baltimore Feby 4th 1777 I wrote you on my way hither from Hanover Court House in Virginia, suggesting to you my apprehensions relative to one Ferns, who appeared to me suspicious. 1 I shall now, as near as I can recollect, recapitulate the matters which dropt from him, (when he had so far indulged in drinking as to be off his guard) lest the letter I wrote should have miscarried. He was pilot to the fleet under Lord How, & brought them into Hud son’s river, was consulted by the Admiral concerning certain Expeditions which he had in contemplation, which Ferns declared to be unadvisable because of the late season. A communication was carried on between the Tories in every State and New York & a traffic of gold & silver for conti nental money. Mr. Cornell added the adventurers in this traffic. Two from North Carolina had lately dealt to a considerable amount, & I fancy reside in or near Newbern. I intend hereafter to trouble you with a letter every post, & shall give my sentiments of the different political principles which I shall perceive to actuate the several States, the measures intended to be pursued, the intelligence we receive & the important decisions in Congress. I find a considerable jealousy is entertained of the Northern States, I know not how justly; at present I must refer you to Mr. Hooper who is much better qualified to give you satisfaction on all these matters than I am. Our situ ation here is unsettled, uncomfortable, & incredibly expensive. These circumstances will I doubt not occasion another adjournment of Con gress. Mr. Hooper takes with him all the newspapers, & some copies of the King’s speech; you will doubtless see them, & I need not suggest any reflections; they will readily occur to you, & you will foresee greater events than have yet distinguished our struggles. The calamities of man kind are not speedily to be intermitted, & war & fury will rage in several quarters of the Globe. I hope however the contest will not be very injurious to America. I have the honour to be sir, with due respect, & sincere Esteem, Your very obed. serv’t, Thos Burke Feby 5th. This day it was resolved in Congress that Col. Nash should be appointed a Brigadier General, that he should proceed to the western part of our State, & expedite as much as possible the recruiting service, & that the several Battalions of Continental Troops in North & South Carolina should join General Washington as soon as may be after the fifteenth of March. 2 It was proposed to request your assistance in for warding the recruiting business, but we observed that you were already sensible of the necessity of such an exertion of your interest & influence, & being so well inclined to serve to your utmost power the cause of America, there was no need to remind you of it. I know, sir, you will omit
