February 4, 1777 209 nothing in your power to assist this so necessary service, & I hope through your efforts the North Carolina Battalions will come into the field as complete as those of any State. The Congress have also resolved that five hundred thousand dollars be advanced to our State when your warrant shall be produced, agreeable to the Ordinance, & when such warrant arrives, I shall use every dili gence for Expediting the remittance. 3 1 am &c, Thos Burke Tr (Nc-Ar). 1 Burke’s January 27 letter to North Carolina governor Caswell is in N.C. State Records, 11:368-69. 2 See ]CC, 7:90-91. 3 See JCC, 7:92. Abraham Clark to James Caldwell My Dear Sir, Baltimore Febry. 4th. 1777. Your favour of the 27th Ulto I reed this day, am greatly oblidged for the intelligence it brings, being the first Certain News I have reed. From my family since Novemr. My pleasure is much increased by the additional circumstance of the People of Eliza. Town being able to Attend public Worship without interruption; as I had heard and believed Our Church & your house were both burned by the Enemy. I must now suppose the Acct, not true or you would not have omitted mentioning it. I wrote you up wards of two weeks ago by Dr Witherspoon 1 who set off for a Sight of Princeton and hath not returned; in that I ventured a large Draft on you for intelligence. I earnestly wish to know the State of our Country and of our Friends, which I have not yet been able to Obtain. Two Armies, one of which the most Savage known among civilized nations, must have Spread desolation through the Country which an age can Scarcely recover. I feel for their distresses, and wish I could think them at an end, but this is beyond my expectations. Great Britain undoubtedly hath contracted for a large Numr. of Rusians which will pay us a Visit next Summer unless Prevented. Our General cause will I think Nevertheless Obtain a Sup port, he that setteth up states doth not, usually put them down in a Year, and I doubt not but by the Providence of God we shall be enabled to withstand our Foes. A Union or aliance I believe is now forming for our Support. France, Spain & Prusia, and perhaps Sweden will unite in it, the Independance of America hath catched the Attention of Europe, and all Commercial States are wishing for a share of our Commerce. France & Spain are exerting their utmost efforts to prepare for War, our Flag is wore in their harbours, and our Vessels protected, our Prizes where carried in Secured for us, and the duties on American trade chiefly taken of. All intelligence from France & Spain as favourable as we can expect, the great Obsticle with those kingdoms were apprehensions of a Reconcilia-
