220 February 5, 1777 Marine Committee to Esek Hopkins Sir Philada. Feby 5th. 1777 By Consent of the Honorable Congress I have this day given instruc tions to Jno Paul Jones Esqr Commander of the Alfred to take upon him the Conduct of an Expedition wherein he will require the assistance of the Columbus, Cabot, Camden 1 & Sloop Providence, and You will please to order the Commanders to join him & to put themselves under his Command. I flatter myself with having your utmost exertions to get these Vessells well & expeditiously manned and compleatly fitted that they may sail soon as possible. I lately forwarded you a packet with instructions respecting the Frigates from the Marine Committee which I hope will arrive safe. I long to hear that you contrive ways & means to get rid of the Enemy in your Neighborhood & am with esteem sir your obedt hble Servant, Robt Morris, V.P. of the Marine Committee P.S. My Compts to your Brother. RC (CSmH). LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The LB correctly names this ship the Hampden. Marine Committee to John Paul Jones Sir Philada. Feby 5th. 1777 I have frequently received your letters advising me the particulars of your several Cruizes, and with pleasure assure you that the Contents in every instance have been very acceptable, always entertaining & in many parts usefull. These letters I have from time to time communicated to the members of the Marine Committee all of whom express their satis faction with your Conduct. You wou’d no doubt expect an answer from them to your proposal for a Cruize this Winter on the Coast of Africa, 1 and such they intended to give you long since, but the confusion occa sioned by their removal from this City to Baltimore & the multiplicity of business that has unavoidably crowded on every member of Congress, put it out of their power to give that attention to your department that they wou’d always wish to carry into every American Concern. Thus Circum stanced they never doubted but your Active genius wou’d find usefull employment for the Ship you Command, as you were so near the Com modore & cou’d go cloathed with his Authority & they have not been disapointed for you have in this way made a most usefull & successfull Voyage to Cape Breton & thence to Boston. Major Frazer passing through this City (which I have never left) sent me an account of that Cruize
