224 February 5, 1777 Baltimore to this Time. As, during this Period, publick Affairs have taken a much happier Turn & my own private Circumstances have assumed rather a melancholy Complexion, I hope your honourable Body will ex cuse my wishing to retire to the Management of my private Concerns. The Loss of my House is the least part of my Misfortune, as my Atten tion to Politicks during these unhappy Times has at once superseded my Business & prevented the Collecting my Accounts ’till the greater part of my Debtors, it is to be feared, are either ruined or not to be found. For these Reasons I find it necessary to apply myself to some Business for the Support of my Family. My Attendance in Congress must be a Bar in the Way of all such Attempts & I must therefore beg that some other' person may be appointed in my Stead. I shall however attend ’till a Person can be appointed to succeed me & am Sr. Yr. most obedt. hble Servt. 1 Jona D. Sergeant RC (NN). Addressed: “The honorable John Hart Esqr., Speaker of the Assembly of New Jersey, Haddonfield.” 1 Although he twice obtained brief leaves of absence during the next several weeks—“on account of his health” and “to visit his family”—Sergeant continued to serve in Congress until September 1777. See JCC, 7:156, 219; and Burnett, Letters, 2: Iv—Ivi. John Adams’ Diary 1777. Thursday Feby. 6th. Lodged last night for the first Time in my new Quarters, at Mrs. Ross’es in Markett Street, Baltimore a few Doors below the fountain Inn. The Gentlemen from Pensilvania and Maryland, complain of the grow ing Practice of distilling Wheat into Whisky. They say it will become a Question whether the People shall eat bread or drink Whisky. The Congress sits in the last House at the West End of Market Street, on the South Side of the Street. A long Chamber, with two fire Places, two large Closets, and two Doors. The House belongs to a Quaker, who built it for a Tavern. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield): 2:257. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen, Baltimore Town Feby 6. 1777, Thursday Noon Congress are very anxious, that some immediate Steps should be taken by our State, not only as to the person of Captain Patterson, but as to
