230 February 7, 1777 RC (DNA: PCC, item 147). ‘For some account of the Executive Committee’s difficulties in complying with this request, see its February 20 letter to the Board of War. In regard to this issue Peters wrote this letter to the Executive Committee on February 27 in the Board of War’s behalf: “I enclose by Order of the Board an Invoice of Part of the thirty Tons of Powder mentioned to be destined for Ticonderoga, the Residue will be speedily sent & after deducting that sent from Philadelphia the Board request you will order the other fifteen Tons on as speedily as possible. It is shipped by the Elk Packett & the Shipper has Orders to wait on you as soon as he ar rives.” PCC, item 147, fol. 91. 2 On February 10 and 14 Peters also wrote letters for the Board of War di recting the Executive Committee to provide “Cloaths, Arms & Acoutrements” for the Second and Seventh Virginia Regiments, which were under orders to join forces with Washington. Ibid., fols. 67, 71. Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates Feby71777 Motion in Congress that the President write to every State excepting Virginia and Masschusetts Bay recommending a fuller representation, proposed to leave out the Exceptions, passed in the Negative. Amendment proposed that when ever any State was unrepresented the President Should write requesting a full representation. Agreed by a Majority. Mo tion to be reconsidered. Amendment proposed that when ever any State was represented by less than three President should write &c. Rejected. Question upon the whole as amended Nos 5, Ayes 4, 1 Divided. In this Debate the States fully represented insisted on the Exceptions that it might appear they had no need of a Memento. Several other States insisted that no state ought to be permitted to Commit a Vote in the General Council of the States to less than three. That less nor even that Number would Supply Committees. It was answered to the first that every State had made her representation as best Suited her Circumstances, that many were unable to spare or Support One more Numerous. That each was best Judge how many of her Citizens she would Trust, and to what length She would Trust them. That there was no need of publicly calling on them for a representation more full because they already wished the same thing but found it Inconvenient to be Effected. That therefore those who had any representation at all had [already] done what their Circum stances permit [. . .] for greater Exertions. To the Second that the repre- sefntatives of] the States who had few refused nor [....] That the weight and Trust were certainly too great for any one person but it was an evil that Could not at present be remedied, and therefore it must be born. That requiring three to form a Quorum would Embarass several States and leave Such State often without any representation at all, because if any Accident prevented the attendance of one, the Vote was Necessarily lost,
