232 February 7, 1777 Congress will afford every assistance in their power to prevent any Com munication between the Insurgents and the Men of War, and any plunder of our Islands or Coasts. It is earnestly wished and expected that our State will order every vessell they have and can obtain on the same Duty. I shall speak to Captain Cook about his Tender. No letters from General Washington. The Post is not yet arrived. With Respect, your Obedt. Servt. S Chase RC (MdAA). John Hancock to the Maryland Council of Safety Sir Baltimore Febry. 7t. 1777 Your favr. inclosing the Deposition of Capt Patterson was Rec’d & laid before the Congress. 1 The Second Regimt. of Virginia Troops to gether with Col Buchanan’s Regimt. of Militia are under orders to Repair to the Eastern Shore for the Suppression of the Insurgents in the Counties of Somerset & Worcester. 2 Two Arm’d Vessells are ready & the Transports are also getting ready for the Accommodation of the Troops. These with the Troops you may order, it is Judg’d will be sufficient for the purpose. I am, Sir, Your most Obedt Sert, J H Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “To Daniel of St Thomas Jenifer Esqr, Presidt of Council of Safety.” 1 The council of safety’s February 6 letter to Hancock is in PCC, item 70, fol. 139, and Md. Archives, 16:122. Capt. William Patterson’s deposition about an insurrection in Somerset County is in PCC, item 70, fols. 143—45. 2 See JCC, 7:96-97. For accounts of this episode, see also Charles J. Truitt, Breadbasket of the Revolution: Delmarva in the War for Independence (Salisbury, Md.: Historical Books, Inc. 1975), pp. 59-68; and Ronald Hoffman, A Spirit of Dissension: Economics, Politics, and the Revolution in Maryland (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1973), pp. 196-205. Marine Committee to John Bradford Sir Philadelphia Feby. 7th 1777 Your Letters of the 21 December & 17th January to the Marine Com mittee 1 are with me and I have great pleasure in acknowledging on be half of that Committee your Zeal and attention to the Public business. The tiding contained in those Letters was very acceptable and I was particu larly pleased with Captain Jones’s success. By this Express I send him
