240 February 8, 1777 MS (NcU). For a description of these notes, see Burke’s Notes of Debates, Feb ruary 7, 1777. 1 Remainder of MS missing. Abraham Clark to John Hart Dr Sir, Baltimore Febry 8. 1777 I lately heard the Assembly of New Jersey had met but cannot learn where, am therefore unable to give a proper direction. The four New England Colonies have had a meeting of Committees from their Legisla tures to consult measures for their mutual defence & for regulating Trade & Commerce. Their proceedings are before Congress, and I expect will soon obtain their Approbation, and recommendation will thereupon be sent to N. York, N. Jersey, Pensa. & Maryland to appt. Comees. to meet at Phila. for the purpose of regulating the Price of all Articles of Trade &c. The Southern States will also be desired to meet for that purpose. Those matters if passed you will soon have notice of. I am much alarmed with Genl. Washingtons Procla. of the 25th Janry. He hath assumed the Legislative & Executive Powers of Government in all the states. I moved Congress to pass a Resolution I produced for pre venting its fatal Consequences and the establishing such a precedent. My motion was Comtd. and is now before the Come. 1 I hope our Legislature will take proper Notice of it, whatever issue it may have in Congress and not tamely Submit their Authority to the Controul of a power unknown in our Constitution. We set out to Oppose Tyranny in all its Strides, and I hope we shall persevere. A Regulation for providing Carriages for the Army & to prevent as much as possible the Custom of impressing hath long been before Con gress, Comtd. & recomtd. and so it remains. 2 I Wish you will not delay passing a Law for Regulating impresses of this kind. The Devastations of New Jersey by the Enemy will I think make it Necessary to prevent Cattle &c running at large, as fences on the main road are mostly destroyed and cannot soon be made and I think, no person ought to be compelled to fence agst. street Cattel at any Time. Mr. Sergeant talks of resigning and Mr. Stockton by his late proceedure cannot Act, 3 I wish their places may be Supplied by such as will be reputable to New Jersey, not only by their integrity but Abilities. The Tories in the two lower Counties of Maryland on the Eastern shore & Sussex on Delaware, are very troublesome and Collecting forces Aided by several Men of War in Delaware but more Especially in Chesopeak Bay. The Militia & two Continl Regiments are marching Against them. I expect Congress will soon remove from hence to Lancaster, tho’ it is not yet determined—if that should happen I shall be greatly perplexed
