February 8, 1777 245 place as it is in many parts of the continent and nearly twice as high as in Philadelphia. But there are Other considerations which ought to influence us. Our return will have the same effect upon our politicks that General Washington’s late successes have had upon our Arms. Its Operation per haps may not be confined to the Continent. It may serve our cause even in the Court of France. Your letter produced another Motion in Congress of greater conse quence than the one just now mentioned, namely to raise the interest of money received into our loan offices to 6 per Cent. It produced a very long, and serious debate. The question was postponed ’till Monday next at the request of Connecticut. There is good reason to believe from the part the several states took in the debate that it will be carried in the Af firmative by a majority of two or three states. Col. R H Lee has changed his mind upon this Subject, and was one of the warmest Advocates for raising the interest upon the floor. We live here in a convent. We confverse] only with One another. We are precluded from all opportunities of feeling the pulse of the public upon our measures. We rely upon the Committee of Philada. to feel it for us-—and we expect once more to hear thro’ you how it beats upon the Subject of returning to Philadelphia. From Dr Sir your most humble Servt, B. Rush RC (CtY). 1 Not found. 2 See Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates, this day. William Whipple to Joseph Whipple [February 8, 1777] When I wrote this long letter I expected to have sent it off in a day or two after the date, but a veriety of causes has prevented Mr. Bettens be ing dispatched sooner, so that I am now at the 8th Feby. & believe he will go off tomorrow. No intelligence from abroad ‘tho anxiously Ex pected daily nor is there any thing new from the Army. The British Ty rants Speech I suppose has reach’d you before this by which you’ll see he thinks it time to take care of his own safety ‘tho he has assurences of amity from all the Courts in Europe. He also begins to think it an ardu ous task to inslave America, this I hope he will soon be more thoroughly convinc’d of. WW RC (MH—H). A continuation of William Whipple to Joseph Whipple, February 2, 1777. Endorsed by Joseph Whipple: “reed. March 7th.”
