February 9, 1777 249 new Powers, their names were therefore transmited to him & he will deliver the Commissions. 3 The seeming advantages gained by the Enemy in New Jersey, will Eventually be serviceable to the United States. The cruel Ravages com- mited in that Country by the British Troops, has raised such a Spirit of resentment in the Inhabitants that the Militia who could not be pre vail’d on before to lend their assistance to defend their own Country now turn out with great Spririt, & have already done very essential service. On the whole, from present appearences, Our Army will end the Winter Campaign with Eclat. We are in Daily expectation of very Important Intelligence from Europe, But no disposition of the European Powers Ought to cause the least relaxation in our measures. We therefore hope every Exertion will be used to raise, and Equip, the new army. When that is compleated, America will be on a Respectable footing, we then may look Bold on every Power in Europe, & shall be in a good Scituation to form what Alliencies we Please. We observe by a Vote of the Genl. Assembly which you have favor’d us with a Copy of, that we are again Honour’d with their choice to repre sent the State in Congress. 4 We beg leave through you, sir, to return our most sincere Thanks, for this instance of their Confidence, & can only say that we shall exert our utmost Abilities to deserve it. As a close ap plication to Business without a due proportion of Exercise has a tendency to unnervate both Body & mind, we hope provision will be made to give us a Respite in the Spring, we wish to have leave to return home the begining of May. Mr Betten will be able to give you a much better accot. of the Army than we can as their Scituation may be considerably altered between the time we last heard from them, & the time he passes them. We therefore beg leave to refer you to that Gentleman. We are, Sir, with real Esteem & Regard, Your Most Obt Serts, Wm Whipple Matthew Thornton RC (James S. Copley Library, La Jolla, Calif.). Written by Whipple and signed by Whipple and Thornton. ’See William Whipple to John Langdon, January 21, 1777, note. 2 This is probably the letter of Weare to the New Hampshire delegates printed under the date December 16, 1776, in N.H. State Papers, 8:420. The enclosed December 4, 1776, resolve was “to Desire the Honble Congress to transmitt to the State 20,000 Dollars to provide Cloathing &c for the army.” Ibid., p. 404. 3 See Hancock to the New Hampshire Assembly, February 8, 1777, note 2. 4 On December 23, 1776, the New Hampshire Assembly reappointed Josiah Bartlett, Matthew Thornton, and William Whipple as delegates to Congress and provided “that any one of them in the absence of the others have full power to represent this State, and that no more than two of them attend at one time.” N.H. State Papers, 8:437.
