252 February 10, 1777 We have the Honor to be, Your most obedt hum Servants, Robt Morris Geo Clymer P.S. The Ship from Nantes has brought no other dispatches than a letter to Doctr Franklin sent to the Secret Committee, & a London News paper with a letter from thence to Col Lee that will be forwarded by Mr. Bradford. 2 RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Written by Morris and signed by Morris and Clymer. 1 On this point, see Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates, February 20, 1777. 3 This day the Executive Committee also wrote the following note to Philadel phia wagon master Robert Erwin: “Be pleased to pay the within Accot. amounting to Twenty seven pounds, seven shillings and three pence.” RC privately owned, 1975. On the back of this note is an account for the payment of £27.7.3, “To the Team in the Continental Service carrying a load of British Prisoners from Philada to Fredericks Town (Maryland)” in July 1776. Benjamin Rush’s Notes of Debates Feby. 10. [1777] On motion to raise the interest of money to 6 per cent for loan office tickets, 1 it was said in the negative— 1 That there was no other way of laying out money. 2 That loan office tickets are the same as money, and therefore in case of the want of money new emissions are equally proper. In the affirmative it was said by Mr Sergant, That loan office tickets would be confined only to one State. By Mr. Jas. Wilson, That Bonds, lands &c. were transferrable as well as loan office tickets, and therefore the argument of their being the same as money is without force. That the money lenders had all their money paid in to them, that 3 millions had been received by the usurers in Pen- sylvania all of which was probably in thier hands, and that if the interest was raised to 6 per cent it wd. procure money. Mr John Adams. That loan offices tickets would not circulate because they bore an interest. That Massachusetts Bay in the last war emitted 50,000 in notes bearing an interest of 6 per cent which were immediately locked up and withdrawn from the circulation even tho’ gold & silver was plentiful among them. That new emissions would only encrease the difficulty, that the continent would bear only 7 millions. That Unless the interest was raised, the money holder would employ his money in specu lation in buying lands, and in monopolising goods, by which means the necessaries of life were enhanced in thier price. That this alone would regulate the price of goods, that no other wisdom [...] 2 emission he would
