February 11, 1777 253 rather see our army disbanded, and Howe let loose to ravage the whole country. Upon calling the question The States (10 in number divided equally). As a proof of the impropriety of each state having a seperate Vote, it is remarkable that there were 18 members for raising the interest & 10 only against it. The States that voted in favor of it were New-Ham- shire, Massachusetts Bay, New Jersey, Pensylvania, and Virginia. The inhabitants of these states collectively make near two thirds of the whole inhabitants of the united States. (On the question) Mr. John Adams [. . .] 2 political character in the same light as they do a suit of cloaths. They put it on & Off at pleasure. But we trifle with all morality—we trifle with the happiness of millions, by not holding up to [....] 3 MS (PPL). In the hand of Benjamin Rush. For a description of these notes, see Rush’s Notes on Proceedings in Congress, December 5, 1776, note 1. 1 This motion was made on February 8, but the debate was resumed on the 10th. See JCC, 7:102-3. 3 MS damaged, two lines missing. 3 At this point in Rush’s notebook a leaf has been tom out leaving only a narrow strip of his notes at the left hand margin. On the second line on the verso of this mutilated leaf appear the numerals “11, 1777,” which suggest that Rush began making an entry for the debates of February 11. Despite Burnett’s conjecture that “most of the destroyed entry was, therefore, probably under date of Feb. 11,” it seems more likely that the 19 lines that can be seen at the margin pertain to February 10 and that only a line or two was written on the 11th. See Burnett, Letters, 2:245. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Baltimore Feb 11. 1777 I beg Leave to inclose my Account of Expences from the 26th of April 1775 to the 27th of August 1776 amounting to A I intended to have laid it before the House of Representatives when I was last in New England, but the sudden Adjournment of the General Assembly in September, & my Hurry in preparing for my Journey hither after its sitting again in October, prevented my attending to it. When I sat off from Lexington after the memorable Battle there, I had with me only the Cloaths upon my Back, which were very much worn; those which I had provided for myself being in Boston, and it was out of my Power then to recover them. I was therefore laid under a Necessity, in order to appear in any kind of Decency, of being at an extraordinary Expence for Cloathing and Linnen after my Arrival in Philadelphia, which I think makes a reasonable Charge of Barrils, Leonards and Stills Bills in my Account. It may perhaps be necessary to say something of the Charge of Horse hire in the last Article. When I left Watertown in September 75, two
