February 12, 1777 261 nent, for supplying their Army and Navy, will be vastly more than the two per Cent in dispute. Besides all the Injustice, Chicanery, Extortion, oppression, and Discontent, which is allways occasioned every where by a depreciating Medium of Trade, I am much afraid of another Mischief. I fear that for want of Wisdom to raise the Interest in Season, We shall be necessitated within a few Months to give Eight or Ten Per Cent, and not obtain the Money We want after all. I have been so often a Witness of the Miseries of this after Wisdom, that I am wearied to death of it. Had a Bounty of Twenty dollars a Man been offered Soldiers last Time, it would have procurd more than the enormous Bounties that are now offered will procure. Had Government been assumed in the States Twelve Months sooner than it was it might have been assumed with Spirit, Vig our and Decision, and would have obtained an habitual Authority, before the critical Time came on when the Strongest Nerves of Government are necessary. Whereas now, every new Government is as weak as water and as brittle as Glass. Had we agreed upon a Non Exportation, to commence when the Non importation commenced, what an immense Sum Should We have Saved? Nay very probably We Should have occasioned a very different House of Commons to be chosen, the Ministry to have been changed and this War avoided. Thus it is. You who will make no ill use of these observa tions may read them, but the Times are too delicate and critical to indulge freely in such speculations. It is best I believe that no mention Should be made, that the Rate of Interest has been again debated, lest Some Saving Men Should withold their Money, in hopes of compelling the Public to raise the Interest. If the Interest Should never be raised, those who lend in our State, will fare as well as others: if it Should, the Interest of all will be raised, that which is borrowed now, as well as that which shall be borrowed hereafter. I Sincerely wish that our People would lend their Money, freely. They will repent of it, if they do not. We shall be compelled to emit Such Quantities, that every Man except a few Villains will loose more by Depreciation, than the two Per Cent. Not to mention again the Scene of Anarchy and Horror, that a Continuation of Emissions will infallibly bring upon Us. The Design of Loan offices, was to prevent the further Depreciation of the Bills, by avoiding further Emissions. We might have emitted more Bills promising an Interest but if those had been made a legal Tender, like the other Bills, and consequently mixed in the Circulations with them, they would instantly have depreciated all the other Bills four Per Cent, if the Interest was four, and more than that too, by increasing the Quan tity of circulating Cash. In order to prevent these Certificates from Circu lation and consequently from depreciating the Bills, We Should give them Such Attributes as will induce Men of Fortune and others, who usually lend Money, to hoard them up. The Persons who usually lend Money
