262 February 12, 1777 are 1. Men of Fortune, who live upon their Income, and these generally chose to have a Surplusage to lay up every year, to increase their Capitals. 2. Opulent Merchants, who have more Money than they choose to risque, or can conveniently employ in Trade. 3. Widows, whose Dower is often converted into Money, and placed out at Interest, that they may receive an annual Income to live upon, without the Care and Skill which is nec essary to employ Money advantageously in Business. 4. Orphans, whose Guardians seldom incline to hazard the Property of their Wards in Busi ness. 5. A few Divines, Phisicians, and Lawyers, who are able to lay by a little of their annual Earnings. 6. Here and there a Farmer and a Trades man, who is forehanded and frugal enough to make more Money than he has occasion to spend. Add to these 7. Schools, Coiledges, Towns, Parishes and other Societies, which Sometimes let Money. All these Persons are much attached to their Interest and so anxious to make the most of it that they compute and calculate it, even to farthings and single days. These Persons can get Six Per Cent, generally, of private Borrowers, on good security of Mortgages or Sureties. Now, is it reasonable in the State to expect that monied Men will lend to the Public at a less Interest, than they can get from private Persons? I answer yes, when the Safety of the State is not in doubt: and when the Medium of Exchange has a stable value, because larger Sums may be put together, and there is less trouble in collecting and receiving the In terest and the Security is better. But the Case is otherwise, when Men are doubtfull of the Existence of the State, and it is worse still, when they see a Prospect of Depreciation in the Medium of Trade. All Governments in Distress are obliged to give an higher Interest for Money, than when they are prosperous. The Interest of Money, always bears Some Proportion to the Profits of Trade. When the Commerce of a Country is Small, in few Hands, and very profitable, the Interest of Money is very high. Charles the fifth was necessitated to give twenty four Per Cent, after wards it fell in Europe to Twelve, and since to six, Five, Four, and Three. I think I never Shall consent to go higher than Six Per Cent, as much as I am an Advocate for raising it to that, and in this I have been con stant for full Nine Months. The Burthen of Six per Cent upon the Com munity will very soon be heavy enough. We must fall upon some other Methods of ascertaining the Capitals We borrow. A depreciating Cur rency, We must not have. It will ruin Us. The Medium of Trade ought to be as unchangeable as Truth: as immutable as Morality. The least Variation in its Value, does Injustice to Multitudes, and in proportion it injures the Morals of the People, a Point of the last Importance in a Re publican Government. 2 RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Congress did raise the interest rate to six percent on February 26. JCC, 7:158.
