February 12, 1777 263 See also Benjamin Rush’s Notes of Debates, February 10, 1777. “For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Warren, March 15, 1777. Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates Feb’y 12th [1777] Maryland & Pennsylvania were very solicitous to procure a vote of Con gress approving a Meeting lately held by Committees appointed by the four New England Governments, to the end that this approbation might imply a right to disapprove. It occasioned very long & interesting debates. At length the general opinion was that Congress had necessarily a right to inquire into the cause of any meeting, & to require to know what was transacted at any such meetings, & also to require an explanation of any thing that was dubious, & satisfaction for anything that was alarming to the whole, or any one of the States; that this right necessarily existed in their power to take care each for his respective State, that no injury hap pened to her from without. But that Congress had no right to prohibit meetings, or censure them if the transactions in them were not in jurious to others. The Delegate of North Carolina refused to say what his State could not do, declaring he thought she could do every thing which she had not precluded herself from by plain & express declaration: to yield up any of her rights was not in his power, & very far from his inclination. That by the Law of Nations she had a right to demand a satisfactory ac count & explanation of any transactions of one or more States, & she had appointed him to watch lest any injury should come to her from without. In this he would use his best endeavours. The Question put, the approba tion was denied, many voting against it lest its ambiguity should create further disputes: of this number was North Carolina. 1 Tr (Nc—Ar). For a description of these notes, see Burke’s Notes of Debates, Feb ruary 7, 1777. 1 See also John Hancock to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., January 30, 1777, note. Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates Feb. 12th to 19th. 1777 Several days of this week are consumed in debates on the appointment of General Officers. The debates were perplexed, inconclusive, & irksome. The Delegates of several States were desirous of fixing a rule of promo tion, & several were offered & rejected. Maryland, Virginia, & North Carolina desired that each State should recommend Officers in proportion to the men they furnish: three Battalions, one Brigadier; nine, one Major General. This was rejected. It was then proposed to promote General
