270 February 13, 1777 Forks of Delaware. Though he fell down on his knees and begged his life, yet they pierced him through and through with their bayonets, and mangled him in a most shocking manner. Some of the people at Princeton say they thought they were killing me, and boasted that they had done it when they came back. But this is uncertain—the fact of his death and the manner of it is beyond all doubt. I must write a few lines to Fanny, and am, with my best respects to John Smith, Dear David, Yours, &c. Jno. Witherspoon.” Christian Advocate 2 (October 1824): 443-44. The ellipses are all in the Tr, and the “inquiry” mentioned by Wither spoon grew out of his membership on the committee appointed on January 16 to investigate the conduct of the invading British and Hessians in New Jersey and New York. JCC, 7:42-43. Witherspoon was not the only New Jersey delegate whose property was pillaged during the British advance through that state. See Abraham Clark to James Caldwell, February 4, 1777, note 1. 3 David was teaching at Hampden-Sidney Academy in Virginia. 3 Ellipsis in Tr. Executive Committee to John Hancock Sir Philada. Feby 13th. 1777 Major Ottondorffe came yesterday from Camp & relates that an Action happened last Saturday at Quible Town in the Jerseys between a Forag ing Party of the Enemy, not less than 3000 Strong & about 500 of ours, who took the advantage of the Ground maintained as long as they cou’d keeping up a smart fire the whole time & soon after they were forced to retreat, a reinforcement came that made them about 2000. They then attacked the Enemy & drove them from the Field of Battle into their Works at Brunswick having left 327 Dead Men behind them. They had Eight Field pieces & our side none. This is the Substance of what Genl Gates cou’d collect from the Majors bad French, Dutch & English Linguo. We are waiting with impatience for the particulars by express from the General & will send it forward the moment it comes. 1 The Major thinks the Enemy will not remain much longer in the Jerseys. Therefore we hope Congress have determined to return here where their presence is so very necessary to the various Works going forward. We hope also to be speedily informed that the Loan office Interest is raised to six per Cent as money is most exceedingly wanted, The Quarter Master General, Commissarys & every department in the utmost distress for want of Money. Capt B. Jones of the Artillery confirms Major Ottendorfs Account & Colo Biddle writes his Father “an Action happened on Satur day & ended Gloriously.” We are in great haste sir, Your obedt Servts, Robt Morris Geo Clymer RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Written by Morris and signed by Morris and Clymer. 1 The committee’s report of this battle was greatly exaggerated. See Executive Committee to Hancock, February 15, 1777.
