February 13, 1777 271 Francis Lewis to Horatio Gates Dear General Baltimore 13th Febry. 1777 I yesterday received a letter from my friend Mr. Garrit Repalje, dated (from Squire’s Point 20 Miles from Morristown) the 4th Inst, informing me that Mrs. Lewis with her Daughter, were returned into New York, but that he should on that day, send off his wife and son to head Quart, where if they can procure a Passport, to proceed to New York in order to bring out Mrs Lewis and her Daughter to his house at Squire’s Point, from whence he will conduct them to Phila. Should this be effected I presume they will return through the Gamp, if so, must beg you Sir will interpose your kind Offices that they may be furnished with a Baggage Waggon &c to expedite their Journey. I am in hopes Congress will soon returne to Phila., where I shall hope to hear often from you. With my best wishes for your wellfare I am, Dr Sir, Your very Humble Servt, F Lewis RC (PHi). Medical Committee to George Washington Sir Baltimore Feby 13th 1777 The Congress Apprehending that the Small Pox may greatly endanger the Lives of our fellow Citizens who compose the army under your Ex cellency’s Command, and also very much embarrass the Military Opera tions, have directed their Medical Committee to request your Excellency to give Orders that all who have not had that Disease may be Inoculated, if your Excellency Shall be of Opinion that it can be done without preju dice to your Operations. 1 Some Battalions from Virginia are now on their march to Join you, and are ordered to take the upper rout, in order to avoid Philadelphia where the Infection now prevails. It is submitted to your Excellency whether they ought not to stop somewhere in order to undergo Inoculation. The Committee request your Excellency to give the Necessary orders if it be your Opinion that they can be so long spared from Service. We beg leave to remind you that the Southern Troops are greatly alarmed at the Small Pox, and that it very often proves fatal to them in the Natural Way. This Suggestion we doubt not will, with regard to this object, draw your particular attention to the Troops who may be ordered to Join you from those States. We hope Sir this attention may prevent the Danger and Inconvenience apprehended by Congress and we have the most perfect reliance on your Excellencys well known Humanity, and
