February 14, 1777 275 for by the resolution before you. Have we any charecter to spare? Have we committed no mistakes in the management of the public Affairs of America? We have sir. It becomes us therefore to be careful of the remains of our Authority & charecter. It is a common thing to cry aloud of the rapacity & extortion in every branch of business & among every class of men. This has led some people to decry the public virtue of this country. True sir there is not so much of it as we could wish, but there is much more that is sometimes allowed on this floor. We estimate our virtue by a false barometer when we measure it by the price of goods. The extortion we complain off arises only from the excessive quantity of our money. Now sir a failure in this Attempt to regulate the price of goods will encrease the clamors against the rapacity of dealers, and thus depreciate our public virtue. Consider sir the consequence of measuring our virtue by this false standard. You will add weight to the Arguments used at St James’s to explode patriotism altogether, & by denying its existence in this country destroy it forever. Persuade a woman that there is no such thing as chastity, & if there is that She does not possess it, and She may be easily seduced if She was as chaste as Diana. Sir, The price of goods may be compared to a number of light substances in a bason of water. The hand may keep them down for a while, but nothing can detain them on the bottom of the bason but an Abstrac tion of the water. The continent labours under a universal malady. From the crown of her head to the Soal of her feet She is full of disorders. She requires the most powerful tonic medicines. The resolution before you is Nothing but an Opiate. It may compose the continent for a night, but She will soon awaken again to a fresh sense of her pain & misery. Col: Richd. Henry Lee, in the affirmative. Mr President, The learned Doctor has mistook the disorder of the continent. She labours under a spasm, and Spasms he knows require palliative medicines. I look upon the resolution before you only as a temporary remedy. But it is absolutely necessary. It is true the regulations formerly recommended by Congress were not faithfully carried into execution, but this was owing to the want of regular goverments. New & regular goverments have been insti tuted in every part of America, and these will enable all classes of people to carry the resolutions into execution. Mr Sami Chase, in the Affirmative. Mr President, This is a necessary resolution. It is true if failed formerly in Philada. because it Abounded with tories. But it succeeded in Maryland. It must be done. The mines of Peru would not support a war at the present high price of the neces saries of life. Your Soldiers cannot live on their pay. It must be raised unless we limit the price of the cloathing & other articles necessary for them. Mr. Seargant—negative. The price of goods cannot be regulated while the quantity of our money and the articles of life are allowed to fluctuate.
