February 15, 1777 277 regulate the price of imports we shall immediately put to stop to them for ever. Dr Rush. Sir, It has been said that the high price of goods in Philada. arose from the monoplies, and extortion of the tories. Here I must say the tories are blamed without cause. A similar Spirit of Speculation prevails among the Whigs in Philada. They are disposed to realise thier money in lands, or goods, But this is not owing to any timidity or disaffection among them. They fear the further depreciation of your money by future emissions. Stop your emissions of money & you will stop Speculation, & fill your treasury from the loan Offices. I beg leave to inform Congress that the committee of Philada. was supported by the country people in thier Attempt to regulate the price of West India goods, but were not withstanding unsuccessful. Now sir, the country people are equally con cerned with the merchants in keeping Up the price of every thing, and in eluding laws for reducing them. I am not apt to reply to words much less to play upon them. The gentleman from Virginia has miscalled the malady of the continent. It is not a Spasm, but a dropsy. I beg leave to prescribe two remedies for it. 1 Raising the interest of the money we borrow to 6 per cent, this like a cold bath will give an immediate Spring to our affairs—& 2 taxation. This like tapping, will diminish the Quantity of our Money, and give a proper value to what remains. The resolution was amended. The plan of the 4 New England states was referred only to the Other states, to act as they tho’t proper. 2 MS (PPL). In the hand of Benjamin Rush. For a description of these notes, see Rush’s Notes on Proceedings in Congress, December 5, 1776, note 1. 1 This debate pertained to “the report of the committee on the proceedings of the committees from the four New England States” concluded on January 2, 1777. See JCC, 7:87, 93,97, 111-12, 118, 121. 2 For the final form of the resolve that was adopted on February 15, see JCC, 7:124-25. John Adams to Abigail Adams Baltimore Feb. 15. 1777 Mr. Hall, by whom this Letter will be sent, will carry several Letters to you, which have been written and delivered to him, several Days. He has settled his Business, agreably. I have not received a Line from the Massachusetts, since I left it. Whether We shall return to Philadelphia, soon, or not, I cannot say. I rather conjecture it will not be long. You may write to me, in Congress, and the Letter will be brought me, wherever I shall be. I am settled now agreably enough in my Lodgings, there is nothing in this Respect that lies uneasily upon my Mind, except the most extrava gant Price which I am obliged to give for every Thing. My Constituents
