278 February 15, 1777 will think me extravagant, but I am not. I wish I could sell or send home my Horses, but I cannot. I must have Horses and a Servant, for Congress will be likely to remove several Times in the Course of the ensuing Year. I am impatient to hear from you, and most tenderly anxious for your Health and Happiness. I am also most affectionately solicitous for my dear N. J. C. and T. to whom remember Yours. 1 We long to hear of the Formation of a new Army. We shall loose the most happy opportunity of destroying the Enemy this Spring, if We do not exert ourselves instantly. We have from New Hampshire a Coll. Thornton, a Physician by Pro fession, a Man of Humour. He has a large Budget of droll Stories, with which he entertains Company perpetually. I heard about Twenty or five and twenty Years ago, a Story of a Phy sician in Londonderry, who accidentally met with one of our new England Enthusiasts, call’d Exhforters], The Fanatic soon began to examine the Dr. concerning the Articles of his Faith, and what he thought of original Sin? Why, says the Dr., I satisfy myself about it in this manner. Either origi nal Sin is divisible or indivisible. If it was divisible every descendant of Adam' and Eve must have a Part, and the share which falls to each Indi vidual at this Day, is so small a Particle, that I think it is not worth considering. If indivisible, then the whole Quantity must have descended in a right Line, and must now be possessed by one Person only, and the Chances are Millions and Millions and Millions to one that that Person is now in Asia or Africa, and that I have nothing to do with it. I told Thornton the story and that I suspected him to be the Man. He said he was. He belongs to Londonderry. RC (MHi). Adams. Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:161-62. 1 That is, their children Nabby, John, Charles, and Thomas. Samuel Adams to John Pitts My dear sir Baltimore Feb 15 1777 I am favord with yours of the 21 of December for which I am much obligd to you. 1 I am much concernd to hear that the Tories in Boston & Massachusetts Bay have lately grown insolent & that no Measures are taken to suppress their Insolence. They are the most virulent, & I am of Opinion, the most dangerous Enemies of America. They do not indeed openly appear in Arms, but they do more Mischief secretly. I am very apprehensive that they greatly operate to the preventing Inlistments and doing other essential Injury to our Cause. If they are not properly dealt with, I am perswaded, the Publick will much regret the Omission very soon. I do not wish for needless Severities; but effectual Measures, and
