February 15, 1777 279 severe ones if others are insufficient, to prevent their pernicious Councils & Machinations, I think ought to be taken, and that without any Delay. It will be Humanity shown to Millions, who are in more Danger of being reducd to thraldom & Misery by those Wretches than by British & Hes sian Barbarians. I cannot conceive why a Law is not made declaratory of Treason & other Crimes & properly to punish those who are guilty of them. If to conspire the Death of a King is Treason and worthy of Death, surely a Conspiracy to ruin a State deserves no less a Punish ment. 2 I have Reason to think you have a Number of such Conspirators among you; and believe me, you will soon repent of it, if you do not speedily take Notice of them. But let me ask you my Friend, Whether some of the late Addressers, Protesters and Associators, are not seen in the Circles, in the Houses and at the Tables of Whigs? Is there not Reason to expect that those who exiled themselves thro Fear of the just Vengeance of their Countrymen will be invited by the kind of Treatment of those who have equal Reason to dread that Vengeance, to return into the Bosom of their much injurd Country. But I need add no more. Believe me to be cordially, your Friend, FC (NN). 1 This is probably a reference to Pitts’ December 25, 1776, letter, which is in the Adams Papers, NN. 2 The Massachusetts General Court did pass legislation confiscating loyalist property and establishing oaths of allegiance. See James Warren to Samuel Adams, April 2, 1777, Warren-Adams Letters, 2:448. Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates Feb. 15th. [1777] Yesterday was consumed in desultory debates upon a report of a special committee upon the proceedings of the four New England Governments above mentioned, & it was recommitted. This day it was brought in under a form agreeable to what was the sense of the House on what was yester day considered. At first it expressed the opinion of Congress, that the proceedings were founded in justice, policy, & necessity, & merited the warmest approbation. The second declared neither approbation nor opin ion except particularly relating to the New England Governments, be cause of their peculiar circumstances, but proposed laying it before the other States for their imitation if they thought proper, avoiding as much as possible any expression that might suggest to the States that Congress approved or disapproved. In this form it passed without a negative; & it was voted that several States should be advised to confer with each other on this subject: viz New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Mary land, & Virginia: North Carolina, South Carolina, & Georgia. 1 Nothing very remarkable happened in this debate except that Virginia insisted
