280 February 15, 1777 In CONGRESS,’; 1 FEBRUARY 15, 1777. Refolded, I I HAT confidering the fituation of the New-England States, Congress approve! of the meafures adopted and recommended by the Committee from the Four New-! England States for the defence of the State of Rhode-Ifland, and alfo of the mea. I fures to be taken for preventing the depreciation of their Currency, except that 1 part which recommends the firiking bills beating intereft, which being a meafure tending to j depreciate the Continental and other Currencies, ought not to be adopted ; and it is fo recom mended by Congrefs to the faid New-England States. | I That the plan for regulating the price of labour, of manufaflures, and of internal produce | within thofe States, and of goods imported from Foreign parts, except military ftores, be refer- i red to the confideration of the other United States, and that it be recommended to them to | adopt fuch meafures as they (hall think moft expedient to remedy the evils occafioned by the prefent fludluating and exorbitant prices of the articles aforefaid. I ? That for this purpofe it be recommended to the legiflatures, or in their recefs to the execu- j tive powers of the States of New-York, New-Jerfey, Pennfylvania, Delaware, Maryland and I Virginia, to appoint Commiflloners to meet at Xork-Town, in Pennfylvania, on the third 1 Monday in March next, to confider of and form a fyftem of regulation adapted to thofe J States, to be laid before the refpedlive legiflatures of each State for their approbation. i i That for the like purpofe it be recommended to the legiflatures or executive powers in recefs * of the legiflatures of the States of North-Carolina, Soulh-Carolina, and Georgia, to appoint (Commiffioners to meet at Charles-1 own, in South-Carolina, on the firft Monday in May next, i ' That it be recommended to the legiflatures of the feveral States, to take the moft effectual s meafures for manning the Continental Frigates fitted for the fea in their refpeflive ftates. < I That it be earneftly recommended to the United States to avoid as far as poflible further I.emiffions of Paper Money, and to take the moft effeftual meafures for fpeedily drawing in and finking their Paper Currency already emitted. j I a That fuch parts of the proceedings of the faid Committees as relate to the price of labour J and other things be publifhed and tranfmitted to the other ftates, together with thefe refo- ; lutions. By Order of Congrefs, JOHN HANCOCK, Breftdent, Baltimore-. Printed by JOHN DUNLAP, in Markel-Jireet. Resolves on the New England Convention
