288 February 15, 1777 early day you mention, though my exertions shall not be wanting to accomplish it; they shall, however, be transmitted as soon as possible.” Quincy, Harvard Uni versity, 2:518. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Assembly Honble Gentlemen, Baltime Febry. 15th. 1777 The Honour confer’d upon me by Appointing me one of your Delegates in the American Congress, as it is a very distinguished one, so it has al ways been cherish’d by me with the greatest Satisfaction. I am led there fore by Duty and Inclination to Discharge the Trust Reposed in me, untill the Period Arrives when it will Devolve into the hands of those who gave it. But there are some Circumstances which Oblige me to Solicit your In dulgence in permitting me to Return to Boston for a short time. 1 It cannot be unknown to you, Gentlemen, that very soon after my Appointment to a Seat in Congress, I had the honour of being call’d to preside in that Assembly, in which Department I have endeavour’d to Ex ecute the Arduous and extensive Business Annexed to it, in the most faithfull manner, and to the best of my Abilities, but whether with Repu tation or not, my American Brethren, as they must finally Determine, to them I willingly submit my Conduct. This much however I may Assert, that I have spared neither Attention or Labour to Satisfy the wishes of Congress; and so unremitted has been my Application to the Duties of the Chair since my Appointment to it, that I have never been Absent a single hour. Such close Confinement both in Congress, and out of it, having at length considerably impair’d my Health, and feeling it decline every Day, I am induc’d to Ask your Consent to Visit my Native Country, with a view to spend a few Weeks, in hopes the Benefit of the Ride, and Relaxation from Business will Restore my Constitution and Relieve my complaints. Should you afterwards think my Services in Congress will Contribute to the Interest of America, or the State of Massachusetts Bay, I shall again chearfully Return to my Duty, having Determin’d that no Difficulties or Fatigues, shall Deter me from contributing all in my power to save the Liberties of America, and to establish them on the firmest foundation, for this purpose only I wish to Live, & for this I am willing to Die. I have the Honour to be with every Sentiment that Respect & Esteem can Inspire, Hon’ble Gentlemen, Your most Obedt huml Servt. John Hancock [P.5.] I will not abuse your Indulgence of Leave; if there is a real necessity of my Returng. in point of Health I shall improve it, not else. RC (M-Ar). 'President Hancock did not leave Congress until October 31, 1777. JCC 9:852-53.
