February 15, 1777 295 Sum of Money to deposite it in our loan Office & take Certificates bearing four per Cent interest rather than the money. To induce them to do this I told them none had been yet sent to the Eastern States & they wou’d readily obtain the money for these Notes as they wanted it, but to guard against disapointments I gave them letters to the Continental agents re questing their assistance if necessary & telling them the Gentlemen must not be disapointed because they had taken this step to promote the public Service & under my assurance that they shoud not suffer by it. Mr Brad ford writes me from Boston that it will be extreamly difficult to obtain money for those notes (about 60000 Dollars) because the Treasurer of that State is taking in all the money he can get & giving Treasury Notes for it at six per Cent. Here the People who are willing the Continent shou’d have their money refuse it possitively because they cannot afford to reduce their income, especialy as the price of living is more than doubled, in short if the Congress do not embrace this measure at once they are undone, every department of Public business is in want of money, they cannot make it fast enough & if they will not borrow on the terms other People do, what must follow. When four per Cent was agreed on I was in favour of it, only, because I thought the immense sum in Circula tion wou’d oblige the great holders of it to lodge it in the Public Funds and be glad to get it there, but now that experience shews us our Credit is not well established, that our money is greatly depreciated, and at the same time our Necessitys are daily encreasing, I wonder upon what prin ciple it is that any Gentleman can expect a supply by loan equal to those necessitys. I am told the Southern States object & think they shall pay the Interest & the others receive it, but this is a phantom, whilst they Con tinue to raise such Valuable Commodities as Indico, Rice & Tobacco, they will Command their share of the Riches of the Continent and discharge their debts with more facility than their Neighbours. I cannot urge further than I have already done in the public letters from the Commit tee, the return of Congress to this City lest we be suspected of motives that I treat with great Contempt. Philadelphia Can do as well without as with the Congress, but I am Confident they cannot do as well out of as in it. For my own part I mean in all my Conduct to promote the general Inter est of America & lay onside local attachments except in such instances as they become a duty. My inclination prompts me to decline a public Sta tion, but being called on I cannot gratify myself, when the consequence will be to deserve blame from the worthy part of those that are embarked with me in this Cause & you may depend I will not spare my exertions to Serve & Save my Country. I am Dear Sir, Your Obedt hble servt, Robt Morris RC (MdHi, Middendorf deposit, 1972).
