296 February 15, 1777 William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Baltimore 15th Feby 1777 My last 1 accompanied the money from the Marine Committee viz 42,000 dollars, but as this goes by Express to Boston it may come first to hand. The last letter I rec’d from you was 27th Deer. There are still a number of the enemy’s ships in Chesapeak Bay though some vessels do get past them both inward & outward bound and some have fallen into their hands. It will be prudent to order the vessels you send this way to call in at some of the inlets between Cape Henlopen and Cape Charles where they may get information of the enemy’s ships. Dela ware Bay is at present open, but there is no knowing how long it will be so. The Randolph is sailed and the Delaware will sail soon and the Vir ginia from this place in about two weeks. A ship is arrived at Philadelphia from France, but brings no public letters; but a private letter of the 9th Novr. says France and Spain are making the greatest preparation for war ever known; England is also exerting every nerve to get a formidable fleet at sea. Holland has likewise ordered 12 ships of the line to be got ready as soon as possible. These things justify an opinion that a general war is not far off. The Tyrant of Britain’s speech tells us he is endeavoring to con ciliate matters between Spain and Portugal so we find that dispute is not yet settled. I hope a few days will bring us important and agreeable intelligence from Europe. That I may soon have it in my power to trans mit you such as will expel every anxious thought is the wish of your very sincere friend and humble Servant, W Whipple [P-S.] Congress begin to talk of removing to Philadelphia again. I think it probable they will do so shortly. Tr (DLC). 1 Not found. John Adams’ Diary 1777 Feb. 16 Last Evening I supped with my Friends Dr. Rush and Mr. Sergeant at Mrs. Page’s over the Bridge. The two Coll. Lees, Dr. Witherspoon, Mr. Adams, Mr. Gerry, Dr. Brownson, made the Company. They have a Fashion in this Town of reversing the Picture of King G. 3d, in such Families as have it. One of these Topsy Turvy Kings was hung up in the Room, where we supped, and under it were written these Lines, by Mr. Throop, as we were told. Behold the Man who had it in his Power To make a Kingdom tremble and adore
