February 16, 1777 297 Intoxicate with Folly, See his Head Plac’d where the meanest of his Subjects tread Like Lucifer the giddy Tyrant fell He lifts his Heel to Heaven but points his Head to Hell. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:259. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Baltimore Feb. 16. 1777 A few days ago, a small Expedition was made by the Authority of this State aided by a Detachment of Continental Regulars, to suppress the Tories in the Counties of Somerset & Worcester on the Eastern Shore of Chessapeak, where they are numerous and have arisen to a great Pitch of Insolence. 1 We this day have a Rumour that one of their Principals, a Doctor Cheyney, is taken and we hope to hear of the Business being ef fectually done, very soon. In my opinion, much more is to be apprehended from the secret Machinations of these rascally People, than from the open Violence of British and Hessian Soldiers, whose Success has been in a great Measure owing to the Aid they have receivd from them. You know that the Tories in America have always acted upon one System. Their Head Quarters used to be at Boston—more lately at Philadelphia. They have continually embarrasd the publick Councils there, & afforded In telligence, Advise and Assistance to General Howe. Their Influence is extended throughout the united States. Boston has its full share of them, and yet I do not hear that Measures have been taken to suppress them. On the Contrary, I am informd that the Citizens are grown so polite, as to treat them with Tokens of Civility & Respect. Can a Man take Fire into his Bosom, and not be burned? Your Massachusetts Tories com municate with the Enemy in Britain as well as New York. They give and receive Intelligence, from whence they early form a Judgment of their Measures. I am told they discoverd an Air of insolent Tryumph in their Countenances, and saucily enjoyd the Success of Howes Forces in Jersey before it happend. Indeed, my Friend, if Measures are not soon taken, and the most vigorous ones, to root out these pernicious Weeds, it will be in vain for America to persevere in this generous Struggle for the publick Liberty. General Howe has declared that he intends that General Lee shall be tried by the Laws of his Country. So he is considerd as a Deserter from the British Army—You know the Resolution of Congress concerning this Matter. It is my opinion that Lt Colo Campbel ought immediately to be secured. He is to be detaind as one upon whom Retaliation is to be made.
