298 February 16, 1777 Would you believe it, that after the shocking Inhumanities shown to our Countrymen in the Jerseys, plundering Houses, cruelly beating old Men, ravishing Maids, murdering Captives in cold Blood, and systematically starving Multitudes of Prisoners under his own Eye at New York, this humane General totally disavows his own winking at the Tragedy, and allows that a few Instances may have happend which are rather to be lamented. Congress is now busy in considering on the Report of the joynt Com mittees of the Eastern States. A curious Debate arose on this Subject, which I have not time now to mention. I will explain it to you in my next. Adieu my Friend, S A RC (MHi). 1 See Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety, February 7, and John Hancock to the Maryland Council of Safety, February 7, 1777, note 2. Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Sir Baltimore Feby. 16th 1777. My last to you was by Mr Hooper, & I suppose you have received it long before this. 1 I then announced my intention of troubling you every post & I now sit down in order to perform, in some part, my promise. Of the political principles of the respective States I am not yet able to speak very clearly, for they are kept as much as possible out of view. I conjecture however, that all are under some apprehensions of combina tion in the Eastern States to derive to themselves every possible advantage from the present war, at the expence of the rest. I am not yet satisfied that there is any combination amongst them. I rather think that they only combine when they have one common interest, which is seldom the case, & I am sure this is not peculiar to them. On some late questions I observed they divided: one was relative to the interest to be paid on Loans, another relative to meeting of several States. In the sequel of this letter I mean to give you an abstract of the debates on these questions, 2 & therefore shall say no more of them here. But, sir, I am more concerned to find that Pennsylvania, Maryland, Jersey, & some others are exceedingly jealous of the states whose bounds to the westward are yet unascertained, & I am much mistaken if they do not upon all occasions endeavour to fix very extensive powers in a mere majority of Congress in order to get resolutions unfavourable to the claims of such states entered into. To be more ex plicit, I believe they will endeavour by degrees to make the authority of Congress very extensive, & when it shall be fully established & acknowl edged, to make such a party in it as will pass resolves injurious to the rights of those States who claim to the South Seas. You will see by some
