308 February 17, 1777 Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee My dear Sir, Baltimore in Maryld. 17th Feby. 1777 The papers that go with this to yourself and the other Commissioners, are so full on the subject of news that it is not very necessary for me to say much on that subject here. There scarcely comes a post but brings us an account of some skirmish in which the enemy get beaten, and driven back (without their forage) within their lines on the hills near Brunswick, where their distress we know is very great. This has been a most fatal winter Campaign to our enemies, and unless some change happens in their favor, which cannot be seen at present, it bids fair to be abundantly more so yet. Upon the whole, notwithstanding the contemptible Ministerial boasts in their Gazettes, and in Parliament, the great force they sent here has cut a most pitiful figure indeed. In humanity they figure still worse than They do in arms. Their ravages in the Jersies, until They were checked and driven back, beggars all description. Rapes, Murders, and devastation marked their steps in such a manner as would have disgraced the Savages of the Wilderness. The old English esteem for valor seems quite done away, and in several instances where young Americans displaid heroic spirit, and happened to fall in to their power, they have butchered them in cold blood in a most cruel and barbarous manner. They have been so frequently shameless in this way, after remonstrance has been in vain made to Gen. Howe, that the patience of our Soldiery is exhausted, and it appears as if no more prisoners will be taken, until Mr. Howe & his people learn the practice of humanity. I have received two letters from [....] 1 But he thinks strongly in favor of Great Britain. Was it not the most unrelenting and cruel persecution of us that forced us from her, and are we not compelled upon the clearest principles of self preservation to seek from Strangers what our kindred denied us? Must a great Conti nent be buried in ruin because the people of England cannot rouse from a lethargy which suffers the most abandoned of Men to trample upon the rights of human nature? It is decreed above, and we are parted Forever. Every Friendly American Nerve will now be strained to procure the active interference of France, by which, under God, the liberty of North Ameri ca must be secured. Mr. Lee’s stewart at Green Spring (Fauntleroy) has behaved so ill during our absence, that I have removed him, and got a Manager from Hanover (a John Ellis) who I believe will do well. I pur chased a quantity of Oznaburgs from Philadelphia for the people this winter, and they make their own woolen & Cotton Stuff's. I hope the time will shortly come, when we may correspond more openly, fully, and free ly; in the mean time, cannot you send me by return of Captain Johnson two pounds of the best Jesuits Bark prepared? You know how necessary that medicine is for me, and I know that it is not to be had here on any terms at present. Let Mr Lee know as much of this letter as imports him.
