February 17, 1777 309 The Congress have determined to return to Philadelphia in eight days from this time. We shall have a number of exceeding fine Frigates at Sea very soon, from 24 to 36 guns. Farewell & send me a long letter by return of this vessel. I am exceedingly uneasy about my poor Boys & beg of you to get them to me in the quickest and safest manner. RG (ViU). In Lee’s hand, though not signed. 1 Two lines inked through and illegible. Marine Committee to Elisha Warner Sir Febry. 17th 1777 Since writing the annexed Orders 1 I have received advice that it is re ported in the West Indies that this City is in the Hands of the enemy in consequence of which all the homeward bound Vessels are going into Chesapeake Bay where innevitably they will fall into the enemies hands, therefore as soon as you deliver these dispatches to Captain Biddle which you must first perform and then proceed in Cruize of[f] the Capes of Vir ginia keeping outside of the enemies men of war, and give all inward bound Vessels notice of their danger and that our Bay is clear of the enemy. Keep a Sharp look out along Shore and you will retake some of the Prizes they are sending to New York. I am Sir, Your hble servt. Robt. Morris V. P. LB (DNA: PCG Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 See Marine Committee to Warner, February 15, 1777. Robert Morris to John Hancock Sir Philada. Feby 17th. 1777 The enclosed letter & its translation were put into my hands to lay them before Congress. The Writer General de Kalb was a Brigdr. Genl, all the last War in Germany, has many years commanded a French Regi ment & is said to be a man of Interest at the Court of Versailles. 1 He speaks & writes English well, is a polite Gentn and an excellent Soldier. This Character of him is given to me by Doctr. Phile and Capt Hasen- clever who are personally acquainted with him. He was in this Country in the disturbed times of the Stamp Act & was then supposed to be sent by the French Court to watch the dispute and its progress. 2 If you choose to en courage him Doctor Phile will transmit your pleasure. 3 I have the honor to be sir, your obedt servt, 4 Robt Morris
