February 18, 1777 313 from the Printer, but as he has disappointed me, I Send him off, and am to Acquaint you that yesterday I Rec’d Directions from Congress, to Adjourn on Tuesday next 25th Inst, from the Town of Baltimore to the City of Philadelphia. 1 This I dare Say will afford you pleasure, and I am to Request that immediately on Receipt of this you will please to Issue orders to Mr Hiltsheimer for four good cover’d Waggons, with four good Horses & a Sober Driver to each, to be Sent to me with all possible Dispatch to Convey down to Philada. the Publick Papers &c. Do let them be well Chosen, and I beg your immediate Attention to this. The Inclos’d Resolves when you have perus’d them, do forward to the Genl, by any oppory. As I shall soon have the pleasure of seeing you in Philada. I shall not Add, but Refer what I have further to Say for a social hour. If, my Friend, I can be of any Service to Mrs Morris on my way, let me know it, & you may Depend I shall most chearfully obey you. Would you Chuse her to Come in Company with us, I will Call for her & Conduct her with all the Safety & Care in my power. Give me but a hint, & it shall be Complied with. I Judge I shall be in Philada. by Saturday or Sunday week. God Bless you, Remember me to all friends, I am your Affection[at]e Friend &c, John Hancock [P.S.] Your Letters I have Rec’d to 15th Inst. Dont forget the Waggons. Did you Send the Express to Boston as desir’d in mine of 10 Jany, with the Letters then Inclos’d, I have had no Return. The North Carolina Express is impatient. Money went off yesterday, for you, Genl Mifflin & Council of Safety. 2 RC (MdHi). ’See JCC, 7:127. 2 On February 13 Congress had advanced $100,000 to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety “for the recruiting service.” JCC, 7:113. John Hancock to Robert Morris My Dear Sir, Baltimore, Febry 18, 1777. I send Mr Tailor, my Secry, to Philada to procure a suitable house well furnish’d for me, and I have taken the Liberty to desire him to apply to you for yr advice in this instance, not doubting yor good offices. Congress will adjourn on Tuesday next to that day week then to meet in Philada and I hope on Saturday or Sunday week to Take you by the hand; my Friend, it will give me pleasure to see you, & I hope our coming there will in some degree Releive you from the great Burden that has laid upon you. I assure you I have felt for you. No money, constant application for
