314 February 18, 1777 it, & a steady succession of Business to attend to has made yr scituation hard indeed, however you gave up all pro Bono Publico & I know you will persevere—you are as well Calculated to go thro’ Business as any Gentleman I know, that I believe you bear up under it as well as any Gentn could. Pray do hurry on the waggons I wrote you for this morg. I cannot move without them, nor can Thompson—four will be enough— do let them be good and well Cover’d, with good horses and drivers. Can I be of any Service to Mrs Morris on the Road? Command me if I can. I am almost hurried out of my Life, but I will bear up. Complimts to Mr Tailor, Genl Mease, Mr Nesbit, Mr Beach & all Enquiring Friends. I hope soon to Join you at the Oyster Club. Adieu & believe me, Yours Sincerely, John Hancock. [PY.] A number of friends Purviance, Lux, Peters &c &c. dine with me tomorrow, when we shall not be unmindful of our Philada friends. Tr (DLC). Francis Lewis to the New York Convention Dear Sir, Baltimore, 18th Feby. 1777. I have repeatedly wrote pressing letters, backed by resolves of Congress, for a full representation of our State, but have as yet not been honoured with an answer. 1 Permit me still to remind you, that in my opinion, our State may suffer for the want thereof; for instance the General has rec ommended to Congress the promotion of three major-generals from brigadiers, and ten brigadiers from colonels; and has given in a list of some persons as a hint to Congress. The mode and persons has occasioned many days’ debate, and is this day to be brought on again, and notwith standing many declarations to the contrary, Colonial prejudices sway the minds of individuals, that each State appear interested in the debates, for promotion in the line of their respective States. 2 From this, sir, you may judge how the State of New-York is circumstanced, having no vote in this and many other weighty points, and which I hope the Honourable Convention will speedily rectify. I informed you in my former letters, that Capt. Rogers of the Mont gomery private sloop of war, was in this port with two prizes, one of them with a quantity of woolens, linens, &c. which wait your directions for their disposal; as we are informed that three British ships of war with tenders, are cruizing in Chesapeake bay, to assist the tories on the eastern shore of said bay. Congress has thought fit to send down all the armed vessels (of which the Montgomery is one,) to suppress the insurgents, which they have effected, and I expect Capt. Rogers up in a few days,
