February 19, 1777 317 spare the guns he had provided for the ship built in Connecticut to the Raleigh, provided others could be procured in season for the Trumbull and as I have heard that Capt Manly has been in Connecticut after guns and have since heard he has guns for his ship, I suspect there has been some underhand dealing in this business and think the villainy should be brought to light, therefore hope you’ll spare no pains to get to the bottom of it—in order thereto it will be necessary to know of Govr Trumbull at whose request they were spared to Manly. Congress are about returning to Philadelphia. I believe they will ad journ thither next week. Till then I do not expect to have it in my power to send you the dimensions of the 74 gun ship, nor do I suppose it in dispensably necessary at present, as the timber may be getting and other materials preparing while the workmen are employed on the other ship. 2 I am exceeding fearful of the vessels you are sending to this place and Virginia, as there are several ships now in Chesapeake Bay who have taken many vessels, but I have no order to direct them to be stopped but shall take the earliest opportunity to consult the Committees and write you fully on the subject. In the meantime hope no time will be lost in getting them ready for sea. In great haste, I am your friend &c, Wm Whipple Tr(DLC) 1 An extract of Langdon’s January 23 letter to Whipple is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1020-21. 2 Dimensions for the 74-gun ship were inclosed in the Secret Committee’s April 2, 1777, letter to Langdon. Committee of Secret Correspondence to the Commissioners at Paris Gentlemen Baltimore Feby 19. 1777 The events of war have not since our last furnished any thing decisive. The enemy’s army still remains encampt upon the Hills near Brunswick & our troops still continue to beat back their Convoys insomuch that we understand their horses die in numbers and we have reason to believe that the difficulity of removing their Stores, Cannon &c will be insuper ably great until the opening of the Rariton furnishes a passage by water for their return to N. York. The American Army, is not numerous at present, but the new levies are collecting fast as possible, and we hope to have a sufficient force early in the field. We hear by a Speech of the King of Great Britain to his Parliament, that much money will be called for, no doubt to prosecute the war with unrelenting vigor. That we shall op-
