February 19, 1777 321 I have got a Young Gentn that can be depended on to proceed in the Sloop Independance for Martinico & thence to France in a French Bottom with your dispatches marked No. 2. 3 I shall add every material intelli gence since the date of your letters. I have sent the Fly in search of the Randolph, Capt Biddle, with orders for him to proceed for Martinico & have embraced that Conveyance also to transmit the amplest advices I cou’d give. I also send you herewith a packet which I reed from France some time ago & from the old date I concluded it at that time to be a Copy of one Doctr Franklin received before he departed. Therefore I locked it up in tending to be the bearer of it myself but accidentally looking into it again I am doubtfull whether it is the Copy I took it for or not and as I dont care to trust any body with the Translation of it I now send it for you to do as you please with, and as its detention here a few weeks has been purely Accidental I hope you will not blame me, for it might have hap pened in the same manner to any of you. I suppose the Prussian officer will soon be applying to me; those French Gentn sent by Mr Penet are very impatient for being employed & really I think the Congress cannot too soon determine to form a Corps of Foreign Officers to Act in a Body & as they learn our language keep drafting them out into other Regiments. If you want to send other dispatches the Sac hem will soon be ready to carry them & so will the Andw Doria & Race Horse after her. The Fly being too small to carry remittances I have or dered her after speaking the Randolph & delivering the dispatches to pro ceed off the Capes of Virginia to turn from thence the inward bound Vessels & I sent the Fly two mo[nths] provisions for that Cruize. The Mus- quito wants repairs & the Georgia Packet is loaden for Georgia. I hope soon to see you here & am, Gentn., Your obedt hble servt. Robt Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). 'Morris’ July 13 letter to Deane has not been found. For Morris’ other letters, see entries under their respective dates. 3 In his October 25, 1776, letter, Deane complained that “your silence ever since the 5th of last June discourages me at times. Indeed, it well nigh distracts me. From whatever cause the silence has happened, it has greatly prejudiced the affairs of the United Colonies of America.” Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:183. • Undoubtedly John Reed, brother of Joseph Reed. See Morris to William Bing ham, February 25, 1777. Robert Morris to the Secret Committee Philadelphia February 19 1777 I have transmitted the Resolve of Congress of the 5 February to the Commissioners at Paris as you will see by the Copy of a letter I wrote
