322 February 19, 1777 them yesterday. You should have sent me half a dozen Authenticated Copies of the Resolve—it went by the Fly to the Randolph which will carry it to Martinico. A Copy Certified by myself goes by the Independ ence & you had best send me some more for other opportunitys. In Consequence of the Resolves of Congress and an Order from the Ma rine Committee I have sent down the Schooner Musquito yesterday with two Months provisions to the Fly which was then lying at Rheedy Island and I sent down Orders to Capn Warner immediately to proceed to the Capes and give notice to the Light House to make the Signal for Capn Biddle whenever they saw a Ship in the offing. 1 I told him to keep Cruiz ing every day in the Offing and told him the Signal Biddle would make to be known by. Each Night I told him to run in under the Land to pre vent the Enemys Ships from Cutting him off. By this means he will be sure to meet the Randolph as she will come in sight of the Light House on purpose to learn if there be any fresh Orders for him. Capn Warner will then deliver the Sundry orders and despatches I sent for Capn Biddle and they will part, the Fly to Cruize off the Capes of Virginia and the Ran dolph for Martinico & herein I enclose a Copy of the Orders I sent him and of the sundry letters relative to his Voyage, which I hope will meet approbation, and as they relate in some degree to the Marine Department I think you had best lay them before the Marine Committee or if you think necessary before Congress, because there are other Vessels will soon go for Martinico, and if any part of which I have written is disapproved counter orders will probably arrive in time. I hope Biddle will send us a Galeatea, a Pearl, or a Camelias before he leaves this Coast. 2 Pray desire the Marine Committee if they are not com ing up to Send me Orders respecting the Delaware. I have wrote General Washington to Send her Marines, and as it will be difficult manning her, I think she had best Sail soon as ever she has enough of men to work her, proceed to Windward of Barbadoes and Cruise untill she Manns herself from Prizes and then go to Martinico for supplies to return her with. The Washington May be Managed in the Same way, but there is no Guns for the Effingham therefore I think she had best load and send her to France to be compleated. And I dont know how it happens but there is no Guns made nor making for that ship. Somebody should Superintend the Cast ing of Cannon than [jzc] they do but I think Gentn out of doors should be employed to conduct that business and have no other pursuit. Tr (William Bell Clark transcript from Bank of North America Papers, PHi). Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1236-37. 1 Writing in his capacity as vice president of the Marine Committee, Morris sent the following letter to Lt. Thomas Albertson on February 18. “You are im mediately to proceed down the River in search of the Sloop Fly, Captain Elisha Warner, which I am told is not at Rheedy Island. You must find him speedily as possible and deliver him the Letter and Packet given you herewith and return to
