February 19, 1777 323 this City bringing his receipt.” Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 1:82. Morris’ letter to Warner has not been found. a The three vessels named were British frigates. Benjamin Rush’s Notes of Debates Feby 19. 1777 Upon the question for referring the appointment of three major gen erals to the general officers of the army 1 it was said in the negative. Dr Rush. “I have heard the congress more than once called a republic. I love to realize the idea, and I hope it will inspire us with the virtuous principles of republican goverments. One of the most powerful & happy commonwealths in the world Rome called her general officers from the plough & paid no regard to rank, service or seniority. We have of late been successful it is true, but I despair of our country being saved ’till the instrumentality of military wisdom & virtue are employed for that pur pose, and these can never be had ’till we use a sovereign power in calling them forth where ever we find them. It is no purpose to talk of the prac tice of despotic princes. They promote acording to seniority it is true, but they possess an absolute power of recalling, disgracing, or breaking their general officers as soon as they make them, and we find they are fond of exercising this power upon the least neglect, inattention or want of Success. The case is different with us. A general may lose a battle or a province, and we possess no power to recall or to displace him. If the motion is passed I shall move immediately afterwards that all the civil power of the continent may be transferred from our hands into the hands of the army, & that they may be proclaimed the highest power of the people.” (Mr. John Adams. )Dr Wetherspoon. “Mr President, I am against the motion. It will produce faction, and disputes among your generals. I once left the honors of the college over which I preside to the choice of the senior class, But it produced so much confusion & ill blood, that I was obliged to resume that power again, and have since exercised to the sat isfaction of my pupils as well as my own.” Col Richd Henry Lee. “I wish the learned Doctor would distinguish between the practice of children & men. Our generals would certainly make a judicious choice, and would not be governed by the principles which actuate boys at School.” Mr. John Adams. “Mr. President, I differ from the gentleman who spoke last. There are certain principles which follow us thro’ life, and none more certainly than the love of the first place. We see it in the forms on which Children sit at Schools. It prevails equally to the last period of life. I am sorry to find it prevails so little in this Assembly. I have been distressed to see some members of this house disposed to idolise an image
