328 February 20, 1777 were only for rhetoricians & such as write 3 for amusement, that he could wish our Energy might appear in our Actions, and that our Language might be simple and unadorned. He said he admired the Peasants of Switzerland who in their Struggles for Freedom were as Remarkable for Modesty in their Language, as for Vigor in their Exertions, that he wished the Congress would Imitate them in both. On the Question the Excep tionable passage was expunged. The Debate now turned on the Question whether the Law of Nations was proper to be mentioned. Some Gentle men Argued that it was improper to apply it to the proceedings against General Lee because they proposed trying him by the Laws of his own Country, but others Insisted that they had no power to try him more than any other Prisoner by those Laws. Many Distinctions were attempted which I did not understand. At length the North Carolina Delegate de clared he thought all Laws were 4 to be laid aside but what both Parties were subject to in Common, these were only the Laws of Nature and Na tions. The Municipal Laws of all Countries at War were Silent with re spect to the mere Transaction that relates to, or were the Consequence of War. That it was the proper Policy of Britain still to regard the Americans as Subjects and to Insist on the Execution of the Municipal Laws, but it was the proper policy of America to maintain that the American States stand in no other relation to] Britain than as an Independant Empire at War with her, and therefore that the Law of Nations alone ought to be observed between them, that retalliation is the only Instrument whereby Nations can Compell the Observance of that Law, and America ought therefore firmly to retalliate when the Law of Nations was Violated. The Question was carried in favor of the Insertion of the Law of Nations. MS (NN). Tr (Nc-Ar). For a description of these notes, see Burke’s Notes of Debates, February 7, 1777. 1 Washington sent Howe’s January 23 letter enclosed in a letter to Hancock of February 5 that was read in Congress nine days later. PCC, item 152, 3:505-6, 517-22; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:102-6; and JCC, 7:121, 124. 2 For these resolves, see JCC, 7:135. Washington subsequently protested that Congress’ threat to retaliate against British prisoners of war was unwise, but despite this Congress reaffirmed its decision on March 14. See JCC, 7:177-79; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:211—13, 252-53; and Burke’s Notes of Debates, March 14, 1777. 3 Remainder of text taken from MS. ' ‘ “Ought” in Tr. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen, Baltimore Town Febry. 20th. 1777. I am sorry to inform You that the Report of the Engagement on Fryday week is without any other Foundation than a little Skirmish, which the General barely mentions in his Letter to our Committee in Philadelphia. 1
