February 20, 1777 329 Congress are anxiously expecting a Reinforcement to our brave and worthy General from the new Levies. Above Six weeks ago Congress di rected General Smallwood to take a Tour thro the State, and exert his Influence in Raising our Quota, and they called on all our public Bodies, and every Friend to America to yield him their assistance. 2 I mention this because Congress flattered themselves with great Success from this Measure, & it is said it has been neglected. A little Attention to our public Affairs, and the State of our Army will convince any Man that the most vigorous Exertions are necessary and must be adopted to procure our Quota. I shall not enlarge on this im portant Subject. I beg Leave to call your immediate attention to it, and if a Moments delay can be granted, be pleased to consider the following Extract of a Letter from Genl. Washington to his Friend Colo. Harrison, of 12 Instant. 3 “With great Truth I can add, that Heaven alone knows upon what principle they (the Enemy) act, or by what Means, they are kept quiet. That we are not able to make the least Stand, if they move, is as clear as the Sun in its’ meridian Brightness. Whilst You are at an Expence equal to the Maintainance of a large Army, & expect that We are very strong, We have scarce Men enough to mount the Common Guards.” I thought this Intelligence necessary for your Information, but the Communication of it to our General Assembly must be made with every Caution of Secrecy. The Knowledge of it may bring Destruction on our Country. I wish it was in my Power to advise in the present Crisis. The Mode in the Resolve of Congress to Gen. Smallwood may be of some Service. The Gentlemen of this County have not as yet assisted, by public Meet ings & associations, to carry any public Measures into Execution. I beg Leave to submit the enclosed proposal to your Consideration. 4 If adopted it ought to be late in the Session, and after all other Exertions have been made. I am, Gent, with Regard & Respect, Your Obedient Servant, 5 Sami. Chase RC (MdAA). ’See Executive Committee to John Hancock, February 13 and 15, 1777. 3 See JCC, 6: 1032, 1058. 3 Not found. * Not found. 3 This day Chase also wrote two other letters which were directed to the public and printed pseudonymously in the Maryland Journal and Baltimore Advertiser on February 25, 1777. The first, signed “Tom Tell-Truth,” feigned “gratitude to the patriotic virtuous King, the august incorruptible Parliament, and wise disin terested Ministry of Britain” for the magnanimous peace terms recently offered to America by General Howe. The second, signed “Caveto” [Beware], warned Ameri cans not to be deceived by “the insidious and wicked Court of Britain, and her artful Agents,” from whom they should “expect nothing but Fraud, Force, Rapine, Murder, and Desolation.”
