February 20, 1777 333 fairly tried; and the event evidently proves that money can not be got without a higher Interest. In my opinion then, the Interest must be either raised, or the principal surrendered into the hands of our Enemies. For, most assuredly, the whole great cause of this Continent, which we have been so long supporting thro’ a multitude of difficulties, depends upon our exertions at this crisis. If it should ever be decided against us, it will be within a few months; and it infallibly will, unless the Commander in chief is supplied with cash. I have the honor to be, sir, your most Obedient Servant, Geo Walton RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). 'See Executive Committee to John Hancock, January 17, 1777, note 3. James Wilson to Arthur St. Clair My dear Sir [February 20, 1777] 1 Yesterday Congress proceeded to the Promotion of General Officers. There was much Difficulty and Delicacy in settling the Principles, on which the Promotions ought to be founded. I expresed my Sentiments in Favour of adhering to the Line of Seni[ority adopted, by Observations which I will not repeat [at present?] to you, that, if it was proper to devi ate [from that line], you were the officer, in whose Favour the alteration ought to be made. Lord Stirling, General Mifflin, yourself, General Stevens and General Lincoln were chosen Major Generals. I need not express my Satisfaction at your Promotion. I feel peculiarly pleased that I have seen the Event take Place before I leave Congress. I am exceedingly hurt that our deserving Friend General Thompson was passed over: It is Misfortune sufficient to be a Prisoner. I am, how ever, willing to believe that the only Reason, with many Gentlemen, for omitting him was an Apprehension that a Promotion would increase the Difficulty of his Exchange. If you have not already engaged yourself, you will much oblige me by appointing Billy Bird your Aid de Camp. You will recollect that, when he first entered into the Service, I was solicitous he should be formed under you. You know [however, of his] Activity: He is young: But he is far from [being perfect] in Sense and Judgment. If he is not [yet exch]anged; I hope his Exchange will soon take [place. I] have been informed that he has either obtained or has a Prospect of obtaining a Lieutenancy in the light Horse. But I would, on every Account, perfer what I now recom mend him to. I have good Reason to believe, and think it not improper to hint, that the important Command of Ticonderoga is destined for you next Cam paign. I presage it a Theatre of Glory. 2
