February 21, 1777 335 How happy would this Entertainment have been to me if I could by a single Volition have transported one Lady about five hundred miles. But alass! this a greater Felicity than falls to my share. We have voted to go to Philadelphia next Week. We have made General Lincoln a Continental Major General. 1 We shall make Coll. Glover a Brigadier. 2 I sincerely wish We could hear more from General Heath. Many Per sons are extreamly dissatisfied with Numbers of the general Officers of the highest Rank. I dont mean the Commander in Chief, his Character is justly very high, but Schuyler, Putnam, Spencer, Heath, are thought by very few to be capable of the great Commands they hold. We hear of none of their heroic Deeds of Arms. I wish they would all resign. For my Part I will vote upon the genuine Principles of a Republic for a new Election of general Officers annually, and every Man shall have my Consent to be left out, who does not give sufficient Proof of his Quali fications. I wish my Lads were old enough. I would send every one of them into the Army, in some Capacity or other. Military Abilities and Experience, are a great Advantage to any Character. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:165-66. ‘Benjamin Lincoln was one of five major generals appointed on February 19. JCC, 7:133. 3 This day Congress promoted ten men, including Jonathan Glover, to brigadier general. JCC, 7:141. Board of War to George Washington Sir War Office Feby 21st 1777 I am directed by the Board of War to inform you that it is the Opinion of Congress that the Men of the Corps of Virginia Light Horse under the Command of Major Bland receive the usual Bounty on their reinlist ing for three Years or during the War into the Continental Service. 1 General Ward having declined the Command of the Eastern Depart ment I have it in Direction to enclose a Copy of his Letter that your Excellency may supply his Place with a proper Successor. 2 I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Your most obed & most humble Servt, Richard Peters Secy [P.S.] Enclosed are Copies of a Letter & Return sent by Mr Meesom from Albany. Congress having resolved to retaliate the Treatment of Genl Lee on the Hessian Field Officers & Col. Campbell the Board would be obliged by your Excellency’s Information where the former was sent. 3 Lieut Col. Schaffer, Majors Hanstein & Matthias are at Dumfries & Lt Col.
