February 21, 1777 339 Hiltziemer for the four Waggons strongly enjoining him to send the best and Mr Brown went up to enforce the message, but he says it is not possible to get them off before Monday Morning and that then they will go well equipped. The Resolves are gone to the General & before now you have an Answer to your dispatches of 10th Jany. I have told Mr. Tailor to inform me if he wants any assistance & you may depend on his meeting it directly. I fancy he will get your old House (D. Williams) for you. I thank you most kindly for your Friendly offers respecting Mrs. Morris but as you have three Females to take care of, I think it wou’d be a shame to give you trouble & I have sent home one of my Clerks with a Carriage & Horses to bring up my Family before the Delegates begin to move because Crowded roads make bad accomodations for everybody. I hope Mrs. Morris & my little flock will be here before you & blame myself that I did not gratify my own inclination & send for them long since. Pray tell Mr Thompson I sent his letter for Somerville to Mrs Morris’s & tell Mr Burke I will engage lodgings for him if I can & believe there is not much danger but you’l find every thing much dearer than formerly, or rather Money worth less. I have really had my hands, Head & Heart full business since I saw you but thank God my Spirits never failed. I hope soon to take you by the hand & pass that social hour that gives an honest soul more real joy, than all the follies & Vanitys in the World. I wish you & the Ladies a pleasant Journey & am Dr sir Your affectionate hble servt. Robt Morris Feby 22d. What a Cursed change since last night but never fear they shall not come here. I refer to the letters by Express to Congress, 1 & am Dr sir Yours, Robt Morris RC (NjMoHP). 1 For General Washington’s letters to Congress of February 20, one of which reported “we have strong reason to believe that the Enemy are on the point of making some push,” see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:168—71. See also JCC, 7:148-50; and Hancock to Washington, February 25, 1777, postscript. Benjamin Rush’s Notes of Debates [February 21, 1777.] 1 Congress received a letter Feby 20th X'l'n from Genl Lee 2 a prisoner in New York (written by permission of Lord & general Howe) request ing a conference with two or three members of congress upon matters of the last importance to himself, & in his opinion to America, upon which it was said by Dr. Rush. Mr President, In considering of the propriety of this re quest it becomes us 1 to attend to the present situation of the court of
