340 February 21, 1777 Britain, 21y to the conduct & charecters of Lord & general Howe, and 3 to the conduct, & charrecter of general Lee. 1 The court of Britain is alarmed with the fear of a French war. They wish to terminate the present war in America by a negociation as well as by the sword. They have no terms to offer us. They mean only to deceive & divide us. 2 Lord & genl Howe were chosen as fit instruments for seducing & deceiving the colonies. They have practised many Arts for that purpose. Witness the conference they extorted from the congress thro’ Genl Sullivan last sum mer. They have been told by the reinforcement of tories that lately joined them its effect upon the people of America, & they expect thro’ a better instrument (Genl Lee) to produce greater & worse effects by a conference with the members of congress set on foot at their request by the general. 3 General Lee with all his great qualities possesses the weak ness of being easily imposed upon. His charecters of men are dictated by caprice or passion. I have seldom known him give a true charecter of any man. He is fond of negociations & conferences. He tried to bring about an interview with Genl Burgoyne at Cambridge for that purpose. He urged a second interview with Lord Howe last summer. I believe Gen Lee to be honest & sincerely attached to our cause, but some people suppose he threw himself in the way of being taken prisoner. Consider ing all these things I maintain that a compliance with the generalj’s] request would be impolitic, & highly dangerous to the union & safety of the united States. Mr. Jno Adams. Mr President, I am against the proposed conference. It will do mischief. The last conference with Lord Howe did no good. The Whigs were alarmed with it, and the tories complained that the reason why it did not end in a negociation was because improper men were sent, and because the congress did not relax eno’ from its dignity. I admire Genl Lee for his military talents, but he possesses an unbounded Share of Vanity. This Vanity led him to correspond with Gen] Burgoyne—and induced him to propose himself as one of a committee to confer with Lord Howe. His Lordship has no terms to offer us. The kings Speech is decisive against us. It lets loose all the dogs of war & corruption upon us, But it carries a remedy to its terrors along with it— it holds out the probability of a war wth. France. Mr Chase. I am against the conference, but I move for the publication of Genl Lee’s letter to the congress in order to satisfy our constituents who have heard that it contains propositions of peace. Mr. Middleton. I am against the conference for the reasons that have been given. Lord Howe has made use of Genl. Lee as a decoy duck to take in the colonies. I am against the publication of the General[’s] letter to the congress, Unless you publish with it his letter to Genl Washington in which he requests the company of his Aid de camp and his dogs. Col Harrison. I suspect Lord & General Howe have offered Genl Lee his life on condition of his bringing About this conference which is de-
