344 February 22, 1777 John Wharton Esqr. Board of Assistants to the Marine Committee, Carpenter Wharton Esqr. Commissary of Provisions, Benjamin Flower esqr. Commissary of Military Stores, James Mease esqr. Cloathier General & John Maxwell Nesbitt Esqr. Continental Agent to hold all publick monies, goods and Stores under their care and custody respectively in readiness to be removed on the shortest notice with assurance that you would supply them with waggons and every assistance from your depart ment. 1 We therefore give you this notice of Said orders, requesting your complyance with such part as depends you, and having told the several Parties that this is a precautionary measure we requested prudence and discretion might be used in the execution to prevent any unnecessary Alarm to the Inhabitants and we recommend the same to you. The Com missary of Provisions will remove his Stores to the Magazines ordered by the General immediately and you will take effectual measures to provide for the Safety of the Horses and Waggons, Forage & Stores under your direction. We are sir, Yr. Obedt. Servts. LB (DNA: PCC, item 133). Addressed: “To Brigdr. General Mifflin, Quarter Master General.” 1 See Executive Committee to Benjamin Flower, this date. Executive Committee to George Washington Sir Philada. Feby 22d. 1777 We have dispatched an express to Congress this morning with your letter of the 20th which will be with them in time to prevent their adjournment next Tuesday from Baltimore. We have had a Conference with the Council of Safety and after Communicating to them the intel ligence Contained in your Excellencys letters to Genl Gates and that to Congress We requested them to give immediate orders for putting all their Force by Water into the best posture they possibly can, we also advised their Collecting such of the Militia as have not been in actual service into such readiness, as to be subject to immediate orders, this can be done without giving any alarm, or at least any general alarm. Genl Gates will station proper officers at New Town and give orders respecting the Boats on the Jersey side of Delaware, the present Cold Weather has made so much Ice in the River & Creeks that they cannot be brought over, therefore if any sudden movements of the Enemy make it necessary, they must all be destroyed. We read with much concern one paragraph in your Excellencys letters to Genl. Gates relative to the removal of the public Stores, in which you are pleased to cast a blame that we do not deserve. 1 Every requisition & recommendation of yours has been strictly and instantly attended to by this Committee. We have complyed with
