February 22, 1777 347 I am Dr Sir with great respect, Your most obedt Servant, B. Rush Tr (DLC). Burnett, Letters, 2:270-71. 1 For Congress’ response to Gen. Charles Lee’s letters on this subject, see Rush’s Notes of Debates, February 21; and Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates, February 21, 1777. Secret Committee to Robert Purviance and Samuel Purviance, Jr. Sirs In secret Committee at Baltimore, 22nd Feb. 1777. Enclosed is an order for one bbl. of Powder for the Brig. Friendship which you will please to deliver immediately to Mr. Fitzsimons that he may apply to the Commissary for the same as the Brig only waits for the powder in order to sail. You’l please to observe that it is the resolve of the Committee that this Brig take no more than four 4 pounders 4 swivills & 6 muskets, the remainder to be left in your custody till called for by the Committee. You’l take the Captain or owner’s receipt for these warlike stores deliv ered him. Richard Henry Lee Wm. Whipple Francis Lewis MS not found; reprinted from George C. Thomas, ed., Autograph Letters and Autographs of the Signers of the Declaration of Independence (Philadelphia: privately printed, 1908), no pagination. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir, Baltimore 22d Feby 1777 I have receiv’d your favor of the 15 Ult. The intolerable delays & uncertainty of the Post has prevented my writing so often as I should otherwise have done, but I hope an effectual remidy will spedily be apply’d to this evil when our correspondence will meet with less inter ruption. I am sorry your Health will not admit of your returning to Congress. My Colieage 1 seems determin’d on taking his departure in May, at which time I am very desirous of returning also. In short no pecuniary advantage wod induce me to tarry even to the end of that month. I therefore hope to have leave to go home the beginning of May. After repeated requisitions of Genl. Washington, Congress have made a number of Genl. Officers. The Gens Proposal is that there shod be a
