350 February 23, 1777 to assume the Title of Gentlemen, and they hold their Negroes and Con victs, that is all labouring People and Tradesmen, in such Contempt, that they think themselves a distinct order of Beings. Hence they never will suffer their Sons to labour or learn any Trade, but they bring them up in Idleness or what is worse in Horse Racing, Cock fighting, and Card Playing. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:260—61. John Hancock to Horatio Gates Sir, Baltimore Feby 23rd 1777 As the State of the Army is by no Means such as could be wished, and in Point of Discipline and Order has suffered much since you relinquished the Department of Adjutant General, In Confidence therefore that you will retrieve it, and place it again on a respectable Footing, I am directed by Congress earnestly to solicit you to reassume the Office of Adjutant General, with your present Rank and Pay. 1 The Good of the Service, which is so essentially concerned in your com plying with the Desire of Congress on this Occasion, will, I make no Doubt, induce you to gratify their Wishes. At the same Time I am per suaded, you will always add to your own Happiness whenever you can any Ways promote the Cause of American Liberty and Independence. I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Sir, Your most obed. & very hble Serv. John Hancock Pres. RG (NHi). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 Gates hesitated to accept the post of adjutant general, apparently desirous of an independent command, and before he came to a decision Congress placed him in command of the army at Ticonderoga on March 25. See ]CC, 7:136, 202; Hancock to Gates, March 25, 1777; and Paul D. Nelson, General Horatio Gates: A Biography (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1976), pp. 78-80. John Hancock to Robert Morris Dear Sir Baltimore Febry. 23. 1777 Your favrs. to 19th Febry. I have Rec’d. The latter was deliver’d me last Eveng. As I shall so soon be with you shall not make a particular Reply. Before this I hope the Money is with you. Marine Matters shall not Touch upon; the Books & papers of that Department you will please to keep with you, & wish on our first meeting at Philada. we may enter with Spirit & Dispatch on Marine Business, & put things on respectable footing; I think there is an absolute necessity of a Reform in many in stances, but more when I have the pleasure of Seeing you. Capt Nichol-
