352 February 23, 1777 you will please to direct your Letters to me at Philada., the Powers of the Committee of Congress in that Place expiring on our Arrival there. I have wrote to Genl. Gates requesting him to resume the Office of Adjutant Genl, nor have I any Doubt of his Compliance. I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 Hancock sent Washington a variety of resolves on military affairs passed on February 5, 7, 13-14, and 19-22. See JCC, 7:90, 98, 114, 119, 133, 135-36, 140-42. Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates Feby 24th [1777] A Letter from General Washington was read Informing Congress that General How and Lord Piercy had come over from New York to Bruns wick with a reinforcement of Troops and heavy Artillery, that he appre hended the Enemy Intended to enlarge their Quarters and procure For- rage in Jersey or to march towards Philadelphia, that he was not in a Condition to prevent either. 1 The Congress went into a Committee of the whole hereupon—and General Washington was ordered to call to his aid all the Continental Troops under General Heath on the North side of the River, and all that were in Providence, to write letters to all the Collonels in the States North of Maryland ordering them to send the recruits to Join him as fast as they were raised, except such regiments as were destined for the Northern Department. 2 The Board of War was ordered to write similar letters to all the other States North of North Carolina, and the State of New York was requested to supply the place of General Heath with Militia. 3 New Jersey and Pensylvania were also requested to reinforce General Washington with Militia from each. 4 To this report of the Committee of the whole was subjoined a Declara tion of Congress that it was their Intention to reinforce the General so as to enable him not only to Curb and Confine the Enemy within their present Quarters but with the Blessing of God Entirely to subdue them before they are reinforced. This pompous Paragraph was very much Condemned by some Gentlemen as an unworthy Gasconade—and it was warmly debated. North Carolina observed that Threats were unbecom ing a Private Gentleman, and much more unbecoming a Political 5 Body, That this pompous boast if not realized would render the Congress ex ceedingly ridiculous, and there was great reason to fear it would not. That our vigor ought to appear by Efforts, not Words, that at best it was a useless superfluity and ought to be expunged. The Question was put and Jersey, Pensylvania, North Carolina and South Carolina voted for expunging, the rest for retaining. 6 N.B. Maryland was not represented. 7
