February 25, 1777 357 of Congress to the several states to Enact Laws Empowering all Con stables, Ferry keepers and Freeholders to take up persons suspected of being Deserters and Carry them before any Justice of the Peace. An Amendment was moved the purport of which was that the Power should go Immediately from Congress without the Intervention of the States. Many Gentlemen were inattentive and it passed. The Delegate from North Carolina desired to be informed if he might enter his Protest against it. He was informed by the Chair that he could not, he then desired to have his dissent entered on the Journal declaring he was not Apprehensive of any Injury from it in the State he represented because he knew it would never be there observed, the People too well knowing the Maxims of their Gov ernment, but that as it was as much as his Life was worth to Consent to the Congress exercising such a Power, he desired that he might be able to prove from the Journals that he did not. He said it appeared to him that Congress was herein assuming a Power to give authority from them selves to persons within the States to seize and Imprison the persons of the Citizens, and thereby to endanger the personal Liberty of every man in America. A motion was now made for reconsidering. On the recon sideration the Debate lay chiefly between Mr Wilson of Pensylvania, and the North Carolina Delegate. Mr. Wilson argued that every object of Continental Concern was the subject of Continental Councils. That all Provisions made by the Continental Councils must be carried into execu tion by Continental authority. That the Army was certainly a Continen tal object, and preventing Desertion in it was certainly as necessary an object as the raising of it. That nothing could be more necessary to pre vent Desertion than to take Effectual Measures for apprehending desert ers, that this Power must necessarily be in the Congress, and that they certainly had Power to authorise any persons in the States to put them in Execution. That the Power of taking up deserters was in every Soldier and officer of the army, and that the Congress might make any Justice of Peace in any state such an officer and thereby give him that Power, and if by making him an officer they Could give him that Power, they surely could without. That the officers and soldiers of the army were certainly not subject to Laws of the states. That this was no more than what was every day done in appointing Commissioners to purchase provisions and other things under the resolves of Congress. That the Congress had always directed their resolves to be put in Execution by Committees of Inspec tion and it was never denied that they had Power. The Delegate of North Carolina answered that he admitted Conti nental objects were subjects of Continental Councils—but denied that the provisions made by Continental Councils were to be enforced by Continental authority. That it would be giving Congress a Power to prostrate all the Laws and Constitutions of the states because they might create a Power within each that mush act entirely Independent of them, and might act directly Contrary to them. That they might by virtue of this
