358 February 25, 1777 Power render Ineffectual all the Bariers Provided in the states for the Security of the Rights of the Citizens for if they gave a Power to act Coercively it must be against the Subject of some State, and the subject of every state was entitled to the Protection of that particular state, and subject to the Laws of that alone, because to them alone did he give his Consent. That he hoped the Gentleman would not Insist on this Principle which in its nature was so very Extensive and alarming. That the states alone had Power to act Coercively against their Citizens, and therefore were the only Power Competent to carry into execution any Provisions whether Continental or Municipal. That he was well satisfied no Power on Earth would ever obtain Authority to act Coercively against any of the Citizens of the state he represented except under their own Legisla ture; unless it was obtained by Violence. That his fellow Citizens were struggling against unlawful exertions of Power, and they woidd submit to them from no Authority. That he admitted the army to be a proper ob ject to be governed and directed by Continental Councils, and that it is proper the Congress should provide for punishing Desertion, and that Desertion was a very [great] evil, but that who is a deserter or who is not is a Question that must be determined previous to any Punishment, and who ever can determine it has a Power over the Life and Liberty of the Citizens for as much as any man may be accused of Desertion but every one accused may not be Guilty. That if the Congress has the Power to appoint any Person to decide this Question the Congress has power unlimited over the Lives and Liberties of all men in America and the Provisions so anxiously made by the respective States to Secure them, at Once Vanish before this Tremendous Authority. However proper it might be for Congress to punish Desertion it was Necessary for the states to prevent arbitrary and unjust punishments and Imprisonments of their Citizens, and unless some mode were provided for trying the above Ques tion every man was liable to be imprisoned at the Discretion of Officers and servants of the Congress. No power could be Competent to this but such as is created by the Legislature of each state, and if any Question related to the internal Polity of a state it certainly was this which In volved all the Rights of the Citizens personal Freedom. He would not speak for other states, but for his own he would declare that the Constitu tion had anxiously provided that no man should be Imprisoned or in any Degree Injured in his Person or Property but under the authority of the Laws of the state. It was a fundamental Maxim well understood there that no Magisterial Authority could be given but by the Legislature, and none could be exercised beyond what was expressly laid down in the Laws. The Congress certainly could not give a Power within any State to hear and Determine offences or to seize and Imprison the Persons of the Citizens. Yet most assuredly the Power Contended for was no less, un less every Deserter was branded in the Face so that it could be determined without [doubt-] who was Deserter and who was not. He was sorry to
