February 25, 1777 361 Laws for the apprehending deserters, and there surely was no reason to doubt but that they would on a recommendation for that purpose. That the Inconvenience the Gentleman mentioned was Imaginary. It would not follow that desertion could not be prevented or punished altho it should be admitted that the states alone were Competent to give the Power of arresting suspected persons, and trying the Question deserter or not. Nor could it be concluded from this that deserters could be appre hended nowhere but in the states where they enlisted. That desertion was a Crime and like all other Crimes to be punished wherever it should be Committed, and by the Power who had Competent Jurisdiction. That the Crime Once Committed the offender might be apprehended in any state and removed to the Jurisdiction who had power to punish, but every Individual who might be Apprehended had a right to call for the Interposion of the state where he was Apprehended to Enquire whether he was a person liable to suspicion and whether the restraint of his Lib erty was lawful or not, but the Power to Interpose in this manner could only be derived from the Internal Legislature [so?] the Power to arrest must be derived from the same source, or it would follow that the Citizens of each state might be restrained of their Liberty by an Authority not de rived from themselves which could not subsist with freedom and Inde pendance. Tis plain from these Considerations that desertion was no more secure of Impunity than Murder, for in both the offender must be arrested by Virtue of an authority derived from the state where found, and each must be tried by the Competent Jurisdiction and punished according to the Laws of the Community against which he offended. The amendment would [not] remove [the] objection because whether the word suspected was in or not [the objec]tion must remain the same. No one could be more than [suspected] before conviction, and the Ques tion of Guilt or Innocence must be determined somewhere previous to punishment. The Distinction between Magistrates as Magistrates, and as persons proper to execute resolves was incomprehensible. If any thing render them more proper than freeholders it was what distinguished them from Freeholders which certainly was being Magistrates, and what but their authority as Magistrates rendered them fitter for Executing the resolve? Twas surely their Power that was considered as rendering them more fit, and whence could they derive their Power but from their Quality as Magistrates? In fact it was an attempt to Convey authority from the Congress to the Magistrates of the states, which would Involve the Per sonal rights of every Citizen and which could be derived from no Power but the People of the respective states. To Mr. Lee. The Difference is certainly very perceptable between offering reward to any Individual who shall apprehend Deserters and Subject them to the proper tribunals for deciding Concerning Guilt or
