364 February 25, 1777 Messrs. Livingston & Turnbull are still waiting here the returns from Congress & grow very impatient. We have the honor to remain sir, Your obedt hble servt, Robt Morris Geo Clymer Geo Walton RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Clymer, and Walton. 1 On March 19 Congress resolved that “the baron de Arendt be appointed to the command of the German battalion in the room of Colonel Hausegger.” JCC, 7:185. Elbridge Gerry to Thomas Gerry Dr Brother Baltimore Feby 25th 1777 I have just reed your Favour of Jany 6th, in Answer to a part of wch. give me Leave to refer You to my Letter of the 21st Inst. With respect to my proposal for manning, as well as arming the Vessel that is to bring the Stores, by referring to the Letter I believe it will appear that You have misapprehended it. The premium required by the Under Writers at Salem is too high, & as the other two Setts of Bills Lading will not be wanted at present, You may wait for Oppertunity of safe Conveyance. When Mr. Abbot returns from his Cruise I presume he will pay the Ballances mentioned, but if he should defer it, be kind enough to sig nify to him my Request relative thereto; also to inclose Mr Harris’ Sales of the salt &c. I am sorry to hear from a Marblehead Whig, that the Tories are suffered to take the Lead; surely Skill is not wanted to regu late these unworthy people, & oblige them to promote the Cause from wch they wickedly have swerved. The noble Steed (some of whose ordin ary Qualities they seem to partake), becomes a most useful Animal when properly disciplined; & neglected or enlarged soon contracts a Disposition troublesome, & refracting, however I think it will not be long before they’ll receive their Quietus in America. By Letters from Mr Dean in France, the powers of Europe were expecting a formal An nunciation of our Independance at their respective Courts. 1 He thinks a general War in Europe inevitable; & to confirm the Intention of France, our Agent in the West Indies informs us that he saw a Letter from his most Christian Majesty desiring the Commanding Officer at St Domingo (Who having been a considerable Time on that Station had requested Leave to return) in the most pressing Term to remain there till further orders as he would be immediately wanted to take the Command of a considerable Army in that Quarter. 2 This the officer has chearfully ac cepted. I have communicated to Messrs Samuel & Robert Purviance, the
