February 26, 1777 371 with you that he hath been drove from his Studies; for he is an agreeable promising Youth and bids fair to be serviceable to Mankind. I left Phila delphia the 13th of Deer. When I shall return is uncertain but I believe it will be soon; for Congress have the Matter of a Removal thither in Contemplation. When I go there I will see him if he should be there, and give him my best Advice, and hope you will do my Children the same Kindness. Philadelphia is so near the Scene of War, that I am suspicious it will not be favorable to his Studies; for the Muses fly from the Din of Arms. However History may be read and French may be learned without that close and uninterrupted Attention which the severer Studies of Mathematicks and Philosophy demand. It grieves me to hear that the Continental Seamen have not been paid their Wages and Prize Money. Repeated Orders have been given to the Agent to have it done. The Congress are fully sensible of the Importance of having a respectable Navy, and have endeavoured to form and equip One; but through Ignorance and Neglect they have not been able to ac complish their Purpose yet. I hope however to see One afloat before long. A proper Board of Admiralty is very much wanted. The Members of Congress are unacquainted with this Department. As One of the Marine Committee I sensibly feel my Ignorance in this Respect. Under a mortifying Sense of this I wrote to you for Information in this Matter. Books cannot be had here; and I should have been glad to have been pointed to proper Authors on this Subject when I should be in a Place where Books may be had. Let me know whether it would suit you to be a Member of a Marine Board. I suppose Congress will institute One with a suitable competent Salary, there Residence to be I presume at Philadelphia. I should be exceedingly glad to be serviceable to you or any of the Friends to Liberty. Since I wrote the foregoing I have seen and conversed with Dr. Witherspoon about your Son. 1 He tells me that he left your Son, the 20th of January at Prince-Town, that he hath the Use of his Books, that at that Place, he can better learn French, pursue other Studies, preserve his Morals and Health, than at Philadelphia. I am intirely of his Opinion. It is true that he may be again driven from Prince-Town; but he is without any Incumbrance, may easily take his cloaths, and push off on the Approach of the Enemy. He might too be drove from Philadelphia if he should reside there. So that upon the whole I think, with the learned Dr that Prince-Town is the most eligible Place. We have nothing new. The Enemy we hear are reinforced and it is thought that by their having dragged some heavy Cannon to Brunswick, and some other Circumstances that they mean to make a Movement; but what their Object will be is uncertain. Congress are taking Measures to rein force Genl. Washington, until the regular Army shall be muster’d. In- listments go on as fast as could be expected; and I hope that we shall early
