372 February 26, 1777 in the Spring have a very respectable Army in the Field, and 2 [an] Army sufficient to vanquish our Foes. 8 Reprinted from Publications of the Rhode Island Historical Society 8 (January 1901), pp. 201-3; and RC (RNHi). From the content of this letter it is clear that Ellery did not complete it the day it was begun. The printed text ends abruptly, but because none of the MS from which it was taken has been found, it is not possible to compare it physically with the fragment of the RC that has been located and that is chiefly a continuation of a letter obviously begun much earlier. As the sense of the broken sentence with which the printed text ends is completed by the sentence fragment at the top of the RC, it appears that the two fragments belong together and constitute the full letter that Ellery began on February 26. 1 Ellery obviously added this paragraph sometime after he. had completed the preceding portion, but it contains no evidence to establish just when he wrote it. For an indication that he did not finally complete the letter until about March 15, see the continuation designated below. 2 Remainder of letter taken from RC. 8 For the continuation of this letter, see Ellery to Vernon, March 15, 1777. Executive Committee to John Hancock Sir Philada. Feby 26th. 1777 The Sundry dispatches sent herewith arrived this morning and as Gen eral Washington is so very Urgent respecting the removal of all the Pub lic Stores we shall urge the execution of the orders issued by us for that purpose last Week, altho we Still think there are insuperable obstackles to General Howe getting into this City but whilst our General is so strongly of opinion that an attack on this place is Meditated, it wou’d not be right for Congress to come here? This is an unfortunate situation. Congress shou’d be here to superintend abundance of business & yet cir cumstances turn up at the instant they were coming, that make it im prudent. Your distance from us is too great & much Public business is retarded by it. The Expresses are frequently stopped at Susquehannah, Public officers totally at a loss for instructions in many departments and every department in constant want of money. We are amazed that Con gress shou’d so peremtorily refuse to raise the Interest of money when it is so very evident to every body out of doors that it is the only measure left to supply them with money, now is the time to do it for shou’d you wait untill some fresh disaster to our Troops or some important Success of the Enemy raises again the hopes of Tories & fears of Whiggs, then comes your offer at six per Cent without producing any other effect than to make your Credit still worse than it is already and in the end you will be obliged to give ten instead of six per Cent for money to carry on the war. We cannot help mentioning this important matter very frequently as we conceive Congress are not so fully informed of their own Neces- sitys as we are. We conceive we do our duty in telling them of it and if
