February 26, 1777 373 future Ill Consequences arise by this plan not being adopted, the error does not lye at our door. We think as the Congress has passed a Vote to remove from Baltimore they wou’d be better situated at Lancaster than where they are, as it is but one days journey from hence & no interrupted Ferry between, this move & raising the interest wou’d be very eligible measures at present and we have Stopped the Waggons from going down until your pleasure is signifyed. Please to deliver the letter herein directed to Mr Morris, to the Com mittee of Secret Correspondance. We have the honor to remain with the utmost respect, sir, Your Obedt Servants, Robt Morris Geo Clymer RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Written by Morris and signed by Morris and Clymer. 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:184-85. Executive Committee to George Washington Sir Philada Feby 26th 1777 We have this Night received from Congress the dispatches sent here with. By these you will see the promotions that have taken place and that no deputation of Members of Congress are to meet Genl Lee, who I suppose will be much disapointed but surely he shou’d have pointed out more clearly the design of his request, as the consequences of comply- ance or even of the refusal may be important. 1 It wou’d appear from what we have lately heard that Genl. Howe intends sending him to England which we shall be sorry for, as such a measure may possibly involve in its consequences more destruction than either side really wish for. We have recommended to Congress either to remain where they are, or if they do remove to let it be to Lancaster which we think wou’d be much more convenient than Baltimore. The Public business meets great obstructions from their distance and the difficulties of getting dis patches backwards & forwards, they are exceedingly retarded by bad roads & the frequent stoppage at Susquehannah Ferry & in our oppinion when they did move they shou’d have gone to Lancaster, if they remove again before Genl. Howes designs are clearly evinced or frustrated, it shou’d be there. We Issued orders last Week to have all the Public Stores in readiness to remove from this place and are now urging to every de partment the propriety of carrying those orders into execution not only so far as relates to their being in readiness but as to the actual removing of them which we shall insist on in complyance with your repeated requi sitions on this head. We are, Your Excellencys Most obed & hble servants, Robt Morris Geo. Clymer
