374 February 26, 1777 RC (DLC). Written by Morris and signed by Morris and Clymer. 1 Washington deeply regretted Congress’ decision not to meet with General Lee, and on March 2 he urged Morris to use his influence with Congress to reverse the decision. “I wish, with all my heart,” Washington observed, “that Congress had gratified General Lee in his request. If not too late, I wish they would do it still. I can see no possible evil that can result from it; some good I think might. The request to see a Gentleman or two, came from the General not from the Com missioners; there could have been no harm, therefore, in hearing what he had to say on any subject, especially as he had declared, that his own personal Interest was deeply concerned.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:224. Washington’s disappointment was even more fully explained in a March 2, 1777, letter to Morris from Tench Tilghman, one of the general’s military secretaries. “The late determinations of Congress,” Tilghman reported, “to refuse the proposed Conferences with General Lee, and to confine the Hessian Field Officers & Col. Campbell strictly because Genl. Howe will not agree to their exchange for Genl. Lee, have embarrassed his Excellency not a little, and will, in my Opinion, in their consequences, be attended with much public disadvantage. I should not have given you my Sentiments on these Subjects thus freely and confidentially, but I know I can say more to you than the General would wish to say to Congress, least they should construe a freedom of Expression into an abuse and ill use of those extensive powers with which they have lately vested him. If my Sentiments and Reasons should happily coincide with yours upon the occasion, I hope the Influence which you possess in the House, may enable you to obtain such an Alteration in the Measures alluded to, as may be of more advantage to Genl. Lee, whom they are principally intended to serve, and of more essential good to the public. “It is true Genl. Lees letters are so mysterious that it is impossible to form any conjecture of what was to be expected from the Conference. But take it in a personal light, and surely it was hard to refuse him an Interview with two of his Friends, to whom he might have something to communicate, which in his present Situation could not possibly be conveyed by Letter. If the Conference was intended to communicate any thing of a public Nature, as some parts of Genl. Lees letter seem to hint, some useful information might have been received and no public ill could have accrued, for as these Gentlemen would have only gone to hear but not to negotiate, it would not have been in their powers, if so in clined, to have given up one Inch of the dignity of Congress, or the least par ticle of the Liberties of their Country. Indeed Members of Congress were not absolutely necessary and any indifferent Gentlemen might have been appointed. But Sir, I fear an evil will result from the refusal of this Conference, much greater than any I have yet mentioned. You very well know that the disaffected, in the province [o/] Pennsylvania chiefly, have ever held up an Argument to the people, that had not Congress from the beginning shewn a greater disposition for War than peace, Matters had never gone to the Lengths they have. And you also may remember what an amazing Influence these doctrines had untill a deputation of Congress met Lord and Genl. Howe upon Staten Island and obliged them to con fess, in a manner, that they had no powers beyond those expressed in the Act of Parliament. From that time to this, they have been pretty Silent, or at least have made impressions but upon weak Minds. Now another opportunity offers for them to assert again, that Genl. Lees letter coming thro’ Genl. Howe can be construed into nothing more than an overture for an accommodation. And as the letter as I said before, is very mysterious, every man will comment upon it, as it suits his Views and principles. I shall just mention one Reason more before I conclude the Subject of the Conference. Genl. Lee’s influence is very extensive in our Army, and if he should be sent home or any indignity offered to his person, his
