382 February 27, 1777 the personl safety of Congress, he believed if they were all killed or Cap tivated public Business would Suffer no other Injury except the delay until other members could be chosen, that he knew his Country had much better men than himself; and he believed every State has as good as any in Congress, but he would give his Negative for the plain reason that it was very Imprudent to put a certain stop to Important Business, and run a very precarious hazard of resuming it again even after an Interval of some Weeks which would be an Inevitable delay. The adjournment was carried, for it M.B., R.L, Connecticut, N.J., Pennsylvania, Georgia; against it New Hampshire, Maryland, Virginia, N. Carolina, S. Caro lina. 1 The same day Mr Chase from Maryland offered a resolution for entering all the Proceedings whether passing in the negative or affirmative on the Journals, and the Yeas and No’s if any state required it, also that the Congress doors should be opened, except on particular Occasions, and all Debates held in public. He was Seconded by North Carolina who observed it was very proper the Congress should have the public check on them, and that as every member was liable to be impeached by the State he represented, it was a Justice to him and to the State that his votes should be entered on the Journals, that the state might be furnished with Testimony to prosecute, and the delegate with Testimony to defend himself—postponed. 2 MS (NN). For a description of these notes, see Burke’s Notes of Debates, Feb ruary 7, 1777. ’See JCC, 7:164.: Chase’s resolution is in JCC, 7:164n. Congress did not agree to enter votes in its journal until August 2, 1777. JCC, 8:599. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen, Baltimore 27 Feby. 1777. Congress adjourned this Day to Philada. there to meet on Wednesday next. Captain Deames Company is ready to march, but there are no officers. I beleive there is a Lieutent. but the board of war is informed he is a worthless drunken Fellow. The Captain is unfit for the Command, and to send such a Company without some good officers will reflect a Disgrace on our State and injure the Service. I advised Capt. Deames to send forward his Company, & to wait on You for the Appointmt of officers. I hear Nothing from Camp, worthy of Notice, except that Genl. Howe has received a Reinforcement, of 4,000, from Rhode Island. Your’s Respectfully, Sami Chase RC (MdAA).
