February 27, 1777 385 Portugal. The French finances are low, but the Spanish are not so, and the opportunity is so tempting that I think a general war in Europe un avoidable. At least, I hope so. I have sent you inclosed, the translation of a letter from Doctr. De Bourg to Doctr. Franklin which lately came to the Committee of Secret Correspondence. It furnishes much useful informa tion, and evidences the old Gentlemans strong attachments to our cause. He is a Philosopher, a Physician, and a friend to America—And his inter est at Court very considerable. I have now to ask your pardon for this long letter, it is against my plan of not disturbing you, but perhaps it may be excused as I do it but seldom. I am at all times, and places, and upon every occasion; dear Sir Your most affectionate friend and obedient servant, Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC). 1 An enclosed “Memorandum” listed eleven foreign officers and briefly described their military experience and the commitments made to them. 2 William Bingham. Robert Morris to William Bingham and Richard Harrison Gentlemen Philadelphia Feby. 27th. 1777 The Council of Safety of Maryland by their President Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer Esqr. have desired me to remit you sufficient Funds to discharge an Obligation you were forced to enter into on account of a certain Capt. Patterson who commanded one of their armed Vessells and committed some Depredations within the Jurisdiction of Martinique. 1 I suppose this Remittance must be accomplished by shipping Produce to Martinique unless I can purchase a Bill. You may depend that I will do one or the other soon as possible and that I remain, Gentlemen, Your Obedt. hble servant, Robt Morris RC (PHarH). In a clerical hand and signed by Morris. 1 For Morris’ brief February 21 letter to Jenifer on the subject of the obligation incurred by Bingham and Harrison in behalf of Maryland, see Md. Archives, 16:150. Robert Morris to John Bradford [February 27, 1777] [....] My Friend Carter Braxton Esqr. of Virginia, that he has made a Contract there for a quantity of flour agreable to directions I gave him sometime ago on perceiving that this Article wou’d become scarce & dear
