388 February 27, 1777 bassadors to Notice him as an American that is one day or other to make a Figure in these United States. I am sure nothing more need be said on this Subject.” Deane Papers, CtHi. Robert Morris to George Washington Dear Sir Philada. Feby 27th. 1777 I have your favour of the 22d Inst. 1 which wears a very serious counte nance and the opinion I entertain of the Strength of your Judgement and propriety of your observations, creates doubts in my mind which I confess I had discarded, as to the safety of this City. From various ac counts I have been taught to believe that the Enemy have since Christmass lost so many Horses, are in such want of Forage, and their remaining Cavalry so worn down, that the defects in this department alone wou’d render any Movement of their Main body impossible without strong reinforcements. If such be their situation, a reinforcement of men without fresh & large supplys of Horses, waggons & Forage, wou’d only embarras them, and oblige ’em the sooner to quite their present station, and prob ably this may still happen, but when I find you so very Urgent to have the public Stores removed from hence, knowing as you must, that the expence & loss or Waste arising by such removal, amounts almost to the same thing as a total destruction of them It serves to convince me I have been misinformed as to the real state of the Enemy with respect to Horses, Waggons & Forage, especially as you don’t say one Word of their deficiencys in these articles that I remember. I have therefore complyed litterally with your wishes & the Committee have given orders to every department to remove all Stores not immediately wanted, as fast as they can. It seems to me however that the Enemy will be pressed with very great difficultys in their designs on this place. Allowing some degree of truth to their want of Horses, Waggons and Forage, those wants will be infinitely more felt since the late fall of Snow than before, for the Snow before it melts will exceedingly impede the motions of the stoutest Horses. They will require more dry food as nothing can be got from the sod and the difficulty of obtaining such food, as I apprehend, will be greatly encreased by your parties particularly the Rifle Men. When the Snow melts it will render the Road totally impassible for the Carriages must then be dragged through mud instead of Snow, in short my Dear Sir I cannot help conceiving that General Howe’s situation somewhat resembles that of a strong Bull in Trammells, sensible of his own strength, he grows mad with rage & resentment when he finds himself deprived of the use of it. The Bull may not so well understand the causes of his dis apointment & therefore may be more patient & I fancy if my picture has any resemblance to the truth patience wou’d be of great use to the
