February 27, 1777 389 British Commander. If you find him embarrassed in these trammells provided by kind Providence I hope you will be able to teaze & harrass him untill our New Enlistments shall put him in your power, or oblige him to take shelter onbd the Shipping provided for that & other purposes. I do not like to be too sanguine & yet it is very necessary in a Contest like this we are engaged in to view the best side of the Picture frequently. Remember good Sir, that few men ever keep their feelings to themselves, & that it is necessary for example sake that all leaders shoud feel & think bold in order to inspirit those that look up to them. Heaven (no doubt for the noblest purposes) has blessed you with a Firmness of mind, Steadiness of Countenance and patience in sufferings that give you in finite advantages over other men. This being the case you are not to de pend on other Peoples exertions being equal to your own. One mind feeds & thrives on misfortunes by finding resources to get the better of them, another sinks under their weight, thinking it impossible to resist and as the latter description probably includes the majority of mankind we must be cautious of alarming them. Under this Idea I have been backward about removing the public stores, well knowing that a panic is sooner caused than retrieved, and I confess myself much hurt at finding you con cerned. Your admonitions on that score were not attended to; during our greatest alarm here and when our prospects were of the worst, when my inward feelings were most wrung, I put a good face on things and was then Convinced it was of infinite use. I hate deception and cannot wish anything like it shou’d ever escape you, but I really think if the bright side of our affairs were sometimes to be painted by your pen or sanctifyed by your name it wou’d draw forth the exertions of some good men sooner than distress does from others. I hope you will excuse me for this stile of writing which almost amounts to the confidential. Was I sure of such being received in the same light in which I write it, I shou’d lament to you the absence of many great good & valueable Men from Congress, for if great care is not taken, that Body, so respectable from the Nature of the appointment, the Importance of its objects, and the re spectable Characters of its heretofore individual Members, will loose great part of its Weight & Consequences in the Eyes of our own People. We have now to lament the absence from the Public Councils of America, of a Johnson, a Jay, R. R. Livingston, Duane, Deane, W. Livingston, Franklin, Dickenson, Harrison, Nelson, Hooper, Rutledge & others not less conspicuous, without any proper appointments to fill their places, and this at the very time they are most wanted, or wou’d be so, if they had not very wisely supplied the deficiency by Delegating to your Excellency Certain powers that they durst not have entrusted to any other man. But what is to become of America & its cause if a constant fluctuation is to take place amongst its Counsellors & at every change we find reason to view it with regret? However this is deviating from my own plan. I am holding up the wrong side of the picture, altho I am one of those People
