392 February 28, 1777 the dupes of these infamous wretches. Our best respects to Mr C., Lady & family. Adieu my dear Col. Francis Lightfoot Lee RC (MdBJ-G). ■ 1 Lee apparently did not return immediately to Philadelphia. In his March 24 letter to Robert Purviance, written from Annapolis, Lee noted that “tomorrow I set off for Philadelphia.” Gratz Collection, PHi. And according to his accounts with the Commonwealth of Virginia, he next attended Congress on April 2, 1777. Emmet Collection, NN. 2 See Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates, February 21, 1777. Secret Committee to Robert and Samuel Purviance, Jr. In Secret Committee of Congress Gentlemen, Baltimore Feby. 28th, 1777 We are informed that you have in your hands Nineteen hundred and eight pounds, eight shillings & six pence this currency by a Captain Bailey as the property of Monsr. Le Croix of the Island of Hispaniola—And as it appears that the said Bailey & Monsr. Le Croix have combined together to defraud the United States of a Cargo of Flour which said Bailey was directed to deliver at another place, in consequence of which, a Brig loaded here and now in this harbor, claimed by said Le Croix hath been detained by the Secret Committee under order of Congress. 1 The Com mittee willing to interrupt foreign Commerce as little as possible but at the same time obliged to secure the public from injury have directed said Vessel & Cargo to be released, taking care to secure for the Con tinent the above sum of 1908 pounds, 8/6 this Currency in your hands. You are therefore desired to retain in your hands, and apply to the use of the Secret Committee that money so left with you by Capt. Bailey, and for so doing we warrant you in the name of the Congress of the United States of America. Richard Henry Lee Wm Whipple Fras Lewis RC (NjGbS). Written by Lee and signed by Lee, Lewis, and Whipple. 1 For additional details of this affair, see JCC, 7:66-67. William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror. Baltimore 28 Feby 1777 Since my last which I think was the 18th inst I have received Yours of the 31st Deer & 22 Jany. I hope by this time a Sufficient force are at
