February 28, 1777 393 & on their march to Ticonderoga for the defence of that Place, Congress are very sensible of the importance of it, and have done every thing in their Power to render the post secure. What remains to be done re mains intirely with the executive, which is to raise the men & direct their operations. I suppose all the Troop from N.H. will be order’d to the Northward, Col. Poor is promoted to the Rank of Brigadier & I suppose will have the immediate command of those Troops. This Gen tn is highly recomended by the Genls under whom he has serv’d & I hope will do Honor to his Country. No accounts yet from our Commissioners at Foreign Courts. The last advice from France was 25th Octo by which there seems to be no doubt of a Europian war. Our agent at Martinico writes that he had seen a letter from the K of F to the Genl, of Hispaniola (who had asked leave to go home) desiring him to tarry as he wanted an experienced officer to command his Troops in America. 1 We have many hints of this sort which discovers that both F. & S. are dispos’d to break with Britain. A Spanish Genl, in his way to Cuba call’d at Martinica, & while there took every oppory of confering with our Agent & assur’d him that his Master wo’d do every thing in his power to serve the United States & only waited for proper application which (inter nos) I expect has been made before this time. In short our affairs so far as relates to foreign Powers wear as favorable an aspect as we can Expect. The greatest diffi culty we have to incounter is to keep up the credit of our Currency which must be done by Taxing the People, & clearing the Country of its Enemies, for those people who are commonly call’d Tories do more mischief in that way then we are aware of. RC (MH-H). In Whipple’s hand, though not signed. 1 For further information on these letters of Silas Deane and William Bingham, see Elbridge Gerry to Thomas Gerry, February 25, 1777, notes 1 and 2. James Wilson to Robert Morris Dear Sir: Baltimore 28 Feby 1777 I was favoured with your very friendly and obliging Letter. 1 It gives me Pleasure to find my Sentiments upon the Subject of my Letter Cor responds with yours. What in the name of Wonder, has induced the Assembly to reappoint me? 2 I am undetermined how to act; I really think I could be more useful to the Public in another Character. I shall have the Pleasure of seeing you in Philadelphia the week after next; when we shall have an opportunity of talking over political and other Subjects. The Adjournment to Philadelphia] was not carried without some Difficulty and some Warmth. The Measure, I am persuaded, will have
