396 March 2, 1777 RC (PHi). Addressed: “To William Bingham Esqr., Agent to the United States of America in Martinico.” 1 Morris also wrote Bingham the following brief letter on March 10, 1777. “Mr. Benjn. Hogeland a very worthy Young Man that has lived with Willing, Morris & Co. many Years as Book keeper requests a Credit on you which I cannot refuse, therefore beg the favour of you to supply him or answer his orders to the Amount of Fifty pounds. “Capt. Young of the Sloop Independance also desires a Credit for One hundred Pounds but is not certain that he shall use it. However, if his occasions require I beg you will supply him & charge the amot. of both to Willing, Morris & Co.” Mason-Franklin Collection, CtY. Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Sir Baltimore March 2d 1777 The bearer has permission to go to your state to solicit the discharge of the prisoners taken after the defeat at Moore’s Greek. He being a simple unobnoxious creature, I consented to his going, at their request, tho’ their Endeavour was to get some more knowing one. I believe his Em bassy will not be very successful; for I told them, they must not expect ever to live in North Carolina on any other terms than swearing alligiance to the state & giving security for their good behaviour: but this they do not relish. They are desirous of knowing whether their families & prop erty will be reserved for them, if they are exchanged. Farquhard Campbell speaks with much resentment & haughtiness; he seems to think the state ought to court him to become her subject. I found they were not at all secure in close confinement, & the guarding them was exceedingly ex pensive. I therefore consented to their being on parole in Frederick Town in this state. 1 They are incessant importuners, & I believe every Delegate is glad they are removed from the residence of Congress. Angus Mc Donald, the bearer, is to return to them if you think proper. I am, Sir, with due respect & esteem, your Excellency’s most obedt serv’t, Thos Burke Tr (Nc-Ar). 1 See JCC, 7:102. A March 3 letter to Caswell from Farquhard Campbell, describing the opposition of Burke and William Hooper to the return of these prisoners to North Carolina, is in N.C. State Records, 11:403-5. For an earlier effort by these prisoners to return home, see William Hooper to the North Carolina Convention, November 1, 1776, note. John Hancock to Dorothy Hancock My Dear At Mr Godgraces half past 1 oClock, March 3d 1777 Thro’ much bad Road I arriv’d here at 1 oClock, in good order, I as sure the Roads are exceeding bad. I met Govr Johnston who is just come
