March 6, 1777 399 compare other Virginians with him, and they will appear in brighter colours. It is by comparison only that we judge of men and actions, therefore a few bad men or actions make good men and actions show more conspicuously. I am still in the small pox, therefore cannot write more than that I am, Your affectionate friend, Mann Page, Jun. MS not found; reprinted from Papers Relating Chiefly to the Maryland Line during the Revolution, ed. Thomas Balch (Philadelphia: Printed for the Seventy- Six Society, 1857), pp. 77-78. 1 Undoubtedly a reference to Page’s note of February 23, in which he informed Weedon that he was “under inoculation for the Small Pox, which makes it painful to my eyes to write more than to congratulate you upon your being appointed a Brigadier General, and to offer you my services upon any other and every other occasion.” Ibid, pp. 94-95. Weedon had been appointed a brigadier general on February 21. JCC, 7:141. 2 On February 9 a court martial had cashiered Col. Mordecai Buckner, of the Sixth Virginia Regiment, for his cowardice during a January 23 engagement near Brunswick, N.J. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:122. John Adams to James Warren My dear sir, Philadelphia March 6. 1777 Dr Jackson, by whom this will go, is a Manager of the State Lottery, and is bound to the New England States, to forward the Sale of the Ticketts. He wishes to be recommended to proper Persons for the Pur pose. If you can assist him with your Advise you will do a public service. I can give you no News—but the Skirmish at Spank town. This State of Pensilvania, have at last compleated their Government. Wharton is Governor and Bryan Lt Governor. 1 Their Council too is at last filled. Johnson is Governor of Maryland. 2 Govr. Livingstons Speech you will see. I hope now, the Loan offices will supply us with Money, and preclude the Necessity of any further Emissions. If they dont, what shall We do? But they will. I am at last got to think more about my own Expences than any Thing else. Twenty dollars a Cord for Wood. Three Pounds a Week for Board, meaning Breakfast, Dinner, and bed—without one drop of Liquer, or one Spark of light or fire. I am lost in an ocean of Expence. Horse feed in Proportion—five hundred Sterling will not pay my Expences for this year—at this Rate. 3 Pray make every Body who has Money lend it, that Things may not grow worse. The loan office in this Town is very successfull. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 'Thomas Wharton, Jr., and George Bryan were elected president and vice- president of Pennsylvania on March 5, 1777. Pa. Council Minutes, 11:173-74.
