408 March 6, 1777 sent off to Boston, by Freeman Palsifer an express to be deliverd Messrs. Livingston & Turnbull then agts. for purchasing cloathing in the Eastn. States. MS (MH—H). This entry is preceded by the copyist’s notation that “Here the Minutes begin in the handwriting of Mr. Robert Morris” and by the statement that “On examining the papers deliverd me, by the Committee on their return from Baltimore I find they did not keep any book of Minutes therefore the follow ing are extracted from the said Papers. R. Morris.” 1 This date has been assigned because the last “summary” paragraph in the Journal of the Secret Committee appears under the date March 6. 2 At this point the copyist keyed the following note: “This Steward for purchases on public Acct, had remitted to him by the Come. 3733 30/90. See p. 137.” It was actually Stephen Stewart who received this sum from the committee. See Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, May 31, 1777. For more details about the remittance made to David Stewart, see Robert Morris to John Hancock, January 6, 1777. 3 At this point the copyist noted “here Mr. Morris’s writing ends.” * Extracts of affidavits made by Robert Morris in 1785 and by Blair McClenachan in 1786 concerning the Secret Committee’s December 1776 agreement with Mc Clenachan for the charter of the Hancock and Adams, extracts of documents pertaining to the British capture of this ship in January 1778 during its return voyage from France, and a copy of McClenachan’s 1786 account with Congress for this ship are in the Lee Family Papers, MH-H. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia March 7. 1777 I am returned in tolerable Health to this Town—have received but one Letter from you since I left you, that which you sent by Mr. Rice. If you send Letters to Goll. Warren, or your Unkle Smith, they will be conveyed, with safety. I hope the Post Office will be upon a better footing soon. An Army is gathering in the Jerseys. They have frequent Skirmishes, and the Enemy generally come off second best. Whether We shall stay long here is uncertain. If We remove it will not be far. This will go by Dr. Jackson one of the Managers of the Lottery. I hope it will find you all well. I conjecture you have cold Weather and snow enough. We had at Baltimore last Saturday and Sunday a deep Snow and very sharp frost, such as froze over the Susquehannah, and obliged Us to ride up 15 miles, to cross the River at Bald fryars. We found a deep snow all the Way to this Place. Maryland and Pensilvania, have at last compleated their Govern ments. Mr. Johnson is Governor of the first and Thomas Wharton Jur. of the other.
