March 7, 1777 409 The Delaware State too have finished theirs. Mclnlay is Governor. 1 They have also chosen new Delegates to Congress. So have S. Carolina— so has Pensilvania. So has Maryland. There is indeed every where a more chearfull Face upon Things than there was. South Carolina is said to have a great Trade and a plenty of Things. Salt comes in frequently and there is a Prospect of supply, though dear. Our national Revenue is now the most delicate and important Ob ject We have to regulate. If this could be put upon a proper footing, We should be happy. Money comes in fast upon Loan, which is one great Step—but We must take others. I sent you from Baltimore, by Captn. Harden, to the Care of your Unkle a Barrell of Burr flour. I hope it will not be taken, but you know I am not lucky in trade. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:168-69. 1 John McKinly (1721-96), Wilmington physician, was elected president of Delaware by joint ballot of the council and assembly on February 12, 1777. Minutes of the Council of the Delaware State, from 1776 to 1792 (Wilmington: Historical Society of Delaware, 1887), pp. 67-68. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia March 7. 1777 The President who is just arrived from Baltimore, came in a few Minutes ago and delivered me, yours of Feb. 8, which he found at Susquehannah River, on its way to Baltimore. It gives me great Pleasure to find that you have received so many Let ters from me, altho I knew they contained nothing of importance. I feel a Restraint in Writing like that which you complain of, and am deter mined to go on trifling. However, the Post now comes regularly, and I believe you may trust it. I am anxious and impatient to hear of the March of the Massachusetts Soldiers for the new Army. They are much wanted. This City is a dull Place, in Comparason of what it was. More than one half the Inhabitants have removed into the Country, as it was their Wisdom to do—the Remainder are chiefly Quakers as dull as Beetles. From these neither good is to be expected nor Evil to be apprehended. They are a kind of neutral Tribe, or the Race of the insipids. How may possibly attempt this Town, and a Pack of sordid Scoun drels male and female, seem to have prepared their Minds and Bodies, Houses and Cellars for his Reception: but these are few, and more despicable in Character than Number. America will loose nothing, by
