March 7, 1777 415 Howe is now forming another expedition against this place and I shall not think this City safe whilst the principal part of its defence depends on Militia, and altho our New Army has been recruiting a Considerable time yet we do not find them so forward as coud be wished. The want of cloath- ing &c keeps them back a good deal, but we are spurring them on as much as possible. I do most sincerely hope you will negotiate the Loan & send out the Articles Wanted as we might then have leisure to make remittances with greater security than we can if done precipitately. We have bought considerable quantities of produce in various parts & shall export it as fast as the times, Seasons & Enemies Ships will permit. This you may depend on, and the Produce of this Country if it coud once be exported freely will soon discharge the Debt it may be necessary to Contract. The Committee will all be here next Week & write you fully themselves. In the mean time I remain with perfect Esteem & Respect, Gentn, Your Obedt hble servt, Robt Morris [P.S.] This goes by Monsr. Coleaux who promises to deliver it & a Packet of News Papers. RC (PPAmP). 1 See Morris to William Bingham, February 26, 1777, note 4. William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror. No. 3. Philadelphia 7th March 1777 Since My last have receiv’d Yours of 31st Deer. & 22d Jany. to which I shall reply very soon not having time at present, The design of this being to introduce to you Mr. Jackson one of Managers of the states Lottery whose business to the Eastward is to dispose of Tickets in doing which I doubt not you’ll render him every service in your Power. 1 Congress adjournd from Baltimore the 28th Ulto & I arrivd here Yesterday & hope tomorrow there will be members enough to make a house. I must refer you to Mr Jackson for news not having time to give you a long letter even if I had any thing material to write but hope shall soon be able to give you something very interesting. The speach of the Gov. of New Jersey will I dare say please you. It is with that design I inclose it. I am Your very affecte Frd, Wm. Whipple RC (MH-H). 1 This day Whipple also wrote a letter of introduction for David Jackson to John Langdon, in which he reported: “Since my last I have rec’d your favor of the 15th January and a duplicate of 21st to which I have not time at this time to reply particularly but think they have been principally answered in some of my former letters.” Whipple also added in a postscript: “You don’t mention in any of your letters Capt Smith’s receipt or Col. Thornton’s order. I shall be glad to know if they are come to hand. By my next I shall send you another order on Col Weare for 400 dollars.” Peter Force Collection, DLC.
