418 March 9, 1777 mine, but not to disguise my sentiments at all, there are some of them, particularly from New England that I begin to think quite unequal to the high Command they hold. It is very true that Success generally marks the man of Wisdom, and in Some Instances Injustice is done to unsuccessfull Merit: But still it is generally true that success is a Mark of Wisdom and that Misfortunes are owing to Misconduct. The sense of Mankind has uniformly Sup ported this opinion and therefore I cannot but think it just. The Same Sense has uniformly attributed the ill Success of Armies to the Incapacity or other Imperfections of the General officers, a Truth which I have Sometimes presumed to Hint to some of our General officers with whom I could make so free. There Seems to be Justice in this because the Glory of Successfull wars is so uniformly attributed to them. I shall join with you, very chearfully, in burying past Errors, and in wishing to concoct and execute the most effectual Measures to free America from her cruel oppressors. You ask why G. Lee is denyed his Request? 2 You ask, can any Injury arise? Will it reflect any Dishonour upon Congress. I don’t know that it would reflect any dishonour, nor was it refused upon that Principle. But Congress was of opinion that great Injuries would arise. It would take up too much Time to recapitulate all the Arguments which were used upon occasion of his Letter. But Congress was never more unanimous, than upon that Question. Nobody I believe would have objected against a Conference, concerning his private affairs or his particular case. But it was conceivable that a Conference should be necessary upon Such Sub jects. Any Thing relative to those might have been conveyed by Letter. But it appears to be an artfull Stratagem of the two gratefull Brothers to hold up to the public View the Phantom of a Negotiation, in order to give Spirit and Courage to the Torries, to distract and divide the Whiggs, at a critical Moment when the Utmost Exertions are necessary to draw to gether an Army. The Words of the Count La Tour, 3 upon a similar occa sion, ought to be adopted by Us. “Remember that now there is room neither for Repentence, nor for Pardon. We must no longer reason nor deliberate. We only want Concord and Steadiness. The Lot is cast. If we prove victorious, We shall be a just, free and Sovereign People: if We are conquered, we shall be Traitors, perjured Persons and Rebels.” “The Princes of the Union were not diligent enough in preparing for war. They Suffered themselves to be amused with Proposals of accommo dation, they gave the League time to bring together great Forces, and after that, they could no longer brave it. They committed the fault which is very- common in civil wars viz that People endeavour to save appearances. If a Party would save appearances, they must lie quiet, but if they will not lie quiet, they must push Things to an Extremity; without keeping any Measures. It rarely happens, but that otherwise they are at once both criminal and unfortunate.” Bailes Life of Gustavus Adolphus. 4
