March 10, 1777 421 curing money in that way, for the States. I suppose some will come in as the Interest is rais’d to 6 per Cent. I wish to be informed as often as pos sible what success the office meets with, also what probability there is of raising money by Tax, every measure ought to be taken by the several states to prevent depreciation. I arriv’d here the 6th inst & expect there will be members enough in town today to make a house. We have many reports of Genl. Howes preparing for some movements. It seems he has collected the Greatest part of his Strength at Brunswick. Some say he in tends to visit this City. If that shod be the case, I see no great difficulty in his geting here, but if he does, he is unavoidably Ruined. I have there fore too good an opinion of his Generalship to suppose he will attempt so Hazardous an enterprise. The inclosed letter I began at Baltimore as youll see but did not recollect it till I had wrote this and as there is some thots in it not express in this I inclose unfinish’d as it is to save time, 1 for I assure you I have very little to spare, tho’ that need not discourage you from writing for I can always find time to read Letters. I shod be exceeding glad to know all the proceedings of your Legislative body & hope some decisive measures will be adopted by them to free the Country of its Enemies. Your affecte Bror. W Whipple RC (MH-H). 1 Probably Whipple’s incomplete letter to Joseph of February 28, 1777. Whipple designated both this letter and one of March 7 to Joseph “No. 3.” Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philadelphia March 10th 1776 [i.e. 1777] I arrivd in this City from Baltimore last Saturday. Having been in- disposd there so as to be obligd to keep my Chamber ten days, I was un able to travel with my Friends, but through the Goodness of God I have got rid of my Disorder and am in good Health. Mrs Ross, at whose House I took Lodging in Baltimore treated me with great Civility and Kindness and was particularly attentive to me in my Sickness, and Wadsworth is as clever a young Man as I ever met with. Tell Mr Collson, if you see him, he more than answers my Expectation even from the good Character he gave me of him. I hope, my dear, that you and my Family enjoy a good Share of Health. It is my constant & ardent Prayer that the best of Heavens Blessings may rest on you and on them. I lately receivd a Letter from my Son, and since I came to this Place, General Morris of New York tells me he frequently saw him at Peeks Kill, and that he behavd well. Nothing gives me greater Satisfaction than to hear that he supports a good Reputation. I hope my Friends do not flatter me.
