424 March 10, 1777 Mrs. Washington got here on Saturday. I went to see her. She told me she Drank tea with you. Let Harry take the Continental Horse, Saddle & Bridle, that I left at Mr. Purviance’s & tell Mr. Purviance to charge his keeping in his public credit. If Capt Hardy returns the Horse I lent him with the Saddle & Bridle he must also come. Get the heavy waggon off as soon as you can, that they may be here as early as possible as we shall much want the things after you get here. I have got your bundle safe with the Petticoat, Table Cloth, I have not sent it as I thought you would not want it. MS not found; reprinted from Lorenzo Sears, John Hancock, The Picturesque Patriot (Boston: Little, Brown and Co., 1912), pp. 215-18. 1 A reference to one of the South Carolina delegates, Thomas Heyward, Jr., or Arthur Middleton, although Hancock may have meant to refer to both “gentlemen.” William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 10th March 1777 Enclosed is an Order on Col Weare for three hundred and thirty dollars, which sum I supplyed Col Thornton with, which you’ll credit me with for on account of the Marine Committee. Sent you a similar order some time ago, also a receipt of Capt Smith’s which you have not mentioned the receipt. I wish to know whether they came safe to hand. 1 The removal of Congress from this place and the marching of the Mi litia puts matters here in such a confused situation that I have not been able to procure the dimensions for the 74 gun ship but expect to forward them next post. Chesapeake Bay is now entirely clear of the enemy so that if any of the vessels directed to be sent there should arrive about this time they will be safe. I am in very great haste, your affectionate friend &c, Wm Whipple Tr (DLC). ‘On this point, see also William Whipple to Joseph Whipple, March 7, 1777, note. John Adams to William Tudor Dear Sir Philadelphia March 11, 1777 Yours of the 7th instant, I just reed. 1 Am glad to find the Post begins to do its Duty, and that Intelligence is like to be more regular. I doubt whether the Enemy have at Amboy and Brunswick so many as near 10,000 Men. But are they not posted in Smaller Numbers at other
