March 11, 1777 425 Places? Cannot these Places be attacked or Surprised? We must con tinually harrass them. As to their marching to Philadelphia, this is in an high degree improbable. If they leave Garrisons in Amboy and Bruns wick, they will not have Numbers. If they evacuate those Places, Troops are coming from all Quarters. They will not attempt Philadelphia, with out a large Army by Land, and a formidable Fleet in the River. They must wait for Reinforcements for this. I assure you, We have never had a Return, since I have been last in Congress. It grieves me to hear you Still complain of the Want of Disci pline. It is surely high Time to learn Wisdom. Are the officers dead to all Sense of Duty, and common Prudence? Every officer ought to be hanged, who does not discipline his Men every day. A great General will order officers the best Skilled in military Disci pline, to make his Troops perform their Exercises regularly, to make them encamp and decamp and in general to keep them inured to all the military Functions. He will frequently be present at all these Exercises, and will establish good order every where to which his Presence will contribute as much as his Capacity. I have learned from Marshall Saxe, and universal History, as well as the fatal Experience of the last Campaign a great deal of Contempt for Forts, and much more for long Lines. Heaven grant We may not again depend upon Such Reeds. Is it not criminal to hint at any fault at Fort Washington? I am as little pleased with the commanding officer at that Fort, as I am with the Generalship that lost it, with 2600 Men in it. Why was not a General officer in it? Why was it not defended like Bunker Hill? Do officers think that these Things are to be forgotten? Or that Vengeance will always sleep? As to the two officers you mention, I wish they were converted into Select Men. Yet there is no very conspicuous Difference between them, and many others that my opticks can discern. You promised me to keep a Journal, and send it me. It would give me great Pleasure, and much Information which I want. We have made Lincoln a Major General. I wish to know how it is liked and how he behaves. I wish We had better Materials than We have, but We must use the best We can get. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Tudor’s March 7 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi. Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Sir Philadelphia March 11th 1777 Our adjournment from Baltimore has put all our proceedings to a stand, & our unsettled situation has prevented my writing to you as often as I
