428 March 11, 1777 accomplished political negotiator, is unknown amongst us, & must long be unknown, because it is to be acquired only by the most assiduous application, & long attentive exercise in the habit of it. Courts are the only schools where it can be learned, & we yet have them not, & probably shall not have them very soon. Every man’s soul now stands forth; & in every one you read in very legible characters, that the State he represents is more wise, virtuous, or powerful than any other, & therefore ought to dictate to the rest. Where the more palpable advantage of power is want ing, each, in his own imagination supplies the superiority in wisdom or virtue; & this, I believe, in time will be realised. For conscious strength begets a security which relaxes the more painful efforts of wisdom & virtue; while conscious weakness spurs them to their highest mettle. But, strength, Sir, irresistible strength must in the end overcome all opposition. The more powerful States by combining, can doubtless subjugate the more feeble, & opposition will but rouse them to more effectual efforts. I own, Sir, 1 am under no apprehensions from the New England States. Their situa tion & natural disadvantages will prevent their becoming formidable if uncombined with others. Their situation is remote, & in a manner de tached from the other States, especially ours to the Southward, & nature has in general denied them a fertile soil. Their principal resources will always be in commerce & fisheries. This indeed will give them ships & seamen; but they can not support the one, or fit out the others, without the assistance of other States, & other States can not be excluded from fish ing & navigation. Their strength may indeed be competent to internal defence, but, I believe, not to foreign conquests. I think the most formid able combination would be Massachusetts, Pennsylvania & Virginia. The first has power sufficient to overawe & consequently to direct the other three New England States. The second could equally influence Jersey & Delaware. Virginia would be formidable to her Southern neighbours, & Maryland. New York could not resist a combination of Pennsylvania and Massachusetts; Maryland must fall a sacrifice to Pennsylvania & Virginia. Against this powerful confederacy, I fear, we should not be able to hold out long; & yet North Carolina seems to me best calculated to check the ambition of Virginia. I can not help, Sir, apprehending that any resolu tion of Congress, wherein the three formidable above mentioned States concur, must be carried into effect, even if it tended to annihilate the Independence of other States, & divided their Territory. I have said that virtue would increase or give birth to this danger. Thus I explain myself. The virtue most cultivated will be that which will most distinguish a man in the State in which he resides. The grandeur & preeminence of that State will be the favourite passion of every man in it. A zealous love for that grandeur & preeminence, & a capacity to promote it, will be what must best distinguish & recommend any individual in it. In a word, patri otism in America must always be partial to the particular States. Patriot ism to the whole will never be cherished or regarded, but as it may be con-
