430 March 11, 1777 those in which my country is particularly interested, I wish her to be fully informed of. To you, Sir, her principal guardian, I shall submit them with all the simplicity of unadorned truth; & where they are reprehensible I wish them to be reproved. 3 The last matter in the abstract will show you, that even thus early men so eminent as members of Congress are willing to explain away any power, that stands in the way of their particular pur poses. 4 What may we not expect some time hence, when the seat of power shall become firm by habit, & men will be accustomed to obedience, & perhaps forgetful of the original principles which gave rise to it. I believe, Sir, the root of the evil is deep in human nature: its growth may be kept down, but it can not be entirely extirpated. Power will one time or other be abused, unless men are well watched, & checked by something which they can not remove, when they please. This State is very unhappy at present; so powerful a party opposes the new Constitution, that I fear the Magistrate will not be obeyed. I am told Doctor Franklin persuaded them, by a simile, to reject a second branch of the Legislature. He said two branches would resemble a waggon with two horses at the tongue & two at the tail, who by pulling opposite ways would keep the machine still. I think the simile would have been more apt, had it represented four horses yoked to the tongue, whose business it is to assist one another in pulling on the plain, & up hill, & through all difficult places, but in going down hill the two hindmost should oppose the motion of the machine, & prevent its running too fast, to the prejudice of the horses themselves & all concerned. This simile of the Doctor’s is said to have kindled the present flame. One can hardly suppress the reflection, that the people who could be so much influenced by it, were wonderfully competent to frame Constitutions! Our expenses here, Sir, are incredible: every horse is ten shillings a day, & every thing else in proportion. 5 Tr (Nc-Ar). FC (Nc-Ar). 1 In the FC the preceding part of this sentence reads: “Whoever will Consider that no man can be known all over America until he becomes Eminent in their Councils or Armies, and that he can never get admittance into either in any con siderable Rank but through the favor of his particular State, and that he cannot obtain their favor by any other means than Convincing them that their Wishes will always be first Objects of his attention, whoever, I say, Considers this will not dispute the Truth of my Observation.” Alongside this passage Burke wrote in the margin: “This thought is expressed in a more Concise manner in the original.” a “Jurisdiction and authority” in FC. 8 Burke added the following clause to this sentence in the FC: “that the public Servants in this Department may better learn their Duty, and that I in particular may be Instructed not to give the Sense of the State in a Manner which She may not approve.” 4 See Burke’s Notes of Debates, February 26 and 27, 1777. "For the continuation of this letter, see Burke to Caswell, March 19, 1777.
