March 11, 1777 433 [P.S.] Do let Harry Buy & bring 1 or 2 Bushells of Parsnips. Bring all the wine, none to be got here. 3 MS not found; reprinted from Lorenzo Sears, John Hancock, The Picturesque Patriot (Boston: Little, Brown and Co., 1912), pp. 219-22. 1 Thus in Sears’ text. 3 At this point, Sears inserted an ellipsis and the editorial notation “the writing is here illegible.” 8 Hancock wrote another letter to Dorothy two days later in which he admonished her to “take care of Genl. Washington’s mug. Take care in crossing the ferries. . . . Do not be too venturesome. Had you not better take some bedding in the light wagon as you will be here before the heavy wagons. I dare say you will order every thing with the utmost propriety. I commit you and family to the care of a kind Providence and hope you will have a safe and quick journey.” Thomas Madigan Catalog (November 1928), p. 38, item 102. John Hancock to the New York Delegates In Congress Chamber, Philadelphia, March 11,1777. Resolved, (as the opinion of the representatives of eight of the United States now convened at the State House in Philadelphia,) That the criti cal state of our affairs requires the immediate meeting of Congress, and that the President be, and he is hereby requested to send a message by express to the Delegates of the Delaware State, and another to the Dele gates of the State of New-York, desiring their attendance in Congress, that for want thereof the business of the Continent may no longer be delayed. Gentlemen, In consequence of the foregoing resolve, 1 I am most earnestly to request you will be pleased to give your attendance in Congress at this place as speedily as possible; our affairs require immediate atten tion, and it is absolutely necessary there should be a full representation; I therefore hope to have the pleasure of seeing you here immediately. I am much hurried; can only add, that I am, with much esteem, gentlemen, Your most obedt. servt. John Hancock, Presidt. MS not found; reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 2:409. 1 This resolve does not appear in the journals of Congress. The journals were not maintained daily between Congress’ February 27 adjournment in Baltimore and March 12, when a quorum finally was available in Philadelphia. Since Secre tary Thomson did not return to Philadelphia and resume keeping the journals until March 24, the entries for March 14-23 were kept by President Hancock and his secretary, Jacob Rush. Although the journal for March 12—13 is in Thomson’s hand, he must have made these entries after the fact and on the basis of rough notes kept by Hancock and Rush, since according to his own testimony (in an April 22 letter to Washington) he was not in Philadelphia at this time. Immediately after the entry in the journal for February 27 stating that Congress was adjourning to return to Philadelphia, there is a notation by Hancock listing some orders Congress issued on March 24. Hancock must have entered these orders under the former date because they were issued in response to a report of the Board of Treasury that was delivered during Congress’ recess. PCC, item 1, 7:174, 8:1—23.
