March 12, 1777 437 The members of Congress having left this a few days afterwards, by adjournment to Philadelphia, the appraisers when met, declared them selves inadequate to the appointment, being totally unacquainted with the value of those goods; which, together with the captain and crew’s opposition to that mode, produced an agreement between the parties, that all should be sold at auction, except the woollens and coarse linens, which the Congress was to take at the rates of a dollar currency for what cost one shilling sterling, for the woollens, and 4^. 6d. per yard for the coarse linens; the rest of the cargo that sold at vendue, I compute upon an average, went off at about one thousand per cent: as a specimen, yard wide Irish linen, that cost 2s. 8d. per yard sterling, sold for 24s. currency per yard; a dollar is 7s. Gd. Cordage sold at £14 5s. per cwt. I forgot to mention that in answer to my arguments against the motion, Congress availed themselves of a letter from General Washington, advising them that the Convention at Fishkill had there stopped (as I think) thirty-six wagons laden with clothing for the army immediately under his command. He says, “indeed I cannot blame them, knowing their dis tressed situation.” However, of this a handle was made to obviate my objections. 3 The sale of the schooner’s cargo is now completed. In short, such was the exorbitant prices which these goods sold at, that I was deterred from making a considerable purchase. Add to this the difficulty of procuring conveyances, which are all employed in transporting the Congress’s stores, the member’s baggage, together with that of the new battalions on their march to Head-Quarters, I have only bought a few casks of barley, some coils of cordage, and the four X cut saws, thinking they might be of service with Genl. Schuyler at Albany; and these perhaps I may be obliged to leave behind for the public, for want of conveyance. The trial of the brigantine laden with salt, is to come on on Tuesday the 18th inst.; I believe she will be acquitted by the Admiralty court, being claimed by an inhabitant of this town; if so, Capt. Rogers intends appealing to Congress, as it appears by the register and papers found on board, that she was owned in Ireland, and bound to N- , which the claimants pretend was only for a cover. Capt. Rogers has his sloop almost ready for the sea, and intends sailing as soon as the brigantine’s trial is over, but informs me that himself and crew are entitled to a moiety of all captures: upon my asking him for his articles, he told me that his agreement was verbal, i.e. to be upon the same footing with armed vessels fitted out by the Congress, which were originally one-third for the captors; but that previous to .his taking these two last prizes, Congress had extended it to one-half. As this is contrary to the tenor of your last letter, I shall cause the distribution of the prize money to be deferred, until I receive your further instructions on this head. 4 Our State being still unrepresented in Congress, it was thought neces sary I should remain here a few days longer to transact some business in the
