March 14, 1777 443 Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates Philadelphia [March 14,] 1777 1 There was a Debate on the Subject of Retaliation soon after the arrival of the Congress at Philadelphia, occasioned by a suggestion of General Washington that our Circumstances made it impolitic to use such Lan guage, the Enemy have a superiority over us in Captive Officers at least six to one. That there is still subsisting an agreement for exchange which the resolutions of Congress for retaliation might violate. 2 Some extraordinary Opinions were thrown out by Mr. Loval and Doctor Weatherspoon, tending to the Doctrine that we were bound by no such agreements no longer than we found them convenient. Several Gentlemen denied this Doctrine, but maintained that the Enemy’s treat ment of General Lee was an infringement on their part, and the agreement was therefore become void. North Carolina vehemently opposed the Doctrine alledging that it vio lated all public Faith, and was in a word declaring to mankind that we ought never to be trusted. That it was good policy even abstracted from all moral Consideration, to keep inviolate the Faith of Nations, because on that alone was founded all compact between them, that to a young Country the reputation of Fidelity was as Essential as that of Immaculate Chastity to a Young Beauty, the Smallest blot in either must sink the Subject forever in the Estimation of mankind. That if the Cartile (which he was not informed of) was violated by the Resolutions of Congress, he was clearly of Opinion that they ought to be rescin[d]ed. The Debate now turned on the Question whether the Treatment of General Lee was an infringement. The Facts produced to prove it were the Confinement of the General under Custody of the Provost at New York, and the Evasions of General How to the Question whether he should be considered as a Prisoner of War or not. North Carolina was of Opinion this did not amount to a Direct Breach, but that a Categorical answer ought to be demanded and the Enemy informed that a refusal would be deemed a Breach, but that all farther proceeding was premature. The Congress were of a Different Opinion, and it appeared some days afterwards that General Washington thought of it in the same manner with the Congress. 3 MS (NN). For a description of these notes, see Burke’s Notes of Debates, Feb ruary 7, 1777. Although most of this MS deals with a debate that took place in Congress on March 14, the last paragraph at least was written no earlier than April 11, the day Congress read the letters from Washington cited in note 3, below. On the other hand, it is possible that the entire entry was written about that time because imme diately after the final paragraph, which could not have been composed before April 11, Burke added some brief notes on a debate that occurred in Congress on April 8, which are printed below.
