March 15, 1777 447 I have been attacked by a Weakness in my Eyes and Writing is the most dangerous thing I can do whilst it Continues. On this Account I am obliged to absent myself from Congress & refrain from [business] but in all situations of life I shall ever remain with the sincerest esteem Your Excellency’s most obed, hble Servant, Robt Morris RC (DLC). A continuation of Morris to Washington, March 6, 1777. Oliver Wolcott to Joshua Huntington Sir, Philadelphia 15 March 1777 I wrote to you a few days ago which you will receive. 1 I now send you Directions for Building the 36 Gun Frigate made out by the Board of Assistants. They Apprehend that this may be sufficient for yr. Direction. They have no Draught and say it would take a Fortnight to make one. But if you shall think it necessary you will inform and it will be provided for you. Thirty Thousand Dollars goes forward for you and Mr. Cotten who is now here. You will receive your part of the Money of Govr. Trumbull. Rigging and Ducks I cannot at present direct where they may be had, but they must be provided for you. You will from time to time Advise the Marine Committee of whatever you may Want. I Am, Sir, your Most Obedient, humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott P.S. I advised you in my last to direct your Letters to such Gentlemen as might be in the Marine Committee from our State. But upon Considera tion think that there would be more Propriety in Addressing your Letters To the Marine Committee rather than to any Individual. The President of Congress as such cannot properly be addressed in this Department and as a Marine Board will always exist an Address to them is douptless best—except on any Dificulty of a particular Nature you will inform any Gentleman in a Way which will be most agreable to you. Sir &c O.W. You will receive 17,000 Dollars of Govr. Trumbull. I have delivered Mr. Cotten who is here 13,000 dollars. RC (MHi). 1 See Wolcott to Joshua Huntington, March 11, 1777. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia March 16. 1777 The Spring advances, very rapidly, and all Nature will soon be cloathed in her gayest Robes. The green Grass, which begins to shew
