458 March 18, 1777 can cause. Nevertheless, Silas Deane had been informed by Edward Bancroft, a British intelligence agent, that “Dr. Williamson, of Pennsylvania, who came over hither with Mr. Ewing, and who (though ostensibly a zealous American) is se cretly a Spy in the service of Government, and has been in Holland some time, col lecting intelligence, is now arrived for the same purpose in Paris; that by yester day’s mail Letters were brought from him to administration which contained some things respecting you and me; that he besides wrote to a ministerial Gentleman here, and acquainted him that I had lived and been very intimate with you in Paris; that I doubtless must be concerned in your proceedings whatever they might be, and that I ought to be watched &c. &c. for the sake of Detecting Correspond ence & making Discoveries; & this he recommended to have immediately done.” Bancroft to Deane, September 13, 1776, NYHS Collections 19 (1886): 240-41. Consequently, Deane denounced Williamson as a spy in letters of October 1 and November 28, 1776, to the Committee of Secret Correspondence. Wharton, Diplo matic Correspondence, 2:288, 374. And even the British ambassador to France, Lord Stormont, thought he was a potential British agent, reporting to Lord Wey mouth on October 9, 1776: “I am assured that Deane was much displeased with Dr. Williamson, and among other Things reproached Him for the Visit he made me. I mention this the rather as thinking it possible that Williamson who I imagine is returned to London and who appeared to Me to be well enough calculated for being a double Spy might be of some Use now that he finds himself Obnoxious to His Countrymen.” Morgan, Naval Documents, 7 :684-85. But contrary to the expectations of Deane and Stormont, Williamson did not return to London, sailing instead in December for Philadelphia on the ship Sally, which was forced aground by a British cruiser off the Delaware coast. There Wil liamson escaped in a small boat with his dispatches, which ironically included Deane’s letter denouncing him. See Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1302; William Whipple to Joseph Whipple, March 19, 1777; and John Adams to Abigail Adams, March 16, 1777, note 4. Williamson, who later established himself as a merchant in Edenton, N.C., repre sented that state in Congress, 1782-85, 1788. DAB. 3 Warren’s April 3 response to this letter is in the Warren-Adams Letters, 1:309-10. Samuel Adams to Mercy Scollay My dear Miss Scollay Philadelphia March 18 1777 Your Favor of the 11th of Feby by Mr Bromfield did not reach my hand till yesterday. 1 I admire your Fidelity to our departed Friend, dis covered in your unceasing anxiety for the Education and future well being of his Children. A few Days before I left Boston in October last, I had an opportunity of conversing with one of the Mr Warrens upon the Subject. I told him what we had proposd for Miss Betsy; but there seemd to be a Difficulty in removing her from the Place where she had been invited to live, upon the Score of Friendship to her late Father: and had been treated with so much Civility and Kindness. With Respect to the youngest Son and Daughter, I mentioned my strong Desire that they might be con tinued under your Care; and that Means might be contrivd to have the
