464 March 19, 1777 Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell [March 19, 1777] Since our arrival in this City we have done very little in Congress. Until within a few days we had no Congress, & now we have but nine States: 1 the few members in town are closely engaged in committees, & what I write is done when other people are asleep. You will therefore not wonder should you find it very incorrect. There are letters from Doctor Franklin in France of the 10th December. They represent a war in Europe as certainly imminent, & we have received a very particular mark of the favor of that Court, 2 which I am not at liberty to disclose. You will see in the paper a Resolution recommending to the States to assess blankets for the soldiery. 3 This is absolutely necessary, because such things can not otherwise be had. In our State I hope it will be attended with no difficulty, because a great many families can spare one at least, & supply themselves again before the winter by spinning. The money should be paid in the Counties, & indeed if possible immediately on the valuation, because the price will not be worth the trouble of seeking after, & the individual might lose it. Whenever it is necessary to draw for money for this purpose, your draught on the President of the Congress will be duly honored. Before Mr Hooper’s departure it was resolved, that five hundred thou sand dollars should be advanced to our state, on your warrant. 4 No such warrant has yet arrived: but some bills from the Treasurers have come to hand. I have consented to their being paid & deducted out of the above sum; because I knew that was the utmost amount of what was permitted to be drawn, by any means, on the account of our State. The treasury Board complain of these small drafts as being too troublesome, & wish you would order out the whole. ‘Tis probable, Sir, the Assembly may make choice of some more able man to serve in this Department. I should be very far from deeming it an injury to me, & am certain it could be none to the State. I have resolved, very early in this dispute, to decline no service that my country require me to perform, altho’ all offices are almost equally out of my way, & none are desirable to me. But if the Assembly should think proper to direct me to continue in this department, I hope I may be allowed to return to my private affairs, for a few weeks in the summer. If I have this permission, I promise, Sir, that I will not avail myself of it to the delay or prejudice of public business. 5 Tr (Nc-Ar). FC (Nc-Ar). A continuation of Burke to Caswell. March 11, 1777. See note 1 below for the date of the present entry. 1 To this point in the FC the present entry reads: “It is now the 19th of March and Since our arrival in the City we have done nothing. We had barely a Congress for a few days last week, but none this week yet.”
