March 21, 1777 469 6 rations and a Regimental Paymaster 3 by a resolution of Congress of the 10th of October last. 5 As to what you mention of a neglect to give you information of the resolutions of Congress respecting the duties of Your Office, I am sure there has been no intention to treat you with neglect, or any disesteem of your person or services, for I believe you have executed Your office to as good Satisfaction as any officer in the public Service. The resolu tions of Congress should be published monthly at least, for the informa tion of all concerned, but Congress has not yet been able to procure it to be done. I understand by the President that he transmits to general Schuyler what respects the Northern department, expecting that he would give the needful information to others. Perhaps General Schuyler does not know but that the resolutions which respect your office had been transmited to you from Congress, which I think would be the proper way. I have sent you Copies of some resolutions in time past but know not whether they came to hand. I must do General Wolcott the Justice to Say that his not Complying with Your request in your letter of the 16th of November sooner, was not from any disposition to treat it with neglect, for he seemed really concerned to have the matter accomplished, but he was left alone, & the Congress moved from Philadelphia to Baltimore about the time he re ceived the letter which necessarily occasioned the delay. I Shall always take pleasure in rendering you any Service in my Power, and especially when it will promote the public good. I am Sir due regards, Your humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (CtHi). 1 See the resolve of October 7, 1776, in JCC, 5:853. 2 See Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., January 30, 1777. 3 Congress authorized $300,000 for the deputy paymaster general on January 30. JCC, 7:75. 4 Congress implemented the recommendation in a resolve of April 1, 1777. JCC, 7:216. 3 See the resolves of October 10 and 21, 1776, in JCC, 6:862, 891. John Adams to John Avery Sir Philadelphia March 21. 1777 I had this Morning the Pleasure of your Favour of the 7th Instant, 1 and am glad to learn that my Letter to you of the Tenth of February was conveyed Safely to your Hand, and am obliged to you for communi cating the Resignation enclosed in it to the Honourable Board. It would give me a great deal of Uneasiness if the Honourable Board should not proceed for Months to fill up the Vacancy, if I thought as you seem to suggest that they would postpone it untill they should see
