March 22, 1777 477 chasing every thing at the stated Prices, and then exporting them at an immense Profit. 2 As to the Mass, getting Money, it is all a Joke. They have lost their Staple by this Quarrell, which no other State has done—the Fishery, I mean, which has destroyed their Trade. The Privateers fitted out in that State, which have made such an Ecclat, belong to Congress, and to Citi zens of other states, I suppose, one half of them and Besides, this Conti nent could not have carried on the war without them. Their Seamen have supplied the Army with most Things. Where then is the Ingratitude? Dont be anxious about the Union. I have been a Witness to such Peevishnesses a long time. They Spring from Envy at Bottom. They see the Superiority of the Mass, to every one of them, in every Point of View, and they cant bear the sight. But the ill humour will frett away. The Indi go, Rice, Tobacco, Wheat, Iron, the Staples of other States, are not affected by this War like the Fishery, the Mast and Lumber Trade which make almost the whole Trade of the Mass. For whose good has the Mass, sacrificed their Trade, and Privateers too by their Embargo? A Restraint that other States have not chosen to Subject themselves to, altho it is more wanted, both for manning the Army and Navy in them, than it was in her. I hate disputes of this sort, and I never begin them. But when Mass is attacked, I never have and never will fail to defend her, as far as Truth and Justice will warrant me and no further. There is a narrow Spirit, in many People, which Seems to consider this Contest as the Affair of Boston and the Mass, not the affair of the Continent. All that they have to do, is to wear genteel Uniforms and Armour, to get the Character of Heroes by their Bravery, and to be thought to lay Boston and the Mass, under vast obligations. For my own Part I think the obligations mutual. But if there is a Ballance it is clearly in favour of Mass. I ever disclaimed, in the most decisive Terms, all obligations to any state or Person, and ever shall. I will never solicit Charity or Favours, as a Politician, much less acknowledge obligation to others, who are under the strongest of all. Are there not Persons who insinuate themselves into your Army, with a Design to foment Prejudices, excite Jealousies, and raise Clamours? 3 RG (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Tudor’s March 16 letter is in the Adams Papers, MHi. “The Massachusetts General Court did not regulate the prices of goods until January 25, 1777. Earlier, on December 7, 1776, the General Court had imposed a general embargo on coastal voyages within the state and all shipping except that ordered by Congress, the Massachusetts Board of War, and the General Court. Finding this measure ineffective because of overland exports, the General Court on January 9 restricted the export of all foodstuffs and naval stores except by license. Massachusetts Council Minutes, December 7, 1776, January 9 and 25, 1777. DLC(ESR).
