478 March 22, 1777 3 Adams also wrote a brief letter this day to his wife Abigail inquiring about her letters to him and the health of their family. Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:181. Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell [March 22, 1777] I began this letter on the 11th instant, & it is now the twenty second (March). I will probably be some days before I close it, & if any thing occurs, I will subjoin it. March 24th. A vessel has just arrived from France with ten thousand stand of arms, a very seasonable supply. We have some apprehension that General How will turn his arms against this City, & we are providing for his reception. I have the honour to be with the greatest respect & esteem, Your Excellencys most obed, humble Servant, Thos Burke P.S. You will perceive by the paper of 26th that the account of arms was overrated. I beg the favour of you to forward the inclosed. Tr (Nc-Ar). A continuation of Burke to Caswell, March 19, 1777. Committee of Congress to Thomas Johnson Philada. March 22d 1777. 1 Your Excellency’s zeal and activity in the cause of these United States gives us confidence in addressing you upon a critical emergency. Being a Committee of Congress appointed to confer with Major Gen eral Greene now in this city, we find it is General Washington’s settled opinion that Genl. Howe may suddenly attempt to gain this Capital. 2 We wish that the new levies in your State may be forwarded with the utmost expedition possible: so that they may either join our troops already in the Jersies, or at least be at hand to arrest the enemy at the Delaware, in the supposed attempt to pass it. Our address to you in a plain narrative & wish is all which your charac ter makes necessary even on this singularly critical occasion. In the Name of the Committee, I am, With Esteem, Your Excellency’s Friend & humb Servt. Daniel Roberdeau RC (MdAA). 1 This is the first known letter written by Roberdeau as a delegate. Although he later prepared an account claiming attendance from February 5, 1777, (the date of his election) to May 23, 1778, inclusive, there is no evidence that he attended Congress in Baltimore. It seems unlikely that he actually attended
