March 22, 1777 479 before March 12 when Congress reconvened in Philadelphia, the day the Penn sylvania delegates’ credentials were presented and entered upon the journals. See JCC, 7:169; Burnett, Letters, 2:lxiv; and Daniel Roberdeau’s Account, May 23, 1778, Gratz Collection, PHi. 2 See JCC, 7:175, 189, 191; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:285- 88, 294-95, 299-300. Elbridge Gerry to the Massachusetts Board of War Gentlemen, Philadelphia Mar 22. 1777 I have just reed from Monsr. Pliame the enclosed Letter, which he desired me to transmit without Delay as the Circumstances of his En gagement with your Board requires immediate Dispatch. 1 The Chease- peak is not much infested at present with the Enemy’s Ships, but how long things will remain in this Situation is uncertain. He seems to be very desirous of an answer by the earliest opportunity wch I wrote him should be communicated to the Board. I remain Gentlemen Very re spectfully, your most obed. Sert, E Gerry RC (M-Ar). 1 Emmanuel de Pliarne’s March 22, 1777, letter to the Massachusetts Board of War, concerning the disposition of his ship, is in the Massachusetts Board of War Records, M-Ar. James Lovell to John Trumbull Sir Phila. March 22d. 1777 I wrote you by Mr. Bates, a few lines in regard to your manner of re turning your Commission. 1 I was not aware of some circumstances at tending your appointment, which have upon this occasion been Canvassed. I shall not accurately enter upon a discussion of the propriety or im propriety of your resignation—but shall only, as an affectionate friend, give you this early intelligence of a number of facts, which will enable you to make a final determination in this matter. The Commissions of several, enclosed in letters of less apparent re sentment than yours, had been readily admitted for Resignation. Some very cutting resolutions had been made upon the insolent passages of the late Letters of Schuyler; especially on those parts which called for Stigmas on you or your brother. Immediately your Letter is opened, and by your friends committed, instead of the resignation being instantly accepted a favorable report was made, but overruled by a Motion to post pone the Consideration. Upon this General Gates sent in a recommenda tory letter, explaining the circumstances of your Appointment. But this would not do. Congress is greatly piqued at the Style and Manner of
