480 March 22, 1777 your demand, in a Case which will appear to you now, in the line of Favour, not of strict right. You are to know that General Gates’s power was in Canada, so that your appointment before his entrance there, was not strictly proper. Whether your first Commission was dated after any formal debate upon this point, I cannot say—but that and the late one were of one date, founded on your nomination in Congress, I suppose. Every Member is entirely willing to accord you a Commission agree able to the date you expect, but they are determined to lose even your acknowledged abilities, if they do not receive a different request from that now before them. You were certainly unacquainted with the criticisms which may take place as to General Gates’s power of appointment out of Canada. You were also unacquainted with the provocations which have been given to Congress for Attention to the Style of the Letters of their Officers prior to the Receipt of yours. General Gates is attached to you. The Congress admit your merit: and, while they are disposed to give you a Rank, which shall save you from all appearance of Demerit, they think that you yourself will judge the Commission more valuable for proceeding from a Body attentive to their own Honor. No time will be lost by this Accident, if you determine to procure the Commission by the Method which I shall take the freedom to point out, because you may go on to act, from an absolute certainty to receive it by the first opportunity after your Letter shall arrive here. To the Honb. John Hancock Esq &c &c Sir, Since I addressed a letter to your Honor from Providence, enclosing my Commission, I have been led to find that I was mistaken in the appre hension that my appointment to the office of Deputy Adjutant General on the 28th of June (from which time I have acted) was so much in the usual manner, as to render that Commission bearing an after date, a decisive degradation, when compared with the usual practise. But the same desire of serving my Country in the most effectual manner, which has governed all my Actions in the course of my Adjutancy, since the day of my first appointment, leads me to be anxious that I may not be under appearances of disgrace, from any Circumstance in my Commission: as this would lessen my most vigorous exertions. Therefore I entreat that your Honor would move the Honorable Congress to favor me with a Commission consonant in date to my appointment by General Gates, assuring them of my Zeal for the Service of the United States and of my highest Respect for their Body. I am &c &c &c I do not affect to point out a verbal exact model for you; it is the Tenor only. 2 With something similar you may be sure of an instant com-
