482 March 22, 1777 Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Philadelphia 22d March 1777 I have this instant reed a Letter from Dr. Smith of the 12th wherein he tells Me that you and the Children have been Inoculated for the Small Pox, and that he Apprehended you was so farr thro it as to be out of Danger, Casuallaties excepted. News which is Very agreable to Me, as I have for some Time been much concerned least you should take the Infection of that distressing Disease unprepared. I perceive that Mariana has had it bad, he Writes Very hard. I am heartily sorry for what the little Child has suffered, and Very much Want to see her. If she has by this lost some part of her Beauty, which I hope She has not, yet I well know she might spare much of it and yet retain as much as Most of her Sex possess—but I hope the small Pox will give her no uneasiness tho’ it may have a little hurt her complexion, as there is No Valuable and lasting Beauty but what exists in the Mind, and if she cultivates these Excellencies she will not fail of being beloved and esteamed. May a gratefull sence of the divine Goodness be deeply impressed upon my Mind, in that God has taken this Care of you and our Children, and for the Health which I am favoured with. I am sorry that our Assembly had not repealed or so farr altered the Law respecting Inoculation, or that People from the Principles of Self Preservation were not laid under a necessity of Violating it. The Law of Self Preservation certainly will justify Violating a Law not founded on Moral Principles but of supposed Gonveniency only, but no Laws ought to Exist which are merely political when it is clearly known that they will not be observed as Laws of that Nature are supposed to be the Symtoms of the Want either of Power or Wisdom or perhaps both. I was fully Satisfied in my own mind that the same would be the Effect of limiting the Prices of the Articles of Living. In my Judgment the most despotic Government that ever existed since the Days of Nimrod could never carry such a Law into Execution, but I have done nothing to Prejudice the Scheme this Way as it was adopted by our State. Tho’ I tho’t it was founded upon every Principle of Impolicy. But why am I eternally dabbling in Politicks. Would to God that the Knaves and Oppressors of this World would cease their Villany, so that each one might Return to domestick Injoyment, and possess unenvied that Peace, which cannot be had in any Other Circumstances of Life. I want much to See my Family. There are some Circumstance of a publick Nature which render my Return less desirable just Now than I wish it was—besides a certain Management or (I do not know what to call it) which I have Experienced and which I well know that I am to expect, there is a cer tain Volatility or publick Inflamation arising from Various Causes which I believe will not be in my Power either to Moderate or give a benificial
