484 March 24, 1777 John Adams to James Warren Dear sir Philadelphia March 24. 1777 This Morning, a Vessell has arrived in this City with 6800 stand of excellent Arms and 1500 Gun Locks, belonging to Congress and 1500 more private Property. These last We have ordered to be bought. 1 This News you may depend on, the Letters were brought into Con gress, in the Midst of a Debate concerning a Resolution to impower the General to procure Arms wherever he could find them. Thus it is. On how many occasions, when We have been unable to see any way to help ourselves has Providence sent Us an unexpected Relief! Thus it has been, and thus it will be. I am, &c John Adams RC (MHi). 1 Upon the receipt of this news, Congress immediately empowered the Secret Committee to “purchase such of the arms and military stores as belong to private persons.” JCC, 7:197. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 24th March 1777 My last acknowledged the receipt of yours of 18th ulto and enclosed the dimensions of the 74 gun ship, since which have heard nothing of the brig Morris or ship Mifflin nor have I heard of the arrival of the schooner which my brother wrote me had sailed for Baltimore. Both Delaware and Chesapeake Bays are at this time clear of the enemy’s ships, but a number of them are continually cruising on the coast, that I think it will be very' lucky indeed, if some of those vessels do not fall into the enemy’s hands. The Betsey frigate proving leaky bore away for the West Indies and is safe arrived at Martinico and we are told by the Agent comes to a much better market than if she had arrived at Bordeaux—her cargo being in great demand there. 1 This is a lucky accident as remittance is much wanted there. The money by Betton must have reached you before this time which I hope will last you some time. However I shall send you more as soon as the state of the Treasury will admit of it, in the meantime keep me advised of the state of the Loan Office and what probability there is of money coming in there. All the Agents are instructed to send their accounts every three months which instructions have not been duly attended to. I hope my friend will endeavor to avoid censure on this score; the Secret Committee also expect that the accounts of every ship will be transmitted as soon as possible.
