March 25, 1777 487 Sincerity, all Health & Prosperity, I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Esteem, Your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (NHi). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See JCC, 7:202. Gates did not retain this independent command for long. Soon thereafter General Schuyler came to Philadelphia in order to obtain a long- awaited congressional inquiry into his conduct as commander of the northern military department, and as a result of this investigation Congress resolved on May 22 to confirm his command over that department. This prompted Gates, who had expected to operate independently of Schuyler, to request permission from Schuyler in June 1777 to leave the northern department. Schuyler, only too glad to be rid of his main rival for command, readily complied with Gates’ request. See Jonathan G. Rossie, The Politics of Command in the American Revolution (Syracuse, N.Y.: Syracuse University Press, 1975), pp. 142-53; and Paul D. Nelson, General Horatio Gates: A Biography (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1976), pp. 78-88. Marine Committee Examination of John Grannis [ante March 25, 1777] 1 The Examination of John Grannis on the Subject Matter of the Petition of several officers of the Frigate Warren agst Commodore Hopkins and Papers therein inclosed. 2 Question. Where do you live? Answer. In Falmouth in the County of Barnstable in the Massachusetts Bay. Qu. Are you an Officer of the Warren Frigate, and what Officer, and how long have you been an Officer on Board said Frigate? A. I am Capt. of Marines, have been so from the 14th June 1776, was sometime recruiting, and have been on board her from Time to Time upwards of Three Months. 3 Q. Are you the Man who signed the Petition against Esek Hopkins Esqr. by the Name of John Grannis? A. Yes. Q. Do you know the other Subscribers to said Petition? A. Yes. Q. Are any of them Officers of the Warren, and if Officers what Offices do they sustain? A. John Reed is Chaplain and belongs to Middleborough, and James Sellers is Second Lieut, of the Warren and of Dartmouth, both of Massa chusetts-Bay, Richard Marvin is Third Lieut, and of Providence, George Stillman first Lieut, of Marines, Barnabas Lothrop Second Lieut of Ma rines & both of Barnstable. Samuel Shaw is a Midshipman of Bridge- Water, Roger Haddock is Master of the Frigate and formerly was of New
