488 March 25, 1777 York, and John Truman is Gunner and James Brewer Carpenter and both of Boston in the State aforesaid. Q. Have you a personal Acquaintance with Essek Hopkins Esqr? A. Yes I have had a personal Acquaintance with him since I came on board the Ship. Q. Did you ever hear him say any Thing disrespectfull of the Con gress of the United States, and what and when? A. I have heard him at different Times since I belonged to the Frigate speak disrespectfully of the Congress, have heard him say that they were a Sett or Parcel of Men who did not understand their Business, that they were no Way calculated to do Business, that they were a Parcell of Lawyers Clerks, that if their Measures were followed the Country would be ruined and that he would not follow their Measures. I have heard him say the above in Company on Ship Board and Words to the same Effect on Shore. Sometimes the above was spoken of Congress in general, but more frequently of the marine Committee. Q. Did you ever hear him speak disrespectfully of Congress or the Marine Committee before Prisoners? A. No. I never was in his Company when Prisoners were present. Q. Do you know any Thing about his Treatment of Prisoners? A. I was on board the Frigate Providence when there [were] about Twenty Prisoners on board. They were called into the Cabin where I was and were asked by Capt Whipple 4 whether they would do Ship’s Duty? They answered No. Capt. Whipple said it was his Orders from the Commodore to put them in Irons, to keep them on Two Thirds Allowance and by God he would obey the Commodore’s Orders. They were sent out of the Cabin with an Officer, who returned & said he had put them in Irons. There were also some Prisoners sent on board the Frigate Warren, who were forced to do Ships Duty by Commodore Hop kins Orders, and he refused to exchange them when a Cartel was settled and other Prisoners were exchanged, but don’t know that it was their Turn. The Reason he assigned for not exchanging them was that he wanted to have them inlist on board the Frigate. Q. Do you know any Thing about a British Frigate being aground last Winter in the River or Bay leading up to Providence in the State of Rhode-Island &c and what? A. I did not see the Diamond Frigate when She was on Shore in Jany. last. 5 I was then on board the Warren, which with the continental Fleet lay just above a Place called Fields Point. Commodore Hopkins went down the River in the Sloop Providence and sometime after he returned I heard him say that the People in Providence blamed him for not taking the Diamond, but that the Men were not to blame for they went as far as he ordered them, and would have gone further if he would have per mitted them, but that he did not think safe to go nearer with that Sloop, for that the Diamond fired over her. I heard a Number of People who said
