490 March 25, 1777 Q. Had you, or to your Knowledge either of the signers aforesaid ever any Difference or Dispute with Commodore Hopkins since your or their entering into the Service? A. I never had, nor do I believe that either of them ever had. 7 I have been moved to do and say what I have done and said from a Love to Country, and I verily beleive that the other Signers of the Petition were actuated solely by the same Motives. Jno. Grannis The Sub Committee appointed to take the Examination of John Grannis have examined him as above and report the same to the Marine Committee accordingly. 8 MS (DNA: PCC, item 58). Written by William Ellery and signed by John Grannis. 1 This document was written sometime after Grannis left Rhode Island about February 24 and before the Marine Committee submitted his complaints about Commodore Hopkins to Congress on March 25. See JCC, 7:202; and Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1275-77. 2 Since Commodore Esek Hopkins’ censure by Congress on August 16, 1776— for which, see Thomas Jefferson’s Notes on the Inquiry into Esek Hopkins’ Con duct, August 12, 1776—congressional dissatisfaction with his performance as commander of the Continental Navy had grown. After returning to his command in the wake of that episode, Hopkins further offended many delegates by failing to carry out cruises off Nova Scotia and North Carolina ordered by the Marine Committee in August and October 1776, by allowing the fleet to be bottled up in Narragansett Bay in December of that year, and by failing to destroy the British frigate Diamond when it was temporarily aground off Rhode Island in January 1777. But Congress’ patience with Hopkins finally reached the.breaking point after he came under attack by ten officers and men stationed aboard his own flagship, the Continental frigate Warren. As most of these men were natives of Massachusetts, they first turned for advice to Robert Treat Paine, a delegate from the Bay State who was then at home in Taunton, and around February 11 they sent him a list of charges against the commodore and his son Capt. John Burroughs Hopkins, which accused the former in particular of being irreligious, disrespectful to Congress, unprincipled, inhumane toward prisoners, incompetent, and an obstacle to naval recruitment. Paine evidently advised the discontented officers and men to drop their charges against Captain Hopkins and concentrate on the ones against his father. In any case, John Grannis, a captain of marines aboard the Warren, left Rhode Island near the end of February with a series of papers listing the complaints of the Warren’s officers and men against the elder Hopkins, which he brought to Philadelphia and presented to the Marine Com mittee. After interrogating Grannis about these charges, the Marine Committee laid them before Congress on March 25, and on the following day Congress suspended Hopkins from his command. It is a measure of Congress’ dissatisfaction with Hopkins at this time that it took this drastic step without giving him an opportunity to defend his conduct. After this it was not surprising that Congress dismissed him from Continental service altogether on January 2, 1778. See JCC, 7:202, 204, 10:13; and Edward Field, Esek Hopkins, Commander-in-Chief of the Continental Navy during the American Revolution, 1775—1778 (Providence: Preston & Rounds Co., 1898), pp. 162-76. The documents submitted to Robert
