496 March 26, 1777 John Hancock to the Massachusetts Council Gentlemen, Philada. March 26th. 1777. I have the Honour to forward the enclosed Resolves of Congress, to gether with a Copy of a Letter from Colo. Campbell to General Washing ton. You will perceive from this Letter that Colo. Campbell apprehends himself treated in a very unjustifiable Manner (The Truth of which you will determine). At the same Time you will perceive the Sense of Con gress as to the Nature and Intention of his Confinement. 1 As it is a Matter of the utmost Consequence that Barracks for Prisoners should be erected in some convenient Place, the Congress have fixed upon the County of Worcester in the State of Massachusetts for this Purpose. You will therefore be pleased to execute the Work as soon as possible, agreeably to the enclosed Resolve on that Subject. 2 I have the Honour to be with the greatest Respect, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (M-Ar). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See ]CC, 7:179. Col. Archibald Campbell’s March 4 letter to Washington is in PCC, item 152, 3:585-88. See also Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:207- 8, 214, 235-36. 2 See ]CC, 7:173, 191. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. March 26th. 1777. I have the Honour of transmitting such Resolves of Congress as have passed since my last, which are either relative to your Department, or necessary for your Information. 1 The Congress have authorized you to proceed in the Exchange of Prisoners agreeably to the Cartel at present existing, or such other Regulations as you may think proper to make in the Matter, provided the Enemy will relax in their Treatment of Genl. Lee, and acknowledge him to be a Prisoner of War, and as such entitled to be exchanged. 2 I congratulate you on the Arrival of a Vessel at this Port, from France, with eleven Thousand Stand of Arms in good Order, and I am informed, fit for immediate Use. She has brought likewise fifteen Hundred Gun Locks and a large Quantity of Flints. Six Thousand eight Hundred of the Arms are public Property. The Balance, which belong to Individuals, the Congress have empowered the Secret Committee to purchase immediately. 3 I have wrote to General Gates to repair to Ticonderoga, agreeably to the enclosed Resolve. 4
