March 27, 1777 501 Mistaken, there being no more than 6,800 but to make up for this disappointment, I have now the Pleasure to tell you that there is 630 Barrels Powder arriv’d at Maryland & you may soon expect to hear of large importations of this & some other articles which have been furnish by a certain Court. There is also arriv’d at Maryland two Prize ships loaded with Provisions Bound to New York, Mounting between them 24 or 26 Guns, several other Prizes were taken by the same Privateers which have not yet arriv’d. By late accots from Martinico the Genl, of that Island has commenc’d a warm dispute with the British Admiral & the Govr of Dominica, which our Agent thinks will not be made up, but daily expects a commencement of Hostilities on the Part of the French by way of Reprisals for some French Vessels that have been taken. 1 We have also accots via Martinico that Dr. Franklin was receiv’d at the French Court with all the Honors usually paid embassadors, a perticular accot of his reception will be given out to the World so soon as authen- tick intelligence arrives which is daily Expected; 2 there is also an accot in a French Paper (which I have seen a translation) of the distruction of Portsmouth dock yard, that the fire was not extinguish’d the third day & that the loss was computed at one Million Sterg. By a private letter from Bilboa, a prize sent there by an American Privateer had been un loaded & the Cargo Sold, notwithstanding the Remonstrances &c of all the British Masters & Merchants who happen’d to be there. I this moment receiv’d a letter from Baltimore which informs me that the two Prizes before mention were taken by the Sturdy Begger belonging to that place, that one of them is a ship of 300 Tons mounting 14 Four Pounders, the other a Brig mounting 14 three Pounders, that they were in Company & fought the Privateer 5 Glasses. There Cargoes are 1100 bbs flour, 500 Bags Bread, 3000 Bushels New Castle Coals address to Sir Wm. Howe K.B. That the same Privateer had taken a Brig loaded with Oats & a ship from Bristol bound to the West Indies loaded with Dry Goods which are not arriv’d. I have retir’d in the Midst of a debate in which I don’t feel myself much interested, to give you this letter of In telligence. If any part of which affords you Pleasure, my end is answer’d, and when you have an opportunity I hope you will give the like Pleasure to Your very Affecte Bror, Wm. Whipple RC (MH-H). 1 For the protests of the French governor-general of Martinique against the capture of French vessels by British privateers, see Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1088-90. An account of British seizures and French reprisals by William Bing ham, Congress’ agent at Martinique, is in ibid., 7:1090—92. See also Whipple to Joseph Whipple, April 14, 1777, note. a For the arrival of this “authentick intelligence,” see John Adams to James Warren, March 31, 1777.
