502 March 27, 1777 James Wilson to Arthur St. Clair My dear Sir Philada. 27th March 1777 I have been favoured with two letters from you since my Return to Philadelphia. Your Promise to write to me once a Week gives me great Pleasure [and] it will give me still greater Pleasure to see you soon. This, I have some Hopes, will be the Case, as General Gates is now ap pointed to the Command at Ticonderoga. I can more than conceive what you feel at your long Absence from your Family. You particularly oblige me by reserving a Place for Billy Bird. As some late Difficulties are now removed from the Cartel, his Exchange, I hope, may soon take Place. I have resumed my Seat in Congress. My Reason is, that if at any Time I can be useful to my Country, I can at this. Pennsylvania is still in the greatest Confusion. Perhaps Order may at last arise from it. The very critical Situation of public Affairs is of much Advantage to the Assembly and their Friends. 1 I shall write you more fully soon; and am, my dear Sir, Yours very sincerely, James Wilson RC (PPIn). 1 Since Congress’ adjournment from Baltimore, Wilson had devoted more atten tion to opposing the Pennsylvania government under the new constitution than to Continental affairs. On March 13 he had written the following letter to William Atlee and Jasper Yeates from his home in Carlisle. “The Assembly, taking Advantage of the Weight and Influence, which those in the Opposition to their Plan of Government bestowed upon them for the Purpose of defending the State, and repelling the common Enemy, are now proceeding, in Abuse of that Weight and Influence, to establish their Power under the Constitution. It is therefore high Time that those who think the Constitution a bad one should rouse them selves. From many Accounts I am led to believe that the Dissatisfaction with the Assembly and their Measures is very great and general; and that a successful Op position wants only a Beginning. The enclosed Declaration will shew you what Steps we are taking here. It is already signed by the most reputable Inhabitants of this Place. I could wish that similar Measures were adopted in other Places.” Roberts Collection, PHC. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia March 28. 1777 “A Plott! a Plott! an horrid Plott, Mr. A.” says my Barber, this Morn ing. “It must be a Plott 1. because there is British Gold in it. 2. because there is a Woman in it. 3. because there is a Jew in it. 4. because I dont know what to make of it.” The Barber means, that a Villain was taken up, and examined Yester day, who appears by his own Confession to have been employd by Lord
