March 28, 1777 503 Howe and Jo. Galloway to procure Pilots to conduct the Fleet up Dela ware River and through the Chevaux de Frizes. His Confidant was a Woman, who is said to be kept by a Jew. The Fellow and the Woman will suffer for their Wickedness. 1 RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:188-89. 1 For further information on the “Plott” and the subsequent execution of “The Fellow,” James Molesworth, see John Adams to Abigail Adams, and John Adams to Horatio Gates, March 31, 1777. Committee of Secret Correspondence to the Commissioners at Paris Honorable Gentlemen Philada. March 28th. 1777 I wrote you a few lines the 7th Inst, by Monsr Coleaux & sent you the News papers to that time; by this Conveyance I send another packet of them under Cover to Mr. Delap at Bourdeaux. There are only two Mem bers of the Committee of Correspondance here at present, the rest being absent on leave. Genl. Howe’s army in the Jerseys still remains inactive, and greatly distressed for want of Forage and Fresh provisions which they cannot obtain in any tollerable plenty as our Army are posted all round them, have removed most of the Hay, Com & Provisions that was near Bruns wick and never suffer a Foraging party of the Enemy to stir out but they attack them & altho’ they come out strong enough to drive our People from their Posts very frequently, yet it has always happened the reverse, for they are constantly driven back into Brunswick with considerable loss of men, Horses, Waggons &c. Their situation is disagreable and for that & other reasons I cannot think they will be Content with it much longer, especially as desertion is become frequent amongst their best British Troops, the Grenadiers more or less of them come over to us every Week. You being at so great a distance may probably think we ought to have destroyed Mr. Howe’s Army by this time, and so we un doubtedly shou’d had we had an Army to do it, but when it is considered that Genl. Washington has drove them from their Cantonements on Delaware to Brunswick & confined them there the whole winter, during which he has killed & taken between 3 & 4000 of their Men, 4 to 500 Horses, a Number of Waggons and considerable quantities of Stores, cloathing &c, kept them pent up in a place where they are Ill supplyed with provisions & other Necessarys which has produced desertion, dis content & sickness, it will astonish all mankind to learn that he had not
