April 1, 1777 $1$ New Jersey Delegates to William Livingston gj r Philada. Mar. 31. 1777. The inclosed petitions from three of the Jersey Prisoners were pre sented to Congress & referred to us. We have visited them in the Hospital & find they have had the small Pox very favourably. They are almost fit to go to Work & very pressing for a Discharge. 1 We can find no Method of determining the Cause of their Detention & as the Council of Safety are sitting so near us, we beg to know from you what Report it would be proper to make. 2 We are. Sir, Your most hble Servts. Jona. D Sergeant Abra. Clark Tr (DLC). Copied for Edmund C. Burnett “from the original then in the office of Stan V. Henkels of Philadelphia.” 1 The prisoners in question were John Jolly, John North, and William North. JCC, 7:209. On April 11 the two Norths took the “Oaths of Abjuration and Allegiance as Established by the Legislature of this State” before the New Jersey Council of Safety. Minutes of the Council of Safety of the State of New Jersey (Jersey City: John H. Lyon, 1872), pp. 18—19. 3 At this point the copyist ended his transcription of the body of the letter and summed up the remainder of it with the sentence: “A description of the prisoners follows.” John Adams to James Warren Philadelphia April 1. 1777 Having an opportunity by so carefull an Hand as Captain Wentworth of Portsmouth, I have ventured to inclose you a copy of a Letter which appears to me to be of Consequence. 1 You will make use of it with Cau tion, among such Friends only as can be trusted to make a discreete Use of it. Inclosed is also a state of the stocks in Amsterdam, on the seventh and twelfth of November by which you will see that the British Funds were falling very fast, notwithstanding the News from New York and the precipitate Efforts in England to equip a Fleet of observation. The Dutch dont appear so inimical to us, or so indifferent to our Fate as We apprehended they would be. Letters from that Quarter are fully of opinion that the opportunity for the House of Bourbon is too fair and inviting to be let slip. 2 RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Adams enclosed a copy in his hand of the January 17 letter from the commis sioners at Paris to the Committee of Secret Correspondence. Warren-Adams Papers, MHi; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:248-51.
