522 April 1, 1777 when the most dismal accounts was daily arriving of our retreating army, dress’d up in such colours as was most agreeable to the British Tyrant, & his minions. Notwithstanding all this, a Bank was Establish’d at Paris of 2,000,000 Livers without interest, or security, and at the same time the Credit of Britain is sunk so much that even in Holland the Sale of their Stock stop’d three days, for want of Purchasers, which was never before known. France & Spain are making the most vigorous prepara tions for War, the former had 30 sail of the line nearly ready for sea, the Latter was to have that number ready by the first of Api. Britain has been so mean as to require a Guarentee of Hanover to enable her Tyrant to draw all his Troops out of that Electorate, which has render’d her much more contemptable in the Eyes of all Europe then she was before. The Prince of Hesse has given leave for raising 4000 Troops, which has caus’d an insurection in his country. France is determin’d if possible to prevent Russia from sending Troops to America. The House of Austria is firmly united with France. That restless Spirit, The King of Prussia is on the wing of inquiery. He is extreamly anxious to be inform’d of our trade & wishes to see our ships enter his Ports. In short as it is the interest so it is the wish of all the Powers of Europe (Portugal, Russia & Britain excepted) that the Independence of America shod be supported. After duely considering all these Circomstances, judge you if the Enemy can expect any considerable reinforcements very speedily, but Still it behoves us to use every Exertion to have a powerful army in the field, that we may experpate those Devils incarnated. When I think of their Brutality & worse then Barbarian Cruelties it raises my Indignation beyond dis cription. Sorry I am to find such Backwardness in the recruiting service throughout the States, when one noble effort wod in a very few months rid us of those Infernals. We have many conjectures of the intentions of the Enemy, form’d from the accots. Brot. from York, by People who have made their escape from thence. Some suppose this City is their object, others think they intend to make a desent on the Eastern shore of Virginia, & Mary land, while others are of Opinion that they will still persue the original plan, of effecting a junction of their two armies. Whatever is their in tention, certain I am that if we had one half of our intended Army in the field we could easily frustrate all their Schemes and destroy their army. I wish to know how Your Loan office goes on, & whether you have lay’d an additional tax, to sink some of Your money, this is a matter that I wish was seriously attended too. People surely never were nor never will be better able to pay a Tax then at this time & it is as sure that nothing can tend so much to establish the credit of the circulating money as lessening the Quantity. If proper measures are speedily taken I doubt not (with the assistance of the funds that are & will be soon establish’d in Europe) that our paper may be as stable, as Gold or Silver.
