April 2, 1777 525 I expect by next Post to receive half a Dozn. at once. I may believe so as well as not for if none comes I shall be just where I am. By the Blessing of God I injoy Health. My Love to my children and Friends, and be assured that I am yours with the most inviolable affection, Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi). 1 Wolcott’s March 15 letter has not been found. 3 Wolcott’s March 11 letter to his son has not been found. John Adams to Abigail Adams April 2 1777 Yesterdays Post brought me your kind Favour of March 8. 9. 10, with a Letter inclosed for [from] each of my Sons. But where is my Daughters Letter? That is missing. I regret the Loss of it much. You think I dont write Politicks enough! Indeed I have a surfeit of them. But I shall give you now and then a Taste, since you have such a Goust for them. By a Letter of 17 Jany. Dr. Franklin, Mr. Deane and Dr. Lee, met in Paris, and on 28 December had an Audience of the Count de Ver gennes, Secretary of State and Minister of foreign Affairs; laid before him their Commission, with the Articles of the proposed Treaty of Commerce; were assured of the Protection of his Court, and that due Consideration should be given to what they offered. Soon after they presented a Memorial on the Situation of our States, 1 drawn up at the Ministers Request, together with the Articles of general Confederation, and the Demand for ships of War, agreable to their Instructions. Copies of all which Papers, they gave to the Count D’Aranda, the Spanish Am bassador, to be communicated to his Court. They were promised an Answer from the French Court, as soon as they could know the Determination of Spain, with whom they design to Act with perfect Unanimity. In the mean Time they are expediting several Vessels laden with Artillery, Arms, Ammunition and Cloathing. The Ports of France, Spain and Florence (that is Leghorne in the Mediterranean) are open to the American Cruizers, upon the usual Terms of Neutrality. They write for Commissions to be given to Privateers, and for more frequent and authentic Intelligence. Great Efforts are now making by the British Ministry, to procure more Troops from Germany. The Princes in Alliance with France, have refused to lend any, or to enter into any Guarrantee of Hanover, which England has been mean enough to ask, being apprehensive for that Electorate if she should draw from it, any more of its Troops.
