526 April 2, 1777 Four more Regiments (two of them to be light Horse) are raising in Hesse, where there has been an Insurrection, on Account of drafting the People: and now great sums of Money, are distributed for procur ing Men. They talk of Ten thousand Men in all to be sent over this Spring. The Hearts of the French are universally for Us, and the Cry is strong for immediate War with Britain. Indeed every Thing tends that Way, but the Court has Reasons for postponing it, a little longer. In the mean Time, Preparations are making. They have Twenty six sail of the Line manned and fit for the Sea. Spain has seventeen sail in the same State, and more are fitting with such Diligence, that they reckon to have thirty sail in each Kingdom, by April. This must have an immediate good Effect in our Favour, as it keeps the English Fleet at Bay, coops up their Seamen, of whom they will scarce find sufficient to man their next set of Transports, will probably keep Lord Howes fleet more together for a fear of a Visit, and leave Us more Sea room, to prey upon their Commerce and a freer Coast to bring in our Prizes, and supplies from abroad. The Letter then mentions a Circumstance much to our Advantage but this is a secret. 2 So strong is the Inclination of the Wealthy, in France to assist Us, that our Ambassadors have been offered a Loan of two Millions of Livres, without Interest, and to be repaid when the united States are settled in Peace and Prosperity. No Conditions or securities are required. They have accepted this noble Benefaction, and one half of it is paid into the Hands of their Banker. On the strength of this supply, they are now in Treaty for some strong ships. Lee is in N.Y. confined, but otherwise treated well. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:195-96. 1 This may be a reference to the letter of the commissioners at Paris to Vergennes, January 5, 1777. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:245-46. s This is probably a reference to a contract for American tobacco, which was ultimately signed by Benjamin Franklin and Silas Deane with the Farmers-General of France on March 24, 1777. Ibid., pp. 300-301. John Hancock to Thomas Johnson Sir Philadelphia April 2d. 1777 I have the pleasure to congratulate you on being appointed to fill the most honorable and distinguished Station in the Gift of a free people to bestow. And having the utmost Confidence that the Affairs of the State now entrusted to your Care, will meet with all the Attention they require or deserve, it is with the highest Satisfaction I address you on this im portant Occasion. You will perceive from the inclosed Copy of a Letter from General Washington 1 that the Information it contains is of the most serious Na-
