April 2, 1777 527 ture, and that our Enemies are meditating an Invasion of the State of Maryland. In this Situation of Affairs, I am earnestly to request you will take such Measures, as will have a Tendency to defeat their designs, should any Attempts be made in Consequence of this Intelligence. The inclosed Resolve of Congress respecting the removal of the public Stores to the places therein mentioned, I am to request you will pay the utmost Attention to, and give Orders for removing the same as soon as possible. 2 I have the Honor to be with the greatest respect, Sir, Your most obedt & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt Tr (MdAA). ‘Washington’s March 31 letter to Hancock reported that around March 21, 3,000 British and Hessian soldiers had sailed from New York and seemed to be headed for “Chesepeak Bay with a view of making a descent on the Eastern Shore, or ... to proceed to the Head of Elk, taking Annapolis and Baltimore in their way.” PCC, item 152, 4:47-48; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:217-19. 2 Hancock sent Governor Johnson a resolution of this date calling for “the immediate removal of the powder and military stores at Annapolis to the town of Frederick, in Maryland, and the powder and military stores at Baltimore, to the town of Carlisle, in Pennsylvania.” JCC, 7:219. John Hancock to the Virginia Governor and Council Gentlemen, Philada. April 2d. 1777. The enclosed Copy of a Letter from General Washington containing the most important Intelligence, I am commanded by Congress to trans mit to you with the greatest Expedition. Altho from this Information the Enemy are said to have in View an Attack on some Part of Maryland, yet as it is uncertain where they will bend their Force, it is highly necessary that each State, and yours in particular, should make every Preparation for Defence. I am therefore most earnestly to request you will take such Measures in Concurrence with Govr. Johnson, to whom I have wrote on the Occasion, as will be most effectual to counteract the Designs & Plans of our Enemies. 1 I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Servt. J. H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 On this day Hancock also wrote letters to Gov. John McKinly of Delaware and to the Pennsylvania Executive Council. The first two sentences of these letters are identical to the first two in the present letter, but there are variations in the final sentence of each. Whereas Hancock then wrote to McKinly that “I am therefore most earnestly to request you will give Orders for taking such Measures as the Intelligence herewith forwarded must naturally suggest,” he said to the Pennsyl-
