534 April 3, 1777 reau. That it is possible for France to borrow, is certain, for at the Time when Mr. Turgot was removed, he was negotiating a Loan, and was likely to succeed, for Sixty Millions of Guilders. The Credit of Spain is extreamly good: That Kingdom may have what Money it will, and on the best Terms. The Emperors Credit is also good, not as Emperor but from his hereditary Dominions. Sweeden and Denmark have good Credit. The first the best. They have Money at four Per Cent, and it is not long since the King of Sweeden borrowed Three Millions of Guilders, at that Interest to pay off old debts at five Per Gent.-—his Interest is paid punctually. Prussia has no Credit but his Treasury is full, by squeez ing the last Farthing from his People, and now and then he draws a little Money from Holland, by reviving obsolete Claims. The Credit of the Empress of Russia, is very good, for she has punctually paid the Interest of Twelve Millions of Guilders, which she borrowed in her War with the Turks and has lately paid off, one Million and an half of the Principal. These are the strongest Recommendations to a mercantile People. As to America, in the present state of Affairs, it is not probable, that a Loan is practicable, but should it appear evident, that We are likely to support our Independency or should either France or Spain acknowledge it: in either of these Cases We might have Money. And when it shall be seen that We are punctual in our first Payments of the Interest, We should have as much as We pleased. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2 :197—99. 1 The remainder of this letter is partly quoted and partly paraphrased from William Carmichael’s November 2, 1776, letter to the Committee of Secret Correspondence. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:184—90. * For the activities of Sir Joseph Yorke, British ambassador at The Hague, see Daniel A. Miller, Sir Joseph Yorke and Anglo-Dutch Relations 1774-1780 (The Hague: Mouton & Co., 1970). Oliver Wolcott to Matthew Griswold Sir, Philadelphia 3d April 1777 I have done myself the Pleasure of addressing three Letters to you since I left home all of which I trust you have reed. 1 As I know that you wish to be informed of whatever respects the great Cause in which We are engaged, I shall think myself happy in giving you all the Intelligence which with Propriety I may. Dr. Franklin’s Arrival at Paris where he has been kindly reed, you have been acquainted with. France and Spain have by this Time forty ships of the Line fit for Sea and every Thing in those Kingdoms portend a War with G. Britain, which possibly may have already commenced. The call of the French Nation is for a War, and the opulent of that Kingdom have unsolicited Engaged to Advance to
