April 3, 1777 535 America Two millions of Livres one Quarter of which they have already paid, the Residue to be paid at Short periods, half a million cash Pay ment, which America is to repay without Interest after Peace shall be established in this country. The French Court have ordered Ten Thou sand of their Troops to Brest. The British Court have applyed to and ob tained of the Prince of Hesse six Battalions more but this affair has oc casioned Insults and Insurrections in that Principality. No Russians will be sent to America, and the utmost Force which G Britain will probably be able to send to this country the next campaign will not exceed Ten Thousand men. The above Facts are well authenticated tho they will not be published in any News Paper which you will please to consider, tho’ any other In formation may consistent with a Regard to that circumstance be given. We also learn tho not thro’ the same Channel that the British Stocks are low in Holland that even for three Days immediately proceeding the ar rival of the news that the Enemy had got possession of N. York no Trans- ferr of Stocks was made tho many offered to sell, and those who appeared most desirous of selling were such as were supposed to be best acquainted with the Expectations of the British Court. The Situation of the Enemy is much the same as it has been for some time past. Howe is probably meditating a Blow as he thinks no Time ought to be lost. We ought to think so to and have our Recruits brot for ward as soon as possible. A few months Vigorous and successfull Exertion would probably put an End to the Distresses which We have suffered. America ought not to let the British Army have lain so long a time in the Jerseys nor suffer such Losses as we have done from small partys. Two Days ago a man was hang’d here who had come from N York and had endeavoured to hire Pilots to bring the British Fleet up the River. The Enemy have been constructing light Boat at N York seventy of which are finished and We have pritty good Intelligence that they have three Thou sand of their Troops on Board, but Where their Operations may be Time must discover. Genl. Gates is to command at Ticonderoga. Commodore Hopkins is suspend. 2 Other Intelligence you will receive by the Papers. We do not know in what circumstances the Frigate Trumbull is, I hear she is ready for Sea and will go out soon, our Naval Strength must not be Idle, they might be of immense service in intercepting Supplys and succours for the Army. My best Regards for my Sister and your Family and be assured that I am sir, your most obedient humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott RC (CtY). 1 Of the letters he wrote to Griswold after his return to Philadelphia in October 1776, only Wolcott’s November 16, 1776, letter has been found. a For a discussion of the circumstances which led Congress to suspend Esek Hop kins from his naval command on March 26, see Marine Committee Examination of John Grannis, March 25, 1777, note 2.
