April 5, 1777 539 enemies Ships of war not greatly your Superior in force we doubt not but you will do honor to the Navy of the United States, and to yourself by bringing such into port with you. Should your efforts aided by the Council of War 3 be insufficient to man your ship fully for a Cruize you are in that case to endeavour to get her manned in such manner as to carry the Ship round to Boston and there exert yourself to compleat your number and proceed on the Cruize aforesaid. 4 Wishing you success and health we are Sir, Your friends & servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Ad dressed: “Captain J.B. Hopkins of the Frigate Warren. Captain Abram Whipple of the Frigate Providence. Captain Dudley Saltonstall of the Frigate Trumbull.” 1 The Marine Committee’s letter to the Rhode Island Council of War is dated April 5 and printed below. a In place of the preceding two sentences, the RC of the Committee’s letter to Dudley Saltonstall reads: “We desire that you will use your most diligent exer tions in getting the Frigate under your Command immediately manned for Sea, when you are to proceed on a Cruize in Such Latitudes as will be most likely to fall in with, and intercept the Enemies Transport vessels coming to reinforce or supply their Army at New York.” laDaM. ’ Last six words omitted in RC to Saltonstall. Ibid. 4 None of the officers to whom this letter was addressed was able to carry out the committee’s orders. William J. Morgan, Captains to the Northward: The New England Captains in the Continental Navy (Barre, Mass.: Barre Publishing Co., 1959), pp. 76-80. Marine Committee to the Rhode Island Council of War Gentlemen Philadelphia Api. 5th 1777 We have ordered the Frigates in the State of Rhode-Island &c out on a Cruise, and as it seems they are not fully manned, We earnestly request your Assistance that they may be manned with the utmost Expedition. If they cannot be fully and expeditiously manned in your State, We desire that you would order Draughts to be made from the Militia of Men best acquainted with the Sea to assist in carrying them to Boston where they may avoid a Blockade and procure Seamen, such of the Soldiers who may be put on board the Frigates to be discharged, that they may return and join their respective Companies, as may not chuse to inlist in the Sea Service. 1 We have addressed ourselves to you, Gentlemen, on a Supposition that you are invested with Powers sufficient to enable you to comply with our Request if it should be necessary to draught from the Militia, and that the Genl. Assembly may not be sitting when this reaches you. If the Assembly should be sitting when you receive this, and you are incompetent to the
