April 6, 1777 543 ly as it has youth on its side. We have better Prospects of Trade, a Vessell arrived yesterday from Sweden with Powder, Flynts, Lead, sulphur &c &c &c, and I think shall be able to negotiate Loans. Britain cannot procure any great Reinforcements without involving herself in a French and Spanish War—and her Credit in Holland is very low. The News from France you will learn from Coll Warren to whom I wrote it in Confidence, but he will shew it to you. The Army fills up gradually but rather slowly. There are Troops upon their March from N. Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, towards Head Quarters. The Troops from N. England I hope will soon follow. But my opinion is that the Enemy is more afraid of Us, than we are of them, even now. Their Ruin is inevitable, if our States exert themselves. If they stay at Brunswick they are undone. If they take the Field and march to Philadelphia, there they will meet their Fate, besides that by taking the Field so early, they will lay a Foundation for a sickly Army, thro the whole Campaign. If our General Court had laid their Levies on the Towns last December as I most earnestly intreated them to do, in my opinion Howes destruction would have been effected before now. I am surprised to hear you call for Lottery Ticketts. Dr. Jackson, one of the Managers, went from this Place, a long Time ago, with a Load of them to Boston. We have been engaged many days in preparing a Plan for the sick, and I think the best possible Provision will be made. No Expence will be Spared, and the best Physicians and surgeons will be employed. We have now Arms and military stores in Abundance. We have Quarter Master and Commissarys stores in Plenty. Blanketts and Cloaths are most wanted, but We have a considerable Quantity of them and expect more. We have Tents of the best Quality for thirty thousand Men. With submission to Providence we shall make it do—and so farewell tyrannical Grandam. I am sir &c. LB (MHi). 1 Cooper’s March 24 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi. John Adams to James Warren My Friend Philadelphia April 6. 1777 The Business of the naval and marine Department, will I hope, be soon put in a better Train than it has been. A Board of Assistants has been appointed here, consisting of three Gentlemen, not Members of Con gress, whose whole Time is devoted to the service. Mr Hopkinson, Coll Nixon, and Mr John Wharton are the Men. 1 The first is a Gentleman of Letters, the second an able Merchant, the third an eminent shipwright.
