544 April 6, 1777 There is a Talk of appointing a similar Board at Boston, and a Com missioner at every considerable Port in N. England. Who would be proper Persons for those Places? They should be well acquainted with Navigation. They should be well informed in Trade. They should be Men of Char acter and Credit. 2 The Marine Committee, have lately reed Letters from Captns. Thomp son, McNeal, and several others, pointing out Defects, Abuses and Mis management, and proposing Plans of Improvement, Redress and Refor mation. These will do good. This is the way to have things go right; for officers to correspond constantly with Congress, and communicate their sentiments freely. McNeal, I suppose, by his Letter, before this, has sailed, and I hope your Embargo is off, before now, that the Privateers may have fair Play. Indeed I am sorry it was ever laid. I am against all shackles upon Trade. Let the Spirit of the People have its own way, and it will do something. I doubt much whether you have got an hundred Soldiers the more for your Embargo and perhaps you have missed opportunities of taking many Prizes and several Hundreds of seamen. South Carolina Seems to display a Spirit of Enterprize in Trade, Su- periour to any other State. They have Salt at half a Dollar a Bushell, and dry Goods in great Plenty tho dear. Many French Vessells have arrived there. Some Bermudians and some of their own. They have exported their Crop of Indigo and a great deal of Rice. They have some Priva teers, and have made several Prizes. Tobacco too, begins to be exported in large Quantities from Maryland, Virginia, and North Carolina. Vessells sell at very high Prices in all these States. In short in one more year, I fancy Trade will be brisk, in every Part of the Continent, except with Us, the Destruction of whose Fishery has deprived Us of our Staple, and left Us nothing to export. We must build ships and cutt Masts, and take Fish with our Privateers &c. I am &c RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 On November 6, 1776, Congress had authorized the appointment of three men “to execute the business of the navy.” John Wharton and John Nixon were appointed on November 13 and Francis Hopkinson was added on November 18, 1776. JCC, 6:929, 946-47, 958. 2 Congress established a navy board at Boston on April 19, but James Warren, William Vernon, and John Deshon were not appointed to it until May 6. JCC, 7:281, 331. John Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Philadelphia April 6. 1777 Yours of 23d March, was handed to me, this Evening by Major Ward. 1 Your Letter from Plymouth by the Post, I duely reed, and immediately
