546 April 6, 1777 3 Adams appears to have been confused by the appointment of the various naval committees. Adams was only added to the Naval Committee on October 30, 1775, as part of Congress’ plans to enlarge its nascent naval program, but he was not a member of the standing Marine Committee, which was appointed on December 14, 1775. His reference to the election of “a new Committee” is apparently to the March 6, 1776, addition of Samuel Huntington, Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant, Benjamin Harrison, and Edward Rutledge as replacements for Silas Deane, Rich ard Henry Lee, Stephen Crane, and Christopher Gadsden to the latter committee. ]CC, 3:311-12, 428, 4:186. 4 John Manly, who commanded one of the Continental frigates built in Massa chusetts. Hector McNeil was captain of the other. See Warren to Adams, March 23, 1777, Warren-Adams Letters, 1:304—5. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir Philadelphia Api. 6th. 1777 Your will receive with this a Letter from Messrs Sami. & Robt. Pur- viance, inclosing an Invoice of Sloop Diamond’s Cargo, and an Account of Disbursements, by which it appears that there is a Ballance due to them of £164.16.8. After waiting a convenient Time I shall make a fresh Application for the Ballance due to our State, and out of the Monies I may receive pay the above Ballance. If I should not be able to procure an Order on the Treasury in Season, I have wrote those Gentlemen that I would borrow and transmit them the Money due to them upon the first Notice. 1 Inclosed is a Resolve of Congress respecting your granting Commis sions, which I transmit because in the Multiplicity of the Presidents Busi ness it may be forgot by him. I laid the Paragraph of your Letter which related to that Point before Congress immediately upon the Receipt of your Letter. Congress did nothing in the Matter, which amounted to an Acquiescence. A Day or Two ago a Letter from the President of So. Carolina was read in Congress representing that for the Want of Com missions, Instructions &c he had issued Commissions, and desiring that a Resolve might Pass which might give Validity to his Commissions. This brought to my Mind your granting Commissions, and induced me to move the Resolve which is now inclosed. If Conti. Commissions should be wanted you will send for them in Time. 2 It is said that the Troops, which in a Letter to Commodore Hopkins 3 I mentioned had embarked, and desired him to communicate to you, have disembarked; but in a late Letter from the General he does not mention it. It is his Opinion that this City is the great Object of the Enemy and it is too the Sentiment of Genl. Greene. 4 I wish We may be prepared to receive them. I am greatly mortified to find that the Expedition designed by the Genl. Assembly hath fallen through. 5 To what Cause this is owing, I know not; but I am sorry that the Militia of this Continent should by
