April 7, 1777 547 the military be considered in a Light so little respectable as it is. I know not what Numbers were collected in Consequence of the spirited Reso lution of our State, but I should think that Six Thousand Militia con ducted by good officers would be sufficient to expell, destroy or captivate the four thousand said to be on Rhode-Island: A Number of whom are doubtless invalids. But this I speak with Submission; for I am un acquainted with the military Walk, I never travelled in it. However in the present as well as the last War Militia did as I remember and have done many notable Feats. I could wish to have this Business taken up again if it can be done with a good Prospect of collecting an Army of six or eight Thousand Men, and some able, spirited Officers to conduct them. I am not alone in my Opinion of the Advantages which would attend such an Expedition, nor of the Prowess of Militia. You will excuse these Hints, suggested and thrown out from a Mortification I feel in having a handfull of the Enemy in Possession of an Island so beneficial to them, when it appears to me that our Militia with the Aid of our Sister States could very easily dislodge or destroy them, and from a Love of Country. Mr. Marchant is not arrived. I hope the Request in my last will be complied with. I am with great Regard your Honor’s most obedient Servant, Wm Ellery RG (R-Ar). 1 Ellery’s letter to the Purviances has not been found. 2 The subject of Governor Cooke’s grant of privateering commissions is dealt with more fully in Ellery to Cooke, December 31, 1776, note 2. ’ No letters from Ellery to Esek Hopkins have been found. * See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:348-49. 5 For the failure of this effort to drive the British out of Rhode Island to ma terialize, see ibid., pp. 25-26, 114-15, 232-33, 270-71; and Joseph Spencer to George Washington, March 2, 1777, Washington Papers, DLC. John Hancock to Henry Fisher Sir, Philada. April 7th 1777. The Congress considering the very defenceless Situation of the Coast near Lewistown, and that the Persons & Property of the well affected In habitants of the United States are exposed to the Designs of our Enemy in that Quarter, have come to the enclosed Resolve to raise an inde pendant Company on Continental Establishment. 1 In their opinion, your Zeal in the Cause of Freedom & America en titles you to the Command of this Company, which I am directed to offer to you, and to inform you if you should decline it, that they desire you will nominate a suitable Person in your Stead, and that in either Case, you appoint the Subaltern Officers; for which Purpose I enclose you blank Commissions.
