April 7, 1777 549 prosperity, without even the mention of interest, and the Ports of France, Spain, & Leghorn are open to our Prizes as well as our Trade. These things look well, and if we are not wanting to ourselves, must in [time fix] the freedom and happipess of America. We have 12,000 stand of Arms arrived at Portsmouth in N. Hampshire with other Military Stores, and 8,000 stand come in here. The enemy lately made an attack by surprize on our posts upon the highlands of Hudsons River, but they were repulsed and driven on board their Ships with precipitation and disgrace by an inferior number of American Troops. They have lately embarked Troops at N. York, the Tories say for this City, themselves say they are going to Chesapeake Bay. Some think they mean nothing but to amuse, whilst others imagine they mean to renew their attack on the heights of Hudsons River. Either of the two last opinions I prefer to the former. I hope to have the pleasure of seeing you in May at Williamsburg, and remain in the mean time with great friendship and affection dear Sir yours, Richard Henry Lee RC (NNC). Daniel Roberdeau to Elisha Hinman Dear Sir Philada. April 7th. 1777 On receipt of your favor per Capt. Welsh I applied to the Naval De partment of Congress, and have now the pleasure of informing you that your command is continued in the Alfred and that your Character stands fair and respectable with the Gentlemen of that Department, to whom I refer you as I doubt not they will write per this Conveyance. I have enclosed my Letter for Mrs. Eliza. Hurlburt that you may be inform’d by her of the irreparable loss I have sustained in the death of my much beloved Mrs. Roberdeau, which I intended to communicate to you, but the Task would be too distressing to repeat my sorrow, therefore you’ll be pleased to dispense with a form. 1 I am happy in an Oppy. of serving a Gentleman who stands in so near Connection with my dear deceased Wife & am, Dr Sir, Yr. most obt. huml. Serv. Dani. Roberdeau P.S. I was informed last Evening yr. Sister & family were well at New-Ark Mountains or Morristown, but that they were much distressed in their.retreat in a stormey Night, which is the first intelligence from or of her since the month of December last, when I left her house in so weak a state that the first Stage towards this Place I was conveyed in a bed placed in a covered Waggon.
