550 April 7, 1777 RC (DNDAR). 1 Mary Bostwick Roberdeau (ca. 1741-1777) had died suddenly of a fever at Lancaster on February 15, 1777. Roberdeau Buchanan, Genealogy of the Rober deau Family, including a Biography of General Daniel Roberdeau (Washington: Joseph L. Pearson, 1876), pp. 49, 69-70. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 7th Api 1777 Your favor of the 15th Ulto came to hand Yesterday. 1 I hope Mr. Bettens arrival will hasten the recruiting service, its high time the Troops were in the field, for Heavans sake hurry them on, tho’ I hope they will all have march’d before this reaches you. Genl. Gates sets out [this] day to take the Command of the Northern army. One of the Lottery managers is gone Eastward & I hope has Tickets enough to satisfy the thirst for Gaming for I shod be exceeding sorry to hear our state had set up a Lottery. I find Govr Wentworths letter has made no great impression on your mind, nor can it on any one that knows him. In my last I gave you the state of matters in Europe so far as I could collect them from the latest and Best accounts from thence, by which there is very little proba bility of Britain geting such an army from Russia &c as he tels of. The Southern States are at least as firm as ever, N Carolina has form’d their Government & chosen Kasswell [Richard Caswell] Govr. Maryland has also form’d a Govt. & placed Tho. Johnson in the Chair who has pass’d a Campaign in Jersey, and its said is now as firm as a Rock. The opposition to Govt, here daily declines & they now go on tolerably well. N. York I expect will give an Infinety of trouble. A long Letter was laid this morning before Congress from that Convention respecting the N. Hampshire Grants, a deputation is also arriv’d from the Green Mountain Boys, but their matters are not yet laid before Congress. I sho’d not much care if the Devil had them all. 2 What advantage could have arisen from a compliance with Genl. Lee’s request? Genl Howe certainly wod not agree to the conference unless he Expected to reap some advantage by it, he surely wod not permit an interveiw that cod possibly opperate to his disadvantage, if he has powers to treat with America as Independant States, the door is always open for him, we know very well he has no new powers, nor nothing to offer but Pardon on submission. At the same time that we cod receive no possible Benefit by complying with the Request, the Enemy wod profit much by it. A Packet wod be immediately dispatch’d, & all the Courts in Europe amus’d with our negociations & the strongest assurences given that peace wod soon take place in America. This was the use made of the Conference last faul by which means the stores that are now arriving, have been
