556 April 8, 1777 you are to be governed. 1 You are immediately to proceed with the said Frigate to sea, embracing such favourable winds as may be likely to run you quickly of[f] the Coast, for as we know you are not in condition to meet the enemies Ships in Battle on advantageous terms at present, we wish you to avoid them until you get well manned and your People toller- ably trained, therefore soon as you clear the land schape your Course for the Island of Martinico, and there deliver to William Bingham esqr. American Resident at that Port the letter sent herewith directed for him. We expect a quantity of Arms, ammunition, Cloathing and Other Stores to be lodged with him by this time and he is directed to put a part of them on board the Virginia and you will direct them to be received on board, granting bills of lading for what are so received. Should Mr. Bing ham have shipped these Stores or the greatest part of them previous to your Arrival, it is likely there may be Others at St. Eustatia and you may apply there to Mr. Sami Curson junr., Mr. Cornelius Stevenson & Mr Henricus Goddet for any such that may have come to their hands grant ing them bills of Lading for what you receive. When you arrive at Mar tinico Mr Bingham will inform you what British ships of war are amongst the Windward Islands, also what other of the enemies Cruizers are there, and whether the Inhabitants of the British West India Islands continue the practice of fitting out ships in a Piratical manner without commissions and if upon a veiw of these things Mr Bingham and you should be of opinion that it will be useful to our Commerce for you to make a short Cruize amongst the Islands for the purpose of protecting our Trade and distressing the enemy by all means let it be done. The British Ships of war after being any length of time in the West Indies are rarely well manned and as we hope your Ship will sail well, we hope you may either be able to cope with them in Battle or to out sail them, as to any other Cruizers they must outsail or submit to you, but if you can add some of the enemies ships to our Navy it will render essential Service to your Country, inspirit our Seamen and do honor to yourself. Should you take any Prizes whose Cargoes are perishable or partic ularly suited to the West India Markets you may order such articles to be sold there and lodge the Money with Mr. Bingham taking his drafts for the same, but the Ship and other parts of the Cargo must come to America for condemnation. You will be particularly attentive to collect as many Seamen as possible, not only what may be necessary for the Virginia, but as many as you can bring to assist in manning the rest of our Navy. It is expected that you contend warmly on all necessary occasions for the honor of the American Flag. At every foreign port you enter salute their Forts, and wait on the Governor, General or Commander in chief, asking liberty of their Ports for the Ships of the United States of America. Take care that your peo ple do not molest their Trade or Inhabitants nor in any shape disturb
