April 8, 1777 557 that good understanding we have with them. We think you should not only attempt to get seamen at every port you touch at, but also encourage them to enter from every Prize you take, and if amongst these you should number any of the British ships of war, you must be particularly atten tive to prevail on the most useful Petty & Warrant officers to engage in our Service—the encouragement for them is great and we want them much. When your errand to the West Indies is compleated you are to return to some Port in these states. The uncertainty of the state of war and the stations the enemy may choose for their large Ships makes it improper we should fix positively on any one particular, but as it is likely those middle states may be the Seat of war the nearer you can land the stores to our Army the better. It is expected from every Commander in our Navy that he will use his officers and people well, still preserving Strict discipline and decorum, that prisoners be treated with humanity, that great care be taken of the ships, their materials & stores, and that due attention be paid to the private Instructions of the Navy Board. We are Sir, Your very hble Servts P. S. You have herewith signals whereby to know the American ships of war. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 But see also Marine Committee to James Nicholson, April 29, 1777, note. Benjamin Rush’s Notes April 8. 1777 The declaration of independance [first?] was said to have divided & weakned the colonies. The contrary of this was the case. Nothing but the signing, & recognizing of the declaration of independance preserved the Congress from a dissolution in Decemr 1776 when Howe marched to the Delaware. Maryland had instructed her delegates to concur in an Accommodation notwithstanding any measure (meaning independance) to the contrary. But further the declaration of independance produced a secession of tories, timid, moderate & double minded men from the counsels of America in consequence of which the congress as well as each of the states have possessed ten times the vigor and strength they had formerly. April 8th 1777 Genl. Howe’s army at Brunswick & New York is now in Motion. A majority of the people of Philada. think that their destination is up the North river in order to join Genl. Carleton so as to cut off the communi cation between the Eastern & Southern states agreeably to the original plan of the British ministry. But I think it most probable that their object
