558 April 8, 1777 is Philada. for the following reasons. 1. Because it is obviously agst. the interest of Howe’s army to come to Philada. and a ignorance of their true interest is the only thing that has appeared like uniformity in their conduct. 21y. The design of the present war is to chastise the people of America, and this can only be done by changing the seat of war & 31y. To purify it of toriism and to eradicate timi[di]ty & moderation. This can only be done by Howe’s coming within the sphere of the attraction of the tories & moderate men. 41y. There is a false confidence in the situation & Strength of the city of Philada, and in the Spirit & number of our troops. The same kind of confidence prevd. in New York before its reduction last year. April 8th 1777 I think it more than probable that General Washington will not Close the present war wth G Britain. 1. Because in ordinary revolutions different characters always appear in their first and last stages. 2. Because his talents are better fitted to unite the people of America into one body than to give them Afterwards a national complexion. 3. Because his talents are unequal to those degrees of discipline, and decision which alone can render an army finally successful. 4. Because he is idolized by the people of America, and is tho’t to be absolutely necessary for us to enable us to carry on the war. MS (PPL). In the hand of Benjamin Rush. This entry consists of three separate passages contained in a small booklet of miscellaneous notes and follows a discus sion of the political opinions of the American people during the revolution. Each of the three passages is explicitly dated April 8, 1777; they begin on pages 10, 12, and 14, respectively, of the booklet. Between the first and second are written notes on the appearance of an Indian delegation before Congress, which have been printed above under the date December 5, 1776. For information on the use previously made of the material in this booklet, see Rush’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, December 5, 1776, note 1. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. April 9th. 1777. Yesterday Evening the Congress compleated the Business of the Medi cal Department, and on so large and liberal an Establishment that we may certainly expect the most beneficial Effects will flow from it. Every Encouragement is given to Gentlemen of Skill and Reputation in that Art to enter into our Army, and a Variety of Regulations adopted to carry the Plan more effectually into Execution. As I have the Honour of enclos ing the Resolves on this Subject, I beg Leave to refer your Attention to them. 1
