April 9, 1777 559 It is with particular Pleasure I transmit the Resolution of Congress directing Monuments to be erected to the Memory of Major General Warren and Brigadier General Mercer. 2 Every Mark of Distinction shewn to those illustrious Men who offer up their Lives for the Liberty and Happiness of Mankind, reflects the highest Honour upon those who pay the Tribute, and by holding up to others the Prospects of Fame and Immortality, will animate them to tread in the same Path. I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. 3 John Hancock Prest. RC (DLG). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 These resolves are inJCC, 7:231-37, 244-46. 2 See JCC, 7:242-43. ’On this day Hancock also wrote to Jonathan Hudson of Baltimore: “Your Favour of the 4th Inst I duely received and communicated the same to Congress, in Consequence of which they passed an Order for twenty Thousand Dollars to be advanced to you. I enclose to you a Warrant for the Money on the Treasurer at Baltimore and am, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sert.” PCC, item 12A, fol. ISO- 81; and JCC, 7:238. Mann Page to John Page Dear Brother Philadelphia April 9th 1777 I am much obliged to you for your Congratulation upon my Recovery from the S. Pox, which I should have acknowledged before this, if I had not been unfortunately detained on the Road between Baltimore & Phila delphia for more than three Weeks by my Wife’s Illness. I did not get to this Place ’til Monday Evening, & am now so much unsettled that I have hardly time to write. Lodgings are with difficulty to be procured, & I fear a House cannot be had at any Rate so that I expect to be forced to put up with a Tavern. Genl. Howe keeps this divided City in constant Fear. Many wish for his coming, & many others are too timid to oppose it. If he should attempt it, which is the Opinion of several of our Generals, we must again fly; for Genl. Washington has not a Force sufficient to oppose him. It is my Opinion however that his Design is to get Possession of the North River, which appears to me to be of more real Consequence to him than this Place. Up the N. River he will at present meet with but little Oppisition. Philadelphia he cannot keep against a superior Army. Genls. Green & Putnam 1 mention his having collected a Number of Transports & Boats at Amboy, with a View, as they think to bring his Troops round by Water to this Place; but this I look upon to be done only to conceal his real Design upon the N. River. A few Days will make us certain what their Intentions are. They are moving Part of their Troops from Bruns wick to Amboy, so that if we had any thing of an Army they might be
