560 April 9, 1777 destroyed. What would you think of sparing for a little Time the three Regiments belonging to the State? They are, I am informed, well armed & cloathed. If we had them now they would be of infinite Service. Could we but destroy the present Army, we need not fear any Reinforcements of Russians which they might receive. By the Post I shall be able probably to inform you of something of Consequence. Excuse me to Mann for not answering his Letter, which I will do as soon as I have time, & beg him to accept of the Ovid which you have belonging to me, & to remember that it is a Reward for his Merit. Inform him that I shall be happy to give him the like frequent Proofs of my Approbation of his great Progress. Please to give our Love to my Sister. I am, dear Brother, yours affectionately, Mann Page Junr. RC (NjMoHP). 'Israel Putnam’s April 8 letter is in PCC, item 159, fols. 57-58. For Congress’ response to this intelligence, see Committee of Congress to George Washington, April 10, 1777. Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia April 9th. 1777 Capt. Niles of the Spy was here last Saturday. He Said That there were a number of the Enemy’s Ships of War in Chesepeak Bay So that he could not go to Virginia, That he wanted 750 Dollars toward paying for a Cargo of Flour which he had purchased upon which I moved Con gress to Advance to the State of Connecticut one thousand Dollars which was Granted, 1 and I delivered 750 of them to Captain Niles and he drew a Bill on your Honr. for payment. The whole is Charged to the State and I must acct for it when I return home. Nothing very material has occurred here Since my last. Congress has passed Some Resolutions for regulating a Hospital in the army which will be published in the News Papers. 2 All the States are now Represented, and next Monday is assigned for considering the Articles of Confederation. 3 I wish there was a more full representa tion from our State. Congress received a Letter from Dr. Franklin, Arthur Lee & Silas Dean dated about the 27th of January. It does not contain any thing material more than what has been published in the News Papers. They have been offered a loan of Two million Livres without Interest payable after the United States are settled in Peace and Safety which they Gratefully accepted for the use of the States & 500,000 Livres has been received. All ranks favour our cause. It was not certainly known to them whether a war between Gr Britain & France would be Soon Declared. I am informed by Mr. Duer a Delegate from the State of New York that Governor Franklin is very busy with the Tories and has de-
