April 10, 1777 565 There are a Thousand Questions which I want to ask, but which I shall never have answered till I return home—and so I will not trouble you with them. Perhaps I may Write a Letter to somebody at Litchfield by this Post. I beleive I shall, tho I owe them no Letters, yet it may put them into a Way of not expecting a formal Letter to every one which they send Me. If they are afraid that there Letters will Miscarry they can Write upon any general Subject, which may give Me a great deal of particular Information tho’ it never can our Old Foe Howe. But I will look over my Letter and so Adieu this Time. May the best of Heavens Blessings be yours. My love to My Children and Freinds. Yours inviolably, Oliver Wolcott P.S. Since I Wrote the above, I am well informed that Howe is fortifying Brunswick while at the same time he has been sending off to Amboy a large part of the Troops which he had there. All Officers in the British service are strictly ordered to their post by the tenth inst. The British Army are principally collected at Staten Island. Many Circumstances Evidence some important Design of theirs to be soon put into Operation which it must be left to time to discover. RC (CtHi). 1 Wolcott’s March 15 letter to Laura has not been found. Committee of Congress to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia April 10, 1777 In obedience to an order of Congress we do ourselves the honor to inform your Excellency of the reasons and principles that have governed Congress in their resolution for forming a Camp on the west side of Delaware. 1 The repeated information that hath been received of the enemies movements, and it being the opinion of your Excellency, as well as of many other General Officers, that this City was the Object of such movements, rendered it proper that means should be fallen upon, to prevent the success of such a design, as well to guard against the bad impression that it would certainly have on the affairs of America in general, as to give security to the valuable Stores here collected, and which cannot speedily be removed. It has been considered that if the real design of the enemy should be against this City, the Troops are here well fixed, and will be an encourag ing place of resort to the Militia of this State in their present unfixt con dition, being between their old plan of association, and their new, but yet unexecuted, law. On the other hand, should the design of the enemy be upon Hudsons river, or more eastward, the Troops here may with ease
