566 April 10, 1777 reach that river, before those now at Head Quarters can have all crossed it. But other considerations remain, and they are, should the enemy con tinue in Jersey with a view to attack your Army, or should your Excellency mean to make a decisive impression on them when your numbers are sufficient, in either supposition, the Troops ought not to be here. And therefore, in the whole of this business, Congress means not, in any manner, to interfere with the designs, or to counteract the Judgement of your Excellency, but wish you freely to call up to Head Quarters, all, or any part of the Troops encampt here as you shall please. It is not supposed that this will occasion any delay, and will certainly prevent the injuries that would be derived to the Troops, as well in health as discipline, from their entering and remaining any time in this City. We are. with sentiments of much esteem, Your Excellencies most obedient humble servants, Richard Henry Lee Geo. Clymer John Adams Abra. Clark RC (MdBJ-G). Written by Richard Henry Lee and signed by Lee, Adams, Clark, and Clymer. 1 In response to intelligence concerning enemy troop movements, contained in Gen. Israel Putnam’s April 8 letter, Congress appointed a committee on the ninth to recommend measures for opposing an attack on Philadelphia and to confer with Pennsylvania officials. The Pennsylvania Council agreed to meet with the committee that evening, and as a result of the committee’s recommendations several resolves, including one for establishing a camp on the west bank of the Delaware, were passed on the tenth and the committee was directed to inform Washington of the reasons for Congress’ action. See JCC, 7:246—47, 250-51; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:202-3. Washington’s response to this letter, in which he recommended that troops be collected at Bristol, Pa., and forwarded to head quarters, is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:400—402. For Congress’ sub sequent action, see JCC, 7:270-71; and Richard Henry Lee to Washington, April 16, 1777. John Hancock to George Washington Sir Philadelphia 10th April 1777. Your favr. of yesterday’s Date I have just Rec’d by the Return Express and shall be laid before Congress to morrow morning. 1 I have only time to Inclose you sundry Resolutions pass’d in Congress since my last, to which I request yor Attention. 2 I also inclose you a Letter from the Come, of Congress. I have the Honour to be with Esteem, Sir, Your most Obedt Servt. John Hancock Presidt [P.5.] I have Sent four Bundles of printed Resolves, which you will please to order to be distributed among the Officers. 3
