April 10, 1777 567 RC (DLC). 1 This letter is in PCC, item 152, 4:65-66, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 7:380-81. 2 These were resolves of this date on setting up a camp west of the Delaware, Washington’s appointments, troop pay, frontier defense, and the rank and pay of muster officers. JCC, 7:250-52. 3 Hancock sent Washington a broadside printed by John Dunlap containing resolves of April 1, 2, 9, and 10 on military pay. JCC, 7:214-15, 217-18, 248-49, 252. A photocopy of this broadside is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), vol. 7, facing p. 388. Francis Lightfoot Lee to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia April 10th. 1777 I am very sorry that I was not in this City when General Green was here; nothing cou’d give me greater pleasure, than to have an opportunity of shewing every respect & civility to a Gentleman who so justly possesses your esteem. It gives me pain, that you are joined by so few of the new levies. There are great complaints to the southward, against the recruiting officers, which I fear are too well grounded; gaming in particular is said to prevail to a scandalous height, than which nothing is a more deadly foe to busi ness. I hope however you will soon be enabled to meet the Enemy on any ground. I sincerely wish you health and happiness, & am Dear Sir, Your very obt. & hble. Servant, Francis Lightfoot Lee RC (MH-H). Richard Henry Lee to George Washington My dear General Philadelphia 10 April 1777 The resolves of Congress that you will receive by this Messenger, you may be assured, are not intended, by any means, to obstruct your views a single moment. 1 If your judgment should incline you to think that the Troops had better march on to Head Quarters quick as possible, you have only so to order it, and it will give pleasure to every good man here. The business of speedily reenforcing you will not be obstructed, but accelilated, because they now enter the City, where every days stay is 30 days injury to the great purpose of strengthening your hands. And should the enemy destine here, something like a military collection, may produce a greater resort. If you will indulge my conjecture, I think they cannot purpose coming here, because the water securities against such a plan are realy formidable, and the situation of the land, where the water obstructions are fixed, is such, that great delay, and probable ruin forbids the enterprize,
