April 10, 1777 569 7:250-51. For the origins of this minor crisis and the effect it had on Congress’ relations with the government of Pennsylvania, see Committee of Congress to George Washington, April 10, note; and William Duer to the New York Conven tion, April 17, 1777, note 1. Schuyler, who had returned to Congress on April 7 seeking vindication of his conduct as commander of the northern military depart ment, was acting in a dual capacity as delegate from New York and commander of the Continental forces in Philadelphia. Despite dissatisfaction with Schuyler among a significant number of delegates, particularly those from New England, Congress gave him this command because the military exigencies of the moment seemed to require the services of an officer of his rank and experience. See ]CC, 7:230, 251, 255, 271, 298; and Schuyler’s Memorial to Congress, May 6, 1777. James Sykes to George Read Dear Sir, Philadelphia April 10th. 1777 Yesterday it was agreed in Congress that the subject of the Articles of Confederacy should be taken up on Monday next and that two days in each week should be employed therein until that work should be compleated. As this is a matter of the utmost importance it is certainly necessary that our State should be fully represented, especially as I am by no means competant to the task. I therefore most ardently wish you would give your attendance in Congress and beg you would write to Mr. Vandike, pressing his immediate repair hither. 1 I am in a most disagree able situation, a stranger to every person, unable to speak my sentiments in Congress and no Coleague to confer with on any subject that may concern our State. 2 There has already a matter been determined which I am afraid will throw the whole County of Sussex into confusion and disorder. I think it is a report from the board of War that an Independant Company shall be raised in that County to be stationed at Lewis Town, that Harry Fisher shall have the Command, if he refuses that he shall have at least the appointment of the Subaltern Officers. This was brought in immediately upon my taking my seat in Congress and tho I utterly disapproved the measure as far as it respected Fisher, I could not open my mouth in objection. This, Sir. shews the necessity of some person being here who has the inclination and power to object to and shew the impropriety of such appointments. I am totally unfit for it and am miser able on the occasion. From what we hear from Head Quarters it seems to be the prevailing opinion there that the Enemy intend to Philadelphia in a very short time, that the Fleet are coming into this River and their Boats are preparing for the Army to cross the same. I should be exceeding sorry to press you on a subject that I know at this Time is disagreeable, I mean your attendance here, but it appears to me to be indispensably necessary to our State that you should be in Congress, with respect to myself it is so much so that without your at-
