April 12, 1777 571 Medical Committee to Jonathan Potts Sr. Philadelphia 12th April 1777 Your Letter directed to the medical Committee in Congress with the inclosed returns of Medicines, Stores & sick in the Hospitals at Albany & Ticonderoga came safe to hand this day. We are highly pleased with your having the prospect of a sufficient supply of medicines in your department for the ensuing Campaign, & approve of the returns you have made us. Your proposal of keeping the Small Pox out of the Garrison at Ticon deroga we think extremely proper & hope you will carefully attend to its execution. Congress have just finished a new plan and arrangement of the medical department in the Army. It is ordered to be published immediately. As you will soon be possessed of the whole plan, we shall only inform you at present, that your appointment of Director of the northern department is renewed; the pay 5 dols. & 6 rations per diem. 1 Senior surgeons 4 dols. & 5 rations a day. Regimental Surgeons 2 dols. & 4 rations a day. The pay of every other rank in proportion. As handsome sallaries are now allowed, we expect none but persons of the best abilities will be employed or suffered to remain in your service as Hospital or regimental Surgeons, & that you will strictly superintend every branch of the medical department under your charge. We greatly approve of your scheme of a Garden for supplying the troops with Vegetables which we judge will contribute much towards preserving their health. Should forward you some seeds but think you can procure them nearer hand. We hope to hear from you by every convenient opportunity. By Order of the Medical Committee, I have the Honor to be, Sir, your very Hble Sert. M. Thornton RC (PHI). Written and signed by Matthew Thornton. Addressed: “To Doctor Jonathan Potts Director of the Military Hospitals In the Northern Department.” 1 For the hospital reorganization, see JCC, 7:231—37, 244—46; and John Adams to Abigail Adams, April 11, 1777, note. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings April 12, 1777. Present Morris, Col. Lee, Col. Whipple. Capn. Jermh. Morgan of the sloop Mary, laid before the Come, his Acct. Currt. charging the valuat[io]n insurd on the sd. sloop as by charter party made with Silas Deane Esqr., on behalf of the States, at Bermuda, together with disbursments pd in France, wages &c also a protest of the seizure of sd. sloop by the Enemy, as
