April 13, 1777 573 fault of Commissaries and other Officers. Nay might deny, that they were starved, frozen and infected. He was determined to put them out of the Way, and yet to deny it, to get rid of his Enemies, and yet save his Reputation. But his Reputation is ruined forever. The two Brothers will be ranked by Posterity with Pizarro, with Borgia, with Alva, and with others in the Annals of Infamy, whose Memories are intituled to the Hisses and Execrations of all virtuous Men. These two unprincipled Men are the more detestable, because they were in the opposition at home, their Connections, Friendships and In terest lay with the opposition, to the opposition they owed their Rise, Pro motion and Importance. Yet they have basely deserted their Friends and Party, and have made themselves the servile Tools of the worst of Men in the Worst of Causes. But what will not desperate Circumstances tempt Men to do, who are without Principle? and who have a strong aspiring Ambition, a towering Pride, and a tormenting Avarice. These two Howes were very poor, and they have spent the little For tunes they had in bribery at Elections, and having obtained Seats in Par liament, and having some Reputation as brave Men, they had nothing to do but to carry their Votes and their Valour to Markett, and it is very true, they have sold them at an high Price. Are Titles of Honour, the Reward of Infamy? Is Gold a Compensation for Vice? Can the one or the other, give that Pleasure to the Heart, that Comfort to the Mind, which it derives from doing Good? from a Con sciousness of Acting, upon upright and generous Principles, of promot ing the Cause of Right, Freedom and the Happiness of Men. Can Wealth or Titles soften the Pains of the Mind upon reflecting that a Man has done Evil, and endeavoured to do Evil to Millions, that he has destroyed free Governments and established Tyrannies! I would not be an Howe, for all the Empires of the Earth, and all the Riches, and Glories thereof. Who would not rather be brave, even tho unfortunate, in the Cause of Liberty? Who would not rather be Sydney, than Monk? However, if I am not deceived, Misfortune as well as Infamy awaits these Men. They are doomed to defeat, and Destruction. It may take Time to effect it, but it will certainly come. America is universally con vinced of the Necessity of meeting them in the Field in firm Battallion— and American Fire is terrible. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:207-8. 1 Washington’s correspondence with General Howe about an exchange of pris oners was received by Congress on April 11 and ordered to be published the same day. ]CC, 7:253. The correspondence appeared in the April 12 issue of the Penn sylvania Evening Post.
