April 13, 1777 575 the Success. That both references are to the same ship seems clear from a business letter Robert Morris wrote to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer explaining the con dition of “the muskets saved from the Ship Success (late the Morris) blown up at our Capes.” Robert Morris to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer, May 15, 1777, Red Books, MdAA. See also Samuel Adams to James Warren, April 17, and Secret Committee to Caesar Rodney, April 25, 1777. Adams’ account undoubtedly rested upon Henry Fisher’s April 12 letter to the Pennsylvania Board of War describing the incident, which was subsequently pub lished in the Pennsylvania Evening Post and the Pennsylvania Gazette on April 15 and 16 respectively. John Adams to Nathanael Greene My dear sir Philadelphia April 13. 1777 In considering a Letter from the General, sometime ago, in the Board of War, it was agreed to report to Congress a Resolution, approving of the Laboratory at -Springfield, and such a Report was made, but upon some opposition to it, it was ordered to lye on the Table, where it has lain ever since. I will move to have it taken up and determined. Some Gentlemen will oppose it, particularly the President, I believe, thinking Brookfield the best Place. I am not very clear myself, that it is the best, but from a greater Confidence in the opinion of General Washington and General Knox, than in my own, I voted for it, and shall continue to do so. 1 I will hazard a Conjecture, concerning the Motions of the Enemy, in which very few here agree with me. I think they are neither to move up Delaware, nor Hudsons River untill they have a Strong Reinforcement. They are turning their Men out upon Staten Island to graze—to breath a fresh keen Air, and to take a Course of Exercise for the Recovery of their Health. Depend upon it, sir, their Army, at this season of the year, is too Sickly, relaxed and unsettled to take the Field, and it is too early if they were healthy, it would lay a foundation for a sickly disastrous Campaign. It is not to be expected that every State will provide their full Quota of Men, nor shall We have occasion for such a Number, un less the Enemy, have a Reinforcement greater than We have any Idea of at present. I can have no Conception of the Necessity of Sixty or seventy thousand Men to oppose an Army of Ten or Eleven thousand, in one Place and another of seven or Eight thousand in another. Our Men are as good as theirs, and I am not afraid to trust them Man for Man. If our officers will not lead their Men I am for Shooting all who will not and getting a new set. It is high Time for Us to abandon this execrable defensive Plan. It will be our Ruin if We do not. Long Lines, and defensive Systems have very near undone Us. Our Men, New England men espe cially universally detest and despise, defensive operations, and are dispirited by them, in such a manner as to be good for nothing. But they
