586 April 15, 1777 Virginia. It is the Case throughout the Continent. We have no Army hardly, on which Account we are loseing the most favourable Opportunity that could have offered, of destroying the Force which the Enemy now have in America. I wrote to you by Mr. Clarkson & then gave it as my Opinion, that the Enemy would not attack this City, but since that, several Pieces of Information have induced me to give up that Opinion. Indeed there is at this time a considerable Fleet in Delaware Bay, which has set every Body to work to prevent their coming up. If the Citizens would exert themselves, all would be safe; but Toryism, Fear & Avarice have totally obliterated every virtuous Principle. The General thinks that when they do attack Philaa. their land Army will cooperate with their Fleet, but that their present Design is only To cut off the Trade of this River. On Saturday last we lost a valuable Ship loaded with military stores & Cloathing from France. The Captn. fought nobly, & at last ran the Ship aground, & after putting the greater Part of the Crew, & his Papers on Shore, blew her up, but unfortunately he & six of his Crew perished by the Explosion, which happened by the Match burning too fast. A small Affair happened on Sunday Morning in the Jersey. The Enemy attempted with a considerable Party from Brunswick to surprize Genl. Lincoln at Bound Brook, which they had nearly effected oweing to the Negligence of a Militia Guard. We lost 2 field Pieces, & about twenty five Men, most of them Prisoners. The Genl. & his Men behaved well. The Enemy soon left the Town; they lost several Men. W’e have Accounts from London by the way of France, dated early in Feby, that Burgoyne with ten thousand British & German Troops is to attack Virginia early in the Spring. . . ? Yours affectionately, Mann Page Junr. Tr (DLC). Copied for Edmund C. Burnett “from the original then in the posses sion of Mr. Stan V. Henkels of Philadelphia.” 1 Ellipsis in Tr. Secret Committee to Caesar Rodney Sir Philada. April 15th. 1777 You will doubtless have heard of the heavy loss the Public as well as individuals are likely to meet with by the Ship Success, Capt Anderson, being drove onshoar & blown up, near Cape Henlopen but as we are informed a considerable quantity of Goods are on the Beach & like to be saved, We have hopes of lightening the loss & with this View we send down the bearer Mr. Purdie, 1 who will deliver you this letter and then proceed on his way for Lewis Town. We Request the favour of you
