April 16, 1777 587 to hire immediately a dozen to Twenty Waggons (if you have lately heard from the Beach & by your Accounts can judge what number may be necessary proportion them accordingly) and send them down as quick as possible attended by a Carefull Sober officer of Your Militia & such a Number of Men as you shall deem a good & sufficient guard to bring them & their Loading safe back. Mr. will prepare every thing against they get down and we hope very little time will be lost. We have given him One Thousand Dollars to defray Charges but as it is impossible to judge how much may be wanted, if this Sum is not sufficient we beg you will supply him with more & we will pay his drafts or repay you as you please. It is our design that the Goods saved shall come no further than Dover untill we know the quantity & quality saved or find some other cause to give fresh orders, therefore We request you to provide a proper, dry & safe place to deposite them in, at Dover when they come up there. Well knowing your Zeal to serve your Country We suppose any apology for giving you this trouble is unnecessary but as it is possible you may not be in the way when Mr. arrives we think it necessary in that case to request this service from the Councill of Safety if such Public Body does now exist, or from some other public Body or Officer or Officers of Militia at Dover assuring them that the Service shall meet with every acknowledgment they can wish and that all Charges & expences will be duely paid. The Waggons you’l agree for on the best terms you can & the officer & men Composing the Guard will be on Continental Pay. We are Dear Sir, your obedt hble servts, For & by order of the Secret Committee of Congress, Robt Morris Chair Man RC (PHi). Written and signed by Robert Morris. Addressed: “To Brigadier General Caesar Rodney Esqr, Dover.” 1 Blank in MS here and below. This day Morris reported to the Secret Committee that he had sent Robert Purdy on this mission and had written letters to Rodney and Henry Tucker requesting their assistance. Journal of the Secret Committee, fol. 126, MH-H. Morris’ letter to Tucker has not been found. See also Secret Committee to Caesar Rodney, April 25 and May 2, 1777. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia Ap. 16. 1777 We are waiting with some Impatience to hear of the Arrival of some of the Massachusetts Troops at Head Q[uarte]rs. The Lassitude and Torpor, that has seized our New Englandmen, is to me, very surprizing. Something will happen I believe, to arrouse them from their Lethargy.
