April 16, 1777 593 gress therefore have strongly recommended to the State of Rhode Island to make the Attack, and to the States of Massachusetts Bay and Connecticut to afford them all the Assistance in their Power in executing this important Service. 2 I have wrote to these States on the Subject. The printed Resolves herewith transmitted, 3 being of the utmost Consequence, I beg Leave to refer your Attention to them. Should they fail of procuring the several Quotas to be raised by the respective States, it is the Intention of Congress that after the First of May, Draughts should be made from the Militia. Your Favour of the 12th Inst 4 1 was duely honoured with, and immedi ately communicated the same to Congress. I have the Honour to be with the greatest Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble servt. John Hancock Prest. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 In addition to those mentioned in the remainder of the letter, Hancock also sent Washington numerous resolves on military affairs passed between April 10 and 15. JCC, 7:252-58, 266, 269-70. 2 See JCC, 2:222-TS. For Washington’s lukewarm reaction to this proposed expedition, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:436. 3 These were broadsides containing Congress’ April 14 resolves on military recruiting. JCC, 7:261-63; and Washington Papers, DLC. 4 This letter is in PCC, item 152, 4:75-78, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 7:396—98. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington [April 16? 1777] 1 Your letter to the Committee was immediately laid before Congress, and in consequence thereof, Gen. Schuyler was ordered to carry your ideas into execution with all possible dispatch. The Troops are therefore ordered to Bristol without delay, and thither will go all such as come from the Southward. You have only to order them from Bristol to Head Quarters at your pleasure. The inclosures now sent are from France by the last Ship. The Memoir is written by one of the first Generals in France, or in Europe, purely from views of serving the American cause, which the Mareshal appears to love. The accounts from Nantes are taken from a letter of Doctr. Lee to the Secret Committee in his way from Paris to the Court of Madrid. I thought it might avail you to have the general idea therein given of the enemies views and designs the ensuing Campaign. In the letter signed by all the Commissioners, we learn that the capital operations will certainly be against New England, the exterpation of which is proposed, whilst military government & slavery is (as they think the milder punishment) intended for the middle and southern States. 2 Conversing lately with Mr. James Hunter of Fredericksburg, whose labors have benefitted the public greatly, I find
