594 April 16, 1777 that the indispensable article of iron has been greatly affected, and its production injured, by the constant practise of inlisting the Laborers in those works, and pressing the Teams belonging to them. There are few things more capable of throwing distress among the people, and injur ing the public affairs, than such a procedure. I would therefore submit it to your consideration Sir, whether (until the Legislatures can provide compitent laws) it will not greatly remedy the evil, if you were, by order published in all the papers, [io] forbid all Continental Officers from in listing persons engaged with, and actually serving in any iron works within the United States, or from pressing any horses, teams, or Carriages of any kind belonging to such works. I believe that this would in great degree remedy the evil, if not totally remove it. 3 I am, with great affection and esteem, dear Sir your most obedient and very humble servant, Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC). 1 This letter was written in response to Washington’s April 12 letter to “the committee of Congress appointed to write to him,” which was read and acted on in Congress this day. See JCC, 7:270-71; and Committee of Congress to Washington, April 10, 1777, note. 2 “The inclosures” included the commissioners’ February 6 letter and Arthur Lee’s February 11 letter to the Committee of Secret Correspondence, which are in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:261—65, 266—69. Marshall Maillebois’ “Memoir,” which the commissioners labelled “sentiments of some particulars useful in carrying on our war,” had been enclosed in their letter to the committee. 3 For Washington’s rejection of this suggestion, see his April 24 letter to Lee in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:462-65. Francis Lewis to William Allison and Robert R. Livingston Phil 16th April 1777. I have been favored with your letter of the 2d Inst, covering two Resolves of the Honble Convention dated the 1st and to which due re gard shall be paid. 1 From the information I have hitherto obtained of the quantity of salt in this City it is so inconciderable, that I apprehend none will be permitted to be sent out at present, I shall do my utmost to procure it. I did not arrive here from Baltimore untill the 13th Inst. & yesterday Mr. Livingston shewed me a Resolve of the Honble Convention dated 29th Mar requesting me to repair to that board, but as I left my Baggage at Baltimore & having also other business to transact there relative to the Montgomery Prizes, I shall be obliged to go to Baltimore previous to my attending the Convention. 2
