April 16, 1777 597 The Amphitrite is on her way with 52 four pounders and other use ful articles, and two other vessels with a proportion of the same magazine, from whence the mentioned Peices had been shipped; which consisted at first of 200 of that Bore & 22 Mortiers with all their Atraille, and Powder Balls & Bombs. Though a variety of reports may reach you about the insults offered by different Indians, yet, from the papers which have fallen within my sight in a necessary course, I can venture to assure that a war with them is not inevitable. They are outcast Banditti and not regular formidable Tribes which have done mischiefs. The latter profess friendship, and give very shrewd replys to British Sollicitors. I ought to mention that our proceedings by Sea are counted the most detrimental to the British Ministry’s Reputation. Our friends in France will be greatly chagrined at the present Embargo. I wish it was avoidable. I have the honor to be with great Esteem, Sir, Your obliged very humb. Servt. James Lovell [P.5'.] I wish my Respects & Love presented to your Lady, Miss Bowdoin, your Grandaughter and Mr. Bowdoin. RC (M-Ar). 1 For Arthur Lee’s February 14 letter to the Committee of Secret Correspond ence, see Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:270—71. 3 Lovell’s enclosed extract is dated “London 2d. Febry.,” but it is from the Edward Bancroft letter to Silas Deane that is printed under the date January 31, 1777, in NYHS Collections 19 (1886): 479-81. The extract copied by Lovell omitted Bancroft’s statement on the dismal pros pects for support within British political circles. “The state of politics here is in every way disagreeable: four-fifths at least of the English people despise us, and look upon us as cowards, and assert that we shall be beaten before the middle of summer. The friends of America, on the other hand, are discouraged; those of the minority who have espoused the cause of the people, find that this cause is on the side of their adversaries. Rockingham’s party has had a meeting, and wanted to make a formal secession, and publish a declaration of their reasons for acting thus; but other branches of the minority opposed this as a useless thing, and adverse to the people in the present state of affairs, so that I think nothing will be done.” Philip Schuyler to Richard Varick Dear Sir 1 Phila. April 16th 1777 I am much obliged by your several Letters, thank you for them for your good wishes and attention. Some people here are greatly disappointed. They were In hopes that I would have resigned Immediately upon my receiving Certain very unac countable resolutions of the 15th ult. 2 Finding that I would not do that they wish to avoid an Enquiry and throw out that there are no Complaints against me, and that they have never believed in any of the malicious re-
