598 April 16, 1777 ports propagated to my disadvantage. They have however gone too far, and all that stands on their Journals Injurious to me must be Expunged or I quit the Service. Mr. Livingston & Mr Duane are this day arrived and my business will be opened to morrow. 3 Mr Lansing Jr will write you what passes here and how our time is spent, I am too much hurried to do It. Adieu my dear Colonel & Believe me Ever, sincerely Yours &c, Ph. Schuyler RC (MiDbEI). 1 Richard Varick (1753-1831) of New York was General Schuyler’s military sec retary and deputy muster-master general in the northern department. In 1780 Varick became an aide to Benedict Arnold when that officer was commander of West Point, but he was later acquitted by a military court of inquiry of any com plicity in Arnold’s treason. Varick next became confidential secretary to Washing ton, and in this capacity he spent the rest of the war transcribing 44 volumes of the commander-in-chief’s headquarters papers and personal correspondence. DAB. a See John Hancock to Schuyler, March 18, 1777, note 2. ’On April 18 Congress appointed a committe consisting of one delegate from each state “to enquire into the conduct of Major General Schuyler, since he has held a command in the army of the United States.” JCC, 7:279—80. A full dis cussion of this inquiry will appear in volume seven. Philip Schuyler to George Washington Dear Sir Philadelphia April 16h. 1777. On the Intelligence received by Congress that nine of the Enemies Ships of War had got into Delaware Bay, and that a Number of Trans ports were seen in the offing, the Continental Troops in this City amount ing to 563 Rank and File were ordered to Fort Island to assist in compleat- ing the Fortifications there, which are in a very defenceless State, and to throw up a Work on Red Bank to prevent the Enemies taking possession and thereby forcing the vessels and Floating Batteries designed for the protection of the Chevaux de Frise from their Station. Your Excellency’s Letter of the Instant was received this Morning and refered to me with an order to carry your Intentions into Execution. In obedience thereto I have ordered the Troops immediately to move to Bristol, where they will be joined by 250 Virginians just arrived. 1 All the Military Stores belonging to the Public are ordered out of Town and the Quantity now left in it is very inconsiderable. 2 I advised Congress that I had been informed that very considerable Quantities of provisions and other Stores that might be greatly service able to the Enemy were collected by private persons, in Consequence of which persons are appointed by the Board of War of this State to take an exact account of them. Considerable progress has been made in the Business, and the Result has shewn that the Information was just,
