600 April 17, 1777 The Merchants of Britain in a Memorial laid before Ld Sandwich reckon their Losses by the Captures our Privateers have made on their W. India Trade to be £1,800,000. Insurance had arisen to 28 per Cent & Bank- ruptcys had taken place. There is no kind of Relaxation here, says a Lon don Correspondent, in Warlike Preparations, and yet the Ministry have so contrivd it, that but few People beleive there is any Danger of War. I am much puzzled, says he, about the real Intention in Respect of these great & hasty Armaments; they are certainly too expensive to be mere Scarecrow, and improbable as on one Account it seems, there is Reason to beleive they intend, when their present Loan is compleated, either to at tack France, or at least to hold very high Language to her. Certain it is, that Ld Weymouth has of late seriously & warmly urgd an immediate Declaration of War with France, and tho’ such Declaration has not been made, it is perhaps only suspended. With Regard to America we are in- formd, that Transports were getting ready to bring out the additional British & Hessian Troops & it was intended they should all sail by the beginning of March. The Campaign is to be opend unusually early and the operations directed wholly and from all sides against New England, that by early and vigorous Exertions they may crush the Northern Colonies. I think I have given this to you and my other Friends as my opinion in my Letters the last Winter. If they can subdue those stubborn States they flatter themselves the rest will submit. It is necessary that New England should sustain her Character and Firmness. Their Intention is to extirpate the People there and make Slaves of the Rest of America. I wish the Nest of Hornets on Rhode Island had been before now de stroyed. I expected it would have been done. I have been informd of the Reason why it was not done. The Congress have now recommended it to the States of M. B., C., & N.H. to call forth their Militia for that Purpose and have directed Genl Washington to send a suitable officer to take the Command. I hope it will now be done. It is certainly wise to conquer our Enemies in Detail before their Reinforcements can arrive. I fear N E will be chargd with the Loss of her former military Pride if it is not done. I have been sanguine in urging it here, and have almost pawnd my Repu tation on the Success of the Undertaking as well as the Valor of my Countrymen. I wish for more of an enterprizing Spirit, and shall feel my self happy in the Revival of such a Spirit in New England. Capt Collins who will deliver this Letter is now ready to set off and waits. Adieu my Friend. I will speak to Genl Mifflin again who is now here about Mr Temples Affair. 3 I am glad to hear of the brisk Sale of Lottery Ticketts in Boston & that the Loan office is successfull. 4 I hope Boston will be made as strong as Gibralter. Our 15 Battalions may be completed. I am pleasd with the Measures you are taking with the Tories. Dont let the Execution of the good Law be abated an Iota in a single Instance. If they take the oath, you must nevertheless keep a
