April 17, 1777 601- watchful Eye over them. They are a cursed Generation. We are plagud with them here beyond bearing. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. FC (NN). 'Warren’s February 2, 24, and April 2 letters to Adams are in Warren-Adams Letters, 2:444—48. ’ For the “Misfortune of the Ship Morris,” see John Adams’ second letter to Abigail Adams, April 13, 1777, note. 3 At this point in the FC Adams added: “Please to present my Respects to Mr. Bowdoin & inform him of this. I will take the first opportunity to acknowledge his last Letter.” ‘ At this point in the FC Adams added: “but am sorry that you are so much a Stranger to the Loan office as I used to be to the Friends of Government. You must be Stranger indeed, I hope not for the same Reason.” William Duer to the New York Convention Sir, Philadelphia, April 17th, 1777. I should have done myself the honor of writing to you immediately after my arrival, but have been so occupied by various business the whole Time I have been here that I have not had time to write on the different Matters relative to the State of New York and now before Congress. I am extremely concerned to inform you that there is no prospect at present of our obtaining a supply of Salt from the Continental magazines, there being only 1200 Bushels in store at this place. I have requested Mr. Robert Morris to inform me whenever any salt is to be exposed to sale, and should the other Gentleman who represent our State concur in opinion, I will employ a person to purchase, in Behalf of the State, on the most reasonable Terms possible. The Letter from the Convention relative to the Insurgents in the North Eastern parts of the State transmitted to Mr. Lewis Morris before my arrival, has been read in Congress; but as I expected daily the arrival of Mr. Duane and Mr. Livingston, I thought it most prudent to get the consideration postponed, to which Congress acceded. The deputies from New Connecticut are now in town, and have pre sented to Congress a memorial, a copy of which I shall do myself the honor to transmit you in a day or two. I can by no means think that this attempt to dismember our State will be countenanced by Congress, tho’, I am sorry to say, that I can very easily perceive that Individuals from the Eastern States mean to support Messrs. Allens in their extravagant Pretensions. I flatter myself however, that with the Assistance of my colleagues, I shall procure such Resolutions passed as will reprobate their Proceedings and oblige the revolted Subjects to render a due Obedi ence to the laws of the State. 1 I am extremely sorry to inform you, that notwithstanding the Invasion which threatens this city, a Langour prevails amongst the Inhabitants of
