606 April 17, 1777 I moved in Consequence thereof that Genl. Smallwood should be ordered to station a Battailion there to be under the Direction of the Executive Power of the State of Maryland untill removed or otherwise ordered by Congress. On Debate the Sense of the House seemed to be that None of the Troops already raised could be spared but that a new Battallion might be raised on continental Pay and Expence for that Purpose and have directed a Comittee to bring in a Report on the Subject composed of Colo. Duer, Colo. Wilson, Mr. S. Adams and myself. When a Report is made and any Step taken in Consequence thereof, I shall do myself the Honour to write to you on the Subject. 2 I have the Honour to be, Dr. Sir, your most hum. Servt. Benjamin Rumsey RC (MdAA). 1 Not found. * JCC, 7:275. For the committee’s report and Congress’ April 19 resolves on maintaining a Continental battalion on the Maryland eastern shore to overawe the disaffected, see JCC, 7:284-86. See also Md. Archives, 16:222-23, 225-28, 242. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings April 17. 1777 Come. met. Present Messrs. Morris, R.H. Lee, Lewis, Livingston. The Come, agreed with Mr. Morris to make a joint concern of the ship Lions J cargo now Loadg. in this port for France. She has now on board about 260 hhds of tobo. & is to be filld up with as much more of that Article as She will take & flour. The ship belongs to Mr. Morris & he values her at £4000 curry, the half of wch. sum the Come, agree to ensure on sd. ship until his return to this port, & to allow 4 guin[ea]s per hhd freight for tobo. & ten shillings sterg. per barrel for flour & 2/6 sterg. per foot for any goods &c she may bring back. MS (MH-H). Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia April 17th. 1777 Congress is desirous if possible to Subdue the Enemy that are in this Country before a reinforcement can arrive. The Small pox has greatly retarded the recruits Joyning the Army. We had information Some time ago that preparations were making to attack the Enemy on Rhode Island
