April 17, 1777 609 That the British Administration are inflamed with the Strongest Pas sions of Pride, Avarice and Revenge is what We have no Reason to doubt of and that they will put every Thing to the most desperate Hazard rathar than fail of accomplishing their Wishes, which is it seems is the utter De struction of the N. England Countrys and Subjecting the Rest to a military Goverment. If they were not most strongly impressed with these Passions they would pay more Regard to the Voice of Opposition in their own country which is so Very loud, and to the Increasing Bankruptcies which have lately greatly multiplied amongst them, and to the Threatening As pect of their Neighbours Circumstances, which a People not totally in fatuated, would Veiw as portending the most direfull Consequences. A circumstance of the Ferocity of the British Court may be learnt from their offering to deliver the Prisoners taken on Long Island to the East India Company to be sent to their settlements, in Case they would send to Gi- bralter for them. This Proposition We have an Authentick Account of, was Recorded in the Compy Book and that the Genl. Assembly met to consider of the Offer. This Shews the extreme Malice of that Goverment. But God Reigns and Will I believe Blast the Designs of these unrelenting Tyrants. That N England will be a principal object with the Enemy the next Campaign I think not only Probable because their Malice would dictate such a Measure, but they must feel the necessity of bringing the War to a speedy Close which they will not consider as affected in any very con siderable Degree while the N England Countrys are unsubdued. The Enemy have put on an Appearance as tho they intend an Expedi tion to this City which occasions the Removal of Stores &c, also an order to the Militia to be ready in Case of Emergency, and a direction to form a Camp near the City to which they may repair and join the continental troops. These Steps are doubtless Well, but Whatever the present Veiws of the Enemy may be, their final object I apprehend is Hudsons River and the Eastward. You will sir kindly accept my most sincere Wishes for your Happiness and be assured that I am with Sentiment of esteem, your most Obedient humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott. P.S. I should have mentioned to you Sir that the Committee from N York and Virginia inclusive who met as you have doubtless heard to Consider of the expediancy of fixing Prices &c similar to what was done in N England are dissolved without doing any Thing. 2 It may therefore be an object worthy of Consideration wheither We ought to Continue our Embargo Law respecting Prices &c. The Policy and even Practicability of the Measure has been denyed here. How this is I believe the N England Goverments by this Time have had the full Information of Experience to convince them. But if We sell and restrain our Trade in a lower and more confined Way than our Neighbours We cannot be upon an equal footing with them.
