April 18, 1777 611 and to request you will take proper Measures for carrying the Resolve into Execution relative to the latter. 2 You will perceive the Congress have voted five Hundred Dollars for this Purpose. Every Mark of Distinction shewn to the Memory of those illustrious Men who offer up their Lives for the Liberty & Happiness of their Coun try, reflects the truest Honour upon those who pay the Tribute; and by holding up to others the Prospects of Fame & Immortality will animate them to tread in the same Path. I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Svt. J H Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See ]CC, 7:242-43, 258. 2 Or “the former” in the case of Massachusetts. Marine Committee to Benjamin Dunn Sir Philadelphia 18th April 1777 The Navy Board of this State having made application for the Assist ance of Such Continental Cruizers as can with propriety be employed to defend the Cape May Channel in Delaware Bay against the enemies Ships and tenders now mollesting the trade at the Capes, 1 We have thought proper in complyance with their request to order the Andrea Doria, Sur prize, & Fly 2 on this service. You are therefore to proceed soon as it is pos sible with the Sloop Surprize under your Command down the Cape May Channel until you join the Andrea Doria, where you will put yourself under the command of your Senior officer Captain Isaiah Robinson and in conjunction with him and the Gallies of this State exert your utmost abilities to secure the communication between this City and the Sea by means of that Channel, You must to the utmost of your power protect and assist all American Vessels inward or outward bound, and you are also to exert your utmost abilities and address to take, Sink, bum or de stroy any or all of the enemies Ships that may come in your way. When this service does not require your further attention consult your senior officer, and with his concurrence you may open the other orders given you herewith and proceed upon the execution of them. Remember there is a Cargo on board the Surprize and you will be careful not to ex pose it unnecessarilly to risque of being lost or taken. We are Sir, Your hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The Pennsylvania Navy Board made this request in an April 17 letter to the Marine Committee. Pa. Archives, 2d ser. 1:133. The Navy Board’s origins and functions are described in John W. Jackson, The Pennsylvania Navy, 1775-1781: The Defense of the Delaware (New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University Press, 1974), ch. 7.
