April 18, 1777 613 can be done afterwards. When you find the service herein recommended does not require your particular attention, either by means of your tak ing or destroying the enemies Tenders or by their quitting the Station, you may then deem these orders to be fully complyed with and opening the others given you herewith proceed as therein directed. And as you have a valuable Cargo on board you will during this service be particu larly attentive to the safety of the Andrea Doria and her Cargo, only ex posing her to danger when you are sensible the true Interest or honor of America requires it. We are sir, Your hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings April 18th. 1777 Come. met. Present Morris, Lee, Lewis, Whipple. Order on J. Gibson Esqr. A. G. in favor of Messrs. Meredith & Clymer for 2133 1/3 dlls being the amount of their valuation of their Sloop Peggy charterd & insurd by the Come. sd. sloop being taken on her way to Martinique by the Enemy’s ship of war the Orpheus on the 4th July last, as appears by the Masters Protest taken before Js. Humphreys, Noty. pub. on the 30th day of Augt. last. 1 Issued the follg. drafts on the Auditr. genl, [in] favor G. Meade & Co. for 54 26/90 dlls being the amount of an Invoice of staves shipped by them on board the Brige. Freindship of St Eustatia for 3680 dlls, amt. of their Acct, dated the 10th March last. Do. for 1253 11/90 dlls balance of their Acct, for freight & charges on the Brige. Friendship. MS (MH-H). 1 This apparently superseded an earlier order. See Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, September 12, 1776. George Walton to Lachlan McIntosh 18 April 1777 I freely confess to you my dear General that some pains have been taken to shake my friendship for your virtues & to lessen the good opinion of the Continent—but be assured that they never obtained credit with either. I have been privately interragated as to the firmness of your principles in this great cause, in which I know you always to have been an enthusiast, and to have seen deeper, earlier and farther into it than any other man. That ample Justice has been done you upon all such occasions I hope you will not doubt. However a mans reputation may be obscured by the puffs
