April 19, 1777 617 want of Business, for surely no Country ever cried more loudly for a vigilant, active and decisive Government. They have adjournd because— faith I cannot tell you why—perhaps for the want of authority to save their Country under their new Constitution—perhaps for want of Resolu tion to exercise the powers they have. Under these Circumstances, the civil Governours having in effect abdicated for a month, Congress have interposd and supplied an executive as you’l observe by the Resolution enclosd. 2 With the free consent of the sleeping executive, Congress might have taken the whole power of the State into their Hands and provided for it’s Safety as they pleasd. It is evident that this same supreme execu tive are under apprehensions that must encumber and defeat all Business. They must not make themselves Odious! The People may not be satisfied with such a Measure! They wish Congress woud direct what they think best! They will chearfully submit every thing to our superior wisdom, &c. &c. I am of Opinion that Congress will recommend the Revival of the Committees of Inspection &c as essential to the Salvation of the State. It is truly the only System which can give sufficient Vigour, Unanimity and Stability to publick Measures. These refined Speculative Plans may amuse; in times of peace they may produce Happiness; but flagrante bello they afford no Hope of Success, no Prospect of Advantage. The Reputation of our State stands high tho’ on the floor we are sur rounded with Strangers. This is an evil which will be cured by good man ners and sociability. It is in our power to be civil, as we keep House, and shall always have company when we dine at Home. I say we keep House, as we have taken a boarding House for our exclusive use. We have got a Committee appointed of one member from each State to examine into General Schuyler’s Conduct, but not without great diffi culty and objections from our neighbours. It was pretended that there was no Complaint against him, no accusor & that therefore an Enquiry was absurd. This subtle Evasion did not pass. I am confident that Schuyler will be acquitted with Honour. 3 Doctor Young formerly of our State has published an address to our Mountaineers advising them to be firm in their Revolt; and expressly assuring them that this is the opinion & wish of many leading members of Congress. 4 Col. Floyd informd us that he had not been able, tho’ he livd with Roger Sherman, to make the least discovery of such a disposition. I have only time now to add that I am with Compliments to all our Friends and the utmost Regard to yourselves, Dear Gent., your most obed, huml Servt, Jas. Duane RC (NNC). Addressed: “Robt. R. Livingston, John Jay, Govr. Morris & Robt Yates Esqrs.” Although the recipients were members of the New York Conven tion, they were not charged with responsibility for communicating with the state’s delegates to Congress and Duane’s motive in addressing them is not known. 1 Duane and Philip Livingston.
