April 19, 1777 621 3 For the continuation of this letter, see Marine Committee to Dunn, May 2, 1777. Marine Committee to Isaiah Robinson Sir April 19 th 1777 The Marine Committee gave you Instructions of yesterdays date for performing certain services in Delaware Bay which being accomplished you are to have recourse to the following Orders which you are to obey and fulfill soon as possible. You are to proceed with the Andrea Doria and the Cargo on board direct for Cape Frangois in Hispaniola and on your Arrival there wait on the Governor or General asking the protection and liberty of the Port. You will be attended in this visit by Mr. Stephen Ceronio to whom you must deliver the letter given you herewith and to whom the Cargo on board is consigned. This Gentleman will receive the said Cargo with despatch and if he has any public stores on hand that have been provided by him previous to your Arrival or if there be any arrived there from Europe you are to receive the whole or such part as you can conveniently take on board the Andrea Doria and return there with to the first safe Port you can get into in the united states of America preferring this part of the Coast if equally safe. You are to land the Stores and goods wherever you arrive giving us notice thereof and employing proper persons to take charge of them until we can direct how they are to be disposed off. We believe there is sufficient water for the Andrea Doria in Egg Harbour, several of the Inlets south of Cape Henlopen, or in several Inlets in North Carolina and probably these may be safer than the great Bays. You will be careful to keep your men on board wherever you go and then take in three or four months Provisions. We hope all this business will be finished before the first day of July. Should there be no Public Stores for these States at Cape Frangois, you will depart from thence immediately after landing your Cargo and pro ceed down to Cape St. Nicholas Mole where you are to apply to Mr. John Dupuy and if he has any goods or Stores to ship receive them on board and proceed as already directed. You will get as many men to enter on board your Brig as possible at these places and should there be no stores or goods to bring away you may then proceed on a Cruize against our enemies, taking, sinking, burning and destroying as many of their Ships and Vessels as possible. You may send your Prizes into the French Ports or for the Continent preferring the later when proper and practicable. The Gentle men mentioned will transact your business, they will supply you with whatever may be necessary, and you may order them to sell all perishable Prize goods or those suited to the West India Markets taking care they
