622 April 19, 1777 are really and truely indisputable Prizes agreeable to Resolves of Congress, but the Vessels and other Parts of the Cargoes must come to some Amer ican Port for condemnation. In this manner you may continue Cruizing until the first day of July, and should you return from the Cape or the Mole and land a Cargo on the Continent as already mentioned before the first of July, you may proceed on a Cruize for West India Ships or others in these Seas until that day. On the first day of July you are to open the Sealed Orders enclosed herein 1 and exert yourself to the utmost in the execution of them taking care that the Andrea Doria is clean, well manned, victualled and every way in good Order for service at that Time. 2 LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Not found. 2 For the continuation of this letter, see Marine Committee to Robinson, May 2, 1777. Lewis Morris to the New York Convention Phia April 19th 1777 I find the Convention have thought proper by a Resolve to request the Attendance of Mr Lewis, Mr Floyd and myself from the Continental Congress. In obediance to that Resolve (to which as every other of that Convention I feel myself devoted to comply with) I would instantly have set off, but flattered myself that I might presume on the Liberty of making some little delay, the reasons for which I fondly hope the Convention will think of Some weight. Unconnected as my Colleagues are, I should not have hesitated one moment to Obey the Summons, but all my family are now in the neighbourhood of this City, the constant apprehensions we are under here of the approach of the enemy, makes it prudent to remove them to some distance, and being destitute of any other assistance for that purpose than myself, I was assured that a delay occasioned from such motives would have its weight with the Convention in my favor. However Sir, you will be pleased to assure the Convention that such is my attachment to the cause, and such the respect I bear their commands, that should they now think proper to Summon me immediately, the private considerations I have just mentioned shall give way to their determinations. 1 I have the honor to be Sir, your Most obedt Humble Servt, Lewis Morris RC (PHi). ’After reading Morris’ letter, the New York Convention decided on May 4 to “dispense with his attendance for the present.” Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:911.
