624 April 19, 1777 You no doubt are justifiable in delivering the arms, as to the cloth ing, you’ll receive directions from the Clothier General. I shall pay the earliest attention to what you say respecting Roache’s ship. If there is a probability of getting cannon from the Massachusetts furnace I think it best to stick close to them as the surest way of obtaining cannon for the Raleigh. The bursting of a few, I hope will not discourage the furnace from going on—not more than half those cast in the furnaces this way have stood the proof. This city is still threatened with an invasion but whether the threats will be executed or not, is a matter of doubt with me. A plan of correspondence between this City and the enemy has lately been discovered. 7 or 8 of the Traitors are under close confine ment. Some of them will no doubt be hanged. This is disagreeable busi ness, but if we dont hang them they’ll hang us, and selfpreservation, you know, is the first law of nature. A considerable quantity of the goods will be saved from the ship blown up near the Capes, as mentioned in my last. She had a valuable cargo on board 400 lbs. of powder, 2500 stand of arms and a considerable quantity dry goods amounting in the whole to 250,000 livres for account of the public besides private property to a large amount—but the greatest loss is the life of the Captain whose bravery on this occasion is without example. The establishment of a Navy Board in the Eastern Department is now in contemplation and I imagine will soon be done. 1 This is a necessary measure and ought to have been adopted some time ago. I am much at a loss for proper men to compose this Board. Boston, I suppose will be the place of their sitting; therefore it’s probable they will be of that town, or neighborhood. My only wish is, that they may be good men. He is my choice who will best serve my country. Some gentlemen are very urgent that I would engage in this business, but it’s totally against my principles to accept an office of profit created by a Legislative Body of which I am a member and to resign my seat from lucrative views would not only be treating honor done me by my constituents with indecency but be incon sistent with that patriotic delicacy, which ever affords the most agreeable reflections. These are my present sentiments nor do I by any means think I shall relinquish them. Whoever are appointed, I suppose must reside chiefly at Boston. I wish we could have a public furnace for casting cannon set up in New Hampshire. I think I have heard that there is a large quantity of ore at Barrington and a convenient place for this business. I wish you would make inquiry about it and inform me what the ore can be pur chased for, what distance it is from a convenient place for a furnace and the distance the latter is from water carriage. I hope you will send some body to relieve me soon, as it will be very disagreeable to go a long journey in the heat of summer. My Colleague sets out in about a fortnight when I shall be left alone for New Hamp shire and you know how hard the service will be then. In full confidence
