626 April 19, 1777 Ships as there has been some instances of the Masters carelessness of their letters when they have been taken, but we very soon expect a packet, when I flatter myself shall be able to give you some joyful Tidings. Prizes taken by American Vessels are freely sold in France, the inclos’d Copy of a letter from a Gentn. who is never mistaken in his intelligence will shew you the scituation of the Court of Spain with that of England. 1 A fresh quarrel is breaking out between the Turks and Russians, all these things Auger well for America. Your Most effecte. Brother, Wm Whipple 23d This was to have gone by a private hand which I unluckely missed. I have now to acknowledge the receipt of Yours by Mr. Jackson and also the 17 per Post which I have not time at present to reply fully to. The loan Officer will have orders from time to time from The Treasury Board but he can pay no money that comes into his hands without special orders for that purpose. I shall write you fully per Gapt Thompson who will set out in a few days. W W Its probable I may have use’d various seals as I was obligd to Borrow till a Friend took pity on me & gave me one below in the impression. RC (MH-H). 1 The “inclos’d Copy” has not been identified, but see John Adams to James Warren, and James Lovell to James Bowdoin, April 16, 1777. John Hancock to Thomas Johnson and John McKinly Sir, Philada. April 20th. 1777. I have the Honour to transmit you the enclosed Resolves and am most earnestly to entreat you will adopt the Measures therein recommended. The Danger of an immediate Insurrection in the Counties of Somerset and Worcester in the State of Maryland & in the County of Sussex in the State of Delaware, from the inimical Disposition manifested by a consider able Part of the Inhabitants, has induced Congress to desire that those among them who have shewn a Disaffection to the Cause of America, may be apprehended and secured, in Hopes that their wicked Designs may be thereby defeated. 1 I beg Leave to refer your Attention to the Resolves, which are so ex plicit, that I shall not enlarge, only to request you will carry them into Execution with that Dispatch & Vigour which their Importance to the Peace of your State in particular, and of America in General, so loudly demands. I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Sert. J. H. Presid.
