April 22, 1777 635 Philip Schuyler to George Washington Dear Sir Philadelphia April 22d. 1777. I am this Moment honored with your Excellency’s Favor of Yester day’s Date. 1 Your Excellency’s Letter of the 20t to Congress, 2 was Yesterday, as I am informed, read and referred to the Board of War. I shall apply for a Copy of it, and try to execute whatever you may have wished should be done. I have with some Difficulty cleared this City of the Troops and got them all at Bristol except about sixty, who arrived last Night and who will proceed as soon as they are cloathed. 3 On Saturday I sent one of my Aids de Camp to procure a Return, which was very imperfectly made, Copy whereof your Excellency has inclosed. I hope for a more perfect one to Day, having sent one of the Light Horse Yesterday with a Letter to the commanding officer, for that purpose, to whom I shall immediately write to make you the most exact Returns. The Fortifications at Fort Island and Red Bank are going on as expeditiously as can be expected, with only four hundred and fifty Men of the provincials of this State. I am Dr Sir with great Respect, Your Ex cellency’s most obedient hble Servant, Ph. Schuyler RC (DLC). In the hand of John Lansing, Jr., and signed by Schuyler. 1 This letter is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:446. 3 In reality Schuyler is referring to Washington’s April 18 letter to President Hancock, which was received on the 20th. See Hancock to Washington, April 20, 1777. 3 See JCC, 7:289. Charles Thomson to George Washington Sir April 22 1777. Before I joined Congress after their adjournment from Baltimore, the following resolutions passed in Congress 14 March 1777. 1 “That the pay list transmitted by the general for the establishment of Colonel Sheldon’s regiment of cavalry be approved of. “That the list of officers & privates transmitted by the general as necessary to compose every regiment of Cavalry to be raised for the de fense of these united states be approved of.” No copy was taken of these papers and the president informs me he sent back the originals to you. As the journals will be incompleat without
