April 23, 1777 637 Samuel Adams to Samuel Cooper My dear Sir Philada. April 23d. 1777 1 I take this earliest opportunity to acknowledge your Favor of the 26th of March. 2 Your letters are always very acceptable to me; I wish therefore that your Leisure would admit of your writing oftener. I heartily concur with you in regreting the abominable Practice of prophane Swearing in our Army. It is indeed alarming. Congress has repeatedly injoyned the General officers to discountenance this Practice by their Authority and Influence. You know my Abhorrence of it, and may depend upon my exerting the utmost of my Endeavors if possible, to root it out of the Army. We have been, and still are threatned with the Invasion of this City. I confess I have no great Apprehensions of it, for I very much question whether the Enemy are yet in a Condition to open the Campaign. 3 It is mortifying in the Extreme that a small Handfull of ragged, discontented, unpaid Mercenaries should be sufferd to remain so long in Jersey & Rhode Island. But this must be attributed to the unlucky Circumstances of our Troops having been inlisted for one year only. The Advantage which the Enemy have taken from this Mistake will I hope be prevented by a per manent Army for the future. Experience has shewn us past Errors, and we are endeavoring to correct them. The medical Department is now put upon a new footing, and Rules are establishing in the Quarter Masters for keeping our Soldiers clearly in their encampments whereby their Health as well as Lives will be preservd. The Expediency of inocculating our new raisd Troops, has retarded their March to the Places of their Destination; but we are daily getting through this Difficulty, and I am in good Hopes that we shall bring our Army into the Field, though later than was intended, in tollerable Season. A well appointed army will put it in the Power of our generals to take a more decisive Part. We must drive our Enemies into the Sea and be ready to attack them on that Element. I earnestly wish to see such an enterprizing Spirit as shall confound our Enemies, and give Assurances to the Friends of Liberty, that we still retain a just Sense of the Dignity of our Cause, and are resolved by Gods as sistance to maintain it at all Hazzards. A Resolution passd in Congress Lately recommending to the New England States to raise their Militia & dislodge the Enemy at Rhode Island. I hope this will be done. Shall we not once more see that Spirit which animated our Countrymen at Lexington & Bunkers Hill. You have Intelligence from Europe as early as we have it here. I re- joyce with you in the Arrival of the Amphitrite with Cannon & Stores from France. Our Friend A L in a Letter dated at Bordeaux the 20th of Feby says that “ten thousand German & three thousand British Troops are to sail from England for Boston early in the Spring.” 4 I have al ways been of opinion that New England would again be the Seat of the
