638 April 23, 1777 War, and I have in my Letters to my Friends thro’ the Winter past been endeavouring to impress this opinion upon their Minds. I am utterly at a Loss to what Cause to impute the Failure of the Eastern States to send forward a Reinforcement of Militia to Ticonderoga when it was so pres- singly urged upon them by Congress early in the Winter. I am ready to attribute it to any thing rather than a Want of Zeal & Vigor, but It is humiliating to have it suspected to be the Fact, and it troubles me be yond Measure to find honest men disposd to give Credit to what un principled Tories are industriously propagating here that publick Vir tue and the military Spirit is totally lost in New England and that People have given themselves up to Luxury and Avarice. I hope it is not the Voice of every Citizen Queer endo Pecunia primum est. If it be not the general Doctrine, I pray you my dear Sir to give me your Assurances to the Contrary. Congress a few Days ago determind to establish a Marine board in the Eastern Department to consist of three Members who are to reside in or near Boston with the Power of adjourning to any other place. They are to be subject to the Directions of the Marine Committee of Congress. I hope this Board will facilitate our Naval Affairs and put them upon a more respectable Footing. 5 This Day General Warren, Mr Vernon Late of Newport & Mr Deshon of New London were elected to this Board with a Salary of 1500 Dollars per Annum each. A Number of Gentle men of the Massachusetts had been nominated by the Members of that State; Mr C 6 was nominated by Mr Duane of New York & As the gentlemen of Connecticutt and Rhode Island were urgent, it would not have been prudent for us to have been strenuous for the Choice of all out of our own State, though I am inclind to think there might have been a better Choice. Mr Warrens Character has long been revered in Congress. Mr. C had been personally known to many of the Members, Mr Deshon to no one. The two last had an equal Number of Votes but neither of them a competent Number. On a second Tryal Mr Deshon obtaind the Election. I heartily concur with you in regretting 7 FC (NN). 1 Although this draft is dated April 23, the last paragraph could not have been completed before May 6, the day Congress appointed the members of the Navy Board at Boston. See JCC, 7:331. ’ This is probably a reference to Cooper’s March 24 letter to Adams, which is in the Adams Papers, NN. 3 In the FC the letter to this point was crossed out. 1 Not found, but see Arthur Lee’s February 18 letter to the Committee of Secret Correspondence in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:272-73. 3 The remainder of this paragraph was crossed out in the FC. 0 Thomas Cushing, former Massachusetts delegate. 7 The FC ends here abruptly at mid-page.
