April 23, 1777 639 John Hancock to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philada. April 23d. 1777. The Congress, in Consequence of Information of the extraordinary Behaviour of Mr. Franklyn who has been for some Time a Prisoner at large in your State, have come to the enclosed Resolve relative to him; by which you will perceive they judge it highly necessary that he should be put under close Confinement. I am therefore to request you will give Orders for having the Resolve carried into Execution as soon as possible agreeably to the Terms of it. 1 I am likewise to request your Attention to the other Resolve 2 trans mitted herewith, & your Compliance with the same. I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Sir, your most obed & very hble Serv, J H Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 After his deposition by the revolutionary party in June 1776, William Frank lin, the last royal governor of New Jersey, was sent to Connecticut under liberal terms of confinement. There he violated his parole by “dispersing” copies of the pardons offered by the Howe brothers to rebellious Americans, prompting Congress on April 22 to request Governor Trumbull to place him in “close con finement, prohibiting to him the use of pen, ink, and paper, or the access of any person or persons, but such as are properly licensed for that purpose by Governor Trumbull.” Trumbull carried out Congress’ wishes, and Franklin remained con fined until he was exchanged for Gov. John McKinly of Delaware in October 1778. See JCC, 7:291; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:317, 344, 450, 476; Burnett, Letters, 2:362n.4; and Larry R. Gerlach, William Franklin: New Jersey’s Last Royal Governor (Trenton: New Jersey Historical Commission, 1975), pp. 32-35. 3 Possibly the resolve of April 22 asking the states to send Congress “their statute laws . . . the additions that may be made thereto . . . [and] all dis coveries and improvements in the arts of war made in such States.” JCC 7:291. Marine Committee to Elisha Hinman Sir April 23d 1777 We expect by the time that these Orders will get to your hands, the Ship Alfred under your Command will be compleatly fitted and manned, You are therefore to proceed with said ship immediately to sea, and there Cruize in such Latitudes as will be most likely to fall in with, and intercept the enemies Transport Vessels coming to reinforce or supply their Army at New York, and you are to use your true endeavours to take, burn, sink or destroy as many of the enemies Vessels of every kind, as it may be your good fortune to fall in with. The Prizes you may be lucky enough to take you will send into such Ports of the United States as you shall think will be the safest and most Convenient. It is our desire that you shall return to Boston or some safe
