April 23, 1777 643 ton with power to adjourn to any other part of New England to Super intend the Building, fitting out and manning the Ships of War ordered to be Built there, & to provide Naval magazines & generally to direct the Naval affairs in New England Subject to the Orders of the Marine Committee. 3 A recommendation passed Yesterday to the Several States to furnish Congress with their Laws, and to Send them to each of the other States that they may be acquainted with each others Laws—also to com municate any new discoveries they may make in the art of War or other useful Arts. 4 By a letter from General Heath to the Board of War it ap pears that the most of the Powder made in the Massachusetts Bay is bad and not to be depended on, & that they have a large Quantity of it. I hope the Inspectors of Powder in Connecticut will take Sufficient care that what is manufactured there is good, as the Safety of the State depends on its being Good. The price of Board is increased here about one third, & horsekeeping double. There must be a large quantity of paper money in circulation while the war lasts. I wish a spirited Effort might Soon be made to Subdue the Enemy’s force now in the Country. General Wolcott is in a good State of Health. He Saw Your Honrs. Letter and desired me to Write to your Honr. what was needful, but as we had nothing very important to write thought it unnecessary for both to Subscribe the Letter. I am with Great Esteem & Regards, Your Honor’s Obedient humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (Ct). 1 Trumbull’s April 14 letter to President Hancock is in PCC, item 66, fols. 321—22. On April 17 the former Committee of Secret Correspondence had become the Committee for Foreign Affairs, and Thomas Paine had been elected its secretary. See JCC, 7:274. 2 In September 1776 Robert Aitkin had been authorized to reprint the journals from May 1775, and he offered the January to May 1776 portion for sale in Octo ber 1776. JCC, 5:829, 6:1128. 3 See JCC, 7:281, 331. ‘See JCC, 7:291. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir Philadelphia 23d Api 1777 Your two favors one of 26th March & the other 5th March which I suppose shod be April came to hand Yesterday. 1 I find You have hard work to Perswade gentn to serve their Country, what can be the meaning of this? Do Gentn still think it Hazardous to appear in a Charecter that will render them obnoxious to the British Tyrant & his infernal Tools? or are they afraid their Private interest will suffer? The day Perhaps is not far off when some of those Gentn. who now are so loath to step forth, will be making interest for a seat in Congress, they may be gratified for
