644 April 23, 1777 what I care, and let those who are now Laboring in the vineyard, enjoy the Blessings of Domestic Happiness, with the Pleasing Reflections that will result from a Consciousness of having lent their aid when their Country most wanted it. However, it seems you have at least found two Gentn who will come, & I wish they may set out as soon as possible. 2 Col. Thornton intends to leave this place in about ten days & I wish to follow him before the weather is too warm. The last accot. from Our Commissioners was under the 6th Feby. They then had not heard of our successes in Jersey but I imagine our dispatches must have reachd them soon after. The accots then circulating all over Europe were such as were most agreeable to the British Court and really stagered some of Our Friends but notwithstanding this our Commisrs. had established a Bank in France, & one of them had set out for Spain. Another was to go in a short time for Holland. There did not appear to be the least probability of Britains geting any assistance from Russia. The most they expected to reinforce their Army in America with is 10,000 but the Court of France say they can not send near that number. There is every appearance of a General war in Europe & it is my opinion that Hostilities are commenc’d by this time. The Opposition to the Measures of admin istration in England increases, which will help to Confound their Coun cils. We daily Expect to have more particular accots. Our Commissrs. say they did not chuse to write so perticularly by Merchant ships as there had been some instances of carelessness in masters that had been taken who sufferd the letters to fall into the Enemies hands. Our army is daily increasing and by the accot received by Spies & deserters that of the Enemy is daily weakening so that I think our pros pects are tolerably good. I shall write you more fully in a few days. In the meantime beg leave to assure you that I am very Sincerely Yours, Wm. Whipple RC (NhD). ‘These letters, under the dates March 5? and 26, 1777, are in the microfilm edition of Josiah Bartlett Papers, NhHi. 3 Nathaniel Folsom and George Frost were elected delegates to Congress on April 1, but Frost did not attend until May 16 and Folsom until July 21, 1777. See N.H. State Papers, 8:528; and ]CC, 7:365, 8:568. Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman Sir, Philadelphia 23d April 1777 Your Favour of the 3d and 9t inst is reed, in the Latter of which came inclosed a Letter from Rhina. I perceive the little Child has had the Small Pox bad. But blessed be God that she has recovered from it. I perceive that Mrs. Wolcotts Health has been for a long time low, I fear more so than I am informed of. I wish to know how she is more explicitly than I
