April 24, 1777 649 Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings April 24. 1777 The Comine. met. Present, Morris, Lee, Whipple, Lewis. Letters from Dani. Tillinghast Esqr. of the 15 & 18 March inclosing Invoices, of Goods purchasd for the use of the Army, & cloathing supplied the fleet was read. Orderd that he be directed to apply to the Cloathier general for the amount of the goods purchasd for the use of the Army & that he charge the cloathg. fumishd to the Marine Come. & transmit the receits of the Papers to whom they were delivrd. A Lettr from Ths. Mumford Esqr. dated March 22 was read. Agreed that if the Owners of the Schooner Polly (wch he advises is arrivd at Plymouth with a Cargo of Salt) will not agree to receive her at that place, that he be orderd to load her again on public acct, with a suitable Cargo for Eustachia addressg. her to his friends there, orderg. them to ballast her with Salt, ship what powdr. re mains with them & dispatch her back for the first safe port in these States. Mr. Barnabas Deane’s letter of the 24th March was read. Agreed that he be directed to pay Capt. Biglow, the freight of the dry goods agreable to the list enclosd in his letter, & 2/ per Bushl. for Salt, wch. if he refuses to take he will refer him for settlemt. of the whole to this Come. Come. met. Present, Morris, Lee, Whipple. The Come, have purchasd from Mr. B. Gibbs of this city Mercht. his Brige. calld the Ann, Garrick master, as she now lays at Cape Francois, in the island of Hispaniola for the sum of £1800 cury. he to pay the portage bill, & all charges to the time She deliverd her cargo there. The Come, have likewise agreed with sd. Gibbs for a bill wch. he is now to give, on M. Stephen Ceronio Merchant there for the balance of the nett proceeds of sd. Briges cargo for wch. he is to be pd. 100 per Cent advance. The Come, have likewise agreed with Sami. Penrose & Co. of this City for the purchase of their Sloop, calld the Phebe, as she now lies at Cape Francois for £1000 this cury., they to pay all charges until the time She deliverd her cargo there. Also for a Bill wch sd. Penrose & Co. are to draw on Mr. Stephen Ceronio for balance of proceeds of sd. sloops cargo for wch. the Come, are to pay one hund. per Cent. Mr. Morris producd the follg. Bills drawn upon him as Chairman of the Come, by J. Weriatt Esqr. Continental Agent in Geor gia 1 vizt In favor of Burney & Dawson dated 14 Deer, last for this curry £1696.10.0 In favor of Levi Shiftall 31st Jany 75. Do 1 Feby 75. Do 3 Feby 75. Do 4 Feby 75. Pensyla. Cury. £1996. 10
