650 April 24, 1777 Orderd that Mr. Morris pay sd Bills. Order on the Auditor genl, in favor of J. Brown in behalf of Mr. Morris, for 5324 dlls to pay sd. bills to be chargd sd. J. Wereat Esqr. in the Come’s books. MS (MH-H). 1 The following note in the copyist’s hand appears at the foot of the page and is keyed at this point: “In this manner Mr. Morris might have paid for all his private purchases out of the public Treasury, wch. woud not appear ’till the Agents settled their Accts. This Wereatt, like many others never settled & so the public money is accounted for. A. Lee.” For examples of similar comments pertaining to Robert Morris’ transactions found in this copy of the committee’s “journal,” see Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, August 8, 1776, note 2, and May 1, 1777, note. Oliver Wolcott to Joshua Huntington Sir, Philadelphia 24th April 1777 Your Favour of the 14t [inst.] is reed, but have not had time to lay it before the Committee. Shall take the earliest Oppertunity for that Pur pose after which you may expect to hear from me again. Iron I perceive is a most extraordinary Price, and I beleive it will be difficult if possible to obtain it here, and indeed the British Frigates lying at the Capes would prevent the exportation if it could be purchased. It is proper you should have what money is necessary, but that cannot be sent to you at this Time, tho’ I beleive it will not be difficult to procure it for you soon. 1 You will probably be soon put to less dificulty on many Accounts as Congress have determined to establish a Marine Board for the N England Governments—a most necessary Institution, and which has been much Wanted. This Day probably the Commissioners will be appointed. 2 You may depend upon my Readiness to give you every Assistance in my Power. I am, sir your most Obedient, humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott RC (MHi). 1 Huntington was superintending the construction of a Continental frigate. See Wolcott to Huntington, March 11, 1777, note 1. ’ See John Adams’ first April 6 letter to James Warren, note 2. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. April 25th. 1777. You will perceive, from the Resolves which I have now the Honour of transmitting, the Measures the Congress have come into on a Variety of Subjects. 1 1 beg Leave to refer your Attention to them. Altho Congress have recommended to the executive Authority of this State to call out three Thousand of the Militia, and to order the City
