April 25, 1777 651 Militia to hold themselves in Readiness at a Moments Warning, yet such is the Weakness of the Government, that every Means should be used to give Efficacy to this Requisition. They have therefore deter mined to detain Genl. Mifflin in this City for some Time knowing his Popularity and Influence to be very great, provided you should be of opinion, the Service will admit of his Absence from the Army. 2 I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Respect & Esteem, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presid. [P.5 1.] Your Letters of the 21 & 23d have been duly rec’d. 3 As I propose in a few days to Send my Family off for Boston, I Take the freedom to Request that you will be so Obliging as to give me your Opinion which Rout would be the safest for them to Take; & what part of the North River you Judge best for them to Cross at. I am, your most Obedt, John Hancock RC (DLG). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 1 In addition to those mentioned in the next paragraph, Hancock also sent Washington resolves of April 23 and 25 on reinforcements, prisoner support, medical pay, Gov. William Franklin, Maj. Elisha Painter, and hospital inspec tion. JCC, 7:289-91, 298-300. 2 See JCC, 7:296. 3 These letters are in PCG, item 152, 4:91—92, 95; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:449, 462. Robert Morris to William Bingham Dear Sir Philada. April 25th. 1777 I am indebted for your favours of the 25th Jany, 19th & 22d Feby. & 12 & 13th March to which shall reply. My Scruples about Privateering are all done away. I have seen such Rapine, Plunder & Destruction denounced against & executed on the Americans that I join you in thinking it a Duty to oppose and distress so Merciless an Ennemy in every Shape we can. Therefore it matters not who knows my Concern with Ord as I am now ready to encrease the Number of my Engagements in that Way. I suppose we are entitled to one fifth of Mr. Prejents Share in the first Prize Capt. Ord took on his way from St. Eustatia to Martinico as well as those he took after your Agreement the whole of which will help to pay for & fit out the Brigt. on which I observe you had got an Abatement. I have lately had the Pleasure to hear that Ord in Company with the Rattle Snake had taken & sent into Martinico Nine Sail of transport Ships, two Guinea Men & two Sail of Transports into St. Eustatia. If this be true & it seems well authenticated we shall make a fine hand of it. I hope soon to have the Account Confirmed by you & to hear of further Success. 1 You will see by
