660 April 26, 1777 I am sorry to hear that such dangerous Designs are carrying on by inter nal Enemies. Eight Days ago a Committee was appointed to inquire into my Con duct, but Nothing has as yet been done. Inclose you Copy of some Res olutions of Congress that were passed before my arrival here. By these you will readily perceive that I shall not return a General. Under what Influence it has been brought about, I am not at Liberty now to mention. 1 On my Return to Albany I shall give the Committee the fullest Infor mation. I am &c. Ph. Schuyler LB (NN). 1 See Schuyler’s Memorial to Congress, May 6, 1777. Philip Schuyler to Richard Varick Dear Colonel: Philad. April 26th. 1777..... 1 Yesterday the Committee to enquire into my conduct began that Business. 2 I believe they will finish in the course of the week and that their report will be agreeable to my wishes; and such a change has taken place in the sentiments of the members who were unacquainted with me, that it is thought they will expunge the resolutions of the 15th of March, 3 copy whereof you have enclosed, but they have a much more difficult point to get over. They wish me to remain in the command, but having already appointed, (or at least implicativly so) Gen. Gates to the command of the Northern department, 4 they do not know how to manage the matter. They wish to make Ticonderoga a separate com mand; that they have a right to do, but they know that I will not serve at Albany on those conditions. Indeed, not on any unless an absolute command is giving [given] me over every part of the army in the North ern department. This they will not do, and therefore I shall return Mr. Schuyler only to Albany. Adieu and believe me most sincerely Dr. Sir yours etc. Ph. Schuyler MS not found; reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 2:341-42. 1 Ellipsis in Tr. a This committee, consisting of one delegate from each state, had been ap pointed on April 18. JCC, 7:279-80. ’ See John Hancock to Schuyler, March 18, 1777, note 2. * Schuyler construed Congress’ March 25 order to Horatio Gates “to repair to Ticonderoga, and take command of the army there” as evidence that the dele gates intended Gates to command the whole northern military department. JCC, 7:202. That this was indeed the intention of some delegates is evident from John Hancock’s March 25 letter to Gates.
