662 April 27, 1777 can exist in any other, and therefore have constantly ascribed that Milk and Honey with which We have treated them to Fear, Cowardice, and conscious Weakness. But in this they are mistaken, and will discover their Mistake too late to answer any good Purpose for them. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:224-26. 1 The Pennsylvania Evening Post, April 24, 26, 29,-and May 3, 1777, contained in serial form the report of a committee of Congress appointed on January 16 “to enquire into the conduct of the British and Hessian generals and officers.” See Samuel Chase to the New Jersey Council, January 23, 1777, note 2. 2 Suspension points in MS. John Adams to Samuel Freeman Sir Philadelphia Ap. 27. 1777 Your Favour of 25 March I duely reed. 1 The Plan of riding you men tion, between Boston and Falmouth, appears to me, reasonable enough, but the Committee will not incline to take upon themselves, Regulations of that kind of which they cannot be so good Judges, at this Distance as the Post Masters who are nearer. My Advice would be for Mr Hast ings, Mr Libby and yourself, to confer upon this Subject with each other, in Person or by Letter and, any Representation of this Matter to the Post Master General, Mr Bache, in which you three can agree will no doubt be readily adopted. Mr Hastings’s Memorial has been considered, and the Post Master General has been impowered to make an addition to his allowance, not exceeding two hundred Dollars a year which I hope will do him Justice. I wish it was in my Power to send you the Constitutions of the several States, but it is not. They are not to be had here. I wish you Success, equal to your Desires, in establishing an happy Form of Government. But the Rage of Speculation and the Flames of Passion have spread so far, in our State, that I am not without my Fears that you will be too much divided in Sentiment to erect a very vigorous Government. Our State abounds with ambitious Men, in such Numbers, and with avariti- ous ones, who are still worse, and with others in whom both Passions unite, in a great degree, who are the most dangerous of all, that I fear our Government, will be turbulent, our Laws unstable, and consequently our Exertions too languid. 2 Time however, may correct Extravagances, and make our Posterity happy, but I much fear that our Happiness of the present Age must con sist chiefly in the Contemplation of theirs. You and I however, I hope shall have the Consolation of reflecting that We have done our Utmost, upon the purest Principles of Philan thropy, to promote the Happiness of the present as well as future ages.
