April 27, 1777 663 I find it difficult to get an oppertunity of sending the Journals of Con gress, such of them as are printed. But will embrace the first I can find. I hope that our State will compleat its Complement of Men, to a single soldier. This Campaign will be the most interesting, and I have Strong Hopes, will be the last that will be attended with much Hazard or Difficulty. At least the Stronger We are this year, the more likely it will be to put a Period to the War. I am, sir, with much Respect, your most obedient sert, John Adams RG (MeHi). 'Samuel Freeman (1743-1831), a Falmouth (Cumberland Co.), Mass., mer chant, served in the Massachusetts House of Representatives, 1775-79. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 8:578-79; and L. Kinvin Wroth et al. eds., Province in Rebellion: A Documentary History of the Founding of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, 1774-1775, 4 vols. (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1975), 4:2856. His March 25 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi. 2 The Massachusetts General Court resolved itself into a constitutional conven tion on June 17, 1777, and promptly delegated its powers to prepare a constitu tion to a committee. The committee draft was accepted by the convention on February 28, 1778, but it was sharply rejected by the state’s voters. See Stephen E. Patterson, Political Parties in Revolutionary Massachusetts (Madison: Uni versity of Wisconsin Press, 1973), pp. 153-96. John Adams to William Tudor Philadelphia April 27. 1777 Aha! Exchanging the Pride, Pomp and Circumstance of Glorious War, for the soft charms of Wedlock and domestic Felicity, I Suppose— abandoning Gun, Drum, Trumpet, Blunderbuss and Thunder, for the less terrible Sounds of the Wranglers at the Bar. Well! Young Folk must have their Way. But I suppose by that Time you have laid the Foundations of a Young Tudor or two, you will be on Fire again with military Ardor, and get into the Army. You must find the Pleasures of Books, and the City active and violent enough for your Nerves so long Stretched with the Grand and sublime Events of War. I believe it lies with the Agent to employ whom he will in filing Libells. But I have been so long out of the scaene that I know nothing about it. There will be soon a Navy Board in Boston, and then it will lie with them. Who the Men will be I know not. Men of Business and Integrity I hope. It would give me Pleasure to give you Business, if in my Power, but I dont know how. I am &c, John Adams RC (MHi).
