April 29, 1777 673 I think, we shall meet with difficulties of the most arduous nature. The inequality of the States, and yet the necessity for maintaining their sep arate independence, will occasion dilemmas almost inextricable. You shall, Sir, know the whole progress of the matter, if I can conceive and convey it with sufficient clearness. Maryland has set an exceeding good example to the other States in laying a tax. I hope it will be followed in ours. I mean not in the mode, but the thing. It is the only adequate remedy for the abundance of circu lating money, with its consequent depreciation. I have obtained, from Congress, leave to purchase two hundred gun locks out of the public stores. 4 I have sent them to Hillsborough, and hope they will very soon be applied to the arms which are there prepar ing, and that the arms themselves will be put into the hands of soldiers, and sent to their proper places. Opinions here are various with respect to the intended movements of the Enemy: ’tis certain however they have yet made none of any conse quence. The officers in general are of opinion, they will attempt this city, and it seems determined to dispute it with them. This too is the prevailing opinion in Congress, and I am much pleased with the serenity and vigor with which we, at present, seem to regard objects of danger. Some of us, who are of a more martial cast, have gained the ascendancy so far that the timid are too fearful even to disclose their fears. I am pretty certain our next campaign will be active and interesting, if we are not disappointed in getting an army. The Northern, or what are usually called the New England, States are at present very languid: their troops do not at all come forward. Ticonderoga is in a very defenceless situa tion; and there appears very little reason to expect force there so soon as it will be wanting. We have no fresh intelligence from France, nor indeed have any vessels lately arrived from any part of Europe. I am, Sir, exceedingly anxious to hear of our affairs in our own State: so uninformed as I am, I may perhaps consent to something that might do her an injury. I write very frequently to every part of the country, but never receive a line in answer. Except the letters from your Excellency dated in February, 1 have not received one from North Carolina since my arrival at Congress. I wish I could be informed of the success of my request to be permitted to return in the summer, if the Assembly think proper to command my further attendance in this service: or whether they may not make choice of some more able man to fill the Department. I will detain you, Sir, no longer, only to declare that I am, with the greatest respect & esteem, your Excellency’s most obedient Servant, Thos Burke Tr (Nc-Ar). 1 The only known notes on the Articles of Confederation kept by Burke are those which he apparently put together in final form only after his return to North Carolina in November 1777. See Burke’s Notes as well as his Remarks on
