674 April 29, 1777 the Articles of Confederation, both of which have been conjecturally dated Novem ber 15, 1777. 2 Burke’s amendment significantly altered the locus of sovereignty in the pro posed Confederation. Whereas the draft articles of confederation that had been approved for consideration in the summer of 1776 threatened to subordinate the states to Congress by stating that “Each State reserves to itself the sole and exclu sive regulation and government of its internal police, in all matters that shall not interfere with the articles of this Confederation,” Burke’s amendment vindicated the principle of state sovereignty by flatly declaring in its final form that “Each State retains its sovereignty, freedom and independence, and every power, juris diction, and right, which is not by this confederation expressly delegated to the United States, in Congress assembled.” This amendment, which ultimately be came article two of the plan of Confederation approved by Congress in November 1777 and thereafter ratified by the states, guaranteed that under the Confederation supreme authority resided in the states rather than in the central government. See JCC, 5:675, 9:908; and Merrill Jensen, The Articles of Confederation: An In terpretation of the Social-Constitutional History of the American Revolution, 1774- 1781 (Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1940), pp. 129-39, 161-76. 3 Burke subsequently submitted a plan for a two-house Congress that was rejected by the delegates. JCC, 7:328-29. 4 See JCC, 7:292. John Hancock to Horatio Gates Sir, Philada April 29th 1777 I had the Honour of receiving your Favour of the 22d Inst, together with the Inclosures and immediately laid the same before Congress; in Consequence of which they came into the enclosed Resolves, to which I beg Leave to refer your Attention. 1 As the Congress conceived your Dispatches to be of the utmost Im portance, they resolved themselves into a Committee of the whole, and having fully considered the Matter, they do not wish that you should retain Possession of that Part of Ticonderoga which lies on the West Side of Lake Champlain, if in your Opinion, the Enemy may be more effec tually prevented from penetrating the Country by applying your Force to defending and securing Fort Independance, and Lake George. I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Esteem, in great hurry, Sir, your most obedt. and very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt [P.5.] Please to deliver to the Pay Master the Papers Inclos’d which Respect him. 2 You will observe the late Adjutant Genl Mr. Trumbull, has resign’d & Congress have impower’d you to fill that Vacancy, it is not the intention of Congress that Mr Trumbull should be reappointed. 3 RC (NHi). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 1 Gates’ letter to President Hancock and the enclosed letter from Gates to Washington of April 19 are in PCC, item 154, 1:161-72. After reading these letters on April 28, Congress immediately formed itself into a committee of the
