April 29, 1777 677 yours of the 24th and I readily acquiesce with your reasons concerning the Iron works. 1 I was indeed not apprised of so great a number of these being in Jersey. I shall certainly exert myself to have your views for Gen. Arnold and Colo. Huntington carried into execution. 2 This day the Com mittee of Secret Correspondence received a letter from Doctor Lee of later date as you will see than the former of which I sent you an extract. From the letter now received is taken what I have now the honor to inclose you. 3 I realy believe it contains the true design of the enemy, and it may serve to explain the late Apparatus of Boats with Gen Howe, and the continuance of the Troops at Rhode Island. It may be some advan tage to us to be apprized of their intentions. Doctor Lee is of opinion that the state of Europe was so critical, that it seemed impossible a war could hold off three months. However this may be, you are certainly right Sir, that our utmost vigor and vigilance should be exerted. I am, with most unfeigned esteem, dear Sir Your most obedient and most humble servant, Richard Henry Lee P.S. I think this plan of dividing their force, highly advantageous for us. Be pleased to accept my thanks for Mr. Swans appointment. 4 R.H. Lee RC (DLC). 1 For Lee’s suggestion that iron workers be exempted from military service, see Lee to Washington, April 16, 1777. 2 Benedict Arnold was belatedly promoted to major general on May 2 and Jedediah Huntington was appointed a brigadier general on the 12th. JCC, 7:323, 347. 3 The enclosed extract, which Richard Henry labeled “Bordeaux, February 20, 1777,” is identical to the first paragraph of the Arthur Lee letter printed under a February 18 date in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:272-73. * John Swan had recently been appointed to a captaincy. See Washington’s April 25 letter to George Baylor in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:470. Marine Committee Resolutions Philada. April 29th 1777 In Marine Committee. It being this day determined to form a plan for intercepting the Jamaica Fleet that will Sail from that Island for Great Britain about the 26th day of July next, Resolved That this Committee will Order such of the Continental Frigates and Cruizers as can conveniently be spared or appointed for this service to Randevouz at Abacoa One of the Bahama Islands near to New Provi dence on or before the 25th day of July next. That as it is uncertain what number or which of the ships or Cruizers may be so Ordered, those that arrive at the said Station are to wait until
