678 April 29, 1777 the 28th day of July, each employing themselves in taking on board wood, Water &c if wanted and to be got until that day when the several Com manders are to meet and producing their Commissions to each other the Senior officer is to be deemed Commodore and may hoist a broad Pennant during the continuance of this service. The Commodore and every Commander are then to pay due obedience to the following Instructions exerting themselves in their respective stations to execute them and to accomplish what this Committee have in view. The grand Object of this expedition being to intercept the Jamaica fleet that will be departing from that Island about the Time the Commo dore assumes his Command, he is to hold a Council of war assisted by all the Commanders and determine the following points. First where is the best Cruizing Ground. Second, How to station the Squadron over that ground so that the enemies fleet cannot pass by unobserved. Third, fix Signals for discovering the Enemy, their numbers, force and Number of the Convoy, how they bear, distance &c. Fourth, fix Signals for knowing each Other generally, & each ship in par ticular with all other necessary & proper Signals for the well govern ing & managing the fleet during the Cruize and in time of action. Fifth, each Commander to be supplied with a Copy of these orders, Copies of the Proceedings of the Council of War, Signals &c and copies of such other orders as the Commodore & council may think proper to be given to each captain in addition to these Instructions which orders are to have the same object in veiw and are to be calcu lated for the more effectual accomplishment of it. The Commodore or Council of war are empowered to order or do any thing they may think necessary or essential to enable the Squadron to perform the intended service, whether pointed out by the Committee or not. The Commodore must call on each Captain for any intelligence he may have gained respecting our enemies before he arrived at the Rande- vouz and particularly respecting the Jamaica fleet, the force and num ber of Ships of war intended as Convoy to that fleet, and proper ad vantage must be made of any intelligence so gained. These things done and the sooner they are accomplished the better, the Squadron must weigh and sail under the Signals and Orders of the Commodore to the appointed Station which we suppose will be near the Havannah and as there will be some time to wait for the Jamaica fleet geting that length such time cannot be better spent, than in repeating the Signals agreed on constantly in order that they may become familiar to every one, and whenever they appear to be misunderstood to any Ship or Ships an explanation should immediately take place. The men should be constantly exercised at the Guns, and infinite pains taken on board every Ship to sweeten the air, and keep not only the ship clean but the Men so in their Cloathing and Persons. During this
