680 April 29, 1777 if too distant the Commodore must call a Council of war of all the Commanders with him and any enterprize or expedition planned by that Council, that has for its object the service of the united states of America, to distress or disable the enemies of these states or to Capture their ships of war or Merchantmen will meet our Approbation & if executed with vigour will merit the praise of all America. Our ships should never be Idle. The Navy is in its infancy and a few brilliant strokes at this CEra would give it a Credit and importance that would induce seamen from all parts to seek the employ for nothing is more evident than that America has the means and must in time become the first Maritime power in the world. The several commanders em ployed to execute this Plan now laid down will have an opportunity to open the first Ideas of the importance of our Navy and a glorious chance of immortalizing their own names besides inriching all the brave Fellows under their command. To them then under Heaven we look for that success which is the Object of our wishes. 1 LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 According to Gardner W. Allen, A Naval History of the American Revolu tion, 2 vols. (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1913), 1:216-21, the Marine Com mittee’s ambitious plan was never carried out, owing to an inadequate supply of American warships. Marine Committee to Nicholas Biddle Sir April 29th 1777 You are directed in the Instructions 1 in which these are inclosed to break the seal of this Letter on the 10th day of July next. At that time we expect you will be cruizing near the Island of Hispaniola, and that agree able to our former Orders you will have the Randolph Frigate in good Order and every way fit for Action. We have it in contemplation to Strike a Stroke against the British West India Trade that will be severely felt in the Pecuniary way, and that will at the same time if well executed give an eclat to our Navy that will be of infinite service to it. We propose that you shall have a share in the execution of this plan and hope it may be a distinguished One. You know that the largest and most valuable fleets of Jamaica Sugar Ships always depart from that Island about the 26th day of July under Convoy and that they pass through the Gulph on their way to England. Our design is to intercept this Fleet and take, sink, bum and destroy as many of them as possible. You are therefore to repair to the Island of Abacoa near New Providence which is the place we have appointed for the Randevouz of such Ships & Cruizers as we may find it in our power to order on this service and you must make it a point to be there on or
