April 29, 1777 681 before the 25th July that being the day we shall fix for every Ship or Vessel being at Abacoa. When the fleet are collected at that place the Captains must compare Commissions and the Senior is to be deemed Commodore to whom the Inclosed Orders are addressed, every Captain in the fleet will be furnished with a Copy and it is expected not only from the Captains but from every Officer in the fleet that they will use their most strenuous endeavours to effect this business in a Compleat and effectual manner and for this pur pose it will be necessary to cultivate Harmony and good understanding with One Another. We also recommend it as a constant Object of your Attention to encourage the seamen and Petty officers which you take on board Prizes to enter our service and bring as many of them as possible into America. We doubt not you will signalize your Zeal upon this occasion and happy shall be at a future day to congratulate you on the Accomplishment of this enterprize. We are sir your friends & obedt servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Not found, but see Marine Committee Resolutions, this date, which consist chiefly of the instructions that were apparently enclosed. Marine Committee to the Commissioners at Paris Gentlemen April 29th. 1777 Should you see this Letter it will be forwarded to you by Thomas Thompson Esqr. Commander of the Raleigh Frigate in the Service of the United States of America. This Ship was built in New Hampshire where is no Foundreys for Casting Cannon and the distance from the places where they are Cast to Portsmouth where the frigate now lies is so great that we think it better to put on board such Guns as can be got for her in the neighbourhood and send her to France to be compleated, than to Hall them by Land such an amazing distance, or than to trust them by Water to her, or her along the Coast to them, now that the enemies Ships are so numerous and powerful at the Mouths of our Bays and Harbours. We have ordered her to Brest as the most suitable Port for supplies. Cap tain Thompson will transmit you an Indent of all the Guns, Stores and Materials he wants and we hope you may procure an order for his being Supplied out of the Kings arsenals or Stores. Orders are given to the Commercial Agents to pay your drafts for the amount of such Supplies, but if you cannot obtain them in the way proposed, you will write to the Said Agents William Lee & Thomas Morris Esqrs. to purchase every thing necessary on the best terms and in the most expeditious manner they can. 1
