682 April 29, 1777 We have told Captain Thompson if you had any particular service, Cruize or enterprize to point out for the benefit of these States, that he should obey your Orders, otherways to return to America well manned and fitted Cruizing on our enemies ships the whole voyage. You will therefore write to him giving such Instructions as you may think best calculated to promote the honor, Interest and welfare of these States. 2 With great esteem and regard we remain Honorable Gentlemen, Your obedt. servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 For an account of Capt. Thompson’s subsequent voyage to France and the assistance he received there from the American commissioners, see Wharton, Diplo matic Correspondence, 2:436; and William J. Morgan, Captains to the North ward: The New England Captains in the Continental Navy (Barre, Mass.: Barre Publishing Co., 1959), pp. 97-102. 2 The American commissioners’ instructions to Thompson, dated November 25, 1777, are in Franklin, Writings (Smyth), 7:73-75. Marine Committee to John Dupuy Sir 1 April 29th 1777 This may probably be delivered to you by Captain Nicholas Biddle of the Randolph Frigate which will be Cruizing on your Coast this Summer and should Captain Biddle pay you a visit we request that you will supply him with any Stores or necessarys the Ship may stand in need of. Should he send any Prizes into your Port we hope you will be permitted to make sale of them and that you will do it to the best advantage. Mr. Morris gives us assurance of your attachment to the American cause which induces us to trouble you on this occasion, and should you be led into advance for the supplies Captain Biddle may require, you may depend on being reimbursed by Consignments of Goods made you for that purpose, or probably Mr. Ceronio at Cape Frangois may have funds in his hands as considerable Remittances are now going to him. We are sir, your very hble serts LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Dupuy was a merchant in Mole Saint-Nicolas, Saint-Domingue. See Marine Committee to Benjamin Dunn, April 19, 1777. Marine Committee to James Nicholson Sir April 29th 1777 In consequence of Letters just now received from the executive Powers of the State of Maryland we have it in charge from Congress to direct
