April 29, 1777 683 that you do not leave the Port of Baltimore with the frigate Virginia under your command until you receive further orders from Congress or from this Committee. 1 We are sir, your very hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Captain Nicholson was locked in a bitter struggle with Maryland state authori ties over the issue of impressment. After the Marine Committee had ordered him on April 8 to proceed to Martinique, Nicholson began to impress men in Balti more to make up a full crew for the Virginia. The Maryland Council of Safety wrote to Nicholson on April 24, protesting that he had no authority to impress Marylanders and ordering him to release all who had been impressed. Nicholson saucily replied on the following day that he was confident Congress would approve of his actions and alleged that impressment was an acceptable practice in other American cities. The Maryland authorities thereupon sent their correspondence with Nicholson to Congress, which, sensitive to the rights of the states, declared on May 1 that it would never countenance violations of state law by Continental officers, temporarily suspended Nicholson from his command, and threatened to dismiss him from Continental service altogether unless he made “satisfaction” for his disrespectful reply to Maryland officials. On the same day, moreover, Congress instructed the Marine Committee to “give the necessary orders for immediately dismissing the men impressed by Captain Nicholson.” Nicholson apologized to the Maryland authorities and thereby retained command of the Virginia, but the Marine Committee created fresh difficulties by ordering the release only of those impressed men “who have not Signed the Marine Articles and received the Con tinental bounty.” Maryland officials demanded the release of all the men Nicholson had impressed, and Congress rebuked the Marine Committee for so construing Congress’ orders, but in the end the captain was able to retain the services of a number of them who finally agreed voluntarily to sail with him. See ]CC, 7:312, 318-19; PCC, item 70, fols. 195-201, 209-10, 213; Md. Archives, 16:226-27, 229-30, 244, 255, 263-64, 266-69; Marine Committee to James Nicholson, April 8, and to Thomas Johnson, May 1; and William Paca to the Maryland Governor and Council, May 24, 1777. Marine Committee to Thomas Thompson Sir April 29th 1777 We have long been anxious to hear of the Raleigh frigate under your Command being compleated for the sea but hitherto the dificulty of obtaining her Guns has been insuperable. You may rest assured that the measures you have taken to obtain them from the Furnace in Massa- chusets Bay are quite agreeable to us. We approve very much of the Iron Ballast being taken from the Alfred, and in case that should not be sufficient you are authorized to take a quantity out of the Columbus so much of her Iron Ballast as may be necessary and shall defray such reasonable Charges as attend the doing of it, and further we are well pleased that Mr Paine and Mr Bradford came into this measure and gave you their assistance. You are therefore to return to the furnace in
