April 30, 1777 687 Loss for the Reason. Our Revolters seem to possess his Esteem: he was in their councils here, and has left a most extraordinary recommendation in their Favor, which, if we are at liberty, shall be communicated. He men tions that he has ordered 500 troops into Albany. Is this in concert with the Convention or Committee, and founded on good reasons? For when we are beyond measure distressed for troops, it must be an urgent neces sity indeed which can justify detaining so large a number in that City. In the critical circumstances of our Northern Frontiers, give us leave to suggest the Propriety of having a Committee of your House on the Spot, to represent the State, watch over its Enemies, and secure its reputation against Intrigue and Calumny, and above all, to take Care that in Case of any Misfortune to the Northward, our respectable Constituents may neither deserve or suffer Reproach. We are, with the utmost Regard Sir, Your most obedient, humble servants, Phil. Livingston, Jas. Duane, Wm. Duer. RC (N). Written by Duer and signed by Duer, Duane, and Livingston. Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 2:428-29. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 On April 7 the New York Convention had instructed the New York delegates to oppose the admission into Congress of any delegates from Vermont and to forward any congressional resolves that infringed upon the rights of New York. Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:868-69. Congress’ role in the dispute between New York and Vermont is discussed in William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett, April 7, 1777, note 2. 2 See Gates to President Hancock, April 22, together with an enclosed letter from Gates to Washington of April 19, 1777, in PCC, item 154, 1:161-72. John Adams to Abigail Adams April 30. 1777 We have a fine Piece of News this Morning of the March of 2000 of the Enemy, and destroying a fine Magazine there—and the stupid sordid cowardly torified Country People let them pass without Opposition. 1 All New England is petrified, with Astonishment, Horror, and Despair, I believe in my Conscience. They behave worse than any Part of the Con tinent. Even in N. Jersy 2000 Men could not have marched so far. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:228-29. 1 Adams is referring to the British raid on the Continental magazine at Danbury, Conn. General Washington’s April 28 letter to President Hancock describing the action was read in Congress this day. See JCC, 7:314; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:490-91. See also Robert McDevitt, Connecticut Attacked: A British Viewpoint, Tryon’s Raid on Danbury (Chester, Conn.: Pequot Press, 1974).
