April 30, 1777 689 Barrels as the president of the Convention informs me in a Letter of the 18t. Instant; that it did not appear to the House that the Removal of the salted Meat from Derby and the three other places mentioned in the Resolve would put you to any Inconveniency. If you should be under the Necessity of marching into that part of New York on the East Side of Hudsons River, Connecticut or the Massachusetts Bay a Supply of the Meat Kind can be furnished from or in the two last mentioned States and Flour in or from the former. That the Wheat mentioned in the fourth Resolve should remain where it is to be thence sent into the more interior part of the Massachusetts Bay, should the Enemy attempt a Debarkation in any of the Eastern States, and thereby render it neces sary to keep up an army in that Quarter. The fifth Resolution was founded on a Conviction that there is a Sufficiency of Flour in the Dis trict mentioned for the Support of the Northern Army. These being the general principles on which the Resolutions I have quoted were founded, the others in a Manner follow of Course. Inclose your Excellency Copy of a Return of the Wheat and Flour now in the County of Albany exclusive of what is purchased for the use of the army, which is very considerable. I propose, in a Day or two, to resign my Commission, as soon as I have done it I shall transmit to your Excellency my Reasons for such a Step. Inclose your Excellency Colonel Wood’s Return. I have attempted, ever since my last, to procure a Return of the Troops in this City, but hitherto in vain. I am however promised it to Day, and shall transmit your Excellency a Copy by the first Conveyance. I believe they amount to about eleven hundred many of which wait for Cloathing and accoutre ments & others move to Bristol to Day. I am dear Sir most respectfully, Your Excellency’s obedient humble Servant, Ph. Schuyler RC (DLC). In the hand of John Lansing, Jr., and signed by Schuyler. 1 Schuyler sent Washington a variety of resolves passed this day “for establish ing Magazines of provisions in such place as may best secure them from falling into the Hands of the Enemy.” JCC, 7:315-16. Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Honored Sir Philadelphia April 30th 1777 By a letter received by a Member of Congress from his Brother in France, dated 20th of February we have advice That Britain has Engaged ten thousand more German Troops who with 3000 British are to come to Boston under the Command of General Burgoin, That General How is to come to this Place: 1 By a letter from General Waine we are Informed that the Enemy were in motion at the Northward, that a partv had been discovered about 45 miles from Tyconderoga. Our force there is week—
