690 April 30, 1777 and wants an immedate reinforcement; General Gates was at Albany the 22d Instant. I think a vigorous exertion immediately in New Jersey would be Decisive as to the present Campaign. The loss of a Short time now, may Occasion the loss of much blood and treasure hereafter which might be Saved by a good Improvement of the present opportunity. Two Days has been Spent in considering the Confederation and three articles of it agreed to, it is proposed that it Shall be attended to at least two Days in each week, till it is finished. 2 I very much wish the Arrival of more Delegates. General Wolcot & I both want to go home. I must leave Congress soon whether they come or not, for my Constitution will not admit of So close an Application to business much longer, as I have been confined to for four months past. I remain Your Honrs. Obedient humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (Ct). 1 See Richard Henry Lee to George Washington, April 29, 1777, note 3. 1 According to the journals the proposed confederation was debated on April 21 and 25 pursuant to a resolve of the 8th. JCC, 7:240, 287, 300. For details concern ing these debates, especially on the issue of state sovereignty, see Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell, April 29, 1777. William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror. No. 11 Philadelphia 30 Api 1777 My last acknowledged the receipt of such of Yours as have come to hand, I thot I had wrote you that I wish’d to be releav’d by the Middle of May, if I did not mention it to you, I certainly did to some body else for that has been my constant wish. My Colleague will not be very Ceri- monious, he will set out in a few days, but I shod think myself inexcusable in leaving the State unrepresented at this Critical & important day, but my Health absolutely requires a Respite which I hope will be given me soon. It is very Unfortunate that Guns cannot be procur’d for the Ships, but I still hope the Raleigh will be supplied from the Furnice lately Erected in the Massachusetts, but why may we not have a Furnice in New Hampshire. I have heard there is a large Quantity of ore in Barring ton, at no great distance from water carriage & streams suitable for Erect ing works on, abound in that Country, & there is a Sufficiency of wood to supply a Furnice for many years, if the Proprietor of the land, nor the State will undertake to erect works, it wod be worth while for the Conti nent to do it provided the Ore is suitable for Cannon & the land could be obtain’d on reasonable terms. The American Navy will be increasing & I know of no place so suitable for Building ships as Piscataqua River & it wod be very convenient to have the Guns made near where the Ships are
