Illustrations View of Philadelphia endpapers “An East Prospect of the City of Philadelphia; taken by George Heap from the Jersey Shore, under the Direction of Nicholas Scull Surveyor General of the Province of Pennsylvania.” This detail is from an engraving by Thomas Jefferys based on an etching of the city published in Thomas Jefferys, A General Topography of North America and the West Indies. Being a Collection of All the Maps, Charts, Plans, and Particular Surveys, That Have Been Published of That Part of the World, Either in Europe or America (London: R. Sayer, 1768). William Livingston 41 Livingston, a member of a powerful New York family, had moved to New Jersey a few years before the Revolution and there enjoyed a long and distinguished career as a delegate to Congress, brigadier general of militia, and the state’s first governor, from 1776 until his death in 1790. Earlier his political writings had earned him an enviable reputation that led to several important committee appointments during the early days of Congress, and his family ties and territorial connections led Lord Drummond to consider him as one of the conciliatory leaders to consult during his effort to launch negotiations with the colonies. Drummond’s conclusion that Livingston sympathized with his plans is open to question, since it was Livingston who on March 5 offered a motion designed to curb Drummond’s activities by calling him to ac count before Congress. Etching by Albert Rosenthal, Philadelphia, 1888. George Read 114 A New Castle lawyer, Read had resigned his post as Delaware attorney general during the First Continental Congress, but he continued to play a prominent role in Continental affairs during the early years of the Revolution. Politically close to his friend John Dickinson, Read was among those who early in 1776 actively fought against the mount ing tide of independence that was stimulated by the king’s recent denunciation of the colonies in an address to Parliament and by the publication of Common Sense. Although he opposed the independence resolution adopted by Congress on July 2, 1776, Read subsequently signed the Declaration and remained politically active throughout the revolutionary era, capping his long public career with a term in the United States Senate and an appointment as chief justice of Delaware. Engraving by Samuel Sartain. Magazine of American History (April 1885). xxiii
