xxviii Illustrations of Virginia on the eve of the convening of the Virginia constitutional con vention in Williamsburg. The Address, Adams explained to a friend, was published “as an antidote to the popular poison in ‘Thoughts on Government’.” The Library Company of Philadelphia. Samuel Chase 610 Chase, an Annapolis lawyer, was one of the earliest and most out spoken opponents of parliamentary authority in the colonies and was often regarded as one of the more radical American leaders before the summer of 1776. With the achievement of independence, however, he became increasingly alarmed at the activities of popular leaders de manding greater democratization of the government of Maryland, a concern eventually reflected in the cooling of his relation with John Adams and his growing affinity for the political principles of John Dickinson. His congressional career came to an unpleasant end in 1778 when he was discredited after becoming enmeshed in a speculative scheme involving privileged congressional information on the procure ment of flour for the French navy. Although Chase never returned to Congress after 1778, he nevertheless enjoyed a long public career, and his name ultimately became a familiar one in American history after his impeachment by the United States House of Representatives in 1804 when a justice of the Supreme Court. Chase’s repeated advocacy of vigorous Canadian measures made him a logical appointee when commissioners (Chase, Franklin, and Charles Carroll of Carrollton) were selected in February 1776 to under take a mission to restore American prestige among the inhabitants of Canada and revive morale among the American forces remaining in Quebec. More than two dozen of the commissioners’ letters written during their trip to Canada appear in this and the following volume of delegate correspondence. Engraving by J. B. Forrest from a drawing by James B. Longacre after an original portrait by John Wesley Jarvis. In James Herring and James B. Longacre, eds., The National Portrait Gallery of Distinguished Americans, vol. 4 (Philadelphia: James B. Longacre; New York: James Herring, 1839). Resolve on New Governments, May 10 and 15, 1776 677 Congress’ May 10 resolve recommending creation of new state govern ments, and the May 15 “preamble” explaining its necessity, climaxed months of effort by those who believed that the colonies were moving too timidly. Conservatives such as James Duane, John Adams later declared, denounced the resolve as “a Machine to fabricate indepen dence”; and James Wilson asserted that passage of the preamble would
