6 January 1, 1776 1 For an indication of some of the problems confronting Dr. Morgan at this time, see his letter to Washington of December 12, 1775, in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:263. 2 See Richard Smith’s Diary, December 30, 1775. Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Assembly Honble Gentlemen, Philadelphia Jany. 1st. 1776 We have had the Honor to receive the Memorial of the General Court to the Congress and the Accounts Accompanying the Same, which we immediately laid before the Congress. 1 They were referred to a Com mittee but could not be passed upon as the vouchers did not Come with them, however they have Voted to advance to the Colony in part of their Accounts the sum of Four hundred and forty Three Thousand three hundred & thirty three Dollars & one Third of a dollar which we have receivd & have hired a light Waggon to Convey it to Watertown, under the Care of Mr Cushing. Inclosed you have an Invoice of the same which we wish safe to hand. We are with great respect, Your Honours, Most obedient humble servts, John Hancock Samuel Adams Thomas Cushing Rob Treat Paine RC (M-Ar). Written by Cushing and signed by Adams, Cushing, Hancock, and Paine. 1 See John Hancock to the Massachusetts Assembly, December 2, 1775, note 2. Robert Treat Paine to Joseph Hawley Philada. Jany 1. 1776 I arrived here the 28th of this Mo. & found one of our delegates Viz J A returned home. Many are the conjectures here of the occasion, tho to argue from Circumstantial Evidence I can discern a Cause: I understand that the last years Delegation is lengthend to the End of Jany. Currt. I suppose a new sett in part at least will be chosen, to this I shd. acquiese if conductd in a generous political plan, but to be under mined, discarded & displaced by the Secret machinations, Slanders & Tyranny of a Faction & representd as unfit for or unfaithful in the Service, must give Vexation its keenest Edge; it is exceeding melancholly that in a Scituation like that of ours who have put our Selves in the fore front of the Battle we shd have Occasion, or what is worse, be necessarily driven to Observations like this, but so it is. In Addition to the cold, haughty, disrespectful behaviour of the two Adams towards
