January 1, 1776 7 me & their other Brethren for a long time past, since my return I have come at the Sight of an Extract of a Letter wrote by James Warren to the honble J A in which I am treated in such a manner as I flatter my self I deserve from no body, I am sure I dont from him. This Added to the Information I had of his Conduct respecting me at the Election of Councellors, satisfys me, that there are a set of men among us who set up their own Opinion as the Standard of Political Rectitude & who will Stick at no measure, to break every thing that will not bend to their despotic determination. 1 Dispositions of this kind are not uncommon toward different & clearly determined partys, but that the Defenders of Life, Liberty & property should practice a faction which must Stabb the vitals of this defence; that they shd. machinate & Traduce for the Bearskin when it is uncertain whether it will be saved is to me more astonishing than Sleeping on the top of a mast, & must shew a disposition so dangerous as to require immediate restraint; when I see seeds of so noxious a nature so early shooting their Roots in our new Admin it gives me the most alarming prospects & I am ready to cry out in the words of the Spanish Proverb “Good Lord deliver us from our Selves.” What a Scituation am I in, to expose my Life & fortune & the happiness of my family, & at the best to waste my Estate in Exertions for my Countrys Safety & at the same time to be Slandered & degraded by those with whom I thought I was struggling [side by\ side in the Common Cause. You may remember when I was with you in the Summer that I expressed an uneasiness that Mr. J A was ranked above me at the Council Board. I never could discover any reason but the Sovereign good Will of his Freinds; since my Return here I have rec’d from the Dpty Secy a notification of the appointmt. of a set of Judges of the Supr. Court & that J A is Cheif Justice. I want exceedingly to know whether any besides himself has Accepted, & how the matter is relished by Judges Cushing & Read. This Mr. Adams is youngest man & youngest Lawyer at the Barr save Mr. Serjent. Mr. C. has been a Judge of the Supr. Ct. to good Acceptance & Mr Read has been a Lawyer of long standing & Reputation & many years as Judge of the Common pleas; if we were not qualified for the Post why were we Chosen, if we were why had we not our Rank. How these observations will affect you I dont know, but I think the Cause of them bodes no good, for my part when I consider my reasonable pretensions of Rank & how much I have exposed my Self when that Gentn. was out of Sight, or without drawing any Comparison to his Seeming disadvantage in this matter I will say that when I consider that from the beginning of this Controversy I have advanced my self in the most exposed scituations that have fallen in my way, I am much alarmd to find my self disgraced from my just Rank in my Profession & this alone if I had no other Reason would be sufficient to induce me to give my answer in the negative. 2
