8 January 1, 1776 Excuse me sr. that I write thus freely to you, I feel a Satisfaction to unbosom my mind to a person in whom I can place Confidence, I have no desire to irritate you against persons but if you think their measures are wrong you will conduct accordingly & give me that Support you may think I deserve. Inclosed I send you a Copy of the Extract referred to, it came to light in this manner, Mr J A on his way home met the person who had it for him & after reading it delivered it unsealed to the Bearer & directed him (as the Bearer Said) to deliver it to our Delegates, we suppose the order was to Mr. S A. The Bearer not finding Mr. S A delivered it to another of the Delegates saying Mr J A ordered him so to do, this Delegate finding it unsealed Concluded it Contained some news & Read it & finding the Contents Carefully copyed this Extract which we have reason to think is but a specimen of many more of the same kind. If you think any good may arise you will shew this Extract & my observations to any persons. For my part I am sure I have nothing in view but to promote the good of our Common Cause but while I am doing that I think I may defend my Self. I have wrote Coll Palmer on the same Subject but have not time to Copy the Extract for him. Wishing you Health & all kind of happiness I [remain], FC (MHi). 1 The simmering conflict within the Massachusetts delegation became an open rupture when Paine gained access to a James Warren letter disparaging Paine’s journey to Canada and his work in Congress. This further breakdown of unanimity in the Bay Province’s popular party is discussed in Stephen E. Patterson, Political Parties in Revolutionary Massachusetts (Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1973), pp. 134—35; and Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 12:474—76. Warren’s critical letter of December 3, 1775, is in Warren-Adams Letters, 1:187-90. See also Paine’s letters to Joseph Palmer and to James Warren, this date. 2 See Robert Treat Paine to the Massachusetts Council, this date. According to James Warren, Paine’s appointment was secured by Hawley and Joseph Palmer over his opposition. James Warren to John Adams, October 20 and November 5, 1775, Warren-Adams Letters, 1:149—55, 175-79. Robert Treat Paine to the Massachusetts Council May it please your Honors Philadelphia Jany 1, 1776 I arrived at this place the 28th Ultimo where I found a Letter 1 from Mr Morton, Deputy Secy, wrote by the direction of the major part of the honorable Council of the Province of the Massachusetts Bay, by which I am acquainted that they have honored me with an appointment as one of the Justices of the Superior Court of Judicature &c for that Province. I am also favoured with a list of the other Gentlemen appointed to the Superior Bench and of our Arrangement in Rank. I am
