12 January 1, 1776 principles of our Common Opposition from wch. it seems to me you are widely Straying. Union is undoubtedly the Platform of our Opposi tion. Upon this we set out & when ever we depart from it there is an End of our Defence. Whoever directly or indirectly doth any thing to break this union is so far an Enemy to American Liberty, whoever abuses, disparages or discourages fellow Labourers is so far an Enemy to the Cause; without enlarging in this strain to which there could be no End, I must referr yr Contemplations to a Letter you sent to Mr John Adams dated Deer. 3d. 1775. 2 Mr. Adams met this Letter on the Road home & forgetting what distinction the discovery of traducing Letters has brought on some others & how necessary it is that such a corre spondence be kept secret in order to answer the vile purposes of it Sent it open to his brother Delegates; I can not describe the Astonishment, Grief & vexation' I felt when I read it. If possible explain to me wherein I deserve such Treatment from you. In the close Acquaintance of 15 yrs. & more did you ever find me unfaithful, was I not Watchfully observant of yr. Interest, Reputation & happiness, has any person been more attentive to the Interest & Welfare of the Family with wch. you are Connected, your dulce Decus & presidium, & that at a time when my Interest & promotion would have been much advanced by Contrary Conduct? I mention not these matters to upbraid but to give you an Idea of the Reflections with wch. yr. Conduct agitate my mind. I know not what principle to derive yr. Treatment of me from unless it be that to the opposing of which in other Persons you owe all yr. Glory, could you not have “perticular friends” without Calumniating, ridiculing & degrading your other Friends. “Paine I hear is gone to gratify his Curiosity in Canada.” Did you hear this from any of yr. perticular freinds, Alass I fear what you call “freindship” has for its object a very Contracted monopolizing System for the support of wch. many in cumbrances must be cleared off. “A good Journey to him, he may possibly do as much good there as at Philada.” What apprehensions have you of the little good I do at Philada. unless from the intimation of yr. perticular freinds & pray sr. what good do you do at Watertown or Cambridge? Do you consider how far & to what subjects such enquiry may be extended? & do you know as well as I do what the answer might be? “Tho I find some people here would not have pitched on him for the business we suppose he is gone on & perhaps there are Some who would not have done it for any.” By all accts, if your machinations had Succeeded I had not been chosen into the Council & I could clearly percieve when there last that the influence of one of your Party in favour of one of yr. particular friends degraded me in point of Rank; & what other Plotts you have laid against me you well know. Pray sr. do you really think that when such important matters were to be Consulted & determined respecting our Expeditions in the North, that I took that fatiguing journey in such a season to gratify my Curiosity. If you knew
