16 January 2, 1776 tho’t the upper Tier, was not damaged, but the Lower would be lost. The place is somewhere near Cape May where She now lies, & the Moment I receive any further intelligence shall forward it you. News we have none of any Consequence, I hear Nothing of Our Successors though they ought to have been here some Days since. I hear that the Lettr. wrote by Col. Dyer & self gave Offence. 2 We meant only to inform the Assembly that We were not insensible. I am sorry I could not have been at Our Assembly at thier last Session, not meerly to justify my Conduct but to make some proposals which I think must have been greatly for the Advantage of the Colony whose true Interests always have, & I trust ever shall be my Constant study. The Complemts of the Season to Your Family, I am Sir Yours &c, Silas Deane RC (Robert J. Sudderth, Jr., Lookout Mountain, Tenn., 1973). 1 The Secret Committee had contracted with Mumford to export flour in order to procure gunpowder. See Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, November 28, 1775; and Deane to Mumford, January 25, 1776. 2 See Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, December 5; and Deane to Elizabeth Deane, December 15, 1775. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Assembly Honble Gentlemen, Philadelphia 2d Januy. 1776 I have the Honour to Transmitt you severall Resolutions pass’d in Congress, to which beg leave to Refer you. 1 The Money order’d in consequence of the Accotts. you were pleas’d to Transmitt to your Delegates, sets off this Day, of which Mr. Cushing is so kind as to Take Charge. I hope it will Arrive safe, and that the Conduct of your Delegates in this instance will meet your Approbation. 2 As I am now Call’d upon to attend publick Business, I beg Leave to Refer you to Mr Cushing for further particulars. 3 Wishing you the Compliments of the Season, I have the honour to be, Gentn. Your most Obedt servt., John Hancock Presidt. RC (M-Ar). 1 Probably the resolves passed this date for neutralizing the loyalists and requesting copies of all provincial petitions submitted to Britain since 1762. JCC, 4:18-22. 2 See Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Assembly, January 1, 1776. Perez Morton’s letter to Congress of October 25, 1775, and the enclosed accounts are in PCC, item 65, 1:59-67; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1182-83. 3 Robert Treat Paine noted in his diary for this date: “Fine day. Mr. Cushing Satt out for home.” MHi.
