January 2, 1776 17 John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir Philadelphia Jany. 2d. 1776. I have the Honor to inform you that it is the Desire of Congress, you would immediately on Receipt of this take effectual Measures to have Brigadier General Prescot secured in safe and close Custody, till further Orders from Congress. 1 The Reasons which induced the Congress to give these Orders, are the Information reed, through you from Genl. Montgomery & from the intercepted Letters, by which it appears there is but too just Grounds to believe the General has been a principal Cause of Allen’s being put in Irons. But were he innocent in that Matter, Justice & Reason and a Regard for those who risque their Lives in this Cause make it necessary to use the Law of Retaliation, in Order if possible to put a Stop to the Inhumanity of our Enemies. By this Conveyance you will receive a Sum of Silver & Gold, a further Sum will be transmitted you when collected. The affairs of your Depart ment are under Consideration, when the Congress have come to a Determination, I shall do myself the pleasure of transmitting it to you. 2 In the mean Time I am Sir, Your most obedt. Servt. John Hancock President Tr (NN). 1 See JCC, 4:16. 2 The “Committee on General Schuyler’s letters” reported to Congress on Jan uary 8, and Congress passed a series of related resolves on that and the following day. JCC, 4:38-40, 43-45. Thomas Lynch to Philip Schuyler Dear Sir ’ January 2d. 1776 I wish I had any good News to write you, thank God there is none bad. Carolina has had the good luck to have one Kirkland who has done much Mischief among the Back Settlers there, taken by the fortunate and gallant Manly with all the Plans, Letters & papers of our Enemies. 1 Give me leave to introduce the Bearer Mr. Bingham a young Gentle man of this City to your Acquaintance and good Offices. I hope you have been successful in recruiting the York Forces that poor gallant Montgomery may be supported. Our best Respects attend you and the Ladies. [I] am [Sir your] most Obedt Tho Lynch RC (MH). 1 For the “Letters & papers” referred to here, see Richard Smith’s Diary, Decem ber 30, 1775, note 1.
