18 January 2, 1776 North Carolina Delegates to Samuel Johnston My dear Sir Philad January 2 1776 The unexpected detention of the Express which carries this gives me an opportunity to drop a few lines to you. They contain nothing new, they are the testimonial of that unaltered esteem and affection which I entertain for you—take them merely as such. Politicks at present are at a Stand. We impatiently wait to know the fate of Quebec. Montgomery and Arnold are now before Quebec & if Courage and Perseverance can give success, I know of None who have better pretensions to it than these brave Officers. Arnolds Expedition has been marked with such scenes of misery, that it requires a stretch of faith to believe that human nature was equal to them. Subsisting upon dead dogs, devouring their Shoes & the leather of their Cartouch Boxes are but part of that Cata logue of woe which attended the expedition. Heaven seems to have interposed in preserving almost miraculously what still remains of the brave little Army, & placing them in health & spirits to compleat the grand work of the subduction of Canada. Washington is before Boston, His army in good order, Howe pent within the Walls of the town, Burgoygne gone to England, some armed Vessels with troops gone to the Southward whither We know not, perhaps to Virginia—possibly to Carolina. I hope they will find you watching. The State of Virginia & South Carolina point out the necessity of embodying the two battalions in North Carolina. I hear with particular pleasure the promptitude they discovered in marching to the Assistance of Virginia, & we (from some Information we have got) with insulting triumph tell the So. Carolinians that 4 or 500 of our Men are engaged in defence of that province. 1 No. Carolina rises & be assured that with a tolerable show of Merit, in Hewes & Myself she will not want pane gyrists to do ample justice to all her Worth. You talk of the impropriety of raising troops without being able to arm them. Men may be dis ciplined without musquets, We follow in this the example of our Northern Friends. Pray stimulate the Industry of our Countrymen, to imitate their expedition in removing the objection you feel. We hear with sincere regret of the death of Mr Knox, Upon your Account I lament the loss of him. I lament it upon the publick score, his Zeal in this Gause & his influence with others made him a very useful Member of Society. May he rest in peace, May his Slumbers be the slumbers of the just. You perhaps have heard that Lowther has been seized by the Man of War (the Phoenix) at New York, his Vessell probably sent to Boston. Your Letters to Hewes are in Capt Parkers possession. Pray write us
