January 2, 1776 19 only by land opportunities, & when you scribble what Tyrants call Treason, do not sign your Name. We well know your Scribble, without a nominal Index. By Goddard We send you the different processes for making Salt petre. Pray try it in your family, encourage your Neighbours to it. It is attempted with great success in private families here, the making is as simple, as making Hominie. Adieu. I want materials to go on, & sure I am Your patience is at an end. Remember me with respect to your Lady, Affectionately to my worthy f[rien]d Iredell & believe me to be With sincere esteem, Your Friend, Wm Hooper [P.S.] Hewes adds as follows In a Letter from Lowther dated New York Per 22d Deer, he says, “I left Edenton the 26th of Nov. and arived at Sandy Hook the 16th instt. where I was stopt & detained by Capt. Parker of his Majestys ship Phoenix and all our Chests Searched for Letters. I happened to have a great number which were all taken & Carried on board the Man of War, about one half of them were opened when they were returned to me next day, one only was detained which was from Mr. Johnston for you. The Capt told me it gave a very particular account of the usage Mr Pollok met with at Edenten & that he was resolved to shew it to Govr. Tryon as he understood Mr Pollok was in the Circle of his acquaintance, that it did honour to Mr Johnston and he hoped would be of Service to him at a future day. 2 They still detain my Sloop & Cargo and the Capt. says she must be sent to Boston.” 3 Mr Hewes desires his Complemt. to Mr Johnstons Family & Connections, . RG (PHi). Body of letter written and signed by Hooper; postscript in the hand of Joseph Hewes. 1 In the middle of December 1775, Col. Robert Howe had arrived in Norfolk with more than four hundred soldiers of the Second North Carolina Regiment to help Virginians to defend this town against Lord Dunmore. Hugh F. Rankin, The North Carolina Continentals (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1971), pp. 23-25. 2 For further details on the “usage” of Cullen Pollok, a resident of Edenton, N.C., who had incurred the wrath of the local revolutionary committee by an incautious remark which he had made about the dispute between America and Great Britain, see Clark, Naval Documents, 3:563; and N. C. Colonial Records, 10:1027—32. 3 The full text of Capt. William Lowther’s letter to Hewes is in Clark, Naval Documents, 3:207. Robert Treat Paine to Philip Schuyler My dear General Philada Jany. 2d. 1776 I did desert, because I found that was my only method of getting from Albany. I should have taken my Leave of your most agreable family, but the Urgency of my Journey would not admitt of it, pray
