January 3, 1776 21 Usage of Col. Ethan Allen. We did not order the Prisoner into Irons because it is not quite certain how Allen is treated. Some Accots. were reported by Mr. Willing Chairman of the Comee. of Claims which were passed. Gadsden moved to add a Friend of his to John Rutledge & Middleton now in S. Carolina to whom the Dispatches of Congress relative to the Attack on St. Augustine are to be directed, & he further moved for Leave to repair to S. Carolina he being Commander in Chief of the Militia there where an Attack is apprehended. 1 These Motions were opposed by his Colleagues Lynch & E. Rutledge & others and were carried in the Negative. Bartlett & S. Adams were added to the Comee. of Claims. The Comee. on Ld. Stirlings Letters again made Report which being discussed & amended was passed & that Part of it con cerning the future Treatment of the Tories was directed to be published in the News Papers. The Report from the Comee. on Capt. Coffin & Capt. Paddocks Petition whereby they allowed Nantucket to import 7000 Barrels of Flour per Annum, there being on that Island about 7000 People, was objected to & at length rejected. It is said We have no less than 51 Battalions now raised or ordered so to be in the 13 United Colonies. A thin Congress today, not more than 30 Members. MS (DLC). 1 For Gadsden’s return to South Carolina, see Christopher Gadsden to Esek Hopkins, January 15, 1776. Samuel Ward to Deborah Ward Philadelphia 2nd J any. 1176. Gives directions about taking care of his children and his farm. Cautions against concluding from his failure to correspond regularly that he is unwell, “for if you knew how much I am engaged you would wonder that I write half so much rather than that I miss some opportunities. I am not like to get time to be Inoculated and there is very little of the Small Pox now in the city.” 1 Regrets neglecting the education of his children, but bids them all to cultivate virtuous lives. 2 Abstracted from Ward, Correspondence (Knollenberg), pp. 163-65. 1 Ward died of smallpox in Philadelphia on March 26, 1776. 2 Ward also wrote this day to his daughter Mary, reminding her that she had to rely on herself while he was in Congress and expressing apprehension at not having heard lately from her brother Samuel. Ward, Correspondence (Knollenberg), p. 163. Lord Drummond’s Notes [January 3-9? 1776] Left New York on Thursday, reached E[lizabeth] Town that Evg.,
