24 January 3, 1776 and with Extentions which they were hitherto Strangers to. Jay seemd at first to think that the Article proposing the Perpetual Grant might alarm, but when he came to view the Compensations on the other hand in their fullest Extent his Apprehensions subsided. He saw the salutary Effect that woud be produced from the Removal of the Dread of Taxation: and at same time saw the extensive Consequences that were comprehended under the last Article. MS (Scottish Record Office: Drummond Castle Papers). 'Saturday, December 30, 1775. Thomas Lundin, Lord Drummond (1742-80), was the central figure in what one historian has called “the last effort before the Declaration of Independence to reconcile the American colonies with Great Britain and prevent the disruption of the empire.” Milton M. Klein, “Failure of a Mission: The Drummond Peace Proposal of 1775,” Huntington Library Quarterly 35 (August 1972): 343. Born in Scotland, Drummond, whose father claimed the title of 10th earl of Perth, came to America in 1768 to oversee family lands in East Jersey. In America Drummond acquired many friends among the New York and New Jersey aristocracies and developed a sympathy for colonial grievances over the Townshend, Tea, and Coercive Acts. In the autumn of 1774, after adjournment of the First Continental Congress, he offered to present to the British government the views of certain moderate delegates who had expressed to him “their Readiness to contribute towards the general Support [of the empire} shoud such a mode be devised for the Completion of this Purpose as woud give a Security against any further Invasion of their Property by Parliament.” Drummond never identified the delegates to whom he volunteered his services, but the views which he ascribed to them were remarkably similar to those expressed by James Duane. See Drummond to Lord North?, March 24, 1776; and “Narrative of Lord Drummond’s Proceedings on Going to America,” ca. July 1779, Scottish Record Office: Drummond Castle Papers, Nj microfilm; James Duane’s Propositions before the Committee on Rights, Septem ber 7—22, 1774; and Klein, “Failure of a Mission,” pp. 347—52. Drummond arrived in England in December 1774 and soon entered into conver sations with Lord North and Lord Dartmouth. In March 1775 he drew up a “Plan of Accommodation” listing six points as bases for negotiations between America and Great Britain (and printed in full in Klein, pp. 377-80). In brief, Drummond’s “Plan” called for colonial assemblies to provide the crown with “a perpetual Grant” of revenue derived from taxes on “such Articles ... as they shall deem most likely to keep pace with the Growth or Decline of the said Colonies.” In return for this concession, he proposed that Parliament formally relinquish “all future Claim of Taxation” over the colonies and agree to apply revenue from American trade to “the Expenses of Collection,” with surpluses “to be subject to the disposal of the respective Houses of Assembly.” According to Drummond, this “Plan” was approved not only by North and Dartmouth but also by Chief Justice Mansfield and Sir Gilbert Elliot, the latter a Scottish MP who had been instrumental in persuading a skeptical House of Commons to pass North’s Conciliatory Resolve of February 20, 1775. At first Drummond intended to send a copy of the “Plan” to friends in America, but he was dissuaded by Elliot, who convinced him that negotiations were more likely to succeed if they were represented as originating in America. As a result Drummond left England in September 1775 and returned to America in the capacity of a private subject purporting unofficially to represent the views of the North ministry. “Narra tive of Lord Drummond’s Proceedings on Going to America,” ca. July 1779, Scottish Record Office: Drummond Castle Papers, Nj microfilm; John Graves Simcoe, “Memo of Conversation with Ch. Justice [William] Smith,” March 3, 1792, DLC; Francis Lightfoot Lee to Richard Henry Lee, January 8? 1776; and Charles R.
