January 6, 1776 39 Saltpetre Rock in Virginia was sometime past produced in Congress. Quaere Whether it answers Expectation. MS (DLC). 1 Congress referred this memorial to the Rhode Island Assembly on January 6. JCC, 4:36. 2 Pursuant to a resolution of Congress of December 2, 1775. JCC, 3:400-401. Lord Drummond’s Minutes Philad. 6th Jany. [1776] At an Interview with Mr. [Jay] 1 in the Night [Jay] informed Ld. D[rummon]d that he had to sollicit his immediate Return to England for the purpose of charging himself with Overtures from the Colonies on the Subject of an Accommodation. He added that undeceived as they now were with Regard to the Misrepresentations from the other Side of the Water they were satisfied they Coud not embrace too early an Oppor tunity of availing themselves of the present disposition of Adminn. in England as described by Ld. D[rummon]d. He added that he had to sollicit his good Offices with Mr. Elliot in endeavouring to prevail on him to accompany him to Engd. as one who was more Master of the Commercial Interests between the two Countries than any Man on either Side of the Water. 2 Mr. [Jay now President] then signifyd to him the handsome Intentions of the Congress towards him and Mr. Elliot shoud they undertake the Management of this Business. Mr. [Jay] on this occasion dwelt much on the unfortunate fate of their Petition which went by Mr. Penn—and the Triumph which the Northern Colonies had gained over the Southern Colonies from its receiving no Answer. He condemned the Terms in which this Petition had been conceivd, but trusted that Adminn. woud by Means of their Secret Information have been Masters of the real history attending it. This he said had made any further Petition very uphill Work with them. Ld. Drumd. urged on the other hand the many advantages that woud arise from their sending a Deputation from their own Body instead of himself, as the most certain Road to enforce a Belief with the People on the other Side the Water of the Sincerity of their Intentions. He pressd them at same time to hasten the departure of their Deputation as he conceived many advantages woud arise to America were the Advances to be made on their Part. That before their Departure shoud Commissioners from Britain arrive, and they shoud on the Part of the Crown make a Demand of the last Terms which Coud possibly be ac cepted, this woud necessarily involve in it a preclusion of all future Concession on the Part of England. Whereas were Overtures to be made
