40 January 6, 1776 on the part of America, such Advances might be accompanied with Instructions to those deputed for the Management of the Accommoda tion so as to enable them to enter upon Discussions as points might arise; such Modifications still to be left open for the final Ratification of the Colonies. 10 oClock forenoon Mr. Elliot has just informed Ld. Drumd. that at a Meeting with Mr. [Govr. Livingston] he has had a Conversation on the same Subject—and that his Sollicitations had been accompanied with his throwing out Expectations of a handsome Appointment on the Part of the Colonies. Mr. Elliot likewise mentiond that in Consequence of [Abel James] 3 having been employed in sounding the Leaders of the Quakers on the Subject of this Plan he found them universally satisfyd with the terms and anxious to have an Opportunity of affording every Support to the Plan proposed. He likewise mentions the Report made to him by [Nixon & Nesbitt] 4 who had sounded the Mercantile Interest particularly the Irish Mer chants who form a powerful Influence in the middle Cols. MS (Scottish Record Office: Drummond Castle Papers). 1 For an explanation of the names inserted in brackets here and below, see Drum mond’s Minutes, January 5, 1776, note 2. 2 See Drummond’s Notes, January 3—9? 1776, note 1. 3 Abel James, Philadelphia merchant and partner in the mercantile firm of James and Drinker. “Effect of the ‘Non-Importation Agreement’ in Philadelphia, 1769- 1770,” PMHB 14 (April 1890): 41-45. 4 John Maxwell Nesbitt (ca. 1730-1802) and John Nixon (1733—1808) were both Philadelphia merchants who were prominent in the revolutionary movement in Pennsylvania. Nesbitt was currently serving as paymaster of the Pennsylvania navy and Nixon as sometime president of the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety. DAB. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. Jany. 6. 1776 I have the honor of enclosing you sundry resolutions passed yesterday respecting Mr Lovell. 1 The Congress are desirous to know your opinion what rank it would be proper the aide de camp of the general Officers ought to hold in the army and on this head I am directed to write to you & request yr. answer. 2 Just after the receipt of your letter Conolly & Cameron were brought to town. By some mismanagement, Smith one of the associates was suffered to escape from Frederic where they were confined. Orders were given to have the saddles examined, but nothing is discovered. There is reason to believe he must have found means to withdraw his
