44 January 6, 1776 hourly expected at those Islands which had been sent for to supply the injured Americans. Another Vessel is Just arived in the River from Old France with near Sixty Tons of Salt Petre on board. A Letter from Gen. Montgomery of the 6th of Decemr. informs us he had sat down before Quebec and was in hopes he should be in possession of it in a few days. 6 I am &c. J.H. RC (Nc-Ar). FC (NcU: Hayes Collection microfilm). 1 For Johnston’s letter to Hewes of November 5, 1775, see Clark, Naval Documents, 2:898-99. 2 For further information on Drummond, see Lord Drummond’s Notes, January 3-9? 1776, note 1. 3 In place of this sentence Hewes had originally written in his FC: “Our Establish ment at present stands thus: 1 Regiment now raising in Georgia 3 do ... . South Carolina 2 do ... . North Caro .... already raising 6 do ... . Virginia 1 do ... . Delaware Counties 7 do ... . Pensylvania including 1 Regt, of Rifle men now at Cambridge 2 do ... . New Jersey 4 do ... . New York 26 do ... . Eastern Govermts. at Boston 1 do ... . Canadians.” 4 Although this postscript is located in the Joseph Hewes Papers, NcU, it is apparently the continuation of Hewes’ January 6 letter to Johnston. 6 Hewes must be referring to Montgomery’s letter to Schuyler of December 5, 1775. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:188-90. William Hooper to James Iredell My dear Friend Philadelphia January 6th 1776 So great has been my proportion of scribbling publick letters, that I have not had an opportunity to pay that respect to my private connec tions to which they have so just a Claim, to you to whom I owe it as a duty, as well as a testimony of Sincere reciprocal esteem. That day, I hope, is not at a great distance, when retired from the bustle of publick life, I shall enjoy all the sweets of domestick retirement & private friendship. I am weary of politicks, it is a study that corrupts the human heart, degrades the Idea of human nature, and drives men to expedients that morality must condemn. Deep stratagems, dark disguise, Fiction, falsehood, are but the fair side of the picture of a perfect, politician—a Machiavel—a Hobbs—a Richlieu—a North. No, my Friend, the Science of politicks is not to be learned in the principles
