50 January 6, 1776 Quantity of Powder just arrived at Egg Harbor, some of it consigned to the Congress by Jonathan Parsons, some consigned to Pelatiah Webster & some to another Person in Philada. Congress agreed to purchase the whole & the Secret Comee. are desired to have it brought here under a Guard commanded by a Lieut. A Letter of Thanks directed to be sent to Mr. Parsons for his Attention to the Public Welfare. I sent off the Dispatches to Cols. Waterbury & Heard by Mr. Palmer of N York province. A Letter was recieved from a French or Swiss Officer at Lisbon offering his Service & another or Two from other Foreign Officers, these were committed to the Secret Comee. 1 The Memorial from the Town of Newport was agitated for several Hours & at last referred generally to the Assembly of Rhode Island. Mr. Gadsden from the Naval Comee. reported the Rules for Distribution of the Prize Money which were confirmed with one Alteration viz, That the Rewards for extraordinary Exertions shall not be paid out of the Continental Share of the Captures. Letters just reed, from Gens. Schuyler, Mont gomery and Wooster pressing for an immediate Supply of hard Money & for more Troops otherwise they fear all will be lost in that Quarter. 2 Montgomery was before Quebec on the 16th of Deer, with 8 or 900 effective Men & some Canadians and had planted by Way of Feint a Battery of Cannon agt. the Lower Town but intended his chief Efforts by Way of Storm agt. the Upper Town. Monday Morng. was assigned to consider this Business & Nothing else to interfere, the Delegates to be upon Honor to meet punctually at 10 oCloc. A Report respecting Canada was produced. 3 Dr. Franklin shewed me to day a Pattern Paper containing 6 or 8 Sorts of Cloths lately manufactured at one or both of the Company Manufactories of Philada. 4 Cols. Heard & Waterbury are to disarm the Tories of Queens County on Oath that they have delivered up all their Arms & ammunitn. and to imprison all that refuse the Oath, these Tories are not to quit their County without a Pass certifying that they are well disposed to the American Cause—all to be considered as Tories who voted agt. sending Delegates to the Present N York Convention. No Lawyer may bring an Action for them. Quaere Whether People are not forbid to trade with these Tories. The Cols, are also to seize certain Persons named in a List & Confine them till further Order of Congress. 500 Doll[ar]s and 200 Lb. of Powder allowed for the Expedition (which was afterwards well executed by the Jersey Militia only those of Connectt. being counter manded). MS (DLC). 1 See JCC, 4:35. 2 General Schuyler’s letter to Hancock of December 31, 1775 (misdated in the journals as December 30), and General Wooster’s letter to Schuyler of December 18 are in PCC, item 153, 1:374—78; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:310, 480. General Montgomery’s letter to Wooster of December 16, which was enclosed in Schuyler’s
