January 8, 1776 61 chairman of the Baltimore Committee, to Hancock in PCC, item 78, 18:21-25, and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:578. Samuel Ward to His Daughter My Dearest Philadela. Sth Jany. 1776 I have only Time to let you know that I am very well especially considering that I am incessantly employed in Attention to Business & have no Exercise & not even Time for proper Relaxation. The enclosed Papers give you all the News except that the Kings Speech to Parliament opened 27th [i.e. 26th] Octr. is come to hand. He calls all Rebels, charges us with endeavouring to amuse the Nation by Professing of Affection to them & loyalty to him & meaning only to gain Time to make our Preparations for a general Revolt in Order to sett up an independent Empire, says he has greatly augmented his naval & land Forces, determines to be decisive, has the offer of foreign assistance if necessary & the strongest assurances that his Operations in America will not be interrupted by any foreign Disturbances. Thus you see my Love your Daddy’s Sentiments are confirmed that the savage ever meant to make himself an absolute despotic Tyrant. May the Reward of his Hands & wicked Heart be given him. Every Idea of Peace is now over & all possible Exertions are to be made for the common Defence, the Vessel that brings this met a Fleet of Men of War & Transports with five thousand Soldiers on Board coming to Boston. By an Express from Maryland the Men of War have cannonaded Norfolk in Virginia 2 1/2 Days & probably destroyed it. 50 Tons of salt petre & 6 Tons of Powder arrived here a day or two ago & 8 Tons Powder at New York. The Express waits. God preserve my dear little Tribe, Friends & Family & also all my dearest Country. Proper Regards to all your Aunts &c. Your very affec. Father RG (RHi). In Ward’s hand, though not signed. Samuel Ward to Henry Ward [January 8? 1776] 1 I am entirely of your Opinion that We shall be undone unless the most spirited Measures are pursued. You may recollect the Fable of the strong spirited Horse & the lean one which I mentioned to you when at home. We are eternally plagued with that dull Horse, sometimes he pricks up his Ears and goes a little Way & with Spirit, then flaggs & is a dead Weight upon his Mate. I think however we shall make him useful upon the whole, if not let him in Mifflin’s spirited language be
