62 January 8, 1776 given to the Dogs, the strong One I am sure is able to perform the Journey tho’ a severe one. The fitting out Privateers, a Treaty &c many of Us have in Con templation & as soon as we can prepare others shall carry into Execution. I have no Time to correct much less copy & am almost worn out with continual Application of Mind & no Exercise. Give Me in your next a particular Acct, of the Proceedings of Assembly & every thing im portant. I reed, a Letter from Messr. Clarke & Nightingale which does not require an Answer, but I would notwithstanding have wrote to them to let them know that if they or any other Merchts. in Providence capable of the Business had a Mind to enter into a Contract with the secret Comee. to import such things as Congress has order’d I could serve them if I knew their Intentions very soon & any Persons here to contract & receive the Money. You may let Mr. John Brown [know] that I have reed, his Letter inclosing his Brothers & that he may prepare to execute a Contract to the Amount he mentions. 2 He must direct to whom the Money is to be paid & with whom the contract is to [be] entered into. Tobacco is an Article that I think will do vastly well & several ship loads may be had from our Colony, in shiping Produce We ought to avoid as much as possible all Provisions for I think we are in a fair Way of reducing them by famine. 50 Tons of Salt petre & 6 Tons of Powder have arrived here in a few Days & 8 Tons Powder at New York. The manufacturing salt Petre goes on finely. I will write Messrs. Brown the first Opportunity; I want the Express should arrive at Providence whilst the Assembly is setting & therefore conclude abruptly. Yours most affectionately, Sam Ward P.S. My Friend Mr. Adams begs the Favor of You to forward his Letter to Colo. Warren by first Post. RC (RHi). 1 Ward’s letter has been assigned this date on the supposition that the letter referred to in the postscript is that of Samuel Adams to James Warren, January 7, 1776. 2 See Ward to Henry Ward, December 12, 1775, note 2. Josiah Bartlett to the New Hampshire Convention Gentm Philadelphia Janry 9th 1776 The Enclosed Resolves of Congress I am Directed to transmit to you. 1 I Beg leave to inform the Colony that it will be necessary on many
