January 9, 1776 63 accounts that I should return to New Hampshire as soon as conveniently may be: that there is no prospect that the Congress can rise this winter. Whenever it rises they have resolved that a Committee Consisting of one Delegate from Each Colony Should Remain to transact Business in the recess. 2 I therefore hope that our Colony will appoint one or more Delegates immediately to repair here and that I may have leave to return to New Hampshire. I should be very glad to be informed what Cost our Colony is at for its own Defence as also what value in paper Bills they have Emitted. I am, your Most Obedient, Humble, Servant, Josiah Bartlett RC (DLC). Addressed: “To the President of the Convention or Committee of Safety, Exeter, New Hampshire.” 1 Probably the resolves passed January 8 dealing with military affairs in New York and Canada and calling on New Hampshire for more troops. JCC, 4:38-40. 2 See JCC, 3:426-27, 430-31, 454. John Dickinson’s Proposed Resolutions on a Petition to the King [January 9-24? 1776] 1 1. That an humble & dutiful Petition be presented to his Majesty, expressing the deep Affliction with which the Inhabitants of these Colonies, perceive by his Majesty’s late speech to Parliament, that his Majesty apprehends, We are contending for Empire & Independance— to assure his Majesty that he is misinform’d concerning the Intentions of his faithful subjects in America, and repeating our former supplica tions, that his Majesty will point out some Mode for terminating the present unhappy Differences by a mutually beneficial Accommodation. 2. That or more Delegates Members of this Congress be appointed to present this Petition—to conferr to mention some terms. MS (PHi). In the hand of John Dickinson. 1 On January 8 the text of George Ill’s speech from the throne of October 26, 1775, reached Philadelphia, and almost immediately several delegates began a move in Congress to secure passage of a resolution denying the king’s charge that the colonies were waging a rebellious war “for the purpose of establishing an independent Empire.” A motion to disavow that charge introduced by James Wilson the follow ing day was postponed to January 12, and then delayed until the 24th, when a committee was appointed to prepare an address for that purpose. However, the committee’s report, in the form of an address in Wilson’s hand, was tabled when it was brought in on February 13, and the issue was permitted to die. As Richard Smith noted, the address “was very long, badly written and full against Independency (Wilson percieving the Majority did not relish his Address and Doctrine never thought fit to stir it again.)” A succession of events that followed quickly upon arrival of the king’s speech ultimately undermined any hope that men of Wilson’s principles
