January 9, 1776 65 may have a Tendency to bring the present Contest to a perfect and lasting Accommodation. 4. That for effecting this Event so ardently desired by his Majesty’s dutiful subjects in America, they most humbly beg Leave to represent, that his Majesty’s Orders to his Governors on this Continent to assent to Acts of Assembly in the several Colonies, appointing Commissioners to meet for the purpose of conferring with persons nominated by his Majesty, will be a Measure likely to produce the salutary purposes intended by the good People of the Colonies. 5. If a Repeal of the Duty Acts complain’d of by last Congress cannot be otherwise obtain’d, then to conferr concerning Revenue by way of Commutation for the Duties—The Mode of Collection to be confirmed by perpetual Acts of the several Assemblies. Cessation of Hostilities—in the Meantime— To treat but not conclude on the following Points. Regulation. Renunciation of the Power of Taxation. Tea. Charters established. Money emitted by the Colonies. Indemnities to officers &c. Redress of Grievances. Pardon & indemnity to Inhabitants of Canada. Establish ment of the Commerce of the Colonies on permanent Foundation. Correcting Errors & removing Fears & Jealousies for the future. A Return of all prisoners. The Delegates to be instructed, to avail themselves of the Situation of Affairs & the Disposition of Administration, upon their Arrival in Great Britain—and to enlarge or restrain the Expectations they give to Administration of the Concessions the Colonies may be probably induc’d to make, according to the Urgency of Circumstances, never exceeding these Limits undermentioned. 1st. If they find the Forces sent or sending out to be such, that in their opinion, these Colonies can resist the same so far as to stand their Ground without Danger of any imminent Calamity during the next Campaign, in such Case, to confine themselves in their Conferences with Administration wholly to the first four Articles above mentioned. 2dly. If they find the forces sent or sending out to be so formidable that in their Opinion, these Colonies cannot so far resist the same as to stand their Ground without Danger of some imminent Calamity during the next Campaign, in such Case, to conferr with Administration on the Subject of the several Articles mentioned after the first four above mentioned. 3dly. Tho they find such a formidable force sent out or sending out, as is last mentioned, yet, if they are assured, that any Measures are taken by Administration, as prove a sincere Intention on their part of treating with the Colonies in Junction, and not separately, then even in that Case, to confine themselves in the Conferences with Administration to the four first Articles above mentioned.
