66 January 9, 1776 MS (PHi). In the hand of John Dickinson. 1 For a discussion of the circumstances surrounding the drafting of these proposals, see the preceding entry. John Dickinson’s Proposed Instructions for Commissioners to Negotiate with Great Britain [January 9-24? 1776] 1 That Delegates, Members of this Congress be immediately sent to Great Britain. Instructions 1. You shall most humbly and dutifully represent to his Majesty, that his faithful Subjects of these Colonies, observing with the deepest affliction in his late Speech to both Houses of Parliament, that his Majesty charges them with a Design of establishing an independant Empire, have deputed You in their Behalf for the express Purpose of laying them humbly at his Majesty’s Feet, and in the strongest Terms assuring him, that they do not wish to change or alter the respective Forms of Government subsisting in these Colonies at the Commence ment of the present unhappy Controversy. 2. You shall represent, that it is the sincere & fervent Desire of the Colonists, and the Intention of your Delegations, that these Apprehen sions being removed from his Majesty’s Mind, his royal Clemency may be graciously inclined to hear with Favor the humble supplication of his faithful American People, and to direct some Measures that may tend to bring the present Contest to a perfect and lasting Accommodation. 3. You shall earnestly beseech his Majesty to direct some such Measure, as by his Wisdom shall be best approved. 4. If no other Method equally expedient shall be proposed or will be admitted, You shall humbly beg Leave to represent as the Sense of the Colonists that the appointment of Commissioners by Acts of Assembly in the several Colonies with the assent of their Governors, to meet together and conferr with persons nominated by his Majesty will be a Measure likely to produce a Settlement of the Differences now sub sisting. 5. If on your Arrival in Great Britain, You shall find the Forces sent and sending out to America to be such, that in your Judgment, these Colonies will be able to resist the same so far as not to be in imminent Danger of suffering any great Calamity in the Course of the next Campaign, likely to have a decisive Influence on the Event of the war, in such Case You shall confine Yourselves in your Conferences with his Majesty’s Ministers, solely to the articles before mentioned. Quaere— if this may not be more ascertained, by mentioning the number of troops & Men of War?
