January 9, 1776 69 Lord Drummond’s Notes Philadelphia Jany 9th. 1776 Of the different preliminaries which appear on the Minutes taken from the Interviews and Discussions on political points between the Gentlemen of the Congress, and Lord Drummond and Mr. Elliot up to this day the following are the principal. 1 It is stipulated that the Remonstrance (in the Bill of Rights of 1774) against the Extending the Act of Henry the Eight to America 2 be withdrawn on the Conditions that America is to be left to understand that no further Explanatory Act is to be passed on the Part of England to call it into future Exercise. As it appears that the Grievances complained of in the Extension of the Powers of the Admiralty Courts will be left in the Effects to be produced by the last Article in the plan proposed (and contained in Ld. Norths Propositions) and particularly that Trials by Jury woud take place in future against the illicit trader who woud henceforth become An Offender against the particular Colony where the Trespass is committed—that therefore their Complaint on this head shall no longer remain a Part of those Grievances on which Redress is to be sollicited. 3 As the present Plan of Accommodation is founded on Compact and the System containd therein must supersede every further Pretension against the Colonies, that the Declaratory Act shall therefore be No longer enumerated amongst American Grievances. That the Remonstrance against the Quebec Bill shall be totally withdrawn. No. I. Propositions on the Part of the Colonies— deliverd to Ld. Drummond 1st. It is understood that Great Britain shall in open Parliament declare a Relinquishment of Taxation over her Colonies, and shall withold from interfering with their internal Polity. 2d. That Great Britain shall not suppress their manufactoring for their own Consumption such Materials as these Colonies produce, and that they shall not be restrained from transporting from one Colony to another such Materials or manufactures. 3d. That Troops shall not be introduced into these Colonies without the Consent of their Legislatures. 4th. That Canada shall be included in the Pacification. 5th. In Consequence of the Colonies having experienced very fatal Effects from improper Men being appointed to preside in their Courts of Justice, it is recommended that some Mode be adopted that woud tend to secure them against the Apointment of such Men as are not qualified for the Discharge of this important Office—and that these Judges shall as in England hold their Offices during good Behaviour.
