70 January 9, 1776 6th. That the Navigation Act shall remain inviolate, but nevertheless if on Investigation any Restrictions or Regulations shall be found to be injurious to the Trade of the Colonies, without affording any apparent advantages to the Mother Country, it is expected that such Restrictions or Regulations will on proper Representation be taken into Considera tion and amended or withdrawn. 7th. That towards the common Exigency of the State, these Colonies shall by perpetual Grant as in the Plan annexed give such annual Aid or Supply as shall be deemd consistent with the abilities of the respective Colonies. No. II. Answers—to the foregoing Propositions delivered to Mr. L[ynch] by Ld. Drummond. 1st. The first Clause in this Article is fully answerd by the fifth Article of the Plan annexed. 4 To the subsequent Claim it is necessary that some further Definition shoud be given, and that the Object of the Request shoud be specifyd, before any Discussion can be enterd into with Precision. 2d. As nothing short of the Elapse of some Centuries can produce so close a Population in America as to establish Manufactories to any Extent, at least such as to resist a Competition from the Mother Country, it is not probable that she will withold her Consent to ’this Request. With Regard to the Transportation of Materials or Manufactures from one Colony to another, there are but two Instances that now fall within our Recollection when there is any Prohibition. 3d. The Subject of this Requisition does not fall within the Controul of Parliament, but is Part of the Prerogative of the Crown, and has at all times been exercised as such—neither does it fall within the Extent of the Wishes of America of being restord to the golden /Era of 1763. 4th. As far as this Article is meant to extend to the Canadians any Act of Indemnification that may be granted on the Part of the King—it is not probable that any particular Exception woud be made to the People of Canada. In alleging these general Distinctions his Majesty possesses Notions much too elevated to stoop to Resentments against Individuals for their past political Delusions. 5th. On the Conditions of the Colonies making suitable and permanent Establishments for their Judges, these apointments will become an Object with Men of Reputation and Abilities in their Profession. It is therefore suggested to the Colonies that they .submit to his Majesty and Ministers, whether it might not be advisable that such Gentlemen as are proposd to fill the Office of Chief Justice in future shoud, previous to their Apointment, undergo an Examination by the twelve Judges of England—and receive their Approbation. 6th. So very inseperable are the Interests of the Mother Country from those of her Colonies, that it must ever be against all Policy in Great Britain to perpetuate Evils that are to affect their Joint Welfare.
