January 9, 1776 71 7th. The Subject of this Article cannot fail to be considerd by his Majesty and Ministers, as the Basis on which to found an immediate Reestablishment of Union, and as an Earnest of their future Claim to the Affections of the Colonies. MS (Scottish Record Office: Drummond Castle Papers). 1 For the background of these “Interviews and Discussions,” see Drummond’s Notes, January 3-9? 1776, note 1. 2 See Congress’ declaration of rights and grievances, October 14, 1774, in JCC, 1:65. 8 Lord North’s Conciliatory Resolve of February 20 and Drummond’s “Plan of Accommodation” of March 1775 both provided that any revenues arising from parliamentary statutes regulating trade were to be placed at the disposal of the colonies. In a conversation on January 22, 1776, with William Smith, the New York historian and provincial councillor, Drummond attempted to explain the relationship between this proposal and the problem of admiralty court jurisdiction in the colonies. “That Lord North wished to conclude an Agreement that should put it out of the Power of any Successor to renew the Controversy by securing a Revenue from the Colonies for the common Defence without which the landed Interest would never be satisfied—That his Project for this purpose was to perswade every Colony to name a Duty which would at this Day raise a Contribution it could bear & put it upon some Import or Export increasing with the growth of the Colony. That then Parliament should cease to tax and give all Duties for the Regulation of Trade to the Colonies, who are to maintain their own internal Polity and Govern ment [lo] ask extraordinary Aids in the old Course of Requisition. In this Way all Disputes about the Admiralty Courts would subside & the Coercive Laws lately passed to be repealed as unnecessary.” William Smith, Historical Memoirs from 16 March 1763 to 9 July 1776 of William Smith, ed. William H. W. Sabine (New York: Colburn and Tegg, 1956), p. 257. 4 The fifth article of Drummond’s March 1775 “Plan of Accommodation” stipu lated that Great Britain should renounce its claim to a right to tax the colonies. See Milton M. Klein, “Failure of a Mission: The Drummond Peace Proposal of 1775,” Huntington Library Quarterly 35 (August 1972): 379. Richard Smith’s Diary Tuesday Jan. 9. [1776] The Votes read & some Letters, one of them from Matthew Tilghman Esqr. President of the Convention in Maryland desiring our Two small armed Vessels the Hornet and Viper at Baltimore may convoy to the Capes of Virginia some Vessels going with Provisions on Accot. of the Congress, to get Necessaries for our Fleet and Army. 1 This was agreed to & Directions are to be given to Admiral Hopkins to meet them. A Letter from Ld. Stirling inclosing a Packet which he caused to be intercepted near Elizabeth Town containing 1. A Letter from Gov. Franklin to Lord Dartmouth inimical to the Americans which inclosed a printed Journal of Congress, and Extract from the Votes of the Jersey Convention, a paper from New England, a Copy of a Petition to our Assembly against Independency, the Manuscript Votes of last Session,
