72 January 9, 1776 with his messages & the Councils and some News papers as also some Notes of the Speeches made in our Assembly by John Dickinson, John Jay and Geo. Wyth when they lately attended there from the Congress & prevailed with the Assembly to drop their Petition to the King, there was likewise a Copy of John De Harts Resignation. Divers of these papers were in the Hand Writing of Cortland Skinner Speaker of the Assembly who immediately upon this Discovery fled on Board of the Ship Dutchess of Gordon, those copied by Him were the Extract, the paper from N England, the Notes & the resignation, the Petition was in Dani. Ellis’s Hand. 2. A Letter from COFtland Skinner to his Bror. Wm. full of strong Toryism. Some Letters weFe in the Packet directed to Mrs. Gage which Ld. Stirling opened & sent forward. 2 After going thro other Business the Congress directed that the Presidt. shall write to Ld. Stirling to seize Cortland Skinner and to keep Him confined till further Order from hence and that he be examined before the Comee. of Safety in N Jersey who are to have a Copy of his Letter & his Examinn. is to be transmitted to this Congress. Nothing was done respecting Gov. Franklin. The Comee. of Claims reported some Accots. for Cartage of Powder, to Cambridge & Accounts of Abrm. Hunt and others which brought on a Discourse of the extravagant Living of the Captive Officers at Trenton, a Motion was made that they be notifyed that it shall be at their own Expence which was committed to Wm. Livingston, Floyd & Dyer. The Report on Gen. Schuylers Letters was taken up, some of the Articles agreed to and some recommitted. Capt. Lamb of the Artillery was rewarded with the rank of Major and to be allowed 50 Dollars per Month from the 1st of January Instant & to be Commandant of the Artillery in Canada, the pay master with Schuylers Army to be allowed Two Deputies. John MacPherson aid du Camp to Montgy. promoted to be a Major, a Conductor of Artillery appointed, distinct from the Commandant. The Promotion of Arnold was again moved and deferred till Tomorrow. Wilson moved & was strongly supported that the Congress may expressly declare to their Constituents and the World their present Intentions respecting an Independency, observing that the Kings Speech directly charged Us with that Design, he was opposed but Friday was fixed for going into that Affair. 3 Several Members said that if a Foreign Force shall be sent here, they are willing to declare the Colonies in a State of Independent Sovereignity. M. Pliant [de Pliarne] one of the Two Frenchmen in Treaty with our Secret Comee. offers to supply the Continent from France with all Sorts of Goods & Military Stores at the price common in France & hints that our Ships may trade to that Kingdom by Connivance & that they are willing to send their Bottoms here, he treats apparently in Behalf of a Company at Paris & he stays here till his Partner returns from thence. The Militia ordered to be discharged from the Fort at the Highlands on Hudsons River. 500,000 Dollars voted to be sent to Gen Washington
