January 10, 1776 73 thro the Pennsa. Delegates. The President desired to write to Gen. Schuyler inter alia requiring Him to try Lieut. Halsey at a Court Martial. 4 Col. Van Schaick, Lt Col. Yates & Major Gansevoort are to be continued in the Service and appointed to that Battaln. now to be raised in N York. A Communication is to be opened between Skeenes- borough and Fort Anne & Wood Creek to be cleared out. MS (DLC). 1 Matthew Tilghman’s letter to Hancock of January 5 is in PCC, item 78, 22:5, 8; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:575-76. 2 Colonel Alexander’s letter to Hancock of January 6 is in PCC, item 162, 2:359; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:586-87. Many of the enclosures listed here by Smith are in A. J. Archives, 10:676—98. 3 On this point, see Samuel Adams to John Adams, January 15; Thomas McKean to George Read, January 19, note 2; and Smith’s Diary, January 24, February 13, 1776. 4 See John Hancock to Philip Schuyler, January 10, 1776. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir, Philadelphia January 10 1776 I wrote to you the 7th Instant by Mr Anthony by the Way of Provi dence, and should not so soon have troubled you with another Letter but to inform you, that upon looking over the Journals of Congress I find that the Recommendation of the 26th of Octobr to export Produce for a certain Purpose, is confind to the foreign West Indies—and the Resolution to stop all Trade till the first of March is subsequent to it. This last Resolution prevents your exporting your Merchantable Fish to Spain for the purpose mentioned; which I am satisfied was not in tended, because I am very certain the Congress means to encourage the Importation of those necessary Articles, under the Direction of proper Persons, from every Part of the World. I design to propose to my Colleagues to joyn with me in a Motion to extend the Recommendation so as to admit of exporting Fish to any Place besides the foreign West Indies. 1 A few days ago, being one of a Committee to consider General Washingtons last Letter to Congress, I proposd to the Committee and they readily consented to report the inclosd Resolutions, which were unanimously agreed to in Congress. The Committee also reported that a certain Sum should be paid to Mr Lovel out of the military Chest towards enabling him to remove himself and his Family from Boston, but the Precedent was objected to and the last Resolve was substituted in its stead. 2 The Gentlemen present however contributed and put into my hands Eighty two Dollars for the Benefit of Mr Lovell, which I shall remit either in Cash or a good Bill. I hope I shall soon be so happy as
