74 January 10, 1776 to hear that he is releasd from Bondage. I feel very tenderly for the Rest of my fellow Citizens who are detaind in that worst of Prisons. Methinks there is one Way speedily to release them all. This day Congress have appointed General Fry a Brigadier General of the Army at Cambridge and Coll Arnold a Brigadr General for the Army in Canada. 3 Another sum of Money is orderd to be sent to you for the Use of the Army. 4 RC (MHi). 1 See Samuel Adams to James Warren, January 7, 1776, note 2. 2 Congress agreed to the exchange of Philip Skene for James Lovell and his family on January 5. JCC, 4:32-34. Samuel Adams’ draft of the committee report on Lovell is in the Signers Collection, MA. For more information on the release of Lovell, see John Hancock to George Washington, January 6, 1776, note 1. » See JCC, 4:47. 4 For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Warren, January 13, 1776. Lord Drummond’s Minutes Minute Philadelphia Jany. 10th 1776. As the foregoing paper which was deliverd to the Gentlemen of the Colonies by Ld. Dr[ummon]d contained Objections to several Material Points in the Propositions on the Part of America, 1 These Propositions were superseded by a new Set as contained in No. III. These however still holding up some Objectionable Points several Conversations were held in Consequence with particular Members, which terminated in the Propositions again undergoing some Amend ments and which appear included within the Lines in No. III. 2 The Import of the Clause in the first Article with Respect to internal Polity seemd not fully understood by Mr. Lynch who deliverd Lord D[rummon]d the Paper. In a Conversn. with Mr. L[ivingston] & Mr. [Allen] 3 who had not been present at the drawing up of the Articles, they seemd to think it alluded to the alledged Innovation by Great Britain in Cancelling the Massachusets Bay Charter, that if it meant anything further it meant too much, for that in the disputes which must arise hereafter between the different Colonies, nothing but the Inter position of the Parent Country coud effect a Settlement as being placed beyond the Reach of an American Invasion. 4 With regard to the last Clause, in the Second Article Mr. [Gov. Livingston] and Mr. Duane were of Opinion that this shoud not be insisted on. That with Regard to the Article of Wool in particular England shoud by no Means be interfered with. The third Article on the Subject of Troops which was the Point by much the most contended for by the most Southern as well as New
