January 10, 1776 75 Engd. Colonies was at last struck out. The Arguments used to effect this were not stated in Writing—as containing too dangerous a Doctrine. Propositions by America, as amended. Reed. 11th Jany 76. No. III. 1st. It is understood that Great Britain shall in open Parliament declare a Relinquishment of Taxation over her Colonies 6 and shall withold from interfering with their internal Polity. 2d. That Great Britain shall not suppress their Manufactoring for their own Consumption such Materials as these Colonies produce and that they shall not be restrained from transporting from one Colony to another such Materials or Manufactory. 3d. {That Troops shall not be introduced into these Colonies without the Consent of their Legislatures.) 4th. That Canada shall be included in the Indemnification. 5th. That the Colonies shall fix suitable and permanent Establishments for the Office of Chief Justice and the Judges of their Supreme Courts. That the chief Judges hereafter to be apointed shall previously undergo an Examination by the twelve Judges of England and be recommended by them to such apointment. And that when so apointed they shall as in England hold their Offices during good Behaviour. 6th. That the Navigation Act shall remain inviolate but nevertheless if on Investigation, any Restriction or Regulation shall be found to be injurious to the Trade of the Colonies without affording any advantages to the Mother Country, it is expected that such Restrictions or Regula tions will on proper Representation be taken into Consideration and amended or withdrawn. 7th. That towards the common Exigency of the State the Colonies shall by perpetual Grant as in the Plan annexed give such annual Aid or Supply as shall be deemd consistent with the abilities of the respective Colonies. 8th. That as a further Demonstration of their Loyalty to the Crown and their Affection to the Mother Country they shall notwithstanding the above perpetual Grant, hold themselves subject to be calld upon in Cases of Urgency for Supplies of naval and Military Stores. MS (Scottish Record Office: Drummond Castle Papers). 1 See Drummond’s Notes, January 9, 1776. 2 See note 5 below. 3 For an explanation of the insertion of names in brackets here and below, see Drummond’s Minutes, January 5, 1776, note 2. 4 Elsewhere Drummond observed of his discussions with the delegates about Parliament’s right to interfere in internal colonial affairs: “This Subject bore a Deal of Argument on both Sides. Mr. Elliot and myself contended, I had almost said Concluded with them, that as the Infraction of the Massachusetts Bay Charter was the single Instance in which themselves coud charge England with having improperly exercised this Power, so we must of course confine the Reparation lookd
