82 January 11, 1776 by the Continental Congress to the Provincial Congress of New York.” However, the evidence of this place and dateline and endorsement to the contrary notwith standing, this letter is in reality an abstract of the Committee of Safety’s letter to Hancock of January 4. ’These were probably resolutions of January 9 discharging certain New York militia units from further service in the Highlands and appointing officers for a battalion that was to be raised in New York for service in Canada. JCC, 4:42-43; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:1046. 3 See JCC, 4:49. 4 These resolves, which dealt with a variety of issues relating to the reinforcement and supply of General Schuyler’s army, are in JCC, 4:38-40. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings Philade. Jany. 11th. 1776 At a meeting of the Come, of Secy. Present, Sami. Ward, Benjamn. Franklin, Silas Deane, Thos. McKean & Josiah Bartlett. Mr. Robert Morris of this City Mercht. was impowerd by sd. Come, to engage nine ships or vessels for exportg. the produce of these Colonies for the benifit of the 13 U[nited] Clolonies]. 1 At a meeting of the Comee. of Secy. Present Sami. Ward, Benjn Franklin, Robt. Morris, Josiah Bartlett, & Ths McKean. A Contract was enterd into between Silas Deane & Barnabas Deane of the Colony of Connecticut & the sd. Come, that the sum of thirty thousand dlls Conti. Money now advanced & paid by the sd. Come, of Secy, to the sd. Silas Deane & Barnabas Deane shall be laid out by them in the produce of these Colonies & shipd. on board proper vessels to be by them charterd for that purpose to some proper ports in the foreign West Indies & Europe & there disposd of on the best terms; & the nett proceeds of such Cargoes laid out in the purchase of such goods, wares or merchandises as the sd. Come, of Secy, shall direct & shippd for the sd U[nited] C[olonies]. 2 At a meeting of the C[ommitt]ee. Present Sami. Ward, Ths. McKean, Silas Deane, B. Franklin & Robt Morris. A Contract was enterd into between Oswell Eve & George Losch both of the County of Phila. & the sd. Come, for manufacturg. Saltpetre. 3 MS (MH). 1 On January 10 Morris had received from the Secret Committee “an order on the Treasurer for the Sum of 80,000 dlls for the service of the United Colonies.” Journal of the Secret Committee, fol. 23, MH. ’ A list of goods to be imported by the Deanes was agreed to on February 16. Journal of the Secret Committee, fol. 36, MH. For other transactions pertinent to this contract, see Clark, Naval Documents, 4:614. 3 See JCC, 4:40. By this agreement Eve and Losch were to “manufacture all the Salt Petre which shall be delivered to them severally for one year from this date by the Committee of Secrecy aforesaid, into good Gun Powder, and furnish all the
