92 January 14, 1776 Lord Drummond’s Minutes Minute Philada. Jany. [14? 1776] 1 The American Delegates having come to a Resolution of sending a Deputation from the Cols, to England they found themselves under some difficulty with respect to the Persons to be nominated. 2 Aware of the Intrigues of the Northern Gentlemen, and of the sudden turns to which Popular Assemblies are ever liable they forsaw the Disadvantages that might attend the Absence of any of the Leading Men amongst them. To others again of a different Description they coud not entrust their Affairs. Under these Difficulties it was suggested that Mr. [Silas Deane] 3 of Connecticut might not be an improper Man. That they coud confide at least in his Resentment against the two [Adams] by whose Intrigues he had lost his Seat in the Congress on Account of his Moderation and Disposition towards Accommodation. It was contrived that Lord Drumd. shoud have an Opportunity of forming some Judgement of him by meeting him at the Corner House in Markt. Street for the Discussion of a particular Point in Commerce. L[ord] D[rummond] found him plausible and to appearance moderate, but did not think him enough a Man of the world for this Business besides his being subjected to those Prejudices that must always attend every Man from his Part of the Continent in the Eye of the other American Colonies. This Idea was accordingly laid aside. A Difficulty had arisen with Respect to the Danger that woud attend any of the Members of the Congress being of this proposed Deputation, as they woud on their arrival in England expose themselves to immediate trial for high treason. To remedy this the following Expedient was submitted to Ld. Drumd. whether for the Guaranteeing the Safety of any such Members as shoud be of this Deputation to England, he woud pledge Himself as a Hostage to the Congress, and subject his Person to be held responsible in all Respects for the fate of such Members. An Engagement agreeable to this was accordingly formed. The fixing their Choice for this Deputation became the next Object when the general Voice seemd for Mr. [Lynch] to be accompanied or not, as shoud afterwards be determind, by Mr. [Allen] or Mr. [Jay]. MS (Scottish Record Office: Drummond Castle Papers). 1 This date has been assigned on the supposition that talks in Philadelphia between the delegates and Lord Drummond came to an end around January 14. See Drum mond’s Notes, January 3-9? 1776, note 1. 2 Later Drummond described more fully the delegates’ decision to send a peace delegation to England, once “their thoughts were . . . turned towards setting on foot a Negotiation. They cast their Eyes on Mr Elliot and myself and press’d us much to go immediately to England, mistaking us I suppose for Men of much greater Influence than we were. In this I was too proud to undeceive them, but as the shortest Road to make known their Disposition at home, as well as to remove all Suspicions of Insincerity, we urged their sending home a Deputation of their own
