January 15, 1776 93 Number, and for whose Safety I proposed hiyself as a Pledge. A Day was accordingly fixed for agitating the Proposition in Congress but before its arrival Accounts were brought them of their Loss before Quebec. This occasioned a short Delay, which was unfortunately succeeded by another in the Burning of Norfolk—which heated the minds of those who ’twas suspected might oppose the Measure.” See Drummond to Lord North?, March 24, 1776, Scottish Record Office: Drummond Castle Papers, Nj microfilm. Drummond’s assertion in this letter that Congress learned of the British burning of Norfolk after learning of the American defeat at Quebec is erroneous. 3 For an explanation of the insertion of names in brackets here and below, see Drummond’s Minutes, January 5, 1776, note 2. Samuel Adams to John Adams My dear sir Philad Jany 15 1776 Altho I have at present but little Leisure, I cannot omit writing you a few Lines by this Express. I have seen certain Instructions which were given by the Capital of the Colony of New Hampshire to its Delegates in their provincial convention the Spirit of which I am not alltogether pleasd with. There is one part of them at least, which I think discovers a Timidity which is unbecoming a People oppressd and insulted as they are, and who at their own request have been advisd & authorizd by Congress to set up and exercise Government in such form as they should judge most conducive to their own Happiness. 1 It is easy to understand what they mean when they speak of “perfecting a form of Govt stable and per manent.” They indeed explain themselves, by saying that they “should prefer the Govt of Congress (their provincial Convention) till quieter times.” The Reason they assign for it, I fear, will be considerd as showing a readiness to condescend to the Humours of their Enemies, and their publickly, expressly, & totally disavowing Independency either in the nation, or the Man who insolently & perseveringly demands the surren der of their Liberties with the Bayonet pointed at their Breasts may be construed to argue a Servility & Baseness of Soul for which Language doth not afford an Epithet. It is by indiscrete Resolutions and Publica tions that the Friends of America have too often given occasion to their Enemies to injure her Cause. I hope however that the Town of Portsmouth doth not in this Instance speak the Sense of that Colony. I wish, if it be not too late, that you would write your Sentiments of the Subject to our worthy Friend, Mr. L , 2 who I suppose is now in Portsmouth. If that Colony should take a wrong Step I fear it would wholly defeat a Design which I confess, I have much at heart. A Motion was made in Congress the other day to the following pur pose—that whereas we had been chargd with aiming at Independency, a Comte should be appointed to explain to the People at large the Principles & Grounds of our opposition &c. 3 The Motion alarmd me.
