94 January 15, 1776 I thought Congress had already been explicit enough, & was appre hensive that we might get our selves upon dangerous Ground. Some of us prevaild so far as to have the Matter postpond but could not prevent the assigning a day to consider it. I may perhaps have been wrong in opposing this Motion, and I ought the rather to suspect it, because the Majority of your Colony as well as of the Congress were of a different opinion. 4 I had lately some free Conversation with an eminent Gentleman whom you well know, and whom your Portia, in one of her Letters, admired, iff recollect right, for his ex/vm^^'Z^ce/about a Confedera tion—A Matter which our much valued Freind Coll W , 6 is very sollicitous to have compleated. We agreed that it must soon be brought on, & that if all the Colonies could not come into it, it had better be done by those of them that inclind to it. I told him that I would endeavor to unite the New England Colonies in confederating, if none of the rest would joyn in it. He approvd of it, and said, if I succeeded, he would cast in his Lot among us. Adieu. Jan. 16th As this Express did not sett off yesterday according to my Expectation, I have the opportunity of acquainting you that Congress has just receivd a Letter from General Washington inclosing the Copy of an Application of our General Assembly to him to order Payment to four Companies stationd at Braintree, Weymouth, & Hingham. The General says they were never regimented, & he cannot comply with the Request of the Assembly without the Direction of Congress. A Com[mitte]e is appointed to consider the Letter of which I am one. I fear there will be a Difficulty and therefore I shall endeavor to prevent a Report on this part of the Letter, unless I shall see a prospect of Justice being done to the Colony, till I can receive from you authentick Evidence of those Companies having been actually employed by the continental officers, as I conceive they have been, in the Service of the Continent. 7 I wish you wd inform me whether the two Companies stationd at Chelsea & Malden were paid out of the Continents Chest. I suppose they were, and if so, I cannot see Reason for any Hesitation about the paymt of these. I wish also to know how many Men our Colony is at the Expence of maintaining for the Defence of its Sea Coasts. Pray let me have some Intelligence from you, of the Colony which we represent. You are sensible of the Danger it has frequently been in of suffering greatly for want of regular Information. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Instructions of the town of Portsmouth to its representatives in the provincial congress. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:459-60. 2 John Langdon. 8 James Wilson’s motion of January 9. See Richard Smith’s Diary, January 9, 1776. 4 Notwithstanding his feigned diffidence, Samuel Adams apparently soon entered
