January 15, 1776 95 the campaign for men’s minds outside of Congress, turning his pen to the cause of independence and against those who argued for new efforts at reconciliation. Accord ing to his biographer Wells, Adams was the author of two newspaper essays ex ploiting these themes which appeared under the pseudonyms of “Candidus” and “Sincerus” in the Pennsylvania Evening Post on February 3 and 12, 1776. William V. Wells, The Life and Public Services of Samuel Adams, 3 vols. (Boston: Little, Brown and Co., 1865), 2:349-52, 360-63. 6 Benjamin Franklin, who first proposed his plan for confederation on July 21, 1775. JCC, 2:195-201. 6 Although Charles Francis Adams had conjectured that the reference was to George Wythe—an assumption that Burnett later endorsed—it seems clear that the reference is to James Warren, particularly since Samuel Adams had explicitly discussed this issue in his recent January 7 letter to Warren. See Adams, Works (Adams), 9:373; Burnett, Letters, 1:311; and Samuel Adams to James Warren, January 7, 1776. ’ George Washington to John Hancock, December 31, 1775. Washington refused to pay for the companies without express authority from Congress, a decision he explained in a letter to the Massachusetts General Court, December 29, 1775. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 4:192-99. Although Congress acted on most of the letter’s contents on January 16, Adams apparently succeeded in postponing action on the guard companies. JCC, 4:54, 60-61. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sr. Philadelphia Jany. 15th 1776 I have been Impatiently expecting an Answer to one or two letters I sent you since your Arrival at Cambridge but have recievd None tho one or two posts beside as many expresses have arrived here since. Your apprehensions that I should have left Philadelphia before this time I Imagine to be the reason, but Unhappily for me the Gentn. appointed to Supersede Mr Dean & my self have not yet Arrived. I have hitherto Neglected making Application to Congress for some further Allowance for your services than your monthly Wages (which I believe all are Convinced are not Adequate) but before such application thot it proper to be possessd with the best Materials by which I might most likely Succeed in my Application. I was Advised that it would be of Con sequence for you to procure some favourable representation & recom mendation from Genii Washington & other Genii. Officers which might be of great service but before you receive this I really wish & expect to be on my return to my family, & hope the Colony will have delegates here to represent them, whose Zeal & Ardor for their Countrys Service & particularly for the Colony to which we belong (who often Stand in Need of the Warmest Advocates, or their Interest & those employd therefrom may much Suffer) will much exceed mine. From the Ap- pearence of the Kings Speech All hopes of Reconciliation seem at an end; therefore Nothing remains on our part but the most Vigorous preparation & Exertions. The Congress are Augmenting their forces in every Quarter. Several Battalions are Ordered for Canada, two or 3
