January 15, 1776 97 1 Gadsden, the colonel of the First South Carolina Regiment of Foot, is presumably referring to an order issued by the South Carolina Council of Safety on October 2, 1775, directing him to return to his native colony in order to assume command of the provincial forces there. John Drayton, ed., Memoirs of the American Revolution, from its Commencement to the Year 1776, inclusive; as relating to the State of South-Carolina and occasionally referring to the states of North-Carolina and Georgia, 2 vols. (Charleston: A. E. Miller, 1821), 2:171-72. Why this order took so long to reach Philadelphia is unknown, but his compliance with it shortly after this letter was written took Gadsden away from Congress, never to return. New York Delegates to John Hancock Sir New York 15th Jany. 1776 Mr. Livingston Arived here on Saturday and Immediately Com- municatd. to us Your Letters desireg us to purchase a Quantity of powder &C. 1 We Accordingly made a particular Inquiry how much of that Article is now in this Province, & find there is not, nor has there been any since last April but what has been in the hands of the Committe here, of which we send an Account Inclosed, 2 whereby it appears that there is now in the Public Store 6350 lb which with what is due from the Continent to this Province, is all the Stock they have. 462 Quartr. Casks was all the Powder that was brought from Curacoa, tho’ it was said that it was to the Amo. of 300 Bbls & that Several Other Vessels which Arived About the same time had Also brought Powder which was without foundation. A report prevails Here that a Fleet of 18 Transports, 3 Ships of War & a Bomb Ketch have Saild from Boston, that Genl. Lee has desired Govr. Trumbal to Gett 1500 Men in Readiness with all dispatch, that he intended to March with a small body of Men from Cambridge to Connecticut & with the Troops to be raised in Conecticut to March to this place, but as it is probable You have Information from the Genl, it will be Needless for us to Enlarge. The Asia & Phenix are both in this harbour, and the Viper at Sandy Hook. 3 We are Sr. Your Most Humbe. Servts. Phil. Livingston John Alsop Frans Lewis RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Written by Alsop and signed by Alsop, Lewis, and Livingston. 1 On January 8, in response to news that 15 tons of gunpowder had recently arrived in New York, Congress directed Alsop, John Jay, Lewis, and Philip Living ston to purchase this gunpowder and forward it to Washington’s army at Cambridge. See JCC, 4:40, 62. The letters from Hancock to the New York delegates have not been found. 2 This “account” was in the form of a letter of January 15 from Alexander Mc Dougall to Philip Livingston. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:681-82. 8 In reality H.M.S. Viper was at Antigua at this time. Clark, Naval Documents, 3:802n.3.
