January 16, 1776 101 amazing and unaccountable supiness of all our Governments. Not a single [one] anywhere in civil Department, seems to consider himself as interested in public matters, unless he can get money by them; the Idea of all the paper being mortgages on their private Estates is totally lost and forgotten. In this State of things, I have, besides my Dependance on the Con tinuance of the Favour of Heaven, Trust in two Supports alone, the one, on your Vigorous Exertions, the other on the Weakness of our Enemies. Shoud they lose footing in America this winter, I shoud despise their thirty thousand Russians, scattered by Storms, arriving one Transport after another, fatigued & debilitated by the Fatal Effects of long Voyages, without a Spot to collect and recruit themselves for the Field & depending for every Necessary on Supplies from a Country 3000 miles distant. Do not the Speeches of the King and his Minister hold very different Language from those of the last year! America is no longer the abject, cowardly and defenceless Wretch she was then, now his Lordship woud have dispised had they not bravely supported their Rights, seems to approve their vigorous support of them & offers the terms of 1763. A gentleman well known to Moyland, Ld Drummond just from England, assures me he will give much more. He tells me that he has had many Conversations with Ministry on the Subject & Shewed me a Paper approved by all of them & which he is sure will be supported in both Houses. The Substance of it is America to be declared free in point of Taxation & internal Police, Judges to be approvd by the Judges of England and commissioned during good Behaviour, upon stated & sufficient support be statedly assigned them by the Colonies, all Charters to be held Sacred, that of Boston restored, Britain to regulate Trade sub modo, all Duties laid for the purpose of Regulation be paid into the Colony Treasury where they arise, applicable to its uses by its own Legislature, in Lieu of which America shall, by Duties on such Articles as will probably keep pace in its Consumption with the Rise or declen- tion of the Colony, laid by each Legislature by permanent Act of Assembly, Grant towards the general Support of the Empire, annual Sums in proportion to £5000 Sterling for this Colony. 3 As this sum is little more than half of what did arise by Duties heretofore paid in this place, I doubted his information, but was assured that Ministry wanted nothing but a shew of Reve[nue] to hold up to Parliament, as they are affraid [to] propose Reconciliation, without saving what the[ir] stiff old Englishmen call the Honor of the Nation. His Lordship came hither thro’ Hallifax, Boston, & York, where I fancy he saw what induced him to hint once or twice at beginning with a Suspention of Arms, to which I turned a very deaf Ear, well knowing that the Season winter is ours, and that much may be done by April next. I sincerely wish I had your sentiments on these heads, I shall propose them to the Consideration of
