102 January 16, 1776 Congress, as soon as the most urgent affairs are over. I think the[y] merit it. Congress has Ordered you 15 ton of Gun Powder from New York & we have Salt Petre enough here, to make 80 Ton more so that I hope we shall not soon want again. 4 Large Quantities are every day expected. I beg you’l make our Compliments to your Lady and to the rest of your Family, and all my Friends, Dr Sir your most Obedt Tho Lynch [P.5.] We have just heard from Charles Town that they have mounted on the Batteries there above 160 Gannon from 12 to 42 Pounders & 70 more in different parts of the Province, that the Party raised by Kirkland & his gang are totally suppressd, he is come but I have not yet seen him. RC (DLC). 1 For Congress’ resolutions on the disposition of prize ships, adopted on January 6, see JCC, 4:36-37. 2 Although this day Congress extended the privilege of free postage to “any letters to or from private soldiers, while engaged in defense of the United Colonies,” accord ing to a report submitted to Congress on February 16, 1776, a similar privilege had yet to be bestowed on officers. See JCC, 4:43, 155. 3 A paper entitled “Articles proposed as Objects for the Imposition of Taxes,” which Drummond apparently drew up early in January 1776 in order to specify the sources of revenue for this permanent “Grant,” is in the Drummond Castle Papers, Scottish Record Office. In this paper Drummond called for import duties on wine, tea, sugar, and coffee. He also envisioned export duties on rice and indigo from Georgia and South Carolina; rice and tobacco from North Carolina; tobacco and flour from Maryland and Virginia; and flour, wheat, biscuits, and flaxseed from Delaware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and New York. Whether Lynch or the other delegates with whom he conferred ever saw this paper is not known. See also Lord Drummond’s Notes, January 3-9? 1776, note 1. 4 See New York Delegates to John Hancock, January 15, 1776. Richard Smith’s Diary Tuesday 16 January [1776] Messrs. Wolcott and Huntington from Connecticut took their Seats. A Report passed from the Comee. on Gen. Washns. Letters, to allow the Paymaster at Cambridge to draw upon the Continental Treasurers for any Sum not exceeding a Months Pay of that Army, to allow Him to reinlist the free Negroes, to continue Col Gridley as Chief Engineer, to appoint a Chaplain to every 2 Battalions & the Pay of such Chaplain fixed at 33 1/3 Dollars per Month &c. A Tender was asked for & allowed to our Naval Armament under Admiral Hopkins. Duane & E. Rutledge were desired to rectify a Mistake in the Journals now printing, as to the Date of the Bills of Credit. The Report was made from the Comee. on the Number of Troops necessary, they recommend
