January 17, 1776 105 have given you many Expressions of their Friendship previous to your Departure. I never Flatter, but shall ever in future unbosom my self to you, & write freely, in Confidence that I can Rely on your Friend ship, & from a Conviction that you are Deserving of the Esteem I have for you, & I shall ever feel a pleasure in doing any thing that can Contribute to your Ease or Reputation, as I must Say I have Reason to think Endeavours have been made to Disturb both, & which I will not let pass over unnotic’d, for it may Operate further & be the means of Stirring up Jealousies & Animosities which had better be nipt in the Bud, of wch. more in my next. 1 Severall Members of Congress have mention’d to me the Desire they have to Establish you in that Agreeable point of light which your Conduct in their Estimation merits. For that purpose they are framing a Letter to you, to be made such use of as you think best, to be Sign’d by a number of them, as they have some how an opinion that undue Methods have been practic’d which have Operated to your Disadvantage in the late Election. 2 They are very sanguine in this matter, and I assure you that you are mention’d by Respectable Members in the most Advantagious & Agreeable Light, & you may Rely I do not throw any Contradictory Strokes in the way; of this more in my next. As I did not Expect to be able to write you a Line by this, you must Excuse my not being more Explicit, having ever since your Departure been exceeding ill, my Cold brought on a Fever, & much Affected one of my Eyes, that I have, & still do, suffer greatly, I hope by next oppory. to be able to write you more fully. With Respect to the Ships, I must Beg you will set the Wheels in Motion; Money & particular Instructions shall come by next as I am now unable to Compleat what I intended. The whole Conduct of these Ships I Submit to you. Pray be Expeditious in setting forward the work, & let me hear from you. South Carolina have Authoriz’d Mr. Lynch & Rutlidge to Act, & have sent for Mr. Gadsden home, who Departs by water tomorrow. We have this Day rec’d disagreeable Accotts. from Canada, poor Montgomery & severall officers kill’d, Arnold Wounded &c. We have Agreed to have Nine Battalions in Canada, I now Send this Express, to have one Rais’d in N. Hampshire, one in Connecticutt &c. I fear for the Defection of New York, the Spring will open before we are Ready, however we must bestir ourselves. I hope in my next to Send you a good Accott. of a little Expedition order’d, which is now Executing, but I am under injunction &c. Intercepted Letters from Gov. Franklin & the Speaker of the Jersey Assembly Mr Skinner have been Read in Congress, their Contents I can’t mention. 3 Gov. Franklin is under Guard, & Skinner gone on board the Asia. I inclose you a pamphlet which makes much Talk here, said to be wrote by an English Gentleman Resident here by the name of Paine,
