124 January 20, 1776 Hampshire to whom I write by this opportunity to forward with the utmost dispatch the very first that can be raised in those colonies. You can easily conceive what effect the arrival of even one company will have on the minds of our Friends especially when they shall be satisfied that they will soon be followed by more. The Colony of South Carolina has been so fortunate as to oblige Lord W. Campbell with the armed Vessel to quit their harbour. Being earnestly desirous of providing for their defence they have resolved to fit out some armed vessels but not having seamen among themselves they have dispatched capn Cockran to the Northward to inlist a number of seamen for the service of that Colony. Lest the offers he was empowered to make might prejudice the service the Congress have chalked out a plan for him to go by, as you will see in the enclosed extracts and I am directed to desire you will please to forward this service. 3 Yesterday doctor Smith who made his escape from Frederic was brought to this town. He was taken at the little meadows on his way to Detroit & had with him letters from Conolly to the commanding officer there. 4 I hinted to you in my former letter that the Congress were taking measures for the defence of the middle and southern Colonies. For this purpose over and above those destined for Canada they have ordered four batallions to be raised in New York, two in New Jersey, four in Pennsylvania, one in the counties on Delaware, six in Virginia, three in North Carolina, three in South Carolina, and one in Georgia, each to consist of 728 men including officers making in the whole with those for Canada 34 batallions. I have the honour to be with the greatest Respect, Sir Your most Obedt. hume servt., John Hancock President [RY] This Express is Charg’d with a large Packett of Importance for the Colony of New Hampshire, I Request you will please to order it to that Colony by a fresh Express. 6 I have Taken the Freedom to put under your Cover a Letter for Mr Cushing, respectg. the Buildg Two Ships of Force, I must beg you to Send it him by a safe hand. Will you be so obliging as when you Send into Boston about Mr Lovell, to suffer the Two Letters from Mr Webster to go in. Inclos’d is a Commission for Brigr Genl Frye. RC (DLC). In the hand of Timothy Matlack, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 'See JCC, 4:70-71, 73-76. 2 Washington had already ordered the raising of three regiments of militia for Canadian service. Washington to Hancock, January 19 and .30, 1776, PCC, item 152, 1:419-22, 447-54; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 4:258-61, 286-93. 3 See JCC, 4:59-60, 64, 67-68. Capt. Robert Cochran received permission from
