128 January 21, 1776 Samuel Ward to Anna Ward My dearest 1 Philadelpa. 21st Jany. 1776 Blessed be God your dear Bror. of whom I never heard one Word from the Time he left Fort Weston until last Thursday is alive, and well and hath behaved well. Here is a Gentn. who saw him the Day before the Attack upon Quebec. He had been very ill with the yellow Jaundice but one Capt. McClean formerly of Boston took him home & cured him & this Gentn. tells me he was happy to go upon that Service. General Montgomerie was killed & his Troops immediately retired which left the whole Force of the Enemy to attack your Kinsman Lt. Colo. Greene 2 who upon Arnolds being wounded & carried off led the Detachment on nobly. They carried two Barriers, attacked the third & fought gloriously with much superior Forces under Cover also. Four Hours after being overpowered with Numbers they were com pelled to surrender Prisoners of War & are very kindly treated. I have wrote by Express to your Bror. & shall send him some Money. 3 Call upon all that owe us for some, I shall want it much. Write immediately to Colo. Greene’s Wife that he is well & treated with great Humanity, he has acquired vast Honor in the Service and I doubt not will soon be exchanged. In the mean time I have wrote Sammy to let him know that his Family is well and that if he wants any Money he may draw upon me & I will punctually pay it. Why have I had no Letters for a long while from home. Surely some of you might write every week. See that it is done & let Me know every thing of Importance. 4 God bless you all. Your affece. Father, Sam Ward P.S. In Colo Greenes Detachment there were 120 killed & wounded, near half killed. Troops begin their March from here to Morrow to reinforce our Army in Canada. RC (MWA). 1 The recipient of this letter is incorrectly identified as Catherine Greene in Ward, Correspondence (Knollenberg), pp. 177—78, where the text is taken from a Tr made in 1842, although curiously enough a deleted endorsement on this Tr specifically states: “The original was addressed to Miss Nancy Ward, Westerly R. Island.” 2 Christopher Greene, Ward’s son-in-law, was lieutenant colonel of the First Rhode Island Regiment in which Samuel Ward, Jr., served as a captain. Greene and Ward, Jr., both had volunteered for service with Col. Benedict Arnold’s Cana dian expeditionary force. Ibid., p. 35. See also Ward to Catherine Greene, Novem ber 13, 1775, note 1. 3 Ward’s letter of this date to Samuel Ward, Jr., is in Ward, Correspondence (Knollen berg), pp. 175-77. 4 Ward wrote another letter to Anna on January 24, in which he simply repeated much of the information about Samuel, Jr., contained in this letter. NjMoHP.
