130 January 22, 1776 unhurt. 1 We have not yet got powder to effect any thing considerable in that quarter; And I fear the proper season will be over, before we shall. The French & Spaniards do not seem inclined to furnish us with military stores. Their politics plainly tend to drive us to extremity, that we may be forced to break off all connection with G. B. and join with them, which they know nothing but hard necessity can ever effect. Indeed the Ministry appear determined to leave us no alternative, but absolute submission, or foreign assistance. Which will be your choice my friend? Will it not be wise, in time to leave a people who are so corrupt, that their ruin must be inevitable? I wish all happiness to Sabine Hall and [remain?] at all times my dear Colonel’s afft. Respectfull Servant, Francis Lightfoot Lee RC (NjR: Elsie O. and Philip D. Sang deposit). 1 Washington had included an account of this incident in his January 11 letter to President Hancock, which was read in Congress on January 22. See JCC, 4:77; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 4:229-30. Oliver Wolcott to Philip Schuyler Sir Philadelphia 22d Janry 1776 Your Letter to Congress respecting the unfortunate Death of General Montgomery and the Disaster of his Troops peirced every Heart. I sincerely Sympathize with you the Loss of that brave officer. I know your affliction must be great for in him you have lost a most Valuable Freind and an officer in whom you deservedly put the greatest Confi dence—but Such is Heavens Will, and let us Acquiesce in the Divine Providence. What Aid Congress Mean to give the Northern Army you have. I hope a steady Attention will be given to that important Affair. We have no special News. The Congress are Very Busy and like to continue So. Sundry Members call on Me for the Journal of Our last Indian Negotiation. Your busy Attention to Other Matters, I can easily believe occasion its not being sent, but Wish it might be for warded to me so that it might be laid before Congress, as soon as con veniently might be, together with an Acco. of Expenditures. 1 I suppose a Representation and Evidence how the Susquehannah affair came to be introduced into the August Treaty will be Transmitted to Congress. 2 Whatever Commands you shall give me at Philadelphia shall cheer fully comply with. Wishing you Sir the Establishment of Health, I Am sir, your most obediant, humble Servt., Oliver Wolcott RC (NN). 1 Schuyler’s response was contained in his letter to President Hancock of March 19, 1776. PCC, item 153, 2:57-60; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:415-16. 2 Wolcott was probably referring to a letter to Congress that his fellow Indian
