January 24, 1776 131 commissioners for the Northern Department had drafted at their December 1775 meeting, in which they charged that Turbutt Francis, one of the commissioners, was responsible for introducing the Susquehannah issue into the treaty negotiations with the Indians at Albany in August 1775. Apparently this letter was not included with the papers related to Indian affairs that Schuyler enclosed in his March 19 letter to Congress, and there is no evidence that it was ever formally presented to Congress. A petition from Francis was referred to a committee in June, but the committee failed to gain the cooperation of the Indians and was subsequently dis charged. JCC, 4:240, 415, 5:458. The commissioners’ draft letter was included in an extract of their proceedings, which is printed in Susquehannah Co. Papers, 6:416-20. See also Turbutt Francis’ letter of April 23, 1776, to Schuyler and Volkert P. Douw, ibid., 7:11-12; and Wolcott to Timothy Edwards, November 29, 1776. Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett My Dear Philadelphia Janry 24th 1776 Yours of the 6th Inst. I Received the 22nd & as I had not Received any letter from you Since yours of the 7th of December, it gave me great pleasure to hear you & my family were well the 6th of this month; I hope you & they Still Continue So. I am by the favor of kind provi dence in health at this time. I have been lately a little troubled with a pain in my head, owing I Suppose to my being So long Confined without any Bodily Exercise. As the Days grow longer I Design Every Day before or after Congress to ride or walk an hour or two; I have 2 or 3 Days this week, after the Congress rose walked from 5 to 6 of the Clock. At four the Congress Comonly rise, Dine by 5, walk till Six, then on a Committee till 8, 9 or 10: this is Comonly my Business Every Day. I have wrote to our Convention at Exeter to request them to Send Delegates here, which I hope they will Comply with; as soon as they arrive here, I shall prepare to return home. Remember me to All the Children, to Col Greely, Mr Procter, and all friends. I hope Capt Calef has hired me a good faithful hand. Give my Kind regards to him and tell him I am glad to hear he has Success in making Salt petre. Tell Polly and Lois I Reed their letter and shall write to Mr Sweat about the powder mill. I am, yours &c, Josiah Bartlett P.S. The Express is going So Soon I Can’t write to Samuel Sweat but will Endeavor to next week. RC (NhHi). Josiah Bartlett to the New Hampshire Committee of Safety Gentm Philadelphia Janry 24th 1776 The Congress ordered me to Send you the Sum of Twelve Thousand
