132 January 24, 1776 five hundred Dollars for the use of the Regiment to be raised for Canada. 1 I have agreed with Mr. Wheat of Conecticut (who Carries the Same Sum to Conecticut) to Deliver it to you or to Col Gilman the treasurer at Exeter for which he is to have thirty Six Dollars, which you will please to pay him & take his Recept which Recept you will Enclose to me that I may Receive the Same out of the Continental treasurer, as the money is to be Sent on the Cost of the Continent. I am Gentm yours Josiah Bartlett P.S. As I was not Certain whither the president had Sent you the Resolves of Congress of the 17th I have Enclosed them. 2 The ten Shillings mentioned is this Currency, Equal to Eight Shillings L[awful] Mfoney]. J. B. RC (Nh-Ar). Addressed: “The Provincial Committee of Safety or to Nicholas Gilman, Esq., Colony Treasurer.” 1 See JCC, 4:74. 2 See JCC, 4:63. John Dickinson’s Notes for a Speech in Congress [January 24? 1776] 1 Some Authority of the Parent State over Colonies from the Nature of Things. E.g. Justice. What is it—Original Circumstance to be recover’d. Settlement under Permission—protection—on Lands according to the then prevailing Notions of publick Law the property of Mother Country. 1. Permission. Discovered by English Subjects Cabot & Hudson. Every Colony settled under Grant; from English Crown. It is said Massachusetts Bay was not—Nay, that they settled against the Consent of the King & People of England. Denied—settled under the Plymouth Company. See Hutchinson 2 & W. Logan’s Pamphlet. 3 The Evidence indisputable, proved by the Series of Transactions from that Day to this. But suppose Massachusetts Bay was settled against Consent. It is the Case of a single Colony. This is a Common Cause. We must assume principles suited to all. What was the Case of all the other Colonies? Unquestionably under the permission of the Mother Country. 2. Protection. The History of every Colony proves this protection was always looked up to—Always in Effect—sometimes in Act. Can it be imagined We should have been so little disturbed by other powers—- if it had not been for the Claims & Fear of the English. Remember the Case of the French on one side—the Dutch on the other—how exten sive. What prevented those Claims from being extended—& those of the Dutch being at Length extinguished very early in the Course of our Settlement & thereby gave Relief from that Quarter a Century ago to the New England Colonies? The Power & Protection of England.
