January 24, 1776 139 printed above under the date January 9-24? 1776, and his Draft Address to the Inhabitants of America which follows the present entry. 2 Apparently a reference to Thomas Hutchinson’s work The History of the Colony of Massachusets-Bay, from the First Settlement Thereof in 1628, until its Incorporation with the Colony of Plimouth, Province of Main. &c., by the Charter of King William and Queen Mary, in 1691 (Boston: Thomas & John Fleet, 1764), in which a discussion of Massa chusetts’ origins and relationship to the “Plymouth Company” is found on pp. 5-13. 3 Efforts to determine the meaning of this reference have been unsuccessful. 4 In the margin opposite this passage in the MS, Dickinson wrote “nor Bond with the People.” 6 “Tenuem sine viribus umbram” (a powerless and insubstantial shade), Virgil Aeneid 10.636; “sine mente sonum” (a mindless sound), ibid. 10.640. John Dickinson’s Draft Address to the Inhabitants of America [January 24? 1776] 1 How far We have discharged it with skill, must be determined by You, who are our Principals and Judges, to whom We esteem it our Duty as faithful Servants, to render an Account of our Conduct, our Motives, the situation of our Affairs, and the Ends We have kept and still keep in View. 2 We think it unnecessary to recapitulate all the Circumstances of the present unhappy Controversy with G B, previous to our appointment. They have been so frequently and fully [discussed?] in several Publica tions, that we shall content ourselves with recommending to your Perusal for particular Information on that subject, the Address made to You by the late Congress. In brief, the Sentence of universal Slavery has gone forth against You, declaring, “that his Majesty in Parliament hath a Right to bind You by Statutes & Laws in all Cases whatsoever.” Your Fortunes, your Liberties, your Lives—every Thing that can render You or your Posterity happy—all are the Objects of Laws: all must be enjoyed, impaired, or destroyed, as the Laws direct. From this monstrous & detestable position just [. . .] Parliament inferrs, that You are a miser able People, the lowest Class of Wretches in human shapfc, who have nothing, that of Right You can or ought to call your own. All the Bounties of Nature, all the Blessings of Providence, your Health, your Strength, the Fertility of your Country, the Commerce of your ports, the Riches of your Seas & Rivers, the Profits of your Industry, Prudence & Virtue, all these they contend, were not design’d for your own Use, but for the use of those, 3 who by some inexplicable Mistery of Politics, in opposition to all Reason, Equity & Humanity, hold an unbounded & superriding Authority over your persons and consequently over every possession You have accustomed to consider as belonging to Your persons. The
