140 January 24, 1776 Acts of Parliament for taxing You against your Consent, for shutting up the Port of Boston, indemnifying the “Murderers” of the Inhabitants of the Massachusetts Bay and [altering?] their chartered Constitution of Govern ment, for altering the Government of Quebec, thereby depriving the People of an Assembly, trials by Jury and the English Laws, and extending the Limits of that province so as to comprehend those vast Regions that lye adjoining to the northernly & westernly Boundaries of these Colonies, are all parts of the grand System of Operations lately concerted for carrying that direful Sentence into Execution with full Effect. Before We assembled in last May, and while You were waiting patiently for the Result of his Majesty’s Determinations in Parliament on the humble & dutiful Petition from the late Congress, which one of the principal Secretaries of State told our Agents, “was a decent one & had been graciously received,” the answer was unexpectedly written in Letters of Blood at Lexington and Concord by the unprovoked Murder of our brave Fellow Citizens. War having been thus wantonly and cruelly begun by our Enemies, We met together at Philadelphia. Immediately taking the State of these Colonies into our most serious Consideration, and having no other Objects in View, than their Defence and Preservation against the Force actually employed for executing the de structive System before mentioned, and the Restoration of the former Harmony with G.B., these Resolutions were formed. (Here insert the Resolutions beginning with these Words, “Resolved unanimously” inclu sively in pa. 62 to the Words “the King” in pa. 64—inclusively.) Knowing, that we represented a People who preferr’d Death to servitude, a People whose Loyalty to their Sovereign and whose Affec tion to their British Fellow subjects on the other side of the Atlantic, all the Outrages of Administration had not extinguished, We en deavoured to combine their magnanimous and generous Sentiments in our Determinations. In order to render your Resistance successful as to the objects of the war already pointed out, and also to defend You as much as possible from Suffering in the Course of it, we not only employed a large Army in the Colony of Massachusetts Bay, then actually invaded by your Enemies, and a smaller one in the Colony of New York, which we expected to be soon invaded; but have used our utmost Industry to put the Militia of all the Colonies upon the best footing, to import arms and military Stores from foreign Countries & to promote the Manu factory of those Articles on this Continent. We can with Truth, and with a Pleasure of which every worthy American may be sensible, inform You, that our Counsels have been prosecuted with such spirit & Prudence by all Ranks of People, but more especially by the several Assemblies, Conventions, Councils of Safety & Committees
