January 24, 1776 141 of Observation, whose Zeal & Wisdom merit the highest Applauses from all Lovers of their Country, that these Colonies are now put into a respectable State of Defence, which will in a short Time certainly receive great Additions by the Accomplishments of some well founded Measures, of which we have not the least Reason to doubt. These Efforts were soon attended with such Effect, that the British Army still confined within the Town of Boston & its Environs, and the Fleet sent to cooperate with it, finding the Fruits of their plundering our seacoasts too precarious and dangerous, Ships of war began to seize our vessels, carry them to Boston & take out their Cargos of provi sions. It therefore became expedient to make some Regulations to prevent their receiving such supplies, which have been effectual. The war being thus prosecuted against these Colonies by Sea as well as by Land, Several armed vessels have been fitted put by us, and many considerable Captures have been made of Transports loaded with war like Stores and Provisions for the army in Boston. Upon this same Principle of self preservation, founded on the Laws of Nature, and justified by the Laws of Nations, We approved of an Expedi tion into Canada, against the British Forces in that Province. With such a dangerous Caution did We proceed in this important Measure, that when the proposal was first made in Congress,-it was rejected: But sometime after, receiving undoubted Intelligence that Governor Carleton was by every Artifice exciting our fellow subjects in Canada & the Indians to commence Hostilities, and that Administration entertained Designs and Expectations of putting these Colonies between two Fires, and even of carrying on the War by the worst of Assassinations, even those of Women & Children, in letting loose & enflaming the Tribes of Barbari ans, with whom Mercy is a Reproach, We judged, that We should be impardonably criminal with Regard to You, who had put your Lives into our Hands, if We hesitated any longer to frustrate as much as We could the cruel Machinations of your Enemies. We knew Governor Carleton’s Forces were not great, but We also knew the Power vested in him by the late act of Parliament for changing the Government of that Province to be so exorbitant, that there was Reason to fear, that, if he was allowed time to strengthen himself in quiet, by using all the advantages his authority or art could give him, he would quickly grow formidable. Besides, We were convinc’d that if he requested Assistance from G.B. it would be sent to him early in the Spring; and that whenever he was fully prepared, the Storm would burst with its greatest Fury by the Way of the Lakes on the Colonies of New York, Connecticut & New Hampshire, and if the first of those Colonies should at the same Time be attacked from the Sea, he might make a very considerable Impression. Influenced by these Reasons, We directed the army in the Colony of New York, where its Reserve was not so immediately necessary, to march into Canada. You are now in Possession
