January 24, 1776 143 Blood by British Hands, and to bind up the wounds of this unnatural War, that We resolved once more to lay his American People in all Humility at his Majesty’s Feet, and to strive, if it were possible, to frame our address in such a manner, as might procure some Degree of Attention to our Supplications. We had been well inform’d that all the Petitions from America for several Years past, had been rejected, because they insisted on Claims said to be derogatory of the Dignity and Au thority of the British Crown & Parliament. We therefore determined to make an Attempt hitherto untried on this Continent, and thro the Representatives of so many united Colonies, to use a Language, which no single Colony had ever condescended to employ. Sincerely aiming at Peace & Reconciliation, We avoided every Expression, that might raise any Obstruction to the attainment of those desired Objects, by irritating Minds, however causelessly, which We wish’d to sooth into a Temper equally amicable with our own. Accordingly waving even the slightest mention of every Right & every Grievance, We confined ourselves to the measured, & even in the opinion of our Enemies, respectful Terms, of praying for “Relief from our Fears & Jealousies,” and “that his Majesty would be pleased to direct some Mode, by which the united applications of his faithful Colonists, in Pursuance of their Common Councils, might be improved into a happy & permanent Reconciliation.” Thus, the injured made the first Advance for promoting Peace, which perhaps might have been made more consistently with the Character of a magnanimous Nation, by the Aggressors; and in making this pro posal, tho a cruel War was then levied against Us in his Majesty’s Name, yet we carried our Reverence for the royal Character so far, that sufficiently declaring our Meaning, yet We forbore using the Word Treaty, least the Term should appear too harsh, when offered by sub jects to their sovereign. Nor could we devise a more dutiful and un exceptionable Method of conveying our ardent and loyal Wishes to his Majesty, than by relying on his “wisdom” for “the Direction of a Mode” that might improve the Requests of his American subjects into a perfect accommodation. It appeared to us too, a fortunate Circum stance, that our Petition would be delivered to his Majesty by so re spectable a Gentleman as the honorable Richard Penn Esquire late Governor of Pennsylvania, who had taken no Part in the present unhappy Dispute. Having in this Manner guarded aginst every Objection to the gracious Reception of our Petition, We flattered ourselves that it would produce the desired Effect. The Exception taken by some persons against the Reception of the former Petition, because a Congress is a Body not known to the Constitution, we considered as too frivolous to damp our Expectations. We all individually signed the Petition, “in behalf of ourselves and the Inhabitants of these Colonies,” and our President
