144 January 24, 1776 signed as a Common Member, without the Addition of his Office. So that tho We mentioned a Matter of Fact, that the Inhabitants of these Colonies had deputed us to represent them “in general Congress,” yet that Circumstance could not deprive us of the Right of petitioning, which is so solemnly recognized & established by the Bill of Rights. This Right is the same, whether the Petition be that of one or of many. The very Reason alledged in the Exception, is a Reason for receiving a Petition from a Number of his subjects, even tho they stiled their Meeting a Congress, which indeed is convertible Terms with the other: For if a Congress is a “Body not known to the Constitution,” the Re ception of a Petition from a Congress, is not an Acknowledgment express or implied, of any Powers, Authority or Priveledges as attended or annexed to such a Body: Whereas,'on the other side, if the Framers of a Petition usurp or unjustly assume the Name or Title of a Body known to the Constitution, the general Reception of their Address might involve in it in some Degree an Acknowledgment that the Powers, Authority or Priviledges attach’d by the Constitution to such a Body, were vested in the Petitioners. Let the advocates for the mis taken Dignity of the British Government point out the constitutional Principles that warranted the Assembly of the Barons at Runnamede when Magna Charta was granted, the Convention Parliament, that restored Charles the second, and the Convention of Lords & Commons that placed William on the Throne at the Revolution. When they have done this, We shall perhaps be able to apply their Principles to prove the propriety & Legality of a Congress. 4 As our Enemies well knew, that We were vested with the highest Trust & Power, which the Freemen of their united Colonies could delegate, and acted in pursuance of that Trust & Power for them, We were perswaded administration could not neglect a Petition in every Respect so unexceptionable, and containing such Grounds for an honourable and advantageous Accommodation with G.B. unless they were resolved to reduce Us to the unconditional submission heretofore dictated to Us, by the Edge of the Sword. This Conduct, as We had by the last Measure exhausted all peacable Modes of obtaining Redress, We were assured, would convince every Man of Sense upon the Conti nent, that these Colonies could only rely, in an humble Dependance on Divine Providence, upon their own virtuous & vigorous Exertions for Relief. Contrary 6 MS (PHi). In the hand of John Dickinson. 1 The committee appointed by Congress on January 24 “to prepare an address to the inhabitants of the United Colonies” consisted of Robert Alexander, John Dickinson, James Duane, William Hooper, and James Wilson, five of the most conspicuously conservative delegates in Congress. Since committees responsible for stating positions upon which Congress was to take a public stand were normally balanced to represent several points of view, the composition of this committee suggests that the majority of delegates did not expect to endorse its work. During
