January 24, 1776 145 the two weeks that had elapsed since Wilson originally introduced the motion call ing for its appointment, several developments had sharply altered the chances that its report would be received favorably. The reception accorded Common Sense, which was published only the day before Wilson first offered his motion, and the nearly simultaneous dissemination throughout the colonies of reports of Lord Dunmore’s attack on Norfolk and General Montgomery’s repulse at Quebec virtually ensured that the committee would be ignored. In any event, when the committee’s report was submitted and read on February 13, it sparked little comment and was quietly tabled. In the words of Richard Smith, it “was very long, badly written and full against Independency (Wilson percieving the Majority did not relish his Address and Doctrine never thought fit to stir it again).” Because the journals contain little information on the subject, recording nothing beyond the appointment of the committee and the submission of its report, almost everything that is known about the circumstances that led to its appointment and the delegates’ reaction to its work rests upon a few references contained in the writings of a handful of delegates, although the committee’s report, in the hand of James Wilson, is in the PCC and was published with the journals by Worthington C. Ford in 1906. See Richard Smith’s Diary, January 9, 24, and February 13; Samuel Adams to John Adams, January 15; and Thomas McKean to George Read, Janu ary 19, 1776, note 2. See also John Dickinson’s Proposed Resolutions on a Petition to the King, January 9-24? 1776, and Notes for a Speech in Congress, January 24? 1776. But the opening of the R. R. Logan Collection of Dickinson’s papers at PHi in 1969 made available two additional documents bearing upon this episode. The longer of these is a draft in Wilson’s hand of the committee’s address that is essentially the same as the document Ford printed in 1906 and was undoubtedly prepared for the perusal of other committee members. It contains suggested alterations in Dickin son’s hand and was endorsed by him: “Amendments of a Draft made in Congress by Mr. W. in order to prevent People inclining to a total separation from G.B.” Because Wilson ignored nearly all of Dickinson’s suggested deletions and incorpo rated fewer than half of his minor and chiefly verbal substitutions into the final report, the MS confirms that the committee’s report was primarily Wilson’s work. It also contains a few minor suggestions in another, unidentified hand, indicating that Wilson may have circulated it among other delegates as wpll but that they too contributed only slightly to the final product. The second document, entirely in Dickinson’s hand and printed here for the first time, is apparently a major fragment of an earlier draft prepared for the committee. Because little of it survives in the final report, however, its influence on Wilson’s work remains obscure. Nor is it apparent why or at what stage Dickinson prepared it. There is little in the text to support the conclusion that Dickinson was asked to make the committee’s first draft, and considering his eminence as a writer it seems unlikely that he would have been assigned a duty of this nature that was subsequently reassigned to another. It seems more likely that he simply committed his thoughts to paper and passed them on to Wilson to use as he pleased. Although a few pas sages (designated in the notes below) survive nearly verbatim in Wilson’s draft, these do not indicate that Dickinson’s contribution was a major one. The document contains few passages adding significantly to what we know about Dickinson’s views through other products of his pen, but it does represent a conservative’s review of the course of events of the preceding year and the steps Congress had taken to preserve American rights in the struggle with Britain. Cast in the form of a report to the delegates’ constituents who are acknowledged to be the final judges of Con gress’ conduct, it also suggests that Dickinson hoped thereby to appeal to the Ameri can people to check a congressional majority who appeared to him to be taking needless risks and courting a confrontation that might yet be avoided if officials on both sides of the Atlantic would only recognize the merits of reconciliation.
