150 January 25, 1776 (scorn of danger and fearlessness} Contempt of danger & of death may stand recorded to posterity exhibiting an Example truly worthy of imitation. Resolved that a Monument be procured from Paris or any other part of France, and erected in that Room of the State House in Philadelphia in which the Continental Congress now sit, & that it bear an Inscription sacred to the memory of Genl Richard Montgomery & best calculated to perpetuate his fame, 2 & that the Continental Treasurer be directed to advance a Sum not exceeding 300 £ Stirling to the order of (Doctor Franklin} who shall be appointed & shall undertake to see this Resolution duly executed in order to pay the expence thereof. Resolved that a funeral Oration be delivered by the Reverend Dr W Smith in honor of that deceased General & those officers and soldiers who so magnanimously fought & fell with him in maintaining the principles of American Liberty & from an heroick Love to their Country. MS (PHi). In the hand of William Hooper. 1 The committee “to consider of a proper method of paying a just tribute of gratitude to the memory of General Montgomery,” which was appointed on Janu ary 22 and reported on the 25th. See JCC, 4:78, 89-90. 2 The following inscription, in the hand of Charles Thomson, was apparently intended for the monument. “This monument is erected by the Order of Congress 25 Jany 1776 to transmit to posterity a grateful remembrance of the patriotism, conduct, enterprize, perserverance (and contempt of Danger) of Maj. Genl Richard Montgomery who after a series of successes amidst the most discouraging diffi culties fell in the Attack on Quebec. 31 Deer. 1775. Age 39 yrs.” Chamberlain Collection, MB. Silas Deane to Thomas Mumford Dear Sir Philadelphia Jany. 25th. 1776 I wrote you the 23d per Mr Wheat in answer to yours of the 10th 1 and therein dismiss’d my Opposers in Connecticut with all the Grace they merit at my hands, and shall hereafter labor to think no more of them, than of Nonentities, for while I cannot think favorably of any one, I choose to forget him intirely. Inclosed is Mr. Marshalls Acct. Ball[ance]s £24.17.10 or Sixty Six & l/3d Dollars which I paid, like true Christians they deducted their Commissions. This Morning I settled with Mr. Latimer, and send you his Acct. Ballance £127.0.9 L[awful] or Three Hundred Thirty Eight & 2/3d Dollars. The Five Barrels deducted he is confident is on board, if it prove so I promised that you would remit the Money to Mr. Marshall for him, on your receiving the Acct, from the West Indies. 2 You left with Me—10,500 Dollars out of which I pd.
