January 25, 1776 151 Mr Latimer 10.338 2/3 Mr Marshall 66 1/3 10.405 leaves in my hands Ninety five Dollars 95 10.500 The Flour will cost the Continent at least Three hundred pounds more than if it had been laid in at this City but I shewed the Accts, to Mr. Morriss who was buying large Quantities at the same place for the public who told Me he gave the same price. The reason is that at this Season, vessels can often get to Sea from there when this port is shut by the Ice. Our Fleet is still detained below by the Ice. Hinman will undoubtedly arrive in season. I had the pleasure of helping forward my Freind Arnold, before I left the Congress. He and Putnam are the only Two Officers by Land that can be charged to My influence for advanc ing, and for them I dare to be responsible. The River is excessive full of Ice and We have no Communication with any thing below this, so that I know nothing of Captn. Saltonstall since we parted. I wish in Answer to this you would send Me a breif Estimate of the Cargoes you may have shipped for Martineco and To whom Addressed. My reasons are, a thought of adventuring that Way on the public Acct., 3 and should not be willing to interfere with any other. My Complimts. to your Brother. I reed, his Letter and thank him for it but have not Time to reply by this Opportunity for though out of Congress I am still employed, & shall be for some little Time. 4 I am with respects to your Lady & Family, Dear sir, Your very Huml servt., Silas Deane RC (Robert J. Sudderth, Jr., Lookout Mountain, Tenn., 1973). 1 Mumford’s letter of January 10 is printed in NYHS Collections 23 (1890): 551-52. 2 See Deane to Thomas Mumford, January 2, 1776. 3 Silas and Barnabas Deane had recently obtained a contract with the Secret Committee to procure needed goods. See Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, January 11, 1776. 4 Three days later Deane sent another letter to Mumford explaining his plans for the immediate future. “It is Now a Week since I sat in Congress, but can tell you Thus much that the ports will certainly be opened on the 1st. of March, but the particular Regulations are not all agreed upon as yet. I shall leave this City in Ten Days on a Tour to the Southward, which will delay my return untill Spring. It is my Freind no Tour of pleasure I assure you, but of Business & that of a public and important Nature. I should hold myself highly criminal should I indulge myself in taking my pleasure abroad, when the Storm was thickening so fast over My Country, but it is certainly a point of Duty to go where I can do the greatest Service, & by that only am I directed in my present measures for I am Confident that I should be of little Significancy in a Colony which has censured Me by implication, in the Face of the whole Continent, and refused even to hear Me, in my Justification, but at the same Time my Life, & all that is dear in possession, or prospect are at the service of my Country. You will oblige Me by Continuing Your Letters though you must not expect any return suddenly. Inclose your Letters under Cover To Messrs Willing & Morris Merchts. & Members of Congress. They will know where to send them.” Deane to Thomas Mumford, January 28, 1776, Robert J. Sudderth, Jr., Collection.
