January 25, 1776 153 their March with all possible Expedition. It will be vain to send Men without Arms. But as the Come, of Trenton have informed Congress that Arms can be purchased, I have by this opportunity transmitted to them by order of Congress 4000 Dollars for the Purchase of suitable Arms, and have desired them to take Measures for supplying you with Blanketts. I hope I need not use arguments to stimulate you in this Matter. I would only observe, and have you take Notice that it is the Desire of Congress that you would send forward the first Company that can be got ready; and that it be followed by the other Companies, one at a Time, as fast as they can be provided with Necessaries without waiting till the whole are equipped. I am, &c, J H Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See JCC, 4:39-40. 2 JCC, 4:46-47. John Hancock to the Trenton Committee Gentlemen, Philada Jany 25. 1776 Your letter of the 23d being received was communicated to Congress. 1 The necessity of the service requires that Col Maxwell’s regiment should march as soon as possible. When the orders were first given for their march, enquiry was made what articles were wanting and a con siderable sum of money was lodged in the hands of Mr Lowry for that purpose. But as arms and blankets were not then mentioned, the Congress have ordered a draught in your favour for the sum of 4000 dollars in order to purchase arms, which you say may be procured for money for such as want them. 2 I would just observe that in order to supply the batallion ordered to march from Pensylvania the committee of inspection for the city and liberties of Philadelphia went round from house to house & procured blankets of the inhabitants. I trust your zeal & that of the inhabitants of your colony will not be behind your neighbours. The owners of the blankets will be allowed the value according to your estimation. I have wrote to Colonel Maxwell to stimulate him and I rely you will give him all the aid in your power. I am with Respect, Gentlemen, Your most obedt servt., John Hancock Presidt. [P.6’.] I am Directed by the Congress to Desire you will be pleas’d to give Directions for the obtaining Waggons to Transport the Baggage of the Prisoners which is at Walpack in the Jerseys to Lancaster in this province. This you will please to order effected in the most Expeditious
