154 January 25, 1776 & Cheap manner. The Money will be forwarded this day. RC (DLC). In the hand of Charles Thomson, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 1 Samuel Tucker wrote two letters on January 23 for the Trenton Committee informing Hancock of the disposition of the two prisoners, General Prescott and Captain Chase. See JCC, 4:82, 87; Hancock to the Trenton Committee, January 22, 1776, note 2; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:814—15. 'JCC, 4:89. Richard Smith’s Diary Thursday 25 Jany. [1776] The Votes of Yesterday read. 4000 Dollars ordered to be sent by the Return of Prescott’s Guard, to the Comee. of Safety of our Colony for purchasing Arms for Maxwells Men. Letters were reed, from Lancaster, Gen. Washington and others, some of them committed to a Comee. 1 A Petition was read from Matthias Aspden for Permission to loan a French Vessel with Produce, it was referred to a Comee. 2 A Comee. was elected for and reported a Conference with Gen. Prescott & Capt. Chase relative to Prescotts Cruelty to Col. Ethan Allen & others, he pleads the Commands of Carlton his Superior Officer. The same Comee. enquired of Col. Antill who charges Prescott with great Malevolence & bad Behavior to our People, the Matter is to be further sifted. 3 A Comee. was appointed for and reported a Conversation with Col. Hazen about his Parole of not serving agt. the King, this from the Circumstances of it, was thot. void and Hazen reappointed Col. & Edwd. Antill Lt. Col. of the 2d Battalion of Canadians. James Mease was chosen a Com missary to the Troops raised and to be raised in Pennsa. for the Conti nental Service. Gen. Washn. inclosed some late English Newspapers in his Letter and informs of the British Troops meeting a Storm and putting back to Milford Haven. His own Army is much in Want of Money and Powder and other Military Stores. 10,000 Dollars voted on Account, to the Troops in North Carolina. 2 or 3 Ships of War are fitting out there for our Service accordg to Report. 4 The Comee. of Safety in N Jersey are desired to forward the Captive Officers Baggage from Walpack to Lancaster. A Report from a Comee. was agreed to purport ing that Dr. Franklin shall procure from France or elsewhere a Monu ment to the Value of £300, this Cur[renc]y, for Gen. Montgomery and that Dr. Wm. Smith Provost of the College be desired to compose an Oration in Praise of the Gen. to be delivered in Presence of the Congress. MS (DLC). ’Washington’s letter to Hancock of January 14 is in PCC, item 152, 1:415-17, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 4:237—39.
