January 27, 1776 161 Richard Smith’s Diary Saturday 27 January [1776] Letters from Gen. Washington, Ld. Stirling and others, my Lord has taken a Transport at Sandy Hook and 2 more Vessels are taken by one of the Massachusetts armed Ships. On Motion of Wilson (an Indian Commissioner for the Middle Department) One of the Indian Chiefs was constituted a Colonel & is to be presented with a Gorget. The Matter of inlisting Apprentices and small Debtors was committed to McKean, Paine & myself. 1 A Petition was produced from the Debtors in Philada. Goal praying that the several Colony Assemblies may be directed to devise Methods to free all Prisoners for Debt. This Petition was not read the President thinking it coram non Judice. A Petn. was read & Committed, from Keppele & Steinmetz prayg. Recompense for a Ship & Cargo carried into Boston to the Value of £5000 & upwards. 2 Mr. Juge of Maryland permitted to export Produce from that Colony in Return for Canvass imported. Duane from a Comee. reported on the Indian Treaty at Albany & it was accepted & the Secret Comee. directed to import a large Quantity of Indian Goods for that & the other Two Departments. 3 The Indian Treaty at Pittsburg and Proceedings as returned by the Middle Commissioners were consigned to a Committee of 5. The Comee of Claims reported a Settlement of Lt. Col. Wynkoops Accounts for bringing down Prisoners from Albany, it appearing that the Officers have lived very extravagantly a resolve passed that' the Comee. at Kingston in Ulster County shall settle the Rates of maintaining the Captives there. McKean moved on Behalf of Col. Hazen that he may have the rank of first Col. in Canada otherwise he declines the Service. This was opposed and a Comee. of 2. appointed to confer with Hazen on the Subject. 4 MS (DLC). 1 See Smith’s Diary, January 26, 1776, note 2. 2 On February 2 Congress rejected Henry Keppie’s and John Steinmetz’s petition for compensation for the loss of their ship, the Charming Peggy, which had been seized by the British in August 1775 while on a voyage from Philadelphia to Lisbon. JCC, 4:108-9; and Clark, Naval Documents, 3:1103n.3. 3 This committee, which Congress appointed on November 23, 1775, drew up plans for the shipment of Indian trade goods from France to America and for con gressional regulation of trade with the Ohio Indians, copies of which were sent to New York governor William Tryon early in December by James Brattle, a British spy employed^as a valet by committee member James Duane. JCC, 3:366, 456; PRO: C.O. 5, 1107:125-26; and New York Delegates to the New York Provincial Congress, November 9, 1775, note 2. These plans, although by no means identical to the resolves which Congress adopted this day on the procurement of Indian trade goods from Europe and the regulation of trade with Indians in the northern, middle, and southern departments, are nevertheless sufficiently similar to them to
