January 30, 1776 169 which is ridicul’d by those in opposition, as entirely insufficient, after having been told by Mr Penn that the province of Pennsylvania singly, was 60,000 strong. They were call’d upon to speak out at once and declare what would be demanded, but that they did not chuse to do, until they had sounded and found how the Land laid. I have endeav oured to procure a paper for you, but being in the hands of the Printers, who do not chuse to part with them, I am disappointed & must therefore refer you to Purdies, who will have the News from his Brother Printers of this City. A Battailion of the Devonshire Militia have petitioned the King to send them over to America to thrash the Rebels. This petition was attack’d in the House of Commons by the Friends of Liberty as dangerous & highly improper; & the Minister condemn’d for suffering such an one to be presented to his Majesty: He was also accus’d of altering several parts of it himself & suiting it to his own purpose, after it had been taken out of the hands of the Petitioners. Thus have I given you all the News I can recollect, tho’ in a very imperfect manner, having never seen the Paper. I am much concerned to find Bullit & Innes neglected by the Con vention. I will consult my colleagues whether it will be proper to move for the former to have rank as a Colo. I think it would, & if they will join me it may be done. What we can do for Innes I do not know unless, provided a General be appointed, we can prevail on him to make him his Aid de Camp, a post that I think would suit him well, but there his rank would be only that of Major, whether he would like this or not I can not tell. 1 Adieu [Francis Lightfoot Lee] Reprinted from Lawrence H. Leder, ed., The Genesis of American Freedom, 1765-1795 (Waltham, Mass.: Brandeis University, 1961), p. 21. 1 On March 6, 1776, Thomas Bullit was appointed deputy adjutant general in the southern department with the rank of lieutenant colonel. James Innis became a major on August 13, 1776. JCC, 4:187, 5:649. Thomas McKean to Philip Schuyler Sir, Philadelphia January 30th 1776 A certain Duncan Campbell, Captain in the Royal Scotch Emigrants and now a Prisoner here, in a conversation yesterday with Capt. Wade of the Militia of this City, who is a relation of Sir John Johnston, so far forgot himself, as to mention to him that there were two hundred of that regiment in the neighbourhood of Sir John. These Soldiers are supposed to be the McDonalds & highlanders settled on the lands of Sir John. I am desired by the Congress to communicate this information to you, that these Soldiers and their Officers may be apprehended and detained as prisoners of war and not considered merely as Tories. 1 If they are
