170 January 30, 1776 Soldiers and can be secured, they may possibly be exchanged for the like number of our friends in Quebec. I wish you a quick restoration of your [health], and am, Sr, with the utmost regard, Your most obedient humble Servant, Thos McKean RC (NN). Burnett, Letters, 1:335—36. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 Although there is no mention of this episode in the journals, see Richard Smith’s Diary, this date. General Schuyler, acting on similar intelligence, had already led a formidable force to Johnstown, and on January 20 had forced Sir John Johnson and his tenants to surrender their arms and ammunition. Barbara Graymont, The Iroquois in the American Revolution (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1972), pp. 81—85; and Benson J. Lossing, The Life and Times of Philip Schuyler, 2 vols. (New York: Sheldon & Co., 1872-73), 2:17-21. Robert Morris to Samuel Inglis Dear sir Philada. Jany 30th. 1776 Your letters of the 31st Deer., 6 & 7th Inst, have given me infinite Concern. 1 Before the receipt of them I was prepared to hear of your suffering a Considerable loss of property by the operations at Norfolk, but still had hopes it woud not be so great as to approach any thing near that point you mention. I sincerely Sympathize with you for the miser able situation of those you are Connected with & lament that they took part with those whom it was & is disgracefull to side with. For my part I considered this Subject early & fixed on principle the part I shoud take in the unhappy Contest. I sided with this Country because their claims are founded in Justice and I wish every Friend to the American Cause may act on the same principle that every Tory wou’d consider it well before they act against it, but I doubt your Friends have only thought the Power of Great Britain insurmountable & founded their Conduct on that belief. This I believe to be the case with most of the Tories in America. I not only lament your situation but woud willingly help you out of it, therefore I beg you will keep up your Spirits & Collect your affairs into the best Posture you can. That done, inform me how you stand & tell me what can be done to serve you; every thing in my power that can be exerted in your service Consistently shall be done. I also wish you to send up soon as possible Willing] M[orris] & Cos. Virginia Account Current which remains unsettled in Our Books. I expect to suffer a good deal in Virginia, South Carolina & other places, however, if this plan does but stand its ground as I hope it will, I must be Content to suffer heavily otherwise. I am in haste, Dr Sir, Your affectionate Hble Servt., Robt Morris RC (MH).
