January 1776 179 if our enemies returned that country it might lay us under a necessity of defending an extensive frontier not only from the incursions of such of the inhabitants of Canada as chose to take up arms but against the Indians who would in such case be very much under their influence. If therefore an expediant could be fall’n upon which would at once free us from this danger & the expence of defending that province I can not help thinking that it should be readily adopted however daring it may seem for it is much too late to deliberate about the arms we shall use when the enimy are at the door. I must own that I can not help entertaining a thought which may perhaps be too visionary to realize yet I submit it to your judgment; if it should happen to coincide with your sentiments I shall be strongly confirmed in my opinion. We are told from pretty good authority that the French have lately sent 7000 men to Hispaniola. 2 This in all probability is with a view to take advantage of the troubles in America. If so, large discretionary power must be vested in their commander. I can not help thinking that an offer of the quiet possession of Canada & the solemn assurinces & plighted faith of America that we will at no time even in case of a reconciliation with G. Britain lend them our aid in any designs that they may form against the French West Indies would be an aluring bait & at the same time cost us nothing. If the commander of the French troops should be an enterprizing man he will run the risque of the attempt in the hopes of its being approved by [his?] court—or if disavowed he might be flattered with the sovereignty of the country allowing to the Canadians as much freedom as the genious of their people would make them desire in which case it would not be difficult to maintain that province against all the power of Great Britain or if our partizans were driven out of it they would greatly increase our strength. It may indeed be objected that this would not be treating the Canadians as we promised them. But it should be remembered that our promises were founded upon their accession to the union & con federacy of these colonies with which they have never yet complied & I dare say it would be infinitly more agreeable to the few real friends we have in that country to have any security [than] to be left to the uncertain contingency of our being able to defend them. These are only loose hints on which if you think them worthy of notice you will doubtless improve. Our enimies have Set us the example of calling in foreign aid. 3 1 know none that can so easily assist us as France nor any thing more inviting that we can offer than what I have proposed. Our trade indeed would be a valuable object but the offer of that excludes all hope of an accomo dation with Great Britain as it must end in their total ruin. Besides that, the offer must be precarious & founded only upon a supposition that we shall succeed—whereas here is a present good which does not depend upon particular contingencies.
