February 3, 1776 189 could be soon ended.” I wish you had been a little more particular, as I am very desirous of knowing how things go on in our Province. I am glad to hear that delegates are like to be soon sent here to relieve me; hope good hearty Sons of Liberty will be appointed. I hope the Gentn you say has the same as he had in the Militia will be taken proper notice of in the appointments. Quere—whether the office of High Sheriff of the County of Rockingham might not be agreeable to him. I have not been able to procure the draft of the ship till last night, shall send it as soon as possible and shall enclose in this letter some directions about building. I enquired of the Committee concerning the bigness of the masts; they say they know of no stated rule so it must be left to your and the carpenter’s discretion. I sent you a contract with the Secret Committee for ten thousand dollars for importing sail cloth, blankets &c which I hope you have rec’d. I have the pleasure to inform you that Mifflin’s brig arrived in this river yesterday with sixty tons of salt petre and seven tons and a half of powder on account of the contract and five tons and a half of powder and 1297 complete stands of arms as a private adventure; and this day the Secret Committee have sent down to Reedy Island to land the cargo and bring it up by land as the ice hinders her getting up any further. While I tarry here I shall expect to hear from you every week and hope you will if you have time be a little more particular, and if it should be in my power to serve you, I shall do it with great pleasure. Capt Hazzen of Canada who came here with the news of the fate of poor Montgomery is appointed Col of a regiment of Canadians and is returned to raise them. 1 Col Bull’s regt, are gone off for Canada; the first company has I hope got to Albany by this time. I hope our Colony will use their utmost to raise and send forward the regt for Canada that Quebec may be taken before the enemy arrives in the Spring. General Prescot for his conduct with regard to Col Allen is by order of Congress confined in close gaol in this city. Our men of war fell down the river the fore part of last month but stopping about 30 miles down to take in supplies were stopped by the ice and have not yet sailed. Col Gadsen is returned home. The draft is so big, I cannot send it by the post. Mr. Hancock will send it with those for their Province in a few days. 2 The dimensions for the Pallas frigate is sent by Govr Hopkins desire; he says it may be of some advantage. I am your Sincere friend, Josiah Bartlett Tr (DLC). 1 Moses Hazen was appointed a colonel on January 22. JCC, 4:78. 2 When Langdon had not received the plans by the end of February, he informed Bartlett that “we are going on with one of our own Drawing.” Langdon to Bartlett, February 26, 1776, quoted in Lawrence S. Mayo, John Langdon of New Hampshire (Concord: Rumford Press, 1937), p. 118.
