February 3, 1776 191 since I left Home. 1 And as I write to you from this Place I believe you will expect I shall tell you much more News than I am furnished with— and if I should do so it would be nothing uncommon in a Story teller but the News of this day and which may be believed, is, that a Capt. Mason of this City a private adventurer, has brot into this River (Delaware) sixty Tons of Salt Petre, Twenty Tons of Gunpowder and Two Thousand Stands of Arms. This together with the sixty Tons of Petre before reed will be a small but needfull Supply. The Mills are constantly at Work—and I wish to hear they may be soon so in Con necticut. The Congress have Resolved that after the first of next March they will carry on Trade with every Nation and People, except England, Ireland, the British West India, &c under the Reg[ul]ation of the associa tion—and Subject to Such Other Regulations as Congress shall Ordain who probably will not alter the Association but in some Very few particulars. 2 The Ladys I hope will still make themselves contented to live without Tea for the good of their Country. The News you have in the publick Prints. It seems the Ministry intend to offer special Pardons upon the Points of Bayonets, but I think We are not well disposed to receive their Graces in that Manner. The old Trick of endeavouring to divide will be probably still practisced but I believe without Effect. I think the Word Rebel is not made quite so free a use of by their High Mightinesses of late—but I more fear their Temporary Moderation than their Arms. Common Sense Operates pritty well, but all Men have not common Sense. We hear nothing in special from the westward. Our fleet are still froze in the River. The Armament lately gone from Boston, I Suspect go West of Us. New York is perhaps too favorite a Colony to be hurt— they have had Address enough to prevent General Lee’s going forward as I understand. A Committee of Congress have gone to New York. Col Harrison, Mr. Lynch and Mr. Allyn. What Advantages will accrue from it, I am yet to learn. The People of New York say the Men of War behave Very politely, and if much stirr should be made in Town they will certainly fire upon it. Upon which Acco. it will be Very dangerous to erect any defensive Works there. The Repu[l]se at Quebec I Suspect was pritty necessary for our good, tho I most sincerely regret the Loss of our brave officers and men. The Exertions of the New England People would do them great Honour if it had not become so habitual as to render it less Noticed—but I hope they will persevere; that People under God are most to be relied on. Two Battalions are ordered from this Colony for Canada and one from the Jersys, and are going forward, but I wish the New England People might get Quebec before they get there. Young Mr Burr is amongst the News Paper Heros. He behaved Very bravely and I hope will not get killed—he has an Appointment in the Army. You See I write just as Matters come into my Mind—but
