192 February 3, 1776 you will think I have Many Things to attend to. If you should ask me how I like attending Congress, I must tell you I cannot answer that Question yet. I hope I shall do my Duty and have Satisfaction in doing it. I believe there will be no Recess of Congress till Spring, and then it will depend on Circumstances. I should be glad to hear from you and my other Freinds to whom you will please to present my Compliments. Letters put into the Post Office and directed to Me as Member of Congress will come safe. The Union of the Colonies I trust may be relied upon—but the Establishment of these Colonies in Peace and Security will require great Deliberation—but I know of No Time which can be more Necessary and seasonable than the present, to conclude this mighty Affair. To give up any of our Rights will never I hope be done and I imagine Great Britain will never settle with us upon the Terms of Enjoying them, what Consequences these contrarient and fixed Claims must produce will be easily conceived. But I run such a length, that I shall tire you (for I know not what) with my scribble. That America may be happy is my Ardent Wish—and also that you in particular may share in the Blessings of the Almighty. I am Sir, your most humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott RC (PHi). 1 Samuel Lyman (1749-1802), Litchfield, Conn., lawyer and Wolcott’s kinsman, served on the Connecticut Committee of the Pay-Table, 1779—84, and was later elected to the Massachusetts legislature. Franklin B. Dexter, Biographical Sketches of the Graduates of Tale College, 6 vols. (New York: Henry Holt and Co., 1885-1919), 3:338. 2 Wolcott is apparently referring to a decision reached in the committee of the whole on January 17 to open American ports after March 1 under specific restric tions to be recommended by a committee appointed that day. Otherwise his asser tion—that “the Congress have resolved”—is in error, for the subject of opening American ports remained under discussion for another two months, and Congress did not formally resolve to open American trade to nations not under British sover eignty until April 6. On the other hand, it is clear from the comments of other delegates that Wolcott’s assumption was widely shared, that they had agreed in principle to open the ports on March 1, and that only the specific restrictions under which American trade would operate had yet to be worked out. Hopes that an agreement on those regulations could be reached before March 1 were soon frus trated by the intrusion of the questions of American independence and foreign commercial agreements. As the delegates came to perceive that the opening of American trade would inevitably require commitments on such difficult allied issues, they balked at making an official declaration of policy. Not until the need for imports became even more pressing and the delegates evinced greater concern over preparing the colonies against a major armed attack in 1776, was Congress finally able in April to agree to a decision which in February it was widely assumed would be made before the end of the month. See Richard Smith’s Diary, January 17, February 16, 26, and 29; Silas Deane to Thomas Mumford, January 25, 1776, note 3; and fCC, 4:62, 257-58. For other references to this issue, see also Richard Smith’s Diary, January 12, 1776, note 1.
