February 5, 1776 199 the purposes themselves had now in View, it woud be necessary there shoud be a neutral Ground of at least a Days March or 25 Miles. That as Genl. Howes Situation did not admit of his moving further to the Eastward, it woud be necessary for Genl. Washington to withdraw the whole Distance. The above Conditions are acknowledged by these Gentlemen to be consistent with Reason and to be necessary from Genl. Howe in his present Situation and as such shall accompany any Propositions that shall be made to Genl. Howe on this Subject, and which they suggested shoud be by means of a Deputation from the Congress over Land on the first appearance of a Negotiation taking place. 2 MS (Scottish Record Office: Drummond Castle Papers). 1 That is, Andrew Allen and Thomas Lynch. For their presence in New York at this time, see Drummond’s Notes, January 3—9? 1776. See also Thomas Lynch to Washington, this date. 2 The diary of William Smith, a member of the New York Council who was acquainted with Drummond, contains a lengthy account of a discussion Smith had with Lynch on February 4 on the subject of Drummond’s mission. “I had a Visit this Morning from Mr. Lynch the S Carolina Delegate. . . . He asked me whether I had seen Lord Drummond & what his Character was? I told him I had often & that he was esteemed among us as a Man of Faith and Honor and that he had conducted himself with more Prudence than common to People of his Years. What do you think says he of his Accounts concerning the Intentions of the Ministry? I said that I believed what he reported for it is very natural to suppose Administration alarmed at the Consequences of the present Quarrel. He desired to know what he thought of the Congress to which I answered that it gave me a great Deal of Pleasure to hear that Nothing dropp’d by them had abated his Prospects of a happy Reconciliation and after causing me to relate what Drummond said of the Ministers Designs he told me this was what he had communicated at Philadelphia & more. . . . “The New Matter of Information I now got from Mr. Lynch was this. “That they did not dislike the Proposal of a Duty to raise a Revenue for the common Defence. If we seperate says he from England we shall be obliged to set up a Republic & that is a form of Government some People are fond of which I think reads better than it works. It is best in Idea, bad in Experiment. “He affected says Lynch to deny that he had any Credentials, but being pushed upon the Points we think essential & the Importance of knowing the Ministers Sentiments respecting them he pulled out a Paper which under great Caution he read & laid on the Table as what he had from Lord North. He would not suffer us to copy it but consented to our abstracting the substance in our own words till we were satisfied of its meaning. “The Point of Revenue settled the other Duties in regulating Commerce were to belong to the Colonies. “Further Aids pro re nata to be expected by way of Requisition as formerly to the Assemblies singulatim. “The Minister did not doubt that the offensive Acts would be repealed. “Great Britain would for the Revenue renounce the Claim of Taxation. “Parliament might be prevailed upon if the People of Massachusetts so chose to restore the Governmt. established by the Charter of King William or the Altering Act might be amended. “The greatest Difficulty apprehended respected the Quartering & March of Troops. The Prerogative of the Crown was concerned here & made it a Matter of
