200 February 5, 1776 extreme Delicacy. “To this last Mr. Lynch said Matters might be made easy. Drummond said at first the Colonies must give it up. We said British Troops here were as odious as foreign Troops in Great Britain but we can come to a compromise if they will stint them to a reasonable Number & then divide them among the Provinces. Drummond thought this would go down & the Delegates said that in that Case all Objections would be removed for they should consider them as so many Hostages for the good Behavior of the Mother Country. “What think you says he of what he much urged our dispatching Commissioners to declare our Minds to the Minister as they have done to us. I suddenly approved the Measure. We says he have Difficulties. We can trust no Body not of the Congress. It is too much to trust even them. Perhaps their Overtures are a Snare. They may hang our Comrs. We must send our best Hands. They are not to be spared. How can we perswade any Man to such a Risk. I wish you would think of this says he and let me know the Result. “If we don’t send soon says he Drummond thinks they will arm at all Points for War. He says Comrs. will come to us, & if our’s pass their’s it may prevent another Campaigne. “Upon the whole I found that Congress gave confidence to Lord Drummond and Mr. Elliot and that Mr. Lynch at this Day has no Idea of pushing for the Inde pendency of the Colonies.” William Smith, Historical Memoirs from 16 March 1763 to 9 July 1776 of William Smith . . ., ed. William H. W. Sabine (New York: Colburn & Tegg, 1956), pp. 261-63. Smith made a copy of this entry in September 1778 for Drummond’s use, which is in the Drummond Castle Papers, Scottish Record Office. William Floyd to the New York Committee of . Safety Sr Philadelphia February 5, 1776 I forwarded by Mr Lynch & Mr Allen, a Sum of money to the honourable Committee of Safety with a few lines Advising what that money was Intended for, 1 And by your Letter to us wherein you mention you would forward it to General Schuyler, 2 and the Small Sum to the marine Committee, I fear our Letter must have been Misunderstood. Therefore I trouble you with this. The forty thousand Dollars was for Mr Lewis, from the Marine Committee; the twelve thousand five hundred Dollars, for the Raising the Battalion for Canada; and the Small Sum of one hundred and Some odd Dollars were Sent to Mr Lewis to pay off Some accounts Charged against the Riffle Companies in passing through our province. I hope it is not yet otherways Disposed of, if it is it may Impeed Mr Lewis’s proceding agreeable to his Directions. I am with the Greatest Respect Sr. your most obedt. humble Servt. Wm Floyd P.S. If it is not sent off please to Deliver it to Mr Lewis’s Son. RC (N). Addressed: “To the Honble Congress or Committee of Safety in New York.” 1 See New York Delegates to the New York Committee of Safety, January 27, 1776.
