206 February 6, 1776 I must Refer you to the Resolutions of Congress herewith Transmitted, and being pressd for time, cannot Add, but that I am with much Esteem, Sir, Your very huml Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 The letters were read in Congress and referred to committee on February 2, 1776. See JCC, 4:107—8; and Richard Smith’s Diary, February 2, 1776, note 1. 2 See JCC, 4:109-12. 3 See JCC, 4:73, 113-14. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston Dr Sir Philada. 6th Feb. 1776 I have but just time to enclose you a Copy of a Letter from the Committee of Safety of New York. 1 Our Accts, from the Camp are that two Regiments in a number of Transports, Men of War, Bomb Vessels &c. are sailed, Supposed for Virga, or the Carolinas, that General Clinton had sail’d with them. I hope Our province will be on their guard, and that You are in great forwardness with your third Regiment. I have not time to add more. Yours &c. J. Hewes RC (NNPM). 1 See Samuel Chase to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer, this date, note 2. Joseph Hewes to Robert Smith Dear Sir Philadelphia 6th Febry 1776 I have received your two favours of the 25 th of January from Williams burg and am a good deal out of Temper at the extraordinary conduct of the Virga. Convention, respecting our Brigg Fanny. 1 The delegates from that Province now here shewed me a Letter to them from Mr Pendleton in which he informed them of the Arival of the Fanny in York River with all circumstances attending it and that the Convention had ordered the Vessel to be returned to me and the Freight paid. This whole matter with every circumstance attending it as far as I know was mentioned to almost every Member of Congress and they all Agreed that the convention of Virga, had done right, what they will now say I know not. I had made a conditional agreement with Mr. Morris as I wrote you last Post, that agreement cannot yet be compleated, it will be sent by next Post, and I shall take care to make it as profitable as I can. 2 At all events I intend the united Colonies shall insure her against all risques whatever, in which case we may afford to let her go on very reasonable terms. You may depend on it I shall do the best I can. As to
