February 12, 1776 233 I cant give up your writing & cyphering. Dont be discouraged, try to get time to write a little every Day. There is a copper Plate Book of your Bror. Charles’s & which you can write after and possibly Nancy can teach you a little cyphering. At least by studying the Books of arithmetic & a little of her help you may learn much. The Oeconomy of a Family requires some Knowledge. I am obliged to your Cousin Celia for her Regards. I hope She has been happy at our House & will enjoy herself with You as long as her good Mamma can spare her. Tell your dear Aunt Betsy that I cannot say when She will visit Newport again, the Spring will bring on a most vigorous Campaign, it is probable that amidst the general Calamities Newport may be destroyed by one Side or the other every but thing ought to be done for its Defence that can with any Probability of Success be Attempted. None of You mention the receiving a Pamphlet entitled Common Sense nor a Poem McFingal. I hope my Letters covering them have not miscarried. I have just received Advice of the Arrival of another Vessel or two with Arms & Ammunition; as our Dangers approach, Providence kindly enables us to meet them. Below is a list of late Arrivals. Remember Me to all my dear Family & Friends. 1 Your very affece. Father Sam Ward 1 Vessel 57 Tons salt petre now manufacturing into Powder. 2nd do. 60 Tons salt petre, 15 Tons powder & 1300 Stands of Arms. 3rd do. 20 Tons Powder & 500 Stands Arms. 4th do. 30 T[on]s salt petre & 2 1/2 Tons Powder. The three last are very lately arrived. RC (RHi). 1 For two other letters Ward wrote this day to members of his family, see Ward, Correspondence (Knollenberg), pp. 189-91. John Alsop to Alexander McDougall Dr sr, Philada. 12 Feby 1776 Your favor of the 6 Instant to Mr. Jay & Self have Just reed (Mr. Jay is not yet return’d to Congress) informg of our unanimous ellection as representatives in the Assembly, and that the usual custom in such cases was to give The Sum of £50, for the use of the poor, which I readily agree to, but as I suppose My family is removed out of Town upon the present allarmg Situation of our City, I must request that you’ll please to apply to the Committee of Safety or Convention for Said Sum of Fifty pounds, and I will account to them for it in my pay as a delegate, as this must be a Distressing time to the poor. (When you receive it
