234 February 12, 1776 please directly to apply to their relief as you and Mr. Livingston may Judge proper.) I have not the least doubt but Gen Lee will endeavor [to] preserve The peace and good order of the City with the advice and in Conjunction with our Comittee of Safety, yet I shall take it kind when you pass my house that you’ll Turn an eye Towards it, for I have many Valuables in it that are not remov’d, & note the Condition its in, for I think my family have gone out of Town & Shut it up, and when you have leizure shall be glad of a line from you to know the State of our City, and if you are at liberty to give me your Sentiments, about having My effects removed from the City. As I write this in Congress whilst they are debating the fate of our City, 1 you’ll excuse its incorrectness, & have only to add that I am Dr sr, yr Very hble Servt., John Alsop P.S. Coll Dickinson of the 1st Battailion of the Associators has this moment offered to go to N York with a Detachment from the four Batts, of this City makeg one Compleat Battailion & Suppose may begin their march Tomorrow & a Batt, of the Jersey Militia or minute men, will be with you soon. RC (NHi). 1 On this point, see John Hancock’s letters of this date to John Dickinson, to Charles Lee, and to the New Jersey Provincial Convention. John Hancock to John Dickinson Sir, Philada. 12 Feby. 1776 Monday Morng. I have this moment Rec’d a Letter by Express from General Lee at New York, mentioning the Arrival of some Troops in the Harbour of N York, and Requesting an Augmentation of Troops from this Colony; these Circumstances Render it necessary that there should be a punctual Attendance of the Members of Congress, & as full as possible; I therefore trouble you with this to Request your Attendance at 10 oClock, that we may Avail ourselves of your Advice & Aid. 1 I have the honour to be, Sir, Your most hum servt. John Hancock Prest. RC (PHi). 1 When Congress this day ordered reinforcements from New Jersey and Penn sylvania to New York in response to General Lee’s letter of February 9, Dickinson volunteered to command the battalion of Philadelphia associators. Before they could march, however, Congress suspended Dickinson’s orders when no British troops landed at New York. See JCC, 4:127-28, 133, 151; and John Adams to Abigail Adams, February 13, 1776.
