February 12, 1776 235 John Hancock to Charles Lee Sir Philada. Febry. 12. 1776 Your Letter of the 9th Inst. I this morning Rec’d, and immediately laid before Congress, who without delay, paying that Attention to it, which the intelligence therein contain’d Requir’d, Dispatch’d an order to the Convention of New Jersey, and made Application to the Com mittee of Safety of Pennsylvania requesting them to Send immediately to your Assistance from each of their respective Colonies, Detachments from the Minute Men and Associators equal to a Battalion from each Colony. 1 The Battalion from New Jersey which lies contiguous will I hope be with you in two or three Days. A Ton of Powder is also order’d to be Sent forward to you with all possible Expedition. The four Battalions order’d to be rais’d in Pennsylvania are I under stand in great forwardness. The Congress have given orders to have a Return made of those enlisted. That God may Restore you to health, and Crown your Endeavours in defence of Liberty with Success, is the sincere & ardent prayer, of, Sir, your most hume Servt., J H Pt. [RS.] The Congress will Determine as soon as possible respectg. an hospital, and you shall know the result. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 'General Lee’s letter is in PCC, item 158, 1:13-16, and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:965. For Congress’ response, see JCC, 4:127-28. John Hancock to the New Jersey Provincial Convention Gentlemen, Philadelphia 12th Feby 1776 The arrival of Troops at New York, the importance of that place to the Welfare of America, & the Necessity of throwing up a Number of Works to prevent our Enemies from Landing and Taking post there, render it necessary that a Number of Troops should immediately Join General Lee. I am therefore Desir’d to apply to you, and Request you, would with all possible Expedition send Detachments of your Minute Men equal to a Battalion under proper officers, & well Arm’d & Accoutred to New York, there to be under the Command of Genl. Lee. Your approved Zeal in the Cause of your Country gives me the strongest Assurances that you will with Alacrity embrace this Oppory. of Giving Aid to your Neighbours, and that your People will chearfully
