February 13, 1776 243 Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon Dear Sir, Philadelphia Feby 13th 1776 I have rec’d your’s of the 29th ulto which is now before me and in answer would inform you that I have last week sent you all the votes of the Committee that you will want that are already passed. The draft goes this day with the money to the Camp at Cambridge. As to your being further impowered, I have took the opinion of many of the Committee separately (for there has been no meeting since I rec’d yours) and they are all of opinion that you are already authorised to build, rig, equip and fit for sea the ship to be built in our Colony and that you will do it according to your discretion, except where you have particular orders: what orders are sent to you are the same that are sent to the other builders and where any thing cannot be supplied in the Colony they will inform the Committee by a letter to the Chairman. 1 Hemp and cordage you say are high; as to that I would inform you that Mr Lewis has procured a considerable quantity: Russia hemp at 65s and this country do. from 56s to 58s per hundred York money so you will See whether it is best to buy with you or Send to New York. I expect the Committee will meet tomorrow evening; when they meet I will try to procure an order for more money to be sent you and hope to send it off this week and will enquire concerning the length of cable and weight of anchors. As for cannon I believe a Committee of Congress have contracted for them. By order of Congress a detachment of this City Associators equal to one battalion, is ordered to march to New York. Col Dickinson takes the command; Major Patton goes Major of the detachment and Mr Dean will go; so I shall be left alone at my lodgings. I expect to see Col Whipple here the latter end of this week as you say he was to set out the next week when you wrote. I expect to write to you again in a few days and am, your friend &c, Josiah Bartlett Tr (DLC). 1 Langdon’s efforts to build a frigate for the Marine Committee are discussed in Lawrence S. Mayo, John Langdon of New Hampshire (Concord: Rumford Press, 1937), pp. 115-28. John Hancock to Thomas Cushing My Dear Sir, Philadelphia, 13 Feby., 1776. Your favor of Jany. 30th I have now before me, am glad to hear the Reception you met with, and have no Doubt but you will ever Acquit your self the honest Man, and be superior to the Arts and Cunning of Designing Men. I am Oblig’d to you for the hints you give respecting
