246 February 13, 1776 England. He gave out that he was to go to the Southward but you must prepare for him, for I think he will most assuredly Stop with you, as he certainly intends to Hampton Road to wait for his Troops which are to rendeavous there. Should he land them God knows what will become of you even if you have your 9 Battalions Raised, for I understand you have not Arms for a Quarter part of them. The Congress have done every thing in their Power to procure them without Effect, and this will forever be the Case as long as we carry on this war and no War, we shall Start at Shadows till we are undone, and shall never see our error till the Shackles Gingle on our Feet and awake us out of our Fatal Lethargy. I could fill a Volume on this Subject but it will avail nothing. The sooner I conclude therefore the better. I will only add one truth more which is that I am, your affct. Servt, Benj Harrison RC (NNPM). 1 See Harrison to Robert Carter Nicholas, December 30, 1775. 2 Congress resolved on March 25 to assume the pay and expense of three addi tional Virginia battalions. JCC, 4:235. 3 Harrison was a member of the committee sent to confer with General Lee on the defense of New York City. JCC, 4:94. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston [February] the 13th. [1776] I mentioned to you some time ago that a Vessel was Arived here with near Sixty Tons of Saltpetre on board and that several quantities of powder had been brought in. A few days Since another Vessel Arived in this River and is now kept below by the Ice. She has Sixty Tons of Saltpetre, 13 Tons of powder and 1300 Muskets on board. Those Supplies appear considerable and yet we find by experience they are quite trifling when compared with our demands. Powder Mills are Scarce, the manufacturing goes on very Slow, and powder wastes exceedingly in a large Army even where little is fired away. Soldiers are careless, their Cartouch boxes get wet, and much is lost in dealing it out in small parcels. Notwithstanding all our Supplies we now find both powder & Arms greatly wanted at our Camp at Cambrige, by our Army in Canada, by the troops in New York, in this Province, Maryland and Virginia. Applications are made every day to Congress for powder and Arms. Give us powder or we perish is the language from all quarters. It is astonishing to think what pains the British Court has been at to prevent every Nation in Europe from Supplying us with these Articles. Several persons who have lately come from France, Spain, Portugal and Holland say every Port, every Town and almost every public house has Spies from England to watch the motions of the Merchants, so that scarsely any thing can be brought away even by a Circuitous Voyage
