February 13, 1776 247 but they find it out. By the ingenuity of some Dutch and French Smugglers a little is sometimes brought away. Americans ought to be more in dustrious in making those Articles at home, every family should make Salt petre, every Province have powder Mills and every body encourage the making of Arms. It is hinted in the papers that persons will be sent from England to Negotiate with the Colonies. Many people do not believe it, those who do have but little expectation from it. They are to treat under the influence of a mighty Fleet & Army. What are we to expect from the mouth of a Cannon or the point of a Bayonet. See Lord Norths Motion in the House of Commons the 20th of November, 1 what have we to expect from parliament? You desire to know when the Additional pay of the officers commenced, it was on the 4th of November last, how I neglected to mention it before I know not. The only pamphlet that has been published here for a long time I now send you, it is a Curiosity, we have not put up any to go by the Waggon, not knowing how you might relish independency. The Author is not known. Some say Doctor Franklin had a hand in it, he denies it. 2 General Lee in a Letter to Congress received yesterday says he expects a large number of British Troops will be sent to New York as early as possible. 3 He intends to Fortify the City in the best manner he can, calls for More Troops, and wishes to have a Battalion of the Philadelphia Militia that they might be instructed in Village fortification, Camp duty &c., &c. His desire was immediately made known to the City, the Colonels of the four Battalions instantly applied to Congress for the command of the detachment should one be sent, the Pennsylvania Farmer Mr. Dickinson being the eldest Colonel insisted on his right to command, & is to have it. The four Battalions were this day drawn out when it was proposed that two companies from each should turn out for that service so as to make a compleat battalion from the whole, they did it with great chearfullness. It was diverting enough to see both officers and men Soliciting to be employed in the Service. Some of the Companies will march to morrow, to day I might have said for the watchmen are this moment crying past one OClock, the express calls on me at eight. Hooper being gone, and Penn not very well, I am obliged to write all, I intended to have wrote to Mr Iredell & Mr Jones, am much fatigued and cannot do it, excuse me to them, they have my best wishes. May the grand dispencer of all good give health and happiness to you and all your dearest connections and protect you and them from all calamity is the Ardent wish of, Dear Sir, your mo Obedt. hum Serv, Joseph Hewes RC (OCIWHi). A continuation of Hewes to Johnston, February 11, 1776. 1 See John Hancock to Thomas Cushing, this date, note 3.
