February 14, 1776 257 at this Place in the Continental service praying Interposition of Con gress to stop their Servants and Apprentices whom they cannot hinder from going on the Expedition tomorrow to N York; accordingly a Recommendation took place to that Purpose. A Proposition was men tioned for sending Two of our Body to Canada with Charles Carrol Esqr. and John Carol a popish Priest both of Maryland with a View of confirming the Friendship and to induce a Coincidence with our Measures. 1 Most of the Day passed in Grand Comee. on Trade. MS (DLC). 1 On February 15 Congress appointed Samuel Chase, Benjamin Franklin, and Charles Carroll of Carrollton a committee “to proceed to Canada, there to pursue such instructions as shall be given them by Congress,” and authorized them to persuade John Carroll to join them in this mission. Neither Charles Carroll, a prominent Catholic layman from Maryland, nor John Carroll, a Jesuit priest who later became the first Catholic bishop in the United States, was a member of Con gress, but nonetheless they were asked to undertake this mission in order to enhance the committee’s influence among their coreligionists in Canada. Congress finally approved the main instructions for this committee on March 20 and some supple mentary ones on March 23. JCC, 4:151—52, 192—93, 197, 213, 215—19, 233. For the work of this committee, see, in addition to the correspondence of the committee members published in this series, Charles Carroll, Journal oj Charles Carroll of Carrollton, during His Visit to Canada in 1776, as One of the Commissioners from Congress, ed. Brantz Mayer (Baltimore: Maryland Historical Society, 1876); and Francis F. Beirne, “Mission to Canada, 1776,” Maryland Historical Magazine 60 (December 1965): 404—20. While traveling on this mission, Charles Carroll also wrote a large number of letters to his father which fall outside the scope of this edition of delegate letters and therefore have not been printed below, but which may be consulted in the Carroll Papers, Mdhi. South Carolina Delegates to the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety Gentlemen Phila. February 14. 1776 Being informed that there is Room sufficient in the Barracks of this City to accommodate a Party of Recruits which have been procured by us for South Carolina, untill the Ice will permit the sailing of the Vessell in which they are to embark, to sail, We take the Liberty to apply to you for Leave to Quarter these Recruits in those Barracks for the little Time they are to stay here. 1 Gentlemen Your most Hume Servants Tho Lynch Edward Rutledge RC (PHC). Written by Lynch and signed by Lynch and Rutledge. 1 There is no indication in the committee of safety’s proceedings for February 1776 of its response to this request for assistance. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:1570-78.
