258 February 15, 1776 Robert Morris to Robert Herries Philadelphia 15 Feby 1776 It seems almost too late in the present unhappy dispute to trouble you 1 with political Opinions, especially as the determinations in the Parliament now Sitting will probably fix the whole complexion of the War; but we can assure you thus much, If any terms of reconciliation are offer’d, that the Congress ought to accept, they will be embraced. None but terms fit for Freemen will be thought admissable either by the Congress, Committees or People at large, and should Great Britain prefer the destructive War She has plunged herself & this Country into; for the sake of the Shaddow when She promis’d the Substance, to the idea of doing justice to her Colonial Subjects, we really dread the Consequences to both Countries. In the event She will most undoubtedly lose this Territory, And probably fall a prey hereafter to Some of her powerful Neighbours & Rivals. America has long been charged by her Enemys in England with aiming at Independency. The charge was unjust, but we now plainly see, that the burning of Towns, seizing our Ships, with numerous acts of wanton barbarity & Cruelty perpetrated by the British Forces has prepared Men’s minds for an Independency, that were shock’d at the idea a few weeks ago. This you may depend on, and should this Campaign open with furious Acts of Parliament, you may bid adieu to the American Colonies. They will then assuredly declare for Independency, and if they once make such pretensions they have no doubt of being able to support them, even without the assistance of Foreigners; but it can hardly be imagined that the Court of France will refuse assistance & protection to the Trade of America if a pre emption of that Trade is offer’d as a consideration. Surely the People of England are infatuated, that they permit such Arbitrary & Tyranical Measures to be pursued by their Rulers as must in their consequences destroy their immediate Interests, and in the end ruin the Nation. For our part we do most sincerely pray that such terms of reconciliation may be held out as can be accepted on this side. We are happy to know there is a disposition to receive such, and we believe this to be the only line that can possibly save the two Countries from the most ruinous Consequences. We have formerly told you early in this dispute that the People of America would sacrifice their Trade & Abandon their Towns sooner than submitt to arbitrary Taxation. Events have proved our opinions to be well founded, and they will persist to the last. They are not dis may’d at the news of 26,000 Men being voted for this Service, but are preparing a warm reception for them. We have made such preparations for the preservation of this City, that we sire pretty confident that neither your Fleet nor Army can ever
