February 15, 1776 259 get before it; however if this & every other City & Town on the Coast of America was destroy’d it would do more injury to Great Britain than America, and would totally put submission, reconciliation, terms & treaties out of the question. In short nothing can save or serve the true Interest of Great Britain but holding out just & equitable Terms before it is too late. We have often repeated to you that let public matters take what course they might, we should preserve inviolate our private Connec tion, faith & friendship with you and Others, this we hope has been fully manifested to all our friends. We persevere in the same disposition & ever shall so, hoping however to meet with the like attachment & at tention from those we so much esteem. Under this persuasion we cannot help mentioning to you in confidence, that we have been much solicited by Gentlemen of Virginia & Maryland to form a Contract for supplying the Farmers General of France with Tobacco; this we have hitherto declined on the supposition & in hopes of reconciliation soon taking place, but as this now seems almost but too doubtfull, and as such a Contract will sooner or later be made, we give you this early hint, that you may think of it, and improve it into such advantages as you can contrive for yourselves. Hitherto we have taken no steps, neither will we whilst there is a hope of that reconciliation we so ardently wish for, but when that is cutt off, we will make immediate application either to contract or to act as Factors, and if we referr them to you for our Characters we flatter Ourselves it will not be to our disadvantage. Tr (MiU-C). Enclosed in Robert Herries to Lord George Germain, June 27, 1776. Endorsed: “Extract of a Letter from Philadelphia dated 15 Feby 1776.” Author identified by Jacob Price, France and the Chesapeake: A History of the French Tobacco Monopoly, 1674-1791, and of Its Relationship to the British and American Tobacco Trades, 2 vols. (Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press, 1973), 2:684. The letter was undoubtedly written in behalf of the firm Willing, Morris & Co. 1 Sir Robert Herries (1730-1815), a holder of the French tobacco purchasing agency for the farmers-general, 1771—79, and a member of Parliament, 1780—84, tried repeatedly during the early stages of the war with America to obtain “passes” from the British government to permit trade in Chesapeake tobacco for reexport to France. Thus he supplied this letter from Philadelphia in support of his scheme to convince the ministry that otherwise the lucrative trade would go by default to France. Although the warning seems unnecessary, one should note that Price, in a concluding note, conjectured: “It is possible that the letter was a ‘plant,’ written with the deliberate intention of being shown to those in authority to persuade them to give Herries his passes.” Ibid., 2:1065n.l7. In any event, such pleas failed to move the government to grant concessions, and Herries himself remained a “strong supporter of Britain’s ‘iron fist’ ” in America and ignored Morris’ suggestion that he endorse Willing, Morris & Co. as his designated successor. For further informa tion on the ramifications of the Chesapeake tobacco trade and the impact of the war on Britain’s reexport trade to France, see ibid., 2:681-727.
