February 16, 1776 261 their Tryumphs last War? The United Provinces their War vs. Spain. If We determine that our Ports shall not be opened, our Vessells abroad will not return. Our Seamen are all abroad—will not return, unless We open our Trade. I am afraid it will be necessary to invite Foreigners to trade with Us, altho We loose a great Advantage, that of trading in our own Bottoms. Sherman. I fear We shall maintain the Armies of our Enemies at our own Expence with Provisions. We cant carry on a beneficial Trade, as our Enemies will take our Ships. A Treaty with a foreign Power is necessary, before We open our Trade, to protect it. Rutledge. 4 Harrison. We have hobbled on, under a fatal Attachment to G.B. I felt it as much as any Man but I feel a stronger to my Country. Wythe. The Ports will be open the 1st. March. The Q,. is whether We shall shutt em up. Faece Romuli non Republica Platonis. Ameri cans will hardly live without Trade. It is said our Trade will be of no Advantage to Us, because our Vessells will be taken, our Enemies will be supplied, the W.I. will be supplied at our Expense. This is too true, unless We can provide a Remedy. Our Virginia Convention have re solved, that our Ports be opened to all Nations that will trade with us, except G.B., I. and W.I. 6 If the Inclination of the People, should be come universal to trade, We must open our Ports. Merchants will not export our Produce, unless they get a Profit. We might get some of our Produce to Markett, by authorizing Ad venturers to Arm themselves, and giving Letters of Mark—make Re prisals. 2d. by inviting foreign Powers to make Treaties of Commerce with us. But other Things are to be considered, before such a Measure is adopted. In what Character shall We treat, as subjects of G.B.—as Rebells? Why should We be so fond of calling ourselves dutifull Sub jects. If We should offer our Trade to the Court of France, would they take Notice of it, any more than if Bristol or Liverpool should offer theirs, while We profess to be Subjects. No. We must declare ourselves a free People. If We were to tell them, that after a Season, We would return to our Subjection to G.B., would not a foreign Court wish to have Something permanent. We should encourage our Fleet. I am convinced that our Fleet may become as formidable as We wish to make it. Moves a Resolution. 6 MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:229-30. 1 Congress met on February 16 in a committee of the whole to “take into con sideration the propriety of opening the ports, and the restrictions and regulations
