262 February 16, 1776 of the trade of the colonies.” JCC, 4:154. Adams’ notes can be dated by a comparison with Richard Smith’s diary which also records the speeches and resolutions of Harrison and Wythe. Richard Smith’s Diary, February 16, 1776. 2 Adams did not identify this speaker. 3 Probably either Paine or Hancock. In his retrospective view of debates on foreign alliances, the opening of American ports, and independence during the fall and winter of 1775-76, Adams noted that he was a staunch advocate of strong measures. “I received little Assistance from my Colleagues in all these Contests: three of them [Cushing, Paine and Hancock], were either inclined to lean towards Mr. Dickinsons System, or at least chose to be silent, and the fourth [Samuel Adams] spoke but rarely in Congress, and never entered into any extensive Arguments, though when he did speak, his Sentiments were clear and pertinent, and neatly expressed.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:327—30. Elbridge Gerry, who had replaced Cushing, favored opening American ports. See Gerry to James Warren, March 26, 1776. 4 Adams left a blank space of more than half a page, but failed to record Rutledge’s comments. 6 The Virginia Convention had resolved on January 20 to instruct the Virginia delegates to secure the adoption of measures for “opening our Ports to all persons willing to trade with us, Great Britain, Ireland, and the British West Indies excepted; . . . so soon as it shall be deemed proper by the said General Congress to permit ex portation from North-America." Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:130-31. 3 For Wythe’s resolutions, see Richard Smith’s Diary, this date. Robert Alexander to the Maryland Council of Safety Gent. Phila 16 Feby 1776 I send you inclosed Copies of the Instructions & private Signals of the several Men of Warr & Transports on the American Station. As these may be of essential Service to the different armed Vessels now fitting out in America, Copies by order of Congress have been trans mitted to the different Colonies, 1 and I am ordered by Congress to acquaint you, that as they have bound themselves to Secrecy, so it is expected that you will consider yourselves under the like Tie, and the Copy you deliver to the Capt. of your armed Vessel, be under Seal inclosed, to be opened after his sailing. The publick Papers will communicate all the Intelligence We have, except the Arrival of 20 Tons of Powder and 3000 Stand of small Arms in Connecticut. We shall send forward some Powder & Arms to your Province, but I am sorry to say if We rely on foreign Arms & they are not better than the sample We have, our dependance will be like a broken Reed, as I think if used, they will kill more of our Troops than the Enemy. What those imported for our Province cost I know not; a parcel imported here on a private Adventure, have been purchased by Congress at £3.25. Every thing of this kind is exceeding high, Powder £17.10 Per C[wt]. Much of this Business passes through a Committee of which I am a Member, Patriotism sinks before private Interest and
