264 February 16, 1776 you, as to Send the Money down, & whatever orders are Drawn pre vious to Sending the Remainder of the Money, shall be most punctually paid, the Mode in this Case I Refer to you. If there be any thing in the way of these Ships that would be Service able & Agreeable to my Brother, 1 & he as Capable for it as any other, & he unemploy’d, I shall be glad you will give him the preference; in this, or in any other thing from the Council or House that you could Serve my Brother in, I shall Take it as a very particular favour if you would promote him, & with this I beg to Impress your mind, & pray use your Influence to have him Notic’d. I think I have suffer’d enough in the common Cause to be entitled to some Notice in this Respect & beg you will improve the hint, & let me hear from you on the Subject, and pray Encourage his promotion. Upon the whole Subject of the Ships in every particular, the wants &c I beg to hear from you by the first opportunity, and as soon as I can have from You the general & full State, I will afford every possible Supply, & hope you will not meet with a Delay for want of any Supplies; I will do my best, & shall at least be on a footing with others of the Committee. I wish you would give my Brother a hint of what I have wrote Re- spectg. him, & do Aid him if possible. Pray Employ as many hands in every Department as may be usefull in Expediting the Completion of the Ship; and be particularly Cautious &c I beg to hear from you by the first opportunity, and as soon as I can the Publick. I hope soon to hear that things are in forwardness. You shall have every aid from me. My best Respects to Mrs. Cushing, and I am very truly, Dear Sir, Your Real Friend, & very hum servt. John Hancock [RS.] Do let me hear what passes with you; what in the Camp, as sembly &c. RC (MHi). 1 Ebenezer Hancock (1741-1819), Boston hardware merchant, who was appointed deputy paymaster general for the Eastern District in June 1776, a post he held for three years. See JCC, 5:432; and Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 14:619-23. Benjamin Harrison to the New York Committee of Safety Sir, 1 Philada Feby. 16th. 1776 Inclosed you have an order of the Congress for the Two Brass Field pieces made in your City, 2 I have great Reason to suppose they will
