February 16, 1776 265 soon be wanted in Virginia and must therefore beg the Favor of you to send them to this Place immediately, the urgency of the Case will I hope plead my Excuse for giving you this Trouble. I am, your most Obedt Servt, Benja. Harrison RC (NHi). 1 Although this letter is located in the papers of Alexander McDougall, it seems likely that it was directed to the chairman of the New York Committee of Safety, who passed it on to McDougall for action. 2 A copy of the resolution of February 14, signed by Charles Thomson and certi fied by John Hancock. See JCC, 4:147. Robert R. Livingston to James Duane [C/ertnonZ?] February 16th 1776. Expresses thanks “for your kind con dolence on the losses I have sustained” and discusses possible develop ments in Anglo-American relations. “I can not help thinking from the late advices from England on the increase of our Friends there that we shall before long be enabled to carry our great points and that they are already prepared to give up the right of taxation and I can hardly think that they will deem our external government of sufficient consequence to make it the subject of a war. Upon what ground we stand I have been too long absent from Congress to say, or how far our views may be enlarged. This I know that another year of war and devastation will confirm me a republican though at present I wish to join hand with a nation which I have been accustomed to respect, yet I am persuaded that the continuance of the war will break my shackles and I shall learn to despise the pusillanimity of our British friends and abhor the cruelty of our foes. But perhaps I feel too much to judge impartially.” Discusses the treachery of Duane’s servant James Brattle and New York governor William Tryon, 1 and concludes: “And indeed the sudden deaths of three parents and Montgomery have made my attention to the affairs of the family so necessary that I know not how to quit them for any long time—and yet I am ashamed to be useless to the public. It is the opinion of Schuyler and must be of every man who is any way acquainted with the state of our northern army that a committee should be at Albany. He has wrote to the Congress on the Subject. 2 If such a matter should take place I should wish to be one as I can then divide my atten tion a little between my private and public concerns.” Tr (NN). 1 See James Duane to Mary Duane, February 22, 1776, note. In a letter written to John Jay from Clermont on February 15, Livingston dealt with “a story” in volving “a suspicion of my having betrayed the secrets of congress to Mr. Tryon.” “The report itself gave me no pain,” he observed, “because whatever my own character may be the little contemptible resentment which Mr. Tryon discovered
