February 20, 1776 287 under Some regulations. The Subject of no undecided matter may be communicated. I mean a Subject of discussion. Our difference with Great Britain has become very great & I imagine but little prospect of a speedy accomodation. The people of the colonies will give up no ma terial point, and a foolish, wicked, court are (I believe) inflexibly de termined to support (if possible) an unrighteous authority. What matters will issue in, I cannot Say, but perhaps in a total disseverance from Great Britain. This, I perceive, has got to be a good deal of a popu lar expectation. I do not perceive but little intimidation, and our union I hope is firm. Since I began my letter, I hear our fleet has not Sailed— what occasions the delay, have not heard. We have no news, but what is in the publick prints. In haste Sir, Your most humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott Tr (CtHi). 1 See Wolcott to Samuel Lyman, February 3, 1776, note 2. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott Philadelphia. 19 Febry 1776. Urges his wife not to be concerned about his well-being and cautions about succumbing to anxieties and family cares. As his return is “Very uncertain,” he advises her to proceed •with several domestic matters as she sees fit. Continues: “There is news that Commissioners are appointed by the British Court to Treat with America and that the port Bill, Fish Bill and Restraining Act are re pealed, but the whole I consider as an insidious Manoeuvre, and no advantage will be derived from it. Orders are given to Seize all our Shipping. Clinton has left N. York. Genl Lee probably prevented his Landing. This Force may have gone to Virginia. Every Thing is ripen ing to produce a most important Crisis, and I hope Wisdom will be given to those to whom the publick Councells are Committed. An Ac commodation with Great Britain I think becomes less and less prob able. Wisdom and Firmness are necessary and I hope they will Mark the Lmes of publick Conduct.” RC (CtHi). John Hancock to the New York Provincial Convention Gentlemen Philadelphia, 20th Februy. 1776 I have the honour to enclose you sundry Resolutions of Congress, by which you will perceive their determination as to the Works on
