288 February 20, 1776 Martler’s Rock, that no Additions be made, but that those already Effected there be supported and garrisoned. You will please to order the Execution of the Works Recommended by Congress in the Inclos’d Resolves, to which beg leave to Refer you. 1 The Congress have Directed General Lee to Repair to Canada to conduct the Military Operations in that Quarter; and as battering cannon are much wanted there, they have order’d him to request you to supply him with some suitable pieces, & Mortars if possible, with Shells, Balls &c. I make no doubt but your Zeal will readily lead you to afford the General your Aid in these instances, & also in assisting to forward every Necessary with all Dispatch. 2 I must Refer you to the Resolutions, & have only time to Request yr particular Attention to them. I am with Esteem, Gentn, your most Obedt. Servant. John Hancock Prest. [P.S.] Genl Schuyler is to Repair to New York & Take the Command. I shall Send the Commission by next oppor[tunit]y. RC (N). Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong. 1:317. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. ’See JCC, 4:152-53. 2 See Hancock to Charles Lee, February 19, 1776, note 1. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir Philadelphia Febry. 20th. 1776 I have the Honor of inclosing you sundry Resolutions of Congress, to which Refer you. 1 I must beg leave to inform you that the Congress hear with great Regret the precarious State of your health and the Return of your Dis order, they are fully Apprized & Sensible of your Services and Abilities, and should have been very happy to have made use of them in Canada; but knowing the importance of your Abilities, the influence and weight you have among the Indian Tribes, the Service you are capable of doing to the common Cause even in the present infirm state of your Health, and at the same time being Apprehensive should you be Sent on so fatiguing a service as that of Canada must be, especially at this incle ment Season, your Country might be Depriv’d of the Advantage of your Services which are so much wanted at this critical conjuncture, they have thought it best to Send General Lee to Canada, Reserving to you the Command of the Forces and the Conduct of Military operations in the Colony of New York. Your known Zeal and warm Attachment to the cause of Liberty assure me that you will Concert with Genl Lee the best means of Secur-
