298 February 23, 1776 Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings Com[mitte]e Ch[amber]. Feby. 23d 1776 At a Meeting Prest. Sami Ward, B. Franklin, J. Alsop, Robt. Morris, Jos. Hewes, Josa. Bartlett & Robt. Alexander. A Charter party with Blair McClenachan owner of the ship Hancock & Adams was executed. The Come, signd a letter to Mr. Schweeghauser, Also Instructon. to Capt. Sami. Smith. Orderd that Mr. R. Morris write to Mr. Jonathan Hudson, Baltimore & offer him 6s per bushell for wheat & 15s per 100 for flour on board the ship Molly, Dani. Laurence Mastr. & the Come, to pay him 14d. sterlg. per bushl. freight & 5s 6d per bbl to Cadiz, with customary additions if she goes further & to ensure the ship valued at £500 Cur[renc]y. Col. Roberdau to settle the Charter & value of the vessel he shall employ for the Continent. At a meeting of the Come. Present Sami. Ward, B. Franklin, Josa. Bartlett, Robt. Morris, Jos. Hewes, & Jo. Alsop. A permit was granted to J. & Peter Chevalier to load the Ship Union with the produce &c (sheep &c) & export the same. MS (MH). Richard Smith’s Diary Friday 23 Feb. [1776] The Votes read. Carter Braxton Esqr. from Virginia took his Seat. A Comee. of one from each Colony, Sergeant for N Jersey, was balloted for to superintend Saltpetre and Lead Matters & a Sett of Recommenda tions to all the Colonies on those Heads and to erect Powder Mills was passed, these were presented by John Adams and are ordered to be published. Ward Chairman of the Secret Comee. informed Congress that 2 of the Continental Vessels with Merchandize are taken by the British Men of War and desired to know Whether other Two shall be sent which was carried in the Affirmative after Debate. Application was made for the Discharge of 13 Servants inlisted in Capt. Harmans Compy. without Consent of their Masters, a Comee. of 3 was appointed to inquire into it. A Comee. of 5 was elected to encourage the manu facture of small Arms in all the Colonies. £600 in Gold ordered to be collected by the Treasurers for the Expences of our Ambassadors to Canada, J Adams presented a Sett of Instructions for them which were recomd. that some Matter may be added. 1 Debates about the several Powers of the Treasury Comee. and the Comee. of Claims and a Pro posal for consolidating them took Rise from Duane’s desiring Advice Whether the Public Accots. shall be settled in the Several Colonies by
