February 25, 1776 299 able Accountants employed by the Treasy. Comee. or whether the Accounts shall be sent here, the Members inclined to the latter but it was postponed. 2 The Two Stoves in our Room (the Assembly Room in the State House) were ordered by general Consent to be taken down as affecting the Health and Eyesight of the Members. Adjd. till Monday. MS (DLC). 1 See Smith’s Diary, February 14, 1776, note 1. 2 For Congress’ resolution of this issue on April 1, see JCC, 4:243-46. James Duane to Alexander McDougall Sir Philad. 25t. Feby 1776 I receivd your Favour of the 13th Instant which shoud sooner have been noticed had not other business put it out of my power. What I said to explain the motives of your Conduct was a debt of Justice; which I was bound to discharge both in my private Character as a Gentleman, and my publick one as a Delegate. To suffer the innocent to be mis represented, when we have the Power of doing him Justice, is to partake, in my Opinion, of the Guilt of the Calumniator; & to cross the first Rule of true morality, which teaches us to do to others what, under the like Circumstances, we woud wish they shoud do to us. As a Repre sentative of the Colony I was peculiarly Called upon to Justify an absent Fellow Citizen, and publick Officer, whose Reputation might have been unjustly sullied. I mention these particulars because I do not wish to claim a merit, where I have barely performed a Duty, incum bent upon every man who has the least pretension to Honour or In tegrity. You may be assurd that whenever occasion requires it, I shall make a proper Use of the materials you now furnish. I shall have no Objection, in a personal Interview, to mention the Circumstances which led both to the Reflection and Information, tho’ you may in the mean time rest assured that it proceeded from the Subject, & not From malice. The fact was true, but the Reasons which influenced you were unknown to the Speaker to whom I am perswaded you was a Stranger. 1 Mr. Jay’s absence and your Request authorized me to open the Letter directed to him of the same date. Lieut Obrian’s Evolutions were presented to Congress by Col. Morris before I had taken my Seat, which deprivd me of the opportunity of introducing the Treatise in the manner I intended. 2 Nobody seemd to be acquainted with the merit of the Author, and few, if any of us, are capable of Judging of it, was there Leisure to give it a perusal. Whether it will be reprinted at the publick expence Is not determind. Indeed Congress is so much employd in matters of immediate Necessity that there has been no time to give it Consideration.
