February 25, 1776 301 He mentions his Intentions of applying to the Committee of Albany for assistance on that Occasion: but what Progress has since been made we do not learn. The Congress have also declard their Intention of promoting Capt Henry Livingston, who came Express from General Montgomerie with the News of the Surrender of Montreal, when an Opportunity shoud offer: but nothing has yet been done in his favour. 4 A Resolution has since passed for raising four Battalions in New York for its immediate protection and Defence, of which you have receivd a Copy. It was followed by another that in the Appointment of their officers such as behavd well during the last Campaign shoud be pro vided for, a Copy of which has likewise been forwarded for your Di rection. 6 As New York was thought to be in a critical State, and no Recom mendation had appeard from our Committee of Safety, of the officers for the four Battalions, it occasioned much Surprize and uneasiness; and the Apology I was able to make—vizt—The Expectation of a meet ing of the Convention and the Utility of their Advice; which indeed depended on my own Conjecture, did not prove satisfactory. It was said that while every thing was done for New York at the publick Expence that coud be wished or asked, they neglected their own Defences &c. This produced a Resolution that an Enquiry shoud be made into your Progress with respect to those Battalions. 6 These Circumstances, if my memory has not failed, are all that have happend on This Subject, and which will suffice to convince you that there is no Obstruction in the way of your nominating the Field Officers agreeable to the recommenda tion of Congress. 7 You will doubtless see the propriety of Dispatch both on Account of your Security, and your Reputation, both of which no Man can have more sincerely at Heart than myself. Apprehensive that you might be distressed to maintain the Army now in our City Capital, from the lowness of your Finances, we thought it adviseable to obtain a warrant in your favour for 35000 Dollars which Mr Lewis receivd and will deliver you. 8 I shoud do great Injustice to Congress, if I did not assure you that they are disposed to do every thing which can be reasonably requird for your Protection. I have the Honour to be with the utmost Regard, Gent., Your most obedient & very humble Servant, Jas. Duane RC(N). 1 See the New York Provincial Congress’ two letters to the New York delegates of February 22 in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:296, 301. 2 See JCC, 4:40, 74; and the second letter of the New York Delegates to the New York Committee of Safety dated January 27, 1776. See also General Schuyler’s
