February 26, 1776 305 mitted to me, and an account of what has been Done in Consequence of such orders; as it is necessary the Congress should know as Soon as may be, the true State of all the Colonies with regard to their Supplying themselves with these necessary articles, and when our assembly meets you will please to lay these resolves before them and in the mean time Communicate them to the Council or Committe of Safety or who ever they have left to transact Business in their Recess. I am your most obedt Servant, Josiah Bartlett RC (MeHi). 1 Undoubtedly the congressional resolutions asking provincial assemblies and conventions to encourage the manufacture of saltpetre, sulphur, and gunpowder. JCC, 4:170-71. Benjamin Franklin’s Proposed Resolution A Motion [February 26? 1776] 1 Resolved, That from and after the 20th of July 1776 being one full Year after the Day appointed by a late Act of the Parliament of G. B. for restraining the Trade of the Confederate Colonies, all the Custom Houses in the said Colonies shall be shut up, and all the Officers of the same be discharged from the Execution of their several Functions, and all the Ports of the said Colonies are hereby declared to be thenceforth open [to] the Ships of every State in Europe that will admit our Com merce, and protect it, who may bring in and expose to Sale free of all Duties, their respective Produce & Manufactures, & every kind of Merchandize, excepting Teas, and the Merchandize of Great Britain, Ireland, and the British West India Islands. Resolved, That we will to the utmost of our Power, maintain and support this Freedom of Commerce for two 2 Years certain, after its Commencement, and as much longer [as] the late Acts of Parliament for restraining the Commerce and Fisheries and altering the Laws & Charters of any of the Colonies shall continue unrepealed. 3 MS (PPAmP). In the hand of Benjamin Franklin. 1 This motion—another draft of which in PCC was first submitted July 21, 1775— was probably reintroduced early in 1776 and brought to a vote at this time. See Richard Smith’s Diary, this date; Burnett, Letters, 1:364; JCC, 2:200; and forth coming volume 22 of Franklin, Papers (Willcox), under date July ? 1775. 2 Franklin first wrote “one,” which he deleted in favor of “three” before settling on “two.” 3 The following comments, also in Franklin’s hand, are found on the verso of this document. “Ready to receive Irish Woollens whenever they shall ascertain Methods of sending them free of all Imposition. “Resolve—Not to treat separately. “Resolve concerning the Power of Parliament to alter Constitutions. “Difference has been whether we shall give our Money, or have it taken from us by Force, contrary to our Rights.”
