306 February 26, 1776 Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings Feby 26th. 1776. At a meeting of the Come. Present S. Ward, J. Alsop, Josiah Bartlett, Robt. Morris & Jos. Hewes. A Charter party between the Come. & J. Brown & Co. of Philada. Merchts. was signd. Ordered that Mr. Robt. Morris ship a Cargoe of produce on board the Brigane. , Capt. Moore, for Carolina, the nett proceeds to be applied towds. the purchase of Rice, Indigo &c wch. he is orderd to ship from thence to Europe. Dr. Franklin afterwards present. An order issued to the Con- [tinenta]! Treasurers in favor of Robt. Irwin for 400 dlls on Acct, of the waggon service. At a Meeting of the Come. Present Sami Ward, B. Franklin, Josa. Bartlett, J. Alsop, Robt. Morris & Jos. Hewes. A permit was granted to Mr. Jac[ob] Winey of this city Mercht. to load the ship King of Prussia with the produce of these Cols, for the benifit &c & agreeable to the Resolves &c. MS (MH) ' Richard Smith’s Diary Monday 26 Feb. [1776] The Votes read, and a Letter from Gen Lee informg. that he will set out for Canada in a few Days, and a Letter from the Jersey Convention desiring Two more Battalions and Two Companies of Artillery may be raised there for the immediate Defence of the Province, this was re ferred to the Comee. on the Gens. Letters. 6000 Dollars advanced to Carpenter Wharton the Commissary. 22000 Dollars ordered to the Maryland Delegates to be exchanged for Gold and Silver in that Colony, £8000 being there offered on Delivery of the Paper Money. An Order passed after long Debate that all the Shipping in the United Colonies now bound to G Britain, Ireland or the British West Indies in Virtue or under Color of a former Resolve allowing Produce to be exported for importing Military Stores, shall be immedy. stopped till further Order & this resolution to be published, & the further Consideration of that Subject & whether the Custom Houses shall be shut up was re ferred to a Comee. of 5. 1 Agreed to pay a French Printers 2 Expences and to give Him 25 Half Joes to remove Himself, his Family and Types to Canada and there set up a free Press. A Bill from the Pay Master at Cambridge for 80,000 Dollars being presented for Acceptance was postponed. MS (DLC).
