308 February 27, 1776 with America to be cut off—All Captures made by British Ships of War or by the Officers of the Kings Troops in America adjudged by this Act to be lawfull Prizes and as such Courts of Admiralty to proceed in their Condemnation—all orders for the Regulation of Courts of Ad miralty in America, heretofore made by the King in Council or which may hereafter be made, are confirmed. The Boston Port Bill, the Fishery Bill, and the restraining Act are repealed by this Bill, the Colonies being in the like Circumstances & Situation. The last Clause of this more than diabolical Act enables the King to appoint Commissioners to grant Pardons & receive the Submissions of any Province, County, Town or District. I shall make no Comments on this Act, it is only a further Step in that System of Tyranny, hitherto persued by that who under the Influence of a Scotch Junto now disgraces the British Throne. What Measures Congress may persue in Consequence of this Act, I know not; with me every Idea of Reconciliation is precluded by the Conduct of G. Britain, & the only Alternitave, absolute Slavery, or Independancy. The latter I have often repudiated both in publick & private, but am now almost convinced the Measure is right & can be justified by Neces sity. 3 The Gent, who inclosed the Bill to W[illing] & M [orris] writes that 26000 Troops are to be employed in America, that a sufft. Body of Men are to defend Boston, while difft. Bodies are to attack New York, Virginia & South Carolina, that Lord Cornwallis is destined for the last Place with 5000 Men & was to sail in January. The Gent, adds the Minority gains Ground, that some of the Bedford Party had de feated Administration, that the Scotch Faction headed by Sr G. Elliot ostensibly, & by Lord Bute & Mansfield privately, directed & influenced the Councils & Measures of the Court. I make no doubt you have heard Mr Chase is ordered to Canada. He sets off in a few Days. Mr Rogers has Leave of Absence, should he leave Congress, Maryld. will be without Representation. I mention this, to show the Necessity of your requesting Messrs. Johnson & Stone to attend. I wrote Mr Tilghman, but have not any Answer; Altho’ my private Business requires my Presence in Maryland, I shall not leave this City, until a sufft number of my Brethren arrive. I am with Respect Gent, Yr very Hble Servt, R. Alexander RC (MdAA). 1 See the council’s February 24 letter to the Maryland delegates, Md. Archives, 11:179; and JCC, 4:173. 2 Robert Treat Paine’s diary entry for February 26 reads: “Drizley raw' Weather. This Evening a Ship arrived from Bristol, & brought the bill for empowering the Navy to Cruize on the Americans &c.” MHi. 3 Alexander’s admission that he could almost justify independence on the ground of necessity is particularly interesting in light of the fact that within a few months he withdrew from public affairs and eventually became an avowed loyalist. See Janet B. Johnson, Robert Alexander, Maryland Loyalist (New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1942), pp. 84-104.
