318 March 1, 1776 An express is now waiting, he is sent to So. Carolina by the delegates of that Province to inform them of this days appointments and of the Critical state of Mr. Lynch’s health who a few days ago had an appo- plectic stroke and is now in great danger. We shall send off another Waggon in a day or two with what Powder the new Waggon left, also drums & Colours for your third Regiment. I am in haste, Dr Sir, Your mo. Obedt Sevt, Joseph Hewes John Armstrong William Thompson Andrew Lewis James Moore Lord Stirling Rob. Howe Brigadier Generals N.B. The new Waggon went of[f] eight days ago. I hear it is now no further than Wilmington, that One of the best Horses cut one of his hind feet very much with his shoe and cannot proceed. I have this day sent a carefull person down to purchase another Horse and bring the lame one back if it should be found Necessary. Never was any person more unfortunate than I have been in executing your Order respecting the Waggon &c. Of this more per next oppty. J. H. RC (Nc-Ar). ‘See JCC, 4:180-81. 2 For an explanation of William Hooper’s absence from Congress at this time, see his first letter to Joseph Hewes and John Penn of February 6, 1776, note 1. 3 Not found. Richard Smith’s Diary Friday 1 March [1776] The Votes read & Letters from New Hampshire about a Dispute there on their setting up an Independent Form of Government, these were committed to 3. 1 The Report for raising 2 more Regiments & 2 Artillery Companies in N Jersey was considered & rejected. 2 Some Quaeries of Commissary Mease were referred to a Comee. of 3. 3 A Comee. of 3 was appointed to [ ]. 4 Six new Brig. Generals were chosen by Ballot viz 1 Armstrong of Pennsa., 2 Thompson of Pennsa. now at Cambridge, 3 Lewis of Virginia, 4 Moore of N Car'olina, 5 Ld. Stirling, 6 Howe of N. Carola, and their Stations assigned in the Middle and Southern Departments. Armstrong is to go to Virginia & together with Lewis, Moore & Howe to be under the Direction of Gen. Lee who was now voted to Command to the Southward. Thompson is to join
