320 March 2, 1776 2 The assumption of full powers by the revolutionary government in New Hamp shire met surprising resistance in January 1776. Opponents secured a January 27 vote in the House to direct the Committee of Safety to petition Congress, lay the plan of government before them, and “Let them Know that a Number of the Mem bers of this House Dissented to & Protested against the same; Supposing it breathed too much of the Spirit of Independence; and to know the judgement of the Congress thereon.” N.H. Provincial Papers, 8:65. The documents prepared by the Committee of Safety, dated February 10, 1776, are in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:996-97. These papers were read in Congress on March 1 and referred to a committee of George Wythe, Carter Braxton, and Benjamin Franklin. JCC, 4:179. The committee read its report on March 7, but neither the contents of the report nor any further action by Congress is recorded. JCC, 4:189. See also William Whipple to Meshech Weare, April 12, 1776. On May 10, 1776, Congress passed a resolution urging all provinces to “adopt such government as shall, in the opinion of the representatives of the people, best conduce to the happiness and safety of their constituents in particular, and America in general.” JCC, 4:342. Committee o£ Secret Correspondence Minutes of Proceedings March 2d. 1776 The Committee met, VIZ, Coll Harrison, Mr Dickenson, Mr Morris, Mr Franklin. 1 Agreed upon the Instructions to Mr Deane, & signed them. Also signed & sealed a Certificate that Mr Deane is authorized by the Com mittee, which Instrument follows in these words. 2 We the Underwritten, being the Committee of Congress for secret Correspondence, do hereby certify whom it may concern, that the Bearer Mr Silas Deane is appointed by us to go into France, there to transact such business commercial & political, as we have committed to his Care, in behalf & by Authority of the Congress of the thirteen United Colonies. In testimony whereof, we have hereunto set our hands & Seals at Philadelphia, this 2d day of March 1776. Instructions for Silas Deane, Esqr. 3 On your arrival in France you will for some little Time be engaged in the Business of providing goods for the Indian Trade. This will give good Countenance to your appearing in the Character of a Merchant, which we wish you continually to retain among the French in general, it being probable that the Court of France may not like it should be known publickly, that any Agent from the Colonies is in that Country. When you come to Paris, by delivering Doctor Franklin’s Letters to Monsr Le Roy 4 and Monsr Dubourg, 6 you will be introduced to a Set of acquaintance, all Friends to the American Cause. By conversing with them, you will have a good Opportunity of learn ing the Parisian French & you will find in Monsr Dubourgh, a Man
