324 March 2, 1776 My Colleague talks of leaving in about a fortnight; by that time I hope shall be able to forward the determination of Congress on the Petition for a Battalion. 2 If your delegates could have been furnish’d with an estimate of the Colonial expences they might have improved them to advantage; but you may be assur’d we shall do the best we can without them; but I beg the acct may be sent forward as soon as possible, or if the acct cannot be got ready let me be furnished with an estimate both of the Continental & Provincial charges. I was much surprised to find there was no instructions among the Papers given me by Capt. Long—not a word about the Purchasing the Flour which was so much talked of when I was last with the Commit tee. If anything of that sort is to be done I sho’d be glad to be advised of it as soon as possible, for no doubt the Risque increases with the ad vancement of the season. The Congress have appointed six more Briga dier Generals, four for the Southern and two for the Middle Department. Its probable General Lee will have the command of the Southern Army. I have nothing new that I can communicate; when I have you may be assured I shall be very particular, & I hope shall hear from you often. All the Delegates except from New Hampshire are furnished weekly with all the transactions of their respective Colonies, & really wish to be on a footing with them in that respect. I shall write to you again shortly. In the mean time give me leave to assure you that I am, With greatest Respect, your most obt & Faithful Servt, Wm. Whipple. MS not found; reprinted from N.H. Provincial Papers, 8:76-77. 1 See Josiah Bartlett to Meshech Weare, this date, note 2. 2 The petition to Congress, which was approved by the New Hampshire House on January 27, 1776, requested the stationing of a battalion of troops in Portsmouth. N.H. Provincial Papers, 8:67. This petition was read in Congress on March 1, and committed to a committee, which read its report in Congress on March 7. But Congress took no further action until May 14, when it authorized New Hampshire to raise another battalion that would “be taken into continental pay, so soon as they shall be armed and mustered.” JCC, 4:179, 189, 357. See also Whipple to Weare, May 16, 1776. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear Philadelphia March 2d. 1776 I reed. Mr Lymans favour of the 14 Ult. which I shall give an answer to. In the Mean Time can only Thank him for his Kindness. Was Very sorry to be informed that you was troubled with the Rheumatism. I hope it is not Very Affecting. I wish to know as often as may be the- State of your own Health and the Condition of the Family. I wish it might be as particular as needful. I feel much concernd at the Burden
