March 4, 1776 327 MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:236. 1 Although these notes are undated, they follow Adams’ March 4 entry in his manuscript diary and apparently represent a summation of his thoughts on an alliance with France. The subject of foreign alliances arose frequently during the following weeks, and it undoubtedly began to receive more attention from the delegates at this time because of the imminent departure of Silas Deane as an agent to France. See John Adams’ Notes on Foreign Alliances, March 1; and Committee of Secret Correspondence Minutes of Proceedings, March 2, 1776. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir Philadelphia 4th March 1776 I have been very unfortunate in executing the Order for a Waggon and Horses a particular acco[unt] of which hereafter. 1 I also overloaded them not expecting the Roads would have been so bad as they proved to be. I have hired another Waggon in which I have put four barrels of Powder containing 926 lb weight, two Boxes contg. eight drums and one Box contg. eight Colours all compleat being for the third Regiment of No. Carolina Troops. This Waggon I expect will overtake the New One at Wilmington and will take out as much of her Load as will make both Loads equal. The Bearer John Powell who has charge of the whole is related to some good families in this City. I have received great civili ties from several of them, and wish he may be taken more notice of than his present employment may probably entitle him to. The hired Waggon is at 30/, say four dollars per day till she returns, allowing after her dis charge at Edenton 25 Miles per day. Mr. Powel has 6/8 per day, the other two with the New Waggon 3/ each and all expenses borne till they return, allowing a reasonable time for so doing. I am respectfully, D Sir, your very hum Serv, Joseph Hewes N.B. I have delivered to Mr. Powell 200 dollars and to James Thompson who set of[f] with the New Waggon 90 Dollars; these sums I hope will [cover] all expences. RC (NNPM). 1 See North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina Council of Safety, Febru ary 10, note 1; and Hewes to Samuel Johnston, February 20, 1776. John Jay to Robert R. Livingston My dear Friend Pha. 4 March 1776 {The Evening before the last I arrived here after a most disagreable Journey thro intolerable bad Roads. 1 1 heard by the Way that your Brother had been here & was returning. How we missed each other is a mystery to me. I wish I had seen him. He would have told me twenty things about you that 1 am anxious to know.)
