328 March 4, 1776 Fame says you are still much indisposed. I pray God she may on this, as she does on many other occasions, prove a Lyar. I wrote you last week from Elizabeth Town, tell me whether you have reed, that and which other of my Letters. I was in Hopes of finding a Letter from you here for me, & the Disapointmt. is the greater as the State of your Health for some time past has given me much anxiety. The Prospect of being soon deprived of a Father & a Mother whom you know I tenderly love, the unhappy situation of some of my Family added to the Distress I feel for the late misfortunes & Sickness of my Friends have occasioned more gloomy Ideas in my mind than it has ever before been the Subject of. Despondency however ill becomes a man. I hope I shall meet every severe Stroke of Fate with Firmness & Resignation, tho not with sullen Indifference. I[t] gives me Consolation to reflect that the human Race are immortal that my Parents & Friends will be divided from me only by a [. . .] Curtain which will soon be drawn up, and that our great and benevolent Creator will (if I please) be my Guide thro this Vale of Tears to our eternal & blessed Habitation. Notwithstanding your Letter, I still suspect that your Disorder is to be ascribed more to your Solicitude, than Constitution. I well remember that tho’ to appearance not robust, you could endure great fatigue and few of our Contemporaries have enjoyed more Health than yourself. I possess a kind of Confidence that Exercise, Temperance & Chearfulness would be as friendly to you as they were to old Cornaro. I wish you could get away from Home & pursue no other Objects. Try, if it be only for a month or two, and give up all Kind of Business of what nature so ever. Dont permit any Body to say a word to you about your Causes, your Rents, your Farm, nay for the present avoid even politics—defer joining the Congress, the Assembly or any other Body of Men whose Object is Business. Suppose, when the Season becomes more mild you were to take Lodgings at Bristol? The Waters wd probably be useful to you. They have kept Mr. Verplank alive for some Years past. You wd. see as much & as little Company as you pleased, & I promise to go to Church with you every Sunday. Tell Mrs. Livingston I beg she will join her Persuasions to mine. Such a little Journey would be useful to you both and I should think the middle of April would not be too early for it. The Committee for Canada was appointed before I reached this Place. It consists of Doctr. Franklin, Mr. Chace & a Mr. Carryl from Maryland. Had I been here I should have proposed you, tho I must confess I think you can employ your Time more to the advantage of your Health in many other ways. Your Country has no Demands upon you till that be reestablished. Let me entreat you therefore to confine your Attention to it. {Mr. Lynch continues very ill, tho better than he has been.) Twenty Seven Tons of Powder, some Salt petre & 300 Arms arrived here Yesterday;
