March 4, 1776 331 your Opinion. Some of their Troops may be expected very soon. The Congress is taking Measures for the Defence of all Parts of the Continent; N. Yk., N. Jy., Penna., lowr. Counties and Maryland are made a middle Departmt. under General Schuyler; Virginia, No. Carolina, So. Caroa. & Georgia the southern Department under Genl. Lee who will soon be detached there. Six Brigadiers are appointed for these Colonies, Colos. Armstrong & Thompson of this Colony, Col Lewis of Virga., Moore of No. Carolina, Ld. Sterling of the Jersies & Howe of No. Carolina; there are above thirty Battalions raising or raised in these Departments & more can be raised so that I hope the Enemy may meet a proper Re ception in any Quarter. A Comee. is appointed by Congress to contract for the making of Arms, 6 this is a Matter of immense Importance, We have but about 1300 imported here in all one third of which belonged to Maryland, the other two were furnished to the Troops destined for Canada; I think every Colony should make the most exact Scrutiny what Smiths can do any thing towards making Guns or Locks and keep them constantly employed in that Business solely; this Matter deserves the utmost At tention of Government. This moment a Vessel is arrived from Europe with twenty five Tons of Powder, ten Tons salt petre and five hundred Stands of Arms. How kindly Providence proportions our Supplies to our Wants, let us be thankfull for them, make a wise and brave use of them and at the same time take every proper Measure for procuring further Supplies. Genl. Lee is fortifying N. York, the Captain of the Enemy’s Ships gave out they would fire on the Town, Genl. Lee in Return gave out that if they did he would chain a hundred of their best Friends together and the first House they sat on Fire should be their funeral Pile. 7 My worthy Friend Dr. Franklin desired Me to give the Bearer Mr. Levy a Letter of Recommendation. He assures me that He has been long acquainted with him and that He is an honest Man, Justice is one of the great Supports of Society and is due to all Mankind; I therefore wish it to Mr. Levy, your Civilities to him I shall consider as a Favor. Our Friend Dr. Young & Family are very well, his Pen is frequently employed in the common Cause. You’l observe by a late Paper that all Vessels bound to G. Britain, Ireland or the British W. Indies were ordered to be stopd until further Orders from Congress, these Vessels had imported Arms & Amunition agreable to the Resolve of 15th July & the Importers supposed that they had a Right to export to any Part of the World, this was not the Inten tion of Congress originally but as the Vessels were loaded & the con cerned beleived that they had the Faith of Congress that they should do so, it was resolved that they might be permitted to sail; I think they will be seized especially when it is known that this Permission has been granted only to the Importers of Arms & Ammunition. 8
