March 5, 1776 333 of those notable papers and expected to have rec’d a letter from you on my arrival here but was disappointed. Pray let me hear from you oftener. Be very particular; don’t let the most trifling occurrence pass unnoticed. I already feel the necessity of knowing all that passes at home. Tell Dr B[rackett] I expect a letter from him before I write him. There has been no mention yet of Agents for any of the Colonies. When there is I shall be mindful of what you mentioned. A Brig arrived this morning from Holland with 27 1/2 tons gun powder, some salt petre and 300 arms. 10 tons was immediately ordered to the camp. 2 Brigadier General Thomas is advanced to the rank of Major General and ordered to Canada. 3 A committee also set off for that place in a few days. The committee are Dr Franklin, Mr Chace and a Roman Catholic gentleman belonging to Maryland. 4 I am sincerely yours, Wm Whipple Tr (DLC). 1 See Josiah Bartlett to Meshech Weare, March 2, 1776, note 2. 2 See JCC, 4:183. 3 Congress did not take this action until March 6, 1776. JCC, 4:186. 4 Charles Carroll of Carrollton. Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon Dear Sir, Philadelphia March 5 1776 Yours of the 19th ulto is now before me and am very sorry that any person in New Hampshire could pretend to write and print so ridiculous a piece as that you mention. I had the reading of it, being enclosed to Col Whipple. I think your Committee acted wisely in putting a stop to it, though the chief hurt that will arise from the publishing such trifling, inconsistent and puerile pieces is to make the persons and the place pro ducing them mean and ridiculous to every sensible reader. I am ex tremely sorry that our Colony, who has hitherto stood high in the esteem of the whole Continent, for their manly and spirited exertions in the cause of liberty should by such productions added to some late manoeu vres of Portsmouth and some other towns in regard to taking up govt, fall to the lowest depth of ignominy and contempt, which unless a stop is put it will certainly be the case. The packet containing the whole of the affairs of taking up civil govt we carried in the evening to the Presi dent, who opened it while we were present. 1 After reading the whole to himself for some time, he asked us what was the question the Colony wanted to have put to the Congress for their answer as he said he could not find out by reading the papers, and neither Col Whipple nor I could inform him; for the order of Congress to take up civil Govt, in such a manner as the Colony should think proper nobody can deny and that the Colony had taken up such a form as was most agreeable to majority
