March 6, 1776 337 for the protection of the middle Colonies and 9500 for the Southern Colonies. General Lee and General Armstrong are to have the Chief command to the Southward & to be assisted by three other Brig. Gen erals. Major General Thomas & Brig. Genl. Arnold are to direct the Army in Canada. General Schuyler to keep his head Quarters at Albany: that he may have the means of supplying the Canada Army and Man aging the Indians &c &c. It being much doubted whether any other Person is qualified to conduct these two important objects. Brig. Genl Thompson of Pensylvania and Lord Stirling are to com mand in the middle department; tho if any serious attempt is made on New York it seems to be taken for granted that General Washington will repair to its Assistance. This is the present disposition of the Con tinental Army founded on the Supposed Plan of the ministry. It must be subject to alterations according to their maneuvres. This will be deliverd to you by Col. Allen son of the Chief Justice Allen of this City who is going into Canada. 4 I am intimate with this respectable Family, & flatter myself that you will be pleased to shew Civilities to a young Gentn of his Spirit and Connections. Be kind enough to introduce him to Mrs Duane &c. I have no time to write to her by this opportunity but shall do myself that pleasure in a few days by Doctr Franklin, Mr Chase & Mr Carryl who are going into Canada as Depu ties [....] Be pleased to present my dutiful Regards to Mamma; my best Love to my Polly and our dear Children, and the rest of our Friends and be lieve me to be with the utmost Regard, My dear & hond Sir, your most affect Son & most obedt Sert. Jas. Duane RC (NHpR: Livingston-Redmond Collection deposit). Endorsed by Livingston: “A Letter from Son Duane, Reed. 23 March 1776.” 1 This date has been suggested because Duane’s letter contains no reference to any action of Congress taken later than March 6 and was carried by Lt. Col. William Allen, who was in New York on March 13. See William Allen to John Hancock, March 13, 1776, Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:204. 2 MS damaged; approximately three words illegible. 3 MS damaged; approximately three words illegible. 4 Lt. Col. William Allen of the Second Pennsylvania Regiment was on his way to Albany with 6 companies of reinforcements for General Schuyler when, having stopped at New York City to secure transportation up the Hudson for his troops, he was ordered by General Alexander on March 13 to remain there to assist in its defense. Evidently Alexander thereupon made arrangements for the delivery of Duane’s letter to Livingston as well as other letters which Allen was carrying. Ibid., 5:204, 217-18. Benjamin Franklin to Daniel Roberdeau Dear Sir Wednesday March 6. [17] 76 The Congress desire a Return to be made to them of the Powder the
