346 March 6, 1776 Broker, for the Brigane. Rachel, F. Pilgrim Isherwood, Master, was Executed, also Instructions to said Master signd. Another with Jonathn Hudson of the town of Baltimore, Maryld., Mercht., for Ship Molly, D. Laurence, Master, was likewise sign’d. Mr. Adam Babcock having presented an estimate of a cargoe from Europe amountg. to 20,000 dlls., Agreed that instead of the Contract proposd 4th inst. for 10,000 dlls he might load a vessel or vessels with potash, oil, beeswax &c to the amount of but not exceedg. 20000 dlls & to export the same for the benefit of the U[nited] C[olonies] to Bordeaux in France for wch. he is to receive the usual Commissions for exportg. & importg. his Father being a party with him in the Contract. 1 MS (MH). 1 The contract with Joshua and Adam Babcoclj was signed on March 7. Journal of the Secret Committee, fol. 43, MH. In a letter of January 31, 1776, Joshua Babcock had asked his kinsman Silas Deane to recommend his son Adam for a Secret Committee contract. Collections of the Connecticut Historical Society 2 (1870): 355-56. See also Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, March 27, 1776. Richard Smith’s Diary Wednesday 6 March [1776] The Votes of Yesterday read & some Letters from Gen Washington and others. Some Motions among the King’s Troops in Boston indicate that they intend soon to evacuate the place, our Gen. intends to bom bard the Town if he can get Powder but a Council of War have deter mined it not to be expedient at present. The Marine Comee. was filled up (Sergeant for N Jersey). Our Debts of Powder to Pennsa. and N York ordered to be paid and 5 Tons ordered to the Southern Departmt, one Ton to the Lower Counties, one Ton to N Jersey and some to Maryland. The 350 Stand of Arms just arrived, were ordered, some of them to repay Pennsa. & the remainder to Waynes Battaln now going to N York. A motion by E Rutledge to send Major Hausaker to the Southward was carried in the Negative 6 Colonies to 5. On motion of Harrison, Thos. Bullet of Virginia was made Dep Adjutant Gen. with the Rank of Lt Col. Brig. Thomas was voted to command in Canada with the Rank of Major Gen. This was on Motion of E. Rutledge. Hooper just returned from Boston 1 says that Capt. Manley with 5 or 6 privateers are laid up for Want of Powder. (Manly soon got out again.) A Motion to appoint the Field Officers for 4 Battals. in N York was considered and post poned. 2 The Business of finding & smelting Lead was given in Charge to the Salt petre Comee. Willing Chairman of the Comee. of Claims prayed Advice at what Period the Massach[usett]s Bay may begin their Accots. agt the Continent Whether from the Battle of Lexington or some Time before, this Point could not now be settled. Motion by Sherman to
