348 March 7, 1776 [RS.] Let me beg of you to write me, if you can Spare the Time. It is of great Importance that the Delegates from New England should be truly informed, of the Course of Things in Canada. RC (MHi). 1 See John Hancock to John Thomas, March 6, 1776. John Hancock to Thomas Cushing Dear Sir, Philadelphia March 7th. 1776 I wrote you of yesterday’s Date, by an Express, under Cover to General Washington, which informed you every Circumstance that occurred necessary for your Government, as to the Ships. I hope soon to hear of your having received my Letter, and the twenty five Thousand Dollars, as well as the Plans; all which I sent under the Care of Col Bull; and that I shall soon have a Receipt for the Money. I have been obliged to detain Mr. Avery, longer than I intended, owing to the urgent Business of Congress, and the necessary Attendance of the Members in Congress, which has prevented the Meetings of the Marine Committee, and of Consequence retarded their Business, which has delayed Mr. Avery. I now inclose you, the Dimensions of every Thing necessary for your Guidance in Matters respecting the Ships, & other Appurtenances. What further occurs to you necessary, let me know, and the Directions shall be transmitted to you. I now beg you will set every Wheel in Motion. Employ every Man that can be useful in the different Branches. Procure every necessary that can be obtained with you; The Deficiencies acquaint me of, and I will endeavour to supply them from hence. In short, exert every Nerve to promote Dispatch. Let the Heads and Gal leries for the Ships, be neatly carved & executed. I leave the Device to you. But, by all Means, let ours be as good, handsome, strong, and as early completed, as any that are building here, or in any of the other Colonies, for your Reputation and mine are at Stake; and there are not wanting those who are fond of prejudicing both. I have ordered two Hundred Pieces of Duck from New York. Set the Sail-Makers to Work. Iron, I hope, you will find with you. If not, let me know, as soon as pos sible, and I will send some, though, at present, there is none to be pur chased in the City, owing to the Badness of the Roads. I send you by Mr. Avery a further supply of Money in Bills and Dol lars. The Bills I took to oblige the Gentlemen. Please to return them immediately to Me, if not honoured; and if paid, send me a Receipt for the whole Sum, and employ the Money in the Service of the Ships, for the publick Account. The Bills and Money are as follows—viz William Barrel & Jona. Mifflin junr. Bill on Thomas Mifflin, of this Date for— Dollars 6000
