March 7, 1776 349 Will. Barrel on Joseph Barrel Do. Date— 1000 Andrew Cabot on Capt Geo. Dodge of Salem, Do. Date— 4000 The above Bills you will find enclosed— 11000 Continental Money delivered to Mr. John Avery— 19000 Dollars 30000 Do be careful to engage good Block-Makers, and let every Article be well executed. In writing my several Letters to you, previous to this Date, I had not Time to take Copies. I must therefore beg, at your Leisure, you will please to favour me with exact Copies of all; together with the first Instructions delivered to you on your leaving Philada. This as soon as you can. I was in hopes of being able to Send you the Dimensions of Rigging &c but the Committee are not ready, however if you are Ready before you hear from me do not wait, but Employ the best Judges and follow their Advice. I however Inclose you the Estimate of the Report with respect to Cables & Anchors, the other smaller Cables & Anchors neces sary Determine with you, if you do not hear timely from me. I have nothing New to Communicate. Do write me often and give me every Occurrence. I hope you will Send me my Commission as Major General that I may Appear in Character. I assure you this Appointment pleases me, I think I know a little of the Duty, & on my Return I will Endeavour under the Direction of your Board to put the Militia upon a Respectable footing. I will not be wanting. My utmost Exertions shall never be witheld for the Good of my Colony, whenever they can be usefull they shall be Employ’d in that Service however Dangerous, and I Defy Malice itself to Contradict the sincerity & uprightness of those Assertions. I Beg to be Remembered to all Friends. The Inclos’d Letters I Beg you will order to be Deliver’d; that to Mr. Bant is of Consequence, I therefore Request your particular Care of it. Mrs. Hancock Joines me in best Respects to your good Lady & Family & I am very truly, Dear Sir, Your Real Friend & hum sert, John Hancock [RS.] What I wrote you in my last respecting my Ship at Salem, I beg your Attention to. The Congress finding my Business increase so much, desir’d me to appoint a private Secretary wch. I have done, a Bror. of Dr Rush, 1 he Copied the first part of this Letter, but I was oblig’d to call him off, wch. will account for the Diversity of the writing. I am immensely hurried. New Hampshire should pay part of the Expence, Mr Avery paid Harry’s Expences to Fairfield wch. you will Charge & is Right. I Beg you will Acquaint my good Friend Mr Wm Cooper, that I
