350 March 7, 1776 Reed his Letter, am much oblig’d to him, will write him fully by next; that my Regard & Friendship for him is not nor cannot be Lessen’d, that I am his Friend & ever the Friend of my Colony. RC (MHi). First four paragraphs in the hand of Jacob Rush, with remaining paragraphs and signature by Hancock. 'Jacob Rush (1747—1820), Pennsylvania lawyer and brother of Dr. Benjamin Rush, served as private secretary to President Hancock from January 1776 to November 7, 1777, when he was appointed deputy secretary of Congress. JCC, 9:875; and Benjamin Rush, The Autobiography of Benjamin Rush, ed. George W. Corner (Princeton: Published for the American Philosophical Society by Princeton Uni versity Press, 1948), p. 28n.22. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir Philadelphia 7 March 1776 Since my last I have had the honour to Receive your several Letters of the 10th, 13th, 15th, 20th, 21st, 23d, 26th, & 27th Febry. which were immediately Communicated to Congress. 1 I have the pleasure to inform you that the Congress highly Approve the orders you have given to Colo. Warner. They have Directed a quantity of Steel to be purchas’d & forwarded to you by the Delegates of New Jersey, and have order’d an Accott. to be made out and Sent to you of the money paid to the Pennsylvania Troops who have Marched to Canada. 2 Your other Letters are under Consideration, as soon as the Congress come to a Determina tion thereon, I shall do myself the honour to transmitt to you. I am extremely sorry to find you Recover health so slowly, I hope that your Attention to publick Affairs will not make you neglect the Care necessary for perfecting your Recovery. The Congress have the most Anxious Concern for you, knowing the important services you can render to your Country at this critical Conjuncture. As there is Reason to Apprehend that our Enemies intend to direct their operations in the ensuing Campaign against the middle & Southern Colonies, the Congress have thought proper in order to prepare for their Defence, to Divide those Colonies into two Departments, one to Com prehend New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware Government & Maryland, under the Command of a Major General and Two Briga dier Generals, and the other, the Colonies to the Southward, under the Command of a Major General & four Brigadr Generals. The Brigadier Generals are John Armstrong, William Thompson, Andrew Lewis, James Moore Esqrs., the Honl. William Earl of Stirling & Robert Howe Esqr. General Armstrong they have Directed to Repair to South Caro lina, General Lewis & General Howe to Virginia, Genl Moore to North Carolina, & General Thompson & Lord Stirling to New York. With Regard to Canada, the Congress have superceeded the orders formerly
