March 8, 1776 357 wandring Eye no sooner takes in one agreable object than it overlooks it and stretches after another. This Imperfection may be in some degree natural but the mischiefs of it are greatly increased by inattention to the Duties of Religion, by a Want of a thorough Confidence in the Wisdom & Goodness of God, by an ungrateful Heart which is insensible of the innumerable Mercies we enjoy and peevishly frets and worries itself & all around it for want of a thing which perhaps if obtained would make it very unhappy. Let any Person compare what they enjoy with what they may suppose they want and they will find their wants few com pared with their Enjoyments, why should a Being who is sure of living but a few moments (for such only is a long Life compared with Eter nity) be so anxious about things of very little consequence to an im mortal mind, but we want grand Houses & Gardens, gay Clothes, a Chariot & a thousand other such Trifles for what my Dear. Cant the philosophic Mind that places its true Happiness in living according to the Dictates of Reason and Virtue be as happy in a House barely com fortable and convenient, in a good Kitchen Garden which affords a proper Repast for a frugal Table, in plain neat Clothes, in walking or riding a good Horse as in the Possession of ten thousand Superfluities? Most clearly It can, but even Riches my dearest when properly em ployed by the benevolent Mind afford a most rational Satisfaction, the surest Road to Happiness is to consider what our Duty requires and to do it chearfully leaving all events to Providence or in the Words of your Favorite Pope “What right, what true, what fit we justly call, let that be all my Care for that is all.” I have bought Polly & you each a Gown not of dark purple callico but a light shaped cotton one. I think it pretty & good to wear, I cant find one dark one for Nancy that pleases Me, I shall try once more & take the cleverest I can get. I have bought a piece excellent Lawn off which she shall have an Apron, I have bought four [. . .] handkc. very good, two for her and one for each of you, how I shall get them home I know not at present but shall do it as soon as I can. ' Your Bror. Sammy I have not heard from since he was taken Prisoner, 1 poor Child Heaven thinks best to try his Virtue & Fortitude. He is prob ably once more reduced to a short allowance of Provisions for by the last Letters from Genl. Arnold, the Garrison had sallied out once but our People advancing briskly to attack them, they retreated precipi tately and having got neither Provisions or Fuel since he blockaded the Place they were reduced to short Allowance of Provisions & would soon be forced to burn their houses and Vessels. The Prisoners are treated very well & I doubt not will fare as well as the Garrison & your Bror. as well as any one of them; I hope He will make a proper use of his Time, the School of affliction tho for the time it lasts not the most agre able is often the best. Some of the worthiest Characters which have adorned the Scene of human Action were thus educated and thus re-
