360 March 8, 1776 be under the finest Regulation. Their jail in Appearance more re sembles a Princes Palace than a House of Confinement, yet it affords the greatest Security. From this House I have not visited the House of Correction. I have seen the outside of it which looks well enough, but I will keep myself from being able to inform you how it is within. The City is Seated much upon a plain (which in my opinion renders it less beautiful) and is capable of the largest Extention. The inhabitants are supposed to be about forty five Thousand. About 500 Houses are built yearly in common Times—and Should no great publick Convulsions or, desolating Calamities retard its growth I believe within 150 years it ■ will Excell any City in Europe. They have one great Market which it is a Curiosity to See. It is extreemly fine for everyThing except Fish, which it is but Very poorly provided with. There are Many Things here which discover great Ingenuity and Design, but Nothing Struck my Mind in any Degree like the Amazing. Orrery of Mr Rittenhouse. As I am but little acquainted with astronomy or Mechanism I could only View it with the strange Wonder of a Bar barian for such I could only consider myself when compared to such a Matchless Genius. The whole Solar System is here represented, the com- paritive Distances and Magnitude of every Planet and their Satellites, and all their true Motions made by turning a small crank in the manner a Man turns a Grind stone, each turn Makes a day. The outer Circle of this Works on which the Signs are marked which make a retrograde Rotation once in Twenty five Thousand years, moves so inconceiveably Slow as to require Nine Million one hundred Twenty five Thousand Turns to bring this Circle once round. This Work which has a Vast Number of Wheels and an Infinity of Indentations and Teeth is capable of representing the Exact Position of every Moon and Planet at any Period for eighteen hundred years forward. How Such a Complicated tho’t could ever enter into, or be retained by a human Soul, and if re tained how Such an Amazing Design could ever be executed, infinitely exceeds all my Comprehension. I Viewed an Eclipse of the Sun which will be total if I remember right a little South of this City the Tenth of June 1776 and what to me was Very wonderful when I first Viewed the Moon thro the Glass it appeared quite luminous but as it drew more into a Line with the Sun it grew gradually darker till it became quite so when it covered the Suns face but this was owing to Reflection. This Work is calculated to Make an ordinary Genius humble while it leads to adore that fountain of Wisdom which has darted such a bright Ray of himself upon any human Soul. I saw Mr Rittenhouse and Viewed • » him with great Curiosity, but I saw no other Mark of Genius Stamped upon him than what is discoverable in an ordinary man. He appeard extreemly Modest and rather what We call Shamefaced.—but he has erected a Monument which will be admired while learning lasts, or Man is capable of adoring the Creator.
