March 9, 1776 361 By my Writing so long a Letter you may Think I have little else to do, but I assure you I am Very Busy but as I cannot See you let me take the pleasure of Writing to you. Upon reveiwing my Letter I wish it was wrote more legibly but it must pass as it is. My Love to my Children and my best Compliments to all my Freinds—and I wish they could think of Me so much, as once in a while to Write Me a Letter. Wishing you all possible Happiness, I am yours with the tenderest affection. Oliver Wolcott P.S. There has been two small flights of snow since I have been here. A good deal of cold Weather but the Grass now begins to start. I have not heard how your Winter has been. RC (CtHi). 1 The assignment of this date is based on Wolcott’s reference (in his March 19 letter to Laura) to a letter of “the 8t instant,” and on the similarity of topics Wolcott discussed in this letter and in his letter of March 9 to Matthew Griswold. 2 On January 2 Congress had granted provincial governmental bodies limited authority to control, within their borders, Continental troops called upon for assist ance to deal with civilians inimical to the American cause. Gen. Charles Lee had apparently misunderstood this resolution and had used it to explain his decision to order a Connecticut regiment to return home instead of assisting in the defense of New York City. See JCC, 4:20; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:954—55. Committee of Congress to Abraham Hunt Sr, Philada March 9th. 1776 The Congress have appointed a Cmttee to Contract for the making Musketts & bayonetts, in persuance of wch. they have agreed with Ebenezer Cowel to carry on the manufacture of gunlocks for the use of the United Colonies & have advanced him 267 Dollars & he is to be paid weekly for all the good substantial double bridled gunlocks he shall make & deliver. 1 This makes it necessary that there should be some person in Trenton who will receive the said gunlocks as they are made & pay Mr. Cowell the money for them; upon Enquiry it was strongly recommended to us to make application to you to undertake this busi ness. You will please to let us know as soon as may be your inclination in the matter that we may Supply you with a Sum of money for the said purpose. I am yr hble Servt, RTP by order of sd. Cmttee FC (MHi). In the hand of Robert Treat Paine. Addressed: “To Abraham Hunt Esq. at Trenton.” 1 The committee’s letter to Ebenezer Cowell has not been found, but the com mittee wrote to “Benjamin Yard in Trenton” seeking a contract: “as they have been informed that you are capable of making the barrells they desire you would immedi ately inform them whether you will undertake in this business, & whether you can
