364 March 9, 1776 Richard Smith’s Diary [March 9, 1776] [....] 1 Instructions for the Commissioners] going to Canada and [. . .] of them took up 3 or 4 Hours [. . .] that Part recommendg. to them [to] form a Constitution and Governmt. for themselves without Limitation [of] Time which Jay and others said was an Independency & there was much Argumt. on this Ground. MS (DLC). 1 MS damaged; approximately three lines missing. Oliver Wolcott to Matthew Griswold Hond. Sir 1 Philidelphia 9t March 1776. Your Favour of the 27 Ult. has come safe to Hand, and I return you my Thanks Sir, for the In[te]lligence therein communicated. I am Very sensible the Colony must have been distressed for Want of a Supply of Money. It has been unhappy our Troops did not take their pay, in the continental Way, which I understand they might have done. It would not only have prevented this Trouble—but those Jealousys which Gentlemen this Way, too readily entertain of Sinister Designs in those who go out of the ordinary Course which they have tho’t proper to point out. We have tho with Difficulty obtained an advance of One hundred Thousand Dollars, 2 which will be transmitted by Mr. Sherman who intends next Week to make a Short Visit to his Family. About Thirty pay Roalls are now reed, the Rest are I understand Making out as fast as possible. These will be liquidated as soon as the Committee of Claims have examined a great number of Accounts brot in by the Massachusetts. The whole now advanced to our Colony (if I remember right) is £78,000. All the Bounties given by R Island to their Troops were refused Payment (as I understand) before I came here. Should the same Decision take Place with regard to Connecticut it will make a large Defaulkation from the Account. Our Claim will be made and as I fully believe it is just, I wish the Probability of Obtaining it, was greater. The R Island Demand was I take it Very generally rejected. As the Congress have taken up the Army, should think it not for the Interest of the Colony except upon the most pressing Exigences, to advance Money in future, upon general Services. But as I have no Reason to doupt of the Prudence of the Colony Administration I believe a proper Attention will be had in these Times of Vast Expence to their own particular circumstances, consistent with a Regard to the general Wellfare.
