March 10, 1776 365 I am glad to hear of the attention given to procure a Marine Strength—it will I beleive be Very usefull. The continental Fleet has been out for some Time. I think We may shortly expect to hear from it. The Manufacturing Arms and G Powder are objects which cannot be too much attended to. If every American was well furnished with the Means of Defence I should think We might be almost a Match for the World. G. Powder is manufacturing here continually. Very soon they will in this Colony make five Tons Weekly. Twenty seven Tons of G. Powder, one of S Petre and 500 stands of Arms have within a few days arrived. A Petition lies before Congress from a large Number of Merchants of this City requesting Letters of Mark and Reprizal—the Matter has not yet been discussed. The Business of Congress seems continually to encrease so that no Recess is tho’t of at this Time. The persevering Cruelty of the British Administration is such that I fear We are to expect no further Benefit from what We have heretofore fondly called the Mother Country. A Convention of this Colony are to Meet the 2d April notwithstanding the Assembly does now Sit. It is said the People are uneasy at the Instructions given their Delegates as well as with other Matters. We seem to be brot. near a most impor tant Period, May God guide the publick Councills of this Land, and carry us safely thro’ the severe Conflict of the present unhappy Times. I do not perceive any Dismay. Severity but gives further Energy—and I hope our Union is firm. The Military Division of the Colonies I believe Sir you must have heard of, and a further Establishment of General officers. Genl. Thomas is ordered to Canada. Genl Lee is going to the Southward. Genl. Clinton it is said has just touched at Virginia but has now left it but I do not tell this for a certainty. Please to present my Compliments to my Sister and your Family, and be assured Sir that your literary favours will be greatly regarded. I am Sir with Esteem, your most obedient and humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott RC (CtY). 'Matthew Griswold (1714-99), a Lyme, Conn., lawyer, who served as deputy governor and chief justice of Connecticut, 1769—84, and as governor, 1784—86, was married to Wolcott’s sister, Ursula. DAB. 2 Congress had approved this advance on March 7. JCC, 4:188. Robert Morris to Silas Deane Dear sir Philada. March 10th. 1776 I was sorry to find by your Note of the 8th that you determined to wait at Chester for the Pilot Boat because certain Gentn seem exceed ingly anxious that you sho’d be gone & you know well how tedious & troublesome it is to obtain decisive orders on any point wherein Public
