366 March 10, 1776 Expence is to be incurred. I cou’d not send a Boat without orders unless at my own Expence and altho I obtained such orders yesterday yet I was so harrassed between the assembly & Congress that it was not in my power to dispatch her. I am attempting it this Morning & hope she will depart in time to put this onboard the Brigt and then run down before you. You will find herein a letter from your Brother which Doctr Franklyn & myself thought best to open least it might be of disadvantage to him or you & cause some disapointment about the Money you left for him, but you’l find it is not of Consequence in the way of bussiness. Yesterday arrived about 6 to 8 Tons of Powder by different Vessells from the West Indies. They bring English Papers later than any we had before & the Kings Proclamation for dividing Prize Money by which you will know the Act of Parliament for Cutting of all Trade & intercourse with us is passed and I suppose this will produce some decissive measures on our side. A Man of Warr & two Tenders were within about 20 Miles of Balti more and the People there preparing a Warm Reception for them. The Molly, Cap Lawrence, had got back into that Harbour and I think will be defended with others now lying there. Powder, Arms &c are on the way to them and I think no great harm will be done in that quarter. I think you shou’d not loose one Moment, the sooner you are on the Ocean the better chance of arriving safe & of not being inter rupted on your Voyage; but the Sea will Swarm with Men of Warr & some Privateers before long. 1 The People in Antigua were applying for Commissions to fit out Privateers against us. I hope they will live to repent it. A report is come up from Virginia that Colo Corbin who went on board Ld. Dummore’s Fleet by his LdShips invitation was returned & says he saw Genl Clinton, that Commissioners are Certainly Coming out from England to treat and offer the terms of 1763, but that they can only Treat with the Colonies separately & will have nothing to do with the Congress. If this be the case they may as well stay where they are. However I dont think this intelligence comes quite well authenticated yet. You’l find the Evening Post herein which Contains all the intelligence. I have just got it & am with the best wishes & most sincere attachment, Dr Sir, Your Affectionate hble sevt, Robt Morris P.S. If I have time shall enclose some letters herewith which must be Secreted or destroyed if you are Captured &c. RC (CtHi). 1 For an explanation of the delays and difficulties Deane experienced in attempting to embark for France, see John Alsop et al. to Silas Deane, March 1, 1776, note 2.
