March 12, 1776 369 Empire immensely extended but these Efforts were like the violent throws of a Person in a convulsion & Fits than the steady yet vigorous exertions of a Man of a good constitution in high health & the Empire like the unhappy sick Man after being torn to Pieces by violent Convul sions sunk under them & is no more. Your own Reading will furnish innumerable Instances of this Kind & young as you are you must often have observed the fatal Effects of Vice. Shun therefore my dear Son as inevitable Ruin, Luxury & Vice of every Kind & endeavour to impress deeply upon your Heart the Love of God, of Mankind & of Country, in one Word every moral, social & relative Virtue, next to these endeavour to acquire every useful &■ amiable Accomplishment; if you spend your Time in this, a truly glorious Employ, it may be very happy for you that you was taken a Prisoner. May the eternal Fountain of Wisdom lead you in the Way in which you should go. Your Friends in general are well. Your Sister Nancy was married lately to your Friend Capt. Clarke. She is very well; your Sister Greene is so & indeed all our Family. Dr. Franklin does me the Favor to take Charge of this Letter and very politely tells Me He will with Pleasure serve You. Present my very affece Regards to your Kinsman Colo. Greene & all your fell[ow] Pr[isoner]s. Write to Me by every Opportunity. My dearest Son May the Lord be with You & prosper You. I am, Your very affece. Father, Sam Ward FC (RHi). Endorsed by Ward: “Part of a rough Draught to Sammy. 11th March 1776.” 1 See Ward to Samuel Ward, Jr., January 21, 1776, in Ward, Correspondence (Knollenberg), pp. 175-77. Richard Smith’s Diary Tuesday 12 March [1776] In Comee. of Claims we agreed to give Timothy Matlack and One Clerk employed by Him £6 per Week for their Services (there are more Clerks employed by the Comee.) [. . .] has had hitherto 15/ per Diem [for] attendg. the Comee. of Claims. In Congress the Votes were read. 20,000 Dollars advanced to Commissary Mease. 4 or 5 Hours were spent on the Instructions to our Canada Commisss. They were gone thro but Chase offered some others in Addition which are to be con sidered tomorrow. 1 Wyth made a Report on Hazens Demand referring the Facts to be ascertained by the Commissioners which was confirmed. 2 MS (DLC). 1 See Smith’s Diary, February 14, 1776, note 2. 2 Ibid., March 8, 1776, note 6.
