382 March 15, 1776 Glair, [Sinclair], which met with their approbation; as you will observe by the Resolution which we have the honour to enclose. 2 General Lee informed Congress, by Letter, that he had imposed a Test upon the Inhabitants of our Colony, in order to ascertain their political Principles. However salutary such a Measure might be, when grounded on a legal and constitutional Basis; we were much alarmed that it shoud owe it’s Authority to any military officer, however distin guished for his Zeal, his Rank, his accomplishments, and Services. We considered it as one of the most solemn and important Acts of Legisla tion, and a high Encroachment upon your Rights as the Representatives of a free People. We cou’d not therefore be silent upon so momentuous a Point, tho we were not favourd with your Sentiments or Instructions; nor informed of what, or whether any thing, had passed between you and the General respecting the disaffected Inhabitants. We took up the Subject on general Principles. There can be no Liberty where the military is not subordinate to the civil power, in every thing not immedi ately connected with their Operations. Your House, the natural and proper Tribunal for all civil matters within the Circle of your own Jurisdiction, was assembled: and Congress itself within the General’s reach, ready to enforce every reasonable Proposition for the publick safety. To one or other he ought to have applied. A similar Effort in Rhode Island had passed over unnoticed; reiterated Precedents must become dangerous: we therefore conceived it to be our unquestionable Duty to assert The Independance and Superiority of the civil power, and to call the Attention of Congress to this unwarrantable Invasion of it’s Rights by one of their Officers. A resolution passed, in Conse quence, on the 8t [i.e. 9th] of March, “that no Oath by way of test be imposed upon, exacted, or required of any Inhabitant of these Colo nies by any military Officer” and it was ordered to be immediately published. 3 We flatter ourselves that our Conduct on this Occasion will meet with your Approbation. This will be presented by Brigadr General Thompson who for the present will command in your Capital; General Schuyler’s Residence at Albany being deemed indispensable. 4 General Thompson is a gallant officer and very much respected in this Province: and we doubt not of your Endeavours to make his Com mand as agreeable to himself, and as salutary to the Country, as pos sible; to which nothing can contribute more essentially than Harmony and mutual Confidence between him and the civil Power. Congress were much perplexed in appointing the Officers to the four New York Battalions not knowing whether a former Resolution direct ing the English Troops who winterd in Canada to be formed into two Battalions, had been carried into Effect. 6 In that Case a Provision will be made for such of the Gentlemen in that Country as are entitled to
