March 15, 1776 383 Promotion. However it was not thought Just to expose them to any Uncertainty. It is the Intention of Congress that if any of them should have been promoted in that Department they shall continue there and others be appointed for the new Battalions. If not, that they shall Join those Corpses [Corps]. 6 A Battalion was intended for Col. Ritzema; but some Objections having been Suggested it is left vacant untill he can have an Oppor tunity of being heard, of which you will be pleased to inform him. 7 We have the Honour to be with the utmost Regard, Gentlemen, Your most obedent, humble Servants, Jas Duane John Alsop John Jay Lewis Morris P.S. The following battalions are assigned for the defence of New York, besides the four you are raising viz: Pensylvanians— Waine’s, Erwines [Irvine’s], Shea’s, Magaw’s; New Jersey—Lord Sterling’s & Dayton’s. These Troops are raised but not armed. The Want of Arms will, it is thought, be in a great Degree remedied, by executing the Resolution of Congress of the 14t Instant, a Copy of which goes with these dis patches. It is directed to be kept as secret as the Nature of the Service will admit. 8 For your immediate Defence the General, in your department, is authorized to apply to the Governour of Connecticut, Your Conven tion, and the Committee of Safety of New Jersey, for so many of the militia as he may Judge necessary, who are to be paid by the Continent at 5 dollars a month for each private. 9 A Resolution passed the 8t [i.e. 6th] Instant for Supplying you with 5 tons of Gun powder, and it was ordered to be immediately forwarded, by-the Committee of secrecy. 10 We took it for granted that it had been sent forward accordingly, till Mr Lewis’s Letter to Mr Alsop led to an Examination; when the chairman of that Committee reported that it had been detaind for want of Carriages. A Copy of the order for the powder is enclosed. We shall be glad to know how far the Battalion’s of last year were com- pleated; as our Colony is reflected upon for a greater deficiency than we believe to be consistent with Truth. It has also been represented that recruiting, for the present Service, goes on very slowly, which considering your danger & distresses we scarce think credible. RC (N). Written by Duane and signed by Duane, Alsop, Jay, and Morris. 1 Duane’s reference in the postscript to a resolution passed by Congress this day indicates that he probably completed this letter on March 15. See note 9, below. 2 Congress’ resolution of March 11 permitting Capt. Patrick Sinclair, the lieutenant governor of Michilimackinac, to return to Europe, was adopted in response to a letter of March 7 from the New York Provincial Convention. See JCC, 4:196; PCC, item 67, 1:190-92; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:101-2. 3 See JCC, 4:195. For Gen. Charles Lee’s imposition of test oaths on Rhode Island and New York tories, see Lee to Robert Morris, January 3, and to John Hancock,
