388 March 16, 1776 Richard Smith to Samuel Tucker Dr Sir Philada. Saturday March 16. 1776 This Morning I was favored with Yours of Yesterday. The Business of the Prisoners at Trenton and elsewhere rests with a Comee. of which I am a Member, & I should be glad of your Opinion where we shall re move them & whether the County of Morris is not a cheap & proper Country. 1 Mrs. Stelle’s Accounts were allowed Yesterday. Our Presidt. sent you this Morning by Mr. Serjeant a Resolution which least you should not receive I Inclose You the rough Copy marked N.J. You ask for News & I will give you Such Matters as occur at present to my Memory. The Congress have this Day appointed a Day of General Fasting, Humiliation and Prayer which you will See in the next Papers. Our Countryman & Acquaintance Dr. Sonmans is to be interred this Afternoon. John Cooper declines accepting the Delegateship & John DeHart has never yet attended the Congress tho he has passed this Town on a Journey to some Place below. An Express arrived Yesterday from General Washington with a Packet of intercepted Letters from England, and One Wm. Temple also came to Town with Letters to the Congress from a Person of Note in London whose Name I am not at Liberty to Mention. 2 The following Particulars, Part of these Dispatches, are supposed to be authentic viz. That France had instigated Sweden to interpose & thro this Channel had actually frustrated the Treaty for sending Russians to America. The ostensible Reason given by Russia for Refusal was that no Cartel being settled here, all their Prisoners would be liable to be massacred by the Provincials—that the French Ambassador at St. James’s had declared that his Master did not mean to interfere while British Sub jects alone were concerned, but if Foreigners were employed he could not remain an idle Spectator—that all the Efforts of the Ministry cannot get 20,000 effective Men here this Summer & even the High landers were averse to the Service & inlisted slowly—that France secretly favors our Cause (this is confirmed by the Baron de Woedtke late aid du Camp to the King of Prussia & a Major Gen. of his Cavalry, but came last from Paris and who this afternoon was unanimously Elected by the Congress a Brig. Gen. of their Forces). Temple is a high Whig & says He is certain Two Thirds of the Nation are for Us & that he is confident there will be a Revolution shortly in England, & the King has been heard to declare Let what will happen he has a safe Asylum in Hanover. Gen. Washington has bombarded Boston, with what Effect is not yet precisely known—he split 5 Mortars. Howe & his Troops are said to be on the move either to Halifax or N York. Congress have voted 8000 Men for the Defence of N York & the followg Regiments are ordered there Viz, Wind’s late Ld. Sterling’s (already there) & Daytons from
