396 March 17, 1776 may be assur’d of inter Nos that France stands ready to assist us when ever we ask her. Now Sir what have we to fear? Powder is almost daily arriving in small Quantities & there is the greatest prospect of an ample supply of all military stores; shall we in these circumstances Bow the knee to B? God forbid. We have perticular accots. from Cambrige up to the 8th inst. I am anxious to hear what has happend since. Shod the Royals Brutes, Buchers & Pirates evacuate Boston & that Harbour (which I dont believe tho’ many do) I suppose you’ll think yourselves tolerable safe at Portsmouth. I hope I have some letters from you on the Road. Pray write often & be very perticular. I suppose my B r [Joseph Whipple] will expect a letter from me by this conveyence but when I write to you I suppose I am at the same time writing to him & besides my avertion to writing I have but little time & expect less when my Colleague is gone. Tell Mrs. B. [Hannah Whipple Brackett] I ex pect some of her Female Politicks & in return I shall give her some accot of the fine Country as soon as I have opportunity to take a view of it. Remember me Dutifully to My Mother, who I wish to hear from. Tell Mrs. Trail that Mr. Temple saw her son in London & speaks well of him, he also saw her Dearee Mr. R 3 &c at Falmouth. Mr. T[emple] is or seems to be a high whig; he Damns King, Lords, & Commons, without reserve and at the same time talks much of his acquaintence with the Great. The Ostensible cause that Russia will not assist Britain, is that there is no Carttel settled between Britain, & America, but the real cause is France’s interposition thro Sweeden. These Gentn that came in the Packet left London the 23 Deer. & Falmouth 7th Jany. They saw Col. Allen in Pendeniss’s Castle in Irons but before they left Falmouth he was sent on Board a man of war to do duty as a common Sailor; this ship is coming to America. Can there be an American so lost to Humanity as to wish a connection with a set of Barbarians. I have sent some news papers to Mr. Langdon, remember me kindly to all friends & be assured I am with Great Sincerity, Yours, W Whipple RC (Paul Francis Webster, Beverly Hills, Calif., 1974). ’Joshua Brackett (1733-1802), Portsmouth, N.H., physician and brother-in-law of William Whipple, was a member of the Now Hampshire Provincial Congress and was appointed judge of the New Hampshire Admiralty Court in 1776. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 13:197—201. 2 Charles Carroll of Carrollton and John Carroll. 3 Probably Robert Trail, Portsmouth, N.H., merchant and brewer, and husband of Whipple’s sister, Mary Whipple Trail. Charles W. Brewster, Rambles About Ports mouth. First series (Portsmouth, N.H.: C. W. Brewster & Son, 1859), p. 150.
