404 March 19, 1776 would soon be manifest, and some such Cases would happen. In the present Exigency of American Affairs, when by an Act of Parliament We are put out of all Royal Protection, and consequently discharged from all obligations of Allegiance; and when it has become necessary to assume governments for immediate Security, the Governor, Lieut. Governor, Secretary, Treasurer, Attorney General should be chosen by joint Ballot of both Houses. The governor, by and with and not without the Advice and Consent of Council, should appoint all Judges, Justices, and all other officers civil and military, who should have Commissions signed by the Governor and under the Seal of the Colony. Sheriffs should be chosen by the Freeholders of the Counties. If you chose to have a Government more popular all officers may be chosen by one House of Assembly subject to the Negative of the other. The Stability of Government, in all its Branches, the Morals of the People and every other Blessing of Society, and social Institutions de pend so much upon an able and impartial Administration of Justice, that the judicial Power should be Seperated from the Legislative and Executive, and independent upon both; the Judges should be Men of Experience in the Laws, of exemplary Morals, invincible Patience, unruffled Calmness, and indefatigable application; their Minds should not be distracted with complicated jarring Interests—they should not be dependent on any Man or Body of Men—they should lean to none, be subservient to none, nor more complaisant to one than another. To this End they should hold Estates for Life in their offices, or in other Words their Commissions should be during good Behaviour, and their Salaries ascertained and established by Law. If accused of Misbehaviour, by the Representative Body, before the Governor and Council, and if found guilty after having an opportunity to make their Defence, they should [be] removed from their offices and Subjected to such other Punishment as their offences deserve. A Rotation of Offices, in the Legislative and Executive Departments has many Advocates and if practicable might have many good Effects. A Law may be made that no Man shall be Governor, Lt Governor, Secretary, Treasurer, Counciller, or Representative more than three years at a Time, nor be again eligible untill after an Interval of three Years. A Constitution like this, of which the foregoing is a very imperfect Plan naturally introduces generally Knowledge into the Community and inspires the People with a conscious Dignity, becoming Freemen. A general Desire of Reputation and Importance among their Neigh bours, which cannot be obtained without some Government of their Passions, some good Humour, good Manners and good Morals, takes Place in the Minds of Men, and naturally causes general Virtue and
