March 19, 1776 405 Civility. That Pride which is introduced by such a Government among the People, makes them brave and enterprising. That ambition which is introduced into every Rank makes them sober, industrious and frugal. You will find among them some Elegance, but more Solidity, a little Politeness but a great deal of Civility—some Pleasure, but much Busi ness. Let Commissions run thus “Colony of North Carolina to A. B. Greet ing” &c and be tested by the Governor. Let Writs run “The Colony of &c to the sherriff” &c. Let Indictments conclude “against the Peace of the Colony of North Carolina, and the Dignity of the same,” or if you please against the Peace of the thirteen united Colonies. We have heard much of a Continental Constitution. I see no occasion for any But a Congress. Let that be made an equal and fair Repre sentative of the Colonies, and let its authority be confined to three cases, War, Trade, and Controversies between Colony and Colony. If a Confederation was formed, agreed on in Congress, and ratified by the assemblies, These Colonies under such Terms of Government and such a Confederation would be unconquerable by all the Monarchies of Europe. This Plan of a Government for a Colony you see is intended as a temporary Expedient under the present Pressure of affairs. The Govern ment once formed, and having settled its authority will have Leisure enough to make any Alterations that Time and Experience, and more mature deliberation may dictate. Particularly, a Plan may be devised perhaps and be thought expedient, for giving the Choice of the Governor to the People at large, and of the Councillors to the Freeholders of the Counties. But be these Things as they may. Two Things are indispen- sibly to be attended to—one is some Regulation for securing forever an equitable Choice of Representatives—another is the Education of Youth both in Literature and Morals. I wish, my dear sir, that I had Time to think of these Things more at Leisure, and to write more correctly. But you must take these Hints rough as they run. Your own Reflections assisted by the Patriots of North Carolina will improve upon every Part of them. As you brought upon yourself the Trouble of reading these crude Thoughts, you cant blame, your Friend RC (MHi). Adams, Works (Adams), 4:203-9. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 Although this manuscript, which ultimately became Adams’ pamphlet Thoughts on Government, cannot be precisely dated, it was certainly written before March 27, when John Penn left Philadelphia to return to North Carolina, and it was probably written after March 19, when Adams wrote to his wife criticizing Thomas Paine for “very inadequate Ideas of what is proper and necessary to be done in order to form Constitutions” and asserting that he himself would have made “a more re spectable Figure as an Architect” had he undertaken such a work. The implication
