March 20, 1776 413 from it will not be justified but for urgent Reasons. I mean to con tinue to Write one in about a Week or Ten days, 2 but the Transmittance of Letters out of the Post Road across the Country I suppose is pritty Uncertain. I have wrote to Mr. Lyman to let me know wheither my Letters shall be sent to N. Haven or to Mr Ellerys office at Hartford. The weekly Post might carry them from thence. I have bo’t a sett of Shakespeares Works Price 8 dollars for Mariana, as I heard she was fond of them. I shall Send them to Oliver first Op- pertunity. Have Sent to Oliver and Frederice Dr Smith’s Oration on the Death of Genl Montgomery. Dr Smith has too much covertly intro duced his own political Sentiments of the Times and defamed Col Enos without any Authority. 3 Dr. Smith’s character is not I take it the most unexceptionable and being a Wioming Claimer is peculiarly inimicial to our Colony and N England in general. He was desired by Congress to deliver this Oration but has not Obtained their Thanks for so doing. Neither is it printed at their Desire. There are Strokes in it of Sublime Oratory—but I think he meant rather to gratify himself than to do Honour to the Memory of anyone, but this by the bye. I am affectionaly yrs. O Wolcott P.S. My kindest Love to my Children and Freinds. RC (CtHi). •Roger Sherman may have left Philadelphia this day, since the $100,000 con gressional advance for Connecticut, which Wolcott had earlier indicated would be transmitted by Sherman, left Philadelphia on March 19. See Wolcott to Matthew Griswold, March 9; and Samuel Huntington to Jabez Huntington, March 19, 1776. Although the date of Sherman’s departure is not definitely known, the notes and accounts he recorded in his 1776 almanac document his return to Philadelphia on April 10. Sherman Papers, DLC. 2 Wolcott wrote a brief note to his wife on March 22 reporting that he was sending home presents for the family. Etting Collection, PHi. 3 Roger Enos, a Connecticut officer commanding the rear division of Arnold’s expedition to Canada, had returned with his men to Cambridge in response to complaints over shortages of provisions. Although Enos had been acquitted by a court-martial of the charge of returning home without Arnold’s permission, Smith implied in his address that those who returned were deserters. The proceedings of the court-martial and Smith’s oration are printed in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:238—40, 1675-84. For congressional reaction to Smith’s oration, see Richard Smith’s Diary, February 21; and Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams, February 26, 1776. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston Philad. 20th March 1776 I have been favourd, my dear Sir, with your Letter of the 15t of February. 1 As it only notices the Receipt of one of mine I conclude that a second miscarried which woud alone be sufficient to deter me from
