March 20, 1776 417 place of reason and Argument, our Tempers are sound, some among us urge strongly for Independency and eternal separation, others wish to wait a little longer and to have the opinion of their Constituents on that subject, you must give us the sentiment of your province when your Convention meets. 1 Several Merchants and others have petitioned the Congress for leave to fit out privatiers to Cruize against British Vessels, it was granted yesterday, the Restrictions are not yet completed or I would have sent you a copy of them. 2 I send you the last News paper enclosed to which refer for news. My Compliments to all. I am Sir, Your most obedt Servt. Jos. Hewes. MS not found; reprinted from N.C. Colonial Records, 11:288—89. 1 On April 12, 1776, the North Carolina Provincial Congress unanimously re solved to authorize the North Carolina delegates “to concur with the delegates of the other Colonies in declaring Independency, and forming foreign alliances.” N.C. Colonial Records, 10:512. 2 See Richard Smith’s Diary, March 19, 1776. Francis Lewis to William Livingston Dr. Sir, New York 20 March 1776 I have been favored with your Letter of the 15 Inst 1 & pursuant thereto have agreed with Mr. John Griffiths proprietor of Orange Iron Works for the several Articles specified at foot. 2 He this day complaind to me that by information from one Cox & others who had contracted with the Committee 3 at Phila. that they had much higher prices than those Stipulated for by him, hopes to be considered tho’ will not fall back from his agreemt. By this youl see how necessary it is for Com mittees of Congress to be circumspect or they will be imposed upon. Mr. Erskine of Ringwood Iron Works [is now?] in Town & to give me his proposalls for Cannon [Sh]ot tomorrow, but is apprehensive cannot cast Cannon larger than 9 pounders, but can furnish shot of any size & Quantity of both which let me know the extent you would have engaged, by next Post. 4 I am, Dr. Sir, your very Humbl Servt, Fra. Lewis Engaged with Mr. John Griffiths for 150 Tons Pig Iron for Ballast @ £8 per Ton d[elivere]d at the ships 30 Tons of 12 pd shott 20 Tons of 9 pd do j@ £15 per Ton dd where ordered 4 Tons of 4 pd do 6 Tons of Grape shot @ £20 per Ton dd the same 20, 9 pd Cannon finished @ £28 per Ton proved and dd any where on Hudsons River by the End of May
