420 March 20, 1776 and others. 1 The Commission and Instructions to the Canada Com missioners were canvassed & finished, by One Clause any Two of them are allowed to abate Fortifications and to construct any so as not to exceed 100,000 Dollars. 2 Some Comees. were filled up. Major Brixon [Wrixon] lately from England being recommendd. for the Service in Canada in Quality of an Engineer a Comee. was raised to consider the Application. 3 Several Accots. allowed. E Rutledge moved that Magaws Regiment may be furnished with Pikes they having no Guns, it was desired also for several other Regts. The Matter was debated & left for further Consideration. 4 On like Motion Col Magaw was allowed 3000 Dollars on Accot. to purchase Arms with. S. Adams reported about the Prisoners at Trenton. MS (DLC). 1 Gen. William Alexander’s letter to Hancock of March 16 is in PCC, item 162, 2:466-68, and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:247—48. 2 -For further references to this issue, see Smith’s Diary, February 14, 1776, note 1. 3 See John Adams to Abigail Adams, March 17, 1776, note 1. 4 See JCC, 4:215, 224. John Adams’ Draft Resolutions for Encouraging Agriculture and Manufactures [March 21? 1776] 1 Resolved, That it be recommended to the several Assemblies, Con ventions, Councils of Safety and Committees of Correspondence and Inspection, that they use their utmost Endeavours, by all reasonable Means to promote the Culture of Flax, Hemp, and Cotton and the Growth of Wool in these united Colonies. 2 Resolved That it be recommended to the Assemblies, Conventions, and Councils of Safety, that they take the earliest Measures for erecting in each and every Colony a Society for the Encouragement of Agricul ture, Arts, Manufactures and Commerce, and that a Correspondence be maintained between such Societies, that the numerous natural Ad vantages of this Country for supporting its Inhabitants may not be neglected. Resolved that it be recommended to the said Assemblies, Conven tions and Councils of Safety that they consider of Ways and Means of introducing the Manufactures of Duck and Sail Cloth into such Colonies where they are not now understood and of increasing and promoting them where they are. Resolved that be a Committee, to receive all Plans and Proposals for encouraging and improving the Agriculture, Arts, Manufactures and Commerce both foreign and domestic of America,
