March 21, 1776 421 to correspond with the several Assemblies, Conventions, Councils and Committees of Safety, Committees of Correspondence and of Observa tion in these united Colonies upon these interesting Subjects. 3 That these be published. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:234—35. 1 Adams may have drafted these resolutions considerably earlier than March 21, but it seems likely that they were written shortly before they were adopted by Congress this day. Richard Smith said that Adams reported them from a committee, but there is no mention of such a committee in the journals. Richard Smith’s Diary, March 21, 1776; and JCC, 4:224. 2 For the amended text of the first three resolutions adopted by Congress, see JCC, 4:224. 3 This final proposal was rejected by Congress. Richard Smith’s Diary, March 21, 1776. John Adams to James Warren My dear sir March 21. 1776 I have not reed more than one Letter from you since I left you and that was a very Short one. 1 I have written as often as I could. If you get a Sight of the New York and Philadelphia News Papers you will see what a mighty Question is before the Tribunal of the Public. The Decision is yet in suspence, but a Guess may be formed what it will be. The Day before yesterday the Committee of Observation of this City, a virtuous, brave and patriotic Body of Men 100 in Number, voted with only one dissentient Voice, to petition their Assembly now sitting, to repeal their deadly Instruction to their Delegates in Congress. This assembly, a few days ago upon a Peti[ti]on from the Same Committee and some other Bodies, has voted seventeen additional Members, in order to make the Representation of this Province more adequate. 2 You will soon see a sett of Resolutions, which will please you. The Continental Vessells, the Provincial Vessells, and Letters of Marque and Privateers will be let loose upon British Trade. 3 I hope and believe it will not be long before, Trade will be open. 4 Foreign Nations, all the World I hope will be invited to come here, and our People permitted to go to all the World except the Dominion of him, who is adjudged to be Nerone Neronior. I think the Utmost Encouragement must be given to Trade—and therefore We must lay no Duties at present upon Exports and Imports— nor attempt to confine our Trade to our own Bottoms, or our own sea men. This for the present. We have so much Work to do, by sea and Land,’ and so few Hands to do it, that We shall not be under any Necessity nor will it be good Policy, I think, to attempt such Restrictions as yet. The Act of Assembly here for Seventeen additional Representatives,
