March 21, 1776 425 passed a Vote for privateering, by which I hope the hopes of some of our Friends will be repaired. It is expected that vigorous Measures will be taken in preventing such as may be inimical to the cause from in juring its friends. Future Subscriptions to associations must be ridiculous and was inserted in the Resolve of Congress merely to accommodate it to those Colonies who have hitherto had no associations among them. Fear & motives of Interest & Convenience would doubtless induce many to sign it who are our Enemies in there Hearts & whose uniform Con duct has hitherto been very suspicious if not unfriendly. This Subject recalls to my Mind a little Report which I am told some Tories on Long Island were pleased to form and propagate re specting me—Vzt. That I should have said they were misrepresented to Congress. This Is not true, & to be ranked with many other false Re ports which there is Reason to believe originated with that order of Men. Would it not be well to remove such as are notoriously disaffected to Places where their arts and Influence will do us no Harm. Where are your Accounts? It is suspected that certain People on Staten Island daily afford Sup plies to the Enemy! Ought not the watering Place to be guarded and would not the troops which might be designed for that Purpose be useful in other Respects. I should think your Army sufficiently numerous to admit of such a Detachment. I hope you are careful of provincial Powder. The Continent are able to supply a Sufficiency of that article for continental Purposes. This Colony takes Care to keep there own Stock good & I think act wisely. I wish your Convention would pass a Place Bill & direct their Delegates to promote such a Measure here. One or two other Colonies have done it and it would redound much to your Honor to patronize such a Mea sure. Adieu for the present. I am your Friend, John Jay RC (NHi). Richard Smith’s Diary [March 21, 1776] Thursday 21. The Votes read. Col Charles Stewart of Hunterdon directed to muster Capt. Woolvertons Compy who offer themselves for the Service and 600 Dollars were allowed the Col for their Use. 1 John Adams from a Comee. reported some Resolutions which were amended and passed recommending to the Colonies to encorage the Culture of Flax, Hemp, Cotton and the Increase of Wool, to form a Society in each Colony for the Encoragement of Arts, Manufactures, Agriculture and Commerce &c. 2 These were ordered to be published, a Clause was
