426 March 21, 1776 erased for a standing Comee. of Congress to correspond with and assist these Societies. A Comee. of 3 was appointed to superintend and hasten the Printing of the Journal. Some Letters and Papers from N Carolina were read giving an Accot. of the Defeat of the Tories by Col. Caswell, Brig. Gen Donald McDonald is taken Prisoner, Capt. MacLeod & other Officers killed. 3 Harrison moved that Gen Washington do dis charge all the unarmed Men in his Camp when he has used his En deavors without Success to arm them, which was carried after some Opposition. Monsr. Ie Chevalier de St. Hillaire [Aulaire] was made Capt. of an Independent Compy. & ordered to Canada. MS (DLC). 1 See John Hancock to Thomas Wolverton, this date. 2 See John Adams’ Draft Resolutions for Encouraging Agriculture and Manu factures, March 21? 1776. 3 For a detailed account of the crushing defeat sustained by North Carolina loyalists at the battle of Moore’s Creek Bridge on February 27, 1776, see Hugh F. Rankin, The North Carolina Continentals (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1971), chap. 2. Benjamin Franklin to Charles William Frederic Dumas Dear Sir, Philadelphia, March 22, 1776. I wrote to you lately by Mr. Story, and since by another conveyance. 1 This line will be delivered to you by Mr. Deane, who goes over on busi ness of the Congress, and with whom you may freely converse on the affairs committed to you in behalf of that body. I recommend him warmly to your civilities. Mess’rs. Vaillant and Pechard continue close at their new business, and are already able to subsist by it: as they grow more expert, they will be able to make more money. Mr. Deane will inform you of every thing here, and I need not add more, than that I am, with esteem and respect, Dear Sir, Your most obedient, And most humble servant, B. Franklin. MS not found; reprinted from Port Folio, 3 (July 2, 1803): 214. 1 For the letter delivered by Mr. Thomas Story, see Franklin to Charles William Frederic Dumas, December 9, 1775. The other letter has not been found. Richard Smith’s Diary Friday 22 March [1776] Votes read & Letters from Gen Washn., Ld. Stirling and others.
