428 March 22, 1776 Canadians have not Sent Delegates as you mention, this can hardly be expected before the Reduction of Quebec. Dr. Franklin and Mr Chaice Members of Congress and a Mr. Carrol of Virginia [Maryland] go forward in a Very few days into that Country with full and conciliatory Powers for Effecting a Union. We have just reed. News from N Carolina that there has been a battle there between the American Regulars and the Regulators, who upon an old Grudge are become Torys, in which the Latter were de feated, their Genl, taken Prisoner, the second in Command killed, together with a Number of their followers, and the rest dispersed. 3 These People became inimical on Acct, of former Resentments against the lower Countys during the Administration of Govr. Tryon, which Story you well remember—but as a Vast force is up in that Colony they will douptless reduce the Insurgents to order; for other News refer you to the Papers. The last Resolution passed in Congress of a much in teresting Nature is permitting Privateers to Cruize upon the British Trade. This will be published as soon as a proper preamble or Declara tion of Grounds on which &c is settled. 4 The inhuman pirating Act calls forth every Exertion, and I hope We may in Time be able with tolerable Success to Combat G Britain upon that Eliment which She boasts herself the Mistriss of—but still We shall be oblidged to remember that Rome was not built in a day, tho’ she finally became mistriss of the World. The World We shall not covet but so much of America as may be needfull for us, I hope We shall injoy without any earthly controul. You mention the Efficacy of common sence, the leading Sentiment which it dictates I am sensible Very greatly prevails. Some People Still please themselves with the delusive Phanptom of Commissioners com ing over, with the Proffers of Peace—but I beleive it is Very certain they have nothing in their Hands but Pardons for Rebells. As these will not be accepted of, their Embassy will be fruitless—indeed I consider the whole as a most idle Whim. The British Court mean only to have America under their feet, and I fancy will hardly Attempt even to dis guise their Intention. When that is once known the little hesitancy which still remains, I imagine will Vanish. The colonies will enter into no Seperate Nigotiation, and the Congress will not yeild any essential Claim. The important Crisis which must Stamp the Character of America must be Near—and I do not perceive that its approach pro duces but Very few sad faces. The Business of the Colonies is Very interesting as well as Various and extensive. May God carry us thro the severe Conflict, guide the American Councills and give us Peace safe and honorable. My Compli ments to Mrs Adams whose Health I wish restored—and also my Com pliments to Mr Champion (to whom I lately wrote) and my other Friends—and be assured that I am Sir, your most Obedient, humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott
