434 March 23, 1776 York. The Spirit you betray on this occassion becomes a Soldier. The inclosed Copy of a Resolve of Congress will I hope settle all Doubts relative to Rank, which may arise from your new Commission. 4 The Consequence you drew from that Circumstance was more in genious than solid, for I can assure You that the Congress were not dis posed to do anything wrong or uncivil—and I can also add that your not having joined your Regimt. last Summer has been explained to their Satisfaction as far as I am able to judge. 5 With Respect to this however as well as some other Matters I shall defer particulars till we meet. In a word with some Men in these as in other Times, a Man must either be their Tool and be despised, or act a firm disinterested Part and be abused. The latter has in one or two Matters been your fate as well as that of many other good Men. The Attack was insidious not open or effectual. Adieu. I am dear Sir, your Friend, John Jay RC (NHi). 1 See Jay to Alexander McDougall, March 13, 1776, note 2. 2 A reference to McDougall’s reflections on the security of Egg Harbor, which he made in his letter of March 20 to Jay. See Jay, Papers (Morris), 1:237. 3 See Jay to Alexander McDougall, March 13, 1776, note 3. 4 See the resolution on the ranking of officers, passed by Congress this day, in JCC, 4:226. The copy of this resolution which was transmitted to the New York Provincial Convention contains the following note. “N.B. This passed to settle a dispute between officers of the same rank, where one who was prior by the date of his first commission was put posterior to another in the new appointment both still holding the same rank. But was not to have any affect in cases of promotion, Con gress having reserved and exercised the power of promoting merit without regarding prior Rank.” Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 2:412. 6 On this point, see James Duane to Alexander McDougall, November 15, 1775, note. Marine Committee to the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety Marine Committee March 23. 1776 Resolved That application be made to the Committee of Safety requesting them to lend to this Committee at least thirty good Arms (to be repaid with the first Arms which arrive) that number being absolutely neces sary to the fitting out of the Brigantine Lexington intended for the pro tection of the Trade on this Coast. 1 By Direction of the Marine Com[mitte]e, John Hancock Chairman Colo. Roberdeaux is earnestly requested to gratify the Committee in this request, the 'Vessell waiting only for the Arms. J. H.
