March 25, 1776 437 RC (MH). 1 Robert Treat Paine noted in his diary this day: “Heard that the Ministerial Troops had evacuated Boston & that Genl Washington had taken possession of it last Monday.” MHi. John Hancock to William Alexander Sir Philadelphia 25th March 1776 Gapt James Young of this City having by Letter Represented to Congress that his Son John Young in Januy last Elop’d from him and got on board the Phoenix Man of War at New York; 1 from whence he was proceeding to Boston & on his passage was Cast away on Long Island, & that he is now fortunately a Prisoner at New York; & Desiring that he may be permitted to be a Prisoner on his Parole at the Estate of his late Grandfather Doctor Greame; In Consequence of which I have it in Charge to Direct that the said John Young be allow’d to Reside at the house of the late Dr Greame. You will therefore please to order him to be Deliver’d to his Father, first Taking his Parole which he must Subscribe, & you will forward it to me. Gapt James Young is a Gentleman exceedingly friendly to our Cause, I therefore beg leave to Recommend him to your Notice. I have the honour to be, Sir, Your most hume Servt, J H Prt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “To the Officer Commandg. the Continental Troops at New York.” 1 Young’s letter is in PCC, item 78, 24:651, and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:464—65. See also JCC, 4:227. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia March 25th 1776. I had the Honour of receiving, yesterday, yours of the 13th [i.e. 19th] containing the agreeable Information of the ministerial Troops having abandoned Boston. 1 The partial Victory, we have obtained over them in that Quarter, I hope will turn out a happy Presage of a more general one. Whatever Place may be the Object of their Destination, it must certainly give a sincere Pleasure to every Friend of this Country, to see the most diligent Preparations every where making to receive them. What may be their Views, it is indeed impossible to tell with any Degree of Exactness. We have all the Reason however, from the Rage of Dis appointment & Revenge, to expect the worst. Nor have I any Doubt, that as far as their Power extends, they will inflict every Species of
