438 March 25, 1776 Calamity upon us. The same Providence, that has baffled their Attempt against the Province of Massachusetts Bay, will, I trust, defeat the deep laid Scheme, they are now meditating against some other Part of our Country. The Intelligence that our Army had got Possession of Boston, you will readily suppose, gave me heart-felt Pleasure. I beg, Sir, you will be pleased to accept my warmest Thanks for the Attention you have shewed to my Property in that Town. I have only to request, that Capt. Cazeneau will continue to look after it, and take Care That it be no Ways destroyed or damaged. 2 This Success of our Arms naturally calls upon me to congratulate you, Sir, to whose Wisdom and Conduct, it has been owing. Permit me to add, that if a constant Discharge of the most important Duties, and the Fame attending thereon, can afford genuine Satisfaction, the Pleasures you feel, must be the most rational and exalted. I have it in Charge from Congress to direct, that you send an Account of the Troops in your Camp, who are deficient in Arms, to the several Assemblies or Conventions of the Colonies to which those Men belong, and request them to send a sufficient Number of Arms for the Men coming from the respective Colonies; and that if Arms cannot be pro cured, that such as have not Arms, be dismissed the Service. 3 The Congress being of opinion, that the Reduction of Quebec, and the general Security of the Province of Canada, are Objects of great Concern, I am commanded to direct, that you detach four Battalions into Canada from the Army under your Command, as soon as you shall be of opinion, that the safety of New York, and the Eastern Service, will permit. 4 Your several Letters are, at this Time, under the Consideration of a Committee. As soon as any Determination is made thereon, I will immediately forward it to you. I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Esteem, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Sevt. John Hancock Presidt. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, and signed by John Hancock. 1 Washington’s March 19 letter, which is in PCC, item 152, 1:537-40, and Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 4:403—5, was read in Congress on March 25. As a result of the news, Congress authorized a letter of thanks to General Washington and the troops under his command and ordered the preparation of a commemorative medal for presentation to Washington. JCC, 4:234. The letter of thanks, which was approved by Congress and sent over Hancock’s signature on April 2, is printed in JCC, 4:248^9. 2 Isaac Cazneau’s report of damages to Hancock’s extensive Boston property is extracted in Herbert S. Allan, John Hancock, Patriot in Purple (New York; Macmillan Co., 1948), pp. 218-19. 3 See JCC, 4:223. 4 See JCC, 4:236; and Richard Henry Lee to Charles Lee, March 25, 1776.
