March 25, 1776 439 Richard Henry Lee to Charles Lee My Dear Friend, [Philadelphia, March 25, 1776] I have just received your letter from Baltimore covering one for Mr. Hancock. 1 My Brother who was present in Congress when the Resolve you allude to passed, says that every Gentleman acknowledged the necessity under which you acted, and approved the measure. The prece dent alone they feared, when less judgment was used. They endeavored therefore to guard against pointing at you by directing their Resolve to future occasions. 2 As then there was no design to reflect on you, so we have concluded that the better way will be not to present the letter, but content ourselves with informing Congress of your having taken the Engineers and getting their approbation. 3 Gen. Washington entered Boston this day sennight, the Enemy having quitted it with some pre cipitation, and apparent apprehension of being disturbed in their re treat. To prevent this, they left their works undemolished, and placed images large as life representing Soldiers on guard as usual on Bunker Hill—Our friend Sullivan first discovered the cheat. They have left 30 of their light Horse behind them almost famished, and stores to the amount of 25 or 30,000 pounds. Where they will go next, heaven knows, but we must endeavour to be prepared at all points. I this day moved in Congress and succeeded, to send an order for four battalions to be detached for Canada from Gen. Washington’s Army. 4 I am afraid we shall loose poor Govr. Ward, who now lies dangerously ill with the small pox taken in the natural way. The Eastern Army will all be at N. Y. presently. 6 I sincerely wish you happy and successful because I am with great affection Yours. Richard Henry Lee MS not found; reprinted from NYHS Collections 4 (1871): 362—63. 1 Charles Lee’s March 21 letter to John Hancock is in NTHS Collections 4 (1871): 360-61. 2 A resolution forbidding military officers from imposing test oaths was passed on March 9, in reaction to General Lee’s administration of such an oath to certain New York inhabitants. See JCC, 4:195; and New York Delegates to the New York Provincial Convention, March 15, 1776. 3 Two engineers were elected for the southern department on March 30. JCC, 4:241. 4 See JCC, 4:236. 6 Three days later Richard Henry wrote a brief note to the general introducing his brother-in-law, William Aylett. “Give me leave to introduce my friend and relation Colonel William Aylett to yqur acquaintance and friendship. You will find Colo. Ayletts worth deserving your esteem, and his connection with me, will, I am sure not lessen it. “No news since my last, we know not yet where the Boston fugitives are gone.” Richard Henry Lee to Charles Lee, March 28, 1776. RPJCB.
