440 March 25, 1776 Richard Smith’s Diary Monday 25 March [1776] Votes read & Letters from Gen Washn., President Tucker and many more. Howes Troops have abandoned Boston and our People are in Possession. John Adams moved that the Thanks of the Congress be given to the Officers there for their good Conduct and that a Gold Medal be struck with a proper Device & presented to Mr. Washington, ac cordingly J. Adams & 2 more were appointed a Comee. for those Pur poses. 1 S. Adams from a Comee. reported Major Brixon [Wrixon] as fit to be Adjutant General in Canada with the Rank of Brigadier, this was objected to, by Allen particularly, & the Report recommitted. 2 R. H. Lee moved that Gen Washn. be directed to detach from his Army 4 Battals. to Canada if the Service will admit, he was supported by Johnson & Duane and strongly opposed by Harrison but the Motion passed in the Affirmative. A Report for appointing a Commissary Gen eral in Canada was much agitated, Mr. Price was proposed but it ap peared that one Halstead was in Possession at Quebec, by Consent of Congress & that Walter Livingston had been appointed, the Report was negatived, 3 an incidental Question was debated Whether Schuyler or Thomas was to have the chief Command and whether Canada was a distinct Department. 20,000 Dollars advanced to the Virginia Troops. Johnson made a Report inter alia, that 2 Battalions now on Foot in South Carolina & 3 in Virginia should be put upon Continental Pay & Establisht. which passed without any Negative but my own. MS (DLC). 1 On this point, see John Adams to George Washington, April 1, and to Abigail Adams, August 14, 1776. For Adams’ autobiographical account of this motion, see also Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:375-76. 2 See John Adams to Abigail Adams, March 17, 1776, note 1. 3 See Smith’s Diary, March 8, 1776, note 5. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren Dear sir Philadelphia March 26. 1776 I received with great Pleasure your Favour of the 7th Instant, 1 & two Days ago the agreable News of the Reduction of Boston reached this place, on which happy Event give me Leave to congratulate You. What an Occurrence is this to be known in Europe? How are parlia mentary pretensions to be reconciled to Facts? “Eight or ten thousand British Troops are sufficient to pervade America” & yet that Number of their best Veterans, posted in Boston—a Peninsula fortified by Nature—defended by Works which are the product of two Years In-
