March 27, 1776 449 Virga. Delegates stood Charged with an order Deliver’d them Drawn on you for a hundred Pounds Virga. Currency by Mr Mathews, I sometime ago transmitted a Copy of this order to you, 1 but have never been favourd with your an[swe]r whether you would pay it or not, you’l please to Inform us by the next Post. We advanced Mr Jonston Smith 600 Dollars of the Continental Money put into our Hands for the use of the Committee of Safety of Virga, for which we have his Note to Acct, with you at the rate of six shillings Virga Currency per Dollar, he was out of Cash and would have lost the purchase of 50 muskets if we had not done this, you’l please to Acct, with the Comme. for the money. I saw a Letter of yours to my Son in answer to one he wrote you, in which you tell him you had made Ample Remittance to your Dele gates to enable them to pay Capt. Innis’s Balance; as you never had said a Word to us that I know of, no orders had been given to Willing] & Morris about it, but it is now placed to our debit, and is upwards of seven hundred Pounds. Mr Nelson inform’d me you some time ago (when I was at Baltimore) sent £500 which he had paid those Gentn. If I can get a State of their acct, with us you shall have it inclosed, by it you will find we shall soon want money. The Order of the Salt Petre maker is come to hand and accepted, when paid it shall be placed to the Credit, of the Country. I am Dr Sir, your most obedt Servt, Benj Harrison for Self and Colleagues 2 RC (PHi). In the hand of Benjamin Harrison. 1 See Benjamin Harrison to Nicholas, January 17, 1776. 2 The following brief note, in the hand of George Wythe, signed by Wythe “for himself & his brethren,” and bearing the dateline “Philadelphia, 26 March 1776,” was probably also directed to Nicholas. “Mr. Rubsamen’s order for one hundred pounds, of Virginia currency, hath been presented to the persons upon whom it was drawn; and they have agreed to accept it.” Signers of the Declaration, NNPM. No other information on Jacob Rubsamen’s dealings with the Virginia delegates has been found, but see Henry Wisner to Benjamin Towne, December 21, 1775, note 2, for his interest in the manufacture of gunpowder. Benjamin Franklin to William Alexander My dear Lord Brunswick, March Wedny. 27. 1776 I received your obliging Letter some Days since at Philada. but our Departure from thence being uncertain, I could not till now acquaint your Lordship when we expected to be at New York. We move but slowly, and think we shall scarce reach farther than Newark to-morrow, so that we cannot have the Pleasure of seeing you before Friday. Being
