450 March 27, 1776 myself from long Absence as much a Stranger in N York as the other Gentlemen, We join in requesting you would be so good as to cause Lodgings to be provided for us, and a Sloop engaged to carry us to Albany. There are five of us, and we propose staying in New York two Nights at least. With great and Sincere Esteem & Respect, I have the Honour to be, My Lord, Your Lordship’s most obedient & most humble Servant, B Franklin RC (NHi). Joseph Hewes to Robert Smith Dear Sir Philadelphia 27th March 1776 I wrote to you yesterday by Post 1 but least that should Miscarry I will endeavour to give you the substance of it as near as I can recollect for I keep no Copies. I am sorry to find by yours brought me by the re turn express that you could not get any Vessel to bring Naval Stores, a Vessel Arived some days ago from Newbern and sold Turpentine 35/, Pitch 25/, Tar 20/ per barrel, a good Profit. Mr. Rob. Morris has loaded sundry Vessels lately for Acct, of the Continent some of which are bound to France & other foreign Countries in order to import such articles as will be most wanted for the Army & Navy, our Brig Fanny is one of these. I proposed to him that I thought a Vessel or two might be laden in North Carolina with Tobacco, that they might probably get out of Occacock at almost any time as that inlet would not be so narrowly watched by Cutters as many other places. He has agreed that you should purchase 200 or 300 hhds of Tobacco if to [6e] had. If you can get either of these quanti[ti]es in and about Halafax and get them down to Daylys I would have you enter upon it immediately; can it be done? Can you get a Vessel or Vessels to Charter to carry it to France or any other country in Europe. The Charter party I sent you for the Fanny will be a guide to you; 2 get them either by the Month or Ton, the Vessels to be ensured against British Captures by the Congress; five Cent will be allowed as a Commission for purchasing and continental Money or Virga, money will be sent you to pay for the whole; let me have your answer fully on this matter as early as possible, and if any thing can be done I will send you the money, or if I can get away will bring it my self, but unless Hooper or Penn should return I cannot leave the Congress, 3 1 dare not leave our Province unrepresented, or perhaps you might get some trusty person to come express in the service of the Prov ince in case they should think such a thing Necessary to bring any par ticular information; in that case the money might be sent to you without expence, or if you could draw for it to any advantage & get money for your Bills it would do just as well; would not such a sum of money
