March 27, 1776 451 passing thro’ your hands be of service exclusive of the Commission. Proper Certificates shall be sent from Congress to the Committees to let such Vessels pass. If the Tobo. could not all be got in Carolina could not some be had in Virginia & brought down Notaway & Black Water Rivers to Edenton. Care must be taken not to Value the Vessels too high, it would be well to have them Valued by indifferent persons, and that Valuation under the hands of those Persons sent here, as the Vessels might be obliged to go to several Ports it would be best to Charter them by the month. Let me have your Sentiments fully. Hooper & Penn will tell you all the News. 4 I am Dr. Sir, Yours Sincerely, Joseph Hewes RC (NcU). 1 Not found. 2 See Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, February 13, 1776; and Clark, Naval Documents, 3:1285—87. 3 Hooper and Penn returned to North Carolina at this time to attend its provin cial convention, which met from April 4 through May 14. N.C. Colonial Records, 10:499-590. 4 Hewes also wrote a letter this day to Samuel Johnston in which, after describing his efforts to send two wagonloads of gunpowder and drums to North Carolina, he observed: “I have been put on so many Committees, some of a Commercial kind, that I [have] a much harder time of it than either of my brethren. I envy them both the pleasure of travelling [....] Penn, I believe, would not choose to stay at any rate from the Convention. Hooper & myself thought it right that one of us should go also. “I think he will be most useful in Convention. If the Commissioners we have heard so much of [come?] here I shall [send?] off an express & you must in that case send them both back, or some other in their stead. I must not in that case have the weight of the whole province on my shoulders. Why cannot you come yourself ?” Edmund C. Burnett Transcripts, DLC. Stephen Hopkins to Henry Ward Philadelphia 27th March 1776 Sir I am very sorry to be under the necessity of writing so disagreable News, as the death of your brother the honorable Samuel Ward Esqr. must be. He first found himself a little out of order, on Wednesday the 13th of March, and on that and the two following days, he attended Congress, but on the last of them he was so poorly as to be obliged to leave it before it rose, and on Saturday the 16th in the morning the small pox appeard plainly and very full upon him. To this time, and for some days after, the Symptoms appeared favourable, and the doctors Young and Bond, who attended him, thought not at all dangerous—Tho’ I confess for myself, I was apprehensive of danger much sooner than they. The Symptoms from this time began to grow more and more malignant every day, until Friday the 22nd, when the Doctors themselves began
