456 March 28, 1776 promote the best welfare of the Colonies, & that you will as soon as may be & from time to time inform the Congress of the state of these manufactures in your Colony, of the quantity of Saltpetre already made, the preparation for & prospects of encreasing it, what quantity of gun powder is already made, & the state of your powder mills, & also what discovery is made of sulphur mines & the progress in working them. Supposing the most approved method of making saltpetre may not have reached you, we have inclosed such as experience in some Colonies has recommended. The laying together suitable composts either in fences or beds in order to collect nitrous matter, seems necessary to be immediately at tended to, as the earth from under old buildings may soon be exhausted. It is hoped this effort of the Congress will have the desired effect, without which we have reason to fear, it will ere long be said of us, that we are become Slaves because we were not industrious enough to be free. By order of the Committee I Subscribe, your humble Servant, Rob Treat Paine P.S. I take the liberty herewith to send an extract from Dr. Brownriggs treatise of making Salt.* The climate is so suitable, & there are So many places on our sea coasts where neither Men of War nor Cutters can come, where salt may be made in plenty, that it is hoped some persons of suffi cient judgment & application will immediately undertake it. The ex tract was made for the benefit of those who are unacquainted with the original, to which recourse may be had by those who are disposed to manufacture white salt. Any Account of your success in these under takings must give great pleasure to all lovers of America. RTP RC (NN). Written and signed by Paine for the committee for “promoting and encouraging the manufactures of salt petre, sulphur and powder.” Addressed: “Circu lar. To the honble. Convention or Council of Safety of the Colony of Maryland.” 1 Although this letter is clearly dated March 28, Paine may have sent it on April 2. His diary entry for April 2 reads: “Wrote Col. Palmer & Comitte of Safety Maryland abt. Saltpetre & Salt dated 28th ulto. & Majr. Hawley.” MHi. 2 These resolves, passed by Congress on February 23, 1776, are in JCC, 4:170—71. 3 Paine, as chairman of the committee for “promoting and encouraging the manufactures of salt petre, sulphur and powder,” sent copies of this circular letter to at least eight provinces in addition to the copy to Maryland printed here. On March 16, Paine sent nearly identical copies, without the postscript appearing here, to New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Connecticut. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary, March 16, 1776. MHi. The Massachusetts copy is at M-Ar, and the New Hampshire copy is at MeHi and printed in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:245. On March 28, Paine also noted in his diary: “Sent Letters to Convention of Georgia, So. Carolina, No. Carolina & Virginia. Wrote 26th instant, with the process of Saltpetre making & also Bay Salt; sent them by Mr. Hooper & Penn.” A MS fragment of this March 28 letter is at CtY; and a copy dated April 4, 1776, but with no designated addressee, is among Paine’s papers at MHi. He apparently sent another copy to the New York Committee of Safety on April 6, although it was dated March 28, 1776. See Paine’s
