March 28, 1776 457 Diary, April 6, 1776; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:528-29. Paine also wrote a brief letter to John B. Bordley (1727—1804), merchant of Queen Anne’s County, Md., inquiring about the “easiest & most practical method” for extracting sulphur from pyrite, probably during this same period. Paine’s un dated FC of the letter to Bordley is in the Paine Papers, MHi. 4 William Brownrigg, The Art of Making Common Salt, as Now Practicesed in Most Parts of the World: with Several Improvements Proposed in that Art, for the Use of the British Dominions (London: C. Davis, 1748). See also Robert Treat Paine to the Massachu setts General Court, April 15, 1776, note 1. John Hancock to Thomas Dewees Sir, Philada. March 28th. 1776. I have it in Command from the Congress to desire you immediately to confine in seperate Apartments Mr. Conally, Mr. Smith, & Mr. Kirkland, who were some Time past committed to your Custody by Order of Congress: and I am further to direct, that you suffer no Person whatever to visit or converse with either of the above named Persons without an Order from me in Writing. 1 I am, Sir, your most obedt. Servt. J. H. Prsidt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “To Mr. Dewees Keeper of the Philada. Prison.” 1 Congress issued this order following the receipt of information “that some prisoners in the gaol of this city have meditated an escape, and are near carrying their plan into execution.” JCC, 4:239. Notwithstanding this directive to the keeper of the Philadelphia prison, Connolly’s friends apparently continued efforts to com municate with the prisoners, and as a result of further intelligence on the subject Congress on April 2 came to the following resolve, which Secretary Thomson failed to enter on the journals. “Resolved, that the enclosed be delivered by Mr. Wilson to the Com’ee of Safety of Pensylvania, & request them to take such steps as they think best for the public Service.” Both the resolve and the “Intelligence” printed below are taken from the Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 4:728—29. “Mr. Samuel Sample, an Inhabitant of Pittsburgh, and nearly Related to Mr. John Connolly, came to this City about a week ago. The day he arrived he went to the Jail, and was permitted to see and Converse with Mr. Connolly freely, as well as with others in the like Situation, and was in several of their Appartments. A plann for a general escape of the State or Tory prisoners, It now appears, had been in contemplation among these prisoners sometime before. It happened, the day after Mr. Samples admission, that their whole scheme of escape was discovered; Upon this such Orders were given; that tho’ he applied to different members of Congress for leave, he cou’d not be allowed to a second interview, which seemed to vex him a good deal. These circumstances, and his connection with Mr. Connolly, being known to several gentlemen now in Town, some of them from a regard of their Countrys safety, could not refrain from observing as follows. “That a Stout full faced boy, about 14 or 15 years of age, has frequently, every day since an Intercourse was denied, waited on Mr. Sample, at his Lodgings, with letters or messages from the Jail. Mr. Sample has several times been questioned about the boy and his business with him, and has as often declared that he knew nothing about the boy, but that he is going up to Carlisle with him; notwithstanding his professed ignorance of the boy, it is known that he has engaged a horse to carry
