458 March 28, 1776 him, and to deliver the horse safe at Carlisle. The boy being asked if he was going along with Mr. Sample, said he was going to Carlisle with him; being asked if he wou’d go any farther, he answered with some hesitation, he believed he would go to Pittsburgh with him. “It is well known that Mr. Connolly’s great hopes of strength & support in his Designs are on the River and waters of the Ohio. It is humbley submitted to superior Judgment, whether letters from him to that country might not yet have a bad effect; whether it might not be safer to send letters by a boy travelling with, or some distance before or behind a particular friend, than by the friend; whether upon some farther enquirey into the matter, It might not be proper to direct that both friend and boy should be very narrowly searched at some proper distance from the City. If these hints should tend in the smallest degree to promote the safety of the country, the writter of them gains his only aim. “Mr. Sample setts off this day, April 2d.” For the response of the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety, see Minutes of the Provincial Council of Pennsylvania from the Organization to the Termination of the Proprietary Government, 10 vols. (Philadelphia: Jo. Severns & Co.; Harrisburg: Theo. Fenn & Co., 1851-53), 10:533. John Hancock to the New Jersey Committee of Safety Sirs Philadelphia 28th March 1776 Your two Letters of the 27th being Rec’d by Express were Communi cated to Congress, and I have their orders to inform you that the Con gress see no Reason to Change their Requisition of the 15th. 1 I have it therefore in Command to Request you to Exert your utmost Endeavours in Expediting the March of the Troops to New York agreeable to the Requisition of the Commanding officer. I am Sir, Your most obedt Servt. J H Prt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Honl Sami Tucker Esqr., & Gentlemen of Committee of Safety of New Jersey, at Trenton.” 1 See JCC, 4:238; and John Hancock to the New Jersey Convention, March 15, 1776. Tucker’s letters are in PCC, item 68, fols. 117-24, and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:517-18. Richard Smith’s Diary Thursday 28 March [1776] The Votes read and Letters from Prest. Tucker & others. Our Colony has raised on their own Bottom 4 Companies to be stationed in Middx. & Monmouth & our Militia are marching to N York or Staten Isld. under their Brigadiers Dickenson & Wm. Livingston. McKean in formed Congress that the Tory Prisoners in Philada. Goal have at-
