March 28, 1776 459 tempted an Escape & have provided Implements and a Ladder to escape this Night whereupon Mr. McKean is to direct the Sheriff to confine Conolly, Smith and Kirkland seperately & get a sufficient Guard from the Barracks. 1 20,000 Dollars advanced to Commissary Mease & 1000 to Fairlamb Commissary to Waynes Battalion. R. H. Lee moved sundry Resols. which were negatived as for a Dep. Commissary General to be established in Virginia and for Aids du Camp to the Brigadier (Armstrong) commandg there, he moved also for Two Engi neers there which passed. 2 Dugan of Canada presented with 1000 Dol lars for his past Services and created a Major with the Rank of Lt. Col. He is to have the Command of 3 Companies of Rangers in Canada & to name all his Officers. This was in Consequence of a Report made by Harrison from a Committee. R. Morris moved to purchase another Ship on Continental Accot. in this Harbor to be fitted out for the Pro tection of Delaware Bay which was granted. A Petition from Thos. Walker of Montreal setting forth his Sufferings from Prescott & Carlton and praying Redress was considered and left undetermined, Mr. Walker soon after returned to Montreal without Redress & his Case on Oath was published in Bradfords Paper about 1 May. 3 Ritzma elected Col. of a N York Battaln. 4 MS (DLC). 1 See John Hancock to Thomas Dewees, this date. 2 See also Richard Henry Lee to Charles Lee, March 25 and April 1, 1776. 3 Thomas Walker’s “Statement” of his case is in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:1176—78, under the date April 24, 1776. 4 See also New York Delegates to the New York Provincial Congress, March 15, 1776, note 7. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir Philadelphia 28th March 1776 I am just return’d from attending the remains of our worthy Friend Govr. Ward to the place appointed for all the Humain race. 1 His better part took its flight to world of Spirits on Tuesday morning, this loss will be felt by Congress, and no doubt greatly laimented by the Colony he so faithfully represented. The Corpsfe] was first carried to the meeting house in Arch Street, where an excellent Sermon well suited to the Maloncoly occation was deliverd by Mr. Stilman, from thence to Mr. Stilmans Meeting house where it was depossited. My last was by Express to Cambridge inclosing Bill Loading & invoice of your flouer, 2 which I wish safe to hand, but am somthing doubtful of it as the coast is much infested with pirates. Its reported that a 40 Gun ship is at the Capes. The Lexington is gone down. The M[arine] Cfommittee] have bot another ship which will be ready to sail in a week.
