464 March 29, 1776 2 Smith’s diary entry for March 30, the last one that he made, reads: “I was not present but among other Things ut audivi, Heards Accots. were reconsidered & the whole Demand allowed. “I went Home to Burlington on Sunday having suffered in my Health by a close Attendance on Congress.” John Adams to Norton Quincy Dear Sir 1 Philadelphia March 30th. 1776 The Acquisition of Boston, and its Harbour is of Such vast Impor tance to the Province of Massachusetts Bay and New England in gen eral, and indeed to all the confedorated Colonies; that the Utmost Wisdom and public Spirit of our Countrymen ought to [be] employed in order to preserve it by Such Fortifications as will make it impregnable for the future by any hostile Fleet. There is not in the whole World perhaps an Harbour, whose Channell is commanded by so many Eminencies, both upon Islands and the Main: But in order to avail ourselves of the full Benefit of these natural Ad vantages many heavy Cannon and much Powder will be wanted. I hope that Measures will be fallen upon to procure a supply of both. I think that the Militia of every Town which lies around Boston Harbour, ought to be formed into Matrosses or Artillery Men, that so they may be ready upon occasion to go down to the Garrisons in the Harbour, and there officiate for the Defence of their Country. It is now Twelve Days, since our Army entered Boston, and We have heard no Particulars. I wish you would be kind enough to put your Pen to Paper, now and then, for the Edification, Comfort, Information &c of your Friend, John Adams [P.5.] Remember me to all. RC (MH). 1 Norton Quincy (1716-1801), retired Boston merchant and Braintree gentleman farmer, and uncle of Abigail Adams, became chairman of the Braintree Committee of Correspondence in 1774. Shipton, Harvard. Graduates, 10:75—78. Samuel Huntington to James Cogswell Honrd Sir, Philadelphia 30th March 1776 I take this Opportunity to pay my respects to you, 1 altho have nothing of news to communicate relative to public affairs more than you will receive in the public prints. On Sunday morning the 17th Inst my attention from my Chamber window was Suddenly called to behold a mightly Cavalcade of Plebeians marching thro’ the Street with drums
