April 1, 1776 471 and the North, and their friends beaten in the South. Were it not for their present Marine superiority, I do verily believe that N. America could give law to that proud imperious Island. Be so kind as give my compliments to your Son and inform him that I, as well as my brother, applied to Gen. Lee to receive Squire Landon as an Aid de Camp, but the General was already provided with two, Mr. Byrd & Mr. Morris, and two only were allowed by the Continent; but the General is willing to receive Mr. Carter into his family if he chooses to attend on his own expence as an Aid de Camp. 2 I wish you healthy and happy dear Sir for I am sincerely your affectionate friend, Richard Henry Lee P.S. If Mr. Garter chooses to go as above mentioned I shall be ready to furnish him with a letter to General Lee. RC (MeHi). 1 See Richard Smith to Samuel Tucker, March 16, 1776, note 3. 2 See Francis Lightfoot Lee to Landon Carter, February 12, 1776, note 1. Richard Henry Lee to Charles Lee My Dear Friend, .Philadelphia, 1st April, 1776. I hope my former reasons for not delivering your letter to the Presi dent will meet your approbation. 1 Since I wrote you last, the Congress has appointed two Engineers for the Southern department, Mr John Stadler, now in Virginia, and the young German Massenbach whom you took with you from Baltimore. 2 They have also appointed Monsr Dohicky Arundel (who I expect will deliver you this) a Captain of Artillery in the Continental service with the following resolve, “That General Lee be directed to set on foot the raising a Company of Artil lery, and that it be recommended to the Convention or Committee of Safety of Virginia to appoint the other officers of said Company of Artillery.” 3 The better opinion now is, that Gen. Howe will rest awhile at Halifax, and embrace the first opportunity of pushing up to the relief of Quebec, and we are making ready to meet him there. I think the number of men already ordered for that country amounts to more than 10,000. We are informed that General Howe carried off all his American prisoners with him in chains. The people of New-York have collected and burnt publickly every copy they could find of Plain Truth, 4 and they have treated the Effigies of Tryon in the same manner. The arrival of 10 tons of powder and a considerable quantity of sail cloth to the East ward, is all the news we have here. Farewell my dear friend, I wish you happy, healthy, and successful. Richard Henry Lee [P.5.] Cato still continues to write nonsense, 6 and the other Tories to
