April 2, 1776 473 Fortify, Fortify, and never let them get in again. We continue Still between Hawk and Buzzard. Some People yet expect Commissioners to treat with Congress—and to offer a Chart blanc. All declare if they do not come impowered to treat with Us, and grant Us our Bill of Rights, in every Iota, they will hesitate no longer. I wish I could enter into an unreserved Detail—But I dare not. I think We shall do pretty well. The Conventions are now about meeting every where, and We expect assistance from them. In great Haste Adieu. [P.5.] Pray let Us know how much Powder you have furnished to the Continental Army, from the Magazines of the Province, or of Town stocks. Because if We knew how much, We would endeavour to have it reimbursed to you. We must get those Town stocks replaced and the Colonial Magazine replenished. 2 RC (Sol Feinstone, Washington Crossing, Pa., 1974). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 For additional details on the feud between Adams and Robert Treat Paine, see Paine to Joseph Hawley, January 1, notes 1 and 2; and Paine to the Massachusetts Council, January 1, 1776, note 2. 2 The Massachusetts General Court had already prepared and forwarded such an account to General Washington. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren, March 6, 1776, note 2. Samuel Adams to Joseph Palmer My Dear sir, Philad April 2 1776 I am yet indebted to you for the obliging Letter I receivd from you some Months ago. 1 The Subject of it was principally concerning a young Gentleman whom I personally know, and whose Merit in my opinion intitles him to singular Notice from his Country. This may seem like Flattery—you may be assured it is not—nor indeed do I know how to flatter. Words however are oftentimes, though spoken in Sincerity, but Wind. If I had had it in my Power substantially to have servd that young Gentleman you would have long ago heard from me. The Want of that Opportunity caused me to lay down my Pen diverse times after I had even begun to write to you. You will not therefore, I hope, con strue my long Delay to the least Want of due Respect for you. Some Advantages arose to our Colony by the Congress adopting the Army raisd in New England the last Spring; but among other Circum stances attending it, this was one, namely, that it being now a conti nental Army, the Gentlemen of all Colonies had a Right to and put in for a Share in behalf of their Friends in filling up the various Offices. By this Means, it was thought, that military Knowledge & Experience as well as the military Spirit would spread through the Colonies; and
