474 April 2, 1776 besides, that they would all consider themselves the more interrested in the Success of our Army, and in providing for its Support. But then there was less Room for Persons belonging to the Colonies which had first raisd the Army, who were well worthy of Notice. Many of our Friends were discontented who did not advert to this as the true Cause why they were not promoted. When the Quartermaster was appointed, I question whether any of your Friends knew, I am sure I did not know it, that the Gentleman I have referred to had sustaind that office; there was therefore no designd Neglect of him here. Mr M[ifflin]s Character stood so high that no Gentleman could hesitate to put him into a place which was understood to be vacant & which he was so well qualified to fill. The Truth is, we have never had that Information from our Friends at Watertown of the State of things which we have thought we had good reason to expect from them. I do assure you I have often been made acquainted with the State of Affairs in our Colony, as well as I could from Letters shown to me by Gentlemen of other Colonies. I do not mention this without duly considering that the Attention of our Friends must have been turnd to a great Variety of Business. I heartily congratulate you upon the sudden and important Change of our Affairs, in the Removal of the Barbarians from the Capital. We owe our grateful Acknowledgments to him who is, as he is frequently stiled in sacred Writ, “The Lord of Hosts.” We have not yet been in- formd with Certainty what Course the Enemy have steerd. I hope we shall be upon our Guard against future Attempts. Will not Care be immediately taken to fortify the Harbour, and thereby prevent the Entrance of Ships of War ever hereafter? But I am called off and must conclude abruptly. Adieu my Friend, and be assured I am affectionately, yours, S Adams RC (MeHi). FC (NN). RC damaged; missing portions supplied from FC. 1 Not found. Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety Gent. Phila. 2d April 1776. Mr Arch. Buchanan could not take the Money as he expected & promised. Mr Ringgold collected & brought up here 160.17.6. It has been delivered into the Treasury; besides the Charge for that Sum we have delivered 4000 Dollars to Mr Ringgold. W P sets out in a few Days. He will take with him the rest of the Money and we hope the plates & that the paper may be sent off about the same Time. We have nothing
