April 2, 1776 475 that can be depended on as to the extent of the powers the Committees are to be invested with. Whilst we are in Suspense on this Head we think no Step of Consequence could be prudently taken and therefore do not expect our Convention will continue long or go fully into Business. We could wish if agreeable to them that there might be an Adjournmt. till about the 20th of May with a Continuance of the present existing powers if they think proper. We shall be obliged to you if you will cause Affidavits to be made and transmitted to us of the Time of the Capture and recapture of Hudson’s Ship 1 that we may get the Salvage, the Quantum of which depends on the Time she was in possession of the Tender, ascertained and paid. We were desired to let the Claim which we made of Salvage rest till the Event of another Effect was known. We hope the Ship is now out of the Bay. We are Gent., Your most obedt. Servts. Ths. Johnson Junr, Wm. Paca R. Alexander T. Stone RC (MdAA). Written by Johnson and signed by Johnson, Alexander, Paca, and Stone. 1 For information on the “Capture & Recapture of [Jonathan] Hudson’s Ship” by the Defence, Capt. James Nicholson, see Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety, March 26, 1776, note. Robert Treat Paine to Joseph Palmer Philadelphia, April 2d, 1776. The evacuation of Boston by the king’s troops, and the repossession of it by the right owners, agitates my mind with a thousand queries and calculations. As yet we know so little of the state in which they have left the town in general, or the possessions of individuals in particular, that I do not consider myself as yet come to my feelings about the matter; amidst all the joys there must be many scenes of distressing wo. I have not the least reason to doubt the general court will direct many circum stances relating to this occurrence with wisdom and expedition; if, therefore, I mention some matters that occur to me, I trust you will attribute it rather to my desire to help in the common cause, than to an inclination to direct. Would it not be serviceable to appoint some honest, skilful persons, to take an account of all damage done to the houses, furniture, goods, merchandise, and property of every kind, and by whom done, as near as may be; this may be applied to two uses at least, first, to make a fair representation to the world of the injury done us; (what use this may be applied to we do not yet know;) and also sufferers may expect and receive, perhaps, some compensation, which, without such an early estimate, may be very unequally distributed.
