484 April 3, 1776 pray Continue your Exertions to the uttermost. I have an Accott. of the Arrival of some Duck at Providence in Capt. Comstock, what you want to make up the proper Quantity you can purchase there. 1 Let me know every Deficiency & as far as it may be had here it shall be Sent you. I want much to be with you, but I cannot with propriety request Leave at present, I must therefore Submit. I hope you have Dispos’d of my Ship at Salem, do be attentive to it for me. I think General Wash ington & the Army have great merit; Inclos’d I Send you Copy of the Letter of Thanks I am Commanded to Transmit him by this Express. 2 General Heath is Arriv’d at New York. We have no Accott. of the Destination of the Troops. Do give me a very particular Accott. of the State of Boston, the Tories &c, & what you are doing at the Assembly. How stands the Militia Bill? The Inclos’d for Capt. Cazneau please to Cause to be deliver’d him. I have my hands full of Business, I must Dispatch the Express. Adieu. Mrs. Hancock joines me in best Regards to you, your Lady & Family, and I am, Dr Sir, Your very hum sevt, John Hancock [P.^.] I wish you would write me every Post. 5 oClock Tolls. A French Vessell is just Arriv’d with Twelve hundred Barrells of Powder. RC (MHi). 1 For this account of the arrival at Howlands Ferry of assorted naval stores, in cluding “193 Bolts Roushie Duck,” see Nicholas Brown to the Secret Committee, March 20, 1776, in Clark, Naval Documents, 4:419—20. See also Secret Committee to Nicholas Brown and John Brown, this date. 2 Hancock’s April 2 letter to Washington is printed in JCC, 4:248-49. Massachusetts Delegates to the President of the Massachusetts Council Sir Philadelphia April 3d 1776 The Congress being Inform’d by a Letter from Genl. Washington, that two Thousand of the Continental Troops at Cambridge & Roxbury are deficient in Fire Arms, & that he has not been able to Purchase the Same from the Inhabitants or obtain them from the Assemblies of the New England Colonies, have Directed the General to make Returns to the Assemblies of the Numbers of men Inlisted from their Respective Colonies that are destitute of Arms, & to Dismiss from the service such of them as cannot be thus supplied. 1 In Consequence of this, the Delegates from Massachusetts Bay think it their Duty to write to your Honour on the subject, & thro you to
