April 3, 1776 485 Inform the Honl. Assembly, that for the better Regulating the army & Promoting the Means of Defence, the United Colonies are divided into Districts or Departments, and are to supply with Fire Arms the Con tinental Troops that shall be Rais’d by them Respectively & be in Want thereof. 2 The eastern District Consists of the N E Colonies, who during the whole of this Conflict have discover’d the firmest Attachment to Ameri can Liberty & the warmest Zeal & Ardor in it’s Defence. Should they at any Time fail in this, or Nelgect to Supply their Quota’s of Men & Arms they must in Consequence hereof be the greatest Sufferers & may infer on themselves the Censure of the rest of the Continent. We are fully Sensible that the late Difficulties of Raising Men & Procuring Arms in the Eastern District are justly Chargeable on the Mode adopted for Establishing the Army at Cambridge, but We hope for a Different Regulation in future, & shall use our utmost Endeavours that in any New Levies of Men the General Assemblies may have the Direction of the same subject to the Controul of Congress. We think it necessary to Inform the Honl. Assembly that in some of the Colonies all Persons whatever are Prohibited from Purchasing or selling Fire Arms to be carried from the same. The safety of the Eastern district may Possibly require the like Precaution. We rejoice at the Success Attending the Measures of Massa. Bay for promoting the Manufactg of Military Stores & think that a steady perseverance in the same Plan is the wisest Mode that the Colonies can Adopt for a permanent Establishment of their Rights & Liberties. We therefore hope that diligent Enquiry will be made for all the Manu- factorers of Fire Arms in the Colony, Who from Want of Means or other Circumstances are unemploy’d in this Business, & that Publick Works will be Erected for them with suitable Encouragement to engage them in the Service. We sincerely Congratulate the honorable Assembly on the happy Recovery of Boston from our Enemies & are fully Assured that this Opportunity of fortifying the Harbour will be successfully Improv’d & thereby an Assylum secured for the Ships of War & other Navigation of the Continent. 3 We presume that Genl. Washington will see the Neces sity of such a Measure & order some of the Gannon brought from Ticonderoga to be Appropriated to this Purpose, but should it other wise happen we think there can be no Objection to the Assemblys taking such of the Cannon & Carriages at Cambridge as they have supplied & deducting from their Accounts against the Continent the charge of any Part thereof which they may have made in said Accounts; more es pecially as New York is better supplied with Cannon than New England, And the Reason there is to Expect another Vissit from the Enemy in that Quarter, Renders every Precaution & preparation Necessary to Receive them.
