April 3, 1776 487 your ashes lye is made with a portion of Stone or other lime, will it answer? It is said that some have substituted lime water intirely, & that some have put Stone lime into the nitrous lye to good effect, this may be advantagious where lime is more plenty than ashes. For the good of the Common Cause I wish to have a particular answer to these querys. I think my Freind it must be matter of great pleasure to us (who had so hard work to set this manufacture a going in the begginning of it, in our Colony) to observe our prodigous success, I reflect upon my labours with great satisfaction, & the world knows your merit. I hope these will find you in health & happiness, I doubt not you’ll use your endeavour to have the Saltpetre manufacture so established as that we may never more be disposed to import gunpowder. Pray write me what Success there is in working nitre beds or Walls, some judgment should be formed of the time they take to impregnate. I hope to hear soon from you; mean while I am yr freind & Servt, R T Paine RC (MHi). 1 Paine apparently enclosed instructions for Whitings’ method of making saltpetre in the several letters that he sent to the provincial governments in March and April. See Committee of Congress to the Maryland Convention, March 28, 1776. See also Paine to William Whiting, November 6, 1775. Secret Committee to Nicholas Brown and John Brown Gentn. Philada. April 3d. 1776 We have received your letter of the 20th Ulto. directed to the late chairman of this Committee 1 & are well pleased to learn thereby, that the Sloop you first dispatched to the West Indies In Consequence of your Contract 2 with the Continent was returned and has brought in 193 Bolts of Russia Duck, 43 p[iece]s Russia Sheeting, one pair of Swivell Guns, 14 Small Arms, 12 Ct of Powder & 30 Ct Ball, all which we hope you have long since got safe Landed, and you will please to keep the same in your Possession untill the Marine Committee shall determine how the same are to be disposed of, when You will receive directions from them or us. We desire you will furnish us with Invoices & bills of Loading for the cargoes you export on Account of the Continent, Acct Sales when you receive them, also Invoices of the return Cargoes & the Acct Current with those that transact the business abroad that we may in due time have the whole transactions regularly before us. 3 We have not yet heard of the arrival of the Rich Jews Brigt. which you mention, but if such a one sailed we hope she may soon appear. We thank you for the Account of the arrival of Arms & Ammunition which
