April 4, 1776 489 Robert Morris to Silas Deane Dr sir Philada. 4 April 1776 I reed your Note at the State House 1 and on coming down here find your Conjecture about the Schooner is right. She is one that Collo Harrison fitted out in Maryland but I cannot find the Captain. Other People tell me she is leaky & sickly, however I will have her fitted quick as possible and sent down with particular orders to attend you if she gets down in time. This however is uncertain and You must determine for yourself whether to wait for her or proceed without. You know how hard it will be to get the People on bd again but all the dispatch that is possible shall be made. I am most truely Yours &c, Robt Morris RC (CtHi). 1 An extract of Deane’s letter to Morris of this date, in which he speculates on the identity of the schooner Wasp just spotted and concludes that “We shall go from hence, the next Tide, if the Wind Moderates,” is in Clark, Naval Documents, 4:665. Secret Committee to John Langdon Sir Philada. April 4th. 1776 Your letters of the 14 [and] 19th Ulto directed to the late Sami. Ward Esqr. are now before me & have been read to the Secret Committee by whose order I now answer them. 1 We are sorry for the loss of the Brigt, Cap Shockford, but as things now stand we must expect many more losses of the same kind & think ourselves happy if a sufficient num ber does but return to keep the Continent supplyed with Arms, Am munition & necessary Cloathing. We rejoice however to find by your Second letter that Cap Peverly was returned with 6 to 7000 lb of Powder, which you were lodging in the magazine. Shoud the General give any orders for this Powder or any part of it, you will transmit us a Copy of his order & the receipt of those you deliver it to, in Virtue of such orders and observe the same Method with any other parcels you may receive on Continental Ac count. Shou’d the Genl, not give any orders the Powder must remain for the future orders of this Committee. We also desire to be furnished in due time with the Invoices of the outward & homeward Cargoes and with all the Accounts & Documents relative to the Contracts. 2 This is mentioned at present only to remind you that such will be wanted when the transactions are wound up. You will find before this gets to hand, that the Congress have met your Wishes and granted Licenses for Privateering on our Enemys 3 but they have stopped rather short of the Mark, by not including West
