April 6, 1776 493 least than since last August when the sin of Precedence was committed. Theres the Rub. But what cant be cured must be endured. RC (MHi). In the hand of John Adams. 1 This fragment of a letter was mistakenly placed with Adams’ letter to Abigail of December 3, 1775, by Charles Francis Adams when he was preparing their cor respondence for publication, and it was printed as a part of that letter both in his compilation and in the modern edition of Adams’ papers. See Charles Francis Adams, ed., Familiar Letters of John Adams and His Wife Abigail Adams, during the Revolution (New York: Hurd and Houghton, 1875), pp. 126—28; and Adams, Family Corre spondence (Butterfield), 1:331-32. It is clear, however, from the physical evidence of Adams’ letters, from John’s endorsement on Abigail’s letter to him of March 16, 1776, and from the content of this document, that the manuscript is actually the last page of a missing letter of this date. The sheet of paper on which this fragment is written is unlike the paper Adams was using in December 1775 but is from the stock that he was using for his letters in March and April 1776. John’s endorsement on Abigail’s letter to him of March 16, 1776, containing an inquiry about “the Expectation of Commissioners,” reads: “answed April 6th. 1776.” See Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:359-60. And several passages from these three concluding paragraphs support an April rather than December date. Thus not only did Adams on December 8 ask leave to re turn home, a fact difficult to square with his assertion here that he had “no Thoughts” of returning, but Congress did not license privateering and open the ports until March 23 and April 6, 1776, respectively. Furthermore, the person with whom he had recently conversed but whose name he left blank was undoubtedly Robert Treat Paine, who was not in Philadelphia in December 1775, and his reference to “my last Return” was undoubtedly to his absence from Philadelphia December 9, 1775— February 9, 1776. 2 The April 6 resolves opening the American ports to trade were published in the Pennsylvania Gazette, April 10, 1776. 3 Adams is undoubtedly referring to Robert Treat Paine, with whom mutual re criminations had mounted following Adams’ appointment as chief justice of the Massachusetts Superior Court of Judicature. See John Adams to Abigail Adams, November 18, 1775. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren Dr. sir, Philadelphia April 6th 1776. I have just Time to send You by the post a News Paper in which is inserted the Resolves of Congress for opening the American Ports to all Nations excepting such as are subjects to the King of Great Britain. 1 As it is a Matter of Importance that these Resolves should be pub lished in all the papers & sent to every Part of Europe & the West Indies not inimical to the Colonies, I doubt not the Committees of Cor respondence or other Suitable persons will be desired by the honble Court to attend to such a Measure & cause the same to [be] republished in foreign Papers. I hope by the next Post to send some Blank Com missions & Instructions for Letters of Marque & the Resolves of Con gress relative thereto, they being now in the press. 2 I remain sir respectfully your very huml serv, Elb Gerry
