April 6, 1776 495 I suppose you know that Doctr Franklin, Chase & two Mr. Garrols are gone to Canada and I hope a sufficient Force will be there to put Quebec under their direction for I jump in oppinion with you, that Country must be ours at all Events. Should it fall into the hands of The Enemy they will soon raise a Nest of Hornets on our backs that will * Sting us to the quick. We are plagued for hard Money to Support the Warr in that Country and must by some Means or other bring them to take our paper. Our Friend Lee has taken possession of the Palace at Wmsburg which I fancy will not be much approved of by the Gentn of that Country, however he will soon be called for No. Carolina if it be true that Clinton has effected a Landing with 1500 Men at Wilmington and thrown up entrenchments there. In short the Scene thickens and if our Enemies can find Men we may expect to be attacked in all quarters, but to do this they must Certainly have recourse to Foreigners as they cannot meet success in the Recruiting Service in any of the three Kingdoms. Where the plague are these Commissioners, if they are to come what is it that detains them; it is time we shoud be on a Certainty & know posi tively whether the Libertys of America can be established & Secured by reconciliation, or whether we must totally renounce Connection with Great Britain & fight our way to a total Independance. Whilst we Continue thus firmly United amongst ourselves theres no doubt but either of these points may be carried, but it seems to me, We shall quarrell about which of these roads is best to pursue unless the Com missioners appear soon and lead us into the first path. Therefore I wish them to Come, dreading nothing so much as even an appearance of division amongst ourselves. I hear Mrs. Gates is returned to N York & thence Conclude that you will soon follow. May happiness & Success attend you is the sincere Wish of Dr sir, Your Obedt Servt. Robt Morris RC (NHi). Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant to John Adams Dear Sir 6 Api. 1776. I arrived here 1 last Evening in a very indifferent State of Health & shall return or not return according as I have Reason to believe I may be more useful here or there. So then! I am told You have a Report that Cato’s Commissioners 2 are coming at last, 46,000 strong. Mr. , I suppose, will tell us that he never expected the Commissioners to come without a strong Force to back them. O for the just Vengeance of Heaven on the Heads of those who have laboured so assiduously to fetter our Hands these
