April 8, 1776 497 John Hancock to Israel Putnam Sir Philadelphia April 8th. 1776 On Saturday I Rec’d a Letter from General Heath requesting that some Money might be Sent to New York for the use of the Troops, which I immediately laid before Congress, & was Authorized to forward One hundred Thousand Dollars, which I have accordingly Sent by Capt. Nathaniel Faulkner, and as I am uninform’d whether the Pay master is arriv’d at New York, I have Directed Mr. Faulkner to De liver the Money to you. 1 If the Paymaster is with you please to order it to his Care for the Use of the Troops, if not, you will order the Money to be improv’d for the payment of the Troops under your Command. Please to Acquaint General Heath that I Rec’d his Letter, but have not Time to write him now. You will please to forward me a Receipt for the Money. Last Eveng. I had the honour of yr Letter by Major Sherburne de siring that Three hundred Thousand Dollars may be Sent for the use of the Troops. As the Congress does not meet this Day, 2 I have judg’d it best to Detain Major Sherburne here, untill I know the Determination of Congress, which I shall know to morrow and whatever further Sums they order I will Dispatch by Major Sherburne, in the meantime I have thought it most proper to Send forward by Capt. Faulkner the One hundred Thousand Dollars as that Sum may be improv’d untill the other Arrives. 3 I have the honour to be with Sentiments of Esteem, Sir, Your most Obedt servt. J H Prt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “To Major General Putnam Commandg. the Continental Troops at New York.” 1 Gen. William Heath’s letter to Hancock of April 3 is in PCG, item 157, fols. 3-5; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:775—76. Congress approved this appropriation of $100,000 on April 6. JCC, 4:261. 2 This day Robert Treat Paine noted in his diary: “Being Easter Monday Congress did not set. Rainy raw Day.” MHi. 3 See Israel Putnam to Hancock, April 4, 1776, in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:787. On April 9 Congress appropriated an additional $200,000 for the use of the Conti nental Army at New York. JCC, 4:263; and Hancock to Putnam, April 10, 1776. Marine Committee to John Barry Sir Philada. April 8th 1776 We received your Letter by Mr. Scott and approve of your Conduct in Sending in the St. Croix Sloop. Altho she does not prove to be a prize, yet as the circumstances attending her appeared Suspicious you did right.
