498 April 8, 1776 Should this be delivered to you by Capt. Hallock at or about Cape May he will also put on board your Lieutt. of Marines and some men. If he does not see you he will land them at Cape May, and as Lieut. Scott takes a Copy of it to Egg Harbour, you will by this means learn that you will have either to take them of[f] from the Cape or him from Egg Harbour. We wish Capt Hallock may fall in with you before he parts with Mr. Deane on board the Sloop Betsey, Capt John Tucker, and in that case We desire that you will take that Sloop under your Convoy and see her Two, three or four days Run of the Coast, until you and Mr Deane shall think her out of danger of the Enemies Tenders and Cutters. 1 Wishing you Success, We are your friends, Robt Morris John Hancock Richard Henry Lee Step Hopkins Joseph Hewes Wm. Whipple John Alsop RC (NHi). In the hand of Morris, and signed by Morris, Alsop, Hancock, Hewes, Hopkins, Lee, and Whipple. 1 Capt. John Barry of the Continental brig Lexington had just taken the British tender Edward and was apparently in Egg Harbor when Capt. William Hallock of the Wasp arrived at the capes. After escorting the Betsey out to sea on April 13 Hallock left Barry’s men at Cape May on the 15th. See Clark, Naval Documents, 4:790, 802, 839; Robert Morris to Silas Deane, April 8; and Marine Committee to Barry, April 11, 1776. Robert Morris to Silas Deane Dear Sir Philada. April 8th. 1776 I wrote you a few lines this morning 1 by the return of your Express to whom I paid 40s. in full of All demands for his Journey. Since his departure I procured a Meeting of the Marine Committee and orders to send down the Schooner soon as possible, therefore I hope you will receive this from Capt Hallock who is orderd to Consult with you the best & Safest Method of getting out to Sea and to follow such orders as you may give him from time to time untill your departure; when he is to return. He has a letter for Capt Barry 2 & shoud you be lucky enough to fall in with him he is directed to see you three or four days run off the Coast untill you & he may think the dangers of Tenders & Cutters is over. If you dont find Barry at the Capes you had best take the letter from Hallock as you may fall in with Barry afterwards. I have ordered the Brigt Polly Capt McFadden to embrace this Convoy & go down in Compy with you and most sincerely do I hope both of you may get clear. The 2d bills for £1200 Stg are on bd her, and her Cargo Cost
