510 April 11, 1776 of the Resolves of Congress respecting that matter. Pray write often and let me know every thing that passes. How goes on your town Meetings, Committees &c. Tell Mrs Br[acket]t she must write to me. I have wrote you a letter of some length but my present Hurry won’t permit me to look over it. Your very affte Friend Sr, Wm. Whipple [RY] My Duty to Mother. Let me Know how she does. RC (MHi). 1 Apparently Whipple interpreted the resolutions opening American trade to all foreign countries as only one step short of independence. Robert Treat Paine noted this report in his diary this day: “Fair. Heard of Comodore Hopkins Engagement & Success in taking a Bomb Ketch & 3 Tenders off East end of Block Island.” MHi. For Hopkins’ official report of the action, see Esek Hopkins to John Hancock, April 9, 1776, Clark, Naval Documents, 4:735-36. 3 A reference to the capture of the tender Edward by the Continental brig Lexington. Clark, Naval Documents, 4 Undoubtedly a reference to Mansfield’s speech in the House of Lords on Decem ber 20, 1775, supporting passage of the Prohibitory Act and urging vigorous prosecu tion of the war. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:233—34. William Whipple to John Langdon Dear Sir Philadelphia 11th April 1776 I rec’d your favor of the 24th ult. Col Bartlett took with him the Marine money, you mention. The 10.000 dollars from the Secret Com mittee shall send by the first opportunity which I expect will be in about a week by Mr Jos. Henderson who is here in a carriage and will set out about that time. 1 I find you are going to Boston and shall expect from you a particular account of the situation that town was left in by the Barbarians, also what Tories are left behind &c &c. There are several contracts for guns—if your ship cannot be supplied nearer home they must be sent from here. I congratulate you on Admiral Hopkin’s success, the particulars of which no doubt you have before now. Yesterday arrived here a sloop— she was a tender fitted out by the Liverpool with 6 carriage guns and 35 picked men commanded by the first Lieutenant of the Liverpool. She was sent in by the Lexington whom she engaged an hour and killed two of his men and wounded two. The sloop had one man killed and 5 or 6 wounded. There are several more of these small fellows on the coast, which I expect the Lexington will give a good account of. The army have converted all the Yankees. I expect the statue of the Royal Brute now standing in Bowling Green will soon be demolished. In my last,
