April 12, 1776 511 I mentioned the officers for the ship you are building. I shall be glad if you’ll also think of proper persons for Marine officers. I suppose there must be a Captain and two Lieutenants; the officers for all the ships will soon be appointed. The day is set for appointing Agents, so expect my next will enclose your commission. 2 1 suppose the late Act of Parlia ment declaring all American rebels has reached you before now; I should have sent you a copy had I have been able to obtain one but it has not yet been printed here. On the arrival of that Act in South Carolina, the Convention there seized a ship loaded with sugars bound from the West Indies to London (and had put in there to repair some damages she had rec’d and was then ready to sail), ordered ship and cargo to be sold and the money lodged in the Treasury and have sent to Congress for approbation. Their conduct no doubt is justified by some late Resolves which I now enclose you. Refer you to the papers for news. Yours sincerely, Wm Whipple Tr (DLC). 1 Whipple did forward the money a few days later. See Whipple to Langdon, April 15, 1776. 2 See Whipple to Langdon, April 29, 1776. John Adams to Abigail Adams April 12. 1776 Inclose a few Sheets of Paper, and will send more as fast as Oppor tunities present. Chesterfields Letters are a chequered sett. You would not choose to have them in your Library, they are like Congreeves Plays, stained with libertine Morals and base Principles. 1 You will see by the Papers, the News, the Speculations and the Poli tical Plans of the Day. The Ports are opened wide enough at last, and Privateers are al lowed to prey upon British Trade. This is not Independency you know. What is? Why Government in every Colony, a Confederation among them all, and Treaties with foreign Nations, to acknowledge Us a Sovereign State, and all that. When these Things will be done, or any of them, Time must discover. Perhaps the Time is near, perhaps a great Way off. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:376—77. 1 Abigail had asked John to purchase a copy of the earl of Chesterfield’s Leiters to His Son. Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:359.
