514 April 12, 1776 Against the Peace of the Colony of &c This must be the Style. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Tudor had requested a copy of William Smith’s oration commemorating the death of Gen. Richard Montgomery. William Tudor to John Adams, February 29, 1776, Adams Papers, MHi. See also Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett, February 19, note; and Richard Smith’s Diary, February 21, 1776. John Hancock to Certain Colonies Gentlemen, Philadelphia April 12th. 1776 While the British Ministry are taking every Step, that Cruelty and Revenge can dictate, for the Destruction of American Liberty, it is in cumbent on these United Colonies, to exert their utmost Efforts to de feat them. Happily for our Country, their military operations have not been attended with that Success which they so sanguinely expected. This Circumstance however, far from abating their Rage against us, has had the Effect, constantly produced by disappointed Passions. It has roused them to make new Exertions of Power against Us; and we now behold American Property, by a late Act of Parliament, made legal Plunder. 1 Such a Strain of Rapine and Violence can be equalled only by the Spirit, with which it is likely to be executed. Having au thorized the Seizure of Vessels belonging to these Colonies, where-ever found upon the High Seas, there is too much Reason to apprehend, the Execution of the Edict (which we may expect in its greatest Extent) will, for a Time, prove a severe Clog to the Trade of America. Under these Circumstances The Congress, in Hopes of checking, in some De gree, an Evil, which they cannot at present remove, and acting on the same Principles of Self Preservation, and Retaliation which they have hitherto adopted, have been induced to come into sundry Resolutions relative to the fitting out Letters of Marque & Reprizal. The Trade of America is an object of so much Consequence, and the Protection of it so necessary, that I make no Doubt of your giving all the Encourage ment in your Power to any Measures that may be deemed expedient for its Security & Existence. I herewith transmit Bonds, Commissions, and Instructions, which the Congress has thought proper to request the several Assemblies, Conventions, & Committees of Safety, to make Use of on the Occasion. 2 I have the Honour to be, Gent., Your most obedt. & very hbl ser. J. H. Presidt. LB (DNA: PCG, item 12A). Addressed: “To Hon. Assembly of New Hamsphire. To the Honble the Assembly of Massachusetts Bay. Assembly of Rhode Island. Assembly of Connecticut. Convention of Virginia.”
