April 12, 1776 515 1 A reference to the Prohibitory Act. 2 See JCC, 4:247—48, 251-53. Hancock had already sent these forms to the New York Provincial Congress, enclosed in a letter of April 10. PCC, item 12A; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:843—44. Hancock also sent a brief letter to the Massachusetts Assembly on April 13, enclosing a resolution of April 11 encouraging the colonies to send to foreign nations news of Congress’ resolves on trade, and one of April 12 relative to the treatment of prisoners of war. M-Ar. See also JCC, 4:273-74, 275. Samuel Huntington to Jabez Huntington Sir Philadelphia 12th April 1776 I had the Honour to write you the 19th March per Capt Tracy, Since which am favourd with yours of the 16th per Col. Williams. Have acquainted the Delegates from Rhode Island & Massachusetts of the save [safe] arrival of the 400 bolts Duck to your care. The Con gress have been exceeding busy, commonly Set from ten in the morning until between 4 & 5 in the afternoon without any refreshment. It is needless at this time to be particular on the head of News as Col Williams the bearer will be able to Inform every thing which I am at Liberty to comminicate. Hope we Shall be able to obtain for N London harbour a number of the heavy cannon brot. in there by Commadore Hopkins. We are Endeavouring to obtain some Assistance from Congress to fortify that Harbour as an assylum for the Continental fleet. 1 With Compliments to all enquiring Friends, I remain sir with much regard your humble Servt, Sami Huntington RC (Paul Francis Webster, Beverly Hills, Calif., 1974). 1 See JCC, 4:283, 289. In his response of May 7, a draft of which is on the verso of this document, Jabez congratulated Samuel “on the Success of Canon for N London Harbour & the prospect of having Assistance from Congress to fortify there as I am Clearly of Opinion that no Harbour in any of the United Colonies is so well by Nature Situated & Formd to Serve the Continental! Fleet as that. Much is done already & Could wish to have more to make it Sufficiently Strong.” He also reported that a number of sick seamen from the Continental fleet were in New London hospitals and noted that should a military hospital be established there, Dr. Turner “would be willing to be appd. to some Department for that Hospital. From his Experience in the Army & known Skill in Surgery Should think he would serve the Continent to Satisfaction & if any proper opening for him, Could heartily Recom mend him.” Philip Turner, physician and surgeon to Connecticut troops, was appointed surgeon general of the hospital in the eastern department on April 11, \m.JCC, 7:254. Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council Gentlemen. Phila. April 12th. 1776. [9] OClock night. Yours of the 9th Inst, was delivered to Us this day at twelve O’Clock,
