518 April 13, 1776 [Zo] inform Us if you have heard from Vanbeber. No important Oc- curance since We last wrote You. We are, Yr most Obt Serts. Th. Johnson Junr T. Stone R. Alexander [RR] We wish to be informed if in your Opinion the Cruger is proper for Tents. RC (MdAA). Written by Johnson and signed by Johnson, Stone, and Alexander. 1 See the council’s letter of April 5 to the Maryland delegates. Md. Archives, 11:314. Thomas McKean to Philip Schuyler Sir, Philadelphia April 13th. 1776. I had the pleasure of your Letter of the 21st of February last and have since made all the inquiry I could respecting the real Situation of Allen McDonell and the Highlanders, but cannot arrive at perfect satisfaction. Mr. McDonell has been here these three weeks soliciting liberty to return or that the families of the Scotch prisoners may be sup ported. The latter he seems most desirous of, but upon the whole the Congress have directed the Committee on prisoners of which I am one to take your opinion, “whether the said Allen McDonell and the other hostages taken in Tryon county may, consistent with the public safety, be permitted to return to their respective homes on their parole.” 1 As [the] Continent has been at considerable expence for these people al ready, and must add to it by maintaining their respective families unless they return, the Congress expect your answer as soon as possible. Mr. Hamar was at Trenton; on the 23d Novemr. last it was agreed he might reside at Mr. Duers near Saratoga and at his desire; on the 17th January he was permitted to reside at Mr. Stainforth’s near Princetown, where I have heard he purposed to bring Mrs. Hamar as soon as the weather was suitable for her to travel. 2 If he should incline to remove to any other place, please to let me know, and I shall render him, or any other friend of yours, all the services in my power. I con gratulate you on the Evacuation of Boston by the British forces, on the reduction & conquest of the Tories, & Partisans of Governor Martin, in North Carolina, and on the success of the American Navy. We have heard nothing lately about the much talked of Commissioners, but are determined to be prepared at all points. I am, Sir, with much esteem, Your most obedient servant, Tho McKean RC (NN). 1 JCC, 4:264. See also McKean to Schuyler, January 30, 1776. 2 See John Jay to Ibbetson Hamar, November 22, 1775; and JCC, 4:62.
