April 15, 1776 529 1 Joseph Hawley’s letter of April 1 is in the Samuel Adams Papers, NN. 2 See Arthur Lee’s letters to Adams of February 21 and 24, 1775. Ibid. 3 In this FC Adams lined out three sentences which were probably not included in the letter sent to Hawley. “His Ministers and Task Masters have possessed the same cruel Spirit. Why then should any be fond of continuing subject to a Tyrant? Or being politically or at all connected with a Nation which has in multiplied Instances and for a long time suffered and enabled him thus to act the Tyrant over us.” Benjamin Franklin to Josiah Quincy Dear Sir, Saratoga, April 15. 1776 I am here on my Way to Canada, detain’d by the present State of the Lakes, in which the unthaw’d Ice obstructs Navigation. I begin to apprehend that I have undertaken a Fatigue that at my Time of Life may prove too much for me, so I sit down to write to a few Friends by way of Farewell. I congratulate you on the Departure of your late troublesome Neigh bours. I hope your Country will now for some time have Rest, and that Care will be taken so to fortify Boston, as that no Force shall be able again to get Footing there. Your very kind Letter of Nov. 13, inclosing Lord Chatham’s Speech & Lord Camden’s, I duly receiv’d. I think no one can be more sensible than I am of the Favours of corresponding Friends, but I find it im practicable to answer as I ought. At present I think you will deem me inexcusable, and therefore I will not attempt an Apology. But if you should ever happen to be at the same time oppress’d with Years & Business, you may then extenuate a Little for your old Friend. The Notes of the Speeches taken by your Son (whose Loss I shall ever deplore with you) are exceedingly valuable, as being by much the best Account preserv’d of that Day’s Debate. 1 You ask, “When is the Continental Congress by general Consent to be formed into a supreme Legislative, Alliances defensive & offensive formed, our Ports opened, and a formidable naval Force established at the Public Charge?” I can only answer at present that nothing seems wanting but that general Consent. The Novelty' of the Thing deters some, the Doubt of Success others, the vain Hope of Reconciliation many. But our Enemies take continually every proper Measure to re move these Obstacles, and their Endeavours are attended with Success, since every Day furnishes us with new Causes of increasing Enmity, and new Reasons for wishing an eternal Separation; so that there is a rapid Increase of the formerly small Party who were for an inde pendent Government. Your Epigram on Lord Chatham’s Remark has amply repaid me for the Song. Accept my Thanks for it; and for the charming Extract
