530 April 15, 1776 of a Lady’s Letter contain’d in your Favour of Jan 22d. I thought when I sat down to have written by this Opportunity to Dr Cooper, Mr Bowdoin and Dr Winthrop; but I am interrupted. Be so good as to present my affectionate Respects to them, and to your good Ladies. Adieu, my dear Friend, and believe me ever, Yours most af fectionately, B Franklin RC (PHi). 1 A reference to notes by Josiah Quincy, Jr., of speeches made by Chatham and Camden in the House of Lords on January 20, 1775, when Franklin and Quincy had attended debates on “the present American quarrel” as the guests of Chatham. A few days later Quincy contracted an illness from which he never fully recovered, and of which he died on his return voyage to Boston in April 1775. See Josiah Quincy, Memoir of the Life of Josiah Quincy Jun. of Massachusetts, ed. Josiah Quincy (Boston: Cummings, Hilliard, & Co., 1825), pp. 318—35. John Jay’s Proposed Resolutions [April 15-May 3? 1776] 1 Whereas it is unjust as well as impolitic that Americans should afford aid to the Enemies of their Country, and particularly in the Seizure of Vessels or other Property belonging to Inhabitants of these Colonies or by purchasing of the Enemy any of their Property so seized. Resolved That all Americans who shall be guilty of the said Offences ought to be liable for the Damages which the Persons injured by such Seizure may sustain thereby. Resolved therefore that it be recommended to all the Legislatures and Conventions in these united Colonies to enact Laws or Ordinances for the Purposes aforesaid where Courts competent to the Cognizance of such Cause, do not already exist to erect them and to the End That the said Laws or Ordinances in the different Colonies may the better correspond, and their objects obtained with the greater Facility and Justice. Resolved That the Party injured as af[oresai]d ought to commence his Action against the offender who ought to be entitled to Bail in the Court so erected or to be erected in the Colony where the Offender {shall happen, be committed, and where the same shall happen on the high Seas then in these Colonies next that he may think proper) can or shall be taken, and that the Proceedings in the said Action ought to be according to the Modes of Proceeding used in the said Colony in Civil Causes. And that appeals ought to be admitted and prosecuted as in other civil action, except in Colonies where the Governors or others appointed by the King were heretofore Judges in Error, In which Colonies the Conven tions ought to appoint proper persons to recieve and determine such Appeals provided the Parties demanding the same shall and give reason-
