536 April 16, 1776 This is a great Constitutional Point, in which the Lives, Liberties, Estates and Reputations of the People are concernd, as well as the Order and Firmness of Government in all its Branches and the Morals of the People besides. I may be suspected of sinister and interested Views in this, but I will give any Man a Pension out of my own private Fortune to take my Place. It is upon Principle, and from this Principle let Major Hawley think of it as he may, I cannot depart. You will learn the Exploits of our Fleet, before you get this. They have behaved as all our Forces behave by Sea and Land. Every day convinces us that our People are equal to every Service of War or Peace by Sea or Land. You Say the Sighhs for Independence are universal. You say too, what I can scarcely believe that Moderation and Timidity are at an End. How is this possible? Is Cunning at an End too—and Reserve—and hinting against a Measure that a Man dare not oppose directly or dis approve openly. Is trimming at an End too? and Duplicity? and Hy- pocricy? If they are I give you Joy sir of a group of Tyrants gone. But I have not yet Faith in all this. You deal in the Marvellous like a Travel ler. As to the Sighs, what are they after? Independence? Have we not been independent these twelve Months, wanting three days? Have you Seen the Privateering Resolves? Are not these Independence enough for my beloved Constituents? Have you seen the Resolves for opening our Ports to all Nations? Are these Independence enough? What more would you have? Why Methinks I hear you say we want to com- pleat our Form and Plan of Government. Why dont you petition Con gress then for Leave to establish such a Form as shall be most conducive to the Happiness of the People? But you say why dont the Southern Colonies Seize upon the Government? That I cant answer. But by all We can learn, they are about it, every where. We want a confederation you will say. True. This must be obtained. But we are united now they say— and the difference between Union and confederation is only the same with that between an express and implied Contract. But we ought to form alliances. With Whom? What alliances? You dont mean to exchange British for French Tyranny. No, you dont mean to ask the Protection of French Armies. No, We had better depend upon our own. We only Want commercial Treaties. Try the experiment without them. But France and England will part the Continent be tween them. Perhaps so. But both will have good Luck to get it. But you will say what is your own opinion of these Things. I answer I would not tell you all that I have Said, and written and done in this Business for a shilling, because Letters are now a days pimp’d after. Why dont your Honours of the General Court, if you are so unanimous in this, give positive Instructions to your own Delegates, to promote Independency? Dont blame your Delegates untill they have dissobeyed your Instructions in favour of Independency. 6 The S. Colonies say you
