April 16, 1776 537 are afraid. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Warren’s letter is in Warren-Adams Letters, 1:217-20. 2 A preliminary report was delivered to the Massachusetts General Court on April 3, and a committee was subsequently appointed on April 5 to “give directions for the fortifying Boston Harbour.” Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:1260-62. 3 Warren’s March 30 letter of resignation as paymaster general of the Continental Army was read in Congress on April 18, and the request was accepted the next day. JCC, 4:291, 296. The letter is in PCC, item 78, 23:269-72, and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:551. See also John Jay to William Alexander, April 17, 1776. 4 Warren had reported that Jedediah Foster and James Sullivan had been ap pointed judges of the Massachusetts Superior Court. Warren-Adams Letters, 1:219. 6 For further references to Massachusetts’ instructions on independence, see Elbridge Gerry to James Warren, March 26, 1776, note 3. John Adams to Mercy Warren Madam April 16. 1776 Not untill Yesterdays Post, did your agreable Favour of March the Tenth, come to my Hands. 1 It gave me great Pleasure and altho in the distracted Kind of Life, I am obliged to lead, I cannot promise to de serve a Continuance of so excellent a Correspondence yet I am deter mined by Scribbling Something or other, be it what it may, to provoke it. The Ladies I think are the greatest Politicians, that I have the Honour to be acquainted with, not only because they act upon the Sublimest of all the Principles of Policy, vizt the [that] Honesty is the best Policy, but because they consider Questions more coolly, than those who are heated with Party Zeal, and inflamed with the bitter Contentions of active public Life. 2 I know of no Researches in any of the sciences more ingenious than those which have been made after the best Forms of Government nor can there be a more agreable Employment to a benevolent Heart. The Time is now approaching, when the Colonies will find themselves under a Necessity of engaging in Earnest in this great and indispensible Work. I have ever Thought it the most difficult and dangerous Part of the Business Americans have to do, in this mighty Contest, to continue some Method for the Colonies to glide insensibly, from under the old Government, into a peaceable and contented Submission to new ones. It is a long Time since this opinion was conceivd, and it has never been out of my Mind, my constant Endeavour has been to convince Gentle men of the Necessity of turning their Thoughts to these Subjects. At present the sense of this Necessity seems to be general, and Measures are taking which must terminate in a compleat Revolution. There is Danger of Convulsions. But I hope, not great ones. The Form of Government, which you admire, when its Principles
