April 16, 1776 541 and, it is suggested, is on his Way to the Indian Country to execute the execrable Designs of our Enemies. I have no Doubt, but you will exert your utmost Endeavours in seizing & securing him. 1 1 am with Respect, Gentlemen, your most obed. John Hancock Presidt. [P.S.] You will please not to make public mention of the Resolution respectg Govr. Eden, untill the Come, of Safety have executed it. RC (MdHi). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 'The Baltimore committee’s letter to Hancock of April 14 and enclosures (in cluding two letters of December 23, 1775, from Colonial Secretary George Germain to Maryland governor Robert Eden) are in PCC, item 70, fols. 13-24, and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:928-30. Germain’s letters to Eden, which were susceptible to the interpretation that the Maryland governor had urged the North ministry to take strong measures against the revolutionary party in his province, were originally taken from Alexander Ross, a merchant on an unauthorized visit to Lord Dunmore in Virginia, and sent to Gen. Charles Lee and the Virginia Committee of Safety. While the Virginia committee forwarded these letters to the Baltimore committee, Lee wrote to Samuel Purviance, Jr., the chairman of the latter body, and urged him to arrest Eden. The Baltimore committee sent the letters to Congress and simultaneously set on foot a plan to seize Eden. But this plan was frustrated by the Maryland Council of Safety, which, learning of Germain’s letters on April 15 (the day before Congress passed the resolves about Eden and Ross referred to in the text above), examined the governor and satisfied itself that he had made no recommenda tions adverse to the province and was not planning to leave it. As a result, the council, incensed at the challenges to its authority posed by the actions of both the Baltimore committee and Congress, subsequently refused to carry out Congress’ resolves about Eden, although it did apprehend Ross. See JCC, 4:285-86; Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:800—801, 810, 1146—47; and Md. Archives, 11:333—93. See also Thomas Johnson to the Maryland Council of Safety, April 17, and to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer, April 23; Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety, April 18 and 25; Thomas Stone to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer, April 24; and Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Purviance, Jr., May 1 and 6, 1776. For fuller accounts of this episode in the context of the political situation in Maryland, see Bernard C. Steiner, Life and Administration of Sir Robert Eden, Johns Hopkins University Studies in Histori cal and Political Science, ser. 16, no. 7 (Baltimore, 1898), pp. 105-28; and Ronald Hoffman, A Spirit of Dissension: Economics, Politics, and the Revolution in Maryland (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1973), pp. 157-63. John Hancock to the Maryland Committee of Safety Gentlemen, Philadelphia April 16th. 1776. By the Letters of Lord Germaine to your Governour, Copies of which you have enclosed, it evidently appears, that Mr. Eden has been carry ing on a dangerous Correspondence with the Ministry of Great Britain, who seem desperately bent on the Destruction of America. The Congress therefore have come to a Resolution that the Person and Papers of Gov ernour Eden be immediately seized, from which there is Reason to
