542 April 16, 1776 believe, we may not only learn, but probably defeat, the Designs of our Enemies. 1 The Congress also being informed, that there is one Alexander Ross in your Colony, who has lately been with Lord Dunmore, and is repre sented as a dangerous Partizan of the British Administration, him also the Congress are desirous of apprehending, and for that Purpose, have passed a Resolution, which you have enclosed with the other. The Congress, relying on your Zeal, confide that you will exert your best Endeavours in executing said Resolutions. I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obedt. hbl Ser. John Hancock Presidt. RC (MdAA). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 4:285-86. John Hancock to Israel Putnam Sir, Philadelphia April 16th. 1776. Congress, finding by Intelligence from Genl. Washington, 1 that the greatest Part of the Troops that were before Boston, are either on their March to New York, or actually arrived there, judge it improper to keep a larger Body of Men together than is called for in that Place. I am therefore commanded by the Congress to direct that you dis charge the whole, or such Part of the Militias of New York & Connecti cut, now in the Pay of the Continent, as the public Service will permit; and also that you discharge the whole of the Militia of New Jersey. 2 I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obedt. and very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See Washington to Hancock, March 27, 1776, in PCC, item 152, 1:563-66, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 4:436-38. 2 Congress ordered the discharge of these militia units on April 11. JCC, 4:272. Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety Gent Phila 16 Api 1776 We this morning sent off in a Waggon one Ton of Powder for Chester Town, which is directed to the care of Messrs Smyth & Hands if absent to be delivered to the Committee of observation. 1 We have wrote these Gent to receive the powder to await yr orders for the Distribution, this powder We obtained on application from Congress, who grant Sup plies to the difft provinces, as the Circumstances & situation of them
