April 16, 1776 545 which now are Very great. This Mode will secure the Colony against Loss and the Money May be as soon paid to those to whom it is due this Way as any other. The Rools Sent down by Col Dyer and Col Williams have enabled us confidently to tell Congress that We were now able to Shew that there was a large Sum due to the Colony. A grant has been made tho not without some Opposition, of fifty Thousand pounds, out of which I beleive you will have to pay Col. Hinmans and Waterbury Regiments as the Matter of Bounties, Equipments and Allowance to the officers for paying their Men, is what Genl. Schuyler will chose to de cline passing any Opinion upon. This with Other Reasons, will I imagine cause these Troops to be turned upon the Colony for Payment. I Very well know that a great deal of Money must be advanced for con tinental Purposes by the Colony, the Necessities of publick Services re quire it, I mean no more than that when it can be avoided, I think it would be best secure the Colony Interest. For News refer you to the publick Papers. The Regulations of Trade which you will have before this reaches you, is an Object of great Importance, both in a Commercial and political Veiw. In Consequence thereof We have permitted the Ladys to drink what Indian Tea there is in the country, they paying 3/4 dollar per pound therefore. The Steady Progression of our publick Affairs and the Changes consequent thereon ought to be attended to, by those who regulate the Social Conduct of the People, least by a too Sedulous regard to literal Constructions of Congress, which might much better be admitted of, a year ago, they attempt to fix a Changing Scene, which is impossible to be absolutely fix’d, and so undesignedly do a material publick and private Wrong—for no Necessary Exertions ought not to lye under a discouragement, which will totally impede them, and to require an Authoritative fixedness to objects continually and necessarily Changing is to Demand impossibilities. But the good sense and Virtue of my Countrymen I beleive will guard them against any Material Mistake and I hope and beleive Things will before long acquire such an Establishment, by the total Confusion of British Councills, and the Blessing of God on the most laudable and prudent Exertions of this People, as will free every one from those Embarrassments which this Very peculiar kind of War has bro’t us into. I hope this Country will Exhibit the most glorious Displays of Civil and Religious Liberty (ren dered certain to the people of it by Constitutions, permanent, rational, and just) that the World ever beheld, and that these Colonys injoying every necessary, particular Colonial Authority, may by fraternal Union strengthened by every Thing necessary therefor possess that internal Peace and Security which is Necessary for their Happiness, and by Confederated Power be able to repel whatever Attempts to Disturb them. Excuse a long, hasty, unrevised Sc[r]ibble, and present my best Compliments to my Freinds. I Am Sir, with Esteem, your most Obedient, and humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott
