548 April 17, 1776 use (Economy in all their Conduct, and indeed there is sufficient Oc casion for it. My Colleagues write you by this opportunity so that I need not be more particular. 2 Mr Chace has misapprehended the Order of Congress authorizing the New York Convention to enter into a Con tract for supplying the Troops with provisions, if he supposed it ex tended to Canada, for it was certainly confined to the army raised for the defence of New York. There is the same Reason for a Contract In every Quarter if it will be a Means of saving publick money. 3 Present my affectionate Regards to my sister and friends and believe me to be most sincerely, Dear Sir, Your affectionate Brother, & very huml sevt, Jas. Duane [P.S'.] Let me know whether the money sent General Schuyler by Mr Chace is not applied to the support of your department. 4 I take it for granted; & have therefore movd for none on your account. I have lent your Express who had the misfortune of loosing his Horse four dollars. Be so good as to see that he pays it to my Friend Mr John Stevenson on whom I have drawn. RC (NN). 1 James Price had been appointed deputy commissary for the American army in Canada on March 29. JCC, 4:240-41. 2 See New York Delegates to Walter Livingston, this date. 3 See JCC, 4:133, 150, 159—60; and Duane to the New York Provincial Convention, March 21, 1776, note 2. 4 Congress had appropriated $50,000 for General Schuyler’s army on March 19. JCC, 4:213. John Hancock to Esek Hopkins Sir, Philada. April 17th. 1776 Your Letter of the 9th of March [i.e. April], with the Enclosure, was duely received and laid before Congress; in whose Name, I beg Leave to congratulate you on the Success of your Expedition. 1 Your Account of the Spirit and Bravery shewn by the Men, affords them the greatest Satisfaction; and encourages them to expect similar Exertions of Cour age on every future Occasion. Though it is to be regretted, that the Glascow Man of War made her Escape, yet as it was not thro any Mis conduct, the Praise due to You and the other Officers, is undoubtedly the same. I have it in Charge from Congress to direct, that you send a compleat List and State of the Stores taken and brought from Providence with the Sizes &c and that the Cannon, and such other of the Stores as are not necessary for the Fleet, be landed and left at New London. 2 The following Extract of a Letter from Antigua, I hope will be of
