550 April 17, 1776 Thomas Johnson to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen. Philadelphia 17 April 1776. Yesterday Morning just before the Meeting of Congress the Letters from Balt, which occasioned the Resolution of Yesterday came to the Hand of the President. 1 By the same Express, and as I believe under the same Cover, came an Anonymous Letter referring to a Copy therein inclosed from Genl. Lee to Mr. Samuel Purveiance. I saw and read the Copy which was in Purveiances Hand Writing; Lee strongly urged the immediate seizing and securing of the Govr. After the Minutes of the preceeding Day were read the President began reading the Anonymous Letter, but he had not proceeded far before he came to a part desiring that it might not be made known to the Congress but, as I think to such only as the President might think proper to trust with the Contents. The President hesitated, for he had not before read the Letter, and seemed desirous of running his Eye over it but on being desired to read out he did so: from the Inclosure above mentioned as well as many Ex pressions in the Letter and Mr. Purveiances being the Heroe of the Tale which was told in the first person I had not the least Doubt but that Purveiance was the Author and Mr. Andrew Allen who saw the Letter and is acquainted with Purveiances Hand writing says it was his. The Letter informs that the writer of it had impressed on Genl Lee, in his way to Virga., an Idea that the Council of Safety was timorous and inactive and represents the Council of Safety and Convention too as being afraid to execute the Duties of their Stations. His own and the Conduct of the Convention on an Affair that you must remember he contrasts to the Disadvantage of the Latter whose inaction he imputes to want of Spirit. He speaks of the Orders he gave Capt. Nicholson on the late Alarm and how the Council of Safety was alarmed and fright ened at the Spirit and boldness of them—represents himself as an Object against whom the Intentions of the Council of Safety are levelled and in proof writes a Conversation with, or saying of one of them to the Effect that he was a warm Man or a hot headed Man whose power must be pulled down or he would throw things into Confusion. As I heard the Letter read but once I cannot undertake to repeat Expressions with exactness, but I think I have preserved the Sentiments and have not exaggerated in any Thing and on the whole I esteem it a vile injureous Calumny calculated like his Conversation with Genl Lee to spread Suspicion and Distrust of the only executive in our province. If I am not mistaken the Letter mentions further that some Gent were stint from Balt as were by him proposed to be sent to Annapolis, who should engage the Officer commanding the Troops there to Secrecy under Oath and then endeavour to get his Assistance to execute what you are requested
