556 April 18, 1776 and evacuated. I hope that you will all remember, how many Losses, Dangers, and Inconveniences have been borne by your Parents, and the Inhabitants of Boston in general for the Sake of preserving Freedom for you, and yours—and I hope you will all follow the virtuous Example if, in any future Time, your Countrys Liberties should be in Danger, and suffer every human Evil, rather than Give them up. My Love to your Mamma, your Sister and Brothers, and all the Family. 1 I am your affectionate Father, John Adams RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:388. 1 John Adams also wrote to his daughter Abigail this day. After teasing Abigail about spending time learning Greek and Latin, he urged her to study French— “French, my dear, French is the language, next to English—this I hope your mamma will teach you.’’ Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:387—88. Samuel Chase to John Adams My Dear Sir, Fort George. April 18th. 1776. I left Saratoga last Tuesday & arrived at this place the same After noon. 1 I expected to find the Lake open but am disappointed. General Thomas left this yesterday Morning and intended to break his Way. On this Day about 40 Batteaus went off with the same Inten tion, with about 500 Men. The Residue of the Troops here, about 300, & the Cannon, 4.32, 4.24, 4.18 & some 9 pounders, wth. 8 Ton of Powder go off in the Morning, & I expect to sett off some time tomor row, or on the next Day. The Batteaus which went away today, we just hear, are above 12 Miles. Colo. Sinclear’s Regiment is at Fort Edward, & are ordered here tomorrow. I am told above 100 of that Battalion have deserted. Ought not Desertion to be punished with above 39 Lashes? The Inhabitants buy their Arms, pray declare some severe punishment for such infamous Conduct. On this Day arrived here, with their Interpreter Mr Dean, The Delegates from the seven Tribes of Indians in Canada, from the Congress of the Six Nations lately held at Onandago. I was introduced to & had the Honor to take them by the Hand. Their Warriors are to stay at Home till their Return & to wait the Result of their Counsils. I beleive they will wait on Us in Montreal for the purpose of professing Friendship and extorting presents, what are we to do without the Means? Mr. Dean says the Indian Congress have resolved to observe a strict Neutrality, & have appointed Deputies to attend our Indian Commissioners at Albany & they may be daily expected there. I have seen Mr. Deans Notes of the proceedings of the Onandago Congress. The Oneidas, Tuscoraras, the Deputies from Canada, & some other small Tribe appear to be our firm Friends, but the Senecas, Mohawks & the others seem to me to be very unfriendly, & I am satisfied are ready from Inclination to act agt. Us. I beleive one
