April 18, 1776 557 Colo. Butler has been using his Influence wth. those people. They have agreed, i.e. the Six Nations, a majority of them, to apply to You for their Trade as usual, & to open the Path to them by Fort Stanwix, and from Quebec, & threaten if not granted. In Truth they have never been supplied from Quebec, or very triffling. I hope our Commissioners will be very civil & give them good Words & some presents but very firm & resolute. I beg to hear from you, & shall, with pleasure communicate to you any Thing which may be worthy of your Notice. You will be pleased to make Me remembered with every Sentiment of Respect and Regard to our worthy president & his Lady, to my Friend Mr. Adams & Mr. Paine & Mr. Gerry. Adieu. Your Affectionate Friend and Obedient Servant, Sami. Chase RC (MHi). 1 The commissioners to Canada had spent a week enjoying General Schuyler’s hospitality at Saratoga but had resumed their journey northward on April 16. Chase had accompanied Schuyler in pressing directly ahead to Fort George, while the rest of the party spent the night of April 17 at Wing’s tavern halfway between Fort Edward and Fort George. Journal of Charles Carroll, pp. 58—62. Benjamin Franklin’s letter of April 17 to Schuyler, written “At Mr Wyng’s” and reporting their immediate travel plans, is in the Schuyler Papers, NN. Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety Gent. Phila. Thursday. 18 April 1776. We moved yesterday in Congress, that the Letter referred to by Mr. Johnson should be immediately transmitted to you, that you might have an Opportunity of vindicating your Honour against the malitious Charges made by the Writer, this produced a Warm Debate which lasted for several Hours. 1 We insisted (and were supported by several Gentlemen) that the Letter containing the most severe reflections upon you as a publick Body ought not to be concealed; that it was absolutely necessary in the present State of our Affairs that the Dignity of the Executives of every province should be supported if properly conducted and if there rested a Suspicion that any publick Body either from Weak ness or want of Integrity omitted or refused to execute the Trust com mitted to them it ought to be made known to their Constituents that the power might be placed in more safe Hands. That the Exertions of the Letter Writer had already produced in part of the Council of Vir ginia Distrust and Suspicion of you. That we had the most convincing Proofs upon all Occasions of your Integrity, Vigilance and Activity in the Common Cause and therefore esteemed it our Duty to insist that Justice might be done to your injured Character. It was argued against
