April 20, 1776 561 & thank you & Mrs. Lowry for your Politeness. I am Sir, your most hble Ser. J. H. Prsid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). i See JCC, 4:297. John Hancock to William Palfrey Dear Palfrey Philadelphia Aprl. 20. 1776 I Rec’d your very short Letter of 15 from New York. I beleive you forgot the Print for me. I had thoughts to have Set out on Monday for Fairfield, & had made a proposition to Congress, but this moment hearing that my Aunt had Determin’d to Come to this place, suspends the Execution of my Design for a time. I have mention’d to the General my wish to See you here for a day or two, if he could consistently Dis pense with your Absence for a few days, which I dare Say if possible he will Gratify me in. 1 I have Rec’d a Letter of Resignation from Coll Warren, & laid it before Congress, which they have Accepted, & Mon day next is Assign’d for the Appointmt. of a Successor; 2 Coll. Harrison’s Son was lately Appointed Depy Pay Masr. & now Acts in the Southern Departmt. 3 If he can hold the birth of Pay Masr Genl. & remain in Virginia, I beleive he will have it, but as I Judge that will not be per mitted, as the Principal should be at Head Quarters; but in either case it is my opinion you will be brought into View, & either of which would be reputable, for if you be the Depy Pay Mr Genl, you will Reside with the General at New York. I shall do my best; & I think you may Depend on being promoted, you stand well, and any Additions of mine will not be. wanting. I thought I had known heretofore what it was to be hurried in Busi ness, but really my Department, tho’ exceedingly honorary, is a Depart ment of great Business & constant Attention. Night & Day have I a Levee, I determine to persevere, tho’ it is really hurtfull to my health. I am going to move into the most Airy Elegant house in the City, havg. had the Offer of it, ready furnished by the Owners, & in a way I could never have Expected, in short, a polite offer to use the House, Furnishg., Gardens, Stables &c at will, & the Compliment of the Use. I am hurried, many to Attend to; Congress, Marine Come. & others, that I can’t Add but expectg to see you. Close wishing you well. My Mrs Hancock is not very well, but Time must be the Physician. Yours, J Hancock RC (MH). Addressed: “To Major Palfrey Aid De Camp to General Washington. New York.” 1 Hancock’s letter of this date to Washington, asking him to allow Palfrey “to pass two or three Days with me in this City, on Business of importance to me,” is in
