564 April 20, 1776 spirit of partition, and the assumed right of disposing of Men & Coun tries like live Stock on a Farm, that distinguishes this corrupt age. St. Domingo, Louisiana, Corsica, & Poland indisputably prove this. Now Sir, I leave it with you to judge, whether, whilst we are hesitating about forming Alliance, Great Britain may not, and probably will not, seal our ruin by signing a Treaty of partition with two or three ambitious powers that may aid in conquering us 3 —Upon principles of interest and revenge they surely will. When G. B. finds she cannot conquer us alone, and that the whole must be lost, will she not rather choose a part than have none, certainly she will, and to gain the necessary aid give up a part, and thus involve us, unaided, unassisted, in a very unequal destructive contest with three or 4 of the greatest States in Europe. Nothing in this world is more certain than that the present Court of London wd. rather rule despotically a single rod of earth, than govern the World under legal limitations. All this danger however, may be prevented by a timely alliance with proper and willing powers in Europe. Indeed we are a singular instance in Modern times, of a people engaged in war with a powerful Nation, without taking any steps to secure the friendship or even neutrality of foreign States—Leaving to our enemies the full opportunity of ingaging all. And we know with certainty that every maritime State in Europe has been interceeded with not to supply us with military Stores, and many States have been applied to for Troops to destroy us, as Russia, Hesse, Hanover & Hol land. Is it not the most dreadful infatuation in us to remain quiet in this way and stir not until it is too late—But no State in Europe will either Treat or Trade with us so long as we consider ourselves Subjects of G. B. Honor, dignity, and the custom of States forbid them until we take rank as an independant people. The war cannot long be prosecuted without Trade, nor can Taxes be paid until we are enabled to sell our produce, which cannot be the case, without the help of foreign Ships, whilst our enemies Navy is so superior to ours. A contraband Sloop or so may come from foreign parts, but no authorized & consequently sufficiently extensive Trade will be carried on with us whilst we remain in our present undefined unmeaning condition. Our clearest interest therefore, our very existance as freemen requires that we take decisive steps now, whilst we may, for the security of America. It is most fortu nate for us that the present quitrent revenue, with the impost on Tobo. & Tonnage will do more than defray all our expences of Civil govern ment witht. fresh Taxes on the people, and the unappropriated lands will pay the expences of the war. The inclosed pamphlet on Govern ment is the production of our friend John Adams. 4 It is sensible and shews the virtue of the Man, at the same time that it proves the business of framing government not to be so difficult a thing as most people imagine. The small scheme printed in hand bill I had written before I saw this work of Mr. Adams, 6 and he agrees that the Council of State
