570 April 22, 1776 has been Shewn to the Measure of Independency. All great Changes are irksome to the human Mind, especially those which are attended with great Dangers, and uncertain Effects. No Man living can foresee the Consequences of such a Measure. And therefore I think it ought not to have been undertaken, untill the Design of Providence, by a series of great Events, had so plainly marked out the Necessity of it that he that runs might read. We may feel a Sanguine Confidence of our Strength: yet in a few years it may be put to the Tryal. We may please ourselves with the prospect of free and popular Gov ernments. But there is great Danger, that these Governments will not make us happy. God grant they may. But I fear, that in every assembly, Members will obtain an Influence, by Noise not sense—By Meanness, not Greatness—By Ignorance not Learning—By contracted Hearts not large souls. I fear too, that it will be impossible to convince and perswade People to establish wise Regulations. There is one Thing, my dear sir, that must be attempted and most Sacredly observed or We are all undone. There must be a Decency and Respect, and Veneration introduced for Persons in Authority, of every Rank, or We are undone. In a popular Government, this is the only Way of Supporting order. And in our Circumstances, as our People have been So long without any Government att all, it is more neces sary than in any other. The United Provinces were So sensible of this that they carried it to a burlesque Extream. I hope your Election in May will be the most solemn and joyfull that ever took Place in the Province. I hope every Body will attend. Clergy and Laity should go to Boston. Every Body should be gratefully pious & happy. It should be conducted with a solemnity that may make an Impression on the whole People. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 On March 26 the South Carolina Provincial Congress had adopted a new con stitution. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:608-14. Richard Henry Lee to Charles Lee My Dear Friend, Philadelphia, 22nd April, 1776. I thank you heartily for your obliging favors by this and the last Post, 1 they have made me very happy by the good opinion you have of our officers and troops. I have no doubt they will verify upon the Enemy, when they come, your opinion of them. It always gave me much pleasure to reflect on your appointment to the Southern Department, well know ing the signal benefit and security that would result to my country therefrom. Your measures are in my opinion extremely wise and well
