572 April 22, 1776 the Security of America. It is most certain that the people in these Proprietary Colonies will then force the same measure, after which Adieu to Proprietary influence and timid senseless politics. You have enclosed a sensible little pamphlet on government written by Mr John Adams. ’Tis well fitted for the times, shewing that to be easy and neces sary, which the unthinking people have supposed to be unnecessary and difficult. We have an account in Town that the Court of London has demanded from that of Portugal all the American property in the Portugese dominions, and ’tis supposed this will be complied with. Every days experience still confirms the most diabolical wickedness and violence of that execrable Court. I do most heartily wish it were in my power to attend our Convention at their coming Session—But it is impossible to leave this place, and you would think it quite improper if you were here. Your affectionate friend, Richard Henry Lee [P.5.] I am so hurried that I scarcely know what I write. MS not found; reprinted from NYHS Collections 4 (1871): 440-43. 1 Charles Lee’s letters of April 5 and 12 are in NYHS Collections 4 (1871): 378—80, 416-17. 2 See JCC, 4:212. 3 See JCC, 4:294. 4 In response to Charles Lee’s April 6 letter to Congress, which is in PCC, item 158, fols. 41-42, and NYHS Collections, 4 (1871): 382-83, Ephraim Blaine was ap pointed to procure blankets and shoes for the Virginia troops. See JCC, 4:296-97. John Adams to Abigail Adams April 23d. 1776. “This is St. Georges Day, a Festival celebrated by the English, as Saint Patricks is by the Irish, St. Davids by the Welch, and St. Andrews by the Scotch. The Natives of old England in this City heretofore formed a Society, which they called Saint Georges Clubb, or Saint Georges Society. Upon the Twenty third of April annually, they had a great Feast. But the Times and Politicks have made a schism in the society so that one Part of them are to meet and dine at the City Tavern, and the other att the Bunch of Grapes, Israel Jacobs’s, and a third Party go out of Town. “One sett are staunch Americans, another staunch Britons I suppose, and a Third half Way Men, Neutral Beings, moderate Men, prudent Folks—for such is the Division among Men upon all Occasions and every Question. This is the Account, which I have from my Barber, who is one of the Society and zealous on the side of America, and one of the Philadelphia Associators.” Continues with an account of his barber, John Byrne, and apologizes for writing “so trifling a Letter upon so
