576 April 23, 1776 determine to go into Chesepeak, advise us of the Time of your sailing, that Orders may be given to the different armed Vessels on the Coast as also to those in Chesepeak & the Commander in chief in Virginia to co-operate with You in the Attack. As You were directed by a former Instruction, 3 in Case You determined to proceed into Chesepeak Bay, “that You should Dispatch a swift sailing Vessel to reconnoitre the Coast & gain Intelligence of the Strength of the Enemy” we now remind You of that Instruction & desire You would send a Vessel for that Purpose from the Fleet. Wishing You Success, We are Sir with Esteem, Your most Obedt Servts, John Hancock Geo. Read Step. Hopkins Richard Henry Lee Joseph Hewes R. Alexander Sami. Huntington Jona D Sergeant RC (CSmH). Written by Sergeant and signed by Sergeant, Alexander, Hancock, Hewes, Hopkins, Huntington, Lee, and Read. 1 The assignment of this date is based on the postscript to Hancock’s letter to Washington of this date, requesting that the “Inclos’d letter for Commodore Hop kins” be forwarded by express. 2 In his response of May 1, Hopkins described the state of his ships, intimating that, with his forces weakened by an outbreak of fever and divided by personnel conflicts, the fleet was not ready to undertake a major expedition. See Clark, Naval Documents, 4:1358—60. 3 Hopkins’ cruising orders, dated January 5, 1776, are printed in JCC, 4:335-36. Robert Morris to Charles Lee Dear sir Philada. April 23d. 1776 I had the pleasure to receive Yours of the 10th yesterday. 1 Your pro fessions of attachment are flattering to my Vanity and pleasing to my Heart, but dont talk of obligations, when it is in my power to render you Services Command them freely, I have as much pleasure in doing them as you cou’d wish. I am sorry to tell you the two bills for £1500 St[erlin]g each are Noted for Non Acceptance & expected to come back; therefore it is lucky I did not Negotiate them. The Securitys lie safe in England and I still think your Estate may be drawn from thence by & by. Mr James Nourse has drawn a bill on me for two hundred & fifty Pounds this Curr[ence]y which I had accepted before Your letter came & am pleased to find I did right therein and Congratulate you on the favourable Accounts he gives of your purchase. I see clearly the many difficultys You have to encounter in your new Command & think with you that the Force is inadequate. However we have an amazing Army on foot, the Expence will be enormous and nothing but necessity can justify any increase of it. The People of Vir-
