April 23, 1776 577 ginia are a Noble Spirited People and I have no doubt when danger approaches them but they will exert & Strain every Nerve in defence of their Country. I think you shou’d make a point to Cultivate their good oppinion; it will be usefull to you. Their Convention, Committee of Safety & other Public Bodys Consist of respectable Men that Consider themselves as the present Civil Authority which ought to have Con- troul over the Military and if they are not respected in that light by the Military Commanders I fancy disputes will soon ensue, the Service will become disagreeable, Ill Consequences will arise & God knows where they may End. But a Contrary Conduct will gain their Confidence & Esteem, they will render the Service easy & agreable and in short every happy & Good Consequence may be expected from it. You must ex cuse me, if you think these hints unnecessary. I only offer them as hints from a Friend that entertains the best wishes for your happiness & glory. I read Your letter to Colo Lee respecting Mr Yates but I think he said a promise in favour of another had Escaped him. 2 The Post is near departure & having much to do & write I must bid adieu being, Dr sir, Your affectte. Friend & Servt. Robt Morris RC (DLC: photostat). Addressed: “To Majr. General Charles Lee at Head Quarters, Wiliamsburgh.” 1 Lee’s letter to Morris, which is printed under the date April 16, 1776, in NYHS Collections 4 (1871): 424—26, is at DFo. 2 General Lee had reported to Morris that Edmund Randolph, who had been appointed deputy muster-master general for the southern department on March 25, 1776, “has declined but begs leave to recommend in his place a Mr. Yates his relation. Will you mention the affair to Colonel Lee in my name? they say Mr. Yates is very capable.” Ibid., p. 426. Congress accepted Randolph’s resignation on April 26 and appointed William Yates in his place on the 27th. JCC, 4:236, 311, 315. Secret Committee to the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety Gentlemn. April 23d 1776. The Secret Come, of Cong, have directed the Brige. Polly, Capt. McFadden, & Brige. Patty, Capt. McIvers, to be dispatchd under convoy of the Wasp Schooner, 1 & by their order I apply to you to licence two proper pilots to carry down those two vessels by Cape May Chanl. The Wasp has orders to bring the pilots up again, unless they chuse to land at the Cape. I am Gentlen. respectfully, yr. very humb. Servt. Robt Morris, Chairman of the Sect. Come. Tr (MH). 1 The Secret Committee had signed contracts with the owners of the brigs Polly
