580 April 24, 1776 Secret Committee to Philip Schuyler Philadelphia, April 24, 1776. “We are directed by Congress 1 to fo[rward] Five Tons powder from the Mills of Mr. Wisner & Mr. Livingston to you for the Continental Service in Canada and in obedience to that order we have this day wrote Messrs. Wisner & Livingston to forward that quantity of Powder to you for which proper receipts will no doubt be granted to them. We think it necessary to inform you of this trans action that you may write those Gentlemen if you find it delayed or that your interference is necessary and when you receive this or any other p[owder] to for[ward it] under direction of. . . .” 2 RC (NN). In a clerical hand; signed “By order of the Secret Committee, Robert Morris, Chairman.” 1 See JCC, 4:304. 2 MS damaged; most of the remainder indecipherable. Thomas Stone to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer My Dear Sir Phila. April. 24. 1776. Wednesday Mr. Johnson wrote to You yesterday by Post and I wrote to Mr Hall. 1 Nothing is done since in Consequence of your Letter and resolution to the Presidt. We have been very much engaged for some days in attend ing to the affairs of Canada, having reed, late Intelligence from that Quarter. I presume the Canada Department, its Connections and De- pendancies will ingross our Attention for a few days, And then some Ans[we]r will probably be given to your Letter. 2 What it will be I can’t guess, with any Degree of Certainty but I am inclined to think every thing will be left to the Convention. We shall attend the Meeting of that Assembly. Gov. Eden’s Letter is published in one of the Papers here and various are the Comments on it. Independant of every thing else it is very suspicious; but taking Mr Eden’s Conduct, the Letters from his Brother, who must know his Sentiments, into Consideration I think lessens greatly the Charge which the intercepted Letter would of itself import. If the Commissioners do not arrive shortly and conduct themselves with great Candor and Uprightness to effect a reconciliation, a Seperation will most undoubtedly take place as then all Governors & officers must quit their Posts and new men must be placed in the Saddle of Power. I wish to conduct affairs so that a just & honourable recon ciliation should take place, or that we should be pretty unanimous in a resolution to fight it out for Independance, the proper way to effect this is not to move too quick. But then we must take Care to do every thing which is necessary for our Security and Defence, not suffer our selves to be lulled or wheedled by any deceptions, Declarations or Giv-
