April 25, 1776 581 ings out. You know my Heart wishes for a Peace upon Terms of Security and Justice to America. But War, any thing is preferable to a Surrender of our Rights. You may rely on my friendship on all Occasions. My Brothers are all Steady friends to your Council. And we have not the least Doubt but when your Conduct comes to be tried by your Country you will receive it’s thanks for your great Attention to the publick Good. You have been steady, firm and determined in the p[resent] Opposition to ministerial Tyranny and I hope will persevere to the End, bearing all Blasts with unshaken Constancy and resolution. Nothing new here. I shall set out on Saturday or Sunday next to meet my wife. Be pleased [to] shew this to your Brothers in Council to whom I present my most respectfull regards. I am, Dr Sir, Yr most obliged & aff Friend, T. Stone RC (MdAA). 1 Stone’s letter to John Hall, not found. 2 That is Jenifer’s letter to Hancock of April 19, “By Order and on Behalf of the Council of Safety of the Province of Maryland,” which was read in Congress on April 22 and is in PCC, item 70, fols. 5-8. Jenifer had explained the council’s refusal to arrest Governor Eden, since they were satisfied that his continuance in office posed no threat to the colonies. Congress, unable to agree on an appropriate response, never sent the “Answer” Stone anticipated. John Hancock to George Washington Sir Philadelphia 25th April 1776 I have Deliver’d in Charge to Mr Hanson & Cox Three Hundred Thousand Dollars for the Service of the Army in Canada, & have di rected them by order of Congress to Deliver the same to you, and am to Request you will please to order it to be Sent to General Schuyler at Albany under the Care of an Officer & some of the Troops destin’d for Canada to be Deliver’d [/o] General Schuyler. 1 Your Favrs. of 22d & 23d Inst. I last Night Rec’d. by Major Palfrey & are now under the Consideration of a Committee. 2 I Beg leave to Recommend Mr Hanson & Cox to your Notice, & am with Esteem, Sir, Your very hume Servt. John Hancock Presidt [P.Y] The 300,000 Dollars are Pack’d in three Boxes. RC (DLC): 1 Hancock also wrote a brief note to" General Schuyler this date, informing him of this transmittal, which Congress had approved on April 23. See JCC, 4:301; PCC, item 12A; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:1067. 2 These letters from Washington to Hancock are in PCC, item 152, 1:603-6, 611-14, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 4:500-507. For the resolves which
