586 April 27, 1776 John Adams to Horatio Gates Dear Sir Philadelphia April 27 1776 Your Favour of the Twenty third, I received Yesterday, and it put me into a good Humour, the benefit of which I feel to this Moment, and shall continue to experience a long Time. 1 Was you idle enough to read the Tales in the London Papers and Magazines, a few years ago concerning the Cock Lane Ghost, and the others concerning a Man of six-feet high who leaped into a Quart Bottle and corked himself up? Do you remember that a great Part of the Nation, perhaps a Majority, believed these marvellous stories to be true? If you recollect these Things, you will not wonder that the Tales of Commissioners to treat with Congress should have gained Credit with many in America nor will you wonder that many pretend to believe them who do not. I think with you, that it requires a Faith, which can remove Moun tains, to believe that Liberty and Safety can ever hereafter be injoyd by America, in any Subjection to the Government of Great Britain. Dependence and Subordination to Great Britain, always indeterminate and nonsensical Expressions, if they mean any Thing must now mean perpetual Animosity, Discord, Civil War, Encroachment and Usurpa tions on one side, and Discontent, Mutiny, Sedition, Riot and Re sistance on the other. Hense it terminates in downright submission, and that beyond all doubt would be followed with Persecution and Im prisonment, Scorn & Insult, Blocks, Halters, Gibbetts. Your opinion of Indians, and the best Policy, in our Management of them, may be right for any Thing that I know. But as I know very little of them, I always leave the Measures relating to them to gentlemen who know a great deal. It is Said they are very expensive and troublesome Confederates in war, besides the Incivity and Inhumanity of employing Such Savages with their cruel, bloody dispositions, against any Enemy whatever. Nevertheless, Such have been the Extravagances of British Barbarity in prosecuting the War against Us, that I think We need not be So delicate as to refuse the assistance of Indians, provided We cannot keep them neutral. I Should not hesitate a Moment in this Case. That we have been a little tardy in providing for Canada is true. Owing to innummerable difficulties, however We have been roused at last, and I hope have done pretty well. If you think We have not, let me know it, and whatever you may think further necessary, if it is not done it shall not be my Fault. I am grieved to find the least Intimation of Languor, among my Countrymen in fortifying Boston and its Harbour. I have not written a Letter since We reed the News of your Success, in driving the Enemy from that Town without stuffing it with Exhortations, as well as Plans
