590 April 27, 1776 John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia April 27th. 1776. The enclosed Resolve of Congress respecting the Rifle Battalions and independant Rifle Companies, would have been transmitted sooner, had it not been omitted, through a Mistake. 1 I do myself the Pleasure of forwarding at this Time several Resolves of Congress relative to such Parts of your Letters as have hitherto come under Consideration. 2 I propose writing more fully by Mr. Palfrey who will set out for New York on Monday. 3 In the mean Time, I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See Congress’ April 15 resolution on this issue in JCC, 4:284. 2 See JCC, 4:311-12. 3 See Hancock to Washington, April 30, 1776. John Jay to Alexander McDougall Dear Collonel Philad. 27 Ap 1776 Accept my Thanks for your friendly Letter of the 16th Inst. 1 and its Inclosures, which contain useful as well as agreable Information. I am glad to see New York doing something in the naval Way, & think the Encouragement given by the Convention to the Manufacture of arms, Powder, Salt Petre and Sea Salt, does them Honor. Many of the Reasons you alledge for delaying Taxation are weighty, & I confess did not occur to me. It is certainly unreasonable to impose on the City, in its present Circumstances, so great a Share of the public Expences. The late Election, so far as it respects yourself, has taken a Turn I did not expect, & am at a Loss to account for; except on the Principles of your holding a military Commission, or of that mutability which from various Causes, often strongly marks popular opinions of men & measures in Times like These. But whatever may have been the Reason, I am persuaded that the Zeal you have shewn & the Sacrifices you have made in this great Cause, will always afford You the most pleasing Re flections, and will one Day, not only merit, but receive the Gratitude of your Fellow Citizens. Posterity you know always does Justice. Let no circumstance of this Kind diminish your Ardor, but by persevering in a firm uniform Course of Conduct, silence Detraction & compel Ap probation. I am much obliged to You for your kind Attention to my House, &
