592 April 27, 1776 I hope care will be taken of the officers you allude to; men who de serve well of the country are entitled to its regard, and in my opinion no opportunity of distinguishing and rewarding merit ought to be omitted. I am glad your indisposition is removed, and hope it will not be long before an occasion of again calling you to the service of your country will present itself. I am Sir, Your very h’ble Servt, John Jay. Reprinted from John Jay, The Correspondence and Public Papers of John Jay, ed. Henry P. Johnston, 4 vols. (New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1890-93), 1:56-57. 1 Marinus Willett (1740—1830), a New York merchant, had served as a captain of the First New York Regiment during the Canadian campaign. After Congress ordered four new battalions to be raised in New York on January 19, the New York Provincial Congress had nominated eight men, including Willett, for the four majorities in these units, but on March 8 Congress passed over Willett in favor of Joseph Benedict, a captain with less seniority. JCC, 4:60, 190; Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:317-18; and Jay, Papers (Morris), l:245n.l, 262n.l. Willett’s indignant, un dated letter to Jay, complaining “how it came to pass that I should be superceeded by Captain Benidect is truly strange to me,” is in Jay, Papers (Morris), 1:260-62. Schuyler’s February 27 letter of recommendation for Willett to the New York Provincial Congress, a copy of which Willett enclosed in his letter to Jay, is in Journals of the N. T. Prov. Cong., 2:121. John Adams to Abigail Adams April 28. 1776 Yesterday, I received two Letters from you from the 7th. to the 14. of April. I believe I have received all your Letters, and I am not certain I wrote one from Framingham. The one I mean contains an Account of my dining with the Indians at Mr. Mifflins. It gives me Concern to think of the many Cares you must have upon your Mind. Am glad you have taken [Belcher] 1 into Pay, and that Isaac is well before now I hope. Your Reputation, as a Farmer, or any Thing else you undertake I dare answer for. . . , 2 Your Partners Character as a Statesman is much more problematical. As to my Return, I have not a Thought of it. Journeys of such a Length are tedious, and expensive both of Time and Money neither of which are my own. I hope to spend the next Christmas, where I did the last, and after that I hope to be relieved for by that Time I shall have taken a pretty good Trick att Helm whether the Vessell has been well steer’d or not. But if My Countrymen should insist upon my serving them another Year, they must let me bring my whole Family with me. Indeed I could keep House here, with my Partner, four chil dren and two servants, as cheap as I maintain my self here with two
