April 30, 1776 607 Vacancy I would have done my utmost to have got Col. Long ap pointed. 2 I will look over the Journals and if there should be any Va cancy with his Acceptance I will exert my self to the uttermost to get the appointment for him. The recommendation for Field Officers shall be laid before Congress as soon as I can get a proper opportunity. A Committee is already appointed to take the several papers & Informa tion from North Carolina under consideration. I shall transmit you such Resolutions as Congress may agree to respecting them. 3 My Compli ments to all friends & be assured that I am with respect, Dear Sir, your mo Obed huml sert, Joseph Hewes RC (CtY). •An extract from Johnston’s letter of the 15th is in Clark, Naval Documents, 4:841^2. ’Although William Finney had been appointed deputy quartermaster in the southern department on March 28, Hewes managed to secure the appointment of Col. Nicholas Long as deputy quartermaster for North Carolina on May 7. See JCC, 4:239, 332; and John Adams to John Penn, April 28, 1776, note 5. 3 On April 27 Congress appointed a committee to consider a letter from Samuel Johnston to the North Carolina delegates enclosing North Carolina Provincial Congress resolves of April 9, 10, and 13 concerning the raising of six battalions there. See JCC, 4:314-15; and N.C. Colonial Records, 10:494-95, 506, 508-9, 513-14. This committee submitted its report to Congress on May 2, on the basis of which Congress adopted a number of resolutions about officers and supplies for these battalions on May 7. See JCC, 4:323, 331-33; and Hewes’ letters to Johnston of May 15 and 16 1776. Richard Henry Lee to Robert Carter Nicholas Dear Sir, Philadelphia 30th April 1776 I thank you for your kind favor by last Post, and I am well pleased to hear that Gen. Lee is exerting himself for the security of our country. His military talents are considerable, and his zeal in the American cause equal to his martial accomplishments. His plan for securing our rivers with armed boats, from piratical ravage, is very wise, and I hope it will meet the countenance and support of our convention. The manner of making common salt, as practised in France, and well described in a pamphlet we sent the Committee of Safety, seems to deserve the most serious attention of the public. 1 Our water is more salt & our sun hotter than in France, nor are they much less subject to rains, but from this interruption we need not fear much inconvenience, where the evapora tion from the suns heat is so great as in Virginia. I realy think that revenue as well as supply of the commodity may be obtained from public works of this kind. Salt petre too, is an object of great consequence, but I incline to believe that bounties to encourage the making this in private families will more certainly produce it in large quantities than any other
