608 April 30, 1776 plan. We are told that Massachusetts Government alone, will in this way furnish 100 Tons by midsummer. But Sir, do you not see the indis pensable necessity of establishing a Government this Convention? How long popular commotions may be suppressed without it, and Anarchy be prevented, deserves intense consideration. A wise and free govern ment may now be formed, and the sensible advantages soon derived from it, will, added to the Magistrates authority, effectually prevent the numerous evils to be apprehended from popular rage & licence whenever they find the bonds of government removed, as is certainly the case, by the last wicked Act of Parliament. We cannot be in rebellion, and without the Kings protection; and Magistrates acting under his authority at the same time. Would not the President act as Governor, if chosen by the Convention? I sent you a small pamphlet by Squire Lee, written here by a very sensible Gentleman on the subject of Govern ment. His plan, with some variation, would in fact, be nearly the form we have been used to. Our enemies are at this time holding a treaty with the Indians at Detroit, and propose another at Niagara the 1st of May, to persuade these Savages to join them in the war against us. This mischief will forever attend us whilst one of the Forts are suffered to remain in pos session of the enemy in that Country. However, I expect an expedition will soon be sett on foot that will effectually oust them. Gen Howe is certainly gone to Hallifax to refresh his dispirited, fugitive army, but his distress there must be considerable, as the climate is bad, and the scarcity of provisions considerable. We conclude here that Quebec and Hudsons river will be their great objects this Campaign, and we are preparing to give them a proper reception both in Canada and New York. I think Ld. Germains intercepted letter shews us pretty clearly that the 7 regiments under Cornwallis are all that are intended for the Southern Colonies this year, and their insufficiency is very apparent. But this is one good consequence arising from Ld. Dunmores vain boasting of his own prowess, and what he could do in Virga, with a few troops, He has led his friends into another scrape. We have sent 8 Gallies & 2 Ships of war down after the Roebuck as she is reported to be on Shore near the Capes of Delaware. Should this prove true, it will be a fine acquisition. 2 Colo. Harrison told me you desired the account of each Delegate to be sent you. I have accordingly inclosed you mine. 3 The general Ac count of the disposition of the money obtained from the bills you have sent here, will likewise be transmitted. I had, in my last account sent you when in Virga., stated our allowance at half a joe per day because I was informed that was the sense of Convention. But since the Ordi nance mentions forty five shillings we must abide the loss. The Congress has sent 250,000 dollars to the Paymaster in Virga. & 50,000 to the Committee of Safety to get changed for specie to support the Troops
