April 30, 1776 609 in Canada. From this quantity of Continental money in Virginia you will have no difficulty hereafter I suppose Sir [in] procuring as much as will pay our wages. [You]r goodness will, I am sure, pardon the length [of] this letter. I am dear Sir your affec[tionate] and obedient servant, Richard Henry Lee [P.S 1.] Mr. Ro. Morris purchased the bills you sent by me and the ex change was 77 1/2. RC (MHi). Addressed: “Robert Carter Nicholas Esqr., Treasurer of Virginia at Williamsburg.” 1 In his April 20 letter to Richard Henry Lee, Edmund Pendleton, chairman of the committee of safety, had endorsed the construction of public saltworks and requested information on the “approved method of making it.” Edmund Pendleton, The Letters and Papers of Edmund Pendleton 1734-1803, ed. David J. Mays, 2 vols. (Charlottesville: University Press of Virginia, 1967), 1:163—65. See also Robert Treat Paine to the Massachusetts General Court, April 15, 1776. 2 Lee discussed similar topics in his letter of this date to John Page, which is extracted in Stan V. Henkels Catalog, no. 712 (December 14, 1893), item 30. 3 Lee’s copy of his account, endorsed “R. H. Lee’s Accot. with Treasury Virga., 30 April 1776,” includes a charge for 145 days of service as a delegate for the period September 1775 through April 1776. Lee Family Papers, ViU. Roger Sherman to David Waterbury Sir Philadelphia 30th April 1776 The Congress passed an order last Summer, 1 that a number of blank Commissions Should be Signed by the President and Sent to proper persons to be filled up and delivered to the officers then in the Army, who had been appointed by the Several Colonies, and it has been reported here that the officers of the Troops raised in Connecticut which were in the New York and Canada departments had refused to receive sd Com missions under the Congress, and it has likewise been asserted, that no Such Commissions were offered them and that they knew nothing of the matter. 2 A few lines from You informing me whether any Such Com mission was offered to You & refused, also what You know relative to their being refused by the other Connecticut officers, will oblige me and May be of Service in the common Cause. The Congress has ordered that authentic Muster rolls of the Militia that Served in New York and accounts of their expences be transmitted to Congress that they may be paid. 3 I Suppose the President has trans mitted a Copy of the resolution to the Governor. We have no news here remarkable. I am Sir with Esteem Your humble Servant. Roger Sherman RC (CtY).
