May 1, 1776 611 1 Probably the resolve of September 14, 1775. See JCC, 2:249. 2 David Waterbury (1722-1801), Stamford, Conn., soldier who had served as colonel of a Connecticut regiment in the Canadian expedition in 1775, had appar ently informed Eliphalet Dyer of his disappointment at not being offered a Conti nental commission. While in Philadelphia on colony business, Dyer tried to obtain a postdated commission for Waterbury, but only succeeded in initiating a congres sional investigation of the distribution of blank commissions by General Schuyler and the New York Committee of Safety in 1775. Dyer was also able to lay the groundwork for what resulted in an offer to Waterbury to command a regiment formerly headed by Benedict Arnold, which Waterbury declined. He finally accepted a Connecticut commission as brigadier general of militia, and during the summer of 1776 he commanded the post at Skenesboro, N.Y., where a fleet was being built for the Lake Champlain campaign. See JCC, 4:317; John Hancock to Philip Schuyler, May 4, 1776; Eliphalet Dyer to David Waterbury, April 25, 1776, Waterbury Family Collection, CtY; Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:1001-2, 1133, and 6:436, 871; and Appleton's Cyclopaedia of American Biography. 3 Waterbury’s accounts were received on June 15 and referred to the claims committee. See JCC, 5:444. Commissioners to Canada to John Hancock Sir, Montreal 1st May 1776 1 After some difficulty & delay in getting thro’ the ice of Lake George, we arrived here on Monday last, and were very politely received by General Arnold who at present commands in this Post. 2 It is impossible to give you a just idea of the lowness of the Continental credit here from the want of hard money, and the prejudice it is to our affairs. Not the most trifling service can be procured without an as surance of instant pay in silver or gold. The Express we sent from St. John’s to inform the General of our arrival there, and to request car riages for La Prairie, was stopt at the ferry, till a friend passing changed a Dollar for him into silver, and we are obliged to that friend (Mr. M’Cartney) for his engagement to pay the Galeches, or they would not have come for us. The general apprehension, that we shall be driven out of the Province as soon as the King’s troops can arrive, concurs, with the frequent breaches of promise the Inhabitants have experienced, in determining them to trust our people no farther. Therefore the utmost dispatch should be used in forwarding a large sum hither (we believe twenty thousand pounds will be necessary); otherwise it will be impos sible to continue the war in this Country, or to expect the continuance of our interest with the people here, who begin to consider the Congress as bankrupt and their cause as desperate. Therefore till the arrival of money, it seems improper to propose the federal union of this Province with the others, as the few friends we have here, will scarce venture to exert themselves in promoting it, till they see our credit recoverd, & a sufficient army arrived to secure the possession of the Country. Yesterday we attended a Council of war, the minutes of which we
