612 May 1, 1776 inclose. 3 The places proposed are proper to prevent the further progress of the Enemy, in case they should oblige us to raise the siege of Quebeck. The plank & timber for the Gondolas is all prepared and ready at Fort Chamblee, & some of the Carpenters are arrived from New York; others are to be engaged here, and as hard money is necessary for these, we have agreed to advance some out of what the Congress put into our hands for our own subsistance; to be replaced when cash shall arrive. We understand that the Troops now before Qubeck have not ten days provision; but hope, as the lakes are now open, supplies will soon reach them. We have directed the opening of the Indian Trade, & granting pass ports to all, who shall enter into certain engagements to do nothing in the upper Country prejudicial to the Continental interests. We hope to morrow to obtain an account of our debts, that ought instantly to be paid. If besides what is necessary for that purpose, we had a sum to manage by opening a bank for exchanging continental bills, it is supposed that we might thereby give a circulation to those bills. The twenty thousand pounds above mentioned will, we think, answer both these purposes. We are told that not less than the eight thousand orderd by Congress will be a sufficient army for this quarter. As yet there are but about three thousand, including those now passing down to Quebeck, who are just come over the lakes. The small pox is in the army, & General Thomas has unfortunately never had it. 4 With great respect to yourself & Congress, we have the honour to be, Sir, Your most obedient humble Servts., B Franklin Samuel Chase Ch. Carroll of Carrollton RC (DNA: PCC, item 166). In a clerical hand and signed by Carroll, Chase, and Franklin. 1 For the disposition of this letter, which was read in Congress on May 16 and referred to a committee consisting of John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, and William Livingston, see JCC, 4:358—59; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:295—96. The letter was sent via General Schuyler at Albany, who forwarded it with his letter to Congress of May 10, 1776. An extract of the commissioners’ letter of May 1 to Schuyler accompanying their letter to Hancock is in Kenneth W. Rendell Catalog, no. 75 (June 1972), p. 10. “We arrived here on Monday last and have proceeded to business, as you will see by the enclosed letter to Congress, which we leave open for your perusal, and request you will seal and forward it. We are deeply impressed with a sense of the many civilities we received from you and your good family, and your kind attention to everything that might render our passage over the lakes as con venient ... as possible. Accept our thankful acknowledgements, and make them acceptable to Mrs. Schuyler.” An extract of another letter of this date, written to an unknown recipient by John Carroll, the fourth member of the party Congress directed to Canada, is in
