628 May 6, 1776 Samuel Chase to John Thomas? Dear Sir 1 Montreal May 6th. 1776 I am sorry to hear, that General Wooster has appointed Doctor Nicholson 2 as his Aid de Camp: I am convinced he is not worthy of so great a Trust. It is said here, that he passes as a Native of the province of Maryland. I hope, Sir. You will take Care to place no Confidence, in Mr. Nicholson, and I really think it would be proper, if it can be done without giving him Alarm, to send him to this City. I am afraid he has so far gained an Influence with General Wooster, that he might trust Nicholson with the Contents of this Letter. I think the public Service requires his instant Removal from Camp: If he should come here, I should wish to send him out of the Colony. I wish you Health and Success, and am, Sir, with Respect, Your obedt. Servt. Sami. Chase RC (MeHi). 1 Apparently Gen. John Thomas, who at this time was commanding the army encamped near Quebec, where Gen. David Wooster was also. 2 Maj. George Nicholson. For papers relating to an investigation of his conduct in handling supplies at Montreal in March 1776, see PCC, item 19, 1:317-24. Commissioners to Canada to John Hancock Sir Montreal May 6th. 1776 In our letter of the 1st instant, we informed you of the lowness of the Continental credit in this Province, and the necessity of a speedy supply of hard money. Unless this very essential article arrives soon, our forces will suffer exceedingly from the want of many necessaries, particularly flour, which might be laid in much cheaper here, than it could be sup plied from New York, provided gold or silver could be procured to purchase it. It is very difficult to keep Soldiers under proper disciplin without paying them regularly. This difficulty increases in proportion to the distance the troops are removed from their own country. The want of money frequently constrains the Commanders to have recourse to violences in providing the army with carriages, and other convenien- cies, which indispose and irritate the minds of the people. We have reason to conclude that the change of sentiments, which we understand has taken place in this colony, is owing to the above mentioned cause, and to other arbitrary proceedings. If hard money cannot be procured and forwarded with dispatch to Canada, it would be adviseable, in our opinion, to withdraw our army & fortify the passes on the lakes to pre vent the enemy, & the Canadians, if so inclined, from making irrup tions into & depredations on our frontiers. We have given orders for
