May 6, 1776 629 the return of Mr. Frazer to this city, and we now have under considera tion the confinement of the other Gentlemen particularised in our instructions. 1 At Fort George we had an interview with the Deputies of the seven Indian tribes of Canada to the great council at Onondaga. They were on their return home from this council. They informed us that the re sult of their deliberations was to maintain a perfect neutrality during the present contest: that they had received the hatchet from Colonel Guy Johnson, but being a sharp weapon and liable to wound their bosoms, they were resolved no longer to keep it, but to deliver it up to us. Since our arrival in this city, we have had another conference with the same Deputies, which terminated in a confirmation of their former promises not yet complied with, but delayed only to give time for the assembling of all their tribes, that the hatchet may be given up with the consent of the whole, and with greater solemnity. We judge it expedient to make them a small present, and we think it will be necessary to make them another more considerable when the hatchet is deliverd up. We are informed that our debts in this Colony amount to ten thousand pounds, exclusive of what is due to Mr. Price. We have hitherto obtained a list amounting only to between three & four thousand. It will be necessary to appoint persons to settle these accounts. With great respect to Yourself & the Congress we have the honour to be, Sir, Your most obedient humble Servants, B Franklin Samuel Chase Charles Carroll of Carrollton RC (DNA: PCC, item 166). In a clerical hand and signed by Carroll, Chase, and Franklin. Endorsed: “Read May 18. Referred to Mr W Livingston, Mr Jeffer son, &c.” 1 See Commissioners to Canada to Philip Schuyler, May 4, 1776. Commissioners to Canada to Moses Hazen Dr. Sr. 1 Montreal 6 May 1776. To enable you the better to Attend Your Command of St. John’s & Chambly (the first of which we think demands your immediate notice and ought instantly to be put into some state of Defence) and that you may afford us your Advice here, we have thought proper to appoint your friend Mr. M’Cartney 2 to Execute the office of Deputy Quarter Master ‘till the pleasure of Congress be known. We shall be glad to know your opinion on the propriety of Establish ing 3 Magazines of Provisions at St. John’s, Chambly & St. Dennis, the first to be the principal. We wish to see you as soon as your present
