May 6, 1776 631 James Duane to the New York Provincial Congress Gentlemen [c. May 6, 1776] 1 We are really concern’d at the Contents of your favour of the 24t Instant. Ever since the Emission of Continental money we had it in our power to keep our Convention fully supplied with money to answer every Service which might be requested from them by Congress. Nothing was expected, on their part, but to render their accounts in reasonable periods, & it is to be lamented that from their Extensiveness this difficulty has hitherto proved insurmountable. The Congress conceive it an in dispensable Duty to adjust the publick Accounts, and to call upon all who have been intrusted with the Expenditure of the continental money. Massachusetts and Connecticut have brought in theirs but not till after a Neglect had been complaind of or rather become the Subject of Ani madversion, on which occasion the Remisness of our own Colony was not forgotten. You are not however to ascribe such Reflections to a Spirit of Jealousy or Distrust; but to a Desire that the publick Accounts may not run into Confusion, and a Settlement of them be attended with insuperable Difficulties. Under these Circumstances we dare not ven ture to ask for a further Advance to our Convention untill we receive their Accounts of the past Expenditures. Especially as it is not long since that a similar Request in behalf df Connecticut was rejected, and the payment deferred till the Accounts were produced. 2 We hope these matters were fully explaind by Mr Clinton in his way home; and only repeat them least by some Incident he may have been deprived of the pleasure of seeing you. 300,000 Dollars have been sent to General Washington since the Army arrived at New York. We shoud suppose that he woud repay you what you have advanced for these Troops. General Schuyler has like wise receivd a Remittance from Congress of the like Sum to support the Army in Canada; and We presume he woud reimburse what you may have furnished for that service. 3 The Production of the Accounts woud however be the shortest Road to the money. The Congress have established a Board of Treasury under the direction of three Super intendents who are instructed to call upon all publick Bodies & officers as well as private persons who have been Entrusted with publick money to settle their Accounts. Your Convention will hear from them soon as circular Letters are now preparing at the office. 4 I am for Mr Jay & self, Gent., Your most Obedient, huml Servt., Jas. Duane FC (NHi). 1 This date has been conjectured because the first of the circular letters “now
