632 May 6, 1776 preparing” at the Board of Treasury, to which Duane refers at the conclusion of this letter, was sent on May 7. It seems improbable that this letter was written in April, although Duane does identify the provincial congress’ letter of April 24, now lost, as “your favour of the 24t Instant.” 2 On this point, see JCC, 4:180, 188, 272; Richard Smith’s Diary, January 13, note 2; and Oliver Wolcott to Thomas Seymour, April 16, 1776, note 2. 2 For the appropriation of these sums to Schuyler and Washington, see JCC, 4:261, 263, 301. 4 See Board of Treasury to Certain Colonies, May 7, 1776. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Purviance, Jr. Dear Sir, Philadelphia May 6th 1776 I received yesterday your favor of the 2d instant, and in answer to that part of it desiring to know if Mr. Hancock gave a copy of your letter to any person I must say that I do not know whether or not, but I am inclined to think he has not. 1 This business appears to me thus. When Mr. Hancock received the dispatches from Baltimore, he pro ceeded to read the whole in Congress, and among others, a letter con taining observations on the Council of Safety of Maryland, relative to the timidity of their Councils; which it appears he had not previously read in private, because, when he came to that part of it which men tioned its being written in confidence, he stopt, and observed it was private, and proposed it should be so considered; but as he had read so much of it, he went on but read no name at the bottom, & in the debate consequent upon it ’twas supposed to be anonymous, and it was conjecture alone that fixed you as the Author. I should have certainly informed you of this if I had then found myself at liberty to do it, and when I heard from you of your summons before the Council, it was too late for a letter to reach you before your appearance at that board. But the idea of drawing from the mouth of a person accused his own con demnation is reprobated by English jurisprudence, and is the practise only of inquisitorial or Star chamber Tyranny. I should incline to think that this persecution will be carried no further; at least I am sure the time is quickly coming when violence from without will render abso lutely necessary a perfect union within. A late arrival from Port L’Orient with 13 tons of powder & 30 of Salt petre brings us a Cork paper near the middle of March, by which we learn that more than 40,000 men would sail from Portsmouth & Grenoch about the 1st of April for N. America. They consist of Hessians, Hanoverians, Mechlenburghers, Scotch Hollanders, & Scotch Highlanders, with some British Regi ments. Their destination not certain, but said to be N. York, New England, Canada, & 2 expeditions more South. Should the persecution go on against you, I would advise answering no interrogatories, but plainly detail my conduct, acknowledge such parts as were without
