May 6, 1776 633 the strict line of duty, and lay it to the account of my zeal for the cause of America, which I hoped a generous community would pardon and forget. My time and attention is so taken up with public business, that I must now conclude with referring you to my letter by Dr. Bankhead. 2 I am, with regard, Sir your friend and obedient servant, Richard Henry Lee RC (MdHi). 1 See John Hancock to the Baltimore Committee, April 16, 1776, note. 2 See Lee to Purviance, May 1, 1776. William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror. Philadelphia 6th May 1776 I have received Yours of 9th, also of the 20 Ulto. You’ll excuse my not writing oftener for besides my great dislike to writing, I have but very little time. There has been no opportunity of shiping any thing for any part of New-England, for some time past, if there had been the articles you mention are near as high here as with you & no insurance to be obtain’d. There has been a 40 Gun ship at the cape, for 6 weeks past and lately join’d by two other men of war who take many home ward bound vessels, however many vessels do go out espetially the arm’d vessels of which there is several besides the Continental vessels. Of the latter there is a very fast sailing Brig, of 16 4 Pounders cruising between the Gapes of Vergeinia & N. York has taken only one prize yet a ship of 16 six pounders & 120 men now in the river outward bound. One sloop of 10 Guns, another of 8 & a schooner of 6 will be ready to sail in a day or two, these small vessels are to clear the coast of the paratical tenders. In order to clear up your doubts about these vessels geting out I will endeaver to discribe the scituation of Delaware Bay. The two Capes viz Cape May & Cape Henlopen are 7 leagues apart, between these two Capes, is a shoal that will take up a very small vessel; the ship Chanel is between this shoal & Cape Henlopen; there is also a chanel under Cape May, where our vessels go in & out; in this chanel is only 10 or 12 feet Water. The British Man of Warr boats are not suffered to land on any pretence whatever, the shores being well guarded & the People spirited. You mention the appointment of B. De Woodlke. I think your ob servation very just with regard to Strangers. To satisfy you as to this Gentn, He is a Prussion, has had a distinguished Command in that monack’s service but on some occation has fallen out with Royalty, Retired from his own country to France, from whence he comes highly recommended by Gentn. of distinguishd Characters, & known integrity.
