644 May 9, 1776 William Floyd to John McKesson Dear Sr, [May 9, 1776] 1 I have this morning Reed, a letter from Thomas Everit acquainting that he was offering to his Creditors the payment of one half Down provided he Could have letter of licence for two years and half, if there is no better Chance and the Creditors in General agree to it, I believe you had as good Do it in my behalf. But I leave the matter wholly with you to Conduct it as you would your own, and I shall be Content. Two Men of War yesterday came up the River with some tenders and prize vessels with them. Between Wilmington and Chester they were met by 13 Roe galleys of this place when a Battle Ensued which lasted most all the afternoon, with very heavy firing on Both Sides. I have not heard the Galleys have suffered any Dammage, the Roe Buck which is the largest Ship was Obliged to Stop the Bullet holes Round her Side and at highwater Ran aground; while the man of War was Engaged, our vessel the (Wasp) went out of Wilmington River and Retook one of the prize vessels. The provence Ship mounting 16 or 18 guns full- maned is gone to the Assistance of the Galleys, we have no news this morning from them But expect every moment to hear. The preparations which are making By our Enemies on the other side the water from the Intelligence we have, appeare to be very Con siderable, which makes it Necessary that all the Collonies Should be in a Situation best Calculated to Exert its whole Strength. I think it Cannot be long before our provencial Congress will think it necessary to take up Some more Stable form of Government than what is now Exercised in that provence. The two Carolina’s have done it, and Virginea I ex pect will Soon Do the Same. As to Commissioners Coming to treat of peace we have little or no hopes of it, therefore we ought to be in a Situation to preserve our Liberties another way. My Complements to all friends. I am Sr. your most obedt., Wm Floyd RC (MeHi). 1 Floyd’s description of the naval engagement “yesterday. . . . Between Wilmington and Chester” indicates that he wrote this letter on this day. See Marine Committee to John Barry, May 8, 1776, note 1. John Hancock to Walter Stewart Sir, Philadelphia, May 9th, 1776. The Congress having granted a passport for Mrs. Bellew to land from the Liverpool Frigate and come up to this city under your Escort you are hereby authorized to repair on board said Frigate with a Flagg, and produce to Capt. Bellew the paper given you herewith and if the
