May 10, 1776 645 permission be accepted you are to conduct the Lady to such lodgings in this city as she may desire. 1 We doubt not she will be perfectly satisfied with that politeness and attention she will meet with from you and all other persons you meet on the Journey, when it is known this is done under proper authority. By order of Congress. John Hancock, Presidt. MS not found; reprinted from The Historical Magazine, 1st ser. 1 (August 1857): 231. Addressed: “To Capt. Walter Stewart of the 3d Battalion of Continental Troops.” 1 On or about May 9 Capt. Henry Bellew, commander of H.M.S. Liverpool, then cruising in Delaware Bay near Newcastle, sent a letter to Congress asking permission for one of his officers imprisoned in Pennsylvania to escort Mrs. Bellew to Marble head, Mass., to visit relatives. Instead, Congress granted Mrs. Bellew leave on May 9 to come to Philadelphia and wait there for the arrival of some friends from Marble head. When Captain Stewart went aboard the Liverpool on May 10 and informed Captain Bellew of this resolution, Bellew denounced the arrangement and refused to accept it. See Bellew’s letter to Congress and Stewart’s narrative of his interview with the British naval officer, ibid., pp. 231-32. See also JCC, 4:338-40; and Clark, Naval Documents, 5:242. The following month, however, Mrs. Bellew finally left for Marblehead. As John Hancock explained in a letter to his brother: “The Bearer Capt [William] Budden of this City, having been lately taken by the men of War in this River & Exchang’d, carries down to Marblehead Mrs. Belew, the wife of one of the Capts. of the Men of War, & proposes to Visit Boston. I Recommend him to your Notice and Civilities he being a Stranger; & Desire you will make his Stay in Boston as agreeable as you can.” John Hancock to Ebenezer Hancock, June 18, 1776, “Copied from the original then in the possession of Mr. Stan V. Henkels,” Burnett Papers, DLC. Commissioners to Canada to John Hancock Sir Montreal May 10th 1776 By Col. Campbell, who arrived here early this morning from Que beck we are informed that two men of war, two Frigates & one Tender ar rived there early on Monday the 6th inst. About eleven o clock the enemy sailed out, to the number, as is supposed, of one thousand men. Our forces were so dispersed at different posts, that not more than two hundred could be collected together at Head Qrs; this small force could not resist the enemy; all our cannon, five hundred muskets, & about two hundred sick unable to come off have fallen into their hands. The re treat, or rather flight was made with the utmost precipitation and con fusion; however Col. Campbell informs us, that he imagines we have lost very few men except the sick above mentioned. Genl. Thomas was last Thursday evening at De Chambeau; at a Council of war it was de termined by eleven to three to retreat to the mouth of the Sorel. This day Genl. Arnold goes down here; and if he can get information of the enemy’s real strength, and it should be found inconsiderable, perhaps a council of war on reconsideration, may think proper to march the army
