May 11, 1776 653 Elbridge Gerry to William Heath Dear sir, Philadelphia May 11th 1776 I have only Time to desire You (by Express now waiting) to inform me with the Number of Cannon left at the Lines in Cambridge &c, of those that were brot from Ticonderoga, & also of the Number brot to New York from the Camp aforesd which were supplied by the N England Colonies. The first if there are any left, are given by Congress to the Colony & the latter not being charged belong to it. I suppose You have e’er this heard of the Repulse which the Roebuck & another Frigate have met with by the Row Gallies in this River; 1 nothing new Occurs excepting that Congress have passed a Resolve recommending it to all the Colonies not having Governments com petent to their exigent Circumstances to take up the same 2 & that 10 Tons of Powder are ordered from Egg Harbour to New York. 3 10 3/4 Tons lately arrived in a Vessel belonging to Newbury Port at Kennebeck, 18 pieces Cannon, 1/2 Ton steel, & 5 1/4 Tons Brimstone. I hope We shall soon have agreable News from Canada & remain sincerely sir, your Friend & very huml serv, Elbridge Gerry RC (MHi). 1 See Marine Committee to John Barry, May 8, 1776, note 1. 2 This resolve was passed on May 10, but its publication was delayed pending preparation of a preamble which was passed on May 15. See JCC, 4:342, 357-58; and John Adams to James Warren, May 15, 1776. 3 JCC, 4:342. John Hancock to Joseph Trumbull Sir Philada. 11th May 1776 I Rec’d your favour, and have only Time to inform you that the Intention of Congress is to have the whole Quantity of Pork order’d to Genl. Schuyler & Sent as fast as possible, that you will please to pursue the purchases untill you have Compleated the whole including the Two Thousand Barrells I lately sent you an order to purchase. 1 Mr Livingston has wrote to Congress a Letter which does him honour, & he will certainly have the Notice of Congress in future, he offer’d to Resign his Contract if any Advantage would Redound to the Publick, & Congress have Accepted his Resignation. 2 I have paid your Bill for Ten Thousand Dollars. 3 I shall be ready to render you any Service, & when I may be usefull, it will give me much pleasure to promote your Interests. I want from Genl Putnam or from you a particular State of the Serv ices perform’d by the Revd Mr Leonard, I mean when he Officiated
