May 11, 1776 655 the Consent of Congress, where much deviation from the usual routine of business is requisite, and especially where expence is created thereby. Such is the opinion entertained of you, that when you press a thing as necessary, if it is in the power of Congress, I am inclined to think a ma jority of that Body will readily adopt the measure. What I hear and see has induced me to say thus much—I am satisfied that verbum sapienti sat est—some still continue to gape for Commissioners, altho’ there is no more reason to expect any than to look for virtue from a Tory, or wisdom from a fool. I fancy the Hessian, Hanoverian, & Highland Commis sioners, will shortly give us a different kind of treaty from the one that has been expected. We have no very late authentic accounts from Canada, but those we have, do not remove all hope of Quebec being ours before assistance can reach it. The Proprietary Colonies do certainly obstruct and perplex the American Machine—Those who wish delay, and want nothing done, say, let the people in the Colonies begin, we must not go before them— Tho’ they well know the language in the Country to be, Let the Con gress advise. In fact, the other Colonies must do what is right, and on giving proper and positive orders to their Servants in Congress, the Proprietary men will be obliged to pursue the right road. Before this reaches you I suppose the powder and medicines will be arrived, and the Blankets and shoes will quickly follow. 4 We have had 23 Tons of powder, and a good deal of Saltpetre arrived within these 10 days. Since writing the above, a french Gentleman, who appears sensible and clever, has been with us. 6 His letter is enclosed. He has been bred to Cavalry, and wishes to serve in Virginia. As a Committee of Congress has already reported against having Continental Cavalry in North Carolina, I suppose the same opinion will prevail respecting Virginia. 6 But the measure is so wise and necessary for the defence of our Colony, that I wish and hope a few squadrons will be formed on Colonial ex pence, in which case, this Gentleman wd answer well as an Instructor & Commander. Farewell my dear friend, Richard Henry Lee. Reprinted from NYHS Collections 5 (1872): 24—26. 1 See Marine Committee to John Barry, May 8, 1776, note 1. 2 General Lee’s April 19 letter to Congress and his proposal for recruiting volunteer cavalry are in NYHS Collections 4 (1871): 432-36. For the official response of Congress to his requests, see the resolutions of May 18, JCC, 4:363-65. A fragment of General Lee’s response to Richard Henry and his July 1 comments to Washington on the urgency of raising cavalry are in NYHS Collections 5 (1872): 99—100, 102—3. A Con tinental cavalry regiment was not authorized until December 1776. JCC, 6:1025, 1045. 3 An incomplete draft of this letter is in the Lee-Ludwell Papers, VHi, and was printed in Richard Henry Lee, The Letters of Richard Henry Lee, ed. James C. Ballagh, 2 vols. (New York: Macmillan Co., 1911-14), 1:189-90. At this point Lee apparently changed his mind about how to continue and therefore omitted most of the following passage from the letter he sent to General Lee. “Upon this consideration, will it
