May 11, 1776 657 Secret Committee to George Washington Sir Philada. May 11th. 1776 In Complyance with an order of Congress passed Yesterday, 1 We forward by the bearer hereof 2 Ten Tons of Gun Powder which Your Excellency will cause the proper officers to receive and upon this & every similar Occasion We beg the favour of a line from You or the Commissary, acknowledging the receipt of such Powder or other stores as We may send to your department. 3 We have The Honor to be, Your Excellencys Most obedt hble servts. By Order of the Secret Committee of Congress. Robt Morris Chair Man RC (DLC). Written and signed by Morris. 1 See JCC, 4:342. 2 On behalf of the committee, Morris also wrote a brief note to Pennsylvania commissary Robert Towers this day, requesting that he “deliver to Robt. Irwin, waggon Master on order 10 tons G. Powdr. to be forwarded to his Excelly. Genl. Washington.” Journal of the Secret Committee, fol. 64, MH. 3 Washington’s May 20 letter to Morris acknowledging receipt of the powder is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:63—64. William Whipple to John Langdon Dear Sir Philadelphia 11th May 1776. Your favor of the 29th Ulto came duely to hand. I have nothing new to tell you save that there has been a little Brush here with the men of war viz. the Roebuck of 44 & the Liverpool of 28 Guns. 1 They came up as far as Wilmington last Monday & stole a pasell of Cattle from the Jersey shore. On Wednesday the 13 Gallies attack’t them but keep at too great a distance. On Thursday they renew’d the attack with more vigour, & is suppos’d did the ships considerable damage. The Gallies receiv’d very little, which is very surprising as they were in reach of Grape shot several hours. They follow’d the ships as far as New Castle. These Gallies have one Gun each one of them a 32 Pounder, three 24, the rest 18. There were many Spectators from this City who all agree the Gallies behav’d with great Spirit & Resolution the second day. Its probable shall hear what damage is done the ships soon as there is a Flag gone on board to exchange some prisoners. In great hast, Yours, Wm. Whipple RC (Ronald von Klaussen, state of Florida, 1975). 1 See Marine Committee to John Barry, May 8, 1776, note 1.
