658 May 11, 1776 William Whipple to Meshech Weare Sir 11th May [1776] The Resolution of Congress respecting the Cannon that were left in Boston by the enemy I thot necessary to transmitt to you, that if any of those which were taken from fort William & Mary last winter are to be found among them, they may be return’d for the security of our Harbour. 1 I shall be exceeding glad to be inform’d what state our forti fications are in, also when the General Court setts. I have not received a line from any body concern’d in Public affairs in New-Hampshire since I left that Colony which is near three months. I take the Liberty to inclose a Pamphlet intitled Thots. on Government which may afford some useful hints. 2 You may soon Expect to hear that all the colonies except Pensilvania & Maryland have taken up Government, & they notwithstandg the influence of the proprietors will not be able to hold out long. (A Confederation of the Colonies is absolutely necessary to enable Con gress to Conclude foreign alliances.) I flatter my self shall have the Pleasure next post of transmitting you some intresting Resolutions. In the mean time am &c FC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). 1 On May 4 Congress resolved to allow Massachusetts and New Hampshire to reclaim the cannon and stores, originally purchased and provided by them, that the British had left in Boston. JCC, 4:327. 2 That is, John Adams, Thoughts on Government: Applicable to the Present State of the American Colonies (Philadelphia: John Dunlap, 1776). Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Philidelpa 11 May 1776 I Write to you much oftner than I hear from you, but it is true my Oppertunity of forwarding Letters are more frequent than you have. I have had no Letter from Home since the 9t last, but I always hope that the next post will bring one. The Natural World opens upon us with great Beautty, while the political one is all Convulsed. When will Tyrant Worms cease to disturb human Happiness. We may soon expect to hear of further Arrivals of the Enimy. Your news from the Eastward is that they are on their Way. But this can be no surprize to any one. We know they Mean to prosecute the War. In such tempestuous Times no one can say what the Events of Things May be. Tho I have no Apprehension that G Britain can subjugate this Country, to give us much trouble is douptless in her Power to do. The Enimy may Endeavour to possess themselves of Hudsons River, if they Should Succeed in it the Post will be less regular. I mention these Things as Possibilities and to advice
