May 12, 1776 659 you to give yourself No Concern about them. We may Expect the Events of War will be probably Various—and a People engaged in War must not always Expect Prosperity in all their Undertakings. God has indeed in a Wonderful Manner hitherto granted us his Protection and I hope he will continue it. Possess your own Mind in Peace. Forti tude not only enables us to bear Evils, but prevents oftentimes those which would otherwise befal us. The Roman and Grecian Matrons not only bore with Magninimity the Suspentions of Fortune, but Various kinds' of Adversity, with amazing Constancy. An American Lady in structed in sublimer Principles I hope will never be outdone by any of these illustrious Examples if she should be called to the Exercise of the greatest female Heroism. I do not mean that you should suppose I apprehend any personal Danger. I do not, and if I did I hope I shall never betray that Baseness as to Shrink from it, but I do think it is not unlikely We may have a trouble some summer and if so, let every one bear his part of the publick Calamity with Fortitude. By the: Blessing of God I am Well. Oliver I suppose is at home. You will tell him that I have sent Homes Elements to N Haven by Mr. Jeremiah Atwater. My Love to My Children and Freinds whom may God preserve and Bless. I am with the tenderest Affection, yrs. Oliver Wolcott P.S. I most heartily Wished that you could have Breakfasted with Me this Morning upon some Very fine Radishes. In hast. RC (CtHi). John Adams to Abigail Adams May 12. 1776 Yours of April 21. came to Hand yesterday. I send you regularly every Newspaper, and write as often as I can—but I feel more skittish about writing than I did, because since the Removal of Head Quarters to New York, We have no Expresses, and very few Individual Travel lers, and the Post I am not quite confident in. However I shall write as I can. What shall I do with my Office—I want to resign it for a Thousand Reasons. 1 Would you advise me? There has been a gallant Battle, in Delaware River between the Gallies and two Men of War, the Roebuck and Liverpool, in which the Men of War came off second best—which has diminished, in the Minds of the People, on both sides the River, the Terror of a Man of War. I long to hear a little of my private Affairs, yet I dread it too, because I know you must be perplexed and distress’d. I wish it was in my Power to relieve you.
