674 May 14, 1776 have been already Sustained, from the want of a proper distribution of the Civil powers. Confusion and perplexity accompany us, in almost every department; which is hurtfull to us in general, but particularly injurious to our Warlike operations. We Stand in need of a Good Execu tive, and may Expect our undertakings will go on much more prosper ously, if we Speedily provide one. It is impossible to tell how long the War may last; And no prudent man would choose to Trust himself long, without the Security of a reg ular Established Government. The Civil and Municipal Laws, for want of proper Authority to Execute them, will grow into disuse and Con tempt. All the Evils of anarchy may then prevail, and the most wanton depredations be Committed. To correct these Mischiefs, and for want of Laws and Magistrates, Whose Authority is Acknowledged and Re spected, recourse may be had to Military power; fatal (perhaps) to the Liberty and Safety of the people. When the people are accustomed to Irregular Government, it is Exceedingly difficult to recover them to the love of order and Obedience to those Laws which are the Essential bands of Society. Bad habits in the political, as well as the Natural Body, are Verry Easy to be acquired and verry hard to be Eradicated. Many Arbitrary Exertions of Authority are Every day to be seen among us, which tho Justified by the present Necessaty, are Neverthe less Much to be Regretted, so far as they tend to Exhibit bad precedents, and to introduce a disorderly Spirit in the State. These things to men of penetration wear a Serious aspect, and seem Urgently to demand a speedy remedy, which is only to be found in the Establishment of a Reg ular Constitution. The Continuing to Swear Allegience to the power that is Cutting our throats, and attesting Jurors to keep the Secrets and try offenders against the peace of our Sovereign Lord the King, &c is Certainly absurd. However as I know all these things to be familiar to you, Shall dwell no longer on the Utility of the Measure, and turn my thoughts a little to what may (perhaps) be necessary to bring it about. In the first place will not the assembly to whom this Recommendation is, be apt to say at their next meeting, We ought to know the Sense of our Constituents? If so, would it not be best the people should make known their desire by petitions to the house Signed by them previous to the Sessions of Assembly, to prevent delay which in this Case is dan gerous? Will it not be better that the Petition be fully drawn, and prefaced with the Recommend[at]ion of Congress? Will it not be Ex pedient for proper persons who are friends to the Cause, To Set about that work as soon as the Recommendation appears in the public papers least those who are unfriendly Should give opposition by the Same mode? Will not Doctr. Tilton who we know to be an Active patriot be one of those proper persons? I leave all those things to your Mature Consideration, but think it would be improper for those who are pres ently members of the Assembly to be Openly Active in the Matter; and
